KELLOGGThe University Library Leeds ☆ ☆☆ tjlTrglt EBCp aJ Iavge- -ent -1A@J LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: mmi h KB-!B X.IHEALTHFUL COOKERY A Collection of Choice Recipes for Preparing Foods, with Special Reference to Health COMPILED BY MRS. E. E. KELLOGG, A. M. PUBLISHED BY THE MODERN MEDICINE PUBLISHING COMPANY BATTLE CREEK, MICHIGANCopyrighted 1904, by Mrs. E. E. Kellogg s.14 4'rs5 Preface It has not been the purpose in the preparation of this book to furnish a complete compendium of cookery, but to present a selection of well-tested recipes suited to the needs of the constantly in- creasing number of people who are desirous of ma- king health the object of their daily meals; and to supply the demand for a small work giving direc- tions for a variety of ways in which the always palatable and appetizing Sanitarium Health Foods may be prepared and combined with other food material, upon the every-day bill of fare. Some of the recipes were taken from the author’s more ex- tensive work, “ Science in the Kitchen; ” others (marked with a star) have been compiled from those in constant use in the culinary departments of the Battle Creek Sanitarium and its affiliated institutions, being the result of much painstaking effort on the part of cooks and teachers of cookery, among whom may be especially mentioned Mrs. E. B. Perkins, Mrs. L. T. Burden, Miss Lucy Wine-6 Preface gar, Mrs. G. H. Ward, Mr. Wm. Brody Miss Lenna Cooper, and Mrs. Kate Nuding. No recipe has been admitted that has not been fully tested, and it is believed that a careful follow- ing of directions will produce satisfactory results Publishers.7 Contents Methods in Hygienic Cookery Q Measuring and Combining Ingredients 13 Breads 19 Unfermented, or Aerated Bread 37 Sandwiches 53 Toasts 60 Vegetable Substitutes for Flesh Foods 67 Eggs 112 Porridges and Breakfast Dishes 118 Vegetables 126 Gravies and Relishes 158 Salads 166 Soup 176 Soups with Nut Soup Stock 183 Gruels and Liquid Foods 194 Desserts 199 The Invalid’s Meals 247 Seasonable Bills of Fare 251Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b215291159 Methods in Hygienic Cookery There are comparatively few foods which are not rendered better adapted to the needs of the body by proper cooking. Food well cooked is al- ready partly digested. In addition to making food more digestible, good cooking makes it more pal- atable, more inviting to the eye, and more fully develops its flavors. Hygienic cookery requires the attainment of these objects through simple processes, and the exclusion of all unwholesome ingredients, such as chemical leavening agents, vinegar, pepper-sauce, mustard, and other pungent and irritating condiments, and the excessive use of free fats. Five basic methods are variously employed in the cooking of foods. Broiling and Roasting.— Juicy food substances may be cooked by radiant heat, by broiling or grill- ing, or by roasting. This may be accomplished before an open fire, above glowing coals, under aHealthful Cookery IO gas jet, or in other ways whereby the food ma- terial is brought in contact with the direct radiation of heat. This method is frequently approximated by what is termed “pan-broiling” the food being cooked on or in some heated utensil. Baking.— Moist foods may also be cooked by dry heat in some closed receptacle, as by baking in an oven. Only foods containing a considerable degree of moisture are adapted for cooking by this method. The hot, dry air which fills the oven is always thirsting for moisture, and will take from every moist substance to which it has access a quantity of water proportionate to its degree of heat. Foods containing but a small amount of moisture, unless protected in some manner from the action of the heated air, or in some way sup- plied with moisture during the cooking process, come from the oven dry, hard, and unpalatable. Boiling.— Food substances, both moist and dry, may be cooked in liquids at boiling temperature (2120). This method is termed boiling. Stewing.—The solvent property of liquids kept just a few degrees below boiling temperature (185°) is also employed for stewing foods. This process is necessarily more lengthy than ordinary boiling, but for many foods it is much superior.Healthful Cookery n Steaming.— Steaming, as its name implies, is cooking by hot vapor. For foods not needing the solvent powers of water, or for such as already contain a large amount of moisture, this method is preferable to boiling. The foods may be placed in a perforated utensil which admits of direct con- tact with the steam, or they may be cooked in a closed receptacle placed inside another vessel con- taining actively boiling water — a double boiler. Value of Different Methods of Cooking.—The superiority of these various methods as regards nutritive results, depends much upon the compo- sition of the food substance to be cooked. The effect of heat at different temperatures and of the length of exposure varies with the different food elements. Foods composed largely of albumin re- quire cooking at a low temperature, as albumin coagulates at i6o°, and the effect of heat as great as that of boiling water upon albumin is to harden, toughen, and render it leathery and indigestible in proportion to the period of exposure. Food articles containing considerable cellulose and fibrous material require the solvent aid of water, and are best cooked by boiling, stewing, or steaming.Healthful Cookery 12 Cooking of Starchy Foods.— Substances in which starch predominates, need long cooking and high temperature in order so to change the starch as to render it easy of digestion. Starch passes through five stages in undergoing diges- tion. First, it is converted into amylodextrin, or soluble starch; second, erythrodextrin; third, achroodextrin; fourth, maltose; and fifth, levulose, or fruit-sugar. By cooking, it is possible to carry the starch through the first three stages. The last two changes are the result of digestive action. The preliminary digestive work done by cook- ing varies in degree with the method employed. The cooking in water of boiling temperature for a short period only, simply carries the starch through the first step of the digestive process by changing the raw starch, which is insoluble, into soluble starch, or amylodextrin. To secure a further con- version into erythrodextrin requires a prolonged cooking at or near the boiling temperature, or the application of a higher degree of heat, as by baking in an oven. The third stage of starch digestion is attained only in articles from which the moisture is already evaporated, by exposing such to the ac- tion of heat at a temperature of at least 320°, as in the browning of foods by toasting or rebaking.Measuring and Combining Ingredients Good cooking can not be done in a haphazard way. The combination of materials for the pro- duction of dishes to serve the purposes of nutri- ment in body-building and health-preservation de- mands the utmost painstaking and care. A most important principle underlying success in cookery is accuracy of measurements. Many an excellent recipe proves a failure simply from carelessness in this respect. Measures, although not quite so accurate as weights, are generally more convenient, and are more commonly used. The ordinary kitchen cup, holding one-half pint, is usually taken as the stand- ard. If any other size is used, the ingredients for the entire recipe should be measured by the same utensil or another of equal size. The tin or glass measuring-cups with divisions indicating the half, third, and fourth parts of a cupful are in every way preferable, and are now very generally used. The teaspoons and tablespoons used in meas- uring are the standard size silver table-ware. A *314 Healthful Cookery very convenient utensil with which a half and a fourth of a teaspoonful may be measured, is obtain- able. Unless otherwise stated, a cupful, tablespoonful, or teaspoonful of either liquid or dry material means the utensil filled to the brim, level over the top. In the measuring of flour, sugar, or other dry materials, the exact amount is obtained by leveling the top with a knife. Any material like flour, sugar, salt, that has been packed, should first either be sifted or stirred up lightly, and should not be packed down in meas- uring. A rounded spoonful is one which above the edge of the spoon presents the same convex ap- pearance that the level spoonful would if turned bottom upward; in short, when fully rounded it is twice the proportion of a level spoonful. A heap- ing spoonful is all that can be lifted on the spoon without falling off. Such measurements are likely to be less accurate than the level measure, and are less commonly used. With liquids, it is always desirable to hold a cup in a saucer and a spoon over a dish while measuring, to prevent spilling the liquid upon the floor or table.Combining Ingredients i5 COMPARATIVE TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES Liquids Four full tablespoonfuls are one-half gill. Eight full tablespoonfuls are one gill. Sixteen full tablespoonfuls are one-half pint. Three teaspoonfuls make one tablespoonful. One pint of liquid weighs one pound. One full tablespoonful weighs one-half ounce. Dry Materials One heaping tablespoonful of sugar weighs one ounce. Four tablespoonfuls of flour weigh one ounce. Two tablespoonfuls of butter weigh one ounce. Seven heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar equal one cupful. Two cupfuls of dry or liquid material equal one pint. Four cupfuls of dry or liquid material equal one quart. Two cupfuls of granulated sugar weigh one pound. Two and two-thirds cupfuls of corn meal weigh one pound.16 Healthful Cookery Four cupfuls of sifted flour (white) weigh one pound. Three and seven-eighths cupfuls of entire wheat flour weigh one pound. Four and one-half cupfuls of Graham or rye flour weigh one pound. One pint of oatmeal, cracked wheat, or other coarse grain products weighs about one pound. One and seven-eighths cupfuls of rice equal one pound. Two cupfuls of stale bread-crumbs equal one pound. Ten small eggs or nine large ones weigh about one pound. Two cupfuls of raisins (packed) weigh one pound. When desiring to divide a recipe calling for three eggs, take one whole egg and the yolk or white of another. Much care needs also to be exercised as to the manner of mingling together the different ingre- dients called for in compounding recipes after the materials have been accurately measured. This is a point which is often overlooked, and which is the cause of many a failure. There are four specialCombining Ingredients i7 ways in which this is accomplished: stirring, beat- ing, kneading, cutting, and folding. Stirring.— By stirring is meant a continuous motion round and round with a spoon, without lifting it from the mixture except to scrape occa- sionally from the sides of the dish any portion of the materials that may cling to it. It is not alto- gether necessary that the stirring should be all in one direction, as some cooks suppose. The object of stirring is to thoroughly blend the ingredients, and this may be accomplished by stirring in one direction as well as in another. The blending of flour and water only can be more easily accom- plished, and the two more smoothly blended, with an egg-beater than with a spoon. Beating.— Beating is for the purpose of incor- porating as much air into the mixture as possible. It should be done by dipping the spoon in and out, cutting clear through and lifting from the bottom with each stroke so as to bring the under part to the surface. The process must be a continuous one, and must never be interspersed with any stirring if it is designed to retain the air within the mixture. Cutting and Folding.— Cutting and folding is a combination of two motions. The first, a vertical chopping or cutting through the mixture, com-i8 Healthful Cookery pleted by bringing the bowl of the spoon in contact with the bottom of the dish, thus turning the ingre- dients over and over so as to bring the under por- tion to the surface each time. These three procedures are adapted for the com- mingling of ingredients in the form of batters. Kneading.— Kneading is the mode by which materials already in the form of a dough are more thoroughly blended together; it also serves to in- corporate air. This may be most easily accom- plished by using the tips of the fingers, gathering up the dough from the edges, turning and pressing it with a sort of rocking motion.19 Breads The aim in bread-making should be to produce an article rich in nutritive elements, palatable, and easily digestible. The essential requisites for the production of good bread are good materials, prop- erly combined, together with careful management during the processes by which they are converted into the well-baked loaf. Bread is generally made of wheat flour and liquid, formed into a dough, and charged with some gas to distend it, or, as we say, to make it light, after which it is baked. Wheat flour is ordinarily used in preference to that of other grains, because, aside from the fact that wheat contains the most correct proportion of food elements, its gluten is in character different from and in quantity greater than that found in most other grains, and is, for these reasons, better adapted to the preparation of light bread. It is the gluten of the flour which, because of its tenacious properties, makes it pos- sible to stretch and distend the dough by the aid of some gas into a porous loaf. Even flours from different kinds of wheat vary in the amount and quality of gluten they contain. Flour made from20 Healthful Cookery the hard wheats is considered preferable for bread- making. The following table gives the average composi- tion, according to Professor Woods, of the more commonly used flours: — Kinds of Flour Spring Wheat Winter Wheat Graham Entire Wheat Water 12.1 10.7 13-1 12.0 Nitrogen 12.0 10.3 II.7 I4.O Fat •9 •9 i-7 1.6 Starch and non-nitrogenous elements 74-5 77-5 69.9 69.0 Fiber 1.8 1.1 Ash •5 .6 1.8 2-5 1 Moist 36-1 29.6 Drv 10.9 Q. I Graham flour, which is unbolted wheat meal, is generally made from winter wheat. Entire wheat, whole wheat, and wheat berry are names used to designate flours made by grinding the decorticated wheat kernel. These flours are more commonly made from spring wheat. Whatever flour is used for bread-making, it should be good of its kind. Good flour will be sweet, dry, free from any musty smell or taste, and when made into dough,21 Breads will retain its shape. Poor flour works soft and sticky when kneaded. Water and milk are the liquids generally used for bread-making, and the usual method of charg- ing the dough with gas is by fermentation through the use of yeast. Yeast.—The most convenient yeast is that sold as compressed yeast, made from pure yeast-cul- ture, to which is added a proportion of starch be- fore compression, to add to its keeping qualities. When fresh, this yeast is exceedingly strong, and vigorous in action. The use of too much, how- ever, is more likely to produce over-fermentation than yeast of other kinds. Many housekeepers prefer to manufacture yeast for themselves. Essentially the same principle is involved in their production; viz., the introduction of a small quantity of fresh, lively yeast into some mixture of starch and water, with or without the addition of such other substances as will promote fermentation or aid in preventing the yeast from souring. The starch may be obtained from po- tatoes or flour, or from a combination of both. If no seed-yeast is obtainable, such may be se- cured by covering a cup of raisins with water, and keeping it in a warm place until fermentation takesHealthful Cookery 22 place. Then prepare a solution of starch and water, and use this fermenting liquor as seed-yeast. There are other ways of starting a new yeast-culture, but this is a simple method, and within the reach of nearly every housekeeper. Keep liquid yeast in sterile glass or earthen utensils, which can be closed and kept air-tight. Liquid yeast when good is light in color, foamy, effervescent, with a pungent odor. If it has a dull, watery appearance, and a sour odor, it is probably poor in quality, and will not produce good bread. Compressed yeast may be considered good in quality when it looks white, and breaks off dry, and is easily crushed. If moist and stringy when broken, it should be discarded at once. The surest test for yeast of any kind is to pre- pare a small amount of it in liquid form, add a little flour, place it in a temperature favorable for growth, and if it begins to ferment in the course of fifteen or twenty minutes, it is good. Methods of Bread-Making.— Having secured good materials, the first step in bread-making is their proper combination. The liquid to be used should be sterile. More flour will be required for bread made with water than with milk. As fermentation begins more readily and pro-Breads 23 ceeds more rapidly in a thin batter, it is quite cus- tomary to start the bread with such a batter of flour, liquid, and yeast, called a ferment, or sponge, to which, when light, an additional portion of flour and water is added. Some cooks use for this sponge the entire amount of liquid needed for the bread, adding flour as the batter grows light, first for a thicker batter, and later, when this is risen, suffi- cient to make a stiff dough. Others use only a portion of the liquid needed at first; and when the sponge is well risen, add both flour and liquid to make a fresh sponge, more flour being added to this, when light, to make the dough. Still other cooks dispense altogether with the sponge, adding to the liquid at the first sufficient flour to make it into a dough, allowing it to rise once in the mass, and again after it is molded into loaves. As to the superiority of one method over an- other, much depends upon their adaptability to the time and convenience of the user. Good, light bread may be produced by any of the methods. Less yeast but more time will be required by the first two methods. Care of the Bread.— Except in very warm weather, the ferment, or sponge, should be started with the liquid at a lukewarm temperature.24 Healthful Cookery The liquid should never be so cold as to chill the yeast. Milk, if used, should be first sterilized by scalding, and then cooled before using. After the sponge is prepared, the greatest care must be taken to keep it at an equable temperature. From jo° to 90° F. is the best range of temperature, 750 being considered the golden mean throughout the entire fermentive process of bread-making. After fermentation has well begun, it will con- tinue, but much more slowly, if the temperature be gradually lowered to 45° or 50°. If it is neces- sary to hasten the rising, the temperature may be raised to 8o° or 85°, but this will necessitate care- ful watching, as the bread will be liable to over- ferment, and become sour. Cold arrests the process of fermentation, while too great heat carries for- ward the work too rapidly. Too much stress can not be laid upon the importance of an equable tem- perature. Lightness of Bread.— A thin batter is suffi- ciently light when it is effervescent, like yeast, throughout; a thicker batter, when risen to double its first bulk, and cracked over the top. The loaf is sufficiently light when it has doubled its first proportions, and feels light when lifted on the hand.25 Breads Temperature for Baking.—Without an oven thermometer there is no accurate means of deter- mining the exact temperature of the oven; but housekeepers resort to various means to form a judgment about it. The baker’s old-fashioned way is to throw a handful of flour on the oven bottom. If it blackens without igniting, the heat is deemed sufficient. A common way of ascertaining if the heat in the oven is sufficient, is to hold the bare arm inside for a few seconds. If the arm can not be held within while thirty is counted, it is too hot to begin with. The following test, however, is more accurate: For rolls, the oven should be hot enough to brown a teaspoonful of flour in one min- ute, and for loaves in five minutes. The fire should be of sufficient strength to keep up the heat for an hour. The heat should increase for the first fifteen minutes, and remain steady for the next fifteen minutes, and may then gradually decrease during the remainder of the baking. The common test for well-baked bread is to tap the bottom with the finger; if it is light and well done, it will sound hollow, while heavy bread will have a dull sound. A thoroughly baked loaf will not burn the hand when lifted upon it from the pan. Whole-Wheat Breads.— Essentially the same26 Healthful Cookery principles are involved in the production of bread from all kinds of wheat flour. Good material and good care are absolutely necessary to good bread. Flours and meals made from the entire grain of wheat ferment more readily than does ordinary white flour, and hence, without careful manage- ment, bread made from the former is more liable to become overfermented and sour. In making whole-wheat breads, use as short a course of fer- mentation as practicable, and let it proceed at a medium temperature. Knead the dough more thor- oughly than for white flour. Such breads require a hotter oven at first and a longer time for baking. From one to one and one- half hours are needed, according to the size of the loaf and the heat of the oven. Whole-wheat breads will be lighter if at least one-third white flour be employed. If the bread is made with a sponge, the white flour is best used for that purpose. The length of time the whole- wheat flour is undergoing fermentation will in this way be somewhat lessened, and thus the liability to become sour decreased. The use of butter or other fats in bread is un- desirable. Used in any considerable proportion, fat retards the action of the yeast, and dough contain-Breads 2 7 ing it is more liable to sour. It is likewise more wholesome to use the fat with the bread after baking than to add it to the dough before baking. Good bread is a staff upon which all the func- tions of life may with safety depend. If bread is poor, it is generally due to poor flour or unhealthy yeast, a lack of cleanliness of the utensils used, too variable or too high a temperature during fermen- tation, too long fermentation, or insufficient baking. The dough, not being sufficiently cooked, remains in just the condition which most lends itself to sourness, and sourness develops after the bread is taken from the oven. RECIPES Water Bread (Sanitarium Cooking-School Method).—To make one loaf of bread, dissolve a two-cent cake of compressed yeast in a pint of luke- warm water, or if liquid yeast be preferred, use one-half cup of yeast to one and one-half cups of water, with flour sufficient to make a dough just stiff enough to be easily kneaded. Knead thor- oughly, using no additional flour save, if necessary, the merest quantity to dust the board. Having se- cured a well-kneaded, smooth dough, put it into a warm crock, cover, and set to rise, keeping it at aHealthful Cookery 28 temperature of about 85° F. Allow it to rise until twice its original bulk, then turn it over in the crock, and allow it to rise again. When well risen the second time, turn over again. After this rising, with as little manipulation as possible, form it into a roll about the size of the arm, and long enough to fit the baking-tin. Allow it to rise once more, and then bake. Fruit Bread.— Set a sponge overnight with one pint of rich milk, one-fourth cup of yeast, and a pint of flour. In the morning, add to the light sponge two cups of Zante currants, one cup of sugar, and three cups of flour, or enough to make a rather stiff dough. Knead well, and set to rise; when light, mold into loaves; let it rise again, and bake. Milk Bread with White Flour.— Scald and cool one pint of unskimmed milk. Add to the milk when lukewarm one fourth of a cup, or three table- spoonfuls, of liquid yeast, and three cups of flour. Give the batter a vigorous beating, turn it into a clean bread-bowl or small earthen crock, cover, and let rise overnight. In the morning, when well risen, add two or three cups of warm flour, or sufficient to knead. Knead well until the dough is sufficiently elastic to rebound when struck for-29 Breads cibly with the fist. Allow it to rise again in mass; then shape into loaves; place in pans; let it stand until light, then bake. If undesirable to set the bread overnight, an additional tablespoonful or two of yeast may be used, to facilitate the rising. Fruit Roll.—Take some bread dough prepared as for milk bread, which has been sufficiently kneaded and ready to mold, and roll to about one inch in thickness. Spread over it some dates which have been washed, dried, and stoned, raisins, cur- rants, or chopped figs. Roll it up tightly into a loaf. Let it rise until very light, and bake. One-Rising Bread.— 1 pint unskimmed milk, 1 tablespoonful yeast, 3y cups wheat-berry flour. Sift and measure the flour. Scald and cool the milk. When lukewarm, add one tablespoonful of lively liquid yeast. By slow degrees add the flour, beating vigorously until too stiff to use a spoon, then knead thoroughly for half an hour, shape into a loaf, place in a bread-pan, cover, and keep in some equably warm place until light, and bake. Whole-Wheat Bread.— 1 pint lukewarm water, 1 teaspoonful sugar, 1 quart (level) entire-wheat flour, iy pints (level) good spring-wheat flour, 3 teaspoonfuls of soft yeast or y2 cake compressed yeast (Fleischman’s), y2 teaspoonful salt.30 Healthful Cookery If compressed yeast is used, dissolve it in three tablespoonfuls of cold water. Put the yeast and sugar into the lukewarm water, add the spring-wheat flour slowly, beating very thoroughly, and set the batter in a place of warm, equable temperature. When light, add the salt and the entire-wheat flour, which should be warm. Knead very thoroughly for twenty min- utes, and return to the bowl (which has been washed and oiled). Allow it to rise, and when double its first proportions, form into two loaves; place in brick-shaped pans, and let rise again. When well risen put into a very hot oven, the tem- perature of which should be lowered after ten or fifteen minutes. Bake from three-fourths to one and one-fourth hours, according to the heat of the oven. Graham Bread.— 2 cups white flour, t,1/2 cups sifted Graham flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of lively liquid yeast, or cake compressed yeast dissolved in water. To the yeast add enough new milk, scalded and cooled to lukewarm or tepid water, to make one pint. Add the white flour, beat very thoroughly, and set to rise. When very light, add the Graham flour, which should make a dough stiff enough to beBreads 3i molded. Knead well for half an hour. Place in a clean, slightly oiled bread-bowl; cover, and allow it to rise. When light, shape into a loaf; allow it to rise again, and bake. Graham Bread, No. 2.— 3 lbs. Graham flour, 3 lbs. Minnesota spring-wheat flour, l/2 cake com- pressed yeast, y2 cup New Orleans molasses, 3 pints warm water. Mix the flours thoroughly. Make a sponge of one and a half pints of the warm water, the yeast, well dissolved in the water, and flour to form a batter. Let this rise. When well risen, add one and a half pints more of warm water, one-half cup of New Orleans molasses, and sufficient flour to knead. Work the bread thoroughly, allow it to rise in mass; then mold, place in pans, and let it rise again. The amount of material given is suffi- cient for four loaves of bread. Raised Biscuit.—• These may be made from dough prepared by any of the preceding recipes for bread. They will be more tender if made with milk; and if the dough is prepared expressly for biscuits, one-third thin cream may be used. When the dough has been thoroughly kneaded the last time, divide into small, equal-sized pieces. A quan- tity of dough sufficient for one loaf of bread shouldHealthful Cookery 32 be divided into twelve or sixteen such portions. Shape into smooth, round biscuits, fit closely into a shallow pan, and let them rise until very light. Biscuit should be allowed to become lighter than bread before putting in the oven, since, being so much smaller, fermentation is arrested much sooner, and they do not rise as much in the oven as bread does. Rolls.—Well-kneaded and risen bread-dough is made into a variety of small forms termed rolls, by rolling with the hands or with a rolling-pin, and afterward cutting or folding into any shape desired, the particular manner by which they are folded and shaped giving to the rolls their characteristic names. Dough prepared with rich milk or part cream makes the best rolls. It may be divided into small, irregular portions, about one inch in thick- ness, and shaped by taking each piece separately in the left hand, then with the thumb and first finger of the right hand, slightly stretch one of the points of the piece, and draw it over the left thumb toward the center of the roll, holding it there' with the left thumb. Turn the dough, and repeat the operation until you have been all around the dough, and each point has been drawn in; then place on the pan to rise. Allow the rolls to becomeBreads 33 very light, and bake. Roils prepared in this manner are termed “ Imperial Rolls,” and if the folding has been properly done, when well baked they will be composed of a succession of light layers, which can be readily separated. What are called “ French Rolls ” may be made by shaping each portion of dough into small oval rolls quite tapering at each end, allowing them to become light, and baking far enough apart so that one will not touch another. If, when the dough is light and ready to shape, it be rolled on the board until about one eighth of an inch in thickness, and cut into five-inch squares, then divided through the center into triangles, rolled up, beginning with the wide side, and placed in the pan to rise in semicircular shape, the rolls are called “ Crescents.” What are termed “ Parker House Rolls ” may be made from well-risen dough prepared with milk, rolled upon the board to a uniform thickness of about one-fourth inch; cut into round or oval shapes with a cutter; folded, one third over the other two thirds; allowed to rise until very light, and baked. The rolled dough may be folded into a “ Braid ” by cutting into strips six inches long and one wide, joining the ends of each three, and braiding. 3Healthful Cookery 34 The heat of the oven should be somewhat greater for rolls and biscuit than for bread. The time required will depend upon the heat and the size of the roll, but it will seldom exceed one-half hour. Neither rolls nor biscuit should be eaten hot, as they are then open to the same objections as other new yeast bread. Graham or Wheat-Meal Salt-Rising Bread.— Put two tablespoonfuls of milk into a half-pint cup, add boiling water to fill the cup half full, one-half teaspoonful of sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, and white flour to make a rather stiff batter. Let it rise overnight. In the morning, when well risen, add a cup and a half of warm water, or milk scalded and cooled, and sufficient white flour to form a rather stiff batter. Cover, and allow to rise again. When light, add enough sifted Graham or wheat- meal flour to knead. When well kneaded, shape into a loaf; allow it to become light again in the pan, and bake. All utensils used should be first well sterilized by scalding in hot water. *Gluten Bread.—Warm water, about i pint, 3 tablespoonfuls soft yeast, 1 saltspoonful salt, 3 tablespoonfuls sweet cream. Scald the cream. Cool, and add the warm water, the yeast, salt, and Gluten flour, sufficient to make35 Breads one loaf. Set in a warm place to rise. When light, knead into a loaf, and leave in a warm place to rise again. Then bake from forty minutes to an hour, according to the size of the loaf. *Gluten Bread, No. 2.— 1 cup soft yeast (home- made), 1 cup sweet milk, 2 cups Gluten flour, y2 teaspoonful salt. Mix, and mold for ten minutes, adding a little flour, if it is required. Put in tins, and let rise until its bulk has been doubled. Bake in a mod- erate oven about three quarters of an hour. ^German Coffee Rolls.—When light bread-dough is ready for the pan;*, take one pound of the dough, add one half a cup of sugar, the yolk of one egg, and five tablespoonfuls of cocoanut cream. Mix thoroughly, adding enough flour to make a mod- erately stiff dough. Bake in the form of old-fash- ioned twisted doughnuts, or any fancy shape de- sired, lay on an oiled pan far enough apart so they will not touch; when risen, bake in a rather quick oven. *Wheat Loaf.— Make a batter from one quart of lukewarm water, one-half teaspoonful of salt, and sufficient white flour to make it the right con- sistency. Beat vigorously, and let it stand over- night. Add to the light batter two teaspoonfulsHealthful Cookery 36 of olive oil, and enough flour to make a dough that can be kneaded. The flour should be a mixture of three-fourths coarse wheat flour and one-fourth white flour. Knead one hour; set to rise in the tin, and when light, bake slowly in an oiled tin for three hours. This bread is excellent for constipa- tion, if the coarse wheat flour is obtained by grind- ing the whole grain of the wheat in a mill.37 Unfermented, or Aerated, Bread Unfermented breads made light by the introduc- tion of air are of two kinds, batter breads and dough breads. Air is introduced into the former by brisk and continuous agitating or beating of the batter; into the latter, by a thorough and continuous kneading, chopping, or pounding of the dough. All materials used for making these breads should be of the very best quality. All breads, whether fermented or unfermented, are lighter if baked in some small form, and this is particularly true of unfermented breads made light with air. For this reason, breads made into a dough are better baked in the form of rolls, bis- cuits, or crackers, and batter breads in small iron cups. It is especially essential in making aerated breads that everything be in readiness before be- ginning to put the bread together. All the ma- terials should be measured out, the utensils to be used close at hand, and the oven properly heated.38 Healthful Cookery The heat of the oven for baking should be suffi- cient to form a slight crust over all sides of the bread before the air escapes, but not sufficient to brown it within the first fifteen minutes. To aid in forming the crust on the sides and bottom, the iron cups should be heated before introducing the batter, except for bread in which egg is used. The degree of heat required for baking will be about the same as for fermented rolls and biscuit, and the fire should be so arranged as to keep a steady but not greatly increasing heat. The heat should be greatest at the bottom of the oven. One hour is the average length of time required for properly baking the batter breads. From forty minutes to one hour will be required for* most of the dough breads. Success is also dependent upon the dexterity with which the materials when ready are put to- gether. Batter bread often proves a failure, al- though the beating is kept up without cessation, because it is done slowly and carelessly, or inter- spersed with stirring, thus permitting the air to escape between the strokes. If the bread is to be baked at once, the greater the despatch with which it can be gotten into a properly heated oven theUnfermented, or Aerated, Bread 39 lighter it will be. Crackers, rolls, and other forms of dough breads often lack in lightness because they were allowed to stand some time before baking. The'same is true of batter breads. If for any reason it is necessary to keep such breads for any length of time after being prepared, before baking, set the dish containing them directly on ice or in some cool place. Many of the recipes given for the batter breads include eggs. The yolk is not particularly essen- tial, and if it can be put to other uses, may be left out. The white of an egg, because of its viscous nature, when beaten, serves as a sort of trap to catch and hold air, and added to the bread, aids in making it light. Very nice, light bread may be made without eggs, but the novice in making aerated breads will perhaps find it an advantage first to become perfectly familiar with the processes and conditions involved, by using the recipes with eggs before attempting those without, which are somewhat more dependent for success upon skill and practise. The air may be incorporated by beating the batter with a spoon, but a wire whip is a much more convenient utensil for this purpose. The irons in which batter breads are to be baked should not be smeared with grease; if necessary toHealthful Cookery 40 oil them at all, they should only be wiped out lightly with a clean, oiled cloth. Irons well cared for, carefully washed, and occasionally scoured with sapolio to keep them perfectly smooth, will require no greasing. RECIPES Whole-Wheat Puffs.— iz/2 cups unskimmed milk, i egg, I pint whole-wheat flour. Make a batter by beating together until per- fectly smooth the yolk of the egg, the milk, and the whole-wheat flour. Whip the white of the egg to a stiff froth, and stir it in lightly and evenly. Then turn into iron cups, and bake. The batter may be prepared and left on the ice or in some cold place overnight, if desired for breakfast. When ready to bake the puffs, after vigorously beating the batter for five or ten minutes, stir in lightly^- the well-beaten white of the egg; turn at once into the irons, and bake. Graham Puffs.—• i pint unskimmed milk, I egg, i pint and 4 tablespoonfuls Graham flour. Beat together vigorously until full of air bubbles, the milk, the egg, and the Graham flour, added a little at a time. When the mixture is light and foamy throughout, stir in lightly and evenly theUnfermented, or Aerated, Bread 41 white of the egg, beaten to a stiff froth; turn into iron cups, and bake in a rather quick oven. In- stead of all Graham, one-third white flour may be used. Graham Puffs, No. 2.— 2 eggs, 3^4 cups Graham flour, 2 cups ice-water. Beat the yolks of the eggs in the ice-water; then add gradually, beating well meantime, the Graham flour. Continue the beating, after all the flour is added, until the mixture is light and full of air bubbles. Add last the whites of the eggs, pre- viously beaten to a stiff froth, and bake at once. Currant Puffs.— Prepare the puffs as directed in any of the preceding recipes, with the addition of one cup of Zante currants which have been well washed, dried, and floured. Graham Gems.— 2 cups unskimmed milk, 3*4 cups Graham flour. Into the milk, ice-cold wh'en practicable, stir gradually, sprinkling it from the hand, three and one-fourth cups of Graham flour. Beat vigorously for ten minutes or longer, until the batter is per- fectly smooth and full of air bubbles. Turn at once into hissing-hot gem-irons, and bake in a hot oven. If preferred, the batter may be prepared, and the dish containing it placed on ice for an42 Healthful Cookery hour or longer; then well beaten and baked. Gra- ham gems may be made in this manner with soft water instead of milk, but such, in general, will need a little more flour than when made with milk. With some ovens it will be found an advan- tage in baking these gems to place them on the upper grate for the first ten minutes or until the top has been slightly crusted, and then change to the bottom of the oven for the baking. Rye Puffs.— I cup rye flour, i cup milk, i table- spoonful sugar, i egg, cup Graham flour. Beat together the same as for whole-wheat puffs the milk, the sugar, and the yolk of the egg. Add the rye flour mixed with one-half cup of Graham flour, and stir in lastly the well-beaten white of the egg. Bake at once in heated gem-irons. Rye Gems.— I cup corn meal, I cup rye meal, i/2 cups ice-water. Mix together the corn meal and rye meal. Stir the mixed meal into one and one-half cups of ice- water. Beat the batter vigorously for ten or fif- teen minutes, then turn into hot irons, and bake. Corn Puffs.— I egg, I cup rich milk, I cup flour, ]/2 cup yellow corn meal, % cup sugar. Mingle the yolk of the egg with the milk. Add to the liquid one cup of flour, one-half cup of fineUnfermented, or Aerated, Bread 43 yellow corn meal, and one-fourth cup of sugar, all of which have previously been well mixed together. Less sugar may be used, or it may be entirely omitted if preferred. Place the batter on ice for an hour, or until very cold. Then beat it vigorously five or ten minutes, till full of air bubbles; chop in lightly the stiffly beaten white of the egg, and put at once into heated irons. Bake in a moderately quick oven thirty or forty minutes. Cocoanut Corn Bread.— Scald a cup of best granulated corn meal by pouring over it a cup of boiling water, stirring it well meanwhile. Add to this enough Cocoanut Cream to make the meal into a batter thick enough to require spreading in the pan with a spoon. Bake half an hour or longer. *Nut Corn Cakes.— \/2 cups corn meal, i cup boiling water, I cup peanut meal, I tablespoonful sugar, 2 eggs, l/2 teaspoonful salt. Scald one and one-half cups of corn meal with one cup of boiling water. Rub smooth, then add one cup of peanut meal, one tablespoonful of sugar, and one-half teaspoonful of salt. Beat into this two eggs, and continue beating for five minutes. Drop the batter in spoonfuls on an oiled tin that has been heated until very hot, and bake for twenty minutes in a hot oven.44 Healthful Cookery *Granuto Cakes.— Cook for a moment one cup of Granuto in two-thirds cup of salted water. Cool, and add one beaten egg. Beat well, and drop in spoonfuls on a slightly oiled griddle. Brown slightly on one side, and turn; do not turn the second time. Serve at once with dairy or Nut Cream, dairy or Nut Butter, fruit sauce, or sweet fruit pulp. These cakes are also delicious served with stewed green peas. Gluten Meal Gems.—• y2 cup ice-water, ^ cup thick sweet cream, i egg, i cup and a tablespoon- ful 40-per-cent Gluten prepared by the Battle Creek Sanitarium Food Company. Beat together the ice-water, cream, and egg; then gradually add the flour, beating meanwhile. Turn into slightly heated gem-irons, and bake in a moderately hot oven, from one half to three quar- ters of an hour. Gluten Flour Gems.— \y2 cups milk, y2 cup cream, two eggs, 1 pint 40-per-cent Gluten Flour, y2 teaspoonful salt. Gradually add the flour to the milk and eggs after the eggs have been whipped and added to the milk, beating vigorously with a wire batter-whip. Continue for twenty minutes, then add salt. Pour into very hot gem-irons, and bake thirty minutes.Unfermented, or Aerated, Bread 45 Gluten Puffs.— i cup milk or water, i table- spoonful Cocoanut Cream, 2 eggs, I scant cup Glu- ten Flour (sifted). To one cup of milk or water add a tablespoon- ful of Cocoanut Cream. Beat the yolks of the eggs together with the milk, until full of bubbles; add the flour gradually, beating meanwhile, and lastly the stiffly beaten white of the eggs. Turn into oiled gem-irons, and bake for an hour. Granola Waffles.— I egg, 2 cups of milk, 1 cup of Granola. Beat together very thoroughly for five or ten minutes the yolk of the egg, the milk, and Granola. Whip the white of the egg to a stiff froth, and add it at the very last, stirring only just enough to in- corporate it through the whole. Bake in heated gem-pans in a quick oven. Granola Gems.—• Into three fourths of a cup of rich milk, with a little salt, stir one cup of Granola. Drop into heated gem-irons and bake twenty or thirty minutes. Granola Fruit Gems.— Prepare as above. Add a few blueberries, chopped mellow sweet apples, or other sweet fruit. Nut Butter Puffs.— Mix together to an emul- sion one heaping tablespoonful of Nut Butter inHealthful Cookery 46 one cup of soft ice-water; add the yolk of one egg, and beat until full of air bubbles. Then sift in slowly, beating thoroughly meanwhile, two cups of whole-wheat flour. Lastly add the well-beaten white of the egg, folding it in lightly, but com- pletely. Turn into heated gem-irons, and bake. Almond Meal Gems.—Add to the well-beaten whites of two eggs one teaspoonful of lemon juice and ten scant tablespoonfuls of Almond Meal. Beat thoroughly together, drop into slightly heated gem- irons, and bake ten or fifteen minutes. Rice Gems.—• 2/3 cup milk, 1/3 cup cream, 2 small eggs, 1/3 teaspoonful salt, 2/3 cup rice flour, y2 cup white flour. Place milk, cream, and yolks of eggs in a crock, beat until smooth, add the flour quickly, and beat ten minutes. Fold in the beaten whites of the eggs, put in hot irons, and bake twenty or twenty-five minutes. Cream Sticks.— 2 cups pastry flour, y. teaspoon- ful salt, y2 cup cream. Into a mixing bowl put two cups of pastry flour and one-fourth teaspoonful of salt. Have ready one-half cup of cream, and as the cream is poured into the flour, a little at a time, with a fork form small particles of dough, and lift them out on toUnfermented, or Aerated, Bread 47 a bread-board, which has been dredged with flour. Continue this until the flour is all used up, and if necessary use more cream. With the hands press the particles of dough together, and knead carefully, taking pains to stretch the dough to make the gluten elastic, and fold in air with which to make them light. When the dough snaps well in pulling it apart, it is ready to roll. Roll about one third of an inch thick, and cut into sticks one third of an inch wide and the length of a silver knife handle. Bake in a perforated tin for about twenty or thirty minutes in a moderate oven. The sticks should be thoroughly dried out and brown when done. Nut Gluten Rolls.— Make a thin cream by dilu- ting Nut Butter with water until it is of the consist- ency of very thin cream. Sift a pint and a half of 40-per-cent Gluten Flour into a bowl, and into this stir one cup of the Nut Cream. Pour the liquid into the flour, a few spoonfuls at a time, mixing each spoonful to a dough with the flour as soon as it is poured in. When all the liquid has been added, gather the fragments of dough together, knead thor- oughly for ten minutes or longer, until perfectly smooth and elastic. The cream should be ice cold, and it is best to mix the dough in a cold place.Healthful Cookery 48 When well kneaded, divide into two portions; roll each over and over with the hands until a long roll about an inch in diameter has been formed. Cut this into two-inch lengths, prick with a fork, and place on perforated tins, far enough apart so that one will not touch the other in baking. They should be baked at once, or kept on ice until ready for baking. Another way is to take one part of Nut or Almond Meal to three parts of Gluten Flour and mix thoroughly. Then add water until of the proper consistency, and proceed as above. As much cold air should be incorporated into the dough as pos- sible during the kneading process, as it is the heat- ing and consequent expansion of this air which makes the rolls light. Granose Biscuit.—These may be served cold or warm, with milk or cream; used as toast for poached eggs, asparagus, and fresh fruits mashed and sweetened to taste; or they may be served with hot stewed fruits or fruit juices poured over them. They are an excellent accompaniment for soups of all kinds. Toasted Granose Biscuit.—While the Granose Biscuit are thoroughly cooked, they are more crisp and delicious if browned lightly in the oven for a time before serving. Eaten dry like this they haveUnfermented, or Aerated, Bread 49 a nutty flavor, which requires no “ spice ” to give them a relish. Split the Biscuit carefully, and toast delicately over the fire or in the oven. Serve at once. Fruit Pin-wheels.—'Take equal parts of Nut Meal and pastry flour, sift together several times, and make into a soft dough with cold water. Press together, but do not knead; roll quite thin. Spread lightly with Almond Butter, and then with a fruit mixture, made of equal parts of chopped citron. Zante currants, and seedless raisins. Make a roll of the dough, cut into slices, and bake on a roll- baker or on perforated tins. Nut Sticks.— Prepare dough with four cups of winter-wheat flour mixed with one and one-half cups of Nut Meal and water. After being well kneaded, the dough may be divided and shaped by rolling with the hand into a long roll about the size of the little finger. Cut into three- or four- inch lengths, and bake on perforated tins for about twenty minutes. Rolled still thinner and cut into similar lengths it may be made into Nut Straws. Nut Crisps.— Mix together thoroughly one and one-half cups of coarse Graham flour and one-half cup of Nut Meal. Make into a rather stiff dough with ice-water. Knead well, roll as thin as brown 4Healthful Cookery 50 paper, cut into squares, and bake on perforated tins until slightly browned on both sides. Cocoanut Crisps.—Pulverize dessicated cocoanut by pounding in a cloth or in a mortar, or by press- ing as much as possible through a fine flour sieve. Use the fine portion only. Take one-third cocoanut thus prepared and two-thirds flour (Pillsbury’s Best or Entire Wheat Flour). Mix to a dough with ice- water, knead lightly, roll with a rolling-pin into sheets scarcely thicker than a paper, prick with a fork, cut into small squares with a knife or wafer- cutter, and bake. Breakfast Rolls.— I y2 pints Graham flour, I cup cream or rich milk. Sift the Graham flour into a bowl, and into it stir the thin cream or unskimmed milk, which should be very cold. Pour the liquid into the flour slowly, a few spoonfuls at a time, mixing each spoonful to a dough with the flour as fast as poured in. When all the liquid has been added, gather the fragments of dough together, knead thoroughly for ten minutes or longer, until perfectly smooth and elastic. The quantity of flour will vary somewhat with the quality, but in general the quantity given will be quite sufficient for mixing the dough and dusting the board. When well kneaded, divide intoUnfermented, or Aerated, Bread 51 two portions; roll each over and over with the hands, until a long roll about one inch in diameter is formed; cut this into two-inch lengths, prick with a fork, and place on perforated tins, far enough apart so that one will not touch another when baking. Each roll should be as smooth and perfect as pos- sible, and with no dry flour adhering. Bake at once, or let stand on ice for twenty minutes. The rolls should not be allowed to stand after forming, unless on ice. From thirty to forty minutes will be re- quired for baking. When done, spread on the table to cool, but do not pile one on top of another. Very nice rolls may be made in the same man- ner, using for the wetting ice-cold soft water. They require a longer kneading, are more crisp, but less tender, than those made with cream. With some brands of Graham flour the rolls will be much lighter if one-third white flour be used. Whole- wheat flour may be used in place of Graham. Cream Graham Rolls.— y2 cup cream, y2 cup ice-water, 3 cups Graham flour. Add the ice-water to the cream, and make into a dough with the flour in the same manner as di- rected in the previous recipe. Fruit Rolls.— Prepare the rolls as directed in the recipe for breakfast rolls, and when wellHealthful Cookery 52 kneaded, work into the dough a half cup of Zante currants which have been well washed, dried, and floured. Form the rolls in the usual manner, and bake. Water Rolls with Egg.— I egg, ^4 cup ice- water, flour to knead. Beat together until thoroughly mingled, the yolk of the egg and the ice-cold water. With this incorporate flour enough to make a dough which will clear the board without its being dusted with flour, but not so stiff that it will be difficult to shape. Work and shape as directed above. Bake one hour in a well-heated oven.Sandwiches In the preparation of sandwiches, as in that of all other foods, good results depend upon good material to work with. If raised bread is the foun- dation, it should be well baked, of even texture, and at least one day old. Wafers, unfermented breads, and Granose Biscuits may be used for sandwiches when preferred. These should be rendered fresh and crisp by browning lightly in the oven before spreading. Very dainty sandwiches may be made from breads baked in round-shaped loaves or rolls. The butter, whether dairy or some one of the various nut butters, should be creamed and spread smoothly on the bread before the slices are cut from the loaf. These should preferably be cut thin, and after being spread, may be made into a variety of shapes, as oblongs, squares, triangles, etc. RECIPES *Salad Sandwiches.— 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful thick cream, 2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice, salt, and chopped watercress. S354 Healthful Cookery Boil the eggs for ten minutes; drop in cold water for two minutes; peel, and while still warm, mash fine with a silver fork. Work in the cream, lemon juice, salt, and a little watercress, chopped fine. After cutting off the crust, butter sparingly the end of a loaf of good Graham bread ; then with a thin, sharp knife cut as thin a slice as possible. Spread the buttered slice with the egg mixture, place over it a lettuce leaf washed and dried, then another slice of buttered bread, and press well to- gether. Trim the edges, removing tough crust; cut across twice diagonally, and arrange the tri- angles on lettuce leaves on a bread-plate. Nuttolene Sandwiches.—Season some Nuttolene with salt and sufficient lemon juice to make it quite sour. Spread this over slices of good Graham bread, with fresh lettuce leaves between. Nuttolene Sandwiches, No. 2.— Emulsify Nut- tolene with lemon juice. To it add the yolks of hard-boiled eggs which have been pressed through a sieve. Mix thoroughly, add salt, and spread on slices of whole-wheat or Graham bread. Wafer Sandwiches.— Brown Whole-wheat Wafers on both sides over glowing coals. Spread one side with Nuttolene or Cocoanut Butter, then with Protose minced fine and seasoned with saltjSandwiches 55 and lemon juice, and a sprinkling of minced parsley, cover with a second wafer, buttered on one side, and serve. Protose and Nuttolene Sandwiches, No. i.— Mix together well-salted Nuttolene and chopped Protose in the proportion of two-thirds Protose to one-third Nuttolene, and spread between thin slices of white or whole-wheat bread; add a lettuce leaf or sprigs of parsley for garnish, if desired. *Protose and Nuttolene Sandwiches, No. 2.— Prepare Protose and Nuttolene as for No. 1, and add a little lemon juice. Spread on thin slices of bread already buttered with Cocoanut or other Nut Butter. * Savory Protose and Nuttolene Sandwiches.— Prepare Protose and Nuttolene as for No. 1, add- ing a little powdered sage or savory before spreading. *Protose Sandwiches, No. 1.— Spread two thin slices of bread with Sour Salad Dressing of Nut Butter (see p. 172), mixed with a little fine-cut parsley or lettuce. Then spread one slice with minced Protose, and lay the two slices together. *Protose Sandwiches, No. 2.— Mash the Protose thoroughly, moisten with a little lemon juice, and mix with this the yolks of two or three hard-boiled56 Healthful Cookery eggs; season with salt and powdered sage. Spread between buttered slices of white or whole-wheat bread. *Protose and Jelly Sandwiches.— Spread thin slices of bread with nice tart fruit jelly, then spread one of every two with a layer of minced Protose salted to taste. A different effect may be pro- duced by mixing a little powdered sage or savory with the protose. Parsley leaves, placed around the edges of one slice of bread before laying the two together add much to the effect. When all prepared, the sandwiches may be cut with a thin, sharp knife, into triangles or squares. Since the crust is the sweetest and most wholesome part of the bread, do not sacrifice it. Diploma Sandwiches.— Make these of well- baked linger rolls, fermented or unfermented, as preferred. Divide into halves lengthwise. Remove a portion of the inner crumbs, and spread with a mixture of seasoned mayonnaise, or the Boiled Salad Dressing (page 173), and minced Protose, or, if preferred, hard-boiled egg which has been rendered homogeneous by pressing through a sieve. Place small, crisp lettuce leaves between the halves, put together, and serve piled on large leaves of lettuce.Sandwiches 57 ^Calcutta Sandwiches.— Make a filling by mix- ing together one part of Nuttolene, one part of Nut Butter, four parts of Protose, and salt and lemon juice to taste. Put through a fine sieve. This goes in between the first two layers. Between the next two layers spread red raspberry or cherry mar- malade, mixed with ground nuts, and on top serve a hard sauce. In the center of each a cherry or small tomato may be inserted. Under each point put a small lettuce leaf. Granose Biscuit for Sandwiches.— Use the toasted split Biscuit instead of wheat bread, with Nut Butter, sliced eggs, fruit, etc. *Nut Butter Sandwiches.— Spread thin slices of Graham bread with sterilized Nut Butter, and then with chopped dates or figs. Minced celery or chopped seedless raisins are excellent used in the same manner. *Nut Butter Sandwiches, No. 2.— Cut a loaf of bread in two in the center, spread the cut surface of each half with Nut Butter, and sprinkle with salt if desired. Cut off thin slices of each half with a sharp knife, and lay the two spread surfaces to- gether. Continue to spread and cut the slices until there are the required number of sandwiches. A lettuce leaf with or without salad dressing may be58 Healthful Cookery laid between the slices. Do not trim off the crust; it is the best part of the bread. *Nut Butter and Olive Sandwiches.— Mix to- gether Nut Butter and chopped ripe olives, with or without a seasoning of lemon juice. Spread between Granose Biscuit or thin slices of whole- wheat bread. Cut the sandwiches into fancy shapes, and garnish with the ruffled edge of lettuce. Fruit Sandwiches.—• Between slices of bread which have been cut about one fourth of an inch thick and spread with butter or Nut Butter, put a filling made by chopping very fine equal parts of steamed figs and nuts, moistening them with water and lemon juice to form a paste. Dates, prunes, raisins, or currants may be used in place of figs. *01ive Sandwiches.— Choose thirty nice ripe olives. Freshen and mince fine. Spread Nut Butter on thin slices of bread, and sprinkle thickly with the minced olives. Mayonnaise added to olives improves them. Cress sandwiches prepared by; clipping cress fine, and seasoning with salt and lemon juice, are relished by many. *Hulless Bean Sandwiches.— Left-over bean patties may be seasoned with lemon juice and spread between buttered slices of bread for sand-Sandwiches 59 wiches. They are also nice mixed with salad dress- ing and used for the sandwich filling. *Sauce for Nut Sandwiches.— Boil one pint of cream for two minutes. To this add one pint of Nuttolene, one quart of water, three tablespoonfuls of browned flour, and one teaspoonful of salt.60 Toasts To Prepare Toast from Zwieback.— Have a pint of thin sweet cream scalding hot, add a little salt, if desired. Put slices of white or Graham Zwie- back or Breakfast Toast, two or three at a time, in the hot cream, dipping it over them, and turning so that both sides of the slices shall become equally softened. Keep the cream hot, and let the Zwie- back remain until softened just enough so that the center can be pierced with a fork, but not until mushy or broken. With two forks remove each slice from the hot cream, draining as thoroughly as possible, and pack in a heated dish. Repeat the process until as much Zwieback has been softened as desired. Cover the dish, and keep hot until ready to serve. Special care should be taken to drain the slices as thoroughly as possible. It is better to remove them from the cream when a little hard, than to allow them to become too soft, as they will soften somewhat by standing, after being packed in the dish. Hot Malted Nuts may be used for fruit toasts in place of cream for softening the Zwie- back when preferred. Serve the slices in individual dishes after any of the following —01 T oasts RECIPES Poached Egg On Toast.— Prepare the toast as directed above, and serve hot with a well-poached egg on each slice. Cream Toast.—Take slices of Zwieback, moisten with hot cream, to which a little salt has been added, pack immediately in a hot dish, and serve. Cream Toast, No. 2.— Pour hot cream, or milk thickened with corn-starch to the consistency of cream, over toasted Granose Biscuit. Nut Gravy Toast.—-Over moistened slices of Zwieback pour a gravy made by adding three or four tablespoonfuls of Nut Meal to every cup of water used. When boiling, thicken with flour rubbed smooth in a little cold water. Salt to taste. Snowflake Toast.— 1 quart of milk, 1 table- spoonful of flour, y2 cup of cream, 2 eggs. Heat the milk, to which has been added the half cup of cream and a little salt, to boiling. Thicken with a tablespoonful of flour rubbed smooth in a little cold milk. Have ready the whites of the two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, and when the sauce is well thickened, turn a cupful of it slowly on the beaten egg, stirring well meanwhile so that it will62 Healthful Cookery form a light, frothy mixture, to which add the re- mainder of the sauce. If properly prepared, this sauce should be of a light, frothy consistency throughout. Serve as a dressing on nicely mois- tened Zwieback. Tomato Toast.— Heat one pint of strained stewed tomato to boiling. Then thicken with corn- starch or flour rubbed smooth in a little cold water. Season with salt, and add, or not, as preferred, a half cup of hot cream. Serve on slices of mois- tened Zwieback. Sunshine Toast.— Select good ripe tomatoes, cook thoroughly, sift through a fine colander to re- move the skins and seeds. To one pint of sifted tomato add one spoonful of white flour, a pinch of salt, the same of thyme, and a little Cocoanut Butter, if desired. Cook a few minutes, and serve hot over moistened Zwieback. Fruit Toast.—• Cook sweet California prunes, nicely dried apricots or peaches, allowing them to simmer very slowly for a long time until the fruit is well done, and the liquor thick and rich. When done, rub the fruit through a colander. If the pulp thus obtained is thin, stew again for a time until about the consistency of marmalade. Serve on slices of Zwieback moistened in cream, as directed.T oasts 63 The pulp prepared from freshly stewed or canned grapes or peaches may also be used in the same manner. Fruit Toast without Cream.— Turn a can of well-kept blueberries, strawberries, or blackberries into a colander over an earthen dish, to separate the juice from the berries. Place the juice in a por- celain stew-pan, and heat to the boiling point. Place slices of Zwieback in a colander over a dish, and pour over each slice a few spoonfuls of the hot juice to moisten them, allowing the juice to drain off rapidly, so as not to leave the Zwieback mushy. To the remainder of the boiling juice add flour, rubbed smooth in a little cold water to thicken — a tablespoonful of flour to a pint of juice will be about the right proportion. When thickened, add the berries, and boil just sufficiently to heat them, then serve hot on slices of moistened Zwieback. Grape Toast.— Heat the juice of fresh or canned grapes to boiling, and slightly thicken with corn- starch previously rubbed smooth in a little cold water, in the proportions of one tablespoonful of the starch to one pint of grape juice. If the juice is quite thick, first dilute it with one-third water. Cook until thickened, sweeten if desired, strain to remove any lumps, and serve hot, on slices of mois-Healthful Cookery 64 tened Zwieback. A dressing of hot grape pulp may- be used, if preferred. Banana Toast.— Press nice bananas through a. colander with a potato masher or through a veg- etable press. Moisten Zwieback with hot cream. Serve with a spoonful of the banana pulp on each slice. Fresh Peach Toast.— Nicely ripened peaches may be prepared, and used on moistened Break- fast Toast the same as bananas. Fresh Strawberry, Blueberry, or Blackberry Toast.—• Mash the berries well with a spoon. Add sugar to sweeten. Serve as dressing on moistened Zwieback or toasted Granose Biscuit. Nut and Apple Toast.— Moisten Breakfast Toast or Zwieback in hot Malted Nuts, being care- ful to moisten the edge first. Place a portion on a small plate, and cover with hot apple sauce, which has been put through the colander. Moisten a sec- ond piece of toast in the same manner, and place on top of the first piece. Cover this also with hot apple sauce, and serve at once. Vegetable Oyster Toast.— Cook one quart of cleaned, sliced vegetable oysters in one quart of water until quite tender. Add one and one-half pints of rich milk. Salt to taste. Thicken with two65 T oasts tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed to a smooth paste with a little milk. Boil a few minutes, and serve on moistened Zwieback. Lentil Toast.— Cook some good lentils with a few slices of onion or pieces of celery, to give them a flavor. When tender, rub through a colander, and add one half as much stewed and strained tomato as there is of lentil pulp, with salt to season, and a little cream, if desired. Serve on slices of mois- tened Zwieback. Pease Gravy Toast.— Soak a pint of dried Scotch peas in cold water overnight. In the morning drain, and put them to cook in warm water. Cook slowly until perfectly tender. When done, rub through a colander to remove the skins, season with a teaspoonful of salt, and to each cup of the sifted peas add one cup of boiling water. Heat to boiling, and thicken with a teaspoonful of flour rubbed smooth in a little cold water. Just before serving add a tablespoonful of thick cream, or Nut Cream. If liked, a little celery salt may be added for flavor. Serve hot on slices of moistened Zwieback. Zwieback with Nuttolene.— Heat the Zwieback in the oven for five or ten minutes to render it crisp. Serve hot spread with Nuttolene. 566 Healthful Cookery Protose Puree on Toast with Tomato Jelly.— Stew Protose with a little salt for about one hour, rub through a fine colander, spread on slices of nicely moistened Zwieback on a platter, and add a few spoonfuls of tomato jelly. Stewed Protose on Toast.— Dip the edges of a slice of Zwieback into boiling salted water, then drop the whole slice in, turn it over, remove quickly with a skimmer, lay it on a warm individual platter, and cover with another warm platter for a few minutes. Then dip over it well-stewed Protose. Garnish, and serve. If preferred, the slices of Zwie- back may be placed in a colander over a large pan, the hot-salted water turned carefully over them, and then removed to a hot platter.67 Vegetable Substitutes for Flesh Foods The dietetic value of meats, milk, and other ani- mal foods consists principally in the nitrogenous and fatty food elements with which they supply the system. These important food elements are essential to life and health, and if, for any reason, the use of animal foods wholly or in part is dis- carded, there must be made a substitution of the same elements secured from other sources, else the diet will become an impoverished one. While many food substances contain a proportion of one or both of these elements, the chief source of supply, aside from animal foods, is nuts and leguminous seeds. In leguminous seeds, when mature, we find a higher proportion of nitrogenous material than in any other foods, either animal or vegetable, as is shown by the accompanying tables of analyses. For this reason they are well adapted as substitutes for flesh foods, and for use in association with articles in which starch or other non-nitrogenous nutrients are the predominating principle; as. for example,68 Healthful Cookery Table of Food Elements T3 8 43 .bp '0 c/3 * p 5 Z > -a be o a t4H a 5 a) n g 0 a; a nd <d o 43 o -m rrH T3 *w a 0 S w a? n 1 * J* Ctj u 0) Id 0 oJ > P d> £ 0 C/3 42 a3 *■* (A 4H 0 O O -M P a p 3 2 S S <u 43 Cuo p o 43 42 03 H W 03 a P G G G -a ° O a? fe 1 U +-< w) 4 a; ba o ^ P £ ° 888088888888888888888888888888 NWNmNinamNrOHyoOiM M o « i^OO H H K inco M M N h h Tf\n co vn vn «*-vo oo oo NO o v>vo n ro OO N co cn ir> ■<* vo O' N CO HiriMNNnHHn^i MN N MMH Hlfl ■* MtNtO M W N H (Ot 't'OCOCONVINfO'flfON t»N COm|\ COCiH'O'OH^vnVON' uiiflmoiOiM o>co »o 'jfnminuiNuiN'nO csvo m m n n n m »-> n • N N H vn C* VO fON N TT VO ■vt MHNNHWMVOVO'O'ONODNCON'O'nNhODOON'ONXC'N G 03 O O CO 0) <D 03 © 03 C3 O O O ’ 03 03 03 03 © • E E’E Ec.GaD,HGc.HHKc.KaS(«c,Q vnvnvnvnvnvnvnvrjvninvnvnvnvn vn vn NVOtOMMMMMMM £ 01 03 ^ u ctf © p p •—• vo rt P T3 « ; n § <S"0H . u id rt ■a a CQ.3 »h«5 o> =S- ~ ui rt fc: i S' —_ G c o o o o.a M jj ;n^«iO»>,EaSaPBh SS.S-So-^o-^c&SSiixiaSg rai1r'Cij'-«glrjn^nUfl)jvrinlUo“ u u ^ ur; o u^~ P c 03 £, C— v- o3T rt 00n0>P30>>2H,CQUU00U>S 03 C g ® 5 g | °§S _ » m u . 'P 5 P y; P 03rtrtc3‘- — P 03 03 ° T3 6T G C 03 G 03 03 W’g’C « 2 ScqwOO C3. o 03 o-*d o O 03 o — in P *o S-a"0 5 8 s’ 5 p co w a o Ccoft. SO“ 0-2 o o c HZJP P Flesh-Food Substitutes 69 Table of Food Elements.—•Continued. 12 0 o P P 0 8QOOQOQOOQOQOOQOOQOOQOOOOQOOOOVOOQQ OOOOOOOOOQOOOOOOOQOOOOOOOOOOO'-'OOO Ns o vo o N'o N't O O O muiMNOiiriHNio o m n co moo m Nx ^ m Ns r h iri’tH Tj- VO m N N two m I 0N>nafn'(-'to> co tnco NO Nm M 't ON + N -tNN m « N 00 00 w m mvO m mmiovi N N N ON O ’t'O 00 COVO m 00 VO ON NIO Qi NHIO NOl (O O ^ ’ O O H H VO <0 M M M M o\ CO I 00 Ns m N N M 00 ' </) JP 0 cx o m m moo co 00 00 CO CO N ► ■<*- N m m m Ns m Min nn m m ro ro Oi m CO CO N.CO Ns m VO CQ CiN mold Mn« N MOiOKMJiOi 0 +J «J -J «J *J O-WWj J J aa&aaug^^aaaaaaa m m *n m m oOG «:r;rsr' m m m m m m m •X3 r< 03 T3 T) 0 m q 0 0 0 0 . .*0 . . m . G *0 *0 *0 ><-.M©_^a3*JG000*J*-.w^«_. « a a a a a-a axi aaaaaaaa m m m in m m m m m m s a 4) °3 S32 a p ^ G 0 ox O u 0 *-* U > a a a p p p 000 C/3C0C0 0 •0'S s 2 § s 13 S GT3 0 0 s? 3-g ■a (/) 0 »- £bx "eg -1 r /c H fflW A rn c/» .e/3 - 2 w.2 G 0 C 'O.d 0 C/J a 2 rt cm £ 0 0-m'G 1/1 u) Jr g o o o o P o S Pi tl ~ ^ _g u .a J- u’j^ o g o cx a a a crj 0 jp p . — .(/)(/>(/)< sagS-S, aar SI:S2»Se§S 0 0 « P s s iRCR ^~6-a T3 a) 4) £ ^ ^ g 0 0 cd to t/> 0 0 o s-; - G jc/5 3 u'- p 3 o aaaatd 0xj 5) 0 S'3 ^<cQ2za,c^<:uS«^(jw<:<<cQffiuQfeOJO(xl^fi.^ M rO 0 0 ^ M 1170 Healthful Cookery lentils and rice, this combination constituting the staple food of many millions in India, China, and Japan. Analyses of Some Common Foods Water Albu- min Starch Free Fat Salts Total Nut. Value Lean Beef 72.0 IQ. 3 3.6 5. I 28.0 Lean Mutton 72.0 18.3 4*9 4.8 28.0 Whitefish 78.0 2.9 1.0 22.0 Garden Peas 10.3 24.6 52.6 3-5 2.6 83-3 White Beans 15.O 26.9 48.8 3-0 3-5 82.2 Lima Beans 9.0 21.9 60.6 1.6 2.9 87.0 Lentils 12.3 259 53-0 1.9 3-0 83.0 Peanuts 6.5 28.3 1.8 46.2 3-3 79.6 Chestnuts 7-3 14.6 69.0 2.4 3-3 89.3 Almonds 6.2 23 5 7.8 53-o 3-o 87-3 Eggs 74.0 I4.0 10. 5 I. 5 26.0 Wheat (Mich. White).. 12.8 11.6 71.0 i-3 1.6 85-5 Nuts are also especially valuable as substitutes for animal foods, since they contain both nitroge- nous and fatty material; but they often prove diffi- cult of digestion because they are not pulverized sufficiently fine by mastication as ordinarily eaten. Most nuts have such firm flesh that to render them digestible they require very careful mastication, or the reduction in some manner to a pulver- ized state before being eaten. The peanut is quite indigestible in the raw state. Different nuts, re- duced to a fine meal and thoroughly cooked, areFlesh-Food Substitutes 7i now manufactured into a variety of palatable, wholesome, and easily digestible products, which serve as an excellent substitute for meats and butter, and may be prepared in numberless tasty and appetizing dishes. Of these products, Protose, or vegetable meat, is a perfect substitute for flesh food, containing the same food elements as beef and mutton. Its nutri- tive value is about 25 per cent greater. It contains 10 per cent more fat, an element in which lean meat is deficient, thus making it not only a more nour- ishing but a better-balanced food than lean meat. Its appearance is almost identical with that of pressed chicken or turkey, which it also resembles in color. RECIPES Broiled Protose.— 1 can Protose, 2 cups lentil pulp, il/2 cups stewed tomato, 1 tablespoonful Nut Butter. Remove the Protose from the can, slice rather thin, and pan-broil the same as beefsteak. Serve hot, with a dressing prepared by cooking together for a few moments two cups of lentil pulp, one and one-half cups of strained stewed tomato, a tablespoonful of Nut Butter, and one-third cup of7 2 Healthful Cookery Protose made into pulp by being put through a vegetable press. Broiled Protose, No. 2.— Cut Protose into rather thin slices, and pan-broil until a delicate brown on both sides. Serve with Chili Sauce. Broiled Nuttolene.— Cut Nuttolene into slices one half to three fourths of an inch thick, and broil in a wire broiler over the coals to a delicate brown. It should not have spots of dark brown upon it. If it is not convenient to have the coals, the broil- ing may be done under or over the blaze of a gas stove. *Brciled Nuttolene, No. 2.— Slice Nuttolene one fourth or one third of an inch thick, and throw it on a slightly oiled griddle or pan, smoking hot. Brown delicately on both sides, and serve at once on a hot individual platter, with any desired gar- nish. The round slices of Nuttolene may be cut into halves, quarters, or sixths, like pieces of pie; or in a fan strip, and laid upon the platter in a variety of ways. Slices from the larger cans may be cut with the “ chop ” cutters sold in the house- furnishing stores, and in many other shapes. Put a spoonful of canned or stewed green peas, salted to taste, on the platter with broiled Nuttolene. A great variety of dishes may be prepared by vary-73 Flesh-Food Substitutes ing the sauces served with the Nuttolene. Apple, celery, onion, and cranberry sauces are all more or less desirable, as well as fruit jellies. Nuttolene with Mint Sauce.— Broil Nuttolene according to above directions, and serve with the following — *Mint Sauce.— i tablespoonful chopped mint (fresh), 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice, i tablespoon- ful sugar. Stir until the sugar is dissolved. When served over hot dishes, let it get just warm, but not hot. It should not stand long after being prepared. One fourth of a teaspoonful of dry mint may be used in place of the fresh mint, but it is not so good. ^Broiled Nuttolene with Chili Sauce.— Cut Nut- tolene into slices one half to three quarters of an inch thick, and broil in a wire broiler over the coals to a delicate brown. Serve with the following — *Chili Sauce.— i quart stewed tomatoes (not strained), I large onion, sliced, i teaspoonful celery salt, y2 tablespoonful sugar, and y2 teaspoonful salt. Cook together until of the desired consistency. *Chili Sauce, No. 2.— 1 quart fresh tomatoes, juice of 6 onions, juice and grated rind of 3 lemons, l/2 tablespoonful salt, 1 tablespoonful celery salt, Yz cup sugar.Healthful Cookery 74 Everything should be well prepared, the toma- toes cooked in their own juice, and put through a fine sieve to remove seeds. Rub the pulp as nearly all through as possible, and cook until thick before measuring. Grate the onions, and strain without water. Grate the rind of the lemons carefully, the surface only, roll well, and extract the juice. Add lemon and onion juice last, boil slowly for thirty minutes, or until as thick as desired. *Broiled Nuttolene with Peas.— Cut Nuttolene into slices of halves or quarters, and broil as previ- ously directed. Place fresh lettuce leaves on one side of an individual platter. Lay the broiled Nut- tolene in the center, and put two or three spoonfuls of stewed green peas on the lettuce, around the Nut- tolene. *Broiled Protose with Peas in Mint Sauce.— Take canned or stewed green peas, with very little liquor, salt, heat to boiling, then add mint sauce. Keep quite warm, but do not boil. Broil Protose as directed on page 72, and serve one spoonful of the peas with each individual order. Broiled Pro- tose may also be served with any of the sauces men- tioned for broiled Nuttolene; also with Nut Gravy, Brown Gravy, etc. Sliced fresh tomatoes are a nice accompaniment for broiled Protose.Flesh-Food Substitutes 75 Protose Steak.— Cut Protose as for broiling, and put it into a hot oven on a perforated tin until it is well heated through, and slightly browned on the outside. Serve with mint sauce, tomato sauce, and other sauces. Poached Egg on Protose Steak.— Cut one-half- inch slices from a pound of Protose. Heat in a quick oven until delicately brown, but not dried, and slip carefully on each round slice an egg so poached that the white is just jellied. Sprinkle with salt, garnish, and serve. *Nut Lisbon Steak.— Slice Protose into one- half-inch slices. Broil for ten minutes, and serve hot with a Browned Cream Sauce (see p. 159). *Nut Lisbon Steak, No. 2.— Prepare the same as above. Place in a granite pan, and cover with the Brown Sauce (see p. 163). Set the pan in an- other pan containing water, and bake gently for two hours. Instead of the Nut Sauce a small quan- tity of Nut Cream may be poured over the broiled Protose, before being baked. *Mock Hamburger Steak.— y2 pound Protose, ]/% pound Nuttolene, 1 large or 2 small eggs, y2 Gra- nose Biscuit, ground fine. Mash the Protose and Nuttolene fine, add the eggs, and season with grated onion, sage, and salt.76 Healthful Cookery Serve with a tomato sauce, after the steak has been shaped into patties and baked on an oiled tin in the oven. Stewed Nuttolene and Tomato.—i can tomatoes. Yz can Nuttolene. Heat the strained tomatoes to boiling, and thicken a little with flour, if desired; season with salt, and drop in the Nuttolene, cut in small cubes Heat without boiling, and serve. The tomato may be flavored with onion or celery for variety, and a little chopped parsley makes it more attractive. Protose may be used in place of Nuttolene, or one part of each. Simmering gently for a time in the tomato will improve the stew. *Stewed Protose.— Cut Protose into one-third- or one-half-inch dice, or into irregularly shaped pieces. Put into the inner cup of a broad-bottomed double boiler. Cover with boiling water, and add a little salt. Boil rapidly over the fire for a time, then stew or simmer for an hour or longer. The longei it cooks, the richer and finer flavor it will have. When the water has cooked away so as to leave the Protose just juicy, and there is danger of its scorch- ing, put the cup into the outer boiler, and finish the cooking in this way. For an especially rich and meaty flavor, add two or three tablespoonfuls of77 Flesh-Food Substitutes thick, strained stewed tomato to each pound of Pro tose. Chopped celery, onion, or a little powdered mint, thyme, or sage may be added for variety in flavoring. *Protose Stew.— i can Protose, 1/3 can toma- toes, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 2 tablespoonfuls nut oil. 1/3 quart water, 1/3 quart Caramel-Cereal. Make a tomato gravy by heating together two tablespoonfuls of Cocoanut Butter or Nut Oil with the same amount of flour, and after this has been nicely browned, adding the strained tomato juice, a third of a quart of water, and the same of Caramel- Cereal, and letting all boil until sufficiently thick- ened. Add salt to taste, stirring well so as to pre- vent lumps. Then add some cubed Protose, and let it simmer until the Protose is heated through. *Stew or Ragout of Protose.— Cut Protose into three-fourths- or one-inch dice, acording to the way it is to be served. To each pound of Protose take two and one-half to three tablespoonfuls of strained tomato, about one quart of boiling water, and one- fourth to one-half teaspoonful of salt. Simmer from one to four hours. *Savory Protose Stew.— 1 pound Protose, il/> tablespoonfuls chopped onion, teaspoonful sage. Stew as directed for Stewed Protose. Or addHealthful Cookery 78 one and one-half teaspoonfuls of chopped onion to each half pound of Protose. Cook as above, and just before serving sprinkle in two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. *Protose Fricassee.— Add enough water to nearly cover three pounds of Protose cut into cubes. Stew slowly for an hour and a half, until nearly dry. Grate one onion into the Protose, and add the fol- lowing dressing: Strain three cups of tomatoes, and stew for half an hour. Dilute one tablespoonful of Nut Butter. Stir this, and one tablespoonful of browned flour and two of white flour, into the to- matoes, and add the Protose. Serve with potato border or steamed rice, and garnish with parsley. *Nut Fricassee.— Take one small can each of Protose and Nuttolene, cut in rather small cubes. Mix well together. Pour over the mixture a tomato dressing, and bake. ^Fricassee of Protose.—i pound Protose, i small onion, 2 or 3 sprigs parsley, 1 tablespoonful flour, 1 tablespoonful Nut Butter, 1 egg. Cut the Protose from a pound can in halves. Place in a shallow stew-pan, with one small onion sliced, one carrot cut in quarters, and a few sprigs of parsley. Cover with water, and simmer for two hours. Drip the Protose, and place in a saucepanFlesh-Food Substitutes 79 in which is a tablespoonful of Cocoanut Butter, mixed well with a tablespoonful of flour. To this add the stock in which the Protose was boiled. When ready to serve, add to this one egg yolk beaten with a tablespoonful of cream. Serve with rice or roasted rice as an accompaniment. Protose with Tomato.— Just before serving stewed Protose add to it tomato in the proportion of one cup to the pound of Protose. Let it just boil up, add salt, and serve. *Protose Stew with Rice.— To each half pound of Protose, which has been cut into one-third-inch dice, take three slightly rounded tablespoonfuls of rice, well washed. Put them into one quart of boiling water, wiih a little salt, into the inner cup of a double boiler. Keep it boiling rapidly until the rice is tender, then set in the outer boiler, and stew until ready to serve. It may be served at any time after the rice is tender. Macaroni may be used instead of rice. *Stewed Protose with Roasted Rice.—i cup rice, 234 cups water, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 onion. Steam one cup of rice, well washed, in two and one-fourth cups of water, with one scant teaspoon- ful of salt, and one large onion, chopped or sliced. Serve a spoonful of this with each order of Pro-Healthful Cookery 8o tose, which has been stewed with browned flour and tomato, in the proportion of one-half cup of tomato and one tablespoonful of flour to each two pounds of Protose. Salt to taste. *Protose with Onions.— Slice onions, the dark red ones are the sweetest, and cook until tender; add an equal quantity of simmered Protose, salt to taste, and cook slowly until of a delicate brown, but do not scorch. *Stewed Protose and Mashed Beans.— Cook some navy beans until tender, season with salt, and put through a fine colander. Serve stewed Protose on individual platters, with a spoonful of the pre- pared beans. Garnish with lettuce or parsley. *Basted Protose.— ]/2 pound Protose, I onion, I quart stewed tomato, I tablespoonful salt. Cut one-half pound of Protose into halves, and place in an oiled baking-dish, and sprinkle with onions, sliced fine, pressing some of the slices into the sides of the Protose. Pour over this one quart of strained tomatoes, seasoned with salt, and bake in a moderate oven until the tomato is slightly thickened. Baste occasionally by dipping the to- mato over the Protose. Place on a hot platter; gar- nish with parsley, and serve a little tomato with each slice of Protose. The tomato may be omitted8 r Flesh-Food Substitutes 6 and water used instead, in which is dissolved a little Nut Butter. *Scalloped Protose.— Put a pound of Protose through a vegetable press, or mince fine with a chopper. Add to two parts of minced Protose one part of stewed and strained tomato. Mix thor- oughly, and put into a shallow dish, having the mix- ture not over two inches deep ; bake in a rather slow oven for three fourths of an hour. Serve hot with Tomato Sauce. Protose Roast.— Place one pound of sliced Pro- tose in the bottom of a small dripping-pan, with a few slices of onion and a little salt. Cover with water, and bake slowly for several hours. Three quarters of an hour before serving, pare and quar- ter, lengthwise, three or four potatoes, and place in the pan. Sufficient water should be added from time to time to make a gravy. Protose Roast, No. 2.— Cut Protose lengthwise through the center. Place in a baking-pan, and baste with Tomato Sauce. *Protose Roast, No. 3.—Take out both ends of a can of Protose, being careful to cut the tin close to the edge. Remove the contents of the can whole. Split lengthwise through the middle, lay in a roast- ing-pan, flat side downward. Prepare a sauce byHealthful Cookery 82 adding to one pint of stewed tomato rubbed through a colander, a large tablespoonful of Nut Meal, or two heaping tablespoonfuls of Nut Butter. Pour this sauce over the Protose, and bake in a moderate oven for three hours, basting frequently. When thoroughly done, the surface of the Protose will be of a rich brown color. In serving, cut in slices like roast beef, but a little thicker. *Protose Roast, No. 4.— Cut 1 pound of Protose into halves, cover with Cocoanut Butter and grated onion, put into the oven, and bake for a short time, then pour over the following — Sauce.— 2 scant cups water, 2 scant cups to- mato juice, 1/3 cup lemon juice, salt and celery to taste. If preferred, the following sauce may be used: 2 eggs, beaten smooth, 1 pint milk, ]/2 teaspoonful salt. Return to oven, and bake until brown. *Protose Roast with Browned Gravy.— Put al- ternate layers of sliced Protose and fine-sliced onion, with salt, in a small tin or dripper. Cover with water, and bake slowly for two or three hours, adding water as required. When ready to serve, remove the Protose from the tin, add more water to that left in the tin, if necessary, and thicken with a mixture of brown and white flour, braided with83 Flesh-Food Substitutes water. This may be served with peeled baked po- tatoes, or the potatoes may be baked with the Pro- tose. *Protose Roast with Tomato Sauce.— 2 or 3 cups bread-crumbs, ^ pound Protose, salt and sage to season, il/2 cups tomato. To two or three cups of chopped bread-crumbs (toasted crumbs preferred), moistened with water, add one-half pound of Protose, and season with a little salt and sage. Bake about three quarters of an hour, or until nicely browned. For the sauce, add to one and one-half cups of strained tomato one tablespoonful of mashed Protose, and cook for a short time. Thicken, and serve over the roast. ^Pressed Protose Loaf.— Break up the Protose slightly with a fork, add salt, a very little sage, and, if necessary, a little water to make the Protose hold together. Pack it into an oiled tin, put a weight on it, press firmly, and let it stand in a cool place for several hours. When ready to serve, run a knife- blade around the edge of the tin, turn the contents out carefully, slice with a thin, sharp knife, and serve with lemon points, cranberry sauce, jelly, or celery. A little Nuttolene may be used with the Protose. Minced yolks of hard-boiled eggs are an improvement in the loaf. Seasoning with celery84 Healthful Cookery salt and a little lemon juice, instead of the sage, salt, and water, makes another variety. Minced onion, with or instead of the sage, gives a different dish. This may be broiled before serving if desired, and served with sour apple sauce. ^Pressed Nut Loaf, Broiled.— i cup Nut Meal, yA cup water, 2^ pounds Protose, y teaspoonful bay leaves, j/2 teaspoonful sage, yA teaspoonful salt. Break the Protose into coarse, irregular pieces with a fork, add the herbs and salt, then the Nut Meal, which has been cooked for a few minutes in the water. Press firmly into tins, put on a weight, and let stand in the ice-box for several hours. It may be sliced, and broiled or served cold. ^Vegetable Turkey.— 2 cups lentil pulp (pre- pared by cooking lentils and passing through a fine colander), 1 cup strained stewed tomato, 2 eggs, 2 cups walnut meal (made by pressing English wal- nut meats through a colander), y> cup Granola, y> cup Gluten, 1 onion, y cup thick Nuttolene Cream. Brown the Gluten in the oven, mix the ingre- dients, adding the juice only of the onion, with a little minced celery and pulverized sage, just enough to give it flavor, with salt to season. The mixture should be quite stiff, as it will be if the water is largely separated from the lentils. Place inFlesh-Food Substitutes 85 a common bread-tin, and bake in a quick oven. If the mixture proves to be thin, a longer, slower baking will be required, as it should be stiff enough when baked to slice nicely. Serve in slices on in- dividual dishes, with a small quantity of dressing- prepared in the following manner, and a garniture of parsley or celery leaves: 1 cup lentil pulp, 1 cup strained stewed tomato, 1 cup Nuttolene Cream, browned ilour to thicken. Season with salt, celery, and a little grated onion. Strain before serving. :!:Casserole of Rice and Protose.— y2 pound Pro- tose, p2 teaspoonful salt, /2 teaspoonful celery salt, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, i tablespoonful minced onion, 1 egg, 2 teaspoonfuls cracker-crumbs, 1. cup rice. Chop or mash the Protose very fine, and add the salt, celery salt to taste, chopped parsley, one table- spoonful of finely sliced or grated onion, one beaten egg, and two tcaspoonfuls of fine cracker-crumbs. Use hot water to moisten, that it may pack easily. Oil a small mold, and line the sides and bottom one- half-inch deep with hot or cold cooked rice. Pack in the Protose, and cover closely with rice; steam forty-five minutes. Serve with Cream Celery Sauce or Tomato Sauce.86 Healthful Cookery *Cream Celery Sauce.—2 stalks celery, 1 pt. milk, I tablespoonful flour, 1 teaspoonful browned flour. Cook the celery in the milk until it is well fla- vored. Remove the celery, thicken with one table- spoonful of browned flour and one teaspoonful of white flour. Salt to taste. ^Casserole of Protose with Potato.— y2 pound Protose, minced, 1 tablespoonful cream or Nut Cream, I egg, y2 teaspoonful powdered sage, ]/\ teaspoonful thyme, y2 teaspoonful celery salt, teaspoonful salt, 1 quart mashed potato. Line small round dishes with well-seasoned mashed potato. Fill with the Protose mixture. Cover with a crust of potato, and bake in a mod- erate oven until well browned. Potato Meal with which has been mixed one tablespoonful of Cocoa- nut Cream to three heaping spoonfuls of the meal, the whole rubbed smooth with slightly salted water, just enough being used to make the meal suffi- ciently moist to shape well, may be used instead of the mashed potato. *Protose and Granola Roast.— 1 cup Granola, y2 pound chopped Protose, 1 teaspoonful Nut But- ter, l/2 cup strained tomato, y2 teaspoonful salt, /4 teaspoonful sage, from y2 cup to 1 cup water, y teaspoonful mint.87 Flesh-Food Substitutes Rub the Nut Butter smooth in the tomato, mix all together, and press into a brick-shaped tin, and bake in a moderate oven about one hour, or until dry enough to slice nicely. The yolk of an egg may be used if desired. Double this quantity for one loaf. *Nut Loaf.—This dish is one that can be made with almost innumerable variations. The most de- lightful combinations may be made with left-over foods, combined with bread-crumbs, soups, legumes, nuts, and nut preparations, with or without tomato or browned flour. The seasoning may be varied with onion, mint, thyme, sage, savory, bay leaves, marjoram, caraway, celery seed, or leaves or stalks. In using Protose, take equal quantities of that and very dry (not too fine) bread-crumbs (if they are moist, twice the quantity will be required), chopped onion, and a trifle of mint (not over one eighth of a teaspoonful to a good-sized loaf), with a little strained tomato, and water and salt. The mixture should be quite dry, after standing a few minutes for the crumbs, if dry, to become moistened. It should not seem watery when pressed together with the hand, but should be just moist enough to hold together; if too moist, the loaf will be solid and soggy when baked; or if not baked long enough,Healthful Cookery 88 it will be too soft to slice nicely. When prepared, press the mixture into an oiled, brick-shaped tin and bake in a moderate oven about an hour, or until it feels rather firm when pressed with the fingers Loosen the sides, turn out on a board, and slice carefully with a thin, sharp knife. Serve with brown gravy, lentil gravy, or tomato or savory sauce. *Nut Roast with Dressing.— Cook one cup of brown lentils until tender and dry, and rub them through a colander. Add three fourths of a cup of Granola, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of powdered sage, one-eighth teaspoonful of powdered mint, one and one-half to two teaspoonfuls of salt, and one cup of water. Mix all together, and add one pound of Nuttolene cut into small strips. Press all down into a pan, and bake slowly for about an hour. *Nut Roast.—To one quart of stale bread broken in small fragments add one pint of mashed Protose. Mix together with a cup of rich milk, with which is beaten one egg. Season with salt, sage, and a little minced celery orpnion. Bake just long enough to set the custard. *Nut Cereal Roast.— i pint bread-crumbs, i cup Nut Meal, j/2 cup Nut Butter dissolved in i quart water, with sage, thyme, and salt to season.89 Flesh-Food Substitutes Mix thoroughly together, bake in a loaf until well browned. Serve in slices. *Protose with Dressing.— Serve with stewed Protose the following dressing: Moisten slices of bread with hot salted water, and lay them in a pan; sprinkle lightly with powdered sage,'and continue to put in layers in this manner until a sufficient quantity is prepared. Cover the top with bread- crumbs or Granola. Sprinkle over a little more water if necessary. Bake in a quick oven until brown, and serve at once. ^Stuffed Protose with Brown Gravy.— Cut the center from a pound of Protose, and stuff with a dressing made from the following ingredients: Three slices of stale bread broken into small pieces and soaked in cold water until tender. Press the water from the bread, add one egg, one medium- sized onion (grated), one cup of hot mashed potato, which has been seasoned with rich cream and salt. Add to this one half of the Protose, which was cut from the center of the pound, after having mashed it well. Season the dressing with one-half tea- spoonful of sage, and salt to taste. Place the stuffed Protose in a baking-dish, and add just enough water to baste while baking for two and one-half hours in a hot oven. When done, carefully lift the roast intoHealthful Cookery 90 another dish, reserving the water for gravy. Sur- round the roast with the remainder of the dress- ing, and bake for one-half hour. Brown Gravy.—• Add sufficient cream to the water remaining to make a pint in all. Thicken with browned flour, add the remainder of the Protose from the center of the pound, after it is mashed, and season the gravy with sage and celery salt. Serve with each order a little Protose, dressing, and gravy. *Loaf of Nuttolene and Mashed Beans.— Cook beans until tender and very dry. Rub through a fine colander, add salt to taste, and put into a loaf cake-tin in layers, with thick, narrow slices of Nut- tolene. Bake, slice, and serve with lemon juice or tomato sauce. *Nut Maize Loaf.— 6 cups water, i 2/3 cups golden grits (or any granulated corn meal), 2 table- spoonfuls flour, 2 teaspoonfuls salt. Mix the corn meal and flour. Have water, to which the salt has been added, boiling, stir in the corn meal and flour mixture, and let it boil up well. Set in the outer boiler, and cook for from two to four hours. Remove from the fire, and stir in Nuttolene, chopped or sliced fine. Press into a brick-shaped tin. When cold, slice and brown on a griddle or in a hot oven.Flesh-Food Substitutes 9i *Protose and Nuttolene in Shells.— Take two- thirds Protose and one-third Nuttolene, mince all fine with a fork (or grind through a food-cutter), and mix well together. It may then be made into cakes with the hands, or put into a pastry-bag with a star-shaped tube with large spaces, and pressed into the shells. Turn over the cakes the liquid from the can of Protose, flavored with celery salt, grated onions, or some of the herbs, or not flavored at all, as preferred. Place them on the top grate of a hot oven, or under a gas blaze, if not too hot. Just heat them through, and serve at once. They re- quire no sauce, but a teaspoonful of jelly on one side of the shell is very nice served with them. They may be served on a folded napkin or a plate, or from the chop-tray. Leaves of parsley may be used as a garnish. Crust Patties.— Beat until light the yolks of six eggs with four tablespoonfuls of ice-water and a half teaspoonful of salt. Add sufficient flour to make a dough stiff enough to knead. Knead well for a few minutes, and roll to about the thinness of a knifeblade. Plave prepared a dish of Nut Fillets (see page 94), cooked and hot. Cut the crust into rounds. Place some of the fillets on one half of the round, turn the other half of the crust over,92 Healthful Cookery and press the edges together like turnovers. Bake on a roll-baker until thoroughly done, and slightly brown. Serve with or without tomato sauce. *Protose Timbales.— i pound Protose, pound Nuttolene, 4 rolled crackers, 3/2 cup cream, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful each of salt and celery salt, 1 tea- spoonful powdered bay leaf. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, bake for twenty minutes in oiled molds, set in a pan of hot water. Serve with tomato sauce. i!:Protose Cutlets.— Dip broiled Protose in egg, which has been beaten slightly with salt and one tablespoonful of water to each egg. Then roll in fine Zwieback crumbs or Granola. Put into a hot oven until slightly browned. '"Protose Cutlets, No. 2.— Dip slices of Protose into beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and broil on a griddle. Serve with a brown, tomato, or lemon sauce. Garnish with lemon points and parsley. *Protose Fish.— Roll slices of Protose in salted beaten egg, then in Granose Flakes. Place evenly in an oiled dripper, and bake in a moderate oven until the Protose is heated thoroughly. Serve hot with tomato jelly. * Vegetable Cutlets.— 1 cup steamed rice, 2 cups minced Protose, 1 cup lentil pulp, I grated onion,Flesh-Food Substitutes 93 l/2 teaspoonful sage, 1/3 cup 20-per-cent Gluten or browned flour, and l/2 cup tomato juice. Mix together, and mold in oblong cakes two thirds of an inch in thickness, and bake for half an hour. Serve with a brown sauce, and garnish with green peas. * Vegetable Cutlets, No. 2.— 1 cup cooked rice, 2 cups Protose, 1 cup lentil pulp, 1 grated onion, /> teaspoonful salt, p2 cup Gluten. Form in cutlets, and pan-broil. Brown Sauce.—• Brown together one tablespoon- ful of Nut Meal and two tablespoonfuls of flour. Add one-half teaspoonful of salt. Braid smooth in a little cold water, then turn into a pint of boiling milk, stirring until thickened. Add lastly one-half cup of strained tomato juice. *Nuttolene Cutlets.—Take one can of Nuttolene, mince fine, add one-half teaspoonful of powdered sage, and one cup of tomato juice; also one onion grated, and enough Granola to thicken; form into cutlets, and bake until a light brown. Serve with tomato gravy. Nuttolene Cutlets, No. 2.— Cut Nuttolene into irregular shapes, dip into egg beaten with water in the proportion of one tablespoonful to each egg, and a little salt, then roll in Granola. Dip in egg,94 Healthful Cookery and roll in Granola again; then put into a hot oven until a delicate brown. Serve plain or with green peas. *Nut Cutlets.— Sprinkle a thin layer of Granose Flakes on a baking-pan. Over this put a layer of sliced Nuttolene; then another layer of Granose Flakes. Over this pour the following sauce: Three eggs, beaten smooth, one and one-half pints of milk, three-fourths teaspoonful of salt. Bake until brown. *Nut and Tomato Timbales.—Rub the Nuttolene from one small can through a fine colander or sieve, add to it one quart of strained stewed tomato, one- half cup of cream, one whole egg and the yolk of a second, with salt to season. Beat so as to blend thoroughly, and bake in timbale molds: set in a pan of hot water until well set. *Nut Fillets.—Slice Protose and Nuttolene each one-half-inch thick. Place slices of Nuttolene in the bottom of an oiled baker, with a thin slice of onion between it and a slice of Protose, which should be on top. Strain a can of tomatoes, and stew down. Add for seasoning, bay leaves, thyme, and salt. Pour this dressing over the fillets. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. Garnish with parsley or lettuce. *Protose and Nuttolene Pie.—Put layers of Pro-95 Flesh-Food Substitutes tose and Nuttolene into a deep dish, sprinkle browned flour, salt, thyme, and a very little mint between the layers. Pour a little strained tomato over each layer, and cover the whole with water. Bake from one-half to one hour, adding water to leave it quite juicy. Cover a granite pie-tin with a plain crust, and fill with the layers of baked Pro- tose and Nuttolene. Cover with a top crust as for fruit pies, and bake until the crust is just done. Cut in pieces, and serve with any suitable gravy on an individual platter on a lettuce leaf or with parsley, or slip the pie on to a chop-tray, and gar- nish with parsley or lettuce. The seasoning may be varied. Black walnuts may be sprinkled between the layers, instead of herbs. *Nuttolene Pie with Potato Crust.— Put slices of Nuttolene, with or without onion or other flavor- ing, into a baking-dish. Dredge with flour between the layers, and cover with salted water. Bake one- half hour or more. Then add more water if neces- sary, cover with a thick layer of mashed potato, and bake until of a delicate brown. The crust may have one egg, beaten separately, added to each pint of potato. Protose may be combined with Nuttolene, using one half of each if preferred. *Savory Macaroni and Nuttolene.— I quartHealthful Cookery 96 rather moist coarse bread-crumbs, I teaspoonful powdered sage, i teaspoonful salt, I cup macaroni, y2 pound minced or diced Nuttolene or Protose. Mix together. Cook the macaroni, then put a layer each of the crumbs, macaroni, and Nuttolene into a baking-dish until all are in. Pour over the whole two or more cups of water, sprinkle the top lightly with fine crumbs, and bake slowly from three fourths of an hour to one hour. It should be moist enough when done not to require any sauce, but may be served with any sauce desired. *Rice Macaroni Croquettes.—Take one pint of cold, boiled rice, macaroni, or spaghetti. Heat, and moisten with a little thick, white sauce, add the beaten yolk of one egg, two tablespoonfuls of grated Nuttolene, and salt and celery to taste. Cool, shape, roll in crumbs, dip in eggs, roll in crumbs again, and bake until brown on an oiled tin for about one-half hour. ^Braised Protose.—Hash one-half pound of Pro- tose. Emulsify three tablespoonfuls of Nut Butter, add some tomato juice, and one teaspoonful of darkly browned flour. Mince or slice one large onion, add this with one-half teaspoonful of sage, one-half teaspoonful of celery salt, one small carrot, one small turnip, and one small potato.. Slice the97 Flesh-Food Substitutes vegetables; add one-fourth teaspoonful of marjoram and two bay leaves. Mix all together, and stew gently for three hours. Season with salt. Cut the remainder of the Protose into slices, and place in a dripper, letting each piece overlap the next. Pour in enough of the vegetable stock to partially cover. Baste until the Protose is thoroughly flavored with the stock. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. *Protose and Macaroni.— Boil in three pints of water, with salt, one cup of broken macaroni, or other of the Italian pastes, and three fourths of a pound of Protose, cut into large dice, with one medium-sized onion, sliced, until the macaroni is tender. If kept hot for a longer time, it will be improved. More water may be required. Macaroni with Nuttolene.— Break macaroni sufficient to fill a large cup into inch lengths, and cook in boiling salted water until tender. When done, drain. Put a layer of the macaroni in a pud- ding-dish and sprinkle over it a light layer of Nut- tolene, which has been cut into very small bits. Add a second and a third layer of macaroni, sprinkling each with the Nuttolene, then turn over the whole a custard sauce made by mixing together Nut Cream (prepared by adding two or three tablespoonfuls of Nut Butter to a cup and a half or two cups of 7Healthful Cookery 98 water), and the beaten yolks of two eggs, or one whole egg, and one teaspoonful of salt. Bake in a moderate oven until lightly browned, and the cus- tard is set. ^Macaroni au Gratin.— Break sufficient mac- aroni to make a quart into two-inch lengths. Cook until tender in boiling salted water. When done, drain, and place in a baking-dish. Sprinkle over it a quart of fresh cottage cheese. Beat together three eggs and one cup of rich milk or cream. Turn this over the macaroni, sprinkle the top with cracker-crumbs, and bake for ten minutes in a mod- erate oven. *Nut Pie with Farina Crust.— Half fill a three- quart granite basin with layers of sliced Protose and Nuttolene with a very little onion, sliced thin, to flavor. Over the whole pour water salted and thickened with corn-starch to the consistency of cream, and bake for one-half to one hour, adding more water if necessary. Then spread over the top a crust made as follows, and bake until the crust is done: In the inner cup of a double boiler put three cups of boiling milk or water. Stir in three fourths of a cup of wheat farina. Set in the outer boiler, stirring occasionally for five or ten minutes. Cook for half an hour. Remove from the fire, coolFlesh-Food Substitutes 99 slightly, add one teaspoonful of salt and three beaten eggs. When water is used, four teaspoon- fuls of Nut Oil may be added, if desired. *Protose and Gluten Patties.— l/2 pound Pro- tose, minced fine, i tablespoonful of thick dairy cream, Cocoanut Cream, or Nut Cream, 2 table- spoonfuls of 20-per-cent Gluten, i well-beaten egg. Mix well together. Add salt to season, and a little powdered sage or celery salt to flavor. Shape with the hands into small patties, and bake until lightly browned. *Protose and Granola.— Put one-half pound of Protose through a vegetable press, or mash through a colander. Mix together two cups of Granola and three cups of warm water. Season this with a little salt and a little pulverized sage or minced celery. Put alternate layers of the seasoned Gra- nola and the Protose in a pudding-dish, finishing with the Protose. Press together slightly, and bake in a moderate oven until lightly browned. *Protose and Rice Hash.—Take equal quanti- ties of chopped Protose and cold boiled rice. No flavoring is required, but celery leaves or any of the sweet herbs, powdered fine, may be used. Heat as for Protose and Potato Hash (page 103), only more care should be taken to prevent scorching.IOO Healthful Cookery Many can use Protose and rice who can not digest potatoes. Browned rice may be used in the same way. * Protose and Rice Cakes.—Take equal quantities of cold boiled rice and chopped Protose (left-over Protose and Rice Hash). Season to taste with salt, and celery, onion, or sage, as desired. Moisten sufficiently to shape into cakes with the hand, and broil on a slightly oiled griddle. Serve with or without sauce. *Protose and Rice Croquettes.— Steam one-half cup of well-washed rice in one cup of water, with one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, for one hour, or until tender. Add to this an equal bulk of dry stewed Protose, one egg, and salt to taste. Shape, and roll in fine bread-crumbs or Granola. Bake in a quick oven until they begin to crack, and are of a delicate brown. If desired, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley or celery may be added before shaping. Serve with egg sauce or with fruit or jelly. *Protose with Browned Rice.— Broil slices of Protose. Have ready a nut gravy, using browned flour to thicken. Put the broiled Protose into a pudding-dish, pour the gravy over it, and bake in the oven for half an hour or longer. Serve with a border of nicely browned rice.IOI Flesh-Food Substitutes *Protose and Granose Croquettes.— Take one cup of slightly juicy stewed Protose, one egg, salt to taste, and just enough Granose Flakes to shape. Form into rolls, and bake in a quick oven until they begin to crack, and are of a delicate brown. They may be prepared and set in a cool place until time to bake them. Grape pulp or fruit jelly are agree- able sauces for them. *Protose Croquettes.— Chop one pound of Pro- tose moderately fine, add one teaspoonful of celery salt, two teaspoonfuls of onions, minced fine, and two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Serve with the following sauce: Pleat four large tablespoonfuls of Nut Oil, without scorching; stir into this one cup of pastry flour, and add one quart of boiling water, stirring until smooth; add another cup of dry flour, stirring it in carefully. Remove from the fire, add one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of celery salt, and two eggs. Stir this into the above mix- ture of Protose, and allow it to stand until cold. Shape into rolls about three inches long and one inch in diameter; roll them in fine Zwieback- crumbs, dip into beaten egg, and roll in crumbs again. Bake in a moderate oven for twenty min- utes, or until done. *Protose Croquettes, No. 2.—Mash Protose withHealthful Cookery 102 a fork, and mix with it an equal quantity of mashed potato. Season with mint, celery, or a bit of onion, and salt to taste. Form into croquettes, roll in bread-crumbs, then in beaten yolks of eggs, roll again in bread-crumbs, and bake brown on an oiled tin in the oven. *Rice and Lentil Croquettes.— I cup lentil pulp, i cup cooked rice, y2 cup cream, I beaten egg, sage and salt to taste. Form into croquettes, and roll in beaten eggs, then in bread-crumbs. Spread a bit of cream on top, and bake to a nice brown. *Pease and Celery Croquettes.— I cup pease pulp, 2/3 cup chopped celery, 1 egg, enough bread- crumbs to make stiff enough for croquettes, salt and thyme to taste. Form into croquettes, roll in beaten egg, then in crumbs, and bake until slightly brown. *Savory Protose Hash.—Take equal quantities of chopped Protose and coarse bread-crumbs with a little powdered sage for flavoring. Strained to- mato in the proportion of two tablespoonfuls to each half pound of Protose may be used. Heat with sufficient water to moisten in an omelet-pan, over the fire, or place in a hot oven, for an hour, or until of a rich flavor. ^Protose and Apple Hash.— Substitute apples.Flesh-Food Substitutes 103 sliced fine, for the rice, in Protose and Rice Hash; use no water; just heat through, but do not cook the apples. *Protcse and Potato Hash.— Cook potatoes in their jackets until tender. When cold, peel, and chop moderately coarse, or cut into one-third-inch dice. Cut Protose into one-third-inch dice. Have two parts of potato to one part of Protose, and one slice of onion chopped very fine to each. Put a little Nut Cream (made by mixing Nuttolene with water), into a stew-pan. Add the above ingre- dients, which have been well mixed together. Add salt to taste. Cover closely, and let it heat gently until a delicate brown crust is formed at the bot- tom, then turn, and stir carefully, and set where it will keep hot, but not scorch. Cold baked potatoes make very good hash, and those left over from meals may be used. Chopped celery, celery salt, or any of the sweet herbs powdered fine may be sub- stituted for the onion. *Lentil and Nut Loaf.— Take one pint of well- cooked lentil pulp, one cup of strained stewed to- mato, one and one-half cups of walnut meal, a very little pulverized sage, and enough Granola or crushed Zwieback, probably one cup, to make quite a stiff mixture. Bake for forty minutes in a mod- erate oven.104 Healthful Cookery *Savory Nut Loaf.—Take two cups of browned Zwieback or Granola and one cup of walnut, pecan, or hickory-nut meal. Add one-half teaspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of any preferred herb, as pul- verized sage, mint, or celery salt. Mix these ingre- dients thoroughly, and cover with rather thin Nut Cream, or, if preferred, boiling water may be used. Allow the mixture tb stand for a few moments (if Granola is used, the moisture will cause it to swell), then add enough more hot water to make the whole quite moist. Turn into a bread-tin, and bake in a 1 moderate oven for an hour. It may be served hot, with or without a nut dressing, or tomato sauce. It is also excellent served cold in slices, with a gar- nish of lemon, sliced thin, or with lettuce. *Nuts with Lentils.— Use three pints of strained cooked lentils and one pint of stewed tomato; sea- son to taste with Nut Butter and salt, and bake. If desired, an onion may be cooked with the lentils to flavor. Pease Patties.— Cook a quart of dried Scotch peas very slowly, until perfectly tender, allowing them to simmer very gently toward the last, until they become as dry as possible. Put them through a colander to remove all skins. Season with a teaspoonful of salt and a half cup of Nut Cream.Flesh-Food Substitutes 105 Beat well together, add one-third the same quantity ff toasted bread-crumbs, shape into patties, and bake until dry, mealy, and nicely browned. Serve with the following — Tomato Sauce.— Heat a pint of strained stewed :omato, season slightly with salt, and when boil- ing, thicken with a tablespoonful of flour rubbed smooth in a little water. *Pease Patties, No. 2.— 2 quarts pease pulp, 1^ :ups Nut Meal, 2 eggs, 1 cup Nut Cream, 2 tea- spoonfuls salt, 2^4 cups Granose Flakes. Beat the eggs, mix all together, form into patties, g-laze with cream, and bake brown. *Baked Savory Peas.—Take equal parts of sifted peas (dry Scotch peas cooked and pressed through a colander), and dry bread or Zwieback crumbs. To four parts of this mixture add one part of strained stewed tomato, and one large tablespoon- ful of Nut Butter, with salt to season. Add a little minced celery and onion or sage, and bake until dry and nicely browned throughout. Stewed Beans with Nut Butter.— Look over and wash one pint of dried Haricot beans. Put into cold water, and parboil for half an hour. Turn off the water, and put them to cook again in boiling water with an ounce of Nuttolene or a tablespoon-106 Healthful Cookery ful of Nut Butter. Stew slowly for two hours, or until tender, making sure that they are quite juicy when done. Add salt to season, one or two tea- spoonfuls more of Nut Butter rubbed to a cream in a little water, the juice of one lemon, and an ounce of parsley chopped very fine. Boil together three or four minutes, and serve. Celery may be used instead of parsley, or both may be omitted. Corn Baked with Zwieback.— Rub a table- spoonful of Nut Butter smooth in a little cold water, adding more gradually, until it makes one quart in all. Heat this to boiling, and with it moisten eight or ten slices of Zwieback. Put one pint of freshly cooked or canned corn through a colander to remove the skins, add to it one-half teaspoonful of salt and one cup of water, with which has been mingled one teaspoonful of Nut Butter. Cover the bottom of a granite-ware baking-dish with the corn mixture, and place therein a la)rer of Zwieback, pour a little more of the corn over the slices, and add another layer of the Zwieback. Con- tinue thus until the dish is full, pouring the corn mixture over each layer. Bake twenty minutes in a rather hot oven. Serve at once. ^Vegetarian Roast.— Mix together one-half cup of lentil pulp, one-half cup of pease pulp, one-half107 Flesh-Food Substitutes cup of English walnuts. Season to taste with sage and salt. Line an oiled baking-dish one-half inch deep with the mixture. Pack in loosely the follow- ing dressing: Four slices of Zwieback steamed until softened, one-half cup of hot cream, sage and salt to taste, and one well-beaten egg, mixed together lightly with a fork. Cover with the pease, lentil, and nut mixture. Over the top spread thick cream, and bake in a moderate oven until firm enough to cut in slices. Serve with cranberry sauce, jelly, or the following — Brown Cream Gravy.—Thicken one pint of rich milk with one tablespoonful of browned flour and one teaspoonful of white flour. Salt to taste. *Vegetarian Roast, No. 2.— Cover the bottom of a baking-pan with minced Protose. Sprinkle with bread-crumbs, Nut Meal, and chopped celery. Moisten with cream sauce, then cover with Nut- tolene, then bread-crumbs, Nut Meal, and celery again, then with the cream sauce. Add another layer of minced Protose, cover with cream sauce, or egg and cream sauce, and bake to a nice brown. *Prctose Hash.— Hash two-thirds Protose, one- third potatoes; flavor with sage, and salt to taste, press into an oiled tin, cover the top with thick cream, and bake until brown.Healthful Cookery io8 *Nut and Rice Roast.—2 cups hashed Protose or Nuttolene, 1 cup cooked rice, 2 eggs, sage and salt to flavor. Mix all together thoroughly. Spread the top with thick cream, and bake one hour in a moderate oven. *Nut Turkey Roast.— 1 cup lentil pulp, cup Gluten, cup Granola, y2 teaspoonful salt, 1 cup chopped mixed nuts, salt and sage to taste. Mix well, and place in a baking-dish; spread the top with cream, and bake thirty-five or forty min- utest. Swiss Lentil Roast.— 2/3 cup lentil pulp, 1/3 cup mashed potatoes, y2 cup cream, flavor with onion, and salt. Mix all together, cover the top with cream, and bake brown. *Protose Patties.— 1 cup rice, 1 cup Protose, 1 tablespoonful Gluten, 4 eggs, 1 tablespoonful Gra- nola, y2 cup cream or Nut Oil, salt and sage to taste. Form into patties, and bake until nicely browned. *Protose Patties, No. 2.— Mash fine one cup of Protose, add one-fourth cup of celery, minced fine,Flesh-Food Substitutes 109 and salt to season. Form into patties, roll in beaten egg, then in bread-crumbs, and bake until brown. *Protose Patties, No. 3.— Take one cup of Pro- tose, one cup of potatoes, chopped fine, salt and grated onion to flavor. To this add one egg, one- half cup of cream. Form into patties, and brown in the oven. *Nuttolene Fricassee.—With a fork shave one- half pound of Nuttolene into thin slices. Prepare a corn sauce by adding to a half pint of corn pulp two well-beaten eggs, one pint of rich milk, and salt to taste. Place the Nuttolene loosely in an oiled baking- dish, and stew in a small amount of water for half if an hour. Then pour over it the corn sauce, bake until it thickens to the consistency of custard. Serve hot in individual dishes. Cold Sliced Protose.— Slice the Protose very thin, like dried or chipped beef, and serve as a relish. Protose with Jelly.— Slice Protose as it comes from the can into thin slices. Arrange in any de- sired way with bits of cranberry or apple jelly on each piece. A border of jelly with sprigs of parsley may be used with pleasing effect.I IO Healthful Cookery Cold Sliced Nuttolene.— Nuttolene, as it comes from the can, sliced, is very delicate and delightful, and is especially palatable served with jelly or with any of the sauces suitable for meat substitutes. *Protose Steak in Tomato with Ripe Olives.— Pour enough stewed tomato, into which a little salt has been sprinkled, over the bottom of a granite pan, to cover it well. Lay three-fourths-inch slices of Protose in the tomato, and heat all in a moderate oven, until the Protose has absorbed the tomato. Serve with ripe olives. ^Simmered Protose.— Cut Protose into small dice or strips the size of coarse noodles, add water enough to cover. Let this simmer gently for four or five hours or longer, adding more water if nec- essary. Salt to taste, and at the last let the water cook away, leaving the Protose slightly juicy. For variety, the Protose may be flavored with sage, cel- ery, parsley, or onion. It may be served with a spoonful of boiled rice or browned rice with each helping, or a special dressing may be prepared to serve with it. *Stewed Nuttolene.— Rub two ounces of Nut- tolene smooth with three fourths of a cup of water. Rub it through a wire strainer, salt to taste, and heat to boiling. Drop into this sauce the remainderFlesh-Food Substitutes 111 of the pound of Nuttolene, which has been cut into strips and well separated, or into three-fourths-inch dice. Let it stand a few minutes in a warm place until heated through, but do not let it boil, and do not stir it after the pieces of Nuttolene are in. Serve carefully on warm individual platters, gar- nishing with parsley. Nuttolene with Mashed Potatoes.—Serve stewed Nuttolene with mashed potato border. Nut Corn Pudding.— i cup Protose, i can Nut- tolene, 2 or 3 stalks celery. Fill a three-quart basin half or two-thirds full of layers of thin slices of Protose and Nuttolene, with salt, celery sliced fine, and a slight dredging of flour. Cover well with water, and bake for an hour. Then spread over it the following Corn Cus- tard, sprinkle lightly with fine crumbs, and bake until a delicate brown over the top; serve at once. Corn Custard.—Two cans of sweet corn rubbed through a colander, three well-beaten eggs, one cup of milk, salt to taste. Nuttolene and Onion Stew.—Stew onions, sliced fine, until tender, add salt and strips or dice of Nuttolene. Serve when the Nuttolene is well heated. The Nuttolene may be stewed, and a spoonful of onion served on the side of the platter.112 Eggs The composition of eggs being largely albumen, from the point of digestibility requires that they be cooked at a lower temperature, and subjected to heat for a shorter period than starch foods. Eggs may be prepared in a variety of whole- some ways,— poached, boiled, steamed, but never fried,— and combined with other foods to form many palatable dishes. Used in connection with such starch foods as rice and potato, they form a well-balanced dietary. In breaking eggs, drop each separately into a dish. When it is thus ascertained that each is a perfect and healthy egg, it may then be turned into the dish with others. If to be used for omelets, unfermented breads, or cake, the white and yolk should be separated, and each by itself well beaten, the yolks until thick and lighter in color, the whites until perfectly stiff and flaky. The success of these articles depends upon the amount of air incorporated by the careful beating of the eggs, the viscous nature of the whites making it possible to catch and retain the air for some time.RECIPES Omelet.— An omelet should be a fluffy mass of lightness. A good rule to follow is to allow one egg and one tablespoonful of liquid (boiling water makes the more tender omelet) for each individual to be served. Beat the eggs, yolks and whites sep- arately; add the salt for seasoning, and the boiling water to the yolks; mingle thoroughly, then fold in the beaten whites so carefully that not an air-bubble is broken. Have the omelet-pan oiled and hot. Pour the eggs into it, and spread evenly. Heat slowly; and when puffed up and browned delicately on the bottom, fold in the middle, using a limber palette knife to turn it over. Test the omelet by touching it with the finger. When it feels dry in- stead of sticky to the touch, it is ready to turn. Serve on a hot dish. To Poach Eggs.— A shallow pan with water of a depth to completely cover the eggs, is the first requisite. The salt may be added to the water, which should be at just the boiling temperature, but not bubbling hard. Some oiled muffin-rings placed in the water, into each of which a carefully broken egg may be dropped, will insure a more shapely result. Let the eggs remain linger the water until 8114 Healthful Cookery a well-formed film settles over each yolk, then lift out carefully with a handled skimmer into hot dishes, having first drained off all the water. Poached Eggs on Granose Flakes.— Put a few of the crisp Flakes on an individual platter; brown lightly in the oven, then drop on them two nicely poached eggs. Sprinkle the eggs slightly with salt, garnish with parsley, and serve. *Eggs a la Martin.— Dust the bottom of a dish lightly with Granose Flakes; cover with cream sauce. Break the eggs over the cream sauce, being careful to keep each one whole. Sprinkle more Gra- nose over the eggs, and add some cream sauce to each egg. Set in the oven for about ten minutes, or until the whites are set. Serve with cream sauce to which is added a little minced parsley. Coddled Eggs.—■ Beat three eggs lightly, add to them one cup of rather hot milk and one-fourth tea- spoonful of salt. Cook in a double boiler, stirring frequently until the mixture thickens to a jelly-like consistency. Serve on nicely browned Granose Bis- cuits. Granose Biscuit with Eggs.— Lay the two halves of a toasted Granose Biscuit on an individual platter, and drop on each a nicely poached or soft- boiled egg. Sprinkle lightly with salt, and serve atonce; or spread them with two eggs scrambled in one and one-half tablespoonfuls of water with a little salt. Poached Eggs on Toasted Corn Flakes.—Toast the Flakes lightly in the oven, and serve with poached egg, the same as Granose Flakes. Scrambled Eggs.—• To four eggs well beaten add two tablespoonfuls of milk or thin Cocoanut Cream with salt to season. Cook in an oiled dish over boiling water, stirring continuously as the mix- ture begins to thicken. For variety, when nearly done a teaspoonful of minced parsley may be added. Eggs and Granola.—• Beat the whites of two eggs, to which a teaspoonful of Granola has been added, to a stiff froth; add a little salt, if desired. Pour the mixture into a teacup, and place the tea- cup in a dish of boiling water. Cook from two to five minutes. The whole egg may be used, if pre- ferred, instead of two whites, by beating the yolk and Granola together separately, and afterward adding the white beaten to a froth. Eggs and Granola, No. 2.— Beat an egg and a teaspoonful of Granola until very light, add a little salt, and then steam until thoroughly warmed through, but not hardened. This will take about two minutes.Healthful Cookery 116 -* Gluten Meal Custard.—• Beat together thor- oughly one pint of rich milk, one egg, and four tablespoonfuls of Gluten Meal. Add a little salt, if desired, and cook with the dish set in another con- taining boiling water, until the custard has set. Or, turn the custard into cups, place in a dripping-pan partly filled with hot water, and cook in a moderate oven until the custard is set. Potato Meal Omelet.— Prepare a Potato Meal Puree, as directed on page 180. To one cup of the puree, which should be quite stiff, add three well-beaten eggs. Turn into cups or timbale molds, and steam until the egg is well set. Serve plain or with a tomato sauce. Gluten Custard.— Into a pint of boiling milk stir two tablespoonfuls of 20-per-cent Gluten mois- tened with a little cold milk. Allow it to cook until thickened. When it is lukewarm, add two well- beaten eggs, and a trifle of salt, if desired. Turn into cups, and steam over a kettle of boiling water until the custard is set. *Granuto Omelet.— 4 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls water, 4 tablespoonfuls Granuto, and salt. Beat all together with the regulation twelve strokes, and cook in an omelet-pan the same as plain omelet. Serve at once.117 Eggs *Gluten Olive Omelet.— For the omelet use one tablespoonful each of 20-per-cent Gluten and ice- water to every two eggs (a little more salt will be required than for a plain egg omelet). Serve with ripe olives alone, or with olives in tomato sauce or with cream sauce. For the tomato sauce, heat in strained stewed tomato (until the tomato is some- what thickened), ripe olives cut in halves. The tomato will require very little, if any, salt with the salted olives. The halves of olives may be laid around the upper edge of the omelet after it is folded, or on the platter in the sauce; or the olives may be left whole, and the sauce alone poured around the omelet.118 Porridges and Breakfast Dishes RECIPES Gluten Porridge.— Heat together a cup of thin cream and three cups of water; when boiling, sift in lightly with the fingers, stirring continuously mean- while, enough 20-per-cent Gluten to make a por- ridge of the desired consistency. Boil up once, and serve. A few blanched or roasted almonds may be stirred in just before serving, if desired. Gluten Porridge with Dates.— 6 tablespoonfuls Gluten, 1 quart water, 2 cups stoned dates. Heat the water to boiling; sift in lightly with the fingers six tablespoonfuls of Gluten, or suffi- cient to make a porridge of the desired consistency. Just before serving, add the dates, from which the stones have been removed. *Baked Apples with Gluten Porridge.—Pare and remove the cores from tart apples; fill the cavities with sugar or Malted Nuts, and add a few spoon- fuls of water; bake until tender, turning to keep them whole; serve hot, after filling the centers with well-cooked Gluten porridge.Porridges and Breakfast Dishes 119 Tomato Gluten.— 1 pint tomatoes, 3 tablespoon- fuls Gluten. Heat the stewed tomato, which has been rubbed through a fine colander to remove the seeds, to boiling; add salt to season, and three tablespoon- fuls of 20-per-cent Gluten. Boil together for a mo- ment until thickened, and serve hot. Tomato Gluten, No. 2.— Prepare the same as the preceding, using five tablespoonfuls of 40-per- cent Gluten, and seasoning with two tablespoon- fuls of rather thick sweet cream. Nut Cream may be substituted for dairy cream, if preferred. Potato Meal Porridge.— Prepare the same as Potato Meal Puree (page 180), using two instead of three large spoonfuls of the Potato Meal. This may be served plain or flavored with celery salt or a very few drops of onion juice. It may also be varied by adding to the plain porridge one well- beaten egg or the yolks only of two eggs. Potato Meal Porridge, No. 2.— Prepare some Potato Meal Puree as directed on page 180. When thickened, add an equal quantity of strained stewed tomato, and serve hot. Potato Meal Porridge, No. 3.— Prepare some Protose bouillon as directed elsewhere, and thicken with Potato Meal in the proportion of two largeHealthful Cookery 120 spoonfuls of Meal well braided with cold water to the pint of broth. This may be served plain or flavored with onion or celery. Dry Granola.— Have some cold or hot milk in the porridge-bowl, and add a little dry Granola. As it swells and softens very readily, it is ready to eat at once. Malted Nuts and Almond Nut Cream may be used instead of milk. Granola is likewise excel- lent served with fruit juice. The rich, clear juice of whortleberries, blackberries, black raspberries, and other sweet fruits, make a very palatable dish. Breakfast Granola.— I pint Granola, i quart boiling liquid. Granola makes a most appetizing and quickly prepared breakfast dish. Into a quart of boiling water sprinkle a pint of Granola. Milk may be used instead of water, if preferred; then a little less Granola will be needed. Malted Nuts is also excel- lent instead of milk. Cook for two or three minutes, and serve hot with cream. Fruit Granola.— i cup Granola, i pint liquid, i cup fruit. Add salt to one pint of boiling water or milk. Sprinkle a cup of Granola slowly into the boiling liquid, letting the whole boil until of the proper consistency. While hot add a few steamed figs,Porridges and Breakfast Dishes 121 chopped fine, Zante currants, stoned dates, fresh strawberries or blueberries. Serve hot with cream or Nut Cream. Fruit Granola, No. 2.— Prepare the Granola as directed for Breakfast Granola, and stir into it, when done, a large cup of nicely steamed, seedless raisins. Serve hot with cream. Peach Granola.— Instead of the raisins directed in the preceding recipe, add to the Granola, when done, a pint of sliced yellow peaches. Sliced mel- low, sweet apples, sliced bananas, or blueberries may be used in a similar way. Raspberry Granola.— 1 quart fruit juice, I pint Granola. For this use the freshly extracted juice of red raspberries, diluted with one part of water, or the juice from canned red raspberries. Heat a quart of the juice to boiling, sprinkle in sufficient Granola to thicken (about one pint will be needed), cook for two to three minutes, and serve hot, with or without cream. Grape Granola.— Prepare the same as the pre- ceding, using the juice of grapes for the liquid. Other fruit juices may be used in the same manner. Nut Granola.— 1 pint Granola, I quart water, 2 tablespoonfuls Nut Meal, 1 cup raisins.122 Healthful Cookery Into a quart of boiling water sprinkle a pint of Granola and two tablespoonfuls of Nut Meal. Cook for two to three minutes, then add a cup of care- fully steamed seedless raisins, and serve hot with cream or fruit juices. Granola and Gluten.— i quart milk, i cup Glu- ten, i cup Granola. Heat a quart of milk to boiling. Into it stir one-half cup of 20-per-cent Gluten, mixed with one cup of Granola. Cook for two or three minutes, beating it lightly meanwhile, then serve. Granola Raisin Porridge with Nut Cream.— 4 tablespoonfuls Granola, CUP raisins, 1 cup water. Into one cup of water put one-fourth cup of washed and seeded raisins. Let them simmer five minutes, then add four tablespoonfuls of Granola and a pinch of salt, allowing to cook for five min- utes. Serve hot with Nut Cream. Granola with Eggs.— Make a porridge of Gra- nola with one third of a cup of milk or water; spread it quickly on a warm individual platter, and place on it two nicely poached or soft-boiled eggs. Sprinkle the eggs with salt. Garnish, and serve at once. Two eggs scrambled in one and one-half tablespoonfuls of water, with a little salt, may also be served on the porridge.Porridges and Breakfast Dishes 123 Granose Flakes.—• Granose Flakes are already thoroughly cooked, but are much more crisp and nutty flavored if heated in the oven for a short time before serving. They may then be eaten dry with the fingers like pop-corn, at the beginning of the meal; or be served with milk, cream, or Nut Cream. The addition of sugar with cream spoils the nutty flavor of Granose, besides forming a com- bination which causes fermentation. Manna.— Over nicely toasted Granose Flakes pour sufficient Meltose to flavor. Carefully lift the Flakes with a fork until the Meltose is thoroughly mixed with them. Serve in an individual dish as the first course for breakfast. Toasted Granose Flakes with Nuts and Fruit Juice.—• Toast the Flakes in the oven delicately, but enough to crisp them well; sprinkle over them a cup of ground pecan or other nuts, dust lightly with sugar, and serve with fruit juice. Malted Nuts with Grains.— Malted Nuts, dry, over Granose Flakes, Granola, or porridge, is deli- cious and wholesome. Toasted Corn Flakes.— Heat the Corn Flakes for a few moments in a rather hot oven, and serve hot with a dressing of cream or Cocoanut Cream. Toasted Corn Flakes with Fruit.—On individual124 Healthful Cookery pie-plates put a handful of crisp Corn Flakes. Dip carefully over them some stewed apples sweetened as for sauce, and sprinkle Flakes lightly over the top. Serve at once. Whortleberries, cranberries, prunes, peaches, or any other stewed fruit, may be used in place of the apples, or a cooked cream or lemon filling. Fresh peaches sliced, slightly sprinkled with sugar, or fresh berries used in the same way, make a most appetizing dish. Cocoanut Cream or dairy cream may be considered an addi- tion by some. Toasted Corn Flakes as a Warm Breakfast Dish. — Place in a colander, strainer, or sieve the neces- sary quantity of the Flakes. Pour over it as quickly as possible a dipperful of hot water, taking care to wet the whole mass. Do not soak in water. Shake the water out quickly, cover, and set aside for a moment. It will then be ready to serve with cream, stewed fruit, grape juice, or other dressing. Toasted Wheat Flakes with Oranges.— Cut oranges into halves, and serve on a fruit-plate on which an orange-spoon has been placed. Serve at the same t:_. _ a. aish of fresh Toasted Wheat Flakes, together with Malted Nuts or nut meats of any kind. Cocoanut Cream may be used as dressing for the Flakes.Porridges and Breakfast Dishes 125 *Toasted Wheat Flakes with Sliced Bananas.— Have ready in a deep bowl some fresh Toasted Wheat Flakes; add to them bananas cut crosswise in slices. Sprinkle the whole with Malted Nuts, and serve. *Cream Whip with Toasted Wheat Flakes.— Whip one pint of rich cream to a thick foam, sweeten to taste with sugar, and flavor with vanilla. Arrange in a bowl in pyramids, and sprinkle over with Toasted Wheat Flakes. ^Tomatoes with Toasted Wheat Flakes.—Add to one can of tomatoes two tablespoonfuls of sugar, ane tablespoonful of Nut Butter, and one-half tea- spoonful of salt. Thicken with one level table- spoonful of flour, and serve hot with Toasted Wheat Flakes.126 Vegetables No foods are more universally served as a part of the daily bill of fare of rich and poor alike than vegetables, and none are more frequently spoiled in cooking. Vegetables admit of much variety in prepara- tion for the table. They may be wholesomely cooked by baking, roasting, steaming, boiling, and stewing. Frying is not a method to be recom- mended. A morsel of food encrusted with fat is not easily digested. Fat is not acted upon by the di- gestive fluids in the stomach, and its combination with other food materials hinders their digestion also. The action of the heat during the process of frying decomposes the fat; in consequence, various poisonous substances are formed which are highly detrimental to digestion. For the seasoning of vegetables, nut creams and butters are, from the point of wholesomeness, to be preferred to dairy products. Nut Butter as Seasoning.— For all green veg- etables, Nut Butter makes an agreeable season- ing. It is excellent eaten with green corn, being a most palatable substitute for dairy butter. Made127 Vegetables into a cream, it may be used with nearly all veg- etables where dairy cream is used. Winter squash is one of the exceptions. Leave as much water as desired for liquid, and add a very little Nut Cream. Too much will spoil them. RECIPES POTATOES Baked Potatoes.— Choose large, smooth pota- toes as nearly the same size as possible; wash and scrub with a brush until perfectly clean; dry with a cloth, and bake in a moderately hot oven (the heat of which should at no time be so great that the hand can not be held therein while moderately counting twenty-five) until a fork will easily pierce them, or until they yield to pressure between the fingers. They should be turned about occasionally. In a slow oven the skins become hardened and thickened, and much of the most nutritious portion is wasted. When done, take up in a clean cloth, press each one till it bursts slightly, as that will allow the steam to escape, and prevent the potatoes from becoming soggy. They should be served at once, in a folded napkin placed in a hot dish. Cold baked potatoes may be warmed over by rebaking, if of good quality, and not overdone the first time.128 Healthful Cookery Old potatoes with shriveled skins are better pared before baking. Boiled Potatoes (without Skins).— Pare very thin, and wash clean. If not of an equal size, cut the larger potatoes in two. Cook in only sufficient water to prevent burning, until a fork will easily pierce their center; drain thoroughly, place the kettle back on the range, allow most of the steam to escape before covering them, leave a small aper- ture for the escaping steam, and let them dry four or five minutes. Shake the kettle several times while they are drying, to make them floury. Steamed Potatoes.—• Potatoes may be steamed either with or without the skin. Only mature po- tatoes should be steamed. Prepare as for boiling; place in a steamer over boiling water, and steam until tender. If water is needed to replenish, let it be boiling hot, and do not allow the potatoes to stop steaming, or they will be watery. When done, uncover, remove the potatoes to the oven, and let them dry a few minutes. If peeled before steam- ing, shake the steamer occasionally, to make them floury. Potatoes Stewed with Celery.— i quart sliced potato, 3 tablespoonfuls minced celery, milk to cover.129 Vegetables Pare and slice the potatoes, and put them in a stew-pan with two or three tablespoonfuls of minced celery. Use only the white part of the celery, and mince it fine. Cover the whole with milk sufficient to cook and prevent burning, and stew until tender. Season with salt and cream, if desired. Cocoanut Cream or Nut Cream may be used in place of dairy milk. Roasted Potatoes.— Potatoes are much more rich and mealy roasted than when cooked in any other way. Wash them carefully, dry with a cloth, and wrap in tissue paper; bury in ashes not too hot, then cover with coals, and roast until tender. The coals will need renewing occasionally, unless the roasting is done very close to the main fire. Baked Swept Potatoes.— Select those of uniform size, wash clean, cutting out any imperfect spots, wipe dry, put into a moderately hot oven, and bake about one hour, or until the largest will yield to gentle pressure between the fingers. Serve at once without peeling. Small sweet potatoes are best steamed, since if baked, the skins will take up nearly the whole potato. Boiled Sweet Potatoes.—Choose potatoes of equal size; do not pare, but after cleaning them well and removing any imperfect spots, put into cold 9130 Healthful Cookery water, and boil until they can be easily pierced with a fork; drain thoroughly, and lay them on the top grate in the oven to dry for five or ten minutes. Peel as soon as dry, and send at once to the table, in a hot dish covered with a folded napkin. Mashed Sweet Potatoes.— Either bake or steam nice sweet potatoes, and when tender, peel, mash them well, and season with cream and salt to taste. They may be served at once, or made into patties and browned in the oven. Potato Plash.—Take equal parts of cold Irish and sweet potatoes; chop fine and mix thoroughly; season with salt if desired, and add sufficient rich milk to moisten well. Turn into a stew-pan, and heat gently until boiling, tossing continually, that all parts may become heated alike, and serve at once. Potato Cakes.— Make nicely seasoned, cold mashed potatoes into small, round cakes about one half an inch thick. Put them on a baking-tin, brush them over with Nut Cream, and bake in a hot oven until golden brown. Scalloped Potato with Protose and Nuttolene. — Cover the bottom of an oiled pan or basin with a layer of potato sliced thin. Over this place a layer of sliced Protose spread with very thin slices ofVegetables 131 anion. Dredge lightly with flour. Add a second layer of potato; next add a layer of sliced Nuttolene, and lastly another layer of potato. Pour over this a nut cream, to which salt for seasoning has been added, to entirely cover the whole. Sprinkle the top with Granola, and bake slowly in a moderate aven until the potatoes are well done. Potato Stew with Protose.— Stew Protose in a large quantity of water. When nearly done, add some potatoes, sliced thin, and cook together until the potatoes are tender. There should be enough liquor in the Protose so that additional liquid will aot be needed for the potatoes. Season with salt, and serve. Stuffed Potatoes.— Remove the pulp from baked potatoes, mix with one-third mashed Protose, and season with a little onion, chopped fine, and salt. This should be kept hot while mixing. Fill the potatoes with the mixture, and serve at once. ^Scalloped Potato with Protose.—On the bottom if an oiled baker put a layer of potatoes, sliced thin, then one of Protose with a few slices of onions. Dredge lightly with flour, and sprinkle with salt. Repeat the process until there is the desired quan- tity. Pour over all enough water to cook well, and leave slightly moist. Sprinkle the top with fine132 Healthful Cookery crumbs, and cook until the potatoes are tender —> • one and one-half to two hours. *Nut Roast with Potato.— Cut Protose in slices,, add salt and sage, cover with water, bake one hour. Place pared potato on each slice, baste with cream,, and bake until brown. *Nut and Vegetable Roast.— Cover the bottom of a baking-dish with sliced Protose; grate over this a little onion, and sprinkle with chopped celery or parsley. Cover with a layer of sliced potatoes,, and another layer of Protose, and cover the whole with Tomato Sauce. Bake in the oven until done. ■ *Protose with Mashed Potato Border or Roses. —Put mashed potato into a pastry-bag with a plain tube. Then press it out into a border around the edge of an individual platter in any design desired. Pile stewed Protose in the center of the potato bor- der. A star-shaped tube may be used, and the po- tato put on to the platter in roses. *Oakhill Potatoes.— 6 potatoes, cream to sea- son, i cup Protose, 2 eggs, sage. Cook six large Irish potatoes until tender. Mash, season with salt and cream or Nut Cream. To this add one cup of Protose cut into pieces (savory Protose is excellent for this recipe). Add two egg yolks which have been cooked until mealy.133 Vegetables Season the whole with salt to taste, and a little sage or onion may be added if desired. Steam for one and one-half hours, then bake in an oiled dish until heated through. Turn out on a platter, and decorate with the remaining potato by putting it through a pastry-tube that is fastened to one end of a bag made of coarse cloth. Serve with this dish seeded ripe olives, and garnish with parsley. If there is any left over, it may be cut into slices, and baked on an oiled pie-tin. This makes a nice break- fast dish. ^Spanish Stew.— 3 potatoes, 1 onion, 1 can Pro- tose. Take three medium-sized potatoes, peel and cube, one medium-sized onion cut into small pieces. Simmer the potato and onion until tender with suffi- cient water to cover. Then add the Protose cut into cubes. Salt to taste. *Nut Irish Stew.— Into two quarts of salted water cook from four to six large onions, sliced thin, and a few potatoes cut into irregular pieces about an inch in diameter. \Vhen the potatoes are nearly tender, add eight tablespoonfuls of Nut Meal, stirring it in carefully, so as not to break the po- tatoes. When the potatoes are done, drop in pieces of Nuttolene or Protose. Heat through, and serve.134 Healthful Cookery ^Vegetarian Boiled Dinner.— Scrape carrots, and slice into lengths. Pare and cut turnips into sec- tions' about one inch in the thickest part. Cook these in a salted broth made by using one fourth of a pound of Nuttolene which has been rubbed through a fine colander or put through a vegetable press, one tablespoonful of Nut Butter, and three pints of water. When about half done, add po- tatoes cut in halves or quarters. In the meantime have some cabbage, cut into two-inch sections, cooking in a cloth in boiling salted water. Have some small slices of Protose baking in water con- taining a little tomato juice thickened with flour to the consistency of thin cream. Serve on individual platters with a slice of Protose and some of each kind of vegetable and a slice of red beet which has been just heated through in salted lemon juice. Garnish with a sprig of parsley or a lettuce leaf. *Sweet Potato Cutlets.— Slice cold sweet po- tatoes which have been steamed or baked; dip each slice into beaten salted egg, then into Granola or toasted bread-crumbs, and bake on an oiled tin in a hot oven until browned.Vegetables 135 CAULIFLOWER AND CABBAGE Boiled Cauliflower.— Prepare, divide into neat branches, and tie securely in a net. Put into boil- ing milk and water, equal quantities, and cook until the main stalks are tender. Boil rapidly the first five minutes, afterwards more moderately, to pre- vent the flower from becoming done before the stalks. Serve on a hot dish with cream sauce or diluted lemon juice. Cauliflower with Egg Sauce.— 2 heads cauli- flower, 1 pint rich milk, 1 tablespoonful Gluten flour, 1 egg. Steam the cauliflower until tender, separate into small portions, dish, and serve with egg sauce, pre- pared by heating a pint of rich milk or very thin cream to boiling, and stirring into it a level table- spoonful of Gluten Flour rubbed smooth with a little cold milk. Let this boil a few minutes, stirring constantly until the flour is well cooked and the sauce thickened. Then add slowly the well-beaten yolk of one egg, stirring rapidly, so that it shall be well mingled with the whole. Add salt to taste, and let it boil up once. It should be the consistency of thick cream.Healthful Cookery 136 Cauliflower with Tomato Sauce.— 2 heads cauli- flower, 1 pint stewed tomato, 1 tablespoonful Glu- ten Flour. Boil or steam the cauliflower until tender. In another dish prepare a sauce with a pint of strained tomatoes heated to boiling, thickened with a table- spoonful of Gluten Flour rubbed smooth in a little water, and salted to taste. When the cauliflower is tender, dish, and pour over it the hot tomato sauce. If preferred, a tablespoonful of thick sweet cream may be added to the sauce before serving. Baked Cabbage.— 1 quart cabbage, 1 cup Nut Cream, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. Chop cabbage fine, and cook in boiling water twenty minutes. Drain in a colander. To one quart of cooked cabbage add one dessertspoonful of Nut Butter which has been made into an emulsion with one cup of water, two well-beaten eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Add salt to taste. Mix thoroughly, and bake in a double baker until the eggs are set. Cabbage and Tomatoes.—Boil cabbage, chopped fine, in as little water as possible. When ten- * ! der, add half the quantity of hot stewed tomatoes, boil together for a few minutes, being careful to avoid burning. Season with salt, if desired, andVegetables i37 serve. If preferred, a little sweet cream or Cocoa- nut Cream may be added just before serving. Boiled Cabbage.— Carefully clean a nice head of cabbage, divide into halves, and with a sharp knife slice very thin, cutting from the center of the head outward. Put into boiling water, cover closely, and cook rapidly until tender; then turn into a col- ander, and drain. Return to the kettle, add salt to taste, and sufficient sweet cream to moisten well; heat through if at all cooled; dish, and serve at once. If preferred, the cream may be omitted, and the cabbage served with tomato sauce or lemon juice as a dressing. Chopped Cabbage, or Cabbage Salad.— Take one pint of cabbage, chopped fine; pour over it a dress- ing made of three tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and half a cup of whipped cream, thoroughly beaten together in the order named; or serve with sugar and diluted lemon juice. TURNIPS Boiled Turnips.—Turnips, like other vegetables, should be boiled in as small an amount of water as possible. Care must be taken, however, that the kettle does not become dry, as scorched turnipHealthful Cookery 138 is spoiled. An excellent precaution, in order to keep them from scorching in case the water be- comes low, is to place an inverted saucer in the bot- tom of the kettle before putting in the turnips. Put into boiling water, cook rapidly until sufficiently tender to be pierced easily with a fork; too much cooking discolors and renders them strong in flavor. Boiled turnips should be drained very thoroughly, and all water pressed out before preparing for the table. The age, size, and variety of the turnip will greatly vary the time necessary for its cooking. The safest rule is to allow plenty of time, and test with a fork. Young turnips will cook in about forty-five minutes; old turnips, sliced, require from one and a quarter to two hours. If whole or cut in halves, they require a proportionate length of time. White turnips require much less cooking than yellow ones. Chopped Turnips.—■ Chop well-boiled turnips very fine, add salt to taste, and sufficient lemon juice to moisten. Turn into a saucepan, and heat till hot, gently lifting and stirring constantly. Cold boiled turnip may be advantageously used in this way. PARSNIPS Baked Parsnips.—Wash thoroughly, but do not scrape the roots; bake the same as potatoes. When139 Vegetables tender, remove the skins, slice, and serve with cream or an egg sauce. They are also very nice mashed and seasoned with cream. Baked and steamed parsnips are far sweeter than boiled ones. Boiled Parsnips.— Clean, scrape, drop into a small quantity of boiling water, and cook until they can be easily pierced with a fork. Drain thor- oughly, cut the parsnips in slices, and mash, or serve with a white sauce, to which a little lemon juice may be added if desired. BEETS Baked Beets.— Beets are far better baked than boiled, though it takes a longer time to cook per- fectly. French cooks bake them slowly for six hours in a covered dish, the bottom of which is lined with well-moistened rye straw; however, they may be baked on the oven grate, like potatoes. Wipe dry after washing, and bake slowly. They are very nice served with a sauce made with equal quantities of lemon juice and whipped cream or Cocoanut Cream, with a little salt. Beets and Potatoes.— Boil newly matured po- tatoes and young beets separately till tender; then peel and slice. Put them in alternate layers in a vegetable dish, with salt to taste, and enough sweetHealthful Cookery 140 cream or Cocoanut Cream to nearly cover. Brown in the oven, and serve at once. Beet Hash.— Chop quite fine an equal quan- tity of cold boiled or baked beets and boiled or baked potatoes. Put into a shallow saucepan, add salt, and sufficient hot cream to moisten. Toss fre- quently, and cook until well heated throughout. Serve hot. Beet Greens.—Take young, tender beets, clean thoroughly without separating the tops and roots Examine the leaves carefully, and pick off inferior ones. Put into boiling water, and cook for nearly an hour. Drain, press out all water, and chop quite fine. Serve with a dressing of lemon juice or cream, as preferred. ASPARAGUS Asparagus and Peas.— Asparagus and green peas make a nice dish served together, and if of pro- portionate age, require the same length of time to cook. Wash the asparagus, shell and look over the peas, put together into boiling water, cook, and serve as directed for stewed asparagus. Asparagus Points.— Cut off enough heads in two-inch lengths to make three pints. Put into boil- ing water just sufficient to cover. When tender,141 Vegetables drain off the water, add a half cup of cream or Nut Cream, and salt if desired. Serve at once. Asparagus with Cream Sauce.— Thoroughly wash, tie in small bunches, and put into boiling water; boil till perfectly tender. Drain thoroughly, untie the bunches, place the stalks all the same way upon a hot plate, with a dressing prepared as fol- lows : Let a pint of sweet cream (about six hours old is best) come to the boiling point, and stir into it salt to taste and a level tablespoonful of flour rubbed smooth with a little cold cream. Boil till the flour is perfectly cooked, and then pass through a fine wire strainer. Asparagus on Toast.— Cook the asparagus in bunches, and when tender, drain, and place on slices of nicely browned toast moistened in the asparagus liquor. Pour over all a cream sauce prepared as directed in the foregoing recipe. Asparagus with Egg Sauce.— Prepare and cook asparagus as directed above. When tender, drain thoroughly, and serve on a hot dish or on slices of nicely browned toast, with an egg sauce prepared in the following manner: Heat a half cup of rich milk to boiling, add salt, and turn into it very slowly the well-beaten yolk of an egg, stirring constantly at the same time. Cook only until it thickens.142 Healthful Cookery Stewed Asparagus.—Wash, break into pieces, simmer till tender in water enough to cover; add sufficient rich milk, part cream if convenient, to make a gravy; if preferred, thicken slightly with flour, a teaspoonful to a pint of milk; add salt if de- sired, boil up together once, and serve. SPINACH Spinach.—• Use only tender plants or the tender leaves of the older stalks, and be sure to have enough, as spinach shrinks greatly. A peck is not too much for a family of four or five. Pick it over very carefully, trim off the roots and decayed leaves, and all tough, stringy stalks, and the coarse fibers of the leaves, as those will not cook tender until the leaves are overdone. Wash in several waters, lift- ing it from one pan to another, that it may be freed from sand and grit. Shake each bunch well. Spin- ach is best cooked in its own juices; this may be accomplished by cooking it in a double boiler; or if placed in a pot and slowly heated, it will in a short time yield sufficient juice to cook itself. It must, however, be stirred frequently at first, to prevent burning; cover closely, and cook till tender. The time required will vary from twenty minutes to an hour or more. If water is used in the cooking, haveVegetables i43 a half kettleful boiling when the spinach is put in, and continue to boil rapidly until the leaves are per- fectly tender, then drain in a colander, press with the back of a plate to extract all water, chop very fine, and either serve with lemon juice as a dressing, or add a half cup of sweet cream with or without a teaspoonful of sugar. Boil up once, stirring con- stantly, and serve very hot. A garnish of sliced boiled eggs is often employed with this vegetable. *Protose Timbale with Spinach Souffle.— \]/2 cups bread-crumbs, y2 cup Nut Meal, /2 can Pro- tose, Bt teaspoonful powdered bay leaf, y2 tea- spoonful sage, teaspoonful salt, 2 eggs. Use one and one-half cups of whole-wheat bread- crumbs soaked in one cup of water until soft, then cooked over a moderate fire, with frequent stirring, until smooth and creamy and dry enough to leave the sides of the dish. To this add one-half cup of sifted Nut Meal, one-half can of Protose, chopped fine, one-fourth teaspoonful of powdered bay leaf, one-half teaspoonful of powdered sage, five- eighths teaspoonful of salt, and the yolk of two eggs well beaten. Beat until well mingled, or pass through a fine colander. Lastly add the whites of the eggs, lightly beaten. Turn into well-oiled molds, and steam one and one-half hours.144 Healthful Cookery ^Spinach Souffle.— i peck spinach, 2 eggs. Cook a peck of well-cleansed spinach in boiling salted water. When tender, drain thoroughly, and rub through a fine colander. When well dried over a moderate fire, let it cool a little, and then beat in the yolks of two eggs; lastly, chop in the whites beaten to a light froth. Fill well-oiled molds about three-fourths full, set in a pan containing hot water and bake slowly until rounded up and firm to th< touch. They are then sufficiently baked. Thes( souffles are very prettily ornamented by placing shapes cut from hard-boiled eggs in the bottom 0: the mold before turning in the souffle. Nests of Spinach.— 1 peck spinach, 1 table- spoonful lemon juice, 6 tablespoonfuls strained to mato, 2 tablespoonfuls Nut Oil, y2 can Nuttolene y2 teaspoonful salt. Carefully clean and cook the spinach. Drait well; pour over it a dressing of equal parts of lemoi juice and strained tomato, with one tablespoonfu of Nut Oil to each six tablespoonfuls of the lemoi and tomato, and salt to taste. Shape the seasonec spinach to 'form a nest upon individual plates; placi in each nest three small-sized eggs, shaped fron Nuttolene. These are easier shaped if the Nutto lene is first pressed through a colander.145 Vegetables *Spinach on Toast, with Broiled Nuttolene.— Wash spinach, and cook in salted water until ten- der. Drain, and chop fine. Moisten slices of Zwie- back in hot salted water. Cover until thoroughly steamed and swollen, then place each slice on an individual platter, spread over it a thin layer of the spinach, and place a small thin slice of broiled Nut- tolene or Protose, cut in any desired shape, on the top or by the side of the Zwieback, with a teaspoon- ful of chopped red beets, dressed with lemon juice, and a tablespoonful of Nuttolene cream. TOMATOES Scalloped Tomatoes.—Take a pint of stewed tomatoes, which have been rubbed through a col- ander, thicken with one and one-fourth cups of lightly picked crumbs of Graham or whole-wheat bread, or a sufficient quantity to make it quite thick; add salt if desired, and a half cup of sweet cream; mix well, and bake for twenty minutes. Stewed Corn and Tomatoes.—• Boil dried or fresh corn until perfectly tender, add to each cup of corn two cups of strained stewed tomatoes, either canned or freshly cooked. Salt to taste, boil together for five or ten minutes, and serve plain or with a little cream added. 10146 Healthful Cookery Stewed Tomatoes.—Peel and slice the tomatoes. Put them into a double boiler, without the addi- tion of water, and stew for an hour or longer. When done, serve plain with a little sugar added, or season with salt and a tablespoonful of rather thick sweet cream to each pint of tomatoes. If the stew is thin, it may be thickened with a teaspoonful of flour rubbed smooth in water. Tomatoes are much better, however, to stew until the water they contain is sufficiently evaporated to make them of the desired consistency. The stew may also be thickened by the addition of bread-crumbs, rice, or macaroni. Broiled Tomatoes.— Choose perfectly ripened but firm tomatoes of equal size. Place them on a wire boiler, and broil over glowing coals from three to eight minutes, according to size; then turn, and cook on the other side. Broil the stem end first. Serve hot with salt to season, and a little Nut Cream. Tomato with Okra.—Wash the okra, cut off the stem and nibs, and slice thin. For a quart of sliced okra, peel and slice three large tomatoes. Stew the tomatoes for half an hour, then add the okra, and simmer together for half an hour longer. Season with salt and a little cream.Vegetables i47 *Stuffed Tomatoes.— 6 tomatoes, 8 to 12 table- spoonfuls toasted bread-crumbs, pound Protose, 1 tablespoonful chopped onion, teaspoonful sage, y\ teaspoonful salt. Take out the inside of six medium-sized toma- toes, and moisten with it eight to twelve tablespoon- fuls of toasted bread-crumbs. Mix with this one- half pound of chopped Protose, one tablespoonful of chopped onion, one-fourth to one-half teaspoonful of sage, and one to one and one-half teaspoonfuls of salt. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, piling it up on the top, and bake in a hot oven until the tomatoes are cooked. When nearly done, sprinkle chopped parsley over the top. VEGETABLE OYSTERS Scalloped Vegetable Oysters.— Boil two quarts of sliced vegetable oysters in about two quarts of water until very tender. Skim them out, and fill a pudding-dish with alternate layers of crumbs and oysters, having a layer of crumbs for the top. To the water in which they were boiled, add a pint and a half of thin cream, salt to taste, boil up, and thicken with a heaping tablespoonful or two scant teaspoonfuls of flour rubbed smooth in a little cold cream. Pour this over the oysters and crumbs,148 Healthful Cookery and bake half an hour. If this is not enough to cover well, add more cream or milk. Stewed to- matoes are a nice accompaniment for scalloped veg- etable oysters. Cooked macaroni may be used in place of bread-crumbs, if preferred. Stewed Vegetable Oysters with Nuttolene.— 6 bunches vegetable oysters, cup Nut Oil, 2 table- spoonfuls flour, 1 oz. Nuttolene. Have six bunches (seven or eight in a bunch) of vegetable oysters cut into thin slices, stewed until tender, and drained. Heat, but do not brown, one fourth of a cup of Nut Oil, stir in two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour; then add, stirring smooth, one pint of boiling liquid (take the boiling liquor the oyster-plant was cooked in as far as it goes, and enough water to make the pint), and lastly, one ounce of Nuttolene which has been rubbed through a fine sieve. Stir a little of the hot sauce into the Nuttolene at first to prevent its lumping, salt to taste, add the oyster-plant, and serve. This is nice served on moistened Zwieback. CORN Baked Corn.— Select nice fresh ears of tender corn of as nearly equal size as possible. Open the husks, and remove all the silk from the corn; re-149 Vegetables place, and tie the husks around the ears with a thread. Put the corn in a hot oven, and bake thirty minutes, or until tender. Remove the husks before serving. Baked Corn No. 2.— Scrape enough corn from the cob (as directed for corn pulp) to make one and a half quarts. Put into a baking-dish, season with salt if desired, add enough milk, part cream if con- venient, barely to cover the corn, and bake in a hot oven twenty-five or thirty minutes. Baked Corn, No. 3.— 1 quart corn pulp, 1 pint cream, 1 pint milk, 1 quart broken Zwieback. To one quart of fresh corn pulp, prepared by grating the green corn from the cob, add one pint of cream, the same of skim-milk, and salt to sea- son. Pour this over a quart of the broken pieces of breakfast Zwieback. Let it stand until softened, then bake in a moderate oven. Boiled Green Corn.— Remove the husks and every thread of the silk fiber. Place in a kettle, the larger ears at the bottom, with sufficient boiling water to nearly cover. Cover with the clean inner husks, and cook from twenty to thirty minutes, according to the age of the corn; too much cook- ing hardens it, and detracts from its flavor. When the milk has thickened, and a raw taste is no longer150 Healthful Cookery apparent, it is sufficiently cooked. Green corn is said to be sweeter if boiled with the inner husks on. For cooking in this way, strip off all outer husks, and remove the silk, tying the inner husk around the ear with a bit of thread, and boil. Re- move from the kettle, place in a heated dish, cover with a napkin, and serve at once on the cob. Some recommend scoring or splitting the corn by draw- ing a sharp knife through each row lengthwise. This is a wise precaution against insufficient mas- tication. Stewed Com Pulp.—Take six ears of green corn, or enough to make a pint of raw pulp; with a sharp knife cut a thin shaving from each row of kernels, or score each kernel, and with the back of the knife scrape out the pulp, taking care to leave the hulls on the cob. Heat a cup and a half of rich milk (part cream if preferable) to boiling, add the corn, cook twenty or thirty minutes; season with salt and a teaspoonful of sugar if desired. Nuttolene and Corn.— Place alternate layers of stewed or canned sweet corn and dice of Nuttolene in a pudding-dish. Cover, and place in a moderate oven until just heated through. Serve at once. This combination of Nuttolene and corn is most pleasing.Vegetables 151 Stewed Nuttolene or Protose and Sweet Corn.— Heat canned corn in water, and salt to taste. Thicken a very little, and drop in strips or dice of Nuttolene or Protose. Heat through, and serve at once. Stewed Green Corn.— Cut the corn from the cob, and with the back of the knife scrape out all the pulp, being careful to leave the hulls on the cob. Put into a stew-pan with half as much water as corn, cover closely, and stew gently until thor- oughly cooked, stirring frequently to prevent the corn from sticking to the pan; add cream or milk, or Cocoanut Cream, to make the requisite amount of juice, and season with salt if desired. A tea- spoonful of white sugar made be added. Cold boiled corn cut from the cob and stewed a few minutes in a little milk makes a very palatable dish. Summer Succotash.— This may be made by cooking separately until tender equal quantities of shelled beans and corn cut from the cob, and then mixing them; or the beans may be cooked until nearly soft, an equal quantity of shaved corn added, and the whole cooked fifteen or twenty minutes or longer. Season with cream or Nut Cream, and salt if desired.152 Healthful Cookery *Com Patties.— i can corn, i cup Nut Meal, 2/4 quart bread-crumbs, 3 eggs. Rub the corn from one pint can through a colander, add to it one cup of Nut Meal, three fourths of a quart of bread-crumbs, three well- beaten eggs, with salt to season. Fresh corn is preferable when obtainable. Form into patties, and bake. Granuto with Sweet Cora.— 1 cup corn pulp, 1 cup water, % CUP Granuto, salt to taste. Cut down the center of each row of the kernels of corn in the ear, then scrape out the pulp with a strong, dull knife. To each cup of this corn pulp add one cup of water and three fourths of a cup of Granuto, with salt to taste. Put into well-oiled cups or large molds, and steam for half an hour. Let it stand in a warm place for a few minutes, and serve with warm Almond or dairy cream or cream sauce. Served cold with cream, it is par excellence. PEAS Stewed Peas.— If from the garden, pick and shell the peas with clean hands; if from the market, wash the pods before shelling, so that the peas will not require washing, as they are much better with- out. When shelled, put into a colander, and sift153 Vegetables out the fine particles and undeveloped blossoms. If not of equal growth, sort the peas, and put the older ones to cook ten minutes before the others. Use a porcelain or granite-ware kettle, with one- half pint of boiling water for each quart of peas, if young and tender; older ones, which require longer stewing, need more. Cover closely, and simmer gently till tender. The time required for young peas is from twenty-five to thirty minutes; older ones require from forty to fifty minutes. Serve without draining, season with salt and enough sweet cream to make them as juicy as desired. Nut Cream may be used instead of dairy cream. If pre- ferred, the peas may be stewed in a larger quan- tity of water, and served in their own juices thick- ened with a little flour and seasoned with salt. *Timbale of Granuto with Green Peas.— Cook Granuto porridge a little longer than to serve with- out molding. Mold in cups or timbale molds. Set the molds in a steamer, or pan of hot water for a few minutes, then serve with a liberal border of stewed green peas. Protose with Peas.— Serve stewed Protose with green or canned peas which have had cooked with them two or three leaves of fresh mint to each can of peas, and, if necessary, a very little sugar.Healthful Cookery 154 Protose with Green Vegetables.— Green peas, wax beans, beet greens, shelled beans, and tomatoes are all excellent cooked with Protose. Add the Pro- tose in about the proportion of two thick slices oi Protose, cut into small pieces, to one pint of shelled peas or one pound of canned peas. Cook together until the vegetables are done, and serve without other seasoning than a little salt. Granuto and Pease Croquettes.— i cup Scotch peas (dry), cup Granuto, salt to taste. Cook one cup of dried green peas until ten- der and well tried out. Turn through a fine col- ander to remove the skins. (There will be about two and an eighth to two and a fourth cups after the peas are cooked and mashed.) Add three fourths of a cup of Granuto, and salt to taste. Shape into rolls about three inches long, and one and one-half inches in diameter. Roll in Granuto that has been ground rather fine, and bake in a moderate oven until well heated through, but not dried. Serve with or without tomato or cream sauce. BEANS Lima Beans.— Lima beans are not good until they are full grown, and have turned white. Shell, wash, cover with boiling water, and cook aboutVegetables 155 one hour, or until tender. Let the water nearly evaporate, and add Nut Cream. Season with salt to taste, boil up once, and serve. Dry Lima beans are also excellent soaked overnight, then cooked slowly for several hours, and served with only a seasoning of salt. The prolonged, slow cooking adds much to their palatability. Shelled Beans.— Shell, wash, drop into boiling water sufficient to cover, and cook until tender. Let the water boil nearly away, and serve without draining. Season with thin cream or Nut Cream, and salt if desired. String Beans.—Wash well in cold water. Re- move the strong fibers, or strings, as they are called, by paring both edges with a sharp knife; few cooks do this thoroughly. Break off stems and points, carefully rejecting any imperfect or diseased pods. Lay a handful evenly on a board, and cut them all at once into inch lengths. A better way, perhaps, is to break each separately with the fingers. Only tender beans can be thus broken, and any portions of the string remaining will be discovered in the breaking. Put in a porcelain or granite-ware kettle, cover with boiling water, and cook from one to three hours, according to age and variety, testing frequently, as they should be removed from theHealthful Cookery 156 kettle just as soon as done. When very young and tender, only water sufficient to keep them from burning will be needed. When done, add half a cup of thin cream for a quart of beans, and salt to taste. If the quantity of juice is considerable, thicken with a little flour. Cold boiled string beans are nice dressed with lemon juice. *Bean Patties.—i pint Hulless Beans, celery salt to season, i pint stirred tomato, 2 tablespoonfuls flour. Boil one pint of Hulless Beans in slightly salted water until tender. When done, drain, and mash through a fine sieve. Season the pulp with salt, celery salt, and thyme. Form into patties, and bake on an oiled tin in the oven until brown. Serve with the following Tomato Sauce: Thicken one pint of tomato juice with two level teaspoonfuls of flour. Salt to taste, and serve hot. Baked Hulless Beans.— i pint Hulless Beans, 3 pints water, I or 2 onions. Put one pint of Hulless Beans in a bean jar, and cover with three pints of cold water. Let them stand two or three hours. Add salt to taste, and one or two small onions, sliced or chopped fine. Bake for three or four hours in a slow oven, or untilVegetables i$7 the beans are tender. This dish is excellent served with brown bread. Bean Pudding with Tomato Sauce.— 8 slices Zwieback, 1 tablespoonful Nut Butter, 1 pint boil- ing water, 4 cups bean pulp. Rub smooth in a little cold water one table- spoonful of Nut Butter or its equivalent, and add boiling water to make one pint. With this moisten well eight pieces of Zwieback. Have ready four cups of bean pulp to which salt has been added. Other seasoning, as thyme or sage, a small quan- tity, may be liked by some. Put a few spoonfuls of the bean pulp, which should be moist enough to spread easily on the bottom of a baking-dish, over this; add one half of the moistened Zwieback, then another portion of the bean pulp, next the remain- ing Zwieback, and finish with beans on top. Bake for an hour, and serve with hot Tomato Sauce.158 Gravies and Relishes RECIPES Gluten Sauce.—The Puree of Gluten Soup (page 179) may be used for a sauce over roast and other nut-meat dishes. Gluten Gravy.— 1 pint milk, 1 tablespoonful 40-per-cent Gluten. To one pint of good milk add one tablespoonful of 40-per-cent Gluten. Leave it in a double boiler to cook fifteen or twenty minutes. Salt to taste, and thicken with flour to the desired consistency. Gluten Gravy No. 2.— 1 pint milk, 2 table- spoonfuls Gluten, 1 tablespoonful flour. Mix and brown thoroughly two heaping table- spoonfuls of 20-per-cent Gluten and one of flour. Add a pint of milk, and heat to boiling. Salt if desired. Gluten Gravy, No. 3.— Into one pint of rich milk heated to boiling in a double boiler, stir one heaping tablespoonful of 20-per-cent Gluten, and add one-half a cup of tomato juice, strained. Add salt, and serve.Gravies and Relishes 159 Gravy without Milk.— Proceed the same as above, but use water and a tablespoonful of Nut Butter instead of milk. Browned Cream Sauce.— 1 cup milk, 2 table- spoonfuls 40-per-cent Gluten. Heat to boiling one cup of rich milk or Nut Cream, add salt to season, and thicken with two spoonfuls of 40-per-cent Gluten which has been pre- viously browned in the oven. Nut Meal Gravy.— 1 cup milk, 2 tablespoonfuls Gluten flour, 1 tablespoonful Nut Meal. Brown together two tablespoonfuls of Gluten flour and one tablespoonful of Nut Meal. Braid with a little cold water, and pour, stirring mean- while, into one cup of boiling milk. Add salt to season. *Nut Meal Gravy, No. 2.— 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 1 tablespoonful Nut Meal, 11/2 pints milk. Mix the flour and Nut Meal together, and place in the oven to brown lightly. Then mix with a little cold milk, and stir into one and one-half pints of hot rich milk. Let it cook a few minutes, and serve. *Gluten Bread Relish.— 1 quart Nut Cream, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 cup 20-per-cent Gluten, 1 egg. Put into a double boiler the Nut Cream, add the salt, and into it stir the Gluten. Allow thei6o Healthful Cookery mixture to cook three minutes, and then thoroughly incorporate one well-beaten egg. (Some consider it more palatable without egg.) Pour at once into a mold or molds. Cover to prevent the top from drying. Serve the same as butter on breads. *Hard Sauce.— Rub together equal quantities of Nut Butter and sugar with a little salt, and add water to make it smooth. *Nut Cream Sauce.—Add a little more water to the Hard Sauce for a Cream Sauce. *Nut Sauce.— i tablespoonful Nut Butter, i quart water, 3 tablespoonfuls browned flour 1/3 cup stewed tomato. Heat the water in which the Nut Butter has been dissolved, to boiling. Thicken with three tablespoonfuls of browned flour, add salt to sea- son ; cook thoroughly for five or ten minutes, then add the hot stewed strained tomato. Beat thor- oughly, and it is ready to serve. This is excellent as a dressing for toast and for vegetables. *Nut Gravy.—To each cup of water add one tablespoonful of Nut Butter, or three or four table- spoonfuls of Nut Meal, and when boiling thicken with a little flour blended with cold water. Salt to taste. For a change, use flour that has been browned in the oven to a delicate cream color,Gravies and Relishes 161 which gives a more meaty taste. That browned to a dark cream or light-brown, with an equal quan- tity of white flour, will give the flavor of roast-beef gravy. This is a very suitable dressing for boiled rice. *Nut and Tomato Gravy.—tablespoonful Nut Butter, 1^4 cups water, i tablespoonful browned flour, CUP tomato, i medium-sized leaf mint, i to 2y2 teaspoonfuls white flour. Blend the Nut Butter and browned flour with the tomato and water. Add the mint, simmer to- gether for five or ten minutes. Thicken with the white flour which has been blended with a little water. Add one teaspoonful of salt. Let all boil up well, and it is ready to serve. Nut Butter.— Nut Butter as it comes from the can is very palatable eaten with sweet fruits, as raisins, figs, or dates. It also makes a very accept- able addition to Pure Gluten Biscuit for diabetics, and to bread or wafers. When used as butter, it is usually preferred prepared as follows: — Nut Butter for Bread.—• Put half the quantity of butter desired into a cup or bowl. Add to it a very little water, rub in thoroughly with a spoon, then add a little more water, and rub that in; con- tinue adding water, scraping out the spoon occa- ii162 Healthful Cookery sionally, of course, until the butter is perfectly smooth. If salt is desired, it is better sprinkled on after the bread is spread; but without the salt, it re- minds one of the celebrated Devonshire cream. Nut Meal.— May be eaten in a great variety of ways. It is delicious in the form of gruel or puree. Combined with fruit in various ways, it is delicate and wholesome. *Tomato Sauce.— ]/2 can tomato, i stalk celery, 2 tablespoonfuls Nut Meal. Stew one pint of tomato with a bit of onion or a stalk of celery. Strain, add salt to season, and two tablespoonfuls of Nut Meal. Lentil Dressing.— Cook some good lentils with a few slices of onion for flavoring. When tender, rub through a colander, and add one-half as much stewed and strained tomato as there is of the len- tils. Add salt to season and a tablespoonful of Nut Butter to each quart of dressing. This makes an excellent dressing for baked potatoes, vegetable roast, and also for toast. *Brown Gravy.—i y2 cups water, i tablespoonful browned flour, I tablespoonful white flour, i table- spoonful Nut Butter. Dissolve the Nut Butter in the water. Season with salt, and heat to boiling. Thicken with flour,Gravies and Relishes 163 which should be well blended and rubbed smooth in a little cold water. Nuttolene Sauce.— y2 pound Nuttolene, 1 pint stewed Tomato, 1 quart water, y cup Gluten. Rub the Nuttolene through a fine colander, add to it the water, a pint of strained stewed tomato, and salt to season. Then add three fourths of a cup of 20-per-cent Gluten. Boil together, and serve. Brown Sauce.—-2 tablespoonfuls Nut Oil, 2 tablespoonfuls of white flour, 1 tablespoonful of browned flour, 2 cups water, salt. Heat the oil, but do not brown. Add the flour, rub smooth, then add the water, a part at a time, stirring smooth. Boil thoroughly, add salt to taste, and serve. *Nut Cheese.— 1 cup Peanut Butter, y2 cup corn-starch, 1 cup tomato juice, 1 teaspoonful salt. Dissolve the peanut butter and corn-starch in one cup of tomato juice. Add one teaspoonful of salt, and beat for five minutes. Turn into a granite dish; cover, and steam for four or five hours. Dry it off in the oven, and turn from the bowl. Use the same as ordinary cheese. This also makes good sandwiches. Cocoanut Cream.— Cut fresh cocoanut into thin slices, and grind the nut very fine in a chopper orHealthful Cookery 164 some strong hand-mill. If nothing of this sort is available, the cocoanut may be grated. To each cup of the prepared nuts add one cup of hot water, stirring and beating with a spoon to extract as much of the juice as possible. Drain off the liquid, and add a similar quantity of hot water, and after beating again very thoroughly, strain through a cloth or very fine sieve, pressing out all the liquid possible. This may be used at once as a substitute for milk, to be eaten with rice or other grains, or to prepare puddings or sauces. It is excellent served with Granose Flakes or eaten with Zwie- back. If placed on the ice for a few hours, the cream will rise to the top, and may be taken off, making a pure cocoanut butter. * Almond Cream.— Thicken one cup of boiling water with two teaspoonfuls of flour. Stir into this four rounded tablespoonfuls of Almond Butter. Add one and one-fourth cups of distilled water and one-fourth teaspoonful of salt. Keep warm. *Nut Cream.— Take one tablespoonful of Nut- tolene, Peanut Butter, or Almond Butter, and add slowly, mixing and beating meanwhile, a pint or more of cold water, according to the consistency of the cream desired. Pine nuts, pulverized fine, may be made into an excellent Nut Cream by mix-Gravies and Relishes 165 ing with warm water, adding the water a little at a time, until the consistency desired is obtained. The Peanut Cream, with a little salt, is especially palatable in place of roast-beef gravy; also on steamed or boiled rice, when served as a vegetable; and the Almond Cream is delicious on Granose Flakes, baked sweet apples, and apple dumplings. *Mint Sauce.— Mix a short time before serving one part of chopped mint, one part of sugar, and two parts of lemon juice. Serve warm, but not hot. Do not use any water. Salt to taste. *Sauce Imperial.— 1 can tomatoes, 2 bay leaves, 2 sprigs thyme, 1 tablespoonful grated onion, l/2 a lemon, 1 tablespoonful Nut Oil. Cook the tomatoes, two large bay leaves, two large sprigs of thyme, and one tablespoonful of grated onion for twenty minutes; then strain. Heat the oil until just hot, but do not brown. Add to it one rounded tablespoonful of flour. Stir until smooth, add the strained tomato mixture and lemon juice, slowly stirring until creamy and well cooked. *Chili Sauce.— 1 can tomatoes, 1 onion, ]/2 tea- spoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful celery salt, ]Z2 teaspoon- ful sugar, 1/3 cup lemon juice.166 Salads RECIPES Protose Salad.— Cut half a pound of Protose into small cubes. Pour over it a mayonnaise dress- ing, and serve. *Protose Salad, No. 2.— Cut one cup of Protose into small cubes; add to this one half as much minced celery, one hard-boiled egg, and three small radishes cut in various shapes; pour over these in- gredients the juice of two lemons, and sprinkle with salt to taste. Let it stand one-half hour be- fore serving. Garnish with radishes which have been cut so as to represent tulips. Mayonnaise dressing may be used instead of lemon juice. ^Potato Salad.— Chop or cut into dice three or four left-over Irish potatoes. Add to them one-half cup of chopped Protose, one stalk of celery, minced fine, and enough onion and salt to give it a del- icate flavor. Chopped egg yolks may be used if desired. Over this squeeze the juice of one lemon, and allow it to stand in a cool place, while pre- paring the following dressing: Mix together the yolks of two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of lemonSalads 16 7 juice, two tablespoonfuls of water, one-fourth table- spoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of Nuttol or Olive Oil. Put in the inner cup of a double boiler, and cook slowly, stirring carefully until slightly thickened. Remove from the fire, and cool at once. Add a little sugar if desired. When cold, mix with the potato, and allow it to stand for at least one hour, serve on lettuce leaves, and garnish with sliced egg yolks which have been steamed, or with cooked beets cut into fancy shapes. *Red Salad.— Cook one cup of red kidney beans in slightly salted water until tender, but unbroken; then drain. Arrange lettuce leaves, fresh and crisp, on a round plate, and put on it one cup of Protose cut into cubes. (If desired, one-half Protose and one-half Nuttolene may be used.) Spread over this Cream Salad Dressing, scatter the beans over it, and garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg. Protose with Lettuce.— Cut the Protose into thin slices, and chop into small pieces. Arrange the lettuce in a salad-bowl, the larger leaves around the edge, the light ones in the center. Fill the center and interstices between the leaves with pre- pared Protose. Cover with any preferred dressing, and serve. *Protose and Celery Salad.— Cut Protose into168 Healthful Cookery one-half-inch dice, or shred it with a fork. Add to it a little salt and a very little grated onion, and pour over it a small quantity of lemon juice. Let it stand in the ice-box for half an hour or longer. Just before serving mix with it one half as much crisp celery cut into crescents as there is of Protose, and some of the Sour Salad Dressing, to which the yolk of an egg has been added. Pile up in the center of a bed of lettuce in a salad-dish, or serve on individual dishes. Celery leaves make a nice garnish for it. Nasturtiums, with or without the lettuce, are beautiful. *Protose and Celery Salad, No. 2.—Two thirds of Protose, sliced fine, one third of celery, sliced fine. Mix with the Sour Salad Dressing one-half hour or more before serving. When ready to serve, arrange in a salad-bowl or on a flat dish. Garnish with lettuce. When celery is out of market, celery seed or a delicate flavoring of onion or sage may be used. *Pease and Onion Salad.—- Drain choice canned or stewed peas, and lay them on a clean towel to absorb the moisture. Add to them enough grated or chopped onion to make them very strong of onion. Mix a little salt and lemon juice with them, and let them stand in the ice-box for half an hour or169 Salads more. When just ready to serve, pour over them the Sour Dressing made from Nut Butter, with the smaller quantity of water. Mix all together lightly, and serve on lettuce leaves. *Peach Salad.—Cut ripe peaches lengthwise into small pieces. Have ready a dressing made from the following ingredients: Three rounded table- spoonfuls of Almond Butter rubbed smooth in one- half cup of water. Add two tablespoonfuls of sugar and one-half teaspoonful of salt. Cook for a few minutes until thickened. *Date and Walnut Salad.—Take two cups of nicely prepared dates, from which the seeds have been removed, place a quarter of a walnut inside, close up, and cut crosswise. Serve in salad-cups with French Dressing. *Apple and Banana Salad.—Take one and one- half cups each of sliced apple and banana, serve with a Cream Salad Dressing. *Orange and Pineapple Salad.— Take two oranges, peeled and sliced very thin, one pineapple, peeled and sliced (canned pineapple well drained may be used). Put the orange and pineapple in al- ternate layers. Pour over it a fruit sauce made as follows: One cup of currant juice, with which cook one teaspoonful of corn-starch mixed with one170 Healthful Cookery tablespoonful of sugar. When clear, remove from fire, and serve on the sliced fruit. *Mock Chicken Salad.— Two cups of Nuttolene cut in small cubes, three hard-boiled eggs pressed through colander, half cup of celery, chopped fine; salt, and mix well together. Serve with garnish of parsley and Sour Salad Dressing. Lettuce Lemonade Salad.— Arrange nice leaves of lettuce together, and slice off in strips. Serve with equal parts lemon juice and water with a little sugar. *Fruit Salad.— Put in the bottom of a pan a layer of pineapple, another of orange, banana, apples, powdered sugar, putting walnut meats be- tween the layers. Serve on a lettuce leaf. * Apple Salad.— 2 apples, 4 stalks celery, 2 table- spoonfuls chopped nuts. Serve on lettuce with Sweet Salad Dressing. ^Pineapple and Banana Salad.— Cut equal parts pineapple and banana into pieces, adding a few chopped nuts. Serve on lettuce with Sweet Salad Dressing and a candied cherry on each dish. Fruit and Nut Salad.—• Slice two bananas, two oranges, one large or two small apples, one-half cup of walnut meats; sprinkle lightly with sugar, and pour over all the juice of one lemon. TakeSalads i;i ( bright red apples, cut off an end, and remove the center with a spoon, leaving the shell. Fill these shells with the salad. Serve each apple on a lettuce leaf in an individual dessert-dish. *Nuttolene Cottage Cheese.— Rub Nuttolene through a wire strainer, add salt and enough lemon juice to give it the slight tartness of cottage cheese. Be careful not to get too much lemon juice, and to use plenty of salt. Mix well, and press through a fine strainer again. Shape into balls, and roll in chopped parsley. This is very pretty served on as a salad. SALAD DRESSINGS Nuttolene Salad Dressing.—To one tablespoon- ful of Nuttolene, beaten smooth in one-half cup of lemon juice, add a pinch of salt and one half or two thirds of a cup of strained stewed tomato. Beat together very thoroughly, and serve on crisp, fresh lettuce. Nut Salad Dressing.—Take equal parts of lemon juice, strained tomato, and Nuttolene or Peanut Butter. Put the Nuttolene into a bowl, adding the mixed tomato and lemon a little at a time, beating the whole meanwhile to make it perfectly smooth. Add salt if desired.Healthful Cookery 172 Cream Salad Dressing.—Take one-half cup thick cream, one-third cup thin cream, three tablespoon- fuls sugar, one egg or the yolks of two. Put all in a double boiler, and cook as for a custard. When it is taken from the fire, add three tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and a little salt. *Sweet Salad Dressing.— Rub two rounded tablespoonfuls of Almond Butter smooth with two thirds of a cup of water; add two tablespoonfuls of sugar and one fourth of a teaspoonful of salt; cook as for Sour Dressing, and add two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. When a yellow color is desired, with either the Sweet or Sour Dressing, have the beaten yolk of an egg in a bowl, and as you remove the dressing from the fire, pour it over the egg, a little at a time, stirring well at first. When the egg is used, a little less water and more lemon juice may be required. The dressing is especially pal- atable on apples, sliced fine, apples and celery, apples and very ripe bananas, strawberries and bananas, or pineapple and orange. The fruit will not turn dark if the dressing is put on as soon as it is sliced. *Sour Salad Dressing.— Rub two slightly rounded tablespoonfuls of Peanut or Almond But- ter smooth with two thirds of a cup of waterSalads 173 according to directions for preparing Nut Butter for bread. Let this cream boil for a moment. Re- move from the stove, add one-half teaspoonful of salt and two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Cool, and it is ready for use. If too thick, it may be thinned with a little lemon juice or water. More salt and lemon juice may be added, if desired. The sour dressing of either Nut or Almond Butter may be used whenever a sour dressing is desired; but the Nut Butter is richer with Protose and celery or over sliced apples. ^Lettuce with Nut Butter Dressing.— Prepare the lettuce as for salad. Rub two slightly rounded tablespoonfuls of Peanut or Almond Butter smooth with two thirds of a cup of water. Let this cream boil up for a moment. Remove from the stove, add one-half teaspoonful of salt and two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Cool, and it is ready for use. If too thick, it may be thinned with a little lemon juice or water. More lemon juice may be added if de- sired. Pour over the lettuce, and serve. *Boiled Salad Dressing.—Take four eggs, one- half cup of Nut Oil, one-half cup of lemon juice, one well-rounded teaspoonful of salt. Beat all to- gether in the inner cup of a double boiler, set into the outer boiler, with the water just warm, and stirHealthful Cookery 174 over the fire constantly until thickened, taking care not to allow it to heat so rapidly as to curdle it. As soon as it begins to thicken, remove from the fire, and place immediately in a dish of cold water, stirring it until it cools. Strain before serving. This can be used where any sour salad dressing is desired. ^Mayonnaise Dressing.— Break the yolk of an egg, and add to it a large pinch of salt, and with a fork stir the yolk until it begins to stiffen. Gradu- ally add to the yolk, a drop at a time, peanut or olive oil, stirring awhile after each drop is added. Continue this process until the mixture becomes too stiff to stir, then thin it with lemon juice and add some salt. The salt helps to stiffen it. Thicken again with oil in the same manner as before, and thin again with lemon juice. Continue this until the desired amount is made. When stiff enough to cut with a knife, add one teaspoonful of sugar. By setting on ice it will keep for a number of days. The success depends upon the care with which the oil is added; at first a drop at a time, and toward the last two or three drops, and perhaps one tea- spoonful, at a time. ^Mayonnaise Dressing, No. 2.— Add to two well-beaten eggs one teaspoonful of celery salt.Salads 175 one-half teaspoonful of common salt, one-third cup of lemon juice. Beat well together, and cook in a double boiler over the fire, stirring constantly until it thickens, then remove from the fire, and beat until cold. *Sunflower Mayonnaise.— Press the yolks and whites of hard-boiled eggs separately through a wire strainer. Pile the yolks in the center of a salad-plate, placing the whites in a circle outside of it. Around this arrange shredded lettuce, piled lightly, and serve with a mayonnaise dressing. Two eggs for each three plates of salad will be sufficient. *French Dressing.— Boil together one-half cup of lemon juice, one-fourth cup of sugar, and a pinch of salt. Turn this slowly over one egg that is beaten separately, and then fold together.176 Most persons greatly enjoy a tasty soup or puree with which to begin the heavier meal of the day. Properly made and properly eaten, soup is both a wholesome and nutritious article of diet. Nearly all food substances, either alone or in combination, may be made into soup. The principal steps in the preparation of such are,—• 1st. All legumes, vegetables, fruits, and grains to be used for this purpose should be first cooked until tender, then pressed through a fine colander or wire sieve to render the material homogeneous, and to remove all skins and hard or woody fibers. 2d. To the pulp thus obtained, such a propor- tion of liquid, water, milk, cream, Nut Cream, or Nut Soup Stock should be added as will make the soup of proper consistency. That of single cream is usually taken as the standard. 3d. Season and reheat. With most soups it is important to reheat in a double boiler, particularly so with all such as are made from foods having starch in their composition. The skin or envelope which protected the starch-cells has been removed, and the starchy atoms, settling and clinging as177 Soups they will to the bottom of the kettle, are very prone to burn when the soup is placed over the fire in an ordinary kettle. Like all other foods, soups require the action of the saliva for perfect digestion, and should be retained in the mouth until thoroughly mingled with it. Some dry food, as sticks, croutons, Zwie- back, or wafers, eaten with soup, is an aid in this direction. A tablespoonful of Granola in the bowl of soup instead of wafers, is also very nice. RECIPES Canned Pea Soup.— i can green peas, i table- spoonful Nut Butter, salt to season. Rub a can of peas through a colander to remove the skins. Add water to a tablespoonful of Nut Butter to form an emulsion; add this to the sifted peas, and enough additional water to make the soup of the proper consistency; season with salt, and serve. Potato, bean, tomato, and other veg- etable soups may be prepared in like manner and seasoned with Nut Butter. *Lentil Soup.— I pint lentils, I onion, 2 cups stewed tomato, 2 tablespoonfuls Nut Butter, 2 tablespoonfuls browned flour. Put the onion with the lentils to cook in a quart 12Healthful Cookery i78 of water, adding more if necessary from time to time. When well done, rub through a colander. Add to the pulp enough water to make it the con- sistency of a rather thick soup. Turn into a double boiler, and to this add two cups of strained to- matoes, two tablespoonfuls of diluted Nut Butter, with which is blended two tablespoonfuls of browned flour, with salt to season. Lentil and Tomato Soup.—-2.1/^ cups of lentil pulp, i cup of strained tomato, i teaspoonful of Nut Butter, and 2 stalks of celery. To these add sufficient water to make the soup of proper consistency. Heat to boiling, remove the celery, and add salt to season and one teaspoonful of browned flour rubbed to a paste with a little water. Boil for two or three minutes until the flour is cooked; then serve. Tomato Soup.—- Put one quart of tomatoes through a colander, add salt to taste, two table- spoonfuls of sugar, and a little Cocoanut or other Nut Butter; when hot, thicken with one heaping tablespoonful of flour. Serve hot. *Nut and Tomato Bisque Soup.— Y\ cup Nut Butter, 1 cup tomato, 2 to 3 cups water. Rub the butter smooth in the tomato. Add the water. Heat to boiling, and add salt to taste.Soups 179 *Creamy Nut Soup.— For one person, take one- half cup of hot water, two tablespoonfuls of Nut Meal, and salt. Boil, and pour slowly over the yolk of an egg, stirring meanwhile; serve at once. *Cream of Almond Soup.— y2 pound Almond Butter, 1 pint water, 1 doz. blanched almonds. Make a cream with one pint of water and one- fourth pound of Almond Butter, salt to taste, and heat thoroughly in a double boiler. Cut one dozen blanched almonds into strips, and put them into the tureen, then pour the cream over them. Serve at once with toasted whole-wheat wafers. *Puree of Gluten Soup.— 2 slightly rounded tablespoonfuls Nut Butter, 2 slightly rounded table- spoonfuls 20-per-cent Gluten, 4 cups water. Rub the Nut Butter smooth with the water. Heat to boiling, stir in the Gluten dry, beat it well so as to prevent lumps. Strain if necessary, add salt to taste, heat to boiling, and serve. Gluten Soup.—• Into a quart of water slice a small onion, and add a teaspoonful of Nut Butter. Heat to boiling, then remove the slices of onion, which are used simply for flavoring the soup, and stir in six rounded tablespoonfuls of 40-per-cent Gluten. Boil until thickened, add salt to season, and the soup is ready to serve.1B0 Healthful Cookery Celery and Tomato Soup.— il/2 cups stewed to- mato and *4 cup celery, sliced fine. Cook together until the celery is tender. Rub all through a colander, season with salt, and serve; or if preferred, thicken with a little 40-per-cent Gluten or Potato Meal. Potato Meal Puree.— Into one pint of boil- t ing water stir two tablespoonfuls of Cocoanut Cream and three heaping tablespoonfuls of Potato Meal which has previously been braided with enough cold water (about three fourths of a pint will be needed) so that it will pour readily. If liked, the Meal may be braided with thin, strained stewed tomato instead of water. Savory Potato Meal Puree.— Prepare the same as in the preceding, having first steeped in the water for three minutes three stalks of celery cut in one-inch pieces, or one small onion, or if preferred, one half as much of both. Remove the pieces of onion with the fork before stirring in the Meal. *Protose Soup.— *4 pound mashed Protose, 1 can tomatoes, 1 large onion, 2 or 3 stalks celery or a little celery salt, and 1 quart water. Cook all together about two hours, and strain through a colander before serving. The addition of a little flour thickening makes the soup smoother.Soups 181 * Vegetable Oyster Soup.— 8 bunches vegetable oysters (7 or 8 in a bunch), 1 cup sweet corn, and pound Nuttolene. Cook the oysters until tender, and press them through a colander. Rub the corn through the colander and the Nuttolene through a fine sieve. Mix the corn and Nuttolene together, and add the oysters; add the liquor in which the oysters were cooked, with sufficient water to make it of the con- sistency of soup, not porridge. Salt to taste. Heat from half an hour to an hour. This makes about five quarts of soup. Vegetable Oyster Soup, No. 2.— Cook the veg- etable oysters in boiling water until tender, after having washed, and scraped, and sliced them. When nearly done, season with salt, and allow them to cook until the water .is nearly gone. Drain, and press through a fine sieve. Thin to the proper con- sistency with Nut Cream. If desired, one bunch of the oysters, sliced and cooked until tender, one quart of milk, and one cup of cream, may be used instead, and the soup served with hot toasted Corn Flakes or Granose Flakes, as preferred. *Vegetable Soup.— Put equal quantities of the following vegetables on to cook, according to the length of time it requires for each: Cabbage, LimaHealthful Cookery 182 beans, new potatoes, fresh corn from the cob, and tomatoes. Season with salt, and add a little cream made from Peanut Butter. Strain before serving. Cream Tomato Soup.—2 cups strained tomato, J4 cup cream, 1 tablespoonful flour. Heat the tomato, and add the flour rubbed smooth in a little cold water. Have ready half a cup of cocoanut or dairy cream (hot), add to the tomato, then salt, and serve at once. *Fruit Soup.— I cup strawberry juice (or cur- rant), ]/z cup pineapple juice (or pear juice), 1 tablespoonful sago, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 table- spoonful lemon juice. Cook until sago is transparent, serve with crou- tons. *Cream of Pea Soup.—To the contents of one can of peas pressed through a colander, add one and one-half pints of rich milk, salt to taste, and add a pinch of thyme.183 Soups with Nut Soup Stock Nut Soup Stock may be used in precisely the same way as extract of beef and other concentrated soup stocks. It dissolves instantly in either hot or cold water. It is best to add the water slowly at first, beating it together with a Dover or Cyclone egg-beater until smooth, when the remainder of the water may be added. Where tomato is men- tioned, strained stewed tomato of ordinary con- sistency is intended. If it should be unusually thin, a little more will be required, and a little less if it is thicker. The herbs,1 for the soups that are to be strained, are loosely tied in a piece of cheese-cloth or thin muslin, so that the flavor will come out into the soup as the sack is occasionally pressed with a spoon. The bay leaves are thrown in without any preparation. The stalks of celery are crushed or broken. Onions are sliced, except when they are chopped and left in the soup. Carrots are grated. 1 The herbs mentioned are usually obtainable in dry or powdered form of most dealers ; but those raised in one’s own garden are superior in flaYor, and may be dried and kept for winter use.Healthful Cookery 184 Nut Soup Stock will keep almost indefinitely after being opened, by keeping it exposed to the air in a dry place, and turning it over occasionally on to a clean plate. The browned flour used in the recipes is prepared as follows: — *Browned Flour.—Take any good spring-wheat flour, and put it into a warm (not hot) oven, stir it often, to prevent lumping, until it is dried out. Then increasing the heat of the oven, stir the flour more often, and bring it to the degree of brown- ness desired. Be sure to brown it evenly. Do not let even a small portion of it become burned, for that will give a bitter flavor to the whole. No. 1 is of a delicate cream color, so light that one can hardly tell that it is browned at all except by com- paring it with some that has not been in the oven. No. 2 is of a dark cream or light brown color. No. 3 is a light chestnut. It requires a very hot oven and constant watching and stirring for the last half hour to bring No. 3 to perfection. One will need to watch closely that it does not burn on the bottom of the pan as well as on the top. These browned flours will keep almost indefinitely in clean, dry recep- tacles. *Brown Onion Flavor.— 2 medium-sized onions, sliced thin, 2 tablespoonfuls Browned Flour No. 3.Soups with Nut Soup Stock 185 Blend the flour with the water, add the onion, and cover well with boiling water. Simmer, adding water when necessary, until the onion is dissolved. Rub through a wire strainer. The mixture should now be thin enough to pour from a spoon readily, or of about the consistency of rather thick cream. This flavor can be kept for several days in a cool place. It takes the place of the onion fried in butter or other oil, which is used so much in ordinary cooking for flavoring soups and gravies, and has the advantage of being free from poisonous acids. RECIPES *Nut Bouillon.— % pound Nut Soup Stock, 2 cups water, 4 tablespoonfuls Brown Onion Flavor, 2/3 cup tomato, or % if very thin, 2 to 2*4 teaspoon- fuls salt, add water to make 2^2 to 3 pints. Simmer one-half hour to an hour. Serve in cups. If a consomme or clear soup is desired, use about one fifth less water. Cool, and to each quart of the cold bouillon take the white and shell of one egg, beat all together well, set over a slow fire, and stir often, until the broth boils rapidly and looks clear below the scum. Let it stand off from the fire for about ten minutes, then strain through two186 Healthful Cookery or three thicknesses of cheese-cloth, reheat, and serve. Add more water, if necessary, after strain- ing, to develop a meaty flavor. *Nut and Lemon Juice Broth.— I lemon, pound Nut Soup Stock, 4 cups water, il/2 to 2 tea- spoonfuls salt. Dissolve the stock in the water, heat to boiling, remove from the fire, and add from one to two tea- spoonfuls of lemon juice and the salt. *Nut Soup.—pound Nut Soup Stock, 4 cups water, y$ teaspoonful sage, l/\. teaspoonful thyme, 1/16 teaspoonful mint, 11/2 to 2 teaspoonfuls salt. Simmer all together one half to three fourths of an hour, strain, reheat, and serve. ^Mother’s Soup.—]pound can Nut Soup Stock, 8 to &y2 cups water, 2 large onions, 1/16 teaspoon- ful mint, teaspoonful thyme, 1 large bay leaf, 1 tablespoonful Browned Flour No. 3, 2y2 to 3 tea- spoonfuls salt. Cook together the stock, water, onions, bay leaf, and browned flour until the onions are tender, add- ing the mint and thyme about ten minutes before straining. Strain, heat to boiling, and turn in slowly in a slender stream the following Cream Noodles, stirring constantly. Let this boil up well. Remove from the fire. Add from one-fourth to three-Soups with Nut Soup Stock 187 eighths teaspoonful of lactic acid, or one and one- half teaspoonfuls of lemon juice. Serve at once. *Cream Noodles.— Beat an egg lightly, add one tablespoonful of milk and a pinch of salt, then beat in three to four and one-fourth tablespoonfuls of flour. When the mixture is poured slowly from the point of a spoon, it will be in shreds, and when cooked will be firm enough to hold its shape, but not hard. *Savory Protose Soup.—34 can Nut Soup Stock, 2 cups water, 1 teaspoonful grated onion, 1 cup Pro- tose cut into small pieces, 1 pinch mint, 34 tea- spoonful of marjoram, teaspoonful salt. Simmer for an hour, strain, reheat, and serve. *Nut and Rice Soup.—34 pound of Nut Soup Stock, 8 cups of water, 234 tablespoonfuls rice, 2/3 teaspoonfuls chopped onion, 34 to 34 teaspoonful sage, 234 teaspoonfuls salt. Blend stock and water, and heat to boiling. Add the rice, onion, sage, and salt. Boil rapidly until the rice is tender, which will be in fifteen or twenty minutes. To make the soup of the right consistency, it will be necessary to add from one to two cups of water after the rice is cooked. *Nut and Barley Soup.— 34 pound Nut Soup Stock, 8 cups water, 234 tablespoonfuls coarse188 Healthful Cookery pearled barley, 2 small sticks celery, 2*4 to 3 tea- spoonfuls salt. Cook the barley in the salted stock in a double boiler for from three to five hours. At the last add the necessary water and the celery. Simmer from fifteen to twenty minutes, not longer. Remove the celery, and serve. *Nut and Ripe Olive Soup.— x/\ pound Nut Soup Stock, 6*4 cups water, 2 to 2*4 dozen ripe olives, 4 to 5 teaspoonfuls arrowroot, or 2 table- spoonfuls corn-starch, 2 to 2*4 teaspoonfuls salt. Slice and cook the olives for fifteen minutes in three fourths of a cup of water. Combine the blended stock and olives, and heat to boiling; stir in the arrowroot, and let all boil up well. Add salt, and serve. Ripe olives can be bought at first-class groceries in the large cities. To prepare them for soup, cut them open carefully on one side, lengthwise, and remove the stone, then slice them in rather thin slices, beginning at the end. This will leave most of the pieces in rings. *Celery and Tomato Soup.—% pound Nut Soup Stock, 5 cups water, 3 cups tomato, 1 cup celery, sliced fine, 4 2/3 teaspoonfuls salt. Cook the tomato, one cup of the water, and the celery together until the celery is tender. Add toSoups with Nut Soup Stock 189 it the stock which has been prepared with the four cups of water. Heat to boiling, add the salt, and serve. A little more water may be required if too much has cooked away. *Nut French Soup.— 34 pound Nut Soup Stock, 2 cups tomatoes, 6 cups water, 34 tablespoonful Browned Flour No. 3, 34 a large onion, il/2 me- dium-sized bay leaves, y of a teaspoonful sage, 34 teaspoonful of thyme, 234 teaspoonfuls salt. Simmer from one-half hour to an hour, strain, reheat, and serve in bouillon cups or soup-plates. ^Washington Soup.— 34 pound Nut Soup Stock, 4 cups water, 1 cup tomato, ]/2 teaspoonful Browned Flour No. 3, 34 teaspoonful celery salt, 34 teaspoon- ful thyme, 134 to 2 teaspoonfuls salt. Combine all the ingredients, heat to boiling, and serve. *Nut and Lentil Soup.—]/2 cup dry lentils (about i34 cups pulp), 34 pound Nut Soup Stock, 3 to 334 cups water, 2 small onions, 1 to 134 teaspoonfuls salt. Put the lentils into boiling water, and cook until tender; then dry them out well, and rub through a colander. Add the other ingredients, the onions tied loosely in a piece of netting, and heat together for half an hour. Remove the onions, addi9° Healthful Cookery the water to make it the consistency of soup, and serve. If desired very smooth and fine, strain through a Chinese soup-strainer before serving. For a different soup, add one and one-half tea- spoonfuls of lemon juice. *Nut and Green Pea Soup.— i can green peas, Y\ pound Nut Soup Stock, 4 cups water, il/2 to 2 teaspoonfuls salt. Rub the peas through a colander, add the other ingredients, heat to boiling, and serve. *Nut and Pea Soup, or English Pea Soup.— iy2 cups dried green peas (about 1% cups cooked and mashed), y^ pound Nut Soup Stock, 3 cups water, 1/16 teaspoonful mint or 3 or 4 fresh leaves, 1 to i)4 teaspoonfuls salt. Prepare the peas the same as lentils in Nut and Lentil Soup, and heat with mint not more than ten minutes. Pea and Tomato Soup.— 1 pint Scotch peas (dried), 1 quart boiling water, 2 cups tomato, 3 cups Nut Soup Stock. Soak the peas overnight. When ready to cook, put into a quart of boiling water, and simmer slowly until quite dry and well disintegrated. Rub through a colander to remove the skins. Add two cups of strained stewed tomato, and three cups of Nut SoupSoups with Nut Soup Stock 191 Stock liquor. Turn into a double boiler, and cook together for a half hour or longer; turn a second time through a colander or soup-strainer, and serve. *Nut and Bean Soup.— pound Nut Soup Stock, 6 cups water, 1 cup beans, % teaspoonful thyme, 2 teaspoonfuls salt. Prepare the beans the same as lentils in Nut and Lentil Soup, add the other ingredients, let simmer for from twenty minutes to an hour. Serve. *Bean and Corn Soup.— Cold stewed corn and cold baked beans form the basis of this soup. Put one pint of each through a colander, add a few stalks of celery or a slice of onion, and three cups of rather diluted Nut Soup Stock liquor. Boil for two minutes. Remove the onion or celery, season with salt, and serve. *Lima Bean Soup.— Simmer a pint of Lima beans gently, in just sufficient water to cook, and not burn, until they have fallen to pieces. When done, rub the beans through a colander. Add Nut Soup Stock to make of the proper consistency, and salt to season. Reheat and serve. White beans may be used in place of Lima beans, but they require more prolonged cooking. Black beans and kidney beans may likewise be used in the same manner. Canned Corn Soup.—Turn the contents of a canHealthful Cookery 192 of sweet corn into a granite-ware pan, and mash thoroughly with a potato-masher until every kernel is broken; then rub through a colander. To the pulp thus obtained add sufficient Nut Soup Stock liquor to make about three pints in all. Add salt, if desired, and serve hot. *Nut Cream of Corn Soup.—i can tender sweet corn, 54 pound can Nut Soup Stock, 4 cups water, il/2 to 2 teaspoonfuls salt, 3 to 4 teaspoonfuls flour. Rub the corn through a colander, add the stock and water, heat to the boiling point, and thicken with the flour, which has been blended with a little cold water. Add salt, and serve. *Nut and Asparagus Soup.— 54 pound Nut Soup Stock, 4 cups water, 54 quart of asparagus, 254 teaspoonfuls salt. Cut the asparagus into small pieces. Cook until tender, rub through a fine colander, combine with the other ingredients, heat to boiling, and serve. *Nut and Spinach Soup.— J4 pound can Nut Soup Stock, 4 cups water, 54 peck spinach, 2 tea- spoonfuls salt. Cook the spinach in salted water until tender. Drain, rub through a fine colander, add to the other ingredients. Boil up well, and serve. If desired, this may be thickened with from four to five tea-f Soups with Nut Soup Stock 193 spoonfuls of Browned Flour No. 1. A little celery salt will be enjoyed by some. *Savory Potato Soup.— pound can Nut Soup Stock, 4 cups water, 2 teaspoonfuls chopped onion, 2 cups potato cut into small pieces, 1/16 teaspoon- ful mint, l/i teaspoonful marjoram, ij4 to \]/2 tea- spoonfuls salt. Cook the potatoes until tender. Drain, and rub through a colander, add the other ingredients, heat to boiling, and serve. *Nut Vegetable Soup.— l/\ pound can Nut Soup Stock, 8 cups water, 1 large bay leaf, l/2 an onion, 4 tablespoonfuls grated carrot, 1 very small head of celery, 2 to 2^2 teaspoonfuls salt. Simmer all together one half to three fourths of an hour, strain, reheat, and serve. *Nut Stock Soup.— Take % pound Nut Soup Stock, 4 quarts water, 2 cans whole peas, 1 1/3 cups vermicelli, 3 cups strained tomatoes, 3 large bay leaves, 1 large onion, grated. Cook together at least forty-five minutes. Re- move the bay leaves before serving. 13Gruels and Liquid Foods RECIPES Hot Malted Nuts.— Gradually pour one quart of boiling water over one cup of dry Malted Nuts, stirring meanwhile to keep it smooth. Add salt to hot Malted Nuts if it is to be used for moistening toast. Malted Nuts Gruel with Meltose.—To two heap- ing teaspoonfuls of Malted Nuts add one cup of boiling water, and allow it to cook in a double boiler, or simmer on the back of the range for ten minutes. Add one teaspoonful of Meltose, and serve hot. *Nut and Gluten Gruel.—Mix together one third of a cup of 40-per-cent Gluten and two thirds of a cup of Malted Nuts. Introduce the mixture gradu- ally into a sufficient quantity of water to make a thin gruel. Allow it to cook gently for ten or fif- teen minutes, and serve hot. For those who object to the rich flavor of the Malted Nuts the propor- tions of the mixture may be reversed. *Egg-Nog.— Dissolve one tablespoonful Malted Nuts in one tablespoonful of lemon juice, add the *94Gruels and Liquid Foods 195 whites of two eggs beaten very stiff, and serve in a glass. *Malted Nuts Broth.— Into two thirds of a cup of boiling water sprinkle four rounded tea- spoonfuls of Malted Nuts, stirring. Boil up well. Add one eighth to one sixth of a teaspoonful of salt. Serve in a bouillon cup. *Malted Nuts Bouillon.— Same as Malted Nuts Broth with the addition of one eighth of a tea- spoonful of lemon juice, and a little more salt to each two thirds of a cup of water. Protose Bouillon.— Cut one-half pound of Pro- tose into small pieces, and simmer for an hour in a pint of warm water. Strain, add salt to season, a little celery salt, and a half cup of strained stewed tomato. *Vegetable Bouillon.— Reserve the broth from navy beans which have been cooked in the inner cup of a double boiler, also the broth from Protose which has been cut up fine and cooked for at least two hours in a double boiler. Mix equal quantities of Protose, bean broth, and tomato juice; season with salt and celery salt. Heat before serving. Protose Broth.— Boil one pound of Protose for about two hours in a quart of water. Season with celery salt, and when done, strain through a fineHealthful Cookery 196 sieve. Serve hot with well-toasted Whole-Wheat Wafers or Zwieback. Left-over pieces of Protose Roast may be used to make Protose Broth, and give it a most appetizing flavor. Gluten Gruel.—■ Stir two and one-half table- spoonfuls of 20-per-cent Gluten into a pint of boil- ing milk; boil until thickened, when it is ready to serve. Gluten Gruel, No. 2.—* Into a pint of boiling water stir three heaping tablespoonfuls of 20-per- cent Gluten. Boil until thickened, and add a half cup of thin cream. Lemon Gluten Gruel.—• Into one cup of boiling water sprinkle one tablespoonful of Gluten. Let it boil up for one or two minutes, and when cold, add one level teaspoonful of Meltose and one table- spoonful of lemon juice. The gruel may be used warm, if desired, but the lemon juice should not be added until just before serving. Gluten Cream.—- Heat a pint of thin cream to boiling, and stir into it three tablespoonfuls of 40-per-cent Gluten. When thickened, it is ready to serve. *Grape Gluten Porridge.— ]/2 cup grape juice, 34 cup Malted Nuts, 34 CUP 20-per-cent Gluten, 34 cup water.Gruels and Liquid Foods 197 To the grape juice add the Malted Nuts and the Gluten rubbed smooth with the water. Add a pinch of salt, and cook two minutes. If a gruel is desired, thin with one-half cup of grape juice or water. Granose Gruel.— Moisten one-half cup of Gra- nose Flakes with one cup of hot water, press through a fine sieve, and add one-half cup of cream. Season with a little salt, and serve hot. *Toasted Corn Flakes Gruel.— Boil together for fifteen minutes one pint of water and one cup of Toasted Corn Flakes. When done, salt to taste, and serve hot. A little tomato or bean broth may be added. Almond Puree.—Mix Almond Butter with water to a thick cream, add salt to taste, and let it boil up over the fire. Serve at once. This is very del- icate and nourishing. *Hot Nut Milk.— Make Almond or other Nut Butters of the consistency of milk by the continued addition of water. Fleat to the boiling point, add a very little salt, and drink like hot milk. Many can take this who can not use cow’s milk. Granola or Granuto in this Nut Milk makes a very enjoyable breakfast dish. It is also excellent with Breakfast Toast, wafers, Zwieback, rolls, sticks, or any other hard breads.Healthful Cookery 198 *Granuto and Malted Nuts Gruel.—cup water, 2 teaspoonfuls Malted Nuts, 1 tablespoonful Gra- nuto, salt. Heat water to boiling’, stir in the Granuto and Malted Nuts mixed, and simmer for two or three minutes. Add salt, and serve.199 Desserts RECIPES ^Pyramid of Peaches.— i cup blanched almonds, I qt. can peaches, y2 loaf bread, for croutons. Arrange peaches, which have been cut into halves and stewed, around a cork-shaped crouton on small, round croutons. In the center of each half peach put a blanched almond or a spoonful of Eng- lish walnuts or pecans. Over the whole pour the juice of the peaches which have been boiled, with a little lemon juice. Malted Nuts may be used in- stead of the nuts. Malted Nuts with Fruit.—Malted Nuts sprinkled dry over fruit is enjoyed by many. Stuffed Prunes.— i lb. prunes, y2 lb. dates, y2 lb. shelled walnuts. Wash large and perfect prunes in warm water; let them stand one hour, and then remove the stones. Stuff with one-half date each, some Eng- lish walnut meal, and a little powdered sugar. Malted Nuts may be used in place of the walnuts and powdered sugar. Fill them full; shape nicely, and roll in powdered sugar or Malted Nuts.200 Healthful Cookery *Fruit Roll.—Take equal quantities of fig mar- malade and chopped English walnuts. A little lemon juice may be added if desired. Roll out into a cylinder two inches in diameter; flour this with powdered sugar, or Malted Nuts. Cut into slices, and serve. Granose Dumplings.— Pare and remove the cores from quickly cooked tart apples. Fill the cavity with sugar. Moisten dry Granose with suffi- cient cream so that it can be pressed around the prepared apple the same as dough. Bake until the apple within the dumpling is tender. Serve with cream. Granose Dumplings with Nut Meal.— Prepare the apples as previously directed. Mix two spoon- fuls of Nut Meal with each cup of Granose, and moisten with sufficient water or the juice of stewed apples so that it can be pressed about the prepared apple. Bake, and serve with a dressing prepared by thickening the juice of apples with a little corn- starch or browned flour, and sweetened with sugar previously flavored with lemon. Granola Pudding.— 2 pints milk, i cup Gra- nola, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 2 eggs. Heat three pints of milk to boiling, then take it from the fire, and stir into it one cup of Gra-Desserts 201 nola, and soak until the mixture is nearly cold. Then beat together the yolks of two eggs and three tablespoonfuls of sugar, stir them in, lastly adding the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth., Set the dish within a pan of hot water, place in a mod- erate oven, and bake for an hour, or until the pud- ding is firm in the center. A little grated lemon rind may be used for flavoring if desired, or a half cup of seeded raisins or Zante currants may be added for a variety. * Apple Pudding.— Put layers of thick-sliced apples and Granola into a pudding-dish, using to each cup of Granola one cup of salted water. Steam or bake until the apples are tender. Serve with Hard Sauce. *Plum Pudding.— I 1/3 cups Granola, cpp flour, 4 tablespoonfuls browned flour, cup Nut Meal, 1 1/3 teaspoonfuls salt, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup mixed fruit, 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. Mix together one and one-third cups of Granola, one-half cup of white flour, four tablespoonfuls of darkly browned flour, one-half cup of Nut Meal, and one and one-third teaspoonfuls of salt. Add to two cups of boiling water one cup of molasses and one cup of currants, raisins, cut fine, and citron, mixed. Then stir in the above mixture. PutHealthful Cookery 202 into oiled pudding-molds, cover, and steam at least three hours. Two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice in place of the same quantity of water is an improvement. *Granose Drop-Cakes.— 3 eggs, 1/3 cup sugar, ]/2 a lemon, 2]/2 cups Granose Flakes. Beat separately the whites and yolks of three eggs, beating the yolks first, to which add one third of a cup of sugar and the grated rind of one half a lemon. Before beating the whites, add a pinch of salt, and when very stiff, carefully fold in the 1 beaten yolks, which should be stiff, and two and one-half cups of freshly toasted Granose Flakes. (When partially beaten, one-half tablespoonful of lemon juice added to the whites gives a more de- cided lemon flavor.) Put in tablespoonfuls on an oiled tin, and bake in a quick oven until brown. Granose Drop-Cakes, No. 2.— 2 eggs, 1/3 cup sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls Bromose, 2 cups Granose Flakes. Beat the yolks of two eggs, one third of a cup of sugar, and two tablespoonfuls of Bromose to a cream. Stir in lightly the well-beaten whites of the eggs, and two cups of dry Granose. Drop in small spoonfuls on a tin, and bake fifteen or twenty minutes.203 Desserts *Corn Drop-Cakes.— Beat the yolks of three eggs until light; add one-half cup of Meltose and a pinch of salt. Beat the whites until stiff, and fold this carefully into the yolks together with two cups of toasted Corn Flakes. Drop in spoonfuls on an oiled tin, and bake quickly. *Corn Flake Dumplings.— 2 cups Corn Flakes, 4 tablespoonfuls ground nuts, 4 lemons, 8 apples. Mix together two cups of freshly toasted Corn Flakes, and four tablespoonfuls of English wal- nuts that have been ground to a meal. Moisten with water, and press in and about pared and cored apples. Over the apples pour the juice of one lemon to each two apples, and bake in a pudding- dish until tender. Serve with Apple Sauce pre- pared as follows: Thicken one cup of apple juice with two tablespoonfuls of browned flour, and add one-fourth cup of sugar and one and one-half table- spoonfuls of lemon juice. Serve hot. Granose Flakes may be used in place of the Corn Flakes. *Tuti-Fruit Corn Flakes.— Put equal parts of dates and figs through a colander. (They are easier to put through if steamed twenty minutes.) Grind a quantity of English walnuts equal to both dates and figs. Mix the nuts and fruits with one cup of toasted Corn Flakes, and roll out with the204 Healthful Cookery hands into a cylinder about one and one-half inches in diameter. Cut in slices, and serve at luncheon or as dessert. Granose Flakes may be used in the same manner. *Snow Pudding.— i quart milk, 2 tablespoonfuls corn-starch, 5 eggs (whites). Heat the milk to boiling in a double boiler, stir in two heaping tablespoonfuls of corn-starch mois- tened in a little cold milk. Cook about ten min- utes, then add the well-beaten whites of five eggs. Mold in cups, and serve with orange sauce. *Corn Fruit Pudding.— 3 rounding tablespoon- fuls corn-starch, 2 cups boiling water, y2 cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, whites of 3 eggs. Cook the corn-starch, to which the sugar has been added, in the boiling water, flavor with the vanilla, and pour the whole over the beaten whites of the eggs; mold, and serve with sliced banana or peaches. *Granuto and Apple Pudding.—Cut pared apples into eighths. Lay them in the bottom of a pudding- dish, and sprinkle them with Granuto. Fill the dish with layers, and pour salted water over them in the proportion of one-third cup of water to a scant three-fourths cup of Granuto. Cover, and bake in a moderate oven until the apples are tender. Serve205 Desserts with dairy or Nut Cream, with plain or sweet fruit custard, fig or date pulp, or egg sauce. Peaches, pears, or berries may be substituted for the apples. *Granuto Plum Pudding.—y2 cup ground citron, Yz cup fig pulp, 1 cup raisin pulp, 2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice, y2 teaspoonful salt, 2 cups water, 2 cups Granuto. Mix all the ingredients thoroughly, put into large or individual molds, and steam one hour. Serve without any sauce; the finest sauce spoils it. ^Cabinet Pudding.— Line a pudding-dish with seedless raisins and chopped citron. Cover this with a layer of stale cake cut in strips, cover with jelly, and repeat. Moisten with Cocoanut Almond Cream Sauce, bake in slow oven until the pudding is set. Serve with Cocoanut Almond Cream Sauce. *Granose Pudding.— 1 pint milk, iy2 cups Gra- nose, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, yolks of 2 eggs, white of 1 egg. Mix the ingredients, and bake slowly for one hour in a dish placed in the oven inside a pan of hot water. Granose Apple Pudding.— Put a layer of apples, cut in thick slices, into the bottom of a pudding- dish, cover with Granose Biscuit crumbs, sprinkle with sugar and a trifle of salt. Repeat the layers206 Healthful Cookery until the dish is full. Pour a little water over the whole. Sprinkle the top with the crumbs, and steam one and one-half to two hours, or until the apples are well cooked. When serving with a very sweet sauce, the sugar may be omitted. *Graham Pudding.— Beat separately the yolks and the whites of six large eggs, adding to each a tablespoonful of lemon juice; when quite stiff, add one cup of Meltose to the yolks, and beat again. Have ready one cup of washed and seeded raisins with one-half cup of chopped English walnuts. After dredging the raisins well with Graham flour, put the ingredients together in the following man- ner : Pour the yolks into the whites, next fold in carefully the fruit and nuts, and last of all sift into the mixture two cups of Graham flour to which one-half cup of corn-starch has been added. Oil the baking-dish, and steam for one and one-half hours. Serve hot with whipped cream. *Prune Pudding.— Moisten stale bread in the juice in which prunes have been cooked, or else use Nut Cream. Alternate with layers of seeded prunes which have been well cooked, until a baking-dish is full, and sprinkle the top with toasted bread- crumbs. Bake, and serve with the lemon or orange sauce, or Meltose.Desserts 20 7 Almond Cream Rice Pudding.— 8 cups Almond Cream, i cup best rice, cup sugar, i cup well- washed raisins. If preferred, the sugar may be omitted, and an- other one-half cup of raisins substituted. Put the material into a pan, and heat on top of the range until just boiling. Then place in a moderate oven, and bake until the rice is tender. Serve cold. *Plain Plum Pudding.— Take of light white dough, when ready to make into loaves, enough for one large loaf, and knead into it one cup of seedless raisins or chopped steamed apricots. Divide into loaves, and put into oiled tomato-cans. When light, steam for one or one and a half hours. Cut into round slices, and serve with lemon sauce. After slicing it may be reheated by steaming a few min- utes. Rice Custard.— 3 pints sweet milk, 1 egg, 1 tea- spoonful vanilla, l/2 cup sugar. Add boiled rice to make the right consistency. Bake in pan set in hot water. Plain Custard, without Sugar.— Beat lightly to- gether milk and eggs in proportion of one egg to each scant cup of rich milk. Cook in the inner cup of a double boiler until creamy. Add a trifle of salt if desired, and serve warm or cold. For fig or dateHealthful Cookery 208 custard, add one-fourth cup of fig or date pulp be- fore or after cooking. Granose Fruit Custard.— 2 slightly heaping cups Granose, 2 cups milk, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 2 eggs. Add the yolks of the eggs, with the sugar and the Granose, to the milk; beat lightly for a few moments, then add the well-beaten white, and one cup of canned or stewed cherries which have been well drained from juice. Bake in a slow oven till the custard is set. Allow the custard to become cold before serving. Molded Granose Dessert.— Flavor a pint of milk by steeping three or four tablespoonfuls of desic- cated cocoanut in it for twenty minutes. (The milk must not be allowed to boil.) If the milk has evap- orated, add enough to make a full pint. Add a tablespoonful of sugar and two well-beaten eggs; cook until the custard is set, in a double boiler, or a bowl placed in a dish of hot water. Add sufficient quantity of dry Granose to make the whole quite thick, and mold in cups. No dressing is required. ^Strawberry Tapioca.— Soak overnight in cold water a large cupful of tapioca. In the morning put half of the tapioca into a well-oiled pudding dish, and sprinkle with sugar; then on this put aDesserts 209 quart of fresh, selected berries, sugar, and the rest of the tapioca. Fill the dish with cold water until the tapioca is covered about a quarter of an inch deep. Bake in a moderate oven until it looks clear, adding more water (hot) if it seems too dry. When done, let it get thoroughly cold, and serve it with a whipped cream or a fruit dressing. If fresh berries can not be had, use canned fruit, as cherries or plums, first draining off the juice, which can be diluted, then thickened with a little corn-starch and used instead of the whipped cream, if preferred. ^'Chocolate Blanc-Mange.—1 pint milk or cream, 2 tablespoonfuls corn-starch, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls Health Cocoa. Heat the milk, sugar, and Cocoa. Then add the corn-starch, or potato flour, if preferred. Cook thoroughly. Mold in cups if so desired. Serve with whipped cream. *Snowballs with Prunes.— Steam rice one hour, or until tender, and form into balls around one large or two small prunes in the center. Serve with a hot sauce made by warming for a few minutes one- half cup of Meltose to which the juice of one lemon has been added and a little prune juice to make it of the consistency to pour easily. 14Healthful Cookery 210 PIES —RECIPES Granola Pie Crust.— 24 CUPS Granola, 24 to 1/3 cupful cream. For one pie take two thirds of a cup of Granola, moisten with an equal quantity of thin cream or rich milk, and let it stand a minute. A cream pre- pared by diluting Almond Butter with water to the consistency of cream is excellent for this purpose. Place the moistened mass in the center of the pie- tin, and with a spoon spread it evenly and thinly 1 over the bottom and round the sides of the tin, leav- ing no holes. Fill with any preferred filling, and bake ten or fifteen minutes. To form the edge nicely, rest the length of the first finger of the left hand against the edge of the tin, and press the ma- terial against it. The shaping of the crust will re- quire but a few moments, and should be done as soon as the Granola is well moistened, as it absorbs the liquid, and soon becomes dry again. Nut Meal Pie Crust.— Blend together thor- oughly equal parts of Nut Meal and good white flour. Make into a dough with ice-cold water, kneading it the very least possible. Cocoanut Pie.— 1 pint milk, p2 cup cocoanut, 24 cup sugar, 2 eggs.211 Desserts Steep one-half cup of cocoanut in a pint of milk for one-half hour. Strain out the cocoanut, and add sufficient fresh milk to make a pint. Allow it to become cold, then add a quarter of a cup of sugar and two well-beaten eggs. Bake with an under crust only. When done, the top may be covered with a meringue, if desired. *Cherry Pie.— i coffee-cup canned cherry juice, i teacup cherries reduced to a pulp, i cup sugar, i teaspoonful butter, il/2 tablespoonfuls corn-starch. Put juice, fruit, sugar, and butter together in a stew-pan, and bring to boiling; smooth the corn- starch in small quantity of water, and add to boil- ing liquid, stirring rapidly; cook the starch thor- oughly till liquid has clear appearance. Pour into previously prepared pie-crust (Granola pie-crust can be used), cover with meringue, and place in the oven until browned. Cream Filling.— i cup rich milk or part cream, heated to boiling. Into this stir one scant table- spoonful of flour previously braided smooth with a little cold milk. Add to this the well-beaten yolk of one egg and one tablespoonful of sugar. Turn this mixture into the hot milk, and stir until it thickens. Flavor with a little grated lemon rind or vanilla, or if preferred, flavor the milk with cocoanut be-212 Healthful Cookery fore using. Fill the crust, and meringue with the white of the egg beaten stiff with a tablespoonful of sugar. Cream Pie.— For one pie, beat together I egg, y2 cup sugar, I tablespoonful flour, 2 cups rich milk. Bake with under crust only. Cranberry Pie.— 1 quart cranberries, 2 cups sugar, x/2 cup flour. Stew a quart of cranberries until broken, in a pint of boiling water. Rub through a colander to remove the skins, add two cups of sugar and one- half cup of sifted flour. Bake with an under crust only. *Dried Apple Pie.— Stew good dried apples till perfectly tender in as small a quantity of water as possible. When done, rub through a colander. They should be about the consistency of fruit jam; if not, a little flour may be added. Sweeten to taste, fill under crusts with the mixture, and bake. If lemon flavor is liked, a few pieces of the yellow rind may be added to the apples a little while before they are tender. If the apples are especially tasteless, lemon juice or some sour-apple jelly should be added after rubbing through the colander. The crusts may first be baked, and filled with the mix- ture when needed; in which'case the sauce should213 Desserts be simmered lightly till of the desired consistency. The top may be ornamented with strips or rings of crust. *Dried Apple Pie with Raisins.— Rub a quart of well-stewed dried apples through a colander, add a cup of- steamed raisins, sugar to sweeten, and bake with two crusts. This is sufficient for two pies. *Dried Apricot Pie.— Stew together one-third dried apricots and two-thirds dried apples or peaches. When soft, rub through a colander, add sugar to sweeten, and if very juicy, stew again until the juice is mostly evaporated; then beat until light, and bake in a Granola crust. *Farina Pie.— cup farina, 3 cups milk, Yi cup sugar, 2 eggs. Cook one-fourth cup of farina in a double boiler for an hour in three cups of rich milk. Allow it to become cool, then add one-half cup of sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and a little grated lemon rind. Bake with an under crust only. Meringue the top with the white of the egg beaten to a stiff froth with one tablespoonful of sugar, and a little grated lemon rind for flavoring. The quantity given is sufficient for two small pies. Fruit Pies.— Apples, peaches, and all small fruitsHealthful Cookery 214 and berries may be made into palatable pies with- out rich crusts or an excess of sugar, or the addi- tion of unwholesome spices and flavorings. Bake the crust separately, and fill when needed with pre- pared fruit, or with fresh fruit, using only sufficient sugar to sweeten; add no spices, and bake quickly. Prepare apples for pies by paring, coring, and divi- ding in eighths. Fill crusts in which the fruit is to be baked quite full and slightly heaping in the center. If flavoring is desired, let it be that of some other fruit. For apple pies, a teaspoonful or two of pineapple juice, a little grated lemon or orange peel, or a little strawberry or quince syrup, may be used for flavoring. For pies made of apples, peaches, and fruits which are not very juicy, add a tablespoonful or so of water or fruit juice; but for very juicy fruits and berries, dredge the under crust with a tablespoonful of sugar and a little flour mixed together before filling, or stir a spoonful of flour into the fruit so that each berry or piece may be separately floured. *Fruit and Nut Pie.— For the crust for a large pie, take one and one-fourth cups each of sifted Almond Meal and pastry flour; salt, and one third of a cup of water. Mix the meal, flour, and salt; add water, and roll out without kneading. WhenDesserts 2I5 the pan is covered with the paste, have mixed to- gether one-half cup of sugar and one-third cup of Almond Meal with a little salt. Sprinkle half of this over the paste on the bottom of the pan. Fill the pan with tart apples which have been pared and cut into quarters or eighths, then across; drop into the spaces fine-flavored raisins. Sprinkle the re- mainder of the sugar and meal over the top of the fruit, putting plenty near the edges. Cover with the top crust, and bake until the apples are tender. *Granose Apple Pie.— On each individual pie- plate put a few crisp Granose Flakes. Dip carefully over them some stewed apples, sweetened as for sauce, and sprinkle Flakes lightly over the top. Serve at once. Whortleberries, cranberries, prunes, peaches, or any other stewed fruit may be used in place of the apples, or a cooked cream or lemon fill- ing as for Cream Granose, Lemon, or Cream Pie. *Cream Granose Pie.—Put one pint of milk into the double boiler, set over the fire, and let it come to a boil. Add one and one-half tablespoonfuls of flour which has been blended in a part of the milk; set immediately into the double boiler, and add one egg, one-third cup of sugar, and a pinch of salt. Stir constantly until thickened, flavor with vanilla. Serve over freshly toasted Granose Flakes.Healthful Cookery 2l6 *Orange Pie.—i cup water, i orange (juice), /2 lemon (juice only), 1/3 teaspoonful grated orange rind, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful butter, I egg (yolk only), 1 tablespoonful corn-starch. Prepare as for Cherry Pie. Grape Tart.—• 1 pint grape juice, 2 tablespoon- fuls corn-starch, y2 cup sugar. Into one pint of canned or fresh grape juice, when boiling, stir two tablespoonfuls of corn-starch or maizena, braided with a little water, and cook for five minutes. Sweeten to taste, and fill a Granola crust. *Peach Pie.—To one cup of flour add a pinch of salt and enough sweet cream to make a soft dough; roll out, line a pie-plate, and bake, pricking the crust before with a fork, to prevent blistering. Fill this crust with peach pulp, made by pressing canned peaches through a wire strainer. Sweeten to taste. Spread over the top of the pie whipped cream which has been slightly sweetened and flavored with vanilla. Stewed dried peaches may be used instead of canned ones. *Peach Marmalade Pie.— Rub nice well-cooked dried peaches through a colander, add one table- spoonful of flour, rub smooth in a little water. Line a pie-tin with a crust shortened with Cocoa-217 Desserts nut Cream. Pour in the peach marmalade, and cover with narrow strips of the pie-paste, so ar- ranged as to form diamonds. Bake in a moderate oven. *Mock Mince Pie.—3 cups chopped apples, 1 cup Protose, 1 cup raisins, l/2 cup sugar, y2 cup grape juice, 1/3 cup lemon juice. Mix the ingredients, and bake in a crust made with Almond Cream. Mock Mince Pie, No. 2.— 1 cup apple juice, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup chopped apples, juice 1 lemon, l/2 cup Granola, p2 cup sugar, 1 cup chopped Protose, cup chopped citron. Mix, and fill a Nut Meal crust. *Nut Mince-Meat.—1 pound chopped Protose, 3 pints chopped tart apples, 3 cups seeded raisins, chopped, x/2 cup lemon juice, \y2 cups New Or- leans molasses (or y2 cup nicely flavored dark mo- lasses, 1 cup brown sugar, and cup granulated sugar), 1 or 2 teaspoonfuls salt, and 2 teaspoonfuls ground coriander seed. When New Orleans molasses is used, the addi- tion of a cup of strong No-Coffee or Caramel-Cereal gives a rich flavor and color. When used with Gra- nose Flakes, cook before serving. *Vegetable Mince.— 5 cups chopped tart apples,218 Healthful Cookery 5 cups minced Protose, i cup prune marmalade, 2 cups freshly boiled apple juice, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup rolled nut meats, 1 cup Meltose, ]/2 cup sugar. Mix the ingredients, and cook gently for three hours. If desired, a tablespoonful of pure Olive Oil may be added. A cup of Malted Nuts used in place of rolled nuts is an improvement. The quantities given are sufficient for five pies. Pumpkin Pie.— 1 1/3 pints stewed pumpkin, 1 quart milk, y2 cup sugar, 3 eggs. To prepare the pumpkin, cut it into halves, re- move the seeds, divide into moderately small pieces, and bake in the oven until thoroughly done. Then scrape from the shell, rub through a colander, and proceed as follows: For one and one-third pints of the cooked pumpkin use one quart of hot, rich, sweet milk. Add one-half cup of sugar and the well-beaten yolks of three eggs; beat well together, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and beat thoroughly. Line pie-tins with a stiff cream paste, fill, and bake in a moderate oven till the pies are barely firm in the center, or till the custard is well set. Pumpkin Pie, No. 2.— For each pie take one- half pint of cooked pumpkin, a pint of rich milk, one third of a cup of sugar, and two eggs. Mix the219 Desserts sugar and eggs, add the pumpkin, and lastly the milk, which should be hot, and beat all together with an egg-beater until very light. Fill the crust, and bake slowly. Pumpkin Pie without Eggs.—• il/2 pints milk, 2 scant tablespoonfuls flour, /2 cup sugar, 1^2 pints stewed pumpkin. Prepare the pumpkin as previously directed. For two medium-sized pies, heat a pint and a half of milk in a farina-kettle, and when scalding, stir into it two scant tablespoonfuls of white flour rubbed smooth in a little cold milk. Cook, stirring often, until it thickens. Add half a cup of sugar, or a little less of syrup, to a pint and a half of the sifted pumpkin, and after beating well together, stir this into the hot milk. Bake in an under crust; or, for three pies, take one quart and a cup of pump- kin, three fourths of a cup of sugar, two thirds of a cup of best New Orleans molasses, and three pints of hot milk. Beat all together thoroughly. Line deep plates with a cream crust, and bake an hour and a half in a moderate oven. *Lemon Pie.—2 cups water, 1 cup sugar, 1/3 cup corn-starch, 3 eggs, 1/3 cup lemon juice, grated rind of one lemon. r Mix the sugar and corn-starch. Heat the water220 Healthful Cookery to boiling, stir in the corn-starch mixture, and cook until smooth; cool, add the lemon, and lastly stir in the well-beaten eggs. Bake in a Granola crust. *Lemon Pie, No. 2.— 3 eggs, 1 lemon, 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoonful corn-starch, 1 cup water. Cook in Nut Meal crust. *Lemon Filling. — 1 lemon, 1 dessertspoonful corn-starch, 1 pint boiling water, 2/3 cup sugar. Heat to boiling, in a double boiler, a pint of water in which are two slices of lemon, and stir into it a dessertspoonful of corn-starch; cook four or five minutes, or until it thickens. Squeeze the juice from one large lemon, and mix with it two thirds of a cup of sugar. Add this to the corn-starch mixture, and allow the whole to boil up once, stirring con- stantly, then take from the fire. Leave in the double boiler, surrounded by the hot water, for ten minutes. Cool to blood heat before using. ^Pineapple Pie.—1 cup pineapple juice, 1 cup water, 1 can sliced pineapple reduced to pulp or grated fresh pineapple, 1 lemon, 21/3 cups sugar, il/2 tablespoonfuls corn-starch. Prepare, and bake the same as Lemon Pie. A meringue made from the well-beaten whites of two eggs and two tablespoonfuls of sugar may be used if desired.Desserts 221 Squash Pie.— i pint milk, i cup cooked squash, 1/3 cup sugar, 2 eggs. Squash prepared as directed for pumpkin, and flavored with rose-water, makes an excellent pie; or, for each pie desired, take one pint of rich milk or part cream, add one cup of nicely baked mealy squash which has been rubbed through a colander, one third of a cup of sugar, and two well-beaten eggs. Beat all together, thoroughly. Bake in a deep pan slowly and carefully until firm. Squash Pie without Eggs.— 8 tablespoonfuls cooked squash, y2 cup sugar, 1 1/3 cups milk. Bake the squash in the shell; when done, remove with a spoon, and mash through a colander. For one pie, take eight tablespoonfuls of the squash, half a cup of sugar, and one and one-third cups of boiling milk. Pour the milk slowly over the squash, beating rapidly meanwhile to make the mixture light. Bake in one crust. Sweet Apple Custard Pie.— 3 sweet apples (grated), 2 eggs, I pint milk. Into one pint of new milk, grate three ripe sweet apples (Golden Sweets are excellent); add two well-beaten eggs, and sugar to taste. Bake with an under crust only. Sweet Potato Pie.— 1 pint sweet potato, 1 pint milk, 1 scant cup sugar, 2 eggs.Healthful Cookery . 222 Bake sufficient sweet potatoes to make a pint of pulp when rubbed through a colander; add a pint of rich milk, a scant cup of sugar, salt if de- sired, the yolks of two eggs, and a little grated lemon rind for flavor. Bake with under crust When done, meringue with the white of the eggs beaten up with a tablespoonful of sugar. Simple Custard Pie.— I pint milk, 2 eggs, 1/3 cup sugar. Beat the eggs with one third of a cup of sugar, and a little grated lemon rind for flavoring, and one pint of milk. Bake in an under crust. If eggs are scarce, a very good pie may be made by using only one egg and a tablespoonful of corn- starch, with the above proportions of milk and sugar; in which case, heat the milk to scalding, stir in the corn-starch, and cook till thickened; cool, and then add the well-beaten egg. If preferred., the crust may be baked before filling, and the cus- tard steamed meanwhile. FRUIT DESSERTS A Palatable Dessert.— Place a cluster of raisins on one side of a fruit-plate, and a teaspoonful or two of Almond Meal on the other, to be eaten to- gether.Desserts 223 Fig Pulp.— Wash figs well by pouring boiling water over them. Drain, and grind fine through a food-cutter. *Date Pulp.—Wash dates, and stew them for a few minutes in a little water until the water has all cooked away, and rub them through a fine col- ander. The pulp may be dried in the oven after being prepared, if desired. When used alone as hard sauce for molds or puddings, a very little salt improves it. Raisin Pulp.—Wash seeded raisins, and stew until tender and well dried out. Rub through a fine colander. *Baked Banana.— Roll peeled bananas in fruit juice, then in Zwieback-crumbs. Sprinkle Malted Nuts on top, and bake until slightly browned. *Granuto and Baked Banana.— Grind Granuto moderately fine, add a pinch of salt, and roll in it peeled bananas until thoroughly covered. Lay the bananas in a granite basin, cover with strawberry juice, and bake until the juice is almost cooked away. Baste with the juice while cooking. Serve a little of the thick syrup on each banana. *Baked Banana with Cranberry Sauce.— Peel bananas, and roll them in lemon juice, sugar, and Granose Flakes. Bake until tender, and serve with any desired sauce. s224 Healthful Cookery Sliced Bananas with Meltose.—Whip a cup of Meltose with an egg-whip until white and creamy, then add one or two drops of vanilla extract, or lemon juice if preferred, and serve over sliced bananas. ^Strawberry Banana Dessert.— Take a quart of canned strawberry juice, thicken with corn-starch, and boil until the corn-starch is well cooked. When done, let it cool off a little, then slice four or five bananas into it, and mold in cups. Set aside to cool. Serve with Granose Flakes and whipped cream. ^Scalloped Bananas.— Cut one-half dozen ba- nanas into one-half inch slices. Cut some bread into small pieces, and put a layer of this into the bottom of an oiled pudding-dish. Add a layer of bananas, two tablespoonfuls of Malted Nuts, and one-half tablespoonful of lemon juice. A sprinkle of sugar may be used. Repeat these layers until all have been used, having bread as the top layer. Sprinkle the top with Malted Nuts or sugar, and bake for one-half hour in a quick oven. ^Filled Bananas.— Remove a section of the peel from large ripe bananas; then lift out the pulp so as to leave the shell. Crush raspberries slightly, and sweeten to taste; add a few drops of lemon juice.Desserts 225 Sugar may be omitted, and Malted Nuts used in- stead. Fill the shells, and serve on a dish garnished with any appropriate leaves, such as lettuce, grape- leaves, or pineapple-tops. Baked Apples with Meltose.— Bake some equal- sized Northern Spies or other tart apples until tender. Serve hot or cold in individual dishes, with Meltose prepared in the following manner: Whip a cupful of Meltose with an egg-whip until white and creamy, then add two or three drops of vanilla extract, and pour over the apples as dressing. * Apple Snow.— To the whites of three eggs, beaten stiff, add three teaspoonfuls of powdered sugar and the grated pulp of three large apples. Beat until stiff. Serve in glasses with a candied cherry in each glass. Grape Apple.— Peel medium-sized apples, re- moving the core. Place in a baking-dish in rows, fill the cavity where the core has been removed with sugar, and pour grape juice over the apples to cover one third of the apple, place in oven, and bake until nicely colored. Cranberry or other fruit apples are made the same, using the different juices. Citron, chopped fine, or grated lemon-rind with sugar may be used to fill the center of the fruit, which may then be baked until tender. 15Healthful Cookery 226 Almond Dates.—Wash, and remove the seeds of the dates. Replace with roasted almonds or any other kind of nuts. Roll in powdered sugar. *Nut and Granuto Figs.— Mix thoroughly equal quantities of Granuto, fig pulp, and hickory, pecan, or English walnut meal with two thirds of a part of water (a trifle of salt may be used). Shape like puffed figs, and serve in place of confections at dinner. One-half part of cocoanut may be used instead of the other meals. Dates or raisins may be used instead of figs. *Fruit Meringues.— Remove the soft part of freshly made meringues, and fill the cavities with Meltose which has been beaten until a creamy white. Place in the center one large raspberry or a pitted cherry. ^Cranberry Foam.— One quart of cranberries, cook in the usual manner, put through a colander, sweeten to suit the taste, and pour over it the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Granose with Strawberry Snow.— 2 eggs (whites only), 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, l/2 cup strawberries, y2 cup Granose. Add a pinch of salt to the whites of two eggs, and beat until very stiff, then add two tablespoon- fuls of sugar and one-half cup of strawberries thatDesserts 22/ have been cut into quarters. Fold lightly into the mixture one-half cup of well-toasted Granose Flakes, and serve at once in sherbet-cups. *Peach Cobbler.—Fill a pudding-dish half full of quartered peaches, add sugar to sweeten. Cover this with a crust made of cream and Granola or a shortened pie-crust. Bake slowly, and serve with whipped cream. CAKES —RECIPES Sponge Cake.— 6 eggs, i cup sugar, i cup flour, juice of a half lemon, a little of the grated rind. Beat the yolks of the eggs very light; add the sugar a little at a time; have the whites beaten per- fectly stiff; then fold in the yolks, and then the flour. The lemon juice should be added to the whites before they are quite stiff. This cake may be baked in a loaf or in layers with any desired filling. Nut Sponge Cake.— Proceed the same as for sponge cake, but using one-half cup of Gluten and one-half cup of flour instead of one cup of flour; one cup of English walnuts or Almond Meal. Fruit and Nut Sponge Cake.— 4 eggs, 2 tea- spoonfuls lemon juice, 1 cup pecan-nut meal, 1 cup dates, 4 tablespoonfuls Gluten.228 Healthful Cookery Beat the yolks of the eggs to a thick cream; add the two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, and beat again. Add one cup of pecan meal and one cup of dates, stoned and cut. Add the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, four tablespoonfuls of Gluten or browned flour. Drop on oiled plates, and bake ten minutes. Handle carefully till cold. Sunshine Cake.—Take five large fresh eggs, one cup of granulated sugar (sifted), one cup of flour (sifted), one tablespoonful of lemon juice, and a pinch of salt. Have the material, pans, and oven all in readiness. Put the whites into a large bowl or a round-bottomed crock. With a Dover egg- beater beat the yolks rapidly until thick and creamy. Next add the sugar, which has been flavored with the oil of the lemon, and beat again very thor- oughly, using the Dover beater in the form of a whip, not turning the crank, as it will make it too stiff. It should be very stiff when done. Set this to one side, add the salt to the whites, and with the wire spoon egg-beater whip until light and frothy, but not stiff. Add the lemon juice, and beat until very stiff, so that it has a cooked appearance. Next pour slowly into the whites the yolk and sugar mixture, stirring with the beater constantly, until thoroughly mixed. The stirring should be a229 Desserts sort of dipping down into the mixture at the side of the bowl, coming up through the center, then lift- ing the beater up, and repeating, dipping in first on one side, then on the other. Last add the flour very carefully, first sprinkling one half the flour evenly over the top, and when that is partly mixed in, sprinkle the remainder on, and mix until no dry flour can be seen. Fruit Cake.— Make a sponge of one pint warm cream, half cup compressed yeast dissolved in a little cream, half cup sugar, two and one-half cups flour. Beat together, and let rise until light. When light, add another half cup of sugar, half cup cream, and one cup warm flour; beat well, and set away to rise again. When well risen, add one cup seeded raisins, one-fourth cup citron, one cup currants, two eggs, and about one and one-third cups flour. Let rise in pan, and bake in loaf one hour. *Fruit Cake, No. 2.—To one pint of thin cream, which has been scalded and cooled to lukewarm temperature, add one-half teacup of good yeast, and flour enough to make a sponge. Let it rise, and then add one and one-half teacups sugar, two cups dried apples stewed in syrup, one cup seeded raisins, one cup Zante currants, three eggs beaten until very light. The grated rind of two lemonsHealthful Cookery 230 and one orange, being careful to use only the yellow portion of the rind; one-half teaspoonful salt, and flour enough to make a very stiff batter. This makes a large cake. Line a pan with oiled paper, and pour into it this batter. Let it stand until it begins to get light, and then bake for two hours in a slow oven. This cake should not be cut until it is a week old. It improves with age. To prepare the dried apples, wash them thoroughly, and cut into thin strips with scissors. To two cups of apples add one cup of molasses, or Meltose, and cook until ‘ the apples are clear. A little water may be added from time to time to prevent burning. •i:Peanut Pound Cake.— 3 large or 4 small eggs, a scant cup granulated sugar, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 1 tablespoonful ice-water, 1 cup sifted Nut Meal, j/2 cup sliced citron, if desired, y2 to 2/3 cup pastry flour, sifted once before measuring, salt. Have the ingredients as nearly ice-cold as pos- sible. Sift the sugar; sift the flour twice, and leave it in the sifter. Beat the yolks of three eggs, add- ing sugar gradually. When stiff, add part of the water and more sugar. Beat, add more water, sugar, and half the lemon juice until all the sugar is in. Stir into this mixture half the Nut Meal, a good pinch of salt, and the citron. Beat the whites231 Desserts of the eggs to a moderately stiff froth. Add the remainder of the lemon juice, and beat until dry and feathery. Slide the beaten whites on to the yolk mixture, sprinkle part of the Nut Meal over them, sift on a little flour, and chop in lightly. Add more meal and flour, chop; continue until the floui is all in. Take care not to mix too much. Put into a pan at once, and bake slowly in an oven that bakes well from the bottom. Handle carefully when taking from the oven. If a gasoline oven is used., the fire may be turned off, and the cake allowed to cool in the oven. *Almond Pound Cake.— 3 eggs, 1 scant cup granulated sugar, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, i tablespoonful ice-water, y cup sifted Almond Meal, % y2 cup seeded raisins, chopped fine, y to % cup sifted pastry flour, salt. Put together, and bake the same as Peanut Cake. The fruit may be omitted from both. Any preferred icing may be used, and when ready tc spread, stir into it one well-rounded tablespoonful of Almond Butter. An icing for the Peanut Cake may be made in the same way, by using the Peanut Butter. *Granuto and Fig Drop-Cake.— p2 cup fig pulp, 2 to 2p2 tablespoonfuls water, according to the dry-232 Healthful Cookery ness of the figs, 2 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls (2/3 cup) Granuto. Mix the figs, water, and yolks of eggs; beat the whites with a little salt to a stiff froth, and lay them on the yolk mixture, and chop this and the Granuto together lightly. Drop by small spoonfuls on to well-oiled tins, and bake in a slow or moderate oven until the egg is set. These cakes will keep for sev- eral days. Date pulp or raisin pulp may be substi- tuted for the fig pulp, if desired. With the date pulp add four tablespoonfuls of hickory, pecan, or English walnut meal, or Almond Meal prepared by the Sanitas Nut Food Co. *Granuto and Meltose Cocoanut Cakes.—2 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls Meltose, 2/3 cup Cocoanut Meal, and 24 CUP Granuto. Put together, and bake the same as Fig Cakes. ^Chocolate Macaroons.— 1 cup bread-crumbs (soft white), 7 tablespoonfuls chocolate, 24 CUP sugar, 2 eggs. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and add the other ingredients. Flavor to suit the taste. Bake on an oiled paper sprinkled with grated cocoanut. * Apple Filling.—Grate six large sour apples (add a lemon, if apples are not sour). Break in two eggs, add a teaspoonful of Nut Oil and one cup of sugar.233 Desserts Put on stove, and cook three minutes, stirring to prevent burning. Add some ground walnuts, if desired. Cool, and put between layer cake. *Almond Filling.— The whites of two eggs, beaten stiff, with two cups sugar, one teaspoonful of extract of vanilla, and one pint of blanched al- monds, chopped fine. *Nut Butter Icing for Cake.— Into a small quan- tity of cold water stir 4-X confectioners’ sugar to make of the consistency of cream. Add to this Nut Butter right from the can for a rich flavor, stir it in well, and if necessary add more sugar to make of the right consistency to spread on the cake. One tablespoonful of water will make sufficient icing for the top of a medium-sized cake. *Banana Puffs.— 2 eggs, 1 cup milk, 1 cup sifted flour, 2 or 3 large bananas, 1 orange, 1 teaspoonful sugar. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. To the yolks add the milk, which should be very cold, and a pinch of salt. Mingle thoroughly with a batter-whip, and add slowly one cup of sifted flour, meanwhile beating vigorously. Lastly add the whites, lightly folded or chopped in, and then pour this batter into hot gem-irons, and bake in a quick oven. If right, they will double their size, and beHealthful Cookery 2 34 nearxy nollow. Fill with banana pulp. To make this pulp, remove the skin from two or three large bananas, press through a wire strainer, add a tea- spoonful of sugar and the juice of one orange. Beat thoroughly with a fork. Fill the cavities of the puffs with this pulp. SHORTCAKES Strawberry Shortcake.— Scald and cool one cup of thin sweet cream; add two or three teaspoon- fuls of good yeast and flour to make a sponge. When light, add a little salt and flour to make a soft dough, and knead thoroughly. Let rise again, divide in equal portions, roll each portion with roll- ing-pin to a thickness of about one-half inch, and put on oiled pie-tins. When light, bake in a quick oven. This will make several cakes, and they will be nice for several days. When desired for use, reheat in oven for five minutes. Split open with a thin, sharp knife, spread each with nut or dairy but- ter, and put between the layers fresh and sweet- ened strawberries, putting also a few spoonfuls on top of crust. Return all to the oven for five minutes, then serve as usual with nut or dairy cream. This shortcake is very nice with stewed or canned235 Desserts berries, and makes a wholesome and easily prepared breakfast-dish. \ Granose Shortcake.— Cover the bottom of a shallow pudding-dish with a thin layer of dry Gra- nose, add a layer of fresh strawberries, chopped and slightly sweetened, then a "second layer of Granose. Set away in a cool place for an hour, when it will be ready to serve. Cut in squares. No dressing is required, but it may be served with cream if desired. This is a delicious dish, and one which is as whole- some as delicate. Raspberries and other small fruits may be used in the same manner. Shortcake of Granose Biscuit.— After browning or toasting split Granose Biscuit, put the two halves on a pie-plate, and dip on to them some nice apple sauce or stewed whortleberries, cranberries, peaches, or other fruits, or fresh fruits crushed with sugar. Granose Fruit Dessert.—'Prepare a fruit pulp by rubbing stewed grapes, cranberries, tart apples, or prunes through a colander; sweeten to taste, and evaporate to about the consistency of mar- malade. Spread a thin layer of the fruit pulp, then a layer of Granose. Fill the dish with alternate layers of fruit and Granose, finishing with a layer of Granose on the top. Let it stand for an hour or so until the Granose Flakes have become slightly236 Healthful Cookery moist. Cut in squares, and serve. To be perfect, this dessert should be neither mushy nor variegated with dry Granose, but each Flake throughout should be delicately moistened with the fruit pulp. Thus it will be if care is taken in the preparation of the fruit pulp, and no more Granose used than the fruit can moisten. GELEES AND JELLIES To Prepare Vegetable Gelatine.— Soak the San- itas Vegetable Gelatine in hot water (that of about 140°) for one hour or more. Remove from this water, put into an iron or heavy-bottomed kettle, and pour over it boiling water, four cups to the ounce, keeping covered while cooking. Let it boil from eight to ten minutes, or until it is perfectly clear. Strain through cheese-cloth or a wire sieve. A box of the Gelatine, or one ounce, will solidify twelve cups or three quarts of liquid, inclusive of the water in which the Gelatine is cooked. In summer use a little less liquid. After the des- serts have been cooled, set on ice in the molds until ready to serve. *Lemon Jelly.— Prepare one fourth of a box of Gelatine as above directed. To one-half cup of lemon juice, add one cup of sugar, one and one- fourth cups of water, and then one cup of cooked23 7 Desserts Gelatine. Pour into molds which have previously been wet with cold water, and set into a cool place or on the ice to mold. This may be served with or without whipped cream, or beaten Meltose, flavored with vanilla. *Orange Jelly.—To one cup of orange juice add one cup of sugar, one fourth of a cup of lemon juice, one-half cup of water, and one cup of cooked Gelatine. Mold, and serve as for Lemon Jelly. *Pineapple Jelly.—To one and one-half cups of pineapple juice add one-fourth cup of lemon juice, one cup of sugar, and one cup of the cooked Gela- tine. Mold, and serve as the Lemon Jelly. Other flavors may be made by using grape, cherry, strawberry, blackberry, raspberry, or other fruit juices in the place of the pineapple. *Apple Jelly.— Substitute apple juice for orange juice, and proceed as for Orange Jelly. *Orange Fruit Mold.— Line molds with thin slices of orange, and pour into them Orange Jelly. *Banana and Other Fruit Molds.— Prepare a Lemon, Pineapple, or other Fruit Jelly. About one minute after it has been poured into molds, slice into the molds some ripe bananas. If the slices do not readily sink to place, they may be put there with the end of a knife.238 Healthful Cookery Other fruits, as the cherry, strawberry, rasp- berry, pineapple, etc., may be substituted for the banana. * Apples in Jelly.—Pare and core without cutting open, one dozen of medium-sized tart apples, of the same degree of hardness. Fill the centers with a little grated lemon rind and sugar. Put one-half cup of hot water into a pan, and set into the oven to cook. When tender, arrange in a deep dish with some space between each apple, and pour over them a Lemon, Pineapple, or Apple Jelly, prepared as di- ' rected above. Cool, and set on the ice until ready to serve. *Fruit Charlotte.— Cut strips of sponge cake three-fourths of an inch wide, dip into the white of an egg, and arrange in spindle form from the center of a glass dish, with the outer portion of the cake adhering to the dish, or arrange the strips in circles around the dish. Fill with a Fruit Jelly, and set on the ice to mold. When solidified, a meringue may be added if desired. *Mock Chicken Jelly, No. 1.— Cut a pound of Nuttolene into cubes. Put into a double boiler, and add three cups of hot water, the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, and one-half cup of cocoanut or dairy cream. Season with one teaspoonful of salt, oneDesserts 239 teaspoonful of celery salt, one slice of onion, and a pinch each of mint, marjoram, and sage. Cook forty-five minutes. Strain and measure. To every two cups of the broth add one cup of the cooked Gelatine. Mold and cut into oblong or square sec- tions, and garnish with the celery, lettuce, or parsley. *Mock Chicken Jelly, No. 2.— Brown one cup of Almond Meal in the oven. Tie in cheese-cloth, and cook in three cups of water. Add one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of celery salt, a slice of onion, and a pinch each of mint, thyme, and mar- joram. Strain, and to two cups of the liquid add one cup of the cooked Gelatine. Mold, and serve as the above. ^Chocolate Mold, No. 1.— Rub smooth three tablespoonfuls of Almond Butter with one cup of cold water, adding a little of the water at a time. To this add one and one-half cups of hot water, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, four heaping table- spoonfuls of sugar, six heaping tablespoonfuls of Health Cocoa moistened with one-half cup of hot water. Let all boil for one minute. Add two cups of the cooked (l/2 oz.) Vegetable Gelatine, flavor with vanilla, and turn into a glass dish to mold. This may be served with a meringue if desired.240 Healthful Cookery *Chocolate Mold, No. 2.—Heat in a double boiler two cups of milk, and one cup of dairy or Cocoanut Cream. Beat to a cream the yolks of two eggs and four heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar, and stir into the milk. Dissolve four heaping tablespoonfuls of Health Cocoa with some of the milk, and add to the mixture. Let all boil for one minute. Add two cups cooked (l/2 oz.) Vegetable Gelatine. Flavor with vanilla. Turn into a glass dish or small molds previously wet with cold water. Cool, and set in re- frigerator. Serve with whipped cream, whipped Almond Cream, or sliced bananas. ^Chocolate Charlotte.— Line glass dish as for Fruit Charlotte, and fill with Chocolate Mold. Me- ringue if desired. *Fruit Sandwich.—Prepare an Orange or Lemon Jelly as above directed. Mold in shallow tins of uniform size. Prepare a stiff marmalade of equal parts of figs or dates and English walnuts ground fine or pressed through a colander and mixed with a little lemon juice. When ready to serve, arrange the jelly and marmalade in alternate layers, having three layers of jelly and two of marmalade. Serve with or without cream or beaten Meltose. *Lemon Gelee.— 2 cups lemon juice, 2 cups sugar, 6 cups water, 1 ounce Vegetable Gelatine,241 Desserts 11/2 cups Meltose, beaten, il/2 tablespoonfuls vanilla, whites of 3 eggs. Put the Gelatine to soak, as directed on page 236. Remove it from the water in which it has been soaking, and add four cups of boiling water. Cook for eight or ten minutes, or until perfectly smooth and clear. While this is cooking, put to- gether the lemon juice, water, and sugar. Beat the Meltose until quite light in color, and add the vanilla. Beat the egg whites until stiff. Fold the beaten whites into the Meltose. Strain the Gelatine through cheese-cloth or a wire sieve, and add to the mixture, stirring constantly to prevent solidifi- cation. Then add the Meltose and egg mixture, and freeze to the consistency of a stiff rnush. The above amount will make one gallon. ■'"Pineapple Gelee.— y/2 cups grated, or 4 cups pineapple juice, 2 cups sugar, l/2 cup lemon juice, 3 cups water, 1 ounce Gelatine, 1^2 cups beaten Meltose, il/2 tablespoonfuls vanilla, whites of 3 eggs. Put together the same as for Lemon Gelee. Other flavors may be used, such as orange, pine- apple, raspberry, grape, peach, or apple. If fresh fruit is used, it should be put through a colander. *Lemon Sherbet.— 1 cup lemon juice, ij4 cups 16242 Healthful Cookery sugar, 3 cups water, 2 cups cooked (l/2 box) Veg- etable Gelatine, whites of 3 eggs. Put together the same as for Lemon Gelee, and freeze. ^Pineapple and Orange Sherbet.—]Va, cup lemon juice, 1 cup orange juice, 1 cup pineapple juice, or 1 cup grated pineapple, i)4 cups sugar, 3 cups water, 2 cups cooked ()4 box) Vegetable Gelatine, whites of 3 eggs. Put together the same as for Lemon Gelee, and freeze. *Nut and Strawberry Ice.— Dissolve one cup of Malted Nuts in sufficient water to make a rather thin mixture. Sweeten to taste, adding one cup of strawberries which have been chopped with a knife or cut in quarters. The berries are nice if allowed to stand for a time on ice, having been pre- viously chopped and sweetened. Serve in sherbet- cups. Garnish with whole berries, arranging them around the cups. Cut one in quarters, leaving the part connected with the stem for the center. •'^Strawberry and Meltose Foam.— Whip six tablespoonfuls of Meltose until white and foamy; add the well-beaten whites of two eggs, and one cup of fresh strawberries which have been washed and stemmed. Mix lightly, and serve in individualDesserts 243 dishes. Set on the ice for one-half hour or more before serving. * Apple Ice.— i pint apple juice, i cup Meltose, and the white of i egg. Freeze the apple juice until it becomes a snowy mass. Beat the Meltose until foamy white, and the egg until quite stiff. Lightly beat the two together. Add the mixture to the half-frozen juice, and finish freezing. This recipe would answer for Grape Ice by adding the juice of one small lemon. *Meltose Ice Cream.— I pint cream, i pint Mel- tose, 3 eggs, i teaspoonful vanilla. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Boil the Meltose until quite thick. Measure carefully a cup of the boiling Meltose, and beat stiffly into the whites of the eggs. Add this and the vanilla to the cream, which has been previously whipped with an egg- beater until stiff. Pack in the ice. Beat the yolks of the eggs until quite thick, and when the cream is about half frozen, add the yolks to it, and finish freezing. This will make about a quart. Five eggs will be sufficient for each quart of cream used. ^Frozen Malted Nuts.—i cup Malted Nuts, I cup Meltose, Ij4 pints boiling water, the whites of 3 eggs, the yolks of 2 eggs, il/2 teaspoonful vanilla, and a very small pinch of salt.Healthful Cookery 244 Boil the Malted Nuts and the water for five min- utes, and set aside to cool. When cool, add the vanilla. Beat the whites of the eggs until stiff, and beat the Meltose with an egg-beater until light and foamy. Beat (don’t stir) the Meltose into the whites of the eggs; add to the Malted Nuts, and let freeze. When about half frozen, stir in the yolks of the eggs, which have been beaten until they are quite thick. SAUCES FOR DESSERTS Apple Sauce.— Thicken one cup of apple juice with two tablespoonfuls of browned flour, and add one fourth of a cup of sugar and one and one-half tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Serve hot. Banana Cream Sauce.— Mash bananas through a colander, and then mix with cream to the right consistency. *Meltose Sauce.—Boil together one cup of Mel- tose, the juice of one lemon, and one-half cup of strawberry juice. Thicken with one tablespoonful of flour, and color pink from the juice of one large beet which has been cut into very small pieces and stewed. Remove the skin before cooking. To Prepare Nut Meal.— Pr^ss tender nut meats, such as hickory, pecan, English walnut, black wal-Desserts 245- nut, or butternut, through a fine colander with a potato masher. Brazil nuts will first have to be chopped fine. *Fruit and Nut Hard Sauce.— Rub a scant one- fourth cup of Nut Butter smooth with one cup of date or fig pulp, using a little water with the figs, if the pulp is very dry. *Egg Pudding Sauce.— Beat the white of an egg with a little salt to a stiff froth. Chop in a little of the yolk and four tablespoonfuls of cold date, fig, or raisin pulp. Serve at once. *Cocoanut Almond Cream Sauce.— Flavor a quart of water with three-fourths cup of desiccated cocoanut. Add four ounces of Almond Butter, beat until smooth, then reheat. Add one-half cup of sugar and three eggs well beaten. Cook until the sauce is just thickened. *Nut Whipped Cream.— Rub two slightly rounded tablespoonfuls of Nut Butter smooth with three tablespoonfuls of water. Beat the white of an egg with a little salt to a stiff froth. Add one tablespoonful of sugar or Meltose, and beat until creamy. Remove the egg-beater, add the Nut Cream, and chop it in lightly. This may be used with most desserts that call for whipped dairy cream.Healthful Cookery 246 Almond Whipped Cream.—Reduce Almond But- ter to the consistency of cream, and pour slowly over the well-beaten white of an egg. Sweeten and flavor to suit the taste. For persons who can not use cow’s cream, this makes an excellent substitute for whipped cream. *Meltose Cream.— Beat the white of an egg to a stiff froth. Add three teaspoonfuls of Meltose, and beat until creamy. Take out about one third of this, and chop the yolk of the egg into the remainder. On the top lay the part taken out. Serve at once. Lemon Custard Sauce.— 1 quart rich milk, yolks of 6 eggs. Flavor with lemon, and sweeten to taste. Have the milk boiling, stir into it the eggs, and cook one- half minute. Stir all the time.247 The Invalid’s Meals A healthy appetite is readily satisfied with any suitable food. In times of illness, it is often diffi- cult to provide such aliment as will be relished or as can be assimilated and utilized by the system, yet under no other condition is the question of food of such supreme import. Simple foods are as a rule the best, because the most readily assimilated. That such may appeal to the appetite, they should be served in the most attractive way. Appetite is influenced by the sight, smell, and taste of food, and all three of the senses should be appealed to in preparing the meals for an invalid. The temperature of food influences its digest- ibility. All hot foods should be served hot, cold foods served cold. Small quantities at a serving and few varieties at a meal will generally prove the most satisfactory. There are no special dishes suited alike to all cases. In illness, it is especially important that the diet should be such as is adapted to the special needs of the sick one. Hot buttered toast, tea, rich jellies, and similar dainties so com- monly served to the sick, are usually the very worstHealthful Cookery 248 articles of diet of which they could partake. Scru- pulous neatness and care in all the minute particu- lars of the cooking and serving of foods for the sick will help much in making it appetizing and digest- ible. Dainty dishes, polished glass and silver, with clean napery, should always be accessories of the invalid’s tray. Such a large proportion of the dishes for which recipes are given in this little book are of a char- acter suited to the needs of the sick, as well as of those in health, that it is hardly necessary to append special directions for the preparation of invalid foods. In fevers, where the simplest nourishment is demanded, fruit juices are the most appropriate of all foods. It is now well recognized that beef tea and meat broths should be wholly discarded in cases of fever, as the patient is already suffer- ing from the accumulation of waste matter in the system to such an extent that even the small addi- tional amount obtained from beef tea may lessen his prospects of recovery. When other foods than fruit juices are allowable, fruit soups, fruit jellies, prepared with Sanitas Vegetable Gelatine, fruit egg-nog, fruit gruels, Gluten and Granose gruels, will afford a variety for much choice.249 The Invalid's Meals For invalids able to digest solid food, roasted rice, Granose Flakes, Granola, Granuto, Gluten, Po- tato Meal, prepared in some of the many ways mentioned in preceding pages, will be found of service. Of breads, none are better suited to the needs of the invalid than the unfermented Sticks and Puffs, Granose Biscuit, wafers, Breakfast Toast, and Zwie- back, served in some of the appetizing ways for which recipes are given in the chapter on Toasts. Especially pretty and dainty dishes are the Apple Snow, Grape Apple, Filled Bananas, Fruit Molds, Mock Chicken Jelly, Fruit Sandwich, and other ar- ticles prepared from Sanitas Vegetable Gelatine. Invalids who need a liquid or part liquid diet will find Malted Nuts and other nut broths and bouil- lons, as also many of the soups mentioned in fore- going pages, particularly suitable and palatable. For the convalescent and those who need special strength, and blood-building material, foods rich in proteids, which are essential, will be found in Pro- tose, eggs, and the many appetizing dishes to be prepared from the legumes and nuts,251 Seasonable Bills of Fare Arranged by Lillian Eshleman, M. D. SPRING —Breakfasts Sliced Sweet Apple with Cocoanut Cream Blueberry Toast Nut Lisbon Steak with Gravy Potato Cakes Granose Biscuit Fruit Nectar Grape Apple Egg on Toast Broiled Nuttolene with Peas in Mint Sauce Stewed Tomatoes Toasted Wheat Flakes — Meltose Caramel-Cereal Apple Sauce Granola with Cocoanut Cream Protose Cutlets Baked Potatoes — Brown Sauce Toasted Whole-Wheat Wafers Hot Malted Nuts252 Healthful Cookery Lemon Apple Braised Protose Stewed Tomatoes Baked Potatoes Granose Biscuit — Almond Butter Health Cocoa Sliced Oranges Tomato Toast Protose with Jelly Corn Flakes — Cocoanut Cream Nut Sandwiches Caramel-Cereal Baked Sweet Apple — Almond Cream Celery Toast Scalloped Potato Pease Puree Toasted Wheat Flakes — Malted Nuts (Dry) No-Coffee Oranges Egg-Nog Protose Patties — Tomato Sauce Corn Flakes — Cranberry Sauce Whole-Wheat Wafers Malted Nuts Broth253 Seasonable Bills of Fare SPRING —Dinners SOUP Bean and Corn ENTREES Ragout of Protose Nut Cereal Roast VEGETABLES Mashed Potatoes Chopped Beets with Mayonnaise Dressing BREADS Whole-Wheat Bread Cream Rolls DESSERT Stuffed Dates with Sliced Oranges SOUP Nut Cream of Corn ENTREES Eggs a la Martin Protose Steak with Tomato VEGETABLES Asparagus Points Baked Potatoes Mashed Squash BREADS Whole-Wheat Bread Nut Crisps DESSERT Assorted Nuts254 Healthful Cookery SOUP Tomato Vermicelli ENTREES Nuttolene with Green Peas VEGETABLES Baked Potatoes Stewed Corn Pulp BREADS Graham Bread Cream Sticks DESSERT Fruit Pudding SOUP Malted Nuts Broth with Celery Flavor ENTREES Protose Cutlets Hulless Beans Puree VEGETABLES Stuffed Potatoes Cabbage Salad BREADS Granose Biscuit Fruit Crackers DESSERT Sponge Cake with Cocoanut CreamSeasonable Bills of Fare 255 SOUP Protose Broth — Croutons ENTRIES Nuttolene Cutlets Walnut Roast VEGETABLES Scalloped Tomatoes Baked Squash Boiled Cauliflower BREADS Granose Biscuit Cream Crisps DESSERT Cabinet Pudding SOUP Savory Potato ENTRIES Nut Irish Stew Protose Steak VEGETABLES Scalloped Vegetable Oysters String Beans BREADS Graham Bread Whole-Wheat Wafers DESSERT Almond Cream Rice Pudding256 Healthful Cookery SOUP Vegetable Oyster ENTREES Hulless Beans Baked with Protose Hard-Boiled Yolks of Eggs VEGETABLES Baked Potatoes Steamed Rice BREADS Whole-Wheat Bread Nut Crisps DESSERT Health Candy SPRING — Suppers Protose Bouillon Nut Crisps Ripe Olives Fruit Nectar Fruit Soup Granose Health Candy25 7 Seasonable Bills of Fare Protose Broth Toasted Wheat Flakes Fruit Salad Cream Crisps Pear Sauce Malted Nuts Broth Corn Flakes Roasted Rice Peach Sauce Cocoanut Cream Nut Sandwiches Strawberry Granose Shortcake Cocoanut Cream Currant Sherbet Cream Crisps Grape Apple Nut Sandwiches Meltose — Sticks 1725B Healthful Cookery SUMMER — Breakfast Bananas Canned Peaches Steamed Rice with Raspberry Sauce Baked Potatoes with Nuttolene Dressing Protose with Jelly Whole-Wheat Wafers Hot Malted Nuts Cantaloup Granola Porridge Nut Lisbon Steak with Gravy Granose Biscuit Stewed Pears Stewed Tomatoes Caramel-Cereal Apricots Raspberries Blueberry Toast Corn Pulp Protose Cutlets Rolls Graham Bread Toasted Wheat Flakes Almond Cream259 Seasonable Bills of Fare Zwieback Graham Bread Sliced Banana with Beaten Meltose Prune Toast Protose Steak Baked Potatoes Scalloped Tomatoes Cream Rolls Granose Biscuit Kumyss or Buttermilk Strawberries Toasted Wheat Flakes Canned Peas Sliced Tomatoes Graham Bread Fruit Nectar Almond Cream Protose Patties Cream Crisps White Currants Toasted Wheat Flakes — Raspberry Sauce Nuttolene with Peas New Potatoes with Gluten Sauce Whole-Wheat Wafers Fruit Bread Dairy Butter Blueberries Granola with Almond Cream Egg on Toast Stewed Tomatoes Protose Cutlets No-CoffeeHealthful Cookery 260 Cherries Cream Gluten Scalloped Potatoes with Nuttolene Sanitarium Baked Beans Tomato Toast Granose Biscuit Whole-Wheat Bread Kumyss Fresh Fruit Nut Gravy Toast Baked Potatoes with Nuttolene Dressing Eggs a la Martin Graham Crackers Zwieback Almond Cream Peach Toast Nut Lisbon Steak with Gravy Pease Puree Whole-Wheat Bread Cream Sticks Hot Malted Nuts Fresh Apple Sauce Cream Toast Protose Patties Granose with Fruit Juice Cream Rolls White Bread Caramel-Cereal261 Seasonable Bills of Fare Raspberries Broiled Nuttolene with Chili Sauce Corn Pulp Sliced Tomatoes Blueberry Toast Granose Biscuit Cocoanut Crisps Hot Almond Cream Harvest Apples Blackberry Toast Toasted Corn Flakes Protose Croquettes Baked Potatoes with Celery Sauce Zwieback Toasted Whole-Wheat Wafers Caramel-Cereal Apricots Grape Toast Steamed Rice — Almond Cream Baked Potatoes — Brown Sauce Stewed Celery Granose Biscuit Corn Bread Plums Sweet Apples Granose Balls Nut Lisbon Steak Corn Bread Tomato Toast Potato Cakes Rolls Hot Malted NutsHealthful Cookery 262 Caramel-Cereal Apricots Strawberry Toast Mock Hamburger Steak Baked Potatoes Whole-Wheat Wafers Zwieback Toasted Flakes Almond Cream Melon Granola with Cream Broiled Nuttolene — Apple Sauce Granose Flakes with Poached Egg Granose Biscuit Cream Crisps263 Seasonable Bills of Fare Zwieback Rolls SUMMER — Dinners SOUP Fruit Pease Patties New Corn Nut Crisps ENTREES VEGETABLES Sliced Celery BREADS DESSERT Sunshine Cake SOUP Cream of Com ENTRIES Macaroni with Nuttolene Baked Beans VEGETABLES New Potatoes with Cream Sauce BREADS Protose Roast Tomatoes Graham Bread Cabbage Salad DESSERT264 Healthful Cookery SOUP Cream of Tomato ENTREES Roast Protose in Gravy VEGETABLES New Potatoes in Cream BREADS Granose Biscuit Cream Crisps DESSERT Fruit Mold Nut Loaf Green Peas , SOUP Lima Bean ENTREES Broiled Nuttolene with Mint Sauce Protose with Jelly VEGETABLES Scalloped Potatoes String Beans Ripe Olives BREADS Toasted Whole-Wheat Wafers White Bread DESSERT Nuts and RaisinsSeasonable Bills of Fare 265 SOUP Cream of Pea ENTREES Nut Irish Stew Protose Cutlets VEGETABLES Cauliflower Corn Pulp Steamed Potatoes — Lentil Dressing Fruit Rolls BREADS Graham Bread DESSERT Nut Sponge Cake Health Candy SOUP Fruit Vegetarian Roast ENTRfES Stewed Nuttolene with Corn Kidney Beans VEGETABLES Celery Stewed Tomatoes BREADS Granose Biscuit Graham Crackers Whole-Wheat Bread DESSERT Roasted Almonds266 Healthful Cookery SOUP Malted Nuts Broth ENTREES Broiled Protose with Chili Sauce VEGETABLES Calcutta Sandwiches Squash Beets Baked Potatoes BREADS Cocoanut Crisps Zwieback Rolls DESSERT Granose Fruit Custard SOUP Lentil and Tomato ENTREES Nut Lisbon Steak Corn Patties VEGETABLES Cottage Cheese Scalloped Potatoes Hulless Beans BREADS Graham Bread Granose Biscuit DESSERT Jelly Layer Cake Assorted NutsSeasonable Bills of Fare 267 SOUP Savory Potato ENTREES Nuttolene Cutlets Protose Roast with Gravy Green Peas VEGETABLES New Potatoes Chopped Beets BREADS Toasted Whole-Wheat Wafers Corn Bread DESSERT Rice Custard SOUP Nut and Tomato Bisque entrees Casserole of Rice with Protose Omelet Spinach VEGETABLES Sliced Tomatoes String Beans New Potatoes with Peas Graham Crackers BREADS White Bread Nut Crisps DESSERT Cabinet Pudding Health Candy268 Healthful Cookery SOUP String Bean ENTRIES Nut Fricassee Protose Patties Green Peas VEGETABLES Baked Potatoes — Brown Sauce BREADS Whole-Wheat Bread Cream Crisps — Fruit Crackers Raspberry Jelly DESSERT Assorted Nuts • SOUP Nut and Rice ENTREES Pease Patties Protose Timbales VEGETABLES Sliced Tomatoes with Mayonnaise Summer Succotash Macaroni au Gratin Baked Potatoes BREADS Whole-Wheat Puffs Graham Bread DESSERT Prune MarmaladeSeasonable Bills of Fare 269 SOUP Nut Barley ENTREES Nuttolene Fricassee Broiled Protose VEGETABLES Lettuce Corn on the Ear BREADS Graham Bread DESSERT Roasted Almonds String Beans Cream Sticks SOUP Tomato Bisque ENTREES Nut Corn Pudding Mashed Beans with Protose VEGETABLES Cauliflower with Egg Sauce Baked Potatoes BREADS Graham Bread Nut Sticks DESSERT Nut Cake270 Healthful Cookery SOUP Clear Tomato ENTREES Bean Patties, Tomato Sauce Cottage Cheese VEGETABLES Steamed Potatoes BREADS Zwieback — White Bread DESSERT Custard Nut Irish Stew Lentil and Nut Loaf SOUP Canned Pea ENTREES Nut Cereal Roast Protose Steak in Tomato VEGETABLES Golden Wax Beans Celery Baked Corn Steamed Potatoes BREADS Granose Biscuit Cream Rolls DESSERT Health Candy — Assorted Nuts271 Seasonable Bills of Fare SUMMER — Suppers Fruit Cocoanut Crisps Malted Nuts Hot Malted Nuts Sticks Fresh Apple Sauce Steamed Browned Rice Cream Crisps Raspberry Sauce Fruit Nectar Baked Apples Almond Cream Nut Crisps Fruit Gelee Fruit Salad Cream Sticks Malted Nuts Broth Ripe Olives Fruit Sandwiches Protose with Jelly Almond Cream, Toasted Flakes272 Healthful Cookery. Fruit Jelly Cocoanut Crisps Fresh Peaches Health Candy Meltose Cream Fresh Apple Sauce Malted Nuts Broth Toasted Whole-Wheat Wafers Cantaloup Fruit Nectar Granose Biscuit with Butter Assorted Nuts Almond Cream Toasted Wheat Flakes Nut Sandwiches Fruit Salad Cream Crisps Ripe Olives Prune Marmalade Sunshine Cake Lemonade Cream Rolls Health Candy Plum Sauce Fruit Soup Granose Biscuit BromoseSeasonable Bills of Fare 273 Sliced Bananas and Cherries Nut Sandwiches Orangeade Malted Nuts Broth with Lemon Flavor Raspberry Toast Pear Sauce Nut Crisps Fruit Soup Toasted Flakes Health Candy Health Candy Custard Fresh Sliced Apples Blanched Almond.' Nut Rolls AUTUMN — Breakfasts Delaware Grapes Granola — Almond Cream Nut Steak with Gravy Potato Cakes Toasted Granose Biscuit Hot Malted Nuts 18274 Healthful Cookery Baked Apples with Jelly Toasted Wheat Flakes with Malted Nuts Mock Hamburger Steak Stewed Tomatoes Toasted Granose Biscuit Nut Crisps No-Coffee Concord Grapes Cantaloup Fresh Apple Toast Malted Nuts Baked Sweet Potatoes Nut Lisbon Steak Toasted Whole-Wheat Wafers Zwieback Caramel-Cereal Baked Banana with Cherry Sauce Grape Toast Vegetable Cutlets Corn Pulp Toasted Granose Biscuit Almond Cream Grape Apple Breakfast Granola Meltose Savory Potatoes Stewed Nuttolene Hot Malted Nuts with Lemon275 Seasonable Bills of Fare Cranberry Sauce Nut Gravy Toast Cottage Cheese Broiled Protose with Chili Sauce Fruit Sandwiches Nut Crisps No-Coffee Apricots Prune Marmalade with Toasted Wheat Flakes Baked Potatoes Protose Steak in Tomato Zwieback Cream Graham Rolls Hot Almond Cream AUTUMN — Dinners SOUP Nut and Bean ENTREES Stewed Protose VEGETABLES Baked Sweet Potatoes — Gluten Gravy Corn Pulp BREADS Calcutta Sandwiches Nut Crisps DESSERT Peach Shortcake276 Healthful Cookery SOUP Pea and Tomato ENTRIES Eggs a la Martin Vegetarian Roast VEGETABLES Baked Squash Baked Potatoes BREADS Granose Biscuit Croutons DESSERT Grape Apple SOUP Protose Broth ENTREES Baked Savory Peas — Nuttolene Sauce VEGETABLES Scalloped Potatoes Sliced Tomatoes BREADS Zwieback Cream Sticks DESSERT Fresh FruitSeasonable Bills of Fare 277 SOUP Vegetable Broth ENTREES Protose Patties — Chili Sauce VEGETABLES Mashed Potatoes Cauliflower with Egg Sauce BREADS Granose Biscuit Whole-Wheat Wafers DESSERT Stuffed Dates SOUP Nut Cream of Corn ENTRIES Sanitarium Baked Beans Nut Lisbon Steak VEGETABLES Mashed Sweet Potatoes Celery BREADS Graham Crackers Zwieback DESSERT Pumpkin PieHealthful Cookery 278 SOUP Cream of Pea ENTREES Roast Protose in Gravy Stewed Corn VEGETABLES Scalloped Vegetable Oysters BREADS Graham Bread Baked Potatoes Cream Graham Rolls DESSERT Lemon Pie, Granola Crust SOUP Pea and Tomato ENTREES Savory Nut Loaf Hulless Beans VEGETABLES Chopped Turnips Stewed Tomatoes BREADS Nut Sandwiches Crisps DESSERT Fruit MoldSeasonable Bills of Fare 279 Health Candy Granose Flakes AUTUMN — Suppers Protose Broth Fruit Sandwiches Lemon Apple Sticks Malted Nuts Broth Sliced Tomatoes with Lemon Raspberry Foam Cream Crisps Toasted Wheat Flakes Baked Apples Stuffed Dates Egg-Nog Nut Crisps Ripe Olives Protose Broth Whole-Wheat Wafers Fresh Fruit Croutons Fresh Apple Sauce Calcutta Sandwiches Hot Malted Nuts Fruit Soup28o Healthful Cookery WINTER — Breakfasts Baked Apples with Almond Cream Protose Steak with Gravy Potato Cakes Granose Biscuit Caramel-Cereal Sliced Apple with Meltose Cream Snowflake Toast of Almond Cream Baked Potatoes Mock Hamburger Steak Toasted Whole-Wheat Wafers Hot Malted Nuts Oranges Apricot Toast Casserole of Rice and Protose Baked Sweet Potatoes — Gluten Gravy Toasted Whole-Wheat Wafers Cherry Shortcake of Granose Almond Cream Egg-Nog Protose with Jelly Cream Rolls No-CoffeeSeasonable Bills of Fare 28 I Nut Sandwiches Caramel-Cereal Tomato Toast Grape Apple Nut Irish Stew Egg Omelet Cocoanut Crisps Fruit Sandwiches Hot Malted Nuts Baked Banana with Cherry Sauce Protose Patties Steamed Potatoes — Gluten Sauce Celery Zwieback Nut Sticks Peach Sauce Canned Asparagus on Toast Mashed Potatoes Cup CustardHealthful Cookery 282 Health Candy Assorted Nuts WINTER —Dinners SOUP Vegetable Oyster ENTREES Meek Hamburger Steak Sanitarium Baked Beans Canned Peas VEGETABLES Mashed Potatoes Granose Biscuit BREADS Graham Bread DESSERT Raspberry Foam SOUP Pea and Tomato ENTRIES Nut Fillets Mock Chicken Salad VEGETABLES Scalloped Potatoes Stewed Corn BREADS Whole-Wheat Bread Croutons DESSERT283 Seasonable Bills of Fare SOUP Cream Tomato ENTREES Nut Lisbon Steak Hard-Boiled Yolks of Eggs VEGETABLES Baked Parsnips Scalloped Potatoes BREADS Graham Bread Cream Rolls DESSERT Granose Apple Shortcake SOUP Nut Cream of Corn ENTRIES Vegetable Cutlets VEGETABLES Macaroni au Gratin Stuffed Potatoes BREADS Nut Sandwiches Sticks DESSERT Lemon Apple284 Healthful Cookery SOUP Lentil Soup ENTREES Roast of Protose Pease Patties VEGETABLES Scalloped Vegetable Oysters BREADS Calcutta Sandwiches DESSERT Fruit and Nuts SOUP Bean ENTREES Broiled Protose with Mint Sauce Stewed Nuttolene VEGETABLES Scalloped Tomatoes Baked Potatoes Potato Salad BREADS Whole-Wheat Bread Rolls DESSERT Prune Pudding Mashed Potatoes Graham Crackers285 Seasonable Bills of Fare SOUP Protose Broth ENTREES Nuttolene Cutlets Corn Patties VEGETABLES Beet Salad Stewed Tomatoes Baked Potatoes BREADS Corn Bread Cream Crisps DESSERT Pumpkin Pie WINTER —Suppers Granose Biscuit Fruit Soup Nut Sandwiches — Jelly Apple Sauce Cocoanut Cream Nut Crisps Malted Nuts Broth Oranges — Croutons Fruit Sandwiches286 Healthful Cookery Protose Broth Toasted Whole-Wheat Wafers Stuffed Dates Fruit Croutons Grapes Health Candy Tomato Soup Fruit Cream Crisps Granola Fruit Crackers Granose Flakes Meltose Hot Almond Cream Nut Crisps Oranges287 Index Almond cream, 164. cream rice pudding, 207. cream sauce, cocoanut, 245. dates, 226. filling, 233. pound cake, 231. puree, 197. soup, cream of, 179. whipped cream, 246. Analyses of some common foods, 70. Apple and banana salad, 169. filling, 232. and Granuto pudding, 204. grape, 225. ice, 243. jelly, 237. pie, dried, 212. pie, Granose, 215. pie with raisins, dried, 213. and Protose hash, 102. pudding, 201. pudding, Granose, 205. salad, 170. sauce, 244. snow, 225. Apples, baked, with Gluten por- ridge, 118. baked, with Meltose, 225 in jelly, 238. Apricot pie, dried, 213. Asparagus, 140. with cream sauce, 141. with egg sauce, 141. and nut soup, 192. points, 140. stewed, 142. on toast, 141. Baking, 10. temperature for, 25. Banana and apple salad, 169. baked, 223. baked, with cranberry sauce, 223. baked, and Granuto, 223. cream sauce, 244. dessert, strawberry, 224. and other fruit molds, 237. and pineapple salad, 170. puffs, 233. Bananas, filled, 224. scalloped, 224. sliced, with Meltose, 224. Barley and nut soup, 187. Bean and corn soup, 191. and nut soup, igr. patties, 156. pudding with Tomato Sauce, 157- soup, Lima, 191. Beans, 154. baked, Hulless, 156. Lima, 154. mashed, with Protose, 80. shelled, 155. stewed, with Nut Butter, 105. string, 155. Beating, 17. Beet greens, 140. hash, 140. Beets, 139. baked, 139. and potatoes, 139. Bills of fare, seasonable, 251. Biscuit, raised, 31. Blanc-mange, chocolate, 209.288 Index Boiled dinner, vegetarian, 134. Boiling, xo. Bouillon, Malted Nuts, 195. nut, 185. Protose, 195. vegetable, 195. Bread, care of, 23. cocoanut corn, 43. fruit, 28. Gluten, 34, 35. Graham, 30, 31. lightness of, 24. milk, with white flour, 28. one-rising, 29. recipes, 27. salt-rising, 34. unfermented, or aerated, 37. unfermented, recipes, 40. water, 27. whole-wheat, 29. Bread-making, methods of, 22. Breads, 19. whole-wheat, 25. Breakfast dishes, 118. Broiling and roasting, 9. Broth, Malted Nuts, 195. nut and lemon juice, 186. Protose, 195. Brown cream gravy, 107. gravy, 90, 162. onion flavor, 184. sauce, 93, 163. Browned cream sauce, 159. flour, 184. Cabbage, baked, 136. boiled, 137. chopped, 137. salad, 137. and tomatoes, 136. Cabinet pudding, 205. Cake, almond pound, 231. fruit, 229. fruit and nut sponge, 227. nut sponge, 227. peanut pound, 230. sponge, 227. sunshine, 228. Cakes, 227. corn drop, 203. Granose drop, 202. Granuto, 44. Granuto and fig drop, 231. Granuto and Meltose cocoa- nut, 232. nut corn, 43. potato, 130. Protose and rice, 100. recipes, 227. Casserole of Protose with po- tato, 86. of rice and Protose, 85. Cauliflower, boiled, 135. and cabbage, 135. with egg sauce, 135. with tomato sauce, 13s. Celery and pease croquettes, 102. sauce, cream, 86. and tomato soup, 180, 188. Cereal roast, nut, 88. Charlotte, chocolate, 240. fruit, 238. Cheese, nut, 163. Cherry pie, 211. Chicken jelly, mock, 238, 239. salad, mock, 170. Chili sauce, 73, 165. Chocolate blanc-mange, 209. charlotte, 240. macaroons, 232. mold, 239, 240. Cocoanut almond cream sauce, 245- cream, 164. pie, 210. Cookery, hygienic, 9. Cooking of starchy foods, 12. value of different methods of, 11. Corn, 148. baked, 148, 149.289 Index baked with Zwieback, 106. and bean soup, 191. boiled green, 149. custard, 111. drop-cakes, 203. Flake dumplings, 203. Flakes gruel, 197. Flakes, Toasted, 123. Flakes, Toasted, with fruit, 123- Flakes, Toasted, poached eggs on, 115. Flakes, Toasted, as a warm breakfast dish, 124. Flakes, tuti-fruit, 203. fruit pudding, 204. and Nuttolene, 150, 151. patties, 152. pudding, in. pudding, nut, in. pulp, stewed, 150. soup, canned, 191. soup, nut, 192. stewed green, 151. stewed, and tomatoes, 145. sweet, Granuto with, 152. sweet, stewed Nuttolene or Protose and, 151. Cottage cheese, Nuttolene, 171. Cranberry foam, 226. pie, 212. Cream, almond whipped, 246. filling, 211. Gluten, 196. gravy, brown, 107. nut whipped, 245. pie, 212. salad dressing, 172. sauce, banana, 244. sauce, browned, 159. sauce, cocoanut almond, 245. sauce, nut, 160. whip with Toasted Wheat Flakes, 125. Crisps, cocoanut, 50. nut, 49. Croquettes, Granuto and pease, 154- lentil and rice, 102. pease and celery, 102. Protose, 101. Protose and Granose, 101. Protose and rice, 100. rice and lentil, 102. rice macaroni, 96. Crust patties, 91. Custard, corn, hi. Gluten, 116. Gluten Meal, 116. Granose fruit, 208. pie, simple, 222. pie, sweet apple, 221. plain, without sugar, 207. rice, 207. sauce, lemon, 246. Cutlets, nut, 94. Nuttolene, 93. Protose, 92. sweet potato, 134. vegetable, 92, 93. Cutting and folding, 17. Date pulp, 223. and walnut salad, 169. Dates, almond, 226. Dessert, Granose fruit, 235. molded Granose, 208. a palatable, 222. strawberry banana, 224. Desserts, 199. fruit, 222. recipes, 199. sauces for, 244. Dressing, boiled salad, 173. cream salad, 172. French, 175. lentil, 162. mayonnaise, 174. Nut Butter, on lettuce, 173. nut salad, 172. Nuttolene salad, 171. sour salad, 172.Index 290 sweet salad, 172. Dressings, salad, 171. Dumplings, Corn Flake, 203. Granose, 200. Egg pudding sauce, 245. Egg-nog, 194. Eggs, 112. coddled, 114. and Granola, 115, 122. Granose Biscuit with, 114. a la Martin, 114. to poach, 113. poached, on Granose Flakes, 114. poached, on Protose steak, 75- poached, on Toasted Corn Flakes, 115. recipes, 113. scrambled, 115. Farina pie, 213. Fig and Granuto drop-cake, 231- pulp, 223. Figs, nut and Granuto, 226. Fillets, nut, 94. Filling, almond, 233. apple, 232. cream, 211. lemon, 220. Flesh foods, vegetable substi- tutes for, 67. Flour, browned, 184. kinds of, 20. Foam, cranberry, 226. strawberry and Meltose, 242. Food elements, table of, 68. Foods, analyses of, 70. French dressing, 175. Fricassee, nut, 78. Nuttolene, 109. Protose, 78. Frozen Malted Nuts, 243. Fruit bread, 28. cake, 229. charlotte, 238. custard, Granose, 208. dessert, Granose, 235. desserts, 222. Malted Nuts with, 199. meringues, 226. mold, banana, 237. mold, orange, 237. molds, 237. and nut hard sauce, 245. and nut pie, 214. and nut salad, 170. and nut sponge cake, 227. pies, 213. pin-wheels, 48. pudding, corn, 204. roll, 200. salad, 170. sandwich, 240. soup, 182. Gelatine, Vegetable, to prepare 236. Gelee, lemon, 240. pineapple, 241. Gelees and jellies, 236. Gems, almond meal, 46. Gluten Flour, 44. Gluten meal, 44. Graham, 41. Granola, 45. Granola fruit, 45. rice, 46. rye, 42. German coffee rolls, 35. Gluten bread, 34, 35. bread relish, 159. cream, 196. custard, 116. Flour gems, 44. and Granola, 122. gravy, 158. gruel, 196.Index 291 gruel, lemon, 196. meal custard, 116. meal gems, 44. and nut gruel, 194. olive omelet, 117. porridge, 118. porridge, baked apples with, 118. porridge with dates, 118. porridge, grape, 196. and Protose patties, 99. puffs, 45. rolls, 47. sauce, 158. soup, 179. tomato, 119. Graham bread, 30, 31. gems, 41. pudding, 206. Granola, breakfast, 120. dry, 120. eggs and, 115, 122. fruit, 120, 121. fruit gems, 45. gems, 45. and Gluten, 122. grape, 121. nut, 121. peach, 121. pie crust, 210. and Protose, 99. pudding, 200. raisin porridge with Nut Cream, 122. raspberry, 121. waffles, 45. Granose apple pie, 215. apple pudding, 205. Biscuit, 48. Biscuit with eggs, 114. Biscuit, shortcake of, 235. Biscuit, toasted, 48. dessert, molded, 208. drop-cakes, 202. dumplings, 200. dumplings, with Nut Meal, 200. Flakes, 123. Flakes, poached eggs on, 114. Flakes, toasted, with nuts and fruit juice, 123. fruit custard, 208. fruit dessert, 235. gruel, 197. pie, cream, 215. and Protose croquettes, 101. pudding, 205. shortcake, 235. with strawberry snow, 226. Granuto and apple pudding, 204. and baked banana, 223. cakes, 44. and fig drop-cake, 231. and Malted Nuts gruel, 198. and Meltose cocoanut cakes, 23 2. and nut figs, 226. omelet, 116. and pease croquettes, 154. plum pudding, 205. with sweet corn, 152. timbale of, with green peas, 153- Grape apple, 225. tart, 216. Gravies and relishes, 158. recipes, 158. Gravy, brown, 90, 162. brown cream, 107. Gluten, 158. without milk, 159. nut, 160. Nut Meal, 159. nut and tomato, 161. Gruel, Gluten, 196. Granose, 197. Granuto and Malted Nuts, 198. lemon Gluten, 196.292 Index Malted Nuts, 194. roast, Swiss, 108. nut and Gluten, 194. soup, 177. Toasted Corn Flakes, 197. and tomato soup, 178. Gruels and liquid foods, 194. Lentils, nuts with, 104. recipes, 194. Hard sauce, 160. sauce, fruit and nut, 245. Hash, beet, 140. potato, 130. Protose, 107. Protose and apple, 102. Protose and potato, 103. Protose and rice, 99. savory Protose, 102. Hygienic cookery, methods i Sl- ice, apple, 243. cream, Meltose, 243. nut and strawberry, 242. Icing, Nut Butter, 233. Imperial sauce, 165. Invalid’s meals, 247. Irish stew, nut, 133. Jellies and gelees, 236. Jelly, apple, 237. apples in, 238. lemon, 236. mock chicken, 238, 239. orange, 237. pineaple, 237. Kneading, 18. Lemon custard sauce, 246. filling, 220. gelee, 240. jelly, 236. pie, 219, 220. sherbet, 241. Lentil dressing, 162. and nut loaf, 103. and nut soup, 189. and rice croquettes, 102. Lettuce lemonade salad, 170. with Nut Butter dressing, i73- Protose with, 167. Loaf, lentil and nut, 103. nut, 84, 87. nut maize, 90. of Nuttoline and mashed beans, 90. Protose, 83. savory nut, 104. wheat, 35. Macaroni au Gratin, 98. with Nuttolene, 97. and Nuttolene, savory, 95. and Protose, 97. Macaroons, chocolate, 232. Malted Nuts bouillon, 195. broth, 195. frozen, 243. with fruit, 199. with grains, 123. and Granuto gruel, 198. gruel with Meltose, 194. hot, 194. Manna, 123. Mayonnaise dressing, 174. sunflower, 175. Measuring and combining in- gredients, 13. Meltose ice cream, 243. sauce, 244. Meringues, fruit, 226. Mince pie, mock, 217. vegetable, 217. Mince-meat, nut, 217. Mint sauce, 73. Mock chicken jelly, 238, 239. chicken salad, 170. Hamburger steak, 75. mince pie, 217.Index 293 Mold, chocolate, 239, 240. fruit, 237. Mother’s soup, 186. Noodles, cream, 187. Nut and asparagus soup, 192. and barley soup, 187. and bean soup, 191. bouillon, 185. Butter, 161. Butter for bread, 161. Butter dressing, on lettuce, 173- Butter icing for cake, 233. Butter as seasoning, 126. cereal roast, 88. cheese, 163. corn pudding, in. cream, 164. cream of corn soup, 192. cream sauce, 160. cutlets, 94. fillets, 94. French soup, 189. fricassee, 78. and fruit hard sauce, 245. and fruit salad, 170. and Gluten gruel, 194. and Granuto figs, 226. gravy, 160. Irish stew, 133. and lemon juice broth, 186. and lentil soup, 189. Lisbon steak, 75. loaf, 87. loaf, pressed, 84. loaf, savory, 104. maize loaf, 90. Meal, 162. Meal gravy, 159. Meal, to prepare, 244. milk, hot, 197. mince-meat, 217. and pea soup, 190. pie with farina crust, 98. products, 71. and rice roast, 108. and rice soup, 187. and ripe olive soup, 188. roast, 88. roast with dressing, 88. roast with potato, 132. salad dressing, 171. sauce, 160. soup, 186. soup, creamy, 179. Soup Stock, soups with, 183. and spinach soup, 192. sponge cake, 227. Stock soup, 193. and strawberry ice, 242. and tomato bisque soup, 178. and tomato gravy, 161. and tomato timbales, 94. turkey roast, 108. and vegetable roast, 132. vegetable soup, 193. whipped cream, 245. Nuts as food, 70. with lentils, 104. Nuttolene, broiled, 72. broiled, with Chili sauce, 73. broiled, with peas, 74. broiled, spinach on toast with, 145. cold sliced, no. and corn, 150, 151. cottage cheese, 171. cutlets, 93. fricassee, 109. with mashed potatoes, in. with mint sauce, 73. and onion stew, in. pie with potato crust, 95. or Protose, stewed, and sweet corn, 151. salad dressing, 171. sauce, 163. stewed, no. stewed vegetable oysters with, 148. and tomato, stewed, 76.294 Index Oakhill potatoes, 132. Omelet, 113. Gluten olive, 117. Granuto, 116. Potato Meal, 116. Onion flavor, brown, 184. and Nuttolene stew, 111. and pease salad, 168. Onions, Protose with, 80. Orange fruit mold, 237. jelly, 237. pie, 216. and pineapple salad, 169. and pineapple sherbet, 242. Parsnips, 138. baked, 138. boiled, 139. Patties, bean, 156. corn, 152. crust, 91. pease, 104, 105. Protose, 108, 109. Protose and Gluten, 99. Pea and nut soup, 190. soup, canned, 177. soup, cream of, 182. and tomato soup, 190. Peach cobbler, 227. marmalade pie, 216. pie, 216. salad, 169. Peaches, pyramid of, 199. Peanut pound cake, 230. Peas, 152. baked savory, 105. broiled Nuttolene with, 74. broiled Protose with, 74. green, timbale of Granuto with, 153. Protose with, 153. stewed, 152. Pease and celery croquettes, 102. and Granuto croquettes, 154. and onion salad, 168. patties, 104, 105. Pie, cherry, 211. cocoanut, 210. cranberry, 212. cream, 212. cream Granose, 215. crust, Granola, 210. crust, Nut Meal, 210. dried apple, 212. dried apple, with raisins, 213. dried apricot, 213. farina, 213. fruit and nut, 214. Granose apple, 215. lemon, 219, 220. mock mince, 217. nut, with farina crust, 98. Nuttolene, 95. orange, 216. peach, 216. peach marmalade, 216. pineapple, 220. Protose and Nuttolene, 94. pumpkin, 218, 219. simple custard, 222. squash, 221. sweet apple custard, 221. sweet potato, 221. Pies, 210. fruit, 213. recipes, 210. Pineapple and banana salad, 170. gelee, 241. jelly, 237. and orange salad, 169. and orange sherbet, 242. pie, 220. Plum pudding, 201. pudding, Granuto, 205. pudding, plain, 207. Porridge, Gluten, 118. Granola raisin, 122. grape Gluten, 196.295 Index Potato Meal, 119. Porridges and breakfast dishes, 118. recipes, 118. Potato cakes, 130. hash, 130. mashed, Protose with, 132. Meal omelet, 116. Meal porridge, 119. Meal puree, 180. Meal puree, savory, 180. nut roast with, 132. and Protose, casserole of, 86. and Protose hash, 103. and Protose, scalloped, 13 r. salad, 166. scalloped, with Protose and Nuttolene, 130. soup, savory, 193. stew with Protose, 131. Potatoes, baked, 127. and beets, 139. boiled (without skins), 128. mashed, with Nuttolene, in. Oakhill, 132. recipes, 127. roasted, 129. steamed, 128. stewed with celery, 128. stuffed, 131. Protose and apple hash, 102. basted, 80. bouillon, 195. braised, 96. broiled, 71, 72. broiled, with peas in mint sauce, 74. broth, 195. with browned rice, 100. and celery salad, 167, 168. cold sliced, 109. croquettes, 101. cutlets, 92. with dressing, 89. fish, 92. fricassee, 78. fricassee of, 78. and Gluten patties, 99. and Granola, 99. and Granola roast, 86. and Granose croquettes, 101. hash, 107. hash, savory, 102. with jelly, 109. with lettuce, 167. loaf, pressed, 83. and macaroni, 97. with mashed potato border or roses, 132. and Nuttolene pie, 94. and Nuttolene, scalloped po- tato with, 130. and Nuttolene in shells, 91. with onions, 80. patties, 108, 109. with peas, 153. with potato, casserole of, 86. and potato hash, 103. and potato, scalloped, 131. potato stew with, 131. and rice cakes, 100. and rice, casserole of, 85. and rice croquettes, 100. and rice hash, 99. roast, 81, 82. roast with browned gravy, 82. roast with tomato sauce, 83. salad, 166. scalloped, 81. simmered, no. soup, 180. soup, savory, 187. steak, 75. steak, poached egg on, 75. steak in tomato with ripe olives, no. stew, 77. stew or ragout, 77.Index 296 stew with rice, 79. stew, savory, 77. stewed, 76. stewed, and mashed beans, 80. stewed, with roasted rice, 79- stuffed, with brown gravy, 89. on toast, 66. timbales, 92. timbales with spinach souf- fle, 143. with tomato, 79. Prune pudding, 206. Prunes, snowballs with, 209. stuffed, 199. Pudding, Almond Cream rice, 207. apple, 201, 205. cabinet, 205. corn fruit, 204. Graham, 206. Granola, 200. Granose, 205. Granose apple, 205. Granuto and apple, 204. Granuto plum, 205. nut corn, 111. plum, 201, 207. prune, 206. sauce, egg, 245. snow, 204. Puffs, banana, 233. corn, 42. currant, 41. Gluten, 45. Graham, 40, 41. Nut Butter, 45. rye, 42. whole-wheat, 40. Pumpkin pie, 218. pie without eggs, 219. Puree, almond, 197. of Gluten soup, 179. Potato Meal, 180. savory Potato Meal, 180. Pyramid of peaches, 199. Raisin pulp, 223. Red salad, 167. Relish, Gluten, 159. Relishes and gravies, 158. Rice, browned, Protose with, 100. custard, 207. gems, 46. and lentil croquettes, 102. macaroni croquettes, 96. and nut roast, 108. and nut soup, 187. and Protose cakes, 100. and Protose, casserole of( 85. and Protose croquettes, 100. and Protose hash, 99. Protose stew with, 79. pudding, Almond Cream, 207. roasted, stewed Protose with, 79- Roast, nut, 88. nut cereal, 88. nut, with dressing, 88. nut, with potato, 132. nut and rice, 108. nut turkey, 108. nut and vegetable, 132. Protose, 81, 82. Protose and Granola, 86. Swiss lentil, 108. vegetarian, 106, 107. Roasting and broiling, 9. Roll, fruit, 29, 200. Rolls, 32. breakfast, 50. cream Graham, 51. fruit, 51. German coffee, 35. nut Gluten, 47. water, with egg, 52. Salad, apple, 170. apple and banana, 169.297 Index cabbage, 137. date and walnut, 169. dressings, 171. fruit, 170. fruit and nut, 170. lettuce lemonade, 170. mock chicken, 170. orange and pineapple, 169. peach, 169. pease and onion, 168. pineapple and banana, 170. potato, 166. Protose, 166. Protose and celery, 167, 168. red, 167. Salads, recipes, 166. Sandwich, fruit, 240. Sandwiches, 53. Calcutta, 57. diploma, 56. fruit, 58. Granose biscuit for, 57. Hulless Bean, 58. Nut Butter, 57. Nut Butter and olive, 58. nut, sauce for, 59. Nuttolene, 54. olive, 58. Protose, ss. Protose and jelly, 56. Protose and Nuttolene, 55. recipes, 53. salad, 53. savory Protose and Nutto- lene, 55. wafer, 54. Sauce, apple, 244. banana cream, 244. brown, 93, 163. browned cream, 159. Chili, 73, 165. cocoanut Almond Cream, 245. cream celery, 86. egg pudding, 245. fruit and nut hard, 245. Gluten, 158. hard, 160. imperial, 165. lemon custard, 246. Meltose, 244. mint, 73, 165. nut, 160. nut cream, 160. Nuttolene, 163. tomato, 105, 162. Sauces for desserts, 244. Seasoning, Nut Butter as, 126. Sherbet, lemon, 241. pineapple and orange, 242. Shortcake, Granose, 235. of Granose Biscuit, 235. strawberry, 234. Shortcakes, 234. Snow, apple, 225. pudding, 204. strawberry, Granose with, 226. Snowballs with prunes, 209. Soup, 176. bean and corn, 191. canned pea, 177. celery and tomato, 180, 18S. cream of pea, 182. cream tomato, 182. creamy nut, 179. fruit, 182. Gluten, 179. lentil, 177. lentil and tomato, 178. mother’s, 186. nut, 186. nut and asparagus, 192. nut and barley, 187. nut and bean, 191. nut cream of corn, 192. nut French, 189. nut and lentil, 189. nut and pea, 190. nut and rice, 187. nut and ripe olive, 188. nut and spinach, 192.Index 298 Nut Stock, 193. nut and tomato bisque, 178. nut vegetable, 193. pea and tomato, 190. Protose, 180. puree of Gluten, 179. recipes, 177, 185. savory potato, 193. savory Protose, 187. tomato, 178. vegetable, 181. vegetable oyster, 181. Washington, 189. Soups with Nut Soup Stock, 183. Sour salad dressing, 172. Spanish stew, 133. Spinach, 142. nests of, 144. and nut soup, 192. souffle, Protose timbale with, 143- on toast, with broiled Nutto- lene, 145. Squash pie, 221. pie without eggs, 221. Starchy foods, cooking of, 12. Steak, mock Hamburger, 75. nut Lisbon, 75. Protose, 75. Protose, in tomato with ripe olives, no. Steaming, 11. Stewing, 10. Sticks, cream, 46. nut, 49. Stirring, 17. Strawberry banana dessert, 224. and Meltose foam, 242. and nut ice, 242. shortcake, 234. snow, Granose with, 226. tapioca, 208. Succotash, summer, 151. Sunshine cake, 228. toast, 62. Sweet apple custard pie, 221. potato cutlets, 134. potato pie, 221. potatoes, baked, 127. potatoes, boiled, 128. potatoes, mashed, 130. salad dressing, 172. Tapioca, strawberry, 208. Tart, grape, 216. Timbale of Granuto with green peas, 153. nut and tomato, 94. Protose, 92. Protose, with spinach souffle, 143- Toast, asparagus on, 141. banana, 64. cream, 61. fresh peach, 64. fresh strawberry, blueberry, or blackberry, 64. fruit, 62. fruit, without cream, 63. grape, 63. lentil, 65. nut and apple, 64. nut gravy, 61. pease gravy, 65. poached egg on, 61. Protose puree on, with to- mato jelly, 66. snowflake, 61. spinach on, with broiled Nut- tolene, 145. stewed Protose on, 66. sunshine, 62. tomato, 62. vegetable oyster, 64. Toasts, 60. recipes, 61. Tomato and celery soup, 180, 188.Index 299 and nut bisque soup, 178. and pea soup, 190. sauce, 105, 162. soup, 178. soup, cream, 182. Tomatoes, 145. broiled, 146. scalloped, 145. stewed, 146. stewed corn and, 145. -cuffed, 147. with Toasted Wheat Flakes, 125. Turnips, 137. boiled, 137. chopped, 138. Vegetable bouillon, 195. cutlets, 92, 93. mince, 217. oyster soup, 181. oysters, 147. oysters, scalloped, 147. oysters, stewed, with Nutto- lene, 148. soup, 181. soup, nut, 193. substitutes for flesh foods, 67. substitutes, recipes, 71. turkey, 84. Vegetables, 126. Vegetarian boiled dinner, 134. roast, 106, 107. Waffles, Granola, 43. Walnut and date salad, 169. Washington soup, 189. Weights and measures, com- parative table of, 15. Wheat Flakes, Toasted, cream whip with, 125. Toasted, with oranges, 124. Toasted, with sliced bananas, 125. Toasted, tomatoes with, 125. Whipped cream, almond, 246. cream, nut, 245. Yeast, 21. Zwieback, corn baked with, 106. with Nuttolene, 65. to prepare toast from, 60.This Volume Contains Some Six Hun- dred Recipes For the preparation of Sanitarium foods. These foods are manu- factured by the Battle Creek Sanitarium Co., Ltd., and the Sanitas Nut Food Co., Ltd., the two original health food manu- facturers of Battle Creek. Our products are of world-wide repu- tation, some of them having been in use more than a quarter of a century. It is not, however, about the foods themselves, but the best method of purchasing them, that we wish to talk. Many good grocers carry only a few of them; some, a large line; more, none at all. This is no more than is to be expected, for we make forty- nine varieties, too many for any grocer to carry. Some of them are intended for special cases, while several lack the keeping quali- ties essential to popular sellers. Thousands upon thousands of grocers have never heard of our products. To meet these conditions we have organized a Mail-Order De- partment. During the years it has been in operation, this Twen- tieth-Century plan of communication between the manufacturer and the consumer has proven eminently satisfactory. The fact that we number by the thousand the satisfied customers to whom we are regularly shipping our foods in five- and ten-dollar lots, is the best of evidence that the plan is practical. One of its chief advantages is the assurance a customer feels when making his order that the box will contain just the foods he selects, and that they will be perfectly fresh. In many cases the foods shipped to-day were baked yesterday. We have endeavored to give our customers every possible advantage, and have so carefully worked out the details that our foods cost no more laid down in j'our town than you would be obliged to pay for them if purchased in Battle Creek. Manifestly, it is impossible for us to make the same terms to customers in New Mexico as to those in Michigan. Accordingly, we make four different propositions to suit as many sections of the country. Look in the list for your State. To all express offices in the following States we prepay the express on orders for $5.00 or more. If the foods are used in larger quantities, so that it is practicable to ship in $15.00 lots, the freight is paid and a discount of 10 per cent is granted. Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Illinois Indiana Iowa Kentucky Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Missouri New Hampshire New Jersey New York Ohio Pennsylvania Rhode Island Vermont Virginia West Virginia Wisconsin Most customers prefer to order by express, as it ensures the prompt arrival of the goods. Under this arrangement, with the most ordinary care, your larder may always be supplied with the products of our factories. To freight stations in the following States, freight is fully prepaid on $10.00 orders, while on $20.00 orders, in addition to the payment of freight, a discount of 10 per cent is granted.Alabama Arkansas Florida Georgia Indian Territory Kansas Louisiana Mississippi Nebraska N. Dakota S. Dakota N. Carolina S. Carolina Oklahoma Tennessee Texas On orders for $5.00 or more to this territory, a part of the ex- press is paid, the customer in this case being asked to add to his remittance one-sixth more than the value of the foods he orders. On a five-dollar order this is 83 cents; on a six-dollar order, ex- actly $1.00. This, of course, covers only a part of the express charges — we pay the balance. To Montana, Wyoming, and Colorado, freight is paid on $15.00 shipments. To all other States in the Union, on $20.00 orders. It costs something to supply individual customers in this way, but the results are well worth the expenditure. If your grocer sells our foods, buy them of him; if not, WE WILL BE PLEASED TO SUPPLY YOU DIRECT FROM FACTORY. If you are not already acquainted with Sanitarium Foods, write us for information about our Special Introductory Offer. It will pay you. Following is a list of the original Battle Creek Sanitarium foods, with their prices, which are subject to change after Jan. 1, 1906: — Bromose, Nut, 1 lb. pkg.... Bromose, Nut, lb. pkg.... Bromose, Fig, 1 lb. pkg.... Bromose, Fig, l/2 lb. pkg. . . . Malted Nuts, 1 pt. bottle. . . Malted Nuts, l/2 pt. bottle... Malted Nuts, Hospital size.. Meltose, 1 lb. can Meltose, 1 gal. can Meltose, l/2 gal. can Protose, 1 lb. can Protose, y2 lb. can Nut Butter, 1 lb. can Nut Butter, l/2 lb. can Silted Nut Butter, lb. jar. Nuttolene, 1 lb. can Nuttolene, y2 lb. can Food Candy, 1 lb. pkg Food Candy, '/2 lb. pkg Granose Flakes, pkg Granose Biscuit, pkg Toasted Wheat Flakes Toasted Corn Flakes Charcoal Tablets, large pkg. (40 tablets) Charcoal Tablets, small pkg. (20 tablets) Hulless Beans, pkg Granuto, pkg Sanitas Infant Food, pkg.... Breakfast Toast, pkg Granola, pkg Baked Potato Meal, pkg Crackers—Graham Sweetened Pkg Crackers—Graham, Plain, Pkg Crackers — Fruit, pkg. . . . Wafers — Oatmeal, pkg $0.50 .25 •5»' • 25 • 75 .40 3-oo .20 1.50 .80 •25 • 15 •25 • 15 •25 •25 • 15 .40 .20 •15 .10 • 15 • 15 .40 .20 •15 •15 •50 •IS .12 •75 •15 .12 .20 •15 I BATTLE CREEK SANITARIUM CO., Wafers — Whole-wheat, pkg. .15 Whole-wheat Cream Sticks, pkg 15 Zwieback, pkg 15 Sanitarium Infant Food, pkg. .40 Diabetic Gluten Biscuit, 40 per ct., pkg 40 Diabetic Gluten Biscuit, 40 per ct., half size, pkg 20 Gluten Meal (Pure), pkg 50 Gluten Meal, 40 per ct., pkg. .40 Gluten Meal, 20 per ct., pkg. .20 Caramel-Cereal, pkg 15 Baked Beans, can 15 Savory Protose, 1 lb. can 25 Protose (Potted), 1 lb. can.. .30 Nuttose, 1 lb. can 25 Nut Soup Stock, 1 lb. can. . .35 Nut Soup Stock, ]/2 lb. can. . .20 Almond Butter, 1 lb. can.... 1.00 Almond Meal, 1 pt. bottle... 1.00 Nut Meal, 1 pt. bottle 35 Maltol, 16 oz. jar 50 Chocolate Candy, 1 lb. pkg.. .60 Chocolate Candy, y2 lb. pkg. . .30 Health Cocoa, y2 lb. can 35 Health Cocoa, J4 lb. can 20 Vegetable Gelatin, pkg 15 40 per ct. Gluten Flour, 5 lb. sack 1.25 Pure.Gluten Biscuit, pkg 25 Potato Gluten Biscuit, J)kg.. . .25 No-Coffee, canister 25 Nut French Soup, 1 lb. can .25 Nut French Soup, y2 lb. can .15 White Fig Marmalade, 1 lb. can 20 Fruit Sticks 20 Cocoanut Sticks 20 LTD. - Battle Creek, Mich.The New Cookery SCIENCE in the KITCHEN By Mrs. E. E. KELLOGG, A. M. For fifteen years Superintendent of the Battle Creek Sanita- rium Training School of Cookery: formerly National Superintendent of Health for the N IV- C- T- U-: Author of “A Talk to Girls;" and As- sistant Editor of" Good Health" FOURTH EDITION, THOROUGHLY REVISED With the addition of much new and valuable matter. New principles, new methods. OVER 900 RECIPES Illustrated with Thirty-six Full-page Plates, Besides a Large Number of Cuts in the Text PRICE, $1.90, SENT PREPAID Modern Medicine Publishing Company BATTLE CREEK, MICHIGAN, 'RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: Microfilm No: Date Particulars 25 1 'l 1 °\1 Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarks