More 7{eeipes 14''riiten bif Mrs. QS. TeeLEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Camden ft Pec lllllllllllliil 30106023328361London Borough of Camden Swiss Cottage Library 88 Avenue Road LONDON NW33HA » ■ This book is due for return on or before the date stamped below. The period of loan can be extended if the book is not reserved (please ask for details of renewal facilities) Fines are charged on overdue books Lending Library hours Mon-Fri 9.30-8 Sat 9.30-5 LA 105 Tel: 01 278 4444 Extensions: Book Renayvils 3021 Lending Library 3012Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21538773THE SINGLE HANDED COOKBY THE SAME AUTHOR. THE NEW HOME. With many Illustrations. Crown Svo, $s.6d. Woman.—“ Those who feel unable to cope with the subject of ‘the House Beautiful,’ without advice, should seek guidance from Mrs. C. S. Peel, who offers some delightful and practical suggestions upon this interesting topic. Her words appeal to a very wide class, and will bring relief to many a home where a real desire for pretty rooms exists. Its many chapters, written by an acknowledged authority, cannot fail to be useful.” The Daily Graphic.—“. . . The book is emin- ently practical and fully illustrated, while its price places it within the reach of all." 10/- A HEAD PER WEEK FOR HOUSE BOOKS. An Indispensable Manual for Housekeepers. Menus, Recipes, Hints and Advice for the Single-Handed Cook. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d. The Queen.—“ A most valuable manual, which will rescue many a young housekeeper from des- pair . . . giving plain and practical details of how to produce a really palatable and attractive menu for a sum often deemed impossible by all but the most experienced housewives. She gives full details, recipes that can be understood even by the un- learned and carried out by the plainest of plain cooks, besides giving a wealth of valuable advice on various domestic matters that are formidable rocks to the inexperienced wife. A better gift FOR THE VOUNG HOUSEKEEPER IT WOULD BE DIFFICULT TO FIND.” Woman. —“Her book is practical, exact, copious and reliable. I have never before seen so much sense in a cookery-book.”THE SINGLE HANDED COOK \ MORE RECIPES C. S. PEEL' AUTHOR OF “ TEN SHILLINGS A WEEK FOR HOUSE BOOKS ' “THE NEW home” “HOW TO KEEP HOUSE” WESTMINSTER ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE & CO Ltd 2 WHITEHALL GARDENS64-1 <T \ Butler & tanner, The Selwood Printing works Frome, and London. Ft ("sc)CONTENTS v PAGE Preface ........ vii Soups . CHAPTER I CHAPTER II Sauces, Glazes, Batters. The Rendering down and Clarifying of Fat . . . .15 Fish . CHAPTER III 28 CHAPTER IV Meat Dishes, Poultry and Game ... 62 CHAPTER V Vegetables and Salads ..... 88CONTENTS VI CHAPTER VI Puddings—Baked, Boiled, Steamed, Shapes, Creams, Jellies, Custards, Pastry, Various CHAPTER VII Savouries and Breakfast Dishes CHAPTER VIII Cakes, Buns, Biscuits, and Scones CHAPTER IX The Management of the Oven . Index page 108 153 176 193 199PREFACE vii “r I 'HE House Books, those records of departed sir- JL loins, cakes of soap, and pounds of butter, can scarcely be regarded as emotional reading. Yet I doubt if more tears have been shed over the thrilling adventures of a lovely and luckless heroine than over the chronicles of the butcher, the baker, and the candlestick maker. And why ? “Simply because the average woman will not realize that housekeeping, like any other profession, must be learnt, and, when leamt, practised methodically. If the income is large, extravagance in the catering depart- ment, though for many reasons deplorable, is scarcely felt; but in the ordinary middle and upper middle-class home it is of the utmost moment that the household expenditure should be kept to a moderate figure ; other- wise money which should be spent on recreation, and on the little luxuries which make life worth living, is swallowed by the insatiable maw of ‘ the house.’ “ The woman who is at the head of a household, and who knows that she is incompetent to manage it, should ask herself this question, Am I justified in squandering money which can ill be spared ? A negative will surely be the answer. The course is then plain : she should atPREFACE viii once set herself to learn to rule her household judiciously, and expend her housekeeping allowance to the best ad- vantage. To some women the process will at first be irksome, but surely when an orderly home, well-cooked, neatly-served meals, and moderate bills are the reward, they will feel that the game has been worth the candle. “ It may now be asked, What is a fair housekeeping allowance ? This depends to a great extent upon cir- cumstances, but, roughly speaking, for a family of six or more persons, an average of £1 per head a week allows of luxurious living ; 15s. per head for good living ; 105. for nice catering of a simple description ; and 85. Gd. per head for a sufficiency of wholesome food. “ To cater satisfactorily at an expenditure of 155. or £1 a head per week does not require any great care ; but to provide appetizing fare for a family, without spending more than an average of IO5. a week per head, necessi- tates extremely good management. “ In the year 1898 I wrote a series of articles for Hearth and Home on the subject of catering at 105. a week, which called forth a considerable correspondence. The views expressed by my correspondents varied greatly. Some writers declared that to live in the manner sug- gested was impossible under an expenditure of 155. a week. Others held that it could be done on IO5. a week, or even less. Several ladies were good enough to send me a week’s menus and a corresponding week’s bills ; and one or two earnest housekeepers forwarded a year’s household accounts for inspection ; the result being that, when the correspondence closed, I remained firm in the opinion, formed in the first place from personal experi- ence, that it is possible to provide menus, such as arePREFACE ix given later in this book, for an average cost of 10s. a week per head. At the same time it is only fair to warn the housewife who desires to keep her bills to this sum that she must not expect to perform impossibilities. If the cook is incorrigibly careless and wasteful; if the mistress is ignorant; if the master is exacting, not to say greedy ; if a freshly-cooked joint is expected each day ; if the family contains delicate children or invalids ; if meat and other provisions cannot be procured at reasonable prices—then it will be impossible to carry out the menus on an average of less than 11s. or 12s. per head a week. “ It must be admitted, also, that the larger the party, the easier it is to cater economically. For that reason the following menus are arranged for a party of six or eight persons. For any less number, from Is. to 2s. a head extra should be allowed. Did I not state the case thus plainly, I should feel that I deserved to arouse again the anger of the poor lady who, on the appearance of the original 10s. a week articles, wrote as follows :— “ ‘ Deab Mrs. Peel,—I wish you wouldn’t write such nonsense. My husband will now be more tiresome than ever about the bills.’ “Since I received that brief but eloquent epistle, I have been asked repeatedly for a menu and recipe book especially compiled for the mistress who must keep her bills to the 10s. a head limit, and who must employ a single-handed plain cook of average ability. Hence the appearance of this volume, which does not pretend to be either a complete cookery book, or a volume ofPREFACE original recipes. It is, as its name implies, merely a collection of hints, menus, and recipes which may help the inexperienced housekeeper to feed her household wholesomely, appetizingly, and economically.” So runs the Preface to Ten Shillings a Head for House Books. The fact of that volume having already run through many editions goes far to prove the existence of a large class interested in the subject with which it deals, and desirous of keeping their house bills within the limit mentioned. The reception accorded to the Ten Shillings a Head book, and the number of letters I have received from its readers, asking, like Oliver Twist, for “ more,” have led to the publication of the present book, which is practically a second volume of Ten Shillings a Head. Like its forerunner, it does not pretend to be either a complete cookery book or a volume of ori- ginal recipes. It is merely a collection of proven recipes inexpensive enough to be included in the menu of the ten shillings a head housekeeper, and simple enough to be within the powers of a single-handed cook who, no matter how clever she may be, cannot spare time to prepare dishes the ingredients of which need to be whippedPREFACE xi together for three-quarters of an hour, and so forth. In arranging these recipes I was influenced by the following letter received through the cor- respondence column of Hearth and Home, and from which I publish an extract— “ I have found your book, Ten Shillings a Head for House Boohs, of great use to me, in fact so invaluable is it that I venture to ask you if you cannot publish a second volume of recipes. “To a busy woman such as myself, obliged to keep the house bills within a certain limit, and anxious to feed my family and servants attract- ively and wholesomely, a still greater choice of recipes (especially for puddings) would be greatly appreciated. Particularly if they are like those in the Ten Shillings a Head book, plainly worded, sufficiently inexpensive, dainty, and not too elaborate to be attempted by a single-handed plain cook. I have several excellent cookery books, but I grudge the time which it takes to look through them in order to find simple inexpensive recipes, or, failing this, to copy, simplify, and adapt those which are too ex- pensive or elaborate.” Dorothy C. Peel.NOTE The quantities in these recipes are sufficient for six to eight persons.CHAPTER I Soups OTE.—For general directions as to soup- making and for recipes for Stock for ex- cellent Golden Clear Soup, Ordinary Stock made with Cooked Bones, Clear Vegetable Stock, Thick Vegetable Stock, Fish Stock, to Clear Stock, to Clear Stock without meat, hints on garnishing and a variety of other recipes, see Chapter IV, p. 60, of Ten Shillings a Head for House Books. Take two tablespoonsful of desiccated cocoanut and let it infuse in half a pint of boiling water for half an hour. Put one and a half ounces of clarified beef dripping into a stewpan, with one medium-sized onion, finely minced, and a sweet apple, also minced, and cook them gently over the fire until the onion is just coloured, then add a tablespoonful of curry powder and a table- Mulligatawny Soup i I RTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 2 spoonful of creme de riz, or flour, and fry with the other ingredients for six minutes, then moisten gradually with some stock which has been flavoured with vegetables, adding three pints of it. When the soup has boiled up and thickened, season it with salt and pepper to taste, and add a large teaspoonful of chutney and a few drops of lemon-juice ; draw the pan to the side of the stove, and let the soup simmer for twenty-five minutes ; strain the infusion of cocoanut through muslin into the soup, stir it well, and pass the soup through a strainer into a hot tureen. Serve with some well-boiled rice. Scotch Broth 2 Put about two pounds of the scrag end of a neck of mutton into a saucepan with three quarts of cold water. When it boils add a teaspoonful of salt and three ounces of pearl barley (which has been washed); skim the liquor well, then draw the pan to the side of the stove, and let the meat simmer for an hour and a half. Pour the broth into a basin and cut the lean part of the mutton into small pieces. Rinse out the saucepan with boiling water and return the broth and the pieces of meat to it, then add one large or two small carrots, a large turnip, two small onions, a little celery, and two leeks, all cut into small dice-shaped pieces, and some of the leaves of a young cabbage cut into fine shreds ; season well with black pepper and salt; cover the pan, and let the con- tents simmer very slowly for fully an hour. When the broth is ready, skim off any grease which is visible on theSOUPS 3 top, scatter in a dessertspoonful of finely-chopped pars- ley, and serve very liot. Potage Borne 3 Cut part of a bullock’s kidney or three sheep’s kidneys into tiny pieces, fry them in butter with a chopped onion, put them into a pan with three pints of stock; when boiling, add three tablespoonsful of rice which has been washed. Let all cook together until tender. Strain off the stock into a basin, pound the rice and meat and put them through a hair sieve. Take the fat off the stock, season it, replace the sieved meat and rice, make thoroughly hot, and if not quite thick enough add one large tablespoonful of cornflour mixed with a little stock. Oxtail Soup 4 Cut half an oxtail into three small pieces and place in cold water with a pinch of salt, bring to the boil. Strain off the water and wash the tail in cold water, replace in the stewpan with one and a quarter quarts of stock, half a carrot, half a turnip, and one onion, also one dessertspoonful of celery salt, a bunch of herbs, two peppercorns and one clove, the herbs being tied in a muslin bag. Bring to the boil gently and simmer for three hours. Take out the meat, skim off the fat, strain and stand until next day. Then strain into a stewpan, add one dessertspoonful of arrowroot previously mixedTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 4 smooth (and, if liked, a little sherry). Stir until it boils, then put in the pieces of meat, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one tablespoonful of carrot and a turnip cut into tiny dice and previously cooked tender. The vegetable garnish can be dispensed with if the soup is liked plain. Foreign oxtails, which are considerably cheaper than English, are excellent for the purpose. Cream of Beetroot Soup 5 Wash, boil and peel a beetroot, and boil one small onion, slice them both. Place in a pan with one quart of plain well-flavoured gravy soup. Simmer till the onion is quite tender. Season to taste with salt. Some people add a little vinegar, others a little sugar. Strain off the soup,which should be clear and a nice pink. Serve very hot, and hand some plain thick cream in a sauceboat with it. Crecy Soup 6 Melt 2 oz. of clarified beef-dripping in a pan. Prepare four sticks of celery and two onions, and slice them into the pan. Wash and scrape six large carrots, cut off all the red part and add it. Cut up 4 oz. of uncooked ham in small pieces and add it also. Put the lid on the pan, and allow the contents to cook ten minutes, then add the stock and cook until the vege- tables are tender. Strain the vegetables and rub through a sieve. Put them back in the pan, with the stock, andSOUPS 5 bring to the boil, skimming off all fat. Let it cook gently for ten minutes, and then add a teaspoonful of castor sugar, salt and pepper, and a little cream if liked, and serve. Puree of Brussels Sprouts (Maigre) 7 Well wash 1 lb. of Brussels sprouts, then throw them into a pan of fast boiling water to which has been added a little soda and salt. Boil till tender ; drain, and rub through a sieve. Add to the pulp about 1J pints of boiling milk. Add salt and pepper, and if possible a little cream. Put it on the fire and bring to nearly boiling point. Take care it does not quite boil, or the colour will be spoilt. Serve in a hot tureen and hand fried bread. Puree St. Germain (Maigre) 8 Soak overnight \ lb. of dried green peas, drain them. Wash 2 oz. of spinach and strip it off the stalks. Put peas and spinach into a clean saucepan with 1 quart of vegetable stock. Boil till the peas are soft, and rub all through a fine wire sieve. Put back in a clean saucepan, if too thick add more stock. Season well. At the last add 1 oz. of butter, take it off the fire and add two table- spoonsful of cream (this may be omitted). Serve with fried bread. Haricot Soup 9 Soak \ lb. of haricot beans in water for one night, thenTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 6 place them in a pan with one quart of water, allow them to boil for four hours, then add one onion cut very small and one carrot grated. Pass all through a sieve, return to the pan, adding § pint of milk, salt and pepper to taste. Allow the soup to boil, and serve. Cabbage Soup io Chop 2 lb. of cabbage and fry slightly in { lb. of drip- ping. Put into a pan with 2 quarts of stock, pepper and salt and seasoning to taste. Boil and then simmer for one hour and twenty minutes. Pass through a sieve, return to pan, then add one dessertspoonful of cornflour pre- viously mixed with a little milk and water. Make very hot, serve with fried bread. Milk Soup ii This is a most useful “ emergency ” soup, as it is quickly prepared, needs no stock, and, if a little cream is added, makes a delicate white soup. Place 1 quart of milk in a saucepan. Beat up the yolks of two eggs with a teaspoonful of flour, and flavour with celery salt and white pepper. Just before the milk boils, stir in the eggs and then be very careful not to let the soup boil,or the eggs will curdle,but keep it simmering while you stew two small sliced onions in a little butter. Simmer these in the soup for ten minutes, then strain into the tureen and serve with tiny dice of fried bread.SOUPS 7 Brown Bread Soup 12 Boil any stale brown bread to a jelly with water and a little milk. Add one onion and a few sticks of celery (or some celery seed tied up in a muslin bag). When the bread is nearly transparent, add enough milk to make it of a creamy consistency, a small piece of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Serve very hot with fried bread. Leek and Vermicelli Soup 13 Four leeks, two potatoes, a slice of bread, one or two bones broken into small pieces, any small trimmings of some bacon, season to taste. Simmer for one hour, strain off and put through a sieve. Add some vermicelli, boil up again,- and serve. Foam Soup 14 1 quart of milk, 2 oz. of butter, two eggs, H oz. of flour, 3 oz. of cheddar cheese, one clove garlic. Melt the butter and the flour, then add the milk gradu- ally, when quite smooth let it boil, and then cool it slightly ; when cool add the cheese and yolks of two eggs well beaten, cook for three minutes. Pour the soup into a tureen, and drop small spoonsful of white of egg (beaten to a stiff froth) into the soup, and sprinkle with parsley, and serve very hot. Season to taste.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK Spring Broth 15 Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, and put in two large carrots and one turnip, each cut into two pieces, one small onion sliced, one leek, a small bunch of parsley, and the outside leaves of one lettuce ; season with a salt- spoonful of salt, half the quantity of black pepper, a pinch of sugar, and a dust of cayenne, and let all the ingredients cook very gently in the butter for fifteen minutes. Then add a tablespoonful of flour, stirring it well into the butter, and moisten gradually with three pints of white stock (the liquor in which a joint of mutton was boiled answers admirably) ; add half a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, half the quantity of celery seed, and a clove, tied together in muslin ; let the soup boil up, and then simmer for an hour, when it should be strained. Cut the carrots and turnips into narrow strips, and put them into a clean stewpan with a handful of finely shred lettuce, and half the green portion of the leek, also cut up ; pour the soup on to the vegetables and let it gradually boil up ; send it to table accompanied by grated cheese. Puree of Parsnips 16 Wash, scrape, and remove any black specks from lib. of parsnips. Cut them in thin slices. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a clean pan. Put in the parsnips and one sliced onion. Stir about for five minutes. Then add 1 quart stock or milk-and-water. Simmer till the vegetables are quite soft. Then rub them through a wire sieve. Re-boil and season. If too thick, thin down with a little milk. Serve with toast cut in dice. SSOUPS 9 Chestnut Puree 17 Boil 12 oz. of chestnuts until all the skin can be re- moved, pass them through a sieve. Put into a pan with one onion, a stick of celery, a sprig of parsley and 1| pints of water. Simmer for an hour and a half, then add § pint of milk, some chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Put through a sieve. Make very hot and serve. Tapioca Cream Soup 18 Wash 1 oz. of crushed tapioca in cold water and put it into a saucepan containing a pint of boiling white stock or milk, which has been previously boiled with two or three sticks of celery, a turnip, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a small bunch of parsley ; stir constantly until the tapioca has swollen, and then leave it to simmer, stirring it only occasionally. Whisk the yolks of two eggs, and mix them with a quarter of a pint of milk (or cream) and when the tapioca is thoroughly cooked pour it into the basin containing the eggs, stir the soup well, add a seasoning of salt and pepper if necessary, and pour it back into the saucepan, and stir it over the fire for two or three minutes ; the soup must not be allowed to boil, or it will curdle. When ready, pour it into a hot tureen and serve with sippets of fried bread. Puree of Curried Vegetables 19 Cut into small pieces two of every vegetable you have, including celery (or celery seed tied in a muslin bag), putTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 10 ail in a pan with 3 pints of water. Bring to the boil, and then simmer until the vegetables are reduced to pulp. Pass through a sieve and add curry powder to taste, mixed smooth with a tablespoonful of flour and small piece of butter and a little milk. Bring to the boil and serve with boiled rice. Celery Soup 20 Put an ounce of butter (or clarified dripping) into a stewpan, and when it is melted add 3 oz. of sliced onion, the same quantity of turnip, and a root of celeriac, which has been well scraped and washed and cut into slices ; cover the pan and let the vegetables simmer very gently for ten minutes, then stir in two tablespoonsful of rice flour, and when it is smoothly mixed with the butter, pour in gradually, stirring all the time, H pints of warm water; continue to stir until the latter has boiled and thickened, then add salt and pepper to taste, a pinch of sugar, and a very small blade of mace ; and let the vegetables cook slowly until they are quite tender. Pass the soup and vegetables through a sieve, and replace in the stewpan (which should first be rinsed), and mix by degrees with a pint of boiling milk ; let the soup simmer until it is required, but do not let it boil. Serve it with grated cheese. Vegetable Marrow Soup 21 Peel one large marrow, cut it up, remove the seeds and put it into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, an onionSOUPS sliced, two sticks of celery, and a bunch of parsley. Cover the pan and let the vegetables simmer gently for six minutes, then add a pint of white stock, and salt, pepper, a dust of powdered sugar, and a tiny blade of mace, and cook the vegetables until they are very soft. Then pass them through a sieve, and put them back into the saucepan to get hot. Boil a pint of milk, season it with celery, salt and pepper, and thicken it with a table- spoonful of rice flour, taking care to allow time for the latter to cook thoroughly ; add the thickened milk to the vegetable puree, stir well and serve very hot, but do not allow the soup to boil. Serve grated cheese with the soup. Cauiflower Soup 22 Wash two small cauliflowers thoroughly, and leave them in cold salted water for half an hour. Put 1 oz. of butter into a stewpan, and when it is melted put in the cauliflowers, after dividing them into small pieces ; add a pinch of salt, a little white pepper, a sprinkle of curry powder (about a small saltspoonful), and a dust of powdered sugar, and let the cauliflowers simmer gently (the soup will be spoilt if they are allowed to fry) for ten minutes ; then add a large teaspoonful of flour, mix it smoothly with the butter, and pour in gradually, stirring all the time, a quart of milk ; cover the pan and let the vegetables cook slowly until they are very tender. Strain the soup and pass the cauliflowers through a fine sieve, and replace in the stewpan ; ascertain that theTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 12 soup has sufficient salt and pepper, and as soon as it is hot serve it with fried sippets. Puree of Broad Beans 23 Put 1 quart of shelled broad beans in a pan of fast boiling salted water. Boil about thirty minutes or till soft. Melt 2 oz. of butter in a saucepan, add two small onions thinly sliced. Remove the outer skins from the beans and add the insides to the butter and onions. Stir over the fire for five minutes, add the stock. Boil until the onion is soft. Wash a handful each of spinach and parsley, and cook in boiling water till tender. Drain, and rub through a hair sieve. Add the pulp to the soup to make it a good green. When the onion is soft rub all the soup through a hair or wire sieve, season and serve. If too thin, thicken with a little cornflour thinly mixed with cold milk, taking care to reboil it after this is done. Asparagus Soup 24 Wash and then boil twenty-four stalks of asparagus, Cut in inch lengths in one quart of water until tender. Reserve the heads. Rub through a sieve and return to the water in which they were boiled. Heat one pint of milk and thicken it with 1 oz. of butter and 1 oz. of flour smoothly mixed. Cook for ten minuutes, stirring frequently. Season with salt and pepper, add the aspar- agus. Bring to the boil and add a little cream and the heads of the asparagus, just before serving.SOUPS 13 Soubise Soup 25 One and a half pints of Avater, half a pint of milk, 1J oz. of butter, two onions, 5 oz. bread, the yolks of one or two eggs, or one gill of cream, pepper and salt to taste. Cut the bread into very thin slices, boil it in the water and milk with the onions sliced, add pepper, salt and the butter ; when thoroughly stewed to a pulp, rub through a wire sieve. Now set it again on the fire, simmer for a few minutes, and just before sending it to table add the cream or the yolks of eggs. Cress Soup 26 Pick and wash a market bunch of cress, and boil for five minutes in a pint and a half of well flavoured white stock, thicken with 1 oz. of flour and 1 oz. of butter smoothly mixed with a little of the stock. When of the consistency of double cream, add a gill of cream, pepper and salt to taste, pour the soup into a hot tureen, throw in a handful of chopped raw cress. Cock-a-Leekie 27 Well wash a dozen leeks, and cut off the heads and roots. Scald the remainder in boiling water for a few minutes, then cut them up small. Having trussed an old fowl as for boiling and simmered it very slowly for three hours in three quarts of water, throw in the leeks and let them cook for an hour, adding pepper and salt. PressTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 14 the leeks through a sieve with the broth. Return the puree to the pan to warm, and add a little cream. Cut up the best part of the fowl into neat pieces, place them in the tureen, and while hot pour the soup over them. The remainder of the fowl may be minced and used for a dry curry. Souffle Soup 28 Slice one onion, one carrot, and mince some parsley and stew for fifteen minutes in enough cold water to cover. Season with salt and pepper. When tender add one pint and a half of milk and a piece of butter the size of a walnut, stew until quite cooked, add half a teaspoonful of potato flour mixed smooth with a little cold milk. Boil for five minutes. Put through a hair sieve. Beat in the yolk of an egg, add also the white of an egg, whipped stiffly and stirred in, and serve at once.15 CHAPTER II Sauces, Glazes, Batters, the Render- ing down and Clarifying of Fat NOTE.—For general directions for sauce- making and recipes for White Roux and Brown Roux, which are the foundations of almost all sauces, and for Melted Butter, and some twenty-seven other recipes for sweet and savoury sauces, see Chapter Y of Ten Shillings a Head for House Boohs. Apple Sauce (Hot) 2g Peel and core half a dozen apples, stew them in water until they are tender; add sugar to taste and pass all through a sieve. Return to the saucepan, add butter the size of a small walnut, make very hot and serve. A little vinegar or lemon-juice is sometimes added. Mint Sauce (Cold) 30 Chop the mint very line, put it into a basin and add16 SAUCES, GLAZES, ETC, sugar—1 large teaspoonful for every tablespoonful of chopped mint, then add some vinegar and pour into a sauceboat ready for use. Oil and Vinegar Sauce (Cold) 31 Three tablespoonsful of oil, add drop by drop one tablespoonful of vinegar, also salt and pepper to taste and, if liked, a little mustard. Chutney Sauce (Hot) 32 Take four tablespoonsful of chutney and six of brown sauce, a little French mustard and a tablespoonful of ketchup and the same of strong stock, boil together for three minutes, rub through a sieve and serve. Celery Sauce (Hot) 33 Wash and cut in small pieces three or four small celery heads, and boil in salt and water for twenty minutes. Then drain and put into a clean saucepan, covering them with stock. Add salt and a blade of mace, and stew all until tender. Mix 2 oz. of butter with a dessert- spoonful of flour, and when smooth stir into it a cupful of milk, mix this with the celery and stock, make thor- oughly hot for about fifteen minutes, but do not let it boil. Celeriac may be treated in the same way.SAUCES, GLAZES, ETC. 17 c 34 Liver Sauce (for Poultry) (Hot) Wash a chicken's liver in water and boil it for a few minutes, mince and pass through a wire sieve and add to it quarter of a lemon rind, grated. Make an ordinary brown sauce, add the liver to it, also the lemon. Make hot gradually, but do not boil, or the sauce will curdle. Chestnut Sauce (Hot) 35 Scald J lb. of chestnuts and remove all skin. Boil them in a saucepan with half a pint of white stock and quarter of a lemon peel. Simmer until quite tender. Rub through a hair sieve and return to the saucepan. Add quarter of a pint of milk and seasoning to taste. Stir all the time, but do not let the sauce boil. Serve very hot as quickly as possible. Mustard Sauce (Hot) 36 Fry 2 oz. of butter and 1£ oz. of fine flour together. Mix with half a pint of water, stir until it boils, add the juice of a lemon, a taste of cayenne, two teaspoonsful of thick made mustard and two tablespoonsful of milk or cream, put through a tammy or sieve, make hot and serve. Mustard Sauce (Cold) 37 (To serve with herrings or mackerel.) Pound together two large sardines skinned and boned, a sprig of parsley and tarragon, some shallots and aTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 18 little garlic with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Stir into this mustard powder to taste, add slowly drop by drop oil and vinegar, work it to a smooth cream and use. Brown Onion Sauce (Hot) 38 Peel two medium-sized onions, wash them and chop them up, but not too finely. Melt an ounce of butter (or dripping) in a stewpan, add the minced onions and let them fry very gently over a slow fire, stirring them frequently until they are evenly browned. Then pour in half a pint of brown sauce ; add a teaspoonful of tarra- gon vinegar, a drop or two of Parisian essence to improve the colour, cayenne, and salt and freshly-ground black pepper to taste, and let the sauce simmer for twenty minutes. Pass it all through a sieve, then re-heat it and pour into a hot tureen. White Onion Sauce (Hot) 39 Peel some onions and soak them in salted water for fifteen minutes, then boil them until tender, drain, chop and rub through a sieve. Make half a pint of melted butter sauce (made with milk), add the onion, salt and pepper, make very hot and serve. Bread Sauce (very good) (Hot) 40 Scald and boil till tender a smallish onion. Grate about i lb. of stale crumbs. Put a pint of milk in a stewpan over a low fire, and as it approaches boilingSAUCES 19 pass into it a tablespoonful of crumbs, continue adding crumbs and stirring over the fire until the mixture attains the consistency of thick batter; now put in the onion, and pass all through a hair sieve, season with salt and white pepper, heat up again, and finish with three table- spoonsful of cream, which will bring the sauce to its proper consistence. Spice can, of course, be added by those who like it. A (Hot) Savoury Sauce (for Cutlets, Steaks, etc.) 41 Melt some butter in an enamelled pan, and when it bubbles put in a small quantity of finely-minced onion ; let this cook for a few minutes, then add enough flour to absorb the butter, stir well, and pour in gradually some hot stock, stirring continually till the sauce appears of the right thickness, when a saltspoonful of made mustard, a teaspoonful of tomato sauce and the same quantity of vinegar and a little Parisian essence should be added. Allow the sauce to simmer for a short time, then put through a sieve and serve. White Sauce for Masking Cold Fowls, etc. 42 The following is a good sauce for fricassees, masking, boiled fowl, etc. Cut half a small onion into slices, and put it into a saucepan with a pint of milk, then add a stick of celery, or some essence of celery, a small blade of mace, a few thin pieces of lemon-peel, a small bunch of parsley, and salt and white pepper to taste ; let the milk boil up and then simmer until it is well flavoured,THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 20 when it should be strained and used. Work some butter and flour together (using two ounces of butter and the same quantity of flour for the above quantity of milk) until a smooth paste is formed, and proceed as for melted butter. If the sauce is required for a cold boiled fowl, or for some cold entrde which has to be masked with white chaudfroid, before taking it from the stove add rather more than | ounce of gelatine which has been soaked in a little milk ; when it has dissolved add a teaspoonful of lemon-juice and strain the sauce into a basin and use when it is cooling. Horseradish Sauce (Cold) 43 Two tablespoonsful of grated horseradish, one table- spoonful of white vinegar, one teaspoonful of mustard made with milk, salt to taste. Place the grated horse- radish in the tureen, add the salt and vinegar and mix well. The mustard should be very thin and made with milk, stir all well together, and add tablespoonful of cream. Anchovy Sauce (Hot) 44 To i pint of creamy melted butter add a .small dessertspoonful of anchovy essence, a few drops of lemon- juice, a dust of cayenne, and five or six drops of carmine to improve the colours. Shrimp Sauce (Hot) 45 Follow the recipe for anchovy sauce, but add fiveSAUCES 21 minutes before serving | pint of picked shrimps, but do not let them boil. Laver Sauce (for Fish) (Hot) 46 Put a pound of laver into a stewpan with 3 oz. of fresh butter, squeeze over it the juice of a lemon or a Seville orange and stir it with a silver fork until it is quite hot. Serve as hot as possible. Instead of the butter a little gravy may be put into the pan ; but lemon should never be omitted. Lemon Sauce (to Serve with Sweet Puddings) (Hot) 47 Put 2 oz. of sugar, a gill and a half of water with the juice of one lemon, and boil for ten minutes ; add the grated rind of a lemon and a teaspoonful of cornflour previously smoothly mixed with cold water. Stir all over the fire until the sauce thickens, and serve. Yellow Sauce (Hot) 48 Melt 2 oz. of fresh butter in a pan, and add by slow degrees If oz. of fine sifted flour, stirring all the time. Stir until the sauce will leave a clean place in the pan when lifted up in the spoon. Add very gradually half a pint of hot milk, stirring all the time ; should any lumps form, stir them away before adding more milk. When all the milk is in, boil for ten minutes, stirring now and then. Beat up the yolk of an egg with a littleTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 22 milk or cream, add a few drops of lemon-juice, salt, and white pepper. Add to the sauce, but do not let it boil again, or it will curdle. Pour through a strainer into a hot sauceboat. When making the egg and cream mixture, beat egg, salt, and pepper together, then mix in the lemon-juice drop by drop, and then stir in the cream by degrees. If you poured the lemon-juice into the cream it would curdle. This same sauce may be made with white meat or fish stock, or with water, and the egg may be omitted. Guards’ Sauce (Sweet) (Cold) 49 Beat to a light white cream equal quantities of best fresh butter and castor sugar, flavour with a squeeze of lemon-juice and a teaspoonful of brandy (one teaspoonful to 2 oz. of butter and 2 oz. of sugar, but the quantity of brandy is rather a matter of taste), set on ice until needed, and serve in a glass dish with plum pudding. Sweet Sauce (Hot) 50 Two tablespoonsful of single cream, the juice of half a lemon, and one tablespoonful of brown sugar ; work it together in a basin until it forms a thick cream (about ten minutes), then stand in a pan of hot water until warm. It must not boil, or it will curdle. Cucumber Sauce (Cold) 51 Peel half a cucumber and boil it in water until quiteSAUCES 23 tender, put it through a hair sieve and leave till cold. Whip half a teacupful of cream (not too stiffly) with half a teaspoonful of salt and a dust of white pepper. Add drop by drop one teaspoonful of best oil and ditto white wine vinegar and ditto strained lemon-juice and a pinch of castor sugar. When all is creamy add the cucumber by degrees and whip all together. Be very careful to avoid curdling—if the acids are added too quickly this is certain to occur. Colour with a little Sap green, if liked, but the sauce should be very pale in colour. Serve cold or iced with turbot or salmon. Cucumber Sauce (Hot) 52 Add the cucumber puree to an ordinary melted butter sauce made with milk and add 1 teaspoonful of cream just before serving. Brown Glaze (Cold) (For Pressed Beef, Tongue, etc.) 53 Break up fine any bones you have, raw or cooked. For half a pint of glaze the bones of a leg or shoulder of mutton or a joint of beef would suffice. Of raw bones, 1 lb. Cover with cold water, cover the pan and boil for two or three hours. (In this case the bones should be boiled, not simmered.) Steam, leave till cold, remove all the fat, boil up again, clear with theTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 24 crushed shell of one egg, strain through a clean muslin, add about half a teaspoonful of Parisian essence and three drops of vanilla. Use when just beginning to set, but before it becomes lumpy. When using cooked bones it is necessary to add two to three sheets of gelatine for half a pint of glaze. Soak it in cold water, drain off the water, and add to the glaze after the fat is removed. If using raw bones, gelatine is unnecessary. Brown glaze may be bought by the ounce, but is con- siderably more expensive than that which is made at home. Brown Glaze (Hot) (For Cutlets, Fillets, etc.) 54 To make half a pint of glaze have a good half-pint of well flavoured brown stock. Mix one dessertspoonful of potato flour smoothly with a little cold stock. Add to the remainder of the stock and boil up for three minutes. Strain and keep hot until required. This sticks to the cutlets and makes them look well glazed. White Glaze (Hot) (For Chicken, Sweetbread or Veal Cutlets) 55 This is made in just the same way as the hot brown glaze, but white stock or milk is employed.GLAZES 25 White Glaze (Cold) (For Chickens or Galantines) 56 Strain oft the liquor in which the chicken or veal has been cooked, let it grow cold, remove the fat, clear with the whipped white and crushed shell of one egg, and to half a pint of this clear white stock add three sheets of gelatine and half a teacupful of milk. Make it all hot together, but do not let it boil, or it will curdle. Use just before it sets. Some cooks use this glaze for cold boiled chickens, others prefer a white sauce, such as No. 42, which is not quite so smooth looking. Frying Batter for Fish, Meat Fritters, etc. 57 Whip two eggs and mix in with them about two tablespoonsful of flour, which is generally sufficient to make a stiff batter. Then add by degrees one-third of a pint of milk, salt and pepper; cover, and put by for an hour or two. Be sure that the article to be fried is quite dry before it is dipped in the batter. Frying Batter for Sweet Fritters, etc. 58 Proceed as before, but flavour with sugar instead of salt and pepper, and add a saltspoonful of baking powder to the flour.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 26 Frying Batters (without Eggs) 59 Take 2 tablespoonsful of fine dry flour and add a pinch of salt and a pinch of baking powder. Mix by degrees with cold milk until you have a batter of the consistency of thick cream. To Clarify Dripping 60 Dripping is obtained from roasted meat and is the fat which drips from it under heat. It is used to baste the meat, and what remains should be clarified and used for frying, for making plain pastry, and cakes, etc. Some of the famous French chefs regarded dripping as the best of all frying mediums, and there is no doubt, if properly clarified and used in the right quantities, beef dripping is excellent in many cases as a substitute for butter or lard. Pour the dripping into a clean large basin and cover with boiling water. Let the dripping cool a little before adding the water, or it may sputter and scald the hands. Leave until perfectly cold. It will then have formed into a hard cake of pure fat and the water and sediment will have sunk to the bottom of the basin. Lift off the fat and wipe any gravy which may adhere to the lower side and put away in a clean basin. To Render down Fat 61 The skimmings of fat from stocks should be treated in the same way as dripping, and are excellent for frying.GLAZES 27 All pieces of fat trimmed from meat cooked or un- cooked should be cut into pieces, put into a tin and melted in the oven, and then clarified as dripping. All kinds of fat may be mixed and used for frying, but beef dripping should be reserved for cake and pastry making. Fat in which fish has been fried should be kept for that purpose only, as it would impart a fishy smell to other articles fried in it. After frying, the dripping must be re-clarified. Thus treated, it can be used over and over again. Yorkshire Pudding, Erica’s Recipe (enough for four people) 62 One egg, nearly one teacupful of flour, salt, half a pint of milk. Beat up the egg, add the milk, whisk in the flour very gently, only about a thimbleful at a time, not to make it lumpy, until the batter is like thick cream. Pour into a flat tin in which dripping is boiling. Bake in a hot oven for not less than forty minutes.28 CHAPTER III Fish NOTE.—For hints on choosing fish and for forty-three recipes, see Chapter V of Ten Shillings a Head. To Fillet Fish It is more economical to do this at home, as then the trimmings may be used for rissoles and the bones and head for a stock or for sauce. To fillet a sole, lemon sole or plaice, skin the fish and lay it flat on the table, and with a cook’s knife cut the flesh right down the back bone and then round the fins. Ease the flesh from the back-bone by means of the knife, and, so to speak, peel the four pieces of fish away from it. A small sole will make four fillets. If a large fish is used these four fillets may be divided into eight. It is necessary to use a cook’s knife,FISH 29 and it must be extremely sharp, otherwise it is impossible to skin or fillet the fish neatly. To Boil Fish When the fish is thick, allow ten minutes to the pound. Wash and wipe the fish thoroughly. Have ready the fish kettle partly full of boiling water, slightly salted and flavoured with vinegar. Put in the fish, boil for five minutes, and then simmer until done. Drain thoroughly before serving. For thin fish allow about five minutes per pound. Fresh fish must be placed in boiling water. Salt fish in cold water, and should be soaked before it is cooked. As a rule, however, fish should not be boiled, it is far better to steam it. Steamed fish is a better colour, and loses less of its quality in cooking. To Steam Fish Wash and wipe the fish and place it in the steamer. Bring the water in the pan to the boil, place the steamer in the pan and put on the lid.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 30 Keep the water boiling fast, and fill up with more boiling water if necessary. Allow a quarter of an hour per pound for steaming thick fish, and seven or eight minutes per pound for thin fish. One or two steamers should be included in the outfit of kitchen utensils. They may be had in various sizes to fit into large or small saucepans or stewpans. If, however, no steamer is to hand, place a dish or saucer upside down in the pan and stand a plate or dish or tin on this and place the fish on it. The water should not touch the fish, as the cooking is accomplished by steam only. To Bake Fish Place the fish on a greased baking tin or fire- proof dish, pour a little stock, milk, water, or wine and water round, add pepper and salt, and cover with a buttered paper. Bake in a moder- ate oven, and allow about the same time as for boiling. To Fry Fish Be sure that the fish to be fried is wiped very dry, otherwise the egg and crumbs or batter withFISH 31 which it is coated will not adhere, also the cold moisture will cool the fat in which the article to be fried is cooked. Have ready a stewpan half full of carefully clarified fat (dripping is the best of all fats for the purpose, and directions for clarifying fat are given on page 26), and if you are not an experienced cook test the heat by means of a piece of bread. When the bread browns quickly and crisply the fat is sufficiently hot to use. Have a frying basket (which is quite inexpensive) of a smaller size than the stewpan, place the fish in it, and plunge it into the fat. When a golden brown remove, drain, and lay on paper in the oven. When free from all taste of grease, serve. These directions apply to rissoles, croquettes, fillets of fish, etc./ and to rissoles, etc., of rice, meat, etc., also. When a very large sole must be fried a frying kettle will be required, but as a rule a stewpan and frying basket to fit it answers the purpose. Fillets of Cod with Parsnip Puree (Hot) 63 Cut three or four slices of fresh cod into pieces an inch thick, sprinkle all over with lemon juice, pepper and salt, roll round and tie each into shape. Butter a baking tin well, place the fish in it, cover with well-THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 32 buttered paper and cook in a moderate oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes, baste with the liquor in the tin, and turn the fillets once while baking. When cooked untie the cod shoes, but keep them in shape. Arrange round a hot dish, filling the centre with parsnip puree which has been made as follows. Boil the parsnips as usual, rub them through a sieve and mix them quite smoothly with a little white pepper, salt, milk or cream. This dish is equally good if served with potato puree or rice and a curry sauce. Filleted Haddock with Brown Sauce (Hot) 64 Inexpensive fish, such as fresh haddock, plaice, whiting, etc., can be served according to the following method: Butter a fireproof dish and place the fillets of fish on it, and cover them thickly with white bread- crumbs which have been seasoned with salt and cayenne. Pour round the fish some sauce made as below. Then cook for about twenty minutes in a quick oven. To prepare the sauce, add to half a pint of brown sauce, which has been thickened and flavoured to taste, a dessertspoonful of tomato catsup, let it boil up and pour round the dish, but not over the breadcrumbs. Just before serving scatter some finely-chopped parsley over the contents of the dish. Serve in the dish in which the fish was cooked. Sole a la Colbert (Hot) 65 Wash, trim, and diy a fresh sole, or lemon sole, make an incision down the length of the backbone on theFISH 33 d under side of the fish, and break the bone at each end about half an inch from the head and from the tail; rub the sole over with lemon, flour it and then dip it into beaten egg and cover it thickly with fine crumbs which have been seasoned with salt and pepper ; fry in a bath of boiling fat until cooked (about ten or twelve minutes according to the size), when it should be golden brown in colour. Put the fish, under side uppermost, on blotting paper placed on a very hot plate, and with a fork remove the backbone and quickly fill in the space with plenty of maitre d’hotel butter ; dish up as quickly as possible, with the split side downwards, and garnish with parsley. Fillets of Sole and Macaroni au Gratin (Hot) 66 Take several small fillets of sole (lemon sole or plaice), lay them in lemon-juice and pepper. Grease a flat fire- proof dish, place in it a layer of small boiled macaroni, then the fish, then a little more macaroni. Moisten well with fish or any white stock, and cook in the oven until the fish is done. Make ready some good white sauce, flavoured with cheese, pour over, sprinkle with fine crumbs, salt and pepper, and brown in the oven. Lemon Sole au Gratin (Hot) 67 Fillet the fish and sprinkle wdth lemon-juice. Take a fireproof dish, grease it and sprinkle it with parsley, shallot, chopped mushroom, and sliced tomato. Lay the fish on the mixture, and sprinkle a little moreTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 34 over it. Add some little lumps of butter and a glass of light white wine or stock. Bake until done (about fifteen minutes). Strain off the liquor, thicken it with butter and flour, add a little grated cheese, and mix until smooth and cooked. Pour over the fish, sprinkle with brown crumbs, brown for a few minutes, and sprinkle with a little coralline pepper before serving. Tournedos of Plaice (Hot) 68 (Haddock or whiting may be used for this dish.) Fillet the plaice, roll up each fillet, sprinkle with lemon-juice and white pepper. Place in a greased fire- proof dish, pour a little stock, water, or wine-and-water, over the fish. Cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven. Strain off the liquor and use it as the foundation of the following sauce— Sauce for Tournedos of Plaice One small dessertspoonful of essence of anchovy, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and the liquor wrhich flows from fish when baked in the oven ; add these to half a pint of good melted butter. Stir over the fire until well mixed, and pour over the baked fillets. Casserole of Fish (Hot) 69 Take some small fillets of plaice or sole and roll them up. Place them in a casserole pot with some sliced potatoes (parboiled), tomatoes, peppercorns, and a small onion ; salt them and cover with stock ; place in aFISH 35 moderate oven for half an hour ; remove the gravy, strain, and thicken with cornflour and a little cream, and add half a wineglassful of sherry. Return to the oven for ten minutes and serve in the casserole pot. Fish Pie with Pastry Crust (Hot) 70 Lay in a pie dish nice-sized pieces of cooked salmon or any fish you may have (several kinds of fish may be mixed), and use all the trimmings to make the following forcemeat : Pound the trimmings of fish in a mortar, mix with some butter, breadcrumbs, anchovy paste, parsley, pepper, and salt until of a doughlike con- sistency. Arrange the fish and forcemeat in layers, and pour over all some fish stock. Cover with paste, and bake as an ordinary meat pie. Fish Faggots (Hot) 71 Take the remains of some cooked white fish, free it from bones and skin, weigh it, and divide it into small pieces with two forks. Pass some boiled potatoes through a sieve while they are still hot, add a lump of butter to them, and pepper and salt and a small quantity of milk, and beat the potatoes with a wooden spoon until they are light and creamy. Weigh the potato, and take rather more than half the weight of the fish ; mix the potato and fish together, season with celery, salt, pepper, cayenne, then stir in a small quantity of anchovy sauce and a little finely chopped parsley, andTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 36 moisten with sufficient beaten egg to form a fairly stiff paste. Take a small portion of the mixture at a time and gradually form the whole into little cork-shaped rissoles on a floured board. Dip them into beaten egg and then roll them in fine breadcrumbs which have been seasoned with salt and pepper ; leave them for ten minutes and dip into egg again, and then cover them thickly with finely broken vermicelli, and at the end of ten minutes fry the faggots in a bath of boiling fat; drain well and serve very hot. Fish Fritters (Hot) 72 Make a batter by adding 4 oz. of flour by degrees to a quarter of a pint of tepid water which has been mixed with a dessertspoonful of oil, and stir until it is perfectly smooth ; sprinkle in a little salt and pepper ; cover the basin with a cloth and let the batter stand for at least an hour. When it is required, add some cooked white fish which has been broken up into small pieces, and seasoned with salt and cayenne, and stir in lightly the stiffly whisked white of an egg. Take a small spoonful of the mixture at a time and drop it into a bath of boiling fat and fry until the fritter is a pale brown ; drain the fritters on paper and garnish with dried parsley. Turbot Grating a la Bourgeoise (Hot) 73 Take about 1^ lb. of cold boiled turbot or other white fish—halibut or cod is equally good for the purpose-FISH 37 free it carefully from skin and bone, and break it up into flakes. Arrange it neatly in the middle of a fireproof dish. Have ready some smoothly mashed potatoes, and mix with them the yolks of two eggs, 2 oz. of butter, and season with salt and a tiny pinch of nutmeg. Heap this roughly around the fish. Pour half a pint of white sauce over the fish, grate a little cheese over the top of all, and place in a hot oven for twenty minutes. Serve very brown and hot. Filleted Haddock with Mayonnaise Sauce (Cold) 74 Take some filleted fresh haddock, and if the fillets are large cut each into two pieces, rub them over with lemon- juice and place them on a baking tin between sheets of buttered paper, and cook for fifteen minutes in a moder- ately hot oven. When the fish is cold, mask it thickly with mayonnaise, and then arrange some French capers in rows, not too close together, on the top of each piece. Make a surround on a dish with some finely shred lettuce and place some thin shoes of cucumber upon it. For mayonnaise sauce see page 84 of Ten Shillings a Head for House Books. Scalloped Haddock (Hot) 75 Make half a pint of thick melted butter sauce ; season it with salt and pepper, and add a pinch of curry-powderTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 38 to it, and then stir in a hard-boiled egg which has been coarsely chopped. Remove the skin and bones from a cooked dried haddock (of medium size), and with two forks divide it into flakes. Butter a fireproof dish, and put in alternate layers of the sauce and fish; scatter some browned crumbs over the top and bake in the oven for fifteen minutes. Baked Fresh Haddock with Shrimps (Hot) 76 Make half a pint of melted butter, using milk and no water ; season it well with salt, cayenne and pepper, and add to it half a pint of picked shrimps. Cut some un- cooked fresh haddock into pieces of convenient size, and place two or three in a buttered fireproof dish, cover them with the sauce, and then put more fish and more sauce until the dish is full; scatter some breadcrumbs over the top, place a few pieces of butter on the crumbs, and bake ha a quick oven until they are evenly browned. Filleted Haddock a la Genoise 77 Make a marinade by mixing two tablespoonsful of salad oil with one tablespoonful of vinegar, a finely minced onion, a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, the same quantity of parsley, and a liberal seasoning of pepper and salt. Place some fillets of fresh haddock in the mixture, and leave them for about an hour before they are cooked. Wipe them, dip them into a thick fayingFISH 39 batte:, and fry them in boiling fat. Serve garnished with lried parsley. Scrambled Kippers (Hot) 78 Whisk four eggs until they are light and frothy. Add two tablespoonsful of milk, a few drops of anchovy sauce and two large tablespoonsful of kippers which have been cooked and divided into flakes ; season with salt and pepper. Put a piece of butter about the size of a walnut into a small saucepan ; as soon as it melts pour in the egg mixture and stir until it begins to set. While it is creamy remove the pan from the fire. Have ready some buttered scallop shells, fill these with the scrambled fish. Scatter some browned crumbs, which have been seasoned with salt and pepper, over the top of each, and bake in a quick oven for five minutes. Fried Hake (Hot) 79 Rub some neat fillets of hake over with a slice of cut lemon and sprinkle them with pepper and salt; dip them into a thick batter, and fry in a bath of boiling fat until the batter is a golden brown. Timbale of Fish and Rice (Hot) 80 Put 1 oz. of butter into a saucepan, with 2 oz. of flour ; mix well together and pour in by degrees half aTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 40 pint of warm milk in which a slice of onion has been boiled, and stir until the sauce is smooth and duck. Pass | lb. of raw whiting (any kind of white fish will do) from which the bones have been removed, through a mincing machine, add it to the sauce, then season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and a little nutmeg, and stir in one well-beaten egg. Butter a plain mould or bisin, and line it evenly all over with some rice which has been boiled until quite tender, then fill up the basin with the prepared fish, put a layer of rice over it, cover vith a piece of buttered paper, place a saucer or small plate over it, and steam very gently for three-quarters of an hour. When done turn out the timbale and serve with a ittle chopped parsley scattered over it, and thick white sauce poured round the dish. This can also be made vith cooked fish, and baked instead of steamed. Lobster Cutlets (Hot) 81 Remove the flesh from the body of a lobster, or use tinned lobster, and cut it up. Pound some coral in a mortar with J oz. of butter, and rub it through a hair sieve. Spawn may be substituted for coral, and in this case need not be pounded. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, mix in 1 oz. of flour, add a gill of cold water, and stir until it thickens. Then add the coral and butter, and cook well. Next two tablespoonsful of cream, a few drops of lemon-juice, cayenne pepper, salt, and lastly the chopped lobster. Spread the mixture on a plate to cool. When cool shape into cutlets. Egg and breadcrumb, and fry in hot fat in a frying basket.FISH 41 Place a piece of the feeler in each to represent a bone, and garnish with fried parsley. Lobster Cutlets in Aspic (Cold) 82 Shape some of the lobster cutlet mixture into cutlets. Foil in dried and powdered coral, and put a piece of feeler in each. Pour a little aspic jelly into a clean Yorkshire pudding tin. When set lay the cutlets on it and pour in gently enough warm aspic to cover them. When firm cut them out with a border of aspic to each, and serve on chopped aspic. For aspic jelly, see Mutton Cutlets in Aspic, page 118, Ten Shillings a Head {or House Books. Fish Cutlets (Hot) 83 Take some cooked fish, remove the skin and bones and break it up with two forks. Put the mixture into a saucepan and moisten it with sufficient thick melted butter sauce to make a fairly soft paste ; stir it over the fire until it is thoroughly heated, then add a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley. Season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, stir in a little beaten egg, and spread on a dish to cool. Divide the mixture and take about a dessertspoonful of it at a time, and mould it into the shape of a cutlet on a floured board. When all are ready, dip them into beaten egg, and then into fine breadcrumbs ; repeat the process and let them stand forTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 42 at least fifteen minutes before frying them ; serve on a d’oyley, garnished with fried parsley. Baked Slips (Hot) 84 Wash and dry these little fish. Brush them over with some melted butter. Cover the white side with crumbs. Place them in a baking tin with the crumbed side upper- most. Dust with pepper and salt. Put a few tiny bits of butter on the top. Bake in a quick oven about ten minutes. Cod’s-roe Cutlets (Hot) 85 The roe must first of all be parboiled, so put it into a pan of boiling water with a little salt, and cook it for five minutes. Try and keep the skin of the roe unbroken if possible. Then take it out and put it into cold water for a couple of minutes. Boil again slowly for thirty minutes, but add to the water one tablespoonful of vinegar and a tablespoonful of salt. When cooked let it drain and get cold. Then cut it into slices about half an inch thick, and trim them to a neat shape. Beat up an egg, brush the slices over with it, and cover them with crumbs ; then fry in boiling fat a golden brown. Drain on paper ; serve on croutons of fried bread spread lightly with anchovy paste, garnished with fried parsley and cut lemon. Scallop Fritters (Hot) 86 Choose about half a dozen scallops with the flesh firmFISH 43 and white, and the roe a bright orange colour. Wash them thoroughly, and trim off the beards and black parts. Put them into enough hot water and milk to cover them, add a little salt and a few parsley stalks. Simmer very slowly about half an hour, or till they can be easily pierced with a skewer. They should not feel in the least tough. Then lift them up, drain, and cool for a few minutes. Cut each scallop in half, so as to form two thick round shoes. Dip each slice in frying batter. Fry in hot fat a golden brown ; drain on paper. Serve very hot. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. For recipe for batter, see page 25. Baked Mackerel (Hot) 87 Remove the heads and tails from the fish, split them open, take out the backbone and divide them into fillets. Brush these over with a little melted dripping, and cover them thickly with fine white breadcrumbs, which have been well seasoned with salt and pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, and then mixed with some chopped onion, parsley, and a small quantity of thyme. Place the fillets on a greased baking tin, and cook them in a moderately hot oven for thirty minutes, by which time they should be nicely browned. Soused Mackerel (Cold) 88 Wash the fish, and, after drying it, rub it well all over with a teaspoonful of fine salt mixed with half theTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 44 quantity of mixed spice. Place the fish in a deep stone- ware pie dish, add two bay leaves, a blade of mace, thirty whole peppers, half a teaspoonful of grated lemon peel, a shallot minced, and a teaspoonful of mixed herbs tied in muslin. Pour in sufficient boiling vinegar to cover the mackerel, place a piece of greased paper over it, and cover closely with a flat dish, and let the fish cook in a slow oven for two hours ; it should be turned once during the process of cooking. Serve cold in the dish in which it was cooked. Curried Shrimps in Rice Cases (Hot or Cold) 89 Boil some rice until it is quite tender in salted water with a small onion stuck with two cloves, drain it thoroughly, add a piece of butter, and spread it evenly on a flat dish to about the thickness of an inch. When quite cold cut the rice out into medium-sized rounds and make a hollow in the middle, flour them lightly, then dip them into beaten egg, cover them with fine dry bread- crumbs, and fry them in a bath of boiling fat until they are a golden brown, and keep them hot if not required at once. Put a tablespoonful of dripping into a frying- pan with a dessertspoonful of minced onion and half a dessertspoonful of curry powder, and fry all together until the onion is lightly browned. Stir in a tablespoon- ful of flour, and mix it to a paste with the other ingre- dients, and let it cook for a few minutes, then moisten it gradually with about half a pint of milk, stirring quickly until the sauce is smooth and thick. Season it with salt and pepper, and strain ; if it is too thick add a little more milk. Put the sauce into a small stewpanFISH 45 and add half a pint of picked shrimps, and let them simmer in it for a quarter of an hour, then fill the rice cases with the curried shrimps and serve them very hot. The above quantity is only sufficient for a small dish. If preferred, the curry can be served cold; in this case the rice cases should not be fried, but merely sprinkled on the outside with chopped parsley, and filled with the curry as soon as the latter is quite cold. Fish Souffle (Hot) go Remove the bones and skin from one or two whiting (or any other uncooked fish), weigh \ lb. of the fish and pass it through a mincing machine, or rub it through a wire sieve. Put 1 oz. of butter into a saucepan and mix it well with 2 oz. of flour which has been dried and sifted, and pour in gradually rather less than half a pint of hot milk; stir quickly until the sauce is smooth and thick, let it simmer for five minutes, then add two beaten eggs and strain it into a basin. Add the fish to the sauce ; season the mixture with salt and pepper. Butter a small china souffle mould, nearly fill it with the prepared fish ; cover with buttered paper and steam very gently for fifty minutes. Serve the souffle in the mould with a little chopped parsley scattered over the top. Mock Whitebait (Hot) 91 Flatten out some fillets of whiting on a floured board, and with a sharp knife cut them into strips of about the size of large whitebait. Flour a cloth well and toss the strips of fish lightly in it, until they are thoroughlyTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 46 coated with the flour. Have ready in a saucepan a good supply of boiling fat; place some of the “ whitebait ” in a wire frying basket, taking care not to put in too many at a time, and when the fat is boiling, plunge the basket into it; directly the fish becomes a pale golden colour remove the basket, holding it for a few seconds over the pan to drain, and then turn the contents on to a dish covered with soft paper ; and let the fish dry while the remainder is cooked ; the fat must be boiled up every time before the basket is immersed in it. When ready, sprinkle a little cayenne and a dust of fine salt over the “ whitebait,” and serve them with thin brown bread and butter and lemon cut into small pieces. Mazarin of Fish (Hot) 92 Remove all skin and bone from any raw fish you may have, and pound 5 oz. of it in a mortar until smooth. Put the bones and trimmings in a saucepan with a little water to make stock. When this stock is done, soak in it 2 oz. of fine stale breadcrumb ; squeeze it, stir it over the fire until dry, and then beat into it the yolk of an egg. When cold mix in the fish, add a little piece of butter (the size of a lump of sugar), pepper and salt, and one whole egg. Steam gently in a buttered mould, resting the mould on paper, and putting paper over it. When done, let it rest a minute on the table ; tap it sharply on the table to loosen it from the mould. Turn out, and serve with or without sauce. Decorate with chopped truffle, or leave it plain. It you have a fancy fish mould, fill the top ornamentation with some of the mixture, coloured pink, and leave the remainder plain.FISH 47 Filleted Herrings (Hot) 93 Remove the heads and fins from some fresh herrings and carefully split each open, remove the backbone, and divide the fish into two fillets. Flour the fillets, and fry them in plenty of boiling fat, drain them hi front of the fire, and serve very hot with a little maitre d’hotel butter poured over each fillet. For the maitre d’hotel butter put into a small sauce- pan about 2 oz. of butter, a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, a little cayenne pepper, and the juice of one small lemon. Stir the ingredients over a slow fire, but do not let them boil, and when the butter is of the consistency of cream it is ready for use. Baked Herrings (Hot) 94 Fillet some fresh herrings, sprinkle them with a few drops of lemon-juice, and brush them over with some melted dripping or butter, then cover them thickly with fine browned breadcrumbs which have been mixed with some chopped parsley, and seasoned with salt, black pepper, and a little nutmeg. Coat a white china baking dish lightly with dripping or butter, place the fillets in it, and let them cook in a well heated oven for from twenty to thirty minutes. The herrings should be served in the dish in which they are cooked. Devilled Crab (Hot) g5 Have ready the meat of a crab, clean the shell, and put it aside until required. To a gill of thick whiteTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 48 sauce add two tablespoonsful of cream, two teaspoons- ful of anchovy sauce, a teaspoonful of chili vinegar, a small teaspoonful each of French and English mustard, a pinch of salt and cayenne, an eschalot chopped very fine, and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley ; add the meat to the sauce, stir all together for a minute or two, and then fill the shell with the mixture ; smooth the top, brush over with oiled butter, and sprinkle with brown crumbs which have been seasoned with salt and pepper, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve on a d’oyley, garnished with parsley. Boiled Fish Pudding (Hot) g6 Line a basin with some pastry, and cut any white fish you may wish to use into small pieces and dredge with salt, pepper, flour, and a few minced savoury herbs. Put the fish into the basin with some force- meat balls and some pieces of fat bacon. Add some fish stock (this may be made of the trimmings of the fish) which has been thickened with butter and flour. Fill the basin, cover with crust, tie a cloth over and boil for two hours. For the pastry and general direc- tions, see Beef Steak Pudding, page 125 of Ten Shillings a Head. Mayonnaise of Cod (Cold) 97 Divide some cooked cod into neat square pieces and coat them with mayonnaise sauce which has been coloured a pale pink with carmine and stiffened with a little gelatine (two sheets of gelatine to half a pint of sauce. Dissolve it in water and add very graduallyFISH 49 e to the oil with which the mayonnaise is made). When the sauce has set arrange the squares in an entree dish and surround with a border of salad. Decorate each square with a little chopped truffle, parsley, or yolk of egg. This is an excellent dish for Sunday supper. It can also be made with salmon or turbot. Dominoes (Cold) 98 A more elaborate dish may be achieved by spreading the squares of fish with anchovy paste worked together with half as much butter and masking with mayonnaise sauce and decorating like dominoes. Serve in a flat mould of aspic jelly and garnish with cress or shred lettuce. Fish Custard Pie (Hot) 99 Line a medium-size fireproof dish with a short crust, put some uncooked rice into it and bake it till half done, remove the rice, have ready two eggs beaten with half a pint of milk and about 6 oz. of cooked fish broken into flakes. Flavour with minced parsley, cayenne, and salt, and bake till nicely brown and set. Serve in the dish very hot. Lobster & la Marie (Hot) 100 Half a tin of lobster, 1 oz. of melted butter sauce, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, cayenne and lemon- juice, breadcrumbs. Pound the lobster-meat in a mortar with the butter, rub it through a sieve, add the sauce and flavouring (the yolk of an egg is a great improvement). Put the mixture in a fireproof dish, or in china shells, cover with breadcrumbs, put tinyTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 50 pieces of butter here and there on top, and cook for ten minutes in a good oven. Stewed Codfish (Hot) ioi Cut the fish into small square pieces and dry in a clean cloth. Put 3 oz. of butter into a stewpan with two tablespoonsful of finely chopped parsley. When melted, add half a pint of boiling water, with pepper and salt to taste. Put in the fish, cover close, and stew for three-quarters of an hour. Beat the yolks of two eggs with the juice of one lemon, stir into the stew, shake the pan well for a few minutes, have ready a wall of mashed and browned potato in an entree dish, and serve the fish in the centre. Pommes a l’Otero (Hot) 102 Have ready the necessary number of baked potatoes, all of a size and shape. Cut a slice off each lengthwise and scoop out most of the contents, leaving only a very thin wall of the potato. Mash the potato with butter, salt and pepper to a smooth paste and re-line the potato cases thinly. Then place a layer of minced ham or tongue on each potato, and then a small cooked rolled fillet of any white fish. Pour over the fish a good white sauce, so that the potato case is filled. This must be neatly done, as the sauce should not be slopped over the sides of the potato. Place in the oven to make thoroughly hot, and serve in an entree dish in a folded napkin. For the sauce, see Bechamel Sauce, page 41, Ten Shillings a Head; or for a plainer sauce, use melted butter, page 79, Ten Shillings a Head, using milk or stock instead of water. SoubiseFISH 51 Sauce, page 83, Ten Shillings a Head, may also be used for a change. To cook the fillets, rub them with lemon- juice, roll and tie them ; place them on a buttered tin or fireproof dish, moisten with a little stock or water, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven for ten to fifteen minutes ; remove the cotton or string -with which they were tied. Russian Fish Pie (Hot or Cold) 103 Take some flakey pastry and roll into a square, then trim the edges. Have one large filleted haddock, two hard-boiled eggs, half a teaspoonful of minced parsley, salt, pepper and lemon-juice to taste, and a well-beaten egg. Cut one of the hard-boiled eggs into small pieces and mix with the fish, also cut into small pieces. Put in the centre of the pastry and season. Cut the other egg into four pieces, and put one piece at each side of the pastry. Then bring up the four corners of paste to a point in the centre. Brush over with the beaten egg, and decorate where it is joined with leaves of pastry. Bake in a good oven, and serve either hot or cold. Sole a la Marselle (Hot) 104 Skin a fresh lemon sole, trim off fins and remove head, score the fish across, season with salt and coraline pepper and a little lemon-juice, put in buttered fire- proof dish, and cover with buttered paper. Bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Take it up and pour a cheese cream over and brown with salamander. . Cheese cream 6 oz. of grated cheese, six tablespoonsful of cream, a little mustard. Melt together until smooth and creamy.CHAPTER IV Meat Dishes, Poultry and Game Cutlets and Noisettes SK the average plain cook to send up a dish of cutlets, and what appears ? A collec- tion of ragged-looking objects, resembling untidy miniature mutton chops. The fact is that many cooks do not know how to prepare a cutlet—a process which is quite easy, but which cannot be done in a minute. When mutton cutlets are required a neck of mutton should be ordered and hung until tender. At the time of ordering the butcher should be instructed to remove the chine bone. Now when the mutton is ready for eating, the cook, with a sharp strong knife, should divide the joint into cutlets, cutting midway between each bone. If, however, the neck is a large one, it will be neces- sary to cut close to each bone, thus leaving aMEAT DISHES, POULTRY AND GAME 53 boneless cutlet-shaped piece of meat between each cutlet proper. Now take a cutlet and lay it on the meat-board, and with a wet knife pat it gently into shape, so that the meat spreads out a little and is even with the bone. Then trim off all superfluous fat and skin, and scrape the bone quite clean. Chop off each bone to an equal length and then remove the little bone which remains at the head of each cutlet. You now have a properly shaped cutlet, i.e. a round piece of meat at the end of a cleanly scraped bone, ready for grilling, frying, braising, etc. A neck of mutton, be it small or large, con- tains seven cutlets proper, but when large, as before stated, there remains a piece of meat between each cutlet. Therefore if more than seven cutlets are required for a dish, the boneless pieces of meat must be trimmed, and when cooked, served alternately with the other cutlets ; or the meat may be cut from cutlets to match the boneless pieces of meat, thereby obtaining what are often, though incorrectly, termed noisettes, i.e. boneless cutlets. The correct noisette is procured from the boned loin of mutton, each section being neatly trimmed, rolled, and secured with a skewer, whereas aTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 54 cutlet is a portion of the neck of mutton. When cutlets take the place of a joint the loin is occasionally used, but loin cutlets need careful trimming to make them sightly, and they are, of course, larger than the rightful neck cutlet. They are jucier, and for that reason considered by some people superior to the orthodox neck cutlet. It is the practice of some cooks to order from the butcher so many pounds of trimmed cutlets. This is a most extravagant proceeding, as the butcher charges a high price for the trimmed meat, and the scrag and trimmings of the neck of mutton so valuable for Irish stew, hot-pot, haricot, or Scotch broth, are thereby lost. For this reason when cutlets are needed, order the whole neck of mutton, and cut and trim the cutlets at home. Thus, in a family where there are three or four for late dinner, a large neck of mutton would yield a dish of five or six cutlets, a dish of noisettes, haricot, etc. (made from the meat cut from between the cutlets), and an Irish stew or Scotch broth, made from the odd cutlets and noisettes and the scrag end of the neck. Thus three dishes of once cooked meat are ob- tained from the one joint. Or for a smallerMEAT DISHES, POULTRY AND GAME 55 party the neck may be divided into three cut- lets, a tiny joint roasted or boiled, and Scotch broth. There are several ways of cooking cutlets— broiling, frying, stewing or sauteing—and dozens of ways of garnishing them. They are also served cold in aspic, en chaudfroid or in mayon- naise sauce. When required to be cold the best way of cooking them is as follows— Cutlets (Cold) 105 Stew the best end of the neck of mutton whole, with vegetables, seasoning, and spice; when done, the cut- lets are separated one from the other, trimmed and masked with the jelly or sauce, decorated with tiny cutlet frills, and served on a border of aspic or a mace- doine of vegetables. Mutton Cutlets in Batter (Hot) 106 Trim the cutlets very neatly, and braise them with plenty of vegetables for three-quarters of an hour; then press them between two dishes, and when cold remove any fat which may have adhered to them ; dip them into batter and fry in a bath of boiling fat. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve with some of the sauce in which they were cooked, after thickening it and adding browning, and a little lemon-juice and sherry.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 56 Lamb and veal cutlets may be treated in just the same way as mutton cutlets, but the orthodox veal cutlet is prepared and cooked as follows— Veal Cutlets (Hot) 107 Take a slice from the fillet of veal and cut the meat into rounds about three-quarters of an inch thick and not larger than a five-shilling piece. Pat them out neatly with a wet knife. Flour them well, or egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in clarified fat until thoroughly cooked, which will take about fifteen minutes. Lift them on to a hot dish and let them drain, serve with rolls of bacon on a border of mashed potato, tomato or other vegetable. If a sauce is required, fry the cutlets in butter instead of fat. When fried add a little more butter to the liquid in the pan, and then by degrees, stirring all the time, a dessertspoonful of dried and sifted flour, and cook together until the mixture is a pale brown. Add a gill of boiling stock or water, a little wine, if liked, a few drops of lemon-juice, pepper and salt; boil it all up together, colour with Parisian essence, if required, and strain it round the dish of cutlets. Broiled Mutton Cutlets (Hot) 108 Have ready a clean gridiron and rub the bars with a little fat. Be sure that the fire is clear and hot. While preparing the fire and gridiron let the cutlets lie in olive oil, turn them so that they are oiled on both sides.MEAT DISHES, POULTRY AND GAME 57 Lay them on the grid and cook them very near the fire, so near, indeed, that the surface of the meat catches without becoming actually burnt. Do them thus on both sides and then cook more gently, turning now and then. On no account prick the meat with a fork or the juice will run out, for the cutlets, when done, should be pink and juicy inside and brown on the out- side. Serve very hot round a puree of potato or other vegetable. Cutlets en Papillotes (Hot) 109 Take the trimmed cutlets and spread them on each side with potted ham or tongue, foie gras, or a puree of tomato, mushroom, or onion. Oil some ovals of white kitchen paper, twist the cutlets up in them as neatly as possible, and broil as before. Serve in the papers. Stewed Cutlet (Hot) no Prepare the cutlets, and place them in a stewpan which has been well greased and lined with sliced vegetables, a little ham or bacon, and spice. Cook until the vegetables begin to brown, then pour in some stock sufficient to just cover the cutlets, cover the pan, and cook gently for about an hour. Strain off the gravy, free it from fat, brown and thicken it. Arrange the cutlets round a mound of cooked carrot and turnips or macaroni, and pour the gravy round. The macaroni may be sprinkled with cheese if liked.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 58 Fried Cutlets hi Egg and crumb these, and fry exactly as for veal cutlets. Serve with or without sauce, and with a puree of vegetable, fried potatoes, a mould of potato, or a centre of macaroni and cheese. Saute Cutlets 112 Butter a saute or frying-pan and lay the cutlets in it so that they do not overlap each other. Sprinkle with a few drops of wine or stock and melted glaze, and a little pepper. Cover with buttered paper, and cook over a clear fire, turning them now and then ; or cook them in the same way in a buttered tin in the oven. When cooking them thus use a little more stock, and be careful that the cutlets do not become dry. When once the cook can broil, fry, stew, and saute her cutlets, she may easily vary the methods of serving, the name of the dish being taken from its garnish. Stewed Veal Cutlets 113 Cut about 1 lb. of lean veal cutlets into neat round pieces, rather larger than the top of a wineglass, and fry them for ten minutes in a small quantity of boiling fat, then put the cutlets on paper in front of the fire to drain. Add 1 oz. of dripping to that in which the cutlets were cooked, and a dessertspoonful of chopped onion, and fry together for a minute or two, and stir in 2 oz. of flour, and let the latter cook until it begins to get brown, taking care that it doesMEAT DISHES, POULTRY AND GAME 59 not bum, then pour in by degrees rather less than a pint of warm, well flavoured stock; stir until the sauce has boiled and thickened, and then let it simmer for five minutes. Season it with salt, pepper, and a very little powdered mace, and add a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup and sufficient browning to make it a good colour. Strain the sauce, add the cutlets to it, and place them in a Gourmet boila ; put the latter in a saucepan which is half full of boiling water, and let the meat stew for two hours. Arrange the cutlets neatly on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and garnish alternately with rolls of bacon and crotons of' fried bread. Veal Olives 114 Cut 1 lb. of veal cutlet into moderately thin slices, as nearly the same size as possible ; flatten them out with a wetted knife, and spread each with a layer of herb forcemeat. Then roll them up and secure them with thick crochet cotton or fine white twine ; flour the “ olives,” and fry them in clarified dripping until they are brown, turning them frequently with a fork to prevent them from being unevenly coloured. Make some thick brown sauce, season it well, and stew the little rolls in it for two hours in a moderate oven. When ready, remove the strings from the olives, and dish them up neatly, and put a garnish of French beans in the centre. For the forcemeat, mix 3 oz. of freshly made white breadcrumbs with a large tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of dried herbs which have been re- duced to powder, half a dessertspoonful of mincedTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 60 onion, a little grated lemon peel, and 1 oz. of very finely chopped fat bacon ; season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of nutmeg, and moisten the ingredients with sufficient beaten egg to make a fairly soft paste. Blanquette de Veau (Hot) 115 Take 2 lb. of lean veal; free it from skin and fat. Melt J lb. of butter in a stewpan; put in an onion cut into small pieces. Then add the meat, season with pepper and celery salt, and fry gently for ten minutes, taking care that the meat does not brown. Remove the meat to a hot plate, and add to the contents of the pan a pint of cold water. Thicken the sauce with two tablespoonsful of flour mixed with a little cold water, and when the sauce has boiled for five minutes replace the meat, cover the pan closely, and put into a moderately hot oven for two hours. Turn the veal once during that time, and when it is cooked if the gravy is too thick add a little more water. Cut up the meat into neat squares, and keep hot in the oven while the sauce is finished. Let this boil up, and add the yolk of an egg (stirring all the time) which has been beaten up with a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice. Take the pan from the fire, and strain the sauce over the meat, and sprinkle with powdered parsley. Serve with a puree of spinach as a surround. Veal Chops en Papillotes (Hot) 116 Shape and trim the loin chops, and brush them over with beaten egg, then sprinkle them thickly with bread-MEAT DISHES, POULTRY AND GAME 61 crumbs which have been mixed with minced herbs, a,nH a seasoning of pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; press the crumbs down and wrap each chop in a piece of white paper which has been well coated on the inside with butter; twist the edges so that the papers may not unwrap, and broil the cutlets over a clear fire. Send to table in the papers, and serve with good brown sauce. When providing for a small party, a small loin of veal may be divided, and part roasted and part served in papillotes. Quenelles and Meat Creams (Hot and Cold) 117 For a dish for about six persons use 4 oz. of panade to £ lb. raw pulped meat (weighed after sieving), 1 oz. fresh butter, one whole raw egg, and one tablespoonful of white sauce or thick cream. Pound all together, working the egg, butter and cream in at the last, until a mass of the consistency of pate de fois gras is obtained. Season carefully with salt, white and coralline pepper, and a very little lemon-juice. Have ready one large or several small well buttered moulds, which may be either plain or decorated. Rather overfill these moulds with the mixture, and round into a dome shape with a hot wet knife. When filling the moulds, strike sharply now and again on edge of the table to settle down the contents. Quenelles are generally poached. To do this place the moulds on a greased paper in a pan and pour round them sufficient boiling water or stock to just cover them. Reboil, draw the pan to the side and keep the water at a steady simmer forTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 62 fifteen or twenty minutes, according to the size of the quenelles, not allowing the liquid to boil, otherwise the appearance of the quenelles will be spoilt. If suitable moulds are not to be had, shape the quenelles with two spoons dipped in hot water and gently slide the shapes into the buttered pan and poach as before. For the Panade.—Put | oz. of butter into a pan with a gill of milk, stock, or water, and bring it to the boil. Sift in 2 oz. of fine flour, and stir all together over the fire until it becomes thick enough to ball; then draw the pan a little to the side of the stove (keeping it on a hot part) and cook a few minutes longer, stirring it at intervals to prevent it catching, till the flour is thoroughly cooked. If this precaution is neglected, the melted butter will taste raw and pasty. All quen- elles and meat creams are made in much this manner, no matter if fish, chicken, veal or game is used. Cooked meat may be employed, but the result is not quite as delicate. To pulp the meat pass it three or four times through the mincing machine, pound in a mortar, and then work through a wire sieve, using a little stock or cream to moisten it. This sieving process takes time, so that unless a very smooth mixture is required the meat need onl}~ be minced and pounded. Quenelles and creams are not difficult to make, and if these direc- tions are carried out carefully one or two trials should result in success. But it is most important that the water in which they are poached should simmer and not boil, otherwise the quenelles would be leathery and honeycombed. When once the cook can make good quenelles she is then in a position to turn out a variety of nice entrees. For example—MEAT DISHES, POULTRY AND GAME 63 Quenelles de Volaille au Petits Pois (Hot) 118 Prepare the necessary number of chicken quenelles and serve them on a circular border of moulded rice with rounds of hot tongue in between a centre of peas, and a creamy white sauce poured round. Creme de Veau au Champignons (Hot) 119 Make one large ring mould of veal quenelle mixture, and fill the centre with stewed mushrooms and pour mushroom sauce round. Quenelle a la Madras (Hot) 120 Make a tall mould of beef quenelle mixture, mixing slice of cooked marrow into it, and serve with clear brown gravy poured round. Quenelle de Lapin Sauce Diable (Hot) 121 Make a mould of rabbit quenelle and pour a curry sauce over. Quenelle de Volaille en Chaudfroid (Cold) 122 Prepare the desired number of quenelles and let them become cold. Mask with a white sauce slightly stiffened with gelatine, sprinkle half the number with truffle and half with sieved yolk of egg, and serve on a border of aspic jelly.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 64 Fillet or Fillets of Beef How to prepare, to lard and to cook them, see Chapter IX, page 130, of Ten Shillings a Head book. Rissoles See Chapter IX, page 124, of Ten Shillings a Head book. Kromeskies (Hot) 123 . Take four tablespoonsful of any cold cooked meat, put them through the mincing machine, and mix with a teaspoonful of finely chopped onion. Put the mix- ture in a basin with two tablespoonsful of brown sauce and mix well. Cut carefully some very thin slices of bacon about two and a half inches square. On each slice put a little of the meat mixture. Wrap the bacon up in the shape of a cork, closing up the ends well. Dip each little roll in frying batter, and fry a golden brown in boiling fat. Drain on paper and serve garnished with fried parsley. For batter, see Chap- ter II, page 25. Potato Pufflets (Hot) 124 Take some slices of cold meat or game and pass them through a mincing machine ; add a little chopped parsley, salt and pepper, and moisten with a little thick brown sauce. Mash some potatoes which have been baked in their skins, take | lb. of them and putMEAT DISHES, POULTRY AND GAME 65 F into a basin, with 1 oz. of dripping, some salt and pepper, and half a well-beaten egg, and mix very thoroughly; then add sufficient flour to make the potato the right consistency to roll out on a pastry- board. Cut the potato-paste into rounds, place a small spoonful of the minced meat on the half of each round, then fold the paste over, and pinch the edges together after moistening them with a little egg. Coat the puffs with beaten egg and scatter breadcrumbs thickly over them, and after letting them stand for ten minutes fry them in plenty of boiling fat. If preferred, the puffs may be baked in the oven on a tin which has been rubbed over with dripping. Breast of Mutton and Peas (Hot) 125 Procure a lean breast of mutton ; if still too fat, have some of it trimmed off. Rub the joint all over with a clove of garlic. Take a large stewpan and melt in it 1 oz. of dripping. Next put in the meat, then three onions cut in rings, a good-sized carrot and turnip cut in small shreds. Fry quickly till the meat is lightly browned, turning it over now and then. Pour off a little of the dripping and add stock enough to cover the meat. Overnight half a pint of dried green peas should have been put to soak in cold water, to make them soft; pour off the water and add the peas to the mutton. Then cover the pan and let it simmer gently till all are well cooked, which will take about one and a half hours. When done, lift out the joint and put it on a hot dish in the oven. Mix a tablespoonful or more of flour smoothly with a little water, and pourTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 66 it into the gravy ; let it boil, keeping it stirred. Pour over the meat, arrange the vegetables in neat heaps round. Mutton au Gratin (Hot) 126 Put k oz. of dripping into a stewpan with a dessert- spoonful of chopped onion, and fry until the onion is a light brown, then stir in £ oz. of cornflour ; mix well and moisten with half a pint, or rather more, of veget- able stock ; season with salt and pepper ; let the sauce boil up and then simmer for ten minutes and pass it through a gravy strainer. Cut some slices from a cold leg of mutton and trim off the skin and fat. Butter a pie-dish and place a layer of the meat in it, cover it with the sauce and sprinkle with a little chopped parsley ; then put more meat and sauce alternately, until the dish is full. Cover the top thickly with dry breadcrumbs, which have been seasoned with salt and pepper, place a few little pieces of butter or dripping on the crumbs, and put the dish into a moderately hot oven until the bread is nicely browned. Stuffed Loin of Lamb (Hot or Cold) 127 Take a good-sized loin of lamb, from which the bones have been removed by the butcher ; spread it with a forcemeat made according to the directions given below, roll it up tightly, and tie it with tape at each end, and in the middle, and roast until thoroughly cooked. Remove the tapes, and serve the loin withMEAT DISHES, POULTRY AND GAME 67 some good brown gravy poured round the dish. For the forcemeat, take the contents of a small tin of button mushrooms, chop them very fine, and mix with 8 oz. of breadcrumbs, 2 oz. of beef, or veal suet, and a small quantity of grated ham, or lean bacon ; season well with pepper and salt, and mix with two eggs. The bones of the loin can be used to make a delicate mutton broth. Navarin of Mutton (Hot) 128 Cut about 1 lb. of cold mutton (underdone if possible) into square pieces. Lay them on a dish and moisten them with a marinade made thus : two gills of mutton gravy (or stock), a tablespoonful of currant jelly dis- solved in it, a spoonful of mushroom ketchup, the juice of half a lemon, a spoonful of the vinegar from some walnut pickle, add a dust of salt and pepper. Let the meat lie in this, turning it occasionally for an hour or two. Then melt 2 oz. of butter and add a finely-shred onion, a sliced carrot and turnip, some celery and some chopped parsley ; fry until the veget- able begins to brown, then add 1 oz. of flour and mix smooth. Add about a pint of stock, bring to the boil, and then simmer for half an hour. Rub this sauce through a sieve. Place the mutton and the marinade in the pan, pour the sauce over, and then heat very gently and slowly for one to two hours. Be sure that it does not boil, or it will be spoilt. The object is to cook the navarin very slowly and gently. If you use uncooked meat, fry it lightly before placing it in the marinade. Serve with saute potatoes.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 68 Spiced Mutton (Hot) 129 Cut up about 1 lb. of cooked mutton into small dice- shaped pieces ; dust the meat lightly with flour, and sprinkle half a teaspoonful of mixed spice over it, and then season it with black pepper and salt. Mince a large onion and put it into a stewpan with 1 oz. of good beef dripping, then add the meat, and fry all together until the meat is lightly browned. Cut up the best pieces taken from half a head of celery into medium-sized shreds ; mix them with the fried meat, and then pour in a pint of thick brown sauce, which has been flavoured with a teaspoonful of chutnee sauce and a teaspoonful of tomato catsup. Place a piece of greased paper over the meat, cover the pan, and put it into a moderately hot oven and let the contents cook slowly for at least two hours. Serve the spiced mutton surrounded by a wall of boiled rice. Pillau of Mutton (Hot) 130 Boil the best end of a neck of mutton in two quarts of water until quite done and then take off the fire. Wash § lb. of rice, strain it well, and fry it in 6 oz. of fresh butter until it is brown ; add this to the mutton and water it has been boiled in ; season with cloves, salt, pepper, two bay leaves, and a little mace ; let all boil slowly until the water is dried up. Dish up covered with rice and rings of fried onion. Coronation Steak (Hot) 131 Place on a hot gridiron 2 lb. of tender rump steakMEAT DISHES, POULTRY AND GAME 69 about an inch thick and well seasoned. Cook for fifteen minutes ; turn over. Mince a good-sized onion, put it in a frying pan with 1 oz. of butter; let it just brown. Slice two good tomatoes, put them in the oven to get hot, spread the onion and butter on the steak, then place the slices of tomato on the top. Devilled Steak (Hot) 132 Mix in a plate two teaspoonsful of salt, half a tea- spoonful of cayenne, two of made mustard, a few drops of vinegar, and a few drops of Worcester sauce. Place the steak over the fire, and after the first turn spread half the mixture on the steak, dredge it with flour, do the same on the other side ; finish cooking and serve very hot. Rolled Beef (Hot) 133 Take about 2 lb. of tender steak (cut in one piece), flatten it out with a rolling pin and trim off the fat; flour the meat, and spread it with a forcemeat made as follows : Mix 6 oz. of fine breadcrumbs with 2 oz. of finely chopped suet, a teaspoonful of dried mixed herbs, a tablespoonful of minced parsley, a teaspoonful of chopped onion, the same quantity of fat bacon finely minced, a little grated lemon-peel, and a liberal season- ing of pepper and salt, and a dust of cayenne ; moisten the dry ingredients with sufficient beaten egg (or milk will do) to make a fairly stiff paste. Roll up the meat, tie it with narrow tape at each end and in the middle, and put it on to a baking tin ; pour a little meltedTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 70 dripping over it, and place some unmelted dripping round the meat, and bake it in a moderately hot oven until it is nicely browned ; the meat must be basted frequently, and if it is inclined to brown too quickly, place a piece of greased paper over it. When done, remove the tapes and pour some thick brown gravy over the meat, and also round the dish. Miroton of Beef (Hot) 134 Fry one or two onions in butter, when coloured stir in 1 oz. of flour. Add a cupful of stock, a pinch of powdered sweet herbs, a little tarragon vinegar, salt, pepper, and two tomatoes. Let all boil until the vegetables are tender, then squeeze all through a strainer. Trim some slices of beef, lay them in the sauce, and warm gently for about an hour. When half done, add some chopped gherkins. Serve the miroton in a wall of mashed potato. Spiced Beef (Cold) 135 Have ready about 5 lb. of silver side of beef which has been in brine for about twelve days. Wash the meat, trim off any superfluous fat, and rub it over with a seasoning composed of \ oz. of freshly ground black pepper, J oz. of powdered mace, % oz. of ground cloves, a dessertspoonful of finely powdered mixed herbs, and the grated peel of a lemon. Then roll up the meat and tie it with narrow tape and wrap it in a cloth. Put the meat into a saucepan with plenty of cold water ; when it boils remove the scum,MEAT DISHES, POULTRY AND GAME 71 and add two or three carrots, a turnip, two onions stuck with three cloves, and a teaspoonful of celery seed and twelve whole peppers, tied together in muslin. Cover the saucepan, and let the meat simmer very slowly for five hours. Leave it in the saucepan until the liquor in which it has been cooked is cold, then take it up, tighten the cloth, and place it between two boards with weights on the top, and let it remain all night. The following morning remove the cloth, wipe the meat thoroughly, trim it and coat it with glaze. Spiced Gammon of Bacon (Hot) 136 Order about 4 lb. of gammon of bacon (or a less expensive piece will do equally well, provided it is lean), and boil it with two onions stuck with two cloves each, two carrots, a turnip, a few pieces of celery, a blade of mace, twelve whole peppers, and a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, tied in muslin. Cover the top with rasp- ings and serve it surrounded by tomatoes, prepared as follows: Cut the tomatoes in half, and remove some of the seeds so as to make a hollow in the centre of each piece. Cut up some celery into small shreds, dress it with oil and vinegar and black pepper, and fill the tomatoes with it; scatter a little finely chopped parsley over the top and use as directeed. / Bacon Roly-poly (Hot) 137 Make a suet paste, roll it out, and place on it rashers of uncooked bacon, season with pepper and salt. Roll it up, and tie in a cloth, and boil for two hours or more according to size.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 72 Liver and Bacon (Hot) 138 Take J lb. of rather lean bacon, fry it over a quick fire, turning it when necessary, so that it is well cooked on both sides. When done, place it on a hot plate just inside the oven, but leave the door partly open. Cut about 1 lb. of liver into slices, season them with salt and pepper, and flour them well, and fry them in the fat left from the bacon. The liver should take about twenty minutes to fry over a good fire ; it must be turned after it has been in the pan ten minutes. If any uncertainty is felt as to whether it is sufficiently cooked, cut a piece with a sharp knife, and if the inside is a brown colour it is ready to be taken from the pan. Dish it up alternately with the bacon, round a pile of fried potatoes, and pour the sauce round the dish. To make the sauce, put a dessertspoonful of flour into the pan in which the liver was cooked, stir it well into the fat left in the pan, then add about half a tumblerful of warm water, and stir until it thickens ; add a few drops of browning, and season with pepper and salt, and pour it through a strainer. Stewed Liver (Hot) 139 Cut the liver in nice slices, fry them brown. Then put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of salt, pepper, and chopped onion. £ lb. of liver re- quires two hours to stew. Just before taking from the fire, pour off the gravy into a basin, and mix in one tablespoonful of flour, three of vinegar, three of brown sugar. Throw this over the liver before theMEAT DISHES, POULTRY AND GAME 73 pan is taken from the fire, merely allowing time to once boil up before serving. Oxtail au Gratin (Hot) 140 The tail should be partially cooked in water with plenty of vegetables. It should then be put on one side until cold (the water in which it is cooked will make the foundation of oxtail soup), after which it should be cut into neat pieces and dipped into hot butter. Each piece should then be rolled in fine breadcrumbs, again dipped in hot butter, then in breadcrumbs, and grilled. It can be served with either sauce piquante or sauce tartare. Steak and Cabbage Pudding (Hot) 141 Take 1 lb. steak and kidney, or any two kinds of uncooked meat, and | lb. soaked stale breadcrumbs. Put through the mincing machine, and mix in a very finely chopped onion, a little milk which has been scalded, a little butter, salt, pepper, and two beaten eggs. Cook a very young spring cabbage for twenty minutes. When soft drain it. Butter a basin that has a very tight fitting lid. Pull the leaves off the cabbage, fine the basin with them and then fill it with alternate layers of the mixture and the cabbage leaves. Cover very tightly and boil for one hour, being very careful no water gets into the basin. Turn out and serve with thick or clear gravy poured round.the single handed cook 74 Steamed Meat Mould (an Excellent Method of using up Cold Meat) (Hot) 142 Take any kinds of cold meat—the more variety the better—and mix well with half the amount of soaked bread ; put both meat and bread through the mincing machine. Flavour well with pepper and salt, the chopped rind and juice of a lemon, a little parsley and thyme. Bind with two eggs, and steam for three hours in a well- buttered basin. Turn out and serve with a good gravy poured round. Yeoman’s Pudding (Hot) 143 Line a pint basin with good light suet crust, and place in it a layer of beef sausage meat, then add some sliced tomatoes and chopped onion, and a sprinkling of the dried mixed sweet herbs. Put another layer of sausage meat and repeat until the basin is full, moisten with a little good stock, add pepper and salt to taste. Cover with the crust, and tie a buttered paper over the top, and steam two hours. It will take rather less than one pound of sausage meat. Guards’ Hot-Pot (Hot) 144 Cut 1 lb. of steak into thin pieces, pepper them, and sprinkle with chopped parsley and a few small dice of bacon, and roll up. The rolls should be about the size of corks. Boil a Spanish onion, and place it in the middle of a hot-pot dish ; then add some of the rolls, and then a layer of sliced mutton kidney, and continue until theMEAT DISHES,' POULTRY AND GAME 75 dish is full. Add a teacupful of seasoned stock. Cover with mashed potato, leaving a hole in the centre. When nearly baked, add half a teacupful of gravy. Fill up the centre with an ornament of mashed potato, make thoroughly hot again, and let the potato ornament cook, and serve in the dish in which it was cooked, with a napkin folded round. “ Stonehenge ” (Hot) 145 Take some large potatoes, all about the same size and a good shape, wash them, and bake them in their jackets in a hot oven until thoroughly cooked. Cut a small piece oS the bottom of each, so that it can stand, and a rather larger piece o2 the top. Scoop out the inside, which should be quite mealy. Have ready some oddments of cold meat which have been through the mincing machine (any meat does, but it is a very good way of using up cold pork), two hard-boiled eggs chopped up very small, a little parsley and herbs, and either a little onion or lemon and nutmeg, according to the meat you are using, and if the meat was lean, a little butter. Season to taste, and mix well with the insides of the potatoes. Fill the potatoes with the mixture, cover each potato with its top, and re-heat in the oven. Serve on a napkin or lace paper in a sort of “ Stonehenge ” circle, and hand a tureen of really good thickened brown gravy. The mixture will be more than will fill the potatoes, and the remainder can be blended with an egg, made into balls, and fried for breakfast.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 76 Roman Pie made with Cold Beef (Hot) 146 Chop up into small dice the remains of some cooked beef, add to them half the quantity of macaroni cut into small pieces, and some lean cooked bacon. Season well with pepper and salt, and add sufficient thick brown sauce, which has been delicately flavoured with onion, etc., to moisten the whole. Butter a small basin, sprinkle it with finely broken vermicelli, and line it with a good medium paste. Fill it with the prepared meat (which should be cold), cover it with more of the paste, and bake the pie in a well heated oven for about half an hour, or until the pastry is browned. Turn the pie out on to a hot dish and surround it with clear brown gravy, or thick tomato sauce. Roman Pie (Hot or Cold) 147 Line a pie dish with good short crust, then fill with layers of well boiled macaroni, slices of well cooked veal and grated cheese. Add a little cayenne, black pepper, salt, and finely chopped onion. Pour in suffi- cient cream or milk to moisten the whole. Cover with short crust and bake. American Dry Hash (Hot) 148 Take any quantity of cold corned (salted) beef, and put it through the mincing machine. Mix it withMEAT DISHES, POULTRY AND GAME 77 half its weight of mashed potato, well mashed, moist and smooth; plenty of salt, pepper and a little cayenne. If it seems thick and stodgy, moisten thoroughly with any good stock until it is quite stirable, and of the consistency of mashed potato alone. Spread it evenly, about 1| in. thick, over the whole of a shallow baking pan, and bake till a nice brown outside and crisp to the touch. If the oven is very hot, put small dabs of butter here and there on it. Turn it out carefully, and garnish with parsley ; or it may be baked in a pie dish, and sent to table in the dish, as for potato pie ; or (and this is excel- lent as a breakfast dish) bake it in small quantities in silver or china scallop shells, and place a nicely trimmed poached egg on each scallop. Steak and Giblet Pie (Economical in country households where much poultry is used) (Hot or Cold) 149 Place in a pan of cold water eight peppercorns, two blades of mace, four cloves, one sliced onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Cook the well washed giblets in this and when they are tender add the well washed livers. Have ready 1 lb. of thin steak, part cooked, and cut it into strips, season with salt and pepper and roll a piece of the cooked giblet or liver in each. Add some slices of parboiled potato and a little more seasoning. Add some of the liquid in which the giblets were cooked, cover with paste and bake as usual. For detailed description of making a pie (veal and ham), see page 119THE SINGLE HANDED COOK ‘ 78 of the Ten Shillings a Head book. For pastry, see page 142 of this book. German Potato Pie (Hot) 150 Have ready a pie dish and some cold meat finely minced. Place a layer of mince in the dish, season with salt and black pepper. Have two cooked bloaters, free from skin and bone, and flaked. Place this on the meat, cover with more meat, moisten with stock and cover with mashed potato well roughed up with a fork. Place in the oven until thoroughly hot and brown on the top. Cornish Pie (a Good Way of using up Irish Stew) (Hot) 151 The housekeeper may find on the larder shelf the cold remains of an Irish stew, which she does not want to appear again in the same form. Treated in the follow- ing way it makes a most excellent pie. Put a little of the stew at the bottom of a pie dish, and then a layer of thinly sliced tomatoes. Repeat until the dish is full, add a little good brown gravy. Cover with a good short dripping crust and bake. Sheep’s Tongues in Brown Sauce (Hot) 152 Soak the tongues for two hours in cold water, then scald with boiling water so that the skins can be easily removed. Split the tongue lengthways, then prepare the sauce. Brown in a saucepan one tablespoonful of good dripping, one finely sliced onion, and two slicedMEAT DISHES, POULTRY AND GAME 79 carrots. Season with pepper and salt, a pinch of mace, a sherry glass of white wine and some stock. Boil this all together once. Add the tongues, boil up again and let them simmer slowly for one and a half hours, closely covered. Boil once again, adding a little stock if necessary ; thicken the sauce with a yolk of egg. Serve very hot with a garnish of cut carrot. Sheep’s Head au Gratin (Hot) 153 Boil the head, which must firstly have been properly prepared by the butcher, then soaked in salt and water, and thoroughly cleansed. The tongue and brains should be removed, and the head tied into shape with string. Boil an onion and a bunch of herbs with the head, and simmer for three to four hours. Leave to grow cold, and remove the flesh of the head from the bones, slice it and lay it in a greased fireproof dish, sprinkle with lemon juice and parsley, pepper and salt, and brown breadcrumbs. Put some pieces of butter here and there, and brown in a quick oven or before a hot fire. Boned and Stuffed Calf’s Head (Hot) 154 Calf’s head is a dish which many people appreciate, especially those of weak digestive powers. The following is an excellent method of preparing it: Have the calf’s head all ready prepared for cooking ; remove the brains and place the head in boiling water ; simmer for three- quarters of an hour. Take out, and when nearly cold,THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 80 remove the bones and tongue. Make a forcemeat with breadcrumbs, suet, parsley, salt and pepper, and mix with one egg. Wash the brains first in cold, and then in warm water, boil, and then mince them, and add to the forcemeat. Lay open the calf’s head, and spread with forcemeat; then skin and slice the tongue, and lay it on the forcemeat. Roll up, and sew together with coarse thread, wrap in a piece of clean calico or linen, and bind into shape with tape. Make a stock with the bones and some sliced vegetables, and simmer the roll in this for two and a half hours. Remove the cloth and the stitches, and serve hot, covered with parsley sauce, and garnished with slices of lemon. This makes a pleas- ing change from the round of beef, mutton, veal and poultry. For the Veal Forcemeat 155 proceed as follows : Two tablespoonsful of fine bread- crumbs, half a teaspoonful of sweet herbs, ditto chopped parsley, salt and pepper, one tablespoonful of shred suet, a teaspoonful of grated lemon rind, and one beaten- up egg to mix. This forcemeat is used to stuff a turkey, a loin of veal or mutton, and also for forcemeat balls which are served with minced veal, jugged hare, and calf’s head. Mould of Stuffed and Rolled Pigeons in Savoury Jelly (Cold) 156 ^For a dish for six people choose four large pigeons, bone them or ask the poulterer to do so, and do not forgetMEAT DISHES, POULTRY AND GAME 81 G to demand that the liver and the bones shall be sent home. Cut the boned birds in half and spread out on a board. Prepare the following stuffing. Pound the livers of the birds with 3 oz. of raw veal minced, and 2 oz. of ham. Add salt and pepper and ten pistachio nuts finely chopped. Spread the stuffing on the pigeons, roll as neatly as possible and tie securely with tape. Now put all the bones and trimmings in a stewpan with one carrot and one onion sliced, six peppercorns, one clove, two bay leaves, and a little bunch of parsley, pepper and salt. Place the rolled pigeons on the top and pour in about one and a quarter pints of water, and take care that it does not actually touch the birds. Cover the pan and simmer for three-quarters of an hour, by which time the liquid will be reduced to rather more than half a pint. Take out the rolls and put them aside until cooled, then glaze. For the glaze, take half a cup of water, dissolve in it three sheets of gelatine, and add a few drops of Parisian essence. Meanwhile strain off the stock from the pigeon bones and let it become cold ; skim off the fat, put it into a clean pan with the white and shells of an egg whipped stiff ; bring to the boil, and strain through fine clean muslin which has been wrung out in boiling water. Pour a little jelly into a ring mould, let it set, then arrange the rolls neatly and fill up with jelly. Turn out when required and fill the centre with sliced tomato, cucumber, and a few green peas (cooked) which have been seasoned. Duck en Casserole (Hot) 157 Cut the duck into neat joints and having brownedTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 82 them in clarified fat, place in the casserole dish with some good gravy, made from the giblets and carcase. Cover and cook slowly in the oven for one and a quarter hours. Add a little more gravy when half that time has elapsed. When cooked, strain off the gravy, free it from fat and pour it over the duck again. ✓ Stewed Partridges (A Good Way of Serving Old Birds) (Hot) 158 Brown a brace of partridges in the stewpan, using clarified dripping, add a piece of pork or bacon cut in small pieces, a little chopped onion, two cloves, two chopped carrots, a bay leaf and some stock, and simmer for one and a half hours. Cut a savoy cabbage into quarters, boil for twenty minutes, drain, and place in the stewpan with the rest about half an hour before it is done. Take out the cabbage, drain and press it, and place it in an entree dish. Arrange the birds in the centre. Strain the gravy, skim off the fat and pour it over the birds. Boiled Pheasant (Hot) 159 This mode of cooking a pheasant is excellent in the case of a bird which is old, and consequently more or less tough. Tie the pheasant in a floured cloth and place it in a stewpan and cover it with stock or water, which should be boiling. Add a slice of fat bacon, and three ounces each of onion, carrot, and turnip, two cloves, and pepperMEAT DISHES, POULTRY AND GAME 83 and salt to taste. Let the pan remain over a clear fire for five minutes, then place it in a moderately hot oven for thirty-five minutes. Keep the bird hot while making the sauce, and serve with white, celery, or soubise sauce poured over. Fillets of Snipe on Toast (Hot) 160 Cut the backs and the legs off the birds and leave the breasts and wings untouched, put aside the trails and place the legs and backs in a saucepan with half a pint of stock (flavoured with vegetables) ; season with black pepper, salt, and a very little nutmeg, and simmer for half an hour. Wrap the breast and wings of the snipe in buttered paper and put into a medium oven until partly cooked. In the meantime cut as many square pieces of bread as there are birds, fry until of a golden brown, then dust with salt and pepper, and spread the trails over the toast. When the birds are ready take them from the oven and place one on each piece of toast. Place in a Dutch oven in front of a clear fire and finish cooking them,using plenty of butter (or clarified dripping) for basting. Let the gravy boil up, thicken it with a little cornflour, colour with a few drops of Parisian essence, and add a tablespoonful of sherry ; strain into a hot sauce tureen and serve with the snipe. A Nice Way of Serving cold Roast Duck (Cold) 161 Cut a cold roast duck into neat joints. Remove theTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 84 skin, and coat each joint with brown glaze. Arrange in the centre of the dish a pyramid of green pea puree, prop the joints of duck against it, and garnish with a little chopped aspic jelly scattered round. Pillau of Fowl (Hot) 162 Truss a fowl as if for boiling. Put it in a pan with two quarts of stock and let it stew for one and a quarter hours. Then add a breakfast cupful of rice, well washed and fried a light brown in butter, a little salt and cina- mon, and let the whole stew for about three-quarters of an hour. Have ready an onion cut in neat slices, dipped in flour, and fried brown, some rolls of fried bacon, and a hard-boiled egg cut in slices. Cover a dish with a layer of the rice, place the fowl on it, then pile the remainder of the rice over the fowl and garnish with the onions, bacon and egg. Chicken and Macaroni Pie (Hot or Cold) 163 Cut the fowl in half, or use the legs and wings, and keep the breasts for a cream, place in a stewpan with a large onion sliced, five peppercorns, a clove, a pinch of salt, some white pepper, and half a tumblerful of stock. When half cooked and the stock is boiling, add some macaroni broken into lengths of about two inches. Cook till tender. Place in a pie dish, add, if you have them, some shoes of ham, some stewed mushrooms, and a spoonful or two of cream, cover with snort paste, and bake until the pastry is done. This pie may alsoMEAT DISHES, POULTRY AND GAME 85 be made with rabbit and ham ; a hard-boiled egg may be added if liked. Cronstades of Chicken (Hot) 164 Have ready some small eases of pastry or fried bread and some hot minced chicken (or chicken, veal or game, or all three mixed) plain or mixed with some cooked ham, tongue, or mushrooms. Fill the cases and make thoroughly hot. Serve in an entree dish on a fancy paper. An excellent way of serving the remains of chicken, etc. Fricassee of Chicken (Hot) 165 Put half a pint of cold water into a saucepan with a small piece of fat bacon, half a small onion sliced, half a carrot, a piece of celery, two or three sprigs of parsley, a few thin shreds of lemon-peel, a tiny piece of mace, and a dust of salt and pepper ; let the water boil up and then simmer for twenty minutes. Strain off the veget- ables and keep them for a thick soup. Add three- quarters of a pint of milk to the vegetable stock and simmer for ten minutes longer. Put i oz. of butter into a saucepan, when it melts, stir in 1 oz. of flour and mix thoroughly together, then pour in by degrees (stirring quickly all the time) the hot stock; when it has boiled and thickened strain it into a basin. Cut up the remains of a cooked fowl into small neat pieces and place them in a saucepan with the white sauce and make thoroughly hot. Serve surrounded by a wall of rice, or with croutons of fried bread.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 86 Roll of Rabbit (Cold) 166 Mince very finely 1| lb. of raw rabbit and i lb. of lean ham or bacon, add 6 oz. of breadcrumbs, one dessert- spoonful of finely chopped herbs, pepper and salt and any seasoning that is liked. Add two well-beaten eggs and mix thoroughly. Shape into a roll, tie in a cloth, and steam for four hours. Take out, put into a clean piece of linen, and press between boards or plates with a weight on the top. When quite cold, trim, glaze and ornament. Excellent for breakfast, lunch, or Sunday supper. A Hot-Pot of Rabbit (Hot) 167 Cut a rabbit into pieces, put it in a stewpan with a little hot fat, onion and bay leaf. Cook it a nice golden brown, take it out, put it in a fireproof hot-pot dish, cover with stock, and simmer for one hour in the oven. Strain off the stock, remove all fat and make a good gravy, thickening it and adding colouring if neces- sary. Replace and add some slices of cooked pork sausages. Make all hot and serve: Jugged Rabbit (Hot) 168 Cut the rabbit into neat portions and fry until a nice brown. Drain and place in a wide mouthed jar. Pour a glass of port over the meat, cover, and leave twenty minutes. Then add some good gravy, a little grated lemon-peel, three cloves, and ten peppercorns. Cover tightly, place in a baking tin in which there is boiling water and cook slowly for three houis. About tenMEAT DISHES, POULTRY AND GAME 87 minutes before serving add some cooked forcemeat balls and a spoonful of currant jelly. Strain off the gravy, and thicken with arrowroot. Arrange the meat in an entree dish, place the balls round, make the gravy very hot, adding a little salt if necessary, pour over the meat and serve. An Excellent Curry (Hot) 169 This curry, if correctly made, is delicious. Place i oz. of butter or dripping in a pan and bring to the boil. Put in a large onion cut in three slices and fry a golden brown. Drain on paper. Fry separately one small apple, sliced, twelve sultana raisins, until they have plumped out ; half a teaspoonful of cocoanut; drain all these ingredients. Then cut 1 lb. of cooked meat into neat pieces and fry a golden brown and dram. Mix one teaspoonful of curry powder in a basin with a little salt, and a heaped teaspoonful of flour, mix smooth with a few drops of milk and then add half a teaspoonful of vinegar and half a pint of stock. Boil and put half of it aside to use later. Add the other half to the onion, etc., and as they soak up the sauce add more until all is used. Simmer until the onion and apple are all in a pulp. Then add the meat, but not until the sauce is off the boil, and do not let it boil again or the meat will be hard. Stand on the side of the stove for two hours. Serve very hot with rice and garnish of ripe red peppers and hard-boiled egg. If raw meat is used wipe it dry, flour it, fry, and then simmer it in the sauce for three-quarters of an hour before standing the pan aside for two hours.88 CHAPTER V Vegetables and Salads Vol au Vent of Asparagus and Eggs (Hot) 170 UT up two dozen or so heads of cooked asparagus into small pieces and mix in a stewpan with the well-beaten yolks of two raw eggs. Flavour with pepper and salt and stir freely. Add a piece of butter the size of a walnut and keep stirring for two minutes. Serve in a vol au vent case of pastry. Mushrooms, tomatoes or green peas may be served in the same way. Boil the artichokes until they are quite soft and mash them until they are free from lumps; season with salt and pepper ; mix to a creamy consistency with some thick white sauce (made with milk). Butter a small fireproof dish ; scatter some fine dry breadcrumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, over it; fill up with the prepared artichokes and cover them thickly with more of the crumbs ; pour some oiled butter over the top and bake until evenly browned in a quick oven. Scolloped Artichokes (Hot) 171VEGETABLES AND SALADS Cronstades of Broad Bean (Hot) 172 Put the beans when shelled into boiling salted water. Boil gently from fifteen minutes to half an hour. When tender, pour the water away, and shake them in the saucepan over the fire, with a little butter, dripping or cream, pepper and salt; serve about six beans in a case of fried bread, and pour a little parsley sauce over. Beetroot with Parsley Sauce (Hot) 173 Wash the beetroots well, taking care not to break or prick the skin, or they will lose all their colour in the water. Place them in plenty of boiling water, and let them boil till tender. Then quickly remove the small roots and skin, cut the beet into slices about an inch thick, place them in a hot dish, and pour over them some parsley sauce. Brussels Sprouts au Gratin (Hot) 174 Make some good white sauce, flavour it well with grated cheese and a little red pepper. Butter a pie dish, or some scallop shells, put in any cold left-over Brussels sprouts, finely minced, pour the sauce over, cover with a layer of breadcrumbs and some dabs of butter, and bake for a short time in a hot oven. To Cook Cauliflowers 175 Let the cauliflower be thoroughly washed, and thenTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 90 soaked in water to which salt and vinegar have been added, to free it from any insects which may not have been discovered. Blanch it by immersing it in a sauce- pan of boiling water for five minutes, and then place it in a basin of cold water ; when it has cooled, drain it, and plunge it (with the flower downwards) into a sauce- pan containing fresh boiling salted water, to which a pinch of borax and three or four lumps of sugar (which will bring out the flavour) have been added ; keep the water boiling steadily while the cauliflower is cooking, but do not put on the cover of the pan, and remove the scum from time to time so that it may not adhere to the cauliflower. When cooked, place it carefully on a clean hot cloth in a colander, cover the sides of the cloth over the top and leave the cauliflower near the fire to drain. Cauliflower au Gratin (Hot) 176 Divide the cauliflower, after boiling it, into sprigs, and dip them into melted fat, then cover them thickly with grated cheese, season well with pepper, salt, cayenne, and place on a greased baking dish, and bake until evenly browned in a quick oven. Another way of serving it is to cover it with cheese sauce, and then scatter grated cheese and breadcrumbs over the top. Brown it in the oven. Cauliflower Fritters (Hot) 177 Dip some pieces of cauliflower into batter, takingVEGETABLES AND SALADS 91 care that they are well coated with it, and fry them in a bath of boiling fat; drain them on paper and serve very hot. Recipes for batter are given in Chapter II of this book. Aigrettes of Cauliflower (Hot) 178 Boil a cauliflower in plenty of salted water to which a little vinegar and a pinch of sugar have been added, drain it well, and when it is cold divide it into sprigs. Put 1 oz. of butter into a saucepan containing half a pint of water ; as soon as it boils, stir in a | lb. of flour and continue stirring until a stiff paste is formed, which leaves the sides of the pan without sticking to them, then remove the pan from the stove, and when the paste has cooled a little stir in two whole eggs (beaten) and one yolk, and 3 oz. of grated cheese, and spread the paste on a plate to cool. Take one sprig of cauliflower at a time and envelop it in the paste, and drop it into some hot fat which is not actually boiling, and fry until the aigrettes are just brown, taking care not to put too many into the pan at once. Serve them piled upon a dish with a little grated cheese sprinkled over them. Many cooked vegetables can be served in this way —artichokes, seakale, celery, and beetroots, for in- stance. Cauliflower Crofitons (Hot) 179 Make the required number of bread croutons and fry.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 92 Take one spray of cooked cauliflower for each crouton, and place it in the hollow in the centre. Pour a cheese sauce over very neatly, and serve very hot. Glazed Carrots (Hot) 180 Use small young carrots for choice. Scrape them, and put them into boiling water with salt in it. Boil gently, with the lid on the saucepan, until quite tender. New carrots will take about twenty minutes, old carrots an hour or more, according to age and size. When tender, put on a hot vegetable dish, boil down the stock rapidly to a glaze, and pour over them. Peas and Carrots a la Creme (Hot) 181 Scrape and wash some young carrots, and blanch them by putting them into a saucepan containing plenty of cold salted water, let it gradually come to boiling point, and after it has boiled for five minutes take out the carrots and drain them on a cloth. Put 1 oz. of butter (or dripping) into a small stewpan, and when it has melted add the carrots, season them with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar, and let them simmer for six minutes, then cover them with some thick white sauce, and let them cook slowly until they are quite tender. Just before taking the stewpan from the fire, add a squeeze of lemon-juice to the sauce, two table- spoonsful of cooked green peas and two teaspoonsful of grated cheese ; place the carrots on a hot dish and scatter a little finely chopped parsley over them.VEGETABLES AND SALADS 93 Celeriac with Brown Sauce (Hot) 182 Peel the heads, and with a vegetable-cutter cut into fancy shapes. Plunge them into boiling salted water for a minute or two, drain, and then place them in a greased stewpan. Cover with weak stock or water and simmer until tender. Serve covered with brown or white sauce. Puree of Celeriac (Hot) 183 Cook as before, and when tender put through a sieve, add pepper, salt, a little cream or butter, re-heat, and use as a centre or a border for cutlets, fillets, etc. Celeriac au Gratin (Hot) 184 Cook as for puree, flavour with essence of anchovy, place in buttered shells, scatter them with brown crumbs and heat through in the oven. Stewed Cabbage (Hot) 185 Wash a large cabbage very thoroughly, blanch it in boiling water and then place it in a large saucepan con- taining boiling water, to which about half an ounce of salt and a small piece of soda have been added, and let it boil (leaving the lid of the pan off) until the cabbage is tender but not soft enough to break. Take it out of the pan and plunge it into a basin of cold salted water,THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 94 and leave it until it is quite cold, and then drain it on a clean cloth. Fry 2 oz. of fat bacon, with a teaspoon- ful of chopped onion, for five minutes, draw the pan to the side of the stove, and place the cabbage (cut into quarters) in it; pour in sufficient weak stock (or milk- and-water will do) to cover it, season with salt and pepper, and let it simmer for half an hour. Take out the cabbage and put it into a colander, and stand the latter on a plate in the oven. Thicken the sauce, strain it, and add a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley ; put the cabbage on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and garnish it with small triangular pieces of fried bread. Flageolets with Parsley Sauce (Hot) 186 Soak the flageolets for at least twelve hours before commencing to cook them. Then put them into a sauce- pan with some cold salted water. As soon as the water boils, pour it off and add more. Now put in a small carrot, turnip, and onion, and cook all together until the beans are quite tender, without being broken. Drain them well, and cover them with parsley and butter sauce. Puree of Flageolets (Hot) 187 Cook as in the preceding recipe, then pass the flageolets and the carrot, turnip, and onion through the sieve. The puree should then be seasoned with salt and pepper and put into a saucepan with a little milk and a piece of butter. As soon as it is tho-VEGETABLES AND SALADS 95 roughly hot, serve neatly moulded, with gravy poured round. The liquor in which the beans are cooked makes a good foundation for vegetable soup. Baked Mushrooms (Hot) 188 Peel the mushrooms, rinse them to remove any grit, and cut off the ends of the stalks. Put them on a greased baking tin, with the stalks upwards, and put some little bits of butter on each mushroom, with a little pepper and salt. Cover them with buttered paper, and bake them in a moderate oven from ten to twenty minutes, until tender. Serve on a hot dish, with the gravy poured over them. Stewed Mushrooms (Hot) 189 Peel and rinse the mushrooms and cut off the ends of the stalks. Stew them gently in water, stock, or milk, until quite tender, adding pepper and salt to taste. Then thicken the gravy with a little flour and let it cook well, stirring carefully. Before serving stir in a little cream or butter. Mushroom and Bacon Toast (Hot) igo Prepare squares of buttered toast and cover with cooked bacon minced fine, and serve one baked mush- room on each square of toast.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 96 Baked Tomatoes and Mushrooms (Hot) igi Put the required number of small tomatoes on a baking tin, greased with butter or dripping. Sprinkle over them a little pepper and salt, and cover them with a greased paper. Place in a moderate oven for about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. Serve between rows of baked mushrooms. A Useful Hint about Onions 192 Many people are debarred from eating onions on account of their disagreeable effect on the breath. If the following is tried, it will be found that they may be eaten at any time with impunity. Before using onions for any purpose, either for cooking or for salads, peel them and put them in a basin of cold water, in which a piece of soda the size of a hazel-nut has been dissolved for about ten minutes. Then take them out and wash in fresh water. The soda will have withdrawn all that makes them objectionable without impairing their flavour. To Fry Onions for Garnishing Steaks, etc. 193 Put as many peeled onions as are required into a sauce- pan containing cold salted water: let the water boil up and continue boiling for seven minutes, then drain the onions and put them aside until they are cool. Slice them with a sharp knife, and separate them into rings, and roll themVEGETABLES AND SALADS 97 H up in a floured cloth until it is time to fry them. Have ready a saucepan containing plenty of boiling fat, place the onion rings—not too many at a time—in a wire frying basket, and cook them until they are crisp and of a golden brown ; drain on paper and serve very hot. Spanish Onions en Surprise (Hot) 194 Put some Spanish onions, which have been peeled and washed, into a saucepan containing plenty of cold salted water; when the water boils up, draw the pan to the side of the stove, and let them cook gently until they are parboiled. Drain the onions and carefully remove the middles ; place half a sheep’s kidney in each, pressing it well into the onion, put them on a baking tin which has been rubbed with some good beef dripping, and surround them with small pieces of dripping ; cover the onions with greased paper, and let them cook slowly in a moderately-heated oven for four hours, basting them frequently. Serve with thick brown sauce, which should be very savoury ; pour over and round the onions. Spanish Onions au Gratin (Hot) 195 Boil 1 lb. of Spanish onions, throwing away the water after it first comes to the boil and adding fresh. Well butter a fireproof dish and arrange the boiled onions in it. Fill up the crevices, and cover the top with browned breadcrumbs and grated cheese, moisten with a little milk, season well, and over all place a layerTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 98 of breadcrumbs, with little dabs of butter. Bake until a nice colour. How to Fry Parsley 196 Wash the parsley thoroughly and divide it into small sprigs, and shake until free from moisture in a cloth, then fold it lightly in another dry cloth, and leave it until it is perfectly dry. Melt plenty of clear fat in a saucepan, and when it is quite boiling throw in the parsley ; if carefully dried it will become crisp at once, and it should immediately be taken from the pan, for if left too long in the fat it will turn brown ; drain it on paper in front of the fire. Parsnip Cakes (Hot) 197 Boil some parsnips until quite soft, mash until free from lumps ; mix with a beaten egg and a little white sauce. When cold make into small round cakes on a floured board. Dip into egg and breadcrumb, then fry in plenty of boiling fat till a golden brown. Puffed Potatoes (Hot) 198 Peel the potatoes and cut them into slices about one- eighth of an inch in thickness. Cut each slice into half. Soak the potatoes in cold water for half an hour. Dry well by rolling them up in a cloth. Put plenty of clean fat into a stewpan, and as soon as it is hot (not boiling)VEGETABLES AND SALADS 99 put in the potatoes. Let them cook slowly until they are tender, but they must not on any account be allowed to get brown. Put aside on paper to drain. When they have had time to get cool, prepare a bath of boiling fat. Place some of the potatoes (not too many at a time) in a frying basket. Immerse them in the boiling fat, when they should puff up and quickly become a golden brown. Remove the basket directly the potatoes are ready. When all are done, sprinkle with salt and serve at once. The secret of success lies in the two cookings. Pommes de Terre Lyonnaise (Hot) 199 Select some waxy potatoes which have been carefully boiled or steamed, and allowed to get cold ; cut them into dice-shaped pieces—not too small—and cover them with flour. Put some clarified dripping (about an ounce is sufficient for half a dozen medium-sized potatoes) into a frying-pan, with a dessertspoonful of onion which has been scalded and finely chopped, and the potatoes, and fry them till they are slightly browned, taking care to turn them constantly so that they do not burn. Then pour into the pan a small quantity of stock or milk, and when it boils add salt and pepper and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and serve very hot. Potatoes a la Donna (Hot) 200 Rub a white fireproof china dish with a clove of garlic, then butter it, and sift breadcrumbs lightly over. SliceTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 100 some cold boiled potatoes into this, place a few bits of butter over, a seasoning of white pepper, and salt and a few white breadcrumbs. Repeat this until the dish is full, then cover with fine breadcrumbs to which has been added one-fourth of the quantity of grated cheese. Bake for twenty minutes in a quick oven, and serve with finely chopped capers scattered over. Souffle Potatoes (Hot) 201 Wash some large potatoes, and bake them without removing the skins until they are thoroughly cooked. Cut a small piece off the top of each, and with the handle of a teaspoon scoop out the inside ; mash this carefully with a fork, or pass it through a potato masher; add a little milk, a piece of butter, and season with pepper and salt; beat the potato until it is light and creamy. Fill the skins with the mixture. When ready, put the potatoes on a baking sheet, and place in a quick oven for ten or fifteen minutes. Serve on a folded d’oyley. How to Boil Green Peas 202 Put a saucepan containing cold water on to the stove, add a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda to each quart of water ; when it is quite boiling put in the peas and cook them, without covering the pan, for from twenty to thirty minutes, according to whether they are young or not. When they are quite tender turn the peas intoVEGETABLES AND SALADS a colander to drain. Put a piece of butter (allow about an ounce or rather more to a peck of peas) into a hot saute pan, then add the peas ; scatter a little finely powdered sugar over them, and a sprinkle of salt, turn them care- fully over in the pan with a wooden spoon for a few minutes, and serve very hot. Peas a la Francaise (Hot) 203 Put 2 oz. of butter into a saucepan with a few sprigs of mint, half a peeled onion, and a couple of table- spoonsful of milk or cream. Add the peas, cover the saucepan, and cook gently for half an hour or rather longer. When the peas are cooked remove the onion and mint, and season with salt, pepper, and a dust of white sugar, and serve. Dressed Spinach (Hot) 204 Boil 2 lb. of spinach ; when it is well drained pass it through a fine wire sieve. Put 2 oz. of butter into a saucepan, and when it is melted stir in the spinach. Season it with salt, pepper, and a pinch of powdered sugar, and add two tablespoonsful of cream. Seakale with White Sauce (Hot) 205 Tie it in bundles and put into boiling salted water with a little butter. Boil, with the lid off the sauce- pan, until the seakale is tender. Drain and serve on IOTTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 102 toast. White sauce should be poured over it. Seakale is sometimes boiled in milk, which should afterwards be used for the sauce. Curried Seakale (Hot) 206 Boil the seakale as before, and serve with curry sauce poured over. Seakale au Gratin (Hot) 207 Boil as before, cut into pieces, place on a greased fire- proof dish, cover with cheese sauce, and scatter with fine breadcrumbs and a little oiled butter. Make thoroughly hot. Fried Seakale (Hot) 208 Boil the seakale, cut it into pieces of a convenient size, dip into flour, then pass it through egg and bread- crumbs, and fry until of a golden brown. Tomatoes au Gratin with Eggs (Hot) 209 Butter a fireproof dish and put in a layer of browned breadcrumbs, moisten with a little good brown gravy and season well, then add a layer of sliced tomatoes, and repeat until the dish is full, having a layer of dry breadcrumbs on top ; put little dabs of butter on it toVEGETABLES AND SALADS 103 help it to brown nicely and bake in a hot oven. When nearly done break carefully four eggs, one on each corner of the dish, and replace in the oven until the eggs are set, and serve. Roasted Tomatoes (Hot) 210 Scald the tomatoes in boiling water for a minute or two, and then carefully remove the skins. Cut a small piece off the top of each and remove a little of the pulp. Put a small lump of butter into the tomatoes, and scatter the top thickly with fine crumbs, seasoned with celery salt and cayenne. Spread a baking-tin with dripping; place the tomatoes in it and bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. u Vegetable Pie (Hot) 211 Butter a pie dish, place a layer of boiled macaroni, cut into small pieces, at the bottom of it, scatter with a little grated cheese, and cover it with some sliced carrots—which have been boiled—a few slices of cooked turnips, some small pieces of celery (cooked), and also some cauliflower; over these put a layer of sliced raw tomatoes—from which the skins have been removed— season with salt and black pepper, and add a little finely chopped onion and parsley. Then put in more macaroni and vegetables, as before, and when the dish is full, pour in some thick brown sauce made with meat or poultry stock, and cover the pie with a potato crust prepared as follows—Mash £ lb. of potatoes veryTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 104 thoroughly (or pass them through a sieve), and mix them with 6 oz. of flour, 2 oz. of butter, or clarified dripping, salt, pepper, and half a teaspoonful of baking- powder, and add sufficient cold milk to make a light paste. Roll it out on a floured board to about the thickness of half an inch, and cover the pie. Broad Beans, Mayonnaise of (Cold) 212 Remove the skins from some beans which have been boiled and allowed to get cold. Arrange the beans in a salad bowl, and pour over them some mayonnaise sauce. Beetroot and Celery Salad (Cold) 213 Take some thin slices of cooked beetroot, put them into a soup plate and cover with white wine vinegar ; at the end of half an hour remove them from the vinegar ; let them drain, then arrange them in a salad bowl; cover with mayonnaise dressing, then scatter some celery cut into small pieces over the top. Beetroot and Cauliflower Salad (Cold) 214 Take some thin slices of cooked beetroot, some cold potatoes, some cold cauliflower, some spring onions (if liked), and a little chopped parsley. Dress with the following dressing, and pepper and salt to taste—One small teaspoonful unmade mustard; one small tea-VEGETABLES AND SALADS 105 spoonful anchovy sauce; one tablespoonful milk, or milk and cream ; one dessertspoonful vinegar. Mix the mustard and sauce first, then mix in the milk, then the vinegar. Tomatoes are equally good served the same way. Haricot Bean Salad (Cold) 215 Soak the haricots for six hours, and then cook them and leave until cold. Pile in the centre of a salad bowl and surround with shred lettuce and sliced radishes. Arrange whipped cream flavoured with salt and white pepper on the haricots and powder with a little coraline pepper. Tomato Mayonnaise (Cold) 216 Take 1 lb. tomatoes, scald them in boiling water, skin and slice them. Put them in a salad bowl with some thin bread and butter cut into dice, a quarter of a small onion, salt and pepper, a dessertspoonful of chopped pickles, and two hard-boiled eggs, setting aside a few rounds of the eggs for a garnish. Mix all to- gether, and lightly mix in a good mayonnaise dressing about an hour before it is needed, so that it soaks in thoroughly. For recipe for Mayonnaise, see page 84 of the Ten Shillings a Head book.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 106 Green Pea Salad (Cold) 217 Take some cold cooked green peas and young carrots, some spring onions and tomatoes. Mix all together and dress with French oil and vinegar or with mayon- naise. Rostock Salad (Cold) 218 Take equal quantities of apples, beetroot, and cold boiled potatoes, two hard-boiled eggs, two anchovies, a dessertspoonful of capers, a little onion, and a little cucumber sliced very fine. Chop all ingredients very small, and mix well together. Season with pepper and salt, and add oil and vinegar to taste. Beggarman’s Salad (Cold) 219 Rub the salad bowl with a slice of onion and lay in it a slice of bread and butter cut into dice, sliced tomato, some shred celery and crisp lettuce, torn hi small pieces. Mix and dress with mayonnaise sauce. Tomato and Caper Salad (Cold) 220 Dip some sound tomatoes for a minute or two into boiling water, then peel them carefully. Arrange them neatly in a glass dish or bowl and add some shred celery. Pour some good mayonnaise sauce over, and sprinkle over three teaspoonsful of capers.VEGETABLES AND SALADS 107 Apple and Celery Salad (Cold) 221 Take equal quantities of raw apple and celery, cut them in slices, arrange in a salad bowl, and dress with mayonnaise sauce.108 CHAPTER YI Puddings and Sweets Apple Beggarman (Hot or Cold) 222 PARE, slice, and stew in a little water 1| lb. of good cooking apples. When quite soft mash them up, and mix with half the quantity of breadcrumbs, some sugar, the grated rind and half the juice of a lemon, some chopped sultanas or currants, a little finely chopped candied peel, and the yolks of two eggs. Well butter a pie dish, line it with breadcrumbs, and put the mixture in. Bake till firm, then cover with a meringue of the whites of the eggs, and brown slightly. Apple and Lemon Pudding (Hot) 223 Line a pudding dish with pastry. Peel and core five large cooking apples and stew until soft. Put through a sieve. Grate the rind of one lemon and squeeze the juice, add 2 oz. of castor sugar, 2 oz. of butter (melted), and two eggs. Beat together and then beat in with the apples. Fill the pastry-lined dishPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 109 and bake for twenty minutes. This pudding may be made with one egg, or even without an egg, using a little milk instead. Apple and Vermicelli Pudding (Hot or Cold) 224 Boil a quart of milk with a strip of lemon peel, add 4 oz. of vermicelli, and simmer for half an hour. When cool sweeten with 4 or 5 oz. of sugar, and beat in two eggs. Pare and core some apples, and put a bit of grated lemon-peel in the centre of each to flavour it. Put some of the vermicelli in a pie dish, lay in the apples, cover with the rest of the vermicelli, and bake in a very moderate oven till the apples are quite soft. Apple Charlotte (Hot) 225 Pare, core and slice 3 lb. of cooking apples, and stew them gently to a pulp with twelve lumps of sugar, and the thin peel of one lemon. Butter a mould and line it with thin fingers of stale bread which have been dipped in melted butter, and let the pieces of bread overlap each other. Cut a slice of bread to cover the top of the mould (a plain mould should be used for this pudding). Fill with the hot apple pulp, and fit a slice of bread over, cover with a plate, on which put a weight to keep the bread in place, and bake in a quick oven for 45 to 50 minutes. Turn out and serve dusted over with castor sugar.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK Apple Marmalade Puddings (Hot) 226 Butter a pie dish and line it with neat circles, squares or fingers of bread and butter, and fill with layers of stewed apples and marmalade. Finish with another layer of bread and butter. Bake in a quick oven about 30 minutes, turn out and cover with castor sugar. Buttered Apples (Cold) 227 Peel and core some good cooking apples of medium size, and fill the space in the middle with butter, mixed with a little golden syrup. Place the apples on a buttered baking tin, and let them cook gently until they are quite tender but not broken. They should be basted now and then with butter, and when they are about half-cooked, cover them with some golden syrup which has been flavoured with ground cloves, and coloured a clear red with carmine, and if the apples are not sour, a little lemon-juice may be added to it; baste the apples frequently after pouring in the syrup, and after taking them from the oven, continue to pour it over them from time to time until they are cold. Sultana Pudding (Hot) 228 Pour a pint of boiling milk on a half-pint of bread- crumbs, add a tablespoonful of ground rice, one of brown sugar, 1 oz. of butter, a pinch of salt, grated rind of a lemon, and 2 oz. of sultanas, stir in two well beaten I ioPUDDINGS AND SWEETS III eggs, put in a pie dish, bake three-quarters of an hour, sift sugar over. Little Prince’s Pudding (Hot) 229 Line the edge of a pie dish with paste and mark it with a fork to make a pretty edging. Place a layer of stewed fruit, sweetened and put through the sieve, at the bottom of the dish. Boil three-quarters of a pint of milk with oz. of sugar and a little essence of vanilla. Beat two eggs, pour the milk on to them and whisk together. Pour into the pie dish, place in a baking tin, in which there is a little water, and bake in a moderate oven until the custard is firm. Orange Pudding (Hot) 230 Mix 2 ozs. of stale cake and breadcrumbs with one tablespoonful of castor sugar, add the juice of two oranges, one egg, and three gills of milk, and bake in a pie dish. Princess Puddings (Hot or Cold) 231 Take the weight of two eggs in butter, powdered sugar, flour and ground rice. Work the butter until it is soft and creamy, then add the sugar and beat with a wooden spoon until the mixture is quite white, then stir in the eggs one at a time (they must be beaten separately),THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 112 and when they are well worked into the butter and sugar sift in the flour by degrees, and then the ground rice ; flavour with grated lemon-peel or vanilla, and pour in sufficient milk to make the mixture of a creamlike substance ; butter a pie dish, and the last thing before pouring in the pudding add half a teaspoonful of baking- powder to it. Bake in a quick oven until nicely browned. Turn out of the dish and pour some melted red currant jelly over the pudding and scatter with desiccated cocoanut. Lemon Pudding (Hot or Cold) 232 Warm one pint of milk thoroughly and pour it on to one teacupful of breadcrumbs ; add the beaten yolks of two eggs, 1 oz. of butter, and half a cupful of white sugar beaten to a cream, and the juice and half the rind of a small lemon. Bake in a buttered dish till firm and slightly brown. Draw to the door of the oven and cover lightly with a meringue of the whites whipped to a stiff froth with three tablespoonsful of powdered sugar, and a little lemon juice. Brown slightly. Empress Pudding (Rich—Cold) 233 Slightly heat a full half-pint of milk. Dissolve 1 oz. (16 sheets) of gelatine in a gill of water, and when quite dissolved strain into the milk. Add a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla and the yolks of four eggs and 2 oz. of castor sugar. Stir over the fire to cook thePUDDINGS AND SWEETS I 113 eggs, but do not let the mixture boil or it will curdle. Let it cool and then add a tablespoonful of cura§oa and half a pint of whipped cream. Whisk together, and when nearly cold pour into a china mould. Yeomanry Pudding (Rich—Hot or Cold) 234 Cream together 6 oz. of fresh butter and 6 oz. of castor sugar, and then add the yolks of four and whites of two eggs, 1 oz. of sweet and J oz. of bitter almonds pounded with a spoonful of milk. Line a fireproof china dish with apricot jam and pour the above mix- ture over. Bake for three-quarters of an hour. When cool pile over it the whites of two eggs beaten with two dessertspoonsful of castor sugar to a stiff froth and bake a fight brown. Serve hot or cold. This is a rich and very good pudding. Cake Pudding (Hot) 235 One teacup of milk, two cups of flour, two tablespoons- ful of melted butter, two eggs, one cup of sugar, two tea- spoonsful of baking powder. Make a batter (add the baking powder last), and bake in a pudding dish in moderate oven for one hour. Sponge and Fruit Pie (Hot or Cold) 236 Place a dish of plums or any fruit in a hot oven. Take two tablespoonsful of flour, rub in one tea-THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 114 spoonful of butter, beat one egg and one tablespoonful of castor sugar, add together and beat. When the fruit is nearly cooked, pour the mixture over, put back in a hot oven for a quarter of an hour. Summer Pudding (Cold) 237 Two tablespoonsful of cornflour, two lemons, one tablespoonful of butter, two eggs, one teacupful of sugar, one pint of milk. Moisten the corn- flour with a little milk, put the rest of the milk on to boil, then stir the cornflour into the boiling milk for five minutes. Pour into a pie dish, and add the butter; beat together; grate the rind of one lemon, and add the juice of two, the cup of sugar, and yolks of two eggs. Beat all together, and add to the cornflour in the pie dish. Beat all together until quite smooth, put into the oven and bake twenty minutes. Then add the beaten whites of the eggs, and pile on the top of the pudding, and return to the oven for two or three minutes, and set aside to get cold. Sultana Pudding (Hot) 238 Pour a pint of boiling milk on to half a pint of fine stale white breadcrumbs, add a tablespoonful of ground rice, 1 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of brown sugar, a pinch of salt, the grated rind of a fresh lemon, and 4 oz. of picked sultanas, and lastly stir in two well-beaten eggs. Pour into a well-buttered shallow dish, and bake forPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 115 half an hour or forty minutes in a moderate oven. Serve with powdered sugar sifted over. Letty’s Pudding (Hot) 239 Put one and a half pints of water, lb. of loaf sugar, and the pared rind of one lemon in a saucepan. When this boils sprinkle in three tablespoonsful of tapioca, and cook this till it is quite clear. Next pour it into a pie dish in which you have laid 1 lb. of rhubarb cut into finger lengths, cover the pie dish with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in a slow oven till the rhubarb is quite tender. Roast Apples with Rice (Hot) 240 Remove the cores and peel the apples, fill the cavity with cold boiled rice, in which has been mixed one tea- spoonful of butter, and one of sugar to each apple. Place the apples in a fireproof dish, place bits of butter on the top, pour in one cupful of sweetened hot water. Bake until the apples are soft. American Pumpkin Pie (Hot or Cold) 241 Stew the pumpkin until soft and then press through a sieve. To one pint of pumpkin allow one quart of milk, and three eggs. Beat the eggs well and stir into the milk, adding the sieved pumpkin gradually, add a little melted butter, sugar to taste, a pinch of salt, a very little cinna-THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 116 mon, and about a dessertspoonful of ginger. Pour into shells of pastry and bake in a quick oven. Strew with sugar. Wafer Puddings (Hot) 242 1| oz. of butter, 2 oz. of flour, two eggs, half a pint of milk. Work the butter into the flour, add the beaten eggs, then milk, and mix all together. Put in buttered saucers and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Serve with lemon and sugar, or jam, or spread stewed apple on one side and fold over. Emergency Pudding (Hot) 243 J lb. of flour, \ lb. of butter, 3 oz. of castor sugar, one teaspoonful of baking powder, two eggs well beaten, enough milk to mix. Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar, add the eggs with nearly half a pint of milk, then the flour with the powder well mixed in. Beat all briskly for five minutes, pour into a tin (a meat tin will do), bake for a quarter of an hour in a hot oven, turn out and spread jam over. Swiss Roll (Hot or Cold) 244 j Beat two oz. of sifted sugar, 2 oz. of fresh butter together, then add to it two eggs and a £ lb. of self- raising flour and three teaspoonsful of milk mixed with a small teaspoonful of essence of vanilla. Beat all to-PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 117 gether lightly yet thoroughly, and bake for eight minutes in a thickly-buttered long-shaped tin, turn out carefully, spread thicldy with jam which has been warmed, and roll up quickly, dust with sifted sugar. Lemon Charlotte (Hot or Cold) 245 Line a well - buttered pint pie dish thickly with bread crumbs, then put in the following mixture : The grated rind and juice of two lemons, 2 oz. of butter, 3 oz. of castor sugar, one gill of water, and the yolks of three eggs. Stir in a double saucepan till thick as honey but do not let it boil, pour it into the pie dish, grate a dust of nutmeg on top, and bake in a slow oven for half an hour till a nice golden brown. Rice Souffle (Hot) 246 Wash 2 oz. of the best Carolina rice and then place it in three-quarters of a pint of milk and cook until the rice swells, and is soft wdthout being pappy. Let it cool a little, then stir in 1 oz. of fresh butter, 1| oz. of castor sugar, 1 oz. of shred sweet almonds, a tiny pinch of salt, the grated rind of half a small lemon, and the frothed yolks of two eggs. Place in a souffle dish in which there is some preserve, and bake for twenty- five minutes in a moderate oven. Then place the whipped whites of the two eggs on the top and return to the oven until they are lightly coloured.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK Green Gooseberry Pudding (Hot or Cold) 247 Stew a quart of green gooseberries in a jar until they pulp, rub them through a sieve, stir in 3 oz. of butter, add 4 oz. of sponge cake crumbs, and two eggs well beaten in a gill of milk, sweeten and bake in a dish lined with pastry. Water Pudding (Hot) 248 (An Excellent Light Souffle) Three eggs, J lb. powdered sugar, one lemon, twelve table spoonsful of water, half a tablespoonful of flour. Boil exactly ten tablespoonsful of water in a saucepan. Mix the yolks of the three eggs, the sugar, flour, grated rind and juice of the lemon, with two tablespoonsful of cold water. Beat well together. Put it into the boiling water and boil for two minutes, then strain, put into a basin to get partly cold. Beat the whites of the eggs well, add them to the partly-cooked mixture, and beat for five minutes, then put into a tart dish lined with paste, and bake for half an hour in a quick oven. BOILED AND STEAMED PUDDINGS Vanilla Souffle (Hot) 249 (An Excellent Light Souffle) Melt 1 oz. of fresh butter in a saucepan, add to it an ounce of flour which has been dried and sifted, and mix Il8PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 119 thorough^ together, then pour in a quarter of a pint of milk, stirring all the time. When the mixture is thick and quite free from lumps, take the pan fi om the fire, add two teaspoonsful of powdered sugar, and the yolks of three eggs, one at a time, and about half a tea- spoonful of essence of vanilla, and a tiny pinch of baking powder. Beat all together for a few moments, then stir in veiy lightly the whisked whites of the eggs ; pour at once into a buttered souffle tin, and steam gently for about half an hour, or rather less. Turn on to a hot dish and pour some hot fruit syrup, or wine sauce, over. Hilton Pudding (Hot) 250 Line a well-greased mould with figs cut in pieces, cut the crust from two slices of bread and cut the crumb in small pieces, sprinkle them with sugar. Beat one egg, add a teacupful of milk and pour over the bread and figs, cover with greased paper and steam for two and a half hours. Banana Pudding (Hot) 251 8 oz. of bananas cut small, 6 oz. of breadcrumbs, 4 oz. of castor sugar, 4 oz. of suet, all chopped fine, two eggs, half a pint of milk. Mix and beat with a wooden spoon for ten minutes, steam in a greased mould for five hours. Serve plain or with sweet sauce.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 120 Patriotic Pudding (Hot) 252 Two eggs, 6 oz. of flour, 4 oz. of butter, 3 oz. of castor sugar, two teaspoonsful of baking powder, two table- spoonsful of milk. Cream the sugar and butter, add flour and eggs by degrees, then milk, lastly baking powder. Well grease a basin, and put two tablespoons- ful of jam at the bottom, and pour the mixture over it, steam for two hours. French Rice (Hot) 253 4 oz. of rice, two eggs, 2 oz. of castor sugar, 2 oz. of butter, one quart of milk, vanilla essence. For the sauce, 3 oz. red jam, half a pint of water, \ oz. of castor sugar, one teaspoonful of lemon-juice, six drops of cochineal. Wash the rice and boil it in the milk for twenty minutes, stir in the sugar and butter, then let it cool; beat up the eggs, then add them, with half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence (if liked); turn the rice into a greased mould, cover it with a piece of greased paper and steam for one hour. Turn it on to a hot dish and pour the jam sauce round. Sultanas and Rice (Hot) 254 Carefully boil a teacupful of Carolina rice so that each grain is separate, as if for curry. When cold add a tea- cupful of well-washed sultanas, a tablespoonful of butter and two of white sugar. Stir together, and thenPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 121 tie in a floured cloth and boil for thirty to forty minutes. Serve with golden syrup made hot and poured round. An excellent pudding for the nursery. Preserved Ginger Pudding (Hot) 255 Beat to a cream J lb. of butter and 2 oz. of castor sugar, add one egg and 2 oz. of flour, then beat well for five minutes. Add to this 1 oz. of preserved ginger and one teaspoonful of the syrup. Finally stir in a quarter of a teaspoonful of baking powder and a little groimd ginger, and steam in a greased mould for one and a half hours. Date Pudding (Hot) 256 4 oz. each of dates, flour and sugar, 2 oz. of suet, a little chopped lemon-peel, one egg. Wash and stone the dates, halve them and dry them, mix with the dry ingredients, beat up the egg with a gill of milk, pour into a greased mould, steam for three hours. American Pudding (Hot) 257 Mix together two large teacupsful of flour, one of chopped suet, one of golden syrup, one teaspoonful each of cream of tartar, carbonate of soda, and ground ginger, and a pinch of salt. If not sufficiently moist add a little milk, put into a greased basin and boil for three hours, or steam for four hours.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 122 Althorp Pudding (Hot) 258 6 oz. of raisins, 6 oz. of beef suet, two eggs, 6 oz. of flour, 2 oz. of sugar, one gill of milk. Shred the suet very fine, add the other ingredients, mix all well to- gether, and put the mixture in a well-buttered basin, and steam for five hours. Serve with a hot sweet sauce. Frith’s Pudding (Hot) 259 One cupful of suet finely chopped, one cupful of flour, one cupful of black currant jam warmed a little, tea- spoonful of baking powder. Mix thoroughly, put in a greased mould, tie in a floured cloth, plunge into boil- ing water and boil for two hours. Vennoise Pudding (Hot) 260 £ lb. of stale breadcrumbs, 3 oz. of castor sugar, 3 oz. of sultanas, 2 oz. of candied peel, and the grated rind of a lemon. Put these ingredients together in a dry bowl. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan and put in 1 oz. of loaf sugar, stir till brightly brown, add three-quarters of a pint of milk and let it just boil. Beat two eggs, let the milk cool and pour it on the eggs, then pour all on the bread and mix well. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, cover with greased paper, and steam for two hours.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 123 Cherry Dumplings (Hot) 261 Sift 5 oz. of flour and add to it an eggsponful of baking powder, 3 oz. of fine breadcrumbs and 6 oz. of finely shred suet (Hugon’s suet is by far the best and most economical). Add 2 oz. of sugar and 4 oz. of preserved cherries, cut in half. Mix to a paste with milk, shape into dumplings and boil for one and a half hours. Serve piled together and powdered with castor sugar. Muslin Puddings (Hot) 262 Beat up the whites of three eggs to a very stiff froth. Melt together in a saucepan 1 oz. each of butter and sugar, the juice of one lemon, the grated rind of half, and before these are quite hot add the yolks of .the three eggs. Stir together till thick, but it must not boil. Very quickly add the whites of eggs, turn into a buttered mould, and steam very slowly about twenty minutes. Semolina Shape (Hot or Cold) 263 Put a pint of milk into a saucepan with two large tablespoonsful of semolina which has been washed in cold water, and the peel of half a lemon. Let the saucepan stand on the stove, and stir the contents occa- sionally until the milk boils and the semolina swells ; then draw the pan to the side of the fire, and let the pudding finish cooking. When all the milk is absorbed,THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 124 remove the saucepan and sweeten the semolina with a tablespoonful of sugar, and add a little piece of butter. Whisk an egg well, and add it to the pudding, and pour it into a buttered basin ; place a piece of buttered paper over the top and steam it for an hour and a haif. Serve with stewed fruit or custard. Coffee Pudding (Hot) 264 Take 3 oz. of sponge cake crumbs and 1 oz. of bread- crumbs, and two dessertspoonsful of white sugar, soak them in a little milk. Beat up two eggs and add them to a tablespoonful of coffee essence boiled in a quarter of a pint of water and cooled. Pour this on to the cake crumbs, etc. Steam in a mould for one hour and serve hot with coffee sauce. For this mix half a pint of black coffee and the same of milk thickened with arrowroot and sweetened. Hannah More’s Pudding (Hot) 265 Mix 6 oz. of finely chopped apple, 6 oz. of suet, 6 oz. of breadcrumbs, 6 oz. of raisins, and 6 oz. of castor sugar and 3 oz. of candied peel well together ; beat up two eggs in a very little milk, stir all the ingredients well together, and steam in a well-buttered mould for three hours. Caramel Pudding (Hot or Cold) 266 Put 2 oz. of castor sugar into a pint mould with twoPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 125 tablespoonsful of lemon-juice, and place on a hot part of the stove until the sugar melts and becomes the colour of sherry. Stir all the time. Now take the tin in a damp cloth and turn it about until the caramel coats it (or, what is easier, let the caramel merely cover the bottom of the mould, in which case 1 oz. of sugar and one spoonful of lemon will be sufficient). When set, strain in the custard mixture, stir it, place a sheet of buttered paper on the top, place the mould in a pan of boiling water full enough to allow the water to reach three parts up the mould, and simmer slowly until the pudding is firm to the touch in the centre. If cooked too fast the pudding will be hard and honeycombed. Turn out as you would turn out a jelly. Custard Mixture for the Caramel Pudding. 267 The yolks of three eggs, the whites of two, one table- spoonful of castor sugar, and half a pint of milk. Whip the eggs and mix them into the hot milk and sugar. Mix together and strain into the caramel-coated mould. SHAPES, CREAMS, JELLIES, AND CUSTARDS Junket (Cold) 268 Put a quart of milk into a saucepan, and let it stand on the stove until it is slightly warm ; sweeten it to taste with white sugar, and pour it into an ornamental bowl or glass dish ; add two tablespoonsful of essenceTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 126 of rennet, stir well, and put aside to cool, and do not move the bowl until the curd has formed and has had time to get quite cold. Scatter grated nutmeg over the top, and cover with either clotted or whipped cream the last thing before sending the junket to the table. Fruit Cream (Made with Jam) (Cold) 269 Put ^ oz. of gelatine to soak in a little cold milk for thirty minutes before you want to use it. Take half a pot of jam and turn it into a lined saucepan with just a little water. Stir this over the fire until it is quite hot, then pass it through a fine strainer to get rid of all the seeds, skin, etc. Put the strained syrup back into the saucepan, and stir into it the gelatine. When the latter is quite melted, put it aside to cool. Take half a pint of thick cream, and whisk it until it is thoroughly whipped. When the fruit syrup is cold, but not set, stir it into the cream. Mix well, then pour at once into a china mould which has been wetted with cold water, to prevent the cream from sticking. If using red jam add a drop or two of carmine to improve the colour. A Quickly Made and Inexpensive Lemon Sponge (Cold) 270 Take the remains of some plain lemon jelly, as nearly half a pint as possible, and melt it. Whisk the white of one egg to a stiff froth, and when the melted jelly is coolPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 127 and just beginning to set, whip in the white of egg. Serve in custard glasses. Tutti-frutti (Cold) 271 Boil all but a little of one and a half pints of milk with 1 oz. of sugar and a stick of vanilla. Mix the remainder of the milk smoothly with 1 oz. of cornflour. Beat up the yolks of three eggs and add to the milk and cornflour. Pour some stewed or bottled fruit into a glass dish, add a little rum. When the milk and vanilla boil, add the eggs and milk and cornflour very slowly and stir well, so that there are no lumps. Beat up the whites of the eggs, and when the custard has cooled mix them quickly in. Pour over the fruit and let it stand until quite cold. Pain of Pineapple (Very Good) (Cold) 272 Melt a pint packet of Chivers’ pineapple jelly and add to it a few drops of pineapple essence. Then stir into it the yolks of four beaten-up eggs, add one and a half sheets of white leaf gelatine which has been dis- solved in water with a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Place in a jug in a pan of boiling water and stir until the mixture thickens. Add a liqueur glass of rum. Pour into a ring mould and leave to set. Turn out and fill the centre with whipped cream, piled high and scattered with preserved violets broken into small pieces. This recipe may be made with almost any jelly, varying the liqueur to suit the flavouring.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK Pain of Gooseberries (Cold) 273 Make a gooseberry fool, using one quart of green goose- berries, topped, tailed, and wiped ; half a tumblerful of water, and § lb. of sugar ; stew until soft. Soak J oz. of gelatine in half a tumberful of water, when quite dis- solved add it to the gooseberries. Pass through a sieve and mix with half a pint of cream or milk. Set in a mould which has been soaked in cold water. Pain of Rhubarb (Cold) 274 Make just as for pain of gooseberries, but as the rhu- barb is more liquid, omit the first lot of water, only using that in which the gelatine is dissolved. Add a little colouring if necessary. Use a ring mould and fill the centre with whipped cream. Chartreuse of Tangerine Oranges (Cold) 275 Decorate the top of a plain mould with some jelly and pistachio nuts. When this has set, arrange a ring of Tangerine orange, sections freed from all pith; then cover with some more melted . jelly, and let this set. Put in another ring of oranges, but make the pieces turn the reverse way to the first ring, or, the weight all pressing one way on the jelly may cause it to crack. Continue to do this till the mould is full, finish with a layer of jelly. 12SPUDDINGS AND SWEETS Prune Mould (Cold) 276 Stone 1 lb. of prunes, place in a stewpan with J lb. of loaf sugar, a gill of claret or water, and a little lemon rind, stew until the prunes are quite tender, strain the juice from them and add enough claret or water to make a pint of liquid, dissolve -h oz. of gelatine and bring it to the boil, add it to the liquid and stir together, add the primes, pour into a ring mould, when set turn out, fill with whipped cream and garnish with chopped almonds. Lemon Sago (Cold) 277 Soak a teacupful of large sago till soft and then cook it in five cupsful of water till tender, add six table- spoonsful of golden syrup and the grated rind and juice of two lemons. Pour into a wet mould. Milk Jelly (Cold) 278 Soak 1 oz. of gelatine in a little cold water for two hours, then pour over one and a half pints of boiling milk flavoured with a strip of lemon-peel. Sweeten all to taste, stir occasionally till cool and pour into a wetted mould. Turn out and serve wdth a little preserve or stewed fruit. Fruit Jelly (Cold) 279 Take twelve large strawberries and cut them into slices, add three bananas peeled and sliced, cover the 139 KTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 130 fruit with warm syrup, made by boiling half a pint of water with 6 oz. of sugar, colour a bright red with car- mine, and stand in a cool place for four or five hours. Then strain the syrup through muslin (leaving the fruit in the basin), take half of it, and place it in an enamelled saucepan with 1 oz. of soaked gelatine, and the thinly paired rind of half a lemon ; directly the gelatine is dis- solved strain the liquid back into the basin containing the remainder of the syrup ; add the juice of two lemons and a wineglass of sherry, and pour a little of the jelly into a wetted mould. As soon as it has set arrange some of the fruit on it, then add a little more jelly, and when this is firm continue to fill the mould in this way until all the fruit has been used. Rhubarb Mould (Cold) 280 Cut up two quarts of pink rhubarb in small pieces, put it into a covered jar in the oven with a teacupful of water and 8 oz. of loaf sugar. When the juice is ex- tracted, strain, and dissolve in it 1 oz. of soaked gelatine, with the juice of a lemon and the grated rind. Boil for a few minutes, then pour into a mould, and leave till set. Turn out and serve with cream or custard. For rasp- berry or strawberry moulds use half rhubarb juice and half raspberry or strawberry juice. Italian Cream (Cold) 281 Whisk one cupful of cream and two spoonsful of apricot jam well together, whisk the whites of two eggsPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 131 to a stiff froth, mix with the cream, and lastly stir in one or two spoonsful of sugar according to taste. Serve in glasses. Economical Fruit Cream (Cold) 282 Boil half a pint of milk and strain into it \ oz. of gela- tine which has been dissolved in milk, then strain into it about half a pint of fruit juice (the juice from a tin of pine, peaches, etc., boiled up with a few lumps of sugar and strained, answers very well). As soon as the mix- ture cools whip it up and add a gill of whipped cream (half a sixpenny pot will suffice). Mould and serve with some slices of the preserved fruit from which the syrup was taken, arranged round. Compote of Cherries (or other Fruit) (Cold) 283 Cook the cherries, which must be ripe and sound, in a little sugar-water syrup until they are soft but not shape- less. Strain the syrup and flavour it with cura9oa, and colour it with a few drops of carmine. Pour it over the cherries, and serve very cold. Fruit of any kind or a mixture of fruits may be used thus with or without liqueur or colouring. A Very Good Rice Mould (Cold) 284 This recipe, if carefully carried out, results in a most delicious, rich, creamy rice shape, which tastes as if it had been made with cream instead of milk.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 132 Wash 4 oz. of Carolina rice of good quality. Bring one and a half pints of milk to the boil and put in the rice. Boil for twenty minutes, then add two table- spoonsful of castor sugar, and cook gently for another twenty minutes. Turn out into a basin, strain one sheet of gelatine, which has been soaked in milk, into the rice, stir in the frothed white of one egg and two or three tablespoonsful of whipped cream. Mould in a quart mould and turn out when set. Almond Velvet (Cold) 285 Take two penny macaroons, break up small, and boil in one pint of milk. Mix 1 oz. of cornflour with a little cold milk, stir into boiling milk, and boil for about ten minutes ; add a piece of butter about the size of a walnut. Pour into wetted mould which has been decorated with cherries. Apple Gateau (Cold) 286 Boil 1 lb. of loaf sugar in half a pint of water until a thick syrup results. Peel, core, and quarter 2 lb. of apples, and cook them in the syrup with the rind of half and the juice of a whole lemon. Meanwhile soak £ oz. of gelatine in a teacupful of water, add to it the apple, stir well over the fire until dissolved. Put all through a sidve, and then into a ring mould which has been soaked in cold water ; when cold turn out, stick with almonds, and fill the centre with whipped cream and squares of red currant jelly.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 133 Lemon Mould (Cold) 287 Soak 5 oz. of gelatine in half a pint of water ; when soft put it in an enamelled saucepan with half a pint more water, and rind and juice of two lemons, and 1 oz.of sugar. Stir over the fire, and when nearly boiling strain the mixture into a basin. Beat up two eggs lightly and stir into the mould, stirring carefully one way, or it may curdle. Pour into wetted mould, and set in cool place for twenty-four hours. Soak f oz. of gelatine in one gill of water for an hour, then stir over the fire till dissolved, add half a pint of raspberry or any other fruit juice, obtained by heating the fruit with a very little water and draining it through a fine sieve ; add half a pint of cream, three-quarters of a pint of milk, 4 oz. sugar and the juice of half a lemon. Whisk the mixture one way until it stiffens, pour into a mould and turn out when set. Bring to the boil one pint of milk with a piece of vanille or a few drops of essence of vanille, and 2 oz. of castor sugar. Beat the yolks of three eggs and add to the milk when it has cooled a little. Place in a jug in a panful of hot water, and stir until the custard is of the consis- tency of thick cream. If cooked too long the custard will be lumpy. Remove the stick vanille before serving, Fruit Sponge (Cold) 288 How to Make Custard 289THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 134 and let the custard cool before pouring it into glasses, or it may crack them. This recipe is for a good medium custard, and may be varied to taste. For example, omit one of the eggs, or add the yolks of one, two or three more eggs ; use half milk and half cream, or merely add a gill of cream, whipping it in as the custard is cool- ing. If the custard is required for moulding, dissolve | oz. of white leaf gelatine in each pint of milk. Be careful to strain the gelatine-thickened milk before mixing it with the eggs. The custard may, of course, be made in a delicately clean enamelled pan, but it is far safer, if a little more trouble, to cook it in a jug in a panful of water. Custards, and, indeed, creams of any kind, should be moulded in glass or china moulds. When using gelatine for custards and creams place it until soft in cold milk, then dissolve it in the hot milk. Pineapple Charlotte (Cold) 290 T Make a custard with one pint of milk to two eggs, as in the previous recipe, and stiffen with four sheets of gelatine. Pour it while hot on to J lb. of fine brown breadcrumbs. Decorate the top of a plain mould with slices of preserved pineapple and tiny cubes of angelica. Pour in the custard very gently a little at a time, so as not to dislodge the garnish, and leave to set. Moulded Custard (Made with One Egg) 291 (Cold) Make a boiled and sweetened custard with the yolk of one egg and half a pint of milk ; flavour with vanille.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 135 Add to it -J oz. of gelatine which has been dissolved in a teacupful of milk. Whip the white of one egg stiffly, and as the custard begins to set whip the white froth into it. Mould in a ring mould, and serve stewed or bottled fruit in the centre. Fruit Custards (Cold) 292 Stew 1 lb. of ripe blackberries and three cooking apples, cut in slices, or any other fruit, in a quarter of a pint of sugar syrup, until the fruit is reduced to a pulp ; add sugar to taste, and then pass the pulp through a sieve. Add a few drops of carmine, put half a pint of milk into an enamelled saucepan with a small piece of cinnamon, and a few shreds of thinly cut lemon-peel. Beat the yolks of two eggs well, and whisk the whites to a stiff froth, then mix the yolks and whites lightly together in a basin, and directly the milk boils pour it on the eggs and stir for a moment or two ; slightly sweeten the custard and then pour it into a saucepan, and stir it until it is quite smooth and thick, but on no account allow it to reach boiling-point, or it will curdle. Strain it into a basin, which place in a larger vessel containing cold water, and whisk the custard until it is quite cold. Mix it with rather more than half a pint of the sieved fruit, which should be cold, and serve in custard glasses. Lemon Custard (Cold) 293 2£ oz. of loaf sugar, the juice of two lemons, the yolks of four eggs, and one pint of boiling water. Pour theTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 136 water on to the sugar, then add the strained lemon- juice. Well heat up the yolks. When the lemonade (as made above) is cool enough, pour it on to the yolks, mix well, and strain into a small saucepan or jug. Place the jug in a pan of boiling water over the fire, and stir till the mixture thickens well; but on no account let it boil, or it will curdle and be quite spoilt. Allow it to get cold. Serve in custard glasses, Fruit Ballette (Cold) 294 Make one and a half pints of custard, using three eggs and one gill of cream, and stiffen it with oz. of white leaf gelatine. Pour it while hot on to 3 oz. of sieved stale sponge cake crumbs and 1 oz. of crushed macaroons, and flavour with a little liqueur (if liked). Leave till cold. Half fill a china mould with a hollow centre. When set, turn out and fill with a compote of fruit. The cream in the custard may be dispensed with. Ratafia Custard (Cold) 295 Make a custard as before, and fill a mould to the depth of one inch, and let it set. Now arrange a layer of rata- fias on the custard and a row of preserved cherries all round the edge. Pour in some custard, and when set add another layer of ratafias and cherries, and a third layer of custard, and leave until quite set. The custard for the second and third layers should be kept in a jug in a pan of warm water to prevent it from setting.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 137 A Charlotte Russe (Cold) 2g6 Line a plain round mould with sponge fingers split in half, and spread on the inner side with apricot jam. Fill with a stiffened custard well flavoured with vanille, and leave until quite set. , Ginger Custard (Cold) 297 Just cover \ oz. of gelatine with cold water and let it stand for an hour. Put one pint of milk into an ena- melled saucepan with the rind of a lemon or stick of cinnamon. Cover the saucepan and let it come slowly to the boil. Put the yolks of three eggs into a basin with a tablespoonful of sugar, and mix them with a tablespoonful of cold milk. As soon as the milk is on the boil, strain the water from the gelatine, and put the soaked gelatine into the milk, and stir over the fire until quite dissolved. Strain into the egg yolks, stirring well, and add a teacupful of chopped ginger. Pour into a wetted mould and stand for twenty-four hours. Turn out and serve with some of the ginger syrup round. Pineapple may be used instead of ginger if liked. American Cream (Cold) 298 Set on a slow fire \ oz. of gelatine in one pint of milk. Mix well together the yolks of two eggs, some vanilla flavouring, and 1£ oz. of castor sugar. Stir this into the milk when it nearly boils and stir over the fire for a few minutes, without quite boiling. Have ready theTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 138 whites of the eggs well beaten to a very stiff froth with 1 oz. of castor sugar, and add to the other mixture when it has cooled. Blend well and pour into a wetted mould and stand in a cool place until quite set. Barley Cream (Cold) 299 Soak three tablespoonsful of pearl barley for a few hours ha sufficient cold water to cover it, then drain the water from it and boil in one quart of milk till soft. Sweeten to taste, when cold mix in a quarter of a pint of cream and serve cold, plain or decorated with cherries and angelica. French Plum Mould (Cold) 300 Stew 1 lb. of French plums till soft. Crack the stones and take out the kernels. Fill a mould with these and the plums and pour over some lemon jelly coloured with cochineal. Turn out and serve with whipped cream round it, or if made in a mould with hole in centre, fill up with the whipped cream. Danish Mould (Cold) 01 Two tablespoonsful of jam (red by preference), one pint of water, two tablespoonsful of cornflour. Mix the cornflour with a little of the water. Boil the rest of the water with the jam, stirring it well together. Add to cornflour, boil all together, stirring until thick, pourPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 139 into mould, and turn out when cold. Serve with little cream or custard. (It will be semi-transparent in appear- ance, with small bits of jam showing.) Lemon Sago (Cold) 302 Soak overnight three-quarters of a teacupful of medium sago, four cups of water, three-quarters of a cup of sugar, the rind of a lemon, grated, and two table- spoonsful of golden syrup. Next day boil until clear, stirring frequently; add the juice of a lemon, and mould. Surprise Soufflet (Cold) 303 Whip one pint of cream stiffly, and place a little of it in a china soufflet dish. Cut \ lb. of preserved (or fresh) apricots and other fruits into small pieces, and let them lie in some cura9oa until well flavoured. Drain them, and mix them with some of the whipped cream, and three-quarters fill the soufflet dish ; then pile whipped cream on the top, and scatter with chopped pistachio nuts. Place in a refrigerator or on ice for some time before serving. Place the soufflet dish in a silver dish, and surround with a paper frill. Caramel Russe (Cold) 304 Dip the required number of finger sponge cakes in caramel, then in chopped almonds ; dry and fasten one to another in a circle with caramel. The caramelTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 140 is made by putting a tablespoonful of sugar into a saucepan, and stirring till it becomes brown like coffee. The caramel must be kept hot whilst dipping the fingers in, and not allowed to burn. When the shape is ready, fill with the following mixture, made as follows : Put a gill of milk into a saucepan, flavour it with almond flavouring and 2 oz. castor sugar. Bring the milk to the boil, put into it J oz. of gelatine which has been dissolved in a little water. When this has well mixed, pour the milk on to two raw eggs (yolks) which are in a basin. Return the mixture to a saucepan, stir over the fire till it thickens, but on no account let it boil. Put the custard on one side, and when it is cool add half a pint of well whipped cream. Stir till it begins to thicken, then pour into the shape. When set, orna- ment with well whipped cream and chopped almonds. Indian Trifle (Cold) 305 Boil one tablespoonful of ground rice in half a pint of milk, stir well, so that there are no lumps, add sugar to sweeten, a few drops of lemon-juice, also the beaten yolk of an egg. When the rice is cooled a little, after thor- oughly cooking, put it in a glass dish. Shoe six bananas upon this, cover with boiled custard sweetened and flavoured with a little vanilla, and oranment with whipped cream coloured pink with a few drops of cochineal. Bavarois au Mocha (Cold) 3°^ Whip half a pint of cream rather stiff ; dissolve fivePUDDINGS AND SWEETS 141 leaves of Marshall’s gelatine in a teacupful of strong coffee, let it get cold, stir it into the cream, and put into a china mould ; let it stand until set. Strawberry Charlotte (Cold) 307 Line a plain round mould with Savoy biscuits. Make a strong syrup, about 1 lb. of sugar to half a pint of water, let it boil, and when clear add § lb. of picked strawberries. Boil up, being careful not to let the strawberries break. Pour into the mould while hot, cover closely and let it stand. When set turn out, and pile whipped cream on the top. Some gelatine may be used if required. But the syrup should be strong enough to set without. Ginger Cream (Cold) 308 Soak 1 oz. of gelatine in a teacup of water, to which add half a pint of sherry and let it stand five minutes, then dissolve it over the fire, stirring it all the time. Rub the rinds of two lemons with 6 oz. of lump sugar, which with the juice strained add to the hot solution. When nearly cold pour it gently into a pint of cream and stir in quite half a teaspoonful of ground ginger and some preserved ginger cut in small dice ; fill your mould, after having previously let it stand full of cold water and drained it. A little lemon jelly coloured to ornament the top makes it look much prettier—this must be put in the mould some time before and allowed to get perfectly cold and firm before adding the cream.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 142 PASTRY The most generally useful of all kinds of pastry is short pastry, and a good economical recipe is the following. It may be used for tarts, tartlets, and puffs, and, if flavoured with salt, for meat pies and savoury tartlets— Short or Flaky Pastry 1 lb. of fine dry sifted flour, 5 oz. of clarified beef dripping or butter, or part lard and part butter. Cut the fat into pieces, and with the tips of the fingers well floured rub the fat into the sweetened or salted flour until when incorporated it looks like a mass of breadcrumbs. Make a hollow in the centre of the flour and mix with hot water by means of a knife. Form into a ball by means of the floured hands. Flour the paste-board and roller, and roll the paste lightly but firmly to the desired thickness. A Richer Pastry Mix just as before, but use one beaten egg and not quite so much water. This pastry, whether made with an egg or without, should be light, short, and flaky.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS Cream Cornets (Cold) 3og Make some short pastry, cut it into strips an inch wide, wrap them round cornet moulds, and bake in a quick oven, remove the moulds; when cold, half fill with raspberry or apricot jam and fill up with whipped cream. Maids-of-Honour (Cold) 310 2 oz. of Jordan almonds, 4 oz. of castor sugar, two yolks of eggs, J oz. of cornflour, two tablespoonsful of cream, one tablespoonful of orange water, short paste for lining; blanch, peel and dry the almonds, put them in a mortar and pound with the castor sugar until fine, add the yolks of eggs one by one, mix in the cream, the orange flower water and the cornflour. Line some tartlet moulds with pastry, partly fill with the mixture, and bake in moderately heated oven. Chocolate Cheesecakes (Hot or Cold) 311 Dissolve half a cake of the best chocolate in a little milk, add to this 1 oz. of castor sugar, a small piece of butter, and the yolks of two eggs. Stir this over a slow fire until it is as smooth as thick cream. Pour this mixture into shells of good short pastry. When done, spread on the top of each a spoonful of the white of egg, whipped to a stiff froth with sugar and cream, and bake a minute longer. M3THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 144 Lemon Fingers (Cold) 312 Roll out some light short paste (it must not be too thin) and cut it into two pieces. Spread one piece with a layer of lemon cheese curd and then cover with the other piece of paste, pressing it gently to make it adhere, and with a sharp knife cut it into finger-shaped pieces. Brush them over with white of egg, scatter a little desiccated cocoanut, which has been dusted with pow- dered sugar, over the top, and bake them in a quick oven. Cocoanut Cheesecakes (Hot or Cold) 313 Beat oz. of butter and H oz. of castor sugar to a cream, add one egg and one tablespoonful of rice flour and beat well. Add 2 oz. of desiccated cocoanut. Have ready twelve tartlet pans lined with short pastry. Place a heaped tablespoonful of the mixture in each and bake from ten to fifteen minutes. Fruit Tartlets (Hot or Cold) 314 Have ready some pastry tartlet cases, and fill with sliced fruit which has been stewed until soft in thick sugar syrup. Pour a little of the syrup into each tartlet and serve hot or cold. Another Rich Short Paste 315 To | lb. of flour, which has been dried and sifted, add a pinch of salt and half a teaspoonful of baking powder*PUDDINGS AND SWEETS L 145 and rub into it 6 oz. of butter, and moisten it with the yolk of an egg, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and some water. Roll out the paste to one-eighth of an inch thick, handling it as little as possible. This is a good pastry for patties or vol au vent cases. If needed for sweet tarts add 1 oz. of powdered sugar. Choux Pastry 316 Put into an enamelled saucepan half a pint of cold water, 3 oz. of butter, and 1 oz. of sugar ; when boiling, stir in quickly 6 oz. of flour, beat till smooth, cook till it leaves the sides of the saucepan clear, then take from the fire and beat in separately three eggs, and flavour with vanilla. Bake in slow oven, till of a pale brown. This is the pastry which is used for eclairs and petits choux. Eclairs (Cold) 317 Have ready some choux paste and a greased baking sheet. By means of a bag and pipe force out finger- shaped pieces of the paste on the tin. When baked, hollow out the under side of each finger a little, and when cold fill with cream. Press together and pour some chocolate or coffee icing over. Petits Choux (Hot or Cold) 318 Proceed as before, but make rounds of pastry, the size of small walnuts. When baked, open and fill with cream or jam.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 146 SWEETS, VARIOUS Compote of Chestnuts with Rice (Cold) 319 Boil some chestnuts until they are tender ; then re- move the skins and put the nuts into another saucepan, with sufficient cold water to cover them. Let it boil for a few minutes, then drain then and carefully rub off the inner skin. Make a syrup by boiling \ lb. of sugar with three-quarters of a pint of water for eight minutes ; add the juice of half a lemon and a few drops of vanilla essence, and colour the syrup red with carmine ; place the chestnuts in it and let them simmer gently until they are quite tender, then put them aside to get cold. Serve in the centre of a border of rice (see recipe for rice mould). Ripe Fruit Salad with Cream (Cold) 320 | Take 1 lb. of strawberries, \ lb. of red currants, \ lb. of white currants, half a pint of cream, £ lb. of sugar. Pick the fruit, place it in layers piled high on a glass dish ; sprinkle the sugar over, then pour on the cream, but not until a few minutes before serving. Cherries and raspberries may be added if wished. Serve wafers or Savoy biscuits with the salad. Fruit Fritters (Hot) 321 Take as many peaches or other canned fruits as are required from the syrup in which they were preserved, and put them into a soup plate ; scatter a little pow- dered sugar over them and pour in a wineglass of rum,PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 147 and leave them for two hours. Then dry the fruit, slice it with a silver knife to a convenient size, dip in batter and fry. Drain well. Serve heaped on a lace paper and powdered with sugar. For frying batter, see Chapter II. For directions for frying, see 26. Ripe uncooked fruit, such as oranges, bananas, or apples, may be used instead of tinned or bottled fruit, and the rum may be omitted. t' i ., ., , Kisses (Cold) 322 p. Take | lb. of butter, ^ lb. of flour, \ lb. of cornflour, and ^ lb. of sugar. Beat the sugar and butter to a cream ; add three unbeaten eggs, one at a time, then the flour and cornflour, to which add one teaspoonful of baking powder. Drop one teaspoonful of this mixture at a time on cold trays, and bake in a moderate oven. When cold, fasten them together in pairs with a little jam, and sift powdered sugar over. Swiss Fritters (Hot) 323 Put six large tablespoonsful of flour, which has been passed through a sieve, into a basin and add gradually sufficient boiling water to make a stiff paste; beat it well with a wooden spoon while adding the water so that it may be quite smooth. Then stir in 2 oz. of butter, and when this is mixed with the paste, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, a pinch of cinnamon, and lastly the whites of the eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Take a dessertspoonful of the mixture at a time and drop it into a pan of boiling fat; as soon as the frittersTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 148 are of a golden brown remove them from the pan, dram them on paper in front of the fire, scatter some castor sugar over them and place a little piece of apricot jam on each. Rice Croquettes (Hot) 324 Beat two eggs and two tablespoonsful of white sugar together until light, and work two tablespoonsful of melted butter well into two teacupsful of cold boiled rice. Next stir up with this the beaten eggs. Season with a large pinch of finely grated lemon-peel and sugar to taste, and make into croquettes of whatever shape you may fancy. You may find it advisable to use a little flour in working the rice paste, but be careful not to get it too stiff. Roll in a little flour, then in a beaten egg, lastly in half a cup of breadcrumbs,’and fry. The rice croquettes may be eaten with powdered sugar sprinkled thickly over them or with a sweet sauce. They are delicious when properly mixed and cooked, and much liked by children as a change from rice pudding. Pancakes (Hot) 325 Put 3 oz. of flour into a basin and mix it well with a pinch of salt. Whisk two eggs, whites and yolks to- gether, and pour them into the middle of the flour ; mix them well with a wooden spoon, pouring in gradually half a pint of milk ; work the batter until it is perfectly smooth, then put it by for half an hour ; just before using it add a pinch of baking powder. Put a medium- sized omelet pan on the fire, with a piece of lard about the size of a walnut in it. When it is quite hot pourPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 149 about two tablespoonsful of the batter into the pan, and cook over a clear fire ; when one side is just brown shake the pan, and turn the pancake over and remove directly it is evenly coloured on the other side. Have ready a hot dish covered with cooking-paper, turn the pancake on to it, and roll it up ; then heat more lard in the pan and cook another pancake, and proceed in the same way until all the batter is used. Arrange the pancakes on a hot dish covered with a d’oyley, sprinkle some powdered sugar over them, and serve with cut lemon and white sugar, or pour hot maple syrup over them. Apples a la Portugaise (Cold) 326 Choose twelve apples, small and all of a size. Peel them and remove the core with a round cutter. Stew in sugar syrup (use a breakfastcupful of sugar and the same of water, and the juice of one lemon and the peel of half a lemon for the syrup) until tender, but not broken. Leave till cold. Place in a glass or silver dish ; strain and then colour the syrup pink, and fill the hollow in each apple with red currant jelly sufficiently melted to enable you to pour it in. When set serve. This dish may be made more substantial by arranging the apples round a pyramid of rice boiled in milk and whipped up with apple pulp. To prepare the rice, simmer a teacupful of rice in a quart of milk until it has absorbed all the milk it can. Sweeten the milk with two tablespoonsful of sugar and season with the grated rind of half a lemon. When cooked whisk in about half the quantity of apple pulp.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 150 The same dish may be made with tinned apricots, stewing half the contents of the tin and putting them through a sieve. Then whisk up with the rice and arrange the remaining apricots round with the syrup poured over. Vanilla Snow Eggs (Cold) 327 Beat stiff the whites of four eggs; have ready on the fire a pint of milk sweetened and flavoured with vanilla ; as soon as it boils drop the beaten egg into it by table- spoonsful, and as soon as they become set, dip out carefully; arrange them according to fancy upon a broad dish ; allow the milk in the saucepan to cool a little, and then stir in the beaten yolks of the eggs very gradually. When thick, pour around the snowed eggs, and serve cold. Apple Trifle (Cold) 328 Peel and slice 1 lb. of apples and boil them with two tablespoonsful of water, 1 oz. of brown sugar (or more, if they are very sour) and a small stick of cin- namon, until they are reduced to a pulp ; then add 1 oz. of butter, a few drops of carmine, the grated rind of a lemon, and after beating them up well, pass them through a sieve. Cut some sponge cakes through into two pieces, spread them thickly with the prepared apple, which should be cold, and join the pieces together again. Place the sponge cakes in a deep glass dish and pour some sherry over them, and let them soak for an hour or two before the dish is required. Then cover them with a thick boiled custard; scatter some desiccated cocoanut over the top.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 151 Macaroon Baskets (Cold) 329 Turn eight macaroons upside down, and with a tea- spoon scrape out the inside. Fill the “ basket ” with whipped cream ; put a cherry in the middle, an almond sticking up each side, and form a handle with a thin strip of angelica. Orange and Banana Trifle (Cold) 330 Six sponge cakes, six bananas, two oranges, a pint of custard, some jelly cut into small pieces, some jam. Lay some sponge cakes cut in shoes in a glass dish, spread a little jam on them, a few more slices of sponge cake, and pour over some custard; next lay some orange cut into small dice, a few crumbs of sponge cake, then the bananas cut in half, some more sponge cake, and continue until all the materials are used ; over the whole pour the rest of the custard, and on the top put the pieces of jelly, and round the edge some finely chopped jelly. Genoese Gateau (Hot or Cold) 331 Take the weight of two eggs in butter and sifted sugar, and double the quantity of flour. Work the butter to a cream with a wooden spoon, and add the sugar and beat the ingredients together for six minutes, then stir the flour in gradually, and add a teaspoonful of baking powder and mix with sufficient milk to form a soft cream-like mixture. Have ready a small round cake tin which has been buttered and lightly dredgedTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 152 with flour, pour in the mixture and bake at once in a well heated oven. When done turn out the cake and let it get cool on a sieve, but before it is cold cut it through into three rounds with a sharp knife ; spread the top round with a layer of apricot jam, the middle with cream, and the bottom layer with raspberry jam. Replace the rounds neatly and dust the top and sides of the pudding with finely powdered icing sugar, and just before serving pour a hot boiled custard round the dish. If required cold let the cake cool, cut into shoes as before, spread with jam or cheese cake mixture and cream, press together again and, when cold, moisten with sherry and water or fruit syrup, and cover with whipped cream. Decorate with shred pistachio nuts. A great variety of gateaux may be made, using Genoese or sponge cakes, and flavouring and decorating them in various ways. Victoria Sandwich (Cold) 332 | lb. of flour, 3 oz. of castor sugar, two eggs, one tea- spoonful of baking powder ; well beat the eggs, then add the sugar, lastly the flour in which the baking powder has been thoroughly mixed. Have ready two sand- wich tins, buttered and papered, put half the mixture into each, and bake in a rather hot oven. Do not open the oven door until nearly cooked, which will be in about ten minutes. Turn on to a sugared board, spread jam on one half and lay the other on the top. Cut into squares or diamonds, and powder with sugar, or when cold cut into shapes and ice with coloured icings and decorate to taste.153 CHAPTER VII Savouries and Breakfast Dishes NOTE.—For directions for omelette making, see page 214 of Ten Shillings a Head. How to make croutons and canapes, see page 184 of Ten Shillings a Head. To boil macaroni, page 191 of Ten Shillings a Head. Cbeese straws and cheese pastry, pages 193 and 195 of Ten Shillings a Head. Buttered Eggs (Hot) 333 Break two eggs into a basin, and with a teaspoon remove the specks, then whisk them with a Dover egg- beater, until they form a thick froth, and season them with a dust of salt and pepper. Melt 1 oz. of butter (or \ oz. will suffice if a tablespoonful of milk is used) in an enamelled saucepan, and when it boils pour in the eggs ; place the pan on a portion of the stove where there is a good moderate heat, and stir theTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 154 oontents until the mixture shows signs of thickening. When this takes place, clear away the thickened egg with the spoon from the sides of the pan, and stir more rapidly than before for a few seconds, then while the mixture is still light and creamy spread it on two squares of hot buttered toast, from which the crust has been cut, and which have been sprinkled with salt and pepper, and send to table as quickly as possible. A little prac- tice is necessary to enable an inexperienced cook to know the exact moment at which the eggs should be taken from the fire, for even after the pan is removed from the stove they continue cooking, and due allowance should be made for this, otherwise the eggs when taken from the pan may be found too solid. A great variety of buttered egg dishes may be made. For example, spread the egg on anchovy toast or on toast spread with potted ham, or place the egg on fried bread croutons and arrange a cross of filleted anchovy on each. This buttered egg, with stewed mushrooms or peas, French beans or young carrots, is delicious. Eggs in Aspic (Cold) 334 Take four hard boiled eggs, cut them in halves, re- move the yolks, and pound them with a piece of butter, and three teaspoonsful of potted ham. Re-fill the whites of the eggs with the paste, and fit each half into a small dariole mould (previously wetted) and fill up with aspic jelly. When perfectly set turn out the eggs, and place each on a round of ham slightly larger in diameter than the jelly, and dish up surrounded by a small salad.SAVOURIES AND BREAKFAST DISHES 155 To ensure the eggs turning out satisfactorily it is a good plan to dip the moulds very quickly into hot water. Savoury Egg-Balls with Spinach (Hot) 335 Pound the yolks of three or four hard boiled eggs in a mortar, with a tablepoonsful of potted ham or tongue and a little butter, add salt and pepper, and work the mixture to a smooth paste. Take about a teaspoonful of it at a time, and with floured hands form it into little balls ; pass them through beaten egg, and then roll in fine breadcrumbs ; leave them for ten minutes, and then fry them in boiling fat. Pry some rounds of bread about the size of the top of a claret glass ; drain them on paper in front of the fire, and cover them evenly with some hot spinach, which has been prepared in the usual way; place two or three of the fried egg-balls on each spinach-covered crouton, and serve them at once. GEufs au Gratin (Hot) 336 Boil three or four eggs quite hard. When cool cut into rather thick slices. Lay in a well-buttered fire- proof dish. Sprinkle with grated cheese, fine bread- crumbs, salt and pepper. Pour over some white sauce. Sprinkle with brown crumbs, make thoroughly hot and brown with a salamander. Savoury Pancakes (Hot) 337 Make the pancake mixture exactly as for a sweetTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 156 pancake, but omit the sugar and flavour with salt. Fry in a tiny pan, so that the pancakes are small, Do not roll them, but fold them over like an omelette. Before folding place in each one a good spoonful of well fla- voured hot mince, or of peas, French beans, or stewed mushrooms. For pancakes, see page 148.r Poached Eggs a la Reine (Hot) 338 Poach as many fresh eggs as are required in water to which is added a spoonful of lemon-juice. Drain them on a cloth and dish up on rounds of fried bread. Pour some thick brown curry sauce over the eggs, scatter a little finely chopped parsley over each, and serve at once. Eggs and Ham Cutlets with Macaroni (Hot) 339 Grate the whites of four hard boiled eggs and pound them in a mortar with the yolks of the eggs and oz. of butter ; add a heaped teaspoonful of potted ham, moisten the paste with a little cream, and season it with salt and black pepper. Divide the mixture, and shape it on a floured board into the form of cutlets. Dip them into some beaten egg and cover them thickly with fine breadcrumbs ; leave them for a quarter of an hour and then fry the cutlets in plenty of boiling fat. Boil some straight pipe macaroni until it is tender, and cut it up into small pieces about half an inch in length ; then re-heat it in a small quantity of parsley sauce. Arrange the cutlets round a hot dish, and put the macaroni in the middle.SAVOURIES AND BREAKFAST DISHES 157 Eggs sur la Plat (Hot) 340 Melt 2 oz. of butter in an omelette pan; the moment the butter is melted slip in three eggs, carefully avoiding breaking the yolks. Have three pieces of crisp toast on a hot dish, cover each piece lightly with anchovy paste; directly the eggs are set, place them carefully on the toast, one egg on each piece, and pour the hot butter from the pan over them, dust with a shake of cayenne, and sprinkle a little finely chopped parsley over the centre of each egg. Eggs a la Regence (Hot) 341 Remove the shells from some eggs which have been boiled until they are quite hard, and cut them in half lengthwise. Take out the yolks and pound them until they are smooth with a small piece of butter, then add an equal quantity of potted meat, or pounded ham, and salt, pepper, and a little cream or white sauce. Fill the whites of the eggs with the paste, after slicing off a small piece so that they will stand. Flour the eggs lightly, and dip them into beaten egg, and then cover them thickly with fine dry breadcrumbs, and fry them in plenty of boiling fat after they have stood for twenty minutes. Drain the eggs thoroughly on paper, and serve very hot on rounds of fried toast. Egg Kromeskies (Hot) 342 Poach as many eggs as are required in acidulated water ; cook them until they are well set, and then putTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK i 158 them into cold water. When cold, drain the eggs on a clean cloth ; sprinkle some salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg over them ; dip them into batter, and fry quickly in plenty of boiling dripping, so that the batter has only time to become a pale golden brown. The above is a nice breakfast dish, and should be served with broiled ham. CEufs a la Reine (Hot) 343 Remove the shells from four hard boiled eggs, cut them in half lengthways, and remove the yolks. Put a quarter of a pound of sausage meat into a basin, season it with salt and pepper, and a dust of curry powder, and add the yolks of the eggs, after breaking them up with a fork, and beat the mixture for a few minutes ; moisten it slightly with milk, and then fill the whites of the eggs with it; dip them into some beaten egg, and then cover them thickly with fine crumbs and put them aside for a quarter of an hour. Fry the stuffed eggs in plenty of boiling fat and serve them on thick shoes of tomato which have been cooked in clarified dripping, and garnish with parsley. Egg Sandwiches (Hot) 344 For these pound two or three hard boiled eggs, a small piece of butter, and two teaspoonsful of potted meat, until a smooth paste is formed. Melt a lump of butter in a saucepan, add the mixture and stir until it is quite hot. Then spread between fingers of hot buttered toast. Garnish the top of each sandwich with the whites of theSAVOURIES AND BREAKFAST DISHES 159 eggs finely chopped, and serve immediately. For full directions for omelettes, see page 214 of Ten Shillings a Head. Stuffed Eggs a la Diable (Hot or Cold) 345 Hard boil the eggs, shell, place for a few moments in cold water. Cut a little piece from the pointed end. Cut each egg in half with a sharp knife. Remove the yolk ; pound with butter, salt, and a seasoning of curry powder or paste until a soft smooth paste is formed. Refill the eggs and serve each on a little round of lightly fried bread. Scatter a little coralline pepper on each egg and garnish with parsley or cress. If a hot dish is needed, prepare the eggs as before, place in a fireproof entree dish, pour a brown or white curry-flavoured sauce over and make quite hot. Scolloped Mince with Poached Eggs (Hot) 346 For this dish use little fireproof pans, butter them and part fill with mince and crumbs. Bake as before, and just at the last moment add a poached egg. Creamed Egg and Mince (Hot) 347 Place a layer of hot mince in each china saucepan or ramekin case, break an egg into each, add a spoonful of cream and a little chopped parsley on each egg, and return to the oven until the egg is lightly set.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 160 Birds’ Nests (Hot) 348 Take the required number of hard boiled eggs, cover them with smoothly mashed potato in which half a tea- spoonful of curry powder has been mixed; roll in egg and breadcrumbs, and fry a golden brown. Cut in half and serve each half on a round of fried toast. Chutney Crotitons (Hot) 349 Stamp out some thin croutons and fry them a golden brown, well heat some chutney (two or three table- spoonsful) and mix it with equal quantities of grated Parmesan cheese and a little made mustard ; when very hot spread half the croutons with the mixture and place another on top. Sprinkle with grated cheese and coralline pepper. Stuffed Sardines (Hot) 350 Skin some large sardines, remove the backbone care- fully, and place some chutney in the cavity. Make hot and serve on fingers of hot buttered toast. Garnish with a little coralline pepper. Fritterlets (Hot) 351 Cut some shoes from a savoury meat sausage or stamp out some rounds from slices of galantine. Dip each piece into a light batter and fry until golden brown.SAVOURIES 161 M Rissoles a la Diable (Hot) 352 Take the cold boiled rice which has been served with a curry, and add to it equal parts of curried meat, minced fine. Mix with this a tablespoonful of melted butter, and one well-beaten egg (allowing one egg to \ lb. of rissole mixture); mix well together and leave until cold. Form with floured hands into cutlet shape, egg, breadcrumbs; and fry. Croutes au Foie (Hot) 353 Take some cooked liver (that left from a dish of liver and bacon, or some chicken livers), mince and rub it through a wire sieve, moistening it with stock. Heat with a little gravy, butter, pepper and salt. Have ready a round fried bread crouton, and place on it a neat round of fried bacon. Pile some of the liver on each, and serve very hot. Ham Patties (Hot or Cold) 354 Mix some potted ham with sufficient milk to make it a soft paste, season it with pepper and add a small quantity of boiled rice, a little chopped parsley, and the beaten yolk of an egg. Fill some little patty cases, which have been lightly baked, with the mixture, and put them into a quick oven to get thoroughly hot. Serve on a lace paper, garnish with parsley.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 162 Savoury Tartlets (Cold) 355 Make tartlet cases of short paste, flavoured with salt instead of sugar. Fill with flaked fish or finely minced chicken and ham or tongue, with a little minced olive or mushroom, a few green peas or minced French beans. Cover with mayonnaise sauce and decorate with filleted anchovy, well washed, and arranged in the form of a cross. In each of the divisions place a little heap of chopped olive or truffle. Almost any ingredients may be mixed and utilized to fill the tartlets. Canapes a la Fribourg (Hot) 356 Steam a haddock, and work the flesh through a wire sieve, moistening with a little milk when necessary. Then mix the pulp in a stewpan with a spoonful or two of cream, a piece of fresh butter, a pinch of salt and a grain or two of cayenne. When quite hot pile on small rounds of fried bread, smoothing it into a pyramidical shape by means of a knife. Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese and a few brown crumbs, and serve very hot. Sardine Savoury (Hot) 357 Take as many sardines as are required out of the tin, wipe them, and let them lie in a soup plate for an hour, covered with fresh oil mixed with a little lemon juice and cayenne, then sprinkle them with finely chopped parsley and chervil. Butter some crisp toast, cut it into fingers, and spread them with tomato ketchup, place one of the sardines on each, and serve on a dish paper garnished with parsley.SAVOURIES 163 Prince of Wales’ Canapes (Cold) 358 Take the required number of round bread rolls (what are known as farthing rolls, as the others are too large), make a hole the size of a penny ha each, and scoop out the crumb. Stuff with prawns tossed in mayonnaise sauce, and arrange an unshelled prawn to sit up in the centre of each canape. Any good baker will make these rolls, which are about a quarter the size of ordinary dinner rolls. Savoury Bacon Rolls (Hot) 359 \ Make a forcemeat by mixing a tablespoonful of bread- crumbs with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half the quantity of finely minced onion, and a tablespoonful of ham or pressed beef which has been passed through a mincing machine. Season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and moisten the ingredients with some well- beaten egg. Cut some thin slices of bacon, spread them with some of the forcemeat. Roll up the bacon, and secure each little roll with some coarse cotton, and fry until cooked. Remove the cotton and serve on pieces of buttered toast the same size as the roll of bacon. Madras Anchovy Toast (An Old Regimental Recipe (Hot) 360 Put a piece of fresh butter the size of a hen’s egg on a very hot hot-water plate and the yolks of two raw eggs, and beat well with a fork. Add a pinch of cayenne and a tablespoonful of essence of anchovies, and mixTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 164 well. Have ready squares of toast, not too thin. Soak well in the mixture, and serve very hot. Mushrooms and Ham (Hot) 361 Select as many large mushrooms as are required for a dish, cut off the stalks, and peel them. Pass them one at a time through beaten egg, and sift some fine crumbs over them. Fry in boiling fat until nicely browned. Serve each mushroom on a small round of fried bread on which there is a round of grilled ham. Devilled Chicken Legs en Papillotes (Hot) 362 Take four legs of cooked chickens, and remove the bones. Dissolve 1 oz. of butter, add to it pepper, salt, and a little cayenne and mustard, score them and rub the mixture in. Roll each of the legs in a slice of bacon, and then place in heart-shaped pieces of buttered paper. Fold the edges over, pinch them together, and broil for ten minutes. Stuffed Chicken Legs en Papillotes (Hot) 363 Bone the legs, and fill the space with any mince you may have, preferably minced kidney or sausage meat, season with pepper and salt, and proceed as before. Savoury Sandwiches (Cold) 364 Cut thin slices of brown bread and butter, and remove the crust. Spread some shred lettuce, then someSAVOURIES AND BREAKFAST DISHES 165 mayonnaise sauce, then some thin pieces of cold chicken, game, tongue, or ham, on half the number of slices ; cover with the remaining slices. Cut into rounds, and decorate each sandwich with a little coralline pepper and sieved yolk of egg. Custard Toast (Hot) 365 Spread some medium-sized squares of buttered toast with a layer of potted ham and tongue, and put into the oven to get hot. Whisk two eggs until they are light and frothy, and pour over them four tablespoonsful of boiling milk ; stir well and season with salt and pepper. Put | oz. of butter into a saucepan ; when it is melted pour in the egg mixture and stir over the fire until the custard is smooth and thick, taking care to remove it from the stove at the right moment to prevent its curdling ; add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and pour enough of the custard over each square of toast to entirely cover it; return the toast to the oven for two or three minutes, and then serve very hot. Macaroni Cutlets (Hot) 366 Boil about lb. of macaroni until it is quite tender, drain it well, and let it get cold. Then cut it up into small pieces and mix with about a quarter of a pint of well flavoured white sauce. Add a dessertspoonful of lean bacon (cooked) finely minced, and half a beaten egg, and spread the mixture on a plate. When it is cold, take up a small portion at a time, and form it on a floured board into the shape of small cutlets. DipTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 166 them into beaten egg, and then cover them with fine breadcrumbs and fry them until they are evenly and lightly browned. Tomatoes & la Madras (Hot) 367 Select some tomatoes as nearly the same size as possible, carefully cut off a little piece from the top of each, remove the seeds, and fill with a well-made dry curry ; place on a tin, covered with buttered paper, in a moderately hot oven, for from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Serve the tomatoes on a wall of boiled rice, and fill the middle with a thick curry sauce. Mushrooms with Devonshire Cream (Hot) 368 Cook the required number of mushrooms with butter, pepper and salt, between two plates in the oven. Serve each one on a round of buttered toast and place a small dab of cream, flavoured with pepper and salt, on each mushroom. Olives a la Metropole (Cold) 369 Remove the stones from some olives, fill with green butter, line some little dariole moulds with aspic, put one olive in each, fill with aspic and let them set. Serve in paper cases on cut up lettuce. For green butter, see page 202 of the Ten Shillings a Head book.SAVOURIES AND BREAKFAST DISHES 167 Shrimp Omelette (Hot) 370 Have ready a quarter of a pint of picked shrimps, pepper and salt them slightly, and put them on a hot plate over boiling water, and cover them so as to warm them but not to cook them. Make an omelette, place the shrimps inside, fold over, and serve. Stuffed Sardines (Hot) 371 Take one sardine for each person, take off the skin and the tail, open neatly and remove the bone. Fill with a paste made of butter, skinned, boned, and pounded sardine, and curry paste or powder, stirred over the fire until well blended. Press the sardine to- gether again, and serve very hot on strips of hot buttered toast. Sprinkle each sardine with a little grated yolk and chopped white of egg. Green Butter Biscuits (Cold) 372 Take twenty of Huntley and Palmer’s Parmena biscuits and spread them thickly with green anchovy butter, and press two together to form a sandwich. Decorate tae top of each sandwich with a border of green butter by means of a bag and pipe. The sand- wiches should be made just before they are required, or the biscuits may lose their crispness. Cod’s Roe Savoury (Hot) 373 Take \ It. smoked or fresh cod’s roe. Cut into neat slices one-eolith of an inch thick. Fry a nice brown inTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 168 butter, add a little curry powder, and stir. Serve very hot on fried bread. Creamed Oysters 374 Beard two dozen oysters, and save any liquor sent with them. Put half a pint of good white sauce into a saucepan, and make it quite hot, strain in the liquor, season nicely and add a little lemon juice. Add some milk or cream, should the sauce be too thick. It should be the consistency of cream. Add the oysters, heat them slowly till they look plump and the edges begin to curl up, then remove the pan from the fire. On no account let them boil. Have ready some neat slices of hot buttered toast. Put some oysters on each piece, pour some sauce over, and dust them with coralline pepper. Cheese Tartlets (Hot) 375 Prepare eight tiny tartlet cases of cheese pastry. Put 1 oz. of butter and one dessertspoonful of vater in a saucepan and bring to the boil. Stir in sufficient very fine breadcrumbs to make a stiff mixture, and then beat in the yolk of an egg. Add pepper, salt, ca/enne, and four tablespoonsful of finely-grated cheese. Stir well over the fire. Fill the tartlet cases with this mixture, and arrange a cross of filleted anchovy cut into strips on each, and scatter the four divisions thus formed, two with grated egg yolk, and two with coralline pepper. Serve very hot. Cases of fried bread may be used instead of pastry cases.SAVOURIES AND BREAKFAST DISHES 169 Cheese Cream Tartlets (Cold) 376 Make eight tartlet cases as before, but let them become cold. Take four tablespoonsful of finely-grated cheese, a little salt and white pepper, and mix it into the same quantity of cream. Whip all well together and fill the tartlet cases, arranging the cream in a pyramid. Keep back a little of the cream mixture, tint it pale green and pipe it round the edge of the tartlet cases in little round dots. Tor recipe for cheese pastry, see page 193 of the Ten Shillings a Head book. Cheese Puflets (Hot) 377 Mix together 3 oz. of grated cheese, one tablespoonful of flour, one egg, one teacup of milk, a pinch of salt; place in raniken dishes and bake for ten minutes. Cheese Zephyrs (Cold) 378 Measure half a pint of milk and dissolve in it J oz. of gelatine (four sheets of white leaf gelatine), warm the milk, and when the gelatine is dissolved strain the milk into a clean pan, add 2 oz. of grated cheese, and stir over the fire for a few minutes ; add salt and white pepper to taste. Take off the fire, and when a little cool add quarter of a pint of whipped cream. Put into small moulds and let it set. Turn out and garnish the top of each mould alternately with coralline pepper and sieved yolk of egg.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 170 Savoury Baskets 379 Prepare and fry the required number of hollow croutons of bread, and fill with stewed mushrooms minced finely. Serve very hot. Italian Rice (Hot) 380 Put 4 oz. of well-boiled rice into a saucepan with 1 oz. of butter ; add salt and pepper, and stir until it is quite hot, then pour in sufficient tomato sauce to moisten it, and scatter in, stirring it about with the fork while doing so, 2 oz. of grated cheese. Directly the cheese is mixed place the rice in a very hot fireproof dish, scatter the hard-boiled yolk of an egg, which has been passed through a sieve, over the top, and garnish round the edge with the white of the egg coarsely chopped and mixed with a little minced parsley. Tomatoes a l’ltalienne (Hot) 381 Boil some macaroni, till quite tender, in milk, season it with salt and cayenne. Add a little butter, and thicken slightly with flour worked to a smooth paste with cold milk. Stir well over the fire, then scatter into the sauce some grated Parmesan cheese. Have ready some tomatoes which have been scalded and skinned, and simmered in butter. Butter a baking-dish and strew the bottom with breadcrumbs. Place over these a layer of the macaroni, as prepared above. Then a layer of tomatoes, and so on alternately, till the dish is full, finishing with the macaroni. Stew the top thicklySAVOURIES AND BREAKFAST DISHES 171 with fine breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan. Pour over this a little oiled butter, and bake a golden brown in a quick oven. Cheese and Potato Fritters (Hot) 382 Bake six or eight large potatoes, scoop out the inside and pass through a sieve. Add to this half a pint of milk beaten with two eggs, 1 oz. of grated cheese, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, pepper, salt, and nutmeg to taste. Stir to a perfectly smooth batter and fry as ordinary fritters. Drain on thick paper and serve very hot on a folded napkin, with a little salt dusted over. Savoury Pancakes (Hot) 383 Put J lb. of flour into a basin, add a pinch of salt to it and a dust of cayenne ; whisk two eggs and pour them gradually into the flour, mixing it well with a wooden spoon, then add by degrees half a pint of milk, working the batter until it is perfectly smooth ; cover the basin with a cloth and let the batter stand for an hour if possible. Just before using it stir one and a half table- spoonsful of grated cheese into the pancake mixture, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of baking-powder. Put a small omelette pan on the stove(where the heat is steady), with a piece of dripping in it, rather larger than a big walnut; when the fat is boiling add sufficient of the batter to evenly cover the pan, and when the under-side is lightly browned shake the pan and turn the pancake, and directly it is evenly browned on the other side remove it from the pan, place on paper and roll it up.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 172 Then heat more fat and cook another pancake in the same way. When all are ready pile them up on a hot dish and scatter some grated cheese over them. Macaroni Balls (Hot) 384 Boil 2 oz. of macaroni, drain and cut into small pieces. Put it into a saucepan with 1 oz. of grated cheese, the yolk of one egg, pepper and salt. Cook for a few minutes. When cold form into balls, roll in egg and breadcrumbs, and fry. Cheese Fingers (Hot) 385 Slice | lb. of cheese, and pound in a mortar with 1 oz. of butter, salt and pepper and a little mustard and curry powder mixed. Serve on fingers of hot buttered toast. Potted Cheese (Cold) 386 The mixture given above can also be potted and eaten cold with toast or biscuits. Cheese Cream Crofitons (Cold) 387 Lightly fry some croutons of bread, drain well, and on each place a slice of tomato half an inch thick, also a ring of white of egg boiled hard. Whip a little cream with some grated Parmesan or other cheese, flavour with cayenne and a little salt, pile some in the centre of each ring of egg, and serve cold.SAVOURIES AND BREAKFAST DISHES 173 Cheese Quenelles (Hot) 388 Put 2 oz. of butter in a pan with half a pint of hot water. When it boils throw in 4 oz. of flour which must have been dried and sieved first. Stir this in quickly till smooth, and then stir over gentle heat until the mixture comes cleanly away from the pan. Take it off the fire, let it cool. Beat up two eggs, and when the mixture is cool enough add them a little at a time and beat well. Add three large tablespoonsful of grated cheese and the same quantity of grated ham and season to taste. Mix well. Then flour your hands and shape small quantities of the mixture like olives. When all are shaped put the Quenelles into a pan of boiling water and poach slowly till firm. (See directions for making Quenelles, page 61 of this book). Drain, let them cool, egg and breadcrumb them and fry a golden brown. Serve on a fancy paper, dusted over with grated Par- mesan cheese. Cheese Souffle (Hot) 389 Put 1 oz. of butter into a saucepan, and as soon as it has melted, stir in \ oz. of sifted flour. Then add by degrees a quarter of a pint of warm milk, and stir until the mixture thickens ; season with salt, pepper, and a little cayenne, and remove the pan from the fire. WTien the mixture has cooled a little, add the yolks of two eggs, one at a time, then stir in 3 oz. of grated cheese and very lightly mix in the whites of three eggs, whisked to a stiff froth. Pour at once into a buttered souffle mould, and bake in a quick oven for from twenty to thirty minutes.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 174 Cheese Custard (Hot) 3go Take 6 oz. of cheese, two cupsful of milk, two eggs, \ oz. of butter. Beat all well together and bake for about half an hour in a fireproof dish, in not too hot an oven. Spaghetti a l’ltalienne (Hot) 391 Cook 3 oz. of spaghetti in boiling salted water until it is tender, drain it well and put it into a hot saucepan with 1 oz. of butter cut into pieces. Season it with salt and black pepper, and scatter in 3 oz. of grated cheese ; turn the spaghetti lightly and quickly with a fork until the cheese melts ; then stir in sufficient tomato sauce to moisten it, and when this is well mixed and hot, serve at once. Welsh Rarebit (Hot) 392 Toast some bread and cut into squares or fingers. Place some slices of cheese in a saucepan with a little butter, salt and cayenne, stir until melted, mix in the yolk of an egg, stir until quite amalgamated, spread on the toast, and brown before the fire. Bacon Rolls in Batter (Hot) 393 Fry some rolls of bacon and place one or two (accord- ing to size) in a little fireproof saucepan (these are sold at Harrod’s Stores), season with pepper, cover with batter, and bake.175 SAVOURIES Bacon and Eggs in Batter (Hot) 394 Poach some eggs and let them get cold ; then trim the egg neatly and roll each one in a thin slice of bacon, dip in thick batter and fry a golden brown ; garnish with parsley. Devilled Sausage (Hot) 395 Partly boil some Cambridge sausages, divide each lengthways, remove the skin carefully, and spread the cut side with made mustard. Roll well until thickly and evenly covered in flour seasoned with pepper and salt. Fry in boiling fat until a golden brown, and serve very hot on fingers of fried toast.176 CHAPTER VIII Cakes, Buns, Biscuits, and Scones NOTE.—For directions for cake mixing and baking, and for some forty recipes, see Chapter XVI of the Ten Shillings a Head book. How to Ice Cakes 396 The cake to be iced should be trimmed neatly and wiped with a damp cloth to remove crumbs. Now stand it on a jam pot, and the pot on a dish. Have a palette or broad knife and a jug of water ready. Pour some icing on the middle of the cake, and spread it as evenly as possible with the knife, wetting it frequently. Then set to work on the sides. If the cake is to be orna- mented with coloured icing, put it away for twenty-four hours to dry thoroughly, but if it is to be decorated with fruits these may be put on after the icing has stood two hours. For a medium-sized cake to be iced all over, 1 lb. of icing sugar will be needed.CAKES, BUNS, BISCUITS, AND SCONES 177 N Royal Icing 397 Place the white of one large egg in a plate, add a little lemon juice or other flavouring and a teaspoonful of water. Have ready icing sugar, dry and sifted, and stir it into the liquid by degrees, mixing with a knife. Con- tinue until you have a thick creamy mixture. Coloured Decorative Icing 398 Make exactly as for Royal Icing, but allow a little less sugar so that the mixture is somewhat softer. Colour with any colouring, adding it drop by drop and working it well in. This icing should be used in a bag and pipe (which is quite an inexpensive implement to be had from any ironmonger). If you wish the cake to be very neat, mark out the pattern you wish to ice with a sharply-pointed hard pencil. Lemon Icing 399 Would require rather more lemon juice than the white icing, and the grated rind of a large lemon and a little yellow colouring. Rose Icing 400 Omit the teaspoonful of lemon juice, and use instead the same quantity of rose water, a few drops of essence of rose, and sufficient carmine to make the icing a delicate rose-pink.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 178 Pistachio Icing 401 Colour the icing with a few drops of Marshall’s sap green, and add a teaspoonful of orange-flower water and a little essence of almonds, which will give a flavour- ing resembling that of pistachio nuts. Water Icing 402 This is a simpler style of icing suitable for cakes which need not be kept long. Mix the sugar with water which has been slightly tinged with lemon juice. When like a thickish sauce pour it over the cake or cakes. It will dry in an hour or two. While still soft ornament with fruit, but if a decorative icing is to be added, wait until quite dry and hard. Glace Icing or Glace 403 This is generally used for small cakes, and only differs from other ices by being heated and thereby made smooth and glazed-looking. Chocolate Glace 404 Melt b oz. of chocolate and dilute it with a spoonful or two of water, then add sufficient icing sugar to make it of a “ spreadable ” consistency. Use while warm. Fruit Glace 4°5 Put three tablespoonsful of any fruit syrup in a panCAKES, BUNS, BISCUITS, AND SCONES 179 and add to it § lb. of icing sugar. Colour if desired and use while hot. Coffee Glace 4°6 Use three tablespoonsful of black coffee, instead of the fruit essence, and proceed as before. Vienna Icing 407 4 oz. of butter, 6 oz. of icing sugar, and sufficient brandy to make a soft, battery paste ; colour, or use plain. If used in patterns a bag and pipe will be needed. Ideas for Decorating Little Iced Cakes 408 No. I.—Bake rich cake mixture in diamond-shaped tins and cover with coffee glace, and place in the centre of each a preserved violet, and four little leaves of angelica. No. II.—Bake same mixture in square tins, ice with royal icing, and decorate with lines of pink icing. No. III.—Bake same mixture in round moulds, and cover with water icing, flavoured with raspberry fruit essence, and tinted pink. Place a cherry in the centre of each, and surround with dots of white icing, also arrange an edging of dots round the outside. No. IV.—Little Chocolate Cakes.—Same mixture. Cover with chocolate glace, and when dry ornament with leaves and dots of Vienna icing coloured pale green. No. V.—Chocolate Cakes.—Same mixture. Bake inTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 180 finger moulds and ice with chocolate glace, and strew with shred almond. No. VI.—Ditto, but stew with shred pistachio nut. No. VII.—Strawberry Gateau.—Bake a sponge cake in three round flat layers. Spread two thickly with strawberry jam, press together. Moisten well with strawberry essence diluted with water. Cover with pale pink water icing and strew all over with desiccated cocoanut. No. VIII.—Cheesecake Sandwich.—Bake sponge cake mixture in thin squares, trim, spread with cheesecake mixture, press together, cut into fingers, and ice with white icing, and decorate with a trellis-work of pink icing. For rich cake mixture, see Recipe No. 391. For sponge mixture, Recipe No. 396 in this book. Rich Cake Mixture 409 \ lb. of Vienna flour, 8 oz. of butter, 8 oz. of sugar, two to four eggs, half a teaspoonful of baking powder if less than four eggs are used. Cream the butter (this is done by beating it with a wooden spoon), and then mix in the sugar ; then add eggs and flour alternately, beating very thoroughly all the time (not less than ten to fifteen minutes) ; lastly, add the fruit. The mixture should be just soft enough to pour like a very thick custard. The tin in which a rich cake is baked should be lined with greased paper, the top of the paper projecting three inches above the edge of the tin, and the tin should not be more than two-thirds full. Bake in a moderateCAKES, BUNS, BISCUITS, AND SCONES 181 oven, decreasing the heat slightly after the first twenty minutes. The cake will need from one and a hah to two hours’ baking. When the cake has risen and browned, the top should be covered with greased paper. The richer and the more liquid the cake mixture, the longer it takes to bake. This mixture may be used for a variety of cakes, of which the following are some examples— Rich Cherry Cake 410 Add 4 oz. of halved cherries, bake in a rather shallow square tin, trim the top and finish with a layer of almond icing, and after baking scatter the top fairly thickly with finely-chopped pistachio nuts, and make an edging all round of glace cherries. Almond Cake 411 Add 3 oz. of currants and raisins, 1 oz. of chopped almond and 1 oz. of shred peel, and strew the top of the cake rather thickly with almonds split in half. Little Pineapple Cakes 412 Add 4 oz. of glace pineapple cut in cubes. Bake in small fancy tins, and when cold ice with Royal icing, flavoured with pineapple essence and tinted pale yellow. Decorate with a small piece of pineapple and four little pieces of angelica to form leaves.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 182 Tuti-Fruti Cake 413 Add 6 oz. all of preserved pineapple, ginger, cherry, almonds and angelica cut into small pieces and mixed. Ice with almond icing, then with Royal white icing, and decorate with pink icing. How to Make a Sponge Cake 414 Take four eggs, their weight (weighed in the shells) in fine sifted castor sugar, and the weight of three in fine sifted and warmed flour. Break the egg yolks into the bowl, the whites into another. Beat the yolks for five minutes with a whisk (if a fork is used the eggs must be beaten for about twelve to fifteen minutes, as the whisk beats so much more thoroughly). Then mix in the sugar and beat again for eight to fifteen minutes with a whisk or fork. Whip the whites to a froth, and stir in the yolk and sugar mixture lightly and alternately with the flour. Have ready a mould, for if the cake mixture is kept waiting while the mould is prepared it will be spoilt. To prepare the mould, brush it over evenly with warmed (not absolutely melted) butter, then mix a teaspoonful of fine castor sugar and the same of sifted flour, and dust the inside of the buttered mould evenly. Then tie a piece of greased paper round the outside of the mould so that it projects about three inches. Fill the tin half full of the sponge mixture, and place the mould on a baking tin (this is to protect the bottom of the cake from too fierce a heat), and bake in a moderate oven. When risen and slightly browned, cover the topCAKES, BUNS, BISCUITS, AND SCONES 183 with greased paper, and continue to bake for about three-quarters of an hour in all. If there is any question as to the sponge—or indeed any other cake—not being done enough, run a bright skewer into it. If the mix- ture does not soil the skewer it is done. When baked leave in the mould for a minute or two, then loosen and turn out on to a sieve, and leave in a warm place until cold. If cakes or buns of any kind are removed from their tins, placed on a cold plate or dish and put into a cold place, they are almost certain to become heavy; even though the mixing and baking may have been satisfactorily accomplished. Plain Cake Mixture 415 Sift together 1 lb. of dry flour and one teaspoonful of baking powder, and rub well into it J lb. of clarified beef dripping. Add any fruit you wish to use. Whip three eggs with about half a pint of milk and beat very thoroughly into the dry ingredients. Bake at once in a well-greased tin in a moderate oven for one and a half to two hours. This mixture may be used for— Plain Sultana Cake 416 By using picked, washed, dried, and floured sultanas. Plain Currant Cake 417 By using picked, washed, dried, and floured currants.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK Plain Fruit Cake By using raisins and candied peel. Plain Seed Cake By using caraway seeds. Rock Buns By baking in small rocks on a floured tin, and adding sultanas and mixed peel. Recipes for angel cake mixture and for Genoese mixture, and for madelaines are given on page 241 of the Ten Shillings a Head book. Plum Cake made with Yeast 421 Take 3 lb. of flour, 6 oz. of butter or good beef drip- ping, 6 oz. of moist sugar, 6 oz. of currants, £ oz. of pounded allspice, two tablespoonsful of fresh yeast, one pint of new milk. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, currants, and spice, warm the milk, stir in the yeast, and mix the whole into a dough, knead it well and put into buttered tins, place them in front of the fire for nearly an hour. When they have risen bake in a good oven from one to one and a quarter hours. Soda Cake 422 Take J lb. of butter, 1 lb. of flour, £ lb. of currants, \ lb. of moist sugar, one teacupful of milk, three eggs, and 184 418 419 420CAKES, BUNS, BISCUITS, AND SCONES 185 one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Rub the butter into the flour, add currants and sugar, mix well together, Whisk the eggs, add the milk in which the soda should be dissolved, stir all together, and beat well with a wooden spoon. Pour into a well-buttered tin and bake in a moderate oven for nearly an hour. The mixture must not be allowed to stand after the soda is added, but must be well beaten and put immediately into the oven. Bachelor’s Cake 423 Beat 1 lb. of sifted sugar with \ lb. of butter for fifteen minutes, mix three teacupsful of milk, or butter milk, if possible, with two teaspoonsful of carbonate of soda and one of tartaric acid; add the sugar and butter. Mix 1 lb. of raisins with li lb. of flour, 1 oz. of mixed spice, and 2 oz. of mixed peel. Stir all well together and bake in a greased tin in a moderate oven for two hours. Luncheon Cake 424 Put 6 oz. of butter into a basin and work it with a wooden spoon until it is creamy. Then add 6 oz. of powdered sugar and work again until the butter becomes quite white. Beat the yolks of three eggs until they are frothy, and add these to the butter and sugar and mix well. Scatter in by degrees 4 oz. of sultanas which have been washed and dried and floured, and 4 oz. of raisins which have been coarsely chopped, and two ounces of minced mixed peel. Whisk the whites of the three eggs with a pinch of salt to a stiff froth. Stir them lightly toTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK the other ingredients, and then mix in gradually \ lb. of flour which has been warmed and passed through a sieve and mixed with a teaspoonful of baking powder. Add a very small quantity of milk to allow the mixture to be readily beaten, and work it with a wooden spoon until it is light and creamlike. Butter a cake tin, and line the bottom and sides with buttered paper. Pour in the mixture, and place at once in a well heated oven. Should the cake appear to be acquiring too much colour after it has risen, cover the top with a sheet of greased paper. To ascertain whether the cake is properly done, before taking from the oven it should be tested with a clean knife or skewer. Turn on to a sieve to cool. Military Cake 425 2 oz. of rice flour, 2 oz. of castor sugar, one egg, the weight of the egg in butter, half a teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix all ingredients together. Line small tins with thin pastry, put in a very small portion of jam first, then add above mixture and bake quickly. Alexandra Cake 42^ £ lb. of butter, £ lb. of castor sugar, three eggs ; beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar, and one by one the eggs ; add any flavouring preferred. In another basin have ready 7 oz. of flour, 5 oz. of sultanas, 2 oz. of candied peel cut up small, and 1J oz. of Valencia almonds, blanched and cut. Put this dry mixture lightly to the other, beating all the time till thoroughlyCAKES, BUNS, BISCUITS, AND SCONES 187 mixed. Bake about one and a half hours. A little milk may be used when mixing, if required. Yorkshire Cake 427 Take one egg, its weight in flour, butter, ground rice, sugar, one teaspoonful of baking powder, and a very little milk. Cream the butter, add the egg (well beaten) and milk, then stir in gradually the flour, ground rice, sugar, and baking powder (previously well mixed to- gether). Spread the whole equally on two round tins (well greased). Bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes. When done, spread preserve over one cake, and cover with the other, then sprinkle castor sugar over the top. A Nice “Gingerbread Cake” 428 \ lb. of flour, one tablespoonful of Paisley flour, J lb. of butter, ^ lb. sugar, lb. of treacle, £ lb. of currants, 2 oz. of mixed peel, 2 oz. of almonds, 2 oz. of large raisins, ^ oz.of mixed spices, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, half a teaspoonful of ground ginger, two fresh eggs well beaten. Mix the dry ingredients well. Put butter, treacle, and sugar in a dish to melt slowly on the stove; add these, when melted thoroughly, to the flour, etc., then the eggs, well beaten, and a little milk if required. Bake in moderate oven. Rice Cake 429 £ lb. of ground rice, £ lb. of flour, £ lb. of sifted sugar,THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 188 6 oz. of butter, four eggs, and a few caraway seeds. Mix the sugar, rice, butter, and flour together, then add the whites of the eggs (having been previously beaten to a stiff froth). When it begins to look white add the yolks. Stir all well together. Line a tin with buttered paper, and bake in a moderately hot oven. Dough Cake 430 1$ lb. of flour, £ lb. of lard, dripping, or butter, or mixed, £ lb. of fine sugar, 2 oz. of raisins or currants, one egg well beaten, \ oz. of German yeast. Put the yeast in a little lukewarm water, and let it stand to rise a little. Mix the flour and salt, rub in the lard, add sugar and raisins. Make a hole in the centre, pour in egg mixed with a little milk and water (scarcely three- quarters of a breakfastcupful). Mix with a knife, draw- ing down the flour, add the yeast, then knead it, and put to rise before the fire one hour. Bake in a moderate oven. Chocolate Cake 431 Weigh l lb. of butter, £ lb. of castor sugar, half a tea- spoonful of baking powder, £ lb. of flour, J lb. of choco- late, one tablespoonful of ground rice, two eggs. Beat the butter till soft, mix in the sugar, add the chocolate, melted over the fire in three tablespoonsful of water, mix in the yolks separately, then add the flour, baking powder, and ground rice (well mixed), drop in a teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and lastly the whites ofCAKES, BUNS, BISCUITS, AND SCONES 189 eggs, beaten till quite stiff. Bake about three-quarters of an hour. Feather Cake 432 Rub 2 oz. of butter into two teacupsful of flour, add 6 oz. of sugar, beat up two eggs with two tablespoonsful of milk, mix altogether and bake in a moderate oven, in a well greased shallow tin. When cold cut into fancy shapes. Victoria Sandwich 433 Beat 4 oz. of butter to a cream, adding 4 oz. of white powdered sugar and two well-beaten eggs; mix to- gether with a wooden spoon, then dredge in gradually 6 oz. of flour, to which a teaspoonful of baking powder has been added; use enough cold milk to make the whole into a soft paste, beat it until it is light and creamy, and bake on two enamelled plates which have been buttered. When done, turn out carefully and let the cakes cool, then put one on the top of the other, after spreading a layer of jam between. Cut the sandwich across into triangular pieces, and serve garnished with whipped cream. Swiss Cakes 434 Beat \ lb. of butter to a cream, add 4 oz. of powdered sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and a well-beaten egg ; then add by degrees \ lb. of flour, and roll the paste out thinly on a floured board. Cut it out with a leaf-THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 190 shaped fluted cutter, scatter some desiccated cocoanut over the top of the cakes, and bake them until they are a golden brown in a moderately hot oven. Cocoanut Cakes 435 Mix well together two well beaten eggs, 3 oz. of sifted sugar, 2 oz. of desiccated cocoanut, one dessertspoonful of flour. Bake a pale brown on floured baking tins. Welsh Cakes 436 1 lb. of flour, 6 oz. of butter, 6 oz. of castor sugar, 2 oz. of currants, half a pint of raw cream. Mix the butter and sugar well into the flour, then add currants and cream. Roll out until half an inch in thickness, cut the cakes with the cover of the flour dredger and bake both sides in a Dutch oven before a clear fire. Essex Scones 437 \ lb. of flour, 2 oz. of butter, one large tablespoonful of baking powder, a pinch of cream of tartar. Rub the butter well into the flour and baking powder till it is like breadcrumbs, then mix with milk to a light dough, knead it with the hands, flatten it round to the size of a plate, stamp out and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. Cut in quarters, then through lengthwise, butter and serve very hot.CAKES, BUNS, BISCUITS, AND SCONES 191 Buttermilk Teacakes 438 1 lb. of flour, J lb. of sugar, 2 oz. of lard, three tea- spoonsful of baking powder, a pinch of salt and \ lb. of currants. Mix flour, baking powder, and salt, rub the lard well in, then add the sugar and currants, mix to a stiff paste with buttermilk, roll out and cut into round cakes about an inch thick, bake ten minutes in a quick oven. A Scotch Recipe for Easily Made Tea Scones 439 Four cups of flour, four teaspoonsful of bicarbonate of soda, a small spoonful of salt, two tablespoonsful of melted butter poured in when making. Mix with skimmed milk, not too firm, cut out with a wine glass, and bake on a floured tin. Afternoon Tea Biscuits 440 \ lb. of cornflour, \ lb. of flour, \ lb. of butter, \ lb. of sugar, and two eggs; flavour with essence of vanilla or lemon. Beat eggs, butter, and sugar together, add the two kinds of flour, roll up in pieces, and flatten with butter pats. Bake on a floured sheet. When baked place two together with jam between. Snow Cake 441 £ lb. of butter, £ lb. of castor sugar, \ lb. of cornflour, quarter of a teaspoonful of essence of lemon, whites ofTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 192 two eggs. Beat the butter to a cream, add sugar and flour. Beat the mixture until flaky, like snow, then add eggs well beaten, add pinch of salt and flavouring, line a mould with buttered paper, put in the mixture. Bake one and a half hours, do not turn out until cold. Cream Cakes 442 £ lb. of flour, pinch of salt, 3 oz. of butter, cream to mix. Put the flour on a paste-board, add salt, cut the butter into small pieces and mix with flour ; use suffi- cient cream to make a stiff pastry ; roll out to a quarter of an inch in thickness, cut in small rounds, and bake in quick oven for fifteen minutes. Serve hot for afternoon tea.o 193 CHAPTER IX The Management of the Oven OF the many trials that beset the culinary novice, either amateur or professional, few exceed in worry the oven. There are times when it really seems possessed with the spirit of “ cussedness,” and nothing avails to make it do its work properly. As a matter of fact, ovens require, and repay, study ; they vary greatly, even when apparently exactly the same in make, and unless this variation is noticed and attended to, trouble and failure are pretty certain to follow. The larger the oven, as a general rule, the more trustworthy it is, especially if a brick one. Iron ovens are always liable to variation, and the smaller they are the more they vary. With these latter the mere putting in of a cake, par-THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 194 ticularly if large, will alter tlie temperature of the oven perceptibly; so will the opening of the oven door. Sponge cakes and gingerbread often suffer from this ; whilst if by accident or care- lessness the door be slammed, or even shut roughly, the cake inside is pretty sure to deteri- orate. Then, again, one oven will burn at the bottom, in which case the cake tin must be set on a trivet, or even two pieces of firewood, to prevent the bottom of the tin coming in actual contact with the lower part of the oven, and an extra sheet of buttered paper should be allowed in papering the mould. Other ovens, again, are apt to be over-hot at the top, in which case the cake should be covered with a sheet of buttered paper to prevent its catching and over-cooking at the upper surface. One way in which anxious cooks spoil their baking is often this, though, as a rule, the oven gets the blame of the failure. In their zeal to get the heat right they over-heat it; then the cake begins to burn. They rush to the oven, lift out the only half-set cake, and probably set it down on the floor, when the sudden change of temperature causes it to fall, never to rise properly" again.THE MANAGEMENT OF THE OVEN 195 It is well-nigh impossible to give exact times for baking cakes, or indeed anything, as the individual oven is always such a factor in the time required with cakes ; and whenever pos- sible, the best way is to test the article before removing it from the oven. The best way to do this, for cakes at all events, is to run a long, thin and new wooden skewer into the cake right in the centre : if it comes out dry and clean the cake is ready; if on the contrary it sticks and is wet, the cake needs further baking. Some cooks use a knife for this purpose, but this is not advisable as a general rule, for with some cakes the mere touch of the knife is sufficient to “ sadden ” it. With regard to the heat of an oven, a good deal of confusion exists in the mind of the inexperienced. It is all very well to say a “ moderate,” or a “ soaking,” or a “ quick ” oven, but these words, intelligible enough to the professed cook, convey nothing to the novice. The cook aforesaid can gauge the heat of her oven quickly and fairly correctly by putting in her hand, or at the utmost she tosses, with apparent carelessness, a little flour on to the shelf, and in some mysterious way appears toTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK 196 guess the condition of the oven from these few grains. Curiously enough, the safest guide for the novice is provided by no less an authority than M. J. Gouffe, once the royal chef. His advice is this : Tear up a sheet of kitchen-paper into not too small pieces, and try the oven by placing in it one of these every eight or ten minutes, till you obtain the desired temperature. If on being put into the oven the paper blazes up, or burns at once, the oven is manifestly too hot for anything. If after a stay of two or three minutes the paper turns a dark, almost chocolate brown, the oven is a “ hot ” one, fit for patties and small pastry generally. If after the same time the paper becomes of a Havannah or cigar brown, the oven is “ quick ” and ready for tarts, vol-au-vent, and such-like. If the paper in the same time only turns a yellowish brown (the colour of a good deal plank) the oven is a “ moderately quick ” or “ soaking 5 5 oven, ready for bread, large meat, or game pies, pound cake, etc. If, lastly, when left in for this time, the paper is barely tinged with a yellowish shade, sponge cakes, meringues, and such-like may be safely put into it. Of course there are gradations between all these shades ;THE MANAGEMENT OF THE OVEN 197 the experienced cook soon learns to differentiate and use accordingly; but, roughly speaking, these tests are trustworthy. Oven thermometers have been in use for some time, and are, of course, of the greatest use to the unlearned (the trained cook cannot be bothered with them, and indeed rather resents their existence); but their great objection has hitherto been their susceptibility to heat and their consequent fragility, which rendered their use, save in very skilled hands (who did not care for them), unsatisfactory. However, in the last few years the Eagle Range Company have introduced the “ Eagle Heat Indicator,” with neither springs nor mercury to get out of order ; the heat indications shown on the dial fixed in the oven door being the result of the expansion and contraction of the alloyed metals used in its manufacture. This alloy remains good for years, and needs neither care nor alteration. Its degrees have been tested carefully, and correspond thus to M. Gouffe’s test and the cook’s nomenclature. 450 deg. on the Eagle Indicator corresponds with chocolate or deep brown paper, or a “ hot ” oven.THE SINGLE HANDED COOK 198 400 deg. corresponds with cigar-brown paper, or a “ quick ” or “ sharp ” oven. 350 deg. equals a dark deal-brown paper, or a “ moderately quick ” oven. 300 deg. means a lighter deal paper, or a “ steady ” or “ soaking ” oven. 275 to 250 deg., or faintly-tinged paper, means a “ slack ” oven. In going by these figures, however, it must be noted that the thermometer, or heat-indicator, being on the door, is always a trifle cooler than the interior of the oven, a variation which must, of course, be allowed for. Bread, like cakes, should always be put first into a hot oven, say 350 deg., this being then allowed to slacken down gently to 320 deg. Both bread and cake should be a few minutes in the oven before they begin to colour, for after they turn brown they stop rising, hence the reason that an over-hot oven spoils both, as it draws up and colours the top before the centre has time to cook properly, and conse- quently when lifted out the inside of the loaf is found to be heavy and doughy. With a too slack oven the cake is overcooked, hard, and tough before the outside is properly coloured.199 Index Numbers in Italics refer to Recipes American Drj7 Hash (Hot) 148 76 Bacon Holy-Poly (Hot) 137 71 Batter, Frying for Fish, Meat Fritters, etc. 57 25 Batter, Frying for Sweet Frit- ters, etc. 58 25 Batters, Frying (without Eggs) 59 26 Blanqnette de Yeau (Hot) 115 60 Bread, degree of heat required to hake 198 Breast of Mutton and Peas 125 65 Cakes, Buns, Biscuits and Scones 176-192 Afternoon Tea Biscuits 438 191 Alexandra Cake 424 186 Almond Cake 409 181 Cakes, degree of heat required to bake 198 Cakes, testing to see if baked enough 195 Cakes, to Ice 396 176 Bachelor’s Cake 421 185 Buttermilk Tea Cakes 436 191 Chocolate Cake 429 188 Chocolate G1 ace 402 178 Cocoanut Cakes 433 190 Coffee Glac6 404 179 Coloured Decorative Icing 398 177 Cream Cakes 440 192 Cakes, etc., continued Dough Cake 428 188 Essex Scones 435 190 Feather Cake 430 189 Fruit Glace 403 178 “ Ginger Bread Cake ” 426 187 Glac6 Icing or Glac6 401 178 Iced Cakes, ideas for decorat- ing little, 406 179 Lemon Icing 399 177 Little Pineapple Cakes 410 181 Luncheon Cake 422 185 Military Cake 423 186 Pistachio Icing 178 Plain Cake Mixture 413 183 Plain Currant Cake 415 183 Plain Fruit Cake 416 184 Plain Seed Cake 417 184 Plain Sultana Cake 414 183 Plum Cake, made with Yeast 419 184 Bice Cake 427 187 Rich Cake, Mixture 407 180 Rich Cherry Cake 408 181 Rock Buns 418 184 Rose Icing 177 Royal Icing 397 177 Scotch Recipe for easily made Tea Scones 437 191 Snow Cake 439 191 Soda Cake 420 184 Sponge Cake, how to make 412 182 Swiss Cakes 432 189 Tuti-fruti Cake 411 182 Victoria Sandwich 431 189INDEX 200 Cakes, etc., continued Vienna Icing 405 179 Water Icing 400 178 Welsh Cakes 434 190 Yorkshire Cake 425 187 Calf’s Head Boned and Stuffed (Hot) 154 79 Chicken and Macaroni Pie (Hot or Cold) 163 84 Chicken, Croustades of (Hot) 164 85 Chicken, Fricassee of (Hot) 165 85 Cornish Pie (a good way of using up Irish Stew) (Hot) 151 78 Coronation Steak (Hot) 131 68 Cr&me de Veau au Champignons (Hot) 119 63 Croustades of Chicken (Hot) 164 85 Curry, an excellent (Hot) 169 87 Cutlets (Cold) 105 55 Cutlets, Cooking and Garnish- ing 55 Cutlets en Papillotes (Hot) 109 57 Cutlets, Fried, 111 58 Cutlets, how to cut, 52 ; loin and neck, 54; whole neck of mutton for, 54 Cutlets, Saut6 112 58 Cutlets, Stewed (Hot) 110 57 Devilled Steak (Hot) 132 69 Dripping, to clarify 60 26 Duck, a nice way of serving Cold Roast Duck (Cold) 161 83 Duck en Casserole (Hot) 157 81 “ Eagle Heat Indicator,” cor- respondence to Gouffe’s test, 197-8 Fat, to render down 61 26 Fillet or Fillets of Beef 64 Fillets of Snipe on Toast (Hot) 160 83 Fish: Baked Herrings (Hot) 94 47 Baked Mackerel (Hot) 87 43 Baked Slips (Hot) 84 42 Boiled Fish Pudding (Hot) 96 48 Casserole of Fish (Hot) 69 34 Cod, Fillets of, with Parsnip Pur6e (Hot) 63 31 Cod, Mayonnaise of, 97 48 Codfish, Stewed (Hot) 101 50 Cod’s-roe Cutlets (Hot) 85 42 Crab, Devilled (Hot) 95 47 Curried Shrimps in Rice Cases (Hot or Cold) 89 44 Devilled Crab (Hot) 95 47 Dominoes (Cold) 98 49 Filleted Haddock & la Genoise 77 38 Filleted Haddock with Brown Sauce (Hot) 64 32 Filleted Haddock with May- onnaise Sauce (Cold) 74 37 Filleted Herrings (Hot) 93 47 Fillets of Cod with Parsnip Pur6e (Hot) 63 31 Fillets of Sole and Macaroni au Gratin (Hot) 66 33 Fish and Rice, Timbale of (Hot) 80 39 Fish Custard Pie (Hot) 99 49 Fish Cutlets (Hot) 83 41 Fish Faggots (Hot) 71 35 Fish Fritters (Hot) 72 36 Fish Pie with Pastry Crust (Hot) 70 35 Fish Pudding, Boiled (Hot) 96 48 Fish Souffle (Hot) 90 45 Fresh Haddock Baked with Shrimps (Hot) 76 38 Fried Hake (Hot) 79 39 Haddock (Fresh) Baked with Shrimps (Hot) 76 38 Haddock Filleted a la Genoise 77 88 Haddock Filleted with Brown Sauce (Hot) 64 32INDEX Fish, continued Haddock Filleted with May- onnaise Sauce (Cold) 74 37 Haddock, Scalloped (Hot) 74 37 Hake, Fried (Hot) 79 39 Herrings, Baked (Hot) 94 47 Herrings, Filleted (Hot) 93 47 Kippers, Scrambled (Hot) 78 .39 Lemon Sole au Gratin (Hot) 67 33 Lobster a la Marie (Hot) 100 49 Lobster Cutlets (Hot) 81 40 Lobster Cutlets in Aspic (Cold) 82 41 Mackerel, Baked (Hot) 87 43 Mackerel, Soused (Cold) 88 43 Mayonnaise of Cod (Cold) 97 48 Mazarin of Fish (Hot) 92 46 Mock Whitebait (Hot) 91 45 Plaice, Turnedos (Hot) and Sauce for 68 34 Pommes a l’Otero (Hot) 102 50 Russian Fish Pie (Hot or Cold) 103 51 Scallop Fritters (Hot) 86 42 Scalloped Haddock (Hot) 75 37 Scrambled Kippers (Hot) 78 39 Shrimps, Curried, in Rice Cases (Hot or Cold) 89 44 Slips, Baked (Hot) 84 42 Sole k la Colbert (Hot) 65 32 Sole a la Marselle (Hot) 104 51 Sole, Fillets of, and Macaroni au Gratin (Hot) 66 33 Soused Mackerel (Cold) 88 43 Timbale of Fish and Rice (Hot) 80 39 To Bake 30 To Boil 29 To Fillet 28 Fish, continued To Fry 30 To Steam 29 Tournedos of Plaice, Sauce for (Hot) 68 34 Turbot Gratin6 & la Bour- geois (Hot) 73 36 Fowl, Pillau of (Hot) 162 84 Fricassee of Chicken (Hot) 165 85 Frying Batters 57-59, 25-26 Gammon of Bacon, Spiced (Hot) 136 71 German Potato Pie (Hot) 150 78 Glazes: Bi’own (Cold) (For Pressed Beef, Tongue, etc.) 53 23 Bi-own (Hot) (For Cutlets, Fillets, etc.) 54 24 White (Cold) (For Chickens or Galantines) 56 25 White (Hot) (For Chickens, Sweetbi’ead, or Veal Cutlets) 55 24 Gouffe, J., Advice on Testing Heat of an Oven 196, 197 Guards’ Hot-Pot (Hot) 144 74 Hot-Pot of Rabbit (Hot) 167 86 Jugged Rabbit (Hot) 168 86 Kromskies (Hot) 123 64 Liver and Bacon (Hot) 138 72 Liver, Stewed (Hot) 139 72 Loin of Lamb, Stuffed (Hot or Cold) 127 66 Meat Dishes 52-80 Miroton of Beef (Hot) 134 70 Mould of Stuffed and Rolled Pigeons in Savoury Jelly (Cold) 156 80 Mutton au Gratin (Hot) 126 66 Mutton Cutlets, Broiled 108 56 Mutton Cutlets in Batter (Hot) 106 55INDEX 202 Navarin of Mutton (Hot) 128 67 Neck of Mutton, three dishes from 54 Noisettes, boneless Cutlets 53 Oven Thermometers 197, 198 Ovens, How to Test the Heat 195-6 Ovens, Variation in, 193-4 Oxtail au Gratin (Hot) 140 73 Partridges Stewed (a good way of serving old birds) (Hot) 158 82 Pheasant Boiled (Hot) 159 82 Pigeons, Mould of Stuffed and Polled Pigeons in Savoury Jelly (Cold) 156 80 Pillau of Fowl (Hot) 162 84 Pillau of Mutton (Hot) 130 68 Potato Pufflets (Hot) 124 64 Poultry and Game 80-87 Puddings and Sweets— Almond Velvet (Cold) 285 132 Althorp Pudding (Hot) 258 122 American Cream (Cold) 298 137 American Pudding (Hot) 257 121 American Pumpkin Pie (Hot or Cold) 241 115 Apple and Lemon Pudding (Hot) 223 108 Apple ana Vermicelli Pudding (Hot or Cold) 224 109 Apple Beggarman (Hot or Cold) 222 108 Apple Charlotte (Hot) 225 109 Apple Gateau (Cold) 286 132 Apple Marmalade Puddings (Hot) 226 110 Apple Trifle (Cold) 328 150 Apples a la Portuguise (Cold) 326 149 Apples buttered (Cold) 227 110 Banana Pudding (Hot) 251 119 Puddings and Sweets, continued Barley Cream (Cold) 299 138 Bavarois au Mocha (Cold) 306 140 Boiled and Steamed Puddings 118-125 Buttered Apples (Cold) 227 110 Cake Pudding (Hot) 235 113 Caramel Pudding (Hot or Cold) 266 124 Caramel Eusse (Cold) 304 139 Charlotte Eusse (Cold) 296 137 Chartreuse of Tangerine Oranges (Cold) 275 128 Cherry Dumplings (Hot) 261 123 Chocolate Cheesecakes (Hot or Cold) 311 143 Choux Pastry 316 145 Cocoanut Cheesecakes (Hot or Cold) 313 144 Coffee Pudding (Hot) 264 124 Compote of Cherries, or other Fruit (Cold) 283 131 Compote of Chestnuts with Eice (Cold) 319 146 Cream Cornets (Cold) 309 143 Custard, how to make, 289 133 Custard Mixture for Caramel Pudding 267 125 Date Pudding (Hot) 256 121 Danish Mould (Cold) 301 138 Eclairs (Cold) 317 145 Economical Fruit - Cream (Cold) 282 131 Emergency Pudding (Hot) 243 116 Empress Pudding (Eich— Cold) 233 112 French Plum Mould (Cold) 300 138 French Eice (Hot) 253 120 Frith’s Pudding (Hot) 259 122 Fruit Ballette (Cold) 294 136 Fruit Cream, made with jam (Cold) 269 126INDEX 203 Puddings and Sweets, continued Fruit Custards (Col d) 292 135 Fruit Fritters (Hot) 321 146 Fruit Jelly (Cold) 279 129 Fruit Sponge (Cold) 288 133 Fruit Tartlets (Hot or Cold) 314 144 Genoese Gateau (Hot or Cold) 331 151 Ginger Cream (Cold) 308 141 Ginger Custard (Cold) 297 137 Gooseberries, Pain of (Cold) 273 128 Hannah More’s Pudding (Hot) 265 124 Hilton Pudding (Hot) 25C 119 Indian Trifle (Cold) 305 140 Italian Cream (Cold) 281 130 Junket (Cold) 268 125 Kisses (Cold) 322 147 Lemon Charlotte (Hot or Cold) 245 117 Lemon Custard (Cold) 293 135 Lemon Fingers (Cold) 312 144 Lemon Mould (Cold) 287 133 Lemon Pudding (Hot or Cold) 232 112 Lemon Sago (Cold) 277 129 Lemon Sago (Cold) 302 139 Lemon Sponge (Cold) 270 126 Letty’s Pudding (Hot) 239 115 Little Prince’s Pudding (Hot) 229 111 Macaroon Baskets (Cold) 329 151 Maids of Honour (Cold) 310 143 Milk Jelly (Cold) 278 129 Moulded Custard (made with one egg) 291 134 Muslin Puddings (Hot) 262 123 Orange Pudding (Hot) 230 Pain of Gooseberries (Cold) 273 128 Puddings and Sweets, continued Pain of Pineapple (Cold) 272 127 Pain of Rhubarb (Cold) 274 128 Pancakes (Hot) 325 148 Paste: a rich Short 315 144 Pastry: Short or Flaky—a richer 142 Patriotic Pudding (Hot) 252 120 Petits Choux (Hot or Cold) 318 145 Pineapple Charlotte (Cold) 290 134 Pineapple, Pain of (Cold) 272 127 Preserved Ginger Pudding (Hot) 255 121 Princess Puddings (Hot or Cold) 231 111 Prime Mould (Cold) 276 129 Ratafia’Custard (Cold) £95136 Rhubarb Mould (Cold) 280 130 Rhubarb, Pain of (Cold) 274 128 Rice Croquettes (Hot) 324 148 Rice Mould (Cold) 284 131 Rice Souffle (Hot) 246 117 Ripe Fruit Salad with Cream (Cold) 320 146 Roast Apples with Rice (Hot) 240 115 Semolina Shape (Hot or Cold) 263 123 Shapes, Creams, Jellies, and Custards 125-152 Sponge and Fruit Pie (Hot or Cold) 236 113 Strawberry Charlotte (Cold) 307 141 Sultana Pudding (Hot) 228 110 Sultana Pudding (Hot) 238 114 Sultanas and Rice (Hot) 254 120 Summer Pudding (Cold) 237 114INDEX 204 Puddings and Sweets, continued Surprise Soufflet (Cold) 303 139 Swiss Fritters (Hot) 323 147 Swiss Roll (Hot or Cold) 244 116 Tutti-Frutti (Cold) 271 127 Vanilla Snow Eggs (Cold) 327 150 Vanilla Souffle (Hot) 249 118 Vennoise Pudding (Hot) 260 122 Victoria Sandwich (Cold) 332 152 Wafer Puddings (Hot) 242 116 Water Pudding (Hot) (an excellent Light Souffle) 248 118 Yeomanry Pudding (Rich— Hot or Cold) 234 113 Yorkshire Pudding 62 27 Quenelle a la Madras (Hot) 120 63 Quenelle de Lapin Sauce Diable (Hot) 121 63 Quenelle de Volaille en Chaud- froid (Cold) 122 63 Quenelles and Meat Creams (Hot and Cold) 117 61 Quenelles de Volaille au Petits Pois (Hot) 118 63 Rabbit, Hot-pot of (Hot) 167 86 Rabbit, Jugged (Hot) 168 86 Rabbit, Roll of (Cold) 166 86 Rissoles, 64 Rolled Beef (Hot) 133 69 Roman Pie (Hot or Cold) 147 76 Roman Pie Made with Cold Beef (Hot) 146 76 Salads— Apple and Celery Salad (Cold) 221 107 Beetroot and Cauliflower Salad (Cold) 214 104 Salads, continued Beetroot and Celery Salad (Cold) 213 104 Beggarman’s Salad (Cold) 219 106 Broad Beans, Mayonnaise of (Cold) 212 104 Green Pea Salad (Cold) 217 106 Haricot Bean Salad (Cold) 215 105 Rostock Salad (Cold) 218 106 Tomato and Caper Salad (Cold) 220 106 Tomato Mayonnaise (Cold) 216 105 Sauces— Anchovy (Hot) 44 20 Apple (Hot) 29 15 Bread, very good (Hot) 40 18 Brown Onion (Hot) 38 18 Celery (Hot) 33 16 Chestnut (Hot) 25 17 Chutney (Hot) 32 16 Cucumber (Cold) 51 22 Cucumber (Hot) 52 23 Guard’s (Sweet) (Cold) 49 22 Horseradish (Cold) 43 20 Laver (for Fish) (Hot) 46 21 Lemon (to serve with Sweet Puddings) (Hot) 47 21 Liver (for Poultry) (Hot) 34 17 Melted Butter 15 Mint (Cold) 30 15 Mustard (Cold) 37 17 Mustard (Hot) 36 17 Oil and Vinegar (Cold) 21 16 Roux, Brown and White, 15 Sauce for Tournedos of Plaice 68 34 Savoury (Hot) for Cutlets, Steaks, etc., 41 19 Shrimp (Hot) 45 20 Sweet (Hot) 50 22 White Onion (Hot) 39 18 White Sauce for Masking Cold Fowls, etc., 42 19 Yellow (Hot) 48 21 Savouries and Breakfast Dishes 153-175INDEX 205 Savouries, etc., continued Bacon and Eggs in Batter (Hot) 394 175 Bacon Bolls in Batter (Hot) 393 174 Birds’ Nests (Hot) 348 160 Buttered Eggs (Hot) 333 153 Canapes a la Fribourg (Hot) 356 162 Cheese and Potato Fritters (Hot) 382 171 Cheese Cream Croutons (Cold) 387 172 Cheese Cream Tartlets (Cold) 376 169 Cheese Custard (Hot) 390 174 Cheese Fingers (Hot) 385 172 Cheese Pufflets (Hot) 377 169 Cheese Quenelles (Hot) 388 173 Cheese Souffle (Hot) 389 173 Cheese Tartlets (Hot) 375 168 Cheese Zephyrs (Cold) 378 169 Chutney Croutons (Hot) 349 160 Cod’s Boe Savoury (Hot) 373 167 Creamed Egg and Mince (Hot) 347 159 Croutes au Foie (Hot) 353 161 Custard Toast (Hot) 365 165 Devilled Chicken Legs in Papillotes (Hot) 362 164 Devilled Sausage (Hot) 395 175 Egg Kromeskies (Hot) 342 157 Egg Sandwiches (Hot) 344 158 Eggs a la Bdgence (Hot) 341 157 Egg3 and Ham Cutlets with Macaroni (Hot) 339 156 Eggs in Aspic (Cold) 334 154 Eggs sur la Plat (Hot) 340 157 Fritterlets (Hot) 351 160 Green Butter Biscuits (Cold) 372 167 Savouries, etc., continued Ham Patties (Hot or Cold) 354 161 Italian Bice (Hot) 380 170 Macaroni Balls (Hot) 384 172 Macaroni Cutlets (Hot) 366 165 Madras Anchovy Toast (Hot) 360 163 Mushrooms and Ham (Hot) 361 164 Mushrooms with Devonshire Cream (Hot) 368 166 (Eufs & la Beine (Hot) 343 158 (Eufs au Gratin (Hot) 336 155 Olives a la Metropole (Cold) 369 166 Oysters Creamed (374) 168 Poached Eggs & la Beine (Hot) 338 156 Potted Cheese (Cold) 386 172 Prince of Wales’ Canapes (Cold) 358 163 Eissoles a la Diable (Hot) 352 161 Sardine Savoury (Hot) 357 162 Sardines, Stuffed (Hot) 371 167 Savoury Bacon Bolls (Hot) 359 163 Savoury Baskets 379 170 Savoury Egg-balls with Spinach (Hot) 335 155 Savoury Pancakes (Hot) 337 155 Savoury Pancakes (Hot) 383 171 Savoury Sandwiches (Cold) 364 164 Savoury Tartlets (Cold) 355 162 Scalloped Mince with Poached Eggs (Hot) 346 159 Shrimp Omelette (Hot) 370 167 Spaghetti a l’ltalienne (Hot) 391 174INDEX 206 Savouries, etc., continued Stuffed Chicken Legs in Papillotes (Hot) 363 164 Stuffed Eggs a la Diable (Hot or Cold) 345 159 Stuffed Sardines (Hot) 350 160 Stuffed Sardines (Hot) 371 167 Tomatoes a la Madras (Hot) 367 166 Tomatoes a l’ltalienne (Hot) 381 170 Welsh Rarebit (Hot) 392 174 Sheep’s Head au Gratin (Hot) 153 79 Sheeps’ Tongues in Brown Sauce (Hot) 152 78 Snipe Fillets on Toast (Hot) 160 83 Soups— Asparagus 24 12 Brown Bi’ead 12 7 Cabbage 10 6 Cauliflower 22 11 Celery 20 10 Chestnut Purge 17 9 Cock-a-Leeliie 27 13 Cream of Beetroot 5 4 Crecy 6 4 Cress 26 13 Foam 14 7 Haricot 9 5 Leek and Vermicelli 13 7 Milk 11 6 Mulligatawny 1 1 Oxtail 4 3 Potage Borne 3 3 Purge of Broad Beans 23 12 Purge of Brussels Sprouts (Maigre) 7 5 Puree of Curried Vegetables 19 9 Purge of Parsnips 15 8 Purge St. Gennain (Maigre) 8 5 Scotch Broth 2 2 Soubise 25 13 Soufflg 28 14 Spring Broth 15 8 Soups, continued Tapioca Cream 18 9 Vegetable marrow 21 10 Spiced Beef (Cold) 135 70 Spiced Gammon of Bacon (Hot) 136 71 Spiced Mutton (Hot) 129 68 Steak and Cabbage Pudding (Hot) 141 73 Steak and Giblet Pie (economi- cal in country households where much poultry is used) (Hot or Cold) 149 77 Steak Devilled (Hot) 132 69 Steamed Meat Mould (an excel- lent method of using up cold meat) (Hot) 142 74 “ Stonehenge ” (Hot) 145 75 Stuffed Loin of Lamb (Hot or Cold) 127 66 Veal Chops en Papillotes (Hot) 116 60 Veal Cutlets (Hot) 107 56 Veal Cutlets Stewed 113 58 Veal Forcemeat 155 80 Veal Olives 114 59 Vegetables— Artichokes Scalloped (Hot) 171 88 Asparagus and Eggs, Vol au Vent of (Hot) 170 88 Cabbage, Stewed (Hot) 185 93 Carrots, Glazed (Hot) 180 92 Cauliflower, Aigrettes of (Hot) 178 91 Cauliflower au Gratin (Hot) 176 90 Cauliflower Croutons (Hot) 179 91 Cauliflower Fritters (Hot) 177 90 Cauliflowers, to cook 175 89 Celeriac au Gratin (Hot) 184 93 Celeriac, Purge of (Hot) 183 93 Celeriac with Brown Sauce (Hot) 182 93INDEX Vegetables, continued Croustades of Broad Bean (Hot) 172 89 Beetroot with Parsley Sauce (Hot) 173 89 Broad Bean, Croustades of (Hotl 172 89 Brussels Sprouts au Gratin (Hot) 174 89 Flageolets, Purt5e of (Hot) 187 94 Flageolets with Parsley Sauce (Hot) 186 94 Green Peas, how to boil 202 100 Mushroom and Bacon Toast (Hot) 190 95 Mushrooms and Tomatoes Baked (Hot) 191 96 Mushrooms Baked (Hot) 1S8 95 Mushrooms Stewed (Hot) 189 95 Onions, a useful hint about 192 96 Onions for Garnishing Steaks, etc., to fry 193 96 Parsley, how to fry 196 98 Parsnip Cakes (Hot) 197 98 Peas a la Frantjaise (Hot) 203 101 Peas and Carrots a la Cr6me (Hot) 181 92 Pommes de Terre Lyonnaise (Hot) 199 99 Vegetables, continued Potatoes a la Donna (Hot) 200 99 Potatoes Puffed (Hot) 198 98 Potatoes Souffle (Hot) 201 100 Scolloped Artichokes (Hot) 171 88 Seakale au Gratin (Hot) 207 102 Seakale, Curried (Hot) 206 102 Seakale, fried (Hot) 208 102 Seakale with White Sauce (Hot) 205 101 Souffle Potatoes (Hot) 201 100 Spanish Onions au Gratin (Hot) 195 97 Spanish Onions en Surprise (Hot) 194 97 Spinach Dressed (Hot) 204 101 Stewed Cabbage (Hot) 185 93 Tomatoes and Mushrooms Baked (Hot) 191 96 Tomatoes au Gratin with Eggs (Hot) 209 101 Tomatoes Roasted (Hot) 210 103 Vegetable Pie (Hot) 211 103 Vol au Vent of Asparagus and Eggs (Hot) 170 88 Yeoman’s Pudding (Hot) 143 74 Yorkshire Pudding, Erica’s Recipe 62 27 Butler & Tanner, The Selwood Printing Works, Frome, and London.FIFTH EDITION TEN SHILLINGS A HEAD FOR HOUSE BOOKS By MRS. C. S. PEEL. Price 3s. 6d. SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS. PREFACE. CHAPTER I Hints on Genebal Management Why some people cannot Keep House on I Os. per head—Buying to Advantage—The Butcher’s Book—What to Order and How to Order it—Waste—Extravagance—List of Kitchen Utensils. CHAPTER II Menus fob the 10s. a Head Housekeepeb and the Single Handed Plain Cook Spring—Summer—Winter—Autumn—Kitchen Menus to Cor- respond. CHAPTER III Showing How the Fobegoing Menus may be Managed How to obtain Economical Variety—To Save the Cook Trouble —Showing how the Joint may be Made the Most of—Kit- chen Meals and Meat Suppers—The Importance of Neat Serving and Garnishing—Rules for the Same. CHAPTER IV Soups iTEN SHILLINGS A HEAD FOR HOUSE BOOKS. Synopsis of Contents—continued. CHAPTER V Sauces CHAPTER VI Fish CHAPTER VII Luncheon Dishes CHAPTER VIII Substantial Cold Supper Dishes CHAPTERS IX and X Economical Entrees CHAPTER XI Vegetables and Salads CHAPTER XII Puddings and Sweets CHAPTER XIII Savouries CHAPTER XIV Sandwiches CHAPTER XV Breakfast Dishes CHAPTER XVI Cakes, Scones, Biscuits and Buns INDEXHOW TO KEEP HOUSE By MRS. C. S. PEEL. Price 3s. 6d. SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS. CHAPTER I The Importance of Good Housekeeping The Domestic Problem—The Characteristics of a Good Mistress —The Incompetence of Mistresses—How to make Domestic Service more popular—Extravagance and Discomfort— Housekeeping is a Profession—The Husband Earns ; the Wife Spends—The Aim of the Good Housekeeper—How Housekeeping may be Learned. CHAPTER II Setting up House The Beloved Client of the House Agent—To Estimate Probable Expenses—Rent, Rates and Taxes—Wages—Food— Laundry—Coal and Light—Wine—Repairs and Replace- ments—Office Expenses—Savings—Insurances—Garden— Stable—Sundries—House-hunting and House-taking. CHAPTER III Division of Income Showing how a variety of People divide Incomes varying from £200 to £2,000. CHAPTER IV The Duties of the Mistress A Housekeeper’s Routine—Method and Punctuality—The Larder—To Clarify Dripping—Ordering Dinner—A Menu Book—Ordering and giving out Stores—Duplicate Order Book—Price Lists—Perquisites and Commissions—Fair Prices—Dishonest Practices—The Value of Halfpennies— Allowances—Cooking Buttor and Eggs—Back Premises— In the Pantry—Something about Wine—To Open Cham- pagne—Party Preparations—Keeping Accounts—A few \\ ords to the Girl about to Marry—Housekeeping Diary.HOW TO KEEP HOUSE Synopsis of Contents—continued. CHAPTER V Servants and their Duties Showing what Duties it is usual to expect of each Servant ; some Examples of the way in which the Work is apportioned in Households of various sizes. CHAPTER VI Servants and their Duties, Dress, and Wages Opening the Door—Bringing in Tea—Giving Messages, Notes, etc.—Waiting at Table—Servants’ Dress and Wages. CHAPTER VII The Engagement and Dismissal of Servants Engaging a Servant—Registry Offices—Advertisements—When Interviewing a Servant—Obtaining a Character—Character- giving—The Law as regards Character, Hiring, and Dis- missal of Servants. CHAPTER VIII The Sanitation of the House Disposal of Waste Matter : (A) Sewage ; (B) Slops ; (C) Solid Rofuse—Three Great Necessaries : (A) Light; (B) Ah-; (C) Water—Infection. CHAPTER IX The Care of the Linen Purchasing Linen—Allowance of Linen—The Quality of the Linen—An Economical Idea—Dusters and Rubbers—What becomes of the Dusters—The Number of Dusters and Rubbers required in a small Establishment—The Arrange- ment of the Linen Cupboard—The Laundry List—How to Detect Holes caused by the Use of Lime—Repairs—How to utilize Old Linen—Marking — Replenishing — Home Washing.HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. Synopsis of Contents—continued. CHAPTER X Warming and Lighting How to Regulate the Consumption of Coal—The Use of Coke— How to Lay a Fire—Sweeping of Chimneys—To put out a Chimney which is on Fire—Conflagrations—Heating by Electricity—Gas—Meters—About Electric Light—How to Economise Electric Light—Oil Lamps and Candles. CHAPTER XI Hostess and Guest The Hostess—Duration of Visits—Meeting Guests at the Station —The Servants’ Duties towards the Visitor—Bedroom Fires —Bachelor Guests—Visitors’ Servants—Arrangements for Departure—Care of the Spare Rooms—The Writing Table— The Washhand Stand—The Linen and Blankets—Baths— Dressing Rooms—Visitors’ Washing—Visitors in Small Houses—Tips. CHAPTER XII How to Clean The Kitchen Range—Kitchen Utensils—To Clean Silver, Brass, Lamps, Glass and China, Furniture, Marble, Looking- Glasses—How to Wash Paint, to Polish Floors, Parquet or Stained ; to Clean Carpets, Housemaids’ Pails, etc.—To Turn out a Room—Leaving a House for the Summer Holiday—To Remove Stains—Washing Stockings, Kitchen Cloths, etc. Weights and Measures, etc. Household Ready Reckoner Income and Wages Table 6 PSECOND EDITION THE NEW HOME TREATING OF THE ARRANGEMENT, DECORATION AND FURNISHING OF A HOUSE OF MEDIUM SIZE TO BE MAINTAINED BY A MODERATE INCOME By MRS. C. S. PEEL. Price 3s. 6d. SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS. CHAPTER I House Hunting CHAPTER II House versus Flat ; Town versus Suburb CHAPTER III Some Hints on the General Arrangement of the House CHAPTER IV Methods of Lighting CHAPTER V The Kitchen and Offices CHAPTER VI The Hall and the Staircase CHAPTER VII The Dining-Room CHAPTER VIII The Morning-Room and Smoking Room CHAPTER IX The Drawing-Room CHAPTER X The Bedrooms CHAPTER XI The Bedrooms—(continued) CHAPTER XII The Nurseries and the Schoolroom CHAPTER XIII The Box-Room, Housemaids’ Pantry, Linen-Cupboard, Bath-Room, Servants’ Bed-Rooms CHAPTER XIV Curtains and Blinds—Batterie de Cuisine—Parlour- maid’s List—Housemaid’s List—List of House Linen and Blankets—List of Plate, Cutlery, Glass, China, etc. INDEX 0> '%t > • ""■v.