ir#£di fiwiwK.TOgpw'y -r^r* to* ft fftj} ^ ft PiCOOKERY, DOMESTIC ECONOMY, &c. (\ Credit. _ RS. A. A Hand-book of Fish Cookery, how to buy. dress, cook and eat Fish, by Lucy H. Yates... ... 0 14 Acton’s Modern Cookery ... ... 4 6 Afternoon Tea Book, how to make Tea, Coffee, Cakes, Sandwiches, Cooling drinks, &c., by Agnes C. Maitland ... ... ... 0 14 Barnett’s The Making of the Home, a reading book of Domestic Economy ... ... ... 1 5 Beeton’sAll about Cookery, illustd. ■ ... ... 2 3 All about Everything, a Dictionary of Practical Recipes for everyday infor- mation ... ... ... 2. 3 Book of Household Management, colored plates ... .. 6 9 Everyday Cookery and House-keeping book, illustd. .., ... ... 3 1 ■ Fish and Soup—How to serve them ... 0 14 Poultry and Game —How to cook and how tocarve ... ... ... ... 0 14 Black’s Household Cookery and Laundry work ... 0 14 Bread and Biscuit Bakers’ and Sugar Boilers’ As- sistant, by Wells ... ... Breakfasts. Luncheons & Ball Suppers, by Major L. Brown’s The Book of forty puddings Buckmaster’s Cookery Calder and Mann’s Elementary Laundry work Clarke’s High-class Cookery, Recipes as taught in the School Cookery made Easy, being plain and practical directions of properly preparing to cook by a Lady, illustd. ^ ^ rs. Poole, LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Camden node A CCA 1 12 3 8 1 14 1 14 0 14 1 14 net 2 3 1 1 I 1 1 1 0 1 5 3 5 Cash, as. a. 0 12 3 12 0 12 2 14 1 14 5 10 2 10 0 12 0 12 0 12 1 8 3 0 1 11 1 11 0 12 1 11 0 14 0 12 1 14 8 2 o . o •u 2 2 2 14 2 l> if I II II I) i> > > } > > > > A?**- I! K ir Cash, as. a. \A> L De Salis’ Oysters a la mode or the Oyster and over- 100 ways of cooking it ... ' Soups and dressed Fish a la mode Drinks of all kinds, hot and cold, for all seasons, by F. and S. Davies... Family Herald Handy Bnolcs, @ As. 4; cash As. 3 each. Domestic Cookery with useful and practical instructions on marketing and the choice of Articles of Diet. How to Bake from a batch of bread toa^JrtSciiit.. How to carve and how to serve a dj^n^T f\ V< Si "How to Pickle and Preserve^<^C^ The Family Pudding Boote'^ » \ \ ) V Hand-book of DomejUacT^eKefry V V V.. ^ Hassell’s Lessons an D(»mes\ic ylcono Hazlitt’s Old CooterjAflchjksfa.nd. WJ^Wlsine .. Household Expens^ Irook^^iBrj^t^si of Indian weights and meaSar^o.Cncftj^tfr Anna Reckoner, Table of Wages,\<$e^*^nth Dhoby’s Accounts and Calendar, new’’Telegraph Tariff, Postal and Railway information, &e. ... net How we did without Lodgings at the Seaside, saved our money and doubled our pleasure Indian Domestic Economy and Receipt book, by Riddell ... ... ... net James ... red. Jago’s Text-book of the Science and Art of Bread- making, including the Chemistry and practical testing of wheat flour and other materials em- ployed in baking Jones’(Lucy) Puddings and Sweets being 365 receipts approved by experiences ... Keely’s (Miss) Lessons on Domestic Economy, 3rd ed. ... ... .. net Lake’s Daily dinners, a collection of 366 Menus in English and French Menus made easy ; how to order dinner, and give the dishes their French names Laundry Management, a hand-book for use in pri- vate and public Laundries Madras Cookery book, by an old Lady resident, in 'payer boards, nst Its. 1/3, cloth, ■■ net Mann’s Domestic Economy and Household Science for home education, school mistresses and pupil teachers ... Mew and Ashton's Drinks of the world, illustd. 5 5 0 1+ 0 Indian Household Management, by Mrs. Indian Outfits and Establishments 2 15 12 1 1 2 2 0 12 2 8 ► > i > > 1 u 1 0 12 . 3 6 r I > ) > \ > > > > > > > 0 u 0 12 ' 4 0 0 14 0 12 1 0 1 5 12 13 8 ! 0 14 0 12 1 ... 0 8 2 3 1 14 1 2 3 114 1; 2 3 1 14 !' 2 0 1 14 14 0Saint Pancras Public Libraries CAMDEN TOWN BRANCH. 18, CAMDEN STREET, N.W.I. (EUSton 1976). The Lending Library is open from 10 a.m. until 9 p.m. every weekday, except Wednesday, when it closes at 1 p.m. The time allowed for reading each work issued, whether one volume or more, is fourteen days. For any book not returned within that period, a fine of twopence for the first week or portion of a week, and fourpence for each succeeding week or portion of a week, is charged. In cases of infectious disease, books must NOT be returned to the Library, but must be delivered either to the Sanitary Authorities at the time of their call, or to the Disinfecting Station, Public Health Annex, 67-71 Prospect Terrace, Gray’s Inn Road, W.C.l. Ter. 8567—open from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m., Monday to Friday ; Saturday, 9 a.m. until 12 noon. No book can be issued unless the reader’s ticket is presented or a book returned. No book can be exchanged on the day on which it was issued. Changes of address of readers or of their sponsors must be notified within one week of such change. Readers leaving the Borough or ceasing to use the Libraries are required to return their tickets to the Librarian, otherwise they will be held responsible for all liabilities incurred. headers are required to keep the books clean, to ■Train from turning down the leaves, or making moil or other marks upon them. They must uort any damage or injury done to the books w receive, otherwise they will be held 'ountable for the same. \ (4775/52) H & S, Ltd.London Borough of Camden Swiss Cottage Library 88 Avenue Road, London NW3 3HA 01-278 4444 ext 3012 This book is due for return on or before the date stamped below. If not required by another reader it may be renewed by returning it to the library for re-issue. 1J, 07. M ~ ^ ^ Fines are charged on overdue books Please bring your ticket with you LA 210CULINARY JOTTINGS. A TREATISE IN THIRTY CHAPTERS ON REFORMED COOKERY Tfor JJngk-Jnhinn BASED UPON MODERN ENGLISH, AND CONTINENTAL PRINCIPLES, WITH THIRTY" TVTE NTTTS FOR LITTLE DINNERS WORKED OUT IN DETAIL, AND AN ESSAY ON OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA, BY “ Wyvern,” author of sweet dishes,” "furlough reminiscences.” SIXTH EDITION. Madras: HIGGINBOTHAM AND CO. Bo appointment in Enina to 5iia IStognt IQigburss ttje prince of OTalcs. Calcutta : THACKER SPINK AND CO. Bombay : THACKER AND CO., Limited. 1891.1361204 m 164 & M0DNT eoad.PRIiFACE TO THE SIXTH EDITION. 'N the revision of this, my sixth edition, I have taken the r±) utmost pains to bring the Culinary Jottings “up to date.” Forty-six pages of new matter have been introduced, much of the original text has been altered, and much removed to give place to newer and better advice, while each branch of the science of cookery has been reconsidered and discussed in the light of maturer experience. I trust that the Public, whom I thank very cordially for the support they have given me during the past thirteen years, will find my last effort an improvement upon its predecessors, and continue to regard with favour Their very faithful Servant, . ]Vyvern. Madras, November 1891.AUTHOR’S PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION. ArHEN I first began to write about Cookery I flattered *Pc) myself that I had undertaken a very easy, and plea- sant task. I thought that my jottings would be composed cu/rrente calamo, and that I should be able to carry out my project with satisfaction and success. But at the horn- of launching my frail shallop from the shore, I am compassed about with grave doubts concerning its seaworthiness. Alas !:— “ My conscience hath a thousand several tongues, And every tongue brings in a several tale, And every tale condemns me for” a very Icarus. Lo ! the wings of my ambition have melted, and I have fallen into the sea of blighted hope. I am only conscious of failure. I undertook much, what have I performed ? Whilst, however, I frankly acknowledge my many shortcomings, I derive some consolation in trying to believe that, there may nevertheless be a few things recorded in the pages of my book which will be found useful. If this hope be realized, and if the Ladies of Madras—to whom, in all humility, I dedicate the first fruits of my labours—discover here and there a word of assist- ance when perplexed about their daily orders, I shall be bounti- fully rewarded, and the winter of my discontent will indeed be made glorious summer. I have to tender my best acknowledgments to the Proprietors of the Madras Athenceum and Daily Nevus for the permission they have kindly given me to republish my culinary articles which appeared originally in that journal; I have to express my gratitude for the hints I have received from friendly savants in the science of cookery; and to own that I have obtained the most valuable aid from the writings of Jules Goutle, and the “G. C.” Madras, 1st November 1878. - *£IL jtVYYERN.CONTENTS, PA.RT I. Chapters. Introduction I.—The menu II.—The cook and his management III.—Certain kitchen requisites ... IY.—In the store-room ... 1 V.—On stock, and clear soups VI.—Thick soups and purees VII.—Regarding our fish VIII.—Hints about entrees IX.—Entrees—concluded X. —Sauces ... XI. —Sauces—concluded ... XII.—Braising and roasting XIII. —Boiling and steaming XIV. —Our vegetables XV.—Rechauffes XVI.—The savoury omelette XVII.—On luncheons XVIII.—Fritters... XIX.—Salads XX.—Hors d’ceuvres XXI.—Savoury toasts XXII.—Eggs, maccaroni, and cheese ... XXIII.—Notes on the curing of meat XXIV.—Pastry-making, et cetera XXV.—A FEW NICE PIES page. 1 4 ... 12 ... 17 ... 24 ... 30 ... 44 55 ... 65 ... 74 ... 85 ... 102 ... 112 ... 125 137 179 189 198 208 216 225 235 247 . 264 271 . 286X CONTENTS. Chapters. page. XXVI.—Our curries ... ... ... 299 XXVII.—Curries—continued, and mulligatunny ... 312 XXVIII.—Camp cookery—bread, soups, tinned pood, and vegetables ... ... ... 328 XXIX.—Camp cookery—our fresh-watep. fish ... 344 XXX.—Camp cookery,—game ... ... 363 / ♦ PA.HT II- Preliminary notes ... ... ... ... 375 Menu. I. —For a party of eight • II.— Do. do. ... III. — Do. do. ... IV. — Do. do. ... V.— Do. do. VI.— Do. do. ... VII.— Do. do. ... VIII.— Do. do. ... IX.— Do. do. ... X.— Do. do. XI.—For a dinner of six XII.— Do. do. XIII.— - Do. do. XIV.— Do. do. XV.— Do. do. . ... XVI.— Do. do. XVII.— Do. do. XVIII.— Do. do. XIX.—For A PARTY OF SIX XX.— Do. do. XXI.—For A LITTLE HOME DINNER XXII.— Do. do. XXIII.— Do. ' do. XXIV.— Do. do. ... 378 ... 384 ... 389 ... 395 ... 401 ... 407 ... 413 ... 419 ... 424 ... 432 ... 440 ... 445 ... 451 ... 457 ... 462 ... 468 ... 473 ... 476 ... 479 ... 486 ... 492 ... 495 ... 500 ... 505XI CONTENTS. Menu. page. XXV.— For a little HOME DINNER . . . ... 508 XXVI.— Do. do. . . . ... 513 XXVII.— Do. do. * • • ... 517 XXVIII.— Do. do. ... ... 521 XXIX.— Do. do. ... ... 525 XXX.— Do. do. .;. ... ... 530 ADDENDA. On coffee-making The last, most worthy, recipe of all Our kitchens in india 535 538 5392 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOB MADRAS. tion in the dinner menu of establishments conducted accord- ing to the new regime. A little treatise on cookery, then, showing the reader how to accomplish successfully, with the average means at his disposal in this country, some of the many tasty dishes spoken of in the modern English and continental books upon the subject, will, I am sanguine enough to hope, be received with kindly toleration, if not with cordiality, by those who consider it worth while to be interested in matters culinary. Thirsting for some instruction of this kind, I remember buying, some few years ago, a little book which had just then been published at Madras, and which promised by its title to provide the thing needful. Alas ! how sorely dis- appointed was I with my purchase, for the work had assuredly been written for the Anglo-Indian in England rather than for the Englishman in India. With the exception of dishes of purely native origin, little or no instruction worth following was given to the Madras housewife, whilst there was much dangerous counsel prof- fered which should be most carefully avoided. The most reprehensible customs were, in point of fact, laid down over and over again as precepts. Concerning these, I will say nothing now, for I propose to devote a separate chapter to the important subject of the cook-room, and to expose the besetting sins of our native cooks whenever they occur to me. The book to which I refer has not, as far as I am aware, been followed here by any fresh work, and I think, I may say that at any rate its pages scarcely contained the sort of instruction we look for now-a-days. In taking upon myself, therefore, the task of humbly ministering to the reformed taste of the hour, I am encouraged by the reflec- tion that I am, so to speak, a breaker of fresh ground.3 INTRODUCTION. I propose to carry out my scheme in a series of chapters commencing with cook-room experiences, the judicious management of the cook, and some general remarks on the equipment of the store-room and kitchen; then to take the salient features of a dinner one by one, and when 1 have discussed soups, fish, entries, &c., &c., to submit a number of menus, worked out in detail, adapted to our resources in this part of India. I know full well that to several accomplished disciples of Brillat Savarin at Madras, I can impart nothing new. On the contrary, it would better become me to sit at their feet and listen, than to rush in where they have hesitated to tread. To this talented coterie, I appeal for forbearance. I entreat them to be merciful, inasmuch as they are very strong. I feel, indeed, that in their presence, I may truly say with Bamasamy, that I am “ a very poor man,—I beg your pardon.” No. I address my jottings to the many who yearn to follow reform, but who cannot discover the method of doing so ; who,—to quote the words of a very hospitable friend,— “ like nice things better than nasty things,” yet have hitherto failed to penetrate the secret of success ; and who view with daily sorrow the lamentable parody of dinner which it seems good to their cooks to place before them. I shall treat of cosy, sociable little dinners of from two to ten people, rather than of the elaborate banquets of the great; and the main object before me will always be to study economy in conjunction with the system I advocate. Wyvern. Madras, 1st November 1878. <9 __ @> q/o) ' 1 ©>CHAPTER X. • ♦ The Menu. SLL who have studied the reformed system of dinner- giving will, I think, agree with me when I say that the menu of a dinner any where, but in India espe- eially, should be reduced to the smallest compass possible. An hour at the outside should suffice for the discussion of the daintiest of bills of fare, so to ensure this-, we should strike out of it all unnecessary encumbrances. Let the little card be clothed in the white garb of simplicity and completeness, and I am prepared to declare that all our lady guests, and a majority of the men we entertain, will rejoice at the result. A cosy dinner to be perfect should be, it seems to me, a highly finished cabinet picture with every atom of detail carefully worked out, rather than a large pretentious canvas with an infinite amount of color expended in order to pro- duce a satisfactory impression. Every line of the little menu should, therefore, be written with a loving hand, and both lights and shadows should be considered, for our guests must e’en partake of each dish we offer them. Soup, fish, a well chosen entree, one joint only, game, and a dressed vegetable, one entremets sucre, an iced pudding, cheese, with hors d’ceuvres and dessert, will be found, if thoughtfully composed, ample fare for even the most hyper- critical gourmet we can bid to our table. In the studied completeness of such a dinner as this will repose its chiefTHE MENU. 5 attraction :—in good wine, no lack of ice, the brightest plate, snow}^ linen, well toned light, and tasteful adorn- ment of the table; with all minutiae remembered—from dcs petits pains in the deftly-folded napkins, to the artistic salad which in all modern menus is not expressed yet, like salt, understood to be present. An extra entree may, of course, be given, but if the one selected be really nice, the releve correct, and the game about to' follow be the best in season, I fail to recognize the necessity of the addition. And, here, it may not be altogether unprofitable to con- sider attentively certain points connected with the modern banquet upon which opinions differ, and concerning which a good many people find a difficulty in coming to a satis- factory decision. The moot point or points to which I refer are associated with the general plan or arrangement of the menu, and in order to explain them, it will be necessary to trace their cause carefully. In the days of old, our forefathers divided their hills of fare into a number of courses. Thus, the soup and fish comprised the first course; the entrees and joint the second; and the game and sweets the third ; cheese and dessert being served independently. But pf late years, we have simplified matters, and the modern menu, adapted to a great extent, of course, from that of France, is placed before us in two “ services,” as exemplified in the following table :— Potage .. Soup. Premier service .. Poisson .. Pish. Entries .. Side-dishes. .Relevis .. Joint, or remove. Hots .. The roast (game or poultry) Second service ... Entremets .. Savory and sweet dishes. Fromage .. Cheese. . Dessert .. Dessert,CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 6 ' In addition to the above, the custom of presenting oysters before the soup is becoming daily more fashionable, and many people have adopted the practice of sending round hors d' oeuvres, in the continental manner, as a pre- lude to the repast. A matter of this kind is obviously a matter of taste, touching which no writer on cookery should take upon himself to lay down an arbitrary law. I am per- sonally decidedly in favour of the oyster, or, when oysters cannot be got, of a single, well selected, hors .d’ceuvre. The dainty atom titivates the palate, as it were, and prepares it for the soup that is about to come. When, how- ever, a relish of this description is given, it will be found decidedly advantageous, be it noted, if plates containing it be put upon the table in the places laid for the guest before dinner is announced. The time that must be taken up in handing the dishes round, is in this way economised. Considerable diversity of opinion exists, I know, con- cerning the next point, viz., whether the entrees should precede the releve or follow it. Brillat Savarin’s injunc- tion was—“ let the order of serving be from the more substantial dishes to the lighter;” and Sir Henry Thompson says :—-“ As a rule, to which there are few exceptions, the procession of dishes after the fish is from the substantial to the more delicate, then to the contrasts between more piquant flavour and sweetness.” Now, if we are to discuss this point properly, it seems to me that there is another very important factor in the debate that must not be lost sight of, viz., the rot, or roast. To this item of the menu Brillat Savarin gave, and Sir Henry Thompson gives, let us remember, its full and distinct value ; and it can hardly be denied that, if the rot be served correctly, the relevi must be put further forward in the hill of fare. What, then, is the rot ? Well, from personal observation I am constrained to say that this is a matter upon whichTHE MENU. 7 many dinner-givers appear to be somewhat hazy. The rot is, correctly speaking, a service of roast poultry or game : it should be accompanied by a nice salad, and it is often garnished with potato chips and water-cress. An entremets dc legume may either be handed round with it, or follow it separately. In Brillat Savarin’s time the truffled turkey appeared as a rot, and Sir Henry Thompson recommends the presentation at this period of the feast of the truffled pheasant or larded capon the dindonneau (turkey poult), the fatted fowl, &c. It is, therefore, pretty evident that if we serve our rots according to this—the undoubtedly correct interpretation— it would be absolutely preposterous to serve immediately before them a goodly joint of mutton or of beef with its concomitant vegetables. Between two courses so nearly equal in substance, there would plainly be no contrast, and the effect would be both overpowering and common- place. We are now at liberty to consider the releve. Strictly speaking, this word cannot be translated “ joint.” It should properly be interpreted the “remove,” and in the French menu, the dish of which it is composed is regarded as the piece de resistance of the dinner. To begin with, it ought, if possible, not to be roasted. According to the authorities I have named, it should rather be an artistic braise, fricandeau, or a whole fillet, larded and served with an ex- cellent sauce, and specially chosen and trimmed vegetables. Thus, the releve becomes very nearly as elaborate as a made-dish, and is scarcely what an Englishman means when he speaks of the “joint.” It need scarcely be said, then, that if this system be fol- lowed in its entirety, the rot and the relevd being correctly selected, the service of one or two light entrees between them is both intelligible and artistic.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 8 In favour of the older English custom it has been argued, with considerable justice, that delicate works of culinary science—such as entrees are supposed to be—should be pre- sented while the palate is yet fresh, and while the diner is thoroughly able to detect and appreciate the niceties of flavour, crispness, tenderness, and'so forth ; that a slice of plainly roasted or boiled meat, with a selected vegetable, should follow ; then a morsel of game, and the entremets. Advocates of this very excellent method, it will be observ- ed, do not pay any particular attention to the rot. When game is out of season, they present a savory entremets immediately after them releve, and send round their salad with the saddle or sirloin Thus, in the space marked in the printed menu for “ rot,” we occasionally see “ aspic de foie gras” with “ dsperges cn branches,” and no rot what- ever. Of the two systems the older one is certainly the simpler. The correct introduction of the rot is really the novel feature of the new menu—“ pouted au cresson, salade,” for exam- ple,. never figured in the old bill of fare in the place of game—and by its introduction the releve, altered a good deal in character, is of necessity pushed out of its original place. It will always be conceded, I think, by partisans of both systems, that each possesses merits of an undeniable character. The old method, as we have seen, is the simpler, and consequently the easier of the two, while the new may be voted more truly artistic. In adopting the latter, how- ever, it is a sine qua non that all the principles of the dinner be observed, and faithfully carried out. We canuot miss'a single point, or our little feast will become a fiasco. We must not serve, that is to say, “ pintade au cresson” as a releve, or “ jambon au Madcre” as a rdt— trifling errors that I have noticed at certain banquets modelled according to the new regime. Neither can we forget the salad, whichTHE MENU. 9 with its plain dressing of oil and vinegar (not a thick eggy one, I heg) should accompany the r6t as a matter of course. If unable to follow the rules of the revised menu accurate- ly, owing to an indifferent market, or some other unavoid- able reason, the wise dinner-giver should fall back upon the older form, and be contented with a less pretentious festival. The superiority of the new order of things consists in a more artistic distribution of light and shadow. If we rob the picture of an effective ray of sunshine here, and forget a judicious touch of shadow there, we can hardly complain if our efforts result in disappointment. At the commencement of these remarks, I spoke of the economy of time in serving a dinner—a subject which, I am sure, every earnest follower of reform will allow should command our closest attention. Of the two menus I have spoken of, the older form would perhaps seem to be the quicker served, and in establishments where the new system has not been long in practice, I certainly have observed that the dinner was a little too long. I, however, attribute this to the novelty of the service, which at first very naturally perplexes servants who have long been accustomed to a different method. When once understood and generally adopted, I do not think that the new arrangement will be found longer than the old. A good deal of time can obviously be saved if the giver of the feast be mindful of the importance* of that desider- atum. The releve, for instance, should undoubtedly be carved at the buffet, and each portion should be sent round with its accompanying vegetable also helped at the side table. I have seen a fillet of beef in slices handed round a table of eighteen people, with vegetables following it : even a large dish containing slices of a saddle of mutton garnished with divers vegetables, also carried round in the fashion of a French table d’hote ! The waste of time, not to10 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. mention the positive nuisance of such a method of service, need scarcely be dilated upon. At a large party I would always hand round the entremets cle legume with the rot and in composing the dinner, I would select the entremets so as to harmonize with the roast game or poultry—petits pois an beurre with wild duck or teal, epinards a la creme with quails, &c., &c. If the essential need of brisk service be kept in view, people who have declared themselves in favour of the new form of menu, and are determined to carry it out correctly, ought not only to deserve but to command success ; while those who have already achieved a reputation with the older one, will do well not to bid adieu to a system which, if somewhat less artistic, provides, at all events, a very reliable and decidedly enjoyable way of entertaining their friends. But in either case you cannot make your dinner too simple in detail, and the fewer servants you employ to carry it out the better. How distressing it is to see a herd of attendants, mobbing each other like a scared flock of sheep, at a time when everything should be as orderly, and as quiet as possible. To ensure calm service, pare down the number of your dishes to the fewest possible, and for eight guests never allow more than four servants, besides your butler, to attend the table. If these remarks be correct, as far as a small dinner of eight is concerned, how much more do they apply to large banquets ? In the case of official entertainments, success is too frequently marred by very indifferent service. The indirect cause of this is, as a rule, an over-crowded menu. With a great many guests it is, of course, necessary to call in a quantity of waiters who have never worked together before, and an undisciplined crowd of native servants will most certainly ruin the best dinner that ever11 THE MENU. was cooked, unless you reduced the work they have to per- form to the best of your ability. % At such dinners as these even I would never give more than two really good entrees, served separately, and with- out any dishes of vegetables accompanying them; then, say, a white vegetable with potatoes for the turkey, and French beans, or peas, with potatoes for the saddle. The menu should invariably indicate the particular vege- table you intend to serve with the relevd, thus :— Selle cle moutonaux haricots verts, Fricandeauau chou-fleur, Piece dc bceuf braisee an celeri, Quartier d’agneauauxpetits pois, dc. To save time, a portion of the vegetable named should be helped with the meat, potatoes alone being handed round. It is the essence of ignorance, and of bad taste to send a number of vegetables round with the joint. Almost as bad, in fact, as the practice of serving them with the entrees. At a large dinner, you sometimes see turnips, cabbages, cauliflowers, French beans, and potatoes (occupying five waiters) going round together. For the Anglo-Saxon delights in quantity, and his soul loveth display exceed- ingly. Masses of incongruous diet may be necessary at a yeomanry festival, or after an Agricultural Show at the county town ; but educated people who have travelled, and who have had opportunities of forming refined notions of human nature in general, and of food in particular, ought surely to be better satisfied with a little, really well considered, than with abundance inartistic in its arrange- ment, and indifferently served. X*? 7 D ♦ D •vOHA.PTER IX. ♦ The Cook and his Management #FTEB some years of observation, I have come to the conclusion that if you want to put nice little din- ners upon your table, you must not only be pre- pared to take an infinite amount of trouble, but you must make a friend of your chef. Unless amicable relations exist between the cook and his mistress or master, the work will never be carried out satisfactorily. There will be a thousand and one annoying failures, your mind will never know what repose means, and, in the end,—utterly wearied with the daily struggle against petty larceny, carelessness, ignorance, stupidity, and an apparently way- ward desire to thwart your desires to the utmost,—you will resign the baton to your butler, and submit in sheer desperation tq that style of dinner unto which it may please him to call you. I do not allude to people happy in the possession of a butler absolutely capable of composing, with very little aid, a fairly good menu, and able to direct the cook in the manipulation thereof. There are, I know, a few estimable men of that kind to be found—in point of fact, I am ac- quainted with three or four—but alas ! they are rare to meet, and even the cleverest of them requires a little dip- lomatic supervision, or he will drift into a groove of din- ners, and tire you with repetitions. Are not the accounts, also, of the erudite maitre cl'hStcl full oft'en prone to cause,THE COOK AND HIS MANAGEMENT. 13 —even at the pretty writing table of the cosy boudoir,— great searchings of heart ? In other words, must you not pay for your luxury, and even murmur not in the presence of the artist who spares you so much trouble ? Those who are not gifted with patience, those who are not physically strong, those who have important calls upon their time away from home, and, of course, those who do not feel capable of directing culinary operations, cannot do better than entrust the management of their kitchens to alien heads; but all who are equal to the task, should take the helm in their own hands, remembering that ancient canon,—“ if you want a thing well done, do it yourself.” I place those who have not patience first on the list of persons whom I deem incapable of managing their cooks. I do so advisedly, for of all failings inimical to the success- ful direction of a native servant, a hasty temper is the most fatal. The moment you betray irritation and hasti- ness in your manner towards Ramasamy, he ceases to follow you. His attention becomes distracted by apprehen- sion with reference to his personal safety, and not in the consideration of the plat you may be endeavouring to dis- cuss with him. In this matter I, of course, address my readers of the sterner sex. Ladies, I know, are never angry, and even when a little put out, do they not con- trive to veil their feelings with a sweet subtlety which men can envy, yet never hope to acquire ? Once upon a time I knew very intimately the Mess Pre- sident of a Regiment (not yet forgotten I fancy at Ban- galore) who possessed to an eminent degree the qualities necessary for his difficult position. He was an acknow- ledged connoisseur in wines, excelled in the composition of a menu, and rejoiced in a bountiful development of the bump of management. Long association, however, with one of the best Messmen a regiment ever had in England 2CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 14 had spoilt my friend for the up-hill task of managing Bamasamy. The consequence was that the ordering of a dinner with him was generally productive of un mauvais quart d’heure. I remember, one special day, hearing my friend’s voice raised to its highest pitch ; presently the door of the little room he occupied as an office flew open, and out rushed the cook, followed by his preceptor violet in the face with wrath. The unhappy menial, in a state of hopeless mental aberration, had taken down that he was to boil the pctte de foie gras, and ice the asparagus V' I was called in as interpreter and peace-maker, and many a morning after that did I convey my friend’s orders to the mess cook. I was obliged, however, to demand an empty room, for even during my interpretations the Pre- sident’s patience would evaporate, and the walls would ring with language that was fashionable when George the Third was King. There are two ways of imparting the details of menu to your native cook:—one through the medium of your butler, the other by conversation with the man himself. For many reasons I advocate the latter plan. Some cooks do not care for the butler’s interference, and in many establishments, the cook and butler do not pull. Butlers, again, are prone to conceit, and often pretend to under- stand what you want done, rather than confess then- ignorance. You may perhaps remember the same failing in your munshi who never admitted himself to be puzzled by the most intricate passage in English that you could place before him. So I prefer to get the.cook alone, and talk to him very gently in his own patois. I encourage him by a bland demeanour, and if obliged to speak retrospectively of a * I do not mean to insinuate by this that iced asparagus is not a delicious entremets; in the caso in point, however, the mistake made by the cook is obvious.—W.THE COOK AND HIS MANAGEMENT. 15 failure, I strive to do so with a smile. You will soon get round Ramasamy when he finds that you never indulge in “ very bad ’busing he then gains confidence in you and learns rapidly. Between ourselves too, surely an artist who can actually compose a “ petit pate a la financiere,” a “ kra- vlouskij aux haitres,” or a supreme cle volatile,” deserves some consideration at our hands. The patois is easily acquired, and you will soon find yourself interpreting the cherished mysteries of Erancatelli or Gouffb in the pigeon English of Madras with marvellous fluency. You will even talk of “ putting that troople,” “ mashing bones all,” “ minching,” “ chimmering,” &c., &c., without a blush. There can be no doubt that in our Ramasamy we possess admirable materials out of which to form a good cook. The work comes to him, as it were, of its own accord. But we should take heed lest he grow up at random, clinging affectionately to the ancient barbarisms of his forefathers. We should watch for his besetting sins, and root them out whenever they manifest themselves. Two of the chief of these are :— (a) To guess at quantities and weights without measur- ing the one, or weighing the other. (b) To proceed with the cooking of a meal without any reference to the clock, to finish things far too soon, and then to keejD them warm till wanted. We should remember that the fact of a dish having been once successfully presented by nb means insures that it will appear so again unless the artist be reminded de novo of the secrets of its composition. Mint, as a flavouring agent, save with green peas, in certain wine “ cups,” and in bond fide mint sauce, is one of the banes of the cook-room ; its use, and that of any parsley except the curled English variety, should be considered absolutely penal. The very smell of “ country” parsley is16 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. assuredly sufficient to warn the unwary, and yet many native cooks bring it home daily. The weed has been called “ parsley” ever since they can remember, and they fail to appreciate the wide difference between it, and therealherb. All native cooks dearly love the spice box, and they all reverence “ Worcester Sauce ” Now, I coilsiderthe latter too powerful an element by far for indiscriminate use in the kitchen, especially so in India where our cooks are inclined to over-flavour everything. If in the house at all, the proper place for this sauce is the cruet-stand where it can be seized in an emergency to drown mistakes, and assist us in swallowing food that we might otherwise decline. But it should be preserved from Ramasam'y with the same studious care as a bottle of chloroform from a lady suffer- ing from acute neuralgia. Spice, if necessary, should be doled out in atoms, the cook ought never to have it under his control. Does every housekeeper appreciate sufficiently the invaluable trimmings of meat, skin, and bone, which remain, say, after a number of tasty choplets have been prepared for the grid-iron from a neck of mutton ? Do all know that Ramasamy’s domestic curry often gains, whilst we lose, the nice savoury sauce which should have accom- panied our entree ; but then, if “ missus din’t give arder for using bits all,” can Ramasamy, a child of this world, be blamed ? In the various receipts which I hope to give, you will always find a few lines reserved for the treatment of the scraps, and as each bad habit of the cook-room occtu’S to me, I will endeavour to expose and explain it to the best of my power.CHAPTER XXX. Certain Kitchen Requisites. »LLOWING then, that our native cooks are, by na- ture, adapted-to their calling, and that by judi- cious treatment we can develop the talent which they possess, one of the next things for consideration is our kitchen equipment, and the kind of utensils which will be found best suited for Ramasamy’s use, bearing in mind the sort of dishes we shall hereafter call upon him to prepare. In introducing novelties of European construction to the Indian cook-room, it is a sine qua non to proceed with cau- tion. Ramasamy is intensely conservative, and a sworn foe to innovations. Perchance there are amongst my readers some who can look hack with a sigh to sundry patented culinary nicknacks brought out from England, in happy anticipation of grand cook-room reforms, to India, which, misunderstood from the first, were either soon cast aside as worthless from barbarous treatment, or diverted to uses which would drive the inventors crazy to think of. I call to mind having observed an instance of this kind when staying once with a friend on the Hills. The water for my bath was brought, 1 noticed, in the outer vessel of a “ Warren’s patent cooking pot.” “Yes,” said my host sorrowfully when I mentioned the occurrence, “ I could never prevail upon my fellows to use the thing in18 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. the kitchen, so they do what they like with it: the inner vessel makes cl capital tom-tom for beating a sholah.” ■ Left entirely alone, with articles of his own selection around him, the native cook is, however, a singularly in- genious creature. All men who have been accustomed to a nomad life under canvas—far from the busy hum of cantonments—will, I think, agree with me in this. Given a hole in the ground, and a couple of stones for her range, with a bundle of jungle sticks, a chatty or two, perhaps a degchee, and a fan, wherewithal to prepare a dinner, can you picture to yourself the face of Martha, the “ thorough good cook” of an English household? An amusing episode happened some few years ago which struck me at the time as illustrative to a degree of Rarna- samy’s opinion of the British system of cookery. I hap- pened to be with a Regiment at Secunderabad which, for reasons connected with the antiquated barracks we occu- pied, was ordered to move into a standing camp. Our Colonel, an exceedingly young and fortunate officer, was a rampant soldier of the new school. His brain was ever busy with new ideas : it was even reported that he slept with “ Wolseley’s soldier’s pocket-book” and “ The rules for Signalling in connection with Outpost duty” under his pillow. The order to march into camp delighted him. After issuing his orders concerning the geometrical lines in which he wished the tents to be pitched, not even for- getting the whitewashing of the tents’ pegs, he turned his attention to the kitchens. Here was an opportunity for practically establishing a “ Wolseley’s field kitchen. Two officers who had recently passed successfully through the Garrison course of instruction were accordingly sent for, and, as a personal favour to the Commanding Officer, requested to go out to the camping ground, and lay out a se.ries of broad-arrow kitchens for the Regiment. The work was done, and we marched into camp the next day.19 CERTAIN KITCHEN REQUISITES. Whilst the men were busy at stables, the Colonel rode about inspecting everything ; presently he came upon the neatly excavated kitchens, but, to his astonishment, found them deserted ! Not a cook was to be seen ! Orderlies flew to find out where on earth the men’s breakfasts were being cooked, and in a few minutes, the whole corps de cuisine was discovered squatting at work more suo in a dry nullah hard by. The Colonel furiously demanded why the proper kit- chens had not been used, and “ all this abominable mess prevented ?” Presently a cook of greater daring than his colleagues replied “ What sar ! that bad sense kitchen, sar, I beg your pardon : too much firewood taking: see sar this prdper kitchen only." In the face of such an irresistible argument, the Colonel (albeit irritated beyond measure) was constrained to abandon his cherished project. When presenting Ramasamy, therefore, with novel uten- sils, let us guard against his denouncing them as “ bad sense.” We must patiently show him how to use them, proving, if we possibly can, by practical illustration, the satisfactory results, saving of time, and so forth, to be gained by their means. Anything complicated should, of course, be avoided. As far as my personal experience goes, I confess that I have found liamasamy by no means difficult to teach. All native cooks take readily to the mincing machine, and I find that my chef fully appreciates the vegetable cutter, root-knife, dishing-up fork, gravy strainer, wire sieve, hair sieve, colander, mortar, wire frying basket, “ Warren’s fish kettle and vegetable steamer,” and the larding needle, which he-can use easily. Larding is one of the branches of the cook’s art which comes naturally to a native; as a rule also I think that they surpass Europeans in boning poultry, an operation which Martha rarely attempts.20 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. I cannot too strongly recommend the adoption of that invaluable utensil a “ bctin-maria,” or shallow trough, which, filled with hot-water and kept over a moderate fire, affords a hot bath in which the various little sauce- pans containing sauces, etc., can be set, and so kept hot without deterioration. A bain-marie complete, with a set of saucepans made to fit it, can be purchased at any hard- ware shop, or you can have one made to order to fit your saucepans in copper, iron, or block tin; the first material will, of course, outlast the other two. The stock pot is a vessel that may be given to Eamasamy without hesitation ; and he is keenly alive to the value of the stew-pan. In the matter of frying-pans he is not hypercritical: I do not think that he perceives the differ- ence between a future-pan and an omelette-pan. He dis- likes anything heavy, and generally asks for a small iron pan. I quite agree with a friend whose experience in culinary matters is great, who advocates a deep-sided, heavy iron frying-vessel,—a frying kettle, in short, rather than the ordinary frying-y><m of commerce, steady over the fire on account of its own weight,—for all real frit, are work, and, of course, a handy vessel for saute work, with a still lighter one for omelettes. The large pan he recommends can he made in any Indian bazar, and, when used in con- junction with the frying basket, will certainly be found most valuable. Like many English cooks, the native is apt to discard the grid-iron and take the frying-pan for many things which ought invariably to be cooked on the former vessel: this -tendency requires watching,. for in many of the receipts I shall give, broiling is essential. I hesitate to pronounce any opinion upon the metal best adapted for kitchen utensils, for, upon this point different people think differently. Copper—the most expensive— is, we all know, universally recommended on account of its durability. You see nothing else in the kitchens ofCEB TAIN KITCHEN BEQUISITES. 21 restaurants, clubs, &c., and in all establishments where the demands upon the chef are frequent and elaborate. If treated with ordinai’y care, no evil should result from its use. White enamelled ironware looks nice when new, but the slightest cai’elessness destroys the enamel, and when once cracked, it may be considered done for. Plain wrought-iron vessels, tinned, are serviceable, and block tin for certain utensils is not to be despised. The lately introduced grey enamel ware is likewise serviceable, and at the same time light. In my own kitchen, I have a mixed collection which answers its purpose well enough. With regard to the equipment necessary for an ordinary establishment, I can safely recommend :— A Warren’s cooking pot. 4 Stew-pans of sizes. 6 Sauce-pans assorted. 1 Large sauce-pan with steamer. 1 Stock pot or marmite. 1 Braising-pan. 1 Friture-pan (or frying- kettle). 1 Saute-pan. 1 Omelette-pan. 1 Fluted gridiron. 1 Tin fish kettle and drain, er. 1 Ordinary iron-kettle. 2 Spits of sizes. 1 Bam marie, holding four or five sauce-pans in sizes. In addition to this,—the ment,—the cook should havi 3 Iron spoons of sizes. 3 Wooden spoons. 1 Basting ladle. 1 Fish slice. 1 Set of skewers. 1 Set of larding needles 1 Meat saw. 1 Chopper. 2 Plain pudding moulds. heavy portion of the equip- i • 1 Raised pie mould. 2 Plain border moulds. 2 Ornamental border moulds. 1 Flour dredger. 1 Sugar dredger. 1 Pepper box. 1 Bread grater. 1 Set of vegetable cutters.22 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. One mincing machine, and a tin box with divisions for a small supply of pepper-corns, salt, ground pepper, sugar, &c. A wooden slab, (or marble if you can get one) for pastry, with rolling pin is necessary, and also a pestle and mortar. A stone or iron one is best for India; I have lost two Wedgwood mortars—broken through careless use on a stone-paved floor. I strongly recommend that every cook should have at least four common earthenware or enamelled bowls, two of them with lips, for setting stock, gravies, &c., &c., and it will be found as well to give him a few cheap ci*ockery sun- dries for exclusive use in his kitchen. If not, portions of your breakfast and dinner sets will find their wajr to the cook-room, and the list of killed, wounded, and missing will become alarming. I think the following sufficient for a small kitchen : two jugs, two cups and saucers, a wine-glass for measurement, six plates, three soup plates, two large and four small flat dishes, two small basins, and three wire covers to protect meat, &c , from flies : these articles may obviously be of the commonest-ware, or better still of grey enamelled iron. 1 Dishing-up fork. 2 Common forks. 5 Cook’s knives in sizes. 1 Eoot knife. 1 Mincing knife. 1 Chopping board. 1 Toasting fork. 1 Block tin colander 2 Tin gravy strainers. 2 Pointed gravy do. 1 Wire sieve. 2 Hair sieves of sizes. 1 Wire frying basket. aspics mignons. 1 Paste jagger. 1 Set of pastry cutters. 1 Dozen patty pans. | A dozen mince pie pans. 1 Baking sheet. 2 Baking tins. 2 Bread or cake tins. 2 Souffle tins of sizes. 1 Set of freezing Utensils. 3 Jelly moulds of sizes. 12 Small tin moulds for 1 Coffee mill.23 CERTAIN KITCHEN REQUISITES. A cupboard fitted with a lock and key should be given to the cook for the safe custody of the many small articles I have enumerated, and a set of shelves for his utensils. The cook-room table should be roomy and strong, and to ensure its cleanliness, it should be continually scalded down with boiling water and soda, and well rubbed over with sand paper. Lastly, no kitchen should be without a clock. A cook of ordinary intelligence can, without difficulty, be taught to mark the progress of the hands, and work by time, rather than by guess-work. It is hardly necessary, I hope, for me to point out the intense importance of cleanliness in the kitchen, and in all utensils connected therewith. It you cannot go to the kitchen yourself, it is essential that you should hold weekly inspections of all your cooking utensils, which should be spread out on a mat in the verandah for that purpose. Give out leashing soda, for you cannot keep things clean without it; and be very particular about the cloths that are used by the cook. There is a horrible taste which sometimes cling to soups, sauces, etc., which a friend of mine specifies as “ dirty cloth taste.” This is eloquent of neglect, and dirty habits in the kitchen. Sieves will do for many things, but there are some compositions which must be strained through cloths, we cannot, therefore, be too attentive with reference to this part of our kitchen equipment. For a few remarks concerning our kitchens in India, please turn to the end of the book.CHAPTER IV. In the Store-room. tN visiting the vast collections of tinned provisions, sauces, &c., at some of the large establishments at the Presidency, I have often wondered how a lady, commencing house-keeping, is guided in selecting the things she requires for her store-room. A majority, no doubt, of the fair chatelaines of Madras, do their shopping at their boudoir writing tables, filling up lists at the dic- tation of the butler at their elbow; for few, I take it,— very few care to go to the fountain head for what they want. Now, a butler’s ideas about stores are, on the whole, very mixed : he worships “ Europe articles” and delights in filling the shelves of the store-room with rows of tins ; of which some may perhaps be useful, but many need never be bought at all at Madras, and so remain for months un- touched, lumbering the shelves of the cupboard. It has struck me, therefore, that having satisfied ourselves con- cerning the equipment of the kitchen, a few words regard- ing the choosing of stores may be acceptable. I have long come to the conclusion that the fewer acces- sories you use in the way of hermetically sealed provisions in the composition of a dinner the better. In Madras we have all the materias for soup-making at hand, we have excellent fish, very fair poultry, good wild fowl andIN THE STORE-ROOM. 25 game when in season, meat which varies in quality yet is generally eatable, and nearly all the English vegetables from Bangalore and the Neilgherries in addition to the standard produce of the country. If, therefore, we con- centrate our attention sufficiently upon what we can get ■from market, our demand on tinned food should be very small indeed. Take now, for instance, a tin of the ordinary preserved mushrooms,—those made you know of white leather,— what is the use of them, what do they taste of ? Yet people giving a dinner party frequently garnish one entree at least with them, and the Madras butler would be horrified if his mistress were to refuse him that pleasure. The stewed “ black Leicestershire ” are the best preserved mushrooms to be had, but even between them and the fresh fungus, there is a great gulf fixed. Preserved truffles in bottles are nearly as tasteless, and as far removed from the real thing, as preserved mushrooms. I cannot say that I think highly of them, nor can I per- ceive that they repay in cookery the cost of their purchase. A few years ago I met an officer of the Artillery, who, after having served in various parts of the world, had just been appointed to a command in this Presidency. Con- versation happened to turn upon cookery, and the Colonel soon proved himself to be a man who had for years studied the science con cimore. He had had little or no experience of Indian life, and he expressed himself agreeably sur- prised, rather than otherwise, at the style of living to which he had been introduced. ‘ ‘ But, ’ ’ he said, 1 ‘ preserve me from your dinners of ceremony.” He had arrived, he told me, quite unexpectedly a few evenings before, and had been at once invited to the Mess ; the dinner, just the ordinary daily one,—was, he thought, excellent, and so it was the next day, and the day following, but on the 3CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 2(5 fourth day he was formally invited to dine as a Mess guest, and that was a very different affair. Considerable expense had been incurred, he observed, on this occasion in tinned provisions, but with the worst possible result. There was a dish of preserved salmon, hot, and sodden ; the entrees were spoilt by the introduction of terrible sausages, and mushrooms ; • and the tinned vegetables were ruined by being wrongly treated by the cook. “ There are few men,” the Colonel went on, “who have had more to do with preserved provisions than I have, but until I attended this big Indian dinner, I never saw such things actually regarded as delicacies, and put upon the table to the exclu- sion of the good fresh food procurable in the market.” This is the proper way of looking at the question. The time may come when you may be obliged to fall back upon Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, and be thankful. Until those evil days come upon you, however, do not anticipate your penance, but strive to make the food you can easily procure palatable and good by scientific treatment. I look upon tinned accessories in the hands of Barna- samy as the cloaks of carelessness, and slovenly cookery. He thinks that the ‘ tin ’ will cover a multitude of sins, so takes comparatively little pains with the dish that it accompanies. There are many ladies who, when giving out stores for a dinner party, have no hesitation in issuing preserved provisions to the value of many rupees, but if asked for extra cream, butter, eggs, and gravy meat,—the true essentials of cookery,—at once consider themselves imposed upon. The poverty of our cookery in India results almost wholly from our habit of ignoring these things, the very backbone, as it were, of the cook’s art. If an English cook, surrounded with the best market supplies in the world, be helpless without her stock, her butter, her cream, and her eggs, how much more shouldBamasamy be27 IN THE STORE-ROOM. pitied if lie be refused those necessaries, for his materials stand in far greater need of assistance. In the matter of firewood and charcoal too, I am aware that there is often a difference of opinion between the cook and his mistress, and I am inclined to think that Ramasamy is generally in the wrong. Still, we should be careful lest we limit his supply of fuel too closely—espe- cially on a dinner party day. I once was a guest at a house where the dinner was served perfectly as far as the joint, when a sudden collapse took place ; the game and entremets de. legume, were stone-cold. The excuse the next day was, “ charcoal all done finish, and Missis only got godown key in the pocket.” Fuel is of course wasted sadly by the practice 1 have already alluded to, viz.:—Ramasamy’s habit of cooking his dinner far too soon, and then keeping the dishes warm in the oven or hot closet. Unless you have tried to find out practically what can he done with the fish, flesh, fowl, and vegetables, of this country, hv studious cookery, you will scarcely believe the extent of your power, and how independent you really are of preserved provisions. Our apathy in this respect, and easy resignation to what may appear to be inevitable, while adding to our expenditure, and a general feeling of dis- satisfaction, bring down upon us occasionally the severe criticisms of people who write about our manners, customs, and style of living in this our land of adoption. I remember an article beaded “ Curry and Rice ” which once appeared in Vanity Fair. Our friends at Home were told that no dinner was complete in India without a “burning curry,” and that none was successful ‘ ‘ without Europe tins. ’ ’ This I fear was at one time too true, and though of late we have mended our ways considerably, we have still room for improvement. I hope that, as we go on, I shall be able to prove at all events that we can do pretty well withoutCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 28 either “ burning curries,” or “ Europe tins” ; — in fact, this is my chief object in writing these jottings. Although I am strongly against the use of tinned things to the exclusion of fresh materials, I by no means wish to interdict such standard groceries as:—pickles, sauces, jams, bacon, cheese, maccaroni, vermicelli, vinegars, flavouring essences, tart fruits, biscuits, isinglass, arrowroot, oatmeal, pearl barley, cornflour, olives, capers, dried herbs, and so on. Grated Parmesan cheese (sold in bottles by Crosse and Blackwell) should never be forgotten, the salad oil should be the best procurable, and no store-room should be without tarragon vinegar, anchovy vinegar, French vinegar, and white wine vinegar. Amongst sauces I consider “ Harvey” the best for general use; Sutton’s “Empress of India,” is a strong sauce with a real flavour of mushrooms; Moir’s sauces, and “ Read- ing sauce,” are very trustworthy, and there are others which, no doubt, commend themselves to different palates, but I denounce “ Worcester sauce” and “ Tapp’s sauce” as agents far too powerful to be trusted to the hands of the native cook. Sutton’s essence of anchovies is said to possess the charm of not clotting, or forming a stoppage in the neck of the bottle. I have a deep respect for both walnut and mushroom ketchup, soy, and tomato conserve. Then as special trifles, we must not forget caviare, olives farcies, and anchovies in oil. Experience obliges me to condemn preserved truffles in bottles as practically useless : as already explained, they are tasteless and do not assist the dish to which they may be added. For the same reason I denounce preserved mush- rooms as aforesaid, and those awfully indigestible, flavour- less lumps of giant fungus called cepes ! The cook should be carefully shown the use of flavour- ing essences, and also that of dried herbs. He ought also to be taught never to run out of bread crumbs. Stale29 IN THE STORE BOOM. fine crumbs should be made every now and then, and kept corked down in bottles for use when required. The very unsightly appearance presented by fish, cutlets, etc., crumbed with fresh spongy crumbs should warn us, for stale bread is never to be had when we suddenly want it. Red currant jelly is very useful; the store-room should never be “ out” of it. I shall treat of tinned vegetables hereafter in their pro- per place. Macedoines, fonds d’artichaut, petitspois, flage- olets, haricots verts, and asperges, are, of course, excellent, and the dried Julienne will be found admirable for soups. Preserved fish is not required at Madras, and we can get on without tinned meats, soups, and potted luxuries, for we can make better things at home. In sweet things, however, we are not so independent, and jams, jellies, tart-fruits, dried and candied peel, cur- rants, raisins, ginger, &c., &c., must all have room in the house-keeper’s cupboard. Of the invaluable qualities to the Anglo-Indian of good tinned butter, I shall speak on a future occasion. In a chapter on stores it is impossible to pass over, without a few words of commendation, the excellent pre- served fish, vegetables, and fruits, which have, of late, been imported from America. Besides being capital in quality these “ canned ” delicacies are decidedly cheap. The old English firms have now to compete with dangerous rivals. Let them look to their laurels. Messrs. Brand & Co.’s preparations for invalids, potted meats, soups, and strong essences of beef, chicken, &c., are specialites in their way vastly superior to anything for- merly in the market of a like description. Messrs. Moir and Son have however taken up the subject recently with great success.CHAPTER AT. On Stock, and clear Soups. X^TITH a keen appreciation of the importance of the Yyr subject, and of the difficulties with which it is surrounded, I now proceed to place before my readers a little collection of hints and wrinkles about soup-making which I have gathered from time to time from a variety of sources. Some, by practical experience, gained by bond fide work in the kitchen, some given to me by friends, and some picked out of different works on the culinary art. In my extracts from books, I shall endeavour to record, as much as possible, such advice only as I have tested myself, and I shall try to make my gleanings simple and concise. To begin then; there are, we know, three distinct classes of soups :—the clear, the thick, and the puree. We recognise clear soups in the menu under different names For instance, we meet consomme de volatile, and pot age a la printaniure, but whereas the word consomme is invariably applied to clear soups, we find potacje frequently used for thick also, to wit:—potacje ci let Heine, potcuje d la bonne femme, die. Let us distinguish between thick soups and purees in this way:—the former owe their consistency to the addition of some artificial thickening, such as flour and but- ter, egg yolks, &c., the latter, on the other hand, derive their thick characteristic from the ingredients that compose31 ON STOCK, AND CLEAR SOUPS them being rubbed through a tennis, or through a wire sieve and, communicated to the stock in the form of a thick pulp, as in the case of puree d’ artichauts, puree clc legumes, puree de gibier, <C'c. A soup partaking of the character of a thinnish puree helped up by artificial aid in the way of thickening, is called by some writers a potcuje d la puree. The bisque again is a puree, strictly speaking, of cray-fish (aux ecrc- visses) or of lobster (de homard), but it can be made suc- cessfully with crab, prawns, and shrimps ; indeed a nice bisque can be made with any fish. Having made our minds clear as to the names of soups, let us next turn our attention to beef consomme for we may regard it as the foundation upon which nearly every soup is based. “ Stock,” says the ‘ G. C.’,—a capital writer on cookery, —“ is to a cook what the medium or the water is to the painter in oils or in water colours. It may be defined, generally speaking, as a solution in water of the nutritive, and sapid elements contained in meat and bones : salt and spices added to it to make it savoury, and if to this you add the flavour of various vegetables, you have soup.” We must remember, however, to start with, that soup in India must he made in one day. We cannot fall back upon the never-empty stock pot of the English kitchen : our’s must be made daily, and, to guard against waste, only in sufficient quantity for the day’s consumption. In saying this I have, of course, mainly before me the climate of Madras, and of the plains of Southern India. At the Hill stations and during the cold weather in the northern part of the country, the method obtaining in British households may, no doubt, with care, and slight modification, be followed. Our soup, then, being actually an ephemeral production, how should we proceed? “For the type of all stock32 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. making, says the G. C. “there can be no better recipe taken then that of the French pot-uu-feu,” let us therefore consider attentively the following instructions for that most valuable of culinary operations. Put a piece of soup-meat,—say of four pounds weight, in the proportion of three pounds of flesh to one of bone,— (the recipe can, of course, be followed by adding or reducing as you may require but preserving like proportion) tightly bound with a string, with two ounces of salt and the bones separately broken up, into a stock pot filled with cold water, so as to completely cover the meat. Put the pot by the side of the fire and let it become gradually heated. As this takes place, a scum will form upon the surface which must be carefully removed as it rises. When nearly boiling, a coffee cupful of cold water should be thrown into the pot to check ebullition and accelerate the rising of the scum. Repeat this process and skim patiently, removing grease and scum, till the surface is clean. The clearness of the soup will depend, remember, upon all the scum being taken off, and upon the water being kept from boiling point until it is all removed. This having been done; put into the sauce- pan the following vegetables which should have been pre- viously carefully cleaned and cut up, viz.:—a couple of large white onions, a clove of garlic, two large or three small car- rots, two or three turnips, six leeks, one head of celery, a bunch of curly parsley, and two cloves in the onion. Then put in, tied up in a piece of muslin, some thyme, marjoram, and a handful of whole pepper,—a tea-spoonful each of dried thyme and marjoram will be quite enough. It will be found that by adding the vegetables, the boiling of the broth will be thrown back ; as soon however as the bub- bling recommences, watch the vegetables carefully, and re- move them when they are done. If you leave them in the stock pot after they have been cooked, they will spoil the soup. Remove the muslin bag also. You can next put in a dessert-spoonful of sugar, table-spoonful of HarveyS3 ON STOCK, AND CLEAN SOUPS. sauce, and two of mushroom ketchup; when thepot-au-feu is, so to speak, thus completed, it must be left to simmer slowly from three to four hours till the meat is thoroughly done. The soup should now be strained into a basin and left to get cool, so that any remaining fat may be effectu- ally skimmed off. The clear liquor is then fit to he warmed and served with maccaroni, bread sippets, or vegetables, &c., according to the kind of soup you wish to have. Observe that in order to carry out this recipe, an open, roomy vessel is necessary; a closed pot like a digester must not be used. By allowing the liquid to steam freely, uncovered, you assist the clearing process. This is, to my mind, the simplest recipe you can follow to achieve a bright clear consomme. It is, of course, im- perative that you proceed exactly as described. First, the meat covered with cold water, and brought very slow- ly to the boil, being very carefully skimmed the while. Next, when the skimming is completed, the vegetables,— to be removed when done,—the little bouquet of sweet herbs, the sugar, and a small allowance of sauce and ketchup. Now, a period, of three hours to simmer, followed by straining. The liquor you have after this is actually beef consomme or strong broth quite clear and pale in color. Bemoving the fat whilst the simmering is going on is obviously a very important stage which cannot be too patiently manipulated. The fat so obtained is invaluable for frying purposes. It should be melted after it has settled, and strained through a piece of muslin. It may so happen that, owing to insufficient skimming in the early stage of the proceedings, you find to your sorrow that the consomme is not as clear as you could wish. You must therefore clarify it. There are two good ways of doing this. The simpler, and I consider, the more effica- cious of the two is to put into the cool broth some veryCULINARY JOTTINGS NON MADRAS. 34 finely minced raw beef free from fat, put it on the fire again, stirring well till it boils, remove tbe pot from the fire, let the broth settle, and then pour it off gently into the bowl, taking great care not to disturb tbe sedi- ment. Perhaps, however, you may not have saved a bit of meat for this contingency, so you must attain your object with the white of an egg, thus :—Break an egg, and throw the white and the shell together into a slop basin,—be careful not to let an atom of the yolk go in,—beat the white and shell up to a stiff froth, and mix it, Hake by flake, very completely with the cool soup. Put the soup on the fire again, stirring well till it boils. Take it off immediately, cover it close, let it stand for a quarter of an hour, and then pour it off as described. If necessary it can, after this, be passed through the tennis, or hair sieve. Let me here point out the cause of another misadven- ture in the satisfactory appearance of a clear soup,—one that often occurs in consomme with maccaroni, vermicelli, and pearl-barley. You have got your stock as bright and clear as sherry, but after adding the ingredients just men- tioned “ a change comes over the spirit of your dream,”— the soup turns cloudy. The reason is this : preserved fari- naceous food of the maccaroni class often contains dirt, —dirt that you do not perceive, and which can only be removed by boiling. Accordingly, whenever you intend to add it to consomme, you should boil it independently in plain water in order that the outside dirty part may be washed off by becoming dissolved. Plain washing, in water is not enough ; besides, washing maccaroni is the act of an ignoramus. There is another feature in a clear soup which I have reserved for special attention, and that is the colouring. Now, an idea prevails amongst numbers of English people that a soup to be good and strong must be dark-coloured. • Old-fashioned people speak of your modern consomme as aON STOCK, AND GLEAN. SOUPS. oo weak, washy composition only lit for foreigners. But if you take the very self-same liquor ancl brown it with a lot of burnt onion, and thicken it with flour and butter, or worse still with arrowroot, they are perfectly satisfied. Did you ever make jugged beef tea for a sick friend, the strongest possible essence of raw lean beef? Was not the liquor so obtained as clear as sherry, pale-coloured, with a quantity of granulated particles of the beef floating in it ? Well, when strained that would have been consomme without the flavouring produced from vegetables and the bouquet of sweet herbs, and surely strong enough for the veriest John Bull that ever talked nonsense about cookery. Now, if you desire to impart a golden brown tint to your clear soup, or a darker tint, (which the gods forfend) never use burnt onion upon any account. You must achieve your object by a browning (caramel) made thus :—put a quarter pound of white sugar into a copper or enamelled pan ; set it over the fire, and stir it till it is melted; then after simmering for a quarter of an hour, and it has reach- ed the brown tint you want, add a pint of water to it, boil, and skim it, let it get cold, and then bottle and cork it down for use. A little of this should be put into the soup prior to the three hour’s simmering stage, if a golden brown be the tint desired. The utmost care should be taken to prevent the caramel burning: if it turns black, the prepa- ration is spoiled. If you can obtain a small bottle of French-made sue colorant, you need not trouble your head about the colour- ing, for a little of that exquisite preparation will colour, and also slightly improve the flavour of your consomme. Messrs. Moir and Son now provide this useful ingredient. Grated Parmesan or Gruybre cheese should always be handed round with clear soups, for it improves many of them. Chilli-vinegar in minute particles is considered byCULINARY JOTTINGS FOE MADRAS. 36 some a great improvement. I strongly advise any of my readers who mite to England for their stores, not to forget to ask for a little bottle of American “ Tabasco ” or quintessence of cayenne, sold by Messrs. Jackson and Co., Piccadilly, priced half a crown : each bottle is furnished with a• patent stopper to enable you to shake out a drop at a time ; two drops in each basin of soup is generally found enough, and the flavour is very good, quite superseding chilli-vinegar for this purpose. The next important feature for consideration in soup- making is the adding of wine, which, I think, may be regarded as very essential. Madeira or marsala is better than sherry for most soups. A rich, full, fruity wine,— inexpensive for want of age, and scarcely mellow enough for after dinner drinking,—is the class best adapted for kitchen use. If sherry be preferred, it ought to be a fruity one, and sound, not a cheap extraordinary compound, composed of molasses, washings of sherry casks, and the most villainous brandy; but honest sherry, lacking age, perhaps, yet bond ficle wine. Be careful, however, not to overdo the soupqon of wine that you add to a clear soup; a good table-spoonful is, to my mind, enough for a tureen filled for eight persons. Thick soups, especially those made of game, mock-turtle, giblet, kidney, and the like, take a larger share of wine : hare soup requires port or burgundy, wild duck and teal soup also, whilst pot ages of snipe, partridges, quails, jungle-fowls, &c., are, I think, better enriched with Madeira, or marsala. I have hitherto purposely omitted saying anything con- cerning the treatment of the meat and vegetables of which a pot-au-feu is made, being anxious to keep strictly to the subject which we have been discussing,—the cookery of a clear consomme. Before I go on with soup-making, how- ever, I beg par parenthesc as it were, to turn back to that period in the preparation of the soup when we strained theON STOCK, AND CLEAR SOUPS. 37 consomme from the meat, bones, ancl vegetables, which had made it. In the Madras kitchen the soup-meat is regarded, I believe, as the perquisite of the cook’s maty, which, being interpreted, may be understood to mean really that of the cook himself. Whether this custom be susceptible of reform or not, I hesitate to say, but there can be no doubt at all that, by giving way to it, we often deny ourselves a dish which would be exceedingly nice for a change,—one which, on the continent, is sent to table as a matter of course. In small establishments, or for the quiet dinner alone, I can strongly recommend a trial of home-made bouilli, which should be treated in this way:— Let us assume that the recipe for pot-au-feu has been strictly carried out as far as the straining stage, that the meat has not been needlessly overcooked, and that all the vegetables, or as many of them as were procurable, have been used: now, place the meat on a dish, remove the string that bound it, and serve it upon a bed of mac- caroni previously boiled till tender, and a puree obtained by rubbing all the vegetables through the wire sieve, mois- tened with a portion of the bouillon or consomme; or on a bed of stewed cabbage, with the other vegetables neatly arranged round it, in the clear broth. Do not rush away with the Anglo-Saxon idea that there is no “ goodness ” (Martha’s word) in soup-meat. “ There is,” says the G. C., “ as much nutriment in it, when eaten with the soup it has yielded, as there would have been, had it been roasted; and much more than if it had been converted into salt junk, as it is the English custom to do with the silverside of beef.” You can vary the bouilli by tomato sauce, any piquante sauce, or even soubise. The soup-meat served with maccaroni, grated Parmesan, and 438 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. puree of tomatoes, is the favourite “ manzo guernito ” of the Italian dinner. Talking of soup-meat, does every one know that the potted meats so largely exported, and commonly appre- ciated in this country, are made from the meat of which the tinned soups are composed ? It is a fact nevertheless, and every atom of meat is thus turned to account by the preserved provision dealers. The potted meat you see in a confectioner’s window at home, neatly capped with melted butter, is made from the beef which produced the stock of the mock-turtle (I bet anything it is “mock- turtle,”) he advertises at a shilling a basin—enterprising man! I once tested this myself. Having before me a large piece of soup-meat apparently full of nutriment, I determined as an experiment, to make potted meat of it. Martha, my cook, looked sourly on,—I little knew that I was robbing her of the price of that meat from the nearest pastry-cook,—and called it, for her part, a “ hawful mess”; but we, who ate it, found it delicious. In London, and all large towns in England, a regular private trade in soup- meat, dripping, and fragments, is carried on between our cooks and the keepers of refreshment rooms, grease-men, &c., which all parties regard as perfectly legitimate. But to return to the subject of soups. x\lthough we may succeed in mastering the difficulties of the consomme, or foundation of soup-making, we must not forget that our work may be spoiled by the introduction of some barbarism peculiar to the Indian kitchen. An idea prevails with some people that clear soups require to be assisted with gelatine, or isinglass, to give them a sort of glutinous con- sistency. Ramasamy has discovered a very pernicious sort of starch which he produces from a raw-potato, and by this compound the soup in many houses I know is ruined. The potato imparts a crude, inky flavour to the consomme which js hard to describe on paper, hut is fatal in its efiect upon39 ON STOCK, AND GLEAN, SOUPS. the palate. It kills all the flavour of the meat and vege- tables. Ramas&my should be cautioned on no account to use what he calls “ potato-thickening ” again, in any cir- cumstances whatever, and, once for all, let me observe that clear soups require no isinglass. The consomme cannot be too bright, light, and clear. “ Country parsley,” to my mind, spoils any soup. It is nearly as bad as too much spice, and unfortunately our natives are very fond of it. I have interdicted its use in my kitchen under pain of a fine. Tarragon is the best flavauring herb you can use in a clear soup, (consomme a Vestragon) but we have only the vinegar in India, not the plant itself, and a leaf or two is, what we desire in soup. I brought out from England and have also received by post, some dried tarragon leaves which I have found highly satisfactory, and can safely recommend others to try. Unfortunately tarragon is* not included in Crosse and Blackwell’s dried herb list, so you must write, if suffi- ciently enthusiastic, to a friend who has a large kitchen garden, and beg him to fill a bottle or two with tarragon leaves carefully dried for you. In London any green- grocer can comply with this order from June till the end of October.* Basil, which can be procured in bottles, is the best herb for clear mock turtle, and other clear soups made of shell-fish : marjoram and thyme for clear game soups. I will now conclude this, my first chapter on soup- making, with a code of general rules on the subject:— 1. Take care that your stock pot, a roomy vessel, is thoroughly clean before you commence operations a good scalding with hot-water in which a lump of washing soda has been dissolved, will make matters certain, and * Since this was written in 1878, Messrs. Moir & Sons have intro- duced the dried herb in bottles which will be found excellent.—W.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 40 take away that smoky taint which all our utensils get in India owing to our wood fires, and chimneyless ranges. 2. Use soft water rather than hard. 3. One shin of Indian beef is enough for two persons. The proportion of meat to bone in a shin of poor Indian beef is however so largely in favour of the latter, that the addition of a pound of flesh is advocated. For six people a good clear soup should be made from one shin and two pounds of flesh. 4. Put the fresh soup-meat with the bones separately broken up, and the salt, into cold water : hot (not boiling) water should be poured round meat and bones that have been previously cooked. 5. A quart of water to half a pound of meat and bone is said to be the outside you can allow in England, but a smaller proportion will be found advisable in India—a quart to a pound for instance. In any circumstances there must be sufficient water to cover the meat and bone. 6. Kemember that slow boiling, and retarding actual boiling as much as possible, are important points to start with. 7. Skim frequently during the early stage of your pro- ceedings,—a cup of cold-water thrown into the pot causes the scum, and fat to come up quickly, and, of course, retards boiling. Repeat this process till all scum is removed, and as much of the fat as possible also. 8. Use a wooden spoon. 9. Do not cover up your stock pot closely, the steam should evaporate to assist the strength of the soup, and keep it clear. 10. Put in your vegetables, flavouring herbs, &c., a fter the skimming is finished, and let them simmer till they are done—and no longer.41 ON STOCK, AND CLEAN SOUPS. 11. Wash your vegetables very carefully before adding them. 12. As soon as the vegetables which are put into the pot-au-fcu are done, they should be removed, and the heat under the soup-kettle maintained at simmering point. 13. It will take four or five hours to extract by slow degrees the essence from a few pounds of beef, so begin as soon as you can, and don’t hurry the work. 14. It is better to season too little than too highly, so be very careful when adding pepper, herbs, &c. 15. There is nothing to be gained by keeping the meat simmering when once it is thoroughly done. The consomme is at its best when the meat which made it is done to a nicety, viz., in about five hours. Boiling “ to rags ” is a useless proceeding. 16. Never allow the stock to get cool ancl stand, with the meat and vegetables that made it, in a metal vessel. The liquid should be poured off at once into a china or enamelled basin through the colander : when cold it can be skimmed free from any fat that may remain, and then poured off gently without disturbing the dregs. 17. Bacon bones, ham bones, or the skin of either, are most valuable in the stock pot. N.B.—Remember that you will never succeed in obtain- ing a nicely flavoured clear soup, unless the proportions of meat and vegetables are carefully maintained. For three pounds of meat and one of bone, Gouffe gives the following weights of vegetable :—carrots, ten ounces ; large onions, ten ounces ; leeks, fourteen ounces ; celery, one ounce ; turnips, ten ounces ; parsnip, two ounces. As leeks are not often found in the Madras market, I would substitute another onion or two, about five ounces. Parsnips are only procurable on the Neilgherries, theirCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 42 weight may be made up with some extra carrot. Turnips, unless gathered fresh and young, are apt to he very strong in India; I think, therefore, that five ounces of them will be found sufficient as a rule. Observe the weight allowed of celery ; this is important, for celery is a very power- fully flavoured vegetable. Concerning vegetable consomme, I speak later on. The maintenance of a steady heat without sudden fluctu- ations of temperature is a matter of vital importance. This desideratum can scarcely be attained in a common Indian kitchen with wood fires. If therefore you have not an English cooking range with a hot plate upon which the stock pot can be moved at pleasure, the possession of a mineral oil stove will place you at once in a position of confidence. The regulating power of these little ranges gives them a great advantage. Have the rules, I have given, together with the iveights of meat and vegetables, and the recipe for pot-au-feu, written out in Tamil by your butler and pasted upon card-hoard, to be hung in the cook-room for Ramasamy’s edification whose self-taught method of soup-making may be briefly described as follows :— He cuts up the soup-meat, and bone, and throws them into a digester pot; he next adds the vegetables, pepper, salt and spice, covers the whole with water, puts the vessel screwed down on a good brisk fire, and walks off to his rice, leaving his “ lady help ” (Tunnycutcln) to watch the boiling. All she does is to see that there is plenty of fire- wood under the digester. As may readily be supposed boiling point is speedily reached in this way of managing matters. After an hour or so during which galloping has continued the cook returns and finds the water he put into the pot reduced to about one-third of its original quantity ; this is, of course, a very strong broth, he accordingly strains it off, and calls it his “ first sort gravy.” He then4o ON STOCK, AND CLEAN SOUPS. returns the meat, &c., to the pot again, covers it with water, and lets that boil away. The liquid thus produced, I need scarcely say, is terrible to look upon, and very nasty to taste, the whole essence of the meat having been frittered away by the first process. It is a dull, greasy- looking fluid like dish washings. Nevertheless Bamasamy strains it off and calls it the “second sort gravy.” He next amalgamates the two “sorts,” browns the mixture with burnt onion, and clarifies it (as a I’ule but partially) with the white of an egg. Having got it as clear as he can, be rasps some raw potato into it to obtain a nice glutinous starch, and when the soup seems sufficiently gummy, he strains once more and sends it to table. Setting aside other considerations, pray observe the wastefulness of this awful process. It is not exaggeration to say that half the quantity of soup-meat and bone requir- ed by the ignorant native cook might be saved if he could be prevailed upon to follow the laws of intelligent cookery. At the Hill stations of India, and in places where the temperature does not rise above 70°, stock can be made and kept as it is in England; but it is a mistake to add the vegetables until the day on which the soup is to be served. First make the pure consomme with water, meat, bone, and salt, as described for pot-au-feu, omitting all vege- tables and flavourings. This must be poured into china or enamelled basins, and kept in a cool larder, as milk is kept. The process of adding vegetables, &c., should be proceeded with as if the making of the pot-au-feu had been divided into two parts. Bring the consomme to the boil before adding anything. Stock while keeping should be boiled up daily, after which it may be replaced as before in the larder.CHA.PTER "VI. Thick soups and purees. OW about thick soups, apart from purees :—these are perhaps more popular with the majority of English people, than the thin clear. There is an expression of richness and of strength in them which cannot fail to captivate the Briton. He, therefore, that would gratify his countrymen, must frequently offer them a soup which is in itself a meal. I made the acquaintance of a little French woman in London whose husband kept a pastry cook’s shop and was a chef indeed. Asking one day in a hurry for any clear soup they could give me, Madame Gregoire arched her eyebrows and said “ Ah ! m’sieur it would not pay us to make for our customers the consomme. Ox-tail, mock-tur- tle, and puree depois we have ready ; for a clear soup, we must have notice of a few hours.” And we exchanged our regrets that Englishmen could not appreciate, even in the midst of July, a potcujc d la printaniere. Still I confess that a thick soup is acceptable at times: —in cool weather; when you return as hungry as a hunter from some physical enterprise ; or when you have a little cosy dinner of only a very few items to discuss :— soup, a slice of a joint, a dressed vegetable, and your cheese. But I hesitate to recommend soups of this class for a Madras dinner party,—to be placed before men whose45 THICK SOUPS AND PUREES. labours all day have been sedentary, and ladies who have lunched well, and passed their day in graceful repose. And it is mainly for them, be it remembered, that I com- pose what a friendly critic terms my “ menus mignons.” Thick soups may be divided into two classes—the white, and the brown. The principles followed in both are very similar ; the main difference, of course, consists in the sort of meat used, and the employment of dark or light roux, or liaison, as the case may be. Liaison au roux is simply butter melted at the bottom of a sauce-pan over a very moderate fire, with flour added to it, according to the quantity of soup you want to thicken. The butter must be melted first, the flour being dredged in by degrees, and stirred vigorously at the bot- tom of the sauce-pan until thoroughly incorporated, and velvety. As soon as it turns brown, the roux is ready, this is what is wanted for brown soups. For a white, the liaison must not be allowed to take colour ; you must com- mence adding the soup to it as soon as the flour and butter have been sufficiently worked together. Grouffb’s propor- tions in making a roux for storage are half a pound of butter to one pound of flour. The preparation keeps well, and the quantity wanted for soup can be taken according to the recipe followed from time to time. One ounce to the quart is enough as a rule. This system of cooking the butter and flour together is especially necessary to prevent the taste of raw flour being imparted to the soup. The old-fashioned method of dredging flour into the soup had this disadvantage, besides being objectionable on the score of extravagance : for there was much waste from the lumps which were strained off after the operation, and thrown away. In making these soups, the utmost care should be taken not to over-do the thickening. In the case of a whit46 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. soup, this error is almost more fatal than in that of a brown. You might as well offer your guest a basin of arrowroot “conjee,” or any nice gruel, for the savoury flavour of the soup is easily overpowered. A little prac- tice will teach a cook how much roux is necessary to obtain the desired consistency of a thick soup, and he should bear in mind that the full effect of the thickening does not assert itself until the soup, which has been added to it, comes to the boil. Observe that you add the soup to the roux, not the roux to the soup. The adding should be done by degrees, if you want the soup to be smooth and creamy. If, after coming to the boil, you find the soup too thin, you must proceed as follows :—mix a little more roux very carefully in a small sauce-pan, add a cupful of the soup to it, and when quite smooth, and free from lumps, pour it by degrees into the soup, off the fire through a pointed gravy strainer, stirring vigorously as you do so. When quite mixed, replace the vessel on the fire, and let it boil up. There is one feature about thick soups which is worthy of attention, and that is that you need not be so scrupu- lously careful in the making of the stock, or in selecting the materials of which the stock is made, for you have not to think of that lucidity which is the salient feature of your consomme. Thick soups can, therefore, be made of the bones of cooked meat, and scraps that would never do for pot age cl la Julienne for instance. Let us take as a type of a really good thick soup that called potage d la bonne femme, which is made in this way. Prepare a little more than a quart of stock, and keep that by your side : now cut up a good-sized (Bombay) onion into very thin rounds, and place them in a sauce-pan with two ounces of good tinned butter. Take care not to let the onion get brown, and when it is half done, throw in47 THICK SOUPS AND PUBEES, a quarter of a pound of sorrel leaves, a lettuce, and a bunch of parsley, all finely shred, add pepper, salt, half an ounce of flour, and keep stirring for five minutes. You then add a dessert-spoonful of pounded loaf-sugar, and a tea- cupful of the stock, freed from fat, and not coloured. Let the mixture reduce nearly to a glaze, when you gradually stir in about a quart of the stock ; and let the soup simmer for a quarter of an hour. You now must prepare about a dozen pieces of bread cut very thin about two inches long, and an inch wide, taking care that there is crust along one of their long sides, and you must dry these thoroughly in the oven. When it is time to send up the soup, you remove the superfluous fat from it, and set it to simmer for a quarter of an hour. Now, prepare a liaison made as follows :—Put the yolks of two eggs in a basin, beat them well as for an omelette adding one ounce of butter. Take the soup off the fire, dip a coffee cup into it, and mix that quantity of it with the egg and butter, adding another cupful when the butter is melted. Put the bread into the tureen, pour the soup over the slices of bread, next gradually add the liaison with one hand, as you stir the soup with the other, and serve in three minutes. This should be enough for six basins. The yolks must be thoroughly freed from white and well beaten, if not, pieces of the white will form in flakes in the boiling soup, and spoil its appearance. This leads me to an important point in some thick soups, and 'purees and that is the addition of cream, or milk with butter and the yolks of eggs. It will be found in some recipes that boiled milk is ordered to be added. The distinction is important : not merely is the risk of curdling avoided, but the flavour imparted to thQpotage is different. All know, for example, how different is the taste of coffee that is made with boiling milk, from that to which cold milk has been added.48 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Milk is a substitute for cream especially if a yolk of an egg be added to it, but be careful in adding the yolk lest the soup be curdled. To do this, beat the yolk and milk together in a basin with a little butter ; take a spoonful of the soup, and work it well with the yolk, and the milk, then, having your liaison ready, put the soup into the hot tureen adding the liaison with one hand stirring well with the other hand during the operation. Whether you add eggs, cream, butter, or milk to soup, it is a sine qua non that the process he carried out off the fire, i.e., the vessel containing the soup must be lifted from the fire and cooled a little before you go to work. It is also a rule that these additions must he deferred till the last moment before serving. I shall give several recipes for thick soups such as mock-turtle, ox-tail, giblet, &c., in my menus, and if the few general rules I have laid down he carefully noted, I think that my readers will experience very little difficulty in carrying them out satisfactorily. And now, we come to the puree which, to my mind, is perhaps one of the most important features of the whole study of cookery. In India this form of preparing our meat and vegetables ought to be much more generally understood and practised th'an it is. In a pur&e we can work into a palatable and wholesome condition, meat that from its poverty or tough- ness, would be sorry fare indeed if boiled, or roasted. An ordinary little dish of neatly trimmed mutton-chops (nicely grilled over a clear fire) becomes an artistic entree if served round a nest of mashed potato, containing a delicate puree of vegetable, such as celery, peas, asparagus, tomato, spinach, etc., whilst common onion sauce, thus treated, is promoted to the dignity of sauce soubise. Old partridges and jungle fowl, the remains of cold49 THICK SOUPS AND PUREES. poultry, and of all game, can be turned to capital account in a puree. Even an ancient, and extraordinarily tough fowl (“ moorghi ”) may be thus rendered fit to eat. For the sick, and for those suffering from tooth-ache, food cooked in this manner is invaluable, whilst there can be no doubt that it must be good for children. In order to be able to accomplish the making of purees satisfactorily you must possess a strong pestle and mortar, a large hair sieve, a wire sieve, and a mincing machine. If you desire to make a pur&e of meat of any kind, an immense amount of labour is saved by first using the mincer, the work in the mortar is then reduced to a mini- mum, and the pounded meat will soon be ready to pass through the sieve. In using the sieve, by the way, caution your cook that he must always put whatever he wishes to pass through it, at the shallow end, placing the sieve over a large bowl, or dish, big enough to receive it, and rubbing the puree through it with a large wooden spoon. From time to time he must invert the sieve, and scrape off the portion of the puree which always adheres to the reverse side of the hair, or wire. A cook must be patient in the use of this utensil, and achieve his object by perseverance, rather than by boisterous work. If you bear too heavily on the hair, your sieve will soon bulge, and ere long the hair will part company from the wooden cylinder to which it is attached. The work of both pounding in the mortar, and passing- through the sieve, is rendered easier by the addition of a little butter or stock during the process. Purees, as soups, are prepared in this way:—You first must make as good a bowl of stock as you can from bones, meat, scraps, (bones of ham and bacon especially valuable sufficient for the number of people you have to cater for. Let it get cool and remove the fat that rises to its surface.5u culinary Jottings for maijras. You should flavour your stock to the best of your capa- bilities by boiling with it dried sweet herbs, onion, pars- ley, a carrot or two, celery, &c., or such vegetables as may be available, with salt and pepper to taste. A tea-spoonful of Liebig’s extract, or Brand’s essence, may often render valuable assistance. The better your stock, or foundation, the better your puree. Suppose, now, that you want, to make Potacje a la Crecjj, which in plain terms is carrot puree :—Fry half a pound of sliced carrots with two Bombay onions also sliced, with an ounce of butter, for five minutes ; add a pint of the stock made as aforesaid; simmer till the vegetables are thoroughly done, then drain them, mash them up, and pass them through the sieve. Now, add to the pulp .so obtained sufficient additional stock to make a puree a little thinner than you wish your soup eventually to be. Melt half an ounce of butter at the bottom of a sauce-pan, and work half an ounce of hour into it, gradually adding the puree, and stirring without ceasing till the soup comes to the boil, when it will be found of the proper consistency. Skim, if necessary, and serve. Instead of the butter and flour Liaison, rice or tapioca may be boiled with the soup to give in cohesion : a dessert spoonful of either would suffice for the quantity now given. To obtain a tasty colour the outside red part of the carrot should alone be used for the puree. When this is done, and tapioca blended with it, the soup is called Potacje a la Nillson. As in this recipe, so in all receipts for purees it will be found that a liaison of some sort must be used. If it be of melted butter and flour it should be worked into the soup as just described, and at the period indicated. Why?— well, have you ever noticed carrot, or pea-soup, which, when sent to table, instead of looking the creamy red, or51 THICK SOUPS AND PUREES. green purie that you desired, presented the appearance of a thin gravy soup, with a deposit of the vegetable pulp at the bottom of each basin—the stock and the pulp not having amalgamated? This result was caused by the omission of one of the processes I have described which is necessary to blend the two together. In French recipes for vegetable purees a thickening of pure butter, cream, or egg-yolks with milk, is often laid down, as explained in the case of Dotage d la bonne, femme, but these liaisons are as a rule too ‘ rich ’ for many people, besides being too expensive. Grecy soup should be served with bread cut into dice and fried in butter; or crisped on a buttered tin in the oven after having been soaked in a little of the stock. CroiLtons, treated in this way, should accompany all vegetablepur&es. Purees of celery, Jerusalem artichokes, (Palestine soup), vegetable marrow, onion, and turnips, if the stock be kept free from colour, can be served as white soups, and cream, or the substitute already described, will lie found an im- provement to all of them. All green vegetable purees derive enrichment in ap- pearance by the judicious addition of “ spinach-greening ” which is, in itself, the liquor obtained from spinach boiled, drained, worked through the sieve, and then squeezed through a piece of muslin. I have seen people quite de- ceived with a soup made with dried peas and coloured with “ spinach-greening ” in imitation oi pur 6c clepois verts. A pinch of sugar ought not to be forgotten in making these soups. The enterprising cultivators of asparagus at Madras ought now and then to indulge their guests with that excellent soup “ puree d’asperges,” which however ranks next, I take it, to the still more artistic “consomme aux pointes d’asperges. ’'52 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. You can make a capital green pur&e any day at Madras with French beans ; and with one tin of petits pois (thought- fully assisted with spinach-greening if the peas have lost colour) you can produce a very perfect puree of green peas for about eight people. A very inviting-looking soup of bright colour can be made from tomatoes, following exactly the receipt for “ Crecy,” and substituting tomatoes for carrots. The puree, of chestnuts is a well-known delicacy at elaborate banquets at home and abroad, whether in the form of soup, or as a sauce to accompany white entries, and especially the turkey. The Indian cashu-nut, com- monly known as the “ promotion nut,” and fresh almonds, make capital purees if carefully treated, and I daresay that there are other nuts to be got in India that would well repay the trouble of a trial, in the same way. To this category belong such soups as:—Creme d’orcje, Creme cle Hz, Lait d’amandes, dc. Next, touching meat purees'.—“ Potage d la reine,” a very old white soup, is really a puree of fowl or turkey, and an excellent white potage, very like it, can be produced from a rabbit. And here let me point out that those artistic entrees :—“ creme, de homard,” “ creme de volaille,” “ creme d’artichauts,” &c., are merely consolidated purees. The quenelle again, is only meat worked to that condition, and hound with bread-crumb, or panada, and eggs. Brown purees are, of course, those made of game such as hares, partridges, snipe, wild duck, teal, etc. In this way you can always advantageously dispose of tough old birds. A good puree de gibier, of hare, or of any game- bird, is, without doubt, soup which is with justice widely popular. It is essentially the soup of the hungry man. A basin of it, to use a homely phrase, “ goes a long way.” It carries your thoughts back to winter fires, to old-fashion- ed, yet generous fare, and to the glorious appetite withTHICK SOUPS AND PUREES. 53 which you spread your napkin before you after a day with the hounds, a trudge after wild partridges, or a long drive through the keen frosty air of some by-gone Christmastide! These soups are what house-keepers call “ rich,” for in their composition you must employ port, or Madeira, red currant jelly, butter, yolks of eggs, &c. One of the greatest cooks of the age propounds half a bottle of old port for his hare soup ! and all game soups take a goodly share of wine. The points to observe in the making of these purees are, first, to get every atom of flavour you can of the bones, scraps, and giblets, which is done by simmering them watchfully in stock. Then to work all the meat you can pick from the birds to a stiff paste in a mortar (having first minced it in the machine) passing it through the sieve to get rid of fibre, gristle, and so forth. Next to blend the pulp of the game with the stock in the way I have previously described. And lastly, to follow with accuracy whatever recipe you have taken as regards the flavouring elements. Do not leave out anything if you can possibly manage it. Dried sweet herbs, (thyme and marjoram,) are as necessary in game soups, as is basil in turtle ; and red currant jelly is indispensable. Spice is often mentioned in recipes for these soups. I do not recom- mend it. In fact, beyond the two cloves inserted in the onion used for the stock, I would carefully omit it. As I intend to give detailed instructions for game purees in their turn in my menus, I will not pursue the subject any further in this chapter. Neither will I discuss the treatment of tinned soups just yet, for I shall reserve that branch of Indian soup-making for consideration hereafter in a chapter devoted to u Camp cookery.” I will conclude these observations with a recipe for a vegetable stock which, by itself, is a pleasantly flavoured soup ; mingled with purees it takes the place of beef or54 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOE MADRAS. meat stock ; while, blended with the latter, it forms a powerful, most strengthening soup, especially good for invalids who may be in a condition to partake of strong vegetable and meat essences. Slice up two pounds of carrots, two pounds of onions, two ounces of celery, a handful of parsley, some thyme, marjoram, and a clove of garlic : put then! into a stewpan with one pound of well clarified beef suet, or the fat skim- med from the pot-au-feu : fry till slightly colored, then add five quart bottles of water, two ounces of sugar sifted, one ounce of salt, half an ounce of pepper, three cloves, a pinch of allspice, and a quart-measure of greenpeas, with their shells cut into strips likewise. Boil up once, and then simmer over a mild fire for three hours, take off the fat, and strain the broth into a basin for use when wanted. This can be used as already described. If required for the nourishing drink I have mentioned make this decoction :— Kill and clean a full sized fowl or cock ; if aged no matter ; cut it to pieces bones and all while fresh with a chopper, pound the mass in a mortar. In like manner chop up and pound two pounds of the best fresh lean beef, season with pepper and salt, mix the two meats together, and give them a few turns in a roomy stewpan with enough melted clarified suet to brown them nicely. Now add little by little the -whole of the vegetable stock, stirring well during the operation. Boil, adding water to make good the loss of liquid by evaporation, for one hour. The liquor can now be strained off, and set to get cold, -when all fat can be removed. This will be found excellent for the purposes I have named. It can be given to an invalid in small quantities, iced, or hot, as may be desired.OHA.PTBR VII. Regarding our Fish. “ WRIISH, under skilful hands, offers,” says Brillat 1C2[ Savarin, “ inexhaustible resources of gustatory enjoyment; whether served up entire, in pieces, or sliced ; done in water, in oil, or in wine ; hot or cold ; in all cases it receives a hearty welcome.” We, who live at Madras, on a coast which yields a perennial supply of good fish, (to borrow a well known-figure of speech) should surely lay these words to heart. With a market as fairly well supplied as ours, we ought never to be at a loss for variety, or for scope to exercise our cook’s ingenuity. The fair hostess should always be able to soothe herself with the reflection that with the fish, at all events, her guests will he well satisfied. Now, do we avail ourselves, as we ought to do, of the many opportunities we undoubtedly possess of turning our fish to a good account ? I certainly think not: indeed I fear that only a few of us appreciate the true value of this most excellent article of our daily food. At the ordinary dinner party, you may rely almost for certain on having boiled seer fish, with a sauce, and a few slices of cucumber and beetroot, or a spoonful of salad ! on the side of your plate. Or the fish may be pomfret similarly served. “ Tartare,” “ a parody of Hollandaise,’ and melted butter with essence of anchovy, compose appa-CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 56 rently the whole repertoire of sauces within the reach of the local chef. -N.fi.—I have never been able by the way to trace the origin of the Madras custom of serving a portion of salad with a thick eggy dressing on the same plate as the slice of hot fish. To put salad on a hot plate is to begin with an unpardonable offence, while the association of salad with hot fish is incongruous in the extreme. The same remark applies to the service of cold cucumber, and beet- root with hot fish. Delicately stewed cucumber—hot, little orlys of oysters, or petits bouche.es of prawn or lobster, may accompany the fish, if you like; otherwise it should be presented with its sauce alone. The proper time for serv- ing the salad is with “ the roast,” when it should be sent round on separate plates, and as cold as possible. Now, without wishing for one moment to question the sterling merits of plain-boiled fish, I confess that for a din- ner party I strongly advocate dishes of a more artistic nature. There are so many easy recipes for cooking fish nicely, that an effort to produce a little novelty in this feature of the vienu can scarcely result in failure. In Eng- land where you have many varieties of fishes, and some of the best of them only to be seen in the market during them especial seasons, a little sameness in the style of cooking may not perhaps strike you. You may boil and fry plainly every day in the week, if each day you are able to diversify your sauce, and present a different fish. Not so with us in Madras. Our supply is good enough, but it lacks diver- sity ; and it is on this account particularly that I am anxious to direct the attention of my readers to a few easy ways of relieving the monotony which I have pointed out. It may be urged that your fish is brought home from market too late in the evening for the successful accom- plishment of studied effects, and perhaps your butler will57 REGARDING OUR FISH. take pains to thrust this objection before you. Regard such an excuse, please, as a mere evasion, for, in point of fact, fish takes so short a time to dress thoroughly, that an hour should suffice for the most elaborate recipe. I always bear in mind the time that is necessary for the production of the dishes I select for my menus. Again, many people hesitate to offer their guests a dish of dressed fish, fearing that it may be considered too rich. This is absurd, for there are plain, as well as rich methods of varying this branch of cookery ; and, in composing your menu, you can always select one in harmony with the soup which precedes, and the dish which is to follow it. Thus : if your soup be of a thick creamy kind, and your first entree (say) a vol-au-vent, let the fish be served in aspic iced, and with sauce ravigote or tartare. But if you give a clear consomme delicately flavoured, and order an iced entree to succeed the fish, you can indulge in “ pomfret d la Normdnde,” or seer “d la creme cle crevettes.” A thick soup, fish with lobster sauce, followed by an entree with cream in its composition, would form, for instance, a combination of good things obviously inartistic in design, and one which few could enjoy with impunity. As I observed in an early chapter of my “ jottings,” the charm of a dinner according to the new r&gime consists in the harmony of its lights and shadows. N.B.—If you follow the new style of menu, and present the relevd after the fish, you need have no apprehension with regard to the service of dressed fish, especially if it be preceded by a clear soup. Pish, we all know, I hope, may be boiled, fried, baked, roasted, stewed, or grilled; and by every method can tasty dishes be prepared. I will begin with the principles to be observed in boiling fish, and take the other styles of cookery in the order I have named.58 GULIN ABY JOTTINGS FOB MADBAS. Boiling. After having thoroughly cleansed, and wiped the fish, rub it over with a little vinegar, and place it on the drainer of the fish-kettle, so that when done it may be lifted out without risk of breaking up. Put plenty of salt over the fish, and a dessert spoonful of vinegar into the water in which it is to be boiled. Let the water be boiling, and in sufficient quantity to cover the fish. Place the kettle on a brisk fire, and boil the fish as fast as possible. Skim off all scum that rises, and take care to suspend operations, the moment the fish is done. Overboiled fish is nasty to eat, and ugly to look upon : underdone fish is unfit for human food. The cookery books allow ten minutes per pound as a fair average of the time required for this operation, but so much depends upon the thickness of the fish to be boiled, that the cook should test it now and then with the point of a skewer, and as soon as the flesh parts easily from the bone, let him decide that it is ready. The old fashioned system of putting fish into cold water, and cooking it slowly, has altogether exploded. Such a method abstracts nearly all the nutritive material, and if it be reduced afterwards the water forms when cold a strong gelatinous mass. Even fast boiling takes much of this property from the fish. It is accordingly a manifest advantage to reduce the water in which the fish was boil- ed, and use this when making the sauce to accompany it. Never let your fish, after it is done, remain soaking in the water in which it has been cooked; drain it at once, or it will become what cooks call “ woolly.” If ready too soon, let it rest on the drainer over the hot kettle, and cover it with a napkin. As a rule the Native cook dresses his fish far too soon. The keeping of it hot till required ruins it. Every effort should be made to teach him to go by the clock, and not put the fish to cook till the hands show him that he has just time to do it nicely.59 RRCARDING OUR FISH. If you have no fish-kettle, put your fish on a dish, tie a napkin round it, and boil it thus protected . you can then lift the dish out of the pan when done, without spoiling the appearance of the fish. Be very particular in drain- ing every drop of water from the fish before you serve it, or the sauce you send up with it will be ruined. Connoisseurs in the art of cookery recommend that fresh water fish should be boiled in a “ Court bouillon.” This may also be applied to sea-fish. It is simply a vegetable broth, with a proportion of vinegar, viz. :—four ounces of carrots, four ounces of onions, one ounce of parsley, a tea- spoonful of thyme, a tea-spoonful of basil, one ounce of butter, and one ounce of salt. Stir over the fire in a stewpan, and add two quarts of water, with half a pint of vinegar ; simmer for one hour, strain, and keep till required. A mixture of white wine such as chablis, sauterne, or hock, and water, in equal parts, may be used instead of the vinegar and water. When using the bouillon, bring it to boiling point, and pour it round the fish that you wish to dress by its means. Fish cooked “ an bleu ” is also considered a delicacy. The preparation is exactly like court bouillon, red wine being substituted for white. Court bouillon u la Nantaisc is made of milk and water in equal parts, salt, and pepper in proportion. Frying. The art of frying fish consists in being prodigal in the use of the medium which you employ to cook with. The fish should be absolutely immersed in a bath o'f boiling fat or oil, which should be carefully tested so that you may be convinced of its temperature. “ If your fat be not suffi- ciently heated,” says the “ G. C.,” “ the fish you want toGO CULINARY .JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. fry will turn out a flabby and greasy mess instead of a crisp, appetising dish.” For nearly all fish-frying, the frying basket is an invalu- able utensil, used, of course, in conjunction with the deep- sided friture-pan. Fish either whole, or in fillets, when fried in the English fashion, is generally egged and bread-crumbed. The Italians, who are perhaps the best ‘ frysters ’ in the world, either flour their fish, or dip it in batter. Both methods are, to my mind, vastly superior to the bread-crumbing process. If, however, you must use crumbs, see that they are stale, and well sifted ; not the pithy lumps, both great and small, too often set before you, because Ramasamy will not look ahead, and rarely, if ever keeps a bottled supply of stale, well rasped bread in hand. To obtain a satisfactory result, proceed as follows :— Having crumbled some stale bread as small as you can in a napkin, set it in the oven till crisp, pound in a mortar, and pass the crumbs through a stiff wire sieve ; then place the plate containing them into the oven to dry thoroughly. To apply them properly, beat up two eggs with a dessert-spoonful of salad oil, and the same of water. This mixture should be brushed over the fish like varnish, and the fish should then be turned over in a napkin, con- t lining the dry crumbs. Pale yellowish-brown crust raspings, equally carefully sifted after pounding, should be kept in hand also for the second “ crumbing.” This should be applied after the first top dressing has dried. For flouring :—dip the fish in milk, and then turn it over in a napkin containing some well dried flour. Recipes for frying batter will be found in the chapter reserved for the discussion of that process of cookery. It ought not to be at all thick for fish frying.BE GAB DING OUB FISH. 61 Baking. Under the head of baking we come to that very excellent method of treating fish which is familiar to most of you as “ au gratin.” The cook can, in this way, produce very pleasant results, with very little toil. You can commence as plainly as possible, and go on to the most elaborate and fanciful dishes, the principles in all being similar. The fish, to begin with, should either be whole, in fillets, or slices. The pie, or flat cm gratin dish, should be well but- tered ; sliced tomatoes, cooked maccaroni, chopped mush- rooms, finely-minced parsley, shallot, lime peel, and such fines herbes as you can command, should be used for the more elaborate compositions; whilst parsley, shallot, and butter alone with fine bread-crumbs will suffice for the plainer dish for ordinary occasions. A fish gravy made from the heads, liver, skin, fins, bones and trimmings, with a few pepper corns, a minced shallot with or without a glass of any light white wine, like chablis, hock, or sauterne, should be gently poured round your dish when it is packed ready for the oven : but the liquid ought never to come up to the level, quite, of the top layer of the fish in the pie-dish. In connection with maccaroni and tomatoes, you should try a dusting of grated Parmesan or Gruyere. Fillets of anchovies, and prawns, form, with oysters, truffles and mushrooms, the most appropriate garnish for an artistic “ au gratin,” while essence of shell fish, and chablis should be judiciously introduced to moisten the combination. Fishes carefully stuffed, and baked whole, are generally nice : it is a method particularly well suited to fresh water fish, and a delicious way of cooking a Madras mullet ora dish of whitings. The best baked dishes of fish are known by the standard GCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 62 names a la Normancle, a la Chamborcl, and d VAncienne con- cerning which I shall speak again. Stewing. The leading principles of this method are :—to clean and prepare the fish in fillets or convenient pieces, and to set them aside while, with the heads, livers, bones, -&c., you make the best fish stock you can, assisted by herbs, vegeta- bles, an anchovy, and, if possible, a glass of French white wine, chablis or sauterne. When this docoction is nice and tasty, to strain and slightly thicken it, then to put the pieces of fish into it, and simmer them from twelve to fifteen minutes. The stew is then ready. You may serve it white or brown. In the latter case a little caramel will be required, and the addition of some mushroom ketchup will be possible. If you stir in the yolk of an egg, beaten up with a pat of butter and a little of the stew gravy, not colored, and add this, off the fire, before serving, the dish will he cl la poalette. The most celebrated preparation of stewed fish is the “ matelote ” which, strictly speaking, should be composed of eals, but may, I think, he equally well followed in dressing any firm-fleshed fish. As I shall speak of this diali in my menus, I need only say en passant that it is rich, vinous, spicy, and consequently generally appreciated by the muscular Christian. The stewing process is specially applicable to the dress- ing of fillets, paupiettes, etc., of fresh water fish. Broiling. Under this head we meet with a method of cooking fish specially nice for breakfast, and welcome at dinner for a change. Let a good cut of seer be divided into nice cut- lets three-quarters of an inch thick : set them to marinade for half an hour in salad oil, minced shallot, parsley, vinegar, a few whole pepper corns, and a little lime peel. Take them out, wrap them with the shallot, &c., in well-oiled63 REGARDING OUR FISH. papers, broil over a fast clear fire, and serve with a nice sharp brown sauce like sauce Robert. Take care that the bars of your grid-iron are well oiled, for they are apt to burn delicate morsels like fillets of fish en papillotes. Fish of fairly good size can be roasted “cl la broche. The method is recommended for mullet, and all fish whose shape adapts itself, as it were, to the spit. Stuff the fish, wrap it in oiled paper, tie it carefully to the spit, and baste continually with melted butter and white wine. Remove the paper before serving. A good cut of large seer fish, say three or four pounds from the centre, may be similarly wrapped in paper and roasted on the spit. The paper must be well oiled and sprinkled over with chopped fines herbes. After having removed the paper, glaze the fish with Matelote sauce, and serve with some of the same in a boat. The Bouillabaisse may be attempted at Madras with a result sufficiently satisfactory to warrant my being bold enough to record a simple recipe for it, adapted from that of the “ G. C.” as follows :— Take any sort of small fish, such as small pomfret, whitings, soles, mullets, or rob&l,—the greater the variety the better,—and for two pounds of mixed fish, slice up two Bombay onions, two fairly large tomatoes emptied of their seeds and cut into quarters, and one carrot; prepare a couple of slices of lime with the pithy skin cut off, a bag containing six cloves, a dozen pepper corns, a clove of garlic, and the peel of a lime pared as finely as possible ; a salt-spoonful of saffron, a tea-spoonful of salt, and one pod of capsicum sliced, will also be wanted : put the whole into a stew-pan, and add to it a wine-glass of salad oil, one of chablis, and a pint and a half of cold water, or, better far, fish stock: boil for about half an horn’, and, just before serving, add a heaped up table-spoonful of freshly-chopped curled parsley. The parsley is absolutely indispensable. Serve the fish, in a deep dish, with some of the brothCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 64 round it, sending up the rest of the broth first, poured boiling hot over some slices of stale bread. * Remove the bag of condiments, of course, before serving the bouilla- baisse. The dish may not he as good, to he sure, as that which some of ray readers may have enjoyed in the south of Prance, but if the ingredients I have named be used without any omissions, a very fair imitation will certainly be produced. In regard to the sauces which should accompany fish directions will be found elsewhere. I would, however, here emphasize the importance of a good fish stock as the true basis of them. It has been shown that the water in which a fish has been boiled is highly charged with nutri- tive matter, and that if reduced it becomes when cold a fish jelly. It surely stands to reason then that to throw this away is an act of sublime ignorance, since it at once supplies the best medium possible for- the sauce. For fried, broiled, baked, and stewed fish, the trimmings provide admirable stock stuff:—heads, livers, bones, fins, tails, skin, &c. This fresh essence should be used instead of water, or milk for all fish sauces, and for moistening au gratins. Having thus sketched the various ways of preparing fish for the table, I must request my readers to note the recipes I have given in detail in my moms. One word of appeal before I pass on to another sub- ject :—Please give up the utterly inexplicable and cer- tainly most erroneous practice of serving salad with eggxj dressing, cucumber (cold), and beetroot, with hot fish, and absolutely on the same hot plate ! The individual answer- able for the introduction of this barbarism should he con- demned to eat lukewarm salad on a hot plate three times a day in penal servitude for life !OHA.PTBR VIII. Hints about Entrees. S 'INE persons out of every ten with whom I con- verse on culinary matters seem to be more exer- cised in their minds regarding their entrees than about the whole of the arrangements of their dinner put together. The really presentable plats that the average Ramasamy can master may, as a rule, be counted, I am told, upon the fingers of one hand : and these are generally so well known that a lady is oft times at her wit’s end to compose her menu. So precious, indeed, has the knowledge of a new entree become, that the happy mistress of a novelty might be fairly excused were she to refuse to divulge the secret to her dearest friend. It must be a humiliating sensation, I admit, after having eaten oyster patties with your friend on Monday, to be forced to bid him partake of the same dish with you on Thurs- day, conscious perhaps, that the pastry at your house is not a whit better than that which you thought so indiffer- ent at his. The oyster patty, by the way, is one of Rama- samy’s few art studies. Now, I cannot but allow that the apprehension with which this part of the bill-of-fare is so generally regarded, is well-founded and natural. There are, of course, entrees and ehtrees. Though a few may be easy, some are beyond our reach in this country owing to a variety of reasons,66 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. and many, owing to the ambiguous wording of cookery book receipts, seem equally inaccessible. Then the task of ordering dishes from works composed for people with English cooks, kitchen ranges, and the best market in the world at their disposal, is far from easy. Even those who fancy themselves to be pretty good cooks find, every now and then, in the pages of their pet author, knotty points which require much consideration to settle. But if you will patiently follow me, not rushing to the conclusion, that I only write for the benefit of a few enthusiasts like myself, I firmly believe that I shall be able to smooth down much that appears rugged; and help you towards the selection and accomplishment of many tasty dishes which, if neither elaborate, nor very scientific, will still be found practicable, and generally worthy of a second trial. First, let us divide entrees into three distinct classes :— the plain, the half-rich, and the fanciful. In the first class I would place such dishes as the tender mutton cutlet (neck chop), or delicate fillet (undercut), grilled, fried, or stewed, and the epigramme : fillets of beef, trimmed as grenadins, tourne-dos, and the Chateaubriand or thick steak-fillet: fillets of game, turkey, fowl, rabbit, or pigeon : entrees of meat, that is to say, plainly cooked, but accompanied by carefully devised sauces, really good gar- nishes, purees of vegetable, &c. For class the second, I would reserve all compositions of meat requiring the mincing machine and the mortar,— delicate combinations which demand attentive flavouring— such as cassolettes, croquettes, croustades, quenelles, boudins, timbales, rissolettes and mixed ingredients en caisses. Whilst in the superlative class should be entered, I think, the supreme, the vol-au-vent, the kramousky^ the studied ragout, the artistic salmis, and any entree out of class the second when raised from its ordinary form to aHINTS ABOUT ENTREES. 67 higher level by treatment d la Financiere, d la Heine, d la Pericjueux, and so on. Quite in a special parenthesis by themselves ought to be kept all plats which can be served cold, such as the chaud-froid, chartreuse, hallotines, truffled cutlets, &c., for in a climate such as this an iced entree cannot fail to be attractive, whilst for providing contrast, and other reasons which I shall speak of presently, it is invaluable. Having thus arranged the various dishes which come under the head of entrees in a systematic form, the task of selection therefrom must be governed by the sort of din- ner you intend to give, the different items that compose your menu, and the capabilities of your cook. As a rule, if you give two, you should generally, for the sake of contrast, select one dish from class one, and the other from either class two, or three ; or an iced entree followed by one from either of the two richer classes. I have already advised you never to attempt to give more than two entrees, and I repeat the advice now, be your dinner a banquet for forty covers, or a party of eight friends. Indeed if you present a really correct releve to precede, and have a good rot to follow it, one artistic entree is, I am confident, ample at any dinner great or small. In ordering your entries, you should carefully consider the amount of work your cook will have upon his hands at the critical time of serving them, and bear in mind that the more he has to do then, the more likely will he be to make mistakes. Is it not unfair to expect your cook to serve equally well two hot entrees demanding attentive manipula- tion up to the last moment? Select, therefore, for one of them something that can be prepared before-hand, and he easily heated when required, so that your chef’s atten- tion need not be distracted from the other. On these grounds the iced entree is a grand invention. It can beCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 68 made early in the day, and be then set in the ice-box,- ready to follow the fish or releve, as the case may be, with- out delay, and the sauce can also be similarly treated. Dishes that merely require heating in the oven are a god- send to a cook, for he can compose them at his leisure during the afternoon, and put them aside till within a few minutes of the time when they are wanted, keeping their sauces nice and hot in the bain-marie pan. But the un- happy man who has (say) to turn out a delicately grilled dish of cutlets a la Maintenon, with kramouskys anx huitres to follow—independently of game, joint, sweets, &c., all needing a watchful eye—is surely to be pitied. There is another point to watch when choosing your entries, and that is their general relationship with each other, or with the other dishes that compose your menu. Artists in ordering dinners go as far as to say that nothing should be repeated. You must not give, for instance, a consomme cle volaille, and presently follow it with croquettes cle volaille, or even fowl as a rot. Mutton appearing in an entree must not be seen again in any form. Two white meats ought not to be introduced side by side. Though following this maxim to the best of our power, w.e cannot always rely on being able to carry it out thoroughly in Madras. The market supply is, alas ! too meagre, as a rule, for us to pick and choose as we might wish. To return to our class list of entrees. I cannot too strongly urge you to go in for dishes from class one more than you do. Can anything be more acceptable than a nice juicy little chop from a neck of mutton, on the sides of which the marks of the grid-iron are plainly visible, reposing against a circle of really well-mashed potatoes, or of savoury rice, holding in its centre a puree of celery, a little pile of petits pois, or sauce soubise ? The grid-iron is invaluable; the chop comes to table full of gravy, yet not underdone ; it has, to use a kitchen phrase, “ seen theHINTS ABOUT ENTREES. 69 fire ” (browned) in places, and is absolutely free from the grease which so often mars a dish of chops cooked in the frying pan. For the little Club-dinner, this class of entree is always popular. Pleasing variety can he secured by the cook by changing his sauce, his garnish, or his puree. Choose the neck chops for these entrees. The fillet of mutton is that tender strip of meat which runs down the inside of the saddle under the kidney. If of sufficient thickness, this delicate morsel, cut into nice pieces, and broiled over a clear fire, is worthy of Lucullus himself. It is the thing for an invalid, or one coming round after an illness. The fillet of beef is the undercut of the sirloin, which the butcher will cut out for you in the market here if you wish it. But I have found good fillets produced thus :—- Buy a really good joint of the ribs of beef, and cut out lengthways the good tender meat near the end of the bone, with any fat there may be attached to it. Bones, and flap, and trimmings can be counted in the allowance of gravy-meat, and the tender meat you have cut out will trim into capital fillets for entrees or cook whole as a filet cle boeuf pique, aux champignons, aupuree d'oseille, dc., as a releve. Fillets of beef should be cut rather thick to retain their juiciness as much as possible. Fillets of fowls and game are formed by cutting off neatly the whole of the breast meat right down to the wing joint; this you can divide into fillets according to the size you require. The hare and rabbit fillet is produced by cutting out the long strip of good meat which runs down either side of the back bone. Well larded with fat bacon, and cooked grenaclin-fashion, with Espagnole, or sauce soubise, you may do worse than present a dish of these fillets to your best friend.70 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Whether your entree, be a fillet of beef or mutton, of fowl or of game, or the neatly trimmed neck chop to which I have alluded; and whether you intend to grill, to stew, or to fry it, you will find it vastly improved by being set en marinade from early morning until the time draws near for cooking it. I shall use this word frequently in my menus, let me therefore explain its meaning as applied to the process which I now take the opportunity of noticing. The word marinade, as you all know, really means pickle, but viewed in the light in which we now regard it it would be better to describe it as a mixture, the com- ponent parts of which can be varied at pleasure, in which meat should be soaked for several hours before it is cooked. Its immediate effect is to preserve the outside of the meat which has “ felt the knife ” moist and juicy, to prevent its “ turning,” and to lend that subtle flavour to it—so hard to describe—but which just makes the difference between our ordinary cutlet, and that which we remember having eaten at some restaurant abroad, or at the table of a friend who possessed a really well educated cook. The common form of marinade for beef and mutton is composed of salad oil and vinegar in the proportion of four table-spoonfuls of the former to one of the latter, with one large Bombay onion sliced, one clove of garlic (if approv- ed) chopped.up, twelve whole peppers, six cloves, a tea- spoonful of salt, a couple of tea-spoonfuls of dried thyme or marjoram, a table-spoonful of minced parsley, and a strip or two of very finely pared lime peel. This mixture can be preserved for daily use, with slight additions from time to time, and the flavour can be modified by changing the sweet herbs, or withdrawing them. The taste of game can be imparted to cold, cooked mutton by placing the meat in a marinade composed of a wine-glass each of vinegar, portwine, and mushroom ket-71 HINTS ABOUT ENTREES. chup in which a table-spoonful of red currant jelly has been dissolved, with a tea-spoonful of “spiced pepper,” some pepper corns, salt, a chopped onion, and a dessert- spoonful of marjoram and thyme blended. A hash of cold mutton collops that have lain a few hours in this prepara- tion is very like that of venison, and the fillets of an Indian hare, (a little underdone in the roasting) similarly steeped all day, are really excellent. In this particular instance you must strain the marinade, and add it to the thick gravy in which the hash or fillets have to be sim- mered. Marinade need not be made in extravagant quantities. It should cover the bottom of the dish on which you place the meat, your object being gained by occasional turning, and basting. When wanted, the cook should lift the meat from the dish, let it drain a minute or so, and then pro- ceed to business. Independently of the method in which you purpose to cook them, a great deal depends upon the careful trimming of a dish of mutton cutlets. How uninviting do these miniature chops look when they have been cut anyhow from the joint to which they belonged ? First, saw off the ends of the row of bones level, and cut off the outer flap ; now take a very sharp knife, and divide the row of cutlets down to the bone with one clean decided cut between each of them, and, lastly, sever them one by one with a single stroke of the chopper. Next, lay them on your board and give them a few strokes with your cutlet bat, trim them into shape, and then place them in the mari- nade. The hungry man may be able, no doubt, to eat the cutlets his cook may send him, “ rough hew them as he may,” but for an entree, we must study appearance. Little paper frills placed round the ends of the bones of the cutlets before serving, give a finish to your entree.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 72 A cutlet to be grilled having been lifted out of the marinade, and wiped, should be dipped at once in a little melted butter, or salad oil, and broiled over a clear fire. Do not turn a cutlet or fillet, while grilling it, with a fork ; the prick causes the gravy to flow,—use cutlet tongs. If to be stewed, it should be first browned by being turned frequently in a saute-pan with a little melted butter; the previously prepared gravy and vegetables (cold) should then be put into the stew-pan, in which the cutlet should simmer gently till done. The whole success of a stew depends upon simmering. If the cook carelessly allow the gravy in the pan to come to the boil, the cutlets (or any- thing else) will be done for. How often are hashes, and rechauffes of cold meat sent to table as hard and tasteless as leather, simply because the cook permitted them to boil ? Hashes and salmis of cold meat and game may be defined, properly speaking, as carefully composed sauces in which cooked meat is placed cold, and then gradually heated until sufficiently hot to serve. My own rule with a salmis is to take it off the fire as soon as the steam rises freely from the surface, to turn it immediately into a silver dish heated with scalding water, and send it up. Hashes and salmis are much improved if the cold meat composing them be soaked in the sauce (cold) for some time before ^cooking. The process of bread-crumbing a cutlet for frying deserves far more care than the great majority of cooks bestow upon it. To do this really nicely (for an entree), you should proceed in this way. Lift your cutlet from the marinade, drain it a moment, wipe it dry, and then dip it into the following composition :—two eggs, one dessert- spoonful of salad oil, and one dessert-spoonful of water, well beaten together. Now turn it over and over in a plateful of fine, stale bread-crumbs which have been driedHINTS ABOUT ENTREES. 73 in the oven, pounded, and thoroughly sifted. It should then be laid aside for half an hour, after which it should be dipped again, and again rolled in crumbs. Amongst the crumbs may be sprinkled some finely-minced parsley, with some powdered dried sweet herbs, and grated cheese is sometimes added with marked effect. The frying should be conducted in abundance of boiling fat, and the colour of the cutlets should be a pale golden brown, and they should he drained on blotting paper before serving. All thrifty cooks should carefully save the scraps of trimmings, the outer flap, and the ends of bone, which were cut off in shaping the cutlets, for from them the basis of the sauce which is to accompany the dish can, with a little assistance, be composed. Veal is occasionally procurable at Madras. If you suc- ceed in getting a nice dish of cutlets, remember that it is downright necessary to lard them with strips of fat bacon. Veal is apt to be dry in England where the calf is fattened for the market. In India it is far drier, and if cooked without the assistance of bacon, veal cutlets are positively wooden. N.B.—Let the sauce prepared for your entree of cutlets or fillets he sent round, piping hot, in a boat. If poured into the dish round the cutlets, it makes them sodden, becomes lukewarm, and loses its effect entirely. 7CHAPTER IX. Entrees—concluded, <53*3—’ AYING discussed the general methods of cooking cutlets, and fillets, we ought next to consider a few good sauces to accompany them, but as I have resolved to devote a chapter to that branch of the cook’s art, I must ask you to follow me now in a brief resume of wrinkles regarding the higher classes of entrees. Under class the second we come to that very useful style of entree which I have called the “ half-rich.” For these “ made-dishes ” you have to call to your aid the mincing machine and mortar, and, unless your experience be above the average, success will almost wholly depend upon your following with accuracy every line of the recipe you may select. A well-flavoured cassolette, croquette, bouclin, or quenelle, if nicely cooked, and served with a good sauce, a puree, or a macedoine de legumes, is worthy of a place in any menu ; but the slightest slovenly work is fatal. Intense cleanliness is absolutely indispensable. Our good friend Ramasamy has been taught to believe that cutlets must be composed of chopped meats, so he often sends to table under that title a dish of croquettes, with a fragment of bone inserted in each of them. I need hardly remind my readers, for instance, of the dish of “ chicken cutlets ” which forms the standing plat of theEN TREES—CON CL UDED. 75 Madras Hotel. I know that some cookery books describe as cotelettes, certain artistic mixtures of meats, with bits of bone introduced to make them look like true cutlets, but I would prefer omitting the bones, and calling such dishes by their proper names, for they undoubtedly belong really to the tribe of croquettes, houclins, ifc. Chicken, ox and sheep’s tongues, tender mutton, ham, bacon, oysters, pigeons, turkey, rabbit, the livers of all poultry, of rabbits, and game,—whether previously cooked or not,—provide materials out of which these entrees can be made. It is in the judicious blending of two or more of them together, in the thorough pounding and incorpo- ration thereof, in the selection of the condiments he em- ploys to improve them, and so on, that the skill of the good cook can be detected. If you preserve your own ox tongues in this country, and keep one generally ready for use, you will have a very valuable thing to fall back upon for “ made ” entrees. Cured sheep’s tongues, too, are very useful, and a little lamb’s liver is sometimes a good thing to have at hand in case of need. Calves’ liver cut into dice, and fried with some shallot in the pan in which some fat bacon has been melted then set to get cold, and pounded in the mortar with some cold veal,* forms the well-known force meat which sur- rounds a quite de foie gras and all French pates. The frying-pan should be rubbed with garlic before operations are commenced, and the minced onion must go in with the liver. If you could add to the mixture when pounded the minced trimmings of some fresh truffles, the flavour would be exactly that of the pate. But even without this assistance, a little jar of the plain composition, made as * Use the white breast-meat of a cold roast chicken if you cannot get veal in this country. The melted bacon must be pounded with the liver.—W.76 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. described with lamb s liver will be found well worth the trouble it costs to make when you are preparing, say, a dish of croquettes de volaille and want to improve the flavour of them. The hints I have already given regarding tbe bread- crumbing of mutton cutlets, hold good with reference to the crumbing of croquettes. If possible, indeed, you should be more particular in preparing your crumbs. Bread crisped in the oven and then pounded in the mortar pro- duces the chapelure used by French cooks. Rasped and pounded crust is better for the second coating. The sauces and garnishes that should accompany this kind of entree require the utmost study, and will be treated of hereafter. Rissoles, and rissolettes are very tasty if well done, and served hot.- They may be described as a savoury salpicon, or mince, divided into small portions, each of which should be enclosed in a little wrapper cut out of delicately rolled out, unbaked, puff paste : these, pinched closely all round, should be fried a golden yellow in abundance of boiling fat. They should then be served dry, piled up on a nap- kin, garnished with crisply fried curled parsley. Cassolettes are little drums of mashed potato or rice, fried a golden brown, and then hollowed out, filled with a deli- cate mince, heated in the oven, and capped with either a cover made of the same substance as the case, or with a curl of crisply fried bacon, a slice of tongue cut with a pastry cutter, a turned olive, or a fleuron of puff pastry. Boudins are preparations of pounded meats bound with panada and eggs and steamed, and quenelles are somewhat similar in composition, but cooked by poaching. Recipes will be found for each of these methods of cookery in the menus. Concerning iced entries all that need be said is^—be sure that they really are well iced, and their sauces also. If77 ENTREES—CON CL UDED. either the one or the other be served at the ordinary temper- ature the effect will be hopelessly marred. Follow the recipe you select carefully, remember the icing, and all will be well. And now touching the highest class of entrees :—You must, to begin with, submit to a little more expense than was necessary in classes one and two. Butter, cream, special gravy meat, &c., must not he shirked, but be given to the cook with a liberal hand. As your Gouffe or other author bids you, so must you proceed without a murmur. We sometimes do our utmost to give our guests, here in sultry Madras, a vol-au-vent, when we should know quite well that it is almost impossible to produce, in a tempera- ture that rarely falls below 80°, the exquisitely light puff pastry from which the dish derives its name. The best at- tempts present the appearance of layers of talc laid one over the other in an oval-shape and baked a pale brown. Now, I maintain that it would be better to give up our fruitless efforts, and employ one of the ornamental china or earthen- ware dishes made specially for this purpose, and to be pro- cured from all good dealers in glass and crockery in Lon- don. Small china ones for dishes served an caisses are of course, quite common. We could then send up our ragout cl la financiere, or cl lareine, without misgivings, in a pretty dish becomingly garnished, and bury the unhappy memo- ries of the light puff paste we never could achieve. But whilst thus proposing to abandon as fruitless our attempts to place before our guests a true vol-au-vent conquered by the climate in which we live, and not through carelessness or want of culinary skill,—I, by no means, wish to say that we should cease to bestow our attention upon entrees, which can be made of pastry of a less volatile nature. There are some Madras cooks, I know, who can turn out very good light pate pastry. To such men you can entrust, of course, petitspates, timbales, salpicon bouchdes, and those artistic croustacles for which pastry is employed instead ofCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 78 the easier substitute of hollowecl.-out rolls. The knack of making nice light pastry is, however, far from'common. Neither reading, nor even practical demonstration, will teach it. So unless you are certain that your cook pos- sesses the gift, never permit him to waste good materials in idle experiments. x\n entree, of pastry, if not unmis- takably good, is a blot upon the face of your menu. In nearly all recipes for the sauces of high class entrees contained in good works upon cookery, it will be found that the use of a strong meat-gravy foundation is a sine qua non, for some of them butter is unsparingly advocated, while cream is very frequently prescribed. In an early chapter of my jottings, I mentioned that I would far sooner recommend a little extra expense with regard to these items than in the wholesale distribution of “ Europe stores.” I repeat the opinion emphatically now. The dinner cooked with an adequate allowance of good stock, cream and butter, requires but little aid from Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell. Unfortunately, however, for those who desire to follow this precept at Madras, our supply of milk is meagre in quality and quantity, and absurdly expensive. The only way to obtain a little butter fit to eat, if you do not maintain a dairy of your own, is to have a cow milked at your door, and to set the milk so obtained for cream in your own larder. I cannot fix the exact cost of a pound of butter thus made, but, approximately speaking, it may be stated that five measures of milk at one rupee (the current rate) will not yield more than a good third of a pound, so your pound of butter will cost you nearly' three rupees !:|: There will be a slight difference if the milk be rich ; in my estimate, I speak, of course, of the average country cow’s milk purchased at the door. —ft * Milk lias become a little cheaper since this was written, but the difficulty regarding butter and cream seems in no way removed.—W.79 BA TBEES—CON CL UDED. There is a terrible preparation which milkmen sell to our cooks under the title of “ kitchen butter.” To add to its attractiveness, it is generally smeared upon a leaf, and ' carried in the hand ! It looks like the compound used for greasing the wheels of railway carriages in England, which a porter once told a friend of mine was “ mostly made of ingredients, and stuff as ive makes hup a’purpose." I fear that our so-called “ kitchen butter ” might be equal- ly vaguely described. What, then, can people of moderate incomes do? For, I take it that even wealthy folk at home would hesitate to pay six shillings a pound for the butter used by their cooks ! The most economical remedy for this evil is to use preserved butter. The “Italian,” “ Copenhagen,” (cow brand), “ Nor- mandy,” and “Denmark,” are all especially free from brine, or taint of any kind, and can be thoroughly recommended. One pound tin, carefully used, ought to suffice for the cook- ing of a dinner for eight persons, (assuming even that the menu contain a full amount of dishes -requiring butter in their composition) and, in my humble opinion, the result will generally be found to justify that amount of extra- vagance. Wash the butter well first with cold water, then with fresh milk, and set it on ice. In Chapter IV I stated that experience compelled me to denounce the use of bottled truffles, tinned mushrooms, and cepes, on account of their want of flavour, and con- sequent inability to take the place occupied in European cookery by the fresh fungi of which they are the preserved specimens. I now repeat my opinion that at all events they do not repay the expense of their purchase. What then can be done to supply their place ? I at once point to the two best flavoured accessories we can command in India :—the pate dc foie gras and bottled financierc. In each of these preparations the flavour of the cooked truffle appears to have been caught, and sealed up. I therefore80 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. advocate their employment in the concoction, flavouring, andgarnishing oientrees in supersession of the things Ibave condemned. A smallpdtd cle foie gras judiciously used will impai’t flavour, of a marked character, to the dish with which' it may be associated, and it costs no more than the bottled truffles which I bold to be useless. Take now the well known plat called creme clevolaille : if, instead of plain truffles, you cut up a little pdte in dice and dot these little pieces here and there when filling your mould with the puree, and then steam the composition immediate- ly, you will find the whole creme deliciously “pate-fled ” to coin a word to interpret my meaning. Let everything be ready before you open the tin, and bury the dice as soon as you can to retain the aroma. In all dishes of a like kind, in croquettes, cassolettes, bou- chees, boudins, dc., this alternative can obviously be adopt- ed. Financierc on the other hand can be employed in ra- gouts, salmis, and in situations in which foie gras would be out of place. And now let me say a few words about the service, gar- nishing, and helping of entrees. First, as to service :—I feel it incumbent upon me to repeat that vegetables ought never to be handed round with the entrees. This quaint practice of our fore-fathers has long since been abandoned by those who give dinners of the reformed type. The modern entree is, of course, presumed to be a plat complete in itself, and perfectly independent of other as- sistance. When stated in the menu, a vegetable may, of course, accompany an entr&e, but it should be deftly associat- ed with the composition it accompanies, and be moulded in the same dish. A great many entrees require no vegetables. Who, for instance, could possibly eat potato and cauliflower with a kramousky, or with a petit pate d la financialc .■81 ENTREES—GONCL UDED. The crisp batter in the former, and the pastry in the latter case, supply the necessary accompaniment of the delicate composition each contains. Apart from its being palpably inartistic, there are other reasons which prompt the abolition of sending round vege- tables with entrees. I refer to the time that is wasted in doing so, and the serious complication it adds to the service. Whilst the matter-of-fact objection to the practice is, that by the time they are really wanted for the joint, vegetables that have been hawked about with the entrees are cer- tainly mangled and cold, if not wholly expended, for few people prepare relays of potatoes, &c., to follow those sent up with their side-dishes. Next in regard to garnishing :—As a general rule, our native cooks, assisted I dare say by the butler, are much given to the ornamentation of their entries. Now, whilst fully prepared to pander as much as possible to the “ lust of the eye,” I warn you to be careful lest these efforts to make things look pretty be overdone. Slices of raw cucum- ber should be severely interdicted, for they impart an inky flavour to the entree round which they may be trimmed ; and funny devices cut out of vegetables, and dotted about a dish, should be forbidden, for they suggest to the hyper- critical mind an idea that perhaps fingers have been busily employed in arranging them. Pray do not permit your cook to garnish a croquette with a raw spring onion,—the green stem stripped and curled, and the bulb thrust into the croquette. I have actually seen this done, and once upon a time barely escaped eating the onion, which would have been a sad catastrophe, seeing that I had a most agreeable companion by my side. Let the arrangement of your entries err on the side of simplicity rather than otherwise. To look effective, entries should be arranged well above the level of silver dish upon which they are served. ToCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 82 attain this end, the French chef prepares a socle or founda- tion which he makes out of a solid block of bread, or ground-rice moulded : socles for cold entrees are even some- times made of melted wax candle consolidated with flour and beeswax. A flat socle for ordinary hot entries is easily made with rice, which should he boiled, pounded, and then moulded with a wooden -spoon into an oval or round block according to the shape of the dish. When moulded, it should he brushed over with egg and colored in the oven. For cold entrees, spread the block over with fresh butter. Having thus obtained a firm foundation, the entree itself becomes, as it were, a superstructure erected upon the socle. Nothing looks more slovenly than an entree arranged on the level of the dish itself. Lastly touching the helping of entrees :—Dishes that require careful helping ought certainly never to be handed round at a dinner party. I have observed that ladies fre- quently refuse an entree on account of the difficulty of help- ing themselves. A fair patroness of mine whose menage is worthy of her artistic skill, tells me that she has made up her mind (and rightly, say I,) never to permit her admir- able mayonnaise a la Gouffe to be handed round to her guests again. One person, she says, wordd take a little of the aspic, the next some of the fish, the third—engaged, perhaps in pleasant chatter, with a pair of bright eyes full upon him —might absently secure a fragment of the garnish ! and so on, all in heart-rending ignorance of the science and care bestowed upon the dish. In any circumstances I strongly recommend that all iced entries lie helped from the side table, with a portion of the iced sauce upon each cold plate, and passed round to your guests without delay. For, in a climate as warm as this, speedy helping at the side table will prevent the possible contingency of liquefaction. Indeed all entrees might he thus served with manifest advantage. The menu card in83 ENTREES—CONULUDED. front of you tells you what is coming, and in this way you would be spared, at all events, the unpleasantness of having a hot silver dish with its savoury contents thrust in between you and the lady you have taken in to dinner ; conversation would never be auuoyingly interrupted ; pretty costumes and dress coats would he less liable to be baptized with hot gravy, whilst much valuable time would be saved. The action of the punkah too ought not to be forgotten in regard to its effect on a hot entree in slow procession at a large dinner party. Since the foregoing remarks were written I have entirely given up the handing round of entrees, and the result has been most satisfactory. The advantages gained are :— (a) . The entree itself is not slightly spoiled as it cer- tainly is when slowly handed round. (b) . The guests are spared the trouble of helping them- selves, a thing most of them do not understand. (c) . There is much valuable time saved, first in not having to change the plates all round the table, and then in substituting direct service, sur les plats, for the circula- tion pf the dish itself and its sauce. (fl). The erection of a beautiful edifice, so dear to the French cook’s heart, is rendered unnecessary : the cutlet, fillet, or whatever it is, is put on the hot plate straight from the fire, together with the correct allowance of gar- nish and sauce straight from the bain-marie, and passed to the guest at once. Thus we have one operation in the kitchen only—the intermediate decorative process beiim altogether eliminated. All you have to do is to instruct your head servant very carefully, and to see that the cook and he understand each other as to each plat, its garnish, and sauce. To insure this, have instructions jotted down on paper for the butler’s guidance.84 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. In thus proposing the total abolition of the utterly use- less elaboration of entrees, and the tedious practice of cir- culating them, I feel I am accepting a grave responsibility. Had I not put the system I have explained to very careful test I should hesitate to preach such apparently heterodox opinions. All I would ask is a trial. Remember that the introduction of cutlet moulds, aspic*mignon moulds, china cases, &c., has facilitated this system of separate service to the utmost. Thus we are able to break up our entrees into ‘ portions for one,’ as it were, without difficulty. In- stead of a single mould of creme da volaillc, for instance, we can turn one little creme for each guest by dividing the ■puree into portions, and steaming them in little moulds. The system merely requires a small amount of considera- tion, I think, to commend itself to the mind of the modern hostess.CHA.PTER _5<Z- Sauces. fHE consideration of sauces may certainly be regarded as the most interesting part of the study of cookery. So much, indeed, is to be gained by this branch of the art, that I might almost call it the most important. Whether for fish, for flesh, or fowl, the assistance thus con- tributed is invaluable. Without penetrating very deeply into the mazes of elaborate cookery, if you once master the broad principles of sauce-making, you need never be at a loss for variety in your dishes ; you will be able to improve good meat, and make that which is indifferent palatable ; whilst with cold things you will .rarely fail to turn out little rechauffes which will be at once tasty, and economical. Now, I do not consider it a very difficult thing to teach a native cook the fundamental rules of this part of his work, for they are simple. The labour is so slight that, if suffi- ciently devoted to your task, you can select a recipe and absolutely show the man step by step how to carry it out. For a demonstration of this kind, you must, of course, order all the ingredients you may require beforehand, and have a mineral oil-stove, or brazier of live charcoal, brought into a sheltered verandah, or spare room. The little trouble this may cost you will, in nine cases out of ten, be amply repaid, for with the native mind practical proof is far more effective than theoretical discussion. For sauce-making, in general, you must possess a stew- 8CULINARY JOTTINGS NOR MADRAS. 86 pan, four or five small sauce-pans in sizes, a bain-marie pan to set them in, a small pair of scales, two wooden spoons, a plated spoon of each size, a Hour dredger, a couple of earth- enware bowls, a block tin.perforated strainer and a pointed strainer, both with handles, a wire sieve, a hair sieve, and a mortar. The materials you will call into play from time to time will he :—butter, Hour, eggs, spiced pepper, salt, onions, limes, a few cloves of garlic, spices, the contents of your cruet-stand, say :—Harvey, and mushroom ketchup ; an- chovy, chilli, tarragon, and French vinegars ; besides mus- tard, with pickled gherkins, capers, and red-currant jelly. Carefully-made gravy, broth, or stock, will generally be wanted, for which special provision must be made, but for ordinary sauces, you can generally manage to make enough broth from scraps and trimmings. In doing this you have the consolation of knowing that there is nothing wasted. Sundry spoonfuls of red or white wine will be necessary now and then, and if you wander beyond the Rubicon of moderation to the realms of high art, you will naturally ask as occasion may demand for champagne, truffles, cocks- combs, cream, mushrooms, ham and olives. Of all writers upon cookery none has dealt more clearly with the subject of sauces than Jules Gouffe. His work may appear difficult to understand in places, and his recipes may seem frequently composed upon too large a scale to be useful to mistresses of small establishments, but in the system that he has adopted with regard to this important feature of kitchen work, he has hit the right nail upon the head. He classes as fundamental sauces,—from which nearly the whole category may be said to have sprung,— those well-known names:—Espaynole, Velonte, Allemandc, Bechamel and Poivrade; of these, to my thinking, the first two may be considered by humbler disciples as the parents of the rest.SA UC.ES. 87 There are nevertheless several standard sauces which must be spoken of independently ; for instance, melted butter (sauce blanche), Hollandaise, soulnse, vnaitre d’hdtel, bread-sauce, mayonnaise, tar-tare, r&moulacJe, ravigote, Robert, piquante, t&c. Let us take these first, for they are perhaps more simple, and certainly oftener in request than Espagnole, veloute, and their various descendants. Simple Sauces. Failure in the composition of “melt.ed-but.ter” (sauce blanche) is so common, that I will commence with a few hints with regard to that homely preparation. The pith of this sauce consists in melting your lump of butter {good butter mind) first at the bottom of your sauce-pan, next to add the flour, which soon forms a smooth paste when worked with the melted butter, and then by degrees the warm water, or milk and water with a pinch of salt. Work this well with a wooden spoon till it is soft and creamy to look upon, pass it through your tin strainer into a hot sauce boat, and, as you serve it, add a pat of fresh butter the size of a rupee, which will, of course, melt of its own accord, and give that ‘ buttery ’ flavour which you desire—not that ‘ flour-and-watery’ one so suggestive of the composition you would employ for fixing scraps in an album. For half a pint of good white sauce, you will require two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, a salt-spoonful of salt, and half a pint of warm broth, or milk and water. Use one ounce of butter, and the flour first, and save the extra ounce of butter to finish with. As flours vary in their thickening power it is possible the sauce may sometimes seem a little too thick. In this case a slight addition of broth or water will set matters- straight, but this should be done before the final addition of pure butter.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 88 A pinch of sugar with the salt assists all white sauces. Please observe that milk is not absolutely necessary in making “ white sauce.” The chief objection to its use is, that, in this country, it causes the sauce with which it may be used to turn sour the next day. I consequently advo- cate the use of broth, made from chicken bones or mutton scraps, instead of milk. Broth enriches the sauce, and if strong, makes it equal to same, blonde. The water in which peas, carrots, parsnips, onions, celery, and leeks, have been boiled,—-the eau de cuisson of the French kitchen,—maybe used advantageously for this purpose. If required for fish, the liquor in which the fish was boiled reduced by rapid boiling ; or a broth made from the bones, fins, and trimmings separately simmered should be used. This has been already strongly advocated in Chapter VII. Indeed so valuable do I consider the fish stock basis that I would,—for any special occasion,—sacrifice a fish entire, or part of one, for its concoction. The common error in making “ melted-butter,” or white sauce is the stirring of the flour into the sauce. The raw flour imparts a paste-like flavour, ■ while it produces the effect required at the expense perhaps of double the neces- sary quantity of flour, for the lumps strained off are utterly wasted. The caution given in regard to roux, and its ap- plication to soups at page 45 is equally apposite here. A too sparing use of butter is another cardinal mistake. With half a pint of good sauce blanche you can work out several tasty recipes as follows :— Beat up the yolk of an egg, and the juice of a couple of limes; strain, and add to your melted butter just before serving; off the fire mind, or the sauce will curdle. Beat up the yolk of an egg with a tea-spoonful of dried chopped tarragon, and a table-spoonful of butter warmed till it has melted, and add in the same way :—sauce d l’ estragon.89 SA UCES, Throw in just before serving a table-spoonful of minced parsley, fennel, or chopped capers, and you will have :— same an persil, sauce a a 'femail, or sauce aux cdpres. Stir into it after it is made, a dessert-spoonful (or more if liked) of anchovy, Harvey, ketchup, or any sauce you fancy. For sauce aux fines herbes, flavour a pint of milk by boil- ing up in it—blanched first for five minutes in scalding water—a Bombay onion, a tiny bit of garlic, and a handful of parsley: when well flavoured, strain the milk through muslin and stir it by degrees into a sauce-pan in which a couple of ounces of butter and two of flour have been mixed ; thicken gently by bringing the mixture to the boil, strain, and add, just before serving, a table-spoonful of minced curled parsley, a dessert-spoonful of chopped garden cress, and half one of chopped green stem of spring onion. A squeeze of a lime may be judiciously added to this sauce. Fillets of pomfret, or any fish that you can fillet nicely, stewed gently in milk thus flavoured, with the same thick- ened and poured over them when done, are excellent. Small rings of sliced gherkins added to some plain “ melt- ed butter” form the sauce aux cornichons you remember abroad; a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar should accom- pany .the rings. “ Melted butter ” for sweet entremets such as cabinet pud- ding, et'hoc genus omne, should be made exactly in the same way as sauce blanche, with sugar instead of salt, and with milk, or milk and water. An egg beaten up in brandy, sherry, or liqueur, added off the fire at the last moment is a great improvement. By adding strong warm broth or stock to the butter and flour, instead of water or milk and water as in sauce blanche, you produce sauce blonde which forms the basis of several useful sauces.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 90 Maitre d hotel sauce is simply scouce blonde with a bounti- ful supply of finely minced curled parsley, a half pinch of spiced pepper, finished off the fire with the well beaten yolk of air egg, and a squeeze of lime juice. Mincing parsley requires attention. If it be done when the leaves are wet, the pieces will all stick together, and much of the juice will be lost. Parsley must first be blanched in scalding water, and then carefully dried in a cloth, after which it can be chopped as finely as possible. Maitre d’hotel butter, I may add par parenthese, is made thus:—To two ounces of iced fresh butter, add the juice of one lime, a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley free from moisture, a little white pepper, and a pinch of salt. Form it with your butter bat, and then set it in the ice box. A nice juicy, grilled chop, or a little grilled fillet of beef, served with a piece of maitre d’hotel butter melting over it, is a French method of captivating the appetite. Sauce d la, poulcttc, is worthy of distinction among ordi- nary white sauces. Its chief points are :—first, that it is thickened with the raw yolks of eggs besides a little flour ; secondly, that it is garnished with button mushrooms. It is a creamy looking sauce the colour of a rich custard. Make an ordinary thin sauce blonde with one pint of chicken broth, one ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, pepper and salt to taste : stir well for a quarter of an hour, and it will be a thin white sauce : then add en bain-marie one by one the strained and well beaten yolks of three eggs, finish off with a pat of butter, and a couple of table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms. Note that the pulp of some large sweet onions that have been simmered in milk till tender, and passed through the sieve, when worked into sauce blonde, with a spoonful of cream to finish with for high days and holidays, gives you sauce Soubise.SAUCES. 91 Equal portions of boiled carrot, French beans, turnip or knolkhol, cut into small dice, with a few peas, asparagus points, and green haricot beans, when gently heated in sauce blonde, form that charming assistance to a dish of grilled cutlets, or any plain entree, called macedoine de legumes. Be careful not to mash the vegetables, so do not overboil them in the first instance.* Sauce Milanaise is a delicious variation of sauce Soubise. Cut up two parboiled Bombay onions, and put them into • a sauce-pan with an ounce of butter, a pinch of sugar, and a salt-spoonful of salt; add a table-spoonful of previously boiled rice, or pearl barley, and moisten with a breakfast- cupful of broth ; let them cook slowly, and when the onions are done, add a table-spoonful of finely grated mild cheese (Parmesan for choice), stir the mixture, pass it through a sieve, and mingle it with half a pint of thin sauce blonde. A spoonful of cream may obviously be added if approved. Bread-Sauce. Of the whole category of simple sauces none is more generally maltreated, I think, than “bread-sauce.” Deli- cious we know when properly made, it is positively a repulsive mess when wrongly treated. You have no doubt lamented many a time over the wretched compound which your cook persists in sending up under this title; and I have heard people say that true “ bread-sauce ” cannot be made in India. Now, I have tasted quite as nasty a com- position as Ramasamy’s in England, in fact even there you more frequently get it had, than good. The good “ bread- sauce,” now served at the junior United Service Club in London, is due to the admonitions of an officer, once well known in Madras. The system pursued by the ignorant cook may be thus * Any four of these vegetables are enough for a macedoine.—W.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 92 described:—he cuts some slices of bread, or grates bread- crumbs enough for bis requirements, over which he pours a tea-cupful of boiling water, be gives that a pinch of salt, perhaps (but by no means for certain) a spoonful of milk, and a quantity of whole pepper corns, and cloves ; he stirs this to the consistency of thick porridge, and finally sends up a mixture which may be plainly described as spiced bread poultice ! Setting aside other considerations for a moment, can anything be more disagreeable than the accidental biting of a whole clove, or a pepper corn, in any dish or sauce ? Common sense accordingly dictates that when the use of these condiments is necessary, we should strain the liquid in which they have been placed before serving it. The back-bone of “ bread-sauce ” is the flavouring of the milk with which it is made, to begin with ; that being done, to strain it carefully over your grated bread-crumbs; then to re-heat it, and lastly to finish it off with a good table-spoon- ful of cream at the moment before you serve it. In the ab- sence of cream, the yolk of one egg, beaten up in a little warm milk till it looks creamy, may be added, off the fire, just at the last, but cream should be used if possible. . To flavour the milk, you must take a good sized white onion, peel off the outside skin, blanch it for five minutes in scalding water, then cut it into quarters, and put them, with a dozen pepper corns, six cloves, a blade of mace, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a salt-spoonful of salt, into a sauce-pan containing not less than half a pint of good milk. The utmost care is now necessary, for milk boils up so rapidly that you must watch your sauce-pan narrowly, and use a very low fire to retard the boiling stage. Remove the pan as soon as the surface of the milk looks frothy : let it cool a little, and replace it, continuing the operation until the onion is done, and adding a little milk from time to time to make good the loss by evaporation. Now, strainSAUCES. 93 it off through a piece of muslin into a bowl, and add to it, spoonful by spoonful, the stale bread-crumbs you have already prepared, till your eye tells you that you have attained the right consistency; then heat the sauce up again, and finish if as I have already described. I can always rely upon making as good a “ bread-sauce” in India as I ever ate in England, hut then I would never attempt it unless I had all the ingredients at my command. There can he no evasion of the milk. Water at once produces the poultice I have condemned, and the spoonful of cream, must be added if you desire success. This sauce richly deserves the trouble I have prescribed, and it will be found in the end economical, for by its aid a carefully-roasted fowl provides an enjoyable meal; whilst to fillets of partridges, or chicken, bread-crumbed, nicely fried, and garnished with a crisp curl or two of fried bacon, it lends a superior character. A young pigeon, split, and grilled over a fast fire, besprinkled with fried bread-crumbs, and assisted by good bread-sauce, forms a nice luncheon for a lady whose husband’s days are spent at office, or for a convalescent beginning to mend after along illness. Sharp Sauces. Those capital compositions mayonnaise, tartare, remou- lade, ravigote, &c., are commonly known as cold sauces, but there are hot forms of preparing tartare and the two last named not often presented. They are descended from sauce piquante, which is simply made in this way:— Fry in two ounces of melted butter an ounce of minced onion with an ounce of chopped carrot, a dessert-spoonful of parsley, one of garden cress, and one clove of garlic. When of a golden hue, add equal parts (claret-glass each) of vinegar, and water, or broth and vinegar, a tea-spoonful of salt, and one of sugar, boil, strain, and serve hot. Some chopped gherkins, capers, or pickled mushrooms may beCULINARY JOTTINGS NOR MADRAS. 94 added with good effect, and a spoonful of ketchup, or Har- vey, is often given to it as a finishing touch. This sauce is not thickened. For hot tartare, add to the above, a large spoonful of mus- tard that has been mixed with anchovy vinegar. For ravigote, you thicken with a tea-spoonful of flour, which should be put in with the butter, onions, etc., to start with, and add at the last, a very little white wine, a tea- spoonful of minced shallots and a dessert-spoonful of va- rious herbs also minced, with some lime juice instead of vinegar. For remoulade, use neither lime nor wine, hut incorpo- rate with your frying onions and green herbs, a table- spoonful of salad oil, and add a dessert-spoonful of French mustard to finish with. Sauce poivradc (maigre) is made like sauce piquante, with this exception, that after the straining, you thicken the liquor with butter and flour, it may be served either white or brown as you may desire. It you want it white, the onions must not he allowed to take colour in the frying stage. Gouffe’s brown poivradc, is enriched with Espagnole, and his poivrade blanche with vein ate. But these are first class sauces, of which more anon. Sauce Robert belongs to this family.—Chop up a fine sweet onion, throw the mince into a sauce-pan with an ounce of butter. Let it take colour, then add an ounce of flour by degrees, and when that has been well worked, half a pint of gravy, pepper and salt at discretion, and a pinch of sugar. When thoroughly mixed, and piping hot, pass the sauce through the tin strainer, catching up all lumps, and, at the last moment, stir in a table-spoonful of vinegar, and one of mixed mustard. Excellent: with pork, veal, duck, and goose, and good for a grill,95 SA UCBS. Mustard sauce is made in this way :—Melt a coirple of ounces of butter in a small sauce-pan, blend with it a dessert-spoonful of flour, and a heaped up tea-spoonful of French mustard with a pinch of salt: when thoroughly mixed, add half a pint of broth or water: let it come to the boil, then strain through the pointed strainer into a hot sauce-boat. If Durham mustard is used, a little vine- gar must be added. Sauce aa pauvre homvic is produced by first frying a minced onion in a little butter until it assumes a golden brown tint, and then pouring in a little broth made from scraps, with a tea-spoonful of vinegar from the walnut pic- kle if available : you must give this a boil, and then strain it by degrees into another sauce-pan containing a little melt- ed butter and flour; work this well with a wooden spoon and add a pinch of salt, one of sugar, a little pepper, and some minced parsley. These sharp relishes go well with fish, and, as a change, are welcome with cutlets, etc. Holland aise. There is no sauce more popular with judges of good food than Hollandaise; in perfection it is a grand sauce, and not very easy to make. In its homely form it may he described as sauce blanche, to which a few yolks of eggs have been added, and a squeeze of lime juice. In its more elaborate treatment, it becomes a custard of yolks of eggs, water, vinegar or lime juice, and butter. Some are in favour of vinegar, others prefer lime juice. For the sim- plest Hollandaise go to work in this way :— Beat up the yolks of three eggs in a little water in which a salt-spoonful of pounded allspice has been dis- solved, add salt to taste, and about three ounces of fresh butter. Put this mixture into a small sauce-pan, and plunge it into a bain-marie, or stew-pan large enough toCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 96 receive it, full of boiling water : steam your mixture in this way as in custard making till it thickens, and stir in your lime juice or vinegar to finish with. Gouffb’s method may be condensed as follows :—Take four ounces of butter and divide the whole into six equal portions ; next reduce two table-spoonfuls of vinegar on the fire with a little salt and pepper added to it, till about a tea-spoonful remains : strain, and add to it two table- spoonfuls of water, and two yolks of eggs carefully freed from white; put this on the fire for a minute, stirring it well with a wooden spoon ; avoid boiling; take off the fire, add one of the sixth parts of butter, stir till melted, put it on the fire for a minute, stir well, take it off again, and continue this process till bit by bit the six portions of butter have been worked into the two eggs you originally put in, and by degrees, adding a little water now and then to prevent its curdling. This process had better be car- ried out in a bain-marie, for you thus obtain the amount of gentle heat which is necessary to preserve the sauce in a velvety condition without risk of any kind. This recipe should be very carefully noted for the pro- cess it prescribes is like that to be followed in making sauce Bearnaise, one of the best sauces in the whole culinary re- pertoire for the fillet of beef. For this you only have to add a tea-spoonful of chopped tarragon, and one of tarra- gon vinegar before serving, omitting at the beginning the reduced vinegar propounded for Hollanclaise. Dutch sauce as eaten in Holland, by some considered • the veritable Hollanclaise, is butter plainly melted in a sauce-pan, flavoured with a little.pepper, a little salt, and the squeeze of a lemon ; this is allowed to settle over the fire, and is then poured free from the sediment at the bot- tom of the pan, into a piping hot metal sauce-boat. This sauce is admirable with fish, asparagus, and all green vegetables ; you must, of course, substitute lime for lemon,97 SAUCES. and have butter enough to spare for the undertaking. I strongly advise my friends who reside on the Neilgherries to make this sauce (a little goes a long way mind) for their globe artichokes; one table-spoonful is enough for one arti- choke, and the plates should be really hot.* Note that the saucepan should be removed from the fire before, the butter has quite liquefied. The heat of the sauce- pan will complete the melting. This is necessary to pre- serve the creaminess of the butter, which would be lost if it were allowed to become an oil over the fire. Hollandaisc made with eggs is known abroad as Hollan- claise jaune. Horse-Radish Sauce. “ Horse-radish sauce” (sauce raifort) is the standard ad- junct to our national food, “ the roast beef of old England,” and beef in India cries out for its help far more piteously than its rich relation far away. Horse-radish grows well at Ootacamund, and I once grew some with success at Banga- lore, but the scraped root of the moringa, or “ drum-stick” tree, provides so good a substitute that we may rest con- tented with a sauce thus composed :— To serve hot:— scrape as finely as you can a cupful of the root shavings, simmer them in half a pint of ch^ken broth ; when done, thicken the broth, custard-wise, with the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar; add pepper, salt, and a very little grated nutmeg, and serve in a sauce-boat. A richer recipe suggests the addition, off the fire, of a cof- fee-cupful of cream with the yolks of the eggs, and then to let the sauce remain on the fire, cn bain-marie, stirring well until it is very hot (but not boiling) and serving it in a hot sauce-boat. * A tea-spoonful of anchovy vinegar is in this case better than lime-juice.—W. 998 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. The cold fonn of this sauce is much easier. It will be found most delicious with cold roast beef or any cold meat. You simply rasp the moringa, or horse-radish root, till you have a coffee-cupful of fine scrapings, and mingle them with a breakfast cupful of ordinary mayonnaise, or tartare sauce, iced. Cream is, of course, a great addition : when available it maybe used instead of the oil, but the usual mixture of eggs, oil, mustard, and vinegar, will give you a good result. Serve this as cold as you can. And this leads me to discuss at once the two sauces I have just mentioned. Mayonnaise Sauce, &c. Mayonnaise sauce is certainly one of the most useful, and popular of all the sauces we attempt out here. In ordering it, if you know what to say, and give good mate- rials, you maybe certain of success. Be sure that the oil . you give is thoroughly good, or the result will be very painful ; and examine your mustard, vinegar, and eggs. Assuming that these are all satisfactory, set to work in the following manner Commence with the dry ingredients, and put into a soup- plate, or slop-basin, the cold, very hard-boiled yolks of two eggs, a salt-spoonful of salt, a dessert-spoonful of mustard powder, a tea spoonful of finely-minced shallot, and a dust of white pepper. Bruise these together thoroughly with the back of a silver spoon. Now, add a little oil, and work your materials to a paste, dropping in the oil patiently' by degrees until you get it nice and moist; next beat up with it the yolks of two raw eggs one by one, and continue your heating, adding oil without measure, and judging by your eye when you think you have made enough sauce, for the tarragon vinegar you finally add will not be more than a good dessert-spoonful. The moment the vinegar is add- ed, the sauce will assume a creamy appearance, and when99 SAUCES. worked sufficiently, will be ready for the block tin strainer (to get rid of “ onion atoms,” lumps of egg, &c.,) and then for the table. If made on the plains, early in the afternoon, the sauce- boat should he placed in the ice-box ; hut, to he successful, mayonnaise sauce ought, if possible, to he made as near the time of service as possible. When cream is used, it takes the place of the oil, hut if only a little can he spared, a des- sert-spponful may be added as a last touch to the sauce I have described with good effect. All mayonnaise sauces should he iced, if only for a few minutes. The points in this sauce to he noted are, the order in which the various ingredients should be introduced, the use of the raw yolks in conjunction with the hard-boiled (they produce the thick creaminess you want), the liberal use of good oil, and the addition last of all, in sparing quantity, of the tarragon vinegar. You do not want an acid sauce at all, remember. English cooks, as a rule, ruin their maynnaise and salad dressings, by measuring the oil anti vinegar they use in equal portions! No artist measures these ingredi- ents.* You might as well expect a painter to tell you the number of grains of the colours he used in painting a pic- ture. You must not omit a little onion, hut whilst permit- ting the flavour “ scarce suspected to animate the whole,” you must on no account permit the “ atoms to lurk .within the bowl”—the ladies in Sydney Smith’s days were per- haps less critical in the matter of this fragrant bulb, than - are our fair enslavers in the present year of grace. Tartare sauce is the same as the above, without the use of hard-boiled eggs : raw yolks alone should be used, and the oil and vinegar should be added in the following pro- portions ; a tea-spoonful of the latter, to two table-spoonfuls * Gouffe’s calculation represents the quantity of vinegar as barely one-eighth of the oil.—W. -100 CULINARY JOTTING,S' FOR MADRAS. of the former, well beaten together, and often times repeated till enough sauce is made. Remoulade is simply a mayonnaise, sauce with chopped gherkins, parsley, chives and capers, added. For chives, try the chopped green stalks of a few young onions. The mus- tard used must be Muille’s French, and a drop or two of garlic- V’negar is a sine qua non. Ravigote is also mayonnaise with chopped chives, chervil, tarragon, and burnet added, for this combination 8f herbs constitutes ravigote. Green mayonnaise, remoulade, and ravigote sauces are made in the same way, the colour being produced by the juice of the green herbs pounded, and some spinach-green- ing if necessary. Not long ago I observed in the “ Cuisine” column of a fashionable English newspaper a question from a lady who was apparently in great distress about mayonnaise sauce. She complained that she could not get the mixture as thick' as she desired, and begged for instruction. Two answers were given the following week : one of them urged the lady to thicken with flour or arrowroot, and the other advocated mashed potato! Now, I need scarcely say that this was a case in which the blind attempted to lead the blind. May- onnaise and tartare sauces should be thickened by beating the oil and raw yolks together perseveringly. With patience the mixture can, in this way, be made to stand as stiffly as thick batter. The process is exemplified in the following recipe pro- pounded by W. H. H. originally, and now slightly modi- fied :— Put the raw yolks of three large or four ordinary Indian eggs upon a flat dish, with a tea-spoonful of salt, and heat them well together. Tip the dish on end at an angle of aboutSAUCES. 101 35° by slipping a thick book under the rim at one end. Open a fresh bottle of salad oil and get an assistant to let the oil fall in gently succeeding drops upon the upper half of the dish, while you continue beating the egg mixture up towards it, making it pass under the dropping oil. Half a pint of oil may be expended, and you will then have a sauce as thick as thick batter, and of a golden yel low tint. Now stir in suffi- cient tarragon vinegar to produce a slight sharpness. About one dessert-spoonful will be found enough, or rather less if the vinegar is fresh. The addition of the vinegar will bring the sauce to a proper consistency. (si*. If .-a.CHAPTER XI. Sauces—concluded. fN0W pass to the consideration of a few standard high class sauces, which, with a little care and attention, will be found practicable in every well-conducted Madras kitchen. To aid you in this branch of the cook’s art, you cannot possess a better guide than Jules Gouffe, whose admirably systematic method of discussing sauces has never been surpassed by any authority on culinary mysteries. Unfortunately, however for the inexperienced reader, Gouffe’s work is rather the treatise of a Professor addressed to students who have already matriculated, than a vacle mecum for beginners. So unless youHre-fairly cm fait in practical kitchen work, you will hardly derive much easy aid from the Eoyal Cookery Book. You must have some knowledge of the ingredients which may possibly be spared, and of those which must, on no account, be omit- ted, for even in Gouffe’s recipes there are sometimes things named which are not absolutely essential. You ought to know something of stock-making, and understand the value of game bones, poultry bones, fragments of ham, &c., and the sort of flavour these things produce, helped by certain vegetables. If, by experience, you have picked up a know- ledge of equivalents so much the better. I can in short, readily believe that those who have never bothered their heads about cookery, would find it almost impossible to direct a native cook from the pages of the great chef. In10:3 SA XJCES—CONCL UDED. saying this I speak from experience. I first read Gouffb before I had taken to practical cooking work, and before I had actually made sauces, &c., ladle in hand, in an English kitchen. Since going through that ordeal, I have again come across the book, and I find that much that I had for- merly to skip as too complicated, now seems easy enough. I propose now to place before you, in the simplest man- ner I can, Gouffe’s fundamental sauces. Those who may be acquainted with that author, will observe that in the first place I shall reduce the recipes to a much shorter compass, and in the next, that I shall omit everything that is not down-right necessary to produce a fair result. Gouffe propounds the following sauces as the founda- tion of nearly all those of a high class that you are likely to encounter:— 1. Espagnole. 2. Veloute. 3. Allemande. 4. Bechamel. 5. Marinade. 6. Poivrade. Of these veloute, aliemande, and b&chamel are so closely allied, that I shall confine myself to the last. Marinade and ■poivrade I have already alluded to. Espagnole is, of course, worthy of close attention. My fundamental sauces will therefore he reduced to two:—one brown, and the other white,—and these I think will lie found ample for the Indian kitchen. Veal stock plays an important part in Gouffe’s recipes. Unfortunately for us we can never reckon on obtaining that delicate meat. Nevertheless, while freely admitting its value, I do not look upon veal as a sine pud non in sauce-making. A really carefully made chicken consomme, assisted by a ham or bacon bone, provides you with an excellent equivalent. On special occasions it would be quite worth while to sacrifice a good fowl for this purpose with a little lean ham or bacon.104 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. With regard to Espetgnolc which, as many of you no doubt know, is a rich, thick, bvowii sauce, I would simplify Gouffe’s receipt as follows :— Espagnole. (a) . Get ready a couple of sheep’s trotters chopped in pieces, with a ham or bacon bone, or a few lean slices of either, any raw cutlet trimmings you may have, and two pounds of beef gravy meat cut into squares. (b) . Now cut up a couple of onions and throw them into a stew-pan with an ounce of butter, fry them a golden yellow, then add a breakfast-cupful of broth, or water, and the pieces of meat previously prepared ; shake the pan every now and then, and let the meat take colour. (c) . Now, add water enough to cover the ‘meat, &c., completely, reduce the fire, and let the contents of the pan come slowly to the boil, skimming carefully during that period. (d) . When the surface seems nicely clear of grease and scum, add another onion, with two carrots sliced, two leeks, a turnip, about an ounce of celery, a clove of garlic, half a dozen pepper corns, a spoonful of dried sweet herbs tied up in a bag, a bunch of parsley, some burnt sugar colouring, and salt to taste. No spice. (c). As soon as the vegetables have been cooked, remove the pan from the fire, pick out the vegetables, and place it so that it may simmer slowly for a couple of hours. Now, lift it up, and strain off your gravy: there should be quite a pint and a half of it. (/). Next, take a sauce-pan and melt two ounces of but- ter at the bottom of it, stir in two ounces of flour and make a roux, when the colour satisfies you, add by degrees, stir- ring as you do so, the pint or so of the strong gravy that you strained from the stew-pan.105 SA UCES—CONCL TIDED. (g) . Let the contents of your sauce-pan come to the hoil, stirring the whole time, then strain the sauce through your tin strainer into a clean sauce-pan, and set the vessel in the bain-marie to remain hot till wanted. (h) . Any fat that may rise after the thickening pro- cess should be skimmed off, but if the gravy be properly made, and skimmed before it is added to the ronx, there will be very little to take off in the bain-marie stage. The bain-marie, remember, is a vessel containing boiling- water, and kept over the fire, in which you immerse sauce- pans containing made-sauces to preserve them hot for use. For a dinner party this amount of Espagnole will provide the foundation required for two or three brown sauces. Espagnole sauce, therefore, is simply, a good, rich, brown, meat gravy, thickened with butter and flour. It only pos- sesses the flavour derived from the vegetables, and from the ordinary meat that you have employed to make it. Using this sauce as your medium or basis, you can proceed to com- pose a number of rich preparations as follows:—Financidre, Perigueux, Bordelaise, Provencals, Genevoise,Matelote, Cha- teaubriand, Regence, Italienne, and Reforms, with others too numerous to mention. The speciality of the sauces I have enumerated, consist in the distinct flavouring of the Espagnole, from which they are really made, with essence of mushrooms, truffles, game or of pigeons, poultry, fish, or ham (concerning which I shall speak later on), wine in judicious proportions, delicate vegetables, and so on. A careful perusal of the receipts, given hereafter in my menus, ought to guide you, when once you have achieved an undeniable foundation with your Es- pagnole'. Game fragments, poultry, mushrooms, &c., must, on no account, be used in making Espagnole, for such ingredients. 106 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. would impart a distinct flavour to the sauce. The object, remember, is to keep the foundation as simple though as strong as possible, and to reserve the flavouring according to the particular sauce we may select. I will, for example, give you sauce a la Pdrigucur :— Chop up the contents of a small tin of “ morceaux do I ruffes” and toss them awhile in some melted butter at the bottom of a light sauce-pan, add a coffee-cupful of clear gravy, and a glass of Madeira, and simmer for ten minutes; give it a little pepper, a pinch of sugar, and salt, and then slowly stir in half a pint of Espagnolc to complete the sauce. When thoroughly hot, it is ready. Take now Financiere sauce for, let us say, a ragout of that name :— (а) . Choose a nice tender fowl, pluck and clean it, and cut off the choicest fillet meat from the breast for your ragout: take the legs, thighs, skin, hones, liver, giblets, scraps, and trimmings, and proceed to make 'an essence of them thus :— (б) . Break up the bones, and, with the remnants afore- said, make the strongest broth you can, flavoured with an onion, a bit of celery, a spoonful of dried herbs, a sliced earrot, and two or three pepper corns. Reduce it as strong as possible, and then stffain. (c). Now, open a bottle of preserved Financiere, and take equal portions of mushrooms and of truffles ; cut them up, and toss them in melted butter at the bottom of a sauce- pan, and when you have worked them well thus, for two or three minutes, add the liquor from the bottle of Finan- ciere and your fowl-essence, with a glass of Marsala, and complete the sauce with your half pint of Espagnolc. (d.). The ragout which should be garnished with the cocks-combs, and the remaining portions of the Financiere,107 SA UCES—CONCL UDED. with sweet-breads, fillets of tongue, and slices of foie-gras is merely a careful stew of fowl fillets, or quenelles, in the garnished sauce I have described. These should have been previously cooked, they will then merely require gently heating up in the sauce. It will be observed that the specialties of the two sauces just given are a flavour of truffles and Madeira in Pe'rigucux, and of chicken essence with prepared Financicre for the sauce of that name. Bechamel. Bechamel, which I select as the best type of a funda- mental white sauce, should be made in this way :— (a) . Take the same ingredients that I have detailed for Espagnole, and commence by slicing up the onion, and shak- ing the rings in an ounce of melted butter at the bottom of the stew-pan ; do not let them take colour, but add your meat* and bones at once, and cover them with water, omit- ting the browning stage. (b) . Go on now to make a clear consomme ; instead of burnt-sugar colouring, add a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar plain, and all the vegetables. If this be carefully prepared and skimmed, you will obtain a pellucid broth which should be strained, and kept ready for use presently. (c) . Take a sauce-pan, and melt a couple of ounces of “ cow-brand,” or any good preserved butter in it ; add two ounces of flour, stir for five minutes, and add by degrees your clear broth, half a pint of cream, a small tinful of mushrooms chopped, salt, and pepper ; stir over the fire till boiling, and then permit the sauce to simmer slowly for an hour, taking off all fat that may rise. (cl). At the end of the hour, you can strain the bechamel into a sauce-pan, and place it in the bain-marie. Before # Veal, if procurable, if not, a fowl instead of beef.—W.108 CULINABY JOTTINGS FOB MAD BAS. using, a gill of cream may be finally stirred into the sauce as you take it from the bain-marie. Veloute is exactly like this omitting the cream when you add the stock, and also the chopped mushrooms : it is there- fore less expensive and not quite so rich. Allemande is veloute flavoured with chicken essence, and chopped mushrooms : it is thickened with yolks of eggs, and no cream is needed in its composition. With these for your bases, you can make the following rich white sauces :—oyster, lobster, supreme, veniticnne, poivracle blanche, rich soubise, champignons blanches, puree clc celeri, and other rich white purees. In fact all sauces which, in either simple form, are made with sauce blanche, or sauce blonde, may be served in a superior manner by using veloute or bechamel as their ground work. I have already described the making of chicken, or rather fowl essence : the same principles being observed, you can obtain valuable flavouring gravies from all poul- try bones, especially from those of a turkey. The giblets should never he thrown away, for they assist a gravy greatly. In like manner game bones are very valuable. Essences of mushrooms, of truffles, and ham, are obtained by stewing them cut into small pieces in consomme. A. dash of Medeira or sound Marsala is necessary with game essences, while chablis and sauterne give assistance to fish essences which are used, of course, to improve sauces like creme cl’anchois, creme clc crevettes, and all fish sauces. Reduced vinegar, i.c., vinegar boiled until half or more of its quantity has evaporated, and wine similarly reduced, produce valuable flavouring agents. Mirepoix is a strong broth made from meat and vege- tables, flavoured with wine and sweet herbs, and strained, but not thickened. It is used as a flavouring medium.109 SA UCES—CONCL TIDED. D’ Uxcllcs, ov fines herbcs, is composed as follows :—Chop up six ounces of fresh mushrooms, six ounces of fresh parsley, and two ounces of shallot: put the minced shallot into a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter and a sea- soning of salt and black pepper ; fry on a brisk fire for five minutes, add the minced mushrooms and parsley, fry for five minutes more, and put the mixture in a jar for use as required. D’ Uxelles sauce is made by adding a table-spoon- ful of this preparation to half a pint of Espagnole sauce. This should be made when mushrooms are procurable dur- ing the rains, it will be found most useful as a flavouring and finishing agent. Thickenings. Suppose now that you have made your sauce in every way satisfactorily, but find that it is scarcely thick enough. You must then employ a liaison or thickening to correct the error in the manner described for thick soups at page 40. Liaison for a white sauce, remember, is made of white roux, and a little milk and water, or white stock, like sauce blanche, or sauce blonde only a little thicker. For a brown sauce brown roux, with brown gravy. In either case the liaison mixed separately very smoothly is stirred through a strainer into the sauce off the fire : when this has been done, the sauce-pan is replaced on the fire and stirred until the desired thickness is obtained. Yolks of eggs are also used for liaison: they must be carefully freed from the whites, beaten up with a little hot-water, or stock, and added to the sauce off the fire, the thickening being very cautiously conducted afterwards over a low fire as in custard-making. The sauce must be allowed to cool for two or three minutes before the egg thickening is put into it. This thickening is used inpoulette sauce, for fricassees, and for the enrichment of numerous sauces. Addenda. Here is an economical wrinkle :—Let us suppose that 10CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. no you are giving a dinner party, and that a turkey, capon, or pair of fowls are to be presented. On cleaning and prepar- ing the birds, put aside all the giblets, and trimmings, especially the heads, necks, feet, hearts, livers, gizzards, and pinions which are of no use whatever if left on. Cut all these into small pieces, scald them, fry them with an onion, and a carrot sliced, in some butter, or clarified suet at the bottom of a stew-pan: shake the pan, and when beginning to color, add a breakfast cupful of water and a glass of Marsala; reduce almost to a glaze, then add a pint of water and stew gently to extract the whole of the essence from the scraps : when this has been done, a little water being added to check boiling from time to time, pour all through a strainer, and cool it for the fat to rise. This having been removed you will have a grand basis for your brown sauce for the turkey. A little raw meat or lean ba- con may of course be put in, while a couple of sheep’s feet would improve the gravy by adding to its gelatinous con- sistency. An excellent sauce for these birds can be made with the cashu-nut in this manner :—Make a colorless essence of the giblets, as just explained, by omitting the coloring stage : strain it, remove the fat, and place it on bain-marie. For half a pint or so of sauce, take a breakfast cupful of the nuts, scald them to remove dirt, and any shell that may adhere to them : this having been done, boil them in milk, or milk and water, with salt to taste, and a pinch of sugar: when soft, drain and pound them in a mortar, moistening them with some of the milk in which they were boiled : when pounded to a paste, put a quarter of an ounce of flour into a clean stew-pan with a quarter ounce of butter, mix a white roux, and then add giblet essence and nut- paste by degrees till the puree reaches a nice consistency, and the paste has been expended. This can be finished, off the fire before serving, with the yolk of an egg, or a table-spoonful of cream.1 I 1 SA UCES—CONOL TIDED. A nice sauce of a pale brown color can be made by cutting tbe nuts into dice and frying them in butter till browned, fas you fry almonds for ■praline). The dice are then pounded, and tbe sauce is finished as in the fore- going recipe. I have now, I think, given you a sketch of sauce-making in its various stages. Details for nearly every standard sauce not at present described, will be found in my menus.CHAPTBE XII- Braising and Roasting. IYE me,” says the Englishman, “ a good cut of a well-cooked joint, with a nicely boiled potato, and a fresh vegetable, and I will ask for nothing more.” Now, it must be admitted, that honest slices of meat constitute the favorite dinner of a Briton. Go into a Club dining-room, or into any large London tavern such as “Simpson’s,” “ The Rainbow,” &c., &c., and you will find two-thirds of the men assembled there dining “ off the joint.” And verily the well roasted haunch or saddle of mutton, the sirloin or rpund of beef, the fillet of veal, and the loin or leg of pork, are dishes peculiar to England, of which we may well boast. Our artistic neighboru-s across the channel are wont to sneer at our love of great joints, which they do not possess in such good quality, and fail to cook as well as we do, for although in deference to the insular taste “ ross biff” frequently figures in a Parisian menu, I think that men are unanimous in saying that it never comes up to the home-fed, home-served sirloin. Our penchant for solid food follows us whithersoever we wander away from home, and we find John Bull in India as fond of his beef and mutton, as he was when “ a humble cottager in Britain.” He sighs for a Southdown saddle, or a Scotch sirloin, and is apt to turn away sorrowfully from the meagre travesty of a joint, which, after much trouble,113 BRAISING AND ROASTING. the sharer of his joys and sorrows contrives to place before him. Now, although a vast quantity of wretched meat is sold in the Indian market, I think that people who are willing to pay a good price, and whose servants are not unusually dishonest, can generally get fair beef and mutton at the large stations of this Presidency. A really bad servant will, of course, cheat you with greater cruelty in buying your meat than in anything. At some places the beef is better than the mutton, and vice versa, but I think that, if not haggled with over his prices, a butcher is generally to be found who can supply you with eatable meat. The comparative scarcity, however, of good meat is in a great measure due to ourselves. If the butchers were cer- tain of sales at remunerative prices, they would produce a far better article than they do, but when people grumble at an extra anna charged on a seer of well-fed meat, you can scarcely expect much improvement. The expenses attend- ing sheep-feeding are pretty well proved by the statistics of the old-established mutton clubs in the mofussil. The members, it is true, get capital meat, but it costs them, first and last, very nearly what it would in England. Native graziers can hardly be expected to turn out equally good mutton at a cheaper rate. Setting aside the joints that you occasionally get when a stall-fed ox has been slaughtered, or a gram-fed sheep cut up ; and without considering the exceptionally good meat of mutton clubs, it is the duty of the chronicler of these “ jottings ” to treat of the average produce of the country, and to endeavour to provide his readers with a few useful hints as to the cookery thereof. Let us therefore take the ordinary joint of beef or of mutton which Ramasamy brings daily from bazar for “ Master and Mrs. only ” :—the dimi- nutive sirloin, the ribs scarcely larger than the loin chops of a Leicestershire sheep, the three-and-a-half pound leg of114 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. mutton, or the wizen loinlet,—ancl let us assume that the meat, though small, is fairly good,—what shall we do with it? In a country where it is impossible to keep cooked meat, the fact of a joint being small, need hardly be considered a drawback, but we have before us the flesh of an immature ox or sheep, a good deal of bone in proportion to the meat, and very little fat. I say boldly that plainly roasting such a fragment is a mistake. Unless the joint be of a fair size, and above the average as to fat like the saddle, or the spe- cially fine sirloin we buy for a dinner party, I would never roast it. The morsel can ill afford to lose the little gravy it possesses which the stab of the spit is bound to draw, and which we rarely see sent to table for Ramasamy appre- ciates it as an adjunct to his curry. The only way to cook little joints, such as those I have indicated, is to braise them. You thus obtain all the nour- ishment the meat can give, and a tasty and tender dish into the bargain. Braising. - This admirable method of cookery is far too rarely adopted : so for the benefit of those who do not understand the process, I had better mention that braising consist in placing meat in a closed pan, with some made-gravy or stock round it, vegetables cut up, and a judicious allowance of salt and pepper. In this the meat is very slowly sim- mered, whilst it is finally browned externally by live coals placed on the braising-pan lid. There is thus heat from above and below the pan, and the joint is cooked in its own gravy, while it derives additional flavour from the vegeta- bles, &c., associated with it. To braise a little Indian joint successfully, you must first bone it, then trim it, tie it with a string into a neat sqape, give it a dust of salt and pepper, and put it on oneBRAISING AND ROASTING. 115 side, whilst you make the best broth you can from the bones you cut out, and the trimmings. This should occupy the cook all morning. Having obtained all you can from the bones, strain off your broth, let it get cool, skim off the fat, and now proceed to cook the meat. Melt some butter or fat at the bottom of your stew-pan first, and turn the meat about in till it begins to take colour, then add your broth (a pint and a half or thereabouts for 3 lbs of meat will be found enough) with two carrots, four good sized onions, two ounces of celery, a tea-spoonful each of marjo- ram and thyme, pepper, and salt : let it come to the boil, then simmer gently for about two and a half hours. Turn the meat, add a couple of onions, and (says Gouff6) a gill of brandy, let the pan simmer for an hour and a half more,— keeping live coals on the lid throughout the process,—and the braise will be complete. Lift out the joint, and keep it on a hot dish, whilst you strain off the gravy remaining in the stew-pan,—it will be half the amount you originally poured in, but much stronger. You can now send up the joint with the gravy plainly poured round it ; or you-can pass the vegetables, with which the meat was braised, through the sieve, thicken the gravy, and add the pulp of the vegetables to it. Observe that the placing of the live coals on the lid is reserved for the latter part of the jiirocess. In this manner you can successfully dress a leg of mut- ton, a loin of mutton, a small sirloin, a piece of the ribs or a fillet of beef, in fact all small joints. Larding with strips of fat bacon will vastly improve the braise, especially when the meat is very lean ; and if you can make some strong broth from any meat and bones, or if you can spare a little stock from the soup-kettle, you need not bone the joint. The vegetables, &c., should, in this case, be boiled in the stock separately, wine should be added to flavour it, and the joint should he cooked in the mirepoix thus made.I 16 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Poultry, ducks, and geese, are far better braised than roasted, unless you keep a fowl-yard of your own, and feed and kill the birds at home. To braise poultry well, you. must make the gravy from the giblets, and trimmings of the birds, assisted by a little gravy-meat. See addenda page 110. In fact all braises are better if you help the gravy with a little extra meat. The French throw in a glass or two of light white wine when braising poultry, and a glass of Madeira or Marsala with a like quantity of Har- vey sauce is a sterling aid in cooking mutton or beef in this method. A slice of bacon is very effective with all braised meat Roasting. Roasting in India is carried out on the spit, accordingly if you must roast your little joint, see that it is not actually spitted,—that is, thrust through by the spit. With a little care, a small Indian joint can easily be tied to it. By the use of a “ cradle-spit ” you obviate even this trouble. Do not let your cook use coarse wooden skewers, but make hiril tie a joint into a shape with tape, for every stab inflicted in it will rob the piece of meat of its juiciness. Tastes vary so strangely as to the “ doing ” of meat, that is is impossible to lay down a law as to time in roasting. Commence by putting the meat close to the coals for six or eight minutes to seal the surface, and secure the inter- nal juices as much as possible : then move it further back. It is essential to use an equal fire throughout the process, and to guard against cooking the joint too fast. Frequent basting is a sine qua non, and you should dredge a little flour over the meat to finish with, to produce a crisp, brown, frothy surface. You should preserve the fat of your sirloin, or loin of mutton, by tying over it a wrapper of buttered paper. The French place their small joints in marinade, which I described fully in Chapter VIII, page 70. This process117 BRAISING AND ROASTING. I strongly advocate for the poor meat of this country, when you intend to roast or grill it. Here is their method of cooking a loin of mutton en papillote :—Trim the loin nicely, and let it lie from morning till roasting time en mari- nade, composed of a breakfast-cupful of salad oil, a table- spoonful of vinegar, two onions, and a carrot sliced fine as for Julienne, with some whole peppers,salt,chopped parsley, and a tea-spoonful of powdered dried sweet herbs. Let the joint be turned several times during the day, and baste it often. When to be dressed, pack it, with its vegetables and all, in a well oiled paper, tying it with tapes, and roasting it carefully, basting it with the oil and vinegar that com- posed the marinade : when nearly done, remove the paper, brush off the vegetables, baste with melted butter, and serve, when nicely browned, with other vegetables inde- pendently cooked, and an appropriate sauce. Though the inexperienced reader will hardly believe me, I can assure him that when finally set before him, he will fail to trace in this dish the presence of oil (the bete noir of English- men), whilst he will be surprised at the juiciness, and good flavour of the meat. In roasting Indian poultry, lard the breast if po'ssible with fat bacon, or tie a flap of bacon over it. Birds cannot be kept too moist when roasting. A large sweet onion, and a lump of preserved butter should be put inside the car- cass of a fowl, and the basting should be carefully attended to. The slower the roasting the better. I have often found that a fowl baked in a slow oven till about three parts done, and then finished in front of the fire, was excellent. It should be occasionally basted with melted butter whilst in the oven. The bacon tied over the breast should be removed during the last five minutes of the cooking, when the bird should be lightly dredged over with flour, and liberally basted with melted butter to produce the brown, crisp, blisters, which always make a fowl look inviting.118 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Stuffings. If permitted to follow the customs of the cookroom, the uneducated Ramasamy will send up your roast fowl—hardly as large as an English chicken,—with its breast strangely puffed out and distorted with a horrible compound which be calls “ stuffing.” This you carefully avoid eating onac- count of its nastiness, hut few, I take it, boldly order their cooks never to perpetrate the atrocity again, being under an impression that stuffing is necessary in roasting poultry. The only birds that should he stuffed in the crop are tur- keys, and exceptionally fine capons. Who amongst you ever saw a roast fowl in England, stuffed ? The barbarous practice has become common out here, and ought to be put down as utterly wrong. Moisture, which is so necessary in roasting, should, as I have already observed, he secured by either larding the fowl with fat bacon, or tying a slice of bacon over the breast. I however advocate a stuffing for the inside of a fowl intended for braising as follows :—well mashed potato, and boiled sweet onion, in the proportion of two-thirds of the former to one-third of the latter. The mashed potato, of course, cofitains butter, spiced pepper, a little weak broth and the 3 oik of an egg, and helps to preserve the juiciness of the bird ; the flavour it imparts too is, I think, agreeable. This with a little chopped sage may he used for ducks. Do not use milk with the mashed potato for it turns the stuffing sour. An author for whom I entertain the greatest respect urges the practice I have just mentioned of putting one sweet onion, and a lump of salt butter, inside every chicken, or fowl, to be roasted. But this cannot be called “ stuffing.” A turkey, on the other hand, requires carefully made force- meat, and, as you all know, there are many varieties thereof. Truffles, and chestnuts form the epicurean stuffings of the roast turkey, and one of oysters is propounded for the boil-119 BUAISING AND BOASTING. ed bird. I leave these expensive compositions alone, for receipts can be easily hunted up for them when a special occasion may demand a “ dindon truffe d la Perigord,” or a “ dinde braisee d lafinanoiere,” dc., dc. The stuffing, I am anxious to discuss, is the ordinary one we remember in England for turkeys, veal, hares, and so on:—a firm, green- tinted forcemeat, flavoured with pleasant herbs, and a sus- picion of lemon-peel; a forcemeat which cuts clean with the slice of the breast of your turkey, or fillet of veal, and is nice whether hot or cold. Not a greasy mess, pale brown in colour, and lumpy, which, at the first cut of the knife, oozes out, and encumbers the dish in a most untempting manner. In order to be sure of making the real thing, if you have not (as you ought to have easily enough at Madras) the plants themselves growing in pots handy, see that you have a bottle of dried thyme, and one of marjoram, and a good bunch of fresh curly parsley, which should also be growing in boxes. Having these ready, work as follows :—Pare a good sized lime as finely as possible avoiding the slightest particle of white pith, and mince the peel as small as possi- ble : weigh six ounces of dry, well sifted, stale bread-crumbs: measure a dessert-spoonful of chopped thyme (green) and one of marjoram (green), or take a table-spoonful of the dried leaves powdered—half and half: you must powder the leaves to get rid of atoms of stalk and stick : mince the parsley fine to the extent of a heaped up table-spoonful : chop up three ounces of fresh beef-suet or butter if suet can- not be got: mix all these together with two spoons in a large dish, and dust the whole well with salt and pepper, lastly, binding the mixture with three well-beaten eggs: work this together, and the stuffing will be fit to use. Much depends upon the fine mincing of all the ingre- dients, and their thorough incorporation : the suet should be chopped as finely as possible. The eggs cause cohesion120 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. and firmness, and are therefore actually essential. The colour will he, of course, a deep green provided you use the quantities of green herhs I have given : supposing, how- ever, that you have only dried herbs, and that you cannot get fresh parsley; why not secure the colour by the addi- tion of a little spinach-greening, it is almost tasteless, and the colour is a great thing in stuffing? This, carefully made, is Martha’s ordinary veal, or turkey stuffing, and ought to taste just as nice here as that which we so well remember at home. In mincing parsley, and all green herbs, he careful that, after washing them well, the leaves are well dried in a cloth: if chopped wet, the juice escapes, and the mince is never finely and evenly granulated. Forcemeats are, of course, added to, and perhaps improv- ed, by chopped ham, tongue, liver, mushrooms, bacon, a little anchovy, a casual oyster, and, of course, by fresh truffles. The addition of these things should, however, he thoughtfully carried out, and the proportions on no ac- count left at haphazard to the tender mercy of the average Ramasamy. The mixture which tradition has handed down to the x\nglo-Indian kitchen for the stuffing of ducks and geese is nearly as disagreeable as that for the fowl. Whilst the latter may be described as a partly consolidated and greasy relation of the “ bread poultice” that I denounced, when treating of “ bread sauce,” the former owes its flavoru- to violent onion, crude sage, and slices of half-boiled potato, mixed together lumpily and lubricated with some chopped fat. Let me speedily tell you that the crude taste you dislike so much arises from the sage being chopped raw, and the onion being a common one instead of the mild kind called “ Bombay,” or “ Bellary,” and that lumps of potato had better be omitted. Duck stuffing should he made in this manner:—TakeBRAISING AND ROASTING. 11 three Bombay onions the size of Badminton balls, wash, peel, and boil them in two waters to extract the acrid flavour. Whilst these are boiling, take eight tender looking sage leaves, and scald them in boiling water for five minutes, take them out, dry them, and when the onions are tender, turn them out, drain them dry,, and proceed to mince them with the sage leaves, vary Jim. Add to this, five ounces of bread-crumbs, and dust over the mixture a liberal allowance of spiced pepper (which I give later on) and salt: when nice- ly worked together, add an ounce of butter or suet cut into dice and bind the ingredients with three eggs, it will now be ready for use. The proportions of this stuffing may be re- lied on : it is mild, yet pleasantly flavoured, and, “ leaves not a trace of sad memory behind.” Goose stuffing is made in a similar way, and the composi- tion is a pleasant addition to some joints of pork: let my friends on the Hi!Is try a loin, honed, rolled, and stuffed with this, and roasted over a bright fire. SPICED Pioppeu. In all stuffings, and forcemeats, whether required for roast, boiled, or braised poultry; for the dainty galantine or the savoury pie, there are few things more useful to have at hand than “ spicecl pepper.” It saves an infinity of trouble, and is an invaluable thing for a thousand dishes. I have been very successful with one that I concocted from Gouffe’s receipt, which I feel it my duty.to tell you of, and urge you to go and do likewise. You can bottle it, and take what you •equire from time to time. 1 , 4 ounce dried thyme leaves | 1 4 do. do. marjoram from the bottle 1 - 4 ' do. do. savory ) 1 2 do. nutmeg, 1 2 do. cloves, T do. whole black pepper, * do. Nepaul pepper,CULINARY Jar TINGS NOR MADRAS I 22 pound the above ingredients thoroughly in a mortar, and when ground to powder, pass it through a tine sieve : bot- tle it, and cork it down securely. Pick, and carefully sift the bottled dried herbs for they often contain hits of stalk and stick. If you desire to make what Gouffe calls “spiced salt,” mix one ounce of the above with four of salt. Spiced pep- per is constantly wanted, and lends that nice sausage fla- vour to savoury pies, rolled heef, brawn, savoury pates, and all forcemeats. Amongst the many barbarous tricks of Native cooks, there is an especial one which I must bring to the most prominent notice. I refer to the method which obtains in the cook- room of removing the feathers from poultry, geese, ducks, and game. I cannot call it “ plucking,” for, as many of you know, the feathers are got rid of wholesale by plunging the bird into scalding hot-water ! The immediate effect of this ignorant habit is to harden and parch the skin of the fowl, to prevent the proper exudation and admission of moisture during roasting, and to render the flesh dry and tasteless. Birds must he plucked by hand, and their small down must be singed. To ensure this being done in your kitchen, order all birds to be brought for inspection when trussed for cook- iii(j, and the smallest experience will enable you to detect the parchment-like skin of the scalded bird, from that of the hand-plucked one, which will he cool and soft, with an umnistakeable freshness which the other cannot have. A basket containing the feathers should also he shown, for they will expose scalding in a moment. It is needless to say, that game is ruthlessly spoiled by this trick of the kitchen, and even the chicken destined for a curry is robbed of half its flavour by being scalded first. The practice is, of course, the offspring of idleness,—a subterfuge to escape trouble. I would also point out that the common way of killing poultry in this country is inhuman, and, in a culinary pointBRAISING AND ROASTING. 123 of view, utterly wrong. Setting aside the cruelty, of cutting a fowl’s throat, and throwing it on the ground to bleed to death in agony, what an idiotic thing it is to waste the very part of the bird from which its gravy, and juiciness are de- rived ! White meats are bled in England simply to pro- duce the necessary tint, but they lose much of their nutri- tious quality by the process. They, however, may afford to do so. Our poorly flavoured birds can ill endure the loss of an atom of the richness that they may possess. I main- tain, therefore, that a merciful, and instantaneous death, by a heavy blow from a wooden mallet, would be pleasanter for the fowl, and far better for us :—the blow should be given on the back of the head. Besides those I have mentioned there are still two evil practices to be noted to which Native cooks are prone. The first, is that of parboiling joints and poultry before roasting them : the second, is that of keeping joints, &c., far too long on the spit. As a rule, Bamasamy heedless of the clock com- mences operations much too soon, and then keeps the meat on the spit before a low fire until it is wanted. Strict orders should be issued to prevent the first of these errors, and a table, showing the time that various joints require in roast- ing properly, should be hung up in the kitchen to prevent the second. If the spit be protected from draughts with a screen, and the fire evenly maintained, and sufficiently brisk for the ope- ration in hand— A large turkey, 8 Mbs. will take an hour and three-quarters. A hen-turkey, 34 lbs. ,, forty-five minutes. A capon, 4 lbs. ,, fifty minutes. A fowl, 3 lbs. A pigeon A duck A goose, 6 lbs. ,, a quarter of an hour. ,, twenty-five minutes. ,, an hour and a half half an hour.CULINARY JQTTINGS FOB MADRAS. 124 A hare will take half an hour. A partridge ,, A snipe ,, A florican or pheasant ,, A saddle of mutton, 7 lbs.,, A sirloin of beef do. ,, A loin of pork, 3 fbs. A loin of mutton, 3 lbs. ,, a quarter of an hour. ten minutes. half an hour. an hour and a half. an hour and three-quarters. fifty minutes. thirty-five minutes.O E-EL A- PTE F5 X III. Boiling and Steaming. “(flgoiLING,” says the G. C., “is one of the simplest yrSQ and most economical modes of preparing food. Meat loses less weight in boiling than in any pro- cess of cooking, and the water it has been boiled in can always be turned to good account; besides which, although it may be an open question whether boiled meat is more nutritious than roast or boiled meat, it is beyond dispute more wholesome and easily digested.” Under the head-of “ sc>up-making” I have already dis- cussed the method of boiling meat required for soup : the “ pot-au-feu” being my example of how meat should be treated when the object is to extract its juices. We must now consider what has to be done in preparing boiled meat for the table, and note where the two processes differ. Boiling Fresh Meat. For the “ pot-aw-feu” it is necessary to put the meat and salt into cold water first,—alone : to watch it come slowly to the boil, skimming the scum that rises very carefully : when the surface is clear, and the water boiling, to add the vegetables, &c. ; to let it boil till the vegetables are done to remove them, and then to let the contents of your pot simmer for three or four hours. But for a piece of fresh boiled beef, a fowl, leg of mutton, or whatever it may be, destined for the dinner table, you must put the meat, tied1 26 • CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. neatly in the shape required with tapes, into boiling salted water to begin with. After five minutes at this extreme tem- perature, add enough cold water to reduce the heat to half- boiling. Like the pot-au-feu the contents of the vessel should now be watched, and skimmed, and the flavouring vegeta- bles, and herbs, added when the scum has been removed. The water, let me observe, must at first be boilimj ; when re- duced, it should be as hot as you can bear to touch, and the early stage of returning to the actual boil should be retard- ed as much as possible. The high temperature at first is essential to harden the outside of the meat, and retain the juices, and nutriment. Boiled meat at the English dinner table is often spoiled by being “ golloped,” as cooks say, that is, done too fast. Meat thus maltreated cannot fail to be tough. You must simmer your boiled leg of mutton, just as carefully as you would the meat of a pot-au-feu. When once boiling-point has been at- tained, ease off the fire a little, and endeavour to obtain a uniform heat below the pot that will just keep its surface, as it were, alive. An occasional bubble, is what you want, with gentle motion, the water muttering to you, not jabber- ing and fussing, as it does when boiling. If you follow this process, you will never have to send a boiled leg of mutton away from the table because of its being too underdone in side to be fit to eat. Remember that the liquor in which a joint has been boil- ed is weak stock. If reduced by being simmered with the lid of the cooking vessel removed, it can be turned to account in many ways, especially for the enrichment of white sauce. It thus can at the time be used with propriety as a basis for celery, onion, turnip, or other white puree to accompany the joint. The common error made by cooks in England, just as much as by our Ramasamy, consists in their keeping up the high pressure too long, whereby the outside of the joint isBOILING AND STEAMING. 127 rapidly done, and the inside scarcely cooked at all. The joint looks done, and is consequently sent up with the un- satisfactory result which I have pointed out. Simmering a joint of meat is undoubtedly a troublesome process in India. The cook’s attention must he kept up throughout the work. He cannot lift the pot to the hob, or change its position on the range, as the English cook can so easily do. He must be ever watchful about his fire, and guard against there being too much, or too little firewood under his vessel. In fact, I doubt whether it is possible for Ramasamy to conduct the simmering process satisfactorily with only the common appliances of the cookroom at his com- mand. Those who possess ranges, or cooking stoves, should count themselves especially fortunate. Their cooks can regulate the heat they want at will. But, with a common cookroom fireplace, the difficulty of maintaining the un- varying gentle heat so highly essential, appears to me to be very great. Duringthe boiling of a joint, the water should, atall times, he kept so as to cover it. If there be any loss by evapora- tion, it should be made good at once by the addition of hot water. No matter what kind of meat you boil, you will find it improved by the addition of a few vegetables. Custom has ruled that we should }mt in carrots, and turnips, with boiled beef ; turnips, or sweet onions, with boiled mutton ; onions with a rabbit, (fcc., yet true cooks add a judicious assort- mentof herbs, &c., toeoery boiled dish. A large sweet onion, some celery, a carrot, parsley, a sprig of marjoram, or thyme, a little hag of flavouring materials such as a clove of garlic, a blade of mace, a few cloves, some whole peppers, and the peel of a lime, should always go into the pot with a boiling fowl. Unless you have tried them, you have no idea how these things improve the taste of boiled joints. It is a very capital plan to boil a fowl in the soup-stock.. CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. * 128 ^ Herein you have the true essence of economy—no waste. The soup gains all the fowl loses in the boiling, whilst the fowl derives richness and flavour hy being done in the stock. One lot of vegetables and herbs suffices for both, and abso- lutely nothing is thrown away but the muslin bag which contained the spices, garlic, &c.:': I need hardly remind you that in suggesting this to Ramasamy you will meet with opposition. He will tell you, in all probability, that “ mixted the fowl and soup-meat, cannot come the good taste, and when you insist upon a trial, he will go away sorrowful, for the broth produced in boiling a fowl in the ordinary way, is his perquisite (or rather we do not ask for it) and “ mix- ted with rice only,” makes, with a chilli or two, a bowl of “ pish-pash.” Nevertheless, the fact exists beyond a doubt that a fowl is vastly improved by being thus cooked : it re- mains for you to decide whether, as a matter of policy, it would be wise to vex “ your best friend ” hy ordering so great an innovation. I confess that the man who, with his eyes open, wars against his chef, is generally the loser before the campaign is ended. I fully agree with the old rhyme “ a turkey boiled is turkey spoiled,” and 'I cannot understand any one maltreating that noble bird so cruelly. A funny idea exists I know (one handed down from grand-mama) that if you give roast mutton or beef at a dinner party, the fowls or turkey must he boiled ! What absurd nonsense. You offer your guests the choice of white or brown meat, each dressed in its most tempting form, you do not bind yourself to give them roast, or boiled. If the white meat be equally nice boiled, like fowls, a leg of pork, a knuckle of veal, &c., you may, of course, so serve it, but do not run away with the erroneous notion that you * The fowl should not be put into the soup-kettle until all skim- ming has been completed, and the soup brought fully to the boil.—W.BOILING AND STEAMING 129 must boil (and so spoil) your turkey because your other joint happen to be a saddle, or a sirloin. Time in boiling fresh meat can scarcely be fixed arbi- trarily. If you follow the advice I have given, you will find fifteen to twenty minutes per pound a reliable allowance. Discretion and experience will enable you to decide what orders to give. Large and deep joints such as humps, legs of mutton and of pork, silverside of beef, and hams, will naturally require a more liberal allowance than fowls, tongues, galantines, bacon, rabbits, &c. Boiling salt Meat. The treatment of salt meat differs from that laid down for fresh meat, inasmuch as it must he set on the fire to be- gin with in cold water in order that it may be tender, and swell somewhat in the boiling. Among ‘ cured’ meats there is nothing more important than the boiling of the ham. So much depends on the cook’s knowledge of the process, that many a ham is spoiled through ignorance. I think it advisable, therefore, to give you the following rules which I hope will be found easy enough : It is of course a sine quel non that you soak the ham for forty-eight hours, changing the water at least three times (I am speaking of hams exported in canvas, or skin, not of those in tins); when thus well soaked, scrub the ham well, and trim it, scraping off all discolorations. Now, place it in your ham-kettle, and cover it with cold water and let it come very gently to the boil, removing all scum that may rise. When quite clear, throw in three carrots, a head of celery cut up (leaves and all), three Bombay onions, a bag con- taining a clove of garlic, a dozen whole peppers, and some pieces of lime peel, with bunches of parsley, thyme, and mar- joram : boil on till the vegetables are done, and then let the kettle simmer gently for four or five hours. When done, letCULINARY JOTTINGS ROli MADRAS. 1.30 it remain till nearly cold, then lift the ham from the water, detach the outer skin (it will roll off easily) and trim the ham finally. Now pour a hottle of Marsala into a clean pan, place the ham therein and simmer over the fire for half an hour, turn it now and then, take it out, glaze it, and serve. This process as regards the trine is far more effective than the old one of putting in wine, cider, or beer, in the first instance. Marsala remember is quite as good as Ma- deira for this purpose. An ancient Indian custom may still be met with, where civilization has not yet penetrated, of sticking an army of cloves into the skin-of a ham. This is quite wrong. The ham should either be dredged over as I have described, or, if wanted for a ball supper, wedding breakfast, luncheon party, or grand picnic, it should he glazed, a recipe for which process will be found elsewhere. Old cookery books give you the funniest nostrums con- cerning the cookery of a ham. Wisps of hay, juniper ber- ries, coriander seed, ale, and even leather shavings, are laid down as flavouring adjuncts. Saltpetre is advised to add to the redness, and in England you find local prejudices in favour of the addition of different wines : in one county elder-wine, in another cowslip-wine, and so on. The end of all things, after all, is to get a really well-cured ham, if you secure that, and cook it as I have described,you will not re- quire any leather shavings, hut remember that on important occasions a bottle o f Madeira or Marsala crowns your best efforts with supreme success. Follow the principles given in cooking a ham with re- gard to all salt meats,—especially the ha nip which well de- serves the after simmering in Marsala. Some of the best modern writers on cookery urge us to give up the salting of beef for boiling. Such a practice, says one of them, “ cannot he too strongly condemned ; forBOILING AND STEAMING. 131 whilst it impairs the wholesomeness of the meat, and makes it less digestible, it considerably diminishes the nutritive properties of it, and, boil it as you will, apiece of salt-heel is never so tender as a piece of fresh beef. ’ We, Anglo- Indians, can scarcely bring ourselves to accept this advice in its entirety; our hump being in itself specialita worthy of admiration in any land. Neither will Englishmen ever he prevailed upon to deny themselves those delicious slices of cold boiled salted silverside, with which they are wont to regale themselves at breakfast, and at luncheon at home. Nevertheless, small pieces of beef, boiled fresh with vege- tables are very acceptable. I do not, for instance, think that an ordinary Indian brisket is worth salting; it gene- rally comes to table hard, and dry, not having sufficient depth of flesh. Boiled fresh, with the allowance of vegeta- bles I have mentioned, this joint will be found nice enough, and if laid upon a bed of previously boiled maccaroni, and smothered in bright tomato sauce, you might indeed go fur- ther and fare worse. % Steaming. The process of steaming has become familiar to many people in India on account of the introduction of Warren’s cooking-pot, and vegetable steamer. I have been told that during the campaign in Afghanistan this utensil was found invaluable, and I can well believe it. The term “ steaming ” is frequently applied not only to the Warren process, but also to the cooking of meat and vegetables placed in hermetically closing utensils, which, in turn, are plunged into larger vessels fllled with boiling water. Warren’s system needs no description for detailed instruc- tions accompany every vessel. Its chief recommendation consists in its simplicity and economy. Meat well braised may be said to be equally nutritious, for it is in like man-CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 182 ner cooked in its own vapour and juices ; but in the matter of fuel braising is by far the more expensive method, while the careful regulation of the heat, itc., costs infinitely more trouble than the simple boiling of a Warren’s pot. The one process requires the hand of a chef: the other can be managed by any one. The not uncommon practice of partly roasting a joint ‘ after it has been nearly cooked in a Warren’s pot is erro- neous. The result can at best be that of meat half-boiled, half-roasted,—“neither fish, nor fowl, nor good red her- ring,” so to speak. A good cook ought, by the clever treat- ment of the gravy made by the meat, to be able to diversify both the appearance and flavour of the joint, adding to its attractiveness by a tasteful garnish of maccaroni or vege- tables. The utmost cleanliness is absolutely necessary in the use of Warren’s pot. Somewhat similar in treatment is the process of Jugging. There is, I think, a dish called by Eamasamy “ boiled chops," cooked in this manner, which is familiar to every one in this part of India, and really deserving of attention, for it is susceptible of improvement, and far greater develop- ment. A nice steak ; a dish of neck cutlets ; the blade bone of the shoulder, boned and flattened ; a tender fowl, boned and flattened ; game similarly prepared, and even fish, can thus be dressed very daintily. I advocate the making of a vessel specially for “ jugged " dishes, as follows :—An oval tin, ten inches long, and seven and a half inches across ; one inch and three-quarters deep. The tin should have its upper edge turned outwards like a pie-dish, half an inch wide, so that a flat cover may be pasted closely to it, and it should have a ring at each end to serve for handles. The cover should be an oval sheet of tin slightly larger in its measurements than the interiorBOILING AND STEAMING. 133 of the tin itself. A vessel of this kind I can strongly re- commend. I have found mine invaluable. Let us first take Ramasamy’s “ boiled chops."—Choose a good neck of mutton, and trim the little chops as neatly as possible. With the trimmings of meat and bone make a broth, assisted by an onion, some pepper corns, any scraps of beef, chicken bones, cold game, lean ham or bacon, in short any useful sundries. When done, skim, and strain it, you ought to have a breakfast-cupful of it. Now, scald the tin and cool it in cold water, cover the bottom of the tin with slices of onion, and arrange the chops thereon, coveringthem with two Bombay onions sliced fine, a carrot sliced, a young turnip sliced, a stick of celery cut into half inch lengths, two tomatoes sliced and drained, and a bunch of curled parsley. Then add to the broth a liqueur glass of brandy, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a salt-spoon- ful of salt, and the same of sugar. Pepper the chops pretty freely with freshly ground black pepper before covering them. When arranged, pour in the broth, and seal the lid of the tin, all round the rim, with stiff paste, fixingit securely. Now, put the tin into boiling water, and keep it on the fire for two hours. At the time of serving, the lid should be cut off, and the tin, wrapped in a napkin, should be placed upon an ordinary dish, and sent to table immediately. Follow the same directions in “jugging” a steak, or a blade bone : in the case of the boned fowl, a little bacon, or some sliced bologna sausage, will be found an improve- ment, the broth being made, of course, from the bones and giblets. With game birds I would add a little sweet herb seasoning. Fish should be done in this way :—Trim the fish in fillets, season them with pepper and salt, cover the bottom of the tin with slices of Bombay onion, dotting in a dozen pepper corns, and two cloves ; put a layer of fillets over the onion, and pepper them with black pepper; put in now a layer 12134 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. of sliced tomatoes, sprinkle some roughly-chopped curled parsley over them, and a table-spoonful of chopped capsi- cums ; pour in a little broth made from the fish bones and trimmings, with a glass of chablis, sauterne, or hock, cover the tin closely, and boil. A clove of garlic may he intro- duced in this dish by those who appreciate the faintest sus- picion of that fragrant bulb, and the fine rind of a lime also. If made of two or tln~ee sorts of little fishes, with a pinch of saffron, and, instead of the broth, a libation composed of one table-spoonful of salad oil, two table-spoonfuls of chab- lis, and three of water, the effect will be pleasing to those who have eaten, and enjoyed a bouillabaisse,, for the broth produced by the fish and ingredients I have named is not unlike that excellent composition. In my last chapter I dwelt upon the invaluable culinary process known as braising, and tried to point out the special adaptability of that method of cookery to the treatment of the small and often indifferently fed meat of this country. I did not however allude to a simpler yet scarcely less note- worthy kind of braise by which is produced that very excel- lent dish called:— Busuf a la mods. There is perhaps no name in the French vocabulary dc- cuisine more frequently “ taken in vain” by English cooks, as well as by poor Ramasamy, than this. As a rule they apply the term to a joint of cold roast beef when warmed up en rechauffe, and sent to table smothered with a thick sauce browned with burnt onion, and surrounded by sodden vege- tables ! Now, bceuf cl la mode is very far from being a re- chauffe. On the contrary, it is a carefully selected piece of fresh meat scientifically stewed with vegetables. Its rich, self-made gravy is not thickened, and its garnish should be composed of vegetables separately trimmed and cooked for that purpose.BOILING AND STEAMING. 135 No better recipe can possibly be found than that given by Gouffh quoted by Sir Henry Thompson as follows: “ Take about 4 lbs. (2 kilos) of thick beefsteak cut square. Take nearly j lb. (3 hectos) of raw fat bacon, cut oft the rind, which should be put aside to blanche, and then cut the bacon in strips for larding, about one-third of an inch thick, and sprinkle them with pepper. Lard the meat, and tie it up as for the pot-au-feu. Place the piece of meat in a stew-pan with rather less than a pint of white wine-glass of brandy, a pint of stock, a pint of water, two calves’ feet already bon- ed and blanched, and the rind of the bacon also blanched. Put it on the fire adding a little less than one ounce of salt (30 grammes). Make it boil, and skim it as for pot-au-feu ; next, having skimmed it, add fully one pound (500 gram- mes) of caiTots, one onion, three cloves, one faggot of herbs, and two pinches of pepper. Place the stew-pan on the corn- er of the stove, cover it, and allow it to simmer very gently for four hours and a half. Try the meat with a skewer to ascertain when it is sufficiently cooked, then put it on a dish with the carrots and the calves’ feet, and keep them cover- ed up hot until serving.” “ Next, strain the gravy through a fine tammy ; remove carefully every atom of grease, and reduce it over the fire about a quarter. Lastly, untie the beef, place it on the dish for serving, add the calves’ feet each having been cut into eight pieces, the carrots cut into pieces the size of corks, and ten glazed onions. Arrange the calves’ feet, the carrots, and onions round the beef, pour the sauce over the meat keep- ing the surplus for the next day. Taste it in order to ascer- tain if sufficiently seasoned. Beef a la mode should be very relishing: sometimes a clove of gai'lic is added. I do not mention this as a necessary item, but as one which must be decided by the lady of the house.” Those who desire to enjoy the true bceuf d la mode will do well to follow this recipe in its entirety. Observe that136 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. the piece of meat should he cut an bloc from the rump steak and have no hone. The white wine may he chablis, sauterne, c/raves, or hock. The remains of a good hottleof champagne left the night before—‘ still,’ yet perfectly sound—would he admirable. Four sheep’s feet may he used instead of the calves’. The boiling should, in the first instance, be retard- ed as in the case of the pot-au-feu) by the addition from time to time of a little cold water. This will cause the scum to rise, all of which should he taken off before the addition of the vegetables. I would always put in a leek if I could get one, and some pieces of celery also. Please note that the gravy should be boiled down a little to add to its strength, but not thickened with butter and flour. It will possess a somewhat gelatinous consistency from the calves’ feet. Larger pieces of beef can be cooked in this manner, in- gredients in proportion to the extra weight being added. Indeed Gouffe says:—“I advise in regard of all braised meats, whether beef or veal, that the portions should be rather too large than too small; a long process of cooking succeeds always better with such than with tiny portions. A second excellent dish can always be made, cold, with the addition of jelly. It appears to me better then, to eat twice following of a good dish thus varied, than to cook the small quantity which suffices only for one meal.” This advice can be followed with advantage during the cold season, and at our Hill stations.FTZEIR XX~\Z- Our Vegetables. .^EITICS of English cookery seem to agree in saying that, wanting as we are, as a rule, in our general knowledge of kitchen work, our ignorance of the treatment of vegetables is greater than in every other branch .of the art. Until comparatively lately, the univer- sal method of serving vegetables at an English dinner table was with the joint alone. Dressed vegetables, or entremets de legumes, were never heard of. Of late years, however, facilities in the way of travelling abroad have been great, and by degrees the Briton has come to appreciate a dish of vegetables, specially prepared, such as he liked so much at foreign tables d’hote and Martha has been “ worritted,” on the return of the family to England, to “ mess about the cauliflower with cheese,” or send up the green peas in soli- tary grandeur. A fillip has, in this way, been given to vege- table cookery in England, and people with any claims to re- fined taste have at last come to perceive the absolute bar- barism of heaping up two or three sorts of vegetables on the same plate with roast meat and gravy. From time immemorial tinned asparagus,—served alone, has occupied a prominent place in the menu of a dinner in India. I have often wondered how this spark of civiliza- tion became kindled, and why the example thus given was138 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS, never more genei'ally followed with regard to other \egeta- bles. It will be, I think, admitted nem con that we live in a climate out here especially demanding vegetable diet. With the thermometer indicating 90° or thereabouts, plain ani- mal food is not only distasteful to many, but absolutely unwholesome. We cannot, therefore, devote too much atten- tion to the cookery of vegetables. Let us consider what we have got under three heads (a) —English vegetables grown in India. (b) —Country vegetables. (c) —Vegetables preserved in tins. At different periods during the year we can get in Mad- ras:—potatoes, green peas, cauliflowers, cabbages, spinach, artichokes (Jerusalem), and globe artichokes from the Hills, French beans, carrots, parsnips, turnips, knolkhol, celery, marrows, leeks, cucumbers, tomatoes, lettuces, beetroot, en- dive, and onions : all under head number one. Under head number two wehave, brinjals, bandecai, vari- ous beans, country cucumber, and greens (which cook well as spinach), moringa pods, small tomato or love apple, maize, (mucka cholum) sorrel, pumpkins, yams, onions large and small, garlic, and sweet potato. For head number three, which we will take separately, we must consult the list of preserved French and American vegetables published by any well-known Firm. I have omitted asparagus, seakale, and salsify, from my list under the first head, as those excellent vegetables have not yet been cultivated by the gardeners of Bangalore or the Neilgherries in sufficient quantity to form a portion of the vegetable supply of our markets. For the benefit however, of such enterprising amateurs as may he able to grow them privately, I will mention how each should be treated by the cook hereafter.139 OUR VEGETABLES. Potatoes perhaps claim the most important place in our consideration, so let us take them first. The boiling of a potato has long been considered one of the tests by which the merits of a cook should be decided “Can she cook a chop, and boil a potato?” is often the modest query of paterfamilias in England, and in nine cases out of ten you may wager your best hat that she can do neither. Nevertheless, I have come to the conclusion that cooks .are in many cases wrongfully blamed in the matter of potato-cooking, that is to say, that their failure is often attributed to the wrong cause. We all know that the potato grows capriciously according to the weather it may have enjoyed, or have suffered from. A crop will sometimes prove mealy, and light, for the table, and at other times waxy, and heavy. It is therefore obvious that we should find out the merits or demerits of the tubers we buy, before we give our orders regarding their treatment in the kitchen. We ought not to expect all potatoes to turn out equally floury as a matter of course, and blame the cook if he fail so to serve them. There are fortunately so many ways of cooking potatoes that we need never be at a loss for a recipe. If nice and mealy we can, of course, boil, or steam them,—the latter method for choice,—and serve them plainly : but if waxy, we must proceed differently. Whether boiled, or steamed, a potato ought not to lie peeled; if it be very old, you cannot avoid removing the skin and eyes, but, in a general way, a potato is far better cooked “ in its jacket.” When done, the skin can be re- moved, if you wish, in the kitchen, and the dish be served plain, or in any one of the ways I shall presently speak of. The “ G. C.,” says :—“ After they have been carefully washed, put your potatoes, unpeeled, into a sauce-pan, filled with cold-water to the height of about an inch, then sprinkle140 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS, them with salt, and place a wet cloth on the top of them. The sauce-pan should be then put on the fire, and in about half an hour, drawn upon the kitchener (at the side of the fire) to remain hot till the potatoes are wanted.” Choose potatoes as much of a size as you can for boiling : do not boil a large and two small ones together if you can help it. When potatoes are boiled in the ordinary fashion, that is, placed in a sauce-pan with a due allowance of salt, and covered well with cold water, they should be lifted, and drained after half an hour’s cooking, and then be returned to the hot, empty sauce-pan, covered with a wet cloth, and placed at the margin of the fire to keep hot, and to dry them- selves thoroughly. In boiling potatoes in the ordinary method, it is a good thing to check the rate of cooking, every now and then, by adding a little cold water, and the time ought to he,—after boiling commences,-—from eighteen to twenty minutes. “ Steamed potatoes ” should be scrubbed, picked, and wip- ed, after having been set for five minutes or so in cold-water. Then place them in the steamer over boiling water, and let them steam till done: the time will vary according to size from twenty to forty minutes : the fork (or a skewer) should go through them easily, if not, they are not done. A minute in a fast oven will dry them if needful. New potatoes should be scrubbed, rubbed with a coarse cloth, and boiled or steamed according to taste : you cannot expect them to be very mealy, of course, and with some peo- ple their waxiness constitutes their chief charm. Having boiled or steamed our potato satisfactorily, let us see in how many ways we may serve it, presuming that we have turned it out as flourily as we could desire. First, of course, it may be sent up plainly, either in its skin, or crumbled into the dish made hot to receive it.141 OUR VEGETABLES. Secondly, it may be turned out upon a wire sieve, be rub- bed through it with a wooden spoon, and dished plainly in that form as “ potato-snow, ” jjommes de terfe rupees. Lastly, it may he mashed, and I maintain that true mashed potato can only be produced from a mealy tuber. A good way to mash potatoes is to break them up first in the dry hot sauce- pan in which they were boiled, working them well with a wooden spoon, and adding as much butter as you can spare, a little milk, and some salt. When fairly well mashed, to pass them through the sieve so as'to catch the knots, and then to form them as you like,—browning the mould in front of the fire, or in the oven before serving. If you want to get that foreign taste, which many people fancy in mashed potatoes, try the following method :—when your potatoes are nicely boiled, and drained, turn them back into their sauce-pan, which, after the draining, you must rub lightly with garlic : go on as previously described, be liberal with your butter, and instead of the milk, add a little stock from the soup kettle. A. dust of pepper, and a little nutmeg, will complete tho, puree, for remember that mashed potato abroad goes by the name oipurke depovimes de terre, and is sent to table not nearly as stiffly moulded as ours. Mashed potato brings us to more elaborate forms of potato cookery, viz. :—d la Diochesse, croquettes, dc. Potatoes d la Duchesse should be well worked through the sieve, enriched with the yolks of two or three eggs, and a gill of cream, and given a delicate flavouring of salt, pep- per, nutmeg, and chopped parsley : then rolled into balls, and either fried gently in butter, or browned in the oven on a buttered tin, having been previously brushed over with egg, and bread crumbed with very fine stale crumbs. A la “ G. C.”—A Bombay onion, boiled very soft, should be beaten, hot, with four times its bulk of potato; butter, cream, pepper, the yolks of two eggs, and salt should be142 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. added, and the whole passed through the sieve: roll this mix- ture into halls, and treat them as laid down for the Duchesse. Boulettes dr pnvimes dr terra are very tasty:—Mash eight fairly-sized potatoes, pass the purer through the sieve, work into it the yolks of live eggs; season it with a little finely- minced parsley and marjoram ; moisten it with enough cream to bring it to the consistency of thin paste ; add salt, pepper, and a dust of nutmeg; lastly, add the whites of three of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Prepare a hath of boiling fat, and then fry the boulettrs by passing tea-spoonfuls of the paste one after the other into the fat. As each little spoonful reaches the fat, it will swell up, and as soon as it turns a rich golden yellow, it is done. These can only be successful when the potato is dry, and floury. Croquettes can be made of cold mashed potatoes left from a previous meal. You must work them very much as pre- viously described, flavouring them with a little chopped parsley, a very little shallot, a little chopped thyme or mar- joram, or spices if you like : form them into rolls or tablets, and fry them a golden brown. The art of the cook will he made manifest by his presenting you with a tasty-looking morsel, of the right colour, and delicately flavoured. Change can, of course, be obtained by selecting herbs, &c., accord- ing to your pleasure. In frying croquettes, duchesses, dc., it is a sine qua non to use plenty of fat, and to see that it is boiling. If the fry- ing medium he not hot enough, and insufficient in quantity, you will never get the golden colour which perfection de- mands. Waxy potatoes, with the exception previously mentioned of new ones, should never be served plainly boiled: you should direct them to he cooked in one of the following ways:—dlamaitred’hotel, d laLyonnaise,sauUas, d 1’Ameri- cainc, dc. . •. . ..143 OUR VEGETABLES. Potatoes sautees (not to be confounded please with pota- toes frites) should be treated in this manner :—Boil your potatoes, then slice them moderately thickly, and toss them in plenty of butter in your frying-pan till they colour nicely, pour the brown butter over them', and give them a dust of salt. ' ■ ■! mV For maitre d'hdtel proceed as'above, adding a few drops of lime juice, a heaped up table-spoonful of very finely chop- ped curled parsley, and half a cupful of broth.'" Potatoes cl la Lyon liaise are achieved by first frying a Bombay onion (chopped small) in butter till it begins to brown, then adding a wine-glass of broth with your pieces of potato, tossing them till coloured, and finally giving them a dust of pepper and salt. Ford la Proyengale proceed as above, adding a little finely pared lime-peel, some chopped parsley, an atom of garlic, salt, pepper, and a dust of grated nutmeg. When serving, sprinkle a little lime juice over the potatoes. Potatoes d /’ Aviericaine :—Cut up your boiled potatoes into thick slices : flavour a little milk with onion, spice, pep- per, and salt; strain and thicken it, as laid down for melted butter, with butter and flour, till you have a nice sauce blanche ; place your slices of potato in this, and heat them up to boiling point : take the sauce pan off' the fire, stir in the yolk of an egg, add a large spoonful of chopped parsley, with a pat of butter the size of a rupee, and serve. Potatoes d la Parisicune are slices of potato gently heated up in sauce sonbise. “ Mock new potatoes ” make a nice dish for a change, and can be contrived out of a waxy tuber that refuses to be boiled flourily. Boil the potatoes as usual, and when nearly * Or the slices may be tossed in maitre d’hutel butter, with a few spoonfuls of broth,—W.144 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. done, cut them into pieces the shape and size of a pigeon’s egg: make a flour and butter sauce blanche slightly flavoured with mace, and put the pieces of potato into it. Simmer the potatoes in the sauce, and when thoroughly hot, serve. Chopped parsley, a coffee-cupful of milk in which the yolk of an egg has been stirred, and a lump of butter, may be added at the last moment. N.B.—It should he noted that the addition of milk or cream to potatoes as propounded to several of the foregoing recipes has the disadvantage of turning the composition sour after keeping. For this reason it may often he wiser to moisten them with stock, and enrich them with butter. Waxy potatoes, pressed through the sieve, and served like vermicelli,—a favourite dish of Ramasamy’s,—ought to he most strenuously interdicted. There is perhaps no nicer way of serving potatoes with chops, steaks, grilled chicken, roast pigeons, &c., than in the form of “ chips,” i.c., Pomnies de terra frites. An invalid, as a rule, takes a fancy to a potato thus plainly cooked, and it is a quicker way of doing it than by any of the other recipes. In the first place, after washing the potatoes well, peel them, and slice them carefully a uniform thickness—about half that of a rupee say—and spread them on a clean cloth to get rid of the moisture. Wipe them thoroughly, and spread a sheet of blotting paper ready for draining the chips hereafter. Now, dissolve a goodly allowance of clarified beef suet (or whatever you use for your frying medium) in your friture-pan, or a shallow stew-pan ; when quite boiling, drop in your potato slices—there should he enough fat to com- pletely cover them—and let them, as it were, boil therein : watch them as they are cooking narrowly, turning and moving them about continually, and as soon as they assume the golden tint you want,—a nice rich yellow, mind,—lift them quickly from the fat, and let them drain on the blot-145 OUR VEGETABLES. ting paper for a minute or two. When quite dry, turn them into a very hot silver dish (or garnish the dish, with which they are to go, with them) and serve. The main points to note here are, first the equal thick- ness of the slices, for if cut both thick and thin, the latter will be done more quickly than the former, and it is no easy thing to fish out the pieces that have taken colour from those that have not. Dry ing the chips well is essential num- ber two, plenty of boiling fat the third, and careful drainage when done the fourth. Pommes clc tcrref rites may he trimmed into various shapes, —filberts, dominoes, long narrow strips, &c., and cooked exactlyas “chips.” Uniformity in size is again necessary, and careful wiping before cooking. The cook must be a bit of an artist too in designing his patterns, or there will be sad waste in the cutting. A set of French vegetable cutters will be found most use- ful and economical for trimming purposes. Ignorant cooks are apt to confound “potato chips,” with “ fried potatoes : ” this should be explained away. “Fried potatoes,” Pommes cle terre sautees, are slices of boiled potato tossed about in butter in the saute-pun till lightly coloured. The “chips,” Pommes dc terre frites, are thin slices of raw potato absolutely boiled in fat in the fritu/re-pan. Peas (petitspois) may be boiled, cooked in the jar, or stewed. It is a sine quel non that boiled peas be young and fresh. You never get a dish of peas equal to those gathered in your own garden : those bought in the Indian market are, as a rule, far too old, having been allowed to attain the " largest size possible. I have eaten peas from my own gar- den at Bangalore, and Secunderabad, as delicious as could be desired. They were small, because the pods were cut 13146 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOB MADRAS. with their contents scarcely more than three parts deve- loped, but for flavour and tenderness, they could not have been better. During our winter season at Madras we can grow our own peas, and surely the trouble is slight when we consider the result. For boiled peas :—Put one quart of water with a tea- spoonful of salt, one of sugar, and half an ounce of green mint on the fire : when it boils, pour in a pint measure of shelled peas ; boil quickly ; when done, drain, and turn them out upon a frying-pan with an ounce of butter, sprinkle a little salt and finely-pounded sugar over them, work the pan till the butter melts, and is blended with peas, then empty them upon a hot dish and serve. (Goufle.) “ Peas in the jar.”—This is to my thinking the best way of cooking peas. You get the whole flavour of them, they- are rarely overdone ‘ to a mash,’ as boiled peas in clumsy hands often are, and even old peas become tender and eat- able by such treatment. Having shelled a pint of green peas, put them into a two-pound jam jar, with a screw lid,—or a block tin can with a closely fitting top,—(the vessel must be completely closed) and put in with them a table-spoon- ful of butter, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, a dozen mint leaves, and a very little black pepper. Cover the vessel down tightly, and immerse it in a stew-pan, or bain-marie half full of boiling water. Set the latter on the fire and boil briskly : the peas should be examined in half an hour by which time, if very young, they should be done. The French tinned peas are excellent when thus heated up. A quarter of an hour is ample : they should be drained from the 1 tin ’ liquor, and washed in ‘ two or three waters,’ as cooks say; that is, fresh water should be poured over them two or three times. The fresh butter, mint, itc., resuscitate the peas wonderfully.147 OUR VEGETABLES. Old peas may be stewed (petits pois accominodes) thus :— Put a lump of butter into a stew-pan with a Bombay onion sliced, a bunch of mint and parsley, and a tea-spoonful ot salt; cook this a while till the onions take a pale colour, and then add the peas, with as much broth as will just float them : simmer this patiently till the peas are thoroughly tender, then take up the pan, strain the liquor, spread out the peas on a dish and pick out the pieces of onion ; now thicken the liquor with hotter and flour, adding a tea-spoon- ful of sugar, and lastly, the peas again : stir well, bring the sauce-pan to steaming point, and serve. But, after all, there is no way of turning old peas to a satisfactory account as good as the puree. For this, boil them as previously described, and then work them through the sieve. When you have got them through, add butter, a little black pepper, salt, a very little sugar, with a spoon- ful of cream or good milk, and serve in a small mould. The flavour of lettuce is strongly recommended by some writers as a help to peas, and onions are also advocated. The lettuce should be shred, and put in with the peas to start with, and the onion should go in whole, both being re- moved when the peas are served. A slice of fat bacon is a capital thing to slip in with “ jugged peas.” Peas form a favorite entremets alone ; they should be, of course, carefully dressed, and served as hot as jiossible. The following styles are recommended :— 1. “ Petitspois aubeurre,”—boiled, or juggedpeas, serv- ed with a pat of fresh butter melted in a small sauce-pan, and mixed with them at the last moment. 2. “A la creme,"—a coffee-cupful of boiling cream poured over them just as you serve. 3. “ Au jambon,"—finely minced ham, tossed in butter and lightly fried, mixed with boiled, or jugged peas,148 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 4. “ Au lard,”—the same method, using bacon instead of ham. The bacon atoms should be nice and crisp. 5. The “pur&e,” previously described. French beans (haricots verts), are well worthy of our attention, for we can get them when other vegetables are out of season. They are, besides, the correct accompani- ment of the roast saddle, the roast loin, and, of course, of venison. Now, there is a very common and very grievous mistake, which cooks—in India especially—are prone to make. They slice the pods of this bean into thin strips. By doing this, nearly all the flavour of the bean is lost. The pods, which must he gathered young, should he simply peeled all round to get rid of the delicate fibre, their ends should he nipped off, and they should then be plunged into boiling water :—a pinch of soda will preserve their bright green tint, and at least a tea-spoonful of salt and one of sugar should be m ixed with the water. If quite young, there will be no fibre to remove. To preserve the green tint, the following plan is also re- commended :—Put a large spoonful of wood ashes in a piece of linen, fold it up, and place it in a strainer, pouring the boiling water in which the beans are to be cooked over it. This plan is equally efficacious with globe artichokes, cab- bages, &c. (Audot.) I have however found that French beans grown in India lose so much of their flavour by being boiled that I have adopted steaming them in an ordinary vegetable steamer. The pods may be cut across into lengths of an inch and a half to facilitate operations. Be sure that the beans are quite young, or they will be tough. As soon as the fibre round the pods becomes stringy, they are too old.149 OUR VEGETABLES. Having cooked the beans to your satisfaction, you can serve them in the following excellent methods, and always secure a nice entremets with them if you like :— 1 “ Aux fines herbes.”-—Turn them out into a hot dish, melt a lump of butter in a little sauce-pan with some finely- chopped parsley, some common garden cress, some finely- minced shallot if approved, some pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg,-—pour over the beans, and serve. 2. “ Ausauce blanche. ’ ’—Make a sauce blanche with flour and melted flutter, some of the water in which the beans wei'e cooked, salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg ; stir into this the yolk of a raw egg, or a spoonful of cream, give it two or three drops of lime-juice, and add as above. 3. “ Au sauce au fcoinage."—Make a sauce blanche as above, enrich it with the yolks of two eggs and a little milk or cream, dredge into it a table-spoonful of mild grated cheese, and pour it over the beans piping hot. 4. “ Au larcl."—Mince some fat bacon with a little shal- lot, and work them awhile in the sauce-pan : add the boil- ed French beans, toss them about for a minute or two, and serve. 5. “ A la creme.”—Pour a coffee-cupful of boiling cream over the beans. 6. “ A la maitre d’hotcl."—Stir a table-spoonful of meutre d’hotel butter into them when piping hot. A well-made tomato sauce, suubise sauce, or a rich vcloute, are all applicable to French beans : and a poulette made of butter, a little flour, and some of the water in which the beans were cooked, thickened with yolks of eggs, and sea- soned with salt, assists them greatly. French beans, cold, make a capital salad: I must, how- ever, reserve that form of serving them for discussion else- where.150 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. English people are apt to ignore the beans of haricots verts, kidney beans, scarlet runners, and dwarf beans, which when shelled green, and served in various ways are known abroad as flageolets. As a rule we try to eat the pods long after they have outgrown their edihle stage, and have become stringy and tough. Now, the young bean when about three parts grown is delicious, and, omitting the mint, may be cooked as laid down for peas and served as recommended for haricots verts. Fkujeolets cl la creme, cl la poulette, cl la maitre cl'hdtel, make quite a first class en- tremets. Haricots verts panaches, a capital dish, is composed of young green pods and shelled beans mixed together. You can thus dispose of the old pods, and use the tender ones to the best advantage. This recipe will be found useful by those who grow their own beans. N.B.—The water in which peas or beans are boiled, “ eau de la caisson,” is, remember, a weak stock. Use it when making your sauce blanche in preference to milk or plain water. The pepper used with these vegetables should be black, and freshly ground. For this you should possess one of the newly introduced pepper-mills. Cabbages (choux) must be cut in halves or quarters ac- cording to size, be carefully washed, their dead and bruis- ed leaves removed, and their stalks trimmed neatly. They must then be soaked in salt and water, (cold) with a table- spoonful of vinegar to get rid of insects, caterpillars, &c. When satisfied that they are fit to cook, plunge them into boiling water for five minutes to blanch : cool, drain, then put them into fresh boiling water with a large spoonful of salt, a similar measure of sugar, and a bit of soda and lift them as soon as your test with the skewer assures you that151 OUR VEGETABLES. they are done Pressure is now necessary to get rid of the water, and when thoroughly drained, they can be sent up. Cabbages however are better done in the steamer, by which process they do not absorb so much water, so do not require such careful draining. The flavour of all green vegetables, indeed, is more successfully developed by this system of cookery than by boiling. The only objection that may be urged is that their- colour is rarely so bright. This may be overcome by placing a bag with wood ashes enclosed in it in the water. Vegetables should be carefully prepared as if for boiling, some salt should be sprinkled over their leaves, and they should be placed, dry, in the perforated receptacle that fits into the top of the steamer. Water should then he poured into the lower vessel, tilling it not more than half full The steamer should then be placed over a brisk fire. After steaming has set in, the con- tents of the receptacle should be examined now and then, and tested exactly as boiled vegetables are. I can strongly recommend Warren’s vegetable steamer made of block-tin for this process. There are numerous methods of dressing greens,—after boiling or steaming them,—which ought to attract favour- able attention, and I can assure you that with a very little trouble you can turn out a most excellent series of dishes, which will well repay you, and raise the lowly cabbage to a much higher position in your estimation than it at pre- sent may occupy. Before I pass to the fanciful styles in which cabbages can be dressed, I ought however to call attention to a bad habit that the native cook often indulges in. I mean that of chopping up a plain boiled cabbage before serving it. Setting aside the ugly appearance that the dish presents « when thus maltreated, the chopping is a wasteful practice. The cut-up cabbage dries quickly, and will hardly be found worth dressing up a second time ; whereas, if served whole,152 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. the portion that may lie left after dinner, will remain nice and juicy, and will make a rechauffe in the form of a puree with potatoes and butter for breakfast; or, if cut up and tossed in butter in the frying-pan with finely-minced herbs, it will be acceptable with the chop or kidney. Let a plainly cooked head of cabbage, therefore, be sent up simply divid- ed into quarters, with a pat of fresh butter on the top of each, melting from the heat of the greens. 1. Here is a form of stewed cabbage (chow cm jus) that —if the head be nice and young—is worthy of being eaten alone :—Take a savoy or any good sort of cabbage, pick it carefully, and let it soak in salt and water and vinegar for an hour ; if a large head, you must divide it into quarters, and even a small head had better be cut in halves. When satisfied that the cabbage is thoroughly clean, blanch the pieces by plunging them for five minutes in boiling water, then either steam the quarters, or plunge them into boil- ing liot-water, with t, oz. salt and i oz. sugar, and after boiling for a quarter of an hour, take them out and drain them. Now, mince a thick slice of bacon, and a little shal- lot, parsley, marjoram, and thyme, with a pinch of sugar, and pepper and salt to taste ; put all in a stew-pan, and set it on the fire. As soon as the bacon melts, lay your cabbage quarters in it, toss them in the melted bacon for a minute or two and pour round them sufficient gravy to half cover them. Let this simmer gently till the cabbage is done. Then lift out the quarters, place them in a hot dish, and cover them up. Strain the gravy, thicken it with flour and butter, and pour it over the cabbage. The better your gravy in this case, the better the result. If, therefore, you can spare some turkey bones, or scraps of game, ham, or tongue to assist your ordinary stock, your entremets will be all the nicer. 2. Another good way, chon an sauce blanche may be de- scribed as follows :—Divide it into quarters, half-boil them,OUB VEGETABLES. 153 take it out, and drain it. Make a nicely flavoured sauce blanche (adding a little cream if you can spare it) place the quarters in this, complete their cooking therein, and serve, pouring the sauce over them. Or sauce au fromage may be used. 3. Cabbages may he cooked with rice, and gravy (chou au viz) :—Par-boil the cabbage, cut it up into pieces the size of an egg, and put them with an equal quantity of half boiled rice, into as much gravy as will cover them, simmer till done, then serve. Do not put in more gravy than is absolutely necessary, or the dish will turn out more like a pot age than an entremets. Grated cheese should be handed round with this. 4. A novel dish, Feuilles de chou farcies, is recommend- ed by a good authority which may be described in this way : —Boil the head of cabbage till the leaves become pliant: take it from the water, gently detach a number of leaves whole, and dry them on a clean cloth. Have ready some pounded quenelle meat of chicken and ham, or tongue with an anchovy, or any artistic mixture of savoury meats bound with an egg. Arrange a dessert-spoonful of this on a cabbage leaf, which roll carefully up in the form of a sausage : wrap two or three more leaves round this, and tie them up with white tape. Make six, or eight of these, and simmer them gently in some good brown gravy till the leaves are done. Now, pick out your rolls, untie the tapes, dispose them tastefully in the hot dish ready for them, thicken the gravy and pour it over them : sippets of crisply fried bacon will form an appropriate garnish : serve. A little cooked cabbage cut small, forms an agreeable addition to a pot-au-feu, and should always accompany pot age croiltc au pot. A recipe for perclrix au chou will he found in the menus. Brussels sprouts (Choux de Bruxelles) are susceptible of154 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. delicate treatment: they can be cooked according to recipe number two just given for cabbage, au sauce blanche, and also ('after having been boiled) in the following methods:— 1- —“ A la maitre (Thotel ” :—tossed in butter in a sauce- pan, with some minced parsley and the juice of a lime sprinkled over them, and salt and pepper to taste. 2- —“A laLyonnaise” :—fry a Bombay onion cut intothin rings in some butter; when a golden colour, add the sprouts, toss them together in the pan for a minute, and serve hot. 3. —“ Au jus” :—gently simmered in rich brown gravy, not thickened, but slightly flavoured with spice. 4. —“Au beurre” :—simply tossed in a good allowance of melted butter, with pepper and salt. 5. —-“A la creme ” :—served with a coffee-cupful of boil- ing cream poured over them. 6. —“A la pofylette ” :—sent to table with a libation of good poulette sauce. Cold greens of all kinds, especially sprouts, are exceed- ingly nice eaten plain with a tartcire sauce accompanying them. A dressing of oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and minced shallot is also a happy way of improving them ; and I can recommend you to try this :—cut some slices of bread into fancy shapes, or simple oblongs; fry them in butter a golden brown spread over them some hot minced greens, or pieces of sprouts, and serve them with a nice brown sauce, or with a layer of “■ buttered-eggs ” on the top of the greens. Cabbages of all kinds can he served d la puree, and in that way make a capital homely soup, or a pleasant accom- paniment to an entree. The cauliflower (Chou-flew) is, of course the queen of the cabbage kind, and well deserves our most careful con-OUR I EGETABLES. 155 sideration. In plain treatment, what I have said for cab- bages generally, holds good for this vegetable also, viz.:— draining in salt and water with vinegar, careful picking, and, if to be boiled, blanching, cooling, and then plunging into boiling water, with a tiny bit of soda to preserve the green tint of the leaves, salt and sugar. When boiled, or steamed, which is the better way, you must watch them care- fully lest they be overdone. You cau serve cauliflowers with a variety of sauces. Cut the stalk flat so that the cauliflower can sit up, as it wTere, the flower in the centre, and the leaves round it, pour about it a good tomato sauce,, or a plain sauce blanche, bechamel, or sauce piquante, and dust some finely rasped crumbs over the whole. After having been half-boiled, very small heads may be gently cooked in sauce blanche ; or the flower may be divid- ed into sprigs, which can be cooked in clear gravy, or in sauce blanche, and served with an entree. But the great dish to be studied thoroughly is cauliflower “augratin.” This is as practicable with the remains of a cold boiled cauliflower, as with a fresh one. Dispose the pieces of cauliflower in a well-buttered dish that will stand the oven, pour over them some melted butter: dust some grated cheese over them, pepper and salt, bake for ten minutes, and serve. With a fresh cauliflower you must boil or steam the head first till all but done, which you must test with a skewer, drain it thoroughly ; then dissolve two ounces of Parmesan, or any mild grated cheese, in a sauce composed as follows:— one ounce of butter, one and a quarter ounce of flour, one and a half pint of stock or water, pepper, and salt. Next arrange the flower to the best of your power in a neat pie- dish ; either whole if large enough, or in pieces with the green leaves introduced between each piece ; pour the sauce well round this, dust a layer of cheese over the surface, bake, and serve as soon as the top takes colour. A red-hot iron156 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. passed closely over the surface of the dish will brown it nicely. For those who do not like cheese, the following “ ait gra- tin'' is to be recommended :—arrange your pieces of cauli- flower as before explained, strew over them some fine stale bread-crumbs, with some olives, a few capers, and an an- chovy chopped up small; pour over this a cupful of hot melted butter, hake for ten minutes, and serve. Salad oil is better than melted butter, but I fear that my country- men will shrink from such a ‘ foreign’ suggestion. Spinach (epinards) is a thing that we can get in the most trying weather, and with common care no entremets dc legumes are more delicate than those which we can achieve with this vegetable. Having selected two pounds of leaves carefully, wash them well, blanch them by plunging them for a couple of minutes in scalding water, drain, cool, and chop them up. Put into a stew-pan one ounce of butter, three-quarters of an ounce of flour, and a pinch of salt, and one of sugar; stir this over the fire for three minutes, then add the spinach leaves ; stir round for five minutes, and moisten with a coffee-cupful of milk, gravy, or stock ; stir for two minutes more, and then add a breakfast-cupful of the milk or stock, stir for five minutes and take the pan from the fire. Now, mingle a little butter, with the spinach, or give it a spoon- ful of cream, or the yolk of an egg dissolved in a little milk, then turn it out upon a good hot dish, garnish it with sippets of fried bread, fleurons of puff pastry, or short-bread biscuits specially baked for the dish, and serve. I mix a little grated cheese with the short-bread paste which I think goes well with the spinach, and some give the least suspicion of sugar ; I think that the savoury method is the better of the two.157 OUR VEGETABLES. Short-bread biscuits for spinach may be made as fol: lows :—Put three ounces of flour into a bowl and mix into it two ounces of butter liquefied, a tea-spoonful of salt, the yolks of a couple of eggs, a salt-spoonful of sugar and an ounce of grated cheese, roll out the paste, cut it into heart- shapes one-third of an inch thick, and bake. Fleurons of nice puff-pastry form a nice garnish, and nothing can be nicer—as an entremets—than little patties made of puff-pastry, or short-bread crust, filled with care- fully-made spinach puree, and capped with buttered-egg. Please observe that water is not used in this method, nor is the spinach boiled : it is simply quickly stewed in gravy or milk. The operation is performed in a quarter of an hour. Note that it is not at all necessary to pass spinach through a sieve. If they are young, and tender, you should, after draining and blanching the leaves thoroughly, chop them up, and if cooked as I have described they will take the consistency of a puree without any mashing. You can serve them with a poached egg or two on the top of them ; or you can fry some slices of bread, butter them, and dress your minced spinach over them, with a cap, for each piece, of “ buttered-egg,” or a tiny pat of maitre d'hotel butter. A nice mild anchovy toast, kept hot in the oven, and served with a layer of spinach over its surface is very nice : whilst a little mound of spinach puree garnished with hard boiled eggs, forms an attractive centre for an entree of cut- lets. A pleasing looking entremets of spinach is made by shaping the greens in a circle, and leaving a hollow centre to he filled with “ buttered-egg ” plain, or coloured red with tomato-pulp. iiiNDivE (chicoree) may be treated exactly as I have de- scribed for spinach, but being a tougher leaf, it will require a little more time in the stew-pan. The young leaves of 14158 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. beetroot, “ turnip tops ” (leaves), and water-cress, are capa- ble of similar dressing. Sorrel (oseillc) which should be dressed in the manner described for spinach is not half enough used. Your cook will know it if you order “sorely,”—Kamasamy’s pro- nunciation of the double ‘ r ’ being peculiar)—and nothing is nicer than a mutton (neck) cutlet or fillet of beef with a sorrel puree, for the pungent taste of the vegetable suggests a novelty to your palate. My readers who are in the habit of enjoying themselves on the Neilgherries ought to try a dish of pork cutlets with a puree of sorrel {menu No. 12), for with a rich white meat, sorrel is especially agi’eeable. Some prefer half sorrel and half spinach, or a quarter of spinach to three-quarters of sorrel: this is of course a matter of taste. I mentioned this vegetable in connection with potage cl la bonne femme when talking about soups, and I may add now that a plain gravy soup thickened, and flavoured with sorrel puree is far from bad. In cooking sorrel, onion and a little sugar are essen- tial, and lettuce leaves are a great assistance. This vegetable is largely cultivated by the Natives. Hind :—cookch-paluk, Tam :—choke!b-keeray. The Jerusalem artichoke (topinambour) is a vegetable which, as a rule, people either dislike exceedingly, or are very fond of. I place it amongst the best we have. Wash the artichokes, peel and shape them nicely, dropping each one into salt and water at once to prevent its turning black ; when all are ready, put them into a sauce-pan with a gallon of cold-water, and two table-spoonfuls of salt; boil till tender (which will take about twenty minutes after boiling-point has been attained) and drain, serving them with a nice sauce blanche.159 OUR VEGETABLES Or, when three parts clone, yon can lift them up, and simmer them till quite done, in rich brown gravy. Or, you can, when half-boiled, drain them dry, and bake them upon a well-buttered tin, serving them with plain melted butter, a dressing of oil, vinegar, minced shallot and salt, or any sauce piquante you fancy. But,- like the cauliflower, the Jerusalem artichoke is worthy of the epicure’s attention when sent up ‘ ‘ au gratin. The combination being a puree of plain boiled artichoke, slightly diluted with cream, and seasoned with pepper, and salt : this, turned into a well-buttered pie-dish, its surface dusted over with finely grated mild cheese, and the whole baked until the top takes colour. Good milk with the well beaten yolks of two eggs may take the place of cream, or a sauce blanche, but if perfection be desired, pray use cream. Instead of using a pie-dish the puree may be baked in some well-buttered coquille shells, and served upon a napkin. Another artistic method of doing this vegetable is this :— Cut half a dozen large ones, after they have been three parts boiled, into long strips about a quarter of an inch thick, dip them in the batter I describe elsewhere, and fry them a golden tint: these fritters are excellent; you can order them alone as an entremets, or pile them in a pyramid as the central garnish of an entree. Jerusalem artichokes can be served in a mould, iced, with iced cream or a mayonnaise sauce, or hot with a Parmesan, or rich white sauce. For the mould, follow this recipe :— Two pounds of the artichokes boiled in milk : half a pint of cream : four eggs : pepper and salt. Mash the artichokes, and pass them through the hair sieve, add the cream, the eggs xyell beaten up, whites and all, and season with pep- per and salt. Put the mixture into a well-buttered pudding mould, and steam it for one hour. Turn it out, and gar-160 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOB MA DBAS. nish it with tomato pur&e, Parmesan sauce, or a rich ve- louU. Or:—ice the mould, and turn it out, sending it up as above mentioned with iced cream or a cold mayonnaise sauce in a boat. The name of this excellent entremets is creme de topinambours. Undeniably good as the Jerusalem artichoke is, it is, of course, inferior to the Globe or leafy kind (artichaut). These are properly considered the choicest delicacies of the Neilgherry market by many people. A globe artichoke, like a cabbage, must be well soaked in salt and water with a little vinegar to get rid of the insects which may be hid- den between the leaves. Then it must be set head down- wards in boiling water, with soda and salt, and boiled till the leaves part easily from the core. When done, you must drain it, and dish it hot: a little “ Dutch sauce,” in which a few drops of anchovy vinegar, or lime-juice have been introduced, with a judicious modicum of black pepper and salt, forms an agreeable accompaniment. “ Dutch sauce,” remember, is butter plainly melted. There are several high class ways of serving globe arti- chokes which I, of course, dedicate to my readers who hap- pen to be staying on the Hills. First let me give you directions for the trimming of an artichoke secundum artem. Place the raw vegetable bot- tom downwards on a board, and with a sharp knife at once cut it straight down, dividing it in half; then divide each half so obtained so that you have four quarters : next pare out the ‘ choke’ which adheres to each quarter, as you would core an apple, and trim off the leaves leaving about an eighth of an inch of them unsevered and adhering to the trimmed quarters. Drop each piece as you trim it into cold water in which a lime has been squeezed, or aOUR VEGETABLES. 161 table-spoonful of vinegar poured, to prevent its turning black, and when you have prepared enough for the dish you require, throw the quarters into boiling water with a dessert-spoonful of salt, and a spoonful of vinegar ; and in about fifteen minutes, when nearly done, lift them out and drain them. They may be now finished off in these several ways :— 1. —'As “ beignets ” :—by being cut into slices dipped in batter, and fried in boiling fat till of a bright golden tint. 2. —Or,—“ au sauce blanche ” or “ bechamelin which they should be gently simmered. 3. —Or,—“ d la viaitre cl’hdtel ” :—tossed in butter, and served on a hot silver dish, with the melted butter, a-squeeze of lime juice and a sprinkling of very finely chopped curled parsley. 4. -—Or,—“ augratin’’:—-the pieces neatly disposed upon a silver dish, with a little gravy round them to keep them from burning, dusted over with very finely sifted bread- crumbs, chopped mushroom, parsley, and a little shallot, pepper, salt, and a piece "of butter on the top of each piece, then baked for ten minutes and served hot. 5. —Or, “ a V Italienne” :—as in the foregoing, substitu- ting a dusting of mild grated cheese for bread-crumbs, omit- ting the mushroom and chopped herbs, and merely adding the pepper, salt, and butter. 6. —Or, “ d l' Espagnole ” :—-gently simmered in rich brown sauce. 7. Or, ‘ ‘ d la Lyonnaise ’ ’the pieces heated in the oven very carefully, piled upon a hot silver dish, and a rich brown sauce (with finely minced onion fried, and a table- spoonful of minced parsley incorporated therewith) poured over them. 6-—Or, “ a la poivarade " :—trimmed as aforesaid, sim- mered in blanc, and served with sauce poivradc.162 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS, Artichoke bottoms (fonds d’artichauts cntiers) are trim- med in this way :—Cut the tops of the leaves horizontally, parallel with, and close down to the top of the “fond.” Trim all leaves that may adhere to the fond quite closely all round, and pare off the stalk smoothly. Now, plunge the artichoke bottoms into boiling salt and water, and blanch them to facilitate the scooping out of the “ choke,” which should be done with a silver spoon. With artichokes thus prepared you can turn out :— Fonds d’artichauts d la barigoule :—Having drained six artichoke bottoms of a fair size, and scooped out their chokes, give them a dust of salt and pepper, put them on a clean dish, and prepare this ‘ farce ’:—four ounces of finely minced bacon, a quarter ounce of butter and the same weight of flour, a coffee-cupful of broth, and one table-spoonful of very finely minced parsley, one table-spoonful of finely min- ced mushrooms, and one dessert-spoonful of finely chopped white onion. Stir the mixture over the fire for five minutes, and then fill the hollows of the artichoke bottoms with it. Tie a very thin slice of bacon over each fond, and put them in a stew-pan with a breakfast-cupful of good gravy. Put the stew-pan into the oven, and bake for twenty minutes, ascertain if tender, then dish up and serve. [Gouffe] For this dish Audot recommends that the fonds be placed upon lean slices of veal or pork, which should be laid at the bottom of a braising-pan ; that the gravy should be poured in, and that the process should be that of braising. For fonds d’ artichauts d la Provenfale, prepare the arti- chokes as above without the ‘ farce,’ place them in a pie- dish with enough salad oil to keep them moist and safe from burning, and with six cloves of garlic, pepper, and salt. Put the dish into the oven, and bake : when the fonds are tender, remove the garlic, give them a dust of pepper and the squeeze of a lime, dish up, and serve. People who dislikeOUR VEGETABLES. 163 oil, and a ‘far-off’ suspicion of garlic can, of course, use melt- ed butter, and slices of shallot. Fonds d'artichauts a la bechamel or d la creme, make a very excellent entremets. Trim as already described, sim- mer them in blanc, and serve either with bechamel sauce, or boiling cream. I have been successful withfonds d’artichauts cl lamoelle. Cook the fonds till tender in blanc. Prepare some beef mar- row—i.e., break the bone, cut the raw marrow into pieces, and blanch them in scalding water. Take as many silver coquilles as you have fonds, butter them, and place a fond in each shell, fill the cavity of the foncl with marrow, heat the coquilles in the oven hot, and just before you serve, pom* into the centre of each a little hot Espcujnole sauce. If you have no coquilles, pastry cases answer very well : make them in round patty pans. Cold boiled artichoke bottoms can be mashed up with cream, and a little butter, seasoned with pepper and salt, top-dressed with crumbs, or grated cheese, and baked in a little pie-dish, or in silver coquille shells. Or, the mixture can be placed inside little pastry patties like oyster patties and served on a napkin (bouchees d’arti- chauts). This latter method is equally practicable with Jerusalem artichoke puree, and if your cook can make light pastry, these little patties, will be found very nice indeed. Remember when writing your menu, with regard to these two vegetables, that the ‘ artichaut' is the globe or leafy kind. The Jerusalem artichoke should be called ‘ topi- nambour' Turnips, (navets) do not require much discussion; it should he remarked, however, that when nice and young, they are well worthy of attention, especially as garnishes for entrees, stews, &c. Think of appearance when serving them, and shape the roots into little cones or ovals, of an164 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. equal size. I once saw a dish of turnips served d la creme which was quite worthy of separate service afe an entremets : the roots had been cut into pieces and shaped about the size of a bantam’s egg, boiled to a turn, and served with a coffee-cupful of boiling cream poured over them to finish with. Trimmed in the same way, young turnips can be sent up d lapoulette or ala, bechamel. The French dish of young turnips called ngvets glaces ought to he very popular. Trim the turnips into shapes like small pears, or cones, and boil them till nearly done in salt and water ; drain them, and put them into a sauce- pan with plenty of melted butter, and sprinkle thei'n boun- tifully with powdered sugar, stir gently over the fire until they begin to brown, and then add a spoonful or two of clear stock : pepper and salt should now be given, let them simmer till quite tender and serve them in their own sauce. It is recommended by some to let the sugar form a sort of caramel round the turnips before adding the stock : in that case you must put the turnip pieces (when the cara- mel stage has been reached) into a separate sauce-pan, wash out the first one with a little stock, pour that over them, and stew gently as in the other recipe. Caramel is, of course, sugar slowly melted over the fire, till it has attain- ed a rich brown tint. Parsnips, knolkhol, and small round onions, (of the size usually pickled) are susceptible of similar treatment, and any brown entree may be garnished with vegetables glacis in this form. The puree of turnips with cream is, of course, well known, and all root vegetables make toothsome additions to your ordinary dish of meat, or cutlets, as purees, or when cutup and mixed cunningly as a macedoine de legumes.165 OUR VEGETABLES. Small ‘early’ carhots (carottes) and parsnips (panais) may be trimmed a uniform size, boiled gently, and finally tossed in butter, in a frying-pan, with pepper, salt, and some finely-powdered sugar. Or, they may lie similarly treated, and sent up d la maitre d'hdtel, aux fines herbes, etc. Carrots cut into round balls, gently simmered till ten- der in blanc, and then dressed with sauce blonde, or d la poulette, make a charming central garnish for a dish of cutlets, which, when thus presented, should be called “ d la Nivernaise.” Garottes d la Flamande are worthy of close considera- tion :—Choose a pound and a half of tender carrots, blanch them in scalding water, scrape off their tough skin, and trim them in slices the eighth of an inch thick. Put the pieces into a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, a pinch of salt and one of sugar, and enough stock or water to coverthem. Cover the pan, and simmer for twenty minutes, shaking the pan occasionally to ensure even cooking. When done, remove the pan, let its contents cool a little, and then strain off the liquid from the pieces of carrot. Carefully separate two yolks of eggs from the whites, and beat them well with a little of the cooled liquid; stir this into the rest of it en bain-marie, adding finally a coffee-cupful of cream, half an ounce of butter, and a table-spoonful of chop- ped parsley. Dish the carrots, pour the sauce over them, and serve. The onion, (oignon) can be made a good deal of either stuffed plainly, or with sheep’s kidney, as I have described in my menus : indeed whether plainly boiled, or stewed, onions rarely fail to please those who are fond of them. A very presentable dish is “ oignons an gratin’’ made in this way:—boil them in milk till tender; cut them up as finely as possible, moisten with some of the milk they were166 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. boiled in, and mash them, mix well, adding a coffee-cupful of cream, or milk enriched with the yolk of an egg, pepper, and salt. Put the puree into a shallow pie-dish, strew a layer of grated cheese over the surface, and bake for a few minutes till the top takes colour. You must, of course, butter the pie-dish, and also sprinkle a little melted butter over the cheese. Onions, if of a moderate size, can be served a la creme, a la bechamel, d V Espagnole, &c., and are invariably accept- able with the releve when so treated. Vegetable marrows, (courges a la moelle) are very nice, and in their turn not to be passed over. I think the best way of cooking them is to steam, or bake them till all but done, then to lift, and drain them, removing the seeds, and shaping them into fillets, &c., as desired. You can then heat the fillets up in a previously made white, or brown sauce flavoured to taste, and serve them as soon as tender. Marrows if old should, of course, be peeled before steaming. The vegetable-marrow is also worthy of a place amongst entremets deUgumes, when served “ augratin," baked inlay- ers, or fillets, in a little stock, and dusted over with grated cheese; or as “ beignet.s—partly cooked, and cut into con- venient pieces, which should be dipped in batter, and fried a golden brown in boiling fat. An uncommon dish with a marrow is that called “ mock whitebait”:—You parboil the marrow, and then cut it up into a number of pieces about the size of the whitebait, then roll them on a floured cloth, and fry them, at a gallop in a bath of seething fat; lift them gut and drain them when they turn a golden yellow, pile them on a napkin, and serve with a dust of cayenne, and limes, cut in quarters, handed round with brown-bread and butter. But this vegetable is at its best when gathered very167 OUR VEGETABLES. young, (counjettes)—about the size of a goose’s egg,—and served whole : the seeds being then scarcely formed, need not be cut out. ft can thus be served cl la maitre d’hotel, with Parmesan sauce, &c. Cold, with oil and vinegar dress- ing, it is excellent. Carefully avoid the awful English custom of serving mar- rows on sodden toast. Cucumbers, (concombres) may he cooked exactly as laid down for vegetable-marrows. They form a most pleasing and delicate garnish for boiled fish, or cutlets, when dress- ed d la poalette as follows :— Take a good sized cucumber, or two small ones ; cut them lengthwise into quarters, remove the seeds, and peel off the green skin. Cut them into pieces two inches long and one inch thick, and put them into a stew-pan with plenty of boiling water, half an ounce of butter, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Simmer them until three parts done ; then drain the liquor off, and turn the pieces of cucumber out upon a clean dish, cut each piece in half and cover them up. Make half a pint of jooulctte sauce, put the pieces of cucumber into it, warm gently in the bain-marie, and serve. Or, the pieces may be.simmered until cooked, then drain- ed, piled up on a hot silver dish, and served with a pat of maitre cl’hotel butter melting over them. In this manner they are very nice with a dish of lamb cutlets. Small cucumbers and marrows may he stuffed, and cooked as follows :—{concombres fcircis) Peel and half boil the cu- cumber, slice off a piece at one end, and pick out the seeds with a marrow-spoon ; stuff the hollow thus formed with a farce made of pounded meat, and bread-crumb, two-thirds of the former to one of the latter. Season the farce with pepper and salt, a little minced shallot and parsley, and bind it with a well whipped egg; fix on the end you removed168 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. with white of egg, and secure it with tape. The cucumber can now he baked, or gently simmered in some gravy which should be thickened and poured over it when done. Pumpkins, (potirons) may be treated when young and tender much in the same manner as marrows and cucum- bers. Beetroot, (bctterave).—This root, chiefly used cold as a salad by itself, or mixed with other vegetables in salad, is by no means to be despised when served hot with a nice ■po alette sauce. Beetroot is far better baked than boiled. After having thus cooked it, peel off the skin, cut it into slices, season them with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and cress, and give them a turn or two in a pan with a pat of butter and a few drops of vinegar. Dish up, and pour a poulette sauce over them. If allowed to get cold, the slices may be served with moyonnaise sauce. Beetroot leaves can be turned to excellent account either dressed as spinach, for which the tender ones should be cho- sen, or as cardoonSj.in which case the mid-rib of the larger leaves should be cut out, and gently stewed in blanc. Tomatoes (tomcites) form a most valuable portion of our vegetable produce. They are easily grown in this Presi- dency, and are often procurable when the stock of garden stuff has sunk to its lowest stage during the hot weather. Whether cut up cold in its raw state, and eaten as a salad, -^or, in the form of puree as a soup, or sauce,—“ augratin ” as an entremets,—with maccaroni,—with fish, or with other vegetables, as a garnish,—the tomato never fails to be a welcome friend. In Italy, Spain, and Southern France, it forms a staple part of the daily food of all classes, and I be- lieve that I am right in saying that it is a very wholesome0 TJB VEGE TABLES. 169 vegetable in a hot climate. I give you elsewhere several dishes in which tomatoes play an important part, I will, therefore, confine myself now to two excellent recipes for serving them as an entremets. “ Au cjratin’’:—Cut a slice off the top of each tomato as you would decapitate a boiled egg. With a dessert-knife scoop out the pulp and seeds from the shell as well as you can, put the cases so obtained on one side : make a puree with the scooped out pulp proceeding as laid down for to- mato sauce, (q. v.), strain off the seeds, and thicken it with fine bread-crumbs : beat up some’ eggs (one for every two cases) and mix the whole well, stuff the cases therewith, give the surface of each a light dusting of grated cheese, bake on a buttered dish for ten minutes, and serve. Another method, which has the advantage of simplicity, may be followed in this way. Put an ounce of butter into a small stew-pan, throw into it a table-spoonful of finely minced sweet onion, put the pan on the fire and lightly fry the onion; before the pieces take color, put into the vessel four or five large, or a dozen small tomatoes, cut up into small pieces. Stir well over the fire until the tomatoes are thoroughly cooked. Now rub an au gratin dish with a piece of garlic, butter it, and pour into it the contents of the stew-pan, dust over the surface a layer of Parmesan, Gruyere, or other mild cheese, and bake for eight or ten minutes: serve hot. “A V Italienne” :—Cutthe tomatoes in halves, scoop out the pulp and seeds with a silver spoon, and place the cases on a baking dish upon which you have poured a little of the best salad oil. Make a mixture of grated ham, bread-crumbs, some finely minced shallot, parsley, marjoram, and thyme, seasoned with pepper and salt; mix this with the tomato pulp, and fill the cases, covering them completely, shake an allowance of salad oil in drops overall, and bake for a few minutes, serving the dish intact as it comes from the oven. 15170 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. The proportion of crumbs to the ham should be two spoon- fuls of tbe former, to one of tbe latter, the flavouring herbs, &c., to taste at discretion. Chopped anchovies, olives, capers, mushrooms and truffles, can be introduced if at hand, and butter (melted) may be used by those who do not like oil. N. B.—The skin of the tomato affects some people seri- ously, it is therefore advisable to remove it from all dishes in which it might be accidentally eaten. Celery, (celeri) is an exceedingly nice vegetable not only when sent round, raw, with cheese, but also when cooked in various ways as an entremets. In the latter case the heads should be very neatly trimmed and cut short, say five or six inches in length. They can then be split lengthwise in two or four pieces according to the thickness of the head. When prepared satisfactorily, the pieces should be plunged into fast boiling water, and boiled for ten minutes. They must now be taken out, drained, and wiped, and then put to stew gently for about two hours. As soon as tender, they must be strained, turned out upon a hot silver dish, and served like asparagus with a pat of butter melting over them, a piping hot “ Dutch sauce ” being sent round in a boat. Celery may be also stewed gently in weak stock, or blanc and then be presented a T Espagnole (covered with a thick rich brown sauce), au vcloute (with a white sauce), or cm jus in clear gravy. Blanc, which I have already mentioned with reference to vegetable cookery, is a kind of stock made as folloAvs :— Cut up as small as possible a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, or a quarter of a pound of beef suet, and put the pieces with a bacon bone, or some broken-up chicken bones, into a stew-pan. Add a couple of carrots, and two large sweet onions cut up small, a bunch of curly parsley, a tea-spoon-171 OUR VEGETABLES. ful of dried thyme or marjoram, a dozen pepper corns, a tea- spoonful of sugar and one of salt, and stir well over a brisk fire till the fat melts well, and the vegetables begin to fry in it. Do not let them brown, but pour in before that stage arrives enough warm water to cover them completely. N ow draw the pan to the edge of the fire, and cook very gently, carefully stirring the contents of your pan to prevent them catching. When the vegetables, &c., have been well cook- ed, strain off the liquid, put it in a clean sauce-pan, and boil until it has diminished to about a quarter of its ori- ginal-quantity, then strain it off into a bowl. When re- quired, this vegetable essence should be carefully skimmed, poured into a sauce-pan, and sufficient water should be added to cook the celery or other vegetable that may lie put into it. Celery stewed in blanc can be served advantageously a lamoelle, i.e., with beef marrow. In this case you must thicken the blanc in. which it was cooked, and color it with caramel. The marrow should be treated in this way :—Break the bone, take out the raw marrow, cut it into dice, blanch them for five minutes in scalding water, drain them, and heat them up gently in a little of the saucer?; bain-marie. A dessert-spoonful each of this should lie put into little croustades of fried bread, and served round the celery as a garnish. Cut your croustades square, out of stale bread, and hollow a little space in each to hold the marrow ; or make little pastry cases, in small patty pans, and fill them with the marrow. Pile the celery in the centre of the dish, pour the remainder of the sauce over it, and serve, with the croustades in a circle round it, very hot. Cardoons, (carrions) a la moellc are of course well known by those who have travelled abroad. I have seen tinned cardoons in India, but not the vegetable itself. According to M. Audot the strong mid-ribs of the leaves of white beet-] 72 GULIN AB,Y JOTTINGS FOB 'MADBAS. root (cardan poirdes), and the tender stalks of the globe arti- choke plant (pieds cl’articliauts), form a nice substitute. The latter should be scraped free from their fibrous skin, cut into four inch lengths, and stewed in blanc as described for celery a la mocllc. • In order to blanch the artichoke stems, it is necessary, after the vegetable has been gathered, to bend the shoot down, and earth it up : the parts thus covered turn white, and in this way you obtain an excellent substitute for car- doons. Salsify, (salsifis ouscorsondre) isan edible root which we ought to grow abundantly in India. There are two kinds of this vegetable :—the white and the black. The former is called salsifis, the latter, which is by far the better, scorso- nata. The one is gathered in its first year’s growth, the other not until it is two years old. I do not know whether any of our horticultural societies havq yet introduced sal- sify or not ; for the benefit of those who, like myself, have grown it in India, I take the opportunity of recommending the previous recipe (viz.:—a la mocllc) as equally applicable to the gently stewed roots of this plant. Salsify has a very perceptible flavour of the oyster (is indeed called the “ oyster plant ” in America), and forms several delicious an tramets. The roots peel easily when boil- ed, and when mashed the pulp is as white as snow. Simply mashed with cream, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, with a covering of bread-crumbs strewn over it, and a little meltedbutter, then baked till brown, and servedin coquilles, salsify presents an exact imitation of “oysters scalloped.” Salsify puree with cream can be served wherever oyster sauce is recommended,—-with a tasty fillet of beef for in- stance,—it makes a most toothsome patty, and as a white soup (pu/rde) it can be sent up as a bisque d’hultres. Never peel black salsify (scorsondre) before boiling, for, ifOUR VEGETABLES. 173 cut when raw, it “ sweats,” and loses much of its moisture. Boil first, and peel afterwards. This advice, though con- trary to that of most writers on cookery, is the result of personal experience. Asparagus, and seakale, if procurable, should be picked carefully, washed, and tied up with tape in little bundles with all the heads level : then, with a very sharp knife, the stalks should also be cut level. Put the trimmed bundles into fast boiling water with a good allowance of salt and a little sugar. The bundles should then be carefully drain- ed, and the tape severed, the vegetable being served cm na- turel, with “ Dutch sauce,” or a plain dressing of oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. The following valuable wrinkle is given by the author of Food and Feeding :— Asparagus of the stouter sort, always when of the giant variety, should be cut of exactly equal lengths, and boiled ’ standing ends (the green tips) upwards, in a deep sauce-pan. Nearly two inches of the heads should be out of the water —the steam sufficing to cook them, as they form the ten- derest part of the plant; while the hard stalky part is ren- dered soft and succulent by the longer boiling which this plan permits. A period of thirty or forty minutes on the plan recommended will render fully a third more of the stalk delicious, while the head will be properly cooked in the steam alone. There is a custom followed by ignorant English, as well as by native cooks, of placing a slice of toasted bread in the dish destined to receive a bundle of asparagus, seakale, &c., over which they finally pour a plentiful bath of tasteless flour and water called “ white sauce.” The toast is utterly unnecessary, and the sauce—butter plainly melted—ought invariably to be handed round, piping hot, in a boat. A few drops of tarragon vinegar may be stirred into this “ Dutch174 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. sauce,” (page 96 and the vegetable having been carefully drained should be laid in a very hot dish, with a pat of fresh butter or maitre d’hotel butter placed on top of it to melt over all. Asparagus ought never to be served in the ordinary Eng- lish fashion with common sauce blanche. Fresh butter, melted, with salt, and a drop or two of vinegar, form its sim- plest and nicest aid. Tinned asparagus may be treated exactly in the same way after having been drained, and heated up in the bain- marie in its own tin, the water reaching about half-way up the tin. Care should be taken to avoid over-doing tinned asparagus, and in turning it into the dish also, lest the pointes break. As already explained, “ Dutch sauce,” in a piping hot boat, should accompany it. The liquid in the tin, after having been drained, should on no account be thrown away; it comes in most usefully for a thick soup made with asparagus, or for a puree for asparagus toast. A very nice way of serving asparagus as an entremets is iced, with pure cream also iced as its sauce. It is, in this way, quite the best “ dressed vegetable” for a hot weather dinner. The green ends of asparagus (“pointes d’asperges ”) form an artistic accompaniment to an entree, they are excellent when added to a clear soup, and make a very superb puree. “ Asparagus peas ” are made by chopping the green ends of the shoots into dice, and then treating them as peas. And this leads me to the subject of:— Tinned Vegetables. Nothing proves the inferiority of the English system of vegetable cookery more palpably than the futile efforts ofOUR VEGETABLES. 175 our best exporters of preserved provisions to compete, in this particular branch of their business, with the great French and American firms. Compare the tinned green peas, or asparagus, exported by the former with the petits pois verts, or asperges we get from France. Of these I have already spoken ; we may accordingly proceed to consider :— Tinned French beans, (haricots verts). These excellent vegetables should be turned out upon a saute-pan, shaken in butter until hot, and served. Or they may be treated in any of the methods already set forth for cooked fresh hari- cots verts. They make excellent purees, and may be cut up, and warmed with other vegetables in a macedoine de legumes. I strongly recommend them to be served d la creme, or a la poulette, with a saddle of mutton. Flageolets, another delicious tinned legume, should be carefully warmed, andthensevvedcllajmulette, or d la creme, or plainly cl la maitre cVhotel. They are very effective when associated with other vegetables “cl la macedoine,’’ and especially nice if mixed with haricots verts, moistened with some fresh butter, and served as haricots panaches. Fonds d’artichauts, if delicately handled, may be cooked up in any of the ways recommended for the cooked fresh artichoke. Pointes d’asperges are, as a rule, too soft to stand much manipulation. The safest plan is to heat them cn bain-marie in their tin, drain off their liquor and then to turn them into the soup or sauce in which they are to be served. They make an excellent addition to a chaucl froicl if set carefully in the border of aspic which should of course be iced. Pure iced cream is, in such circumstances, their best sauce. Macedoine de legumes as a central garnish for cutlets can hardly be surpassed. The macedoine must be gently heated up in a really good poulette, or bechamel sauce, and a spoonful of cream may be added if liked.176 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. These excellent French tinned vegetables make, when cleverly amalgamated, a most delicious salacle caite. For this they should be iced. Dried haricot beans (Soissons) are now procurable in India, a few leading firms having imported them in the bag from France, and America. These vegetables will be found most valuable, for they are very nutritious and whole- some. They must be soaked for at least twelve hours, and then be placed in cold water with a little salt, and gra- dually boiled. When boiling point has been attained, the vessel should be drawn to the side of the fire, and its con- tents simmered till they are soft. They should be served with a pat of butter melting among them, a dust of freshly ground black pepper, and salt. Bacon, cut into dice and fried, may be introduced with them or they may be served dlapoulette, d lamctitrecVhotel, or with brown sauce. When served in brown sauce with a leg of mutton, a sauce soubise accompanying, you have gigot d la Bretonne. Haricot beans {Lima) are exported from America in cans, already cooked. They can be served as above described. Country Vegetables. I have the highest respect for all country vegetables, and have given recipes for cooking brinjals (bincgun), bande- kai (bhincli), greens {bhagee), podolongkai [chuchoonda), sorrel (chookch-paluk), moringakai {mooringd), &c., which will be found amongst my menus. Indian corn, or maize, Tammuckacholum; Hind, boota; is capable of artistic treatment d V Americainc,—stripped from the young pod, boiled like peas, and then (drained, tossed in melted butter, peppered, salted, and served. Plenty of butter is a sine qud non . Or the corn may be stripped off after boiling, and similarly treated.OUB VEGETABLES. Ill It is useless to attempt to serve Indian corn unless the cobs be quite young. All country beans, from the “ duffin” bean downwards, may be cooked, when nice and young, as broad-beans (feres de inarais):—boiled, with plenty of salt in the water, till the skins crack, then peeled and tossed in butter, and served : or the}7 may be sent up as a puree somewhat stifiy worked. The water in which fresh beans are cooked should be boiling when they are first put in, Here is .a good standard dish of beans (feres a let bour- geoise):— Having boiled and skinned-the beans, turn them into a stew-pan over a slow fire with a table-spoonful of tinned butter ; mix with them a table-spoonful of flour, and mois- ten with some of the water in which the beans were boiled; season with pepper and salt, and when nice and creamy, serve. For country greens, follow the receipts given for spinach, sorrel, endive, and turnip-tops. A vegetable can always be got in the hot weather called (locally) “ mollay” the tender branches or stalks of which are edible, ( “ mollay-keeray” j. Treated as laid down for asparagus, you will find this vegetable worth trying. Be sure that stalks are nice and young, cut them into three inch lengths, tie them in bundles, and boil them in boiling salt and water, then drain carefully, and serve them with a nice sharp sauce in a boat; or iced, with cream. The young leaves of this plant can also be dressed as spinach. Water-cress, common on our Hills, and frequently grown in private gardens, can be dressed like spinach, and in that form will be found most tasty. Young pumkins, dil-pussund, or marrows, gathered pre-178 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. maturely (when the size of a cluck’s egg) boiled, and serv- ed as described already for vegetable marrows, are exceed- ingly nice. Purees of sweet potatoes, and yams, if assisted by cream, are very eatable. Fritters of the former are nice if the cooked slices be marinaded in a little brandy and lime juice, and then dipped in a well-made batter, and fried. Yams may be treated in most of the ways recommended for pota- toes. In short, if we look about us, and try our best to make the most of the vegetables of the country by careful cookery of the reformed school, we need never be without a plea- sant dish to relieve the ding-dong monotony of our market supplies. The more you hunt about amongst the produce of the native gardens, the more surprized you will be at the opportunities afforded you of practising your culinary ingenuity. For over a century we have been contented to see a few country vegetables sent up in curries, and in cur- ries only, never attempting to develop their latent good qualities by artistic treatment. There are times when the supply of vegetables grown from English seed may fail us, or when we cannot expect to procure them; when on the line of march, for instance, out in the jungles, or when quartered at some little place far from the busy haunts of our fellow white men ; the amateur who has studied native vegetables will then dis- cover that his time has not been thrown away. N.B.—Bear in mind that the water in which all vegeta- bles are boiled, excepting the cabbage tribe only, is valuable and ought not to be thrown away. This can de la caisson is a weak broth and forms an excellent basis for sauces to accompany vegetables, etc.CHAPTER XV. Rechauffes. fjF the art of dishing up nicely the remains of cold meat, fish, and vegetables, were more closely studied than it is, the fair chatelaine would not look upon cold mutton, cold beef, etc., with the feelings of despair that I fear too often possess her, there would be much less waste- fulness, and our breakfast and luncheon tables woidd be far more easily supplied than they are. Has not some thrifty professor of kitchen lore actually dedicated a little hook to the mysteries of cooking cold mutton, and how to penetrate them ? I have never seen the work, but, without boasting, I think I could fill a couple of chapters myself upon a similar theme. The mistake most of us make is one on the side of same- ness. We pick up a tasty recipe for warming up fish, a cunning method of treating cold vegetables, or a marvel- lously good wrinkle about a hash, and ring the changes on our small stock of knowledge acl nauseam. The most ar- tistic rechauffe will lose its charm if repeated too often, and the appetite—especially the Anglo-Indian appetite—soon tires of a flavour too frequently offered it. There is no fault that a native cook is more likely to acquire than this, so we should take pains to remove from his control mate- rials which are likely to minister to his failing. Let all180 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. your pungent sauces, and essences, be kept under lock and key, and give out, from time to time, the doles that are ne- cessary for delicate flavouring. If you do this, your hashes will cease to be slices of meat, cooked up in hot water and Worcester sauce, thickened with flour; neither will your minces, croquettes, cassolettes, ifcc., be presented withasauce similarly composed. There are certain hard and fast laws to be observed generally with regard to the treatment of cold meat, &c., which ought never to he forgotten. Let me enumerate them :— 1. Always cut off carefully all parts that have been browned in the previous cooking, such as skin, &c. 2. Use the trimmings, and all bones, assisted by any- thing you may have to spare, to make the strongest broth you can for your rechau ffe. 3. Be generous in your allowance of butter and eggs, and, if recommended in the recipe you are following, do not refuse a small modicum of cream. 4. Never be without red-currant jelly, olives, anchovies, grated cheese, grated bread-crumbs (bottled), musbroom- ketchup, good vinegar, bottled garden berbs, and a mild sauce like Harvey. 5. Try to maintain a little kitchen garden, in large pots, or boxes, containing English curled parsley, marjoram, thyme, garden-cress, and celery. The last need not be planted for its root’s sake, the leaves and stalks provide the cook with his flavouring agent. 6. Teach your cook that meat that has been once cook- ed, does not require to be boiled or stewed de novo. Des- cribe a hash or a mince to him as meat gently warmed up in gravy or sauce separately made to receive it. You must now turn back to Chapter X in which I tried to‘explain the fundamental principles of sauce-making181 RECHA UFFES. The success of the rechauffe wholly depends upon the care bestowed upon the composition of the sauce in which it is heated up ; or by which it is enriched and diluted. This maxim holds good no matter what your dish may be : the hash, the salmis, the mince, the croquette, crousiadc, casso- lette, little patty, kramousky, Ac., Ac., all lean upon their Espagnole or veloute as the case may be. Fish he-cooked. Cold fish of any kind gives us valuable material for little breakfast dishes. Fairly large slices of firm fish, not over- boiled in the first instance, may be advantageously warmed up whole, au gratin, or stewed in a nicely-made white or brown sauce flavoured according to taste, and accompanied by pieces of cooked cucumber, or vegetable marrow. But if at all broken up, it is better to serve cold fish en caisses, or en coquiUes, or to work it up into croquettes or croustades. Broken fragments of cold fish are very nice when added to, and tossed about with, a goodly allowance of “ buttered- egg.” This can be served on toasts, or poured out upon a silver dish. A colouring of tomato sauce is an improve- ment. ' Another tasteful way of serving cold fish is to cut it into small pieces, like a coarse mince, and toss it about in a hot sauce-pan containing some previously boiled, /iedmaccaroni, stirring in with it a bountiful supply of melted butter, and a little tamato puree (or sauce) ; when the contents of the sauce-pan are thoroughly well heated, turn them out on a very hot dish, and serve at once. This can, of course, be composed upon a charcoal fire in the verandah, hard by the dining-room door. Gentlemen, whose appetites require stimulating, may fancy some chopped green chilli, some cayenne or Nepaul pepper, or a few drops of “Tabasco but, to my mind, the dish is better without a suspicion of the evil one. Cold fish is almost invariably presented to you by Bama- Iti182 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. samy in the form of what he is pleased to call “ fish-pud- ding.’ This is sometimes nice, and sometimes very nasty. To he nice, a good deal of butter is necessary with the mash- ed potato, with a little cream, or some fresh milk helped up with the yolk of an egg, and a few drops of anchovy sauce ; Ramasamy being at the same time entreated not to make the mould intoapretty pattern with quarters of hard-boiled egg, &c., an effect which cannot be achieved without free use of his finger and thumb. “ Twice-laid,” as this dish is called at Home, cannot be sent up better than in a simple mould like mashed potato, streaked with a fork outside, and baked till it takes a pale brown tint. Chopped hard-boiled egg may be stirred into the fish and potatoes with advan- tage. The best fish-pudding I think is that made of pieces of cooked fish steamed in a savoury custard. Having mixed the custard and flavoured it slightly with anchovy sauce, choose a pudding mould and arrange the pieces of fish there- in, pouring the custard round them : when filled, steam the mould as you would a pudding. This should be turned out, and served with any nice fish sauce. Or the mixture may be cooked in small moulds just large enough for one person each. A pwr&e of cooked fish, pounded, with a quarter of its weight of bread-crumb, diluted with fish bone stock, flavour- ed with a little anchovy pepper and mace, and bound by raw eggs, may be cooked in the same manner. Kegeree (kitchri) of the English type is composed of boil- ed rice, chopped hard-boiled egg, cold minced fish, and a lump of fresh butter ; these are all tossed together in the frying-pan, flavoured with pepper, salt, and any minced gar- den herb such as cress, parsley, or marjoram, and served smoking hot. If your cook be a good hand at puff-pastry, you may have worse fare at luncheon than yeti ts pates of minced fish. The188 REGHA UFFES. salpicon must be diluted with a nice sauce, and flavoured with whatever herb you like best. A far-off-thought ol celery is not to be despised. For the sauce in which you mean to re-cook fish, do not forget the head, fins, skin, bones and trimmings. A broth made of fish bones, with a few pepper corns, a sliced sweet onion, a bit of celery, a piece of lime peel, and an anchovy instead of salt, yields you a capital liquid which, when strain- ed and worked up with melted butter and flour, produces a far better sauce than the usual one made with milk and water. Hashes and Minces. The chief features to be noted in cooking hashes and minces are much the same. Prepare the meat, after hav- ing carefully cut off all browned parts, as you may desire. Make the best broth you can with these trimmings and the bones ; if you have any stock or gravy so much the better; thicken slightly, and flavour this according to your taste, and the materials that may be within your reach ; strain it if necessary, add a dessert-spoonful of Madeira, or Marsala, and then warm up your meat. A mince, or a hash, should be allowed to stand in its sauce, with a gentle heat under the sauce-pan, for as long a time as can be allowed ; when required for the table, increase the heat, and the moment the surface steams, the dish is ready for service. “But,” says the inquisitive disciple, “what are you to do if you have no bones, no gravy, and no stock ? ” to him I reply as follows :—After having trimmed the meat to your fancy, take all the skin and ugly fragments that remain, and place them on a separate plate. Now, choose a Bombay onion, cut it in halves, blanch them for five minutes and mince them fine ; place a good sized sauce-pan on the fire, put a pat of butter at the bottom of it, (say a couple of ounces if you can spare as much) melt it, throw in the minced onion, fry it a light golden brown, add now gradu-CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 184 ally a pint of hot water with a tea-spoonful of Brand’s essence and throw in your scraps of meat, six pepper corns, a tea-spoonful of sugar, a tea-spoonful of salt, and an an- chovy, a piece of celery or i Is leaves, a carrot cut up, a bunch of curly parsley, the peel of a lime, and a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, with a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, and let the contents of your sauce-pan simmer away until you are satisfied that you have extracted all the good to be got out of your several ingredients. Taste the broth as it is cooking, and correct any errors that may occur to you on the spot : when ready, strain it into a bowl, and skim off any fat that may rise. Now, take another sauce-pan, and go through the usual process of thickening the broth; it will then be ready to receive the meat you desire to re-cook. A dessert-spoonful of Madeira, or Marsala with a little red currant jelly; or some portwine, claret, or burgundy, if at hand; the pulp of a couple of tomatoes ; or the strained yolks of two eggs, may be added to enrich your plat. The egg should be stirred in after the sauce-pan has been re- moved from the fire, (see page 109 . The tomato gives a piquancy to all hashes, and minces, superior to that which can be procured by vinegars. Your selection of the wine that you use must depend, of course, upon the sort of meat you are cooking up. Touching wine for domestic cookery. A good Marsala is very nice and as useful as Madeira, either of which is bet- ter than sherry. Bottoms and tops of portwine saved when decanting, strained, and stored, come in very handily. In the case of a mince, remember, that when the meat has been passed through the machine, it must be diluted with a good moderately thick sauce, in which it should be gently heated. Just before serving, it may be enriched with the raw yolks of a couple of eggs—off the fire remember. Having done this, you can diversify the methods of serv- ing it as follows :—185 RECHA UFFES. 1. Make a light omelette. When all but ready to serve, spread your mince quickly on top of the omelette, toss the omelette in the pan lightly, and roll it off into the hot dish, enveloping the mince, and serve. This must not look like a “ roly-poly ” pudding. The omelette should not be made as stiff as a batter dumpling as Ramasamy loves to serve it. I will tell you how to make an omelette, properly in my next chapter. 2. Make a case of mashed potato, with high sides like a vol-au-vent case, and pour your mince into it. 3. Hollow out a number of small dinner rolls, butter them, and fry them a golden yellow : pour your mince into them, put a curl of fried bacon on the top of each, heat them in the oven for five minutes, and serve. 4. Make a number of little potato cases, and till them in the same way: or if you have them, use the paper or china cases so universally used in England now. 5. Make some light puff-paste, form it into patties like oyster }:>atty pastry, bake, fill them when ready with the mince, heat thoroughly, and serve. 6. Or,—out the paste in circles three inches in diame- ter, place a dessert-spoonful of the mince in the centre of each, fold them over, pinch the edges all round, and fry a golden yellow in a bath of boiling fat. (Rissoles.) 7. Serve it plain, on a hot dish, garnished with sippets of fried bread, fried curls of bacon, and slices of lime, and put a poached egg or two on.the top of it. 8. Put it into silver coquilles, dust over the surface rasped crumbs and grated cheese, bake for a few minutes and serve on a napkin. With reference to the above, remember, that toasted bread is not fried bread. Ramasamy is apt not to distinguish very carefully between the two; and whereas a crisp piece of.186 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. fried bread is an agreeable adjunct to certain dishes ; sod- den, slightly smoke toast is inexpressibly disagreeable any- where. Miscellaneous. Bacon is valuable with all rechauffes of meat, and poached eggs are acceptable when served on the surface of hashes, and minces. Ham, I need scarcely say, if on hand, can be turned to the very best account, and tongue also for that matter, to assist the flavouring of minces, croquettes, rissoles, et hoc genus omne. Minced ham or tongue with minced corned beef, mashed up with some well boiled potatoes, hard boiled egg, and plenty of melted butter, and cooked in the fashion of “ twice-laid,” is a nice dish for a change at breakfast. Maccaroni, and dustings of Parmesan (or any mild grated cheese) vary the monotony of warmed-up meats immensely, and go well with nearly every cold vegetable. Try this sometimes :—Having made a really good white sauce, lay your trimmed fillets of cold fish, rabbit, or chic- ken, in a shallow pie-dish upon a layer of maccaroni, pre- viously boiled till tender: pour the sauce over all, garnish with slices of tomato, dust over the whole a dressing of grated cheese, bake till lightly browned, and serve. The same recipe is practicable with brown meats, only make a brown sauce to start with, instead of a white. Batter plays its part effectively amongst rechauffes. Any nice mince, bound with egg, rolled in slices of cooked bacon-, then dipped in batter and fried in lots of fat, presents a toothsome kramousky. Fish fillets, dipped in the same way, and fried, are nice ; and so are fillets of rabbit, or chicken. If not overdone, thick slices of tender beef, or of mutton, may be dipped in melted butter, and boiled over a fast charcoal fire; or they may be marinaded (ride page 70), then bread-crumbed with nice stale crumbs, and fried aRECHA UFFES. 187 golden brown. These served with a macedoine de legumes, sauce soubise, horse radish sauce, tomato, or tartare, are de- licious ; but the meat must be really juicy, or, in plainer terms, must have been slightly underdone in the first in- stance. Apropos of batter, I must not forget to say, that pou/nded fish, incorporated with batter, that is to say, worked into it, and fried in seething fat hy dropping the mixture into the pan by spoonfuls at a time, produces a dish of flitters most welcome at breakfast alone, or capital as a garnish for a larger dish of fish. A remarkably nice little dish, also contrived with batter, is the crepe de poisson, or indeed of anything. The crepe is a pancake. Picture to yourself a nicely-made thin pan- cake :—spread it out upon a flat dish, and cut it into pieces two inches wide, and three inches long. Upon the sur- face of each piece, place a very thin slice of bacon slightly smaller each way than the crepe, over the bacon put a table- spoonful of any nice mince, well worked with an egg or two, and a little cold sauce to give it moisture and cohe- sion : then roll up your crepes, put them on a buttered tin, brush them with a whipped egg, bread-crumb them, and bake brown in the oven. Cold cooked vegetables, such as cauliflowers, cabbage, Jerusalem artichokes, and vegetable marrows, may be mash - ed up with potatoes, or alone, diluted with melted butter, cream, or milk with the yolk of an egg strained into it, dusted over with grated cheese, and cooked au grcctin. Mixed vegetables may be cut into dice and warmed up in white sauce cl la macedoine de legumes, and cold peas, cauli- flower, French beans, and cabbage, may be tossed in butter in a frying-pan, and served d la maitre d’hotel. You wil find a good many recipes for the treatment of cooked vege- tables in the chapters I have devoted to that especial sub- ject.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 188 No more useful present coulcl well be given to a young lady commencing house-keeping than a set of silver, or sil- ver-plated coquilliis (scallop shells). Served in these invit- ing looking little dishes, a mince, or rechauffd of vegetables, is worthy of a place at any table. A.puree, of artichoke, cap- ped with finely-grated cheese, any cold fish, minced game, even the remains of a maccaroni au gratin, sent up in this tasty manner, seem ever so much nicer than in an ordinary way. The shells should be well buttered before operations are commenced, and the miuce or chopped vegetables should be well diluted with sauce to keep it nice and moist. The surface should be sprinkled over with cheese or finely rasped crumbs. When quite hot, brown the crumbs with a hot iron salamander-fashion, and serve the shells tastily on a napkin. Crisply fried curly parsley may garnish them. ——B-* - w . ■ *OEIA.PTBR XVI. The Savoury Omelette, ‘£ ja)HEATHES there a man with soul so dead” that he can read the great Brillat Savarin’s account of the Cure’s omelette unmoved? Short as the little story is, you feel yourself absolutely at table with the worthy Padre,—a man of culture, and refinement. It is Friday, and the little banquet is kept strictly within the canons of the Church, yet there is an artist’s hand apparent in its subtle simplicity. The fish soup, the trout, the omelette, the salad, the cheese, and dessert; the snowy cloth, the choice china, and the “ old wine which sparkled in a crystal decanter,” tell us plainly that science, and good taste, can make even a fast enjoyable. But amongst all the daintiness that marks the little banquet, that omelette is undoubtedly the prominent feature. You can see it, you can smell it, you can almost taste it. Now, there is something cheering in this little chapter. We can throw ourselves back in our long arm-chair, and, with half closed eyes, make that very omelette, here in India. Or one so like it, that we need hardly lament our inability to procure carp’s roes. This I hope presently to show you. There is another source of satisfaction in our musing, and that is, that with moderate forethought we ought never to be unable to make a good savoury omelette, whether in camp,190 CULINARY JOTTINGS NOR MADRAS. at a traveller’s bungalow, at a picnic, or in the privacy of our back verandah in cantonment. Eggs, though neither as cheap, nor as plentiful as in days of yore, are still to be got: we can obtain charcoal, and a broken chatty to bold it: we can get an iron omelette-pan, made to order, in the bazar: we need never be without a tin of “Normandy,” “Denmark,” or “cow brand” butter; or, failing that, a bottle of the best salad oil. Salt, pepper, and a bottle of dried parsley ought not to be beyond our reach, and an onion is not an expensive luxury. Thus provided, we ought to be in a position to turn out a capital dish, very rapidly, at any time, and anywhere. Omelettes, as you all know, can be diversified ad libitum : we need never, therefore, be afraid of falling back upon them. Before I proceed to the discussion of omelette-maikmg, however, let me point out that Ramasamy has been led astray altogether with regard to this branch of bis art. He sends you up a very nice pudding, symmetrical in de- sign, of a goodly consistency, and of a rich brown colour- You almost require a dessert-knife to help it. It is, of course, lighter somewhat than a ‘ roly-poly’ pudding made of paste, but it greatly resembles that homely composition. It is a first cousin of the pancake, and Ramasamy evidently uses the stuff of which it is made to coat his plantains when bidden to make fritters. He starts wrongly to commence with, when mixing bis omelette. In addition to the eggs (the whites of which he whips separately) lie puts in a little flour, some milk or a little water, and, in point of fact, makes a lightish sort of batter. This, I l’egret to say, he mixes, vigorously whips, and fries in a fair amount of ghee, folding it into shape, and keeping it on the fire till it is nice and firm, and coloured as I before described. That tins is no more an omelette than our old friend “ the man in the moon” 1 need hardly assure you. Native cooks are neverthelessTHE SAVOURY OMELETTE. 191 very easily taught how to make one properly, and rarely fail after a patient exemplification of the correct method. I must confess that with the exception of “ the Cure’s omelette” previously alluded to, I never picked up a wrin- kle concerning this excellent dish from a book. I have never come across a dissertation on omelette-making which seemed to have been written by a man who had made one himself. The manner in which I learnt, the little I know on the subject was as follows :—I was marching with a Re- giment from Bangalore to Secunderabad. At a place call- ed Pennaconda, in the Bellary District, I was most hospi- tably entertained by a member of the Madras Civil Service. Though so far away from any civilized place, the dinner placed before me in the quondam public bungalow in which my host resided might have graced a petit table in the stranger’s room of a London Club. His breakfast was an equally artistic meal, and was concluded by an omelette,— made on the spot,—by my accomplished friend himself. If this imperfect essay happen to catch his eye, he will, I am sure, forgive the honest tribute of his grateful pupil. Call- ing lor a slop-basin, he broke into it four ordinary country fowl’s eggs whole, and added the yolks only of two more. He thus had six yolks, and four whites. These he tho- roughly mixed by using two forks : he did not beat them at all. When thoroughly satisfied that incorporation had been effected, he flavoured the mixture with a salt-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of very finely minced shallot, a heap- ed up table-spoonful of minced curly parsley (grown in his garden) and—to crown all—a table-spoonful of really rich cream. He stirred this for a minute, and, as far as its first stage was concerned, the omelette was ready. We now left the dining-room for the verandah where there was a good charcoal fire in an iron brasier, (a half chatty would have sufficed of course) and upon it a pan about ten inches in diameter, very shallow, with a narrow rim well192 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. sloped outwards. A pat of butter was melted in the pan, sufficient in quantity to thoroughly lubricate the whole of its surface, and leave a coating of moisture about an eighth of an inch deep over all. As soon as ready, quite burning hot,—the butter having ceased to splutter, and beginning to brown,—with one good stir round, the mixture was pour- ed into the pan. At the moment of contact, the underpart of omelette formed, this was instantly lifted by the spoon, and the unformed portion allowed to run beneath it; the left hand, holding the pan, and playing it, as it were, from side to side : With one good shake, the pan (in less than a minute from the time of commencing operations) was now lifted from the fire, and its contents rolled off into the hot silver dish at hand to receive it, in which a little melted butter, with some minced parsley and shallot, had been prepared. The omelette, as it rolled of its own accord from the pan, caught up, and buried within it, the slightly un- formed juicy part of the mixture which still remained on the surface; and, as it lay in the dish, was without any special shape, of a golden yellow colour, flecked with green, with the juicy part escaping from beneath its folds. An omelette ought never to he stiff enough to retain a rolled-up appearance. Being so rapidly cooked, it ought to be too light to present a fixed form, and, on reaching the hot dish, should spread itself rather, on account of its very frothiness. Books that counsel you to turn an omelette to fold it, to let it brown on one side, to let it fry for about five minutes, Ac., are not to be trusted. If you follow such advice, you will only produce, at best, an egg pudding. Timed by the seconds hand of a watch an omelette of six- eggs, cooked as I have described “by the first intention,” took forty-five seconds from the moment of being poured into the pan to that of being turned into the dish. The omelette we have just discussed is that generally198 THE SAVOURY OMELETTE. known as “ aux fines herbs —the ordinary one is simply made of eggs flavoured with salt. Though cream is con- sidered by some to be an improvement, I do not think it necessary. Milk is certainly a mistake for it makes the omelette leathery. I confess that 1 like a very little minced onion in all savoury omelettes, but this is a matter of taste, and where ladies are concerned, the fragrant bulb ought perhaps to be omitted. The general rules to be observed in omelette-making, then, may be thus summed up :— 1. Use a proper utensil, rather shallow, with narrow, well sloping sides; see that it is clean, and quite dry. 2. Do not overdo the amount of butter, or salad oil, that you use for the frying. 3. Mix thoroughly, but do not beat the eggs, and never use more than six as in the Pennaconda omelette. 4. It is better to make two of six, than one of twelve eggs. Success is impossible if the vessel be too full. 5. Three eggs, mixed whole, make a nice sized omelette. 6. Be sure that your pan is ready to receive your mix- ture. If not hot enough, the omelette will be leathery, or you will have to mix it in the pan-like “ scrambled eggs” —(ceufs brouilles). 7. The moment the butter ceases to fizz, and assumes a pale brown tint, the pan is ready. 8. Pour the mixture into the pau so that it may spread well over the lubricated surface ; then instantly lift up the pait of the omelette that sets at the moment of contact, and let the unformed portion run under it; repeat this if the pan be at all full, keep the left hand at work with a gentle sea-saw motion to encourage rapidity in setting, give a finishing shake, and turn it into the hot dish before the whole of the mixture has quite set. 9.. The omelette will .roll over of its own accord, if the 17194 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. sides of the pan be sloped as I have described : it will not require folding. 10. Three-quarters of a minute is ample time for the whole operation, if the pan be properly hot when the mix- ture is poured into it. 11. Have the hot dish close by the fire, so that you can turn the omelette into it instantcr. A little melted butter, with some chopped parsley, may, with advantage, be put into the dish. 12. It is above all things necessary to have a very brisk fire under the pan while the omelette is being cooked. A braiser filled with live charcoal is the best kind of fire, and the fan must be vigorously plied from the moment that the mixture is poured into the pan. I have nevertheless cooked many a good omelette over a spirit lamp, and also over a gas jet. A light, and very eatable omelette can be turned out by Ramasamy-’s method if it be slightly modified in accordance with the canons of intelligent cookery. I have said that he beats his whites of egg separately and goes on to make a sort of batter. Now the beating of the whites is not by itself an ei'ror ; it is his subsequent form of proceeding that spoils his work. If the following process be followed a good result will be obtained :— Break four eggs carefully, and separate the yolks from the whites, have ready your fines herbes as in the former recipe, a clean and roomy omelette-pan, and half an ounce of butter. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth ; to it add the yolks well mixed, and the fines herbes; pour the mix- ture into your pan which should be prepared as already explained, let the omelette set, and roll it over quickly with its centre scarcely formed, into the dish. In this case the omelette rises like a souffle, and if rapidly treated turns out very light indeed.195 THE SAVOURY OMELETTE. As I said before, omelettes may be varied in many ways. If “ aux fines herbes," curly parsley and shallot are neces- sary ; minced marjoram or thyme, garden-cress (the com- panion, I mean, of mustard) or celery leaves, are agreeable, and many are fond of a spoonful of finely chopped green chilli, omitting the seeds of course. Chopped ham, chopped tongue, chopped bacon, and chop- ped corned beef, are added to omelettes with good effect. The words “ aiijambon,” “ au larcl,” “ au langue de bceuf,” (He., specify the addition. I have found it better to fry the minced ham, &c., independently, keeping it handy for ad- dition to the omelette during the rolling over stage, as it goes into the dish. Cold cooked vegetables, cut up and tossed a while in melt- ed butter separately, may be thus added with success. I recommend sprigs of the flower of the cauliflower, artichoke bottoms cut into dice, or Jerusalem artichokes sliced, and cut up. Peas, the grains of Indian corn, chopped French beans, or the seeds of the bandecai or moringa pod are thus very pleasantly treated. In the case of an "omelette aux Ugumes,” a dust of grated cheese gives a pleasing finishing touch when the ovielette reposes in the hot dish. “ Ovielette aux tomates” :—Cut three or four ripe tomatoes into pieces. Cut a sweet onion into the thinnest slices pos- sible. Melt a table-sjDoonful of butter in a small sauce-pan, cast into it the onion slices ; let them cook without brown- ing ; then add the pieces of tomato, pepper and salt; stir the sauce-pan carefully till the tomatoes are cooked which will be in about ten minutes. Keep the mixture hot, and pour it over the surface of an ordinary omelette just as you are on the point of turning it out of the frying-pan. The omelette will roll over of its own accord, enveloping the tomatoes within it as it passes into the dish. The “ omelette au Parmesan” (or any mild dry cheese) is a196 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. speciality as simple as it is delicious. A table-spoonful of grated and finely sifted cheese to three ordinary eggs, salt and black pepper to taste, and a dessert-spoonful of rich cream, if possible, compose the mixture. Incorporate the ingredients, and proceed as recorded in the previous direc- tions. Remember that it should be served just before all the juicy mixture on the surface quite sets, so that there may be an exudation of creamy moisture in the dish, and don’t forget to dust over the surface a canopy of grated cheese. This must go from the fire to the plate, as it were. Delay in serving is hard on any omelette. And, now, we come to the Curb’s piece cle resistance, con- cerning which I spoke at the beginning of this chapter. The salient feature of this plat was the combination of tunny, and carp’s roes by which it was flavoured. Half a slice of preserved tunny, and the soft roes of two herrings a la sar- dine very finely minced together, with a little shallot, and a dessert-spoonful of parsley, should be tossed in butter awhile, and then stirred into a basin containing six well mixed eggs. Cook the mixture as already explained, and turn it out, when ready, into a hot dish containing a little melted butter, a few drops of vinegar and some minced shallot, and parsley. If you cannot get preserved tunny, a piece of lax, or nicely tinned salmon will be found an agreeable substitute, and cod’s roes will form a pleasant companion thereto. The Cure used fresh tunny, and fresh roes, but we may follow his recipe with preserved substi- tutes, if not too salt, and achieve a very fair result. A capital omelette of this kind is made with kippered seer- fish, made at home, with Madras fish roe well soaked. The fresh seer-fish should be split, washed, and dried with a cloth ; salt, sugar, and lime-juice being well rubbed in im- mediately ; the next day the rubbing must be repeated. Be- tween the rubbings the fish must lie in salt, and salt must be sprinkled over it; on the third day it must be artificiallyTHE SAVOURY OMELETTE. 197 smoked by being hung over a lire constantly replenished with damp coir, or other fuel. After this, it should be hung in the cook-room over the fire, and it will be ready for the table the third evening. If you can get fresh roe for your omelette so much the better ; if not, Madras pre- served roe, well soaked and fried in butter, will be found an excellent substitute. Omelettes may be cooked aux fines herbes, served upon a bed of tomato puree■, and dusted over with grated cheese. They may also be laid upon a puree of green peas, or of spinach. They may be improved with minced game, and be associated effectively with mince of any kind. Chopped mushrooms or truffles (previously cooked, minced, and toss- ed in butter) are, of course, very delicious additions to them; and oysters may be introduced in the same way. Savoury omelettes are sent up with rich Espagnole, Perigueux, and Becha mel sauces,and may contain some finel y minced kidney stewed in champagne. Almost all fish, prawns, lobster, &c., go well with them, and whether simple or elaborate, plain or rich, an omelette rarely fails,—if properly made,—to win appreciation, and be thankfully accounted for. Concerning sweet omelettes advice will be given here- after. i -e»-CHAPTER ^LAPII- ♦- On Luncheons. JT/gUNCHEON is a meal so popular amongst Britons 1—< both at Home and abroad, that the humblest trea- tise on cooking would be incomplete without a chapter specially dedicated to it. There are luncheons large, and luncheons small. The former elaborate, very pleasant, and sociable, yet alas ! a little too alluring, and fatal in their effects upon the appetite for the rest of the day. The latter more enjoyable perhaps than their more ostentatious connections, for they are reserved for a few in- timate friends, but affording just as much temptation to kill dinner. * At Madras we reserve our luncheon parties for the Sab- bath, when the unfair sex has no official care away from home, and though few sit down to dinner on-that day till nearly half past eight, the overwhelming recollections of the mid-day feast have hardly had time to pass away. A far better meal for us all,—a very near relation of luncheon,—is the dejfiner a la fourchette of our French friends. Brillat Savarin’s luncheon party, if you remem- ber, assembled “at ten—military punctuality.” At eleven o’clock we might bid our guests sit down, I think, without misgiving, and though we might invite them to breakfast, we could really give them a luncheon. I attended a partyON LUNCHEONS. 199 of this kind, not long ago, the complete success of which has encouraged me to advocate its adoption in supersession of luncheons at 2 p.m. The Frenchman takes his cafe au lait, with a roll, as we take our cliota liazri, which slight re- fection carries him satisfactorily till eleven, or even twelve o’clock ; the dejeUncr d la fourchette is then a substantial meal. Cannot we, when there are no distracting office hours to think of, do likewise ? A breakfast party ends about the hour that luncheons begin. Both hosts and guests have, therefore, ample time to recover their appetites, and to in- dulge in a quiet afternoon’s rest, before the evening drive, and dinner. A pleasant luncheon or breakfast party should possess the following characteristics a judiciously selected list of guests, a prettily arranged table, a light yet artistic menu, with cups of claret, sauterne, hock, or chablis, iced ad libi- tum, and in no way spoilt by sugar. Liqueurs may be hand- ed round to finish with, and the best coffee you can make should follow. In composing your menu, you should avoid adhering in any way to the order and style of a dinner. Thus, you need not give any soup at all, but lead off with oysters *>n their shells accompanied by brown bread and butter cut thin, limes cut into quarters, and vinegars and peppers of kinds. An old standing dish to commence a luncheon party used to be mullicjatunuy. If properly made, this soup is a meal in itself : there are so many condiments, spices, and highly flavoured elements in its composition,—not to mention the concomitant ladleful of rice which custom decrees,—-that he who partakes of it finds the delicate power of his palate vitiated, as far as the appreciation of any dainty plat that may follow is concerned, whilst the edge of his appetite is left unto him sorely blunted. So I say, reserve mulliga- tunny for your luncheon at home when alone, enjoy it thoroughly, rice and all, and—nothing more.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 200 A menu comprising some half dozen dishes at the out- side, carefully contrasted one with another, and by no means dinner-like in their order may he selected from the following :— An antipasto of oysters, canapes, or olives aux cinchois. Fish am gratin in coquilles ; or fricaseed with cucumbers ; a dish of orlys, or a mayonnaise. Fillets of beef piques, with horse radish sauce, Bearnaise, 01 a erne cl cinchois, garnished with potato chips : or a dish of mutton cotelettes a la Re forme, a la soubise, &c., with puree de pommes de ter re. Maccaroni cl V ItalAenne, or au janibon. Cold galantine 'of hen turkey, or capon, delicately sliced, and handed round, with a salad. A chaud.Jroicl of snipes, or other nice chaud-froid. A Ceylon prawn curry swimming in creamy gravy, with pieces of vegetable marrow associated with it; or other nice curry. Fruits with cream, or in jelly; fancy pastry; Omelette ciu rhum; or cl la Cdestine. Cheese, with “ green butter,” might follow the sweet dish. The soups best adapted for service at luncheon parties are clear mulligatunny, consomme aux ami's pochess, or any nice clear consomme prettily garnished. A really carefully executed mayonnaise is a grand lun- cheon dish, and a cauliflower, or any first class vegetable, ciu gratin is invariably acceptable. For a small luncheon party, after the antipasto I would give a dish of fish, fol- lowed by a simple entree, a cauliflower au gratin, the gal- antine, or a mayonnaise, a sweet, cheese, and hors dessert. In fact, if you disabuse your mind of dinner altogether, and compose a little menu of mixed dishes, introducing someON LUNCHEONS. 201 slices of cold dressed meat about the middle thereof, you cannot go far wrong. Spiced pressed beef, or corned hump, lamb and mint sauce, pigeon pie or game pie, or the galan- tine aforesaid, are the sort of dishes from which you can select your central effect. If not giving a mayonnaise,. a salad ought certainly to accompany the cold meat, and pota- toes artistically dressed may go round. Canapes form a delicious luncheon dish, void:—cut some slices of bread a quarter of an inch thick, and two inches long if heart-shaped, two inches in diameter if round, and two inches square if rectangular. Crisp these in the oven on a buttered tin and set them on a dish to get cold. To com- plete the canape, first spread a layer of “green butter” over each piece of crisp bread, upon that place* a layer of prawn or lobster meat pounded with butter, and slightly seasoned with Nepaul pepper; smooth this with a dessert-knife, place a leaf of lettuce (cut from the golden heart) upon the top of the prawn meat, and a piece of beetroot shaped with your cutter. Over each canape when thus prepared, and placed in the dish ready for serving, pour a dessert-spoonful of rich, thickly worked, mayonnaise sauce, iced. A little chopped olive, or chopped capers, or the two mixed, may be judi- ciously sprinkled over each cap of mayonnaise dressing. The dish should stand on ice before serving. Instead of prawn meat, you can use cold chicken, finely sliced or pounded, an atom of pate de foie gras might then be added to each canape, and the thinnest slice of tongue might cover it. Instead of lettuce, a few sprigs of the flower of a cold cauliflower can be introduced, or any cold vegeta- ble of a delicate kind, asparagus points to wit. Fish may be used in this fashion :—caviare, cod’s roe, lobster, herring d la sardine, sardines, lax, preserved tunny, and anchovies. Fancy some neatly picked fillets of the last named fish, wiped free from oil, and the skin and bones removed, reposing on the green butter ; over them a goodlyCULINARY JOTTINGS NOR MADRAS. 202 sprinkling of sliced olives, then the lettuce leaf, &c., as pre- viously described—“ say, dost thou like the picture?” In houses where the cook can really master an omelette properly, one with Parmesan laid upon a fricassee of cauli- flower flowers, or upon a puree de topinambours, or com- posed auxpointes d'asperejes, aux tomates, or mix truffes, may safely form an item of the choicest luncheon bill of fare. Here is a pretty little recipe for a filet, de boiiif a l’Ita- lic nm which, to my mind, is worthy of attention, and well adapted for a mid-day festival. Take a tender fillet of beef (the undercut of the sirloin if possible) preserve it whole after trimming it into shape ; make an incision in it length- ways, and insert therein a long strip of bacon, fat and lean in equal parts, previously rolled in a fines herbes mince com- posed of a table-spoonful each of finely chopped mushroom, and parsley, a dessert-spoonful of minced shallot, and some pepper: tie up the fillet now, carefully, with tape. Take a good slice of bacon, mince it very small with thyme, mar- joram, lime peel, a clove of garlic, half a sweet onion and a carrot, shake this mixture in a little butter at the bottom of a stew-pan, and when it melts, place the fillet upon it, and turn it gently till it browns nicely. Now, pour in a pint of tomato puree, diluted with beef gravy to the consis- tency of ordinary pea-soup : simmer your fillet in this till it is done, it ought to be kept at least a couple of hours at a gentle heat: when ready to serve, strain off the sauce, place the fillet upon a very hot dish, remove the tape, gar- nish with glazed onions, haricots verts, Brussels sprouts, or any nice vegetable, and pour a little of the sauce over it. Have ready some hot boiled, and drained maccaroni iu a sauce-pan, empty all the sauce that remains amongst the maccaroni, shake into it a table-spoonful of finely grated cheese, toss the whole over the fire for a minute, and dish it separately 'in a very hot dish. Serve the two together immediately.ON LUNCHEONS. 203 Maccaroni, iu the usual Italian fashion, is infinitely supe- rior to our perpetual method of serving it. It makes an excellent luncheon dish. Boil the maccaroni in boiling water in a sauce-pan (which may be rubbed with a clove of-garlic) until it is tender-; the moment it is tender, stop the boiling by adding a cup of cold water, if not, it will be sodden. Drain it carefully, as you do rice, and let it re- main in the hot sauce-pan. Now, stir into it a table-spoon- ful of the best fresh, or preserved butter (the new Dmmap'lc brand is quite first-rate) and as you work this about over the fire, an assistant should add by degrees a breakfast- cupful of fresh tomato pulp, a little salt and black pepper, and lastly, a heaped up table-spoonful of either grated Par- mesan from the bottle, or any mild thoroughly powdered dry cheese : serve steaming hot without delay. The cheese should form long threads when lifted from the dish with the maccaroni. If you have any stock or consomme to spare, you can im- prove this dish by simmering the maccaroni therein after the draining stage. When the stock has been absorbed, add the tomato, &c. I could, of course, go on suggesting dishes, and describ- ing them ad infinitum,—for luncheons are little banquets which afford enthusiastic cooks a pleasant field for the ex- ercise of them inventive faculties. A recipe for omelette au rhum may however be given here as being an entremets sucre especially suited for this kind of entertainment. Prepare the eggs for the omelette as explained at page 192, sweeten the mixture slightly, omitting the salt. At the moment when the setting indicates that the omelette is all but ready to roll into the dish prepared for it, quickly spread over its surface a layer of apricot, raspberry, or strawberry jam. This should be all ready at hand before the frying commences. As soon as the jam is spread, turn the omelette overinto the hot dish which should haveadust-204 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. ing of finely sifted loaf sugar shaken over its surface. Im- mediately dust a canopy of sifted sugar over the top of the omelette, pour a table-spoonful of rum round it, ignite a tea-spoonful of the spirit, communicate this to that in the dish, and serve on fire like a Christmas plum-pudding. If the taste of rum be objected to use brandy. If the addition of spirit, and the setting alight, be omit- ted, the omelette should be called an confiture. If jam be left out, flavour the egg mixture with essence of vanilla, ratafia, lemon, or almond, and call it omelette sucree. For omelettes d la Gelestine you must make half a dozen, (or more according to the size of your party)—very light little omelettes each about large enough for one person; roll them over with a layer of jam upon them, dust with sifted sugar, and set some rum or brandy alight in the dish in which they are served. A few words must now be said regarding miscellaneous luncheonsthe office snacklet, the lunch in the train, or al-frcsco out shooting, the “ tiffin” at home, a lady’s morccau, and the mid-day meal of the convalescent. Place aux dames. This is the time when a lady may in- dulge in mulligatunny, or her favorite curry, with its cliut- neys, and relishes of which I treat later on. A chicken neatly cut up as for a curry, then dipped in well beaten egg and rolled in bread-crumbs, then fried a golden brown, and served with maccaroni, and tomato, or with good bread-sauce and fried parsley. Perdrixauchou; or two partridges, boiled, and smothered in onions as rabbits are cooked in England. The undercut of the saddle, cut out entil-e, grilled over a brisk fire, and sent up with a potato duchessc ; or a juicy neck chop similarly served, with a pat of mcdtre d’hotel but- ter melting over either of them.205 ON LUNCHEONS. Braise a neck of mutton, or a breast, in gravy, with vege- tables and some chopped bacon : slip a slice of bacon under the flap of either, and tie it in shape before you commence operations : when almost done, lift the little joint up, strain off the gravy, skim it, and make a nice sauce with it such aspiquante, poivrade, or Italienns. Put the joint intheoven after bread-crumbing it, to brown and finish cooking ; when ready, dish it surrounded by boiled maccaroni over which the sauce should be poured at the last minute. Tomato pulp may be used for this purpose with marked effect, and' some glazed turnips or carrots may garnish the dish, in which case the sauce should be served separately in a boat. From the following dishes the luncheon of a lady, or an invalid ought to be easily selected :—- A nicely roasted snipe, orapigeon barde, with potato chips. A single canape, of prawn, or a little patty of puff-pastry filled with any tasty mixture. A savoury omelette, spinach on toast with “ buttered-egg,” or served with short-bread biscuits. A little plate of peas, tossed in butter with dice of fried ham or bacon. Coquilles of fish en rechauffe, or of any delicate vegetable. Indian corn, boiled, stripped with a fork from the cob, tossed in melted butter, peppered, and salted, is generally liked; see that the cob is quite a young one. A cheese fondue en caisse. Savoury toasts of all kinds, from the homely Welsh rare- bit upwards, are welcome on the luncheon table. I treat of them, you will find, in cxtenso in a separate chapter. For an easily made ‘ sweet ’ there ought not to be much difficulty in making a selection. The sweet omelette, souffle, omelette-soufld, dc., cost little trouble, and are quickly made. 18206 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS, The office snacklet is, as a rule, a sandwich followed hy a slice of cake. The former is susceptible of infinite variety : here are a few good ones :— Spread the bread with green or any fancy hutter, and fill the sandwich with chopped sardines, and some bits of pickle here and there ; or with mixed chicken and tongue, a lettuce leaf and some mayonnaise sauce. Any potted meat worked up with butter, pepper, a touch of mustard, and a little chutney. Ham and beef sandwiches should make your nose tingle with mustard: be easy with the butter if you can dot in some nice pieces of fat. Pound a slice of cheese well, with a little fresh butter, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a little black pepper, and salt, add an anchovy, well wiped free from oil, and passed through the sieve with a little butter if too thick, mix thoroughly, give it a dust of Nepaul pepper, spread it on your bread, and complete the sandwich. This is for one large, or two small ones remember, so cut your cheese ac- cordingly. Hard-boiled eggs work up well for sandwiches, and may be either used plainly pounded with butter with a season- ing of pepper and salt, or added to other ingredients like chopped tongue, ham, or corned beef. Fillets of anchovy with slices of olive, embedded in pound- ed hard-boiled egg and butter, and lightly dusted with Ne- paul pepper, compose a very eatable sandwich. The spongy sooji bread of Madras is ill-adapted for sand- wich making. Bread for this purpose must be close grain- ed and stale : in this state it can be cut thin and with clean edges. Mix one-third imported flour with two-thirds sooji, and the bread will be fitter far for this purpose. A lunch-let composed of one home-made roll, a small207 ON LUNCHEONS. piece of Grny&re, and two ripe plantains, is nice, but the taste of eating cheese with fruits is, I fear, un-English. The traveller’s luncheon basket, and that of the sports- man are analogous. A friend of mine with whom I used to walk the paddy fields, adopted the plan of taking out a digester pot, previously filled with stewed steak and oys- ters, or some equally toothsome stew. This he trusted to his syce, who lit a fire somewhere or other, in the marvel- lous way the natives of this country never fail to do, and, always had the contents of the pot steaming hot at the exact spot, and at the very moment we required it. But I think that a good cold lunch is the best for the open air, when work must follow. I can recommend a galantine made of a small fowl, boned and rolled, with a block of tongue and some forcemeat introduced in the centre of it. A home-made brawn of tongue, a part of an ox head, with a good allowance of fat bacon cut in dice and some sheep’s trotters, well seasoned, and sightly spiced, is another sj)ecialite worth noting. A nice piece of the brisket of beef salted and spiced, boil- ed, boned, placed under a weight, and then trimmed into a neat shape (the trimmings come in for sandwiches, potted- meat, or “ bubble and squeak ”) is a very handy thing for the tiffin basket; and a much respected patron of mine recommends for travelling, a really good cold plum-pudding in which a glass of brandy has been included. Cake is acceptable at every kind of luncheon ; in fact, cakes were invented for that meal, for 5 o’clock tea, wed- dings, and for school-boys only.CHAPTER Fritters. •jTF^AILUEE in the accomplishment of the many excel- lent dishes which come under the head of ‘1 fritters ’ ’ may be fairly attributed to three things : the first, ignorance in making the batter; the second, a wrongly shap- ed utensil; and the third, an insufficient use of the frying medium.- If you once master these cardinal points, and can drum them into the head of your cook, you will have at your command a tasty and, indeed, artistic method of cookery upon which you can always rely with confidence. The charm of fritter cooking is its simplicity. The mixing of a good batter merely depends upon the accurate following of the recipe before you, whilst the culinary operation itself pre- sents no difficulty whatever, provided a liberal supply of fat be given out, and the vessel used be a proper one. The beginner, as a rule, overcomes this part of his education after a few trials, and thenceforward has no apprehension concerning success. Tasty fritters, sweet, as well as savoury, can be made with vegetables, and fruit; fish, both fresh, and cooked; re- mains of cold meats, pounded cheese, and lastly, by batter, pure, and unassisted, in the form of “ baujnets souffles,” dc. As the main point in this kind of frying consists in provid- ing a bath of fat for the thing-to-be-cooked, it is essential200 FRITTERS. that we should choose a deep, rather than a broad and shallow vessel, for the operation. The ordinary frying pan sold at hard-ware shops is of no use whatever for this branch of the cook’s work. The pan you want should look like a stew-pan with double handles, and its sides cut down half- way ; its diameter need not exceed eight or nine inches. It may be as heavy as you like, for it must, of necessity, be kept steady over the fire when in use. A handle like that of an omelette-pan is therefore unnecessary, for you never require to shake a friture-pan. Opinions differ as to the best frying medium. The great Careme advocated the use of the fat skimmed from the surface of thepot-au-feu after having been carefully strain- ed through muslin. Clarified suet, for which I give direc- tions in my chapter on pastry, is favorably regarded by Gouffe. Butter is hardly to be recommended for this kind of frying as it heats very'quickly and is apt to burn. Oil is, of course, an excellent medium, but it is difficult to get good out in India, and too expensive. Lard (imported) may be used, but I do not like it even in England for it always adheres to a certain extent to the thing fried. Good Indian ghee made at home, or procured fresh and then clarified as recommended for suet, is by no means to be despised. I personally have always used clarified beef suet. Besides your pan, for delicate fritter work there is noth- ing more useful than the wire frying-basket,—a cheap thing enough, and not hard to make. Provided with this utensil, which may be described as an open-work draining pan, slightly smaller in diameter than thefriture-pan, the whole process of working may be thus described:— 1. —-Make your batter, to begin with, according to one of the receipts hereafter given, and place it in its bowl on one side, covered up from fiies, dust, &c. 2. —Prepare your fish, meat, vegetable, fruit, or what-210 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS, ever you are going to cook, and arrange the pieces on a flat dish, on a table handy, with the bowl of batter next to it. 3-—Take your fritur'c-pan, see that it is thoroughly clean, and dry. 4. -—Set it on the griddle rest, over a good bright charcoal Are, and empty the fat, or whatever you use as a frying medium, into it bountifully. 5. -—When melted, the fat ought to be quite two inches deep. 6. —Determine if the fat be- hot enough by throwing a sippet of bread into it: if the sippet fizzes, and produces large air bubbles, the fritter bath is ready. 7. —Now, dip your morsel-to-be-fried into the batter, which should be of sufficient consistency to coat it n'icely ; plunge the frying-basket into the fat, and slide the fritter into it. 8. —The fritter must be covered by the fat, not partly in, and partly out of it. Fan the fire now vigorously. 9. —Let the fritter frizzle, and when of a rich golden tint, lift up the basket, and hold it a moment or two over the pan so that the fat may drain off. 10. —Lay each fritter, as you take it from the basket, on a dry clean cloth, or on a sheet of new blotting paper, to complete the draining. 11. —When dry, dish it in a very hot dish, and, if a savoury fritter, give it a dust of finely powdered salt; if a sweet one, shake a canopy of powdered loaf sugar over it. 12. —Fritters can be fried one after another. Never put in more than the pan can easily hold at one time. The fat should now be poured through muslin into a clean bowl: it will harden, and be fit for work again, until it assumes a leaden.tint, which may take place after it has211 FRITTERS. been used two or three times. Fat in .which fish has once been fried must be reserved afterwards for fish only, as it acquires a fishy taste. If you follow these rules closely, you ought never to fail to turn out nice fritters, provided, of course, that your hatter be properly made. I cannot too strongly impress upon you the necessity of attention to this part of the work which so many cooks slur over carelessly. I have adopted as a stan- dard batter in my own kitchen one recommended by the “G. C.,” whose advice I have so often quoted in these pages. Friends who have tried it at my recommendation have generally commended it. You must proceed in this way:— Beat up the yolks of three eggs with two table-spoonfuls of brandy, one table-spoonful of the best salad oil, and four or five table-spoonfuls of cold water. Incorporate vyith this mixture three table-spoonfuls of flour and a salt-spoon- ful of salt. The flour should be dry, and the best imported. Work this now, with care, to a smooth paste, and continue to beat it for at least ten minutes: If the batter appear too thick, add a little water until its consistency be satis- factory, i.e. :—it should cover the spoon when lifted out of it with a coating about the eighth of an inch thick. This stage having been reached, take the whites of the three eggs, and whip them to a stiff froth : stir this into your batter at the time of using. This recipe may be reduced for a small dish of fritters as follows:—two ordinary eggs, one table-spoonful of brandy, a dessert spoonful of salad oil, two or three table- spoonfuls of water, and one and a half table-spoonful of • flour. For sweet fritters, use sugar instead of salt. Another good hatter is made thus :—Beat up equal parts of salad oil, and brandy,=—say, a table-spoonful of each ; add the yolk of an egg, and incorporate with this, sufficient212 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. flour to make a thick paste, which you thin to the re- quired consistency by the addition of water, reserving the whipped white of the egg to finish with. The kramousky* is, I think, the prince of all savoury fritters, and is susceptible of being composed in many deli- cious ways. The oyster, pounded shell fish, minced fish of any kind, sweet-breads (when you can get them) or any delicately composed mince of fowl, or of meat, with tongue or ham, can be thus turned to an artistic account. What- ever your salpicon, or minced composition, may be made of, the specialities of the kramousky are the little jacket of fat bacon in which it is enveloped, and the batter in which it is dipped. The bacon should he cold and have been previ- ously cooked, and cut into thin slices, two and a half inches long, and one and a half deep : two oysters, or a heaped up tea-spoonful of any salpicon, should he laid in the eentre of each : the bacon must then he folded over it very neatly, fixed with white of egg and kept ready for the dipping pro- cess, which must be carried out cautiously. The frying should be conducted as already described. If you wish to make kramouskys of chicken, turkey, or game, you should mince the meat coursely, the pieces being cut like little dice, bind the mince with the yolks of a couple of eggs or more, according to the quantity of the mince, and stir into it, in a sauce-pan on the fire, a little richly made veloute; turn this into a soup plate, and let it get quite cold, and firm, then divide it into little portions and fill your bacon slices. Minced truffles, and mushrooms, are, of course, undeniable improvements to any salpicon. A fish kramousky is easily accomplished : you need only mince the fish, stir into it, in a sauce-pan on the fire, a * Generally written ‘ Kromesky,’ or 1 cromesqui.’ I have adopted a different spelling having been assured by a friend whose authority is unimpeachable that the dish is of Russian origin, and its name “ Kramousky.”213 FRITTERS. few spoonfuls of well made white sauce, add a little season- ing, with the yolk of an egg when off the fire, and set it to get cool, and firm. In like manner, tinned lobster, tinned oysters, and any tinned fish, can thus be successfully treated. In using them, however, it is necessary to wash, and drain them from the liquid of the tin. The sauce should be made very carefully, so that it may freshen up the fish as much as possible. “ Angels on horseback ”—i.e.:—oysters plainly dipped in the batter I have given you, and fried secundum artem, are perhaps as dainty morsels as can be presented to the jaded appetite of an Anglo-Indian. Drain the oysters from their liquor in the tin, wipe them, and set them, en mari- nade all the day in a soup plate, with the juice of three limes, an onion sliced, some whole peppers, and a few clovs; turn them occasionally till they are wanted for the friture- pan. Oyster fritters thus treated, form an excellent garnish, and may be served with boiled or fried fish, or a dish of .filets de bceuf. Here is a super-excellent idea of the “ G. C.’s” :—Split each oyster open, almost as wide, comparatively speaking, as you do a kidney, and insert therein a little of the fol- lowing composition :—toss on the fire in butter, with pepper, salt, and a spoonful of rich brown sauce, a dessert- spoonful each of minced mushroom, shallot, and truffle ; thicken this with the yolks of two eggs, give it the juice of a lime, and let it get cold. After putting a small allow- ance of this in each oyster, shut the sides together, dip it in the batter, and fry immediately. This would be practi- cable with the Bombay oyster. I have already indicated the vegetables which make good fritters, and here repeat my high opinion of that method of treating them.214 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Try this:—pound a dish of boiled prawns in a mortar with some butter, and weak fish gravy; when quite worked to a puree, incorporate it with the batter, and drop the mixture by dessert-spoonfuls at a time, into your friture-^an: let the fritters cook till they turn a rich golden colour, and are as crisp as biscuits, then drain, and serve them on a napkin, with crisply fried parsley. If you omit the prawn puree, and simply fry spoonfuls of the plain batter, you will have beignets, or (as Ramasamy hath it) pan-cake fritters,” which may be either sent up as a savoury entremets, to be eaten with butter, pepper, and salt; or as a sweet one, when they must be dusted over with powdered sugar, and sprinkled with lime juice. In the latter case, a spoonful of brandy or liqueur shaken over the fritters improves their general effect. All fruit fritters can be cooked in the batter I have de- scribed. Peaches, apricots, pears, and apples, make deli- cious fritters, the pine-apple is equally amenable to the /W- ture-pan ; whilst oranges and our lowly plantain are not to be despised. For the four former fruits we must look to the tin ; those that come to us from America are specially to be recommended. Pine-apples, when in season, can he procured in the market; if out of season, the American tinned slices are capital substitutes. Oranges can be used in their season, and the plantain is a perennial friend. Whatever fruit be chosen, let it be set en marinade in liqueur, brandy, or rum. Delicate fruits require liqueur, the pine-apple is better associated with rum, the plantain and' orange are thankful for either rum or brandy. A wineglass is enough. The fruit, sliced, and prepared for the “ beignet,” should be laid in a soup-plate, dusted over with sugar, and sprinkled with the brandy, or liqueur. After an hour, the slices should be turned over, basted again, and this should be repeated during the afternoon, until they are required by the cook. The brandy or liqueurFRITTERS. 215 you use for the marinade should be mixed in the batter. Orange quarters and slices of ripe plantain may be used raw, but the slices of pine-apple must be stewed till tender. I cannot do better than wind up this chapter with a re- cipe for bcignets souffles :— “ Put about a pint of water in a sauce-pan with a pinch of salt, a piece of butter the size of an egg, a table-spoon- ful of sugar, and the rasped peel of three lemons—when the whole boils, throw in gradually sufficient flour to form a thick paste, then let it remain ten minutes, and work into it, off the fire, two eggs complete, and the yolks only of two more, the whites of which you reserve for whisk- ing to a froth : add the froth, let it rest awhile, and then proceed to fry by dropping pieces of it the size of a wal- nut into boiling fat. The paste will swell in the process of frying, and if the fat he sufficiently heated, hollow balls of a fine golden colour will be produced. Serve them piled upon a dish, with a plentiful dusting of powdered white sugar.” (G. C.) In this country it will be better to tise a few drops of lemon essence than the rasped peel of a lime; and any essence, such as vanilla, ratafia, almond, &c., maybe used as a change. If you omit the lemon and the sugar, and stir in with the flour a good allowance of finely grated Parmesan, you will achieve a “beignet souffle au Parmesan,” a truly tooth- some savoury entremets ; and if you cook them plainly, without cheese, and only seasoned with pepper and salt, you will have a beignet which, when eaten with salt, pepper, mustard, and fresh butter, forms a savoury entremets not to be despised.CHAPTER TSLISC- Salac/s. TJr^N an early chapter of these jottings, I observed that 1[C amongst the accessories of an artistic dinner, a good salad, though not entered in the menu perhaps, was still expected to be present. On the continent we find the salad handed to us, as a matter of course, with the “rot.” “ Pullet ciu cresson,—suicide” is, of course, a familiar item in the French menu. This custom is being fast adopted in England by those who are quick to mark that which their neighbours do well. There can be no doubt whatever that this method of dressing raw vegetables, if correctly done, is wholesome, and a singularly commendable staple of diet for people who live in hot climates. There are ailments to which the Englishman seems to he especially prone, which are comparatively unknown by Spaniards and Italians with whom raw vegetables, and oil are daily food. A careful study then, of what we can do in India in this branch of cookery, is worthy of every man’s attention. We all know that a salad demands two things:—its vegetable foundation, and its dressing, both of which may be a good deal varied. First, as regards the foundation of a salad, this may he composed of cooked, as well as of raw materials: theSALADS. 217 vegetables principally employed being, lettuces (cabbage, and coss), endive, tomatoes, onions, cucumbers, parsley, young radishes, garden-cress, and water-cress, in the latter condition ; and in the former, beet-root, French beans, flageolets, potatoes, artichokes, cauliflower, turnip-tops, as- paragus, cabbage, vegetable marrow, and young carrots. With cold cooked country vegetables, I have made capital salads ; young brinjals, the inollay-keeray, bandecai, coun- try beans, greens of sorts, and little pumpkins gathered very young, are all worthy of treatment in this way. Touching salad-dressing a great deal might be written, for concerning its composition cookery books seem to pos- sess “ a thousand several tongues,” and every tongue to bring in “ a several tale.” Let us try and be contented, how- ever, with a few standard ones, remembering that salads may be clothed in simplicity, as well as in grandeur. True connoisseurs, I think, adhere, as a rule, to the very simplest: that is to say, the simplest as far as the compo- nent parts, and the process of mixing them, are concerned. The artist’s hand and eye, and some little experience to boot are, of course, essential to acquire that nicety of judgment of quantity which a plain dressing demands. It is, there- fore, the hardest to describe. Let me lead off with one general law for every salad, of which English people are, collectively speaking, ignorant. It is this :— Abstain from the vinegar bottle as much as possible. You do not want an acid dish at all. Vinegar is merely added to lend a peculiar flavour to the composition, and to assist it with an almost imperceptible pungency. That most per- nicious advice : “ Four times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, And twice with vinegar procured from town”’ 19218 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. should be shunned most studiously. The correct use of vinegar is, therefore, to my mind the feature which con- tains the main difficulty in mixing a salad. The following rules for plain salad-dressing may be trusted I think :— Pull the leaves of the lettuce from the stalk with your hand, rejecting all that are bruised and discoloured, turn those at all muddy into a basin, wash them well, and drain them thoroughly on a sieve, tossing them lightly in a cloth afterwards to get rid of every drop of water. Leaves that are quite clean ought not to be wetted at all. When dry, put the leaves into the bowl, and work them about with the wooden spoon and fork whilst an assistant sprinkles over them a libation of the finest oil you can buy. As soon as every leaf is thoroughly anointed,-—glittering with a coating of moisture as it were,—shake over them a few drops of tarragon vinegar, add some very finely chopped mild spring onion, and dust the whole with salt, and some coarse, freshly ground black pepper. The spoon and fork must be kept going during the addition of the vinegar drops, and also whilst the pepper and salt are being dusted into the bowl. The thing to avoid is a sediment of dress- ing. The leaves lying at the bottom of the bowl must, in that case, become sodden, and so the crispness you desire to maintain will be marred. A thorough lubrication is all that has to be accomplished. I picked this up several years ago from a French waiter at Verrey’s dining-rooms in London: it was surprising how much oil was caught up by the dry crisp leaves, and how little vinegar was put in as a finishing touch by this accomplished Gargon. Observe, pray, that it is quite out of the question to give fixed quantities with regard to the mixing of this kind of salad. The quantity of oil, and of the other ingredients, must obviously depend on the quantity of green stuff.219 SALADS. When I see a salacl-maker carefully measuring his oil and pepper in the bowl of a spoon, and doling out his vinegar, I am sorrowful, because, save by accident, he can never hope to achieve "the real thing. This is the only dressing possible in the case of an endive (chicoree) salad; for which it is essential that the bowl be rubbed with garlic. In addition to the finely minced onion, chopped curled parsley, and garden-cress may be sprinkled over the lettuce leaves after the oil has been worked into them. For dinner parties perhaps the “violet” had better be omitted (valu- able as it is) or its absence supplied by a drop or two of shallot vinegar. And this leads me to aromatic vinegars, “without which,” to use the outfitter’s favourite form of advertise- ment, “no salad-maker’s equipment can be considered complete ” :— 1. —Tarragon Vinegar. 2. —Anchovy Vinegar. 3. —Shallot Vinegar. 4. —Elder Vinegar. 5. —Garlic Vinegar. These are all procurable at the shops of the leading preserved provision merchants at Madras, but the salad artist should make his own peculiar vinegars, and use them, according to judgment, to vary the too-often repeated flavours of ordinary compositions. Here are a few sugges- tions :— “Fines herbes vinegar”:—To half a pint of tarragon vinegar, add a table-spoonful of minced garden-cress, a table-spoonful of minced marjoram, a clove of garlic, two small green capsicums shred, and one minced shallot. Or:—To the same vinegar, add the finely-pared rind ofCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 220 three limes, a dozen cloves, a dozen pepper corns, and the same green herbs and onion. The bruised seed of garden-cress, celery, and parsley, in equal portions,—say a tea-spoonful of each, a clove of garlic, and two ordinary capsicums finely minced, make, when added to half a pint of tarragon vinegar, an invalu- able element of salad dressing. In speaking of capsicums, I only allude to the skin, not to the pith or seeds. A very few drops of the strongly flavoured vinegars I have described are, of course, ample to “animate the bowl.” An artist’s ingenuity will aid him in concocting other varieties easily enough. When made, cork your bottle down tightly, seal it with wax, and set it in the sun,—an operation which presents but little difficulty in this country! In a week or two, you may strain the liquid, and take it into use. An excellent salad is that made by' slicing raw ripe tomatoes, with a Bombay onion. The dressing given should be like that recommended for lettuce, only that, your allow- ance of oil must be abundant; and, inasmuch as tomatoes are sweet, there may be a little freer use of the vinegar cruet. As in all salads, tarragon, or any aromatic vinegar, may be employed advantageously in this one, and minced fines herbes may be sprinkled over the whole. Strips of green capsicum harmonize most pleasantly with a tomato salad. This is obviously a dish for the sterner sex, and one which no man would partake of just before a ball, on his wedding day, or at all during the halcyon period which generally precedes that ceremony. In a previous chapter I warned my disciples against the danger, to some people, of the skin of the tomato. This had better be cut off’ in all cases when the vegetable is eaten raw.SALADS. 221 The other form of salad dressing is closely connected with mayonnaise sauce, and has many admirers. With some vegetable ingredients it undoubtedly works better than its plainer relative. In England, however, it is almost always spoilt by being overdosed with vinegar,—-common, acid stuff without any flavouring,—and in nearly every cookery book of the average capacity, you are told to mix oil and vinegar in equal parts, which I have already denounced. An old recipe called “Dr. Kitchener’s salad mixture” embodies as many mistakes as could well be made in a dressing of this kind:—“two table-spoonfuls of oil, or melted butter (!) two or three table-spoonfuls of vinegar.” The “poet’s recipe ” already alluded to is equally faulty. In point of fact, the part played by the vinegar in these dressings is really so small as regards measurement that a fixed amount can scarcely be laid down. In proportion to the oil, one-eiglith is to my mind the outside allotment that should he given. This is a good every-day salad mixture :— Put the very-hard boiled yolks of two eggs into a slop basin, with a tea-spoonful of powdered mustard, a scant salt-spoonful of salt, a pinch of sugar, and a tea-spoonful of minced shallot. Bruise these with a wooden or silver spoon, and work them to a paste with a little salad oil. Add oil by degrees till your paste is about the consistency of batter, then toss into it one by one the raw yolks of three eggs, continue the working, and add oil, till you have a nice rich sauce coating the spoon pretty thickly : you can now dole out a dessert-spoonful of tarragon or other aromatic vinegar, and mix it thoroughly with the other ingredients : the sauce will become creamy the moment it receives the vinegar. Taste your sauce by dipping a leaf of lettuce into a spoon- ful of it, and finish it off, as regards further addition of oil or vinegar, according to discretion. The eye, and the palate are your surest guides: no true salad-maker works by222 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. measure. As soon as you have got a creamy, well-flavoured sauce to suit your fancy, strain it through the little block tin strainer to get rid of every lump, and the little bits of onion. This should be done over the sauce-boat, which should be put into the ice-box or upon a bed of crushed ice, as soon as it is filled. If you want a thick sauce of this kind, lightly flip the oil with the raw eggs adding it by degrees, and the mixture will soon be stiff enough, especially if you put in another raw yolk. Use French mustard (moutard de maille) in preference to English.- Never use Worcester sauce on any account whatever. N.B.—In all rich salad, or mayonnaise dressings, cream may be used instead of oil, or be added to a made sauce as a finishing touch. I recommend very strongly that the salad, nicely dressed in its bowl, and the icy-cold sauce in its boat, should be preserved separately, and handed round together. If you mix a salad of this kind before dinner, and let it soak, it deteriorates considerably before the time comes for its ser- vice. Cover up your nicely selected well dried lettuce leaves, &c., and they will be crisp, if handed round with their sauce following them, on the arrival of “ the roast.” This advice holds good with mayonnaise. The meat or fish of which the dish may be composed becomes sodden, and dead, and the green accompaniments fall off in crispness if bathed for any length of time in dressing. Besides, after the meal, a mixed mayonnaise or salad is wasted, whereas one with which the sauce was separately served may be turned to account. You have in the former case only to pick the meat out of the lettuce leaves, and place it on a separate dish. Theplain salad I first mentioned must, of course, be mixed the very last thing before dinner, unless you can boldly riseSALADS. 223 from the table, and mix it yourself at the exact time that it is wanted. A' salad of cold cooked vegetables (salacle cuite) can be either served with plain, or rich dressing. For the finest of all see the recipe given elsewhere for salacle liusse. Sliced potatoes, beet-root, French beans, and cucumber, go well together: while cauliflower and cabbage, both kinds of artichokes, and asparagus points, are admirable with a plain sauce. Salade a la ma tante is a combination of good things which will commend itself at once to the appreciative read- er :—Take six cold boiled or tinned fonds cVartichauts, fill their hollows with cold boiled or tinned pointes cl’asperges, cover the surface with cold sliced truffles that have been stewed in champagne or Madeira, and smother each dress- ed foncl with a rich mayonnaise dressing :—serve straight from the ice-box. This should, of course, be classed as an entremets, and even omitting the truffle is excellent. The country vegetables I have already alluded to are nice with ordinary salad sauce, or mayonnaise dressing. Choose very young brinjals, boil, and when cold, slice them; bandecais may he plainly arranged in rows; young pumpkins must be sliced, and greens should be slightly boiled and drained. Strips of anchovies, well wiped from their tin oil, may be slipped into these salads with satisfactory results. The bandecai, Hind : bhindi, if gathered young and boiled till tender makes an excellent salad in this way :—arrange the bandecais on a flat dish placed over some crushed ice. With a dessert-knife slit each one open longitudinally; in the slit put a fillet of anchovy, and over all, pour a little iced salad dressing. The young shoots or stalks of mollay, Hind: choolaee boiled, drained, and cut up, make, when cold, a capital salad: use a plain oil and vinegar dressing, arid toss some224 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. chopped olives, onions, and a minced anchovy among the stalks. Here is a noble recipe for a mayonnaise a la gouffe for which I have to thank a fair friend once well known in Madras. In an oval, or round cylinder-mould placed upon ice, pour a very little well made liquid aspic jelly; as soon as it is all but set, dispose neatly therein a number of little balls of green butter, and prawn butter (q.v.) alternately, cover them with some more of the jelly, set them, and repeat the process in layers as it were until the mould is packed. You mrfst ice the balls of butter before you put them in, and alternate them differently in each layer, so that the colours may be checkered. The mould can now be left in ice to consolidate thoroughly. When turned out, you can garnish it externally with balls of the same fancy butters, turned olives, strips of anchovy, and hard-boiled yolks of egg, and pack its hollow centre with the fish, or fowl, of which your mayonnaise is composed. Lettuce leaves culled from the golden heart should crown the centre, and be arranged with some whole boiled prawns in their shells round the margin of the dish outside the mould. The mould of jelly and its sauce should be kept in the ice-box till the nick of time before serving, when (in this case) the latter should be poured over the contents in the centre of the mould. For aspic jelly, vide Menu, No. 9. My up-country readers have only to make their fancy butter from tinned lobster meat, instead of prawns, to turn out just as grand a .mayonnaise as this. For fancy butters, please follow me in the next chapter.CHAPTER XX, Hors d'oeuvres. ■TlTl^TE must now consider those attractive accessories of wv " an artistic dinner, luncheon, or breakfast party, which, under the title of hors cl’ceuvres, are gra- dually becoming popular amongst English people whose minds have expanded under the beneficial influence of travel in foreign countries. Hors cVoeuvres, as you all doubtless know, are little dain- ties, or kickshaws, carefully prepared, and tastefully serv- ed, which, on the continent, are offered to the diner to whet his appetite prior to the more important discussion of the banquet itself. In Ital;y the service of these trifles under the title of “ antipasto," precedes every meal as a standard custom. We have at last acquired this agreeable fashion, for notwithstanding that the sending around of three or four oysters to each guest, with a slice of brown bread and butter, &c., was for a long time, no novelty either in Eng- land, or in Madras, we were slow to adopt the general prac- tice. Our custom, as a general rule, was to reserve the hors cV oeuvres to accompany the cheese. In the French dinner you often meet hors d’oeuvres between the soup and the fish, but these are somewhat dif- ferent in character, being generally served in the form of hot bouch6.es. Unlike the greater part of our culinary labours, this226 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. pretty item of our menu need cost us but little trouble. We Can obtain many excellent things wherewith to captivate the appetite, and we can make others which in their way are generally successful. Olives fargies, olives plain /ancho- vies in oil, sardines, sliced Bologna sausages, preserved tunny, lax, lobster, cod’s roes, seer-fish roes, reindeer’s tongues, ox tongue, devilled ham, potted meats, fancy but- ters, herrings a la sardine, pilchards in oil, caviare, oysters, pickles, cucumber, radishes, thin bread and butter, wafer biscuits, oaten biscuits, and last but not least “Bombay ducks” provide us with a goodly list from which to choose our tasty morsels. Hors cl’oeuvres if served d V Italienne, should be placed in a dish divided into compartments. Tongue, sausages, and ham, should be most delicately sliced. Preserved fish should be very carefully wiped free from all tin-oil, and re-dressed with the finest salad oil: if of a large kind, small portions should be cut to suit the dish. Potted meats should be fresh, home made, and prettily shaped in a cone. Caviare should be turned out of the tin, and garnished with quarters of lime.- Fancy butters must be iced, and served separately. Sardines can be greatly improved by being treated as “ Norwegian Anchovies.” Open a tin of the best sardines, take the fish out one by one, and place them on a dish. Wipe them free from oil, carefully pick off their skins and divide each sardine in half length wise. Give the fillets thus obtain- ed a dusting of white pepper. Or, if too soft, omit the filleting. Now, take an oval earthenware pot, see that it is dry and clean, slice a Bombay onion up, and put a layer of the rings at the bottom of the pot, with a cinnamon leaf, and a pepper corn or two. Arrange over this a layer of sardine fillets, and continue the process until the pot is filled, or the fillets are exhausted. Pour over the layers a marinade of oil and vinegar (one spoonful of the latter toHOBS D'CEUVBES. 227 four of the former) and in a few hours the sardines may be eaten. . When oysters, appear before dinner, send them up in then-shells, and be quick with their accompaniments. You sometimes see a hungry man polish off his bivalves before the lime, pepper, and bread and butter, have reached him. You can combat this contingency by breaking up the dishes containing these adjuncts into detachments, and serving them in two or three directions at once. But a far better plan is this :—before dinner is announced, put the plates of oysters with the slices of brown bread and butter upon them in each guest’s place, and send your vinegar and pep- per round as fast as you can after they are seated. The shells are in this case omitted. The garnishing of the compartments of the hors cVoeuvres dish should be tastefully done with knots of curled parsley, curled cress, a little bunches of fresh water-cress. Instead of the elaborate service a V Italienne, a single cold canape, if very carefully composed, maybe placed upon each guest’s plate as a prelude to the dinner-when oysters are out of season. This practice is decidedly preferable for a dinner party. Cut some thin slices of stale brown or white bread, butter them as for sandwiches, and cut out of them very neatly a number of oblong pieces two inches long, and one and a half broad. Now proceed as follows :—Upon each of the pieces put a fillet of anchovy cut into'strips, with a thin slice of olive here and there to fill interstices ; smooth the combination over with some pounded hard-boiled yolk eSS’ Ousting the surface with yellow pepper. Garnish each canape thus made with a turned olive, a tiny leaf from the golden heart of a lettuce, or a sprig of water-cress. Or sprinkle over each a canopy of grated ham, granulated hard- boiled yolk of egg, or cod’s roe. In like manner you can with a little forethought compose228 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. divers canap&s, using lax, caviare, sardines, fish-roe, green butter, strips of green capsicum, or of cucumber, and gar- nishing with tongue or ham cut tastefully with a cutter, grated ham, or powdered hard-boiled yolk of egg. In making canapes, for service before dinner, care should be taken to keep them small. The dimensions I have given should not be exceeded and the bread should be stale and cut thin. An excellent plan is to cut the slices of bread (with a pastry cutter) the size of a five-shilling piece, to butter them, and arrange tastefully thereon the composition you have decided upon, covering each with powdered egg or ham. Very elaborate canapes are propounded by a certain school of cookery in London. These are designed in variegated patterns, rings, or quarterings, with colored ingredients upon circular, oval, or rectangular pieces of bread; black being provided by truffle, greenish grey with caviare, green by green butter, scarlet by coraline, yellow and orange with yolks, and white with the whites of eggs. To my mind these triumphs of fiddling are not worth the time and trouble they cost, they certainly suggest fingering, and the combi- nation of several flavours is contrary to the canons of scien- tific taste. The anteprandial bonne bouche cannot be too simple. A couple of savoury morsels which harmonize well with each other, arranged neatly, and garnished tastefully, offer what is wanted at this period of the dinner, and are surely more inviting than curious, and unknown mixtures, all pretty coloring notwithstanding. In selecting your hors d’oeuvres to accompany the cheese try to avoid giving two fishy things on the same dish, thus : —do not give anchovies, and prawn butter together, or olives farqies and caviare; but take, let us say, anchovy butter, devilled ham, and oat biscuit, or cream cheese, olives farqies, and wafer biscuit. Here are a few combinations :— Anchovy fillets, water-cress-butter, dry toast.229 HOBS D'CEUVRES. Kippered seer fish, yellow butter, oat biscuit. Herring d la sardine, potted tongue, devilled biscuit. Green butter, lax, savory rusks. Cucumber, olives farqies, oat biscuit. Pilchards in oil, maitre d’hotel butter, pulled bread. The best cheese you can get, cut into dice should accom- pany the above, with tiny pats of fresh butter. Home-made cream cheeses are not seen as often as they ought to be, and yet a child could make one, following any domestic cookery book recipe. There are few things more appreciated at the end of a dinner party than this most dainty little dish. A breakfast-cupful of pure cream will yield a pretty little cheese for a party of six. The method is' simple enough Mix a tea-spoonful of salt with a large breakfast-cupful of rich cream, stir it well, and then pour the cream into a slop basin in which a clean piece of soft linen has been laid. The cloth must be saturated with salt and water, not dry. When the cream h'as been thus turned into the cloth, draw the ends of it together, holding the cream as it were in a bag, tie it tightly with string or tape round the neck, and hang the bag in a cool place to drip ; when the dripping of moisture from the bag ceases, the cheese is ready : take the bag down, turn the contents out into a clean cloth, mould it into a circular form, or shape it in a neat square, and serve it on a dish garnished with green leaves. Let it stand in the ice-box till wanted. A day will be found sufficient for the making of this kind of cheese in warm weather, and about forty-eight hours on the Hills. Use a porous sort of cloth for the operation if the cream be very thick so as to encourage the escape of the whey from the cheese. It is sometimes advisable to change the cloth during the draining process. Fancy butters have of late become justly popular. There are many ways of making them. The objects you must keep 20230 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. in view when composing a fancy butter, may be thus sum- med upa pleasant flavour, a pretty tint, and novelty. To secure the first it is imperatively necessary that the basis upon which you work be beyond suspicion. The butter you use must be the best possible. If, therefore, you cannot make it at home from cream you have set under your own eye, I strongly advise you to use that of a freshly opened “Denmark” tin. You must wash the butter well with milk, and form it with your butter-bat, setting it in ice afterwards. The coloring is clap-trap work: you can get a nice green tint from “spinach greening,” and a pretty orange scarlet from crab, or tinned lobster coral. Novelty rests with your- self : you can ring the changes upon pounded anchovies, sardines, soft herring, roes, lobster, prawns, crab, and pil- chards : you can use capers, parsley, water-cress, garden- cress, gherkins, and olives. By the judicious selection of your ingredients, all of which are agreeable in fancy but- ter, you will avoid sameness, and secure success. This is my recipe for a stock “green-butter” :— 1. —Weigh a quarter of a pound of fresh or preserved butter such as I have described, and ice it. 2. —Boil a couple of good handfuls of spinach, drain them thoroughly, squeeze the leaves through a piece of muslin and save all the greening, so obtained, in-a bowl. 3. —Take six full-sized anchovies .from the tin, wipe them free from oil, pick out their back bones, pass them through the hair sieve, and save the pulp. 4. Mince as finely as possible sufficient curled parsley to fill a table-spoon generously. 5. Mince also as finely as possible capers sufficient to fill a tea-spoon, heaped up. 6. —Having these ingredients ready, first colour the but- ter by working into it, as lightly as you can, enough of the “spinach-greening” to secure the tint your require (itHOBS D'CEUVBBS. 281 is always wise to order a little more spinach than you think you may want, to be on the safe side), then add the other things by degrees, and when thoroughly incorporat- ed, trim the butter into a tasteful mould, or sundry pretty patlets, and set it in the ice-box. Maitre cl’hotel butter I have already given (page 90). It is quite worthy of a place amongst hors cl’oeiivres. Prawn butter,—a highly delicious composition, should be made in this way :—Boil the prawns, clean them care- fully, pound them to a paste in your mortar, mixing a little butter with them to assist the operation. Now, melt some butter in a sauce-pan, mix your pounded prawn meat in it, and as soon as it appears to have absorbed the but- ter (having been well stirred during the process and fla- voured with a very little cayenne pepper, and powdered mace) take it out, let it get cold, and mix it with your iced butter in the proportion of about half and half. The pounding must be thorough; there should be no granulated particles of prawn meat in the butter. Crab-coral butter, and lobster butter may be made exactly as the foregoing : in the case of the former, I would put in a couple of anchovies, as the coral is rather tasteless ; and in that of the latter, I would wash the lobster clean, getting rid of all oily, tinny juices. To do this, turn the contents of the tin out upon a sieve, with a bowl under it to catch the liquor ; when the lobster meat drips no longer, pour over it a good jugful of clean cold water turning the pieces so that they may all come under the stream, then dry and pound it. Yellow butter. Hard-boiled yolks of eggs may be passed through the sieve, and be made to form a part of any fancy butter ; they tint plain butter yellow, and make a tasty pat if flavoured with soft herring roes, or cod’s roes, peppered, and sharpened with a few capers.232 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOB MADRAS. Fish that is very salt must, of course, be soaked in water before it can he used : anchovies in oil do not need that treatment. Gorgona anchovies, on the other hand, must be' freed from brine by steeping. Home-made potted meats, if carefully made, so far sur- pass those which you get in tins, that I can hardly under- stand why they are so rarely attempted. Really good but- ter, and a very little pure gravy, attentively extracted from some fresh meat and bones, are the chief corner-stones in such compositions. Ramasamy invariably over-spices his potted meat, cooks it over the fire, in some strange way, and the less we enquire into the class of butter he uses the better. Potted prawns should be made precisely as laid down for prawn butter, omitting the final amalgamation with butter. I will select home-made potted tongue as a trust- worthy method of using up meat advantageously :— Take one pound weight of tongue, home-cured (do not hesitate to pay eight or ten annas for it when fresh : the sum will not ruin you, and you will get your money’s worth), four ounces of the best butter, a salt-spoonful of pounded mace, a coffee-cup of beef gravy, a tea-spoonful of “ spiced pepper ” (q. v. page 121), and work them in this manner :— cut off the hard skin of the tongue, and pass the meat through your mincing machine : after that, pound it tho- roughly in your mortar, adding the butter and gravy dur- ing the operation : press the meat through your wire-sieve to get rid of gristle, and lumps, work the spiced pepper and mace into it, and pat it down tightly in a jar : smooth the surface : melt a table-spoouful of the same sort of butter in a sauce-pan, and pour it over the surface ; let it get cold, and the work will be completed. This receipt is practicable, as to quantities, with .cold corned beef, chicken and tongue (half and half), cold roast beef, and even mutton. Roast-233 HORS D'OEUVRES. beef, and mutton, require about three anchovies to the pound, as they have not the flavour of salted meat. Potted snipe, hare, partridges, &c., are excellent Don’t forget the livers when you are potting birds, and'turn back to page 75 for my recipe for “foie gras forcemeat,” a little of which will encourage your game pate exceedingly. If you happen to have any spare remnants olfoie gras handy, slip them into the potted meat, and no man will blame you. “Mock-crab” is the name given to a very good hors (Voeuvre in which cheese plays a prominent part; it is made in this way:—a quarter of a pound of prawn meat, two ounces of good fresh cheese, a tea-spoonful of mustard powder, a dessert-spoonful of salad oil, a dessert-spoonful of “anchovy vinegar,” and a liberal dusting of spiced pep- per. Pound everything (omitting the prawns) and work the mixture till it looks like a very thick mayonnaise sauce adding oil if necessary to obtain that result: when ready, mingle it with the prawn meat, pounded, &c., as in the former receipt, and trim it into a shapely little mould for serving. Even without any prawn meat a very good mock- crab can be made : a table-spoonful of anchovy sauce sup- plies the fishy flavour. Butter can, of course, be used instead of oil. “Pulled bread” accompanies the cheese in the place of biscuits. You can make it easily enough, if you bake at home, as follows:—-Make a pound loaf, and when the bread is all but done, take it from the oven, tear the crumb from the inside with a fork in irregular pieces, place them on a buttered baking tin and crisp them in the oven. Use coarse grained oatmeal for your oat biscuits, and send them up piping hot from the griddle. As a general rule the oat cake made in India is. far too thin : the paste should be rolled at least a quarter of an inch thick before being .cut into cakes.234 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. “Cheese fingers” should be made in these proportions,— a quarter of a pound of puff paste, a pinch of salt, two ounces of grated Parmesan, or other mild cheese, and a very little cayenne, Nepaul pepper, or a few drops of “tabasco.” Work the ingredients together, roll the paste out about half an inch thick, cut it into oblong shapes, about three inches long, bake and serve as hot as possible, on a napkin. “Devilled ham” is sold in tins, it is as good a thing as can be got at a pinch, if you have no time to make a hors d'ceuvre at home. It is not as hot as its name would lead you to suppose: it is merely potted ham well peppered. Buy your “Bombay ducks” in tins from Treacher and Co., of that city. I discovered this in Piccadilly of all places in the world. Jackson and Co. import the “ducks” from Bombay neatly flattened out, floui'ed, and packed in oblong tins. When you remember the number of hands through which the bazar-bought fish passes, the flies that have settled upon it, and the impossibility of washing dried fish, you will, I hope, agree with me that my recommenda- tion is absolutely philanthropical. The fashion of substituting a carefully considered savoury vlat instead of the cumbersome cheese service, as advocat- ed by Sir Henry Thompson in his Food and Feeding, is assuredly a step in the right direction, especially at dinner parties. If you follow this practice, you can eliminate the dishes of cheese, butter, biscuits, and zests which ordinarily accompany them, and confine the service to a single canape, croute au Parmesan, ramaquin, or biscuit au foie gras, to each guest. A selection of an appropriate savoury morsel can easily be made from those given in this chapter.O ItT APTEK XXI. Savoury Toasts. mTvTO dish is more thoroughly useful, or more generally N popular, than the savoury toast. It is a kind of thing that can frequently be made at a pinch, when the larder is all but empty, and a hungry friend drops in un- expectedly. A dainty feeder will sometimes fancy it when he will scarcely look at anything in the way of food. If well made, it serves as a finish to a little home dinner, and it is equally acceptable at breakfast, luncheon, or supper. In its composition tasty scraps of all kinds can be used up successfully, without any great effort on the part of the cook, or loss of time. In common with almost every branch of cookery, this offshoot of the science is susceptible of elabo- rate, as well as of simple treatment; and may be fashioned to obey the dictates of extravagance as well as those of the strictest economy. Yet, generally speaking, savoury toasts of an ordinary kind ought to be favourably regarded by all thrifty house-keepers, inasmuch as they afford an easy and pleasant way of working up fragments of good food that might otherwise be wasted. The rules of toast-making are few, and very simple:— 1.—Unless specially stated to the contrary in the recipe, the slice of bread destined to receive any savoury compo- sition should be delicately fried in butter till of a golden236 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. colour, rather than toasted in the ordinary manner. If kept waiting at all, ordinarily toasted bread becomes spongy or sodden, and soon loses its crispness. The easy process of toasting too is frequently slurred over carelessly, and the bread is scorched, not toasted. If you watch a native servant in the act of toasting, you will generally find that he places the slice of bread as close to the glowing embers as possible. Setting aside the risk that the bread thus incurs of catching a taint of gas from the live charcoal, it cannot be evenly and delicately browned, neither can it attain that thorough crispness which is a sine qua non in properly made toast. The slice of bread must be kept some little distance from the clear embers, being gradually heat- ed through, crisped, and lightly and evenly browned by degrees. But, as I said before, bread fried in good butter is better, with a very few exceptions, than toasted bread for the sort of dishes we are going to discuss. 2.—A savoury toast is not worth serving unless it be piping hot: it may be kept hot in the oven, to be sure, hut it is never so good as when set before the hungry guest the moment it has been completed. In order to ensirne this ‘slickness’ (to borrow a trans-Atlantic term) let the cook be warned to have everything ready, but not actually to finish off the making of his toast till it is wanted. It is better to keep the table waiting for three or four minutes for a bonne-bouche, than to serve immediately such a miser- able fiasco as a cold toast. The next thing to consider is the composition of a savoury toast, which I will endeavour to describe in a series of re- cipes. Let us commence with our time-honoured friend :— Anchovy toast. If you have a tin of anchovies in oil, the process is this :—Take six anchovies, wipe them free from oil, split them open, remove the spines, and pass the fish through your hair sieve : put the pulp in a bowl, and stir into it the yolks of two raw eggs. Cut four nice237 SAVOURY TOASTS. rounds or slices of bread, and fry them in butter till of a bright golden tint; arrange them on a very hot silver dish, and cover them up. Now, melt a table-spoonful of butter at the bottom of a sauce-pan which should be dipped into a bain-marie or any vessel containing boiling water ; stir into the melted butter the anchovy pulp mixture, let it thicken and when quite hot, pour it over the four toasts, and send the dish up immediately. Or,—(to be made at the table, with anchovy sauce) choose a very hot plate indeed, put a lump of butter upon it, and let the butter melt; add the yolks only of two raw eggs well beaten, and stir into the mixture sufficient anchovy sauce to colour it a pale salmon pink—(if you put in enough to obtain a darker shade, it will be too salt)—add a dessert- spoonful of sherry and mix it well Whilst doing this, a servant should, in this instance, be toasting slices of bread in the verandah hard by, and each slice should be brought in hot from the fire, turned over on both sides in the mix- ture, and passed round at once, one after another. A toast that has been well soaked in a sauce like this, and crisped in the oven afterwards, is far from bad. Anchovy toasts are sometimes sent up with tasty top- dressings, such as poached eggs, buttered eggs, and this savoury custard :—Separate carefully from the whites 3 or 4 yolks of egg (according to size), and for each yolk take half an ounce of butter : melt first one of the half ounces over a very moderate fire, mix one of the yolks with it, then add another half ounce, and so on : add white pepper, salt, and a dessert-spoonful of cream, continue to stir the mixture gently till it thickens nicely, and pour it over your anchovy toasts. This custard should be carefully watched, for if permitted to approach boiling, it will curdle and become lumpy; what you want is a very thick, creamy-looking custard. T?urees of certain vegetables are very nice as top-dress-CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 288 ings for anchovy toasts; especially those of spinach, beet- root leaves, peas, or any delicate greens. A number of nice toasts can be made with eggs ; from the plainly poached egg served upon a little square of bread fried a golden brown in butter, to the delicate “ rdti&s des ceufs brouilles aux truffes.” Buttered eggs (ceufs brouilles) are undeniably good if served quite simply, upon crisply-fried bread, straight frorp the fire. Grated bam, finely minced tongue, and little dice of crisply-fried bacon, are capital, if at hand, to garnish the surface of the eggs with; and chopped herbs, anchovy, or the minced remnants of any fish like sardines, pilchards, or herrings, may be stirred into the eggs just before serving with marked advantage. Cold cooked vegetables, such as cauliflower, artichokes, asparagus, &c., may be cut up and mixed with the eggs in the same way,—in fact, a moment’s thought will generally enable a careful cook to make his buttered egg toasts additionally tasty by the introduction of some nice trifle left from a previous meal, which could scarcely be made use of in any other manner. Hard-boiled eggs make a very eatable toast in this way: —Grate a coffee-cupful of corned beef, bacon-lean, or ham • cut four hard-boiled eggs into eight pieces each; mix a good sauce blanche rather thickly, flavour it with a tea- spoonful of anchovy sauce, and slip into it, so as to get thoroughly hot, the cut up eggs ; when steaming, pour the contents of your sauce-pan over four nicely fried squares of bread, dust the grated beef over their surfaces and serve at once. The happy owners of dairies to whom cream is not an extraordinary luxury should try :— “ R6ti&s' des oaitfs cl la creme," which are simply poached eggs served upon crisply fried toasts, with thick boiling cream poured over them.SAVOURY TOASTS. 230 Woodcock toast is one of the most recherche of all savoury entremets of this class. Numerous recipes are given for it and its name is distorted by many writers upon cookery,, some of whom present it to their readers under the mean- ingless title of “ Scotch-Woodcock.” In its unpretending form this toast is exceedingly like one I have already given, viz. :—a better kind of anchovy toast with an egg- cream custard top-dressing, but real “ Woodcock toast ” should be composed as follows :—• Take two freshly boiled fowls’ livers,-— [those of a goose, a turkey, or a couple of ducks, are better still,- while the remains of apate de foie gras are superlatively the best] — pound the liver to a paste, mixing with it a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, or the flesh of one fish pounded, a pinch of sugar, plenty of fresh butter, and the yolk of one raw egg; dust into it a little spiced pepper, pass it through the sieve, and set it aside on a clean plate. Prepare four squares of golden-tinted, crisply-fried, bread, about half an inch thick, spread the liver paste over them, and set them in a moderate oven to retain their heat, but not to burn. Now, pour a coffee-cupful of good cream into a sauce-pan, which must either be dipped into a bain-marie, or placed over a very low fire indeed ; stir into it, as it warms, the carefully strained yolks of two raw eggs, continue stirring one way till the cream thickens nicely and is quite hot (without boiling) and pour it over your toasts: the egg whites (whisked by an assistant to a stiff froth whilst you were heating andthickening the cream) should belaid on the top of all, and the dish sent up without delay. Or the preparation may be slightly varied as follows :— Fry the toasts, butter them, and set them in a moderate oven to keep hot. When heating the cream,, stir into it the liver-paste as well as the raw yolks of two eggs, and pour it over the toasts as soon as it is quite hot, and thickened sufficiently, capping your dish with the whisked whites.240 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Kidney toast is generally far from being considered a very dainty one. Let me suggest two methods, one with the kidneys au natural, the other made with those which you can cut out of a cold roast saddle (a)—Take four ordinary kidneys, and blanch them first of all in scalding water (as recommended in-Menu No. 23) then lift them out, and dry them in a cloth. Make a strong broth or gravy out of any bones or scraps you may have, and stew the kidneys therein till they are nice and tender, then take them out, drain them, aud pour the gravy in which they were cooked into a bowl. Now, cut up and pound the kidneys to a paste in your mortar with some butter, and pass it through your sieve. When ready, skim any grease that may have risen to the top of your gravy, and take a me- dium-sized sauce-pan, working as follows :—Melt a dessert- spoonful of butter at the bottom of the sauce-pan, stir into it a dessert-spoonful of flour, when creamy, add by degrees a breakfast-cupful of the gravy and lastly, kidney-paste until all is expended : flavour the puree, with one dessert- spoonful portwine, one tea-spoonful red current jelly, one dessert-spoonful anchovy vinegar, and a few drops of chilli vinegar. Let the contents of your sauce-pan thicken properly by coming to the boil, and then pour the puree over four squares of hot fried toast. Let there be no delay in serving. If made exactly in this way, this toast will be found an excellent one. Madeira or Marsala may be used instead of port. (ft)—Cut the kidneys out of the cold saddle, together with all the fat belonging to them ; chop up as much fat as there is of kidney meat for the toast, and throw the remaining fat, freed from all burnt skin, &c., into your frying-pan : now, fry in the melted' fat a large round of bread till it turns golden yellow, and has sucked up a good deal of the fat. Take it out, place it on a flat silver dish, cover its surface with the chopped pieces of kidneySAVOURY TOASTS. 241 and the fat that you saved, pour the remaining melted fat over it, divide it into portions, and put it in the oven. When quite crisp, and ‘ short,’ serve straightway without fear. Mustard, Nepaul pepper, and salt should accom- pany, and hot plates should be placed before each guest. Savoury toast made of the remains of cold roast game are delicious. Teal, wild-duck, snipe, quails, and florican ; young pea-fowl, spur-fowl, jungle-fowl, and even par- tridges may be thus presented a second time, forming a kind of rechauffe which rarely fails to be appreciated. The method of preparing a game-toast is somewhat similar to that I have described for ‘ ‘ kidney toast ’ ’ (a). The cold meat should be picked from the bones, and pounded with a little butter to a paste : the skin and bones (well mashed) should be set to make a good, strong, game-flavoured gravy wherewith to form a thick puree in conjunction with the pounded meat, the process of blending which is precisely the same as that mentioned in the recipe previously alluded to. Pour the puree over hot fried toasts, and serve with- out hesitation. All purees of game composed for toasts should be mixed rather thickly so as to rest upon the toast, and not spread all over the dish. Nepaul pepper, and quarters of limes should be handed round with them. I have already said that spinach, and other delicate greens—worked up in the form of purees—were very nice if served upon anchovy toast. They make capital toasts alone. A well made puree of spinach laid upon a crisply fried, and well buttered toast, is decidedly good; a poach- ed egg, or a.layer of “buttered eggs” can be added, of course, with enhanced effect. An excellent toast can be made with the tender leaves and stalks of the beet-root. After having been boiled and diained like spinach, they should be chopped up and heated 21CULINARY .JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 242 in a sauce-pan with some butter, salt and pepper, and spread upon hot fried toast with as little delay as possible. Coun- try greens, the leaves of the mollay-kecrcuj especially, and nearly all vegetables with slight modification according to their peculiarities can be dressed in this manner. * Vegetable marrows and cucumbers should be trimmed in neat fillets, their seeds should be cut out, and the pieces thus prepared should be cooked in boiling salted water. These may be warmed again in a good sauce blanche in which a table-spoonful of grated cheese has been mixed, or in a nice thick brown sauce, laid upon toasts, and sent up. Or they may be heated up In boiling cream, and similarly- served. The points of asparagus, cauliflower flowers, arti- choke bottoms, and similar dainty vegetables, form admir- able materials for toasts : they deserve delicate treatment, and can well bear association with thickened cream, veloute au Parmesan, or creme cl’anchois. Bande-cai (bhindi) toast is so well known that I need scarcely do more than mention it, out of respect as it were, for, homely as it is, there are few toasts more palatable. Cream, when it can be spared is, of course, a vast improve- ment, and the following variation will be found nice for a change:—Boil the bande-cais, and, when cold, scrape out the seeds and pulp from each pod into a small basin, using a silver spoon for the operation. Give the pulp a dusting of white pepper, and salt to taste, with a few drops of anchovy sauce. Fry rounds, or slices of bread, according to the number you want, in butter, and set them to keep crisp, and hot in the oven. Now, take a small sauce-pan, place it in the bain-marie, or over a very moderate fire, melt a dessert-spoonful of butter in it, stir into it the bande-cai pulp, and two good table-spoonfuls of cream with the yolk of one egg. Continue stirring one way until the contents of your sauce-pan look nice and thick, and steaming hot; then pour the mixture over the toasts, and serve. A dustSAVOURY TOASTS. 243 of grated Parmesan cheese should be shaken over the sur- face of the toasts as an embellishment, and Nepaul pepper should be handed round. Milk may be used instead of the cream. Very young brintals (binegun) may be treated exactly in the same manner as the foregoing, as also the pods of the moringa (“ drum-stick ”) tree. Be sure that you select tender pods for toast-making, or the result will disappoint you. A very superior dish of this kind can be concocted if you happen to be able to obtain the flower-pod of a cocoa- nut palm. Treat the buds of the embryo flower which the pod contains as laid down for bande-cai; that is to say, boil the flower, after you have cut it out of the pod, in salt and water till tender, then cut off the buds, and heat them up in a sauce-pan in thickened cream, or in milk thickened with yolks of two eggs, pour them over hot fried toasts, which should he sent up immediately. The white stalks of the flower, if quite young, can be served exactly like asparagus, i.e.—boiled, laid in a very hot dish, with plenty of butter melting over them, or maitre cl’hotel butter if at hand, and’assisted by “ Dutch sauce.” No toast is needed in this case. The coeoanut flower-pods can be obtained now and then at Madras, for the toddy- drawers cut them off when tapping the palms for sap. I can strongly recommend my readers to try both the dishes I have mentioned. Sardine toast, herring toast,' cod’s-roe toast, pil- chard toast, salmon toast, <&c., &c., are all" nice, and very easily made. Trim the fish free from oil, skin, fins, bones, &c., and chop it up on a plate, give it a dust of Nepaul pepper, with a very little salt, and knead it up with a little butter. Put a part of butter at the bottom of a sauce-pan, proceed as if to make a sauce blanche with a little milk, incorporate244 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. therewith the minced fish, add the yolk of an egg, and when thick enough and thoroughly hot, pour it upon slices of fried toast hot from the pan, and dish up quickly. The cold remains of all fish may be thus satisfactorily disposed of. “Buttered eggs ” go wonderfully well with fish toasts, either laid as a top-dressing over the fish mince, or mingled with it; and hard-boiled eggs may be cut up, and tossed with the fish in the sauce-pan just before serving. Cheese is another valuable ingredient in the hands of the toast-maker. Welsh rarebit, or “ Ramakin toast ” as it is called by Ramasamy, is universally familiar to native cooks, and is a dish upon which they generally fall back in an emergency, or when “ Missis din’t give arders for anything else.” For a really good Welsh rarebit, you should have a sound fresh cheese, not over-strong, and pro- ceed thus:—Grate two ounces of the cheese, mix with it an ounce of butter, a dessert-spoonful of made-mustard, a little salt, a pinch of Nepaul pepper, and yolks of two eggs. Mix well together in a basin, and work the mixture thoroughly smooth. Toast a couple of neat slices of bread very carefully, butter them on both sides, place them on a dish that will stand the oven, spread the cheese mixture over them pretty thickly, and bake for ten minutes. If you want a smooth yellow surface, neither too brown nor dry, place your toasts in a buttered pie-dish, and spread a sheet of common white paper over them : after ten minutes’ bak- ing in a really hot oven, they will be ready, so remove the paper, take them out, and serve forthwith. A good plain cheese toast, made as follows, is not to be despisedCut a few very thin slices of a nice fresh cheese, or grate two ounces of a hard dry one: put the cheese upon a small well buttered baking tin, and place it in the oven ; watch it carefully, and when it begins to dis- solve, stir some more butter into it, give it a dust of Nepaul pepper, and serve it up on crisply fried toasts quickly.245 SAVOURY TOASTS. To make a very toothsome cheese toast in the dining room I have found the following method successful:—Take two table-spoonfuls of grated cheese, and mingle with it a des- sert-spoonful of mustard powder, a pinch of salt and a dust of Nepaul pepper. Light a spirit lamp, and, in a little frying-pan placed over it, melt a dessert-spoonful of butter (tinned butter does capitally) ; when melted, shake evenly over the butter the powdered cheese, and stir well. As soon as the cheese looks creamy, stop, and pour it over some hot buttered toast brought in on the instant from the verandah. For stewed cheese toast proceed in this way Grate some sound dry cheese, take a clean sauce-pan, put into it half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour, mix, and stir in a coffee-cupful of milk, add grated cheese insufficient quantity to bring the mixture to a thick consistency, stir in the yolk of an egg off the fire, and pour the mixture over the previously prepared toasts. Some like a little beer added to stewed or otherwise cooked cheese ; this of course is a matter of taste and dis- cretion. Mock crab toast.—This variety of Welsh rarebit is gene- rally popular. Pound two ounces of cheese with a dessert- spoonful of anchovy sauce, a dessert-spoonful of made- mustard, and one of vinegar, a pinch of Nepaul pepper, and a little salt, the yolks of two eggs, and a table-spoonful of butter. Mix thoroughly in a basin, and proceed as directed for Welsh rarebit. A toast that might correctly bear the name of “ Rame- quin” is to be composed as follows :—Make the mixture exactly as laid down for “ Ramequins en caisses,” Chapter 22, and put it upon very carefully fried toasts, which should be arranged upon a baking dish, and set in the oven for ten minutes, or, until the cheese dressings on the toasts rise inCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 246 the manner oi fondues. If served at the nick of time, these little toasts will he found very good. Never use a rich ripe cheese, or one that is beginning to show the lovely .tints of honorable age, in cookery. A little mildew from damp in your bottle of grated Parmesan, remember, will ruin any dish in which it may be used afterwards. Choose a good, fresh, hard, dry cheese, of a mild family, for toasts, &c. : between ourselves, indeed, I know of no more useful domestic sort than the round Dutch. It is a cheap cheese, and inclined to be saltish in taste, hut that is of no consequence in cookery; all you have to do is to omit the item of salt mentioned in the recipe you may have selected. 1 Dutch cheese ’ grates easily, and is rarely inclined to mouldiness. Next to Gruyere, or Parmesan, I would as soon use it than any of the other commonly im- ported kinds. I may have omitted a few good toasts in this chapter. I hope, however, that I have given several that will prove acceptable.OiEi./X.E'TEK Eggs, Maccaroni, and Cheese. T^YTNDER the title which I have selected for this chap- 0^1$ ter, I propose to place before you a few dishes of a savoury nature, some of which will be found, I tbink, suitable for the breakfast, or luncheon table, and some of them worthy of a place as entremets in the choicest of dinner menus. Although many people must be aware that there are numerous ways of cooking eggs nicely, why is it that so few attempt to go beyond the ordinary methods which have obtained in English kitchens since good King Arthur ruled the land ? It is the same with maccaroni: how rare a thing it is to see that most invaluable article of food dressed other- wise than in the time-honoured baking dish : and, in the many uses of cheese, what ignorance we betray ! Whether taken independently, and made the most of alone, or com- bined together, and treated in some artistic fashion, we possess in these three things the elements of certain dainty dishes which, in their way, are excellent. Singularly adapt- ed to the climate in which we spend our exile, and inex- pensive, they are at the same time invested with a certain amount of refinement that to many people is no slight re- commendation. The accessories which are more or less necessary in this branch of cookery are '.—good butter, cream occasionally,248 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS, a little clear gravy, herbs and onion as used for omelette making, the tomato, cold vegetables, and carefully sifted bread-crumbs. The remains of fish, game, and poultry; grated ham, corned beef, and tongue, and slices of saus- ages, may be also occasionally made use of by an ingenious cook. Let us first consider a few ways of serving eggs :— “ (Eufs sur le plat”:—This simple, yet capital, method of doing eggs in a hurry should be noted. Melt a table- spoonful of butter in an omelette-pan, and slip two eggs into it, carefully avoiding breaking the yolks ; let them set in the butter, as a poached egg sets in water ; the moment they are sufficiently firm, lift them with a slice into the hot dish ready to receive them, pouring the butter in which they were cooked over them. Put in the eggs the moment the butter melts ; foT, when first they go in, the pan should not be too hot: a drop or two of tarragon vinegar may he shaken over the dished eggs, or a tiny bit of maitre cl’hotcl butter, the size of a pea, may be allowed to melt over each of them. If, after dishing the eggs, you return the pan to the fire, and brown the butter before pouring it over them, you have “ceufs an beurre noir.” Eggs broken gently over very finely grated cheese,— which has been dissolved in melted butter in an omclctte- pan over the fire—and allowed to set are called “ ceufs au fromage”: they should be dusted with pepper, and salt before serving. I have frequently mentioned “ buttered-eggs ” * in con- nection with fish, vegetable cookery, and toasts. By some, the dish is called “ scrambled eggs,” which is perhaps the more accurate title, being a translation of the French “ceufs brouilles,” the name given to it by our “lively neighbours.” Do not forget the many ways in which you may sei’ve this composition, and proceed to make it thus :— The “ rumbled eggs ” of Ramasimy.249 EGGS, MACCARONI, AND CHEESE. Break three eggs into a bowl with a salt-spoonful of salt, a table-spoonful of cream or of milk, and a dust of pepper : mix them well : melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in your omelette-pan : pour in your mixture, stir it about unceasingly until it is lightly set, and turn it out. Tomato pulp may be mixed with the eggs, and any nice meat such as ham, tongue, corned beef, game, &c., may be minced up, and added to them. The cream is by no means necessary, neither is the milk, but with the poor eggs of the Indian fowl, I think the assistance they give is very perceptible. By adding grated cheese you have “ ceufs brouilles au fromage ; ” “ asparagus peas,” and truffles are also grand additions recommended by Gouffe. People who do not dislike the flavour of the onion will find their “ buttered eggs ” improved if a few thin slices of white onion be fried in the butter before the egg mixture is poured into it. Remember that ce-ufs brouilles are served in France in the same way as an omelette, i.e., spread upon a hot dish alone or above a purde of vegetable. Many people think that the composition should be associated with toast, and nothing else. “ CE ufs au jus” :—Suppose that you have a nice break- fast-cupful of gravy saved from the joint which was served at last night’s dinner. Choose a little pie-dish, and pour some of the gravy into it, so as to cover the bottom well; flavour it with a little minced shallot, or any sweet herb, set it in the oven, and when it is hot, break into it as many eggs as will fill the dish nicely without crowding; shake some bread-crumbs over the eggs, and some little pieces of minced anchovy, or the remains of any cold fish ; return the dish to the oven for three or four minutes, so that its contents may partly set; then pour the rest of the gravy evenly over the surface, add another layer of fine250 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOB MADRAS. crumbs, and bake for five or six minutes. Be careful not to let the eggs harden. “ CEufs d la Suisse” :—Choose a shallow pie-dish, and butter it liberally. Pour over the bottom of the dish a layer of cream a quarter of an inch deep, over that shake a coating of well-grated cheese a quarter of an inch deep, set this to cook in the oven for a few minutes; when the cheese and cream have amalgamated, take out the dish, and if wide enough to hold them without crowding, slip in one by one as carefully as you can,—to avoid breaking a single yolk,—six eggs ; give them a dust of black pepper, and salt, and gently pour a little more cream over the surface, coat- ing it over again with grated cheese. Replace the dish and let it remain in the oven until the eggs- are set with- out being hard,—the time will depend upon the state of the oven,—brown the surface by passing a red-hot iron back- wards and forwards over it, about an inch above the cheese, and serve. The cream should be really thick and rich, or' the effect of the little entremets will be “poor indeed.” This dish may be added to by first placing a layer of. previ- ously boiled maccaroni in the pie-dish, the cream being poured over it, then the cheese, and so on. The cooking of the under layer of cream and grated cheese before the insertion of the eggs, is a special point, for it prevents the eggs being overcooked. This was communi- cated to me by Monsieur C, chef to the Viceroy. “ CEufs au. gratin :—Butter the bottom of a pie-dish pre- viously well rubbed with shallot, and line it with some mac- caroni already boiled in milk, pour round it half a pint of sauce blouclc in which you have dissol ved some grated Par- mesan, or other mild well-rasped cheese, and upon that dis- pose a complete layer of hard boiled eggs, sliced. A finely minced anchovy should be sprinkled over the eggs with pepper and salt, or better still, with a judicious dressing of “ spiced salt ” (q. v., page 121) for seasoning; and then251 EGGS, MACC AEON I, AND CHEESE. a nice coating of bread-crumbs, and, grated cheese mix- ed in equal proportions : drop a number of little bits of butter the size of a pea over the surface, and bake the dish till the top takes a golden brown tint. Slices of tomato, drained of their watery juice, and with their seeds picked out, may be laid upon the egg, or very thin slices of Bologna sausage; and mushroom?, or truffle trimmings, may be chopped up, and sprinkled over them : there is obviously ample scope for culinary ingenuity in the'enrichment of “ a;ufs an gratin." “ CEufs farcis” :—Boil six eggs for half an hour, take them out, and plunge them into cold water. When quite cold, peel off their shells, and, with a dessert-knife rubbed in butter, divide each egg in half, slicing a little piece of the rounded ends to admit of each half sitting upright upon a dish : now pick out the yolks, pound them with butter in a mortar, and proceed to dress them with any tasty trifles at your command ; season the composition deli- cately, and All the egg cases therewith, trimming the farce neatly, with a dessert-knife dipped in melted butter, in a convex-shape over each case,—for there will be more than enough mixture to merely fill each cavity. For the farce, you can use finely minced olives, capers, anchovies, and mushrooms; very finely grated ham, or tongue, the bruis- ed liver of a chicken, the remains of apcltb de foie gras, or a little sausage meat, A judicious selection of two or three of these ingredients, seasoned with “spiced pepper ” is what you require,—-say, one tea-spoonful of mixed farce to each half yolk, Having dressed your cases to your mind, fi'll u little square of bread for each one, as for canapes (page 201) and place them thereon ; arrange them on a fiat an gratin dish slightly buttered, pour a little melted butter over each egg, and bake for five minutes. Some nicely 1 asped crust-crumbs may be strewn over the dish when going to table. Eggs may, of course, be served in thisCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 252 manner very plainly fctrcia : a little minced curled parsley or marjoram, with a pounded anchovy, and some chopped olive, for instance, would not be a bad mixture when work- ed up with the hard yolks. CEhifs farcin are delicious when served cold, in which form they should be presented prettily garnished with curled parsley upon a flat china dish. This plat is quite worthy of a place in the menu of a hall supper. Hard-boiled eggs may be fricasseed, or gently heated up, in a rich sauce like veloutc, Espaguole, or poulette; and those who do not object to fried onions, might do worse than concoct a dish with their assistance in this way:— “ CEufs aux oignonn ” :—Slice up a good sized Bombay onion, and fry the rings in a table-spoonful of butter till they are nice and yellow, add a dessert-spoonful of flour to the butter, and when it is well mixed, pour in a break- fast-cupful of fresh milk : give this a dusting with salt and “ spiced pepper,” and put into tbe sauce four hard-boiled eggs cut into slices ; simmer the sauce-pan till its contents are thoroughly hot, and serve garnished with curls of crisply fried bacon, alternated with neatly cut pieces of fried bread. If you stir a table-spoonful of good curry powder, a salt- spoonful of sugar, and a tea-spoonful of vinegar, into the melted butter and onions before adding the flour and cream, and cut the eggs in halves only, lengthwise, the dish will be “ ceufs d T Indienne.” CEufs poches a V Indienne, i.e., plainly poached eggs served on toast, with this curry sauce poured over them, are very nice, and more digestible than the hard boiled. Supposing that you desire to err on the side of studied simplicity, cut four hard-boiled eggs in halves, trim them like “ ceufs farcis ” to stand upright, set them on a flat silver dish slightly buttered, and bake them until quite hot,253 EGGS, MACCABONI, AND CHEESE. then serve with a cap of merit re. d'hotel butter, prawn but-. ter (or any fancy butter left from last night’s dinner) melt- ing over each half egg. “CEufs atix topinamhours” should be prepared in this wise :—Choose a dozen good sized Jerusalem artichokes, trim, boil, and set them to cool ; take six hard-boiled eggs, let them get cold and cut them up ; cut the artichokes into slices, set them in a buttered pie dish, strew the chopped hard-boiled eggs over them, pour over the whole some thickly worked “veloute aw Parmesan,” and heat the mix- ture thoroughly in the oven. A dusting of hot rasped crust crumbs should he given on taking the dish from the oven. This entremets is nicer still with artichoke bottoms,— •the leafy kind, and ceufs farcis may be associated with them instead of plain hard-boiled eggs. Maccaroni, and the numerous varieties of the Italian paste family of which it is the best known member, should invariably be plunged into boiling water to commence with—no matter whether you intend to cook them in milk, or stock, afterwards—in order to rid them of the imper- ceptible dirt which clings to them. Remember that mac- caroni is a much handled comestible, and that washing it in water is incorrect. I adverted to this when speaking of soups (page 34), and described how the cleansing can alone be effected. Besides, maccaroni must not be ivetted to begin with by any liquid not boiling. Mark these golden rules laid down by the ‘G. C.’ : Washing maccaroni is useless and unnecessary, putting it to cook in cold water is a blunder, soaking it is a crime.” Treat it as our native cooks do rice,—here let me yield to Ramasiimy, or his tunnycutch (?) the praise that either he, or she, deserves,—and throw it into plenty of boiling- water, test it occasionally with a fork, as soon as it is nice 22.254 CULINARY JOTTINGS NOR MADRAS. — and tender, stop the boiling by a dash of cold water, lift the vessel, and drain it completely, returning the macca- roni to the hot pan. If you want to cook Italian pastes in milk or stock, whichever you use should he boiling : blanch the paste in boiling water for ten minutes to clean it, drain it carefully, and turn it into the stock or milk, also boiling as the case may be, to finish cooking, the process being slow simmering. The accepted form of serving maccaroni with English- men is either swimming in tasteless white sauce round a boiled fowl, or turkey, or in a pie-dish “augratin.” In the former fashion it is generally presented in such a flabby, tasteless manner, that the general unpopularity of Italian pastes may be easily accounted for. The “au gratin” is better understood perhaps, but even there, there is room for improvement. “Maccaroni au gratin” :—First boil the maccaroni as I have laid down, if in milk or siock, so much the better. Well butter a pie-dish, arrange the maccaro-ni therein neat- ly, give it a dusting with black pepper and salt, pour round it a large cupful of good.sawce blonde (q. v., page 89) in which you have mixed two ounces of grated cheese : let this run well in amongst the bed of maccaroni, and shake over the surface a liberal coating of grated cheese. Make this thoroughly hot, in the oven, brown the surface of the cheese by passing a red hot iron about half an inch above it, and send it up. Maccaroni “an gratin” should be nice and moist: you can use cream instead of sauce blonde if you like, and tomato puree may be introduced in its composition. A little minced fish such as herring, prawns, lobster, or an- chovy, may he dotted about amongst the maccaroni, and with minced ham and chicken, or tongue and chicken, you can make a capital home-dinner entree, following in other respects the ordinary recipe.255 EGGS, MACC A RON I, AND CHEESE. “Maccaroni dl' Italienne” will be found in Chapter XVII, (page 203). “Maccai’oni d la Milanaise,” another excellent method, may be described as follows :—Boil two ounces of macca- roni, and keep it hot in its own pan after draining. Make a breakfast-cupful of good chicken broth flavoured with an onion, sweet herbs, and black pepper corns. With that make a nice “veloute an fromagc” in this way:—Melt an ounce of butter in a sauce-pan, stir into it a dessert-spoon- ful of flour, mix them to a paste, and by degrees pour in the hot chicken broth ; as this is thickening, add to it two ounces of grated cheese, or Parmesan from the bottle, a tea-spoonful of powdered mustard, salt, and “spiced pep- per,” at discretion ; continue to stir the sauce until it reaches a creamy thickness, when you can finish it off the fire by a table-spoonful of cream, or the yolks of two raw eggs beaten separately. Now, stir the sauce into the hot boiled maccaroni, and serve immediately. The association of tomatoes with maccaroni seems to be as happy as that of green peas with a duckling, egg sauce with saltfish, or red currant jelly with a well hung saddle. These vegetables are generally applied in the form of puree, to achieve which you must cut them into quarters, trim them from stalk, &c., and put them into a sauce-pan with an ounce of butter, and one onion sliced in rings, a few pepper corns, three cloves of garlic, a tea-spoonful of dried basil, and a little salt; boil till the quarters are quite soft, and then turn the contents of the sauce-pan out upon a hair sieve. When thus drained, pick out the garlic, and pepper corns, and rub the vegetable through the sieve with a wooden spoon : the pulp that comes through,—well pep- pered with black pepper,—must be heated again, a lump of butter and the yolk of an egg being added before it is mixed with the maccaroni. Maccaroni with “conserva cli pomi cl'oro” is an Italian256 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. delicacy. The conserva is, as may readily be supposed, a regular jam made by reducing a good quantity of the pur&e aforesaid in a sauce-pan over the fire, stirring it without ceasing until it attains the consistency of thin paste. This well seasoned with salt and pepper may be preserved in bottles, and if securely corked, and waxed, will keep well. During their season, tomatoes absolutely rot in the ground in many a private garden in this Presidency: why permit such waste ? the trouble of making a few bottles of this conserve would be amply repaid in the hot weather when the plants have died down. A spoonful or two of the pre- serve, thinned with a very little stock, and with a pat of butter worked into it, would, at all times, he handy for dressing maccaroni. A dusting of finely grated cheese should, of course, accompany it. Here is a 1 foreign composition ’ which I commend to the attention of those who like Italian cookery:—Mince a couple of cloves of garlic, a shallot, three anchovies, honed and well wiped from the tin oil, and four olives, put the mince into a small sauce-pan with three table- spoonfuls of the best salad oil, boil till the bits of garlic and onion begin to brown, and then turn the mixture into a sauce-pan containing a large dish of hot boiled and drain- ed maccaroni, stir it well, and serve. An Italian cook would probably put in half a dozen, or more, cloves of garlic : in the proportions I have given, however, I do not think the taste of the bulb will be considered more prononce than it is in cliutneys, and numerous dishes made iu India which we eat without murmuring. Several dishes will be found in my menus in which mac- caroni figures, for I have the highest opinion of its merits in savoury cookery. The rules I have given will, I think, he found reliable with respect to all kinds of Italian paste, lasagne, cannelli, mostacciuoli, Ac., and I sincerely hope that what I have said may be the means of drawing my• EGGS, MACCARONI, AND CHEESE. 257 readers’ attention to a comestible which deserves far greater consideration than Englishmen, as a rule, bestow upon it. An inexpensive article of food which, with a little study, may be made a luxury, is surely a thing that the banished lover of good things can ill afford to despise. I think I am right in saying that there are very few establishments in India in which a day passes without the preparation of rice for the table. It is, as a rule, served plainly boiled, and in that form can rarely be found fault with. Friend Ramasamy commits, as I have endeavoured on several occasions to point out, mistakes of divers kinds, and of various degrees in the scale of culinary atrocities, but failure in the cooking of rice is certainly not one of them. Having at our command, then, a species of farina- ceous food, cheap, nutritive, of excellent quality, and which our cooks can dress to perfection, do we take full advan- tage of the many opportunities we possess of developing its resources'? I am inclined to think that we do not. I have therefore introduced the subject in close connection with maccaroni advisedly, for it will be seen that in the better treatment of rice, the laws that govern the cookery of Italian pastes are often similar. The boiling of rice is, as I have said, a matter of no diffi- culty to us in India. The native cook thoroughly under- stands the process, and invariably, I may say, sends an in- viting looking dish to the table in which each grain appears to have been cooked independently, snowy white in appear- ance, and free from impurities of all kinds. A sodden mass of “ stodgy ” rice as dressed by Mary Jane in England is a thing unknown to the Anglo-Indian exile. There are, how- ever, some who may like to know how the task is perform- ed, so for their benefit here is the recipe :— Choose a roomy vessel, and having thoroughly sifted, and cleansed the rice, cast it into plenty of boiling water with258 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. a pinch of sugar, a table-spoonful of salt, and the juice of a quarter of a lime to keep it white. Stir the grains as they are cooking with a wooden spoon every now and then, and in about twelve minutes test them by taking a few grains out of the water, and pinching them between the finger and thumb. As soon as the grain is tender, check the boiling by a dash of cold water, remove the vessel from the fire, and invert it, holding the rice securely with the lid yet leaving space enough for the escape of the water. When quite dry, re-invert the pan, shaking the well drain- ed grains of rice in the dry hot vessel in which they were cooked. Lastly, cover the pan with a clean cloth, and let it rest on the hot-plate, or near a very low fire to complete the drying. After this, the rice will be ready and may either be sent up as it is, or dressed according to one of the following recipes :— Riz cl la Napolitaine :—Empty the well boiled rice into a hot sauce-pan with plenty of butter: stir till thoroughly hot and well lubricated, add tomato pulp enough to moisten the whole nicely, and finish with finely grated Parmesan, Gruyere, or other mild dry cheese. Serve piping hot. When lifted with the fork, the grains of rice should carry with them long strings or tendrils of melted cheese as in the case of Maccaroni a l’ Itcdiennc. Riz cl V Italienne:—Melt an ounce of butter at the bot- tom of a sauce-pan which ought to have been previously well rubbed with a piece of garlic ; shred an onion the size of a racquet ball very finely and fry it in the butter; stir into this, when of a golden yellow colour, two breakfast- cupfuls of well boiled rice ; work it vigorously with a wooden spoon while an assistant shakes into the pan a couple of heaped up table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan or Gruyere ; garnish the dish with strips of anchovies, and serve it piled upon a flat dish. Riz d la bonne femme As the foregoing, but stirringEGGS, M ACC ARON I, AND CHEESE. 259 into the mixture some finely rasped ham, or corned beef, and garnishing with curls of crisply fried bacon. Biz d V Indicnne :—Commence as laid down for riz A V Italienne using plently of good butter. Omit the tomato pulp, and instead of the grated cheese, stir in a table-spoon- ful of well made currypowder, and garnish with prawns that have been tossed in butter with a pinch of saffron. Biz an cho'iO :■—Boil some rice as for. the above, and keep it ready in a dish. Cut up the heart of a young cabbage previously boiled till tender. Melt a couple of ounces of butter in a roomy stew-pan, cast into it a finely shred Bom- bay onion, and two cloves of garlic minced as small as pos- sible : let tbe onion turn yellow, and then put in the shred cabbage, stir it about for three minutes with the butter and onions, and then pour over it enough broth or consomme to keep it from burning : stew gently now for a quarter of an hour, then add the rice which should be vigorously stirred about for five minutes with the cabbage. The dish is now ready. Turn it out upon a flat dish, and smother it with grated cheese. A slice of nice bacon may, with advantage, be cooked with the cabbage; it should be cut into dice, and put in with the butter and onion. For an ordinary head of cabbage, three breakfast-cupfuls of rice will be found enough. Biz d la Turque :—In this, and in the following cases, the rice is not wholly boiled beforehand. Put into a sauce- pan six coffee-cupfuls of broth or consomme into which suffi- cient tomato pulp has been stirred to slightly thicken it, flavour tins with salt and black pepper to taste, and set the sauce-pan on the fire. As soon as the liquid boils, cast into it three coffee-cupfuls of well cleansed raw rice. Reduce tbe heat, and let the rice stew gently in tbe tomato-flavoured gravy. As the rice cooks it will absorb tbe liquid : watch it narrowly, and as soon as it has sucked up the whole of it, stir into it an ounce of fresh butter. Just before serving260 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. a dust of nutmeg should be added, and some raisins care- fully picked and cleaned may be thrown in as a garnish. Another method Riz d la Milanaise, is to parboil the rice for five minutes, and then to fry it in butter with a shred onion until it begins to take colour. After that to add stock without tomato, but coloured with saffron. When the rice is cooked, the gravy may be thickened, with flour, and the whole served hot with grated Parmesan. Some, in this case, add the stock by degrees, allowing the rice to drink it up as it were. As this process is conducted, the grains gradually distend, and when ready to burst are fit to serve. No thickened gravy is served with this,—the true risotto of Italy,—but a pat of butter is melted among the grains, while Parmesan is liberally dusted over them. Riz a la menagere :—For this excellent plat, clean, and blanch six ounces of rice in boiling water for five minutes, using a roomy stew-pan ; cool and drain it on a sieve. Weigh a quarter of a pound of the best streaky bacon, dip it into scalding water for a couple of minutes, and then cut it into inch dice. Fry these in a stew-pan till they turn yellow', add the rice, and a pint and a half of broth, with a salt-spoonful of pepper. Simmer for twenty minutes, stirring the rice every now and then to prevent its catch- ing at the bottom of the pan. Now take it off the fire, and add half a pint of tomato payee or sauce. Mix thoroughly, and put the rice on a dish. Garnish with sausages, curls of fried bacon, croquettes of fish, or any savoury mixture you like, worked into small shapes, and fried a golden yellow. A little consideration of these recipes will, I think, show what a useful article of food rice may be made. In select- ing a recipe remember that raw rice of a good quality swells to four times its original hulk when boiled. It there- fore requires plenty of water when undergoing that process. Carolina rice takes even a deeper bath than Patna. Three quarts of water to six ounces is a good proportion for the261 EGGS, MACCABONI, AND CHEESE. latter, and an extra pint for the same weight of the former. The dash of lime or lemon juice produces whiteness. The immediate checking of ebullition as soon as the grains are tender causes that disintegration of the grains which is a sine qua non in well boiled rice. Eice cannot be cooked too quickly. The chief mistakes of the English cook are :— to use too small-a vessel, and not nearly enough water ; to put the rice into cold water, and cook it slowly. Indian corn (mats) may be dressed with tomato pulp and grated cheese in the style of maccaroni d Vltalienne, or viz d la Napolitaine. The “Fondue,” erroneously called “cheese souffle,” is the dish par excellence of which, when successfully made, the good cook has just cause to be proud. It requires the most delicate management, and an atom will ruin the under- taking, for with all souffles, to fall short of perfection means failure. Practice and experience go a long way towards •turning out this piece cle resistance satisfactorily ; it is never- theless one of those things in which the best hand may occasionally err; so, for a dinner party, beware of placing too great confidence in it, have another dish ready to go round in case the fondue fail to “come off,” and do not enter it in your menu. Here is the best recipe I ever tried for this dish :— “ Melt an ounce of butter in an enamelled sauce-pan, and stir into it a table-spoonful of flour. When the two are well amalgamated, put in a breakfast-cupful of hot milk, and about three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. Stir the mixture on a very slow fire till it assumes the appearance of thick cream, and beware of its becoming too hot, or boiling, for that would be fatal. Now, put in one clove of garlic, a tea-spoonful of mustard powder, a dash of grated nutmeg, and some black pepper. Mix thoroughly, and if upon tasting you find that it is required, add a little262 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. salt. Keep on stirring the mixture at a very moderate heat for quite ten minutes, then remove the garlic, take the sauce-pan from the fire, stirring occasionally till the contents are nearly cold, then add the yolks of four eggs previously* beaten up with a table-spoonful of milk, and well strained ; mix well; lastly, incorporate swiftly with the mixture the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth, pour this into a deep round tin, and put it into the oven which must not be too hot. From twenty to thirty minutes baking will make the fondue ready for the table, to which it must he quickly sent, in its tin, with a napkin folded round it.”—(G.C.) If the early stage of preparing the fondue mixture were conducted in the bain-marie-pan, there would be no risk- of overheating it. A simpler recipe by the same author runs as follows :— Make a thickish paste in a sauce-pan with milk and flour, taking care that it is quite smooth : add to, and thoroughly mix with it as much grated cheese as you have used flour, and a little over, a small quantity of salt, a little flour of mustard, and some pepper. Beat up, if you have used as much as a pint of milk for the paste, three or four eggs. Incorporate them with the paste, then fill a tin, or a num- ber of small cases with it, bake a nice brown colour, and serve. Brillat Savarin made a great fuss about his “fondue,” but the dish he concocted was simply “ oeufs brouilles an fromage.” The modern “ fondue ” must be baked. “ Ramequins,” or little fondues of cheese, are invariably popular. They are not hard to make : I choose a simple recipe which runs thus :—Put one ounce of butter in a roomy sauce-pan, with a quarter of a pint of water, a pinch of salt, and a dust of black pepper ; boil it, cool, and add two ounces of flour. Stir over the fire for four minutes, and263 JE.G.GS, MACCARONI, AND CHEESE. then mix with it two ounces of grated Parmesan, and two eggs, well beaten, one after the oilier. Put the paste thus formed on a buttered-baking sheet in lumps the size of a hen’s egg, flatten them slightly, brush them over with an egg, bake in the oven, and serve on a napkin very hot. ‘ ‘Rameqidns en caisses” :—Take two ounces of mildgrated cheese, and two ounces of white bread-crumbs ; soak the crumbs in milk, and pound them in a mortar with the cheese, and a little butter, till the whole is well mixed ; now season the mixture with pepper and salt, adding a tea-spoonful of mustard powder, and the yolks of three eggs. Finally beat up the egg whites to a stiff froth, mingle it with the mixture, and fill your paper cases, which should be well buttered to prevent their burning outside, or “catching ” the fondue within: bake them from ten minutes to a quarter of an hour, and serve them as soon as they have raised their heads, and have slightly taken colour. Bcignets cl la Picjnatelli:—Put one pint of water in a stew- pan with one and a half ounce of butter, season with salt and pepper; boil, and add four and a half ounces of flour, and one ounce of grated Parmesan. Stir over the fire for three minutes, then add sufficient eggs to turn the mix- ture to a smooth paste. Add to the paste one ounce of lean cooked ham finely chopped. When mixed, form the paste into fritters, and fry in plenty of hot fat. “ Bcignets souffles cue Parmesan” will be found elsewhere, and serveral dishes demanding cheese amongst the menus. N.B.—The best flour for fondues and souffles is potato flour, a recipe for which will be found in the menus. China souffle cases are nicer than paper ones.OHAPTEB XXIII. -o- Notes on the Curing of Meat. N different occasions in this work I have spoken of home-cured tongues. I now take the opportunity of jotting down a recipe for that useful operation, and of adding a few remarks upon salt meat which I think will be found useful. The general rules of this branch of kitchen work may he given as follows :— For salting purposes you should procure a wooden tub sufficiently large to hold a hump, a brisket of beef, or a fair' sized leg of mutton. You cannot commence operations too soon in this cli- mate ; the fresher the meat for pickling, the better. Rub the meat, after having cleaned and carefully wiped it, with salt, &c., at once, and take great pains that no part is omitted: all indentations, and holes caused by skewers, should be scrupulously salted. If you keep the meat in brine, see that it is frequently turned, and basted. A common syringe is a capital tiling to use for salting work,—especially for large joints,—squirt the brine all over the meat, penetrating all cavities and chinks. A good pickle brine need not be wasted: after you have265 NOTES ON THE CUEING OF MEAT. cured one joint, boil the liquid up again, skimming oft the scum, add a little saltpetre, salt, &c., and it will be fit to receive another piece of meat. Let us now proceed to cure a tongue of from three to four pounds weight, for which the following ingredients must be 'prepared :—- Best bazar salt 1-j lb. Saltpetre 1 oz. Bay-salt (Ind-oopoo) 1 ,, Spiced pepper ... 1 ,, Moist sugar 5 ,, The juice of three limes and a sherry-glass of good vine- gar ; or, if no limes be procurable, two glasses of vinegar. First, rub the tongue—after cleansing and wiping it thoroughly—with the bazar salt and “ spiced pepper the operation will expend about a quarter of a pound of the former. When satisfactorily salted, put the tongue aside, and let it drain for the rest of the day to get rid of any blood that it may still contain. After rubbing in the salt, proceed to make the brine as follows :—Take a roomy enamelled saucepan and put into it the remaining bazar salt (about a pound), the bay-salt, saltpetre, the lime juice, and vinegar, and a pint and a half of cold water. Boil these over a low fire, removing all scum as it rises ; when clear of scum and well boiled, the liquor may be set to get cold. Make a separate syrup with the sugar, diluting it with water in a small sauce-pan, and heating it gently till free from scum and smooth, then let it get cold. When the salt liquor and syrup are cold, they should be amalgamated, the work being done with a wooden spoon, and the brine being then completed should be poured into the tub. 23CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 266 The tongue, having been drained for six or eight hours, should be placed in the brine in the evening, where it ought to remain for a couple of days, being frequently turned over and basted during that period. On the evening of the second day’s soaking the tongue must be drained from the brine, and then hung to dry in the smoke of the kitchen fire for a couple of days, after which it may be considered fit to use. Wrap it in paper during the smoking stage, and soak it a little before cook- ing in cold water. The above process can, of course, be depended upon for preserving tongues for much longer periods. I can recom- mend it to sportsmen who, after killing deer or bison in the jungle, hardly know what to do with the good meat thrown upon their hands. A brine tub for tongues and humps would not seriously increase their impedimenta, and a moderately quick servant could soon master the secret of curing. Artificial smoking can easily be manag- ed out in camp, and the ingredients I have named can be carried out of cantonment without much trouble. Never mind if a tongue seem to shrivel up after the smoking stage; after the soaking, which it must receive before cook- ing, it will revive wonderfully, and regain its original pro- portions. A tongue that has merely lain in brine for a couple of days may be cooked at once withot smoking; soaking is then unnecessary: but a well smoked tongue requires soaking, according to the degree of dryness it may have attained, from two hours upwards. Tongues have an annoying habit of curling themselves round, contracting, that is to say, as they get cold after cooking. To combat this unsightliness, and straighten the tongue, Ramasamy is wont to thrust a good thick wooden skewer straight through it from end to end, which267 NOTES ON THE CUBING OF MEAT. he withdraws before sending the dish to table, the conse- quence of which is that you find a strange ugly cavity in the centre of the tongue which spoils every slice you cut from it. If you want to straighten a tongue properly, you must place it while hot upon a clean board,—the lid of a packing case for instance,—in the position in which tongues are always presented to you in England; pin it down to the board by driving a strong steel carving fork through the root end, stretch it straight, and secure the tip by a sharp skewer also driven into the board : support the tongue in shape by weights on either side, and over the top of it, and let it get cold. When quite cold, you may release it, glaze it, let the glaze set, and then serve the tongue. "Glaze” is not difficult to achieve if proper care be exercised during its making. You must boil down some clear strong gravjr, like that laid down for “ aspic jelly,” and reduce it until it begins to thicken sufficiently to coat the spoon with which you are stirring it. Constant stir- ring is downright essential to prevent the glaze sticking to the bottom of the sauce-pan, and burning. As soon as satisfied with its consistency, pour it into a small jar. When cold, the glaze will solidify like hard jelly. When required for use, place the.jar in which you have set it in the bain-marie and let the jelly melt; then dip a brush into it, and paint the surface of the tongue, or joint, over thoroughly; when dry, the appearance will be that of a clear varnish. Colour the gravy beforehand witli caramel accord- ing to the tint required. Ramasamy spoils his glaze by thickening it with flour and butter, and even this he lays on far too thickly. Glaze should not be at all thick. Use a brush called by artists in oils “ a softening brush.” To cure a hump, brisket, aitch-bone, or piece of the silver side of beef, proceed as recommended for the tongue; you will probably require double the quantity of ingre- dients, but the principles are the same. Smoking is, of268 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. course, not wanted, and the joint can be lifted from the brine on the fourth day and cooked ; scarcely any soaking will be then necessary. Syringe the brine well into the meat during the pickling period, and turn it frequently. A “ mutton ham ” is a capital thing for rough travelling times; the meat should be cured exactly as the joints of beef just spoken of. “ Spiced beef” is an excellent thing in its turn. Choose a nice brisket, or a fleshy piece of the flank for this opera- tion. Remove all bones. Rub the joint well with salt, and let it lie in the brine already described for about two days. Then spread it out flat, dry it, and lay a coating of the following spices over the inside (in the same manner as you would spread jam over the paste before making a rolypoty pudding) :—half an ounce of cloves, half an ounce of pepper corns (ground), half an ounce of mace, a table- spoonful of finely minced parsley, half one of marjoram, the chopped rind of a nice yellow lime, peeled very finely, and a dust of Nepaul pepper: roll up the brisket and tie it tightly with a string. Stew it patiently until tender; set it, when done, under a weight; when cold, remove the string, trim the joint neatly, glaze it, and when the glaze is dry, the beef may be considered ready for the table. A couple of glasses of Madeira mixed with the liquor in which the beef is cooked will improve the flavour greatly. “Pressed beef” should come to table in a rectangular shape : saltpetre is not wanted in its curing as we do not require the red colour which is generally liked in humps, briskets, &c. Choose a nice fleshy piece of the flank, with fat and lean, pretty equally balanced. Rub it carefully with salt, and “ spiced pepper,” and let it rest in brine (with- out saltpetre) for forty-eight hours : then drain it dry, wipe it, and stew it gently till nice and tender. When done, set it on a dish with a weight above it, and let it get quite cold. The weight must then be removed, and the joint269 NOTES ON THE CURING OF MEAT. must be neatly trimmed in a rectangular form with a sharp knife. Its surface having been glazed, nothing remains to be done in the kitchen. “ Ox-liead brawn” is not to be despised by dwellers in the plains to whom pork is denied. Skin and clean an ox-head, or purchase one already skinned : split it in two, cut out the eyes, break the bones of the jaws, remove the brains, and let the whole soak for an hour or two in cold water. Then put it into a stew-pan with water enough to cover it. Boil very slowly, and then add vegetables and flavouring as if for soup ; when the meat is quite tender, and you can pick the bones away from it easily, strain the meat from the broth, and vegetables, free it from every fragment of bone, and cut up the meat whilst it is hot and juicy, en masse rather small, seasoning it with salt and “spiced pepper ” whilst doing so. If you have no spiced pepper, mix a table-spoonful of powdered dried thyme and marjo- ram blended, with a tea-spoonful of pepper, and dust it freely into the meat: when seasoned well, cut up, and mixed, press the meat tightly down in a round brawn tin, and let it get cold. After which it can be turned out whole, and sliced for breakfast or lunch. The broth in which the meat was stewed should be blended with the soup stock for it will be gelatinous and strong, the proper basis in fact for a good “ mock turtle.” An excellent “ brawn” can be made with an ox-head, a well cured tongue, and a thick slice of bacon cut into dice. Stew the ox-head as in the foregoing recipe, and boil the tongue, cut up both with the bacon whilst they are quite hot, season as before explained, stir the chopped meats well together, press the whole tightly down in a brawn tin, and let it remain three or four hours with a heavy weight above it. When required, dip the tin into hot water to loosen the sides of the brawn, and it will slip out fully formed, and ready for the table.270 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Minced ham, bacon lean, or Bologna sausage, may be sprinkled in with the seasoning. Be careful to cut up and work your brawn together whilst the meat is quite hot. Unless this be done, the brawn will not solidify satisfac- torily. Turn the meat into the tin as soon as you can. Use an ordinary round cake tin, and.place a heavy weight over the meat to press it firmly together. Calves’ heads make delicious brawn when associated with ox tongue and bacon, and judiciously seasoned. For brawn of pig’s head, follow the rules already given for ox-head brawn.2<XIV. Pastry-making, et cetera. SLTHOUGH it is generally admitted that the clever pastry-cook is, like the Poet, born, not made ; or, in other words, that the art of making really good pastry is a gift, rather than an accomplishment, there can be no doubt that the chef of average capacity is capable of improving himself by studying the rules which govern this branch of his profession. Ramasamy stands in great need of instruction here, for his ideas of pastry are, as a rule, crude in the extreme. He is acquainted apparently with two standard compositions alone, which he distin- guishes by the terms “ butter crust,” and “ suet crust.” The former is a kind of short bread, the latter a humble apology for puff' paste. His selection of the one or of the other, if left to himself, is guided by one law:—“butter crust” for sweet things, and “ suetcrust ” for savoury. Con- cerning the former I have but little to say. In my opinion it is so very inferior to puff paste, that I recommend its use in no branch of cookery whatever. If a cook be wholly incapable of making eatable puff pastry, he may, of course, he permitted to fall back upon his “butter crust,” but I would never allow him to do so unless quite satisfied of his incompetence. “Suet crust,” on theotherhand, is the “sub- ject of my story,” for I think that with a little carefulCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. . 272 teaching Kamaskmy is capable of achieving very fair results with it. Now, I think that it would he a mere waste of time to jot down a great number of recipes for pastry. The ordi- nary domestic cookery book generally contains a dozen or more of them which tend, I think, to confuse rather than to instruct the student. In endeavouring to improve our native cooks, we should certainly cast aside all complica- tion, and reduce our instruction to the simplest formulae. So, let us do our best to confine their attention to three compositions as follows :— (а) puff paste. (б) pie-crust. (c) raised pie-crust. The first to be used for the vol-au-vent, all patties, bon- chees, fruit tarts, tartlets, puffs, cheese cakes, mince pies, &c., &c. The second for all savoury pies made in the ordinary pie-dish, such as pigeon pie, chicken and beef steak pie, &c., &c. The third for savoury pies in raised crust, like the well- known pork pie, veal and ham pie, &c., of the English restaurant. If a cook can present a good sample of each of these pastes, he need not bother his head with varieties. Let us then run through the ‘a.b.c.’ of pastry-making, and make sure that our chef thoroughly understands the elementary- part of this branch of his work :— First, if you can possibly get one, you should use a marble pastry slab. As I said at page 77, that in Madras the chief difficulty the pastry-maker has to contend against is the high temperature : a jugful of iced water poured slowly over the surface of the slab (since marble retains cold far273 PASTRY-MAKING, ET CETERA. more readily than wood) is his surest safeguard. In fact, without iced water at his elbow, the cook can scarcely hope to turn out really light puff pastry. I have heard a good many people speak in high praise of the pastry that they have eaten at certain liostelries on the Neilgherrie^ and express wonder that similarly excellent feuilletage is never placed before them here. Climate has a great deal to say to this, and without wishing to depreciate the talent of the Coonoor or Ooty pdtissiers, we must remember the advantages that they enjoy in the matter of tempera- ture. The next golden rule is that which enjoins scrupulous cleanliness. Everything connected with this department must be as bright and clean as possible. A third law, which I think our cooks rarely obey, is the one that demands the careful weighing of ingredients. Ramasamy converses about “cups” of butter and “table- spoonful” of flour. I do not think that he is nearly par- ticular enough with regard to the accurate weight of the things he uses. Carelessness in this matter must obviously be the precursor of failure. The mere manipulation of pastry is, as I said before, a gift; still, every cook should remember that the less he thumps and mauls the dough the lighter it will be, and that the quicker the work is done the better. The pastry-maker should wash his hands before going to work in very hot water, and plunge them into iced water afterwards, drying them well before proceeding to business. The frequent use of iced water to cool the hands while working will contribute to the success of the under- taking. It is here essential to observe that a little practice will enable the cook to mix his dough, in the first instance with two strong wooden spoons, or with a wedge wood mortar274 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. pestle and one spoon. This I consider a matter of material consequence. Setting aside all hypercritical notions of cleanliness, it stands to reason that the less the paste is touched by the warm human hand, the better and lighter it will prove. Similarly, therefore, let the turns in the rolling-out stage be done with two spoons. If the mixing stage were carried out in a roomy enamelled iron pan, or bowl, set in ice, the spoon process could be easily managed. Pastry should be made, if possible, in the morning before the real heat of the day had set in. Fruit tarts are far nicer cold than hot, why not make them early then ? Or if you like them-served hot, why not re-heat them in the oven at the time they are required ? For patties, bouchees, timbales, tartlets, cheese-cakes, &c., this course is strongly to be advocated. The pastry cases ought to be made early, baked at once and put away ; in the evening they should be filled with the salpicon, purdc, jam, cheese-cake mixture, or confiture, be re-heated in the oven, and sent to table. A most important feature in pastry is its baking. Too slack, or too fierce an oven, will destroy all the careful work I have just described. A good hot oven is requh'ed, suffi- ciently brisk to raise the pastry, yet not severe enough to burn or even scorch it. Ramasamy is inclined to err on the side of extreme heat, which, I think, accounts for those harsh, talc-like slabs of pale brown crust, piled up one on top of the other, which so many of us are forced to accept as “puff-paste.” The higher that these layers of talc have “done raise it uff,” the more successful does Ramasamy consider himself. “Erroneous vassal !” Puff-pastry can- not be too white, or too volatile ; so fragile indeed should it be that it ought e’en to crumble to atoms if stricken with a feather. And now for a few words touching ingredients :— The flour used should be the best imported, and in a moistPASTRY-MAKING, ET CETERA 275 climate, such as this, it is a sine quel non that it should be dried in the oven and sifted to begin with, for the presence of damp in flour ruins pastry. One of the chief causes of failure in attaining light crust is the moisture and oiliness of our butter. All Madras-made butter is full of water, and even English butter requires close pressure before the pastry-cook dare use it. Butter for this purpose should be firm, not frozen like a stone, but. quite hard enough to cut' into pieces. A judicious use of ice for this ingredient is therefore unavoidable if you de- sire to use it with success in pastry. It is on this account, I fancy, that Bamasamy has discovered that suet makes lighter puff paste in this climate than butter: it is firm, dry, and capable of being chopped up and strewn over the dough ; whereas, in nineteen cases out of twenty, the butter he uses is in a semi-state of liquefaction, and utterly unfit to mix with the flour. If, then, you cannot command a good supply of excellent butter, and undertake that it shall be iced as I have des- cribed, you will find it better far, as a rule, to use cla- rified beef suet for all ordinary pastry. Proceed in this way: procure as much good, fresh suet from a sirloin of beef (that surrounding the kidney is the best), and cut it into pieces. Place a large sauce-pan or stew-pan on the fire, and fill it nearly full of water; when the water boils throw in the fat. By degrees it will melt, the skin and impure fragments will sink, and a rich oil will float upon the surface of the water, which should be kept at a simmer- ing pitch. When satisfied that the whole of the fat has melted, suspend operations, take the pan from the fire, and let it get cold; when cold, the clarified fat will become congealed upon the surface of the water. Now, take it off in flakes, drain every drop of water from it, and- put it into a clean sauce-pan ; melt it again, and strain it through a piece of muslin into an earthenware bowl. The fat will276 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. again consolidate,—in a firm, whitish cake, as it were,— far harder than butter, though quite as sweet and clean, and the very thing you want for ordinary pastry, and delicate saute work. Suet thus clarified will keep perfectly good a long time, and is infinitely cleaner and nicer than raw suet freshly handled by the butcher, and goodness knows by how many other people. Keep the bowl of suet in a cool place—in the ice box if possible. The fat that is skimmed from the surface of the soup- kettle is just as valuable, for it is generally the melted marroio from the broken shin : you do not get much of it, I know; probably a breakfast-cupful, at the outside, but it is quite first-rate, and the favourite frying medium of the great Careme. The fat from the under-cut of a cold roast sirloin can be made use of exactly in the same way as the raw suet : clarify it according to the rules already given, and pour it into an earthenware bowl. Lard is imported here during the colder months of the year; it requires the assistance of ice to regain its original firmness of character, and then, if carefully used, it affords an excellent ingredient wherewith to compose a good light pie-crust. As I said before, the water used in pastry-making should certainly be slightly iced : it need not be as cold as that we like to drink, but it should be decidedly cold to the touch. For puff paste, the following directions may, I think, be depended upon :— Having the following ingredients ready:—a bowl of cold, well clarified suet, some dry well-sifted Hour, a good ripe lime, some salt, and a jug of iced water, proceed as follows :—weigh a pound of flour, and turn it out upon your cold marble slab, make a hollow in its centre, and277 PASTRY-MAKING, ET CETERA. till it with half an ounce of salt, and a quarter of a pint of the cold water; mix the flour gradually with the water, and when this is done, and the paste half mixed, sprinkle over it another quarter pint of water in which the lime has been squeezed. Mix it all now thoroughly, until it ceases to adhere to the slab, and pat it into a round ball. Now take one pound weight of the clarified suet, cut it up into dice, and flatten out the ball of paste to a thick- ness of about two inches, spreading the suet evenly over its surface; then fold the four sides of the paste to the centre enclosing the suet, and forming a square piece. Roll this evenly out a yard long, then fold over one-third of the length towards the centre, and fold the other third over it. This folding in three is called by cooks “giving the paste one turn.” Be careful that none of the suet breaks through the edges of the paste as you roll it out. Having folded up the paste, let it rest for ten minutes in the ice-box, or on a very cold slab. Then give it two turns, rest ten minutes, then two turns more,—five rolls out in all,—lastly, gather the paste into a lump, and roll it to the thickness desired, and cut it according to your require- ments. For patties, vols-au-vent, Ac., seven turns are recommend- ed by some authors. Keep the flour dredger at your elbow, and flour the rolling pin well before each turn. The sooner the paste is used when it has been completed the better. If you have a little good iced butter, you may alter the above proportions as follows :—three-quarters of a pound of suet, and one-quarter of a pound of butter. The yolks of two eggs well beaten and strained may be mixed with the water. Baking powder may be used advantageously in pastry- making . heie is Yeatman & Co. s recipe for puff paste made in connection with their powder : Measure three breakfast-cupfuls of flour, carefully sifted, 24278 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. and two cupfuls of butter. Choose a cool place to work in, see that the flour is good and dry, the butter firm and Iree from moisture, and fill two shallow baking-tins with broken ice. Put the Hour on a cooKslab, mixing into it a heaped-up tea-spoonful of the baking powder ; when mixed, form the flour in a ring, as it were, and in the centre throw the yolk of an egg and a tea-spoonf'ul of salt; add a little iced water, and gradually work the flour into it from the inside of the ring, sprinkling additional water as you in- quire it—about one breakfast-cupful altogether—until you have a smooth, fine dough, free from all stickiness. Pat this into a lump, and put it in the ice-box for a quarter of an hour, then roll it out about the size of a dinner plate : put the butter upon it, and wrap the edges of the dough over it, carefully covering it: now turn it upside down, and roll it out very thin; reverse it again, and fold it in three. Place it after this on a baking-sheet over one of the pans of broken ice, and put the other pan of ice upon it. Eepeat this cooling process between each double turn, and use as soon as possible when five turns have been completed. Although composed for English and American kitchens, observe the use of ice advocated in this receipt. Instead of the butter I would try the clarified beef suet, that is to say, if I were unable to procure butter of undeniable quality, firm, cold, and quite free from water. The next description of pastry that demands our atten- tion is that which should be used for savoury pies, to wit: —pie-crust." In this, I think, Ramasamy needs careful in- struction. He makes no difference between his savoury pie “suet-crust,” and that which he sends up under the name of a vol-au-vcnt, his chief aim being a pie-covering, raised an inch and a half or two inches high, composed of the harsh, talc-like layers to which I have already alluded, I need hardly point out that this is an entirely erroneous im-279 PASTRY-MAKING, ET CETERA. pression. Think of the cold pigeon-pie at home, and you will remember no puff pastry : your mind’s eye'will rather picture a close crust about half, or three-quarters of an inch thick, glazed externally, with egg, and with the feet of the birds peeping invitingly from the centre : a firm plain paste that you cut out in a whole piece without its breaking into fragments ; pale brown and crusty externally, and soft and white internally, with hits of jelly adhering to it. Well, that is the kind of crust that I am so anxious to impart to Ramasamy, for which the following recipe is, I think, reli- able :— Put one pound of well-dried and sifted hour on the slab, or in an enamelled basin ; make a hollow in the centre, and work into it a quarter of a pound of cold clarified suet cut into pieces, adding a tea-spoont’ul of salt. When mix- ed, sprinkle over it as much iced water as will bind it thoroughly : dredge some flour over the slab, and roll the paste out half an inch thick. Cut up another quarter of a pound of clarified suet, and dot it over the surface of the paste, fold the paste over it, and roll it out again very thin; fold it in three, set in the ice-box for ten minutes, give it three more turns, and then roll it out half an inch thick when it may be cut to cover the pie. A French savoury pie-crust is made in this way: Empty a pound of flour into a bowl, and rub lightly into it half a pound of clarified suet; add a tea-spoonful of salt, and com- plete the dough by adding to it by degrees a quarter of a pint of water in which two eggs have been beaten. Roll the paste out, give it two or three turns, and finish it as ia the foregoing receipt. A plainer crust can be made by reducing the suet, and a richer and more volatile one by adding a couple of ounces or so of iced butter. Raised pie-crust, or number three, is perhaps less under- stood by Ramasamy than the other kinds that I have men-280 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. tionecl. It is a thing that people rarely attempt in this country under an impression, I fancy, that it is too difficult for the Indian chef. Yet, as a matter of fact, nothing can be more simple. Pies of this kind are inexpensive, and whether for breakfast, the luncheon table, or the pic-nic basket, cannot be too highly commended. To be certain of success it is advisable to procure a raised pie-tin, which should have movable sides secured by a pin at either end so that the pie may be easily released when baked. A locally made tin of the following size will, in the absence of a proper utensil, be found useful:—Oval in shape, six inches and a half long and five inches across (top measure- ment), five and a half inches long, add four inches across (bottom measurement) : a movable bottom to fit the latter : depth of tin three and a half inches. The bazar tin-man will turn you out one of these tins in a few hours for a trifling sum. Made in a mould of this shape, the pie is, of course, larger at the top than at the bottom, with sloping sides. Having procured a tin, you should make the follow- ing short “pork-pie crust” to fit it— Put half a pint of water into a sauce-pan, and let it boil; when boiling, stir into it a quarter of a pound of clarified suet, and one ounce of fresh butter with a tea-spoonfid of salt. Stir till the fat has melted, and then pour the con- tents of the sauce-pan, boiling hot, into a bowl containing a pound and a half of well-dried flour. Work'the mixture to a stiff paste adding a little water, if necessary, and turn it out upon a cold pastry slab ; roll it out three-quarters of an inch thick, as evenly and level as possible, and let it get quite cold. Now, butter the tin, and cut an oval piece of paste a little larger than the bottom of it, so that the edges may turn up, and be more readily fixed to the wall, or side-paste ; next cut out a strip three and a half inches wide, and sufficiently long to go round the inside of the wall of the tin ;. fix the bottom of the wall to the oval piece281 PASTRY-MAKING, ET CETERA. at the bottom with white of egg, pinching them closely to- gether ; then till the pie with whatever meat you have pre- pared, covering it over with an oval cap, cut like the bottom piece, cementing it with white of egg, pinching it tightly to the top of the wall and making a hole in the centre one inch wide : brush the pie over with an egg beaten as for au omelette and bake it in a slow oven. Little pies require a slightly faster oven than large ones, but all raised pies should be slowly baked. A fleuron, to cover the hole in the cover eventually, should be cut and baked separately. This receipt for raised pie-crust is a Leicestershire one, and will be found similar to that used for pork-pies in that county. Pate brisee crust, as used by French cooks for raised savoury pies, is composed by working the suet and butter into the dry flour before any liquid is added. Eight ounces of iced butter, or clarified beef suet, should be allowed for a pound of flour, a tea-spoonful of salt, and sufficient water to mix a very stiff dough. You can fill up these pies in many ways : here are a few recipes :■— (a) With mutton, a plain pie:—Choose a first class neck of mutton, cut the meat from the bones in one piece, divide that into slices an inch thick, and cut them into squares as for a dry curry, keeping the fat and lean separate : if the neck be a lean one, a few pieces of nice fat bacon cut into dice may be taken to assist the pie : thoroughly season the meat, when it is cut up, with salt, black pepper, and a table- spoonful of chopped curled parsley,—nothing else upon any account. With this the pie should be packed, as closely as possible, in alternate layers of fat and lean. Unlike ordi- nary pies, in this case you must not pour in any gravy with the meat: the chief thing is the close arrangement of the meat: if put in loosely the outside pieces will he dry and282 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. leathery. When satisfactorily filled, put on the oval cover, cement the edges with white of egg, and pinch them to- gether firmly, brush the top over with a well-beaten egg, and bake the pie in a slow oven. While baking, you can simmer the bones and trimmings of the neck, with a couple of sheep’s feet cleaned and cut up, and make a clear yet strong broth ; this, when cold, should solidify as jelly; flavour it with pepper and salt, and after the pie has been baked, and is still hot, pour a little of it through the open- ing in the top of the cover. Fix the fleuron over the hole with white of egg, set the pie in the ice-box, and wThen quite cold, serve. (b) With pork, when you can get it clean-fed as on the Hills, the process is similar to that just explained : choose the neck, and omit the parsley : the seasoning for pork pies is composed of black pepper and salt only, the pro- portion being two-thirds of the latter to one of the former. Receipts that mention sage, &c., are incorrect. Pack the pieces of meat as closely as you can, and bake the pie very slowly : a little liquid jelly made from pettitoes and pork scraps may he poured in while the pie is hot after the baking, but no gravy should he added before that operation. (c) With game. If made with game, the birds should he honed, and some pieces of chopped bacon should be in- troduced here and there. Season with spiced pepper, and pour some liquid jelly (made from the bones, trimmings, and a couple of sheep’s feet; into*the pie after it has been baked. A liver and bacon forcemeat (vide page 75) is an improvement. For a specially good game-pie, proceed as follows :— Bone two partridges, two quails, and four snipes, and cut out the hack fillets of a good hare; give the meat a dusting of spiced pepper, and cover it up. Next make a forcemeat as follows :—Take the livers of the birds and283 PASTRY-MAKING, ET CETERA. that of the hare, and mince them finely ; mince the spare meat of the hare, and a quarter of a pound of ham, and throw the whole of the mince into a frying-pan, in which half a pound of fat bacon cut into dice has been tossed with a finely chopped shallot. Work the mince about for ten minutes, then empty the contents of the frying-pan into a mortar, and pound the mixture to a paste. Now cut eight fine truffles into dice the size of a pea, melt an ounce of butter in the frying-pan, and throw in the truffles; toss for a couple of minutes, and add a claret-glassful of Madeira ; let the dice simmer in this, and then pour them with the liquor-into a bowl. You can now pack the pie as follows :— Spread a layer of liver paste over the inside of each bird, put a spoonful of truffles upon it, and roll the bird up ; cut the hare into slices, and treat them in the same way : next put a layer of the liver paste over the bottom of the pie, dot it over with truffles, arrange the rolls of hare meat over that, spread some liver paste over them, a few truffles, and some thin slices of cooked fat bacon : next arrange a layer of snipe, and continue until the pie is tightly filled ; cover the topmost layer with fat bacon, sprinkled over with marjoram leaves, cover the pie closely and bake. When done, pour into it a little very strong jelly (liquefied) made of the bones and trimmings of the game, two sheep’s feet, and the truffle liquor. Or, instead of the truffles, open a small tin of pdte de foie gras, turn it out, free it from the fat, then, with a dessert-knife, cut it into dice and dot these about in pack- ing the pie. It must be here observed that raised pies should not be made during the hot weather; unless eaten immediately they soon turn sour ; but they will be found capital on the Hills, at Bangalore, and on the plains during the cold seaon.284 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Savoury puddings, though homely, and perhaps hardly to be recommended for dinner parties, are, in their way, not to be despised. The best paste for them, I think, is one made as follows :—Chop very finely six ounces of clari- fied suet, and dredge a little flour over it as you mince it. Mix with it one pound of flour, a tea-spoonful of salt, and sufficient water to make a smooth, pliant paste. Roll it out, and it will be ready for use. A basin is the best thing to use for the boiling : rub it well with butter, line it with the paste rolled at least half an inch thick, put in the meat, close over the top securely, tie the basin up with a cloth, and steam the pudding slowly for three hours. To ensure success, a pudding cannot be too slowly boiled. Snipe pudding : Line a roomy bowl with pudding paste : prepare four snipes as for roasting: lay a thin steak on the bottom of the hollowed paste, and place the snipes over it with bacon slices between them ; cover them with another thin steak, and before closing the paste, pour in a coffee- cupful of very strong essence of beef. Try the following essence on special occasions :—Cut a mild white onion in half, blanch the halves in scalding hot water, take them out, dry and slice them up very finely; put them into a sauce-pan with an ounce of butter ; fry till turning yellow; add a dessert-spoonful of finely minced ham, a dessert-spoonful of Harvey sauce, a salt-spoonful of spiced pepper, and a breakfast-cupful of beef broth in which one snipe has been jugged ; flavour with a dessert- spoonful of Marsala, and a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly ; simmer till the ingredients have yielded their full flavour, and the liquid has been reduced one-third, then strain, and add as already directed before finally closing the pudding. I am altogether against cutting the birds in halves as some advise, or picking out their trails : they are far better left intact.PAST BY-MAKING, ET CETERA. 285 A really excellent beefsteak pudding can be made by preparing the beef as laid down for pies, viz.:— Cut the meat into thin collops, place a thin slice of cold cooked bacon over each collop, season this with spiced pep- per, and roll each collop up. Line the pudding basin with paste, and fill it with layers of collops, pour in among the collops a little strong gravy, close the paste securely and boil for three hours. For beefsteak and oystee pudding, roll an oyster inside each collop. For beefsteak and kidney, cut the kidney into strips and treat them in the same way, rolling slices of kidney and bacon inside each collop. Excellent puddings are made with birds, boned, and roll- ed up with a slice of bacon, and any nice stuffing, inside them. Take a brace of partridges, for instance, and bone them, lay them out fiat, putting a few thin slices of cook- ed bacon over them, over that strew some chopped mush- rooms, their livers chopped, a little minced shallot, and a good dusting of spiced pepper; roll the birds up and put them into the pudding basin, pour in a little rich gravy made from their bones, &c., close the paste over them, and boil for three hours. This is obviously practicable with any game.CHAPTER XXV. ♦ 7 A few nice Pies. HILE in the high art studies of this branch of culinary science the clever cook finds grand opportunites of displaying his skill, he posses- ses in its humbler subjects a ready method of practising economy, and of exercising his inventive ability. The savoury pie is indeed an admirable institution. In no manner can odds and ends of good food be more satisfac- torily disposed of. We like a hot pie, we like a cold pie ; it is welcome at breakfast, at luncheon, or at dinner; at the pic-nic, the wedding breakfast, or the ball supper. And yet it must be confessed that we rarely eat a pie in India that can be compared with an ordinary home-made pasty in England. The superiority of British meat may, no doubt, account for this failure to a certain extent, and the climate of the “ plain country” may he against us, but I think the chief difficulty is susceptible of removal if we study the laws of pie-making and teach our cooks in accordance with them. A very common fault committed by Ramasamy in his concoction of a pie, is this:—heisapt, unless taught other- wise, to cook, or partly cook, the meat of which it is made before covering it with paste, and baking it. It is, I hope, unnecessary for me to point out that this is an altogether erroneous proceeding. Whatever materials you may chooseA FEW NICE PIE'S. 287 —pigeons, chicken, steak, or game,—see that they are laid in the pie-dish uncooked, and properly covered with paste according to the correct laws of cookery. Previously cooked meat may very often be made use of in a pie, I grant, but a good ‘pasty’ can hardly be produced if the whole of its contents have been dressed beforehand. Having selected the meat for your pie, the first thing to remember is the gravy which must be made separately, and part of it poured in and amongst the layers in the pie- dish before the paste is laid over it. A little wine lends valuable aid to such gravies : the remains of a good bottle of champagne can he used with great advantage in pigeon- pies, chicken and ham pies, &c., and Madeira or Marsala is wanted for game, venison, and hare pies. The gravy ought not to fill the pie-dish ; about a breakfast-cupful will suffice for a pie of moderate size in the first instance. Prohibit most strenuously the use of Worcester, Tapp, or any strongly flavoured sauce of that kind : it is owing to Ramasamy’s predilection for the sauce bottle that one peculiar kind of taste prevails throughout his dishes, in his savoury pies especially. The season ing is a matter demanding close attention : here the “spiced pepper” described at page 121 will be found of great assistance ; and minced cooked mushrooms, minced truffles, and minced olives (made from remnants you may have saved after an important day’s cooking), will come in most efficaciously. Finely chopped liver is a capital thing to shake over the crevices when building a pie, and little bits of chopped anchovy may be similarly used. Ham and tongue, either sliced, or grated, is welcome in every kind of ‘pasty,’ bacon is almost as effective, and sliced Bologna sausage a very good substitute. Always rub your pie-dish with a shallot, before pack- ing it. It is customary to garnish the surface of a savoury pieCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 288 with quarters of hard-boiled eggs : if you have a few but- ton mushrooms, you can use them for that purpose also, and strew some finely minced parsley over the whole. The cupful of gravy should he poured gently into the packed pie-dish the last thing, just to moisten the contents as it were. Assuming that the cook can make a good light pie-crust, and that the dish has been neatly covered in therewith, care must be taken about the state of the oven :—if too slack, the crust will he heavy and dull, and if too hot, it will he burnt before the pie is-completely cooked. The oven should be so hot that you cannot quite bear your hand inside it. Always leave an aperture in the centre of your pie-crust, which you can cover with an ornamental device in pastry when the gravy has been finally added. This is necessary as a vent for the escape of the gas which the cooking of the meat generates, and also as an opening through which you can pour the rest of your gravy as a finishing touch after the pie is quite baked. The glazing of the crust should he done toivards the end of the baking by brushing a well beaten up egg over its surface. If you hear these general rules in mind, I am sure that you will soon experience a marked improvement in the savoury pies that your cook may in future place before you. There ought to he little or no difficulty in flavouring a pie even though circumstances may render it impossible for you to compose the really good gravy which I have recommended as so highly essential. Take an ordinary “chicken and beef-steak pie” for instance : there ought to be some scraps left after cutting the beef to fit the pie- dish, and there must be some valuable trimmings available for broth-making when you have cut up and dressed the chicken—the neck, pinions, legs and feet, giblets, &c. With289 A FEW NICE PIES. these materials the cook should make a fairly good broth, flavouring it with an onion, and any fragments of vegetable he may have at hand, a tea-spoonful of Brand’s essence, a little mushroom ketchup, some pepper corns, a dessert- spoonful of minced dried herbs, the peel of a lime, a tea- spoonful of anchovy sauce or an anchovy finely chopped, a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, a pinch of sugar, and salt to taste. When thescrapsand bones havesimmered secun- dum artcm under careful supervision for an hour, a dash of Madeira may he stirred into the sauce-pan, and in a few minutes the broth may be strained off into a bowl. As soon as the fat, that the liquid may throw up, has been removed, the cook will have at his command a very excel- lent substitute for real gravy wherewith to moisten the con- tents of his pie: far better, at all events, than the water and Worcester sauce which Ramasamy is generally con- tented to use. A couple of sheep’s feet lend material assistance to pie gravies, since they yield gelatine and savor as well. A quarter of an ounce of isinglass or gelatine may otherwise be needed to produce the jelly firmly. A recipe for a really good “beef-steak pie” will be found in Menu No. 28, and the following notes concerning a “Do- mestic Pasty” will, I think, commend themselves to house- keepers who know what it is to find a few pounds of good meat on their hands without an idea of what to do with them. When staying on the Hills some time ago, a question one day arose touching what could be done with the remains of a fine saddle of mutton. There was a piece of good cold-boiled pickled pork in the house, about a pound of gravy beef could be spared from the soup meat, and a nice chicken was also available. I decided upon making a pie. Having called for the saddle, I began by cutting as many slices as I could from the meat that remained 25290 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. untouched at the tail end : each slice was trimmed free trom burnt skin, &c., and laid upon a separate plate. About ii pound and a half of these slices having been obtained, I next cut off all remnants of good lean that still adhered to the bones, and put them into a bowl. The bones were then broken up, and cast into a large stew-pan with every atom of skin, fat, gristle, &c., that I could find left in the dish after the trimming operation. The whole saddle was thus disposed of. Into the stew-pan with the mutton hones, and scraps, I threw four onions, a dozen pepper corns, the peel of a lime, two carrots cut up, a bunch of parsley, a small stalk of celery with its leaves, a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a bouquet of sweet herbs, the aforesaid pound of gravy beef cut up, and' all the trim- •mings of the chicken,—neck, legs, feet, pinions and giblets. Having been covered with warm water, and simmered gently, in about three hours these various ingredients pro- duced a pint and a half of very excellent broth which was strained off, and set to cool. The lean remnants which had been saved in the bowl were now pounded with a couple of anchovies in the mortar, and passed through the sieve. When the broth was quite cold, the fat was skim- med off, and a regular puree made with it and the pounded mutton. It was now time to pack the pie-disli, which was done in this way :—first a sprinkling of finely minced parsley, then a double layer of sliced mutton, over that a layer of sliced lean pork, another of mutton, and so on alternately, till there was just enough space left to accom- modate the joints of the raw chicken : these were neatly disposed on the top, with little bits of lean pork dotted in between them : the surface was garnished with hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, and then the puree was patiently poured over everything, time being given for the liquid to settle in and amongst the contents of the pie-dish : when finished, the gravy came within an inch of the top of the pie : parsley minced small was shaken over the surface as a last291 A FEW NICE PIES. touch. The cook now made the paste, and covered in the ‘pasty’; it was baked, and at the end of the baking, some of the puree, which had been saved for the purpose, was gently poured into the pie through the vent in the centre of the crust. An ornamental flower cut in paste was placed, over the aperture, the crust was glazed, and in due course the dish was ready for the table. Observe the absence of any ready-made sauce in the con- coction of this simple composition. A little ‘spiced pepper’ was sprinkled over the layers of meat, and some very finely chopped thyme and marjoram,—about a tea-spoonful in all,—was shaken over them also. The j oints of chicken were those usually cut up for a curry. When cold, this pie was really excellent; there was not a bit of grease in it; the meat lay prettily embedded in a delicious jelly; and the flavour was exactly that of an ordinary home-made pie in England. I did not put in any wine ; I had no mush- rooms, and nothing expensive was used. Instead of the lean pickled pork,—ham, leanish bacon, tongue, sliced Bologna sausage, or even slices of juicy corned beef, might have been used. A little consideration will enable the com- poser to vary both the contents and the flavour of his pies, from time to time. Lock up the Worcester sauce, and trust to the meat, herbs, seasoning, and good gravy to produce a happy result. Bearing in mind the rules I have given, and remember- ing what was done in the case of the “Domestic Pie" just described, I think you may undertake any of the follow- ing standard pies without any apprehension :— 1. “Beef-steak and Oyster Pie.”—Follow the recipe given in Menu No. 28 as far as the cutting up of the beef is concerned, and the rolling up within each collop of a nice piece of boiled bacon. Place at the bottom a layer of beef collops,.then a layer of oysters drained from the tin liquor,.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOIi MADRAS. 292 beef again, oysters again, and so on, till the dish is packed : season with “spiced pepper” and finely minced lime peel. The gravy must he made thus :—To about a pint of good beef gravy in which two sheep’s feet, cleaned and cut up, have been thoroughly cooked, add the liquor you strained from the tin of oysters, the rind of a lime, a blade of mace, a glass of sherry and a table-spoonful of walnut or mush- room ketchup; heat up gently, skimming off the scum which the oyster liquor may throw up, and when thoroughly blended, strain the gravy off, and pour it into your packed pie-dish, reserving about a coffee-cupful to pour through the top of the crust at the end of the baking. 2. “Chicken and Tongue Pie.”—A chicken,an ox tongue, and six mutton cutlets from the neck. Cut up a chicken as if for curry, slice up a cold-boiled, home-cured tongue, and trim six nice mutton cutlets from the neck as if for an entree. Throw the chicken scraps, the tongue skin and trimmings, and all the remnants of mutton left after shap- ing the cutlets, into a large sauce-pan with the materials for gravy flavouring recommended in the recipe for the “Do- mestic Pie,” and make a nice broth with them ; when the broth is nearly ready, give it half a glass of Madeira, and strain when it is finished. Pack the pie thusa dust of chopped parsley at the bottom, then the mutton cutlets, above them the slices of tongue, and the chicken at the top. Pour in the gravy, garnish the top with hard-boiled eggs, cover the pie with a good crust, and bake. 3. “Rabbit Pie.”—One good sized rabbit, half a pound of bacon, forcemeat, and a pound of gravy beef. Skin and wash a fine rabbit, cut it up in the usual way as if for a stew, and put the pieces to soak in cold water. When quite clean, drain them, wipe them dry with a clean cloth, and set them aside. Put the head, the lower joints of the legs, and all scraps of the rabbit, with the beef, and the usual ingredients for flavouring a gravy already laid down293 A FEW NICE PIES. into a large sauce-pan, and make the best gravy you can with them for the pie. When this has been done to your satisfaction, and the fat has been skimmed off the surface of the liquor, proceed in this way :—Make a plain force- meat as described for turkey, mingling with it the liver and kidneys of the rabbit very finely chopped, and spread a thin layer of it at the bottom of tbe pie-dish ; immediately above it put a layer of bacon slices, then the coarser joints of the rabbit, dusting them with “spiced pepper,” and fill- ing the interstices between the pieces with forcemeat; put a second layer of bacon over the rabbit, and rabbit again above that, repeat the forcemeat dressing, and when the pie-dish is full, pour in the gravy till it almost reaches the level of the topmost layer. Garnish as usual, cover the pie with paste, and bake ; time, if the oven be in a proper con- dition, about one hour and a quarter. 4. “Hare Pie.”—This should be made like the fore- going ‘pasty’ exactly, with two slight variations, viz. :—a glass of port, a teaspoonful of good vinegar, with a dessert- spoonful of red currant jelly should be mixed into the gravy, and a little pounded mace may be sprinkled over the meat in addition to the ordinary spiced pepper. 5. “Pigeon Pie.”—A pound and a half of tender lean beef to three good pigeons, half a pound of leanish bacon, and a pound of gravy beef. The process is not very differ- ent from that of the pies already described. You must make the best gravy possible from two sheep’s feet, the pound of gravy meat, the pigeon trimmings, and any scraps at hand. The pigeons should be placed upon the tender beef, which should be cut into neat collops and blended with the bacon cut into thin strips as propounded for “beef- steakpie,” Menu No. 28. Do not cut the pigeons in halves ; let them be prepared whole as if for roasting, and put some chopped bacon seasoned with pepper, salt, or “spiced pep- per,” salt, and grated lime peel, inside each bird. Half a294 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. glass of Madeira or any sound white wine may be mingled with the gravy, the pie dish should he rubbed with a shal- lot before it is packed, finely chopped parsley should he sprinkled over the bottom of the dish before the beef collops are arranged upon it, and the pigeons’ livers with bacon rolled round them should he arranged on the sur- face. I have also found that mutton collops may be used with almost as good an effect as those of beef. I used the meat ol' the blade-bone of a shoulder, cut into neat pieces ; these should be rolled with a slice of bacon inside them as di- rected for beef. 6. “Snipe Pie.”—When snipe are plentiful, as they often are in India, the cook ought to remember this delicacy. Supposing eight birds to be available, I would work in this way:—I would prepare six of them, as if for roasting, for the pie; and two I would sacrifice for the gravy, which ought to be very first rate. For this purpose two sheep’s feet and two pounds of gravy meat must be obtained, besides about a couple of pounds of the undercut, or tender ribmeat, for the pie. Having made as good a gravy as pos- sible, I would throw into it the two snipe, and pi'oceed to make a little puree (as explained in Menu No. 16) pound- ing the trails and meat of the birds, after they have been slowly simmered in the gravy, to a paste, and blending it with the gravy secundum artem. After rubbing the pie- dish with a shallot, I would fill up the bottom of it with little collops of the tender beef rolled with strips of bacon, “spiced pepper” being dusted over each layer until all the beef has been used. I would lay the six snipe on the sur- face of the beef with slices of lean bacon, ham, tongue, or Bologna sausage, between each bird, garnish as usual, bap- tize the pie with the puree, saying some of it for the final process previously described, cover it with a nice light paste, and bake.295 A FEW NICE PIES. The essence recommended in the last chapter for “ snipe pudding” would improve this pasty. Birds badly knocked about in shooting come in usefully for gravy. Partridges, and quails make good pies, but they require a sound and strong support in the way of fresh meat, and good gravy with ham and bone essence. Beef,—the tender undercut, or rib-meat,—forms the best basis you can devise : it should be cut up into collops, as I have fre- quently said before, and strips of bacon should be rolled round them. Or you can use the blade-bone collops of good mutton just described, or the neck cutlets ; each cutlet should be trimmed neatly, with a strip of bacon wrapped round it. Excellent gravy can be obtained from the scraps left after trimming the beef or the cutlets, the remnants of the birds not wanted in the pie, and a pound of gravy meat, with the usual vegetables, and other flavouring ingredients often described. A little wine is almost a sine qua non with these game birds : Madeira, sound brown sherry, ormarsala —of which a glass is quite enough. A good “ Game pie" is a capital thing for the ball supper, luncheon, or breakfast party. Snipe, quails, partridges, hares, pigeons, teal, wild duck, &c., &c., can be thus dis- posed of most advantageously: they must be assisted by tender beef, or good mutton collops ; slices of bacon, of ham, or of Bologna sausage must be introduced, and the gravy must be very attentively composed. Proceed as follows :— (a) —Take the livers of all the game composing the pie, and make the composition described elsewhere as "foie-gras forcemeat” using the game livers instead of that of a calf. The method of using this will be explained presently. (b) —As the game must he boned in the case of this parti- cular dish, we shall have to mash all the bones with the pestle, and throw them with the trimmings into our stock-296 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. pot. Take a pound and a half of gravy beef, the mashed game hones, a bacon or ham hone, or four ounces of minced lean ham, or lean bacon, .two sheep’s feet cut up, and a few of the vegetables generally used in soup-making, with a bouquet of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, a little mixed spice, a dozen pepper corns, a little caramel for coloimng, and salt to taste, and make the very richest gravy in the style of “aspic jelly” stock, Menu No. 9. Instead of tarragon vinegar, add to the broth which you get after straining, one glass of Madeira, or fruity sherry, a tea- spoonful of reduced vinegar, one dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly, and half a wine-glass of mushroom ketchup, boil the gravy up again, and then set it to get cool prior to its being poured into the pie. (c) —The game of which the pie is to he made having, as I have said, been carefully boned, and if of a large kind cut up into neat pieces, should be arranged upon a large fiat dish. Dredge it over with flour, and give.it a dusting of “spiced pepper," which ought to he specially prepared for the occasion. After having rubbed the pie-dish well with a shallot, spread the thin coating of forcemeat over the bottom of it, and up the sides. Next place a good layer of tender beef, or mutton collops, each rolled round a slice of bacon, over the forcemeat at the bottom of the dish, and then go on packing the game meat closely, with slices of ham, bacon, or Bologna sausage, dotted in here and there, and frequent dustings of “ spiced pepper” until the dish is filled. (d) —For a special occasion, instead of tasteless bottled truffles a small tin oipdte de foie gras should be opened and used in this way :—Trim the pate into dice, the dice should be cleverly put in amongst the game meat during the pack- ing of the pie-dish. If mushrooms happen to be available as they often are during rainy weather, treat them, after cleaning and peeling them, in this manner: toss them aA FEW NICE PIES. 297 short time in butter in the frying-pan; if large, cut them into convenient pieces, or if buttons, put them in whole as you go on with your packing. (c)—-Thus composed, and bountifully diluted with the aforesaid good gravy, our pie should be covered over with the best paste, baked, glazed, enriched with a second libation of rich gravy poured in through the vent to finish with, and served as cold as possible. While on the subject of good pies, I can scarcely do better than end this chapter with an excellent recipe for a pie, practicable with seer-fish as well as with salmon. Salmon pie, to he eaten cold :—Take one pound of salmon from the tin, and drain it from the tin liquor. If nice and firm, cut it into fillets with a dessert-knife. Make three-quarters of a pound of forcemeat as follows :—choose either some fresh uncooked whiting, pomfret, or other fresh fish and having taken eight ounces of it add four ounces of fresh butter, and four of fine white crumbs, pound all to- gether in a mortar, pass'it through a wire sieve, and season the puree with salt and pepper; moisten it with a cupful of rich poulette sauce, and bind the mixture with two raw eggs. Line a raised pie tin with paste as for pork pie, fill the bottom with a layer of the forcemeat, then a layer of the salmon, an inch thick, continuing the packing till the pie is filled. Put a cover of puff-paste over the top, brush it over with white of egg, and bake the pie slowly. When done, let it cool for half an hour, and then pour in, through a hole made in the top, a coffee-cupful of rich fish broth, made from the bones and trimmings of the fresh fish, reduced to a glaze, and mixed with a coffee-cupful of an essence made in this way :— Take four ounces of lean raw ham cut up as for a coarse mince, one shallot, two ounces of carrot, tea-spoonful of thyme, and a claret glassful of chablis, and boil them till298 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. the wine is reduced, then add a pint of clear chicken broth, simmer for half an hour, remove the sauce-pan from the fire and strain the essence. The essence of truffles is the correct thing, but for that the fresh truffles are necessary. After having poured the essence into the pie, let it get quite cold, then turn it out of the tin, put it upon a nap- kin, and serve. If made with uncooked seer-fish instead of salmon, the pie will he found excellent. There are, of course, many other pies concerning which I could give advice. I am, however, pretty confident that if you hear in mind the principles I have tried to make clear, you will rarely fail to succeed in composing a very eatable ‘pasty,’ and win approval from those'for whose delecta- tion you may exercise your ingenuity. On the Hills, at Bangalore, and at many of the stations of this Presidency during the cold months, every one of the pies I have described will be found when cold to contain firm jelly,—not liquid gravy. If you desire to produce that cheerful effect at Madras, do not forget to place the pie upon ice for some little time before the meal at which it is to appear. The jelly is, of course, the united result of the gravy made from bones trimmings, sheep’s feet, and beef, and the juices of the various meats in the pie extracted by baking. During the hot weather on the plains, if you cannot ice the pie, it will he found a good plan to pour off the gravy after it has left the table, hot. This will prevent the meat turning sour. The gravy can he heated the next morning, and the pie can he warmed up. Cold pie, without artificial cold imparted by ice, is an impossibility with the thermo- meter at 90°.OHA.PTBR J>SL2£.^7X. Our Curries. WE are often told by men of old time, whose long connection with the country entitles them to speak with the confidence of “fellows who know, don’t you know,” that in inverse proportion, as it were, to the steady advance of civilization in India, the sublime art of curry-making has gradually passed away from the native cook. Elders at Madras—erst-while the acknowledged head centre of the craft—shake their heads and say “Icha- bod !” and if encouraged to do so, paint beautiful mouth- watering “pictures in words” of succulent morsels cun- ningly dressed with all the savoury spices and condiments of Ind, the like of which, they say, we ne’er shall look upon again. , • Looking back myself to the hour of my arrival in India, I call to mind the kind-hearted veteran who threw his doors open to me, and, pouring in the oil and wine of lavish hospitality, set me upon his own beast, killed the fatted calf, and treated me, indeed, as a son that had been lost and was found. It rejoiced this fine old servant of honest John Company, I remember, to give “tiffin” parties at which he prided himself on sending round eight or nine varieties of curries, with divers platters of freshly-made chutneys, grilled ham, preserved roes of fishes, &c. The discussion of the “course,”—a little banquet in itself-—used to occupyCULINARY JOTTINGS NOR MADRAS. 800 at least half an hour, for it was the correct thing to taste each curry, and to call for those that specially gratified you a second time. Now, this my friend was, I take it, a type of the last Anglo-Indian generation—a generation that fostered the art of curry-making, and bestowed as much attention to it as we, in these days of grace, do to copying the culinary triumphs of the lively Gauls. Thirty years ago fair house-keepers were wont to vaunt themselves upon their home-made curry powders, their chutneys, tamarind and roselle jellies, and so forth, and carefully superintended the making thereof. But fashion has changed, and although ladies are, I think, quite as fond of a good curry as their grandmothers were, they rarely take the trouble to gather round them the elements of success, and have ceased to he cumbered about this par- ticular branch of their cook’s work. This is an important point, for if we enquire closely into the causes that have led to the alleged decay of the curry- making knack, we shall certainly find that the chief of them is want of care in the preparation of powders and pastes, and the loss of recipes which in days gone by were wrapped in silver paper, and preserved with miniatures painted on ivory, locks of hair, love sonnets, and other pre- cious secrets of a lady’s escritoire. I say “chief” advisedly, for there can be no doubt that modern improvements in our cuisine, and modern good taste, have assisted in a measure in elbowing off the once delectable plats of Indian origin ; and that the best curry in the world would never be permitted to appear at apetit- diner composed by a good disciple of the new regime. Curries now-a-days are only licensed to be eaten at breakfast, at luncheon, and perhaps at the little home dinner, when they may, for a change, occasionally form301 OUR CURRIES. tlie pi Ace. de resistance o( that cosy meal. Having thus lost “caste,” so to speak, it ought hardly to surprise us that our curries have deteriorated in quality. The old cooks, who studied the art, and were encouraged in its cultiva- tion, have passed away to their happy hunting grounds ; and the sons and grandsons, who now reign in their stead, have been taught to devote themselves to more fashionable dishes. While, however, it cannot be denied that the banish- ment of curries from the menus of our high-art banquets, both great and small, is, for many reasons, indispensably necessary, there can be no doubt that at mess and club dinners, at hotels, and at private houses, as already shown, these time-honoured dishes will always be welcome. Has not the time arrived then for us to endeavour to resuscitate the ancient cunning of our books, and to take some pains to attain that end'? The actual cooking of a curry presents no special diffi- culty. A cook, who is an-adept with the stew-pan, and who has mastered the art of slow, and very gentle sinnner- iug, will, whether a Frenchman, an Englishman, or a mild Hindu, soon become familiar with the treatment of this particular dish. The knotty points are these :—First the powder or paste, next the accessories, and lastly the order in which the various component parts should be added. Concerning powders, it behoves us to proceed with cau- tion, or we shall soon lose ourselves in a maze of recipes. Speaking of them generally, however, it is not, I think, commonly known that curry-powders improve by keeping them carefully bottled. One of the causes of our daily failures is undoubtedly the lazy habit we have adopted of per- mitting our cooks to fabricate their “ curry-stuff,” on the spot, as it is required. Powder should be made in large 2GCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 302 quantities under the eye of the mistress of the house, or that of a really trustworthy head-servant. It should then he bottled, corked and sealed securely down. I shall presently give a very valuable receipt for a stock household powder, one that was surrendered to me by an accomplished chatelaine, on the eve of her departure from India, as a token of the sincerest friendship. But for those who wish to avoid trouble and yet to have good curries, I strongly advocate the use of Barrie’s Madras curry-powder and paste. After more than thirty years’ experience of Barrie’s condiments, I say boldly that I am aware of no prepara- tions in the market that can equal them. At the “ Orien- tal Depot,” on the southern side of Leicester Square,—a sanctuary known, I fear, to too few Anglo-Indians at home—you can see, or could see (for the little place may have been swept away for aught I know with Northum- berland House, Temple Bar and other structures of renown), sundry casks of Barrie’s curry-stuff's, chutneys, &c. I dis- covered the place by a mere accident, and the smell and the order-book soon convinced me that I had not made a mistake. Unfortunately the depot is largely patronized by London grocers, who, over-wise in their generation, use the condi- ments they purchase as mere stock wherewith to flavour some miserable concoction of their own manufacture. Two parts of flour coloured with saffron, to one part of Barrie, for instance, is a mixture that can hardly with justice he called “genuine Madras curry-powder,” notwithstanding its being bottled in a very pretty bottle, and priced two and six. I detected the presence of Barrie’s excellent mullhja- htnny paste at several places at home, especially at Mutton’s at Brighton, where a basin of the potage Indien for lunchSOS OUR CURRIES. on a frosty day used to be a thing worth recording in a pilgrim’s diary with red letters. Assuming that we have procured, or made, a really good stock powder, the accessories next present themselves for our consideration. These are very important, for, with their aid, a clever cook can diversify the flavour, and style of his curries; without them—he the powder or paste never so well composed—the dish will certainly lack finish, and the true characteristics of a good curry. Prominently among them stands the medium to he used for the frying of the onions, with which the process com- mences. This most assuredly should be birtter. The quan- tity required is not very great, and surely it may be assumed that people who want to have a good curry will not ruin it for the sake of a “two ounce pat of Dosset!” for, be it noted, that tinned butter of a good brand is admirably adapted for this work. Among other adjuncts that may be written down as in- dispensable are the ingredients needed to produce that sus- picion of sweet-acid which, it will be remembered, forms a salient feature of a superior curry. The natives of the south use a rough tamarind conserve worked, sometimes, with a very little jaggery or molasses, and a careful preparation of tamarind is decidedly valuable. Why, however, should we not improve upon this with red currant jelly, and if further sharpness be needed, a little lime or lemon juice ? A spoonful of sweetish chutney and a little vinegar or lime juice can be employed, but I confess that 1 prefer the red currant jelly as aforesaid. In England writers on the subject of curries recommend chopped apples, green gooseberries, and other acids, in quantities out of all proportion to the requirements of the case. A very slight sharpness is alone necessary * and this of the most delicate nature,804 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS, There are also certain green leaves which are undoubt- edly not to he despised as flavouring agents. By their means flavours can be effectively changed. I will speak of them again when discussing the process of curry-making step by step. Then there is that most important item the cocoanut. This, as every one knows, is added to a curry in the form of “milk,” i.e., an infusion produced by scraping the white nutty part of the cocoanut, and soaking the scrap- ings in boiling water. This, squeezed through muslin, is the “ milk” required in curry-making. The quantity to be used depends upon the nature of the curry. Malay curries, for instance, require a great deal of nutty “milk.” The point in connection with this adjunct, however, that must not be missed, is the period at which it should be added. If put in too soon, the value of the nutty juice will be lost,—cooked away, and overpowered by the spicy condi- ments with which it is associated. So we must reserve the “ milk,” as we do cream or the yolk of an egg in the case of a thick soup or rich sauce, and stir it into our curry the last thing just before serving. It should be noted carefully that the water found inside a cocoanut is not cocoanut milk according to the culin- ary vocabulary. The infusion is what is used in curry- making. The strained milk extracted in the same way from pound- ed sweet almonds can be put into a curry very advantage- ously : it may he used alone, or he associated with cocoanut milk. One ounce of the latter, to twelve almonds, will be found a pleasant proportion. When cocoahuts cannot be got, almond milk (lait d’amandes) makes a capital substi- tute : a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds pounded with live hitter ones, moistened with a cnp of boiling milk, or broth, and then strained.OUR CURRIES. 305 Curries cannot afford to dispense with the assistance of some stock or gravy. It is not uncommon to hear people say that they have eaten far better curries in England than in India, the chief reason being that Mary Jane will not undertake to make the dish without at least a break- fast-cupful and a half of good stock. Let us now consider attentively the actual details of curry-making, and since we cannot proceed to work with- out a good powder or paste, we can hardly do better than commence operations by studying the recipe for a house- hold curry-stuff, concerning which I have already spoken. If faithfully followed, it will, I am sure, be found most trustworthy. It runs as follows :— 4 lbs. of turmeric Hind, huldi. S lbs. of coriander-seed ,, dhunnia. 2 lbs. of cummin-seed ,, jeera. 1 lb. of poppy-seed ,, khush-khush. 2 lbs. of fenugreek ... ... ,, maythi. 1 lb. of dry-ginger ... ,, sont. o lb. of mustard-seed ,, red. i lb. of dried chillies ,, sooka mirreh. l lb. of black pepper corns ... ,, kata mirreh. Do not be alarmed at the quantity, remembering mv previous statement that curry-powder improves by keep- ing, if carefully secured. The amount when finally mixed will fill about half a dozen bottles of the size in which tart fruits are imported. Accordingly, if disinclined to lay in so large a stock at a time, the obvious alternative of sharing some of it with a friend can easily be adopted. The lady who gave me this receipt accompanied her kind action with a little good advice:—“Weigh everything,” said she, “most carefully, and even after the various in- gredients have been cleaned, weigh them again, and also weigh the husks, &c., that have been removed. In this306 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS, way alone will you be able to guard against the disappear- ance of half an ounce of this, or an ounce of that,—petty pilferings that take from the curry-powder that which it cannot get again, and leave it poor indeed.” Inasmuch, therefore, as short weight can be more easily detected in fairly large than in small quantities, an addi- tional reason presents itself for making up the entire recipe. The coriander-seed and fenugreek must each be parched very carefully, i.e., roasted like coffee berries, before being pounded, and the other ingredients should be cleaned and dried, each separately, and, when pounded, should be well sifted. In order to preserve the proportions after the seeds have been powdered and sifted, it is necessary to obtain much larger quantities of the various ingredients in the first instance. Coriander-seed, for example, is very oily and only a part of it will pass through the sieve; twenty-four ounces of the seed will not yield more than eight ounces of powder: eight ounces of turmeric root will give four of powder : cummin-seed loses about one-third of its origi- nal weight in the process of sifting, and dried chilli skin about half. Weights having been tested, the whole of the powders should be mixed, a quarter of a bottle of salt being sprink- led in by degrees during the process. The bottles, thoroughly cleansed and dried in the sun, may now be filled and corked tightly down, the tops being securely waxed over. Some recommend that, when the powder has been mixed, it should be browned in melted butter over the fire, then dried in the sun, and powdered again, in order to tone down the strong flavour of the cummin-seed. This is a stock'powder, the flavour of which can be variedOUR CURRIES. 307 by the use of certain spices, and green leaves, garlic, onions, green ginger, almond, cocoanut, &c., at the time of cooking the curry. The spices, which should be used according to taste and discretion, are these:—cloves (laoong), mace (jaioatri), cinnamon (kalmi darchini), nutmeg (jciephat), cardamoms (iaelachi), and allspice (seetul chini gach). A salt-spoonful of one, or at most of two, of these aromatic powders blended, will suffice for a large curry. Dr. Kitchener’s precept, viz., that the mixing of several spices is a blunder, should never be forgotten. The green leaves that are often useful when judiciously introduced are:—fennel (souf), “ maythibajec,” lemon-grass (uggea-ghas), bay-leaves (tajipatha), “karay-patch,” “kote- mear” leaves (green coriander), 4c.; they should be removed before serving. Leaves should be picked out before serv- ing. When green ginger is used it should be sliced very fine, and pounded to a paste ; a dessert-spoonful being sufficient for one curry. The indispensably necessary suspicion of sweet-acid can be produced most readily by a dessert-spoonful of powder- ed or moist sugar and the juice of a lime, or a spoonful of vinegar. A table-spoonful of sweet chutney and the juice of a lime make a good substitute; but a table-spoonful of red currant jelly, with one of chutney, and a little vinegar, or lime juice, form to my mind the nicest combination for dark curries. I strongly advocate the very capital plan of making a fresh paste of some of the above adjuncts, in sufficient quantity for the curry in hand, and blending it with the stock powder when cooking the latter. Here is a reliable recipe One small onion, one clove of garlic, one dessert- spoonful of turmeric, one of freshly-roasted coriander-seed,308 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. one of poppy-seed, a tea-spoonful of Nepaul pepper, one of sugar, one of salt, and one of grated green ginger. Pound all these with sufficient good salad oil to make a paste. Also pound twelve sweet almonds, and one ounce of cocoanut, with a little lime juice to assist the operation. Then mix the two pastes, and stir into them a salt-spoon- ful of cinnamon or clove-powder. A heaped-up table-spoon- ful of this paste to one of the stock powder will produce a very excellent result. Additional heat can be obtained by those who like very hot curries if red chilli powder be added to the above ingredients according to taste. This paste will keep for a few days if put away carefully in a jar and corked down. Having satisfied ourselves as to the composition of our powder and paste, we may now work out, step by step, the process to be followed in'cooking a chicken curry. Choose a nice young chicken—and here let me point out that large chickens nearly full grown ought never to be used in curries—and having cut it up neatly as for a fricas- see, place the pieces aside, and dredge over them a little flour. Next take all the trimmings, neck, pinions, leg bones, feet, head, &c., with any scraps of meat that can be spared, and cast them into a sauce-pan with an onion sliced, a tea-spoonful of Brand’s essence or Liebig’s extract, a carrot sliced, half a dozen pepper corns, a bit of celery, a pinch of salt and one of sugar, cover them with cold water and make the best broth you can. When ready, strain the contents of the sauce-pan into a bowl, and skim it clean. A good breakfast-cupful of weak stock should thus be obtained. Lastly, make a breakfast-cupful of milk of cocoanut, or almond, as already described. Now take your stew-pan, and having sliced up six good shallots, or two small white onions, cast the rings into it, with two ounces of Denmark, Normandy, or other good tinned butter ; add a finely-minced clove of garlic, and fryOUR CURRIES. 309 till the onions turn a nice yellow brown. Then add a heaped-up table-spoonful of the stock powder, and one of the paste, or, if you have not made the latter, two table- spoonfuls of the powder. Cook the curry-stuff with the onions and butter for a minute or two, slowly, adding by degrees a wine-glassful of the cocoanut milk, and then also by degrees the breakfast-cupful of broth. If you like curry with a thickish gravy stir in a dessert-spoonful of flour with the butter, onions, and curry stuff. The effect of this when simmered for a quarter of an hour will be a rich, thick, curry gravy, or sauce. Omit the flour, and the consistency will be that of ordinary gravy. The stew-pan should now be placed en bain-marie while we proceed to prepare the chicken. Take a saute-pan : melt in it an ounce of butter, or clari- fied beef suet, add a shallot cut up small, and fry for a couple of minutes. Next put the pieces of chicken into the sa%£e-pan, and lightly fry them. As soon as slightly coloured, the pieces of chicken should be transferred to the stew-pan in which they should rest for at least half an hour, marinading, as it were, in the curry gravy. After that, the stew-pan should be placed over a gentle tire, and if the liquid be found insufficient to cover the pieces of chicken, stock, if available, or water, should be added. A gentle simmering process should now be encouraged, during which the bay-leaf,chutney, and sweet-acid should be added. If powder without fresh paste has been used, the pounded almond and cocoanut may now be put in, with a little spice and grated green ginger. The curry gravy should at this period be tasted, and if a little more acid or sweet be found necessary, the proper correction should be made. As soon as the pieces of chicken have become tender, thoroughly stewed that is to say, the remainder of the cocoanut “ milk” should be stirred in, and in three minutes the operation will be complete.CULINARY JOTTINGS NOR MADRAS. 310 If a semi-dry or dry curry be required, the gravy must be still further reduced by simmering with the lid off, the pieces of meat being continually stirred about with a wooden spoon to prevent their catching at the bottom of the pan. When the proper amount of absorption has been attained, remove the pan and serve. The fire must be very low for this operation. On the other hand, if a moist curry be the object, additional stock must be putin during the simmer- ing process. Now, those to whom the slipshold method of curry- making, ordinarily followed by native cooks, is familiar, will, perhaps, think that the process I have recommended is needlessly troublesome. The separate frying of the chicken, the period of rest in the bciin-mciric, dc., may seem to them unnecessary. I am, however, perfectly confident that in order to produce a dish of a superior class, we must be prepared to take all this trouble, bringing an enlightened system of cookery to bear upon the subject. The condi- ments and ingredients which, so to speak, provide the curry flavour, are after all mere accessories. I look upon a chicken curry as a fricassee, or blanquette ci V Indienne, and consider that it should certainly be treated according to the prin- ciples of scientific cookery. What is worth doing at all, is worth doing well. The soaking of meat in the liquid curry-stuff is an im- portant point, especially when previously cooked meat is to be curried. Remember how much better a salmis or a hash tastes if the meat of which it is composed has been marinaded for an hour or so, before being finally heated up, in the carefully-made gravy or sauce composed for it. This, I think, accounts for an opinion I once beard ex- pressed by a friend of undoubted ability in culinary criti- cism, to the effect that he always found curries of a certain kind better when warmed up and served as a rechauffe than when presented for the first time. If a gravy curry beour CURRIES. 311 kept during the night in a china curry dish, and be resus- citated the next morning with some fresh butter, onions and a little gravy, it ought, if anything, to he found better than on the previous night, since the meat has become thoroughly flavoured by the curry gravy, while the latter is of course reduced and so strengthened by the second simmering. These directions will be found pi~acticable with most ordinary meat curries. Those made of fresh fish, prawns, and shellfish, require a somewhat different process, while those of cut up, or minced cooked meat, tinned or cooked fish, dressed vegetables, and hard-boiled eggs, merely require to he gently heated up in a carefully-made curry The Malay or “Ceylon curry,” as it is sometimes called, is, of course, a specialite and there are kubdbs, quoornias, it’c., <fc., that need separate consideration. Above all things it is necessary to achieve our end by patience. Slorv cookery is the backbone of curry-making. Is not this dish too frequently presented- to us with the chicken like leather, and the gravy around it like oily water apd snuff ? Unless the process he gentle, the former result is certain, and if we do not cook our curry-powder and paste carefully, a crude, snuff-like effect is equally sure. The infusion of the nut is quite as essential as the curry-powder itself. Rice is of course the standard concomitant of curries of all kinds. For the correct method of boiling it, see page gravy. 257.OHIA.PTER 2CX.VIL — Curries—continued, and Mulligatunny. SHE outward bound passenger to India is generally very favourably struck by the curry presented to him at a Ceylon hostelry. Heartily weary of the cuisine on boardship, at that period of his voyage, he would probably welcome any change with thankfulness. The prospect of a little meal ashore, “ be it ever so bum- ble,” is therefore especially enjoyable to him. It may, of course, be said that in such circumstances the traveller is predisposed to deliver a kindly verdict; and that if the dish that pleased him so much in the hour of his eman- cipation from cuddy barbarisms were placed before him after a proper course of civilized diet, it would, by no means, produce such an agreeable impression. It would, at all events, lack the charm of contrast, which, in the particular instance before us, could hardly fail to excite the warmest feelings of gratitude and satisfaction. The nautical curry is not, as a rule, a plat to dream of, —a triumph to look back upon pleasurably, that is to say, with the half-closed eye of a connoisseur. A sea-faring friend with whom I once made a very cheery voyage, graphically described the composition as “ yellow Irish stew.” Those whose memory is retentive of trifles will no doubt call to mind without difficulty a bright saffron- tinted swill, covering sundry knotty lumps of potato and313 CUBBIES—CON TINNED. a few bony atoms of mutton, with its surface befiecked, if I may so describe it, with glossy discs of molten grease. Not exactly the sort of dish to tempt a lady, still slightly affected by mal-cle-mer, who has been urged by her stew- ardess to rouse herself, “poor dear,” and try and eat some- thing. Having had this mess thrust before him day after day for three weeks, no wonder that the “ vcocuus viator finds something in the curry of Ceylon to delight him. “ Good! said I to myself, cheered at the sight” (a plump, freshly-roasted leveret), wrote Brillat Savarin concerning his experiences of a journey ; “I am not entirely abandon- ed by Providence : a traveller may gather a flower by the ivay-side." Begarding the Ceylon curry, then, as a “flower by the way-side,” let us proceed to consider its composition with all due attention. As I observed in my last chapter, the dish is quite a specialite, peculiar originally to places where the cocoanut is extensively grown and appreciated. It is known by some as the “Malay curry,” and it is closely allied to the moli of the Tamils of Southern India. Though best adapted for the treatment of shell-fish, ordinary fish, and-vegetables of the cucumis or gourd family, it may be advantageously tried with chicken, or any nice white meat. We can describe it as a species of fricassee, rich with the nutty essence of the cocoanut, and very delicately flavour- ed with certain mild condiments. It ought to be by no means peppery or hot, though thin strips of red and green chilli-skin or capsicum may be associated with it. It there- fore possesses characteristics very different from those of an ordinary curry. The knotty point is the treatment and application of the cocoanut, which should be as fresh and juicy as possible, and of which there should be no stint. In places where cocoanuts cannot be readily procured, a very good “mock” Ceylon curry can be made with the 27314 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOB MADRAS. milk ol almonds, and from Brazil nuts an infusion can be concocted that very much resembles cocoanut milk. The condiments employed are onions, a very little garlic, green ginger, turmeric powder, a little powdered cinnamon and cloves, and the chilli strips aforesaid. Coriander-seed, cummin-seed, cardamoms, fenugreek, chilli-powder, poppy- seed, &c., ought, on no account, to he used . The most agreeable combinations are prawns with cu- cumber, crab with vegetable marrow, or any firm-fleshed fish or tender chicken with either of those vegetables. For example, I will select a prawn and cucumber curry:— (a) —Take a good-sized cucumber, or two small ones, cut them lengthwise into quarters, remove the seeds, and peel off the green skin. Cut them into pieces two inches long and one inch thick, and put them into a stew-pan with plenty of water, half an ounce of butter, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Simmer them until three parts done; then dram the liquid off, and turn the pieces of cucumber out upon a clean dish, and cover them up. (b) —The prawns should be prepared very carefully ; and here permit me to observe that if prawns are fresh, and properly cleaned, no evil effects need be dreaded by those who look upon them as dangerous. Throw two table-spoonfuls of salt into a gallon of water, put the pan on the fire, and when the water boils fast, slip into it about a pound and a half of prawns weighed in their shells. Boil, and as soon as the prawns turn a rosy pink, stop, drain them from the water, let them get cold, and shell them, removing their heads completely. Next pass a knife down the line of the back of each prawn, slightly open the groove as it were, and pick out of it the black gritty dirt that -you will find there. Carry out a similar process with the inner line, and cast the cleaned prawns into a basin of spring water. Having washed them again315 C XJBlilE S— CON TIN UED. thoroughly, pick them out, and dry them on a cloth. It very large, you must now divide them in halves length- wise, and sever each half in twain. Dust them over with Hour, and put them on a dish. They are now ready. (c)—Choose a very large cocoanut, the fresher the better, break it in half, and, with a cocoanut scraper, remove the whole of the white flesh, rasping it into a bowl. Upon the raspings thus obtained, pour a breakfast-cupful of boiling water, leave it for a quarter of an hour, and then strain the liquid off. This is the best or “number one” infusion, which must be put away, and not added to the curry till the last thing before serving. Return the raspings to their bowl, and pour over them a pint of boiling water, stir well, and let the liquid stand for half an hour. It should then be strained, and the nutty atoms squeezed dry in muslin, so that every drop of the cocoanut essence may be secured. The liquor thus obtained is the “ number two” infusion. Our preparations are now complete. (cl)—Put two ounces of good tinned butter into a stew- pan, and mix into it, as it melts over a brisk fire, a white Bombay onion shred into rings, and a clove of garlic finely minced. Lightly fry, hut do not allow the onions to turn colour before adding a table-spoonful of good flour, a des- sert-spoonful of turmeric powder, a tea-spoonful of salt, and a scant one of sugar, a tea-spoonful of mixed cloves and cinnamon powder, and, by degrees, the “ number two infu- sion.” A breakfast-cupful of thick chicken broth, or fish consomme—made by simmering some fish-bones, pounded prawn shells, and scraps of fish, in water, with an onion, a carrot, and some parsley—should now go in to assist the composition, together with a lieaped-up table-spoonful of sliced green ginger, and three green chillies cut into Juli- enne-like strips. The liquid is now ready for the prawns, so remove the stew-pan from the fire, and place it in a bath of boiling water, to keep warm, while you add the prawns316 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. and the slices of partly-cooked cucumber. It will be found an excellent plan to permit the curry—now all but ready— to rest for about half an hour, at the expiration of which the pan may he placed over a moderate fire, and its contents brought to simmering point. When satisfied that both the prawns and vegetable are tender, the “ number one” infu- sion may he stirred in, and with it a tea-spoonful of lime- juice. Five minutes’ simmering will now complete our task, and the curry can be dished up, and served. Fillets of any firm-fleshed fish, or even neat fillets of chicken, may he treated precisely in the manner I have described. As, however, it is necessary partly to cook prawns, crabs, lobsters, shrimps, &c., separately, a longer process of simmering will be necessary for raw fillets. The pieces of chicken should he lightly tossed in butter in a scout e-pun with a finelv-shred onion, before beiug put into the curry sauce. The moli is prepared in this manner :—Melt a couple of ounces of butter, and fry therein an onion sliced into rings, and a clove of garlic minced, a few strips of green chilli, and some slices of green ginger ; stir into it a table-spoon- ful of flour, and add by degrees the “ number two infusion” just alluded to. Work this to the consistency of a rich white sauce adding as much fish stock or broth as may be necessary, heat up some slices of cooked fish or chicken in it, and finish off, as already described, with “ number one infusion,” and a tea-spoonful of lime-juice. A little tur- meric powder may he used if the yellow colour he con- sidered desirable. If raw fish he used, make a little fish stock with bones and trimmings, simmer the fillets in this, and use the liquid in making the moli. Old Indian cookery hooks give a number of recipes for . kubab curries, for the most part of purely native design, and requiring condiments and ingredients which were per-C UBRIE S—CONTIN TIED. 317 haps appreciated by our forefathers who adopted an almost Oriental method of life. The best ktibab, to my mind, is one made of tender mutton or veal, and treated as fol- lows :— Cut the mutton into thickish pieces, about an inch square' and half an inch thick; cut out of some slices ol good bacon some pieces an inch square also, but about a quarter the thickness of the mutton ; cut up some pieces of parboiled white onion upon the same pattern as the bacon, and some thin slices of green ginger to match. Impale these mixed pieces upon small plated or silver skewers, or upon thinly-cut wooden ones, maintaining the order I have given, viz., first a piece of mutton, then a piece of bacon, then a bit of onion, and lastly, the thin slice of green ginger. Having repeated this until the skewer is filled, go on with another. When all have been completed, the kitbdbs should be simmered in a good curry sauce as recommended for chicken curry. Before being added to the sauce, however, they should he lightly tossed in butter in a saute-pan with an onion sliced, a tea-spoonful of salt, and one of sugar. The introduction of the slice of bacon is a very great improvement. The “Quoorma,” if well made, is undoubtedly an excel- lent curry. It used, I believe, to be one of the best at the Madras Club, in days when curries commanded closer attention than they do now. Cut up about a pound of very tender mutton without any bone, and stir the pieces about in a big bowl with a dessert-spoonful of pounded green ginger, and a sprinkling of salt. Melt a quarter of a pound of butter in a stew- pan, and throw into it a couple of large white onions cut into rings, a table-spoonful of flour, and a couple of cloves of garlic finely minced. Pry for about five minutes, and then add a tea-spoonful of parched, pounded and sifted corian- der-seed, one of pounded black pepper, half one of poundedCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 318 cardamoms, and half one of pounded cloves. Cook this for five minutes, dilute with a pint of mutton broth, then put in the meat, and simmer over a moderate fire until the pieces seem tender. Now, take the pan from the fire, and work into it a strong infusion obtained from four ounces •of well-pounded sweet almonds diluted with hot water and squeezed through muslin, and a breakfast-cupful of cream. Mix thoroughly, adding a dessert-spoonful of turmeric powder, and a tea-spoonful of sugar. Put the pan over a very low fire, and let the curry simmer as gently as possi- ble for a quarter of an hour, finishing off with the juice of a couple of limes. This, it will be perceived, is another curry of a rich yet mild description. The total absence of chilli, indeed, constitutes, in the opinion of many, its chief attraction. According to the ancient canons by which the service of curries was regulated, chutneys of various kinds were considered as essentially necessary as the lordly platter of rice which, of course, accompanied them. These may be divided into two distinct classes : tire preserved or bottled chutneys, and those that are made of fresh materials on the spot. Of the former I need say nothing: they are easily procured, and most people know the kind that suits them best. But concerning the latter, I think a little reflection will be found advantageous. There can be no doubt that the presentation of these chutneys,—the little hors d’auvres, so to speak, of the curry service,—has of late years passed quietly into desuetude. This has been the result, to be sure, of the disappearance of curries from the menu of the modern dinner, and the very moderate degree of attention that they now command at our hands. Assuming, however, that those who still occasionally patronize the dish would rather see it at its best, and served correctly than not, I will go on with a few recipes that will be found easy enough.CUBBIES—CONTINUED. 310 Fresh chutneys should be served in saucers which should lie tastefully arranged upon a tray. Four or five varieties can he presented together, so that there may be an oppor- tunity of selection. Caviare dressed with a few drops of lime juice and a dust_ of yellow pepper, roes of fish pounded with a little butter, potted prawns, potted ham, crab paste, lobster paste, and sardine paste, are hors d'oeuvres that can accompany the chutneys and materially assist them. The best fresh chutneys are: tomato, cucumber, mint, brinjal, cocoanut, mango or apple, tamarind, and potato. For toma to chutney .'—Remove the skin, seeds, and watery juice, from two or three ripe tomatoes, chop them up with a quarter their bulk of white onion, and season the mince with a little salt; add a pinch of salt, two green chillies chopped small, and a little bit of celery also chopped, give the whole a dust of black pepper, and moisten it with a tea-spoonful of vinegar—anchovy vinegar for choice. For cucumber chutney :—Cut the cucumber into thin strips an inch long; say tlmee heaped-up table-spoonfuls ; mix with them a tea-spoonful of finely-minced onion, one of chopped green chilli, and one of parsley; moisten with a dessert-spoonful of vinegar in which a pinch of sugar has been dissolved, a dessert-spoonful of salad oil, and dust over it salt and black pepper at discretion. Brinjal chutney is made in this manner:—Boil two or three brinjals, let them get cold, scrape out the whole of the inside of the pods, pass this through the sieve to get rid of the seeds. Rub a soup-plate with a clove of garlic, empty the brinjal pulp therein, dress it with a tea-spoonful of minced onion, one of green chilli, one of vinegar, and a very little green ginger, season with salt and black pepper, pat the mixture into a little mould, and serve in a saucer. Cocoanut chutney consists of pounded cocoanut, flavoured320 CULINABY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. with minced onion and green chilli, green ginger, and an atom of garlic, moistened with tamarind juice, and season- ed with red pepper and salt. Mint chutney is made in the same way, substituting pounded mint for cocoanut. Scald the mint leaves before pounding them. Mango or apple chutney is made like cucumber chutney with the addition of a tea-spoonful of chopped green ginger. Tamarind chutney is a good one:—Pound together a table-spoonful of tamarind pulp and one of green ginger, season it with salt, a tea-spoonful of minced green chillies, and one of mustard seed roasted in butter ; mix thoi’ough- ly and serve. „ Mashed potato chutney is flavoured with minced onion, green chilli, salt, pepper, vinegar, and a pinch of sugar. With these relishes, curries are undoubtedly far nicer than when sent up unassisted. Treacher’s tinned Bombay ducks when presented with curries only require crisping in a brisk oven. Paparums may either be toasted on a griddle over some clear embers, or fried in hot fat. Thin slices of raw brinjal, and green plantains, similarly fried, like potato chips, are nice with curries. Mulligatunny, If it be admitted that the knack of curry-making has gradually passed away from the native cook, I think it must also be allowed that a really well-made mulligatunny is, comparatively speaking, a thing of the past. Perhaps, then, a few words regarding this really excellent, and at times, most invigorating soup may be acceptable. In at- tempting this, I am anxious to address my observations321 MULLIGA TUNNY. to vegetarians, as well as to those who have no objection to eat meat, for I hope to be able to show that a very ex- cellent vmlligatunny can be made without any assistance from fish, flesh, or fowl. This preparation, originally peculiar to Southern India, derives its name from two Tamil words—molegoo (pepper), and tunned (water). In its simple form, as partaken of by the poorer natives of Madras, it is, as its name indicates, a “pepper-water” or soupe maigre, which Mootoosamy makes as follows :—He pounds together a dessert-spoonful of tamarind, six red chillies, six cloves of garlic, a tea- spoonful of mustard seed, a salt-spoonful of fenugreek seed, twelve black peppercorns, a tea-spoonful of salt, and six leaves of kary-pauk. When worked to a paste, lie adds a pint of water, and boils the mixture for a quarter of an hour. While this is going on, he cuts up two small onions, puts them into a chatty, and fries them in a dessert-spoonful of ghee till they begin to turn brown, when he strains the pepper-water into the chatty, and cooks the mixture for five minutes, after which it is ready. The pepper-water is, of course, eaten with a large quantity of boiled rice, and is a meal in itself. The English, taking their ideas from this simple composition, added other condiments, with chicken, mutton, &c., thickened the liquid with flour and butter, and hv degrees succeeded in concocting a soupe grasse of-a decidedly acceptable kind. Oddly enough, we undoubtedly get the best vmlligatunny now-a-days in England, where it is presented in the form of a clear, as well as in that of a thick, soup. In an artistic point of view, the former is to my mind infinitely the better of the two, as I shall endeavour to explain later on. Never- theless, the thick is by no means to be despised. The superiority of the English adaptation needs but little explanation, for it may safely be attributed to the fact that the soup is composed upon a really strong foundation in322 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. the shape of stock, an important point that most Indian cooks slur over. This reminds me of an anecdote, which an old friend and fellow-enthusiast on the subject of cookery, communi- cated to me as follows:—He was at home on furlough, and happened to visit an old uncle, whose early years had been spent in the Navy. The Admiral (for the old gentle- man had attained that rank) was of a somewhat dictatorial nature, and had acquired a habit of asserting his opinions with a closed fist and vehement superlatives. Conversa- tion one day turned upon vmWiyatunnij, and the ancient mariner declared vociferously that he had never tasted the soup properly made since serving in the West Indies in the Penelope frigate in the year 1823, angrily shutting up his nephew for daring to observe that it could be fairly well prepared in the East. Now, my -friend was far too wise in his generation to contradict his uncle, “but,” said he, “I determined to circumvent him.” Accordingly when, after some little time, the Admiral went up to London, he was lured into an ambuscade at his nephew’s house. “I made tne mulligatumiy myself,” said my friend, “the basis of which was a good veal stock, prepared, of course, the previous day. My method of procedure was as follows 1 cut up a large sweet onion into fine rings, and fried them in two ounces of good butter, till about to turn yellow. I then stirred in three table-spoonfuls of Barrie’s Madras mulligatunny paste, adding sufficient stock to bring the mix- ture to the consistency of mayonnaise sauce. TbisI tasted, and, finding that it required a little sub-acid, I administered a table-spoonful of red currant jelly and a few drops of lemon juice. Having stirred this in well, I put in a des- sert-spoonful of Madras chutney, and added stock enough to produce a thin soup—about three pints in all. This 1 allowed to simmer (to extract the flavours of the various ingredients) for a quarter of an hour, while I pounded fourMULLIGAT UNNY. 328 ounces of sweet almonds in a mortar with a little milk, using a breakfast-cupful altogether. When fully pounded, I strained the almond milk into the soup, and stopped the simmering. The next step was to pass the whole of the liquid through a tin strainer into a clean howl to catch up I umps of onion, chutney, &c. The muUigatunny having been skimmed, was now ready, all but .the thickening. This process was carried out in due course, with an ounce of butter and one of flour. The soup was brought to boiling- point, and, off the fire, just before serving, a coffee-cupful of the best cream I could get was stirred into the tureen as the soup was poured into it.” When this was presented to the Admiral, the old gentleman was delighted and, altogether forgetting his previous asseveration, exclaimed that he had not eaten such a basin of mulligatunny since serving on the East India station in the Cockatrice in the year 1834. “I knew,” concluded my friend, “ that the dear old man was thinking of ‘ calipash ’ and ‘ calipee ’ when he pitched into me on the previous occasion, but I was not such an ass as to suggest that he had made a mistake.” This recipe of my friend’s may be taken as a very good guide for a mulligatunny made with pure meat stock extracted from veal, mutton, beef, or fowl, and ready-made paste. Yolks of eggs may supply the place of cream, and cocoanut milk may be substituted for the lait cl'amandes. The addition of either almond or cocoanut milk is, how- ever, a sine qua non, if the object be to obtain a soft, creamy, well-flavoured, thick mulligatunny. The straining must also be carried out carefully, and the thickening as well. Eice is served with mulligatunny, but it is, I think, a mistake to do so. We do not call for rice with hare soup, game soup, or mock-turtle ; why, then, should we ruin our appetites by taking rice with so satisfying a potage as mul- ligatunny t Tbe custom lias been handed down to us by our forefathers, who, of course, ate rice with their milligationny,324 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS, as did the natives from whom they learnt the dish. Inas- much, however, as the majority of those who take this soup like rice to be handed with it, please turn to page 257 for the correct method of boiling it. The object in a clear mulligatwnny is to present a bright, sparkling consomme of the colour of clear turtle, with a decided flavour of mulligatunny, and slightlypeppery. Now, if you try to communicate the flavour with ready-made curry-powder or paste, in which there is a certain quantity of turmeric, you will experience considerable difficulty in getting your soup bright and clear. Pounded coriander- seed, too, is oily, and would probably cause trouble. So the easiest method is to put a muslin bag, containing the flavouring ingredients, into the soup kettle with the vege- tables, and to remove it as soon as the consomme is satisfac- torily imq3regnated with the wished-for aroma. The pep- periness is best imparted with a few drops of tabasco as a finishing touch, or of chilli-vinegar if tabasco be unobtain- able. The following proportions will, I think, he found satis- factory as far as the flavouring is concerned :—two ounces of coriander-seed, one ounce of cummin seed, one ounce of fenugreek or maythee, half an ounce of mustard seed, two cloves of garlic, a dozen black peppercorns, and four or five leaves of kurreapliool, or kodia neem (karay-pauk). All put into a muslin bag, without pounding or bruising, boiled with the soup, and removed as soon as the flavour is satis- factory. These quantities are estimated for about three pints of clear consomme ; but as tastes vary in the matter of condiments, they are obviously susceptible of alteration at discretion. I would abstain from the use of all ordinary spices for fear of disturbing the flavour derived from the curry-stuff. The soup itself may be ordinary consomme, consomme dc325 MULLIGA T TINNY. volatile or blond de veau. Clear ox-tail thus flavoured is well-known at the Army and Navy Club in London under the name of queue de bcettf d l' Indienne. Fish consomme, i.e., a stock made from fish and vegetables, makes a capital basis for a thick mulliyatunny (see chapter 29) ; and a bisque or puree of shell-fish, flavoured with curry- paste, is a right royal potage. Vegetarians can fall back upon a stock composed of vege- tables,—consomme de legumes. This, artfully flavoured with a good mulligatunny paste, thickened with flour and butter, and enriched with lait d’dmandes, cocoanut milk, cream, or raw yolks of eggs, will he found to make a most excel- lent soupe maigre. The stock should be composed as follows :—Weigh, when trimmed and cut up, one pound, each, of carrots and onions. Throw them into a stew-pan, with half a pound of butter (tinned butter will do well), or clarified beef suet, a bunch of parsley, and a couple of ounces of celery. Pry until the vegetables begin to turn a red colour, then moisten with two quarts of hot water. Boil and skim, then put into the pan half an ounce of salt, a quarter ounce of black pepper corns, and a pint measure of green peas, with their shells cut into strips. Simmer for an hour, skim off any oil that may rise from the butter, and strain the broth into a basin through a tamis. Be careful in using turnips. Unless they are very young they are apt to be overstrongly flavoured in this country. Leeks are invaluable; if available I would put half a pound of them in with the carrots; a few sprigs of thyme or marjoram are also useful. A pint of French beans may be used instead of, or in addition to, the peas. This con- somme is, with a dash of white wine, quite fit to serve alone. Maccaroni or vermicelli may be added to it as a garnish, and grated Parmesan may accompany it. For ordinary mulligatunny maigre, however, plain eaude la cidsson may be employed. This most useful liquid is too 28CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 326 often thrown away by ignorant native cooks, or annexed by the wary ones for their own food. It is the water in which certain vegetables have been boiled. As a matter of economy, house-keepers should make a note of this. Suppose you want to make a salads cuite, i.e., a salad of cooked vegeta- bles, or a macedoine, the water in which the carrots, onions, leeks, peas, flageolets, French beans, and young turnips are boiled will provide you with an excellent stock for ordinary white sauce, or mulligatunny. The ordinary chicken or mutton mulligatunny, made without assistance in the way of stock, may, with some little pains, be sent up in better style than our cooks, as a rule, are satisfied with. We do not want a thin yellow liquid with queer-looking leaves and bits of fried onion floating in it. We ask for a smooth, creamy potage, free from any lump or floating substance, and garnished with a few choice pieces of the chicken or mutton from which it was extracted. Cut up a well-nurtured chicken or young fowl as if for fricassee, soak the pieces in cold water for half an hour, drain, and put them into a stew-pan with one quart of water (cold), four ounces of onion, the same of carrot, a salt-spoon- ful of pepper, a tea-spoonful of salt, and an ounce of celery ;— boil, skim, and simmer for half an hour with the stew-pan not quite closed. While this is doing, slice up a couple of good-sized onions, and put them, with two table-spoonfuls of butter, into a small stew-pan on a low fire, fry together till slightly browned, and stir into the butter a couple of table-spoonfuls of mulligatunny paste or curry-powder (Barrie’s “ Madras,” if possible). Cook the paste or powder with the butter and onions for five minutes, and then dilute with a coffee-cupful of warm water. Now empty the contents of the smaller stew-pan into the vessel containing the chicken; and if the pieces are not quite covered, put in water enough to do so. Let the contents come once to the boil, then ease off the fire, and simmer for half an hour very gently. While this is going on, pound a327 MULLIGATUNNY. couple of ounces of almonds in a mortar, with a little milk, give it a pinch of sugar, pour a coffee-cup of scalding water over it, and let the mixture stand till wanted. Now, having ascertained that the chicken is quite tender, stir in a dessert-spoonful of good chutney, a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, and a tea-spoonful of lime-juice, and, after five minutes’ simmering, strain off the whole of the liquid into a bowl. Pick out the nicest pieces of chicken for garnish, brush off any pieces of onion or carrot that may adhere to them, and put them aside. Now, skim the surface of the liquid, and, when quite clear of grease, proceed to thicken it, using a table-spoonful of butter and one of flour, and stirring in the soup slowly. All having been poured in, strain into the sauce-pan the almond milk, using a piece of muslin in order to catch up the bits of nut. Let the mul- ligatunny come to the boil, and serve. The chief points to observe are:—First, the separate boil- ing of the chicken ; and the separate cooking of the paste or powder ; next their amalgamation and the simmering and addition of a pleasant sub-acid; then the straining, skimming and thickening; and lastly, the introduction of the almond milk. Instead of almond milk, co'eoanut milk (the infusion of the nut, I mean) may obviously be used, and a table-spoonful of cream, or a couple of raw yolks of eggs, may be stirred into the tureen with the soup, by de- grees, just before serving. For mutton mulligatunny follow this recipe, substitut- ing a neck or breast of mutton for the chicken. It will be seen from these observations that, while there is no difficulty whatever in making mulligatunny of a supe- rior, as well as of an ordinary kind, it is a soup that demands no little care and attention. Whether it is worth the trouble or not is a question that can only be decided by practical experiment. I have no hesitation in recommend- ing the trial.OHAPTER I>C XVIII. Camp Cookery. (Bread, soups, tinned, food, and vegetables.) tLTHOUGH no doubt there are many of my readers who have by long experience acquired the knack of making themselves thoroughly comfortable under canvas, and who, being fond of nice food, and au fait in culinary science, contrive to eat and drink in camp as luxuriously as in cantonment, there must be, I take it, a good many travellers, sportsmen, soldiers, and others whose duties demand several months of tent-life per annum, who would like to pick up a wrinkle or two in the matter of cookery under difficulties. A friend of mine, who in addition to his passionate devo- tion to la chasse, possesses the keenest affection for his din- ner, assured me, once upon a time, that good bread was the backbone of happiness,—gustatory happiness, that is to say,—in the j ungie. In cantonment even, this man despis- ed the miserable travesty called bread furnished by the native baker. They say that he once saw itbeing made, never thought of it again without a shudder, and preferred a home-made roll for ever afterwards. He carried his roll with him, so to speak, into camp, and with the aid of a talented servant, was.able to bake hot, clean, white bread329 CAMP COOKERY. daily, at a distance of many marches from an English dwell- ing place. He used Yeatman’s baking powder, imported Australian or American flour, and a little salt. Butter and milk were added in the case of his fancy petit pain, and he occasionally mixed oatmeal with the flour for variety. I often ’ envied my friend’s bread, yet never took the trouble to follow his example until comparatively lately. My conversion was brought about by Mr. Woolf of 119, New Bond Street, who introduced me to the “ Acme cooking stove,”* and gave me many a seance with regard to the use of Yeatman’s baking powder for which his firm are the Lon- don Agents. The man who could remain unconvinced after one of Mr. Woolf’s pleasant demonstrations, would be a stoic indeed. You are shown how to make a pound loaf, —“ cottage ” pattern, in rolls, or iu the tin. This is placed in the stove oven whilst you examine the numerous clever contrivances for the kitchen,—principally American inven- tions,—which form the specialties of the establishment. In less than half an hour the loaf, baked to perfection, is placed upon the table. Now here are two invaluable articles for the dweller in tents:—a composition, perfectly climate-proof, by which he can turn out an excellent loaf of light, clean bread ; and the oven to bake it in. The “ Acme Stove ” is cheap, portable, strong, and easily managed. It is fed by mineral oil, kerosiue or parafine, and in addition to the oven, provides the cook with a capital kitchen range adapted for boiling, stewing, frying, and even grilling. The size I recommend, after several years’ experience of its working,—a good deal of that time having been spent at Madras,—is fitted with double wicks four inches wide. One of these stoves with its ordinary appurten- * Now eclipsed by the “ Florence ” which is worked exactly like the “ Acme ” but with numerous improvements.—W.330 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. ances can be purchased for £2, s. 15. For that sum you have a capital oven, with baking dishes and a griddle, a radiator, a kettle, and a frying-pan. Ordinary sauce-pans of a certain diameter can he used with it. A Warren’s cooking pot, fitted to the stove, is furnished for £1-1, and a griller for five shillings and sixpence. When not wanted for cooking, it can be used for heating a room, for which purpose, you use the radiator, or ornamental chimney, previously men- tioned. Thus adjusted, it is also very useful for airing damp linen, or drying wet clothes ; you have merely to place a large circular basket over it, and spread the things thereon, for the chimney is so contrived that the heat radiates late- rally, and there is therefore no chance of burning, scorch- ing, or smoking. In camp, the first thing the Acme would do for you would be to boil the water for your tea : if a raw December, or January morning in the Deccan, or on the plateau of Mysore, you would not object to the operation being performed inside your tent, for the warmth would be very pleasant. It would then bake the bread for your breakfast, and warm up any rdchaiiffe destined for that meal at the same time. During the day it would make the soup, and in the evening be available for work for dinner. I do not say that you could do without a charcoal fire, but the stove wmuld do a large portion of the day’s cooking, and in a way vastly superior to any ordinary fire, either in camp or cantonment. In soup-making, for instance, and in stewing operations, you possess the power of producing the exact amount of heat you need by turning down the wicks at will. I have made a pot-au-feu, in a Warren’s kettle placed upon my Acme, the like of which I defy a native cook to produce with a common cook-room fire, simply on account of this regulating power. A gallon flask of kerosine oil should be made to fit the stove box for short periods of camp life. If a man were settled in a standing camp, or out in his district for an indefiniteGAMP COOKERY. 331 period, he would, of course, require a keg of oil. When I used my stove for some hours daily, my month’s expendi- ture did not exceed ten quart bottles. Another of Mr. Woolf’s valuable inventions, which I can strongly advise the traveller to obtain, is the “ Lang spirit lamp” : the large one costs five shillings and sixpence, and is a never failing source of comfort on a journey. In camp it would be found a most useful appendage to the Acme stove for light work, such as boiling milk for coffee, cook- ing eggs in all sorts of ways, heating sauces, frying bacon, &c. For several years I used one for omelettes almost every day in cantonment, for which work it is admirably adapted. With a “ Lang lamp” you can make a cup of tea or coffee in the train, by the side of the road, on arrival at a public bungalow, or under a tree whilst the lascars are pitching your tent: and by its aid, and that of a small frying-pan, you can devil a biscuit, fry a rasher,* poach an egg, or cook a kidney, to accompany the tea or coffee. It is fed by methylated spirit, a gallon of which would last for at least two months. Bread. Having thus directed your attention to two excellent appliances for the camp kitchen, I will return to the sub- ject of baking bread, * for your servants can always contrive a field oven for you without difficulty, which, though in- finitely inferior to that of the stove, will perform the task required of it fairly enough. But in wet weather, the owner of an Acm6 will, of course, laugh and grow fat, whilst his neighbour with only Ramasamy’s fine weather make-shift to fall back upon, will probably beg for bread. * My notes on this subject have been carefully revised for this edition with the kind assistance of Mr. W. Heath, professed baker, pastry cook, and confectioner of Ootacamund, late of Highgate, and Tufnell Park, London.—W.332 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. I baked at home regularly for some years using, for ordi- nary bread, Yeatman’s baking powder, American flour, salt, and water ; for fancy rolls, the same with butter, and milk ; and have discovered, after many experiments, that in this country, the proportions of baking powder to flour which are laid down in the paper of directions accompany- ing each tin, have to be increased. For eight ounces of Hour, for instance, I find that I have to use two tea-spoon- fuls of Yeatman. I may say without hesitation that very few bread-makers hit at perfection at starting. I struggled through many disheartening attempts, before I turned out the thing I wanted. The common mistakes are overworking the dough, and using too much liquid. The mixing of dough with the proper quantity of fluid can only be acquired by practice, and all beginners knead too heavily through overzeal. Watch a professoi*. The fair-haired artiste who used to demonstrate bread-making at Mr. Woolf’s, made a pound loaf with three-quarters of a tea-cupful of water; her touch was as light as a feather, and the dough was made with wonderful swiftness. I have taught my servant to use two wooden spoons to work his dough with ; the result is satis- factory as regards the lightness of the bread, and to those who dislike eating food mauled by native fingers, the system is especially attractive. If by any chance your dough has been made too sloppily, and from its putty-like consistency, you feel convinced it will be heavy, hake it in a tin. Indian flour (sooji) is more easily moistened than imported flour, i.e., less liquid is required to form dough with it. Pro- portion :—half a pint to a pound of imported ; the same to one pound two ounces of sooji. The paraphernalia of the home-baker should be:—a large enamelled iron milk basin, two wooden spoons, a flour dredger, scales to weigh the flour, some patty-pans for rolls, some small tins for ditto, a baking-sheet, a half pound333 CAMP COOKERY. and pound loaf tin, and a cake tin : these various things are not expensive ; they should be kept in the house (when in cantonment) away from the cook-room, as clean as possible, and be scrupulously reserved for their own pur- poses. Having provided yourself with this equipment, you should use Yeatman’s baking powder, the best import- ed or locally made flour you can get, oatmeal occasionally, salt, and either good butter made at home, or that of any well-known brand preserved in tin. Here is a reliable receipt for eight nice breakfast or dinner rolls one and a half ounce each :— eight ounces or one large breakfast-cupful of flour; one tea-spoonful of good butter ; two tea-spoonfuls of Yeatman’s powder ; one salt-spoonful of salt; nine table-spoonfuls of milk for imported, eight for Indian, flour. Bub the butter into the flour with one of the wooden spoons after having spread the latter with the baking pow- der in the enamelled pan, and sprinkled the salt over it; now mix your dough as lightly as you can, using both wooden spoons, and shaking the milk into the flour by degrees. When nicely formed, divide it into eight equal portions, pat them into shape with the spoons, and place them in eight patty-pans well buttered. These must be put on the baking-sheet, and slipped into the oven, which should have been heated to receive them to such a degree that you can hardly bear your hand inside it. The time taken in baking depends upon the sort of oven you employ : as soon as the rolls brown very slightly, having risen into nice round forms, they are ready. This recipe may be altered to five ounces of flour, and three of oatmeal, for a change. French Bolls :—Half a pound of flour, a dessei’t-spoon- ful of butter, one small egg, two tea-spoonfuls of Yeat-334 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. man’s powder, a salt-spoonful of salt, and nine table-spoon- fuls of milk. Work the butter thoroughly into the Hour with which the baking powder and salt should be carefully in- corporated to begin with. Beat the egg up briskly with the milk, and strain it into another cup, and gradually add the eggy-milk till the dough is formed; form the dough into two nice oblong rolls, place them on a sheet of well buttered paper, on the baking tin, and set them in the oven ; look at them after twenty minutes’ baking, and take them out as soon as their colour indicates that they are done. Half-pound plain loaf:—Mix well together half a pound of flour, two tea-spoonfuls of Yeatman’s powder, and a salt- spoonful of salt. Work this with eight or nine table-spoon- fuls of water, set the dough in a tin, or form it in the well-known “cottage” shape and bake. Mr. Heath’s camp loaf:—Three breakfast-cupfuls of flour, one tea-spoonful of salt, one tea-spoonful of sugar, half a cupful of soar toddy, one cupful of water. Place the flour in a basin with the salt, mix the toddy and sugar together, then blend all with a wooden spoon. Mix thoroughly and let it stand to rise for one hour. After this divide the ‘sponge’ into three pieces and bake for forty minutes. The yield will be three loaves of fourteen ounces each. This method has an advantage over the previous one given for bread made with baking powder, for plenty of kneading improves it. The ordinary cookery book receipts for fancy breads can be safely followed if you remember the proportion of the baking powder to the pound of flour, and, where eggs are propounded, make an allowance for the difference which exists between the English and the Indian egg. In using Yeatman’s powder, do not let your made rolls, or bread, stand waiting for the oven : see that your baking apparatus is all but ready before you commence making the bread. I advise home-bakers to make rolls rather than large335 CAMP COOKERY. loaves. There is less waste with them. A roll is either eaten in toto or left untouched. If intact, you have merely to dip it in milk, and put it into the oven—damp ; it will turn out again almost as freshly as a new roll. Bread, once cut, is apt to get dry, and with the exception of being sliced for toast, or grated for bread-crumbs, is not very pre- sentable a second time. In baking, be very careful that your flour is well sifted and thoroughly dry. In a moist climate it is advisable to dry it in the oven before using it; the sifting must be carried out by a sieve. I have made very eatable bread with carefully sifted country flour, the sifting of which is an imperative necessity, be it observed, unless you have no objection to a gravelly loaf. If unable to procure Yeatman’s powder, an excellent ‘ emergency ’ substitute can be made with cream of tartar and bicarbonate of soda, mixed in the proportion of two tea-spoonfuls of the former to one of the latter. Mr. Heath's camp pie or tart crust:—Take a breakfast-cup- ful of flour, one and a half tea-spoonful of Yeatman’s pow- der, four ounces of butter (or clarified suet), seven table- spoonfuls of water, and a salt-spoonful of salt (a little sugar if for a tart) and proceed in this way :—Mix flour, salt, and baking powder well together and then rub in the butter or suet, add the water and mix quickly, then roll out and cover the dish, which with the meat or fruit should be ready for covering before the paste is commenced. This can of course be glazed with a beaten egg in the usual manner, and, if a tart, some finely sifted white sugar can be dusted over the glaze before setting. Now, let us discuss the animal and vegetable food of camp life, taking first:— Soups. Many people think that because they cannot get beef in camp, they cannot have a freshly-made soup. Now, thereCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 336 are a few capital soups requiring no meat at all, which are known as “ soupcs maigres.” I will give you three:— Dhcil soup au maigrc :—Pick carefully a pint measure of clhdl; wash this well, and put it into a stew-pan with six pints of water and a quarter of an ounce of salt, one Bellary onion, and a bacon bone if possible. Boil; then allow to simmer till the clhdl is cooked. This you ascertain by pressing a grain between the finger and thumb. To accel- erate the cooking, pour into the pan, every half hour, a quarter of a tumbler of cold water, starting the boiling again after each interruption. This opei’ation renders the soaking of dried pulse before cooking unnecessary, and though it adds to the consumption of fuel, the advantage gained is considerable. The clhdl being nice and soft, drain it off, reserving the broth : pass the grains through the wire sieve, with the onion, catching the puree in a soup plate. Now put half an ounce of butter with half an ounce of flour at the bottom of the cleaned stew-pan, mix these over the fire till velvety, then gradually add puree and broth together, until a soup of the desired quantity and consistency has been obtained. Off the fire, at the time of serving, you can add to the richness of the potcige by a yolk of egg beaten up with some warm milk or a raw yolk alone. Fried croiltons, or fried minced lean bacon, may accompany. You can follow this recipe exactly, substituting split peas, or dried haricots if you can get them. Powdered mint, if procurable, is of course a time-honored accompaniment. Soupe d Voignon:—Slice a couple of good sized Bom- bay onions; blanch the slices in boiling water for five minutes ; drain, and put them into a stew-pan ; let them fry till they turn pale brown in an ounce of butter ; then add one ounce of flour, a quart of water, pepper, and one ounce of salt; let the whole come to the boil and then simmer till the onions are well done and serve with croiltons of fried bread. Grated Parmesan should accompany. This is still337 CAMP COOKERY. better if thickened finally with raw eggs like bonne femme soup, see p. 45. Milk can be used instead of water, or with it, half and half. Soupe au potiron Let ns assume that you can get an ordinary country pumpkin. Take two pounds, cut it into pieces, put them into a sauce-pan with a good sized slice of bacon, one ounce of butter, some slices of a Bologna sausage, and a bag containing sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, pepper, and a little spice; add water enough to cover the whole, and let the soup simmer an hour and a half till the pumpkin is done. Now strain off the liquid, boil a breakfast-cupful of milk, add it to the broth, boil together for a minute, and serve with croMons of fried bread. A bacon bone would assist the undertaking greatly. But you need not condemn yourself to sonpes au mai- gre whenever there are sheep, fish and fowls, to be had, when you can shoot game, and lastly, when you are pro- vided with tinned soups, and preserved vegetables, espe- cially that excellent tablet called “ Julienne.” In camp, bottles of dried herbs, and tinned provisions are, of course, indispensable, and you should, whenever possible, be pro- vided with potatoes, carrots, and onions, before starting, especially the last. Soups in tins can be turned to excellent account in this way:—Kill a good full-sized fowl, cut it up, and put it, giblets and all, with a tea-spoonful of salt into a stew-pan ; cover it with cold water, and let it come very slowly to the boil, skimming off the scum which may rise during that process, and adding a little cold water from time to time to assist the operation, and retard the boiling : when clear of scum and the boiling stage has been attained, throw into the pan a couple of Bombay onions cut into quarters, any fresh vegetables you may have brought out, a bag containing a tea-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, a dozen pepper-corns, a pinch of parsley seed, a few 29338 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. drops of celery essence, a table-spoonful of mushroom ket- chup, a tea-spoonl'ul of sugar, and another tea-spoonful of salt. Now, let the pan come to the boil again, and then reduce the fire for the simmering stage which should continue till the onion is soft. When the pieces of fowl are nice and tender, the broth is ready : long cooking will avail nothing : so lift up your pan, and strain off the broth into a bowl, it will be beautifully bright and clear ; slight- ly tinted with caramel (page 35) and served hot, with a dessert-spoonful of marsala, and a dissolved dessert-spoon- ful of “Julienne,” this consomme rlc volatile will be found sufficient for two hungry men. When used in connection with a tin of soup, the broth should be poured from the bowl into the pan again, and the tin of soup added to it a slow process of boiling should now be commenced, during which any scum, the soup may throw up, should be studiously removed, for all tinny im- purities will thus begot rid of: when all but boiling, a table-spoonful of marsala should be added, and the soup served. The pieces of fowl if not over-cooked,—which let me point out is quite unnecessary,—may be served in the form of fricassee, or be bread-crumbed or dipped in batter, and fried, and served with maccaroni and tomato conserve. Very valuable stock, remember, can be made from fresh mutton scraps, the scrag-end, feet, and trimmings; and even cold roast mutton bones are useful. The broth should, whenever possible, be assisted by bacon skin, bones, and trimmings, minced lean bacon is most valuable, a thick slice of Brunswick or Bologna sausage, and a chicken, or any game you can spare. With this, if onions, any vege- tables, and peai'l barley be available, you can make a capital hotchpotch. If not, mix a tin of that soup with it, or a dessert spoonful of Julienne. * If a thick soup, like mockturtle for instance, you must thicken the consomme with a little flour and butter.—W.CAMP COOKERY. 389 Birds that have been mauled in shooting can be utilized in the camp stock pot. Purees of game can be made if you have taken out your utensils, if not, you must make the game broth as strong as possible, helped by the fowl stock already described, and thicken it with flour and butter. The addi- tion of marsala or port is, of course, a great improvement. TINNED-FISH. Tinned-fish served,—as you sometimes see salmon at a dinner party,—plainly turned out of the tin and made hot is positive^ nasty, and in no way improved by a cold sauce like tartare. Who, after a moment’s reflection, could send up /(offish, with a cold sauce? Preserved salmon, fresh her- rings, and other tinned fresh fish, if served with tartare or 'mayonnaise sauces, should be served cold, after having been carefujly drained on a sieve from all the tinny juices which adhered to them. Select nicely sized pieces, place them on a dish with any garnish you may have, such as olives farcies, capers, sliced gherkins, and rolled anchovies, and serve the sauce separately in a boat, as cold as possible. All scraps and odd bits can be saved and worked up as rissoles, or in any of the ways I have mentioned for cold fish in my chapter on rechauffes. If you want a hot dish of tinned-fish, you must choose the nicest pieces and gently warm them up in agood?(ia£c- lote sauce, sauce blanche, or poulette ; or you must wrap them in oiled paper and broil or fry them a moment. The subject of cooking fresh-water fish will be found amply discussed in the next chapter. As this form of food is often plentiful, I cannot too strongly recommend a trial of some of the recipes ; they are not difficult, and certainly show how the monotony of camp diet can be mitigated. TINNED MEATS. Tinned Australian, and other preserved lumps of meat, are valuable additions to the store box of the jungle-CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 340 wallah, but they require very delicate handling, because they are almost always overdone. The really nutritious part of a tin of Australian meat is the gravy that surrounds it. Ramas&my knows this, so beware of unrighteous deal- ing, see the tin opened, and have every atom of the gravy strained off into a howl. In cold weather, during such nights as you have in the Deccan during December and January for instance, the gravy in these tins becomes a jelly, so before you open one, set it on the fire in a sauce-pan sur- rounded by hot water for ten minutes or so; then open it, and strain the gravy from the tin into a howl; turn the meat out carefully upon your sieve, and pour some hot water gently over it; catch the water in a howl below the sieve, and add it to the gravy. Now, the gravy of a two- pound tin of beef will, as a rule, give you an excellent stock for two basins of soup :—skim the fat that may rise to its surface, add water to the extent required and put it into a sauce-pan with a bag of dried sweet herbs, an onion cut into quarters, any vegetables you can spare, some pepper- corns, a pinch of spice, and salt according to the quantity : simmer this gently to extract the flavour of the things you have added, and in about an hour you will have an excellent beef broth, quite fit to be served as gravy soup, with macca- roni, vermicelli, a couple of poached eggs, or Julienne, grat- ed cheese accompanying ; a table-spoonful of marsala will be a grateful finishing stroke. Or it may be thickened like mock-turtle, and served with forcemeat balls. The meat should be treated in this way:—choose the nicest looking pieces, trim them neatly, and if of a fair size, brush them over with egg, bread-crumb them, and brown them in the oven, serving a good sharp sauce,—tomato, soubise, or piquante for instance, with them. Or you can cut the meat into collops, and hash them very gently in some of their own gravy carefully flavoured. Lastly, you can mince it and serve it in many nice ways (vide page 185).CAMP COOKERY. 341 An excellent method may be thus described:—Having made your mince and flavoured it, if possible, with a little chopped lean bacon, anchovy, sausage meat, &c., bind it with a little good sauce thickened with a couple of eggs, and let it get cold : make a good sized thin pan-cake, take it from the pan when almost done, put it on a dish, and arrange some slices of cold cooked bacon upon it, lay the mince upon the bacon, give it a dust of spiced pepper, and fold the pan-cake over it : brush it over with an egg, bread- crumb it, and bake it a golden brown in your oven. The pan-cake should he large enough of course to envelope the mince securely. If you look upon a tin of preserved meat as a dish that has been cooked once, and has accordingly to be dressed en rechauffe, you will not fail to turn it to good account. But warmed up as it comes from the tin, unaided, and care- lessly dished, it presents an irregular mass of sodden and tasteless diet which few would care to touch unless driven to do so by the calls of ungovernable hunger. A very useful thing in camp is a Bologna sausage. Not necessarily for consumption ait naturel,but for flavouring and assisting other meats. A very common plat,—Ramasamy’s chicken cutlets for instance,—can thus be much improved ; a few thin slices in a pie or stew are most serviceable, while eaten cold with cold roast fowl or game it is always accept- able. / Preparations like Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell’s “ducks and green peas,” “Irish stew,” “ox cheek and vegetables,” &c., are useful in combination ; so if you find that your butler has brought such things to camp, you must pick the meat out of its surroundings, dress it with some fresh chicken meat, as a rissole, croustade or a mince, and cook the gravy and vegetables with some fresh chicken broth as a sauce. One of the best introductions of late years is Moir and342 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Son’s Army ration in two qualities. This is a strong well flavoured stew, good by itself, and valuable in composition with a fresh stew. Their Army sausage is another excel- lent thing for the camp. I have already spoken of tinned vegetables, and also of the produce of the country (pages 174 to 178). The tra- veller ought to try and find out what country garden stuff can be got from the villages near his camp. The recipes I have given will be found easy, and the insipidity of tin- ned food will be much relieved by an occasional nicely dressed dish of common vegetables. N.B.—To improve a tough steak or dish of chops Spread a layer of salad oil over both sides of the meat, and place it between two plates for an hour or two before cooking. Camp Jelly.—Take one of Southwell’s jelly tablets, place it in a basin or bowl which should be immersed in hot water. The tablet will soon commence to liquefy, and when partly dissolved, add a breakfast-cupful of boiling water, and stir till liquefaction is complete. Pour this into a mould; in cold weather it will set again naturally, in warm weather a little ice must be used. The tablets are sold with various flavourings. Many of the dishes detailed in the previous chapters, especially those spoken of under the title of “ Eggs, mac- caroni, and cheese,” will be found practicable in the camp ; amongst the menus, more than one nice recipe for cooking mutton, fowls, and chickens, has been recorded ; in short, if the pilgrim be blessed by the possession of an intelligent cook, and provided with a judicious assortment of culinary necessaries and stores, his tent life should never fail to possess amongst its many attractions that indubitably im- portant one—a really good dinner.343 CAMP COOKERY. Note.—For various methods of treating preserved food of all kinds, see Wyvern’s annotated catalogue of Messrs. John Moir and Son’s provisions. I will now jot down a list of culinary accessories which should be taken out to camp, if possible. Quantities should be regulated, of course, according to the probable duration of the tour, and the facilities or difficulties of transport. Those who have constantly to go into canvas will find it very convenient to have a case fitted up for the reception of the bottles and tins appertaining to this branch, apart from the ordinary store box which of course may be lavishly or frugally supplied. My list is confined to flavourings, &c., of use alone in the composition of dishes :— Anchovies in oil. Bacon. Baking powder. Bologna sausage. Brand’s or Liebig’s essence. Cheese grated. Curry paste in a prune jar with screw top. Do. powder in do. do. Custard powder. Dried herbs in bottles, see page 121. Dried Julienne for soups and stews. Essences at discretion. Flour imported. Do. local. Lentil flour for soups. Marsala. Mulligatunny paste. Mustard. Pea-flour for soups. Peppers assorted including peppercorns. Rasped crust crumbs, pound- ed, dried in the oven, and bottled, with a little salt shaken amongst them. Red currant jelly. Salad oil. Salt, common, and celery. Sauce :—Soy, Tomato, An- chovy, Harvey, Mushroom ketchup, Worcester. Solidified soup squares. Southwell’s jelly tablets. Spices assorted. Spiced pepper in bottle, see page 121. Tinned butter. Vinegars, common, tarra- gon, anchovy.CHAPTER XXIX. ♦ Camp Cookery,—(Our Fresh-water Fish). f BEING that we possess in the rivers and tanks of Southern India several varieties of fish which, if pro- perly treated, would form most certainly a valuable addition to our food, it has occurred to me that a few words on the subject may be useful. That the capabilities of our fresh-water fish—from a gastronomic point of view—are practically ignored by the majority of my fellow-country- men in India will, I think, be admitted. To many, such food is distasteful on account of its alleged muddiness, lack of firmness, and the nuisance often caused by its numerous bones. But most, if not all, of the evils wdrich cause these objections can be overcome with a little care, and I hope to show that many a tasty dish can be concocted with fishes which have hitherto been looked upon as not worth the trouble of cooking. It goes without saying that the observations I am about to make cannot be very interesting to those wffio live within immediate reach of the “ harvest of the sea,” or to whom sea-fish is brought by the railway. They are, of course, addressed most particularly to the large number of Anglo- Indian exiles who do not enjoy either of these advantages, to inspecting officials, tourists, and sportsmen, wffiose duty or pleasure takes them into camp in remote districts, andCAMP COOKERY,—(OCR FRESH-WATER FISH). 345 obviously to those who live permanently at a distance from cantonments. Mr. H. S. Thomas who, as every one knows, has done yeoman’s service to his brethren of the angle out here by his aide instructions in regard to the capture of fish, gives in Chapter VIII of his less expensive work on Tank Angling a very complete resume, of their “names, descrip- tion, and habitat.” This compendium should be studied carefully by all who desire to add fresh-water fish to their ordinary diet, for independently of the valuable informa- tion it affords as to the vernacular names of fishes, it fre- quently indicates the varieties which possess a reputation for their edible qualities. I believe that I am right in saying that there is not much difficulty in obtaining fresh-water fish in this part of India. If the tourist be no angler himself, the chances are that there is a member of his retinue who can catch fish easily enough. Mahomedans are often clever fisher- men, and among peons, watchmen, and pensioned sepoys you frequently find a man of this disposition. Netting is, of course, practised in all directions by the villagers, and in many places for a few annas a miscellaneous draught of fishes can without difficulty be brought into camp. Let us now see what can be done with them. Few men who have ever practised the gentle craft of angling have failed to read that most excellent work, The. Compleat Angler, by Isaak Walton, and Charles Cotton (1676); and in doing so must surely have observed the care with which the authors described the methods of dressing the various fish to the capture of which they devoted themselves. Their recipes, now more than two hundred years old, can scarcely lie improved upon, notwithstanding the advance that has been made in culinary science. In the first place, they continually insist upon the necessity of dressing fresh-water fish as soon as possible after capture, andCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 346 there can be no doubt that this is correct, notwithstand- ing a strange idea that some people entertain that salmon, pike, and certain other varieties of English fresh-water fish, are better if kept for at least a day. Another point is the speedy removal of the viscera. The fish intended for the table should be killed at the water-side at once, and then emptied, the liver alone being saved. It should then be wiped dry with a cloth, and sent up to the camp or bungalow forthwith with directions to the cook for its treatment. If large enough, fresh-water fish should certainly be crimped as soon as killed, i.e., scored with a sharp knife, transversely from head to tail, on each side nearly to the bone, the cuts being about two inches apart according to the size of the fish. A douche of the coldest water avail- able should follow, and a plunge in the stream in a cool shady spot for a quarter of an hour. Crimping should be carried out before the fish stiffens. The process renders the flesh “firmer, and crisper” (says Sir Humphrey Davy) “by preserving the irritability of the fibre,” while the speedy removal of the intestines, and the grass and weeds, on which the fish has been feeding, from its throat goes far to destroy the muddy taste, and to nullify any unwhole- some effect that may arise from the sort of food it may have been eating. Old Isaak inveighed very strongly against allowing a fish to soak in water after it had once been cleansed, point- ing out that such a practice “abated much of'its sweet- ness.” Speedy cooking after cleaning was his maxim. Boiling fresli-water fish is less to be recommended than baking, stewing, broiling, roasting, or frying it. Sir Henry Thompson shows in his admirable treatise on Food and Feeding that much of the nutritious element is lost by this process, notwithstanding that you plump the fish into boil- ing salt and water to secure as much as possible its juicesCAMP COOKERY— (OUR FRESH-WATER FISH). 347 and flavour. Neverthelesss, it may occasionally happen that vou have no other alternative. If so, remember the boiling salt and water. If instead of water you can pre- pare a court bouillon (see page 59) so much the better. For the stock I would use the trimmings of fish, heads, fins, tails, and any sort of fish that may on account of its boni- ness be considered to he heyond the pale of cookery. Onions, and any available vegetable, should he boiled with the fish, and a little white wine, such as chablis, sauterne, or hock may he added. Instead of white wine a glass of claret can he used, and, if that be impossible, one of vinegar. In camp there may he difficulties in regard to some of the ingredients I have named, but the principles can be observed as far as possible. A bottle of dried sweet herbs ought always to be included in the camp store-box. In cantonments, of course, matters can be managed simply enough. If the supply of milk he cheap and plentiful, court bouillon a la Nantaiso may be tried, i.e., milk and water in equal parts, with pepper and salt to taste. Baking can generally be accomplished by Bamasamy in camp under difficulties that would petrify his European brother ; roasting on the spit, too, he can manage success- fully : while stewing and broiling cause less trouble than either of the two former processes, and may perhaps suit his appliances more readily. There is, as a rule, no little difficulty in frying fish when in camp, for the medium can rarely be got in sufficient quantity. Ghee will probably be the only kind procurable, and if perfectly fresh and sweet this may be used for dress- ing small fry such as the Chela argentea (Tam : Vellachee), C. cltipeoides (Tam : Netleli), the gudgeon, Gobius giuris (Tam : Ulvag), and fillets of various fishes. Dipping in milk and flouring will be found far better than348 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. bread-crumbing, and bid your cook to be good enough not to spoil “the fry” by the condiments be loves to introduce when frying fish, the delicate flavour of which cannot with- stand the interference of turmeric, b'or example, an old Anglo-Indian recipe for a “frying batter” propounds that some garlic, onions, green ginger, and salt should be pound- ed and mixed with the flour of gram or dhal; to this tyre and turmeric should be added, and when sufficiently moist applied to the fish which should then be fried in ghee ! Surely this elaborate preparation would disguise any fish completely. If you want to orientalise fish for a change, curry it, or serve it as moli. Filleting fresh-water fish is generally a wise proceeding. The Native cook performs the operation well, and you are thus protected as much as possible from swallowing bones, and the unpleasantness of catching one in your throat. All the trimmings which are left after this process has been carried out come in usefully for the stock required for the pie, stew, or sauce, as the case may be. Tbe Indian murral (Tam : Verral) may be likened to the English jack, and be cooked in like manner. Let him be carefully killed, and cleaned as hereinbefore advised. Do not boil him if you can avoid it. if under two pounds in weight, bake him ; if bigger than that, roast him on the spit. In either case he must be stuffed, pike-like, and this pre- paration can, of course, be varied at pleasure. Experience seems to show that ordinary fish derive in cooking the greatest assistance from the essences of shell- fish. Thus oysters, shrimps, prawns, lobster, crayfish, &c., are most valuable in sauces and stuffings. Out in a “tanky' ’ district you often can procure quantities of little fresh- water shrimps and crayfish. With these well cleaned you can compose a very tasty stuffing, using bread-crumb, eggs, the minced shrimps, a little anchovy sauce to strengthen them, a pinch of mace, salt and pepper. Suet or butterCAMP COOKERY—(OUli FRESH-WATER FISH). 349 in the proportion of one quarter (or one-thircl if you can spare it) of the whole preparation is most essential, because it preserves the moisture within, so necessary to prevent the fish being too dry. Tinned oysters, and the liquor with them can, of course, be used instead of the fresh-water shell- fish, or with them if the fish be very large. Here is a good receipt for baking a murral (a) —-See that the fish is perfectly clean, and thoroughly dry before stuffing it. Take sufficient bread-crumbs to fill the fish nicely without overcrowding, put them into a bowl, break into the bowl two, three, or more eggs according to the quantity of crumbs, which is of course decided by the size of the fish. The eggs when added should moisten the crumbs throughout. Add about a tea-spoonful each of thyme and marjoram from the bottle, and enough chopped suet to represent one-third, or not less than one quarter of the whole mixture, salt and pepper in proportion. (b) —Instead of suet, tinned butter can be used, or minced cooked fat bacon. Two or three anchovies, wiped free from oil,'may be minced and added, or a slight allowance of anchovy sauce ; if the liver of the fish has been saved it should be minced, and put in also. (c) —In deciding the exact amounts of these ingredients you must be guided by discretion, remembering that the crumbs give bulk, and the eggs cohesion; that the suet, butter, or fat provides the necessary internal basting, so to speak, while the herbs, seasoning, and anchovy, yield flavour. (cl)—Having thoroughly blended the whole composition like a pudding, fill the murral with it carefully, sewing up the opening in which it is confined. If by chance you have made a little too much, the stuffing that is over can be divided into portions, cutlet-wise, and fried, to be served as a garnish. 30350 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOIi MADRAS. (e)—The fish having been thus prepared should now be set in the baking-dish (which should be well buttered) in a circular form, if liked, with its tail secured in its mouth ; and thus far our proceedings are complete. (/)—During the mixing of the stuffing and the arrange- ment of the fish, a broth should have been simmering on tbe fire made of fish trimmings, an onion, some herbs, &c. Any fish that may be superfluous—(assuming that several have been caught, and that after giving some away a few can be spared for the purpose)—ought to be used in this stock. (g) —As already mentioned, a glass of chablis, sauterne, or hock, if by any chance available, should be thrown in ; or, if no light white wine can be given, a glass of claret, failing that, a sherry glass of vinegar. The stock is not required in very large quantity ; about a pint and a half,— that is to say an ordinary quart bottleful,—will generally, unless the fish be very large, be found enough. Use it in this manner:— (h) —Pour as much of it as will moisten the dish round the fish to a depth of about two inches. Put a little butter on the fish, and then set the dish in the oven. Baste it every now and then with its own liquor, and use your best endeavours to keep it moist. After about fifteen or twenty minutes’ baking, the fish will be done. (i) —Now mix in a sauce-pan separately a ronx with half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour ; stir together over the fire for two minutes, then add a salt-spoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, and a breakfast-cupful of the fish stock previously made ; next empty the liquor that may re- main in the baking-dish round the fish into this sauce, boil one minute, add half an ounce of butter and stir till it is melted. (j) —Put the murral carefully on a hot dish, pour theCAMP COOKERY—(OUR FRESH-WATER FISH). 351 sauce over it, and serve. Be very careful in moving the fish : indeed, if you think that it may break during that operation, leave it alone, pour the sauce over it, and wrap a napkin round the baking-dish in which it should be served. If the fish be over three pounds in weight it is well worth while to roast it. The preparations in regard to cleaning, drying, and stuffing are the same as those just described for baking. The operation of spitting, however, requires great care, for if carelessly done, and the fish be at all over-roast- ed,- the chances are that it will fall off the spit, and break to pieces. To guard against this catastrophe you should make a cradle for the fish in this way :— Take four strips of thinly split bamboo, cut them a little longer than the fish, lay them in rows four inches apart, and tie across them, at in the following diagra m ntervals of six inches, four tapes as The tapes, which are represented by the dotted lines, should be knotted to each strip of bamboo at the points of intersection. Thus we have a cradle large enough for a fish eighteen inches long, and a foot or a little more in girth. It is secured to the spit by the ends of the tapes, which are left over for that purpose. The arrangement is in principle something like the cradle which is placed round a horse’s neck to prevent his tearing himself when under treatment for a wound.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOIi MADRAS. 352 Having thus attached the fish securely to the spit, the roasting should he conducted before a clear charcoal fh’e, and basting should be kept up continually. To facilitate this work, place a tin baking-dish under the fish, put into it four ounces of butter, and when that has melted, a glass of vinegar; catch all the liquid that drops from the fish, and use this with the melted butter and vinegar for the basting. When done, detach the fish carefully, lay it in the hot dish prepared for it, and pour over it a sauce composed in the same way as that recommended for the baked murral. The recipes given for baking and roasting the murral can be applied to several other fish :—the various carps from the lordly Barbus tor, or Mahseer, downwards, the Labeos including the L. Bohita or ro hu of Northern India, the Cat la, the Wallago attu (fresh-water shark), &c. ; but very large fish are better prepared in fillets or steaks than whole, the treatment of which I will now proceed to demonstrate. I have already said that filleting fresh-water fish was a wise proceeding inasmuch as it protected you from the bones ; that our Native cooks were clever in performing the operations ; and that large fishes were perhaps better treat- ed in this manner than on the spit, or in the oven, whole. Well, another reason of some weight can he advanced in favour of the process. It is this:—You rarely have at hand, —especially in camp,—a vessel or oven large enough for the task of cooking a big fish en bloc. But after all the method by which the bones are got rid of cannot but be regarded, I think, as the best we can adopt for the majority of tank and river fish. To encourage you in accepting this view, I will place before you an extract from the volume of the Badminton L ibrary on Coarse Fishing, in which the cookery of one of the least esteemed—I might say the most despised—fish that swims in English rivers,—the chub,—is described. Writingof the edible characteristics of this fish, Canon Kingsley propound-CAMP COOKERY(OUR FRESH-WATER FISH). 353 ed the following recipe for its imitation :—“Take a Palmer’s composite candle, stuff it with needles and hair-brush bris- tles, and boil it in ditch-water.” Even in Isaak Walton’s days the French called it un vilain, and for all time it has been condemned as being woolly, tasteless, and full of bones. If then it can be shown that, this disgraceful character not- withstanding, the chub can be presented as “a most excel- lent dish of meat,” surely we ought to be of good cheer in regard to the capabilities of many of our fresh-water fishes which we have hitherto ignored. The writer quoted by Mr. Cholmondeley-Pennell in the work aforesaid, states that having been much struck by a delicious plat of fish at a dinner at a country-house, he was much surprised at discovering from his hostess that it was made of the much despised chub ; he accordingly obtained the recipe (said to have been procured in Italy from a Jewish family) which may be summarised as follows :— Divide the fish, as freshly caught as possible, into fillets of three or four inches in length and two broad. Make a good broth with the head, tail, skin, bones, &c., assisted by a couple of onions, and savoury pot-herbs, black pepper and salt. Boil separately four or five large sweet onions till they yield to the pressure of the spoon; take them out of the water, and slice them up. The broth being ready, choose a roomy stew-pan, sprinkle over the bottom of it a fair sup- ply of salt, black pepper, and a little powdered ginger, and over this place a layer of the onion slices ; upon this bed put the fillets, dust them with pepper and salt, and cover them with the remaining slices of onions; pour in the broth, to which should now be added a wine-glass of vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of sugar, and close the stew-pan securely ; set it upon a moderate fire, and simmer gently until the fillets are cooked ; when this point is nearly at hand, beat up the yolks of four eggs, carefully freed from the whites, with a little of the broth from the stew-pan, cooling it slightly354 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. before the amalgamation. The fish being ready, lift the stew-pan from the fire, and strain off the broth into a clean sauce-pan. Arrange the onions upon a hot entree dish, upon them place the fillets, mingle the egg liaison with the broth, off the fire, and pour the whole of it over the fillets. The plat is now ready. It is of course obvious that this procedure can be follow- ed in treating any fish large enough to fillet, or a number of small fish which can only give a couple of fillets each ; it is very simple, and demands no expensive adjunct, or in- gredient difficult to obtain ; it does not even require butter, and it is absolutely innocent of the charge so frequently laid against fresh-water fish dishes, that they are too elaborate, require too much wine, and that at best la sauce vaict viicux quo le poisson. If large Bombay onions cannot be got in camp, the ordinary red shallots, commonly called “curry onions,” will do; slices of green ginger would be better than the powder of the dried root, and I can strongly recommend some scrapings of the moringa, or horse radish root. Isaak Walton’s recipes frequently include this flavouring. In cantonments where parsley is obtainable, a heaped-up table- spoonful, finely chopped, should be stirred into the broth with the egg thickening; if a glass of chablis could be spared, it would be an improvement, and the addition of anchovy would certainly be of value in preparing the broth. The important points are, first of all, the essence of fish in which the fillets are cooked. I cannot too strongly urge this as a fundamental rule in fish cookery. Whether for a stew such as that we have been considering, or for the foundation in any circumstances of a fish sauce, for sea- fish as well as for fresh-water fish, do not waste the invalua- ble essence-yielding trimmings. Compare an ordinary sauce made of water, or milk and water, with flour, butter, and anchovy sauce, with one made upon a fish-stock basis, and you will recognise the fact that we often throw away theCAMP COOKERY— (OUR FRESH-WATER FISH). 355 very materials which are needed to complete with subtlety our dish of fish. The next point is the association of onions with fish cookery, and the very slow simmering of the composition. Lastly, the egg thickening which should not be omitted on any account. Accepting this as our standard method of stewing fillets of fresh-water fish, we need only consider the matelote, which is a stew of a somewhat richer character. Eels, of which I shall speak presently, are, as we all know, specially dedi- cated to this dish by the chief writers on cookery, but fillets of fish in variety can thus be turned to good account. In fact Ude translates matelote by the English term “hotchpotch”, thereby indicating that it should be com- posed of a medley of fish. Commence, after filleting the fish, and preparing a broth as in the former recipe, by frying at the bottom of a stew- pan in butter a dozen small red shallots cut up as for curry- making. Let them take colour, and then add the fillets, the broth, and a muslin hag containing a tea-spoonful each of marjoram and thyme, twelve peppercorns, and a blade of mace; pour into the broth a couple of glasses of claret, close the pan, and set it over a low fire to simmer gently till the fillets are cooked. Remove the stew-pan, arrange the fillets upon a hot entree dish, .empty the broth into a clean sauce-pan through a strainer, add to its piquancy with a dessert-spoonful of anchovy and Harvey sauce blended, one of mushroom ketchup and the squeeze of a lime; thicken this with half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour (or more according to the quantity of broth) and pour it over the fillets. If you can put in with the fillets to begin with a pint measure of carefully clean- ed fresh-water shrimps, so much the better ; and on special occasions a tin of oysters will add to the success of the composition. Fillets, I need scarcely point out, can be baked or broiled356 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. easily enough ; but frying them satisfactorily will depend, as I said before, on the medium being procurable in suffi- cient quantity. In the first method they can be done either in the pie, or au gratin. In both cases they should be placed in layers with thinly sliced onions above, below, and amongst them. A seasoning of newly ground black pepper and salt, mixed in the proportion of one quarter of pepper to three quarters of salt, should be dusted over them. If this seasoning be blended with some powdered thyme and marjoram in quantity equal to one-fifth of the whole, the effect will be better. Some shavings of the moringa root, and slices of green ginger may be introduced, and fresh- water shrimps and crayfish will improve the dish. For the ait gratin, cover the composition with a canopy of finely grated crumbs: cover the pie, of course, with paste. Moisten both with a strong broth composed as directed out of fish trimmings, and bake in a moderate oven. I have frequently mentioned the value of fish stock in regard to the stewing and baking of fish. I may now go on to the subject of fish soup, for the stock I have described merely requires a little development to yield this very acceptable form of nourishment. A vmlligatanny made with a strong decoction of fish equals, if it does not surpass, the commoner preparation upon a chicken or mutton-broth foundation. All you have to do is to cut into pieces, after cleaning them, as many fish as you can spare,—say four or five pounds,—with heads, tails, &c., and put these with some salt and black pepper, one ounce of the former to half an ounce of the latter, six onions, and some ' savoury herbs,—bottled or fresh as the case may be,—into a roomy stew-pan ; to cover all with cold water, and bring it to the boil, skimming the surface during the process ; after this, to let it simmer slowly for a couple of hours, then to strain it off and let it get cool. The consomme thus obtained canCAMP COOKERY— (OUR FRESH-WATER FISH). 857 now be used in the usual manner for mulligatunny. To convert it into a delicious soup :— Return the liquid to a clean stew-pan, add a tea-spoonful of Brand’s essence, and a glass of Madeira, marsala, or sherry ; heat gradually to boiling point, and serve. A few nice pieces of fish may be saved after the straining and put into the soup as garnish. If the broth be cloudy, and you want it to be bright and clear, clarify it with egg in the established manner, or pound six ounces of clean raw fish, put this into the soup at the second stage, boil for five minutes, let the liquid rest for five minutes more, and pour it off carefully without disturbing the sediment and pounded fish at the bottom of the pan. Eels are most excellent in soup, and if assisted by a strong broth made of a fowl and such vegetables as may be procurable, with sweet herbs (especially a little basil), and judicious seasoning, a few pounds of this fish will give you a very fair imitation of turtle soup. Touching eels generally. In this fish we certainly pos- sess a valuable article of diet. Fishermen know that in Southern India we have two varieties, viz., the common eel [Anguilla Bengalensis), Tam : vellang ; Hind: tumboo mutchi, and the Mastacemblus armatus, Tam : kul-aral; Hind : bugola mutchi, erroneously called in some places a lamprey. This variety is described by Thomas as an eel with a protruding snout; it is rather silvery in colour, and deeper in girth than the ordinary eel; specimens can be seen any morning in the Bangalore fish market; they are caught chiefly, I believe, in the Ooscotta tank. Both of these are very good eating if cooked when quite fresh. Occasionally it happens that an eel may be a little muddy, but this, as in the case of other fish which vary in the same way, may be attributed to the water in which it is358 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. taken, and can be overcome almost wholly by careful and speedy cleaning. This should always be remembered, and skinning is equally necessary. The fish should then be blanched in boiling water for five minutes, and, after being taken out, rubbed with a clean cloth to remove the oily coating with which it is often enveloped. It can now be divided into fillets, and cooked in any of the methods speci- fied in the domestic cookery book; and whether stewed according to the recipes already given, halted in a pie, or served cm gratin, wrapped in buttered paper and broiled on the grid-iron, curried, or in mold, it rarely fails to be pro- nounced excellent. For a large eel Isaak Walton’s plan may be followed: —Having cut off the head, turn the skin over, and draw it down (as you draw off a stocking) as far as it is necessary for the removal of the viscera ; this operation having been performed very completely, wipe the fish well, and give him three or four scotches on both sides with a knife, put into these a mixture of chopped herbs, and minced anchovy, and stuff him with the same kneaded up with butter ; next draw the skin back again, secure it with a tape at the neck end, and then roast or bake him, basting first with salt and water till the skin cracks, and then with melted butter and vinegar: when done, serve him with the liquor which exudes during the cooking as sauce. The vacuum to be filled with stuffing is so small that a little suffices. The'fresh-water turtle (Emyclagranosa), Tam : Pal-amai; Hind : Dhooth thambale, is really a delicacy well worthy of the closest attention. This, the edible variety, is distin- guished from the repulsive non-edible sort,—the Pi-amai, or Emys trijuga,—by the yellow colour of its soft under shell being black and fetid. The former is to be compared with the much prized terrapin or tide-water tortoise of North America. It is valuable in soup or stew, and makes a very delicate curry.CAMP COOKERY— (OUR, FRESH-WATER, FISH). 350 The turtle shold be killed by decapitation : it should then be bung over a vessel to bleed ; when this ceases, the under shell should be detached, the animal being laid on its back to facilitate the operation. Cut all round the edge of the under shell, detach it, and remove the intestines adhering to the back. Take out all the inside, carefully preserving the green fat which is found for the most part round the inside of the shell. Steep this fat in a basin of cold water. Cut off the fins, saw the shells up in pieces, and take the head ; put these to boil separately with the turtle meat till quite tender, and till the meat separates easily from the bones : then drain off the liquid, cut the meat neatly off the bones, returning the latter with the shells to the broth, and placing the meat between two dishes to get cold. The broth should now be set on the fire again to boil, and reduce some- what. In the meantime a strong fowl consomme should have been simmering on the fire, the meat assisted by onions, dried sweet herbs, and such seasoning as can be procured. . This having been completed satisfactorily, the turtle broth being also ready, both should be strained and blended, a muslin bag containing some mixed herbs, including basil and a blade of mace, should be putin, and the amalgamated broths set on the fire to boil, and then to simmer for half an hour, during which stage the cold turtle meat should be put in also. If required for a thick soup, the usual thickening process should follow, the muslin bag having been removed. The green fat should be blanched in boiling water and useda/o»c as garnish. Last of all, Madeira or marsala, according to the quantity of the soup, with a squeeze of lime juice should be added : the soup should then be served. A few drops of tabasco will perhaps be agreeable to many. I am altogether against the introduction of forcemeatCULINARY JOTTINGS NOR MADRAS. 360 balls (made goodness knows how !) and Ido not recommend very much herb seasoning. Preserve the delicate flavour of the turtle to the utmost, and remem her that it is easily overpowered. For this reason I object in to to to the use of sheep’s head broth, for the soup when thus made tastes wholly of the “ sheepy” stock, and the turtle flavour is destroyed. Do not spoil the clear soup' by putting in isinglass, or cornflour starch. If the decoction of the fins, head, shells, and flesh has been properly prepared, there will be no lack of the gelatinous quality which is expected with clear turtle. If you happen to have caught an eel or two, one carefully cleaned and cut into two-inch pieces might go in with the turtle. For the stew and curry the preliminaries are the same as for the soup in so far as the extraction of the essence of the turtle fins, shells, &c., is concerned. The meat set aside to get cold is either stewed gently in this liquid, and flavoured in the manner specified for the soup, or curried a la mode Indiennc, the broth being used for the liquefac- tion thereof. Before winding up this subject, I would finally observe that fresh-water fish is by no means to be despised when kippered or collared. Here is an easy method for adoption in camp :—after having been scaled and cleaned, cut the fish open like a haddock, pepper it well over, and rub in salt: let the fish lie in this state during the night. In the morning, hang it in the sun to dry. Cut it into pieces, and fry them in butter in the evening, keeping them cold for breakfast. Or, instead of drying the fish in the sun, smoke it over a fire replenished with damp straw, and treat it as you would kippered fish. Here follows an epitome of rules which I have adaptedCAMP COOKERY— (OUR FRESH-WATER FISH). 361 to meet our requirements from the notes of a reliable author: To prepare fresh-water fish (1.) The gills and fins should be cut off; then the fish must be opened, and the viscera removed, being thoroughly dried inside and out with a cloth. If it is to be fried, it is now ready to be floured, or bread-crumbed. (2.) When fish are scaly, they must be scaled very lightly and carefully with a knife, and then be well washed with salt and water to remove all slime. (3.) If no scales, proceed as above without scaling. (4.) To Boil Fish.—Put it into a fish-kettle, with salt, fennel, and a bundle or two of sweet herbs, enough water with a little vinegar to cover the fish. When quite boiling, put in the fish, after three minutes check ebullition, and let it boil slowly. (5.) The liquor in which fish is boiled should be saved for stock or sauce if not too salt. (6.) To Broil.—After the fish has been scaled, &c., notch it two or three times on the back, strew some salt on the fish, and broil, basting with butter, and turning frequently. (7.) To Bake.—Stuff and season with sweet herbs pow- dered and coarse pepper, and salt; put plenty of butter in the dish. (8.) To Stew Fish in the Oven.—Put it in a stew-pan covered with fish broth, with a little white wine or claret; add some salt, spices, an anchovy, and a bundle of sweet herbs, cover the pan, and put in a moderate oven. (9.) Whether roasted, fried, broiled, boiled, baked, or stewed, fish should be done thoroughly. (10.) The best herbs are marjoram, savory, parsley, thyme, green ginger, grated moringa root, and fennel. 31362 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. (11.) The best seasonings to use are cloves, nutmeg, mace, black pepper and salt. (12.) The best sauce is composed on a fish broth basis. This has been very carefully described. If well flavoured, a thickening of butter and Hour is alone required, or better, one of egg yolks d la poulette. A slight sharpness can of course he given by vinegar or lime juice. The juices which baking extracts should be drained, and added to the sauce. (13.) All fresh-water fish should he eaten as soon after they are caught as possible. I hope that these jottings will he useful to those for whose special advantage they have been compiled, and that a trial of some of the recipes will he found satisfactory.O JHE A.PTB E3 35C Camp Cookery, {Game.) ®± §F at a disadvantage as regards many good things in comparison with his brother in can ton in ent,the sports- man in camp can at all events rely upon consolation in the Game that he is able to obtain both in freshness and variety. Let us then now consider how this excellent kind of food can be made the most of. But while placing my chapter on this subject in the category of Gamp Cookery, I would observe that the advice it contains is just as applica- ble to the kitchen of the town or country house, as to the wigwam in camp. I cannot do better, I think, than commence with three reliable recipes for cooking a hare. If you have shot the hare yourself so much the better, for then you will not find its heart, liver and kidneys gone. Skin, clean, and wash the animal well, saving the three parts I have mentioned carefully, and the blood. When quite clean, wipe the carcass inside and out, and let it soak in the marinade for game mentioned at page 70 all day, turn- ing it every now and then. As the hour for cooking ap- proaches, fill the hare with a well-made stuffing as for turkey (page 119). The kidneys and heart should be minced and fried in fat bacon, with a little onion ; when done, the364 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. contents of the pan should be poured into a bowl to cool, and when cold, pounded to a paste, and mixed with the stuff- ing. The hack of the hare should he larded, or covered with thin slices of bacon pinned down with little skewers; it should then be wrapped in oiled paper, and roasted, a con- stant basting of melted butter or clarified beef suet, with vinegar and water in equal parts, being kept up throughout the process. When nearly done, the bacon strips should be removed, and the back lightly dredged with flour ; the skin should be allowed to brown, and run into crisp blisters : the hare should then be served,—with a sauce made as follows :— First make a good pint of the best gravy you can : cut the liver into dice, take a small sauce-pan, melt an ounce of butter in it, throw into it an onion finely shreded, toss the onion till it colours nicely, then throw in the chopped liver, shaking the pan for a minute or two: next add a little gravy, stir well, pour in all the gravy and simmer till the liver is cooked. Now, strain the gravy, and pour into it through a strainer the marinade of port wine, vine- gar, ketchup, and red currant jelly in which the hare was soaked, put it on the fire in a sauce-pan, boil up and pro- ceed to thicken as follows :— Bemove the sauce-pan from the fire, let the gravy therein cool for two minutes ; take part of it, and stir into it sepa- rately in a cup the blood you saved in the first instance ; mix well, and add this and the liver to the gravy in the sauce-pan, which should now be replaced on the fire, and brought almost to the boil, when it will be ready. It is a good plan—especially in the case of a large N ilgiri have—to remove the head, neck and shoulders, and hind legs, reserving those parts for soup or stew, and using the back and loins for roasting only. In this case the part to he roasted should be put into marinade, and the stuffing and larding conducted exactly as in the preceding recipe. If365 CAMP COOKERY. carefully secured at both ends, basted, not overdone, and served straight from the lire, this fragment of hare fable) will be found very tasty. Ramasamy sometimes envelopes his hare in a coating of light batter. Pray caution him never to do so again. Jugged hare (equally applicable to porcupine) is per- haps the best dish for camp life ; by many it is consider- ed in any circumstances the best. This is a simple recipe :—- Proceed as in the foregoing receipt as far as the skinning and cleaning is concerned. When ready, cut the hare up into neat pieces, dredge them with Horn', and give them a few turns in the frying-pan with some butter till they take colour. Prepare beforehand a pint and a half of good strong- stock (that of a fowl with giblets, game fragments, and some Brand’s essence, will do in camp) and choose a vessel that you can close securely with paste : put the pieces of hare into it, with two carrots, two or three large onions, an ounce of celery, the juice of two limes, a table-spoonful of sugar, and one of salt; pour in the stock, throw in a wine- glass of brandy, and seal the vessel as closely as possible ; place it in a pan of cold water, and set it to boil, steaming the covered pot for three hours. When done, open the pot, stir into it a bumper glass of port, a dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly, and a lump of butter. Or you may strain the gravy, thicken it with the blood or with flour and butter, add the wine, &c., and pour it over the meat again. Serve with a dozen balls of stuffing, made as for roast hare, and fried in butter. Instead of steaming the jar, it may be placed in the oven and baked for two or three hours. This process can be followed with all sorts of game, such as partridges, jungle-fowl, plovers, quail, pigeons, pieces of venison, jungle-sheep, cholum-birds, doves, &c., &c. The ‘Omnium gatherum’ stew is always welcome, and should be regarded as a speciality of camp cookery. Lean bacon, Bologna sausage, and spiced pepper, improve it greatly.366 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. An excellent hash may be made of a cold roast have (or venison) in this way:—Trim off as much of the meat as you can find in slices, and cut out what remains of the stuff- ing : break up all the hones and put them with the skin and scraps into a stew-pan with a large onion cut up, pepper- corns, a bit of celery if possible, and any vegetable, a little spice, any sauce that may have been left, a couple of glasses of red wine and enough water to cover the hones, &c.; sim- mer these ingredients for an hour and a half, and then strain off the gravy. Thicken it with butter and flour, flavour it with a dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, half a glass of vine- gar, and a little more red wine : heat up the slices of hare in this sauce taking care that they do not boil, and serve with a stuffing sliced and fried in butter as a garnish. Tor habe soup, see Menu bio. 15 for the clear, and Menu No. 19 for the thick. Our venison might be made a good deal more of than it is. With a little trouble its dryness, and general want of fat can be combated, the former by cookery, the latter by larding. It is first of all quite a sine quel non that the meat should he marinaded. The process not only improves its flavour, but it renders it more tender and juicy. Meat will keep when in marinade that would go bad in a few hours if ordinarily hung. A reliable marinade (which by the way can be made before you proceed into camp and be taken out in bottles) is made in the following manner. Take four ounces of carrot, eight ounces of onions, a table- spoonful of mixed herbs from the bottle, and an ounce of parsley : put these into a stew-pan with one ounce of butter : fry for five minutes, and then add one pint of vinegar, one quart of water, one and a quarter ounce of salt, a half ounce of pepper and a blade of mace. Boil up, and then simmer for half an hour; strain, and the preparation can be used or bottled as occasion may demand. In cold weather aCAMP COOKERY. 367 piece of vension can be kept three or four days in this liquid: see that it is constantly turned. The roasting should be attended to carefully : first set the flesh after wip- ing it well by bolding the joint over a clear charcoal fire for a minute. This facilitates the larding which should next be carried out. When prepared, wrap it in oiled paper, and proceed to cook it in the manner prescribed for roast hare. For a good sauce to accompany the above, take one pint of the marinade ; boil, and strain it; thicken it with half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour; color with caramel, reduce a little, add a table-spoonful of marsala, and serve. In cantonment, with the proper appiliances at hand, I •would braise rather than roast the venison, using for its moistening a carefully made mirepoix,—page 108. Jungle-sheep requires just as much care as ordinary vension, for if cooked like mutton, in the style generally adopted by Ramasamy, it is, as a rule, dry and insipid. The neck and loin chops are excellent when “ jugged” as prescribed for bare. The rule of the koast in regard to game birds :—the fiorican, Himalayan pheasant, pea-chick, partridge, jungle- fowl, &c., is first to pluck, draw, singe, and truss, placing a couple of shallots and one ounce of butter inside the bird. Then to lard the breast very finely, tie a thin slice of bacon over the larding, and roast the bird at a moderate fire, basting it frequently with butter. A few minutes before the bird is done, remove the slice of bacon, so as to let the larding take colour. Serve with plain gravy, fried crumbs, and bread sauce. Time, about thirty minutes. For bread SAUCE, see page 92 ; for fried bread crumbs, proceed in this wayMake some bread crumbs by rasp- ing a piece of crust or passing some very stale bread throughCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 368 a wire sieve : put a breakfast-cupful of these in a baking tin with sufficient butter to moisten them, place the tin in the oven. Stir the crumbs occasionally until they have absorbed all the butter, and are of a golden colour. Larding is of course an optional proceeding, but the tying of a slice or slices of bacon over the breast is most neces- sary. In the absence of bacon, a well oiled paper should be wrapped round the bird, but this must he removed for the browning stage towards the end of the roasting. The caution given at page 122 as to plucking, and at page 123 as to parboiling before roasting (a villainy per- petrated too often by Bamas&my), and roasting too soon before the bird is wanted, should be read over here, for our game is ruined by these practices. Partridges, and game birds that seem rather old, are better if turned into the camp stock pot at once ; still, very careful stewing often renders old birds palatable. Perhaps the best way of cooking Indian partridges is with cabbage, perdeeaux au chou, in the following manner:— Prepare four partridges as for boiling, with their legs tucked in : lard their breasts with bacon and put an onion inside each of them. Cut a nice cabbage into quarters, blanch them, and steep them in cold salt and water for an hour. Now take a roomy stew-pan, line its bottom with two carrots, and two large onions sliced in rings, a sprink- ling of powdered herbs, and a dusting of salt and pepper. Put the partridges above this lining, inserting a quarter of cabbage in the spaces between each bird, a slice of bacon here and there, and some slices of Bologna or Brunswick sausage. Moisten with a good gravy made of the bird trimmings, a couple of sheep’s feet, and vege- tables, with a seasoning of herbs, pepper and salt. This should be sufficient in quantity to cove?- the birds. Boil closely covered up, and then simmer for an hour and aCAMP COOKERY. 369 half till the birds are tender. Dish with the cabbage in the centre, and the birds placed neatly round it, with the sliced sausage and bacon as garnish. Serve the gravy in a boat very hot. I have cooked Himalayan pheasants, and tame pigeons, in same manner with the best results. The salmis of partridges, and other game birds is a well known dish; it is however too often looked upon as the manner in which game should be served en rechauffe, whereas the bird should scarcely be cooked at all before being stewed. The correct method is to prepaid the birds as if for roasting : then to cut a quarter of a pound of streaky bacon in pieces one inch long, and half an inch thick; to put an ounce of butter in a stew-pan; to fry the bacon pieces therein, and when turning color to put in the birds, to cook them (sauU) for eight minutes, and then to dredge an ounce of flour over them. Now the best gravy you can make assisted with a glass of wine should be poured into the stew-pan, and the birds should be simmered in it for twenty minutes or until tender. To serve,—take the birds out of the pan, set them on a hot dish and pour the sauce over them. This method is obviously practicable for small birds that can be cooked and served whole, such as quails, snipe, plovers, cholum birds, &c. Larger birds must be prepared in this manner :— After the preliminary saute work in the melted butter and bacon fat, take the birds out of the stew-pan, let thehi get cold. When cold, carve from each bird the wings, breast, and legs, and trim each piece as neatly as possible, remov- ing the skin from it. Take all the trimmings and put them with the carcases, chopped up, into the stew-pan in which the birds were fried ; add a slice of ham, also cut up and put in a couple of shallots, a bundle of sweet herbs, a few cloves, the least bit of cayenne, and whole pepper and salt to taste; add a wine-glassful of marsala and as much stock as will just cover the contents of the sauce-pan. Set it to sim- 32370 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. mer for a couple of hours, strain off the liquor, ancl, when quite cold, put the pieces of partridge into it, and let the whole get hot and simmer very gradually till done. Mean- while, melt a piece of butter in a sauce-pan, mix a little flour with it, then add a little of the liquor and the juice of half or a whole lemon, according to taste, stir well, and turn this into the salmis. Dress the pieces of partridge in a heap, pour the sauce over, and serve with bread sippets fried in butter. Partridges are very eatable when cooked as rabbits gene- rally are in England, i.e., boiled, and smothered in onions. A recipe for this dish will be found in Menu No. 22. I am in this way led to say a few words about rabbits, for though they cannot be considered as game, not being even procurable in a wild state in India, they are far nicer when cooked as game, and submitted to similar preliminary treatment. Thus, if a young hut well grown and well nourished rabbit be prepared exactly according to any of my recipes for hare, it will be found a capital dish for a change. Touching the time-honored method to which I have just alluded, I recommend that instead of the ordinary way of dressing the rabbit whole, the following plan be tried :— Cut up the rabbit neatly as if for “ jugging” and pro- ceed in either of the two styles thus propounded by the “ G.C.”:— 1. Blanch the pieces of rabbit for ten minutes in boiling water, then put them into a stew-pan with an onion stuck with cloves, some parsley, and a sprig of thyme, whole pepper and salt to taste ; cover them with boiling water, and let them boil gently for about half an hour or forty minutes. Serve piled on a dish with plenty of well made onion sauce (soubise) over them. 2. Parboil for a quarter of an hour two or three large onions and the pieces of rabbit together in salted water,371 CAMP COOKERY. with two or three cloves and some whole pepper. Take out the onions, chop them up, and return them to the stew- pan with a small piece of butter rolled in flour, add the pieces of rabbit, a tumblerful more or less of milk, and a little grated nutmeg. Let the whole simmer very slowly for an hour, and just before serving add a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut. Whichever plan you adopt remember that there should be no stint in regard to the onions. The pieces of rabbit should actually be bountifully smothered. The French homely dish of rabbit is the gibclotte, a kind of fricassee. Take a quarter of a pound of leanish bacon, cut it into dice, and fry them with half an ounce of butter in a stew-pan till colored. Now take out the bacon, and put in the pieces of rabbit, let them fry in the butter and bacon fat for six minutes, then return the bits of bacon, dredge half an ounce of flour over the rabbit, cover the pieces with broth and a glass of marsala, season with pepper, salt and sweet herbs, and simmer steadily till the rabbit is cooked. Serve it within a circle of small glazed onions. If mushrooms can be got, put into the stew, say a dozen buttons, when the simmering commences. With wild fowl—duck and teal especially—alike in camp and cantonment, the Anglo-Indian table is generally well supplied during the winter season. I have given recipes for cooking these birds in my menus to which I would invite attention, particularly to the observations recorded in No. 20 in regard to the trimming of duck or teal for a tasty dish without wasting the parts of them that are never eaten..... .\ PART II. THIRTY MENUS, WORKED OUT TINT DETAIL «^§1§§h^»NOTES. SHE men us have been again thoroughly revised and cor- rected. They are all susceptible of being doubled for larger parties than those for which they have been designed; and though each of them is given in French, the English names of all the dishes will he found in the margin of the detail of instructions. Those who are anxious to adopt the more modern form of menu will find a note at the end of each of the larger bills-of-fare showing what alteration is necessary to effect their object. I have not attempted to treat of sweet dishes in this work, but the entremets sucres chosen for each bill-of-fare have been carefully described. For hors (Voeuvres, with which each dinner may com- mence, please consult the chapter I have devoted to them. At page 58 I advocated putting fish into boiling water over a brisk fire, and boiling it as fast as possible. Now this is dangerous advice, for the slightest carelessness will result in the fish coming to pieces. The rules for boiling should therefore be thus modified :— Put the fish into boiling water, but check this in three minutes by the addition of a little cold water. Then sim- mer till the fish is cooked. The plunging into boiling water for three minutes will set the flesh and secure the nutritive376 NOTES TO MENU. elements, while the simmering afterwards will prevent any accident such as that I have mentioned. The recipes given for the treatment of fish apply, it will be found, to the varieties of the finny tribe best known and esteemed at Madras, viz.:—the seer, pomfret, rob&l, sole, grey mullet, and whiting. Of these the first being a large salmon-shaped fish, which is cut up and sold much in the same manner as salmon, is susceptible of being similarly cooked. Small seer are flabby and unfit for the table, but they make good fish stock. The pomfret may, as far as its flavour and the texture of its flesh are concerned, be best compared perhaps with the turbot or brill, but as it never reaches as great a size as either of those fish, it can be trimmed when desired in fillets, and cooked like soles. The sole and whiting can be treated exactly like the fishes of the same name at home. The only difference being that the Indian sole is, as a rule, wanting in the depth of flesh possessed by the European variety when in proper season. The mullet is a far larger fish than the English grey mullet, and not nearly as rich. If taken in backwaters, it requires very careful cleaning to rid it of the muddy taste it acquires in such circumstances. Remembering the peculiarities of these fish, a little reflection will enable my readers in other parts of India to apply the recipes I have given to almost any fish that may be at their disposal, following these directions:— A fish that can be easily dressed in fillets may be treat- ed as a pomfret or sole. One that is large and firm enough to be sliced can be cooked as the seer. Long trout-shaped fish may be served as mullet, and can be baked whole, or roasted a la broche. Bony fish are best prepared in the form of purde :—boiled, passed through the sieve, and sent377 NOTES TO MENU. up as a souffle or a crdvie. The beckti of Calcutta seems specially adapted to treatment as codfish ; at the same time it may be cooked in almost every way laid down for seer fish. The hilsa, again, approaches very closely if it does not surpass the fresh herring, or mackerel, and may he dressed similarly. Those who may try to use this hook in England should remember that ordinary eggs in India are far smaller than those at home. I calculate that five Indian eggs are equal to about three English. Again : the cream so often pro- pounded in my recipes is not nearly as thick and rich as English cream : the use, moreover, of cream may obviously be tempered with discretion. Wyvebn. 33IXdllEIXrCT NO I.' ♦ For a party of eight. Consomm^ aux quenelles. Seer aux concombres. Crbme de volaille. Grenadins de bceuf a la Bearnaise. Selle de mouton aux liaricots verts. Galantines de cailles, sauce tartare. Epinards & la creme. Pain de fraises. “Pudding” glacb aux abricots. 1.—Our first step must be the making of a bright, clear, consomme according to the directions quenelles, S°UP ^ given at Page 32> to flavour which in this instance we must not forget a little dried basil (which should go in with the vegetables), and a table-spoonful ofmarsala to finish with. We can make the quenelles of fish, game, chicken, or of tinned lobster if we like. Let us choose prawn quenelles, and proceed as follows :—Pound a dozen and a half well- * With regard to the first ten Menus I would observe that, were I ordering the dinners myself, I would cut out one entree and one sweet entremets from each of them, and serve the repast according to the new regime. See the note at the end of each one, and turn to page 4 for a moment.—W.MENU FOB A PARTY OF EIGHT. 379 cleaned, cooked prawns with half their bulk of crumb of bread, soaked in stock; work in with the paste two whole raw eggs, and season it with a pinch of salt,'a dusting of white, or Nepaul pepper, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce : when thoroughly blended, and of the right consist- ency, form your tiny olive-shaped quenelles between two tea-spoons, poach them for about five minutes in boiling stock or water, drain them, and add them to the soup at the last moment. Quenelles used as garnish for soups should be lighter and more delicate than ordinary quenelles. Vari- ous shapes may be obtained by pressing the mixture into the poaching pan through a paper funnel. Seer with cucum bers. 2.—This is a dish of neatly trimmed slices of seer, plainly stewed in a clear broth made from the prawn shells and the fish trimmings. Put into the broth with the fish a few slices of carrot, an onion, a table-spoonful of dried sweet herbs, and a glass of chablis: simmer gently, and when done, drain the fish, and strain the gravy. Thicken the latter with butter and flour, and add to it some previously cooked fillets of cucumber about an inch long, and half an inch thick, and the pieces of fish : heat altogether, till the stew steams freely, and serve. For directions for preparing the cucumber, see page 167. 3.—Here we have a mould of creme or pain de volatile. Choose a large fowl, or two good-sized cream!^ °f Llllc,ven chickens, and cut off all the white meat you can for the qmree. With all the bones, skin, and scraps, assisted by two sheep’s feet, cleaned and cut up, and the giblets saved before the roasting, make as strong an essence as you can, following the rules for “ fowl essence” (page 106). Strain when done, let it get cold, skim it, and then proceed to thicken it; when as thick as a rich mayonnaise sauce, strain it, and set it in the bain-marie.MENU FOE A PARTY OF EIGHT. 380 You must treat your puree thus:—pound the meat to a paste ; add one-third of its bulk of crumb of bread soaked in stock, and half a tin of white mushrooms, and when thoroughly incorporated, pass the whole through a hair sieve. Moisten the puree, with some of the sauce already described, while pounding it, and when finished, add four whole raw eggs well beaten. Take a piece of boiled fat bacon, and cut it up into dice : about four ounces will be enough. Now, butter a plain mould, and fill it with your puree, introducing irregularly the bacon dice, and steam it as you would a pudding in your Warren’s pot, or in a stew- pan plunged into a larger vessel full of water. When done, let the mould get cold, and then turn it out. While the mould is being steamed, reduce the remainder of the sauce a little, let it get cool, and strain it gently over the mould (which should be set on ice) until the glaze coats it completely. When set, the pain is ready. The creme can be still further improved by putting into it while filling the mould the contents of a one-eighth tin of pate dc foie gras, cut into dice like the bacon. The tin should not be opened till the exact time it is wanted in order that its aroma may be retained. If steamed in a border mould, the centre may be filled with pointes d' asperges ,fonds d’ar Helmuts, flageolets or mace- doine cle legumes moistened with pure iced cream. 4.—Choose a nice fillet of beef, or the tender meat of a piece of the ribs. Trim this into thick Fillets of beef Bear- heart-shaped fillets of a size large liaise fashion. . 1 1 j enough tor one person each; lard them with fat bacon, and set them to marinade all day, as described in Chapter VIII, page 70. When ready, drain them, and stew them gently in as strong a stock as you can make from the meat and bones you had over after- shaping them, assisted by a glass of marsala : when done, keep them hot in the bain-mai ic.MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 381 For the sauce, proceed as recommended at page 96. A little water added with the butter prevents curdling remember. Dish the grenaclins round a ring of carefully mashed potato, introducing a slice of crisply fried bacon between each of them, and serve the sauce piping hot in a boat. In the hollow formed by the potato ring, you can put some flageolets d la maitre d’hotel, or pctits pois. 5. —Speaks for itself. Pray follow my advice about trimming your French beans (page Saddle: of mutton 148), and dish them with a pat of butter boiling hot, added at the very last moment. The best way by far to cook the beans pro- vided they are young and tender, is in the jar like peas (page 146), or in the steamer of a Warren’s pot; trim the beans as explained already, and put them into the jar or steamer, with a table-spoonful of butter, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, and a large tea-spoonful of salt. Steam the jar as described for peas : when done, drain the beans, and serve with a pat of butter as above described. Unless French beans are young and tender, it is useless trying to cook them. A tin of haricots verts should, in this case, be substituted. 6. —Buy eight fat quails, four sheep’s tongues, half a pound of lamb’s lively and a couple of Quails boned and pounds of gravy meat. Make gravy sauce. at once with the last, stew the tongues in it, and bone the quails : throw the bones into the gravy, and all scraps you may have of bacon, &c.; next trim your cold sheep’s tongues, and cut eight nice fillets, the size of a walnut, from the centre of them. Now, place your boned-birds, breast downwards, on a board, 'and dust them over with spiced pepper. Proceed to make a forcemeat thus :—Melt a couple of thick slicesMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. of fat bacon in a frying-pan ; when melted, throw in three table-spoonfuls of the lamb’s liver, with those of the birds too, cut into dice, and one onion sbredded finely; cook the liver in this, and when done, empty the contents of your pan, melted bacon and all, into a mortar, throw in the re- mains of the sheep’s tongues which were left after making the fillets, a pinch of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, work this to a paste, pass it through the sieve, add some finely minced parsley, a dessert-spoonful of spiced pepper, a little grated lime peel, and a table-spoonful of foie gras (saved from entree No. 1); work this again thoroughly, and spread a layer of it over the flattened quails : place one of the tongue fillets in the centre of each quail, and spread another layer of your forcemeat over each. Now, gather the birds into shape neatly, sewing the skin together securely, and simmer the little galantines very gently in the previously made gravy, with a little red cur- rant jelly, a glass of sherry, and half a wine-glass of vinegar: when done, lift them out, drain off the gravy, and reduce it to a glaze (page 267) : paint your galantines over with the glaze when cold, arrange them upon a dish which should be set upon ice, and garnish your dish with parsley, and slices of lime. Sauce tar tare, also iced, should accompany. Or, the birds may each be wrapped in a little jacket of linen, and boiled gently in weak stock with a claret-glassful of chablis: when done, they should be placed under weights to get cold, when the linen may be removed, and the glazing be carried out. 7.—For this dish (see page 156) I recommend you to try little shortbread biscuits in which Spinach with some finely grated mild cheese has been mixed; the cakes should be heart- shaped, or round, and quite crisply baked like cheese-fingers. 3,—A simple, and refined cold sweet entremets. DiluteMENU FOE A PAETY OF EIGHT. 383 a pot of strawberry jam with sufficient berries11' ^ °f straw' water to make enough syrup to fill your mould, strain it, colour it a rosy pink with a drop or two of cochineal, and add a glass of liqueur or brandy ; melt an ounce of gelatine, and strain it, when cold, into the syrup, stirring well:—decorate a plain mould with almonds, put it on ice, and pour your strawberry syrup into it by degrees; coyer it over, and set it in ice for two hours ; turn it out, and serve it with cold custard in glasses, or iced cream. If in season, you can, of course, make the syrup with fresh strawberries ; and when filling the mould, you may add to its attractiveness by setting layers of whole fruit (fresh or preserved) in it in the style of a jelly. Iced cream should accompany. 9.—Make a cake case (see Menu No. IV) with finger biscuits, or slices of sponge cake and Iced apneot cream |e^ ft get firm. Mix a rich custard, pudding. 0 flavour it with a dash of liqueur, and whip it well with half an ounce of dissolved gelatine. Work the mixture in the ice pale until it begins to freeze well, then stir into it a good allowance of chopped crystallized apri- cots and a coffee-cupful of rich cream well whipped. Mix well in the ice pail, and then fill a mould with the frozen mixture, completely covering it with lumps of ice. It should be left thus for an hour, when it will be ready to turn out and serve. The mould should be just large enough to be covered by the cake case. Note.—To adapt this menu according to the new regime, serve the saddle after the fish, and instead of gelantines of quails, let the birds be roasted with a slice of fat bacon over their breasts, and sent round with bread sauce, fried crumbs, and filbert chips of potato. A plain salacle or water- cress should accompany the rot. Instead of the icedjnulding an apricot cream ice should be presented at dessert, being en- tered at the end of the menu thus:—Glace,—cr&med’abricots.IVIECxrTT INTO- II. 4 For a party of eight, Potage a la Julienne. Darnes de seer k la Perigueux. Filets de boeuf au creme d’anchois. Cassolettes a la financifere. Selle de mouton aux petits pois. Perdreaux, sauce ‘ cashu-nut.’ Artichauts en coquilles. CEufs a la niege. Creme de pistaches glacee. 1.—The French preserved Julienne is now regularly received by a well-known firm at Julienne soup. ■' . Madras. Armed with one oi these tablets, you can achieve a Julienne soup which will at once show you what a lamentable burlesque of the true •potage you have hitherto accepted without a murmur from your Ramasamy. Having made a good, strong, and clear consomme sufficient for your party, all you have to do is to cut off a portion of your Julienne tablet, which should be simply placed in a sauce-pan with a breakfast-cupful of the warm consommd, over a moderate fire, and allowed to simmer until the pieces of vegetable detach themselves, and appear nice and tender; when thus ready, pour the contents of the sauce-pan into your consomme with a pinch385 MENU FOB A PABTY OF EIGHT. of sugar, and a table-spoonful of marsala. Each tablet is marked for five portions. Remember that a 'portion is enough for two persons : I have found a table-spoonful of crumbled Julienne enough for three basins of soup. To preserve the tablet in this climate, I recommend you to break it up carefully, and cork it down in a dry bottle. For the benefit of those who cannot avail themselves of this excellent preparation, the following directions may be given :—take equal parts of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, and celery ; cut them all into thin strips not more than the eighth of an inch across, and an inch long. Put them into a sauce-pan with a couple of ounces of fresh butter, a tea- spoonful of powdered sugar, a little pepper, and a pinch of salt. Toss them lightly on the fire until they take colour slightly, say for five minutes or so, cover them with a little broth from the consomme, simmer, and carefully remove the grease thrown up by the butter. Let the vegetables thus cooked remain in the broth near the fire, nice and hot, until the time of serving, when a few leaves of lettuce and of sorrel finely shredded should be added. The Julienne is now ready to be put into the rest of the consomme, brought to the boil, finely skimmed, and sent up. 2.—Stew a couple of handsome slices of seer fish in a good broth made from bones and trim- mings, assisted by an onion, a carrot, a bunch of parsley, a dessert-spoonful of preserved thyme and marjoram, a minced anchovy, a dozen peppercorns, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a table-spoonful of Harvey sauce, a table-spoonful of vine- gar, a table-spoonful of chablis or sauterne. Let the fish slices cook slowly in this broth, and when done, drain and place them in a very hot dish, carefully covered up. Strain the broth in which they were cooked, thicken it, add a little well-browned gravy, and throw into it a couple of table-spoonfuls of chopped truffles (previously tossed in 34 Seer with truffle sauce.MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 386 a frying-pan in an ounce batter, ancl a table-spoonful of chablis, or sauterne) ancl let the sauce simmer for ten minutes to extract the flavour of the truffles. When ready, pour it over the slices ancl serve. 3- Broil the fillets (which should he cut from the under- cut of a sirloin, larded with bacon, and anchovy*cream°^ W’th marinaded all day) over a bright fire, and serve them round a chaplet of mashed potato, in the centre of which you may place a puree of spinach, or a bunch of water-cress. For the sauce (which should go round very hot, in a boat) take six anchovies from the tin, wipe them dry, free them from the oil, and pass them through the sieve : add the pulp to about half a pint of good veloute (page 108), heat it up, and as you serve, enrich the sauce with the yolks of a couple of eggs. 4- —Make your cassolettes as follows :—peel two pounds of potatoes, cook them as usual; when Potato cases with done, stir into them the yolks of five ragout, Fmanciere J fashion. eggs, add a little grated mace, a little salt, ancl stir them over the fire for five minutes. Now, pass them through the sieve : pat them to a paste, and flatten that out on your slab about two inches thick. Let it get cold : then with your cutter, cut it into cylinders (or little drums) two inches in diameter. Egg and bread-crumb each cylinder with very finely rasped crust crumbs and fry these potato drums till they are a bright golden yellow. Now, carefully slice off the top of each drum (say) a quarter of an inch thick; place the caps so obtained on one side, scoop out the interior of your drums very carefully, and put the cases out of the way, well covered up. As dinner time draws near, fill up each cassolette, with a portion of ragoilt d la financiere (page 106), place the caps on the top of each, and a few minutes in the oven will bring them to perfection. The cases should, of course,MENU FOB A PARTY OF EIGHT. 387 be prepared early in the day, and the ragoilt also: the former should only be filled up just when required. Serve the cassolettes upon a napkin, and garnish them with fried parsley. Saddle of mutton with green peas. 5. —Order your saddle some days beforehand and you will get a good one. Roast it, and serve it with red currant jelly, pota- toes, and green peas dressed as you may like best, vide page 146. 6. —Choose eight young partridges, roast, and serve them with cashew-nut sauce (page 110), and fried bread-crumbs, page (368). Boast partridges. 7.—This is a dainty little entremets de legume to be specially noted by people living on the Artichoke scallops. , , , ,. , , , Hills where globe artichokes reach perfection. At Madras we can occasionally try it when the vegetable is procurable. Its chief charm is that it looks nice, is easily eaten, and renders all the trouble of side- plates for leaves, &c., unnecessary. You must use silver plated coquille shells easily and cheaply made locally), butter them, and fill them with plain artichoke puree made as follows :—Boil the artichokes ; when cold, strip them of their leaves, scraping off all the pulp which adheres to them with a silver dessert-knife: then extract the “chokes,” and add the “ bottoms” of the artichokes to the leaf pulp. Mash the whole together with a silver fork, dust it with salt and pepper, mix a coffee-cupful of thick cream with it, stir it well, and fill the coquilles, dust over the surface a layer of very finely sifted bread-crumbs, sprinkle some little bits of butter over the crumbs, bake till thoroughly hot, brown the surface with a hot iron, and serve on a napkin. This is equally practicable with Jerusalem artichokes (topinam- hours) with which a little grated Parmesan may be used. Pastry cases maybe used instead of the coquilles.MENU FOB A PARTY OF EIGHT. 388 8.—Beat up the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth with Egg snow three ounces of sugar. Have a pint and a half of milk previously sweetened in a sauce-pan on the fire, and when it boils, drop your egg- froth in separate table-spoonfuls upon its surface. A few seconds will cook each spoonful of froth on one side, then turn it over, and when cooked on the other side, place it in a glass dish. When all the egg-froth is thus cooked, strain the milk free from the bits of eggs that may be in it, and make a rich custard with it, using the yolks of the eggs; flavour this as you like best: when cold, pour the custard gently into the glass dish (not over the boiled froth) and the snow will rise, and float on the surface of the custard. Sprinkle over the snow halls, and surface generally, a few of those tiny sugarplums called “ nonpareil," and serve. 9.—This is an ice flavoured with pounded pistachio nuts, a pale green colour, and highly delicious. Pistachio cream ice. Blanch four ounces of pistachio nuts, pound them in a mortar with six ounces of sugar and a few drops of rose water; when quite a smooth paste, add a pint of new milk very gradually. When the milk and paste have amalga- mated, make a rich custard by placing the mixture en bain- marie, and adding the strained yolks of ten eggs: when the custard has formed nicely, strain it through a fine sieve ; whisk it well adding enough spinach-greening (page 230) to tint the mixture a very pale green, and freeze it, work- ing into it a coffee-cupful of whipped cream in the usual way when half frozen. Note.—To adopt this menu, serve the saddle after the fish, and present the pistachio cream ice at dessertGlace, —creme de pistaches.ivjEisrxj into- in. For a party of eight. Potage de becassines, clair. Darnes de seer a la Peg Woffington. Cotelettes de mouton a la Moseovite. Kramouskys aux hultres. Chapon a la Framjaise. Canards sauvages, sauce bigarade. Petits pois au beurre. Gelee de preneaux. “Pudding” glace aux fraises. Clear snipe soup. i.—Prepare a bright clear consomme for your eight covers. Slightly roast six snipe ; let them get cold, divide them into convenient pieces mash them in a mortar and throw the whole, with the exception of the livers of the birds, into the consomme) let it come to the boil, skimming carefully, and then remain simmering all the afternoon : towards evening, strain the liquor from the bones, and set it to cool; pick from the remnants of the snipe sufficient meat to form a dozen tiny quenelles the size of an olive : pound this meat in a mortar with the saved livers, a pinch of salt, some chopped parsley, a little thyme, and a dust of Nepaul pepper, or spiced pep- per ; stir in a very little red currant jelly and a few drops of portwine; stiffen this with a little bread-crumb soakedMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 390 in stock, and bind the whole with two eggs; let it get cold, roll it out, and divide it into little portions, form them between two tea-spoons, and poach till done just before serving the soup, into which they should be put at the last minute : the consomme itself having been meanwhile clari- fied, assisted by half a glass of marsala and again heated almost to boiling point. 2. —Divide a cut of seer fish into eight nice collops about half an inch thick ; flatten them WoffingtonLuSP<5g on a board’ butter a pie-dish, pour into it half a pint of broth made from the fish trimmings, and a glass of chablis or hock and lay them therein; pepper and salt them, sprinkle them with some minced parsley, and a little shallot, and spread a sheet of buttered paper over them: bake for about ten minutes in a quick oven, and when done, remove the paper, and arrange the slices neatly in a hot dish. For the sauce :—To the liquor from the pie-dish add a quarter of a pint of cream, a table-spoonful of walnut catsup, and half one of anchovy sauce ; boil these together, and just before you remove the sauce-pan from the fire, stir in well a bit of butter the size of a walnut rolled in flour, with a thought of red pepper. 3. —For this dish select the nicest choplets you can from a neck of mutton; trim them Mutton cutlets in very neatly, and lard them with fat the Russian manner. J J bacon. Pieces of tongue may also be inserted in this manner: they should be cut square at the head and tapering to a point like nails. Meat treated by this process is called eloute by French cooks. When ready, stew the cutlets very tenderly in gravy made from the bones, flap, and trimmings ; take them out, and set them to get cold with a weight above them ; whenMENU FOB A PARTY OF EIGHT. 391 cold, mask the cutlets on one side only with reduced b&chamel, or Espagnole sauce. When this mask or glaze has set, trim the edges neatly, and the cutlet is ready. You must now prepare the socle or stand upon which to arrange your cutlets. This is made of ground rice, and is not intended to be eaten. Wash a pound of rice, and boil it gently with a little salt. When soft, pound it in a mortar, and mould it to the shape required. In this case we want a circle about three inches high with a hollow centre for a salad, and sloped gently on its outer rim to admit of the cutlets being laid upon it securely. When formed satisfac- torily, the socle should be coated with butter or white sauce, and the cutlets arranged round its outer face. They should have their masked sides outwards. The hollow centre of the socle should be filled with a salade cuite of mixed cold cooked peas, flageolets, French beans cut in diamonds, stars of carrot, &c. The top of the socle may be formed sufficiently wide to admit of a garnish of white of egg, turned carrots, &c., being laid upon it.* When completed, this entree should be kept in the icebox till wanted. With the exception of the mayonnaise dress- ing, which should he separately made, and poured over the salad just before serving, it can be made early in the day, and is consequently so much off the cook’s hands as the dinner hour arrives. It will be found vastly better than the everlasting pate de foie gras en aspic. Iced cream may be used instead of mayonnaise dressing, and the salade may be composed of flageolets, pointes d’asperges, &c., alone. 4.—The difficulty in this dish is the batter which should be most carefully considered. * All this elaborate treatment might be dispensed with (see page 83) by serving a cutlet on a very cold plate, with a portion of the cold salade cuite, to each guest direct from the buffet.392 MENU FOB A PABTY OF EIGHT. Beat up the yolks only of three eggs, with a table-spoon- _ , _ , ful of brandy, one of olive oil, and Oyster Kramouksys. „ , three or four of cold water : mix into this three table-spoonfuls of flour, and a salt-spoonful of salt; beat this to a paste for ten minutes, preparing a rather thicker batter than you would for ordinary fritters : at the time of using, stir in the whites of the three eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Wash your oysters (about a dozen and a half good ones) early in the day. Beard them, and put them to marinade for two hours in the juice of three or four limes, a sliced onion, some whole pepper and a few cloves. Lift them out of this when wanted, cut them up, bind the mince together with a liaison of yolks of eggs and thick white sauce, and let it get cold and firm. Then divide it into six portions, each the size of an ordinary wine cork, and place them on six thin slices of previously boiled bacon; rollup your bacon fillets, and fix them with white of egg ; dip them now into the batter, and lay them, ever so gently, in your frying basket, plunge this into a seething hath of fat, and fry a golden yellow. Serve prettily garnished with curly parsley. Instead of bacon, very thin wafer-like pancakes may be used cut into pieces the required size : and cow’s udder is recommended by some authors. 5.—The capon in this receipt should be braised, with a pint of good stock round it, an onion Capon in the French and twQ carrotS) sliced, half a glass of chablis, and pepper and salt to taste : a few slices of fat bacon should he pinned over the breast, and the larding needle may be used also. Braise gently till done. Lift the capon out of the pan, strain and reduce the gravy in which it was cooked, add the liver and heart finely minced, and pour this over the bird before serving ; sippets of dry fried bacon, and slices of lime may garnish the dish.MENU FOE A PARTY OF EIGHT. 393 Roast wild ducks with Bistarade sauce. Green butter. 6. —Roast the wild ducks, and serve them with this sauce :—Pare as thinly as possible the rind of two oranges (sweet limes), cut them into thin shreds and blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, drain, and put them aside. Melt an ounce of butter in a sauce-pan, stir into it a dessert- spoonful of flour, and a breakfast-cupful of common stock (made with scraps, and the giblets of the ducks , pepper, salt, and the juice of the oranges, with a pinch of sifted sugar, a table-spoonful of marsala, and a tea-spoonful of chilli vinegar ; now add the boiled rinds, stir till the sauce boils, and serve in a boat. 7. —Wash the contents of a tin of petit s pois in cold water, by emptying tbe tin into your strainer peas with anc[ pouring a jug of water over them. Put them into a jar (or small sauce- pan with a close-fitting cover), with a large spoonful of fresh butter, a tea-spoonful of sifted sugar, and a tea-spoonful of salt with a little bundle of mint leaves: secure the top of your jar and immerse it within a large sauce-pan (the water should half cover the j ar), steaming the peas until thorough- ly hot. Stir in a little more butter, pick out the mint, and serve on a very hot silver dish. Minced ham fried in butter and mingled with the peas is nice, if you happen to have ham in the house, vide page 147. 8. —An effective and most excellent sweet dish. Put half a pound of prunes into a sauce- pan with two ounces of white sugar, a slice or two of a lime, a little cinnamon, and sufficient claret and water, mixed half and half, to cover them : stew gently till the fruit is quite tender : lift the sauce-pan from the fire, drain off the liquor, stone the prunes : pass the fruit through the sieve, and save the pulp in a basin. Crack the stones, and throw the prune kernels into the pulp. Steep about an ounce of gelatine in the liquor that you 35 Prune jelly.MENU FOB A PARTY OF EIGHT. 394 strained off, put it on the fire and let it dissolve, mix it with the prune pulp, and pour in a liqueur glass of cherry brandy and a glass of good red wine. Decorate a plain border mould with blanched almonds, fill the mould with the prune liquid, and set it upon ice to form. When requir- ed, turn out the pain, and fill the centre of the mould with whipped cream. Unlike ordinary jellies this one is dark tinted, and opaque, but its flavour is quite beyond question. 9.—Line a pudding mould (see Menu IY) with finger biscuits, or slices of sponge-cake. Make strawbemeBdmg Wlth a rich custard sufficient in quantity to nearly fill the mould; be generous with the egg-yolks, and do not use flour if you want a creamy pudding; tint the custard a pale rosy-pink with a few drops of cochineal, strain, whip it well as soon as it is formed, and flavour it with strawberry syrup ; when ready, add half an ounce of dissolved gelatine to it, and work as described for “ iced apricot pudding,” Menu No. 1, adding crystalliz- ed strawberries to the frozen custard, and a coffee-cupful of whipped cream. Note.—To adapt this menu, strike out the chapon d la Franqaise, and insert, after the fish, Filet de beeufa l’ Ita- lienne, page 202. Cut out No. 9, and present a strawberry cream ice at dessert:—Glace,—creme aux /raises.IVIBISTTJ INTO. I'V- For a party of eight, Consomme de poisson. Filets de pomfret a la poulette. Croquettes de canard a la Bordelaise. Cotelettes de mouton au creme de fromage. Chapon au chou-fleur. Mousse de topinambours. Gelee de marasquin aux fruits. Charlotte a la Sicilienne. 1.—This is a clear soup flavoured with fish. A crab for instance answers the purpose admir- ably, but any fish will do. Let us take the crab. Make ordinary clear consomme for the number you expect. One large crab or two small ones will suffice for eight basins.* Boil the crab : drain and clean it: pick out the flesh, saving that of the claws for garnishing. Pound the rest of the meat and shells in a mortar, put the whole of it into the consomme you have made, with a little bag containing a quarter ounce of dried basil, and boil gently for half an hour, strain through a fine sieve, or tamis cloth,—it should now be bright and clear,—heat it up again, * Crabs being cheap, I recommend that the claws and legs be alone taken for soup; you can then use the broth they yield without risk. Cut them off and simmer gently till all their flavour has been extracted, blend this broth with the consommi, and proceed as above,—W.396 MENU FOR, A PARTY OF EIGHT. and pour it into your soup-tureen over some little quenelles made of the claw meat you saved. A table-spoonful of marsala and the juice of half a lime, constitute the finish- ing touches of this soup. Pomfret fillets with Poulette sauce. 2.—Divide one large, or two small pomfrets into fillets as neatly as you can, season them on one side with a very little finely min- ced (cooked) onion, parsley, and the trimmings of the mushrooms you are about to use for the sauce. Roll them up enveloping the seasoning within each fillet. Now set them to simmer gently till done, in a court bouillon, or broth made from their own bones and trim- mings, assisted by a breakfast-cupful of stock, a spoonful of chablis and a spoonful of vinegar. Lift them out when done, strain off the broth, thicken it as carefully as you can in the bain-marie with a little flour, and butter, add a dozen button mushrooms cut into quarters, a little white pepper and salt, and after you have taken it off the fire, stir in the strained yolks of four eggs. Pour this over your fillets which have, of course, been kept hot whilst the sauce was being made. 3.—These are croquettes made of duck and are exceed- ingly nice. Roast the bird lightly, let lLc k croquettes copp then cut off all the meat from the bones, saving every atom of skin, bone, liver, &c. Put the meat away for awhile, giving it a good dusting with black pepper and salt. Now for the sauce:—mince an onion, and one clove of garlic (a sine qud non) and stir the mince into a table- spoonful of melted butter at the bottom of a small sauce- pan, let it fry pale brown, now throw in all your fragments of duck, having mashed the bones in a mortar, with a breakfast-cupful of strong gravy, the rind of a lime, a dozen peppercorns, a pinch of sugar, and salt to taste : add water enough to cover the bones well, and let the397 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. contents of the sauce-pan simmer, skimming off the scum that rises. In half an hour you will have a well-flavoured broth. When quite satisfied with the broth, strain it off, let it cool, skim it, and thicken it plainly with flour and butter. Place the sauce-pan in the bain-marie pan, and let it keep hot there. Now take a tumblerful of sauterne, put it into a small sauce-pan with a table-spoonful of minced onion, a salt-spoonful of black pepper, and a pinch of salt. Boil till the liquid has been reduced to half its ori- ginal quantity. Then strain it into the previously made sauce. Give the whole a simmer for ten minutes and serve. In this instance we make our gravy or foundation of the sauce with the duck bones, &c., for the sake of eco- nomy. The basis of true Bordelaise is Espagnole. In making the croquettes of the duck meat you saved, use some minced bacon, lean and fat in equal shares, one tea-spoonful to each croquette, the bird’s liver, any truffle or mushroom parings there may be to spare, and put one olive farcie whole in the centre of each : season the pound- ed meat with pepper and salt, do not use any spice, but dry some sage leaves in the oven, and make a powder of them, giving about half a salt-spoonful of the powder to each croquette. Bind the croquettes with egg, form them into egg-shaped balls, bread-crumb them in the usual way, and fry them a pale golden yellow in abundance of fat. Dish them round a ring of mashed potato, filling the centre with a pyramid of petits pois verts, and sending round the Bordelaise sauce, piping hot, in a boat. 4.—A nice dish of neck cutlets trimmed neatly and grilled over a very fast fire. Each ehS!““’W“,‘ ou‘let ou«ht dipped into melted butter, or brushed over with salad oil, before it is placed on the well-oiled grid-iron. The sauce should be made thus:—Parboil two, or three fair-sized398 MENU FOB A PARTY OF EIGHT. Bombay onions, cut them up roughly and put them into a sauce-pan with an ounce of butter, a pinch of sugar, and pepper and salt to fancy; let them cook slowly so that they do not take colour, add a table-spoonful of boiled rice, or pearl barley, and a pint of broth and let the simmer- ing go on till the lumps of onion are quite soft; then add a heaped-up table-spoonful of finely grated cheese, stir this in well for a minute or two, then lift it up, and work the mixture through the sieve as you would a puree. Heat it up gently in the bain-marie, and at the last stir in a table-spoonful of rich cream. Serve the cutlets round a wall of ‘ savoury rice ’ and fill in the centre with French beans a la maitre d’hotel. Let the sauce go round in a boat with the entree : it ought to be a thick creamy-looking sauce of the consistency of tartare, and as hot as possible. 5. —Lard your capon, roast him with the utmost care, basting with melted butter; let a Bom- bay onion be put inside the carcass, and sew up the vent; be particular with your stuffing; and let a thinly cut curl of crisply fried streaky bacon accompany each plate. The bread sauce must be carefully composed, and the cauliflower and potatoes freshly turned out, that is to say, not ruined by being hawked about with your entrees. 6. —For this excellent entremets de legume, see page 159. —As you have already used creme de fromage in this menu, serve the mould (if hot) with a garnish of tomato puree (q. v. page 255) ; if cold, with pure cream, iced. 7. —Put two ounces of gelatine in an enamelled stew-pan with four ounces of sugar, beat three Jelly with fiuit. whites of eggs, moisten them with one quart of water and the juice of one lime ; pour the whole into the stew-pan containing the gelatine, and put it on the fire, whisking the liquid continually until it boils. Take Capon with cauli- flower. Mould of Jerusalem artichokes.399 MENU FOB A PABTY OF EIGHT. the pan from the fire, let the liquid cool, and strain it through a jelly bag, pouring it back and straining again until it is quite clear. When cold, flavour the jelly with maraschino; a wine-glass will be sufficient, and let it rest awhile. Now prepare a macedoine of fruits, preserved cherries,strawberries,apricots, greengages, and raspberries, and fill the jelly mould as follows :—first set it upon ice, and pom- into it about one-eighth thickness of the jelly, arrange some fruit tastefully in this layer, cover it with jelly, and continue layers of fruit and of jelly until the mould is nearly full, then finish it with jelly only, cover the mould with ice, and turn it out when finally set and quite firm. Iced cream en bloc may accompany. 8.—This is an iced pudding flavoured with chocolate. First note the way in which the case Jced Charlotte a la shouilcl be made, which is applicable to all iced puddings in cake cases. Cut the slices of cake the length of the depth of the mould, the eighth of an inch thick, and an inch and a half wide : cut a circular piece the size of the bottom of the mould. Make a cement with the whites of three eggs, and an ounce of finely sifted sugar. Arrange the slices round the side of the mould slightly overlapping one another, and cement them firmly together, fixing their ends to the circular top placed at the bottom of the mould. When the cement dries the case will be quite firm. Choose a mould for the ice slightly smaller than this case, so that the latter may cover it nicely. When firmly set, the cake case may be turned out upon a dish, and its outside brushed over with some thin cement, and sprinkled over with chopped pistachio nuts, almonds, sugar plums (nonpareils) or crystallized sugar. For the ice :—Dissolve two ounces of chocolate in a pint of boiling milk, when quite smooth and cold, add half a pint of cream, a tea-spoonful of vanilla essence and the yolks of ten eggs : make a custard of the mixture, adding two ouncesMENU FOB A PABTY OF EIGHT. 400 of sugar. Stir in half an ounce of dissolved gelatine while the custard is warm, and whip it briskly and put it into the freezer. Freeze, mixing into the half-frozen custard a coffee-cupful of whipped cream. Turn it out when ready, cover with the case, and serve. Note.—To adapt this menu, you need only insert after the fish, Bceuf ci la mode, vide page 123. Instead of No. 8 give a chocolate ice at dessert:—Glace,—creme ait cliocolat. ♦ Smoked fish—Pomfret specially. Clean and wash the fish, cut in two pieces if a flat fish, if otherwise cut it in slices about half an inch thick, remove all bones, dry on a clean cloth. Prepare a fire of cocoanut fibre (coir) : it produces a fine smoke: place an oiled grid-iron over the smoke, and after well buttering the fish on both sides, lay it on the grid, cover it over with the lid of a cooking pot to concentrate the smoke : in about ten minutes the fish will turn a rich reddish brown on the side meeting the smoke, now turn it over, and let it take colour on the other side : it is now ready. A little anchovy sauce may be mixed with the butter when buttering the fish. Serve with any nice sauce.3VIE cntxt into- 'V. For a party of eight, Potage a la Brunoise. Seer a la Napolitaine. Cotelettes de mouton k la Reforme. Croustades de lapin a la Reine. Entrecote de bceuf a la Chateaubriand. Salpicon de gibier en caisses. Tomates au gratin. Beignets de p&ches. “Pudding” glacb aux cerises. 1.—Brunoise is a soup something like Julienne, but of a distinct character on account of the Brunoise soup. . . . . ,. . . manner m which the vegetables are prepared for it. Make consomme enough for your party. Cut some carrots, turnips and celery into dice : melt a piece of butter in a sauce-pan, add pepper, salt, and a tea-spoon- ful of powdered loaf-sugar. First put in the dice of carrots and toss them on the fire till they begin to brown, next the celery, and lastly, the turnips with a little chopped onion. Work them all together, and after a few minutes, add some of the consomme : set the sauce-pan by the side of the fire, and let it simmer; during this process the butter will be thrown up to the surface in the form of scum, skim this off very carefully ; when clear, add the rest of the consomme, 36MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 402 let it come to the boil, and the soup will he ready to serve. A dessert-spoonful of marsala is enough wine for the whole tureen. 2. —This is a dish of fish au gratin. Divide a good cut of seer fish into slices half an inch fashion. NeoPolltan thick, and cut them into portions about large enough for each guest. Boil some maccaroni till tender : slice up some nice ripe toma- toes, have your bottle of Parmesan cheese by your side, and a plate upon which you should turn out the mushrooms only (not the gravy) of a tin of black Leicestershire mushrooms. Now, butter a nice sized pie dish (not too deep in the sides) and arrange the maccaroni on the bottom of it: dust over the maccaroni a little of the Parmesan : now put a layer of the sliced tomatoes, and arrange your portions of fish thereon with a piece of mushroom between each of them, and a slice of tomato in the centre of each : pour a breakfast-cupful of sauce blonde over all, give a light surface dressing of Parmesan and hake the dish for about a quarter of an hour. A little pepper and salt should be shaken gently over each layer as you pack the dish. There is so much moisture in the tomatoes, that only a very little white wine like chablis, hock, or sauterne, or gravy should be added as a finishing touch. The oven should he quite hot. 3. —Set ten nice neck chops, very neatly trimmed, in marinade all day. Towards evening Reform cutlets. . , ,, lift them out, wipe them dry, and pro- ceed to bread-crumb them as laid down at page 72. In this case you must mix very finely minced ham with the crumbs at a proportion of half and half. When the time arrives, the cutlets must be very delicately fried in plenty of boiling fat, and served as soon as they reach that bright golden tint I have so often mentioned. Place the cutlets round a ring of mashed potato, with puree depots verts inMENU FOB A PARTY OF EIGHT. 403 the centre, sending round in a boat separately a sauce made as follows :— Put into a sauce-pan, one Bellary onion cut into rings, two sprigs of curled parsley, two ounces of pounded lean ham or bacon, a clove of garlic, a carrot cut up, and a tea-spoon- ful of thyme leaves; cover them with a pint of Bspagnole sauce (page 104) andaddtwo tea-spoonfuls of anchovy vine- gar, and one of chilli vinegar. Boil up, simmer for ten minutes, skimming carefully, then boil again reducing the sauce to the thickness of cream : now add a dessert-spoon- ful of red currant jelly and one of good mushroom ketchup ; stir till the jelly is dissolved, adding half a glass of marsala; stir again, and pass the sauce through the strainer: keep it hot in the bain-marie, and add just before serving, the following mixture :—the whites of two hard-boiled eggs, four black Leicestershire mushrooms, two gherkins, and half an ounce of lean ham, all chopped up into small dice, and dusted over with white pepper. 4.—Take eight stale dinner rolls, which have been lightly baked in cylindrical tins about two inches in diameter ; cut them so as to leave a case about an inch and a half deep : scoop out every atom of crumb, and trim the tops that you cut off neatly, so as to form a lid for the top of the hollowed rolls. Fry the cases aud their lids in butter till of a golden yellow, and set them on one side to dry. Bread cases filled with rabbit ragout. Choose a small rabbit, some tongue, ham or lean bacon, a few sweet breads if you can get them, and have ready some cocks’ combs, sliced mushrooms, a little grated lime peel, and a slice of truffle for the top of each croustade. Now remove the fillets from the rabbit’s back and divide them into pieces, or cut them with a cutter about the size of a shilling. Put the rest of the rabbit into a stew-pan with the usual vegetables to yield a good broth, and with it make a rich white sauce flavoured with some milk of almonds;MENU FOB A PARTY OF EIGHT. 40 4 butter a saute,-pan, and cast into it your pieces of rabbit with some slices of onion and carrot. Fry the rabbit gently for three minutes, and then add enough gravy to cover the pieces. Stew the contents of the pan very carefully. Now pack your croustades exactly like miniature vols-au-vent with pieces of rabbit, slices, or dice of tongue or ham, the rabbit’s kidney, and the other ingredients, cut to fit the cases, moistening the whole well with your creamy veloute : put a slice of truffle on the top of each, and cover it with the cap that you cut to fit it. A few minuteshn the oven will bring the croustades to perfection, when they should be quickly served on a napkin, garnished with crisply fried curly parsley. Send round dry toast with this dish. 5.—Trim a good joint of the ribs of beef by cutting the tender meat boldly in one long piece from the bones; the tough flap can either go into the stock pot, or be set with the bones to produce a good gravy for the joint, the latter for choice. Fold and tie the long piece of meat in shape as best you can (it will look rather like “roly-poly pudding”) and preserve all the fat you can find which should be fixed with skewers: lard it with fat bacon, wrap it in buttered paper and tie it to your spit with string. Let it be roasted over a clear fire, and served in thin slices. Ribs of beef with Chateaubriand sauce. Chateaubriand sauce is made in this way:—Add half a tumbler of chablis or sauterne to half a pint of Espagnole sauce, boil them together and reduce a little: then strain. Boil again, adding off the fire two ounces of maitre d’hotel butter, let it thicken and serve it in a boat as hot as pos- sible. Potatoes, French beans, and a nice salad should accompany. 6.—This is an economical dish, for you can use in it the gravy of the mushrooms saved Minced game in in No. q the pver 0f the rabbit which CflSGS. composed part of No. 4, and the re-MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 405 mainder of the bottle of truffles opened for No. 4. Take four snipe and four wild pigeons, or three partridges and three pigeons, or any game you can get. Roast the birds slightly, detach the meat from their breasts and set it aside; take the bones, and scraps, and with them, assisted by half a pint of gravy and the mushroom liquor of No. 2, some lean bacon, chopped onion, spiced pepper, sweet herbs, and grated lime peel, make the strongest game essence you can. Strain, thicken with butter and flour, and reduce this, mak- ing the thickest and richest sauce possible : give it assist- ance with red currant jelly, a glass of red wine, and a little vinegar. Save the livers of the birds, and add that of the rabbit; chop them into dice with some fat bacon, and some finely minced shallot, toss all together in a frying- pan for three minutes, then turn the contents of the pan into your mortar, and pound them to a paste, mixing with the composition a table-spoonful of truffle trimmings minc- ed small, and some spiced pepper. Now take the breast meat you saved and cut it into dice, pack your well buttered paper or china cases with a mixture of sauce, meat, and the liver paste, dredge some crumbs over the surface of each case, place them in the oven till quite hot, and then serve. 7.—Empty a dozen large tomatoes preserving the cases _ t . as well as you can; stuff them with the iomatoes au grafcin. „ ,, following composition :—To the pulp of the vegetable (q. v. page 169) add sufficient bread-crumb to thicken it somewhat, and beat up some eggs in the pro- portion of one egg to two cases, mix the whole thoroughly, flavour with a couple of pounded anchovies, a tea-spoonful of minced olives, and one of capers ; stuff the cases, dust them over with grated Parmesan, lay them on a well-but- tered dish that will stand the oven, and bake for ten minutes just before they are wanted, serving them in their own dish buried in a napkin.MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 406 8. —Be very careful with your preparation of the batter for these fritters (page 211); cut the Peach fritters. , , . . U 6 . . peaches (American ones in tin are ex- cellent) into neat pieces ; dust them with powdered sugar, and let them lie in a little maraschino, or any nice liqueur till wanted, then dip them in your batter, and fry them in abundance of boiling fat; drain them on blotting paper, and serve them dusted over with founded loaf sugar, finely sifted. In the case of raw fruit the peaches cut in halves, peeled, and stoned, should be carefully stewed in syrup with a dash of liqueur and a little lime juice first, then set to get cold, and after being drained, dipped in batter, &c., as above explained. All fritters should be served without delay. 9. —This iced pudding is similar to that given in Menu No. Ill substituting cherries for straw- iced pudding with berries. The only difference I would cherries. t % J suggest is this:—I would first make a rich custard, retaining the pale yellow colour, and adding the preserved cherries to the partly frozen custard, with a liqueur-glass of kirsch. In all other respects follow the directions given in Menus Nos. I and III. Note.—To adapt this menu, braise the entrecote and serve it after the fish, insert pintados or caillcs aucresson instead of the salpicon encaisses, and save the salad to accompany the rot. Instead of No. 9 give at dessert a nice ice say :— Glace,—-parfait ciu cafe. r\ -"li/ *3VTENTXJ INTO- VI For a party of eight. Consommd au maccaroni.* Filets de pomfret aux fines herbes. Epigrammes de mouton aux epinards. Quenelles de volaille au macedoine de legumes. Quartier d’agneau aux petits pois. Cbaud-froid de b6cassines. Cliou-fleur au gratin. Reine-claudes a la crdme. Charlotte Russe au praline. 1.—Proceed to make a bright clear consomme in the usual way: boil till tender in milk or Clear soup with wea]j stock some pieces of maccaroni (page 254): when done, drain them, let them get cold, and cut them into thin rings, add them to your consomme, just before serving, with a dessert-spoonful of sherry to which a few drops of tabasco or chilli vinegar have been added, let a plate of grated Parmesan be handed round with the soup. * If able to procure small Italian pastes such as stelle, gnioccoli pesci, anellini ricci, dc., treat them as explained for maccaroni, and call your soup “ consommd aux p&Us d’Italic,”MENU FOE A PAETY OF EIGHT. 408 2. —Divide a good sized pomfret into eight nice fillets : —put the bones and trimmings with witffherbs°f pomfrefc an onion cut up, a carrot, a bit of celery, sprig of parsley and a pinch of salt into some water, and boil them at once ; meanwhile spread your fillets on a board, brush them over on one side only with a beaten egg, now shake over them a tea-spoonful of finely minced parsley, the same of cooked onion chopped fine, a dessert-spoonful of minced mushroom, and a little white pepper : roll up your fillets and pin them into shape with a small skewer. Now strain off your liquor from the bones and trimmings, give it a table-spoonful of chablis or sauterne, and set your fillets in it to simmer gently till done (they should take about twelve or fourteen minutes); take them out, draw out the skewers, set them on a very hot dish, and cover them up. Now melt a lump of butter quickly in a sauce-pan, work a spoonful of flour into it : throw in a little salt, with a pinch of sugar, and moisten with as much of the fish broth as will make a nice white sauce to cover your fillets; add, as you take the sauce-pan off the fire, the yolk of an egg, a tea-spoonful of anchovy vinegar, a table-spoonful of very finely chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of minced marjoram, and a tea-spoonful of minced garden cress. Pour it over your fillets and serve. 3. —Braise a breast of mutton in a stew-pan with some white wine and water, an onion, two Epigrams of mutton tomatoes, carrots, celerv, whole pepper, with spinach. J , salt, a clove of garlic, some parsley, and a tea-spoonful of dried thyme. When sufficiently done to enable you to remove the bones, draw the pan from the fire, take out the breast, and pick out the bones; then place it flat on a dish with a heavy weight upon it: strain the broth and vegetables in which the meat was cooked, putting the vegetables aside, and setting the gravy to cool,409 MENU FOE A PARTY OF EIGHT. These operations should be performed early in the day. When the breast has become thoroughly cold, remove the weight, and divide the meat into eight nice collops. Brush them over with egg, and bread-crumb them with some very finely sifted stale bread-crumbs crisped in the oven. Let them stand for an hour, and repeat the process,—re-crumb- ing them again. Now fry them in boiling fat a nice golden yellow, take them out, drain them dry, and arrange them round a ring of spinach (page 156) garnished with hard- boiled eggs neatly cut up, and fried parsley. For the sauce :—-skim every atom of fat from the gravy you set to get cold, put half an ounce of butter in a sauce- pan, work half an ounce flour into it, when mixed gradu- ally, add a breakfast-cupful of the gravy ; stir well, and let the sauce thicken, add some caramel colouring, a dessert- spoonful of marsala, one of Harvey, and a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, and put this into a hot sauce boat, and serve. The sauce should be as thick as ordinary rich cream. A few dice of sliced cornichons (gherkins) may be mingled with the sauce, or minced mushrooms if you have them. 4.—Choose a nice pullet not quite full grown ; cut it up, saving all the meat from the breast, wifh Sxed ^Tables Wm§S’ back>.and tbigbs and ^ liver : cut into dice, and throw the skin, fragments, bones, and heated up in nicely , . , , . . flavoured white sauce, giblets, into a sauce-pan to make broth for the sauce. Now make a coffee- cupful of stiffish panada with bread-crumb well soaked in stock, well pounded, and stirred over the fire to thicken, add a pinch of salt; when ready, take half the quantity of panada that you have of chicken meat, and half the amount of the butter that you have of panada : mince the chicken in the machine, and pound it in a mortar with the paste and butter; bind the mixture with three eggs, flavour it 37MENU FOB A PARTY OF EIGHT. 410 with a little spiced pepper, and form the quenelles between two table-spoons. For the sauce :—take equal portions of carrot, peas, turnip, French beans, and cucumber, all previously boiled ; cut them into dice and heat them up in a white sauce made with the water in which they were boiled, and enriched with the chicken broth, which should be slightly flavoured with almond milk. In this case make your socle of savoury rice instead of the usual mashed potato : that is, boiled rice, flavoured with salt, a little spice, the pulp of a tomato, and a little finely grated cheese, stirred well with melted butter, and made firm by the addition of the yolks of two or three eggs, according to the quantity required. This should be put in the silver dish, formed in a circle, brushed with egg, bread-crumbed, set, and slightly browned in the oven ; the quenelles, carefully poached, should then be arranged round it, the macedoine being poured into the centre. 5. —Trim the quarter of lamb neatly, roast it very care- fully, and serve it with a nice dish of Quarter of lamb m-een peas, potatoes, and mint sauce with green peas. ° 1 ’ L 7 (hot) in a boat. 6. —The chaud-froid will require one snipe a head:— take your eight birds, and roast them F i 11 ets of snipe over a bright fire, let them get cold, sauce6*1 Wlth c 0 1 d remove the breasts, forming two fillets of the breast of each bird. Next make the richest sauce you can by boiling and simmering all the bones, remnants of meat, and the trails of the snipe in as much common stock as will cover them well: dried thyme, lime peel, a pinch of spice, a tomato, one onion sliced, and some lean bacon or ham should accompany the bones; after you have simmered this for half an hour, strain the liquor clear, and thicken it with butter and flour as pre- viously described ; slice two or three truffles, toss the slices in a frying-pan with an ounce of butter, adding a table-MENU FOE A PARTY OF EIGHT. 411 spoonful of marsala, let the truffles simmer awhile, and pour the contents of the pan into the sauce, stir contin- ually, flavour it with red currant jelly, half a glass of Madeira, and lime juice, reduce it to a firm glaze, and put it aside to get cool. Glaze the fillets. Decorate a border mould with hard-boiled egg, gherkins, and olives, fill it with aspic jelly, and set in the ice-box. As dinner hour approaches, turn out the border of jelly, and pack the hollow in the centre of it with layers of glazed fillets, and the pieces of truffle here and there, let the whole remain as long as you can in ice, and serve with crisp, dry toast “ in waiting.” Baked cauliflower. 7.—Choose a nice cauliflower and boil it carefully; it should be under rather than over done. Slice the stem evenly so that the cauli- flower will sit up straight. Place it in a neat dish that will stand the fire, well buttered,—the flower in the centre, and the tender leaves neatly arranged round it,—give it a dust of black pepper and a sprinkling of salt, then pour round, so that all the crevices may be filled, a breakfast- cupful of veloutc a/ii fromage, page 255. Shake a layer of grated Parmesan over the surface, and bake the dish in a quick oven for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour,— lastly, by passing a red hot iron just over the top, brown the surface of the cheese. 8. —Turn the greengages out into a glass dish, dissolve „ . an ounce of gelatine, and stir it with Greengages in cream. a liqueur-glass of maraschino into the syrup : set the dish in the ice-box to get firm and cold, and serve with a canopy of whipped cream resting on the surface of the congealed fruit. 9. —Line a mould with finger biscuits as described in Menu No. IY. Put a couple of ounces wi?hhbumtealmond88Re of sugar in a copper-pan; melt it till it is very hot; then stir into it a quarter412 MENU FOB A PARTY OF EIGHT. of a pound of blanched Jordan almonds for a few minutes. Now spread the almonds on a dish to cool, and when cold, pound them to a puree, saving a few, which should only be minced roughly, and stirred into the ice when nearly formed. Mix a pint and a half of very rich custard, and stir the burnt almond puree into it while quite hot, strain, whip, and add half an ounce of dissolved gelatine. Next put the custard into the pail, adding a breakfast-cupful of whipped cream, and finishing it as explained in the menu previously quoted. Note.—The only change necessary in this menu is to send the quarter of lamb after the fish, and roast the snipe, serving them with fried potato chips, bread-crumbs, and a nice salad. Cut out No. 9 and present the praline ice at dessert Glace, creme au praline.3VIE iSTTJ 1STO. VII- For a party of eight. Consomme a la Eoyale. Pomfret a la maitre d’hotel. Filets cle pigeon a la Genevoise. Cotelettes cle mouton a la Maintenon. Dindon a la Perigueux. Jambon au Madere. Canapes de becassines. CEufs aux topinambours. Bavaroise de cocoa a la moderne. “Pudding” glace a la Nesselrode. 1.—This is a bright clear soup into which tablets of con- solidated custard are cunningly in- , c]cail ^oul') wlljllcus" troduced. Proceed therefore to make tard tablets. consomme for eight covers, arid make your custard thus :—mix the yolks of four eggs with a little water and a pinch of salt, strain the mixture, and divide it into three equal portions; colour one with cochineal, one with spinach-greening, and leave the third plain : pour them into three little moulds previously buttered, and dip them into a pan of hot water: steam just long enough to set the custards : take them off the fire, and when cold, turn the moulds out on a napkin : cut them up into dice or any pretty shapes with your vegetable cutter as gently as possi- ble, and add them to the soup just before serving. The414 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. colouring of the custard is obviously optional. I have found a slight deviation from this receipt very nice, as follows :— mix a small omelette, flavour it with parsley and shallot, and let it set rather more firmly than you would were it requir- ed for breakfast: let it get cold, and cut it up for the soup with the vegetable cutter as described for the custard. Grated Parmesan should be handed round. 2. —Divide your pomfret into nice fillets, egg them on one side, and shake over the egg some d-h6ZfShionaifcl'e finely minced curled parsley. Sim- mer the fillets, neatly rolled up and skewered, in a seasoned broth made from their own bones and trimmings, and dish them on a hot dish as soon as they are done. Now melt half an ounce of butter in a small sauce-pan, work into it half an ounce of Hour, moisten with half a pint of the liquor in which the fillets were cooked, throw in a table-spoonful of finely chopped curled parsley, and finish the sauce, off the fire, with the yolk of an egg beaten up with the juice of a lime: pour over the fillets and serve. 3. —Lightly roast eight young pigeons: slice the breasts of the birds off whole, and place the Fillets of pigeon eight portions so obtained en marinade with Genevoise sauce. ° . 1 . in oil, vinegar, minced parsley, and shallot. .Take the bones, trimmings, livers, &c., and put them into a sauce-pan with a good breakfast-cupful of gravy; simmer this until you have extracted the essence of your pigeon scraps, and then strain it. Now chop up an onion, and one clove of garlic (a sine qua non) very small: stir an ounce of butter at the bottom of a sauce-pan over the fire, and throw in your chopped onion, &c.; let it slightly brown, and then add the gravy you previously made, with two or three anchovies chopped into dice, twelve pepper- corns, and the juice of a lime, with one glass of claret. Bring this sauce to boiling point, let it simmer awhile, and415 MENU FOE A PARTY OF EIGHT. then strain it. Replace it in the sauce-pan, thicken it with butter and a little flour, colour it with caramel, and place your six fillets in it to gently heat up without coining to the boil; when quite hot, place the fillets in their dish, pouring the sauce round them and serve, with a crisply fried curl of bacon, between each of them. Petits pois verts should fill the centre of the dish. 4.—Put eight nicely trimmed choplets of mutton into a stew-pan with some scraps of bacon, Mutton cutlets k la onion carrots, dried herbs, pepper,salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, with a pint of good gravy, and a glass of sherry, and gently stew the little chops till done. Now lay them out on a large dish, covered by another with a weight upon it; when quite cold, trim them finally into shape if necessary. Meanwhile strain the gravy in which they were stewed, remove all fat, and set it on one side. Now mince an onion very small, and a few capers, with two or three truffles also. Fry the onions a golden brown, add the minced capers and truffles with pep- per, salt, and a spoonful of chopped parsley, moisten with a little of the gravy, thicken it with a couple of eggs, and then put the mince away to get cold : cut some papers for your cutlets and oil or butter them : now spread your cold thick mince over your cutlets liberally, roll them, or rather fold them in their papers most carefully, and broil them on the grid-iron sufficiently long to heat them thoroughly; or if preferred, they can be just as well heated in the oven. Serve your cutlets in their papers, and let a rich sauce be handed round in a boat made of the remains of the gravy originally got from the cooking of the cutlets, slightly thickened with butter and flour, flavoured with red currant jelly, anchovy vinegar, and spoonful of sherry, all judici- ously applied. The “Maintenon cutlets” may be placed round a ring of mashed potatoes filled with celery purie.MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 416 5-—Choose a nice turkey, prepare the bird for roasting, stuffing it very carefully as directed at P igue u x1 s a ifce. PaSe 119- Let sauce PMigueux (page 106), steaming hot, he passed round in a boat, cauliflower, and potatoes accompanying. 6.—Directions for boiling a ham with marsala will be TT ... . . found at page 129. If you are able to Ham with Madeira. . » . . obtain a few nice slices of a good, well- boiled ham, I may mention (as an economical hint) that gently heated up in some espagnole sauce, with a table- spoonful of marsala, the slices will do very well to accom- pany the turkey, but take care that they pass from the pan to the plate, so to speak—as hot as possible. N.B.—Remember that marsala can always take the place of Madeira in cookery. 7. —Slightly roast eight snipe ; fillet them as you did the pigeons, saving the trails; make on^oast of smpe the richest sauce you can of the bones, moistened with stock and helped up with ketchup, red currant jelly, and a little sherry. Now prepare eight pieces of fried bread for the eight breasts, butter them, and spread the trails over them : pepper and salt them, place a breast of snipe upon each trail toast, bake till quite hot, and just before serving, pour your thick rich sauce, reduced almost to a glaze, over them: let crisply fried bread-crumbs surround your toasts. Use Nepaul pepper. 8. —For this entremets turn to page 253. Prepare the eggs as laid down for “CEufs farcis,” artichokes'1 Jerusalem page 251, and be sure that the dish is served quite hot. 9. —Melt three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine in a stew-pan over the fire, with half a Bavarian cream with pounq 0f SUaar, a pint of water, a cocoa. 1 ° . liqueur-glass ol brandy or sherry, andMENU FOB A PABTY OF EIGHT. 417 a few drops of vanilla essence; strain it through a tamis cloth till clear, and set it to get cool. Take one ounce of cocoa powder, and stir it into a pint of boiling milk, adding if not a sweetened preparation, two ounces of sugar; when thoroughly mixed, strain the milk through a piece of muslin. Let it get quite cold, and then add to it the strained yolks of eight eggs, mak- iug therewith a rich custard. Set the custard upon ice, having stirred half an ounce of dissolved gelatine into it, and when it begins to set, add a coffee-cupful of whipped cream, mix thoroughly, and prepare the Bavaroisc as fol- lows :—place a mould on ice and pour into it a layer of the vanilla jelly half an inch thick; when set, pour in about an inch of the cream, then a layer of jelly when the cream has set, and so on until the mould is filled. Serve after it has rested on ice for an hour. 10.—Nesselrode pudding ought properly to be made of chestnuts, but as we can rarely get Nesselrode Pudding. . , T ., . , them at Madras, 1 think we may sup- ply their place with almonds, and make our pudding in this way :—Blanch and peel a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds (shelled) and two bitter ones. Put them into a stew-pan with a pint of syrup flavoured with vanilla. Simmer till the almonds are soft, then drain them, pound them in a mortar, and pass them through a fine sieve. Put ten yolks of eggs with a quarter of a pound of sugar into a pint and a half of cream (or good milk), stir over the fire till the custard thickens, then add the almond •pur&e, strain it into a bowl, whip it, and give the liquid a glass of maraschino. Stone two ounces of raisins, pick and wash two ounces of currants, and cut up two ounces of citron, cook them in the syrup saved from the almonds, drain and let them get cool. Now freeze the custard, and work it with the spatula; when partly frozen, add a breakfast-cupful of whipped cream, and when the cream 38MENU FOB A PARTY OF EIGHT. 418 is nearly set, work in the raisins, currants and citron : now close the mould, and bury it in ice for a couple of hours. Observe that Nesselrode pudding is not served inside a cake, or finger-biscuit case. Note.—To adapt this menu, introduce a, Fillet debceufd Vltalienne (page 202) after the fish, cut out the canap&s cle becassines, and substitute flageoletes a la creme as an entre- mets de legume with the rot. A hen turkey (dinde) may be served instead of the cock-bird, and a nice salad must, of course, accompany. Instead of No. 10 give any nice dessert ice. Green butter with herring1 roes. Make a quarter of a pound of fresh butter from cream that you have set at home, and put it in ice : boil a hand- ful of spinach till tender, and then squeeze it through a bit of muslin : save the pulp carefully and give it a dust of pepper. Take the roes (soft) of two herrings d la sardine or fresh from the tin, wipe them carefully to get rid of the oil, then pound them, in a mortar, and pass them through the hair sieve. Mince very finely a large bunch of curly parsley, so as to have at least a heaped-up table-spoonful of it when minced ; mince a dozen capers, and then mix the ingredients together with a wooden butter bat, colour with the greening, and shape it as you like, setting it again in ice till wanted. There are numerous varieties of “ green butter” : this recipe has, however, been proved to be a nice one, and will be found useful when anchovies in oil may happen to be un- obtainable.IVLEUSITJ INTO- VIII. For a party of eight, Consomme aux points d’asperges. Filets de pomfret sauce aux capres. Chaud-froid de volaille a la Palestine. Cotelettes de inouton a la Valois. Dinde braisee a la jardiniere. Salmis de cailles. Aubergines a 1’ Espagnole. Gelee de Bordeaux. Parfait au chocolat. 1. —Prepare a clear well-flavoured consomme for eight. Take a small tin of asparagus, open it, Clear soup with alK[ turn the pieces out upon a dish, draining from them all the liquor of the tin. Choose American asparagus if you can, because- it is so much greener than either the French or English. When drained, cut the tender ends of the asparagus into pieces half an inch long using a dessert-knife. Put them away carefully, and throw the tough ends and liquor into the soup kettle to flavour the consomme. When strained, cleared, and ready to serve, add to the soup the chopped green points, heat it up to concert pitch, and serve. 2. —Fillet the pomfret, and make a fish gravy with the bones and trimmings, seasoned, and flavoured with an onion and a little ce- lery: simmer your fillets, nicely rolled Pomfret fillets with caper sauce.MENU FOE A PAliTY OF EIGHT. 420 in little curls, in this gravy; drain them, and dish them on a hot dish. For the sauce, make a saner blonde with butter and flour, moistened with the liquor from the fish ; when smooth, add a dessert-spoonful of finely minced capers, and off the fire, just as you serve, the yolks of two eggs, well mixed with some melted butter. Pour the sauce over the fillets. A few drops of any aromatic vinegar will improve this sauce. Chicken chaud-froid Palestine fashion. Cover the breasts of two good-sized chickens with paper, and roast them without letting them take colour : when cold, remove the breast meat as neatly as you can, also the flesh of the thighs and drumsticks. Out of the pieces thus obtained, trim a number of neat fillets as nearly the same size as possible, dredge a little flour over them and cover them up. For chicken chaud-froid, sauce .-—Take all the bones left after the above operation, skin, necks, pinions, &c., and make a strong chicken broth with them, adding an onion, some celery, a carrot, a bunch of parsley, a few almonds, pepper, and salt, to flavour it well. When the broth is ready, strain it into a bowl, skim it, and proceed to make with it a rich vclouU sauce, using for a pint of broth an ounce of butter and one of flour: strain it and let it get cold, and then add to its thickness by stirring into it one- third of its quantity of liquefied aspic, or plain strong meat jelly, and reducing it over the fire till it coats the spoon. Now take it from the fire, and add the yolks of three eggs, and (if available) a table-spoonful of thick cream. Place the fillets upon a roomy flat dish, which should be laid upon a bed of broken ice in hot weather, then pour some of the sauce over the pieces of chicken completely coating each piece, as it were, with a thick white glaze. Put them away so that the glaze may cool and set. Prepare a border of creme de topinambours (page 159) decorating the top of theMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 421 mould with carrots and green peas : after steaming it, let the mould get cold, and then set it in ice. When quite cold, turn it out carefully upon a cold silver dish, fill the hollow in the centre with the pieces of glazed chicken, introducing a slice of truffle here and there as you arrange them, and garnishing the top of the chicken with cold boiled cocks’ comb, and truffles : let the dish remain in the ice-box until the time arrives for it to go to table. 4.—The cutlets in this dish should be most delicately grilled, and served round a socle of Mutton outlets with potato masked a let G. 0. (page Valois sauce. 141), the chief feature of the,plat being the sauce. Boil a small sweet onion, cut up into dice, in a coffee- cupful of vinegar: let it boil till the vinegar is entirely reduced; let the onion get cold, then mix into it an ounce of butter, and the yolks of five eggs. Stir this over a low fire for a couple of minutes only. Take it off, add another ounce of butter, mix it well, and re-place the sauce-pan on the fire, adding half a pint of chicken glaze (that left from No. 3 will do), and another ounce of butter; mix thoroughly, adding finally a table-spoonful of chopped curled parsley; pour this into the centre of your ring of cutlets, and serve. This sauce should be made early, and kept hot en bain-marie, for the moment the cutlets are cooked, they must be sent up, and the sauce will spoil if allowed to get at all cold. 5.—Braise a hen turkey in gravy, and a little white wine, with a couple of onions, a carrot, with vegetables a youu8 turnip, a handful of French beans, a breakfast-cupful of peas and a head of celery; when done, dish the turkey: strain the gravy, thicken it, and cut up the vegetables into dice ; add them to the gravy again, heat this in a sauce-pan quickly,422 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. Salmis of quails. and pour it over the bird. Serve with potatoes a In Duchesse and a cauliflower. 6. —Choose eight nice quails, clean the birds carefully, put a roll of boiled bacon inside each bird and sew up their vents. Truss the birds as for roasting. Put one ounce of butter and four ounces of streaky bacon cut into dice into a frying- pan, when brown, pick out the bacon and give the quails a turn or two therein till they colour nicely. Next put them in a stew-pan, cover them with a rich gravy, add the bacon, and stew them till they are done. Lift them out, thicken the gravy with butter and flour, colour it with caramel, add half a glass of marsala, the livers of the birds pounded, a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, a dash of chilli vinegar, and some finely minced mushrooms ; heat the quails up in this sauce, and serve as hot as possible, dry toast accompanying. 7. —Parboil eight very young brinjals, the size of a small hen’s egg, cut them in halves length- ways, pick out the seeds with the point of a vegetable-knife, butter them, and dredge over the surface of each a layer of grated mild cheese; now arrange them neatly on a silver dish, well buttered, or any dish that will stand the oven, and bake for ten minutes ; pour round them a cupful of well made thick brown gravy, and serve in the dish in which they were cooked, placed on a napkin. 8. —The ingredients for this delicious jelly are :—A bottle of light claret, four ounces of white sugar, a glass of cherry brand}-, the rind of one well-washed lime, and the juice of three; one tea-cupful of raspberry syrup or half a pound of rasp- berry jam. Boil all together, add an ounce of isinglass, and strain through muslin. Decorate a jelly mould with crystallized cherries, set it upon ice, pour some of the liquid Brinjals with brown sauce. Claret jelly.MENU FOB A PASTY OF EIGHT. 423 jelly into the mould, and set the cherries; after that, gradu- ally add the liquid till the mould is completed. Thoroughly consolidate the jelly in ice, and serve with iced cream. 9.—Make a pint and a half of strong chocolate, using boiling milk, and two ounces of the Parfait of chocolate. . . . , . . best chocolate; sweeten it to taste, and let it get cool. Now take an enamelled-pan and break into it the yolks of ten eggs, strain the made chocolate, and add it to the eggs, stirring continually over a low fire, or in the bain-marie until the custard thickens satisfac- torily. Mix half an ounce of dissolved gelatine into the custard, strain, and whip it well while warm and let it get cold. Set a mould in the ice-pail, and when the custard has cooled nicely, pour it into the mould, freeze in the usual way, using the spatula frequently ; when the custard seems nearly frozen, add a wine-glass of very cold syrup flavoured with vanilla, continue the working, and then pour in a pint of well-whipped cream. Finish the freez- ing thoroughly, close the mould securely, and bury it in ice for a couple of hours. Then turn the parfait out on a nap- kin, and serve. If you have a parfait-mould and ice pail, the ordinary form of freezing can he dispensed with. Mix the parfait, put it in the mould, close the mould securely, and bury it in crushed ice and bay salt in the pail. A parfait requires four hours to set in this method, and the crushed ice must be replenished as it melts. At least twenty pounds of ice must be at hand. Note.—To adapt this menu, serve the hen turkey after the fish, and let the quails be roasted and sent round with the usual accompaniments. The parfait should be reserved for dessert.IVEEiSTXJ NTO. IX For a party of eight. Potage a la reine. Pom fret it la Venitienne. Petits casseroles aux grandes-crevettes. Boudins de pigeon aux olives. G-igot braisd a la chevreuil. Aspic de perdreaux. Champignons au gratin. Flan d’abricots. Biz glacb a l’lmperatrice. Puree of chicken. 1.—Prepare your stock as usual but without colouring. Remove the flesh from a cold roast fowl, excluding all skin, and browned parts : add to the meat so obtained, half its bulk of bread- crumbs soaked in stock, and pound both together in a mortar, with twelve sweet, and three bitter almonds, and the hard-boiled yolks of four eggs. Mash and cast all the bones into as much uncoloured beef stock as you think you will require for eight basins, and let them simmer for two or three hours. Pass your pounded fowl and crumbs through the sieve to get rid of lumps, gristle, <fcc., moisten- ing it with a spoonful or so of stock to assist the operation. When near the dinner hour, strain off your stock from the bones, and place it to get cool, removing all the fat thatMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 425 may rise to the surface. Now take a sauce-pan and melt an ounce of butter at the bottom of it, stirring in a table- spoonful of flour; add a little stock, and work the roux so obtained without ceasing, gradually pouring in stock, and adding pounded fowl, until you have exhausted your supply. Let the puree now come to the boil; remove the sauce-pan from the fire, and as you pour it into the tureen, stir into it a coffee-cupful of cream (or that quantity of milk with which the strained yolk of an egg has been mixed), and serve. 2.—Dress your fish in fillets, and pack them in a butter- ed dish with a slice of tomato laid upon faikS^’ Ve,ietian each of them, and a little chopped parsley and shallot sprinkled over them. When done, lift them with a slice, and put them on the hot plates, with an allowance to each of the following green sauce:—Boil a little spinach, and when done, squeeze it through a piece of muslin : save the pulp you obtain for colouring. Now make half a pint of sauce blanche, assisted by a little fish stock made from the trimmings of the fillets and some vegetables, with a spoonful of chahlis or sauterne; throw into it some finely minced parsley, a very little shallot, some chopped capers, and gherkins, and colour the whole with the spinach-greening. The white fish, the brilliant green sauce, and the scarlet slice of tomato with each portion, present a tasteful combination of colours, which might almost “ tempt the dying anchoret to eat.” Little cases of rice with prawns. 3.—Put a pound of the best table rice into a stew-pan with a quart of water, an onion, and two ounces of clarified suet. Simmer till the rice is soft, yet quite whole. Drain it, and pound it to a paste in a mortar with a table- spoonful of grated Parmesan, some butter, pepper and salt. Stir into this the yolks of three eggs, and powder it with a little spiced pepper. Pass all through the sieve, and pat 39MENU FOB A PABTY OF EIGHT. 426 it to a paste on your pastry slab, about one and a half inch thick. When quite cold, cut it into cylinders two inches long, and an inch and a half in diameter; egg and bread-crumb them, fry them a golden yellow in butter, and let them get cold; then cut off one end, and scoop out the interior of each cylinder; fill it with a rich prawn salpicon well diluted with veloute sauce: fix the end on again with white of egg. Heat in the oven and sei’ve upon a napkin. N.B.—A casserole, is literally a sauce or stew-pan; the term was originally given to cases made of rice or potato which were moulded on the pattern of that utensil. 4.—Roast six pigeons early in the day ; pick the meat from them, save the livers, and throw all wifhgoUve9b ° U d U1S the bones into a small sauce-pan with some lean bacon, some whole pepper, a sliced carrot, a bunch of parsley, and a clove of garlic, a muslin bag containing some mixed sweet herbs, and any scraps of raw meat you may have lying idle. Cover with water, and simmer for an hour, strain the liquid, and with this make a strong gravy, by boiling it until almost half wasted : now strain the liquor from the various ingredients, and set it to get cool. Meanwhile, stone a couple of dozen French olives, and parboil them, skim the fat that may have risen on the top of your sauce, and then add the olives chopped into dice. Let the sauce rest awhile. The meat of the pigeons should now be thoroughly pounded with half its bulk of bread-crumb, to a paste, the livers being incorpo- rated with it, and two ounces of fat bacon ; when you have worked this quite smooth, pass it through the sieve, season it with pepper and salt, and then fill six little buttered moulds with it, here and there slipping in a slice of truffle, and some pieces of mushroom. Having your moulds thus packed, you can set them in the bain-marie, and steam them gently till they are done; turn them out and serve with the olive sauce427 MENU FOB A PABTY OF EIGHT. previously described, slightly thickened, and brought to the boil at the last moment. 5.—Remove the bone from a leg of mutton, fill its place with turkey stuffing, and tie the meat Braised leg of mut- int0 shape, set it in a stewing-pan with ton with vegetables. c ’ r as much broth (made from the bone you cut out) as will half cover it: throw in a liqueur-glass of brandy, a couple of sliced onions, a carrot cut up, a bunch of mixed sweet herbs, or two dessert-spoonfuls of dried herbs, some whole peppers, a bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, and a blade of mace: set the pan on the fire, and let this stew till done, very slowly, keeping it from absolutely boiling point; when it is ready, strain off the sauce in which it has been cooked, thicken it, stirring in a table-spoonful of red currant jelly, half one of anchovy vinegar, and a glass of port: serve the mutton garnished with balls of turkey forcemeat (page 109) fried in butter, and pour the rich brown gravy round it. Let haricots verts and mashed potato accompany this dish. 6.—Gently stew four partridges in stock with a carrot, an „ „ onion, a piece of celery, sweet herbs, and a glass of marsala. When done, set the birds to get cold and strain the gravy in which they were done. Now cut off the fillets of the partridges, and pick all the other meat from the bones as well. The fillets should be put aside. Simmer the skin, bones (pounded), and scraps, in the gravy again with a little red currant jelly and lime peel, strain, and reduce it to a glaze. Next, pound the meat you picked from the backs, and thighs, with the livers, &c., and with your glaze make a rich savoury paste of it. Prepare your aspic jelly slightly flavoured with tarragon, decorate a plain mould with white of hard- boiled egg, slices of truffle and cornichons, pour in a little jelly and set the garnish, then pack your mould with the fillets of partridge between layers of the paste and slices of428 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. truffle. Ice this, and present it with sauce ravigote (also iced) in a boat, and dry toast. “Aspic Jelly.”—This requires attention; the common flavourless jelly, consolidated with isinglass, should be avoided if possible. In order to turn out an aspic, fit to present at a dinner party, you must proceed in this way :— Put into a stew-pan an ox-foot cleaned and cut up, with a bacon bone, or a slice or two of ham or bacon, any scraps or raw meat, such as cutlet trimmings you may have, or, better far, a young fowl cut up as for fricassee, with a few mixed vegetables, &c., as for soup. Add a cup of cold water, and a tea-spoonful of Brand’s essence : cover the pan, set it on the fire, shaking it occasionally : when the pieces of meat begin to take colour, add a little more water, and in about half an hour, pour in enough water to cover the contents of the pan completely; put in a tea- spoonful of caramel, and then let the vessel simmer for three hours very gently. When ready, strain the liquor off into a bowl, let it get cool, skim it carefully, add a tea-spoonful of sugar, and table-spoonful of tarragon vine- gar, clarify it (q. v. page 33), and strain it finally through a clean cloth, producing a clear, amber-coloured liquid, which will set of its own accord without isinglass, if put in the ice-box. A couple of calf’s feet, or four sheep’s feet may be used. 7.—In wet weather excellent mushrooms are procurable at nearly every station in this Presi- Baked mushrooms. , ,, , . dency; assuming that on this occasion we have been fortunate enough to get a dish of a dozen nice ones, a very toothsome entremets can be made of them in this manner :—First, be careful in cleaning them ; cut the stalks down, leaving only a little of them within the hollow of the mushroom, peel off the skin that covers the convex side of the fungus, brush away any particles of429 MENU FOB A PARTY OF EIGHT. earth or sand that may adhere to the pink gills on the concave side, and by patting the top of each mushroom, shake out all grit. It is a very great mistake to ivctsli a mushroom if you can possibly clean it in the way I have described. When satisfactorily prepared, clean the stalks you cut off, and chop them up. Put into a sauce-pan an ounce of butter and stir into it half an ounce of flour, when mixed, add half a pint of made gravy; stir well and throw in the chopped stalks, and peelings, a dessert-spoonful of chopped curled parsley, a tea-spoonful of minced onion, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a dusting of pepper : simmer the sauce until it is thick and rich, add a spoonful of cream, and then strain it. Now butter a silver dish liberally, place the mushrooms upon it head downwards, fill their hollow parts with the thick sauce, and set the dish in the oven (a brisk one) for ten minutes. As soon as the mushrooms flatten themselves, as it were, they are done. Serve on the same dish wrapping a napkin round it. 8.—This dish is not a difficult one. Choose a tin of Ame- rican apricots, drain off their juice and A.pricot custard. place the fruit at the bottom of a glass dish; add enough syrup to the juice of the fruit to cover them, pour into it a wine-glassful of noyeau or maraschino and half an ounce of dissolved gelatine ; when cold, set the glass dish upon ice, and pour the syrup round the fruit by degrees, letting it congeal like jelly and embedding the fruit firmly. Leave the dish in the ice, and then make enough rich custard to form a layer an inch thick on the top of the congealed fruit, mix into the custard half an ounce of dissolved gelatine, and flavour it with vanilla : when quite cold, pour the custard by degrees over the layer of fruit; it should consolidate also ; garnish the surface of the cus- tard with whipped cream in two colours, pink and white (the pink colored with a drop or two of cochineal), and serve straight from the ice.MENU FOB A PARTY OF EIGHT. 430 9.—Gently boil a quarter of a pound of the best rice till about half done, then drain it and put ratrioe.1106 a 1Impe' ^ into a stew-pan with a pint and a half of good boiling milk, and six ounces of sugar, add a coffee-cupful of boiling cream, stir well, and simmer till the rice is done. Let it get cold. Next mince up some mixed dessert fruits, greengages, cherries, apricots, &c. (preserved ginger, and citron if you like), moisten with a table-spoonful of maraschino or noyeau and put the mince away upon a plate. Now strain the milk and cream from the rice, add milk enough to fill the mould you have chosen, and turn it to a rich custard with eight eggs : next set the freezing pail in the ice, put the custard into it, and work it with the spatula till nearly frozen. You must now add the rice, with two whites of egg a la meringue, made in this way:—put two ounces of sugar into an enamel- led sauce-pan, and heat it with a little water till nearly boiling, whip two whites of egg, and add them to the sugar, whipping all the time ; this, when cold, is what you want for the ice. Continue working the spatula, and when the mixture is all but frozen, add a coffee-cupful of whipped cream, the minced fruit, and a liqueur-glass of liqueur; stir well, freeze a little longer, then fill your ice mould, and bury it in ice until it is required. Note.—To adapt this menu, serve the braised mutton after the fish, and instead of the aspic of partridges give poulet au cresson with salacle or roast game. A poulet, with really nice creamy bread sauce, and water-cress (if the fowl be a plump home-fed one), makes a very accept- ble rot. A dessert ice should be substituted for No. 9. Meringues. Put the whites of seven eggs into a bowl, and whip them as stiffly as possible, add half a pound of sugar, mix well,MENU FOB A PARTY OF EIGHT. 431 and with a spoon set portions of the mixture at intervals on sheets of buttered paper : each piece should be the size and shape of an egg: dredge some pounded sugar over them, and put them in the oven upon a baking-sheet. As soon as they assume a pale yellow tint, remove them from the oven, detach them from the paper, and cut them in halves with a very sharp knife. Scoop out the inside with a spoon as carefully as you can, and return them to a mode- rate oven to dry. After that you can fill the pieces with any nicely flavoured whipped cream, join the halves together with white of egg cement (page 399), and serve piled up upon a napkin.nvTEixrxj jsro- >c. For a party of eight. Potage a la tortue clair. Seer aux champignons. Cr6pinettes de volaille truffles. Petits pat^s de li^vre k la financiere. Filet de boeuf aux haricots verts. Pluviers en caisses. Bouchdes d’epinards. Chaud-froid de fruits. “ Pudding” glacd a l’ambigu. 1-—This soup, which is simply the ordinary mock-turtle , , not thickened, is to my mind the nicer Clear mock-turtle. J form of the two : tastes vary however, so I shall describe both methods. First, for the clear :—- Procure the stock meat as usual, and half an ox-head un- skinned (a calf’s head is the proper thing, but we must deal with fact, not fiction, knowing that we cannot get veal here), well,—clean the head thoroughly, keeping the skin on, and scalding it to get rid of the hair: remove every atom of brain, and wash the meat in several waters, set it to soak a while in cold water, and then place it in your soup kettle ; cover it with water and let it simmer slowly for an hour, skimming all fat, and scum that may rise : take it up (it will be about half done), remove the bones and set it, with a weight upon it, on a dish to flatten and get cold.433 MENU FOB A PABTY OF FIGHT. Now, throw your shin, &c., into the soup kettle, adding to the cold head liquor already there, the bones just removed, sufficient cold water to cover the hone and meat completely and an ounce of salt. Proceed now as for consomme skim- ming very carefully, and retarding the boiling point as much as you can by periodical additions of water: when boiling takes place, ease off the fire, and add two Bombay onions in quarters, a head of celery, a couple of carrots, the rind of two limes, a large hunch of parsley, a quarter ounce of dried basil (sold in bottles), a tea-spoonful of dried thyme, and of marjoram (the herbs in a muslin bag), a dozen peppercorns, two anchovies cut up, half a wine-glass of mushroom ketchup, a table-spoonful of sugar, and a tea-spoonful of caramel. Simmer slowly now for about three hours, skimming the surface occasionally, and on no account permitting the vessel to boil. Now strain very carefully, and set the soup in a bowl to cool and throw up all grease. Cut the cold head into one-and-a- half-inch squares, skim the cool soup well, and pour it into a large sauce-pan adding the pieces of head. Let the pieces cook slowly for half an hour, then drain them, and ! again strain the soup : clarify it if necessary adding a glass of Madeira, and the juice of a lime. Let this be heated up finally when required, and pour the soup into the tureen over a dozen or so carefully selected pieces of the head arranged therein. Serve, with limes cut into quarters, which should be handed round followed by the Madeira. The basil is most necessary, and the whole success of the soup depends upon strict attention to the flavouring herbs and ingredients. Select gelatinous, not meaty pieces, for the garnish to counterfeit the green fat of the turtle. The meaty squares will come in the next day for a ragoilt. For the thick :—Go hack to the period when you strain- ed the soup and set it to get cool. Take a large sauce-pan, and melt at 40 Thick mock-turtle.MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 434 the bottom of it two ounces of good butter, mix into it two ounces of flour, when it looks nice and velvety, gently add the soup, stirring it in by cupfuls. Put into it the pieces of head, a glass of Madeira, and the juice of a lime. Let the soup come to the boil to thicken properly, and let it simmer slowly immediately afterwards, constantly stir- ring to prevent the meat sticking to the bottom of the pan. When ready (which you will decide by testing the meat) you can add a little more Madeira if you find it needed, and serve. Some people make small forcemeat balls of hard-boiled eggs pounded with some parsley, pepper, salt, spice, flour, and a raw egg; or of chicken, with a little ham or tongue, savoury herbs, crumb of bread and eggs ; these they poach in gravy, and add to the soup when serving. I think, however, that the soup costs trouble enough without them, and so many people misunderstand what they are, that making forcemeat balls is often lost labour. Seer with mush rooms. 2.—Choose a good deep cut of seer fish. Take about a pint of thin brown gravy, a little onion, a carrot cut up, a bit of celery, and some parsley ; flavour it with a table- spoonful of chablis or sauterne, and one of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, and a little lime juice : stew the fish in this liquor very gently. When done, strain it, thicken the gravy with butter and flour, adding a dozen button mushrooms ; heat up without boil- ing, and serve. 3,—Roast a fair sized fowl, protecting the breast from burning by a buttered paper; when Crfipmettes of fowl caM carve the bird carefully, picking truffled. off all the white meat you can; remove the skin from these pieces and put them aside. Break up the carcass, and throw it, with all fragments of skin and bone, and the giblets of the fowl previously saved, into a435 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. sauce-pan, with as much stock as will cover the whole : add two onions, a clove of garlic, a carrot, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt, and simmer the contents of your pan as long as you can, finally adding half a glass of sherry, and bringing the broth to the boil. Now strain it, remove all fat that may rise, and reduce the sauce a little; thicken it with butter and flour, take it off the fire, and stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up with the juice of a lime. Let the sauce get cold. Next slice up four good sized truffles and toss the slices in a frying-pan in some melted butter, adding a liqueur-glass of Madeira, and a little stock ; when the liquor boils, stop, and pour the contents of the pan into a bowl. Make one or two very thin pancakes, cut out of them eight pieces, five inches long and four- wide, and put them aside. Now make the nicest mince you can of the cold fowl, diluting it with the cold sauce, and adding the liquor in which the truffles were cooked. Stir in a raw egg as it leaves the fire and let it get cold. Spread the pieces of pancake on a big dish and cover each of them with some very thinly sliced cooked bacon; dot over the bacon the cooked truffles; on the centre of each lay a good table-spoon- ful of the mince, fold the pancakes over, fix them with white of egg, bread-crumb, and bake them a pale brown on a well buttered dish. Serve upon a napkin. Hare patties, finan ciere fashion. 4.—This is an effective entree :—Make enough of the best puff-paste to form eight or nine pastry cases of the usual patty shape, bake them in the oven, and put them aside when done. As serving time approaches, fill each with a share of thoughtfully composed ragoiit d la finan- ci&re (the same that you would prepare for a vol-au-vent, only a little more minced) of hare, heat in a quick oven for a minute or two, and serve. N.B.—Touching racjoitts d la financiere and d la reine :MENU FOB A PARTY OF EIGHT. 436 the former is brown, the latter white. For financiere you must therefore use Espagnole, and for d la reive, bechamel. Oysters, chicken, rabbit, tongue, sweet-breads, liver, cocks- combs, truffles, mushrooms, and game, form the chief com- ponent parts of the plat. Select your ingredients ; trim the pieces of meat into small collops, and gently stew them ; that is, heat them up salmis fashion, in either the rich brown, or the delicate white sauce I have named; the meat having been previously dressed, of course, requires no cooking. Bearing these general rules in mind, the ragoUts will not he found very difficult. with 5.—Lard the fillet carefully, and tie it up into a con- venient shape for roasting. Boast it over a brisk fire, and when sufficiently done, serve it with some minced an- chovies and olives, tossed in melted butter, poured over it at the last moment. Fillet of beef French beans. For the haricots verts :—Bemember not to allow your cook to cut the beans into the vermicelli-like strips you see so frequently. All that is necessary is to peel off the ex- ternal fibre which runs round the outside edge of the pod, leaving the pods so peeled intact. Next choose a roomy, two-pound jam jar, or any vessel that you can close securely; put the beans into it with a table-spoonful of good butter, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, and a salt-spoonful of salt. Cover the vessel tightly and steam it for an hour in boiling water. When done, drain the bean pods, and serve them in any of the ways mentioned at page 149. Steamed in this way the French bean of Indian growth tastes exactly like its parent as eaten in France. You will never boil French beans again after cooking them in the manner I have described : a spoonful of melted maitrc d’hdtel butter, or, better still, a coffee-cupful olpoulette sauce is an improve- ment just before serving. 6.—Boast the plovers (the grey bird will do for this dish)437 MENU FOB A PARTY OF EIGHT. Plovers in oases. and proceed as you did to compose the salpicon dc gibier in Menu No. 5, fill your buttered cases with pieces of the plovers, and pour round and over them your thick glaze. Bake for five or ten minutes, and serve. 7.—Prepare a puree of spinach as described at page 156, drain it very dry, and then moisten it Spinach patties. . Avith cream, adding a very little nut- meg : make eight bouch&es (miniature oyster patty shapes) of puff pastry, fill each bouchce Avith spinach puree, give them a cap of buttered egg (page 248), heat up in the oven, and serve on a napkin. Chaud-froid fruit. of 8.—Make enough plain clear jelly, flavoured with any nice liqueur, to fill a pretty border mould, and get ready a mixed collec- tion of dessert fruits,—-a few of each sor.t,—such as greengages, apricots, cherries, strawberries, pears, &c., cut them into pieces, and garnish the mould as tastefully as you can. When the garnish has set, complete the jelly Avith layers of the remaining fruit, and set it in ice. For the centre, to imitate a savoury chaud-froid, you must make a breakfast-cupful of vanilla blanc-manger, dip- ping slices of preserved apples into it to counterfeit fillets of chicken mashed in Avhite sauce ; set them on ice for the blanc-manger to congeal, and then pack the centre of the jelly with them; garnish the white fillets with slices of prunes to represent truffles, and a few plain slices of apple cut with fretted edges to imitate cocks-combs. 9.—For this effective ice, you must have four small ice pails, and make a different ice in a small leyl°ed pudding> med' mould in each pail, viz.No. 1, straw- berry cream (Menu No. 3); No. 2, crtone depistache (Menu No. 2) ; No. 3, parfait an cliocolat (Menu No. 8); and No. 4, vanilla cream. Make half a pint of each of438 MENU FOE A PARTY OF EIGHT, these, and set your quart mould in the ice : when the four ices are well frozen, mix them at haphazard by casting large spoonfuls of them one after the other into the mould : —say, first, half the vanilla, then a quarter of the chocolate, then half the strawberry, followed by a quarter of the pist- achio, some more chocolate and vanilla, and so on, till full. Work the spatula, and blend the colours without any fixed pattern, press the whole together firmly, freeze thoroughly, and serve. To adapt this menu, serve the fillet of beef after the fish, and send up the plovers nicely roasted, with bread sauce, crisp potato chips, and a salad. A curl of crisply fried bacon should accompany each bird. Glace, cl I’ambigu should be substituted for No. 9, and served at dessert. To make a vol-au-veut Case. Make very carefully a pound of puff-paste, following the directions given at page 276. Give the paste six turns, and roll it out three-quarters of an inch thick. Cut out of this as neatly as possible an oval piece the size you wish your vol-au-vent to be. You will then have an oval piece of pastry three-quarters of an inch thick: turn it over upon a buttered baking-sheet, brush the surface and side with a beaten egg, and mark out the interior oval, leaving an inch margin all round. Let the knife cut this tracing to a depth of a quarter of an inch. Now put the sheet in the oven, and when the paste is baked, remove the inner oval which you will find has risen for a cover: then scoop out the uncooked paste inside the case : brush the whole case thus formed with egg again, and bake it for about five minutes, xlfter this the pastry will be ready. Remember that in the first baking, the oval wall will have risen three or four inches high,MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 439 Gnocchetti. This receipt was given to me by a lady who has resided nearly all her life in Italy. Take two tumblers of broth or milk and put the liquid in a stew-pan on the fire with one ounce of butter, a pinch of salt, and two of pepper. Boil, take off the fire, add four ounces of sifted flour, and mix well, adding two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese: stir over the fire for one minute, remove the sauce-pan, breaking into it three large or four small eggs, one after the other, and stirring con- tinually. Divide the paste you now have got into small portions rolling them about the size of walnuts ; put these into a buttered saute-pan, pour boiling milk over them, simmer for five minutes, and drain on a sieve. Now arrange a layer of the gnocchetti on a dish, sprinkle with Parmesan, add another layer, and sprinkle, moisten with a good sauce blanche, cover all with a final layer of Parmesan, set in the oven to colour, and serve very hot.JX^EDsT-CJ NO- XI- ♦ For a dinner of six * Potage a la creme cl’orge. Orlys cle seer, a la Hollandaise. Poulet a la St. Lambert. Carbonade de mouton. Becassines roties. Petits pois an lard. Tartelettes de limon. 1-—Boil half a pint of pearl barley in a quart of clear „ .. . stock till it is reduced to a pulp : pass Pearl barley soup. . . r r r it through a hair sieve, and add suffi- cient additional stock uncoloured, and very well flavoured, to bring the puree to the consistency of thin cream ; put it now in a sauce-pan on the fire till it comes to the boil, then stir into it off the fire the yolk of an egg thoroughly beaten up with a gill of milk (or cream if you can spare it) serve with dice of bread, dipped in stock, and crisped in the oven. • 2.—Divide a cut of seer fish into six nice collops about two inches long, half an inch thick, Seer fnttOTs with an(j an inch wide. Let them “ mari- Hollandaise sauce. nade” in a little lime juice or vinegar, * Note.—To each of these little menus for dinners of six a dessert ice may be added. If this be done, enter it at the end of the menu:— Glace,—par fait an cafe; Glace.—crcim' aux finises, &c., &c.—W.441 MENU FOR, A DINNER OF SIX. pepper, salt, onion, and sweet herbs. Half fry, or bake them and let them get cold. Prepare some batter as follows: —Beat up together the yolks of two eggs (save the whites) with one table-spoonful of brandy, one of salad oil, and four or five table-spoonfuls of water. Amalgamate with this three table-spoonfuls of imported flour, and a pinch of salt. Beat the mixture well for a minute or two, and bring it to the right consistency by adding water, or flour, as the case may require. When ready, add, at the last moment, the whites you saved, whipped to a froth : dip your collops into this, and lay them one by one in your frying basket, dipping it immediately into a deep friture-pan, filled with boiling fat; as soon as they turn a nice deep yellow, lift them out, drain them on a sheet of blotting paper, and serve them, crisp and dry on a napkin garnished with fried parsley, and slices of lime. Let sauce-Hollanclaise in a boat accompany (q. v. page 95). 3.—Take two nice chickens, cut them up as if for fri- cassee, steep the pieces in cold water bertbfashionSfc Lam' f°r Half an hour, then drain themj and select the following pieces, viz.:— the four wings, the four legs, two breasts, and four thighs, and put them aside covered up. Take all that remains, viz.:—the backs, pinions, necks, livers, gizzards, and trim- mings, and, with an onion cut up, some peppercorns, a few spoonfuls of meat gravy, a bit of lime peel, a tea-spoonful of ketchup, and salt, make as good a pint of broth as you can ; when ready, fish out the livers, and strain the broth. Now put into the stew-pan the selected joints of the chickens, cover them with the strained broth, and stew them gently till done, with six button onions, one carrot, and a handful of French beans. Now pick out the chicken, strain the broth, and put the vegetables aside. Proceed with the broth to make a nice veloute (rich white sauce) flavoured with the milk of a dozen sweet almonds pounded, and a blade of mace; 41MENU FOB A DINNER OF SIX. 442 thicken in the bain-marie, with the yolks of three eggs: when satisfactory, strain, cool, acid the yolks of two eggs, and put in the pieces of chicken, heating them without boiling. Cut the carrot, and French beans, with the livers you saved, into dice, and when you dish the chicken, garnish your entree with them and the button onions. A casserole of mashed potatoes, shaped like the pastry case of a vol- au-vent, and nicely ornamented, can hold the chicken, and the garnish should be sprinkled over the surface. 4.—Order a shoulder of the best mutton you can get, bone it carefully, wash it, dry it, and stuffed. flatten it out upon a clean board. Dust it over with spiced pepper and salt, and lay over it a number of thin slices of cold cooked bacon. Make a good bowl of turkey stuffing (page 119) and spread it evenly over the bacon, roll the meat carefully up, and secure it in shape with tapes. Put four ounces of butter into a stew-pan, and turn the roll of mutton over in it till it takes colour. Now pour in a pint or so of good broth made from the bones and trimmings, with two Bombay onions cut up, a clove of garlic, a carrot sliced, six pepper- corns, a blade of mace, a good piece of celery, a dessert- spoonful of sugar, a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tumbler of chablis or sauterne, and half a glass of brandy. Braise the mutton in this until it is done. Dish it on a hot dish, and brown its surface with a hot iron. Strain off the gravy, remove the fat, flavour it as for game with half a glass of Madeira, a dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly, the juice of a lime, and a few drops of chilli vinegar; let it boil up, pour it round the mutton, and serve. Garnish the dish with small white onions (the size used for pickling) glazed, and send round potatoes a la maitre d’liotel. 5.—Boast the birds properly over a bright fire (Bama- samy will bake them if he can, or fry them in a frying-pan) and serve them Roast snipe.MENU FOB A DINNER OF SIX. 443 on hot buttered toast, smothered with crisply fried bread- crumbs. A nice salad, butter, and Nepaul pepper should go round. 6. —Cook the peas as recommended at page 146, cut a thick slice of bacon into small dice, Green peas with fry them till they are dry and crisp, fried bacon. J J mix them with the peas, and serve. 7. —If your cook can make really nice puff-pastry, this simple little entremets will be quite fit Lemon cheesecakes. » . -m for a place m your menu, n or tne mixture, proceed as follows melt four ounces of butter in an enamelled sauce-pan, stir into it the yolks of four eggs, and four ounces of finely pounded loaf sugar, and when dissolved, the juice of three limes; mix the syrup well, and add a liqueur-glass of noyeau, or curagoa. Now line eight or nine round patty pans with puff-paste, keep- ing the hollow open with flour ; when done, fill the hollows with the mixture, heat up in the oven, dust over the cheese- cakes some finely pounded loaf sugar, and serve them upon a napkin, hot. ♦ Salade Russe This is an effective dish for a luncheon party:—Boil some carrots and some turnips in salted water with a small piece of butter, but do not let them be overdone ; when cold, cut out of them, with a vegetable scoop, a number of pieces the size of an olive ; cut some beetroot in the same way, and likewise some truffles. Take equal parts—say a cupful—of each of the above, and a similar quantity of fresh haricot beans ready cooked, and of asparagus points prepared in the same way. Two table-spoonfuls respec- tively of capers, of French pickled gherkins cut into the shape of capers, and of anchovies, perfectly cleaned, and cut into small pieces ; a couple of dozen or more olivesMENU FOli A DINNER OF SIX. 444 stoned, one table-spoonful of parsley minced fine, and one of shallot, also minced. Mix the whole lightly together with a sauce made with raw yolks of eggs, oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt (page 203). Ornament with hard-boiled eggs, caviare, prawns, olives farcies, pickles, truffles, &c. Sweet capsicums are a nice addition, not only for their flavour, but on account of their brilliant colour. I have heard of a pate cle foie-gras being cut up and added to this dish, an atrocity which surely a moment’s reflection will condemn. Who would eat anchovies and caviare with their pate ? The Salade Busse is essentially a fishy preparation.ivrEisrxj jnto. >cii. For a dinner of six. Bisque cle grandes-crevettes. Merlans a 1’ Americaine. Cotelettes de mouton au puree d’oseille. Galatine de chapon au salade. Sarcelles au cresson. Celeri au beurre. Creme d’abricot a la Moscovite. Prawn puree. 1. Make a strong clear consomme with beef, bone, veget- ables and herbs, as usual: when done, strain it into a bowl to be ready when wanted. Pick enough cold boiled prawns to fill a half- pint pot to the brim : pound these in a mortar with a good allowance of butter till you get them to a pulp: flavour this with salt, and a little spiced pepper to taste : now melt an ounce of butter in a sauce-pan, and incorporate therewith an ounce of flour, stirring into it, when mixed, the prawn pulp. Next take about the same quantity of bread-crumb well soaked in stock (the consomvie) that you have of prawn, and add it to the prawn pulp also, off the fire, mixing the two together by degrees thoroughly, and gradually adding the consomme till you find you have a soup a little less thick than that you want eventually to get. You now set the sauce-pan on the fire, and stir vigorously till it boils, andMENU FOB A DINNEB OF SIX. 446 thickens; take it off the fire then, and let it get cool, to enable you to remove any fat that may rise, after which the pur6e should be pressed through a hair sieve into a bowl. When wanted, it must, of course, be re-heated, and served with dice of fried bread. This soup is well worth the little trouble it requires. A coffee-cupful of boiling cream, or of milk in which the yolk of an egg has been whipped, may be added, but I think the puree is generally rich enough without that assistance. Follow this recipe, using tinned lobster instead of prawn meat, well drained, and washed, and you will produce a very good ‘ ‘ bisque de homard.’ ’ In this case the coral of the lobster gives the soup a rich orange colour. The American canned lobster, prawns,and shrimps,make excellent bisques- 2. —Cut and trim three nice whitings in fillets, brush them over with egg, and bread-crumb Whitings m the them with some finely sifted white crumbs ; fry them a golden yellow in boiling fat, drain, and serve them with this sauce:—Melt a dessert-spoonful of butter in a small sauce-pan, stir in a dessert-spoonful of flour, add half a pint of warm fish gravy, let it thicken, and finish it with the juice of a lime, a little salt, a pinch of sugar, a few drops of tobasco, and a heaped- up dessert-spoonful of thinly stripped capsicums. 3. —Choose a first-rate neck of mutton, divide it into the neatest cutlets you can, give them a Mutton cutlets with ,jUst 0f pepper and salt, and place sorrel sauce. . them en marinade for the rest of the day. For the sauce you want one Bombay onion, two handfuls of sorrel, one lettuce, and two table-spoonfuls of butter. Take a light sauce-pan, melt the butter at the bottom of it; throw into it the onion very finely shredded, toss this about till it turns a pale yellow, and then add the whole of the sorrel and the lettuce also finely cut up. Stir the vegetables about in the melted butter till theyMENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 447 begin to change colour, and then pour into the sauce-pan about half a pint of gravy slightly thickened with flour; stir this well, and put in a tea-spoonful of white sugar, three salt-spoonfuls of salt, and a good dusting of black pepper. Let the vegetables boil for about five minutes ; then, if you find the sauce too thick, or as cooks say, “stodgy,” dilute it with a little more gravy, till it assumes the consistency of a rich puree, ease the fire and let the sorrel simmer for half an hour. At the end of that time it will be ready to accompany your cutlets, which should be drained from their marinade, dipped in melted butter, and grilled over a bright clear fire. Prepare a circle of mashed potato, fill it with the pur be burning hot, and arrange the cutlets round the outside of the circle, with bunches of water-cress for garnish. 4.—A really tasty cold dish, garnished with blocks of broken aspic jelly, the whole fresh from Galantine of capon. . . . the ice-box, and accompanied by a good salad is, to my mind, a worthy pidce de resistance for a little dinner party at Madras in the sultry month of May. A galantine, too, is a dish that is well adapted for a Neilgberry picnic, the wedding breakfast, the luncheon, or supper, so let us discuss the following recipe :— Choose a very fine fowl, capon, or hen-turkey; purchase one of Crosse and Blackwell’s “picnic tongues” (in the round tins) and proceed as follows :—Having cleaned the bird, and having carefully saved the liver, heart, and gizzard, lay it breast downwards on a board, and proceed to bone it < Ramasamy does this generally very cleverly); you may sever the pinions, legs, and neck, but draw the skin carefully over the places, and sew them up, so that the outer skin may be as whole as possible. Cut off all the meat from the pinions and legs (removing the sinew) and flatten the carcass before you with a cutlet bat. Make a forcemeat as follows:—five ounces stale bread-crumb,MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 448 five ounces minced fat bacon, the rind of a lime minced fine, a dessert-spoonful each of thyme and marjoram, some spiced pepper, and salt, a table-spoonful of minced parsley, all hound with four eggs: mix this as previously describ- ed, and keep it by your side in a basin. Now turn out the “picnic tongue,” straighten it, and cut a solid piece of the best meaty part to form the centre of your galantine : it should be nearly as long as the carcass of the fowl (leaving room for folding up) and nearly the full thick- ness of the tongue after the skin has been peeled off. Slice up the remainder of the tongue ; separating fat slices from lean, and keep them on a dish handy; scraps may be minced fine, and mixed with the forcemeat. To make the foundation of your work as level as possible, you should trim nearly all the meat of the carcass of the fowl, with a very sharp knife, almost to the skin ; the meat that is thus detached should be kept with that of the wings and legs. Lastly, mince together the liver, gizzard and heart, and “spice-pepper,” and mince them well. First, spread a layer of the stuffing a quarter of an inch thick evenly over the fowl, upon that a layer of your slices of tongue (spice-pepper freely), upon that a layer of the meat you cut from the fowl (dust of salt), over that a second spread of forcemeat, then your minced liver, &c., and lastly, the block of tongue : fold over this the flatten- ed carcass, disturbing the layers as little as possible, and sew the galantine up securely with fine twine.. Envelop this in a clean cloth, and tie it up carefully with cross strings to preserve the oval shape of the galantine. Set this in a deep stew-pan, cover it well with weak stock in which a claret-glass of marsala has been introduced, and simmer gently for three or four hours. When done, lift it out, drain it, take off the cloth, wrap it in a fresh dry one, and place it on a dish with a heavy weight above it. When quite cold, take out your galantine, scrape off any fat that may he attached to the skin, glaze it (page 267)449 MENU FOE A DINNER OF SIX. and set it in the ice-box, finally serving it garnished with broken lumps of aspic jelly. A galantine to be correct, should, of course, contain a goodly allowance of truffles : these should be first cooked in butter and a little Madeira, and then introduced during the packing of the carcass, according to the artistic skill of the chef, in fairly large pieces ; truffle trimmings should be minced fine and added to the forcemeat. Little dice of cornichons are effective if dotted about in the layer of stuffing, and pistachio nuts are an improvement. 5. —Let the teal be sent up most carefully roasted straight from the fire; garnish each portion Roast teal with with a bunch of water-cress ; and send water-cress. round limes cut in quarters, and Nepaul pepper. A salad, potato chips, and one of the sharp sauces given at page 94, may accompany. 6. —This is a very simple, yet tasty entremets cle legume : especially to be recommended at Celery with butter. n . , T .. , , Madras where JN eilgherry celery soon loses its nutty crispness, and is consequently not so nice to eat raw. Trim four heads of fine white celery very neatly, wash them carefully, and when convinced that no earth remains hidden in the leaves, boil them in salt and water, or in milk if you can spare it. When tender, drain, divide each piece in half, and serve as hot as possible upon a silver dish like asparagus. Butter plainly melted, as for “Dutch sauce,” page 96, should alone accompany the vegetable thus delicately dressed. Please do not spoil it by serving it with a ‘conjee’ made of flour and milk, called by Ramas&my “ white sauce,” or with sodden toast beneath it. 7. —Now here we have a very recherche sweet dish. The speciality of creams a la Moscovite con- Mosoovite.Cream " k s^sts *n their being sent to table very cold,—not frozen as an iced pudding, but so long buried in ice as to he almost as cold. The cream 42'450 MENU FOB A DINNER OF SIX. is easy enough. Pass half a pot of apricot jam through a fine sieve. Boil a pint and a half of milk ; mix into it when cool the yolks of ten eggs and make a rich custard. Stir into the custard when cool, an ounce and a half of dissolved gelatine, and then the strained jam. If not sweet enough, you must now add a little sugar. Set the liquid in a mould upon ice, and when you perceive that it is beginning to congeal, add half a pint of whipped cream, and a glass of noyeau. Stir the contents of the mould together, and then bury it in ice for at least two hours. Serve as cold as possible. Half these quantities will be enough for six people. ♦ Pickled steak, or chops. Place a steak in a deep dish with a couple of onions sliced, a clove of garlic, peppercorns, salt, some leaves of thyme, and marjoram, a bunch of parsley, and some lime peel. Add oil and vinegar (two table-spoonfuls of former to one of latter) sufficient to soak the meat well without actually covering it. Let it soak all day; lift it, when wanted, from the marinade, and fry lightly in butter : then (when coloured on both sides nicely) pour in the marinade, with a breakfast-cup of made-gravy, and stew the steak gently till thoroughly done. Strain the liquor, free it from fat, reduce it a little over the fire, pour over the steak, and serve. This is just as good with a nice mutton steak, or a few juicy chops.TvIEJNT-CJ JNTO. J2CIII. For a dinner of six. Potage a la Gladstone (queue de bceuf). Merlans aux fines herbes. Tourne-dos de boeuf a la Wyvern. Poulet a l’Americaine, sauce aux huitres. Rognons au surprise. Ramequins en caisses. Croutes d’ananas. 1.—This, I need scarcely say, is “ oxtail soup !” Take a large shin, and a pound of beef, Oxtail soup (cleai). anq mape a strong broth with them as usual: take an oxtail, and when the beef consomme is ready early in the afternoon (you should commence boiling the shin as soon as you can in the morning), sepa- rate the tail at the joints, and put the pieces into a stew- pan with four ounces of clarified beef suet, two Bombay onions, two carrots, and a stick of celery, all sliced, with a dessert-spoonful of dried sweet herbs, one of parsley, a dozen peppercorns, and a clove of garlic; fry till of a reddish colour, then add a breakfast-cupful of stock, a wine- glass of mushroom ketchup, and a glass of marsala. Cook the contents of the stew-pan till the liquid is almost a glaze, then moisten with a little consomme, and strain, picking out the pieces of tail. Now blend the tail essence with the rest of the consomme, add a tea-spoonful ofMENU FOB A DINNER OF SIX. 452 caramel, and simmer the soup for half an hour skimming it carefully. If wanted clear, all that is now needed is to strain and clarify the liquor, saving a few joints of the tail as a garnish, a table-spoonful of marsala with a squeeze of a lime, and a pinch of sugar being added to finish with. Oxtail soup (thick). If, however, you desire to serve a thick oxtail, go on in the following manner:—Strain the soup, saving all the tail joints, and leave it in a bowl for a while. Pick all the meat from the tail, pound it in a mortar, pass the paste through the sieve, and then skim the fat off the bowl of soup. Take a roomy sa.uce-pan, melt an ounce of butter at the bottom of it, stir in an ounce of flour, and gradually add soup and paste till all has been expended, let the puree come to the boil (by which time it will be thick enough); add a dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly, a tea-spoonful of anchovy vinegar, and a glass of marsala, stir vigorously for a minute and serve. The common way of making this soup is simply to thicken the gravy, and to throw in the joints of the tail whole. I have tried the puree, and con- sider the soup is vastly improved by the pounded meat, the flavour of the oxtail being far stronger. 2.—Cut two large whitings into fillets, set them in a deep dish, season with pepper and salt Wlutmgs with kerbs anq squeeze the juice of three limes sauce. 1 J ..... over them. Let them lie in this mari- nade for an hour ; then drain, flour, and fry them a golden colour in a bath of boiling fat, and serve them with a sauce blanche in which a bunch of parsley, a very little green stem of a young onion, a little marjoram, some garden cress, and a little green chilli (if liked), all finely minced, have been mixed. If fresh mushrooms happen to be available, you can make true fines herbs as follows :—equal portions (say a table-spoonful) of chopped mushroom and parsley, with a tea-spoonful of chopped shallot.453 MENU FOB A DINNER OF SIX. 3.—Cut and trim a nice undercut of beef in slices as for grenadins : steep them all day cn Tourne-dos of beef, marinade, drain, and either grill, or Wyvern sauce. ,, ,, , . fry them very carefully m clarified dripping; drain again, and serve in a circle round a ring of mashed potato, with a heart-shaped croUton of fried bread' between each slice of meat. The sauce should be com- posed as follows :—melt half an ounce of butter in a small sauce-pan, mix into it half an ounce of flour ; stir in, when the butter and flour have amalgamated, a breakfast-cup- ful of beef gravy, half a glass of marsala, a tea-spoonful of caramel, one of red currant jelly, a table-spoonful of mush- room ketchup, one of Harvey, and one of anchovy vinegar. Stir well, and pour piping hot into the centre of the potato ring. Fowl in the Ameri can manner. 4.—This, a capital method of cooking a fowl, is of course specially adapted to the Wai'ren ‘ ‘ cook- ing pot:” the process is simply that of steaming, so if you do not possess that vessel, will want your fish kettle, and a pan, big enough to hold the fowl, with a close-fitting lid. Truss the fowl: place a big Bombay onion inside the bird, with a couple of slices of bacon ; sew up the vent, pin a strip of bacon over the breast, and set the bird in the pan (without any water or gravy round it) carefully securing the lid with paste if necessary. Immerse the vessel containing the fowl in the fish kettle or any larger pan full of cold water, and set it to boil. Cook it slowly without removing the lid which should be scrupulously kept closed. In about an hour and a quarter (after the water came to the boil), you can take the fowl out, and place it at once on a hot dish well covered up. Now strain off the gravy that you will find has been drawn from the fowl, and save it for the “ oyster sauce,” which make in this way as fast as you can:— Mix an ounce of butter with an ounce of flour at theMENU FOB A DINNER OF SIX. 454 n , bottom of a sauce-pan, add the fowl Oyster sauce. x gravy, the liquor from a tin of oysters, and the beards of the oysters cut off (save the oysters themselves separately) : there should be quite a pint of this; if the gravy be insufficient stock or milk must be added: throw in some peppercorns, the peel of a lime, salt to taste, and, as the mixture boils, a table-spoonful of chablis or sauterne : after it has come to the boil, strain the sauce carefully, add the oysters you saved, heat it up again : take it off the fire : pour in a coffee-cupful of boil- ing cream (or milk in which the yolk of an egg has been stirred, and heated up to the consistency of thin custard) and serve poured over the fowl. Whilst this sauce is being made, it would be wise perhaps to leave the fowl in the vessel in which it was cooked, carefully covered up and kept in the hotwater bath. As soon as the sauce is ready, it can be dished up, upon a cradle of well-boiled maccaroni. 5.—This is a dish of “ Bombay onions stuffed with kid- neys,” a most excellent savoury entre- Omon stuffed with meis if carefully done. Take six large Bombay onions: have ready ten sheep’s kidneys, scalded, and skinned, but uncooked. Boil the onions till three parts done; take them out, drain them ; slice off the top of each one (as you would treat an egg) and carefully remove the inside, leaving a hollow big enough to hold two small kidneys cut into small pieces ; take two anchovies, pick out their spines and cut the fish into little squares: have some minced parsley handy, a lime, and some of the inside of the onion that you scooped out, minced and peppered; put a lump of butter into the onion case first, then a little of the minced onion peppered, then your pieces of kidney, with little bits of anchovy here and there, and crown the top again with minced onion, and a pat of butter) a spoonful or so of brown sauce should be given during the packing, and an occasional dust of spiced pepper. NowMENU FOB A DINNEB OF SIX. 455 place the cap on again, and when the six onions are stuffed, lay them in a buttered baking dish, and bake in a slow oven for an hour. When done, pour some more brown sauce over them and serve in their own dish. 6. —A recipe for these toothsome little fondues will be Fondues of cheese found at page 262. Serve the moment m paper cases. they rise, dished upon a napkin. 7. —When pine-apples are in season, I can recommend this dish. Cut up the pine in slices Pine-apple toasts. . ,, . . . . , , ,, a quarter of an inch thick, stew them in thin syrup, with a glass of rum, and keep them sim- mering en bain-marie. Take a Madeira cake of a circular shape eight inches in diameter, cut it into nice slices the same shape as those you cut of pine-apple, lightly fry them in butter, then dust them over with powdered sugar and set them in the oven, spreading a layer of apricot jam over each slice. At the time of serving, Train the pine-apple slices, and arrange them with the slices of cake alternately upon a very hot dish, pouring the syrup over them. This receipt can be followed exactly with American canned pine-apple slices. If the taste of rum be objected to, try brandy or any nice liqueur, but with pine-apple rum is, of course, correct. ♦ » To make potato flour for souffles. Here is a recipe for potato flour (fecule de pommes de terre) which I do not think you will find in any cookery book. “ The farina of the potato, properly granulated and dried, is frequently sold as a substitute for arrowroot,” says an authority of note; “it may easily be prepared at home, and will be found useful for making puddings easy of digestion for children and invalids.” If kept dry, thisMENU FOB A DINNEB OF SIX. 456 flour keeps well for a long time. Choose some potatoes of a good mealy kind, peel and wash them (raw), and grate them to a pulp with a strong bread grater, emptying the grated stuff into a large bowl of clean spring water: stir the potato and water together briskly for a few minutes, and then let the former settle ; after resting ten minutes, strain off the water: repeat the process with another basinful of water, and let it rest after stirring for ten minutes, again straining off the water ; and continue the washings, so to speak, until the water remains quite clear after the sediment has settled at the bottom of the bowl: about three changes of water generally suffice for this. When satisfied that the grated potato has been thoroughly cleansed, take it out of the bowl, drain it, and spread it out upon dishes to dry and bleach in the sun, turning it frequently. When quite dry, pound it in a mortar, and pass the flour so obtained through a silk or hair sieve. Bottle it securely in dry bottles, and cork it down tightly. It will be white and quite flavourless. GINGER PUDDING. Boil a pint and a half of milk flavoured with a few drops of essence of vanilla and sugar to taste ; then strain. Beat up six eggs, and pour the flavoured milk upon them. Put the mixture into a bain-marie, and stir gently over the fire until it thickens. Dissolve an ounce and a half of gelatine in a little milk, add this'to the custard, and stir the mix- ture until nearly cold, whip and add four ounces of pre- served ginger cut very small, pour the mixture into an oiled mould, and when cold and quite set, turn it out. "Tivheistxj kto. xiv- For a dinner of six. Consomme de perdreaux. Matelote d’anguilles. Poulet & la Yilleroy. Longe de mouton & la Soubise. Topinambours au gratin. Canapbs de caviare. Orleans pudding. 1.—Buy three partridges in addition to your customary soupmeat, pluck the birds, draw them, Clear partridge soup. , , ,, , , . ,, , , and cut them up, breaking all bones ot any size with a mallet. Set the soupmeat for consomme as usual, and when you have obtained as strong a stock as possible therefrom, strain it, and let it get cool; remove all fat that may rise to the surface, and when quite clear, pour it into a large bowl. Now take all the pieces of part- ridge, including the bones and livers of the birds, &c. ; set them in a stew-pan with two onions, a carrot and a piece of celery sliced, herbs, seasoning, and four ounces of clarified suet; fry, and proceed, as advised for ox-tail soup, Menu No. 13, to extract the partridge essence ; after it has boiled, slack off the fire, and let the contents of your stew-pan simmer slowly for an hour till you have almost a glaze. Now moisten and strain the essence from the bones, &c., blend it with the consommb, clarify (it should be a nice, bright, clear 13MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 458 consomme remember), and give it half a glass of marsala, a pinch of sugar, and a few drops of chilli vinegar to finish with. Some people serve pieces of the birds’ breasts with the soup, or quenelles made of that meat, seasoned, and formed about the size of olives. 2.—If you can get conger eel,—and there are plenty of them caught at Madras,—you will have Stewed eels. & n . a most excellent dish using about a pound of the fish. If not, you must, of course, take the fresh- water variety which I speak of in detail in Chapter 29. Skin a couple of eels, clean, parboil, and divide them into two-inch fillets for stewing. Put into your stew-pan two ounces of butter, with a Bombay onion sliced ; stir over the fire for five minutes, and add half a pint of claret, and half a pint of fish stock, with a clove of garlic, a carrot cut up, and a bag of sweet herbs : boil this for ten minutes, stirring it well with your wooden spoon ; now throw in a salt-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of spiced pepper, the rind of a lime, and place the pieces of eel in the midst. Simmer this for half an hour. Arrange the pieces of the fish upon the hot dish, strain the gravy rapidly, thicken it, re-heat it almost to boiling point, add a pinch of sugar, and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and pour it round the fish. 3.—Cut up and cook a couple of nice chickens as ex- plained for ygoulet A la St. Lambert Chicken a la Viiie- (page 441). After the pieces of chicken have been stewed in their own broth, drain them, and make a rich veloute with the latter, thickening it with yolks of egg like custard. Dip the pieces of chicken in the thick sauce, and let them get cold ; then bread-crumb them, and fry them a golden yellow in boiling fat. Drain them, and pile them on a napkin, garnished459 MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. with small potato cluchcsscs, and fried parsley. Send the rest of the sauce round in a boat after adding to it a heaped-up table-spoonful of minced mushrooms. 4. Roast the loin to a turn, serve it with potatoes cooked in your favourite manner, red currant Loin of mutton with ielly, and a jniree of Bombay onions onion sauce. ... , . , n . , , which should go round m a boat. For onion puree d la Soubise, you must simmer three onions, in sufficient stock or milk to cover them, till tender, mash them, and pass them, through the sieve ; work into the pulp that you then get a coffee-cupful of cream, or milk enriched with the yolk of an egg, with a little gravy ; flavour with a little pepper, and salt, heat it up as hot as possible, and serve. Its consistency ought to be that of thick custard ; no flour please. If the onions be permitted to brown, and the puree be served of that colour, the sauce is called ci la Bretonne. 5. —The Jerusalem artichoke is one of the most useful vegetables we get. This is a very Jerusalem arti- simple, yet tasty dish of them; its chokes baked with ’ . " . , 7 cheese. correct name is topinambours au gra- tia :—Boil the artichokes till quite tender, then mash them with a silver fork, moistening them with cream (or milk with the yolk of an egg), season with salt and pepper, place the artichoke in a buttered pie-dish, or in buttered coquilles, give the surface a layer of grated cheese, and bake till it takes colour. Let the vegetable rest upon its own merits for flavour: you do not want spices, or sauces : the cream is, of course, a grand adjunct, and the cheese harmonizes pleasantly with the general tone of the composition. 6. —Prepare six or eight neatly shaped slices of fried bread. Take from a tin of caviare Caviare toasts. , . enough roe to cover each piece nicely.MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 460 Choose a small sauce-pan, melt an ounce of butter in it, stir in the caviare, dust it well with Nepaul pepper, and add the juice of a lime. When piping hot, spread the caviare over the fried bread (which should have been kept in the oven) and send up the canapes without delay. Or,—spread the caviare cold over the cold fried bread, mask the surface with thick mayonnaise sauce, and garnish with a turned olive upon each. This method is infinitely the better of the two. 7.—Steep an ounce of gelatine in cold water. Make a rich custard with ten yolks of eggs, Orleans pudclmg. -><• three-quarters of a pound of sugar, and a quart of boiled milk. Add the gelatine to the cus- tard while the latter is hot, and stir it until it is dissolved ; flavour it with essence of almond, then strain it into a bowl. Cut up one ounce of candied orange peel, one ounce of citron, one ounce of raisins, and one ounce of currants, wash them well, dry them, and then toss the minced con- fitures in a frying-pan with a small tumbler of rum : as soon as the rum is absorbed, stop and take the pan off the fire. Put a mould upon ice, pour a layer of custard into it first with some of the minced fruit; when set, put a layer of crushed ratafias, then another layer of custard with fruit, again crushed ratafias, and so on till the mould is filled, cover it in ice and let it rest for an hour, then turn it out and serve. If cream be used instead of milk for the custard, a richer result may be obtained; a good pudding is nevertheless to be made with milk. Half these quantities will be enough for a party of six, i.c., a pint mould. Genoises ail cliocolat. Genoise Pastry.—Take four ounces of the freshest butter, put it in a bowl, and warm it until it can be beaten461 MENU FOB A DINNER OF SIX. with a fork, adcl to it four ounces of powdered loaf sugar, and beat the two together until a smooth white cream is obtained, then add one egg, and keep on beating the mix- ture till it is smooth again, then add three more eggs in the same manner. The germ of the eggs should be re- moved. Lastly, incorporate quickly four ounces of fine flour with the mixture, and as soon as the paste thus form- ed is smooth, turn it out to the thickness of half an inch on a buttered flat tin, which must be put into the oven at once. "When done, turn out the slab of Gtnoise, and put it to cool, underside uppermost, on a sieve. The baking may take from half to three-quarters of an hour according to circumstances. Ascertain if it be done by inserting the blade of a small knife in it, if this comes out clamp, the cake is not ready, and a little further baking is necessary. Take the slab of Genoise, spread on the top of it the thinnest possible coating of apricot jam, then a coating of chocolate icing. Put it into a very hot oven for rather less than a minute to set, take it out, and place it in a cold place to get cool. Then cut it up with a cutter into any shapes you like. Chocolate Icing.—Put into a sauce-pan six ounces of powdered loaf sugar, three ounces of grated chocolate, a tea-spoonful of vanilla essence, and about a gill of rose- water ; stir on the fire until the mixture melts and assumes the consistence of a thick smooth cream. Take care of the sweetening if you use chocolat Menier already sweetened.IVEEJIsrXJ INTO XV. For a dinner of six. Potage de lievre. Merlans au sauce piquante. Croquettes de volaille, aux pointes d’asperges. Pricandeau de bceuf. Ballotines de cailles. Epinards a la ‘ Wyvern.’ “ Tipsy pudding.” 1.—Skin, clean, and thoroughly wash the hare, saving all the blood you can in a cup : cut it Hare soup. . . , up into small pieces, and put them into a stew-pan with half pound of clarified suet, two sliced onions, a sliced carrot and a little bundle of herbs ; season with pepper and salt, and fry the meat over a brisk fire for five minutes. Make a roux (brown thickening) in another stew-pan, with two ounces of butter, and two and a half ounces of flour: moisten this with a quart and a half of beef consomme made as usual from the soupmeat, and add four glasses of portwine, or claret. When well in- corporated, pour this into the pan containing the pieces of hare, and let them stew in it very slowly till thoroughly done. Now drain off the liquor from the meat bones, &c., put the neatest pieces of the hare on one side for eventual serving with the soup, and set them in the bain-maric- pan to keep warm. Next return the liquor in which theMENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 463 hare was cooked to the stew-pan, set it on the fire, and let it throw up all grease, &c., in the form of scum, which skim off carefully. Now take a small sauce-pan, and mix therein the blood you saved, and some of the soup cooled slightly from the stew-pan : thoroughly amalgamate these (in the bain-marie), and when well blended, add the mixture slowly through the pointed tin strainer, to the gradually re-heating soup. Let it come nearly to the boil, and then serve it over the pieces of hare you preserved. This is Gouffb’s receipt simplified. There are other ways of making hare soup, especially that called potage d la puree cle lievere, which are always popular. The puree is, of course, assisted with pounded meat, red currant jelly, lime juice, and plenty of portwine. See Menu No. XIX. 2.—Divide three nice whitings in fillets. Dip them in batter (according to my old receipt) sauce^wllltings sha,P and fry them a crisp golden yellow in a bath of boiling fat. Drain them and serve with the following sauce in a boat,—fry a Bombay onion finely minced, with one clove of garlic also minced, in butter at the bottom of a sauce-pan ; when turning brown, put in a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of sugar, a coffee-cupful of vinegar, and a pint of fish stock. A tea-spoonful of red currant jelly may next be stirred in, and a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. As soon as the mixture becomes nicely flavoured, and the juices of the various ingredients appear to be extracted, strain off the sauce. Now cut up a table-spoonful of minced pickled gherkins (cornichons), add the mince to the strained gravy, heat it up to concert pitch, and send it round with your fried fish in a boat. 3-—Proceed with a nice sized chicken or small fowl as though you were going to make qitenel- wi^aspa^agusles> viz- Lightly roast it. Cut off the best meat, and put it aside. SaveMENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 464 all bones, skin and scraps, and make a nice clear white broth with them. Take of the fowl meat two parts, of cold boiled tongue one part, and of truffles one part. Mince all very finely and mix them together. Melt an ounce of butter in a sauce-pan, stir into it a table-spoonful of flour, moisten it with some broth, and then add the mince: flavour it with salt, pepper, and a little powdered thyme to taste, and stir it over the fire for three or four minutes : take it off the fire, and add two eggs beaten up with the juice of a lime and strained. Spread the mince out upon a large dish (it should be pretty stiff) and let it get cold. Now divide it into six or eight egg-shaped croquettes, introduce in the centre of each a piece of truffle the size of a shilling, bread-crumb them and fry them a very light gold colour. Prepare a circle of mashed potato, place it neatly in the dish you intend for your entr&e, dispose the croquettes care- fully round it, and between every croquette put a crispy fried curl of bacon, while a slice of truffle may repose upon each of them. For the “ asparagus points,” you must cut off the green ends of the stalks taken out of a tin of asparagus, and set them aside. Heat the stalks gently up in the chicken broth you drew from the scraps ; take them out, press all the juice and pulp from them, and put this back into the broth ; add the liquor from the tin, thicken with a quarter of an ounce of butter and a quarter of an ounce of flour, stir in a dessert-spoonful of cream ; lastly put in the aspa- ragus points, heat up, and pour the mixture into the middle of your potato circle. Fricandeau of beef. -A fricandeau ought, I believe, to be reserved for a fillet of veal only, but I am bold enough to suggest your trying one with beef, thus :—Get two undercuts of the sirloin if one be too small, trim them into a neat shape, and attach them together by two good skewers. Lard them freely with fat bacon. IfMENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 465 you cannot lard, having no needle, you must introduce a slice of bacon into each fillet by making therein a longi- tudinal incision ; slip into it your slice of bacon, and pin the lips of the incised meat together with a small skewer. The fricandeau is now ready for the stew-pan, into which please put the trimmings of the meat, two ounces of carrot sliced, two ounces of onion sliced, a pinch of salt, a pinch of sugar, and a pinch of pepper:—place your fillets upon the vegetables, and pour into the pan half a pint of good gravy; let this cook slowly up to boiling point, and keep it on the fire till the broth has somewhat reduced and thickened : then add a pint more gravy, and let it simmer for an hour with the pan half covered. Now close your pan : put some live charcoal on the lid, which lift every five minutes or so to admit of your basting the meat under it. Continue this until you have glazed the fricandeau, then take it out, and dish it on a very hot dish. Quickly strain the gravy from the stew-pan, skim off any grease there may be, pour it over the meat, and serve. Put a puree of sorrel, vide Menu No. XII, upon a hot dish, lay the fricandeau thereon, and let potatoes a /’ Americaine accompany it. o.—A quail for each guest. These should be boned, „ „ „ ,. stuffed with a little cooked bacon, and some turkey forcemeat (page 119), then sewn up, rolled in little cloths, and gently simmered in broth. When done, put them under a weight, let them get cold, take off their cloths, and glaze them. Now set them on a dish which should be kept on ice, and serve them garnished with olives farcies, and hand round iced tar tare. 6- This is merely the usual puree of spinach, nicely worked up with cream, and delicately tered'eggb W'th but’ flavoured, formed in a circular shape in its dish, with a layer of well made buttered-eggs,” resting on the surface of the greens. 44466 MENU FOB A DINNER OF SIX Little fleurons of puff pastry should be arranged round the outside of the circle. 1 ■ Cut up a stale Madeira cake into slices, and with Tipsy pudding. them Une fche bofetom of a lai'ge g^SS dish, tipsify them with rum, wine, or any nice liqueur and spread a layer of any good jam over them, or one of preserved fruit like cherries, peaches, or apricots. Make a rich custard, flavour it with vanilla and add to it an ounce of dissolved gelatine. When cold, set the dish on ice and pour a very little of the custard round the cake and fruit, letting it set by degrees. When at length the cake, &c., is firmly congealed in custard, com- plete its covering with the rest thereof, and let it consoli- date. Garnish the surface with whipped cream, and serve straight from the ice. Beef Olives. Cut thin slices of tender, well beaten steak two inches wide by six inches long. Beat up two eggs, season them with pepper and salt, add some chopped Oxford or Bologna sausage meat, spread a thin layer of this over the surface of the meat, and roll up each olive tightly and neatly, and tie it up with a piece of tape. Put into a stew-pan some dice of streaky bacon, and an ounce of clarified beef suet; fry, and when turning colour, put in the olives, and fry them in the fat until they begin to take colour, then take them out, and lay them by. Fry some onions a gold colour in butter, add a very little flour, sweet herbs, a few mushroom trimmings, pepper and salt quant, suff: and moisten with some very good gravy or stock ; let the sauce boil, then strain it and carefully lay the olives in it to simmer till done and ready to be served ; the sauce should cover them in the sauce-pan. Remove the tapes before dishing up.467 MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. It will be observed that olives are not used in this dish at all. It is difficult to discover how the word was chosen to represent little rolls of beef containing sausage saljncon. The following recipe I have to acknowledge with thanks from “ Bahut Bursina” :— “ Beignets d’Avenches.—Take a new loaf and cut it into slices three-quarters of an inch thick. Trim off all crust, cut into convenient slices, marinade in sweetened milk, or in cream if available, flavoured with your favourite essence. Take up the slices, drain them, and fry them in a deep bath of boiling fat, or butter, till a golden yellow7: spread apricot or any nice preserve over them, and serve It would be better perhaps to call the dish croiltes d I’Avenches, for by the word beignet we generally understand that the thing to be fried is dipped in batter. hot.”jS/XE 1ST XT INTO- XVI. For a dinner of six, Potage a la puree de becassines. Crepinettes de poisson. Cbtelettes de mouton a la Milanaise. Dinde braisee, au cbou-fleur. Pain de foie gras. Asperges en branches. Souffle au chocolat. 1.—Make a good strong stock for six basins (at least a quart and a half) with a shin of beef, and one good-sized chicken cut up into fragments; flavour it highly with sweet herbs, and mixed vegetables. Take six snipe, and lightly roast them : pick the whole of the meat from their breasts, and save it; mash the bones that remain, and put them in a bowl with the trails. When the stock is quite ready, strain it, return it to the pot, and throw into it the bowl- ful of mashed snipe bones, two glasses of marsala, a dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly, and a tea-spoonful of crystal vinegar. Let the contents of the pot boil and then simmer slowly for an hour, skimming off any scum that may rise, and when you have thus extracted the essence of the snipe fragments, strain the liquor from theMENU FOB A DINNER OF SIX. 469 bones, and set it in a bowl to cool. Nowpass the snipe meat that you saved through the mincing machine, and pound it thoroughly to a paste, using a little of the soup to help that operation. When the pounded meat is ready, skim any fat that may have risen on the surface of your soup, take a roomy sauce-pan, place it on the fire, put an ounce of butter into it, stir into the butter an ounce of Hour, work it to a smooth paste, and then add, by degrees, both soup and snipe paste, keeping the spoon at wor'k the whole time. When all is expended, let the puree reach the boil in order to thicken properly. At the last, add a glass of marsala, a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, and the juice of a good lime. Now get your tureen ready, break a raw egg into a cup, saving the yolk carefully ; mix a little of the soup with the yolk, and when well mixed, pass it through a perforated strainer into the tureen. Lift the sauce-pan from the lire, and pour the soup over the strained egg. Serve. Additional richness would be ob- tained if you were to pour into the tureen with the soup, stirring as you did so, a coffee-cupful of boiling cream. 2.—Choose a piece of any nice fish, and about an equal amount of prawns—the whole being cake? r°Ued ln Pan sufficient for six portions. Boil the fish and prawns, and when cold.makeanice salpicon, or coarse mince of them, with some chopped parsley and herbs. Mix the mince in a sauce-pan with some white sauce made from the fish broth, and bind it with a couple of eggs, let it get cold again, and divide it into six nice portions, just as you wouldfor “kramouskys.” Now make a large pan-cake, or two small ones, and when not quite done, take them from the pan, spread them on a fiat dish, and from them cut six pieces about four inches square. Place your salpicon portions in the centre of each, and wrap them up neatly, set the folded pancakes on a well-buttered flat au gratin dish, egg them, bread-crumb them with finely470 ' MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. rasped crust crumbs, pour some melted butter over them, and bake until a nice golden brown ; serve in the same dish, laid upon a napkin. The pancakes should be nice and thin, and you should season your salpicon with spiced pepper. Dutch sauce, or Hollandaise (page 95), should accom- pany. Mutton cutlets Milanaise fashion. 3.—This is a dish of neck chops, nicely trimmed, which have been larded with bacon and set en marinade all day, and then bread- crumbed, secundum artem, with finely sifted crumbs, some minced parsley, a very little shallot, and a little grated cheese, all shaken together, the crumbs and cheese in equal proportions. When nicely crumbed with this mixture, the cutlets must be fried a golden yellow in abundance of fat, and served round a hollow mould of savoury rice, Menu No. VI, with some maccaroni d V Italienne in the hollow in the centre, a recipe for which will be found at page 203. 4.—Truss the bird nicely, lard its breast, stuff it with very carefully made turkey stuffing as braised.6 ” 111 1 k e •' explained at page 119, and place it in a deep stew-pan upon a bed of sliced bacon. Put a couple of sheep’s trotters, cut into small pieces, round it, with a sliced Bombay onion, two carrots, some chopped sweet herbs, whole peppercorns, lime peel, and a clove of garlic. Pour into the pan a good pint of gravy made from the giblets, trimmings, and any scraps you may have, with a wine-glassful of marsala, and cook the bird gently for about three hours, with live coals on the stew-pan lid, as well as under the vessel during the latter part of the operation. Brown the larding on the breast by passing a red hot iron close to it, and serve. Strain the gravy, thicken it, add some minced lean bacon or ham to it, and send it round in a boat, potatoes and cauliflower accompanying.471 MENU FOB A DINNER OF SIX. 5. —A small tin of pdtd de foie-gras will do for this little party. Cut a thick slice of fat bacon Mould of foie-gras. . , ,. •., into dice, and fry it with a seasoning of spiced pepper, some minced shallot, parsley, and mar- joram : when the bacon is melted, add some finely minced liver (that of the foregoing turkey could be spared), fry it in the hot bacon, and then turn the contents of your sauU- pan into a bowl to cool. Now open the pdte, pick out the pat it forcemeat which surrounds the foie-gras, add the cooled liver and bacon, together with the crumb of a roll, soaked in a stock, say about a quarter the bulk of the meat, with three well beaten eggs and pass this through the sieve: cut two ounces of cooked bacon into dice : you have now three things:—the bacon dice, the pounded forcemeat and roll, and the foie-gras. Cut the foie-gras into little squares, choose a nice sized plain mould, butter it, and pack it with alter- nate layers of forcemeat, bacon dice, and squares of foie-gras, according to fancy:—when packed, steam the mould in your bain-marie for three-quarters of an hour; let it get cold, turn it out, glaze, and ice it. Serve with dry toast. 6. —One remark only here: Please do not spoil your asparagus by pouring an indifferent hofparagUS servfd white sauce made of flour and water- over it. All you have to do is this : gently warm the asparagus in its own tin in the bain-marie- pan (immersed in a bath of hot water), drain it from its liquor as soon as it is hot (if you keep it longer it will be spoilt) and turn it carefully into a hot dish. Put a pat of fresh butter or pour a coffee-cupful of boiling cream on the top of it, give it a squeeze of a lime, and serve. A pat of matte d’hdtel or anchovy butter may with advantage supply the place of plain butter. N.B.—For heaven’s sake, no toast. 7. —For the chocolate souffle take two ounces of choco-MENU FOB A DIN NEB OF SIX. 472 Chocolate souffle ^e’ an<^ Srate ^ into half apint of milk, add a few drops of vanilla essence, and boil the milk so that the chocolate may become thoroughly dissolved: when this has been done, the flavoured milk should be thickened with two tea-spoonfuls of potato flour, or well dried imported flour, then strained, and set to get cold. The yolks of four eggs and a glass of liqueur should then be beaten up with the cold batter, the whites of six eggs being added in the shape of a stiff froth just before baking. A proper souffle case or tin should be used to ensure success. Gateau Napolitain. Take of powdered lump sugar the weight of twelve eggs in their shells, and take half that weight of potato flour; separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs, beat up the latter with the sugar, adding a few drops of essence of lemon. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, mix the two together, and incorporate with the mixture, quickly and effectually, the potato flour, beating it all the time with the egg whisk. Pour into a plain mould, buttered. Bake in a quick oven until done. When cold, cut the cake in hori- zontal slices half an inch thick. Spread half the slices of cake with apricot jam, and half with chocolate icing. Ar- range the slices one over the other, so as to form the cake again. Trim the slices neatly, and ice the cake com- pletely over with chocolate icing. This must be done quickly, and the icing should be kept hot, for it soon sets. Ornament the cake with any bonbons or sweet-meats, which must be put on before the icing has time to cool. .'BIVEEIXTTT INTO. XVIL ♦ For a dinner of six. Consomm6 cl’abatis. Dames cle seer en papillotes. Cotelettes de mouton au macedoine de legumes. Oie rotie aux choux de Bruxelles. Moringakai au gratin. Creme Garibaldi. 1.—Prepare the usual beef consomme or stock. Take the giblets of the goose which forms Cleai Biblet soup. par(; ^ menu> ciean them carefully, cut them up small, and put them with an ounce of butter into a stew-pan with an onion shredded finely, and fry them a pale golden colour; add a glass of marsala, and a little beef consomme, reduce to a glaze, and then pour in the re- mainder of the consomme. Now throw in an onion, a clove of garlic, a muslin bag of sweet herbs, a stick of celery, a carrot, a dozen peppercorns, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, and one of salt. Simmer for two hours. When satisfied that you have extracted the flavour of the giblets, stop, strain the liquor, colour it with caramel, let it get cold, skim off all grease, clarify it if necessary, give it half a glass of marsala and a drop or two of tabasco, and serve very hot. For thick giblet soup, you must thicken with butter and flour, after the straining stage, and serve it with croiltons 45474 MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. of fried bread. I denounce the serving of fragments of the giblets in either the thick or clear soup. The flavour is all you require. 2-—For these please turn to page 62. If at all in doubt concerning the grilling, you can bake paper.68 °f S6ei " *he sFces in their papers, and serve them intact. 3.—Take the best cutlets (small chops) you can get from a neck of mutton, trim them neatly, mked vTgetUablesWith marinade, grill them over a brisk, clear fire : when done, arrange them round a circle of nicely mashed potato, in the centre of which must be placed a sauce au macedoine de legumes, which I have already explained (page 91) ; some French beans, a carrot, a turnip, and a piece of cucumber, previously boiled, cut into small dice, and heated up in some well made sauce blonde, a few green peas, and some pieces of boiled celery may be added if you can get them. 4.—Pick, draw, singe, truss, and stuff the goose (see page 120). Roast it before a clear Roast goose. _ , ..... fire, and serve it with either apple or tomato sauce in a boat: potatoes and Brussels-sprouts (if in season) should accompany. A capital addition to the goose’s gravy is to be made in this way. After you have cut a slice into the breast, let the gravy run out for a moment, then add to it in the dish (tipped up) a salt-spoon- ful of salt, a salt-spoonful of Nepaul pepper, a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, and a glass of portwine. Stir these ingredients into the gravy, baste the bird well with it, and go on with the carving. Buy enough young moving a pods to yield seeds enough to fill a little pie-dish. Boil them, and scrape out the seeds, and the tender fiesh inside the pods, into a basin : 5.- Baked drumstick seeds with cheese.475 MENU FUll A DINNER OF SIX. stir into this a table-spoonful of cream, or a coffee-cupful of milk in which the yolks of two eggs have been well beaten ; season with salt and pepper, and add a few drops of anchovy essence ; pass this into a well-buttered pie-dish, and grate over the surface a good layer of Parmesan or any nice mild dry cheese. Bake for a quarter of an hour, and serve. If you can bake and serve the mixture in silver coqidlle shells,—one for each guest,—the entremets will, of course, look nicer. 6.—Make a rich custard with a pint of cream and a pint „ ., ... of milk, sugar to taste, and the yolks (_Taribaldi cream. u \ of eight eggs. Dissolve and stir in an ounce and a half of isinglass. Flavour it with any essence you like, strain it, and divide it into three basins; colour the first a bright red with cochineal, the second green with spinach greening, and leave the third its original colour. Whip each separately to a froth. These operations must be done while the custard is still warm. Set according to the following process :—Lay a mould on ice, pour some of the red cream into it to the thickness of about an inch. When this is set, pour in a similar layer of the plain cream, and, when this is set, pour in a layer of the green cream. Go on pouring in layers in the same way until the mould is filled. When the cream is quite set, turn it out, and serve. Care must be taken in pouring in each kind of cream to get every layer the same depth. This is best done by measuring with water how much liquid will go to make a layer of the lequiied thickness, and then getting a cup which just holds that quantity, and using it to measure the cream.jvi:e] rxrcr isro- xvm. —♦ For a dinner of six. Consomme de grandes crevettes. Filets de pomfret, sauce au persil. Croustades de foie-gras. Chapon braise, au puree de navets. Ortolans des Indes. Bandecai au gratin. Little angel puddings. 1. —Prepare your ordinary beef consomme from your daily allowance of soup meat. Pick a Clear prawn soup. , , . , in, dozen good sized prawns, shell them, wash the shells, and clean the prawns. Put both shells and prawn meat, with half an ounce of salt, into a stew- pan, boil, and then simmer till the meat is tender. Now strain, blend the consomme with the prawn broth; put in twelve peppercorns, a dessert-spoonful of basil tied up in a muslin bag, a bunch of parsley, and a stick of celery. Let this come to the boil, and then simmer gently for an hour; strain again, clarify if necessary, and finish with a glass of marsala, and the squeeze of a lime. 2. —Cook the fillets in milk as I described at page 89, Fillets of pomfret or tie them in little r°lls> and simmer with parsley sauce. them in a fish broth made from the bones and trimmings of the fish they were cut from, flavour-All MENU FOB A DINNER OF SIX. ed with a few vegetables. Make a melted butter sauce diluted with the broth in which your fillets were boiled, and add to it a table-spoonful of finely minced parsley, and a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar: stir in the yolk of a raw egg off the fire before serving. 3. —Choose six or eight nice rolls that have been baked in small round tins : scoop out the Bread cases with crumb, and make hollow cases of them foie-gras. ’ ’ then fry them a golden yellow in but- ter. Open a small tin oipdte clc foie-gras, and make a cup- ful of thick Bspagnole sauce (page 104). Proceed to pack your cases in this way:—first butter them, then fill them neatly with foie-gras, pouring some sauce round the layers to moisten them, put a curl of crisply fried bacon on the top of each croustade, bake them till quite hot, and dish upon a napkin. 4. —Prepare a well-fed capon as if for boiling, cutting off all superfluous bones, the pinions, tu“ capon Wlth neck and legs below the joint, which, with the heart, gizzard, and liver (the giblets), throw into as much water as will cover them; adding a carrot and an onion sliced, and some whole pep- pers. Whilst this is producing a broth, stuff, and lard the capon with strips of fat bacon, and fill the cavity of its carcass with a couple of large onions. When your broth is ready, choose a deep stew-pan, and lay some slices of bacon in it: put in the bird therein, with a carrot cut into slices, celery leaves and stalks, two onions, peppercorns, a bunch of parsley, some dried thyme in a muslin bag, the broth and a glass of sherry. Braise the bird in this till done :— Meanwhile pound the liver you boiled in the broth, and get ready some tomato pulp (say) a tea-cupful. Lift out the capon, and dish it upon some previously boiled maccaroni: strain off the gravy in which it was braised, thicken it, add the liver, and tomato pulp, give it a rapid boil up, and pour478 MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. it over the bird. Tlie stuffingof the capon helps to preserve its juiciness, and lends a nice flavour to it. Serve with a puree of young turnips, and potatoes d la viadtre cl’hotel. 5.—The ortolan of India is, I think, the “cholum bird” which is easily procurable late in the Indian ortolans. m . year, iruss the cholum birds, put a slice of bacon inside them, wrap a piece of bacon round each bird and cover that with a vine leaf : tie the leaf and bacon in their place with a tape. Roast over a brisk fire, serving each little bird on a square of very hot buttered toast, gar- nished with water cress : sauce higaraclc or good bread sauce should go round in a boat, and a plate of fried bread- crumbs. Bandecai au gratin. 6. —Butter a small pie-dish liberally, then fill it with the pulp and seeds of some well boiled tender bandecais : dust the pulp with white pepper and some grated cheese, and pour a little milk in which the yolk of an egg has been beaten (or cream if you can allow it) in amongst the pulp, dust a layer of cheese over the surface, and bake for ten or twelve minutes; or the bandecai mixture can be baked in coquillc shells, which should be served on a napkin. 7. —One ounce of flour, one ounce of bread-crumbs, any essence to flavour, two ounces of sugar, Angel puddings. £wo ounces of butter melted in half pint of milk, and two eggs, well beaten up. Mix well: bake in small, buttered patty-pans till browned, then turn them out, and serve on a napkin, powdered sugar dusted over all, and sauce a la Rogalc in a boat (Menu No. 27).nVTENTTJ 1NTO- XIX. For a party of six. Purbe cle lifevre. Pomfret k la Provenqale. Blanquette de volaille. Longe de mouton farcie. Turban de becassines. Ma'is & l’Ambricaine. Soupirs de nonne. 1.—In a previous menu I gave you a recipe for a hare soup, simplified from that given by Haie soup (Pmee). Qouff£ There is, however, another and a richer kind of soup, with which the pounded meat of the hare is incorporated. This is a national and very popular concoction. It is composed in the following way :—Make your ordinary amount of stock from a shin and a half of beef. As the stock is being made, clean, and cut up the hai’e, saving the blood. Let the pieces soak for half an hour, or so, in cold water. When the beef gravy is ready, put the pieces of hare into a large stew-pan with a bacon, or ham bone, or a few lean slices of either, an anchovy, three Bombay onions cut into quarters, three carrots sliced, a bag containing a dessert-spoonful each of marjoram, thyme, and parsley, the rind of two limes, and a dozen peppercorns, and cover the whole with the stock. Let this simmer very480 MEN l1 FOB. A PARTY OF SIX. gently for three hours, after it has once slowly attained boil- ing point. At the end of that time, strain the liquor from the meat, &c., and set it to get cool. Take the meat out, and lay the pieces on a large dish. Choose the back fillets, pick the meat from the bones, and pound it to a paste in a mortar, moistening it with a little soup to assist the operation; as soon as you have got the meat satisfactorily pounded, work it through the sieve, and save the pulp that you get carefully. Now take another stew-pan, place it on the fire, melt an ounce of butter in it, and work into it an ounce of flour; when you have got a nice paste, add a little soup with which the blood has been mixed, continue stirring, and, with the aid of an assistant, go on adding soup, and pounded meat, till you have exhausted the whole, stirring without ceasing ; now add half a pint of portwine, a table-spoonful of red currant jelly, and a table-spoon- ful of crystal vinegar, or lime juice. Let the soup come almost to the boil, so as to thicken properly, and become thorougly blended. It can then be served. Pomfret with Pro- venijale sauce. 2.—Boil the fish, and serve it with this sauce:—Put into a sauce-pan a coffee-cupful of the best salad oil, an onion, a tomato, a clove of garlic, and a table-spoonful of mushrooms, all finely chopped up ; when this has been on the fire a few minutes, add a table-spoonful of flour, stir it well, and pour in a glass of chablis, sauterne, or hock, with half a pint of fish broth ; add a dessert-spoonful of finely minced thyme, marjoram, parsley, and lime peel, all mixed together, a pinch of sugar, with salt and pepper to taste : let the sauce simmer slowly for half an hour, then strain and serve. This can be got ready early in the day, and kept hot in the bain-marie, or be re-heated when the time comes for its service. 3.—This I would serve within a casserole of savoury rice481 MENU FOB A PARTY OF SIX. garnished with curls of crisply fried Blanquette of fowl. and bunches of cuvly parsley. For the blanquette:—slightly roast a young, well-fed fowl, covering the breast with buttered paper to prevent its burning: when done, put it on a dish, and let it get cold. Then carve it neatly, cutting the white meat off in nice little round fillets, and saving the wings, merrythought, &c. Take the bones, skin, giblets (previously saved), trimmings, and coarser meat of the drumsticks, and heat them well with your pestle. Next throw them into a sauce- pan, with as much clear stock as will cover them, a glass of sherry, and the usual proportion of vegetables, especially celery, a bag of savoury herbs, lime peel, and a pinch of sugar. Make with this an excellent fowl consomme, an essence as it were, adding six pomaded sweet, and one bitter almond. When quite ready, strain it off, and thicken it as for vcloute. Then having got a rich, creamy, delicately flavoured white sauce, put into it all your pieces of fowl, with some pellets of tongue cut like gun wads rather thickly, some sweetbreads (if you can get them), some button mushrooms, a few oysters trimmed free from their beards, a few slices of truffle, the liver of the fowl minced, and some grated lean bacon or ham. Gently,—ever so gently mind,— heat up the blanquette, and let it simmer for half an hour over a low fire ; the various flavours will thus be extracted, and your plat be ready to serve whenever you want it. A table-spoonful of cream, or the yolks of two raw eggs beaten in a cup with a little of the sauce should be added, and stirred well in as a finishing touch. 4.—Bone the .loin, introduce a number of slices of bacon under the flap, fill the inside with a to^Ttuffed!" 0t mut forcemeat made with three ounces of bread-crumb, the meat of the undercut chopped up small, with the kidney (scalded first), and some of the nicest fat, seasoned with herbs, spiced pepper, chop- 46482 MENU FOR A PARTY OF SIX. ped bacon, a little onion, and any mushroom, or truffle parings you may have been able to spare from the blanqzcette. Bind the salpicon with four eggs, and spread it thickly over the inside of the boned loin, then roll the joint up, and tie it firmly into shape,—do not skewer it. Now braise the loin in a gravy made from its own bones and trimmings, with a glass of marsala, a clove of garlic, and scraps of vegetables of all kinds arranged round it. When done, and nicely browned, lift up the loin, remove the string, and dish it on a layer of boiled maccaroni. Strain off the gravy, throw away the garlic, and pass all the vegetables through the sieve; thicken the gravy, add the vegetable pulp, and when thoroughly incorporated, pour it round the loin and serve. 5.—A snipe for each head. Begin by roasting the snipe lightly, then cut off the meat of the Turban of snipe. . , ... ..r , > breast whole m nllets. Mash the rest, trails and all, and throw the debris into a large sauce-pan with a pint and-a-half of well-made beef gravy, an onion cut up, a stick of celery, a carrot, sweet herbs in a bag, a clove of garlic, salt to taste, a tea-spoonful of sugar, and the peel of a lime. Simmer as soon as the contents of the sauce-pan have come to the boil, for an hour or more, and get the essence out of the snipe bones. When that has been done, strain off your gravy, and set it to get cool. Pick all the snipe meat from the bones of the thighs and back, with the livers, &c., and pound the whole with half its bulk of bread (soaked in stock) in a mortar, add the pounded meat of a lightly roasted chicken with its liver, and mix them thoroughly with two raw eggs; season the mix- ture with spiced pepper, and dilute it with some of the gravy; when worked sufficiently, put it into a border mould, and steam it gently. Turn it out when done, garnish the top of the turban with the snipe heads and beaks, and with a fillet (heated separately in the gravy)MENU FOR A PARTY OF SIX. 483 between each head and serve piping hot. The centre of the mould may contain the contents of a tin or black Leicestershire mushrooms, also heated in the gravy. The gravy itself should be treated thus :—After it has cooled, and you have skimmed it, place a sauce-pan on the fire, with a table-spoonful of butter at the bottom of it; work into the melted butter a dessert-spoonful of flour, and then add your cool gravy, stirring all the time : get an assistant to pour in a glass of portwine, a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, or lime juice, and a dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly ; amalgamate the whole thoroughly, heat up the fillets, and heads in it, and the mushrooms strained from their own gravy. Garnish the turban quickly, as above described, and put the mushrooms inside the mould, pour the gravy over the whole composition, and serve. 6.—Choose half-a-dozen tender cobs of Indian corn. The cobs should be still greenish American tMiy.otherwise they will be too tough. Boil them, and then, with a silver fork, strip the corn from the cobs. When wanted for the table, melt a large pat of fresh butter at the bottom of a sauce-pan, empty the corn into the pan, stir it about add- ing butter, pepper and salt, till it is smoking hot ; then serve. Nun's ters.) sighs Ifrit- 7.—Mix together in a sauce-pan four ounces of flour, and an ounce of fresh butter, add a coffee- cupful of warm milk : stir to the con- sistency of a thick batter : if too thick (it should coat the spoon well when lifted from the sauce- pan) dilute with a little more milk. Stir in one ounce of finely-sifted sugar, and the rasped peel of three nice limes with a few drops of lemon essence. Stir the whole mix- ture over a low fire, thickening it well, but on no account permitting it to boil. When nice and firm, place it on one side to get cool. As serving time approaches, break four484 MENU FOR A PARTY OF SIX. into a bowl separating the yolks from the whites : beat the former, and whisk the latter to a froth. Add the yolks to the cool paste, stir thoroughly and at the last add the whisked whites. Prepare a deep bath of boiling fat, set your frying basket therein; form the paste into por- tions the size of a walnut, pat them into a circular shape with two spoons and fry them one by one in the boiling fat. Each spoonful will expand and form itself into a ball, turning gradually a golden yellow. When they are all done, drain and serve them in a napkin, dusted over with well-powdered sugar, and this sauce in a boat:—Make a nice syrup (not too thick) with white sugar and water, stir in a glass of brandy or Madeira, give it the juice of a lime, and serve hot. G-ateau de pistache. The weight of eight eggs in their shells of finely- Pistachio out eke. Powderfl that «*' W of potato flour, and the same weight of pistachio nuts blanched and skinned. Beat up the sugar and the yolks of eight eggs well together with an egg whisk or with a fork, until the mixture assumes a white creamy appearance. Sprinkle in (beating the mixture all the time) half the potato flour, and add the whites of four eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Then put in, in the same manner, the rest of the flour, the remaining four whites beaten to a froth, and lastly the pistachio nuts pounded to a paste in a mortar. Bake in a slow oven. Meanwhile put the whites of two eggs into a basin with a little lime juice and six ounces of sugar, well work the mixture with a wooden spoon, and as it gets thin, keep on adding more sugar until you get a smooth paste of the consistency of battei-. Lay the icing evenly on the cake with a spatula, put if into the oven for a minute to set t he icing, ornament i485 MENU FOB A PARTY OF SIX. it quickly with strips of citron and preserved cherries, and put it aside to get cold. 4 Chaud-froid a la belle alliance. This is a slight departure from the ordinary school of chaud-fvoids. Take as many cold fonds d’articliauts as you have guests—either fresh fonds or those preserved in tins. Lightly roast a tender fowl, and cut from it when cold as many nice fillets as you have fonds, shaping them so as to tit the tops of the latter. Make a puree, with the scraps of meat left after trimming the fillets, associating with it some pounded mushroom. From a cold boiled tongue cut as many round slices as you have lillets. Make a good veloute with the bones, skin, &c., assisted by a little fresh meat, and reduce as already explained for chaud-froid sauce. Now moisten the puree, with a little sauce, and fill the cavities of the fonds ; over that put the slices of tongue, some morq puree, and then the fillets. Mask the whole with the thick chaud-froid sauce, let them get cold, trim them neatly, set them on a napkin, and garnish each with a piece of truffle. If carefully made, this makes a nice entree.ivtEEsrcr into ^ . For a party of six. Potage a la Nivernaise. Filets cle soles, sauce a la pauvre homme. Filets de lapin a 1’ Italienne. Longe de mouton braisee. Rouelles de sarcelles a la Wyvern. Tomates a 1’ Italieune. “ Queen Mab Pudding.” Souffle a la vanille. 1.—This is a soup in the style of .Julienne, but flavoured , exclusively with carrots. Having set Nivernaise soup. , your soup meat tor stock as usual for a clear soup, you should take four good-sized carrots, wash them well, and cut out of them a number of thickish pieces the size and shape of a pigeon’s egg, or a little smaller. When you have cut a couple of dozen such pieces, throw all the scraps and trimmings of the carrots into the stock pot to flavour the soup well. Shortly before serv- ing time, you must cook the trimmed carrots in this w£<y:—Melt a table-spoonful of butter in a frying-pan, Jrut into it the carrot pieces, which should have been all bflt boiled till soft in the soup, and toss them about over the lire adding a salt-spoonful of powdered sugar, with a dusting of pepper and of salt, and moistening the pan487 MENU FOE' A PARTY OF SIX. with a spoonful of stock as the butter is absorbed; when done, the pieces of carrot will be almost glazed. All you have then to do,—your consomme having been strained, clarified and prepared for serving,—is to put the glazed carrots into the tureen, and pour the soup over them. 2. —Fillet a couple of nice soles, brush the fillets over on one side with egg, dust over that some Sole fillets, with minced parsley and shallot, and roll up poor man s sauce. r J your fillets, seeming each in shape with a tiny skewer. Simmer these fillets carefully in a broth made from their own bones and trimmings, assisted by a spoonful of chablis or sauterne, and a coffee-cupful of stock. When done (which you can find out by testing them with a pointed skewer) place the fillets on a hot dish and cover them up. For the sauce :—Fry a couple of finely-minced onions in butter till they assume a golden tint; stir into this, by degrees, a coffee-cupful of the gravy in which the fillets were cooked. When boiling, sharpen this by adding a tea- spoonful of reduced vinegar, then strain and pour it into another sauce-pan (by degrees) in which some good sauce blanche has been made ; mix thoroughly over the fire, and serve round the fillets. 3. —I do not think that we utilize rabbits as much as we might at Madras. Those who keep it2S?ifty!let" in the them> or can procure them, will find this an exceedingly nice entr&e for a change. Assuming that the rabbit be a plump full-grown one, it will yield six nice fillets as follows :—With a sharp knife detach from either side of the backbone the deep strips of meat which run from the shoulder to the end of the loin : cut out each strip whole, and remove the small nerves or sinews of each, or they will crinkle up in cooking, and look ugly. Cut each strip into three equal portions, cross-wise, flatten them with a bat, trim them neatly, lardMENU FOR A PARTY OF SIX. 488 them with bacon, and lay them in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter and four ounces of streaky bacon cut into dice, toss them till beginning to colour, and then cover them with mirepoix (page 108) or a good broth, with an onion and carrot sliced, some sweet herbs, seasoning, and a glass of marsala; cover the pan, and stew till tender; now take them out, place them under a weight, and when quite cold and firm, dip them into some melted butter or fresh salad oil, and roll them in a mixture of very finely-grated bread- crumbs, and grated mild cheese, in equal proportions, dust over them some spiced pepper, and a little salt and let them rest to set thoroughly. Next dip them carefully in a soup plate containing an egg beaten up, and then roll them again in very fine bread-crumbs. They may he left now till wanted. When that time comes, they must he fried in abundance of fat, and served a pale golden yellow, round a circle of savoury rice, or mciccaroni an pannesan. The centre of the circle may contain any nice puree of vegetable, or petits pois. All the remains of the rabbit, shoulders, legs, &c., can be made into a pie, with a chicken, and left to be cold for breakfast or lunch the next day. Or the meat may be pounded and served as quenelles, or plainly stewed with vegetables for the former meal. Sauce Milanaise (page 91) should accompany this entree. 4. —Braise the loin attentively, strain and thicken the gravy in which it was cooked, and Loin oi mutton serve with red currant jelly, mash- braised. J J ed potatoes delicately browned in the oven, and French beans (properly trimmed, and cooked in the jar, remember) over which a little boiling cream has been poured. 5. —The only part of a teal which the generality of people eat at a dinner party is the Teal fillets, Wyvevn’s breast. There is no time to pick the scantily-covered hack, legs, and wings: way.MENU FOB. A PARTY OF SIX. 489 besides, by the time the game reaches you, your hunger is so far appeased that you feel inclined for a slice, rather than a whole bird. Why waste the part of the bird that is never eaten ? I propose therefore to cut off’ the breasts of the teal, whole, bones and all, and to divide each in half; to marinade these pieces all day in a little oil, lime juice, sliced onion, and sweet herbs, then to grill them over a bright clear fire, and to send them up piping hot, and full of juice straight from the gridiron. Early in the day, when I trimmed the breasts, I would throw every atom of the backs, legs, giblets, &c., into a sauce-pan with the usual concomitants of gravy making, and distil their essence by gentle simmering. This I would strain when done. I would then pick all the meat from the fragments, pound it d la puree, and add it, with butter and flour thicken- ing, to the gravy of the bones, judiciously introducing a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, a dessert-spoonful of lime juice, some caramel colouring, and a glass of red wine, or marsala, with a few drops of ‘ tabasco' or chilli vinegar to finish with. This sauce I would send round in a boat, as hot as possible, following the grilled breasts. Tomatoes Italian way. Queen Mab pudding. in the 6.—For this entremets de l&g-umes, please turn to page 169. 7.—-Boil a pint and a half of milk with a few drops of lemon essence and sugar to taste ; then strain, and let it get cold. Beat up six yolks, and pour the flavoured milk upon them. Put this into the bain-marie, and stir gently over the fire until it thickens. Whip it well. Dissolve an ounce of gelatine in a little milk, add it to the above, and stir the custard until nearly cold, then pour the mixture by degrees into a mould, set upon ice, adding also by degrees two ounces of preserved cherries or finely chopped apricots and one ounce of citron peel or preserved ginger cut very small in layers setting them carefully. When the mould is quite set, turn 47490 MENU FOR A PARTY OF SIX. it out, and serve as cold as possible. For the sauce, tint a tea-cupful of plain syrup a rosy pink with cochineal, flavour this with a liqueur glass of rum, and send it round very cold. 8.—I gave you a chocolate souffle in Menu No. 16; this is Vanilla souffl > an &ntremets sucre of the same family, hut composed of less delicate materials. Mix together in a sauce-pan one table-spoonful of flour, a small piece of fresh butter, half a pint of new milk, and a dessert-spoonful of powdered sugar: stir this over the fire to get thoroughly warm but no more; then put it on one side to get cool, stirring to prevent any scum forming on the surface. When quite cold, stir into it the yolks of four eggs, add a few drops of vanilla flavouring, mix this thoroughly, then throw in a table-spoonful of any liqueur you may have open, and the whites of six eggs whipped to a froth : mix the whole together, pour it into a souffle tin, and hake in an oven at moderate heat. Serve the moment your eye tells you that the souffle is ready. ♦ Potted prawns. Potted prawns, home-made, ought to he oftener seen at Madras, than they are. Whether eaten with cheese, spread on toast, or at office in the form of a sandwich, this preparation is most acceptable. Select some nice sized prawns, boil them, pick out very carefully all the grit, and that black line which runs straight down the back and underneath every prawn : wash them afterwards in cold water, and pour a lot of water over them as they lie on the top of your sieve. When satisfied that you have thoroughly cleaned them, dry them, and toss them in a little melted butter in a frying-pan until they have absorbed the butter; next pass them through the mincing machine ; pound the mince thoroughly in the mortar, and lastly press it through the wire sieve. Season the paste so obtainedMENU FOB A PARTY OF SIX. 491 with salt, white and red pepper, a few drops of anchovy sauce, a little pounded mace, and work the whole together with some nice freshly made butter till thoroughly incorpo- rated: set it in an earthenware jar, and pour a spoonful of melted butter over the surface. This simple dish should be noted :— Cut up a well grown chicken as if for fricassee, and mari- nade the pieces in salad oil with the juice of a lime, an onion sliced in rings, pepper and salt. Half an hour before serving, take out the onion, and wipe the pieces of chicken on a cloth, then dip them in milk, flour them well, and fry in plenty of hot fat accelerating the heat during the pro- cess. When the pieces are cooked, having been fried a golden yellow colour, pile them on a napkin garnished with crisply fried parsley. A nice sauce should accom- pany in a boat, bread sauce, poivrade, or Robert. Take half a pound of sifted flour; put it on the paste board ; make a hole in the centre of the flour ; break three eggs in it; add half an ounce of butter, and a pinch of salt; mix all into a nice smooth paste. Roll the paste out very thin, say about the sixteenth of an inch, let it dry, then cut it into ribbons an inch and a half broad; put live of these ribbons above one another, sprinkling a little flour between each; then with a knife cut through them crosswise, making thin shreds like vermicelli; shake them in a cloth with a little flour to prevent them adhering to one another, then throw them into two quarts of boiling water for six minutes. Use no aides exactly as you would maccaroni. <► Fritot de volaille. Nouilles.tvrwixjTT jsro- For a little home dinner, Potage a la Crecy. Pomfret sauce ravigote. Poitrine cle moutou a la Wyvern. Puree cle pommes cle terre. Aubergines au gratin. Blanc-manger a la vanille. 1. —For the soup, read the receipt already given (page 50). 2. —Boil a little pomfret, and serve it with sauce ravigote (page 94). 3.—Choose a nice breast of mutton, hone it, and put it cn marinade all day in od, vinegar, chopped parsley and shallot (page 70). When wanted, take it up, dry it with a clean cloth. Put it into a stew-pan with two ounces of clari- fied beef suet, and an onion shredded : fry, turning the breast till the onions begin to take colour, then pour in sufficient water to cover it, a tea-spoonful of Brand’s essence, the hones you took out, an onion, a carrot, a piece of celery, black pepper and salt; cover the pan, and stew gently till nearly done, then take it out, drain it, and set it under a weight on a dish to get cold: when cold again, bread- Carrot soup. Pomfret and ravi mete sauce. Breast of mutton a la Wyvern. IMENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 493 crumb it for ordinary baking. Meanwhile strain oft the broth from the bones, &c., set it to cool, and .skim oft the fat. Boil sufficient maccaroni, or nouilles, for two people, and when done, drain oft' the water, and leave the maccaroni in the hot sauce-pan till wanted. Take a roomy sauce-pan, and in it fry a large onion cut into shreds in an ounce of butter till it begins to turn yellow. Cut up a dozen tomatoes into quarters, and put them into the sauce-pan with the butter and onions : stew gently till done : turn them out upon a hair-sieve, work the tomatoes through the sieve; put the pulp which comes through into a sauce-pan, with a little melted butter and flour pre- viously prepared to receive it, and moisten the pulp with the broth you made from the scraps, till you have a nice creamy imree, season with a little salt and black pepper, and stir it into the maccaroni. Keep this hot. Now set the breast in the oven to finish cooking, and brown the crumbs, dishing up as follows :—place the maccaroni upon a very hot dish, put the baked breast of mutton upon it, and serve. For the sauce :—-take the cold broth in which the breast was stewed and flavour it with a tea-spoonful of red cur- rant jelly, a dessert-spoonful each of Harvey and mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of reduced vinegar, and a dessert- spoonful of marsala. Heat up and stir in, off the fire, the yolk of an egg. Send round in a boat, hot. 4. —Mash thepotatoes thoroughly,and work them through a wire sieve to get them smooth, add Mashed potatoes. .. . a little stock, as much butter as you can spare, and a little salt: form with the wooden spoon, and brown the outside in the oven. Do not let your cook waste an egg in endeavouring to glaze the outside of the mould! A well boiled sweet onion may be mashed with the potatoes if not objected to. 5. —Now tins is well worthy of a trial:—Boil a couple494 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. r. . . , .. of nice brinials till tender, cut them in halves lengthways, trim off the stalk neatly and scoop out the inside with a silver spoon, pass it through the sieve to get rid of the seeds, and put it into a bowl: butter the now empty cases, or pods: stir into the inside part that you scooped out a good spoonful of cream, and season with white pepper, salt, and few drops of anchovy sauce. Mix thoroughly, and then re- fill your cases. Shake over the surface a layer of grated Parmesan from the bottle, or any dry mild cheese that will grate. Bake for seven or eight minutes, and serve. 6. Blanch six bitter almonds and two ounces of shelled sweet almonds ; pound them to a paste vanilaCmange w '1 h with a little rosewater ; dilute with a breakfast-cupful of boiling milk, let the liquid stand for an hour, and then strain it. Put into a pint of fresh milk, two ounces of sugar, and vanilla essence to taste ; pour it into an enamelled sauce-pan, and boil slowly till the sugar is dissolved ; then stir in an ounce of dissolved gelatine and pour the liquid through a strainer into a basin. Add the almond liquor, and a coffee-cupful of cream, pour the mixture into a mould, set it in ice, and turn it out when firmly set. Stewed prunes (cold) or any cold stewed fruit or jam may accompany. Half of these ingredients will give a nice little mould for two.3S/TIEJ1NTXJ NO. X>CIL ♦ For a little home dinner. Potage a la Palestine. Croustades de grandes crevettes. Perdreaux a la Soubise. (Eufs a la Suisse. “ Duchesse pudding.” 1.—This is an especially favourite soup with those who Jerusalem artichoke aie fond of the flavoui of the Jerusalem S0UP- artichoke. / There are two methods of composing it : to wit, an maigrc (with milk) and an gras (with stock) : I take the latter as the commoner form. Having washed, peeled, and boiled a nice dish of artichokes, pass them through (the sieve; save the pulp so obtained until your daily allowance of soup meat has yielded sufficient stock for the puree. Now proceed to amalgamate the two in the proper way by melting half an ounce of butter at the bottom of a sauce-pan first,incorporating therewith a dessert-spoonful of flour, and after that has been done, stock, and pulp of artichoke by degrees until you have expended them. Now replace the vessel on the fire for a while, and when the puree comes to the boil, it will be ready to serve. On its way to the table, like all purges, it may be enriched by a496 MENU FOE A LITTLE HOME LIENEE. table-spoonful of cream, or a little fresh milk into which the yolk of an egg has been stirred, but the addition is not essential. An old fowl makes a good stock for this soup, if assisted by a slice or two, or a bone, of bacon, or ham. Fried croutons of bread should be handed round with it. Let those who rejoice in a dairy try the recipe au viaigre thus:—Take as much milk as you want soup, and boil in it twenty peppercorns, some parsley, and a sweet onion. When thoroughly flavoured, strain the milk, mingle the pulp of the artichoke with it as described for stock, and finish it off in the same manner: the cream must be added in this case. 2.—Choose two or three small dinner rolls which have been baked in tins, and will stand Prawn croustades. . , , r. , ,, ,, , upright, bcoop out all the crumb, and fry the cases so obtained a' golden yellow colour in melted butter. Drain them. Now prepare enough boiled prawns to fill them, cut them into quarter-inch pieces, toss them in melted butter, with a little mace, pepper and salt; fill your cases, moistening the salpicon with a little white sauce, shake a little bread-crumb over the surface of each, place them on a buttered baking tin, and heat them for five minutes in the oven; serve as soon as the tops take colour. This recipe can be followed, substitut- ing canned prawns, shrimps, or lobster. 3.—Prepare two partridges as for roasting; fill each of them with a chopped Bombay onion Partridges with sou- (previously boiled in milk) seasoned bis© sfiuce. " with spiced pepper, salt, and rolled in a slice of boiled bacon : cut two ounces of bacon in pieces one inch long and half an inch thick : put half an ounce of butter into a stew-pan, fry the bacon pieces therein, when turning colour, put in the birds, and cook them for eight minutes. Take them out, and put them on a plate sepa- rately. Make a broth with the giblets of the birds, anyMENU FOE A LITTLE HOME DINNEB. 497 scraps you may have, a slice of lean bacon, an onion cut into quarters, a few peppercorns, and a seasoning of salt and pepper: when you have got a broth to your mind, pour it into the stew-pan in which the birds were fried, and simmer the partridges therein until perfectly tender. When done (they will take three-quarters of an hour) take them out, and drain them, replacing them in the hot pan in which they were done, with the cover on. Now strain the liquor in which the birds have been cooked, and with it make a rich soubise sauce as follows:—Simmer four large Bombay onions in milk till tender, drain them, chop them up very fine, pass them through the sieve, and proceed with the stock aforesaid, to make a rich puree; when boiling hot, dish the birds, pour the onion pur&e over them, and serve, garnished with curls of crisply fried bacon. The onions should, of course, be prepared beforehand to prevent delay: the puree ought not to occupy more than ten minutes in pre- paration . A spoonful of cream should be added to it if possible. 5.—Grate four Duchesse pudding. of ratafia essence 4.—Nor this entremets please see page 250. Some people Eggs with cream. call this dish “ CEufs A la creme”. ounces of fine stale crumbs, put them in a basin, and pour over them half a pint of boiling milk and a few drops cover the basin with a plate, and let the liquid soak into the crumbs, and get cold : now stir into the basin four ounces more of crumbs, four ounces of dry, finely minced suet, a pinch of salt, three ounces of crushed ratafias, and three ounces of candied peel sliced thin Next whisk five eggs well, with four ounces of sugar continue to beat them together until the sugar is dissolved then pour them into the basin with the other ingredients and mix well; turn all into a buttered basin, and boil foi two hours. This will be enough for a quart basin or mould half of everything will he sufficient for the home dinner. 48498 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. Sauce a La Car&me may accompany the pudding, made in this way. Beat the yolks of three eggs with two ounces of sugar and a claret-glassful of Madeira; when well mixed, set the sauce in the bain-marie and let it thicken like a custard. When smooth and creamy, serve it in a boat, hot. This is a good sauce with any pudding. You can use marsala instead of Madeira just as effectively. Vanilla cream ice. This is a simple recipe for a delicious ice that will not he found expensive. Mix the yolks of eight eggs well with a pint of fresh milk, strain it, sweeten it to taste, flavour it with vanilla, and set in a sauce-pan in your bain-marie to thicken. When you have got a nice thick custard, whip it well, let it get cold, pour it into your ice pot and freeze it. It will turn out rich and creamy, not a bit like the milk-and-water ices that one so often mourns over. A coffee-cupful of whipped cream may be added, if a superlatively nice ice be required; wait until the custard has nearly frozen, then stir the cream in, and work it well for a minute or two. Half an ounce of gelatine dissolved and added to the custard, and two ounces of chopped apri- cot, greengage, citron, or preserved ginger stirred in with the coffee-cupful of cream, will give you a nice iced pudding. Homard a 1’ Amevicaine- Open a tin of lobster : choose all the larger pieces for the dish you are going to make, and put all the mashed fragments aside to be used in boudte.es or croquettes for sQine other meal, Having washed and drained firm theMENU FOB A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 499 pieces aforesaid, dry them, and cut them up into quarter- inch collops, and pile them in the centre of a dish that will stand the oven. Now cut up a good sized Bombay onion, fry it in an ounce of butter, adding, off the fire, a sherry glass of chablis or sauterne : when the onion seems cooked, stir in a breakfast-cupful of rich thick brown sauce, and the same quantity of tomato puree; add a strong suspi- cion of Nepaul pepper, and reduce the mixture for five minutes. When nice and thick, pour the sauce over the lobster, put the dish into the oven, and when thoroughly hot, serve. Prunes a, la Chasseur. A dish for dessert that is generally speaking popular. Buy a pound jar of the best French brandy68 °herry plums (prunes) and a bottle of good cherry brandy, take out the plums, put them into a clean stew-pan with as much light claret as will cover them, and two ounces of sugar; stew till soft and the wine has been nearly absorbed : replace them in the jar with what liquor may remain, and pour as much cherry brandy into it as the plums will admit. Finally screw on the top, and serve at dessert. Never let the jar be empty, but re-fill it as the plums are eaten, adding cherry brandy from time to time.TVIE NT TIT NO. Kiduey puree. For a little home dinner. Puree cle rognons. Ecrevisse de mer au gratin. “ Bifteck ” a la jardiniere. Pommes de terre a la duckesse. Beignets d’aubergines. “ Sir Watkins’ pudding.” 1.—Take your daily allowance of soup meat as usual and make a consomme with it. Buy six mutton kidneys and treat them as follows:—Wash them, dry them, slit them in halves, and plunge them immediately into boiling water well salted ; let them remain in this bath for one minute only, take them out, and dry them in a napkin. This is an infallible recipe for the removal of that peculiar taste which many people dislike in kidneys; it should be followed always, no matter how you intend to cook them. Well, having thus blanched the kidneys, proceed to boil them gently with some dried thyme, marjoram, and a bag containing spice, &c., till they are very tender. Take them out, and pound them in the mortar, with one well washed anchovy : when sufficiently pounded, pass the paste through a wire sieve to get rid of fibre, gristle, &c. When ready, place the consomme in a bowl handy, and keep the kidney pasteMENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 501 ready in a soup plate. Take a roomy sauce-pan, melt a dessert-spoonful of butter at the bottom' of it over the fire, stir in a dessert-spoonful of flour; when nice and creamy, add a cupful of consomme, stirring vigorously, and continue to add consomme and kidney paste by degrees, working them well together, till you have used them up; now let the puree come to the boil; add a glass of port, a tea-spoon- ful of red currant jelly, a tea-spoonful of good vinegar, and sufficient caramel coloring to give the soup a warm brown tint, stir well for a minute over the fire, and serve with croiUons of fried bread. A coffee-cupful of boiling cream, or a coffee-cupful of milk in which the yolk of an egg has been stirred, may be added to this soup off the fire for additional richness. It will be found so like a game soup that many will doubt its having any connection with kidneys. After a day’s hard work, a rich sustaining soup of this kind is often very acceptable. 2.—Choose a nice crab, have it boiled, cleaned, and Baked cnb picked : place the meat in a soup plate, and give it a dust of black pepper. Boil till tender sufficient maccaroni to line the bottom of a small pie-dish, and grate a tea-cupful of mild cheese. Now rub the bottom of the pie-dish with butter, place the maccaroni thereon, and pour a coffee-cupful of well made white sauce over the maccaroni. Shake a dust of grated cheese over its surface. Next place the crab meat, well worked with melted butter, over the maccaroni, and, as you arrange it, dust it with black pepper. Over the crab dredge a nice dressing of the grated cheese, about one-eighth of an inch deep, and pour a little melted butter over the surface. Bake till the top takes colour, and serve. No sauce is necessary with this, but if you like, you can send round a sauce piquante, or any plain sharp relish of that class (page 93).502 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 3. —Vegetables are sometimes scarce at Madras, when our variety for this dish may be some- witifVegetables?W 6<l what; meagre 5 but we can always get delicious Bombay onions, fair French beans, and carrots. Turnips taste too strong late in the season, so I would not advise your using them then. Choose a nice steak, fry it, to begin with in butter till it turns a nice brown colour on both sides, then put it into your stew- pan, with half a pint of water (or broth), one Bombay onion cut into quarters, a good handful of French beans, a plant of celery and two carrots sliced, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a salt-spoonful of sugar, a glass of marsala, pepper, and salt. Cover the pan, and stew the steak ever so gently till the meat parts easily when tested by the fork. Then lift it out, strain the gravy, place the steak onahot silver dish, arrange the vegetables cut up into very small dice tastefully over it, thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour, add a dessert-spoonful of marsala, and pour it boiling hot over the steak. 4. —With the above, try your potatoes in this way :— Mash them up with a little broth, butter, and the yolks of two eggs; add pepper, salt, some grated nutmeg, and some parsley, or celery leaves chopped fine (a few marjoram leaves are an improvement). Roll the mixture into balls the size of a pippin, brush them over with a beaten egg, dust some finely sifted crumbs over them, set them on a buttered tin, and bake for a few minutes till they turn a golden yellow colour. Potato duchesses. They may also be formed somewhat smaller, the size of racquet balls, and fried a golden brown in melted butter. 5.—This is the American method of serving egg-plant, and is a very good dish for a change. Bnnjal fritters. Parboil some young brinjals in salt and water, let them get cold, and slice them in longitudinalMENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 503 pieces of a convenient size and thickness for fritters—two inches long, and a quarter of an inch thick. Pick out the seeds. Prepare the batter I have previously described, dipping the pieces of brinjal in it, and frying them a crisp golden yellow in abundance of fat. Drain them quite dry, dust a little salt over them, and serve them with “ Dutch sauce ” (q. v. page 96). 6.—Mix together in a bowl two ounces of chopped candied peel, four ounces of suet finely minced, din» Watkins puc1' four ounces fine white crumbs, one table-spoonful of flour, three ounces of sugar, two ounces of apricot jam, a liqueur-glass of curafjoa, one dessert-spoonful of milk, and four fresh eggs. When thoroughly mixed, put the ingredients into a buttered mould, and steam for three hours. Apricot sauce should accompany the pudding, made as follows :—Put a table-spoonful of apricot jam into a sauce- pan with a tea-cupful of water, and a glass of brown sherry or Maderia; boil together, stirring well, then strain, and serve. Maccaroni au gratin. The following is a simple recipe for this dish :—- Take two ounces of maccaroni, throw it into boiling water, with a salt-spoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper, boil, and as soon as tender, drain it well; put into a sauce-pan one ounce of butter, mix it well with one table-spoonful of flour, moisten with four table-spoonkds of gravy (saved from the soup gravy), and a coffee-cupful of cream, or milk enriched with the yolk of an egg ; add two ounces of grated cheese, one table-spoonful of mustard, salt and black pepper to taste : place the maccaroni in a shallow well-buttered pie- dish, by degrees pouring your mixture, made as above,504 MENU FOB A LITTLE HOME DINNEB. amongst it; dust a thick layer of grated cheese over the surface, and as soon as it browns nicely in the oven, send it to table. Maccaroni augratin should be quite moist, and thoroughly impregnated with the flavour of cheese : the presence of mustard should also be perceptible. Irish Stew. This homely yet excellent dish is so often mismanaged and improperly treated, that I think a recipe for it will be useful. The backbone of the composition is strong mutton broth, without which it is impossible to serve it correctly. My way, which differs from the ordinary one, is this :— I take the whole of the neck of mutton, cut off the nice chops for the stew, and put the scrag-end and trimmings, with a couple of onions, black pepper, and salt to produce broth. This being ready, I strain and put the chops into it, with six Bombay onions, black pepper, and salt, close the stew-pan, and simmer slowly till the meat is very ten- der and parts easily from the bones. The potatoes I cook separately, boiling them till thoroughly done, then draining and mashing them, with a few spoonfuls of the broth, till a puree is obtained. The onions I mash with a silver fork, and mix with the potato puree ; I then make this mixture hot, adding the rest of the broth, put the chops into it, and turn the whole out upon a very hot silver dish. Milk may- be added with the broth to the potatoes. This stew has no lumps in it, the potatoes and onions being thoroughly mashed, and creamyr. @ is i» _For a little home dinner. Consomme do laitue. Pomfret a la Normande. Piece de boeuf en aspic. Courge-a-la-moelle an gratin. I Pain de groseilles. 1.—Make a clear consomme as usual, and treat the let- tuce in this way :—Pick and wash one lettuce1* S°up w 1 *11 large, or two small cabbage lettuces,* dip them into boiling water for a few minutes, take them out, cut them into quarters : tie them together again : butter a stew-pan, place a couple of slices of bacon at the bottom of the pan, lay the lettuces on them, and cover them with stock: add two cloves, an onion, a tea-spoonful of sugar, and one of salt, and a tea-spoonful of dried herbs. Simmer the lettuces until done, take them out, drain them, and when dry, cut them into shreds with a dessert-knife : put the shredded pieces at the bottom of I your tureen, pour the consomme, boiling hot, over them, and serve. One average lettuce will be found enough for four basins. The broth in which it is cooked must be strained, and added to the soup : see, however, that it is clear. 2.—Clean and trim a line pomfret; draw off the skin Pomfret in the Nor- ancl detach the flesh from the bone with mandy manner. a shai-p knife : take the two sides so * Lettuces cooked in this manner may be served as a vegetable, in which form they are delicious: omit the shredding and serve them with their broth poured over them.—W. 4?506 MENU FOB A LITTLE HOME DINNER. obtained, and season them on their respective inner sides (which you must first brush over with a well-beaten egg) with pepper, salt, a little finely-chopped parsley, and some minced mushroom, lay them together again, the fish resum- ing its former appearance. Now butter a flat cm gratin dish, or one that will stand the fire, strew over the butter some minced onion, place the fish thereon, moisten it with a little chablis, or a light white wine of that class, and a cupful of broth, and hake it in the oven. Whilst baking, make'a good veloute, in which you should pour the liquor of a tin of oysters, and use the broth made from the hones and trimmings of the pomfret. When the fish is nearly done, take it out of the oven ; pour the liquor from its dish into your veloute : garnish the fish with the oysters of the tin previously mentioned, and some black Leicestershire mushrooms, over all pour your veloute—which should be nice and thick,—set the dish in the oven again for five minutes, and serve with croiltons of bread, buttered on each side, and coloured a pale brown in the oven. This recipe can obviously be simplified for the home dinner :—after having detached the pieces of fish from the bones, set the latter and the trimmings to make a broth : season the fish, omitting the mushrooms, lay them together and bake, moistening with some of the broth, and a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Colour with caramel, and thicken the remaining fish broth ; add the liquor from the baking dish, stir in the yolks of two raw eggs, off the fire, pour it over the fish and serve. 3.—Tie a nice piece of fresh brisket of beef into a com- pact shape and lard it with plenty of jo%r(cold) °f beef U1 ^ bacon : braise it in stock, and vege- tables with a glass of white wine: when done, take it out, remove the string, and place the meat in an oblong shape with a heavy weight upon it; when thoroughly cold, and set, trim it all round with a sharp knife, and glaze it with its own gravy reduced. Make a pint of aspic jelly (see page 428), pour this upon a flat dishMENU FOB A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 507 set upon ice ; let the liquid be a quarter of an inch deep : when set, cut patterns of the jelly with a pastry cutter, and garnish with them both round the joint, and upon its surface : turned olives and sprigs of parsley may also be arranged round it: serve with the best salad you can devise, and a good mayonnaise sauce. Or, the beef may be served hot, with its own gravy thickened, and garnished with glazed onions—-piece cle bceuf braisee. This recipe may be followed with a fresh, or partly cured ox-tongue. 4.—Slice up a cold boiled (not over-boiled) vegetable marrow. Butter the bottom of a pie- aUVgratinble mair°'V dish, place a layer of slices thereon, grate a little mild cheese over them, place another layer of slices above the first and strew grated cheese over that also. Now melt some butter in a small sauce-pan, and add a little gravy to it, together with some finely-powdered cheese; when you have enough to half cover your layers of marrow, pour the liquid round them, and bake for ten minutes or so in a fast oven. Salt and pepper should be dusted over each layer, before the cheese gratings are added. This is a simple yet effective entremets sucre. Turn out a v bottle of gooseberries, and sweeten berries.d °f S°0>,Q~ them to taste. Take their syrup, dis- solve an ounce of gelatine in it, and stir it into the basin containing the fruit; now place this in a glass compote dish, and set it to get firm in the ice-box. The best creamy custards (also set in the ice-box) should go round in glasses ; this is cooling, and inexpensive. A glass of rum, brandy, maraschino, or curaqoa may be stirred into the syrup with manifest advantage, and any tart fruit may be used.IMHEJNJTT 1SJO. For a little home dinner. Creme de riz aux haricots verts. Ragout de pomfret. Caneton aux petits pois. Pommes de terre nouvelles.* Podolong-cai au jus. “ Pig pudding.” 1. —Make your stock for soup as usual. Boil a tea-cup- ful of rice till tender, work it through Rice puree with the sieve: amalgamate the pulp so obtained with the soup gravy by degrees over a low fire. Cut into dice a handful of jugged French beans, stir the dice into the soup as it thickens, and add a coffee-cupful of milk, with which the yolk of an egg has been mixed, off the fire, just before serving. The milk of a few pounded sweet almonds may be mixed with the rice pulp if the flavour be liked. 2. —This is a very useful recipe, practicable with all fish, which I specially commend to RcLffouti of pomfiet. . m iji’ij p i notice. Take a cold boiled pomlret (in this case), remove the skin and cut the fish into fillets of a nice length, dust them with pepper and salt, and * “Mock new potatoes.”MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 509 put them aside. Slice finely half a Bombay onion, and a small carrot, fry the slices, till just colouring, in an ounce of butter, now add a pint of milk and water, two-thirds milk to one-third water, all the fish bones and trimmings, a few peppercorns, an anchovy, a blade of mace, and a pinch of salt; boil this up and simmer it afterwards till you have extracted the flavour of your ingredients : now strain the liquor, and gently heating your fillets of fish in it: take a coffee-cupful of it, mix into this the yolks of two eggs and add off the fire, garnish with little bits of red chilli (cut into dice, and sprinkled over the fillets) and serve. The point here lies in the flavouring of the sauce in which you warm your fish : so do not omit anything I have mentioned. 3. —Let those who keep ducks in their poultry yard try a young one before the breast- „„[)“ekllllg ancl green bone forms hard. The bone should be pSaSi scarcely stronger than gristle if the bird be young enough. Roast, and do not stuff the duckling, let the basting be frequent, and froth the breast up nicely to finish with: serve, accompanied by green peas, and cook the potatoes according to any of the recipes given at page 147. N.B.—If your cook have a habit, as some have, of serv- ing the giblets of the duck in the gravy round the bird, put an end to it forthwith. It is one of those quaint relics of barbarism which still cling to certain Indian kitchens. Giblets should be used for making a good brown gravy to accompany the bird, see page 110. 4. —This vegetable, known as the “snake vegetable,” cut into convenient lengths, boiled, drain- in gravy.*°^ Ca' ec^ seeds removed, and the pieces finally heated up in a good brown gravy, is well worth trying when vegetables are as scarce as510 MENU FOB A LITTLE HOME DINNER. they always are in the hot weather. A dust of grated cheese over each piece may be given without fear. Fig pudding. 5-—Take a quarter of a pound of finely-grated bread- crumbs, half a pound of minced dried figs, three ounces of sugar, six ounces of chopped suet, and a little grated nutmeg. Mix a tea- spoonful of Yeatman’s baking powder with an ounce of flour, add this to the other ingredients with four eggs well beaten, moisten with a little milk sufficiently to form a thick batter, turn the mixture into a buttered mould, and boil for three hours. Lime sauce.—Put three table-spoonfuls of sugar into a sauce-pan with a breakfast-cupful of water, and the very finely peeled rind of a lime, simmer for twenty minutes, then add the juice of two limes and a liqueur glass of any liqueur, brandy, or rum, strain and serve. A drop or two of cochineal will improve the colour of the sauce. On grills, and devils. For breakfast few dishes are more popular than these, while the excellence of devilled hones for a very late supper need hardly be mentioned. The utensil necessary for these preparations is the gricl-iron. Ramasami spoils his grills by using the frying-pan, for though the bones may be served in a wet as well as in a dry form, they must be them- selves broiled over a clear fire. The meat attached to the bone, whether a turkey leg, or the bones of a saddle of mutton, must be scotched with a sharp knife criss-cross- wise, and bountifully peppered with this seasoning:—one tea-spoonful of Nepaul pepper,one tea-spoonful black pepper coarsely ground, two tea-spoonfuls of salt, mixed well together. Following these proportions a bottle of “ grill- seasoning” can be made, and labelled for use when required.MENU FOB A LITTLE HOME DIN NEB. 511 Mix your mustard for your grill with Worcester sauce instead of water or vinegar, and if you want “the very devil” of a grill, add to it some drops of tabasco. Smear this over the seasoned bones, rub the bars of the grid-iron with suet, lay the bones thereon, and grill them. If liete and there they scorch a little, so much the better. Serve without delay ‘ from the grid to the plate’ so to speak. This is a dry grill. For a wet grill proceed exactly as direct- ed for the dry, but roll the bones, after boiling them, in a saute-fan for a few minutes in this sauce :— Devil-sauce :—Take a breakfast-cupful of gravy or a broth made from scraps and a tea-spoonful of Brand’s essence; put this into a sauce-pan and add to it a table- spoonful of hot yet sweetish bottled chutney, a table-spoon- ful of mustard mixed with Worcester sauce, a table-spoon- ful of mushroom ketchup, a table-spoonful of marsala, a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, and a tea-spoonful of chilli vinegar : heat all together to melt the jelly and blend the ingredients, then strain, and thicken with half an ounce of butter, and half an ounce of flour, beat this up to boiling point in a frying-pan, and roll the grilled bones in it off the fire, serving them quickly with the rest of the sauce in the pan poured over them. * Endive. Endive (chicorde) as grown in Southern India is, per- haps, better when cooked than when ’ presented raw in salad, for it lacks the crispness which the plant acquires at home in the winter. Endives should he trimmed for cook- ing by picking oft the outside leaves, and cutting off the green tips. The heads should then be severed by a cut across the stalk, detaching all the leaves therefrom. Thus every leaf can be examined and cleaned. When this has been done, and the leaves have been drained dry, cast them512 MENU FOB A LITTLE HOME DINNER. into a roomy vessel full of boiling water with half an ounce of salt. CJnlike spinach, which merely takes five minutes, endives must he boiled for twenty-five. When tender, drain, press out the water, and chop fine on a clean board, finish- ing as explained for spinach. If you simmer the endive leaves in consomme for two hours, and then increase the fire, stirring till the leaves have absorbed the broth, and finally moistening them with some rich bechamel and a pat of butter, you will have the correct foundation for a blan- c[ucttc cl la Talleyrand, i. e., neat pieces of cooked chicken heated up in the endive sauce. Chaud-froid de filets de foie gras. This is a very nice cold entree. Open a tin of foie cjrcis, and slice it very carefully in slices about half an inch thick; out of these slices trim some nicely-shaped fillets, Cashmere shawl patterns, or ovals. Put them on a flat dish, and mask them with chicken chaud-froid glaze. When the glaze has set, trim each fillet neatly, and set them in a circle with their masked sides outwards upon a socle of ground rice which should he spread with butter for them to adhere to it. Pointes d’asperges, flageolets, or a macedoine, moistened with pure cream, should fill the centre of the circle. Serve very cold.TVEEJXTTJ INTO. For a little home dinner, Potage it la puiAe de lbgumes. Darne de seer au gratin. Pintade au cresson. Haricots verts panachbs. Croustades de bandecai. Beignets de bananes au rhum. 1.—Prepare early in the day the usual gravy soup, or stock, that you order daily: take it \ egetable pune. off the fire in the afternoon, and add two carrots, a turnip, an onion, a stick of celery, and a little pepper and salt. Boil together : when thoroughly done, drain off the soup and pass the boiled vegetables through the wire sieve. Now mix over the fire in a sauce-pan an ounce of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of flour, gradually adding vegetable pulp and stock, and stirring well, until you have exhausted the whole. Let it come to the boil. After you have taken the soup off' the fire, stir in the yolk of an egg beaten up in a little milk : fried croiltons bread should accompany this soup. of seer au •Flatten out on a board a nice slice of seer fish, hav- ing previously prepared a small cupful of maccaroni boiled till tender. Now butter a small pie-dish, sprinkle a dessert-spoonful of minced shallot over the butter, place a 00 Slice gratin.514 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. layer of maccaroni on it, and dust over the maccaroni a couple of table-spoonfuls of grated cheese ; now put the slice of seer on the top of the maccaroni, moisten with a breakfast-cupful of broth, in which a little chablis may he mixed with advantage, put a little butter on the fish, spread apiece of paper overit, and bake for twelve minutes : remove the paper and serve : a couple of tomatoes, sliced, may be laid on the top of the fish and baked with it if available. 3. —This most capital bird ought properly speaking,—in the absence of a florican,—to take the Roast Guinea-fowl , » , , . , with water cress. place ol a pheasant m our choicest menu. If available, however, there is no reason why a Guinea-fowl should not be served as the piece cle resistance of a home dinner. Pluck, singe, draw and truss the bird for roasting, but do not allow the cook to put the liver and gizzard under the wings. Tie a few thin slices of bacon over the breast, put it to roast over a very clear fire, baste frequently, and when done, put it on a dish garnished with water-cresses. Send round the best bread sauce, fried bread-crumbs, and a rich brown gravy made with the giblets (page 110), to which should be added the liver pounded, half a glass of marsala, a tea-spoonful of red-currant jelly, and the juice of a lime. On no account stuff a Guinea-fowl like a capon. Serve with pommes de terra d lamaitre d’ hotel, and haricots verts panaches page 139. On special occasions sauce cl la Perigueux should accom- pany a Guinea-fowl, and to add to its game-like flavour, it will be found advantageous to put a snipe rolled in bacon inside the carcass of the bird, before roasting, sewing up the vent afterwards. 4. —Line four little patty pans with pastry as laid down for “ cheese fingers,” page 234. Little patties of Bake them, and when ready, fill each banclecai, J case with a spoonful of bandecai/wm’MENU FOB A LITTLE HOME DINNEB. 515 as explained for “ bandecai toast,” page 242. Heat thoroughly in the oven, dusting a little grated cheese over the surface of each croustade, and serve on a napkin. 5.—The addition of a little liqueur or brandy is a great improvement to plantain fritters, Plantain fritters. . :r , .. . . . , indeed all who have tried pme-appie fritters with rum will not hesitate to apply the same test to plantains. The rum or liqueur should be poured over the sliced plantains, like a marinade (page 214), an hour before they are cooked : it can be used in mixing the batter afterwards. The batter (page 211) should not be too thick, and do not forget to have the bath of fat hot enough. Dust over your fritters before serving them a nice coating of finely sifted white sugar. ‘’Pudding-” d la Viennoise. The following is Francatelli’s recipe : twelve ounces of crumb of bread cut into small dice, Vienna pudding. . two glasses ol Madeira, a dessert- spoonful of minced citron, two ounces sweet, and half an ounce bitter almonds pounded, six ounces of raisins, and a burnt sugar custard made with six yolks of eggs, one pint of cream, and two ounces of burnt sugar, sweetened with six ounces loaf-sugar. Put the bread, almonds, raisins and citron into a basin, and pour the wine over them ; put the two ounces of sugar into a stew-pan to brown, then pour in the cream, stir it round, and add the yolks of eggs previously beaten: thicken in the bain-marie, and strain the custard into the mixture in the basin, butter a mould and ornament it with candied peel, fill it with the mixture, and steam one and a half hours ; serve with caramel cus- tard, or sauce Royale. Half of the above will be found sufficient for a nice pudding.516 MENU FOE A LITTLE HOME DINNER. Haggis. This most savory composition ought strictly speaking to be cooked in the paunch of a sheep well cleaned to receive it, but as this is a troublesome operation, it will be found just as satisfactory to use a jar the top of which can be hermetically sealed with paste. Take the tongue, heart, kidneys, and liver, of a freshly killed sheep: those of a lamb for choice. Weigh them, and prepare half of the weight of fat bacon, a quarter pint of well-dried oatmeal, two large onions parboiled and shredded, two tea-spoonfuls of salt, half a nutmeg grated, and one tea-spoonful of black pepper. Boil the liver, then chop it up reserving half as mince and pounding the rest to paste : this must be passed through the sieve. Parboil the heart, kidneys, and tongue, then chop them up; also chop the bacon into small dice; now mix the oatmeal with the chopped meats, adding the onion, and seasoning. Put all into a jar, moistening with a pint of strong gravy in which the liver paste should be mixed, and the juice of a lime. Steam, or bake in the oven for three hours, and serve. This is delicious as a rechauffe if it be served, baked hot, in silver coquilles.IvIIU INJ"CT JNTO- For a little home dinner. Croutes au pot. Merlans sauce au fenouil. Poulet grille, “bread sauce.” Pomiues de terre sautees a la lyonuaise. Sarcelles sauce a la bigrade. “ Victoria pudding.” 1. —This is an ordinary clear pot-au-feu with pieces of toast and vegetable introduced at the crusts* S°UP W'th l3,8*' moment. The preparation of the toast, however, demands attention. Cut off the bottom crust of a tinned loaf, with the same thickness of crumb as of crust: cut this out into squares half the size of a visiting card, or in rounds the size of a rupee; soak them in some stock (from the soup) and put them in a buttered tin into the oven where they should remain until crisp and dry. Slices of carrot, turnip, onion, and pieces of celery, that have been cooked in the pot-au- feu with some pieces of cabbage boiled separately, should be added to the soup before serving, the crust being put in at the very last moment. 2. —Prepare the whitings in fillets (using the trimmings Fried whitings with fo1'the SaUCe) and laY these in a mari' fennel sauce. nculc of salad oil one table-spoonful,518 MENU FOB A LITTLE HOME DINNER. the same of vinegar or lime juice, some sliced green ginger, and moringa shavings, with pepper and salt. After lying in this for an hour, lift the fillets, drain them, and roll them in a floured cloth. Proceed to fry them in a bath of boiling fat, and serve drained dry upon a napkin. For the sauce see page 89 : fennel is called souf by the natives ; wash, dry,chop, and add it to sauce blanche. 3. — Bone your fowl, and make a nice strong broth with the bones, which will, of course, form the basis of the gravy of the dish. Flatten out the fowl like a steak, and marinade it all day (page 70): when to be cooked, wipe the fowl, butter it, and grill it smartly over a bright tire, serve with bread sauce in a boat, and fried potatoes a la lyonnaise (page 143), gar- nishing with water cress. For the gravy, colour with cara- mel, add a tea spoonful of Brand’s essence, a dessert-spoon- ful of Harvey, and one of mushroom ketchup, with the liver pounded to a paste. Grilled fowl. Bread sauce. Bo not forget the bread sauce receipt I gave at page 91. Simmer till tender a Bellary onion in a pint of milk with a dozen pepper- corns, a pinch of nutmeg, and four cloves ; strain when the onion is quite pulpy, pour the strained milk over the grated bread-crumbs, and heat it up again, adding a spoonful of cream before serving. 4.—Prepare the teal, as recommended in Menu No. 20, but preserving the breast of each bird Teal with bigarade entire, and make a game gravy with sauce. 7: the bones and the giblets of the birds, proceeding as already directed to make bigarade sauce, page 393. I think, however, that as the oranges which compose this sauce in Europe are the sour Seville, a little lime juice should be added to the juice of ours to give it piquancy. Broil the teal breasts upon a grid-iron, andMENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 519 serve them full of juice straight from the fire. Any nice vegetable may be reserved to accompany the teal. 5.—A quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, three ounces of shredded suet, a quarter of a pound Victoria pudding. . ..... „ .. of any jam, the juice of a lime, with the peel grated also, two ounces of sifted sugar, two eggs and a pinch of salt—mix thoroughly, place it in a buttered mould, and boil for three hours. Victoria Sauce :—Mix two tea-spoonfuls of flour with half an ounce of butter, and add a small cupful of boiling water. Stir in a table-spoonful of the jam you use for your pudding, the juice of a lime and a spoonful of brandy : simmer for five minutes, mix with it a little pat of butter, strain, and pour it both over and round the pudding. Or this :—Sauce Royale :—Two ounces of sifted sugar, eight ounces of butter beaten to a cream, half a liqueur glass of Madeira, or sherry, and the same of brandy ; keep it quite cold, and serve in a boat. This is a speciality for plum pudding. Souffle de Volaille. Take the nicest meat of a full-sized, cold roast chicken ; Chicken souffle mince the meat very finely, put it in a frying-pan with two ounces of butter, and a table-spoonful of minced ham, and toss till the butter is absorbed. Make about half a pint of rich white sauce, flavour it with almonds, pepper, salt, and use a broth made of the bones and trimmings. Now throw the mince into a mortar, and pound it to a paste, moistening it with the sauce. Pass the puree through the sieve, and then stir lightly into it the yolks of four eggs, adding last of all the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Pour it into a souffld tin, with a paper round the top, to allow it to rise. Bake in a moderate oven. Serve the souffle.520 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. quickly in the tin, with a white napkin pinned round it. Babbit, or game, may be advantageously cooked in this way in little china cases: petits souffles clc gibier make an excellent second course dish. A wreath of fresh parsley round the bottom of the napkin gives a neat finish to the plat. Choose as many china ramaquin cases, or small dariole moulds, as you have guests ; butter them, and place them on one side. Make a good rich custard, abstaining from sugar, and using a few drops of anchovy sauce, with a savoury seasoning of salt and pepper instead. Empty a tin of salmon ; choose a nice piece for each mould; place the pieces in a colander, and with cold water remove all oily liquid from them ; dry with a clean cloth, and then put them into the moulds, pouring the custard round them. Now steam the moulds, and when set, turn out the boudins carefully. Send round hot, with Hollandaise sauce, or very cold with mayonnaise. Choose plain biscuits, not sweetened, empty some butter in a small frying-pan, lay the biscuits upon it, turning them over the fire, till the butter browns, pepper with grill seasoning (page 510). Put them on a very hot dish, and pour the browned butter over them, and serve. Or if liked very dry, lay them on a griddle rest, and set them in the oven for a minute or two, serving as hot as possible. Biscuit d VIndienne is prepared as the foregoing, but curry powder is dusted over it instead of the plain season- ing of pepper and salt. ♦ Boudins de saumon. Devilled Biscuit.nvrEisrxj INTO X XV11I' For a little home dinner, Pur4e de tomates. Mulet au gratin. “Beef-steak Pie” a la supreme. “ Woodcock toasts.” Omelette souffl6e. 1.—Soup meat as usual for two, six or eight good sized tomatoes. Make your stock from the Tomato soup. , , .... soup meat, and as it is simmering, prepare the tomatoes as follows :—Choose an enamel-lined sauce-pan of a fair size, throw into it the tomatoes cut into quarters, a tea-spoonful of dried basil, an onion shredded, a tea-spoonful of salt, one clove of garlic, and a table- spoonful of butter : cook the pieces of tomato until they are quite soft, stirring them about less they catch at the bot- tom of the sauce-pan: as soon as they seem ready, turn them out upon a sieve, pick out the garlic, and commence working the tomatoes through the sieve and save the pulp in a bowl. When dinner time is at hand, you must amal- gamate the pulp and stock in the prescribed way:—Melt half an ounce of butter at the bottom of a sauce-pan, work a tea-spoonful of flour into it till it looks smooth, then add a little stock, a little puree and so on by degrees till you have exhausted your supply; let the soup come to the boil to 51522 MENU FOB, A LITTLE HOME DIN NEB. thicken properly, and then serve it with croutons of fried bread. 2. —Choose a good size mullet, and a dozen prawns. „ , .. ,, Trim and clean the former carefully, and boil the prawns: when the latter have been boiled, shell and clean them, wash them well, dry them, and pound them thoroughly in a mortar with a little butter, and the crumb of a roll soaked in milk: pass this through the sieve, and season it with a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a little curly parsley finely minced, a little chopped marjoram, and a cold boiled onion shredded : give this a dust of pepper, and a little salt, and work it together thoroughly with a couple of raw eggs. Now lay your mullet on a flat dish, wipe it dry, and fill it with the prawn stuffing, stew up the fish securely. Butter a pie-dish, place the mullet therein, pour a breakfast-cupful of broth round it made from the trimmings, prawn shells and tails, &c., spread a little butter upon the top of it and bake for about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. A pat of mcdtre d’hotel butter should be placed on the top of the mullet before serving, and a spoonful or two of hock, or any light wine like chablis, poured round it during the baking, will be found an improvement. Baste the fish now and then during the cooking. 3. —Here is a really good recipe for a savoury pie. Buy a nice undercut of a sirloin of beef, An excellent beef- ant[ some coarser meat for gravy. steak pie. _ , ... Slice the undercut into thin slices crosswise, not lengthwise; place the slices on a flat dish and upon each slice lay a thin one of boiled bacon; give the whole a dusting of spiced pepper. Boll them up (each separately) and give them an external dusting of spiced pepper. Take a pie-dish, rub it well with a shallot, butter it, and place a layer of the rolled slices over the bottom ofMENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 523 it, now pour gently round the layer a cupful of strong gravy made from the coarser meat previously mentioned ; repeat the process adding another layer of rolled beef slices, and more gravy, till the dish is packed; garnish the sur- face with pieces of hard-boiled egg, and cover the whole with a good light crust, bake in the usual way and serve. Oysters, minced anchovies, chopped olives, and mushrooms may, of course, be mingled with the layers ; and a glass of marsala may enrich the gravy if you desire perfection. Let me here point out that Ramasamy’s ordinary pie is a cruel burlesque of that dish. He first cooks the meat in- dependently, then covers it with crust, and finally bakes it. The glory of a pie consists in the whole composition being baked together: attention is, of course, necessary to keep the oven at the proper temperature, and to avoid hurrying matters, or, of course, the crust will take colour too soon, and your pie be burnt. For savoury pie crust, see Chapter XXYI. 4. —For this excellent entremets savourcux, seepage 239. Be careful in having the toasts served as hot as possible. 5. —-A little omelette souffle will complete our dinner nicely. Beat up the yolks of six eggs with a table-spoonful of white sugar, flavour the mixture with lemon, vanilla, or ratafia essence: whisk the whites to a stiff froth independently; then blend the two thoroughly. Put this into a small circular souffle tin, and bake it in a moderate oven, send it to table the moment it is ready, dusted over with finely sifted sugar. A little preserve may accompany the omelette souffle, and a few drops of any liqueur will be found an agreeable addi- tion. The great thing is, to serve immediately : you can- not therefore bake the souffle in a distant kitchen; the baking should be conducted as close to the dining-room door as possible, and the dish should be brought in the Woodcock toasts. Omelet souffle.524 MENU FOIi A LITTLE HOME DINNER. nick of time. A proper souffle tin is, of course, absolutely necessary for this clish. ♦ Mousse de fromage. This is of mould of “ cheese cream.” Make half a pint of rich custard, season it with salt instead of sugar, and a little Nepal pepper; whip it well, stir in three ounces of grated Parmesan or Gruyere, and half an ounce of dissolved gelatine. Set the mixture in a plain mould on ice, and, while setting, stir in a coffee-cupful of whipped cream. Turn out the mould, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve cold. Following the same principle very excellent mousses, or cremes can be made with 'purees of delicate meats, fish, and vegetables. Creme de homard, creme de crevettes, creme d’arti- chauts, 'mousse de gibier, &c. If required to be served hot, the contents of the mould must be steamed like a pudding, the cream being stirred into the custard in the first instance. It is essential that the purees be thoroughly pounded, and passed through the sieve. Cold savoury creams are spe- cially nice at luncheon. It is necessary, in the case of steaming, to blend with the puree a quarter the bulk of the meat of bread-crumb soaked in stock.iviBiNrxj jxrO- xxix- For a little home dinner. Consomme aux oeufs pouches. Pomfret au puree de grandes crevettes. Filet de boeuf au puree d’oseille. Pommes de terre a 1’ Americaine. Canard sauvage. Charlotte de pommes. 1.—This is a very simple method of turning an ordinary clear gravy soup into a recherche pot- Clear soup with The eggs (one for each person) poached eggs. * 00 v , F must however be carefully poached, neither too lightly nor too hard, then trimmed neatly, leaving as little margin of white as possible, and served with the soup. A few leaves of dried tarragon flavour the consomme very pleasantly, and grated Parmesan should he handed round on a separate plate. If you have no tarragon leaves, try a little of the vinegar. Note this:—In order to make sure of not breaking the eggs in the tureen,—order your butler to heat the soup plates and place the poached eggs in them, before he serves the soup : he can then pour the soup over the eggs, instead of having to ladle them out of the soup, which is always an operation requiring much delicacy of touch, and a broken egg spoils the appearance of the consomme.526 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 2-—Boil the pornfret. The prawn sauce that I recom- mend is not the ordinary one composed purle.1*16*" W'th 1>uuv" of melted butter (sauce blanche) and lumps of prawn mixed with it. The composition I think very much nicer is a creamy puree of the shell-fish, a little thicker than ordinary mayonnaise sauce, made thus :—a dozen fair sized prawns, boiled, and cleaned, pounded to a paste in a mortar, flavoured with an anchovy, a little mace, pepper, and salt, and then worked with melted butter, flour and a little broth, to the consis- tency I have mentioned. It should be served as hot as possible. 3.—I would stew the steak with a few nice vegetables, and dress the sorrel independently, sorrel pur4^.ak' W'th Before you proceed to cook the steak, make some gravy with scraps and trim- mings : it would be as well indeed to order a little extra meat for that purpose, when you have got this to your mind, strain it off and keep it handy. Now take a frying- pan, melt a piece of butter at the bottom of it, and shred an onion therein ; lay the steak upon it, and turn it about until it is well browned on both sides; now lift it up and place it in your stew-pan, with the gravy and vegetables, to simmer gently till done, which you can test with a fork. It ought to be as tender as possible if you are only careful enough to prevent galloping, that is, fast cooking : the slow simmering process is the thing needful. The vegetables cooked with the steak may be strained from the gravy, and cut up into neat dice, to garnish the top of the steak : the gravy must be saved for the sorrel which you must cook as follows :— Put two good handfuls of carefully picked sorrel in plenty of boiling water, with a little salt, and a pinch of soda, blanche for five minutes, drain, and chop the leaves small on a board. Melt two ounces of butter in a sauce-pan toMENU FOB, A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 527 which add a tea-spoonful of flour, the sorrel, a tea-spoonful of sugar, and the steak gravy, stirring vigorously to prevent the leaves catching at the bottom of the pan :—When the sorrel, gravy, and butter, are thoroughly amalgamated, stir in the yolks of three eggs beaten up in a little milk, and pour the pzorde round the steak, which should have been kept hot whilst the last stage was completed. The sorrel should, of course, be got ready beforehand. 4.—This way of cooking potatoes will be found at page 143 :—Boil the potatoes till nearly done : slice them in thick slices, and heat them, d la frirassee, in nice white sauce made with milk previously flavoured with onion, spice, pepper and salt. The yolk of an egg, a large spoon- ful of curly parsley minced fine, and a pat of butter the size of a rupee, should be stirred into the sauce-pan, off the fire, before serving. A few drops of lime juice are an im- provement, and to those who think that they might not like the onion-flavoured milk, that of pounded almonds may be more pleasing. Potatoes in an Amer- ican fashion. Wilcl cluck. -Order the duck to be roasted—-not baked in the chatty oven (which Ramasamy will certainly do if you do not take steps to prevent the sacrilege) and let it he nice and juicy, not dried up by over-dressing. I have known an ignorant Ramasamy stuff a wild duck like a tame one ! need I do more than warn you that this is erroneous ? Having served the bird with all the gravy that was caught during the roasting on a very hot dish, what must we do for a sauce on the spot? This will be found a good one :— Score the breast of the bird in the direction you intend to slice it, and let the gravy run out bountifully ; to that add a table-spoon- ful of port, burgundy, or fruity Madeira (the first if pos- Sauce a la minute.528 MENU FOB A LITTLE HOME DINNER. sible), give that a dessert-spoonful of lime-juice and six drops of “ tabasco," or a tea-spoonful of chilli vinegar ; stir the gravy round with a spoon, and baste the breast of the duck liberally with it, then go on with your carving. If you have a little sauce-boat on a spirit lamp by your side (a beautiful modern invention), the gravy can be heated therein, on the spot, admirably. Apple Charlotte. 6.—An apple charlotte (practicable also with plantains) should be made in this easy way. Butter a small but deep pie-dish or plain m ould: cut a thin piece of bread (to form the top of the charlotte) the size and shape of the top of the mould, butter it on both sides, and put it into the mould ; now line the inner wall of the mould with moderately thin strips of bread and butter, buttered on both sides : that is to say, cover both the in- verted top and sides of the mould, making a case of bread and butter as it were. Within the case place layers of apples cut small (or sliced ripe plantains) with apricot jam spread between each layer, some lime juice sprinkled over them all, and a good allowance of white sugar : when packed, cover the bottom of the mould with slices of bread and butter, the same as that used for the top and sides, and bake till the bread browns nicely. Use plenty of good butter please, and you will find this a simple but pleasant sweet dish : a sprinkling of any liqueur would, of course, add to the nice flavour of the fruit. Turn it out very care- fully, and let cold custards accompany the charlotte. ■*- Florican roti. On account of its rarity in the Madras market, I have accidentally forgotten to include this, Roast florican. ., . » —the prince ot game birds m Southern India,—among the various rots I have suggested in the menus, It should be treated like a pheasant. Pick, draw,MENU FOB A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 529 singe, ancl tress the fiorican, placing a Bombay onion, rolled in fat boiled bacon, inside its carcass. Tie a thin slice of bacon over the breast, and roast the bird over a moderate fire, basting it frequently with melted butter. A few minutes before the fiorican is done, remove the slice of bacon, so as to let the breast take colour. Serve with plain gravy, fried crumbs, and bread sauce. Time, about thirty minutes. Proceed in the same way if you happen to have a wild peachick, a young jungle fowl, or a spur fowl. A most appropriate accompaniment to roast fiorican, roast pheasant, guinea-fowl, &c., are :— Croustades de truffes a l’Espagnole. Line as many little open tartlet pans as you have guests with some carefully made short-bread paste. An oval not much larger than the bowl of the table-spoon is the shape best suited to the purpose. Butter them well first to keep them from burning, and preserve their hollow centres while baking them by a piece of stale bread, to be removed after- wards. Cut up some truffles in dice, using enough to yield a good dessert-spoonful per bead. Warm the mince up gently in some rich Espacgnole sauce flavoured with a dash of Madeira, and keep it en bain-marie. When wanted, fill the crisp crotistades with a spoonful each of the truffles and sauce, dish them en serviette, and send them round with the bird. Groustacles de champignons, made in the same way but substituting mushrooms for truffles, may be served with roast game very effectively. 523VTE IN? XT JSTO. XXX. Bouillon. For a little home dinner, Bouillon. Sole frite a la Colbert. Bouilli a la Milanaise. Becassines. Topinambours aux oeufs farcis. “ Maids of honour.” 1.—This soup is to be made from the joint, in the foreign manner,—d Icl pot-au-feu,—so purchase a nice piece of the ribs of beef, weighing about five pounds, with two carrots, a turnip, a handful of French beans, a large Bombay onion, half a head of celery (leaves and all), two leeks, and a bunch of parsley. When the joint comes home, detach the meat from the bones en masse, roll it up compactly, and tie it firmly with a string. See that your soup ket- tle is thoroughly clean, put in the bones (chopped up) first, and place your bundle of meat above them, pouring in cold water enough to cover the top of the meat—with one and a half ounce of salt and nothing else. Bamasamy throws in all his vegetables to begin with, which is an utterly erroneous proceeding. Now set the pot near the fire, and let the contents come as slowly as possible to the boil, skimming off every atom of scum as it rises, and add-MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 53l mg from time to time a little colcl water to retard ebulli- tion, and encourage the rising of the scum. Keep the vessel open throughout the operations, otherwise the soup will not be bright and clear. This having been completed, and the pot boiling with a clean surface, you may cast in your vegetables (the carrots first, followed by the turnip), all nicely washed, trimmed, and cut up. In addition, you must give the soup a tea-spoonful of caramel (burnt sugar colouring;, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, a dozen pepper- corns, and a bag containing mixed sweet herbs (a tea- spoonful of each). These additions will stop the boiling you will find, so watch the vessel narrowly, and as soon as boiling begins again, ease off the fire, and let the contents of the kettle simmer till the vegetables are nicely done. Now take the kettle from the fire, remove the vegetables and put the meat broth and bone back on a low fire to simmer slowly until you find that the first is nice and ten- der,—done in fact. The time of this will depend upon the size of the meat and the accuracy of the simmering : from two to three hours is the ordinary period. As soon as the meat is done, the soup is ready also: keeping the meat overdoing will not give you a fraction more strength in the broth. So strain it from the meat, and set it to cool. Place the meat and vegetables separately on dishes. When the broth is cold, take off any fat that may have risen to its surface, and return the liquor to the sauce-pan. Cut up some of the vegetables into nice pieces and place them in the soup-tureen, let the contents of your sauce-pan come almost to the boil, and pour them over the vegetables. It will be a bright clear soup, with a capital flavour: a dessert-spoonful of Madeira and a dried leaf or two of tarragon will improve it. The colour will depend upon the amount of caramel you put into the pot. A nice golden yellow is easily obtained. 2.—Make an incision along the back-bone on the upper532 MENU fou a LITTLE HOME DINE Eli. Pried sole a la Col- bert. side of the sole, from and up to within an inch of the head and tail; slip a knife under the flesh on each side of the cut, and loosen it from the bones ; then egg and bread- crumb the fish with finely sifted crumbs, and fry it in plenty of fat, with the side bearing the incision uppermost. The edges of this will curl outwards in the process of fry- ing, and the opening thus made should be filled at the time of serving with plenty of maitre d’hdtel butter, the sole being sprinkled with fine salt. While the fish is being drained in front of the fire, the back-bone may be removed carefully, but this is not essential. 3. —After draining the rolled rib meat mentioned in No. 1, and letting it get cold, place it on a dish that will stand the oven, brush it over with egg, and dredge over it a coating of very finely grated dry cheese, and bread-crumbs, in equal proportions : set it in the oven to heat thoroughly, and brown the outside of the crumbs with a hot iron used salamander fashion. When ready, put the meat on a dish and trim round it a circle of hot maccaroni freshly boiled, drained, and tossed in melted butter : over which pour a breakfast-cupful of rich tomato -puree, with two table-spoon- fuls of grated Parmesan or Gray ere, and serve. If you are careful not to overdo the boiling of the meat as previously noted, you will find this dish,-—all details being carefully carried out,-—a very eatable one. A nice thick brown gravy made with butter, flour, and some of the bouillon, flavour- ed with a spoonful of marsala and a tea-spoonful red currant jelly, should go round in a boat. This is also a nice way of serving a fowl. The broth being thickened d lapou- lette for sauce, and the vegetables worked through the sieve d la puree. 4. —See that the birds are roasted, and served on crisp Roast snipe. toast, well buttered, immediately. Rama-MENU FOil A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 533 samy as a rule bakes them, and far too soon, sending them up, after a sojourn in the “hot case” dry and spoiled. A few turns on a well-buttered gridiron, just when wanted, is as good a way as any. Good fresh butter, red or yellow pepper, and salt, constitute all their accompaniments. 5. —Boil four eggs hard, put them into a basin of cold water; when cold, cut them in halves Jerusalem artichokes crosswise with a dessert-knife dipped in melted butter. Slice off a piece from each rounded end, so that the halves will sit upright, and prepare the yolks as laid down at page 253. Boil four large Jerusalem artichokes : when just done, and not overdone mind, lift them out of the water, and let them get cold : out of each artichoke, trim with a silver dessert-knife two thick flat slices each capable of holding a half egg, butter the eight slices, lay them upon a flat augratin dish well buttered, and set half an egg upon each of them: put on the top of each egg a little pat of anchovy butter, set the dish in the oven till the steam rises freely, and serve piping hot. If you can pour some melted maitre d’hdtel or prawn butter over them, the dish becomes quite worth serving at a dinner party. 6. —Line six tartlet tins with puff paste, and fill the „ patties with this mixture :—Beat half “ Maids of honour.” 1 n „ . pound sugar with yolks of six eggs m a basin, and pound together in a mortar two ounces of blanched sweet almonds, three bitter ones, two table-spoon- fuls of orange-flower water, the juice of four limes, and two potatoes (mealy ones) boiled, drained, and passed through a hair sieve. Mix the eggs, sugar, and almond paste. Turn a quarter of milk to curd, crumble it, and beat it up with four ounces of good butter till quite smooth, then mix it thoroughly with the eggs, almonds, &c., adding a glass of brandy, and one of maraschino. Bake till thoroughly hot in a moderate oven, and serve with finely sifted sugar dust- ed over them.534 MENU VOli A LITTLE HOME DINNER. Or, plainer, for the home dinner.—Beat an ounce and a half of butter with the curd obtained from a breakfast- cupful of milk; add two eggs, and sugar to taste, a few drops of lemon essence, a dessert-spoonful of brandy, or marsala, and the juice of a lime: put into the pastry-lined patty- pans well buttered, and bake for about twenty minutes. Curds :—The richer recipes for cheese-cakes are com- posed, it will generally be found, with curds, with the method of making which some of my readers may be un- acquainted. A little lump of alum put into cold milk, and then set on the fire, will turn milk to a curd as quickly as anything, or two tea-spoonfuls of preserved 1 rennet’ will turn a quart of milk; the homely way, however, is to boil a pint of water in a stew-pan, to beat two eggs up with a pint of milk, and to add the mixture to the boiling water, with the juice of a couple of limes. As the curd rises it should be skimmed off, and laid upon a sieve to drain. When dry, it is ready. Lobster pilao a la Turque. Choose the firm pieces of a lobster from the tin, trim them neatly, set them in a buttered sa/^e-pan and warm them thoroughly. Arrange the pieces in a circle in a hot silver dish filling the centre with riz a la Turque (page 259). Pour some of the following sauce dl'Indiennc over the pieces of lobster, but not over the rice, and serve. Cut up a sweet onion, or half a dozen shallots, and throw the pieces into a small stew-pan with two ounces of butter. Fry till the onions begin to take colour, then stir in a table- spoonful of good curry powder or paste; cook this for five minutes, then add a pint of plain gravy; let the contents of the pan simmer now for a quarter of an hour while you make a coffee-cupful of lait d’amandes (page 304). Stir this into the sauce, adding the yolks of two eggs, off the fire, before serving.On Coffee-Making, rvr-i kN certain occasions in the course of my jottings, I have mentioned the cup of cqf<i noir as the finishing touch of a nice little dinner. I think, therefore, that I may as well say a few words regarding its composi- tion before I ask you to consider my menus ended. Although few may think themselves ignorant of coffee- making, I question whether its real secrets are generally known. Indeed, to judge by the stuff that we usually get, I think, we may say that the art is comparatively rare. First, to be sure, you must “ catch your coffee,” i.e., get really good bei'ries, and be willing to pay a trifle over the usual price for them. That done, the next thing to learn is the roasting, an operation that should be conducted clcdly if you want well-flavoured coffee. The process is by no means as easy as many believe; half the coffee we drink is ruined by ignorant roasting ; a burnt berry, mark you, will spoil the whole brew. The best way, I think, to roast the berries is to do a few at a time in a frying-pan over a very low fire, passing them straight to the mill (a hand-mill is quite indispensable) from the pan. A table- spoonful of berries will be found quite enough at a time. Melt a little butter, sufficient to lubricate the berries, and stir them about until they turn a light Havanna brown ; if perchance a berry take a darker tint, throw it away as •you would a reptile : grind them at once and make the coffee as soon afterwards as possible.ON COFFEE-MAKING. 536 A little butter or salad oil is strongly recommended ; it prevents the escape of much of the fragrance of the berry while roasting, and becomes quite dried up before the roasting is finished. The custom in the Indian kitchen is to bake, often to over-bake, the berries and then tunny- cutch ammah pounds them to a dull black powder as fine as flour. The result is a leaden-tinted liquid, acrid in flavour, and repulsive to look upon. Having ground the coffee properly,—it should be rich in aroma, and of a beautiful pale snuff colour—the best coffee-pot to use, after all, is the percolator. Be liberal with the coffee (a tablespoonful for each person), heat it in the oven, also heat the coffee-pot thoroughly, fill the upper chamber of the percolator according to your requirements, ram the hot coffee powder down firmly, and having previ- ously measured the amount of coffee liquid you require, pour boiling water, according to that measurement, in tea- spoonfuls at a time, through the upper strainer upon the powder. The slower the water is added, the more thoroughly the coffee will become soaked, and, the dripping being retarded, the essence will be as strong as possible. As soon as the coffee has run through, pour the rich essence you have obtained into your cups, and for cafe, an lait fill them up with boiling milk, for cafe noir with a little boiling water. As it is scarcely possible for your servant to make coffee with all this care at the end of a dinner party, I recom- mend that the essence be made just before dinner, and kept covered up. For a party of twelve, two brews will be re- quired. At the time it is wanted, the boiling milk imparts quite enough heat to the essence in the case of cafe an lait; and, for black coffee, a gentle re-heating, joins the modicum of boiling water aforesaid, insures a good cup; only do not forget to pass round with it a flask of fine champagne cognac. I have confined my remarks to the method which537 ON COFFEE-MAKING. I have followed for years successfully, but there are, of course, other ways of making good coffee. The Turkish system much praised by travellers may be thus described :—The roasting having been conducted with all the care I have already indicated, the berries are cast into a large metal mortar, and pounded to a very fine powder. This is carefully sifted through a line sieve, all coarse particles being rejected. As much water as is wanted is then boiled in a small copper can, having a narrow top and broad bottom. When the water boils, powdered coffee is added, off the lire, according to require- ments, and the can is replaced on the lire. The liquid is now permitted to come to the boil three times, the can after each occasion of ebullition being taken off the lire for a while. After the third boiling up, the can is placed for a minute in a shallow vessel containing cold water to preci- pitate the “grounds,” after which the coffee,—clear, black, and strong,—is poured into the cup. k’or this I have to thank Colonel H. M. 53The last, most worthy, recipe of all, —♦— JJT.T is not generally known, my clear Wyvern,” writes (4l my learned, and very kind friend C. S., “ that the fumes of sulphur prevent the rapid decomposition of animal matter, and that a fine tender mutton chop can be had, even in the hottest weather, by exposing the joint from which it is cut to the fumes of burning pastiles, placed in an air-tight box, for two or three hours after the meat is brought home from market. A joint thus treated will keep perfectly for thirty-six hours, even in Madras, and be found deliciously tender the day after it was purchased. The pastiles should be composed as follows Eight parts of powdered sulphur. One and a half part of powdered, charcoal. A quarter part of powdered saltpetre. Mix all together, and make them into pastiles, adding just enough gum water for the purpose; shape them like pyramids, and dry them in the sun. A roomy box,—say a three-dozen case,—furnished with hooks to suspend the meat by, with a closely fitting door, and all crevices filled with putty, and pasted over with strips of strong paper, is the sort of receptacle you require for the fumigation. Suspend the meat, place two or three pastiles below it, light them, close the door securely, and leave it till the pastiles have burnt out, and the fumigation has been thoroughly effected.”3 Our Kitchens in India. —♦— (Reprinted, by permission, from the Madras Mail.) (ffpK EMEMBERING as we all can so well the cheerful aspect of the English kitchen, its trimness, its comfort, and its cleanliness, how comes it to pass that in India we continue year after year to be fully aware that the chamber set apart for the preparation of our food is, in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, the foulest in our premises—and are not ashamed ? In the matter of uten- sils, and the general accessories of culinary work also,— knowing what things are considered essentially necessary even in the quietest establishment at home,—why are so many of us satisfied with an equipment regarding the miserable inadequacy of which it would be as well to keep silence? Why, in short, in the one country are we scru- pulously careful that our food shall be clean, and in the other at all times willing, apparently, to eat dirt ? Over and over again have revolting facts been discover- ed in connection with the habits and customs of the cook- room. But instead of striking at the root of the evil, and taking vigorous action to inaugurate reform, we are abso- lutely callous enough not only to tolerate barbarisms, but even to speak of the most abominable practises as jests ! Though cognizant, that is to say, of the ingenious nastiness of our cooks, we shrug our shoulders, close our eyes, and ask no questions, accepting with resignation a state of540 OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. things which we consider to be as inevitable as it is dis- gusting. But stop a moment—is it inevitable ? Let us consider that point. The fans et oriejo viali, it seems to me, are to be detected without difficulty. Think, first of all, of the distances which as a rule separate our kitchens from our houses, and the fact that the room is part and parcel of a block of godowns—not infrequently within easy access of the stables. Setting aside other considerations for a mo- ment, do we not at once perceive here two grave evils:— in the first place that proper supervision of the kitchen is almost out of the question ; and, in the second, that pro- miscuous gatherings of outsiders,—the friends, relations, and children (a fruitful source of dirtiness) of our servants —can take place in it undetected ? Again : the room is generally constructed with as little ventilation and light as possible, its position with regard to the sun is never thought of, and arrangements for its proper drainage are rare. As there is no scullery, or place of washing up, &c., the ground in the immediate vicinity of the kitchen re- ceives the foul liquid (as well as all refused matter) which is carelessly thrown out upon it. The consequence is that hard by many a cook-room in this Presidency, there is a noisome cesspool containing an inky looking fluid, the ex- halations from which can scarcely improve the more deli- cate articles of food which are sent from the house for preparation. Now follow me into the room. It is as black as Erebus. The pungent smoke from yonder wood fire, upon which some water for a bath is being boiled, penetrates every crevice. There is no chimney, you see, so the wall up which the smoke is creeping towards an opening in the roof, is lined by an ancient coating of soot. Observe the mass of patriarchal looking cobwebs depending from theOUB KITCHENS IN INDIA. 541 rafters, and the floor of mother earth, greasy, black, and cruelly uneven in its surface. Pull yourself together now, for we are about to examine the kitchen table. It is, to begin with, a piece of furni- ture which it would be gross flattery to call a dresser. It is small, and very rickety. In colour it is a remarkably warm burnt umber. The legs which support it are be- grimed with dust which has become coagulated from time to time by grease, and smoked a rich sable. If you wished to do so, you could scrape off this filthy tegument with your pen-knife to the depth of the sixteenth of an inch. The top of the table is notched and scored all over with wounds inflicted by the chopper, the edges are all worn down, and there are tell-tale marks which prove that it is the custom of the chef and his assistants to mince parsley, herbs, onions, aye the meat itself of which those “ chicken cutlets ” that he delights to give you are made, upon the oily, nut- brown board. What are that stone slab and roller for, with traces of last night’s spinach upon them ? 0 ! they are the pet articles clc cuisine of tunny-cutch ammah to whose delicate fingers is entrusted the making of chutneys, and all pre- parations which are presented to you in the form of pulp. The boiled vegetable, or whatever it may be, is turned out upon the slab, and she rolls the pin backwards and forwards until the desired consistency is attained. How does she scrape the rolling pin, and the edges of the slab during this process, and how does she clish it ? Hush, my friend, there is not a spoon in the kitchen. Cast your eye over that meagre array of degchees and of sauce-pans nearly as black inside as they are outside, and note that there is a spit there, a chatty oven in yonder corner, and—nothing more. There is no cupboard, neither is there a rack for plates and dishes, but such small et cetera as the cook uses are thrust at hap-hazard upon that542 OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. shelf, which, in griminess, you see, matches the table, whilst it comes in handily for his turband, and the folded leaf containing his snuff. You have seen enough now, and look as if you wanted a brandy and soda, so let us return to the house. On our way you inveigh against native filthiness, &c., &c. Come now, be just in your condemnations, for verily this is a case in which it behoves us to remember the beam which is in our own eye, before we seek diligently to pull out the mote which is in our black brother’s eye. Who is really to blame for a great deal that I have shown you ? Is it the cook’s fault that a wretchedly mean, carelessly constructed godown is given him for a kitchen ; that the place is inconveniently far from the house, and consequently open to every passer-by; that the furniture is absolutely nothing more than one table, far too small for culinary requirements, and one shelf ; that owing to faulty construction, the room ‘ smokes ’ dreadfully, and that there is scarcely sufficient light in it to detect dirt ? Is it the cook’s fault that in the absence of proper appliances he is forced to practise his native ingenuity, to use chatties for sauce-pans and stew-pans, to use the ‘ curry stone ’ for a mortar, his cloth for a sieve, and his fingers for a spoon or fork ? Is it the cook’s fault that, since no plates and dishes are included in his cook-room equipment, he has no alter- native but to place meat, vegetables, &c., on his table ; and that being without a mincing machine, or chopping board, he uses its surface in lieu of the latter? Why, instead of denouncing the unfortunate man, I make bold to say that, handicapped as he is, we have positively no reason to expect him to be clean ! Now I do not mean to say that the state of things that I have endeavoured to sketch obtains in every Madras es- tablishment. On the contrary, I am quite sure that in some cases the utmost trouble is taken to make everythingOVli KITCHENS IN INDIA. 543 as clean and as nice as possible, that every available appli- ance is given to the cook with a generous hand, and that the mistress of the house prides herself upon visiting her kitchen and seeing that her orders are carried out. No : it is not to the energetic few that I dedicate these com- ments, but to the apathetic many who actually know not what they do—to themselves and to their friends—by permitting the preparation of their food to take care of itself. People who refrain from all interference, who hand everything over to their butlers, and take cleanliness for granted, do so, I know, sometimes through sheer ignorance, sometimes on account of idleness, and sometimes because they are not physically equal to the exertion. I frankly admit that the labour is frequently very disheartening. It strikes me, however, that if reform were made easier and pleasanter, many who are now content to let things ‘ slide ’ might wake up and become enthusiastic, while even those, who do not know what trouble means in the matter of perfecting their cuisine, would be thankful to find their daily task less irksome. Let us, therefore, briefly consider how that object might be achieved. Taking the kitchen itself first: why on earth should we continue to accept as places fit for the cooking of our food the dismal hovels that are attached to our godowns, and called cook-rooms ? these places may have sufficed for the culinary necessities of our forefathers, who chiefly preyed upon curry and rice, and lived to all intents and purposes a la mode Indienne. But nous avons change tout cela. The delicate cookery which day by day gains popu- larity in India now demands a clean airy room, properly furnished, with plenty of light, and many accessories borrowed from civilized Europe. It has become essential, in fact, that to every house there should be attached a small building reserved solely for kitchen work and—nothing else. It should be quiteOTJIi KITCHENS IN INDIA. 544 close to the house, and connected with the hack verandah by a covered way. It should he constructed with a frontage towards the north or south so that the rays of the morning and evening sun may strike its sides. It should contain three rooms—the work-room, the cooking-room, and the scullery, all opening into a good verandah. In the first, the food, pastry, &c., should he prepared ; it should therefore he well ventilated, and have a good glass window or sky light, a large dresser, a marble pastry slab, a rack for plates and dishes, shelves for cups, jugs, howls, &c., a cupboard for culinary stores, and a gauze meatsafe to protect meat, &c., from flies. Communication between this room and the cooking-room should he shut off so that no smoke could find its way into it: things should be carried to the kitchen vicl the verandah. The cooking-room should, if possible, contain an English or American range. Failing that, a country-made range upon English principles, the construction of which I will discuss by-and-by. It should be well ventilated, well lighted,and,in any circumstances,should contain a chimney. A table for dishing up, &c., would be required here, and also racks for ladles, dredgers, &c., with shelves for the utensils. The scullery being merely used for washing up, the draw- ing, cleaning, and plucking of poultry, and work of that nature, would require a well made water-tight sink, com- municating with an equally carefully made cistern, covered by a trap-door, outside the building: the cistern should be emptied every day, and well sprinkled with McDougall’s disinfecting powder. A tap of Bed Hills water in the scullery would be a great boon at Madras. The floor of room number one might be of chunam matted over, that of number two should be paved with slabs of stone, and a similar one of stone should be laid down in the scullery.OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. 545 The day’s work having been completed, the doors of the three rooms should be carefully locked, and the whole corps de cuisine dismissed, the keys being brought to the mistress of the house. The idea of the kitchen being used by a number of native employes as a sleeping chamber is obvi- ously too horrible to need more than a passing remark. The two chief objections that will here suggest them- selves will be, I feel sure, on the one hand the difficulty of establishing the kind of kitchen I have described, and, on the other, the expense of equipping it according to the standard which obtains in England. I propose, therefore, to deal with those points independently, taking the kitchen first. The little building that I advocate,—entirely separated from the godowns, planned specially to meat culinary requirements, close to the house, and connected with it by a covered way,—in spite of its niceness theoretically, is, I admit, practically speaking almost an impossibility. Few owners of houses would go to the expense of a new building. I nevertheless offer the idea to those who are about to build de novo, and to such of my fellow-countrymen who, interested in houses that they have purchased, may be tempted to make their “offices” as complete, and as home- like as possible. In what way, then, can anything be done to improve upon matters as they at present stand? Well, a great deal, of course, depends upon circumstances. There are a good many houses that possess small buildings close to the back verandahs, which, I presume, were originally intended to be used as a “ coolers’ godowns,” or, perhaps, for the hanging of meat. They cannot be of much use for either of those purposes now-a-days, for the ancient cooler’s “occupation’s gone,” and the modern zinc-lined safe has made us independent of a larder. It seems to me, then, &OUB KITCHENS IN INDIA. 546 that some of these little places might be easily converted into kitchens, large enough at all events to accommodate one of the small yet very excellent Anglo-American cook- ing ranges now procurable, together with its accessories, and such things as are necessary for mere cooking. A place for washing up might easily he contrived on one side, or at the back of this room, and a light covered way might be thrown up cheaply enough to connect it with the house. Assuming such an arrangement feasible, the sacrifice of some small back room on the ground Hour of the house, or the walling oft of a portion of the back verandah would still be necessary to provide the “ working room,”—the room, that is to say, in which all food should be prepared prior to being conveyed to the kitchen. This I may call one of the chief points of the system I advocate, for, I maintain, that for numerous undeniable reasons, the making of pastry, the dressing of meat and vegetables, and the mixing of sauces, puddings, &c., should be performed in a cool place, away from the smoke and heat of fires, where wind and dust can be excluded by closing the door, and yet ample light be obtained from a good glass window, and, above all things, where the chef can be easily supervised. To illustrate the necessity of this recommendation, let us imagine that a cook, accommodated as he is at present, is engaged in preparing a souffle, or some equally delicate entremets. Of a suddeu a blast of wind drives a cloud of dust into the cook-room through the door (which is of necessity open to admit light), and blows myriads of fine particles of charcoal ashes from the open fire-places over everything. By-and-by the dish is served at dinner. Mon- sieur le mari cheerfully receives his portion, but presently encounters grit, and orders his plate to be taken away, murmuring something about the impolicy of petty economy in connection with flour. Madame la chatelaine, conscious of procuring the best of everything, replies—more in sorrow547 OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. than in anger, yet withal warmly—ancl denies the unkind impeachment, though constrained to send her plate away also. And thus a cloud comes over what ought to be a very happy tete-d-tetc, while indigestion, the natural result of irritation at meals, most probably follows. Now the worst of it is that unless people happen to dis- cover the real causes of accidents such as these themselves, they may wait until doomsday for enlightenment. The mental equilibrium of the native cook is in no wise disturb- ed by a dust storm, for he is perfectly accustomed to them ; and the butler will assuredly invent a plausible excuse for the contretemps—“little bit yegg-shell,” or “ sugar mis- take. ’’ It therefore comes to this, that we must insist upon a nicer appreciation of the cleanliness and care that the preparation of food demands, and to accomplish that end satisfactorily a room of the kind I have described appears to me to be essentially necessary. I am perfectly aware that, in some instances, every species of obstruction will at first be thrust in the way of those who try to follow my advice, and, in others, that the change will be obeyed with reluctance. But deter- mination and tact combined will, I think, overcome opposi- tion after a time, and the very malcontents themselves will end by praising the new regime. It is downright nonsense to say that native cooks cannot work upon English principles. They manage very well on boardship, where their services are highly prized, yet their appliances are wholly European. The kitchen at the Madras Club, and those of several private houses, both here and on the Hills, are litted up entirely upon the Home system, yet the cooks do not complain. No: it seems pretty clear that if no other alternative present itself, Bamasamy can fall into the way of using a range readily enough.OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. 548 I know of a case in which a young and zealous native chef absolutely begged his mistress to permit him to pre- pare his jellies, pastry, &c., in a spare room in the house, alleging as his reason that the kitchen was too hot and smoky : and I am perfectly sure that the majority of good Madras cooks would appreciate a similar concession. The recusants would, in all probability, be gentlemen who have become wedded to practices whereof their consciences are afraid. Pilferings of all kinds would, to begin with, become far more difficult, long absences would be soon detected, work properly the cook’s could not be thrust upon the cook’s maty, and drinking and gossiping during working hours would he knocked on the head. The furnishing of this “ working room” could be man- aged without much trouble, and certainly inexpensively, in the manner already mentioned :—with a dresser of strong wood, a pastry table with marble slab, a cup-board, a rack for plates and dishes, a gauze safe, and a set of shelves. Delicate operations, such as the composition of high class sauces, the boiling of a jelly, or the simmering of fruit, could be carried on upon a mineral oil stove, or by means of a charcoal fire placed in a sheltered corner of the veran- dah close to the room ; and such articles of diet need never be carried into the kitchen at all. But when properly dressed, and prepared for roasting, stewing, boiling, bak- ing, &c., savoury meats, pastry, and puddings, would, of course, be transported to the cooking-room. In cases where there is no isolated building near the house susceptible of conversion into a kitchen, the cook- room, such as it may be, would have to be utilized ; but if properly ventilated, furnished with a good large window fitted up with a range, racks, tables, &c., frequently inspect- ed, and reserved exclusively for the work I have mentioned, its evils might surely be reduced to a minimum. Another great thing to obtain, to my mind, is a really54?) OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA clean place, not only for the preparation of food, but also for its keeping during the day. Think for a moment of the dish of neck of mutton cutlets that the cook takes away to the cook-room at 10 a.m., after his mistress has inspected the market supplies. The cutlets re-appear at dinner time, it is true, but dare we consider how the poor things spent their day before the hour of their cooking arrived? In my ideal room they would be trimmed im- mediately upon a clean dresser, flattened with the cutlet bat, and then arranged neatly upon a large fiat dish, dusted over with pepper and salt, lightly dredged with flour, and consigned till wanted in the gauze safe ; or, if so required, they might be placed in marinade, and then put away beyond the reach of flies. The trimmings would, of course, be collected upon a plate, and sent out to the kitchen for the production of broth for sauce at once. And now for a few words about kitchen ranges and equipments. Until almost the other day, so to speak, an English range was regarded as too expensive a luxury for people in India of ordinary means. The expenditure of from two to three hundred rupees upon such a thing was looked upon as an extravagant freak. This strange opinion must have been born and bred in Hindustan a generation or more ago, and handed down to us together with numer- ous other baseless nostrums in the usual course of things ; for people could scarcely have forgotten—even forty years ago—that dwellings built for persons of three hundred a year at home were considered uninhabitable unless equip- ped with a kitchen range that at least cost thirty pounds. Of course, there was an excuse for the economy, one, indeed, that is readily pleaded, I dare say, to-day:—An English range would be thrown away upon a native cook ; he could never appreciate its advantages, and would fall back upon his own way of doing things the moment he was left to himself. With this ingenious subterfuge numbersOUB KITCHENS IN INDIA. 550 of people have been contented, and have willingly closed their eyes year after year to the wastefulness, dirt, and barbarity of the native system. The consequence is that we now find ourselves in a some- what anomalous position. Whereas our tastes have under- gone a complete change for the better; whereas men of moderate means have become hypercritical in the matter of their food, and demand a class of cooking which was not even attempted in the houses of the richest twenty years ago,—our kitchens have been in no way improved, neither have their appliances or equipments undergone the change that is necessary to keep pace with the requirements of the times. Dinners of sixteen or twenty, thoughtfully composed, are derigueur; our tables are prettily decorat- ed ; and our menu cards discourse of dainty fare in its native French. But what “ nerves” we all’ have to be sure ! Could we but raise the curtain, and examine our cook-rooms, and all that in them is, just before we lead the way to the banquet, should we not be actually dumb- foundered at our own audacity ? Setting aside the things which I have already enlarged upon, it is no exaggeration to say that not one Indian kitchen in twenty possesses a proper equipment. The bcit- terie cle cuisine of people with incomes of two thousand rupees a month, and more, is frequently inferior to that of a “humble cottager in Britain,” the total of whose means does not exceed four hundred pounds. But while the latter lives with consummate modesty, and thinks his establish- ment by no means equal to the strain of a dinner party of six, the former sits down, invites five-and-twenty people with a light heart, and expects everything to be of the best! The nakedness of the land is easily discovered at the auctions of our highest officials, where the contrast between the “ furniture principally by Deschamps” in the drawing-551 OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA room, ancl the “ few useful kitchen sundries” in the back verandah, is often very striking. The loan system is also eloquent of the inefficient equip- ments of our neighbours. To meet the culinary wants of a dinner party at the Robsons’, the Dobsons’ ice-pail, fish- kettle, and sieves, are requisitioned ; and vice versd, when the Dobsons invite their friends, the Robsons’ kitchen is pillaged to the extent of a border mould, a ham boiler, and the pastry cutters. I need say no more about equipments : those who are interested in the matter will find a list of kitchen neces- saries at page 21. Having, I hope, satisfactorily demonstrated thatakitchen range should surely find a place in the category of things to be “ devoutly wished for” by all who take any interest in their cuisine, let me now point out a few of the advan- tages to be derived from the use of one. After having once set up a good range, the purchaser ought, in the first place, to experience a marked diminu- tion in his fuel account. The native cook’s objection “ too much firewood taking” is, let me observe, a downright perversion of fact. If properly understood, and utilized to its full extent, the English range, with its one fire, must surely consume less fuel than do the numerous open fires in an Indian cook-room. This is self-evident. According to the method that is followed in the latter system, a separate fire is required for each thing—for the bath water, the kettle, the oven, the sauce and stew-pans, &c., &c. A range provided with a hot-plate, an oven, and a boiler, supplies with its one fire all these wants at once. Vessels, the contents of which require rapid boiling, are placed over the fire-hole, while things needing slow treat- ment, like soups, stews, &e., find a place upon the hot- plate, or fiat surface of the range. The oven is, of course,552 OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. always kept hot, and the boiler, if correctly filled, must contain an unceasing supply of hot water. If, however, these opportunities of economy be neglected, and if the cook be permitted to make up little fires, in addition to that -of the range, here and there in the kitchen in his native fashion, the saving in fuel will, I grant, he small. I know that the “ Duff’s cooking ranges,” which are set- up for the use of British soldiers in the barracks of this Presidency, are generally condemned by the men as re- quiring too much wood. But then they are not utilized in a way by which economy is attainable. T. Atkins re- quires no soup ; he is not particular regarding the tender- ness of the stew he eats; and he rarely wants hot water. He finds the oven alone necessary, for “Jack,” the barrack cook-boy, can use the chatty, the grid-iron, or the frying- pan, in the verandah, over a small charcoal fire, with sufficient cleverness to satisfy his many masters. Yet the ranges in the hospital kitchens are thoroughly appreciated. Hot water is in constant requisition there, soup must be made daily, and meat has to be very carefully cooked. In order, then, to find English ranges economical as fuel consumers, people who buy them must take care that they are turned to their proper and full account. The superior quality of the food cooked with a perfect appliance of this kind when compared with the best results obtainable by the native system, is another strong recom- mendation in favour of the range. Take one item of daily consumption—-our soup. It is not exaggeration to say that, as a general rule, the native cook takes nearly double the amount of meat and hone necessary to produce this article of food. His doing so may be attributed, of course, in a great measure to ignorance ; but he can also plead as an excuse the want of a proper kitchen equipment. His practice, if left to himself, has been explained at page 42. Now, independently of the ignorance there exposed of th$553 OUB KITCHENS IN INDIA. elementary principles of soup-making, observe the wanton wastefulness of fuel. The extraction of the nutritive elements of meat and bone requires, we all know, that slow process of cookery called simmering—a process as readily carried out with an English range, as it is almost impossible with the open brick-and-mud fire-places of the cook-room. At least, it stands to reason that—be the tunny-cutch never so careful —the low fire, at an even degree of temperature, which simmering requires, can scarcely be maintained for hours together by the eye and hand alone. With a range in our kitchen, therefore, all we should have to do would be to explain the simmering system, and point out how easily it can be managed. Then, as soon as the native cook discovered that all that was necessary was to pull his soup kettle so many inches back upon the hot- plate, he would do so, for the new plan would not interfere with his customary absence for “rice.” In the end we should get a soup of superior quality extracted from about half the quantity of meat that we formerly issued. In like manner all dishes requiring slow cookery, hashes, stews, sauces,—even our curries, which are often sent up tough from being too quickly cooked,—would be easily prepared, and certainly be far more digestible. The cleanli- ness of the system need not be dwelt upon, smoke would become a thing unknown, and ashes could no longer be wafted by every breeze into our food. With so much to be said in favour of the kitchen range, it seems strange that its cost should be considered pro- hibitive by so many well-to-do people in India. If pro- perly used the economies it effects must, in the end, repay its purchase, while it ought to be at all times a very sale- able article. Why, I repeat, should we hesitate to provide ourselves in India with an appliance that in England is re- 55554 OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. garded by people of ordinary respectability as a common necessary of life ? Ingenious and painstaking persons who hesitate to go to the expense of an English range may, as I said before, effect a material improvement in their kitchen system by putting together a fire-place upon Home principles. I know of a case in which an experiment of this kind has been crowned with success. The method followed may be briefly described as follows :— A fire grate was first contrived by iron bars in the style of a cresset, rectangular in shape, and supported on four iron props ; it was made the full length and height of an English kitchen grate, but one-third less deep at back. Embedded in masonry on one side of this fire grate was an iron bazar-made boiler; the side of it nearest the fire had no masonry, and it fitted closely to the iron bars. The boiler was furnished with a brass tap. On the other side of the grate, set firmly in masonry, with its side towards the fire exposed, and with a close fitting door, was a bazar- made iron oven. The props of the cresset fire-place were set in masonry and cemented ; they were sufficiently long to sustain the fire, about the average height from the ground that kitchen fires are fitted in England. Over the top of the fire a flat sheet of iron connected the surface of the oven with that of the boiler, forming a very fair hot- plate. This iron sheet was moveable at pleasure. The topmost outer bar of the cresset was also moveable to allow a space for the admission of fuel when the hot-plate was fixed. The smoke was made to pass into a flue contrived with a few feet of ready-made stove piping, which passed through the wall of the kitchen at the back of the fire grate, and was then led up the wall to the roof. But by far the best thing introduced in this locally-de- signed kitchen was an English roasting “jack.” The555 OtJB KITCHENS IN INDIA. “jack” itself was imported from home at a cost of half a sovereign ; the lire screen, and dripping pan were made by the bazar tinman; and the “ jack” was hung from a beam fixed in the wall at a convenient height above the fire grate. Every joint was in this manner roasted more Anglico. Dripping, a thing previously unknown in the establish- ment, became a highly valued commodity; and the meat was invariably sent up full of gravy, and with that crisp browning that can only be obtained by carefully roasting. A little more charcoal was used in the “jack” system than in the old way with the spit, but the expense was more than balanced by the dripping gained, the good gravy, and the additional juiciness of the meat. Charcoal was used for roasting work, and good dry wood was found sufficient for soups, and all common boiling operations, when no roasting was needed. The strange thing was that both the butler and the cook were as delighted with the innova- tion as children with a new toy. I hope that this may encourage some of my readers to carry out a similar scheme. I have spoken of the American cooking stoves fed by mineral oil, in Chapter XXVIII. The popularity of these very excellent domestic articles is increasing daily, and I need scarcely point out their value in the reformed kitchen system that I have endeavoured to discuss. One of them could, for instance, find a place in the indoor “working- room” I have recommended, and provide a handy little kitchen for all delicate operations, especially for fancy baking. Finally : with a range (if possible), and with an arrange- ment, such as I have tried to describe, giving us a clean, nicely-equipped room for the preparation of our food, and a kitchen, entirely separated from godowns and stabling, easily accessible from the house, and consequently con- tinually subject to scrutiny and wholesome discipline, I556 OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. think that the back-bone of the evils I have spoken of would be broken, ladies would find the supervision of their do- mestic economy a pleasure rather than a penance, and we should be able to congratulate ourselves upon having really laid the foundation-stone of true reform at last.IlNTIDIEiX- vcme stove, the PAGE. 329 Do. do. working of 329 Advantages gained by helping, and not handing entrees .. 83 Aitch-bone of beef, to cure 267 Allemande sauce 108 Almond (burnt) Charlotte Russe of (ice) 411 Do. milk in curries .. 304 Do. do. in mulligatunny 323 American “ canned ” fruits, &c. # 29 Anchovy cream 386 Do. toast 236 Do. do. made at the table .. 237 Do. do. top-dressing for 237 Angel puddings 478 Antipasto, the (hors d'eeuvres) 225 Aperture, the necessity of, in pie-crust 288 Apple Charlotte 528 Apricot cream a la Muscovite 449 Do. cream (iced pudding) 383 Do. custard 429 Do. sauce 503 Artichoke globe (articliaut) 160 Do. do. a la Barigoule 162 Do. do. a l’Espagnole 161 Do. do. a l’ltalienne 161 Do. do. & la Lyonnaise 161 Do. do. & la maitre d’hotel 161 Do. do. a la moelle 163 Do. do. a la poivrade 161 Do. do. a la proven9ale 162558 INDEX. Artichoke globe au gratin PAGE. 161 Do. do. au sauce blanche, or bechamel 161 & 163 Do. do. bottoms of entire .. 162 Do. do. bouchees 163 Do. do. cold to treat 163 Do. do. en coquilles 163 Do. do. fritters (beignets) 161 Do. do. on toast 238 Do. do. petits pates of 163 Do. do. sauce for 97 Do. do. scallops of 387 Do. do. to trim 160 Do. do. stems a la cardon.. 172 Do. Jerusalem (topinambour) 158 Do. do. au gratin .. 159 Do. do. creme of 160 Do. do. fritters 159 Do. do. mould of .. 159 Do. do. petits pates of 163 Do. do. ways of cooking 159 Do. do. with eggs .. 253 Asparagus (asperges) 173 Do. cold, with cream 174 Do. en branches 471 Do. garnish for an entree .. 464 Do. peas 174 Do. pointes 174 Do. do. on toast 174 Do. (tinned) 174 Do. proper sauce for 173 Do. to boil—Sir Henry Thompson’s recipe 173 Aspic de perdreaux 427 Do. jelly to make 42 S Aubergines (brinjals) a l’Espaguole 422 Do. au gratin 494 Australian tinned meats 339 jjj^acon, value of, in rechauffes Bain-marie pan, the Baked crab .. Do. drumstick seeds 186 20 501 471559 INDEX. PAGE. Baked mushrooms 428 Baking, concerning (pies) 274 Do. equipment for .. 332 Do. do. fish (an gratin) 61 Do. stove, a 329 Ballotines of quails 465 Bandecai croustades 514 Do. in salad 223 Do. toast 242 Do. Wyvern’s way (au gratin) 478 Barrie’s Madras curry powder, &c. 302 Basil in soups 39 Basis of gravy for a turkey 110 Batter for frying .. 211 & 441 Do. in rechauffes 186 Bavarian cream with cocoa 416 Bavaroise de cocoa a la moderne .. 416 Beans, broad (fives de marais) 177 Do. country 177 Do. do. a la bourgeoise 177 Do. dried (Soissons) 176 Do. French (haricots verts) 148 Do. Preserved (Lima) 176 Bearnaise sauce 96 Bechamel do. 107 Beef and mutton 113 Do. a la mode 134 Do. fillets with French beans 436 Do. brisket, to cure 267 Do. do. with jelly, cold 506 Do. fresh, boiling of .. 125 Do. fricandeau of 464 Do. grenadins a la Bearnaise 381 Do. olives 466 Do. pressed 268 Do. ribs of, a la ch&teaubriand .. 404 Do. salt, boiling of .. 130 Do. spiced . . 268 Do. steak and vegetables 502 Do. do. jugged 133 Po, do. pickled • • 450560 INDEX. Beef steak to make tender Do. do. and oyster pudding .. Do. do. and oyster pie Do. do. pie Do. do. pudding .. Do. do. with sorrel puree Do. suet in pastry .. Do. do. to clarify Do. tournados of Beetroot (Betterave) 4 la poulette .. Do. leaves, edible .. Do. do. on toast.. Beignets d’ananas (pineapple) Do. d’articliauts .. Do. d’aubergines (brinjals) Do. d’avenches Do. de bananes Do. de peches Do. de topinambours (fritters) Do. souffles Do. do. au Parmesan Bhindi, see Bandecai Bigarade sauce for wild duck Binegun, see Brinjal Biscuit a 1’ Indienne Biscuit, devilled Biscuits short bread for spinach .. Bisque de grandes-crevettes Do. de bomard (note) Blanc Blanc-manger a la vanille Blanquette of fowl Boiled chops Do. turkey Boiling Boiling a bam Do. common errors in Do. fish Do. salt meat Do. to improve flavour of meat in Do. potatoes PAGE. 342 285 291 522 285 527 275 275 453 168 168 241 214 161 502 467 513 406 159 215 215 176 393 176 520 520 157 445 446 170 494 481 133 128 125 129 126 5S & 375 129 127 139561 INDEX. PAGE. Bombay ducks . . . 234 Do. do. with curries 320 Do. onions 165 Do. do. au gratin 165 Boned loin of mutton.. 481 Bordelaise sauce 396 Bouchees d’artichauts (cromtades) 163 Do. d’epinards 437 Do. with fish as garnish 56 Boudins, concerning 76 Do. of pigeon with olives 426 Do. of salmon 520 Bouillabaisse, the 63 Bouilli .. 37 & 532 Do. a la Milanaise ... 530 Bouillon .. 37 & 532 Do. court for fish .. 59 Do. do. k la Nantaise 59 Do. with bouilli 539 Braised capon 477 Do. fresh brisket 506 Do. hen turkey, a la jardiniere 421 Do. do. with cauliflower 470 Do. leg of mutton a la chevreuil 427 Do. loin of mutton 488 Braising 114 Brawn, a good 269 Do. of ox-head 269 Do. pig’s head 270 Do. seasoning 269 Brazilnut milk in curries 314 Bread-cases for entrees.. 477 Bread-crumbing cutlets, &c. .. 72 & 76 Do. do. fish 60 Bread crumbs to store 29 Do. do. to fry 367 Bread-making 332 Do. do. things required for 332 Bread (plain loaf) 334 Do. do. Mr. Heath’s 334 Do. for sandwiches ., 206 50INDEX. 562 PAGE Bread sauce.. .. .. .. .. 91 Do. sippets for hashes and minces .. .. 185 Breads, fancy .. .. .. .. 3.34 Breakfasts a la Franchise .. .. .. 199 Breast of mutton 4 la Wyvern .. .. .. 492 Brine for pickling meat.. .. .. .. 265 Brinjal toast .. .. .. .. 243 Do. fritters .. .. .. .. 502 Brinjals a 1’ Espagnole .. .. .. .. 422 Do. au gratin .. .. ., .. 491 Do. chutney .. .. .. .. 319 Do. fritters of, with curries .. .. .. 320 Do. in salad .. .. .. .. 223 Broiled cutlets .. .. .. .. 68 Do. seer en papillotes .. .. .. 62 Broiling fish .. .. .. .. 62 Brunoise soup .. .. .. .. 401 Brussels sprouts (choux cle Bruxelles) .. .. 153 Do. do. a la creme .. .. .. 154 Do. do. & la Lyonnaise .. .. .. 154 Do. do. a la Maitre d’hotel .. .. 154 Do. do. a la poulette .. .. .. 154 Do. do. au beurre .. .. .. 154 Do. do. au jus .. .. .. 154 Do. do. cold to serve .. .. .. 154 Burnt almond (praline) .. .. .. 411 Do. onion coloring condemned .. .. .. 35 Do. do. sugar colouring (caramel) .. .. 35 Butter, fancy .. .. .. .. 229 Do. do. crab coral.. .. .. .. 231 Do. do. rules for making .. .. .. 230 Do. green .. .. .. .. 230 Do. do. with herring roes .. .. .. 418 Do. home-made, expense of .. .. 78 Do. in pastry .. .. .. .. 275 Do. maitre d’hotel .. .. .. .. 90 Do. necessity of, in cookery .. .. .. 78 Do. prawn .. .. .. - - 231 Do. tinned, value of.. .. .. .. 79 Do. yellow (fancy) .. .. .. .. 231 Buttered eggs .. - • • • • • 238INDEX. 563 Buttered egg toast PAGE. 238 Do. do. with anchovy toast . . • • 237 Do. do. with fish toast . • . . 238 Do. do. with spinach toast •• 241 ^§/abbage au sauce blanche o'-’ 152 Do. in pot-au-feu 153 Do. leaves with forcemeat (farcis) 153 Do. stewed 152 Do. with rice and gravy 153 Cabbages (Choux) to prepare for dressing 150 Do. to steam 151 Do. with rice .. 153 & 259 Cafe a la Turque 537 Do. au lait 493 Do. noir 492 Camp, baking in fr. 331 to 335 Do. cookery generally 328 Do. kitchen store list for 343 Do. Mineral oil stove for 329 Do. Moir’s Army ration for 342 'Do. Soups fr. 325 to 338 Do. Southwell’s jelly for 342 Do. Spirit lamp for .. 331 Do. Tinned fish in 339 Do. do. meats in .. fr. 339 to 342 Do. do. vegetables in 342 Canapes .. 201 & 228 Do. de becassines .. 416 Do. de caviare 459 Canards Sauvage sauce bigarade 393 Caueton aux pctits pois 509 Caper sauce 89 Capon a la Framjaise .. 392 Do. braised with turnip puree 477 Do. galantine of 447 Do. stuffing 119 Do. with cauliflower 398 Carbonade de mouton .. .. 442 Careme sauce .. 498564 INDEX. l'AGE. Caramel colouring .. .. .. .. 35 Cardes poirees .. .. .. .. 172 Cardnoons a la moello .. .. .. .. 171 Do. to imitate .. .. .. .. 172 Carrots (carottes) .. .. .. .. 165 Do. a la Flamande .. .. .. .. 165 Do. a la Nivernaise.. .. .. .. 165 Do. glaces (as turnips) .. .. .. 164 Do. soup .. .. .. .. 50 Do. to trim .. .. .. .. 165 ‘ Cases, bread .. .. .. .. 477 Do. China .. .. .. .. 77 & 405 Do. paper .. .. .. .. 405 Do. potato .. .. .. .. 386 Do. rice.. .. .. .. .. 425 Cashu-nut sauce for turkey, &c. .. .. .. 110 Casseroles de riz (to make) .. .. .. 425 Do. of prawns .. .. .. .. 425 Cassolettes a la financiere .. .. .. 386 Do. concerning .. .. .. .. 76 Do. to make of potatoes .. .. .. 386 Cauliflower (chou-fleur) to prepare for cooking .. 155 Do. au gratin (Italian) without cheese .. .. 156 Do. au gratin with cheese .. .. .. 155 Do. boiled .. .. .. .. 155 Do. different ways of serving .. .. 155 Do. steamed recommended .. .. .. 155 Do. to trim .. .. .. .. 155 Caviare toast .. .. .. .. 459 Celery (cileri) .. .. .. .. 170 Do. a la moelle .. .. .. .. 171 Do. a 1’ Espagnolc .. .. .. .. 170 Do. to stew in blanc .. .. .. 170 Do. with butter (entremets) .. .. .. 449 Cepes a l’huile condemned .. .. .. 28 Champignons au gratin .. .. .. 428 Chapelure .. .. • • • • • • 76 Charlotte a la Sicilienne (ice) .. .. .. 399 Do. de bananes .. .. . • • • 528 Do. de pommes .. .. .. • • 525 Do. Russe au praline (ice) .. .. .. 411INDEX. 565 PAGE. Chateaubriand sauce , . 404 Chaud-froid a la belle alliance . . . . 485 Do. de foie gras .. . , . . 512 Do. of fowl a la Palestine . . 420 Do. of fruit . . , . 437 Do. of snipe . . . . 410 Cheese-cakes, lemon . . , . 443 Cheese biscuits for spinach . . • , 157 Do. beignets a la Pignatolli . . . . 263 Do. do. souffles of . . . . 215 Do. cream . . 481 Do. fingers , , . , 234 Do. fondue , . 261 Do. grated with soups . . 35 Do. ramequins . • • . 262 Do. sauce (Milanai.se) . . . . 91 Do. service of 228 Do. do. abolition of advocated .. 234 Do. do. with soups . , 352 Do. toasts, various , , 244 Do. do. with stewed cheese 245 Do. to choose for cookery 246 Do. various ways of serving , , 261 ChetpUt sauce , , 519 Chicken a la St. Lambert , , 441 Do. a la Villeroy .. . , .. 458 Do. and tongue-pie , , 292 Do. chaud-froid 420 Do. do. do. sauce 420 Do. cream (entree) .. , , 379 Do. croquettes of .. . . 463 Do. curry # # 308 Do. fritot of 491 Do. puree (soup) 424 Do. quenelles of 409 Do. souffle 519 Chicoree (endives) 157 Chilli vinegar in soups 35 Chives, equivalent of .. 100 Chocolate cream ice (parfait) , , .. 423 Do. icing . . , , 461566 INDEX. 1’AGK. Chocolate souffl6 .. .. ., ,. 47] Cholum birds (our ortolans) .. .. .. 473 Chops boiled .. .. ., _ _ 433 Do. pickled .. .. .. # # 450 Chou-fleur (cauliflower) .. .. ,. 454 Choux (cabbages) .. .. .. ,, 450 Do. de Bruxelles (Brussels sprouts) .. .. 153 Chutney (fresh) brinjal.. .. .. .. 349 Do. do. cocoanut .. .. .. 319 Do. do. cucumber .. .. .. 349 Do. do. mango.. .. .. .. 320 Do. do. mashed 43otato .. .. .. 320 Do. do. mint .. .. .. .. 320 Do. do. tamarind .. .. .. 320 Do. do. tomato .. .. .. 349 Chutneys, Barrie’s, Madras .. .. .. 302 Chutneys, service of .. .. .. 343 Civet de lievre (jugged hare) .. .. .. 365 Claret jelly .. .. .. .. .. 422 Clarified suet for pastry .. .. .. 275 Clarifying soup .. .. .. .. 33 Clear fish soup .. .. .. .. 395 Do. giblet soup .. .. .. .. 473 Do. mock turtle .. .. .. .. 432 Do. ox-tail (queue de bce-uf) .. .. .. 451 Do. prawn soup .. .. .. .. 476 Do. soup a la Boyale .. .. .. .. 413 Do. do. brunoise .. .. .. .. 401 Do. do. of partridges .. .. .. 457 Do. do. of snipe .. .. .. .. 389 Do. do. with asparagus points .. .. .. 419 Do. do. with carrots (Nivernaise) .. .. 486 Do. do. with crusts .. .. .. .. 475 Do. do. with julienne .. .. .. 384 Do. do. with lettuce .. .. .. .. 505 Do. do. with maccaroni .. .. .. 407 Do. do. with poached eggs .. .. .. 525 Do. do. with quenelles .. .. .. 378 Cocoanut flower stalks a l’asperges.. .. .. 243 Do. do. toast .. .. .. .. 243 Do. chutney .. .. .. .. 319567 INDEX. Cocoanut milk for curries PAGE. 315 Cod’s roe toast 243 Code of rules for soup-making 39 Coffee-making 535 Cold fish, rechauffes of .. 181 Do. meat slices like cutlets 186 Do. vegetables, rechauffes of 187 Colouring soup 34 Conserve of tomato 256 Consomme 34 Do. a la Royale 413 Do. a l’Estragon 39 Do. au maccaroni 407 Do. aux oeufs poches 525 Do. aux pates d’ltalie (note) 407 Do. aux pointes d’asperges 419 Do. aux quenelles 378 Do. d’abatis (giblet) 473 Do. de becassines 389 Do. de grandes-crevettes 476 Do. de laitue 505 Do. de perdreaux 457 Do. de poisson 395 Do. general rules in making 33 Cooked vegetables in salads 223 Coquilles (scallop shells) use of, advocated 188 Do. d’artichauts .. .. 163 & 387 Cotelettes a la Maintenon 415 Do. a la Milanaise 470 Do. a la Moscovite 390 Do. & la Nivernaise 165 Do. & la Reforme .. 402 Do. k la Yalois 421 Do. au creme de fromage 397 Do. au macedoine 474 Do. au pure d’oseille 446 Country vegetables 176 Do. do. in salads 223 Courge a la moelle au gratin .. 166 & 507 Do. do. to cook in various ways 166 Courgettes (young marrows) to serve 167568 INDEX. PAGE. Court bouillon .. .. .. ., 59 Do. do. a la Nantaise .. .. ,. 59 Crab au gratin .. .. ,. ., 591 Do. coral butter .. .. .. _, 231 Do. mock .. .. .. .. " 233 Do. mock toast .. • • .. 245 Cream cheese.. .. .. .. 229 Do. Garibaldi .. .. .. .. 475 Do. in salad .. .. .. ,. 222 Do. in soups .. .. .. .. 47 Crecy soup .. .. .. .. .. 50 Creme d’anchois .. .. .. .. 386 Do. d’abricots a la Moscovite .. .. .. 449 Do. de fromage .. .. .. .. • 397 Do. de pistaches glacee .. .. ., 388 Do. de riz aux haricots verts .. .. .. 508 Do. de topinambours .. .. .. 160 Do. de volaille .. .. .. .. 379 Do. d’orge .. .. .. .. 440 Crepes (pancakes) .. .. .. .. 187 Crepinettes de poisson .. .. .. .. 469 Do. do. volaille .. .. .. .. 434 Cromesky, the .. .. .. .. 212 Croquettes of chicken aux pointes d’asperges .. .. 463 Do. of duck .. .. .. .. 396 Do. to crumb .. .. .. .. 76 Croustades de bandecai .. .. .. 514 Do. de champignons .. .. .. 529 Do. de grandes crevettes .. .. .. 496 Do. de foie gras .. .. .. .. 477 Do. of rabbit .. .. .. .. 403 Do. de truifes a l’Espagnole .. .. .. 529 Crotites au pot .. .. .. .. 517 Do. d’ananas .. .. .. .. 455 Do. a l’Avenches .. .. .. .. 467 Croutons in soups .. .. .. .. 51 Crumbs for cutlets .. .. .. .. 72 Do. do. croquettes .. .. .. .. 76 Do. do. for frying fish .. .. .. 60 Do. to keep a supply of .. .. 28 it 60 Crust, pie .. .. .. .. .. 278569 INDEX. f>AGE. Crust, pie, French .. • • • • • • 279 Do. do. raised .. • • • • 281 Do. Mr. Heath’s for pie or tart .. .. • • 335 Do. (pork) pie .. • • • • • • 280 Cucumbers (concornbres) .. • • • • 167 Do. a la maitre d’hotel .. .. . • 167 Do. k la poulette .. .. • • • • 167 Do. toast .. • • • • • • 242 Do. (to cook) .. .. • • • • 167 Do. stewed .. • • • • • • 314 Do. stuffed (farris) . • • • • • 167 Curds, to make, for cheese cakes .. .. .. 534 Cure’s omelette, the .. .. .. . • 196 Curing tongues, &c., rules for .. .. • • 264 Curries .. .. .. .. • • 299 Do. almond milk in .. .. .. 304 Do. butter, necessity of, in .. .. .. 303 Do. cocoanut, importance of, in .. .. 304 Do. do. milk for .. .. .. 304 Do. flavouring leaves used in .. .. .. 307 Do. gravy to assist .. .. .. .. 305 Do. green ginger in.. .. .. .. 307 Do. knottypoints in .. .. .. 301 Do. lost art of making .. .. .. 300 Curry, Ceylon (or Malay) .. .. .. 313 Do. do. cocoanut milk for .. .. .. 315 Do. do. condiment for .. .. .. 314 Do. do. cucumber to prepare for .. .. 314 Do. prawns to prepare for .. .. .. 314 Do. chicken .. .. .. .. 308 Do. dry .. .. .. .. .. 310 Do. kubab .. .. .. ,. 316 Do. paste recipe for .. .. .. 307 Do. do. value of .. .. • .. .. 307 Do. powder, a stock receipt for .. .. 305 Do. do. Barrie’s, Madras .. .. .. 302 Do. do. hints for making .. .. .. 305 Do. do. ingredients for .. .. .. 305 Do. do. London made .. .. .. 302 Do. quoorma .. .. .. .. 317 Custard & la surprise (tipsy pudding) .. .. 466 57INDEX. 570 PAGE. Custard apricot . . 429 Do. savoury, as top-dressing for toast . * 237 Cutlet frills effective 71 Cutlets a la Keforme 402 Do. k la Maintenon 415 Do. a la valois 421 Do. to bread-crumb 72 Do. to grill 72 Do. to marinade 70 Do. to stew 72 Do. to trim nicely important .. 71 Do. veal to lard 73 'flllDarnes de seer a la Perigueux .. 385 Decoction of meat and vegetables for invalids 54 Dejeuner a la fourchette 199 Devils and grills concerning 510 Do. sauce for 511 Devilled biscuit 520 Do. bam 234 Dil pussund (young) 177 Dinde braisee a la jardiniere 421 Do. do. au chou-fleur 470 Dinner rolls 333 Domestic ‘ pasty’ a 289 Dried haricot beans 176 Drumstick-seed toast 243 Do. do. au gratin 474 Dry curry .. 310 Duchesse pudding 497 Do. potato ^. 141 & 502 Duck croquettes a la Bordelaise 396 Do. stuffing 120 Do. wild .. 527 Duckling and peas 509 Dutch cheese in cookery 246 Do. sauce 96 D’Uxelles, or fines herbs 109 Do. sauce 109INDEX. 571 JEjau dela cuisson (vegetable stock) Eels stewed (matelote) . Do. to bake.. Do. to cook.. Egg and cream, a savoury custard of, for toast Do. toasts to vary Espagnole sauce Do. do. with cream 238 Eggs, buttered 248 Do. do. on toast 238 Do. do. with anchovy toast .. 237 Do. do. with cheese 249 Do. do. with fish toast 244 Do. do. with spinach toast .. 241 Do. do. hard-boiled on toast 238 Do. in sauces for thickening 109 Do. in soups, thickening 47 Do. poached on toast with cream 238 Do. snow 388 Do. to cook in various ways from 248 to 253 Do. with cream (a la Suisse) 250 Do. with Jerusalem artichokes .. 253 Endive (chicorie) .. 157 & 511 Entrees, classification of 66 Do. class I 68 Do. class II 74 Do. class III 77 Do. garnishing of .. 81 Do. iced value of .. .. 67 & 76 Do. place of, in the menu 6 Do. of pastry 77 Do. selection of 67 Do. service of 80 Do. socle (or stand) for 82 Do. the helping of.. 82 Epigrams of mutton 408 Epinards a la creme 156 Equipment, for baking at home .. 332 Do. kitchen 21 Errors in toasting bread .. 236 PAGE. 88, 150, 325 355 358 357 237 238 104572 INDEX. PAGK. I O VO Wi. . . Essence of fowl 106 Do. of game 284 ' Do. of ham 108 Do. of mushrooms .. 108 Do. of truffles 108 Do. of vegetables and meat 54 •Jj^ancy butter 229 Do. do. crab coral 231 Do. do. fish in .. 232 Do. do. green 230 Do. do. bard boil eggs in .. 231 Do. do. herring roes in 418 Do. do. lobster .. 231 Do. do. maitre d’hotel 90 Do. do. prawn 231 Fennel sauce 89 Fig pudding 510 Fillets, concerning 69 Fillet of beef 69 Do. a la Bearnaise 380 Do. a 1’ Italienne 202. Do. aux haricots verts 436 Do. in jelly 506 Do. with anchovy cream .. 386 Do. with sorrel puree 527 Fillets of mutton 69 Do. of foie gras, chaud-froid 512 Do. of fowls and game 69 Do. fish in curry 316 Do. of hare 69 Do. of pigeon a la Genevoise 414 Do. of pomfret a la Venitienne .. 425 Do. of do. a la poulette 396 Do. of do. aux capres 419 Do. of do. aux fines herbes .. 40S Do. of do. en ragout 509 Do. of do. with parsley sauce 476 Do. of rabbits 69INDUS. 573 PAGK. Fillets of rabbits a l’ltalienne 487 Do. of snipe en chaud froid 410 Do. of soles a la pauvre homme .. 487 Do. of teal a la Wyvern 488 Do. of whiting a 1' Americaine .. 446 Do. of do. sauce piquante .. 463 Einanciere in entrees .. 79 Do. sauce 106 Fines herbes (D’ Uxelles) 109 Do. do. sauce 89, 109, & 452 Do. do. vinegar 219 Fish a la broche 63 Do. au bleu 59 Do. au gratin 61 Do. baking of 61 Do. boiling of 58 Do. broiling of 62 Do. broth for rechauffes 183 Do. broiled en papillotes 62 Do. cold (en rechauffe) 181 Do. curry .. 316 Do. fresh water 344 Do. fritters (pounded) 187 Do. frying of 59 Do. essences chablis with, &c. 108 Do. Madras, description of 376 Do. in the menu 55 Do. jugged.. 133 Do. kitchri 182 Do. on toast 243 Do. pounded with batter 187 Do. pates (rechauffi) .. 182 Do. pie 297 Do. preserved, toasts of 243 Do. pudding 182 Do. recooked 181 Do. roasting of 63 Do. soup .. 395 Do. rolled in pancakes (crepes) 187 Do. stewing of 62 Do. bouillabaisse of .. 63INDEX. 574 Fish, the salad not to accompany .. Do. trimmings of, invaluable for sauces Flageolets .. Do. tinned Do. to smoke Fleurons of pastry as garnish Florence stove the (note) Florican, to roast a Flour potato to make for souffles .. Flouring fish for frying Foie gras, croustades de PAGE. 56 & 64 88 150 175 ■400 157 329 528 455 60 477 Do. do. fillets of (chaud-froid) .. 512 Do. do. forcemeat 75 Do. do. on toast 239 Do. do. pain de 471 Fonds d’ artichauts a la barigoule.. . . 162 Do. d’ artichauts a la bechamel .. 163 Do. do. a la creme 163 Do. do. a la moelle 163 Do. do. a la Pro veil vale 162 Do. do. au gratin en coquilles 163 Do. do. cold treatment of 163 Do. do. entiers 162 Do. do. tinned 175 Do. do. to trim 162 Fondue, the 261 Do. Brillat Savarin’s 262 Forcemeat (farce) or stuffings .. .. .. 118 Do. for game-pie .. .. .. .. 295 Do. for galantines .. .. .. .. 447 Do. in rabbit-pie .. .. .. .. 293 Do. of liver a la foie gras .. .. .. 75 Fowl a l’Americaine .. .. .. .. 453 Do. a la Villeroy .. .. .. .. 458 Do. blanquette .. .. .. .. 481 Do. boiled in the soup stock .. .. .. 127 Do. grilled .. .. .. •. 518 Do. jugged with vegetables .. .. .. 133 Do. or chicken essence .. .. .. 106 Do. roasting of a .. .. .. .. 117 French beans (haricots verts) .. .. .. 148TNDFX. 575 PAGE. French beans a la creme . . 149 Do. do. au fines herbes 149 Do. do. au lard .. 149 Do. do. au creme de fromage . . 149 Do. do. au sauce blanche 149 Do. do. in the jar 381 Do. do. panaches 150 Do. do. tinned 175 Do. do. wrong trimming of .. 148 French rolls .. 333 Fresh •hutneys 318 Fresh-water fish, concerning . . 344 Do. eels, cookery of 357 Do. do. value of, in soup 357 Do. fish filleting recommended 352 Do. do. fillets to treat fr. 352 to 350 Do. do. killing, cleaning, & crimping 340 Do. do. kippered 300 Do. do. matelote 355 Do. do. rules for the treatment of . . 361 Do. do. soup 356 Do. do. speedy cookery of, essential 346 Do. do. stock, great value of 354 Do. do. do. for mulligatunny , , 356 Do. do. to bake (the murral) 349 Do. do. to boil .. . . 346 Do. do. to fry .. . . 347 Do. do. to roast .. 351 Do. do. to stew (Badminton Library) . , 353 Do. turtle, the .. 358 Do. do. soups of . . 359 Do. do. stew, or curry of , . 360 Fricandeau of beef , . 464 Fried bread sippets (croUtons) . . 51 Do. do. crumbs . , 367 Fritdt de volaille 491 Fritters (beignets) 209 Do. batter for , , 211 Do. fruit . . 214 Do. oyster (angels on horseback) , , 213 Do. pancake • . .. 214INDEX. 576 Fritters plantain Do. prawn, pounded Do. rules for frying. Frying basket Do. concerning Do. fish .. Do. medium Do. pans, concerning Do. potatoes 515 '214 209 209 208 59 209 20 & 209 145 GQyjalantine of capon or turkey .. .. .. t47 Do. of quails .. .. .. .. 3gp Game, concerning .. .. .. .. 363 Do. essence .. .. ., .. 103 Do. pie .. .. .. .. .. 295 Do. do. forcemeat for .. .. .. 295 Do. do. raised .. .. .. .. 282 Do. soups, purees .. .. .. .. 52 Do. stew (omnium gatherum) .. .. .. 365 Do. toasts .. .. .. .. 241 Garibaldi cream .. .. .. .. 475 Garnish for pie-tops .. .. .. .. 288 Garnishing entrees .. .. .. .. 81 G&teau de pistache .. .. .. .. 484 Do. Napolitian .. .. .. .. 472 Gelatinous thickening in the clear soup condemned .. 39 Gelee aux fruits .. .. .. .. 398 Do. de Bordeaux .. .. .. .. 422 Do. de prunes .. .. .. .. 393 Genevoise sauce .. .. .. .. 414 G6noises au chocolat .. .. .. .. 460 Gherkin sauce (sauce aux cornichons) .. .. 89 Giblet soup .. .. • • •. .. 173 Do. stock for turkey .. .. .. .. 110 Giblets not to be used as garnish .. .. .. 509 Gigot a la Bretonne .. .. .. .. 176 Do. braise a la chevreuil .. .. .. 427 Ginger pudding .. .. .. .. 456 Glaze, to make .. • • • • • • 267 Glazed carrots . • • • • • • • 164 Do. onions ., , • • • • • 164577 INDEX. PAGE. Glazed turnips (navets glacis) .. • • • • 164 Gnocchetti .. . • • • - • • • 169 Gooseberries with gelatine (cold) .. • • • • 507 Goose roast.. .. •• •• •• HI Do. do. sauce for .. .. • • • • 474 Do. stuffing .. .. • • • • 121 Gouffd’s classification of sauces .. .. .. 86 & 103 Do. fundamental sauces .. .. .. 103 Grated cheese with clear soups .. .. .. 35 Gravy for a pie made out of scraps .. .. 289 Do. for pies, a sine qua non .. ■. • • 287 Do. soup (pot-au-feu) .. .. • • 31 Grenadins de bceuf a la Bearnaise .. .. .. 380 Green butter .. .. .. .. 230 Do. do. with herring roes .. .. .. 418 Green mayonnaise sauce .. .. .. 100 Greengages in cream .. .. .. .. 411 Green peas to cook variously .. 145, 148 Do. with butter .. .. .. .. 147 Greens, country .. .. .. .. 177 Do. country on toast .. .. .. 243 Do. to serve in various ways .. .. .. 154 Do. on toast .. .. .. .. 154 Do. puree of .. .. .. .. 154 Grilled fowl (Wyvern’s way) .. .. .. 518 Grills and devils, concerning .. .. .. 510 Do. seasoning .. .. .. 510 Guinea-fowl (vintade) with watercress .. .. 514 ll^aggis .. .. .. .. .. 516 Ham of mutton .. .. .. .. 268 Do. to boil.. .. .. .. .. 129 Handing round entries condemned .. .. 83 Do. do. vegetables with entrees condemned 80 Hard-boiled egg toast .. .. .. .. 238 Do. do. with fish toast .. .. .. 244 Hare, hashed .. .. .. .. 366 Do. jugged (civet de liAvrc) .. .. .. 365 Do. patties 4 la financffire .. .. .. 435 Do. pie .. .. .. .. 293 58INDEX. 578 Hare roast PAGE. 363 Do. do. sauce for 364 Do. do. stuffing for .. 119 Do. soup 462 Do. do. (picrde) , , 479 Do. to marinade .. 363 Haricots dried (Soissons) . . 176 Do. verts concerning 148 Do. do. in salad (cold) . . 223 Do. in the jar . . 436 Do. methods of serving . . 149 Do. do. steamed . . .. 148 & 436 Do. do. panaches • . 150 Do. do. to trim . . .. 148 & 436 Hash, concerning . . .. 72 & 183 Do. gravy (at a pinch) . . 183 Hashed hare . . 366 Do. mutton to taste like venison . . 70 Hen turkey braised a la jardiniere .. . . 421 Do. do. do. with cauliflower . . 470 Herbs, garden, in soups.. . . 39 Do. seasoning in stuffing ... 119 Herring roes green butter of . . 418 Do. toast . . 243 High class entrees • . 77 Do. do. sauces . . 103 Hollandaise sauce . . 95 Homard a 1’ Americaine . . 498 Do. pilao a la Turque -rtf CO VO Hors d’ceuvres, service of . • .. 6 & 225 Do. do. combinations of 228 Do. do. fish as .. . . 232 Do. do. garnishing 227 Do. do. serving oysters as .. • • .. 6 & 227 Do. do. things composing ,. . • 226 Do. do. to choose . 228 Horseradish sauce . . 97 Hump to boil • • 130 Do. to cure 267INDEX. 579 vanilla cream Iced apricot cream pudding Do. Charlotte a la Sicilienne Do. Charlotte Russe au praline Do. entrees Do. Nesselrode pudding Do. parfait au chocolat Do. pistacio cream Do. pudding a l’ambigu (medley) Do. pudding with cherries Do. pudding with strawberries Do. rice a l’lmperatrice Icing, chocolate Indian corn, (rna'is) a l’Americaine Do. do. a l’ltalienne Do. do. a la Napolitaine Do. do. ortolans Ingredients for ‘ made ’ entrees Invalid’s strengthening broth Irish stew .. Isinglass in soups forbidden cjjjjambon au Madere (marsala) Jelly aspic to make Do. claret (de Bordeaux) Do. of prunes, a capital Do. with fruits Jerusalem artichokes (topinambours) Do. do. au gratin Do. do. bouchees Do. do. fritters Do. do. puree (au gras) Do. do. do. (au maigi Do. do. mould of Do. do. with eggs Jugged chops , , Do. fish .. .. Do. fowl.. Do. French beans (spicialite) Do. hare (civet de li&vre) do. PAGE. 498 383 399 411 67 & 76 417 423 388 437 406 394 430 461 176 261 261 478 75 54 504 39 129 428 422 393 398 158 159 & 459 163 159 495 496 159 253 133 133 133 436 365INDEX. 580 Jugged jungle sheep Do. peas Do. steak Jugging a tin for Julienne, preserved tablets of Do. soup .. Jungle fowl.. Do. sheep edgree (Kitchri) English way Kidney in onions Do. soup Do. the, cut out of a cold saddle, on toast Do. toast Do. to remove unpleasant flavour of Killing poultry Kippered Seer fish Kitchen equipment Do. utensils Kramousk'ys, concerning Do. with oysters Knolkhol Kubdb curry amb quarter of, and green peas Lang spirit lamp, the .. Lard in pastry Leg of mutton a la Bretonne Do. do. braised a la chevreuil Lemon cheesecakes Lettuce soup Lettuces stewed Liaison au roux Do. in purges necessity of Do. of eggs Do. of flour and water Lima beans .. Lime sauce for puddings List of culinary utensils Do. kitchen stores for camp PAGE. 367 146 133 132 384 384 529 367 182 454 500 240 240 500 122 196 21 20 '212 392 164 316 410 331 276 176 427 443 505 505 45 50 109 109 176 * 510 21 343581 INDEX. Liver forcemeat (d la foie gras) PAGE. 75 Lobster a l’Americaine 498 Do. pilao a la Turque 534 . Do. puree (bisque) .. 445 Loin of mutton a la soubise 459 Do. do. braised 488 Do. do. en papillote 117 Do. do. stuffed 481 Luncheon-breakfast, the 199 Luncheons .. 198 Do. dishes suggested for 199 Do. office 206 Do. party, a menu for 200 Do. do. features of 199 Do. soups for 200 Luncheon, the lady’s .. 204 Do. the sportsman’s 207 Do. the traveller’s 207 lixlli accaroni 253 Do. a foreign dish of 256 Do. a la Milanaise 255 Do. a 1’ Italienne 203 Do. at luncheon 203 Do. au gratin .. 254 & 503 Do. cheese, and tomatoes, with meat.. 186 Do. in rechauffes 186 Do. in soup 34 Do. en veloute au fromage (d la Milanaise) 255 Do. soup with .. 407 Do. to treat 253 Do. with tomato conserve .. 255 Macedoine de legumes .. .. 91 & 410 Do. do. tinned 175 Made dishes, component parts of .. 75 Madeira or Marsala in soups 36 Do. do. with ham 130 Madras fish compared with English 376 Maids-of-honour 533 Maintenon cutlets 415INDEX. 582 Maitre d’hotel butter .. Do. do. do. with asparagus Do. do. do. with chops and steaks Do. do. do. sauce Maize (Indian corn, Mats) Do. a l’Americaine .. Do. a l’ltalienne Do. a la Napolitaine .. Malay curry Mango chutney Marinade, concerning .. Do. for mock venison Do. to make Do. value of Marinading joints Marrows vegetable (co urges d la vioelle) Do. do. au gratin Do. do. beignets Do. do. farcis Do. do. to steam or bake Do. do. (young) (courgettes) Marrow (rndelle) to prepare for garnish Do. with artichokes Do. do. cardoons .. Do. do. celery Mashed potato Do. do. chutney Matelote d’anguilles Do. the Mayonnaise a la Gouffc- Do. sauce Do. do. green Do. do. (W. H. H.) Meat, to keep fresh in hot climates Melted butter (sauce blanche) Do. do. do. sweets Menu, choosing entrees for the Do. do. fish for the Do. for a luncheon party Do. the composition of Meringues .. l'AGE. 90 174 90 90 176 176 261 261 313 320 70 71 70 70 116 166 166 166 167 166 167 171 163 171 171 141 320 355 & 458 62 224 98 100 100 538 S7-88 89 67 57 200 4 430INDEX. 583 PAGE. Milk in soups .. .. .. .. 48 Do. not advocated in sauces .. .. .. 88 Do. substitutes for in do. .. .. .. 88 Do. to flavour for fines lierbes sauce .. .. 89 Do. to prepare for bread sauce .. .. .. 92 Mince gravy at a pinch for .. .. .. 183 Do. ways of serving .. .. .. .. 185 Minced game in cases .. .. .. .. 404 Do. ham, tongue, &c., in rechauffes .. .. 186 Minces .. .. .. .. .. 184 Mineral oil stove, value of .. .. .. 42 Mint chutney .. .. .. .. 320 Do. sauce .. .. .. .. .. 410 Do. wrong use of .. .. .. 15 Mirepoix .. .. .. .. .. 108 Mixed vegetable sauce (macedoine).. .. .. 91 Mock crab .. .. .. .. .. 233 Do. do. toast .. .. .. .. 245 • Do. new potatoes .. .. .. .. 143 Do. turtle, clear .. .. .. .. 432 Do. do. thick .. .. .. .. 433 Do. venison marinade for .. .. .. 70 Do. white-bait .. .. .. .. 166 Moelle [marrow) to prepare .. .. .. 171 Do. with cardoons .. .. .. .. 171 Do. do. cardes poirees .. .. .. 172 Do. do. celery .. .. .. .. 171 Do. do. fonds d’artichauts .. .. .. 163 Do. do. pieds d’artichauts .. .. .. 172 Do. do. salsify .. .. • .. .. 172 Moli, the .. .. .. .. .. 316 Mollay-keeray (country vegetable) .. .. .. 177 Do. do. salad .. .. .. .. 223 Moringa-cai (country vegetable) .. .. .. 176 Do. au gratin .. .. .. .. 474 Do. toast .. .. .. t _ 243 Do. root shavings substitute for horseradish .. 97 Mould of chicken cream .. .. .. 379 Do. of cheese do. .. .. .. 524 Do. of foie gras .. .. .. ., 474 Do. of gooseberries .. .. ,, t, 5Q7584 INDEX. PAGE. Mould of Jerusalem artichokes .. .. .. 159 Do. of strawberries .. .. .. .. 383 Mousse, term when used .. .. .. 524 Mullet au gratin .. .. .. .. 522 Mucka-cholum (maize) .. .. .. .. 176 Mulligatunny .. .. .. .. 320 Do. almond milk in .. .. 323 Do. a, made in England .. .. 322 Do. clear .. .. .. .. 324 Do. chicken (ordinary).. .. .. 326 Do. chief points to observe in .. .. 327 Do. fish stock for .. .. .. 325 Do. maigre .. .. .. .. 325 Do. meat stock for .. .. .. 324 Do. on serving rice with.. .. .. 323 Do. vegetable stock for .. .. .. 325 Murral to cook .. .. .. .. 349 Do. stuffing for (spicialitt) .. .. .. 349 Mushrooms au gratin .. .. .. .. 428 Do. croustades & l’Espagnole .. .. 529 Do. in tins, condemned „. .. .. 28 Mustard sauce .. *. .. .. 95 Do. used in salads .. .. .. .. 222 Mutton .. .. .. .. .. 113 Do. breast of, a la Wyvern .. .. .. 492 Do. carbonade of .. .. .. 442 Do. chops boiled .. .. .. .. 133 Do. do. pickled .. .. .. .. 450 Do. cutlets .. .. .. .. 68 Do. do. a la Maintenon .. .. .. 415 Do. do. a la Milanaise .. .. .. 470 Do. do. a la RMorme .. .. .. 402 Do. do. a la soubise .. .. .. 90 Do. do. a la Valois .. .. .. 421 Do. do. au creme de fromage .. .. .. 397 Do. do. au macedoine .. .. .. 474 Do. do. in aspic (d la Moscovite) .. .. 390 Do. do. marinade .. .. • • • • 70 Do. do. to bread-crumb .. .. .. 72 Do. do. to grill .. .. • • • • 72 Do. do. to jug .. •. • • - • 132585 INDEX. Mutton cutlets, to stew.. Do. do. trimming of Do. do. with sorrel Do. epigrammes of .. Do. ham Do. leg of, a la Bretonne Do. do. a la chevreuil Do. loin of, a la soubise Do. loin of, braised Do. do. stuffed .. Do. do. wrapped in paper Do. pie domestic Do. do. raised Do. mulligatunny .. Do. shoulder of, rolled and stuffed (carbonade) cake Nesselrode pudding (ice) Nivernaise soup Notes regarding the menus Nouilles Nun’s sighs (fritters) I^Jat biscuit CEufs a la creme (d la Suisse) Do. a 1’ Indienne Do. a la maitre d’hotel Do. a la niege Do. a la Suisse Do. au beurre noir Do. au fromage Do. au gratin Do. au jus Do. aux oignons Do. aux topinambours Do. brouilles Do. farcis Do. sur le plat Oie r6rie Oil stoves, value of, in simmering soup PAGE. 72 71 446 408 268 176 427 459 488 481 117 289 281 327 442 472 417 485 375 491 483 233 250 252 253 388 250 248 248 250 249 252 253 248 251 248 474 42 59586 INDEX. Olive sauce Olives, beef .. Do. farcies Omelette au Parmesan Do. au confiture (svveetj Do. au rhum (sweet) Do. aux fines herbes Do. aux legumes .. Do. aux tomates Do. elaborate Do. making rules of Do. materials for making Do. souffl£e Do. sucr6e (sweet) Do. the Cure’s, to make Do. the luncheon Do. the “ Pennaconda,” by the first intention Do. the Do. varieties of Do. with kippered fish Omelettes a la Celestine (sweet) Omnium gatherum stew Onions (oignons) au gratin Do. (button) glazed Do. puree a la Soubise Do. do. a la Bretonne Do. stuffed with kidney Do. ways of serving Orleans pudding Orlys of seer fish Ortolans des Indes Oven in pastry Do. temperature of, for baking pies Do. the stove, concerning Ox-head brawn Ox-tail soup (clear) Do. do. (thick) Oyster, and beefsteak pie Do. do. pudding Do. flitters Do. kramouskys Do. sauce ,, ,, ,, PAGE. 42G 466 226 195 204 203 195 195 195 197 193 190 481 204 196 202 191 189 195 196 204 365 165 164 90 & 459 459 454 166 460 440 478 274 274 331 269 451 452 291 285 213 213 454INDEX 587 - PAGE. 'IRaiii dc foie gras 471 Do. de fraises .. ■ 383 Do. dc fromagc 525 Do. de groseilles 507 • Do. de volaille 370 Palestine soup 495 Panaches (haricots verts) 150 Pancake-fritters 214 Pancakes with chicken (crUpmcttes) 434 Do. with fish 469 Do. with mince .. .. 187 & 341 Papodums (paparums) 320 Parfait au chocolat 423 Parsley sauce 89 Do. to mince 120 Parsnips (panais) 165 Do. glaces 164 Do. sautes 165 Do. various ways of serving .. 165 Partridges a la soubise 496 Do. clear soup of 457 Do. in jelly 427 Do. with cashu-nut sauce .. 387 Do. with cabbage .. 368 Do. salmis of 369 Paste puff 276 Do. do. Yeatman’s powder in .. 277 Pastry, beef suet for 275 Do. butter in 275 Do. classified 272 Do. entrees of 77 Do. fat skimmed from soup in .. 276 Do. ingredients required for 274 Do. lard in 276 Do. making, ‘ a.b.c.’ of 272 Do. do. rules of .. 273 Do. do. water in 273 Pate de foie gras, a forcemeat of .. 75 Do. do. do. fillets en chaud froid 462 Do. do. do. mould of (pain) .. 471588 INDEX. PAGE. Pate de foie gras, en caisses 477 Do. do. do. on toast 239 Do. do. do. to be used instead of bottled truffles 79 Do. do. do. value of, in entries 80 Pauvre homme sauce .. Peach fritters Pearl barley soup (creme dorge) Peas, green, boiled Do. entremets of Do. in the jar (jugged) Do. old, to stew Do. puree of green Pepper, spiced Perdreaux a la soubise .. Do. aspic de Do. au cbou Do. consomme de Do. sauce 1 cashu-nut ’ Do. Salmis de Perigueux sauce Petits pois accommodes Do. do. a la creme Do. do. au beurre Do. do. au jambon Do. do. au lard Do. do. puree de Pickled steak or chops Pie beefsteak Do. do. and chicken Do. do. and oyster Do. broth for Do. chicken and tongue Do. crust Do. do. a French Do. do. French (pate brisec) Do. do. raised (pork pie) Do. domestic, made out of a cold saddle Do. game Do. do. raised Do. hare .. Do. partridge and quail 95 214 440 146 147 146 147 147 121 496 427 36S 457 387 369 106 147 147 147 & 393 147 148 147 450 523 288 291 289 292 278 279 281 279 289 295 282 293 295INDEX. 589 Pie, pigeon PAGE. 293 Do. rabbit 292 Do. raised a mutton 281 Do. do. a tin for 280 Do. do. game 282 Do. do. pork 282 Do. salmon (cold) 297 Do. seasoning for 287 Do. snipe 294 Piece de bceuf en aspic 506 Pieds d’artichauts 172 Pies, savoury rules of .. 287 Pickled chops, or steak 450 Pigeon boudins with olive sauce 426 Do. fillets with Genevoise sauce 414 Do. pie 293 Pilao of lobster a la Turque 534 Pilchard toast 243 Pine-apple aux croutes .. 455 Do. fritters 214 Pintade au cresson 514 Piquante sauce 93 Pistachio cake 484 Do. not cream ice 388 Plain gravy soup (pot-au-feu) 31 Do. loaf, half pound 334 Plantain Charlotte 528 Do. fritters 515 Plovers in cases .. 436 Podolong-cai (snake vegetable) 176 Do. in gravy 509 Pointes d’asperges 174 Do. tinned 175 Poivrade sauce 94 Pomfret a la maitre d’hbtel 414 Do. a la Normande 505 Do. a la poulette 396 Do. a la Provemjale 480 Do. aux fines herbcs 408 Do. ragout of 508 Do. sauce ravigotc 492590 INDEX. Pomfret, smoked PACK. 400 Do. with caper sauce 410 Do. with parsley sauce , , 470 Do. with prawn puree . , 526 Do. with Venetian sauce (green) 425 Pork pic 282 Do. do. crust 280 Do. stuffing 121 .Pot-au-feu (bouillon) 32 Potage a la bonne-femme 46 Do. a la brunoise .. 401 Do. a la Crecy 50 Do. a la creme d’orge 440 Do. a la Gladstone (Queue cle bceuf) 451 Do. a la Julienne # , 384 Do. a la Nillson , , 50 Do. a la Nivernaise.. 486 Do. a la Palestine .. 495 Do. a la puree de becassines 468 Do. do. de legumes 513 Do. a la reine 424 Do. a la tortue 432 Do. de becassines clair 389 Do. de lievre . . 462 Potato cases for entrees . . 386 Do. flour for sullies.. 455 Do. snow 141 Do. thickening in soups condemned . • 38 Potatoes a l’Americaine 143 Do. a la Duchesse .. . . 141 Do. a la G.C. . . 141 Do. a la Lyonnaise 143 Do. a la maitre d’hotel . . 143 Do. a la Parisienne . . 143 Do. a la Provengale . . 143 Do. boiling • • 139 Do. boulettes of . . 142 Do. chips of 144 Do. concerning milk with . . 144 Do. filberts, &c., of . . 145 Do. croquettes of • • 142INDEX. 591 * • • i Potatoes frites / PAGE. 144 Do. mashecl 141 Do. mock new 143 Do. new 140 Do. puree of 141 Do. raphes 141 Do. sautees 143 Do. steamed 140 Do. sweet 178 Do. time for boiling 140 Do. to vary service of 140 Do. treatment of 139 Do. waxy, to treat 142 Potted game 233 Do. meats 232 Do. prawns . .232 & 490 Do. tongue 232 Poulet a l’Americaine .. 453 Do. a la St. Lambert 441 Do. a la Villeroy 458 Do. grilled (bread sauce) 518 Poulette sauce 90 Poultry killing . 122 Do. to braise Ilf. Do. to roast 117 Praline (burnt almonds) 411 Prawn butter 231 Do. croustades 496 Do. curry (Ceylon) .. 314 Do. fritters 214 Do. kramouskys 212 Do. potted 232 Do. puree soup 445 Do. soup clear 476 Pressed beef 268 Proportion of meat and vegetables in soup 41 Proven^ale sauce 480 Prune jelly 393 Prunes a la chasseur (dessert) 499 Pudding beefsteak 285 Do, do, and kidney 285592 INDEX PAGE. Pudding beefsteak and oyster 285 Do. iced a l’ambigu 437 Do. do. apricot 383 Do. do. Charlotte Sicilienne 399 Do. do. do. Rirsse 411 Do. do. cherry .. 406 Do. do. creme de pistache .. 388 Do. do. Nesselrode 417 Do. do. parfait au chocolat 423 Do. do. rice a l’lmperatrice 430 Do. do. strawberry 394 Do. savoury 284 Do. do. of partridge - . 285 Do. do. with birds 285 Do. snipe 284 Do. (sweet) Angel 478 Do. do. Duchesse 497 Do. do. Pig 509 Do. ginger 456 Do. do. Orleans 460 Do. do. Queen Mab 489 Do. do. Sir Watkin’s 503 Do. do. tipsy 466 Do. do. Yiennoise 515 Do. do. Victoria 519 Puff paste 276 Pulled bread 233 Pumpkins (potirons) 168 Do. soup 337 Do. young to cook 177 Puree, concerning the 49 Do. de legumes 513 Do. de lievre 479 Do. de pommes de terre 141 Do. de tomates (soup) 52 Do. of carrots d la cricy 50 . Do. do. a la Nillson 50 Do. of chicken 424 Do. of endive (chi cor ee) 511 Do. of kidneys 500 Do, of onions a la Bretonne • • 459INDEX. 593 PAGK. Pur4e, of a la Soubise .. • . . . 459 Do. of peas . . 147 Do. of Prawns (bisque) . . 445 Do. of rice with French beans .. . . , . 508 Do. of snipe . . • a 468 Do. of sorrel , . , , 447 Do. of spinach . . . , 157 Do. of tomatoes . . , , 255 Purges of game, &c. . . , . 52 Do. do. on toasts . . # , 241 Do. of vegetables on toasts . . . , 237 Do. stock for . , 50 uails, ballotines of Do. gallantines of Do. in pies Do. salmis of Quarter of lamb and green peas Quenelles of chicken au macedoine Do. in soup Queen Mab pudding Do. Victoria pudding Queue de boeuf (soup) .. Quorma curry 381 295 422 410 409 378 489 519 451 fP^abbit croustades a la reine Do. fillets a l’ltalienne Do. gibelotte of .. Do. jugged like hare Do. pie Do. smothered in onions Ragout a la financiere .. Do. & la reine Do. of fish Raised pie crust Do. do. do. French Do. do. of game Do. do. of mutton Do. do. of pork 403 487 371 370 292 370 .. 106 & 386 435 508 280 281 282 281 282 60594 INDEX. PAGE. Bamasimy’s awful soup 42 Do. bread sauce d la cataplasme 91 Do. cabbage cut up 151 Do. cardinal sins 15 Do. cruel way of killing poultry 122 Do. cutlet 74 Do. difficulty about charcoal 27 Do. fish pudding 182 Do. fowl plucking (?) 122 Do. habit of dishing ducks 509 Do. ham garnish 130 Do. hare paste 365 Do. hash 180 Do. heedless use of sauces in a pie .. 287 Do. ideas of pastry 271 Do. kitchen butter 79 Do. method of spoiling wild ducks 257 Do. mistakes in cooking Bouillon 530 Do. do. in roasting .. 123 Do. objections to boiling fowl with soup-meat 128 Do. omelette 190 Do. onion garnish for entrees 81 Do. pie 286 Do. potato starch in soups 38 Do. stuffing 118 Do. tart pastry, concerning .271 Do. toast for garnishing 185 Do. untrustworthiness in tin opening 340 Do. views in regard to utensils 17 Bamequins .. 262 Do. en caifses .. 263 Bamequin toast 244 Baspiugs of crust for fried fish 60 Bavigote sauce (cold) 100 Do. do. (hot) 94 Bechauffes, laws of 180 Beduced vinegar in sauces 10S Do. wine do. .. 108 Beform cutlets 402 Beleve the position of in the menu 7 Bemoulade sauce (cold) 100595 INDEX. Remoulade sauce green PAGE. 100 Do. do. (hot) 94 Ribs of beef a la Chateaubriand , , 404 Rice . , 257 Do. as liaison in vegetable purees . . 50 Do. boiling of 257 Do. remarks on cookiug . . 257 Do. puree with French beans . , 508 Do. savoury.. 410 Do. various ways of serving . . . .258 to 261 Risotto a la Milanaise .. 2 GO Rissoles and risolettes , , 76 Riz a la bonne femme. .. 258 Do. a l’lndienne 259 Do. a l’ltalienne 258 Do. a Menagere 260 Do. a la Milanaise (risotto) . . 260 Do. a la Napolitaine 258 Do. a la Turque 259 Do. au chou 259 Do. & l’lmperatrice (glace) 430 Do. casseroles de 425 Roasting 116 Do. table of time taken in m . 123 Do. fish (4 la broche) 63 Roast, hare 363 Rolls, dinner 333 Do. French 333 Root vegetables en puree, &c. 164 Rot the position of in the menu .. • • 7 Roti6s des ceufs a la creme 238 Roux 45 Rules for curing meat 264 Do. do. frying 209 Do. do. hors d’oeuvres . , 228 Do. do. omelette making 193 Do. do. pastry do. . , 272 Do. do. pie do. 287 Do. do. rechauffes , # 180 Do. do. roasting 116 Do. do. do. game birds . . 367INDEX. 596 PAGE. Rules for salad-making.. .. .. ,, 217 Do. do. savory toasts.. .. ,. 235 Do. do. soup-making.. .. # _ _ _ gg Do. do. the preparation of Fresh-water fish.. .. 361 Russian salad .. .. t, _ _ 443 paddle of mutton with French beans .. .. 381 Do. do. with peas .. .. .. 887 Salad, cooked vegetables in .. .. .. 223 Do. cream in .. .. , # _ 222 Do. do. country .. .. .. ., 223 Do. dressing plain .. .. .. .. 218 Do. do. principles of .. .. .. 217 Do. do. with eggs .. .. ,. 221 Do. service of .. .. .. ., 216 Do. tomato .. .. ., _ _ 220 Do. with hot fish condemned .. .. .. 56 Salade a la ma tante .. .. .. ,. 223 Do. cuite .. .. .. ., 223 Do. Russe .. .. .. ,. 443 Salads, vegetables for .. .. .. .. 216 Do. vinegars for .. .. .. .. 219 Salmis de cailles .. ... .. .. 422 Do. de perdreaux .. .. .. .. 369 Do. observations regarding the .. .. .. 72 Salmon, boudins of .. .. .. 520 Do. pie (cold) .. .. .. .. 297 Do. tinned to dress.. .. .. .. 339 Do. toast .. .. .. .. 243 Salpicon de gibier en caisses .. .. .. 404 Salsify (salsifis ou scorsonere) .. .. .. 172 Do. au gratin (en coquilles) .. .. .. 172 Do. sauce for steak .. .. .. .. 172 Do. scallops .. .. .. .. 172 Do. soup.. .. .. .. .. 172 Sandwiches .. .. .. .. .. 206 Sardine toast .. .. .. .. 243 Do. fillets potted for hors d’ceuvres .. > .. 226 Sauce a l’Americaine .. .. .. .. 446 Do. a la Bearnaise .. .. .. .. 96597 INDEX. Sauce Bordelaise Do. a la Bretonne Do. a la Carerne Do. a la Chateaubriand Do. a la Chetput Do. a la Genevoise Do. a la maltre d'hbtel Do. a la matelote Do. a la poulette Do. a la Reforme Do. a la Venitieime .. Do. a la Valois Do. a l’estragon Do. Allemande Do. anchovy cream .. Do. apricot for pudding Do. au fenouil Do. au fromage Do. au Parmesan (milanaise) Do. au pauvre homme Do. au persil Do. aux capres Do. aux cornichous .. Do. aux fines herbes .. Do. aux olives Do. aux pointes d’asperges Do. Bdarnaise Do. bechamel Do. bigarade (wild fowl) Do. blanche Do. blonde Do. bordelaise Do. bread Do. cashu-nut Do. chicken chaud-froid Do. creme de fromage Do. devil .. Do. Dutch Do. d’ Uxelles Do. Espagnole Do. do. descendants of PAGE. 396 459 498 404 519 414 90 & 414 458 90 402 425 421 88 108 386 503 89 255 91 95 & 487 89 & 478 89 & 420 89 & 410 89 & 408 426 464 96 107 383 87 89 396 91 110 420 397 511 96 109 104 105598 INDEX. Sauce, financibre Do. fines herbes Do. for blanquette Do. for roast goose made at table Do. for teal fillets, Wyvern’s Do. for top-dressing toasts Do. for Victoria pudding Do. Hollandaise Do. horseradish Do. lime for puddings Do. liver for hare Do. macedoine Do. mayonnaise (ordinary) Do. do. green Do. do. with raw eggs . Do. melted-butter [sauce-blanche Do. do. for sweets Do. Milanaise Do. mirepoix .. . Do. mushroom 'Do. mustard Do. oyster Do. Peg Woffington.. Do. Perigueux Do. piquante Do. poivrade Do. Provencjale Do. raifort Do. ravigote (cold) Do. do. (hot) Do. do. green Do. remoulade (cold).. Do. do. green .. Do. do. (hot) .. Do. Robert Do. royale for puddings Do. salad (plain) Do. do. with eggs .. Do. do. service of separately . Do. sorrel.. Do. Soubise PAGE. 106 89, 109 & 408 481 474 489 237 519 95 97 510 364 410 98 100 100 87 89 90 108 434 95 454 390 106 93 94 480 97 100 94 100 100 100 94 & 517 94 519 218 221 73 446 90 & 459599 INDEX. Sauce soubise au parmesan (Milanaise) PAGE. 91 Do. tartare (cold) 4 4 99 Do. do. (hot) . . 94 Do. tomato . . 255 Do. veloute , , 108 Do. do. au fromage . , 255 Do. Victoria for puddings . . 519 Do. wild duck a la minute , # 527 Do. Wyvern’s , # 453 Sauce-making materials , , 86 Do. do. utensils 85 Sauces, Goufie’s classification of .. 86 & 102 Do. do. simple 87 Savoury pies, rules for .. 287 Do. rice 410 Do. toasts , , 235 Scorsonere (black salsify) , . 172 Scallops, see coquilles .. 188 Scrambled eggs 248 Scraps of mutton trimmings to use 73 Seakale 173 Seasoning for pies 287 Seer a la Napolitaine 402 Do. a la Perigueux 385 Do. au gratin 513 Do. en papillote .. 62 & 474 Do. fish pie , , 297 Do. orlys of with Hollandaise sauce 440 Do. kippered 196 Do. slices & la Perigueux 385 Do. slices with Peg Woffington sauce 390 Do. with cucumbers 379 Do. with mushrooms .. 434 Do. with truffles sauce 385 Sharp sauces 93 Shoulder of mutton, rolled, and stuffed (carbonade) 442 Short bread biscuits for spinach 157 Slices of beef and mutton re-cooked 186 Sir Watkin’s pudding 503 Smoked fish 400 Smoking salt meat 266600 INDEX. Snake vegetable in gravy Snipe, canapes of Do. chaud-froid of . Do. pie .. Do. pudding Do. pure6 Do. soup clear Do. toast Do. turban of Socles (stands for entrees) Soisson’s (dried haricotsj Sorrel (oseille) Do. pure6 Sole fillets of, a la pauvre homme Do. fried a la Colbert.. Soubise sauce Souffle, chocolate Do. de volaille Do. of chicken or game Do. vanilla. Do. omelette Soup a la bonne femme Do. a la Brunoise Do. a la Creey (carrot purge) Do. a la Gladstone (oxtail) Do. a la Julienne Do. a la Nillson Do. a la Nivernaise Do. a la l’oignon (maigre) Do. a la Heine Do. a la Royale Do. aux oeufs poch£s .. Do. aux pointes d’asperges Do. aux quenelles Do. brunoise Do. bouillon Do. croute-au-pot Do. dhal .. Do. fat skimmed from, value of . Do. fish (clear) Do. giblet (clear) PAGE. 509 416 410 294 284 468 389 416 482 82 176 158 447 487 532 459 471 519 519 490 523 46 401 50 451 384 50 486 336 424 413 525 419 378 401 530 517 336 33 & 276 395 473INDEX. 601 Soup giblet (thick) Do. hare Do. do. puree Do. in camp Do. kidney puree Do. maccaroni Do. made from tinned meat gravj Do. maigre Do. mock turtle clear .. Do. do. do. thick.. Do. mulligatunny thick Do. do. clear Do. onion Do. oxtail (clear) Do. do. (thick) Do. Palestine (an gras) Do. do. (an maigre) Do. partridge (clear) .. Do. pea dried Do. pearl barley (crime cl' orge) Do. pot-au-feu Do. prawn (clear) Do. do. (puree) Do. pumpkin Do. rice puree [crime cle riz) Do. snipe (clear) Do. do. (puree) Do. strengthening for invalids Do. tomato puree Do. vegetable puree Do. with lettuce Soup-meat, use of Soupe a l’oignon Do. au potiron Soupes maigres Soupirs de nonne Soups generally considered Do. how to clarify Do. do. color Do. do. flavour with wine Do. do. thicken PAGE. 473 462 479 335 500 407 340 325 & 336 432 433 326 324 336 451 452 495 496 457 336 440 32 476 445 337 508 389 468 54 521 513 505 37 & 38 336 337 325 & 336 483 30 33 34 36 45 61602 INDEX. Soups tinned how to treat Spiced beef Do. pepper Do. do. in pies Do. salt Spinach (epinards) Do. d la creme Do. a la Wyvern Do. biscuits to serve with Do. fleurons of pastry with Do. greening Do. on toast Do. patties Do. plain Do. puree with cream Do. short bread biscuits for Do. to dress Do. with anchovy toast Do. with eggs and tomatoes Spitting meat, concerning Sportsman’s luncheon, the Steak a la jardiniere Do. jugged Do. pickled Steamer, Warren’s, recommended Steaming Do. cabbage Do. French beans .. Do. potatoes Stew, Irish Stewed artichokes Do. beef a la mode .. Do. do. fillet it l’ltalienne Do. do. pressed Do. do. spiced Do. do. steak Do. do. cabbage (rnijus) Do. do. carrots a la flamande . Do. do. celery in blanc Do. do. cheese toast Do. do. cucumber.. page. 337 268 121 287 122 156 382 465 157 157 51 157 437 156 156 157 156 157-241 157 116 207 502 133 450 131 131 151 148 140 504 161 134 202 268 268 502 152 165 171 245 167INDEX. 603 PAGE. Stewed cutlets .. 72 Do. eels (matelote) • • 458 Do. fish . • 62 Do. hare (civet de lUvre) jugged .865 Do. joint (braised) .. 114 Do. jungle sheep jugged • • 367 Do. peas • • 147 Do. turnips • • 164 Stock . . 31 Do. blanc .. ... 170 Do. fish, value of .. • .. . • 88, 64 & 325 Do. for purees • • 50 Do. keeping of .. . • 43 Do. vegetable « > . . .. 54 & 325 Stores, oilman’s, selection of .. 28 & 29 Stoves, mineral oil, advocated • .. 329 Strawberries, mould of.. 383 Strawberry cream ice .. 394 Strengthening decoction for invalids 54 Stuffing for braised fowl . . 118 Do. for capons and turkeys .. . . 118 Do. for ducks and geese . . .. 120 & 121 Do. for pork 121 Substitute for horse-radish . . 98 Substitutes for milk in sauces 88 Sue colorant 35 Sugar, useful in sauces.. • . , 88 Syringe in salting meat, value of a 268 ^jjj' abasco in soups 36 Tamarind chutney • • 320 Tapioca in vegetable purees 50 Tarragon in aspic jelly .. . . 428 Do. in soups . . 39 Do. sauce 88 Tartare sauce (cold) . ( 99 Do. do. (hot) 94 Teal roast, with water cress 449 Do. fillets, Wyvern’s way , . 488 Do. with bigarade sauce , , 518604 INDEX. Time in boiling PAGE. 129 Do. in roasting 123 Do. economy of, in serving 9 Do. do. of, in helping entrees 83 Tinned butters • • 79 Do. fish (cold) 339 Do. do. (hot) 339 Do. do. treatment of 339 Do. meat (Australian) 340 Do. do. a mince of 341 Do. meats generally 341 Do. do. soup from 340 Do. do. to treat .. 340 Do. vegetables 174 Tipsy pudding 466 Thick soups 44 Thickening soups 45 Do. sauces 109 Do. to increase if necessary .. 45 & 109 To render tough meat tender 342 Toast anchovy 236 Do. do. made at the table .. 237 Toast, artichokes on 242 Do. asparagus on 242 Do. bandecai 242 Do. beetroot leaves on 241 Do. brinjal 243 Do. buttered egg 238 Do. cauliflower on 242 Do. cocoanut flower .. 243 Do. country greens on 242 Do. cheese 244 Do. drumstick seed .. 243 Do. egg and cream .. 238 Do. eggs, ways of serving upon .. 238 Do. foie gras 239 Do. game.. 241 Do. hard-boiled egg .. 238 Do. kidney 240 Do. do. cut from a cold saddle of mutton on 240 Do. making, rules for . . 235INDEX. 605 PAGE. Toast, mock crab .. .. .. .. 245 Do. mollay-keray .. .. .. .. 242 Do. with pate de foie gras .. .. .. 239 Do. purges upon .. .. .. .. 241 Do. ramequin .. .. .. .. 245 Do. salmon .. .. .. .. 243 Do. sardine .. .. .. .. 243 Do. spinach .. .. .. .. 241 Do. top-dressings for .. .. .. .. 237 Do. vegetable marrow, and cucumber .. .. 242 Do. Welsh rarebit .. .. .. .. 244 Do. woodcock .. .. .. .. 239 Tomatoes (tomates) .. .. .. .. 168 Do. a l’ltalienne .. .. .. .. 169 Do. au gratin .. .. .. .. 169 Tomato chutney .. .. .. .. 319 Do. conserve .. .. .. .. 255 Do. omelette .. .. .. .. 195 Do. puree (soup) .. .. .. .. 478 Do. salad .. .. .. .. 220 Do. sauce .. .. .. .. 255 Do. soup .. .. .. .. 521 Tongue in jelly .. .. .. .. 507 Tongues, to cure .. .. .. .. 265 Do. do. of deer and bison .. .. .. 266 Do. to glaze .. .. .. .. 267 Do. to straighten when boiled .. .. 267 Topinambours, a la creme .. .. .. 159 Do. au gratin .. .. .. 459 Do. aux ceufs .. .. .. 253 Do. do. farcis .. .. .. 253 Tourne-dos de bceuf .. .. .. ,. 453 Travellers’ luncheon, the .. .. .. 207 Trimming cutlets .. .. .. .. 74 Do. artichokes .. .. .. .. 160 Do. do. bottoms (fonds) .. .. 432 Truffles, essence of .. - .. .. ., 408 Do. preserved in bottles condemned .. .. 28 Do. substitute for .. .. .. .. 79 Do. do. in pies .. .. .. 296 Do. served in croustades .. .. ., 529606 INDEX. Turban of snipe Turkey, boiled Do. hen braised a jardiniere . Do. do. do. au chou-fleur. Do. do. galantine of Do. roast a la Perigueux Do. stuffing Turnip-tops.. Turnips (navets) Do. a la Bechamel.. Do. a la poulette .. Do. glazed (navets-glaces) Do. puree of Do. to trim Turtle, freshwater, the.. Do. do. soups of Do. do. stew of Twice-laid of fish Do. of meat Utensils, culinary list of Do. required in puree making PAGE. 482 128 421 470 447 416 119 158 163 164 164 164 164 164 358 359 360 182 186 21 49 alois sauce . . 421 Vanilla custard ice 498 Do. souffle . . , , . . 490 Veal cutlets.. . . 73 Do. stock, a substitute for 103 Do. stuffing 119 Vegetable marrow (courge d la moelle) 166 Do. do. au gratin 166 & 507 Do. do. fritters (beignets) 166 Do. do. mock whitebait of 166 Do. do. toast 242 Do. do. to cook 166 Do. do. young (courgettes) to serve 167 Do. stock . . .. 54 & 325 Vegetables as entremets 137 Do. as purges 51 Do. classified 138 Do. not to be handed round with entrees .. 11 & 80607 INDEX. Vegetables, proportion of, to meat in soup PAGE. 41 Veloute sauce . . 108 Do. do. au fromage 255 Do. do. descendants of 108 Venison, how to roast . . 366 Do. marinade for .. . . 366 Do. sauce for 367 Venitienne sauce . . . . 425 Victoria pudding . . . • • 519 Do. do. for sauce • 519 Viennoise pudding . • 515 Vinegar aromatic . • . . 219 Do. chilli in soups .. 35 Do. fines herbes . . . . 219 Do. in salads, over use of, condemned . . 217 Do. reduced, in sauces . . 108 Vol-au-vent pastry case to make .. . . 438 Do. concerning the 77 arren's pot 131 Do. steamer (vegetable).. , , 151 Water-cress (cooked like spinach) .. . . 158 Do. with the rot 7 Welsh rarebit toast .. 244 Wild duck, roast , , 527 Do. sauce a la minute for .. , . , # 527 Do. do. bigarade for , , 393 Whitebait mock t t 166 White sauce, plain (melted butter) , , 87 Do. do. varieties of , , , , 88 Do. do. superior, bechamel, &c. , , 107 Whitings ('merlons) a l’Am^ricaine , , 446 Do. sauce au fenouil , . # # 517 Do. aux fines herbes 452 Do. with sharp sauce • . , , 463 Wine in purees . . . . 53 Do. in sauces . . , . 108 Do. in savoury pies .. , . 287 Do. reduced in sauces , , , 4 108 Do. soups .. . , , , 36INDEX. 608 Wine, to use in domestic cookery .. PAGE. ■ ... 184 Wire frying basket, the 209 Woodcook toast 239 Wyvern’s sauce 453 ^ams, to cook 178 Yeatman’s baking powder 382 Do, do. in bread making 332 Do, do. in pastry 277t.Credit RS. A. Moir’s Preserved Food and liow to prepare it for the table, by Wyvern ... ... net Myra’s < 'ookery Book ... ... 2 10 Oliver’s Milk, Cheese.and Butter, a practical-hand- book ou their properties and the processes of their production^ ... ... 6 9 Payne’s (A. G.) Choice Dishes at small cost ... 2 10 Com monsense papers on Cookery ... 1 14 Medley’s (Mrs.) Practical Housekeeping, or the duties of a. Home-wife ... ... ... 0 14 Practical Hints on Coffee Stall Management and other Temperance Work for the Laity ... 0 14 Primer of Domestic Economy, by Barnett and O’Neill ...’ ' ... ... 0 14 Reade’s Tea a,nd Tea-'drinking, illustd. ... ... 0 14 Recipes for the Million, a handy book for the house- hold... ... ... ... ... 2 3 Rice’s Text book of Domestic Economy ... 1 5 Boutledge’s H ousehold Manuals, @ As. 7 ; cash As. 6. How to Cook Apples. Semi’s Practical Gastronomy and French and English Culinary Dictionary . ... 7 7 Shilton's Household Chemistry for the Notf-chemical. 1 5 Short’s Dinners at Home, how to order, cook and serve them ... . ... ... 3 12 Social Etiquette, the Art of Cookery and Hints on Carving ... ... .. ... 1 5 Steven’s Domestic Economy for Girls, in three books : Book I, Food and Clothing ; Book II, The Furniture and Appliances of the House ... 2 10 St James’ Cookery Book, by Rochfort ... ... 3 1 Tasty Dishes made from tested Recipes ... 0 14 Temperance Drinks for Summer and Winter, by F. Davies ... ... ... ... 0 14 Temple Wright’s Baker and Cook ... net ... The Afternoon Tea Book, how to make Tea, Coffee and Chocolate, Cakes, Scones, Rolls, Sandwiches, Cooling Drinks and Ices, by Agnes C. Maitland. 0 14 The Dinner Bell, a, Gastronomic Manual teaching the Mistress how to rule a dainty and thrifty Cuisine and the Cook how to prepare a variety of Dishes with economy .. 1 ... red. The Housewife’s Treasury of.Domestic Information, , a Companion Volume to Mrs. Beeton’s Hook of Household Management, colored illustrations ..6 9 The Lady’s Everyday Book, a practical guide in the elegant arts and daily difficulties of domestic life 2 o Cash, as. a. 1 0 2 4 5 10 2 4 1 11 0 12 0 12 0 12 0 12 1 14 1 2 H 6 1 2 3 6 1 2 2 4 2 10 0 12 0 12 2 8 0 12 1 0 5 10 1 14£ Toothsome Dishes, Fish, Flesh and Fowl, Soups, Sauces and Sweets, by Carrie Davenport Vizetelly’s Facts about Champagne and other spark- ling wines — Facts about Sherry Facts about Port and Madeira The wines of the world character- ized, &c. Walker’s Aristology, or the art of dinilig Warne’s Model Cookery and House-keeping book, containing complete instructions in household management, compiled and edited by Mary Jewry, with colored illustration Washing and Cleaning, a Manual for Domestic use, by B. Tremaine ... What shall we have for Breakfast, or Everybody’s Breakfast Book, by Agnes C. Maitland What to do with the Cold Mutton What to tell the Cook : a choice collection of Beceipts on Indian Cookery, Tamil and English, 6th ed. ... ... ... net Williams’ Chemistry of Cookery Wyvern’s Commonsense Cookery ... net Culinary Jottings for Madras, 6tli ed. „ Fifty Breakfasts ... - Fifty Dinners Sweet Dishes, a little treatise on confec- tionery and entremets sucres, 4th edi- tion, 283 pp. ... net Credit. Cash. rs. a. rs. A- 0 14 0 12 V, 12 10 12 10 12 10 12 10 1 14 1 11 0 14 0 12 0 14 0 12 014 012 1 12 18 2 0 3 15 3 6 7 8 5 0 2 3 1 14 2 3 1 14 3 0 •a \W :p il & % W,;i Camden and Arts Department35*1 :UU!w«!rtiia*i:5ro,