THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY m Wn leeds LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: cm»i /i mi 3 010 6 0 105 9309Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21529024LIVERPOOL SCHOOL OE COOKERY RECIPE BOOKDOMESTIC SCIENCE MANUALS. Manual of the Principles of Practical Cookery. By E. E. Mann, Head Teacher of Cookery in the Liverpool Training School of Cookery and Tech- nical College of Domestic Science. Crown 8vo, Is. A Teacher’s Manual of Elementary Laundry Work. By Fanny L. Calder and E. E. Mann. Fcp. 8vo, Is. WORKS BY BERTHA BANNER, Training Teacher of Sewing and Dress making at the Liverpool Technical College for Women. Household Sewing, with Home Dressmaking. With G4 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2.s. Gd. Manual of Instruction, with Diagrams on the Cutting-out of Undergarments for Elementary Schools, Secondary Schools and Technical Classes. Crown 8vo, sewed, lcl. Manual of Instructions, with Diagrams on the Drafting of Dress Bodices and Skirts. Crown 8vo, sewed, Id. LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO., LONDON, NEW YORK, AND BOMBAY.domestic science manuals LIVERPOOL SCHOOL OF COOKERY RECIPE BOOK COMPILED BT E. E. MANN AX HEAD TEACHER OF COOKERY, LIVERPOOL SCHOOL OF COOKERY, AND TECHNICAL COLLEGE OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE LONGMANS, GEEEN, AND CO. 39 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON NEW YORK AND BOMBAY 1900UNIVtWbil I LIBRARY LEEDS2>eDtcateC> BY EXPRESS AND GRACIOUS PERMISSION TO H.E.H. THE DUCHESS OE YORK, ”p3fron26s of f?e St'oerpoof technical Coffege of ©omesfi'c l&ctence, WHO HAS IN SO MANY WAYS TESTIFIED HER CARE FOR ALL THAT PROMOTES THE COMFORT OF THE HOME,PREFACE. The constant requests for a book of the recipes used in the Liverpool School of Cookery has led to the compilation of the present volume, which will be a practical companion to the excellent manual on the Principles of Cookery already issued by Miss E. E. Mann. The new volume will be found most valuable to young housekeepers, containing recipes most needed under all conditions and circumstances of everyday life. FANNY L. CALDER. Liverpool, 7th December, 1899.CONTENTS. PAGE Roasting 1 Baking 2 Boiling 2 Stewing 2 Bboiling 3 Frying 4 Steaming ..5 Bbaising . . .6 Larding 7 To Clarify Fat 7 Gravy for Roast Meat 8 Pastry 9 Stock 12 Soup 13 Preparation of Fish 17 Poultry and Meat 22 Vegetables 44 Puddings, Souffles, etc 49 Creams, Jellies, etc. 63 Sauces for Fish, Meat, etc 68 Sweet Sauces ,73 Savouries 75 Bread and Cakes, etc 78 Ices 90 Preserves, etc. Invalid Cookery1 METHODS OP COOKING AND PREPARING FOOD. ROASTING. For roasting, a clear, hot fire is essential. Wipe the meat with a clean cloth. Unless meat has been exposed to dust it should never be washed, as washing wastes the juices. The hastener must be put before the fire to get hot before the meat is hung in it. Hang the joint so that its thickest part comes opposite the greatest heat. For red meats, as beef and mutton, allow 15 minutes to the pound and 15 minutes over for thin pieces, but for thick pieces 20 minutes to the pound and 20 minutes over. White meats, as veal and pork, require longer cooking. For these allow 20 minutes to the pound and 20 minutes over for thin pieces, and 25 minutes to the pound for thick. Place the meat at first about 6 inches from the fire; in about 10 minutes, when the surface is hardened, draw it back 2 or 3 inches. Baste the meat every 8 or 10 minutes and be care- ful that the roasting jack is not allowed to run down and so stop the constant turning of the meat. When roasting is done in a Dutch oven, the meat must be turned by hand from time to time.2 PRACTICAL COOKERY. BAKING. The time for baking meat is calculated in the same way as for roasting. Put the joint first into a hot oven, afterwards cook at a lower temperature till cooked through. Just at the last the heat should be increased that the surface may become crisp. Baked meat re- quires the same careful basting as roast. BOILING. In boiling meat the same rules must be followed as to time and weight as for roasting. Put fresh meat in boiling salted water, just sufficient to cover it; bring quickly to the boil. Boil for five minutes, then reduce the heat to simmering, i.e., about 180° Fah., for the remainder of the time. Skim well. Salt meat must be put into lukewarm water, or if extremely salt it may be put into cold, and the water may be changed. Calculate the time of cooking from when the water begins to boil. Salt meat requires rather longer cooking than the same meat would do if unsalted. Meat that has been dried as well as salted should always be put into cold water, brought slowly to boiling point, and kept carefully skimmed. Ham, corned beef, or any meats intended to be served cold, are best if allowed to remain in the water till cold. STEWING. The most important point in connection with stewing meat is the temperature. This should never be more3 BROILING—FRYING. than 170° Pah., and should only reach this point in very rare cases \ i.e., when the meat to be stewed is a com- paratively thick and solid piece. The centre of the meat must be brought up to 144° Fah. ; it therefore follows that the smaller the pieces the lower the temperature required. The “ simmering ” of a large joint of “ boiled ” meat may be 180° Fah., but the “simmering” of a stew should rarely be more than 155°. The time required for stewing depends chiefly on the quality of the meat, and varies from 2 to 4 or 5 hours. In every case the pan must be covered with a closely-fitting lid. BROILING. Have ready a clear, bright fire, the gridiron hot and well greased. If a gas griller is used, light the gas and get the ironwork very hot before beginning to cook. Harden the outside of the meat or fish as quickly as possible, so as to keep in all the juices. Hold one side towards the heat for 2 minutes, turn and cook the other side for 2 minutes. After this turn every minute till the cooking is completed. Broiled meat or fish should be served immediately it is cooked, and special care should be taken to have all dishes, plates, etc., very hot. When poultry or fish is split and laid open for broiling, the cut side must be first turned to the fire. Meat for broiling should be from 1 to 1| inches thick, and, if the fire is suitable, will take from 5 to 12 minutes. It is an improvement to brush over the surface with butter when broiling meat.PRACTICAL COOKERY. 4 FRYING. Food must be prepared for frying by drying the surface as much as possible, and, in some cases, by also covering with a complete coating of egg or batter. Dry Frying.—This is done with a small quantity of fat, generally in a shallow frying-pan. Dry the articles to be fried. Egg and crumbs or batter may be used if desired. Have the fat hot before using. When cooked, remove all grease from the food with clean, soft paper. Wet Frying .—For this use an untinned iron stew- pan and sufficient fat to entirely cover whatever is to be fried. Meat or fish must invariably be coated with egg or batter or the bath of fat will be spoiled and the cooked food greasy. Potatoes, parsley, etc., need only thorough drying. Let the fat heat slowly, and be very hot before using. The right heat can be told by careful watching: as long as it bubbles like water it is too cold : when it becomes still and a pale blue vapour is seen rising from the surface, it is sufficiently hot. If heated till a brown smoke appears, the bath will be spoiled. Remember the fat must be kept hot while frying, therefore do not put in too many things at once, or the temperature will be too much reduced. Always reheat the fat before putting in more things to be fried. When a frying basket is used, it must be left for some minutes in the pan to get hot in the fat before anything is placed in it. Portions must be laid in the basket so as not to touch each other. Before serving remove all grease with clean, soft paper. Allow the fat to cool, and before it begins to solidify strain it through muslin laid in a strainer,5 FR YING— STEAMING. To Egg and Crumb for Frying.—Dry the articles as much as possible, using flour if necessary, brush over every part with well-beaten egg, and toss in plenty of fine bread crumbs in a piece of kitchen paper. Press the crumbs firmly on, then shake lightly to remove any loose ones which might come off in the pan and cause burning. Frying Batter.— J lb. flour. Pinch of salt. } pint tepid water. Method : Mix the flour and salt in a basin, make a hole in the centre, pour in the liquid gradually, beating till the batter is quite smooth. Mix in the stiffly whipped white of egg just before using. Substances coated with batter must not be dipped in until the moment of frying, but those done with egg and crumbs may be prepared beforehand if convenient. STEAMING. Steaming is a modification of boiling. It may be used for vegetables, meat or fish, but is most frequently used for puddings instead of boiling. In every case steaming requires longer time than boiling, and it is essential that a good supply of steam be kept up by steady boiling of the water. To Steam a Pudding.—Place the mould in a pan containing boiling water, being careful the water does not come within an inch of the top of the mould. Cover the pan with a well-fitting lid, and keep the water boiling. If 1 tablespoonful salad oil. White of 1 egg.PRACTICAL COOKERY. 6 necessary, add boiling water to make up for the waste by evaporation. Thin pieces of fish may be steamed between two plates set over boiling water. This is a better method than boiling small slices or fillets for an invalid. BRAISING. Put a layer of roughly cut-up vegetables—carrot, turnip and onion—in the bottom of a stewpan. Add a bouquet garni, and if a boned piece of meat is to be braised, put the bones also into the pan. Pour in water or second stock to just cover the bed of vegetables, lay in the meat, and cover with a tightly-fitting lid. Put on the pan and cook steadily. Slow boiling may be allowed if the meat is well raised out of the liquid. When the meat is cooked remove it from the pan and place on a dripping tin in a hot oven to crisp and brown the surface, while the liquid is reduced by fast boiling that it may be used for glaze, gravy or sauce making. Note.— Braising may also be done by placing the closely-covered stewpan in the oven instead of over the fire. This plan more nearly resembles the original French braising, where heat is applied not only underneath, but also to the top of the pan by means of hot coals laid on a lid specially constructed for this purpose.7 LARDING. Bacon for larding should be unsmoked and cured with- out saltpetre, as this turns white meats red. The fat only is used for larding, it should be firm and hard, that nearest the rind is best for the purpose. Cut the length of the lardoons in the direction of the grain of the bacon. The average length is lj to 2 inches, the width and thick- ness being about inch. Use a larding needle large enough to perfectly encase the end of the lardoon, any projecting bits will cause the bacon to break. As a rule the stitches are taken with the grain of meat, and across the grain of poultry and game, but in all cases the larding must be arranged to look neat. TO CLARIFY FAT. Cut up uncooked fat into pieces about \ inch square, taking from it all skin and sinew. Put into an iron pan, cover with cold water and bring to the boil, skimming well. Boil till most of the water has evaporated, then cook very gently, stirring occasionally to prevent sticking and burning. When the pieces look dried up and a golden brown and sink to the bottom of the melted fat, remove the pan from the fire. Allow the fat to cool, but before it begins to solidify strain through a very fine strainer or through muslin. Cooked fat is clarified in the same way, but should not be mixed with the uncooked.PRACTICAL COOKERY. 8 GRAVY FOR ROAST MEAT. To make gravy successfully from the brown sediment found in the dripping tin under roast meat, it is essential that the meat should have been well basted while cooking. After removing the joint, carefully pour off all the fat, add a little stock or water to the sediment, and with an iron spoon scrape off all the browned meat juices that adhere to the tin. Add stock or water to make up the required quantity. About | pint gravy will be needed for a small joint. If necessary, use a little caramel browning, and if water has been used instead of stock, a little Liebig’s Extract may be added. Bring the gravy to the boil, season and strain. Pour a little round the joint, serve the rest in a gravy boat.9 PASTRY. 1. Flour: Perfectly dry and free from lumps. 2. Shortening: Butter, lard or dripping, cold and as free as possible from water. 3. Water: Extremely cold. 4. Baking Powder: Added to short crust when the weight of shortening is less than half the weight of flour. 5. Salt: A pinch of salt may be put in all plain pastries except those made with salt butter. 6. Sugar: 1 teaspoonful of fine white sugar may be put to each lb. flour in short crust for sweet dishes. Have all materials and utensils for pastry making as cold as possible, and work in a cool place. Handle lightly, and not more than is necessary. Roll firmly, but not heavily. Bake in a hot oven. Rich pastry requires greater heat than plainer kinds. Pastry containing sugar easily burns. Pastry set to cool should be placed on a sieve or in such a way that it can cool quickly and the steam escape, but do not allow hot pastry to be put in a cold place, or in any draught of air. Short Crust. Put flour, salt, baking powder (and sugar if used) into a bowl and mix well. Break up the shorten- ing, then rub it with the tips of the fingers till the mixture looks like fine bread crumbs. Moisten withIO PRACTICAL COOKERY. water very gradually, using a knife for mixing, and adding only just enough water to make a stiff paste. Flour the paste board and rolling pin, and roll out once only. If baking powder is used bake immediately. Flaky Crust. Mix the flour and salt in a bowl, rub in one-third of the shortening, using only the tips of the fingers. Then take a knife and mix in very gradually enough cold water to make a paste—stiff, but just a degree softer than that for short crust. The paste should be about the same consistency as the shortening to be used. Put on a floured board. Roll out into an oblong shape about j inch thick, being careful to have the corners as square as possible. Spread the remainder of the shortening on one half, not too near the edges, fold the paste over, pressing the edges together. Turn the paste round so as to have the folded edge to one side, press lightly with the rolling pin, and roll out carefully in a straight oblong, again making the corners quite square. Fold in three, turn the rough edges towards you, and roll out again. Repeat till the paste has been folded and rolled five or six times. If time allows, flaky crust may with advantage be left for a time to cool between the rollings. Puff Pastry. J lb. best Vienna flour. About 4 tablespoonfuls water. J lb. fresh or washed butter. A few drops of lemon juice. Half a yolk. Method: Sift the flour, press the butter in a floured cloth to remove any moisture. Stir together the yolk, water and lemon juice, make a hole in the centre of the flour and add the liquid, mixing with a knife to an elasticii PUFF PASTRY. paste, which should be of the same consistency as the butter; if required, add a few drops more water. Work the paste lightly with the hand till smooth and pliable, flour the board and rolling pin and roll out into an oblong sheet about inch thick. If rice flour is used for dredging, it will be less likely to work into the paste than ordinary flour. Press the butter into an oblong cake not quite so long as the width of the paste, lay it across the middle and fold the two ends over till the edges are even. Turn the paste round, putting the folded edges to the sides and the loose edges to the top and bottom, press lightly with a rolling pin, then roll out to a long strip, keeping the edges even. Fold in three, turn and roll again. Repeat this process till the pastry has had about five turns, when, if the butter no longer shows in patches, the pastry may be used. Puff pastry should be set aside in a cool place for 10 or 15 minutes after every two rolls, in order to cool and harden the butter; and once or twice, before folding the strip, a few drops of lemon juice may be sprinkled over. After the last folding the pastry may be rolled in any direction which will best prepare it for the purpose required. For Patties.—Have the pastry \ inch thick, dip the cutter in flour and cut sharply. With a cutter several sizes smaller, cut the centre of the patty not quite through the paste. If for savouries brush over with egg before using the inner cutter. Bake in a hot oven about 15 minutes, keeping the oven door shut for at least the first 10 minutes.12 STOCK. Brown Stock. 3 lbs. shin of beef. 2 qts. water. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 small carrot. 1 onion. 1 small turnip. Piece of celery. Bouquet garni. 12 crushed black peppercorns. Method : Remove the meat from the bones, cut it into very small pieces, taking away all fat and marrow from the bones. Put the meat, bones and salt into the water in a pan, heat slowly and skim carefully. When boiling, add the vegetables and seasonings. Draw the pan aside, do not let it boil again, but simmer gently for 4 or 5 hours, then strain. When cold, take off all fat before using. White stock is made in the same way, but using knuckle of veal and the bones of poultry in the place of beef. A ham bone is an improvement to white stock. Take the materials used for first stock, and any bones, etc., there may be at hand. Put into a pan, cover with water or pot liquor, bring to the boil, add vegetables and seasonings as for first stock, and boil slowly 4 or 5 hours. Second stock must boil—not simmer. Strain and finish as before. White Stock. Second Stock.i3 SOUP. White Lentil Soup. £ lb. Egyptian lentils. 3 pts. cold water. 1 stalk of celery. 2 sprigs of parsley. 1 onion. A small blade of mace. 8 peppercorns. 14 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. ^ pt. milk. Salt and pepper, pt. milk (or cream). Method: Wash the lentils well in several waters. Put them into a pan with 3 pints cold water, bring to the boil, skimming frequently. When boiling, add the vege- tables, herbs, etc., and simmer till tender, about f hr., then rub through a fine wire sieve. Put the butter into a pan large enough to hold the soup. When melted, add the flour and mix well, add the milk gradually, stirring all the time over gentle heat. x\dd the soup by degrees, bring to boiling point, season with salt and pepper and stir in the y pint milk or cream just before serving. Method: Cut the carrot into pieces, put with the other ingredients into the stock, and simmer gently about 1 hour, or till the carrot and rice are quite soft. Rub through a wire sieve, reheat and season with salt and pepper. Crecy Soup. 1 quart stock. 1 large carrot. 1 tablespoonful rice. A little celery or celery seed. Bouquet garni. Salt and pepper.PRACTICAL COOKERY. H Small piece of turnip. 1 teaspoonful Worcester Sauce. Tomato Soup. Half a quart tin of tomatoes. 1J pints stock. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 teaspoonful sugar. Pepper. Salt. i pint milk (or cream). Method: Put the tomatoes and stock into a pan, simmer for \ hour. Then rub through a fine wire sieve. Melt the butter in the pan, mix in the flour, and when perfectly blended add the soup by degrees, stirring all the time. Bring to the boil, add the sugar, pepper and salt, and lastly the milk. If cream is substituted for milk, put it into the soup tureen before pouring in the soup. Method : Cut the beef into | inch dice, flour them and fry in the butter till well browned, then brown the remainder of the flour. Brown the onion with the cloves stuck in it. This may be done either in a hot oven or in a pan over the fire. Put all ingredients together and simmer gently for 1| hours. Then strain, return the meat and soup to the pan, add the forcemeat balls, and simmer 10 minutes. Imitation Hare Soup. 3 oz. gravy beef. 1 tablespoonful flour. 1 oz. butter. 1 onion. 2 cloves. 1 small carrot. 1 quart water or stock. 1 bay leaf. 4 peppercorns. Sprig of parsley. 1 dessertspoonful mushroom ketchup.15 SOUP. Forcemeat Balls. 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs. Pepper, salt, cayenne. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 2 teaspoonfuls chopped suet. A little nutmeg. Grated lemon rind. 1 egg. Dripping for frying. Method: Mix the dry ingredients, moisten with egg, form into balls the size of a nutmeg, and fry in a little dripping till brown. If liked, a glass of port or claret may be added to the soup just before serving. Consomme or Clear Soup. J lb. lean beef. 1 quart good first stock. Whites and crushed shells of 2 12 crushed white peppercorns, eggs. Method: Shred the beef, clean the egg shells before breaking them. Put the stock and all ingredients into a brass or enamel pan, whisk over a quick fire till it boils, then stop whisking and boil for 5 minutes without stirring. Remove from the fire, cover the pan and let it stand for 3 minutes, or until a crack in the scum shows the clear liquid underneath. Strain through a soup strainer. When it begins to run clear change the basin and pour the first strained soup back into a bag. Season with salt, and add garnish as required. Almond Soup. 3 oz. sweet almonds. 1 or 2 bitter almonds if liked. 1 pint milk. A piece of celery. 1 small whole onion. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1£ pints white stock. Salt and pepper. ^ pint cream if liked. Method: Blanch, dry, chop, and pound the almonds, put into an enamel pan with the milk, celery, andi6 PRACTICAL COOKERY. onion. Simmer for 1 hour, then remove the onion and rub the rest through a very fine wire sieve. Melt the butter in the pan, add the flour, blend smoothly and add the stock gradually, stirring all the time, boil 5 minutes, then pour in the almonds and milk, bring to boiling point, season and serve. If cream is used, put it into the soup tureen before pouring in the soup.17 PREPARATION OF FISH. When the fish is to be scaled, scrape with a knife from tail to head. Empty without opening the fish more than necessary for perfect cleanliness. Wash thoroughly, but do not leave it soaking in water. Rub with salt if needed to remove any trace of blood. Fresh-water fish need special preparation. Rub the inside with plenty of rough salt, dip a cloth into the salt and scour well, especially down the backbone. To Skin Flat Fish.—Make a short cut through the skin across the tail and loosen a little. Insert the thumb, and loosen the skin round the edge of the fish by the fins on each side; then take hold of the skin at the tail, and tear it off towards the head. To Skin Round Fish.—After cutting off the fins, slip the fingers under the skin close to the head and skin from head to tail. If done in the opposite direction the flesh will be torn. To Fillet Soles, Plaice, etc.—Cut down to the bone from head to tail, then holding the blade of the knife flat against the bones, lift the flesh carefully in one long fillet from each side. Turn the fish, and do the same on the 2PRACTICAL COOK 1XRY. other side. Then remove the skin by laying the fillets skin downwards on a board, and pressing a knife between the skin and flesh. Wash the fillets, and if for frying or baking dry thoroughly. Fish Stock may be made from the bones and trimmings of filleted fish, with the addition of vegetables and seasoning. It should be used for fish sauces instead of water. Remove the dark skin from the fish. Take out the eyes but leave on the head, trim the fins and tail, cutting off about half the tail and the greater part of the fins. Wash and dry the fish thoroughly, rubbing it wfith flour to dry it more perfectly. Egg and crumb, and fry in a frying-pan with fresh clarified dripping or with butter. Method: Mix the crumbs, herbs, seasoning and lemon rind. Remove the skin from the cod, wash in salt and water, and dry well. Brush the fish over with beaten egg, and roll in the mixture. Place on a greased dripping-tin, with the butter or dripping for basting. Bake about £ hour. Before serving add a little water or fish stock to the juices in the tin and strain round the dish. Garnish with parsley. Fried Sole or Plaice. Dressed Cod. 3 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs. I teaspoonful mixed herbs. Pepper, salt, cayenne. \ lemon rind grated. 2 lbs. middle cut of cod. Egg. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Parsley for garnish.PREPARATION OF FISH. 19 Haddock Stuffed and Baked. 1 small haddock. 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs. 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley. Pinch of dried herbs. 1 oz. dripping or butter. Pepper and salt. A little egg or milk. Egg for brushing over. Few bread crumbs. Dripping or butter for basting. Method : Wash and scale the fish, take out the eyes, but leave on the fins and tail. Dry the fish thoroughly. Mix the crumbs, parsley, herbs, butter, pepper and salt, and moisten the mixture with a little egg or milk. Put the stuffing into the fish and fasten with a small skewer, or needle and thread. Truss into shape something like the letter S, using a trussing needle and string. Brush over with egg, and sprinkle some bread crumbs on the top. Place on a greased baking-tin, with a few pieces of dripping or butter for basting. Bake in a moderate oven about }j hour. Parsley sauce may be served in a sauce boat. Sole a la Turque. 1 large sole. \ pint stock. Browned crumbs. For the Stuffing. 3 sprigs parsley. 1 tablespoonful bread crumbs. Salt, pepper, cayenne. Few shrimps or bits of red lobster. Juice and grated rind of J lemon. Small pinch of herb mixture. 1 egg. Method : Remove the black skin, trim the fins and tail, wash and dry well. Cut down the centre of skinned side from near the head to near the tail, loosen the flesh from the bones a little way on each side the incision. Make the stuffing of chopped parsley, crumbs, seasoning, chopped shrimps or lobster, and other ingredients, put the mixture into the opening and under the raised fillets.20 PRACTICAL COOKERY. Lay on a buttered tin, with a few pieces of butter on the fish, pour the stock round, and bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes. Sprinkle lightly and evenly with browned crumbs before serving. Strain the stock and fish juices round the dish. Sole a la Creme Blanche. 1 sole filleted. Bones and skin of sole. 4 pint milk. A little mace. Bay leaf. Salt and pepper. 1 oz. butter, f oz. flour. A few drops of lemon juice. Method : Fillet and skin the sole, wash the bones and skin, and put them with milk, mace, bay leaf, salt and pepper, into a small saucepan. Simmer very gently about l hour. Then strain the liquid into a clean pan, lay in the fillets previously rolled or loosely tied, and simmer 10 minutes. When the fillets are cooked, take from the pan, and use the milk for making sauce, with 1 oz. butter and f oz. flour. Season with salt and pepper, add the lemon juice, and pour the sauce over the fillets. Garnish with parsley or lemon. Fish Pie. 1 lb. mashed potatoes. J lb. cooked white fish. 1 hard-boiled egg. J pint white sauce. (Method, see p. 68.) For the Sauce. 1 oz. butter. | oz. flour. J pint milk and fish stock mixed. Salt, pepper, cayenne. Method: Butter a pie-dish and put in layers of potato, fish, sauce, then egg cut in slices, leaving plenty of potatoes for the top. Put into the oven to heat through, and brown the top of the potatoes.21 PREPARATION OF FISH. Lobster Cutlets. A lb. tinned lobster. Seasoning of salt, pepper 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. J pt. milk. and cayenne. Egg and crumbs. Bath of fat. Juice of half a lemon. Method: Chop the lobster finely. Melt the butter in a small pan, add the flour and stir till smooth, cook for a few moments, then add the milk gradually and boil up. Put in lemon juice and seasoning and mix thoroughly with the lobster. Spread smoothly on a plate, and when cold and firm cut into 16 equal parts and shape into cutlets, using a little flour on the fingers and board. Be careful no dry flour gets inside the cutlets. Egg and crumb and fry in a bath of fat for 3 or 4 minutes. If fresh lobster is used, the coral must be pounded with a little butter and added to the panard, and an inch of feeler should be put into the narrow end of each cutlet. Method : Chop the lobster finely with a knife. Melt the butter in a pan, add the seasonings, then the chopped lobster, mix well and make the mixture hot, adding more seasoning if required. While warm press into pots, mak- ing the surface level, cover with clarified butter, seasoned with mace, pepper and cayenne. Potted Lobster. Lobster from 1 tin—about f lb. 3 oz. butter. Mace, pepper, cayenne.22 POULTRY AND MEAT. To Draw a Fowl. Turn the fowl on its breast, make a slit in the skin at the back of the neck, and loosen the skin from the neck. Cut off the neck near the body, but leave a flap of skin fully 2 inches long for folding over the back. Take out the crop and windpipe. Insert the fingers at the neck end, and loosen the liver and other parts. Keep the finger quite close to the carcase, breaking all the ligaments so that the contents are free. Nothing but the crop and windpipe is taken out at this end. Turn the bird on its back, and with a sharp knife make fc a short slit across close under the tail. Insert the fingers and loosen from the carcase as before, then take hold of the gizzard and draw the fowl. Wipe the inside carefully with a damp cloth. If, by accident, the gall bag or any part has been broken, the inside should be well washed by allowing a stream of cold water to pass through it. Roast Fowl. To truss the foiul: Break the legs between the foot and the first joint, draw the sinews, pick the bird carefully, singe, wipe inside and out. The outside must be well dried, and sprinkled with pepper and salt. Cut off the neck, except about 1 inch, leaving a piece of skin to fold over the back. Twist the wings that their points are23 POULTRY AND MEAT. brought across the back of the bird. Press the legs firmly downwards against the sides of the body. Pass a skewer between the folded bones of the wings, then through the point of the thigh, passing through the body and out at the corresponding points at the other side. If the bird is to be stuffed, put the stuffing into the breast, and to prevent any of it entering the body, turn back the small piece of neck so as to fill up the hole by the breast-bone, fold the skin over and fasten it to the back with a small skewer. Tie the legs together, then tie them to the tail, or they may instead be fastened with a skewer; in either case press the legs downwards so as to make the bird lie flat. The broken bone may be left on the legs until after cooking. Remove the thick skin from the inside of the gizzard, wash both gizzard and liver, and put them into the wings of the fowl. After trussing, slightly flour the bird, place on a dripping tin with plenty of dripping or butter for basting, and lay slit slices of fat bacon on the breast. Cook about 1 hour. A few minutes before dishing drift over with flour, baste and leave to brown. Serve with gravy, bacon rolls, and bread sauce (page 70). Note.—Chickens are not stuffed, but must be seasoned inside with salt and pepper. The liver and gizzard are not served with chickens. Almost all game is trussed for roasting in the way fowls are trussed, the exceptions being woodcock, snipe and plover, which are not drawn and have the heads left on. In trussing these birds press the legs to the sides, and pass the beak through the body and legs. Forcemeat for one Roast Fowl.—1 oz. bread crusts steeped in boiling water and pressed dry in a strainer, 12 4 PRACTICAL COOKERY. dessertspoonful chopped parsley, \ oz. butter or chopped suet, pepper, salt and beaten egg for moistening. Gravy for Roast Fowl.—Make in the same way as for roast joint (page 8) with sediment from the dripping tin, stock and caramel, or water and Liebig’s Extract, as required. Season with pepper and salt. Make \ pint gravy, pour a little round the dish and serve the rest in a gravy boat. Bacon Rolls.—Cut the bacon very thin, trim all the edges, roll, put on a skewer, and cook in the oven or before the fire for about 5 minutes, or till slightly browned and crisped. Boiled Fowl. If possible, choose a white-legged fowl for boiling, and one that has not had the skin much torn by the poulterer. * To Truss a Fowl for Boiling: Break the legs between the foot and the first joint, draw the sinews, then cut off from the legs the pieces of broken bone. Pick the bird carefully, singe, wipe inside and out. Loosen the skin from the body and legs that the legs may be pushed up inside the skin of the body. Tie the legs together, then tie them to the tail, fold the skin over and fasten with a few stitches of white thread. Proceed to truss as for roast fowl, but instead of using skewers use a trussing needle and string. Rub over with lemon juice, tie in a buttered cloth and put into boiling water, breast down- wards. Simmer about 1 hour. N.B. Remember to remove all stitches before coating the fowl with white sauce.25 POULTRY AND MEAT. Sauce for Coating Hot Fowl,—If oz. butter, If oz. flour, | pint liquid from the pan and milk mixed, salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon juice. Garnish.—The yolk of 1 hard-boiled egg rubbed through a sieve over the bird. If served cold, the fowl should be covered with Chaudfroid Sauce (page 72) and garnished with aspic. Stewed Steak. 1 lb. rump steak, I3 in. thick. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. li oz. butter. 2 small onions. 1 dessertspoonful flour. ^ pint water. Piece of celery. Salt. Pepper. Method : Trim the steak neatly. Prepare the carrot and turnip, cutting from them either julienne strips or other garnish. Put the garnish of carrot and turnip into separate cups of cold water till required, and use the remainder of these vegetables for flavouring the gravy. Heat the butter in a stewpan, when hot, brown the steak. Eemove the steak, brown the sliced onions, and when these are taken from the pan put in the flour, mix smoothly and cook till it becomes a biscuit-brown colour. Add the water very gradually, stirring all the time, boil 2 or 3 minutes, then add the pieces of carrot, turnip, celery, and the fried onions. Lay in the steak and stew very gently If to 2 hours. Boil, in small separate pans, the garnish of carrot and turnip till tender—about 5 minutes. Strain and put in cold water till required. They may be reheated in boiling water at the moment of serving. When the steak is partly cooked add salt and pepper,26 PRACTICAL COOKERY. and before serving add more seasoning to the gravy if required. Lay the steak on a hot dish, strain the gravy over, and garnish with tiny heaps of carrot and turnip alternately. Haricot of Mutton. 1-|- lb. middle of neck of mutton. 2 onions, sliced. 1 tablespoonful flour. -I pint water. Salt and pepper. 1 dessertspoonful mushroom ketchup. 1 carrot 1 cut into dice 1 small turnip J and parboiled. Method: Cut up the meat neatly, removing the chine bone and any superfluous fat. A little fat must be left on. Brown the pieces of meat in a hot stewpan, using no drip- ping, when brown, remove them and fry the sliced onions in the fat from the mutton. Take the onions from the pan as they become a golden brown, then add 1 tablespoonful flour to the remaining fat, mix smoothly and allow the flour to brown slightly. Pour in the water very gradually, stirring carefully all the time. Bring to the boil, add the salt, pepper, ketchup and parboiled vegetables. Lay the meat and onions in the pan and simmer about 1 hour. Curried Yeal, Fowl, or Rabbit. 1 fowl or rabbit, or 11 lb. veal. 3 oz. fat bacon. 2 or 3 onions. 1 tablespoonful flour. 1 tablespoonful curry powder. 1 teaspoonful curry paste. 1 sour apple, finely chopped. § pint water or stock. Juice of half a lemon. 1 teaspoonful salt. Method : Cut the veal into neat pieces, or joint the fowl or rabbit. Cut the bacon into dice, fry it, remove the dice from the pan and fry the sliced onions to aPOULTRY AND MEAT. 2 7 golden brown. Brown the meat, using a little more fat if required. When all the pieces are done, put the flour and curry powder to the fat remaining in the pan, mix perfectly smooth, then add the curry paste and chopped apple. Cook the mixture for 10 minutes over gentle heat, stir in the water or stock very carefully, a little at a time. Bring to the boil, draw the pan aside, put in the onions, bacon, and pieces of meat, and simmer gently for about H hours. Just before dishing add the lemon juice and salt. Serve with boiled rice. When it can be procured, a teaspoonful of fresh grated cocoanut is an improvement. Rice for Curry.—Wash the rice very well in several waters. Put into plenty of boiling salted water, stir till the water reboils, then boil fast, without a lid, for about 10 minutes, keeping it well skimmed. When a grain of rice is easily crushed between the finger and thumb, drain at once, and put to dry on the back of a sieve. Set in a warm place, occasionally tossing the rice about with two forks so as to keep the grains separate. Method : Cut the steak into thin slices across the grain of the meat. Mix together on a plate the flour, salt and pepper, dip each piece of meat in the mixture, put a small piece of fat on each strip of lean and roll up. Mix the flour, salt and baking powder in a bowl, add Beefsteak Pudding. \ lb. steak. 1 teaspoonful flour. -1 teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful pepper. Water. 1 lb. flour. Pinch of salt. J teaspoonful baking powder. 2 oi. suet, finely chopped. 1 tablespoonful bread crumbs.28 PRACTICAL COOKERY. the chopped suet and the bread crumbs. Make into a very stiff paste with cold water, using a knife for mixing; roll out once, and line a well-greased basin, 1 pt. size, with paste. Put in the meat, add water to come half-way up the basin, cover with paste, wetting the edges, pressing them well together, and trimming them neatly. Cover the pudding with greased paper and steam 2 hours or longer. A few mushrooms or a piece of kidney may be added and will greatly improve the pudding. Savoury Rolled Steak. Forcemeat. 3 oz. bread crusts steeped and drained. 1| oz. suet, finely chopped. 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley. Grated lemon rind. Pepper and salt. 1 egg or a little milk to moisten. 1^ lb. steak, in one piece, about \ inch thick. Dripping. Method: Spread the forcemeat over the steak and roll it up, tying with string or fastening it with skewers. Lay in a dripping tin with a little dripping and bake 40 minutes to 1 hour, basting well; or it may be browned in a little hot dripping and then stewed about 1^ hours in pot liquor or water. Serve with gravy made as for roast meat or as for stew. Stewed Sweetbreads. 1 or 2 calf’s sweetbreads. Stock or milk. 1 teaspoonful salt. 3 peppercorns. Tarragon if liked. 1 teaspoonful arrowroot. 1 oz. butter \ . 1 or 2 yolks! liked. Method : Steep, parboil and trim the sweetbreads, lay in white stock or milk to cover and simmer gently 15 orPOULTRY AND MEAT. 29 20 minutes, adding the salt and peppercorns. A pinch of tarragon may be added if liked. When the sweetbreads are tender, lay them in an entree dish, cut each into three portions and cover with sauce. For the Sauce.—For 2 sweetbreads take \ pint of the liquid previously used, thicken it with the arrowroot moistened in cold water, boil up and season carefully. If liked, 1 oz. butter and 1 or 2 yolks may be added to the sauce. Braised Fillet of Yeal. 31 lbs. veal. Larding bacon. Vegetables i Stock or water )forbraisinS- Bacon rolls and lemon for garnish. Forcemeat. 3 oz. bread crumbs. 2 oz. suet, finely chopped. 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley- Pinch of mushroom powder. £ teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful pepper l teaspoonful dried herbs. 1 egg- Method : Mix the dry ingredients of the forcemeat, then moisten with the egg. Lard the veal (page 7) and put it into a stewpan with the vegetables and liquid (page 6). Braise for 2J hours, basting occasionally. Then brown and crisp the surface of the meat, placing it, with a little of the liquid, in a dripping tin in a hot oven for about 15 minutes. Reduce the stock by fast boiling to about h pint, then use it for making gravy, adding Liebig or glaze. Bacon Rolls.—Cut the bacon very thin, roll, put on a skewer, and cook in the oven with the veal for about 5 minutes, or till slightly browned.3o PRACTICAL COOKERY. Cdtelettes de Mouton a l’Alsace. 5 or G cutlets. Pepper and salt. Butter. Piece of onion. £ lb. lean veal. About half an egg. Browned crumbs. £ oz. butter. Dust of cayenne. Salt. Panard. Mashed Potatoes. 1 lb. potatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 yolk. 4 pint water or stock. 1 teaspoonful butter. 1 oz. flour. (Tomato Sauce, p. 71) Method : Trim the cutlets and bat with a cutlet bat or wet knife. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, lay in a well-buttered saute-pan, and fry lightly on one side only for about 4 minutes. Rub the unfried side of each cutlet with a piece of onion and press the cutlets till cold. Shred the lean veal and pound it, add the panard (see below) and pound again, mix in the butter and seasonings and lastly the beaten egg. Be careful not to make the mixture too moist. Blend the whole thoroughly, and rub through a coarse wire sieve. When the cutlets are well pressed and quite cold, put a layer of the farce on the sides that were not fried, smooth the surface with a knife dipped in hot water, and sprinkle with fine browned crumbs. Place in a buttered baking tin, with a buttered paper over them, and cook in the oven about 15 minutes. Serve round a heap of mashed potatoes or other vegetables, and pour tomato sauce round the dish. To Make the Panard.—Put the water or stock into a small pan with the butter, when boiling, stir in the sifted flour, beat till smooth and cook well.POULTRY and meat. 3* Cotelettes de Mouton a la Portugaise. 1 oz. butter. 1 carrot [cut in pieces. 1 turnip. J 2 bay leaves. Sprig of parsley. 6 to 8 trimmed cutlets. -J- pint brown stock. Mashed potatoes. Bread crouton. Puree of spinach. Method : Melt the butter in a stewpan and lay in the vegetables and herbs Place the cutlets on the top, cover the pan and steam gently 10 minutes. Pour in the stock, cover the pan closely and simmer gently 20 minutes. Take 2 lb. mashed potatoes, add 1 oz. butter, salt, pepper, and 2 eggs, mix well together and form into a ring in an entree dish. Brush over with egg, roughen with a fork, place in the oven and bake about 10 minutes. In the centre of the dish place a round crouton of fried bread slightly higher than the ring of potato. The top of the crouton must be hollowed out before frying. Arrange the cutlets on the ring, remove the fat from the stock and strain it round the dish, and fill the hollow of the crouton with a puree of spinach. Puree of Spinach.—Carefully pick and wash the spinach, and boil in salted water from 7 to 10 minutes. Drain and press well, then rub through a wire sieve. Reheat with 2 oz. butter and 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. Chicken Legs a la Regence. 2 chicken legs. Piece of onion. 1 lb. sausage meat. i pint stock. Salt. 3 cloves. 1 carrot. Method: Cut off the legs, leaving a large flap of skin for folding over. Break the bone just above the first3* PRACTICAL COOKERY. joint. Bone the legs, beginning at the thigh, and scraping the meat from the sinews so as to remove them altogether. Season with salt and stuff each leg with sausage meat—not too full or the skin will burst during cooking. Fold the flap of skin over and sew up with a needle and white thread, bringing the join to the under side. Place the vegetables and cloves in a small pan, lay in the legs, and pour in enough stock to reach to the top of the vegetables. Braise from 1| to 2 hours; then put the legs on a baking tin with a few spoonfuls of the stock, and set in a quick oven for a few minutes to brown the surface. Reduce the stock by fast boiling to about ^ pint, and add a little Liebig’s Extract or caramel browning as required. When nicely browned, remove all the stitches from the legs, and dish with the gravy poured round. Method : Remove the fat and skin from the kidneys and divide them in halves. Cut away with a pair of scissors all the gristly part from the centre. Heat the butter in a small saucepan, put in the kidneys, cut side downwards, fry 2 minutes, turn, and fry 2 minutes on the other side. Remove the kidneys without spilling the gravy which has collected on the cut side. Put into the butter the rest of ingredients, bring to the boil, remove the pan from the fire. Lay in the kidneys, cut side upwards so as to keep in the gravy. Cover the pan closely and let it remain, in gentle heat for 6 or 8 minutes ; Kidney Saute. 2 sheep’s kidneys. 1 oz. butter. Chopped parsley and shalot. Pepper and salt. Chopped mushroom or mush- room powder. 4 tablespoonfuls water. A little lemon juice.33 POULTRY AND MEAT. it must not be allowed to boil. Serve with the gravy poured on the dish. Chicken Saute aux Champignons. 1 chicken. 2 oz. butter. 1 tablespoonful sherry. 3 tablespoonfuls brown sauce. 1 tablespoonful tomato pulp or sauce. 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. A very small piece of onion. 1 teaspoonful sugar. Salt. Pepper. 1 bottle or J lb. white mush- rooms. Method : Divide the chicken into neat pieces, removing all skin and superfluous bone. Fry in the butter for 10 minutes, then add the rest of the ingredients. The onion must be very finely chopped. Stew very gently for | hour. Dish in an entree dish and strain the sauce over. Chicken Saute aux Fines Herbes.—Omit the mush- rooms and add instead a bouquet garni. Lapereau Saute.—Prepare the rabbit in the same manner as above, but cook about 1 horn’. Fried Mutton Cutlets. Use the best end of neck of mutton. Saw across the long bones to make the cutlets of equal length—about 3^- or 4 inches long. To divide the cutlets, first divide the meat with a knife, then use a chopper to chop through the chine bone, afterwards removing the piece of this bone that is attached to each cutlet. Trim off most of the fat. Polish the inside curve of the bone by scraping it with a knife, after removing the skin found there. Bare about \ inch of bone at the end of each cutlet. Egg and crumb, and fry in bath of fat about 3PRACTICAL COOKERY. 34 7 minutes, reducing the heat after the first minute to prevent their becoming too brown before they are cooked through. Free from grease on kitchen paper. Dish overlapping round a heap of mashed potatoes or green vegetables. Cutlets of Sweetbreads. 1 or 2 calf’s sweetbreads. I Vegetables for centre. Egg and crumbs. * Sauce. Method: Soak the sweetbreads in warm salted water for 2 hours. Parboil them, trim and simmer for 10 minutes. Place them between 2 plates and press till cold, then cut in slices | inch thick, dry in a little flour, egg and crumb, and fry in a bath of fat. Serve round a centre of peas, cucumber, or macedoine of vegetables, with good brown or other carefully and lightly flavoured sauce. Liver a la Franqaise. For the Mixture. 3 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs. Finely chopped fresh mushroom or mushroom powder. Ismail onion ) finely chopped. 2 sprigs parsley I £ teaspoonful salt. Pinch of pepper and nutmeg. 1^ lb. calf’s liver. Thin strips of bacon. ^ pint water or stock. 1 dessertspoonful Worcester sauce. Browned crumbs. Method : Cut the liver into slices half an inch thick, and lay on a well-greased dripping tin. Put some of the mixture on each piece, and lay on each a very thin slice of bacon. Pour in the water or stock and cook in a rather cool oven for three-quarters of an hour. If the tin becomes dry, add more liquid. Place the pieces neatly on a hot dish, add the Wor-POULTRY AND MEAT. 35 cester sauce to the gravy, boil up, and pour round the liver. Sprinkle brown crumbs lightly over the bacon. Beefsteak Pie. lj lb. steak. 1 tablespoonful flour. 1 teaspoonful salt. J teaspoonful pepper. For the Paste. 6 oz. flour. 3 oz. butter, lard or dripping. Water. Method : Cut the meat in thin slices, about 2 inches long and H inches wide. Mix flour, salt and pepper together, dip in the meat, roll up, putting a small piece of fat in each roll. Lay in a pint pie dish, and rather more than half-fill it with water. Make flaky crust (see page 10) of the flour, and shortening; roll out to about | inch in thickness. Wet the edges of the dish, lay on strips of paste, turning the freshly cut edge of paste outwards. Wet these strips, and cover the pie with the rest of the paste. Do not stretch the cover tightly as the crust will shrink when cooking. Trim the edges, holding the dish in the left hand and cutting from you, slanting the knife to make the cover as large as possible. Decorate, and brush over with well- beaten egg. Make a hole in the pastry for the steam to escape, and bake 1 hour or more, first in a hot oven, then in very moderate heat. Yeal and lb. veal. Seasoning. 1 tablespoonful flour. 1 teaspoonful salt. f, teaspoonful pepper. Cayenne, nutmeg, lemon rind. Method : Cut the veal i Ham Pie. 1 lb. ham or bacon. 2 hard-boiled eggs. Water or stock. For the Pastry. 6 oz. flour. 1 oz. lard. 3 oz. butter. ito rather thin pieces; mix36 PRACTICAL COOKERY. together the flour and seasonings, and dip each piece of veal in the mixture. Put a layer of meat in the bottom of a pint pie dish, then a layer of small and thin pieces of ham or bacon. Lay in slices of the hard-boiled egg, then repeat the layers till the dish is filled. Add water or stock to come half-way up the dish and cover with flaky pastry. Quenelles of Veal. 1 lb. fillet of veal. \ pint stock or milk. 2 oz. flour. | 2 eggs. 1 oz. butter. ' Pepper and salt. Method : Make a panard of the flour, butter, and stock or milk. Mince and pound the veal; add half the panard and 1 egg and pound again; add the other half of the panard, the second egg and the seasoning. Pound well and rub through a wire sieve. Shape in hot, wet spoons, or with a forcing bag and tube. Lay in a greased pan, and pour in carefully boiling water or stock. Poach about 10 minutes. Serve in a rich sauce as an entree or as garnish for soups, etc. Raised Pie. 1 lb. veal. I lb. cooked ham. 1 large teaspoonful salt. ^ teaspoonful pepper. Pinch of cayenne. J lb. flour. ^ teaspoonful salt. 2^ oz. lard. 2^ oz. butter, pint of water or stock. Method : Cut the veal and ham into small pieces and mix with the seasoning. Mix the flour and salt, put the lard, butter, and water into a pan, bring to the boil, then pour into the flour, mixing with a wooden spoon. When37 POULTRY AND MEAT. sufficiently cool knead the paste well. Cut off about one- third for the top of the pie, and with the remainder line a well-greased, raised pie tin. Work the paste evenly and quickly round the sides, taking care no thick ridge of paste is left round the bottom of the pie. Put in the meat, raising to a pile in the centre. Lay on the top, pinch the edges together, trim them and decorate the pie. Make 3 holes in the top. Brush over with egg, and bake in a moderate oven for about 2 hours. When cooked, add \ pint stock. The stock should be highly seasoned and a thick jelly; it should be melted just sufficiently to pour into the pie. Method : Stew the veal in the stock with the ham, lemon rind, salt and pepper, till quite tender. Cut into small pieces, and remove all fat and gristle. Strain the stock and steep the gelatine in f pint; when the gelatine is soft, dissolve by boiling. Slice the hard-boiled eggs and arrange them with the meat in a mould. Pour in the gelatine and stock, set the mould in a cool oven and bring just to boiling point. Set aside till quite cold, then turn out. A fowl for boning should be undrawn. Cut off the head, slit the skin down the back of the neck, loosen the skin from the neck, then cut off the neck quite close to the Yeal Cake. 1^ lb. veal. J lb. lean cooked ham. Rind of 1 lemon. h oz. gelatine. 1J pint stock. 4 hard-boiled eggs. Salt and pepper. To Bone a Fowl.38 PRACTICAL COOKERY. body, leaving a piece of skin about two inches long for fold- ing over. Pick, singe, and wipe the bird. Before beginning to bone, wrench, then dislocate, the joints of the legs and wings where they join the body. Cut off the tips of the wings between the first and second joints, and break the bones of the legs a little higher than the first joint. Then with a small, sharp-pointed knife scrape the flesh from the merry-thought and neck bones and remove them. Proceed to bone the carcase, using either knife or fingers as is best for the purpose, being careful to keep the skin unbroken. When the wings and legs are reached, detach them, but do not bone them until after the carcase is removed. As the boning progresses, turn the flesh backwards on the bird till the whole is inside out. Bone the legs and wings, beginning at the joints next the body, turning them inside out as the boning goes on. The sinews of the leg must be taken out with the bone. Season lightly with salt and pepper, then turn the bird right side out, leaving the legs and wings inside the body. Galantine of Fowl. 1 boned fowl. £ lb. lean veal. 2 lb. fresh pork. 2J or 3 teaspoonfuls salt. Large ^ teaspoonful pepper. Pinch of cayenne. 6 oz. cooked ham. 6 oz. cooked tongue. 6 anchovies, filleted. Glaze. Aspic jelly. Method : Pass the veal and pork through a sausage machine and add the seasonings. Knead on a wet board, adding cold water to make it into a dough. Spread into an oblong sheet—the length of the fowl in one direction, and half as long again in the other. Lay39 POULTRY AND MEAT. on strips of ham and tongue and the fillets of anchovy. Season again with salt, pepper and cayenne, and roll up in the form of a large sausage, place it in the body of the fowl, and sew up at the tail and neck. Wrap tightly in a buttered cloth, tie at the ends, and lay in a pan with enough boding stock to cover and float the fowl. Simmer 2 to 2| horns. When cooked, remove the cloth, wrap up again very tightly, and press between two dishes with a weight above, taking care the fowl is not laid on its side. When quite cold, remove the cloth, wipe off all grease with a cloth wrung out of hot water, glaze and garnish with aspic jedy and beaten butter, or, more plainly, with fresh salad. Stock for Cooking Galantine.—Clean the carcase of the fowl, break it up, and wash quickly in cold water. Dip the feet into boiling water, cut off the nads, and draw off the outer skin. Cut open and clean the gizzard. W ash the fiver and heart, and put with the neck and all the bones from the fowl into a pan with sufficient water to cover and float the galantine. Proceed as for stock (p. 12), adding vegetables and seasonings. Let the stock simmer tid required, then put in the galantine, the bones and vegetables, etc., remaining in the pan. Method: Pass the pork through a mincing machine. Mix the salt, sage, and pepper with the crumbs. Break up the minced meat, and mix thoroughly with the Pork Sausages. 1| lb. lean pork. | lb. fat pork, i lb. bread crumbs. 2 teaspoonfuls salt. 2 teaspoonfuls powdered sage. 11 teaspoonfuls pepper.4o PRACTICAL COOKERY. crumbs and seasoning; then pass the whole through the machine direct into the skins. Twist into sausages and then into bundles, and keep in a cool, dry place. Potted Beef. 14 lb. rump steak. 6 oz. butter. 4 anchovies, scaled and boned. Salt and pepper. Cayenne. INface. Or a small teaspoonful anchovy essence. Method : Pasd the meat through a mincing machine, put into a jar with half the butter, cover closely, and set in an oven or in a pan of boiling water to cook for 1 hour. Add the seasonings and cook slowly for another hour. When quite tender, pound the meat in a mortar with the anchovies and put through a wire sieve. Reheat the meat, add the remainder of the butter, season if necessary, and while hot press into small moulds. Cover with clarified butter. Hash or Mince. Prepare the meat by removing every bit of gristle or of fat that will not be eaten. Cut into neat pieces for hash, or chop finely for mince. Put the bones and trimmings into a pan, cover with cold water, add flavouring, vege- tables, herbs and seasoning, and stew gently 1 hour or more. Strain the liquid, and take off any fat from the surface. Make gravy with this liquid, added to a little fried onion and browned flour, season with pepper and salt. The meat must be put into just warm—not hot— gravy ; allow it to heat very gradually, but it must not be brought to boiling point or the meat will harden. Hashed beef or mutton may be served with sippets of toasted bread, and flavoured and garnished with tomatoes.POULTRY AND MEAT. 4i Minced meat should be served with a border of mashed potatoes, boiled rice or macaroni, and the mince in the centre. Minced veal should be garnished with bacon rolls. Rissoles. Panard. J pint stock. 1 teaspoonful butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce for beef. 1 teaspoonful ketchup for mutton. 4 lb. cold meat. \ lb. mashed potatoes. A little chopped parsley. Salt and pepper. 1 beaten egg. Egg and crumbs. Bath of fat. Method : Mince the meat finely, or pass it through a mincing machine, mix with the mashed potatoes and parsley in a bowl. Put the stock and butter into a small pan. When boiling, stir in quickly the sifted flour, cook well, beating till smooth. Mix this panard with the other ingredients and add the beaten egg. When cold form into small balls the size of a large walnut, slightly flouring the fingers to prevent sticking. Be careful no dry flour is allowed to work into the mixture. Egg and crumb, and fry in a bath of fat for 3 or 4 minutes. Durham Cutlets. Panard. \ pint stock or water. 1 teaspoonful butter. 1 oz. flour. \ lb. miuced meat. 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs. 1 well-beaten egg. 1 dessertspoonful Worcester sauce. Salt, pepper, cayenne. Egg and crumbs. Bath of fat. Method : Put the stock or water with the butter into42 PRACTICAL COOKERY. a small pan, when boiling, stir in quickly the sifted flour and cook well, beating till smooth. Add the Worcester sauce and seasonings, and mix the meat and bread crumbs, then add the beaten egg. Spread the mixture evenly on a plate and set aside to get cool and firm, then with a floured knife cut in 8 pieces. Slightly flour the board and fingers and shape each piece into a cutlet, putting in an inch of macaroni to imitate bone at the narrow end. Be careful no dry flour is worked into the cutlet mixture. Egg and crumb and fry in a bath of fat. Method : Prepare the meat as for mince (see p. 40). Boil the potatoes, dry well, then rub through a wire sieve or pass through a potato masher. Add the butter, seasoning and egg, reserving a very little of the egg for brushing over the casserole. Have a plain mould well greased and lined with fine browned crumbs. Spread the potato smoothly over the bottom and sides of the mould, leaving a hollow to contain the meat, brush over with egg and bake in a quick oven till firm and brown at the edge. Turn the casserole on to a dish, then reverse it, fill with the prepared meat, and garnish. If veal is used, garnish with bacon rolls. Note.—The above quantities are sufficient for a mould of about 5£ inches in diameter and inches deep. A tin cake mould with a movable bottom is the most convenient for this purpose. Casserole of Cold Meat. 1 lb. potatoes. \ oz. butter. Salt and pepper. 1 egg. lb. cold meat, prepared as for mince. Browned crumbs. Parsley or other garnish.43 POULTRY AND MEAT. Chicken Croquettes. r pint white stock. 1 teaspoonful butter. 1 oz. flour. Lemon juice. Pepper, salt, cayenne. Panard. 3 oz. cold chicken. 1 oz. ham. For Pastry. 4 oz. flour. 2 oz. butter. Method : Put the stock and butter into a small pan, when boiling, stir in quickly the sifted flour and cook well, beating till smooth. Mix with the minced chicken and ham and set to cool. Make short crust (p. 9), roll out as thinly as possible and cut in rounds about 3 inches in diameter. Put a little of the mixture on each round, wet the edges and press together. Egg and crumb, and fry in a bath of fat. If liked, crushed vermicelli may be used instead of crumbs.44 VEGETABLES. Boiled Potatoes. Boiled Without Skins.—Wash the potatoes, peel them very thinly, and again wash them well. Put into a saucepan, just cover with water, and boil very gently till tender. Add salt about 10 minutes before they are done. Drain away the water as perfectly as possible, and dry the potatoes by putting the pan near the fire and allow- ing the steam to escape. Shake the pan occasionally that they may become quite dry and floury. Serve very hot. Boiled in the Skins.—Wash and brush the potatoes carefully, put into a saucepan, just cover with water, and boil very gently till tender. Drain, remove the lid from the pan, and dry by the side of the fire. Boiled Carrots. Wash and scrape the carrots, then wash them again, if very large, cut them in half lengthways and across. Put into a saucepan of boiling water, cover the pan, and boil for about 1 hour. Add salt about 10 minutes before they are done. When quite tender, strain, chop finely, reheat, press into a hot mould, and turn out into a hot vegetable dish.45 VEGETABLES. Sea-kale. Wash and tie in small bundles, removing any doubtful stalks. Put into boiling salted water with a little lemon juice, and boil till tender (15 to 20 minutes). Serve on toast or with white sauce over. Stewed Celery or Sea-kale. Clean thoroughly, then put into a pan with milk or stock to just cover the vegetable. When tender (20 to 40 minutes), make a sauce with butter, flour, and the liquid from the pan, and pour the sauce over the dished vegetable. Beetroot. Be careful not to break the skin in any way. Wash well in plenty of cold water, but handle carefully and do not scrub the root. Put into boiling salted water and boil gently till tender (1 to 2^ hours, according to size). Then put the beetroot into cold water, trim, and remove the skin with the fingers. Jerusalem Artichokes. Wash the artichokes, peel them, and in order to pre- serve their colour drop at once into cold water containing a little vinegar or lemon juice. Put into boiling water to which salt and acid have been added, boil till tender (20 to 30 minutes, according to size). Serve at once with white sauce. If not used quickly the artichokes will become a bad colour.PRACTICAL COOKERY. 46 French Beans. String the beans, cut into pieces lengthwise, put into boiling salted water, boil till tender (about 20 minutes). Drain them, put into a hot vegetable dish, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and serve with clarified butter. Green Peas. Shell the peas, put into boiling salted water, add about teaspoonful sugar to 1 quart water. Boil gently without a cover till tender (15 to 30 minutes, according to the age of the peas). Drain, put into a hot vegetable dish, add a small piece of butter, and season with pepper. A sprig of mint added to the water improves the flavour of peas. Spinach. Spinach needs special care in preparation and cleans- ing. Fold each leaf double and tear off the stalk with the rib down the back of the leaf. Put into a large bowl of cold water, and when all is prepared lift into another bowl of water. This should be repeated till no dust or grit is found in the water. Cook with the lid off till the leaves are tender (about 10 minutes). Strain through a colander and press dry, then either chop finely or pass through a wire sieve. Reheat with a little pepper, and butter or cream. Note.—If the spinach is old it must be put into plenty of boiling water ; if young and tender, lift it from the rinsing wrater and pack closely in the saucepan, the water in the spinach will be sufficient.VEGETABLES. 47 Asparagus. Scrape the white part of the stalks, beginning from the part near the head and scraping downwards. Cut away any very strong woody stalks, tie the aspara- crus in bundles, and trim the white stalks even. Put in boiling water to just cover. Boil gently till tender (20 to 30 minutes), having no lid on the pan. As soon as tender, remove at once from the water, and dish on a round of toast in a hot vegetable dish. Serve with clarified butter. Boiled Cauliflower. Soak the cauliflower in salt and water to draw out any insects. Trim it neatly. If very young, a little of the small, pale-green leaves next the flower may be left on, but if fully grown, remove all the leaves and as much of the hard stalk as possible. Split the stalk and put the cauliflower head downwards into a pan of boiling water, to which 1 dessertspoonful salt has been added. Boil 10 to 15 minutes for small cauliflowers, 20 to 25 minutes for large ones. Any scum that rises must at once be carefully removed. Boiled Cabbage. Take off all brown or faded leaves, remove the stalk, except what is needed to hold the leaves together. Cut entirely through the cabbage lengthwise, dividing it into halves or quarters according to size. Lay it in cold water with a little salt for about 1 hour, then put into plenty of boiling water and boil quickly with the lid off till quite tender (20 to 45 minutes). Add 1 dessertspoonful salt 10 minutes before it is finished, Drain in a colander,48 PRACTICAL COOKERY. carefully pressing out all the water, then pack the cabbage tightly on the drainer of a hot vegetable dish, sprinkling with salt and pepper. Cut across 2 or 3 times in each direction, and serve very hot. Brussels sprouts and leaf vegetables in general are treated in the same manner. Vegetable Marrow. Peel, cut across 3 or 4 times, then quarter and remove the seeds. Put into boiling salted water, and boil gently 15 to 30 minutes. Drain, put into a hot vegetable dish, and pour melted butter or white sauce over. Potato Croquettes. ^ lb. boiled potatoes. £ oz. butter. 1 teaspoonful finely - chopped parsley. Pepper and salt. 1 well-beaten egg. Egg and crumbs. Method : Pass the potatoes through a sieve or a potato masher. Add the butter, parsley, and seasonings, and moisten with egg, being careful not to make the mixture too wet. Divide into seven portions, shape in pyramids 1^ inches high, or in small balls, or in the shape of corks. Egg and crumb and fry in a bath of fat.49 PUDDINGS, SOUFFLES, ETC. Yorkshire Pudding. 4 lb. flour. 4 teaspoonful salt. 2 eggs. 1 pint milk. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 1 oz. dripping. Method : Put the flour and salt into a basin, make a batter with the beaten eggs and about half the milk, and beat this stiff batter till quite free from lumps and full of air bubbles, then add by degrees the remainder of the milk. Melt the dripping in a baking tin, sprinkle the baking powder into the batter, mix well, and pour into the tin. Bake three quarters of an hour. 4 teaspoonful baking powder. Method: Mix the flour, baking powder, salt and chopped suet in a bowl, add the water gradually, put into a well-greased basin, cover with gi’eased paper, and steam i\ or 2 hours. If liked, an egg may be used instead of part of the water. Suet Pudding. 4 lb. flour. Pinch of salt. £ lb. suet, finely chopped. £ pint water. 4PRACTICAL COOKERY, 5« Fruit Tart. Fruit to fill a 1 pint pie dish. Sugar to sweeten, Water if required, 5 oz. flour. Pinch of salt, 4 teaspoonful baking powder, 24 oz. butter, lard or dripping. Water. Method : Put fruit, sugar and water into the pie dish. Make short crust (see p. 9). Roll out to the shape of the dish, but rather larger, wet the rim, lay on strips of paste cut from the rough edges, wet these strips, cover the tart and trim the edges, holding the dish in the left hand and cutting from you. Decorate the border and bake at once in a rather quick oven till nicely brown (about £ hour). Welsh Cheesecakes. Line patty pans with short crust, put into each a small quantity of jam, and on the top of the jam a tea- spoonful of the mixture. Bake immediately in a fairly quick oven till nicely browned. Before serving, sift over with castor sugar. Mixture for Welsh Cheesecakes.— 1 egg. Grated rind of half a lemon. Its weight in sugar, butter, A pinch of baking powder, and flour. Method : Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add flour and egg alternately, beating between each addition, then lemon rind, and lastly the baking powder. 4 lb. flour. Pinch of salt 4 teaspoonful baking powder Boiled Fruit Pudding. 2 oz. suet, finely chopped. 1 tablespoonful bread crumbs. Fruit, sugar, water. Method : Mix the flour, salt, baking powder, suet and5i PUDDINGS, SOUFFLES, PTC. bread crumbs. Make into a very stiff paste with cold water, using a knife for mixing, roll out once, and line a well-greased pudding “basin (1 pint size). Put in fruit and sugar as required, cover with paste, wetting the edges and pressing them well together. Cover the pudding with greased paper and steam for H hours. Semolina Pudding. 1 tablespoonful semolina. 1 pint milk. Pinch of salt. 1 tablespoonful sugar. \ teaspoonful vanilla. 2 eggs. Method : Put the semolina, milk and salt into a pan not less than 3 pts. size ; let it stand 10 minutes, or longer, to soften the semolina. Then set on the fire and stir carefully till it boils. Boil for 10 minutes, stirring all the time. Allow the pan to cool a little, then stir in the yolks, let them cook and thicken, but the mixture must not boil. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and mix them in lightly but thoroughly. Pour into a buttered pie dish, 1\ pint size, and bake in a moderate oven till the pudding is firm (about 20 minutes), then serve at once. Swiss Apple Pudding. 1 lb. peeled and cored apples. 1 tablespoonful water. 2 oz. moist sugar. A little nutmeg or grated lemon rind. £ lb. bread crumbs. 1 oz. suet. Fine browned crumbs. Method : Peel and core the apples before weighing them. Cut the pieces across and stew in a white-lined pan with the tablespoonful of water. When soft, add halfPRACTICAL COOKERY. 52 the sugar, and grate in the nutmeg or lemon rind. Mix the bread crumbs with the finely chopped suet and other half of the sugar. Grease a plain mould, and sprinkle it with fine brown crumbs. Lay one-third of the mixture of suet and crumbs in the bottom of the mould, draw part of it up the sides of the mould, then put in half the stewed apple and so on, leaving one-third of the crumbs for the top. The mould should be entirely lined with the bread- crumb mixture. If the stewed fruit touches the tin it is apt to stick. Bake \ hour, then turn out of the mould. Superior Treacle Pudding. J lb. bread crumbs. \ lb. flour. Pinch of salt. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 1 saltspoonful grated nutmeg. | lb. suet. 2 oz. currants. 2 oz. moist sugar. Juice and grated rind of one lemon. 2 eggs. 2 large tablespoonfuls treacle. About | pint milk. Method : Chop the suet finely, clean the currants, beat the eggs. If the treacle is stiff, put it to soften in a warm place. Mix all the dry ingredients well together, then add the lemon juice, treacle, eggs and milk. Put into a well-greased quart mould. Cover with greased paper and steam 2 hours. Bishop’s Pudding. 3 oz. ground rice. 1 pint milk. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. T oz. sweet almonds, chopped. 1 bitter almond, chopped. 2 eggs. Orange marmalade. Method : Boil the ground rice in the milk for 10 minutes, or till thick. Stir in the butter, sugar, choppedPUDDINGS, SOUFFLES, ETC. 53 almonds, and lastly the beaten eggs. Pour into a pie dish, cover the top with orange marmalade, and bake in a very moderate oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Metropole Pudding. Pali paste. Jam. Savoy biscuits. A oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. A pint milk. 2 eggs. Flavouring. Method : Line a pie dish with puff paste, spread on it a layer of. jam, and over it a layer of Savoy biscuits. Make a sauce of 1 oz. butter, \ oz. flour and ^ pint milk, sweetened and flavoured. When cooled a little, add 2 yolks and pour over the cakes. Bake in a moderate oven for 35 or 40 minutes. Cover with 2 whites in froth and return to the oven to set and slightly colour. Yiennoise 5 oz. bread cut in £ inch t dice. 1 glass sherry. \ pint milk. 8 oz. castor sugar. 5 oz. sultanas. Pudding. Grated rind of 1 lemon. 2 oz. mixed peel. 1 oz. loaf sugar. 2 tahlespoonfuls water. A pint milk. 3 eggs. Method: Soak the dice in the sherry and \ pint milk, keeping them covered. Clean and pick the sultanas, cut the candied peel finely, and mix with the sugar and grated lemon rind. Put the sugar and water into a small iron saucepan, allow it to turn a very dark brown, then take from the fire and let it cool. When cooled, add \ pint milk. Let the caramel dissolve in the milk, then add the beaten eggs, cook slightly, and strain the brown custard over thePRACTICAL COOKERY. 54 bread previously mixed with sultanas, sugar, etc. Have ready a well-buttered and sugared mould, pour in the pudding, cover with a greased paper and steam 2 hours. Serve with vanilla sauce. Rich Christmas Pudding. 6 oz. - 1 dessertspoonful salt, i lb. moist sugar. 1 lb. bread. 1 lb. currants. 1 lb. Yalentia raisins. 1 lb. sultanas. 4 lb. mixed candied peel. j lb. beef suet. 2 oz. almonds. 1 nutmeg, grated. 1 teaspoonful grated ginger. 8 eggs. | pint brandy. About 1 pint of milk. Method : Stone the raisins and chop roughly. Put the bread through a wire sieve, or grate it through a grating machine. Clean the currants and sultanas, chop the suet very finely. Blanch the almonds, chop them, also chop the candied peel. Mix all the dry ingredients well, then add the beaten eggs, brandy, and enough milk to make a rather soft pudding mixture. Put into a buttered pudding mould and steam 6 hours. If made in two puddings, steam 4 hours. Tapioca 2 tablespoonfuls tapioca. 1 pint milk. 1 tablespoonful castor sugar. Pinch of salt. Cream. 2 yolks. 2 whites, stiffly whipped. Vanilla. Method : Wash the tapioca, then put it into a pan with the milk and let it soak hour. Put over the fire and boil, stirring all the time, till the grains are quite transparent and the mixture thick. Remove from the55 PUDDINGS, SOUFFLES, ETC. fire ; add sugar, salt, and the yolks. When the yolks are cooked, mix in lightly the whipped whites and vanilla. Serve cold, but unmoulded. Lemon Tart. For the Mixture. 2 eggs. Their weight in castor sugar. Their weight in butter. Eind and juice of 2 lemons. 2 oz. Savoy biscuits. For the Pastry. 6 oz. flour. PiDch of salt. 3 oz. butter. Little lemon juice. Cold water. Method : For the mixture—Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the well-beaten eggs, grated lemon rind, and strained juice, and the Savoy biscuits crushed to crumbs. Make short crust (p. 9); roll out once; cut from the sides some strips to cover the edge of a greased tartlet tin or deep plate. Cover the whole plate with the sheet of pastry, decorate the edges, prick the centre and bake till the pastry is half-cooked. Then pour the mixture into the centre of the pastry case, and return to the oven till the centre is set and the whole nicely browned. German Tart. 14 lb. apples. 2 teaspoonfuls ground cinna- 4 lb. stoned dates or prunes. mon. \ lb. soft sugar. 14 teaspoonfuls allspice. Water. , 4 oz. butter. 4 lb. flour. 1 yolk. Method : Stew the fruit with very little water till tender, add the sugar, and allow the mixture to cool. Make short crust of the flour, spice, butter, yolk, and water. With part of the pastry line a fleur ring, lay in56 PRACTICAL COOKERY. the fruit, cover with the remaining pastry, and bake till nicely crisped and browned. May be served hot, sprinkled with sugar, or cold, covered with a soft icing of white of egg and sugar. In the latter case it may also be piped with meringue mixture, and set in the oven to dry the meringue. Custard a l’Espagnole. 4 stale Id. spongecakes. 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. ^ gill cream. 2 oz. chocolate. ^ gill water. 1 pint milk. 2 oz. sugar. 3 eggs. 2 oz. almonds, baked. blanched and Method : Break the cakes roughly, and put into a glass dish. Mix the cream with 1 teaspoonful of vanilla and pour over the cakes. Break the chocolate into the water and dissolve over gentle heat, add the milk and sugar and the well-beaten eggs. Cook till the eggs thicken, then add 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Let the chocolate custard cool, pour it over the cakes, and, just before serving, sprinkle with the baked almonds roughly chopped. Sultan’s 1 pint bright red jelly. | oz. gelatine. ^ pint milk. 12 ratafia biscuits. ^ pint cream. 2 oz. sugar. Pudding. 4 yolks. 3 drops ratafia essence 12 dried cherries. 2 inches of angelica. Pistachio nuts. Method : Take a plain Charlotte mould, and put a layer of jelly about \ inch thick at the bottom. Let the remainder of the jelly harden for chopping. Steep and dissolve the gelatine in ]- pint milk. Crush the ratafiaPUDDINGS, SOUFFLES, ETC. 57 biscuits, and place in a bowl. Heat \ pint milk and ^ pint cream; add the sugar and yolks. Cook till the custard thickens, then add the ratafia essence. Pour the hot custard over the soaked biscuits; strain in the dissolved gelatine, and mix well. When cold, add the cherries cut in half, the angelica in strips, and half the pistachios blanched and shredded. Mix in { pint whipped cream and pour into the prepared mould before the mixture sets. When set, turn out of the mould, sprinkle the chopped jelly over and round with the remainder of the chopped pistachios over all. Cabinet Pudding. Savoy biscuits. A few ratafias. 3 eggs. 1 tablespoonful castor sugar. 1 pint milk. Flavouring essence. Dried cherries. Angelica. Method : Butter a plain mould and line the sides with the Savoy biscuits. Put into the centre of the mould a few ratafias and spongecake crumbs, to about three-quarters fill it. Beat the eggs and sugar together, add the milk, then pour into the mould. Let the pudding stand 10 minutes. Steam gently till set—about f hour. Decorate the top with the cherries and angelica. Souffles. Preparation of Tins.—Butter the souffle tin very thickly, especially about the join. Avoid very salt butter. Tie a buttered paper round the outside edge so as to come 2 or 3 inches higher than the tin. If the tin is very old or discoloured it may be lined with foolscap or cartridge paper—the edges of the paperPRACTICAL COOKERY. 58 meeting perfectly, but never overlapping in any part. After putting the souffle mixture into the prepared tin, lay a square of buttered paper over the top to prevent the dropping in of moisture from the lid. To Steam a Souffle.—Choose an iron pan, just large enough to allow the soufflb to be easily put in and taken out. Have a well-fitting lid ; if required, a piece of paper may be laid over the pan to make the lid fit more tightly. The boiling water must be about 1 inch deep, gently bubbling on one side of the pan, and the souffle must be set on the other side, with no heat directly underneath it. Do not lift the lid for the first 20 minutes. When firm to the touch in the centre the souffle is cooked and should be served at once. To turn out a Souffle.—Allow it to stand for a moment. Cut the string and remove the paper ; turn out on a hot plate, being careful the weight of the tin does not rest on the souffle or it will be crushed. Reverse the souffle on to a hot dish for serving and pour the sauce round it—never over. To Bake a Souffle.—Have the oven hot, but not extremely hot. Baked souffles are served in the dish in which they are cooked, therefore care must be taken to keep the dish spotless. Time for baking, 30 to 40 minutes, and for at least the first half of the time the oven must be kept closed. Method; Prepare the souffle tin (p, 57). Put the Yanilla Souffle. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. Vienna flour. £ pint milk. 1 oz. castor sugar. 3 yolks. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 4 stiffly whipped whites.59 PUDDINGS, SOUFFLES, ETC. butter into an enamel pan large enough to hold all the ingredients. Melt the butter, add the flour, blend over gentle heat and cook. Stir in the milk gradually and boil 2 minutes. Add the sugar, and, when slightly cooled, the yolks and vanilla. Mix in the whites lightly but thoroughly, till the mixture is of uniform colour and consistency. While still warm, put at once into the prepared tin and steam gently and steadily for 35 minutes. Serve with raspberry sauce (p. 73) poured round. Apricot 1 oz. flour. h oz. crime cle riz. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. i, pint milk. 2 tablespoonfuls syrup from the fruit. Method : The same as in or steam for 35 minutes, sugar when half cooked, (p. 73). Souffle. 2 yolks. 2 teaspoonful vanilla essence. ^ tin apricots, cut small. 1 oz. chopped almonds. 3 whites in froth. the preceding recipes. Bake If baked, glaze with icing Serve with hot jam sauce Parmesan 1 oz. fine sifted flour. 1 oz. rice flour. 2 oz. butter. it pint milk. Souffle. 3 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. 3 yolks, bait, cayenne. 4 whites in froth. Method : The same as in preceding recipes. Bake or steam 35 minutes. If baked, sprinkle the top after cooking with browned crumbs,6o PRACTICAL COOKERY. Lobster Souffle. 6 oz. tinned lobster. 1 teaspoonful vinegar. 1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce. 1 teaspoonful Worcester sauce. 3 yolks. 4 whites in froth. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. £ pint milk. Salt and pepper. Method : Chop the lobster finely. Put the butter into an enamel pan large enough to hold the finished souffle mixture. Melt the butter, add the flour, blend over gentle heat, add the milk gradually, and boil 3 minutes. Stir in the rest of the ingredients, except the whites. When thoroughly mixed put in the whipped whites. Break up the froth as little as possible, but mix lightly till there is no streakiness and all is of one consistency. Put at once into the prepared tin and steam 1 hour. Sauce for Lobster Souffle. 1 oz. butter. . 1 dessertspoonful anchovy 1 oz. flour. J sauce. ^ pint milk. Salt and pepper. Method : Mix the eggs well together with a fork, but do not froth them. Add the parsley, pepper and salt. Put the butter into a pan^ and let the pan get thoroughly hot in every part. When the butter is on the point of beginning to brown, pour in the eggs quickly. At the moment of contact with the hot pan the under part of the omelet is formed. This must be lifted by a spoon or fork to allow the unformed portion to run beneath. Keep the Method (p. 68). Omelet. 3 eggs. 1 oz. butter. | 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. I Pepper and salt.6r PUDDINGS, SOUFFLES, ETC. pan moving gently and use every means to secure rapidity of setting, but do not brown the omelet. When the contents of the pan are nearly set, slip a knife under- neath and fold in three, wrapping in the centre the slightly unformed juicy part that remained on the surface. Turn on to a hot dish. Savoury Omelet Souffle. 3 eggs (separated). 1 tablespoonful milk. 1 teaspoonful finely chopped parsley. Salt and pepper. 1 oz. butter. Method : Separate the yolks and whites, remove the specks. Stir to the yolks, the milk, parsley, salt and pepper. Whip the whites to the stiffest froth. Mix them lightly but thoroughly with the yolks to a uniform colour, breaking up the whites as little as possible. Eub the omelet pan with a.piece of onion, put in the butter, and heat it till it is at the point of browning, then put in the mixture at once. Stir slightly with a wooden spoon till it begins to set at the edges, then stir the middle only till it begins to set there. Let the omelet cook till the under side is nicely browned, using a knife to keep it loose from the pan. When the under side is cooked, brown the top with a gas griller or in front of a clear fire. Slip the knife across the pan, under the omelet. Have ready a hot dish, lay on it the omelet folded in half, the grilled top being on the outside of the fold. Serve at once. Sweet Omelet Souffle. 3 eggs (separated). 1 oz. butter. 1 table3poonful milk. 2 small tablespoonfuls jam. Method : Separate the yolks and whites, remove the62 PRACTICAL COOKERY. specks, mix together the milk and yolks. Whip the whites to the stiffest froth, mix them lightly but thoroughly with the yolks to a uniform colour, breaking up the froth as little as possible. Put the butter into an omelet pan, and when it is on the point of beginning to brown, put in the mixture at once. Stir lightly with a wooden spoon till it begins to set at the edges, then stir the middle only till it begins to set there. Let the omelet cook till the under side is nicely browned, using a knife to keep it loose from the pan. When the under side is cooked, brown the top with a gas griller, sala- mander, or in front of a clear fire. Slip the knife across the pan, under the omelet. Have ready a hot dish ; lay on it the omelet folded in half, the grilled top being on the outside of the fold. Lay the hot jam between the folds and serve at once. Note.—The pan used for omelets should be kept for that purpose only, and should not be washed. Clean thoroughly with paper and then with a clean cloth.63 CREAMS. JELLIES, ETC. Ginger Cream. h oz. gelatine. J pint water. 3 yolks. 4 tablespoonfuls syrup from i pint milk. preserved ginger. 3 oz. ginger, finely chopped. £ pint double cream, whipped. 2 oz. castor sugar. Method : Steep the gelatine in the water. Make a custard of the yolks, milk, and sugar, and put it to cool, stirring occasionally. Dissolve the steeped gelatine over gentle heat, stirring all the time, bring to boiling point, add the ginger syrup, and when cooled strain into the custard. Whip the cream in a large bowl; add gradually to it the cold custard, mixing in carefully with the whisk. When the mixture begins to thicken, add the chopped ginger, and when so thick as to prevent the ginger sinking, mould the cream at once. 1 teacupful raspberry jam. | pint double cream, whipped. \ teacupful milk. Method : Steep the gelatine in the water. Mix the milk with the jam, and rub through a fine hair sieve. Dissolve the steeped gelatine in a small pan over gentle heat, stirring all the time ; bring to the boil, add the sugar Raspberry Cream. b oz. gelatine. J pint water. 2 oz. castor sugar. Juice of half a lemon.64 PRACTICAL COOKERY. and lemon juice. Whip the cream in a large bowl; strain the gelatine to the fruit pulp, and add the mixture to the whipped cream, stirring in carefully a little at a time with the whisk till the whole is perfectly blended. Stir the mixture occasionally till at the point of setting, then mould at once. Apricot Cream. 1 oz. gelatine\sfceepe(j ^ pint double cream. | pint milk / ' 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 tin of apricots (1^ pint size). A drop of carmine if required. Method : Drain the apricots on a sieve. Take 1 lb. of the fruit and J pint of the liquid. Eub the apricots through a fine wire sieve. Finish as Easpberry Cream (p. 63). Vanilla Cream. ^ oz. gelatine. \ pint water. 3 eggs. | pint milk. 1^ tablespoonfuls castor sugar. 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence. 4 pint whipped cream. Method: Soak the gelatine in the water. Make a custard of the eggs, milk and sugar, then add the vanilla. Dissolve the soaked gelatine in a small pan and strain into the custard. When the custard is cool, mix with the whipped cream, and mould just before the mixture begins to set. Calf’s-foot Jelly. 2 calf’s feet. 3 pints water. J pint sherry. 4 tablespoonfuls brandy. Juice of 3 lemons. Rind of 2 lemons. 3 oz. loaf sugar. 4 cloves. ^ inch stick cinnamon. Whites and crushed shells of 3 eggs. Method : Wash the feet and divide each into 3 or 465 CREAMS, JELLIES, ETC. pieces. Blanch them, then turn into a bowl of cold water; scrape with a knife and wash thoroughly. Put into a saucepan with 3 pints of cold water. Bring to boiling point, skimming carefully, then boil very slowly for 5 hours, or till reduced to 1| pints. Strain through a hah- sieve, and put aside to cool. To Clarify the Stock : Remove the fat with a spoon, then wipe the surface of the stock with a clean cloth wrung out of hot water. All trace of grease must be removed. Put into a brass or enamel pan the stock and all other ingredients except the sherry and brandy. See that the lemon rinds and egg shells are scrupulously clean before using. Whisk over a quick fire till the liquid boils, then stop whisking, boil for 5 minutes, draw the pan aside, cover and stand in a warm place to settle for 3 minutes. Pour some boiling water through the jelly bag ; keep the bag covered to retain the heat. As soon as the water is out, pour the jelly in, and when it begins to run clear change the basin and pour the first flow of jelly back into the bag. Before the jelly is allowed to set, add the sherry and brandy, straining them through a fine linen cloth. Method : Clean the egg shells before breaking them. Soak the gelatine in the water. Clean the lemon rinds carefully, then peel off the yellow part very thinly. Put all ingredients into a bright metal or enamel pan, whisk Lemon Jelly. 1 oz. gelatine. If pint water. Rind of 2 lemons. Juice of 3 lemons. 4 oz. loaf sugar. Whites and shells of 2 eggs. 5PRACTICAL COOKERY. 66 over a quick fire till the liquid boils, then stop whisking, boil for 5 minutes, draw the pan aside, cover and stand in a warm place to settle for 3 minutes. Pour some boiling water through the jelly bag. As soon as the water is out and the bag still very hot pour the jelly in, and when it begins to run clear change the basin and pour the first flow of jelly back into the bag. If liked, wine or brandy may be substituted for part of the water. Allowance must be made for this when measuring water in the first instance. Brandy or wine must be strained through a fine linen cloth into the jelly after clearing. Claret Jelly. 1 oz. gelatine. j f lb. loaf sugar. A small pot red currant jelly, j A quart bottle cheap claret. Juice and rind of 1 lemon. Method : Put all the ingredients into a white-lined pan and soak for \ hour, or till the gelatine is soft. Then simmer, stirring all the time, till the gelatine is melted. Boil for 5 minutes, and strain into a delf mould. Aspic Jelly. 2 oz. gelatine. 1^ pints cold water. 2 bay leaves. 1 small onion, sliced. 2 teaspoonfuls tarragon vinegar. £ pint malt vinegar. 1 teaspoonful salt. £ teaspoonful peppercorns (crushed). Rind and juice of 1 lemon. Piece of celery, or 1 teaspoonful crushed celery seed. Whites and shells of 2 eggs. Method: Steep the gelatine with the water till soft, using a brass or enamel pan ; add all the other ingredients and whisk over a quick fire till it boils. Boil without stirring for 5 minutes, then cover and stand to settle in a*CREAMS, JELLIES, ETC. 67 warm place for 3 minutes, or till a crack in the scum shows clear liquid underneath. Pour some boiling water through a jelly bag, keeping the bag covered to retain the heat. As soon as the water is out, pour the jelly into the bag, having a clean, hot bowl underneath. When it begins to run clear, change the basin and pour the first flow of jelly back into the bag. Keep the bag covered and in a warm place. The jelly being stiff for garnishing will harden in the bag and waste if allowed to become cool. N.B.—Use more gelatine in warm weather. Moulding Jelly.— The mould must be metal; moulds such as delf are not suitable for lining. Use the jelly quite cold, at the point of setting. Be careful that every part of the mould is lined perfectly before any kind of garnish or decoration is put in. Set each decoration with a few drops of jelly —too great a quantity will float instead of setting it. The materials used should be quite dry, or the jelly may not stick to them. If ice cannot be obtained for setting the jelly use cold water and salt. See that no splash of water gets between the layers of jelly or they may separate when the mould is turned out. If ice is used do not allow the jelly to harden too much between the additions, as this also will cause the jelly to turn out in separate layers. To turn out.—Immerse for an instant in water as hot as the hand can bear. Wipe the mould and the jelly with a clean cloth before reversing the mould. Any water left about the jelly will collect on the dish and spoil the appearance when it is turned out.68 SAUCES FOR FISH, MEAT, ETC. White Sauce. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. | pint water or pot liquor. J pint milk. Salt. Pepper. Method : Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and mix with a wooden spoon till perfectly blended. Allow the mixture to cook over gentle heat for a few moments, but do not let the flour take colour. Add the liquid very gradually and boil 3 minutes, stirring all the time. Season with salt and pepper. Note.—The above recipe gives average quantities of ingredients. As the thickening power of flour varies, and the sauce is used for so many different purposes, a little more liquid must sometimes be added to bring the sauce to the desired consistency. According to the purpose intended, the flavour of mace, bay leaf, mushroom, vegetables, etc., may be added to the liquid before making the sauce. To pint white sauce, made as above, stir in 1 table- spoonful finely chopped parsley just before serving. Gaper Sauce. Add 1 large dessertspoonful of capers, and a little of the caper vinegar, to each pint of white sauce. Parsley Sauce.69 SAUCES FOR FISH, MEAT, ETC. Onion Sauce. Blanch 4 small onions by putting them into cold water and bringing to the boil. Drain and put them into fresh boiling water and boil till tender—about hour. Chop the onions as fine as possible and add them to £ pint white sauce. Melted Butter. 2 oz. butter. . J pint water. | oz. flour. I Salt and pepper. Method : Melt half the butter in a small saucepan, add the flour and blend perfectly. Stir in the water a little at a time, and boil for 3 minutes. Take the pan off the fire and mix in the remainder of the butter in small pieces, letting one piece be thoroughly mixed before adding another. After adding the butter, the sauce must not be allowed to boil. Season with salt and pepper. Add lemon juice if used for fish or veal. Brown Sauce. 1 slice of onion. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. | pint stock. 1 tablespoonful tomato pulp. Salt and pepper. Method: Brown the onion in the hot butter, add the flour, and brown that also. Stir in the stock, a little at a time, add the tomato and seasoning, and boil till the sauce is reduced one-third, keeping it well skimmed. Strain or tammy. This sauce can be used as a foundation for a great variety of sauces, flavouring of mushroom, onions, ham, wine, etc., being added.1 o PRACTICAL COOKERY. Bread Sauce. 3 cloves. 1 small onion. \ pint milk. 6 peppercorns. 2 oz. fine bread crumbs. £ teaspoonful salt. \ oz. butter. Cayenne if liked. Method : Stick the cloves into the peeled onion, put in a white-lined pan with the milk and peppercorns. Set near the fire for 15 or 20 minutes to extract the flavour. Strain the milk ; if wasted, make up the \ pint and put back into the pan with the crumbs. Simmer slowly for \ hour, stirring carefully to avoid burning. Stir in the butter just before serving, boil up, season with salt, and a little cayenne if liked. Horseradish Sauce. £ pint cream or good milk. 2 oz. grated horseradish. 1 teaspoonful sugar. \ teaspoonful mixed mustard. 1 teaspoonful white wine vinegar. Salt. Pepper. Method : Mix well together, and, if for hot meat, just warm, but do not boil. May be served either warm or cold. Maitre d’Hotel Butter for Grilled Meats. i oz. butter. Pew drops of lemon juice. 1 dessertspoonful finely-chopped Salt and pepper, parsley. Method : Mix together on a plate with a knife, lay in a cool place till required. Place on the grilled steak or chop at the moment of serving.SAUCES FOR FISH, MEAT, ETC. 7* Mayonnaise Sauce. 1 raw yolk of egg. 1 saltspoonful dry mustard. Pinch of salt and pepper. Cayenne. Salad oil. 1 teaspoonful tarragon or malt vinegar. A few drops of lemon juice. Method: Put the yolk, mustard, salt, pepper and cayenne into a small basin. Mix thoroughly till the mixture begins to thicken, then add the oil gradually, either dropping it in yery slowly and working with a wooden spoon, or putting in 1 teaspoonful at a time and whisking well with a small wire whisk between each addition. When finished it should be the consistency of soft butter. If used for salads, etc., add the vinegar and lemon juice just before using. It is important that the oil should be of best quality and kept in a cold place, also the sauce must be made in a cool place—set on ice if possible, as warmth makes it liable to curdle. If curdled, add another yolk at once, work it well in, then add oil as before in proportion to the added yolk. Tomato Sauce. 1 pint of tinned tomatoes. 1 bay leaf. Slice of onion. 1 clove of garlic. 1 teaspoonful butter. 1 teaspoonful potato flour. Salt and pepper. Cayenne and sugar. 1 teaspoonful vinegar. Method : Put the tomatoes, bay leaf, onion and garlic into a white-lined pan and set over gentle heat. When the flavouring of onion is sufficiently extracted, rub the tomatoes through a hair sieve and reheat. Mix the butter and potato flour smoothly together with a knife or spoon, and thicken the sauce with the mixture. HavePRACTICAL COOKERY. 72 the sauce almost at boiling point, add the thickening in three or four portions, mixing in one thoroughly before adding another. Cook about 10 minutes, but do not let the sauce actually boil, or the butter may separate and come to the top. Season to taste with sugar, cayenne, pepper and salt, and add 1 teaspoonful of vinegar. If fresh tomatoes are used, cut them into small pieces, and use 1 pint of the cut-up fruit to the above quantities. Fresh tomatoes must be cooked without water till the pieces are quite soft and resemble tinned tomatoes. Hollandaise Sauce. 2 bay leaves. 8 crushed peppercorns. 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 3 oz. fresh butter. 2 yolks. Pinch of salt if needed. Method : Put the bay leaves, peppercorns and vine- gar into a small pan, and set over very gentle heat till the vinegar is well flavoured and reduced to about 1 dessertspoonful. Strain into a bowl or enamel pan, add the butter and yolks, place in a pan of hot water and stir with a whisk or a wooden spoon till the sauce thickens. The butter will generally supply all the salt that is needed. White Chaudfroid Sauce. |r pt. white sauce. | I pt. aspic. Method: Reduce the sauce by boiling to about £ pt., then add the aspic and boil up. A tablespoonful of cream may be added if liked. Tammy, and use for masking.73 SWEET SAUCES. White Sauce for Puddings. 1 oz. butter. § oz. flour. J pint milk and water. 2 teaspoonfuls sugar. Flavouring required. Method : The same as white sauce (p. 68). Jam Sauce. 1 tablespoonful raspberry or other jam. ^ pint water. 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 1 tablespoonful sugar. Method : Put the jam, sugar and water into an enamel or bright metal pan. Boil till reduced to about half quantity—10 or 15 minutes. Skim carefully. Add the lemon juice, and strain. • Method: Put the milk on to boil in a white-lined pan, when boiling, remove from the fire, cool slightly, then mix with the well-beaten eggs and sugar. Return the whole to the pan, cook till the egg thickens, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon. Add the flavouring, and strain. Custard. 1 pint milk. 2 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls sugar. Flavouring as required.14 PRACTICAL COOKERY. Vanilla Sauce. 3 yolks. i teaspoonful vanilla essence. § gill milk. 2 whites stiffly whipped. 2 oz. castor sugar. Method : Make a custard of the yolks, milk and sugar, add the vanilla essence. Whip the whites to a very stiff froth, and put into a large basin. Pour over them, through a hair sieve, the hot custard, mix lightly but well. Serve either hot or cold.75 SAVOURIES. Macaroni Cheese. i oz. flour. £ pint milk. 1 oz. butter, i pint water. 3 oz. macaroni. 3 oz. grated cheese. | teaspoonful dry mustard. Pepper. Salt. Cayenne. Method : Put the water and | oz. butter into a pan and set on the fire. Break up the macaroni into short pieces. When the water boils, rinse the macaroni quickly through cold water and put it into the pan. Stir till the water reboils, then cover the pan and boil gently till tender but unbroken—about J hour. The macaroni should absorb all the liquid. If this happens before the macaroni is tender, add a little more water to the pan. Make a sauce of the remaining | oz. butter with \ oz. flour and the milk. Boil 3 minutes, add the seasoning and half the grated cheese. Mix the sauce with the macaroni, turn into a hot dish and sprinkle the rest of the cheese over. Brown in front of the fire, under a gas griller, or in the oven. Serve very hot. Method: Cut the bacon very thin, trim off the rind and edges, and fry lightly. Cut small tomatoes in halves or large ones into quarters, heat them thoroughly in the pan with the fat from the bacon. Serve very hot. Bacon and Tomatoes.PRACTICAL COOKERY. 76 Buttered Eggs. 1 oz. butter. 1 tablespoonful milk. Salt and pepper. 2 eggs. 4 small rounds of buttered toast. Parsley or water-cress. Method : Put the butter, milk and seasonings into a white-lined pan. When warm, add the beaten eggs. Stir with a wooden spoon over gentle heat till lightly set. Place on the rounds of buttered toast. Serve very hot, garnished with parsley or water-cress. Anchovy Eggs. 3 hard-boiled eggs. 1 teaspoonful butter. 1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce. Salt and pepper. Cayenne. Salad for serving. Method : Shell the eggs, and cut them carefully in halves. Pound the yolks and add the other ingredients. Cut a small piece from the point of each white to make it stand steadily, fill the whites with the mixture, and arrange on a bed of salad. Savoury Eggs. Method : Mix some bread crumbs, chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Butter some dariole moulds, and line with the mixture. Break an egg into each mould, and stand in boiling water till set. Turn out on buttered toast. Croustades de Merluche Fume. Method: Cut some rounds of bread 2 inches in diameter and | inch thick. Dip in liquefied butter. Skin and bone a raw Finnan haddock, place a piece of the fish between two pieces of the bread, and fry the sandwiches in a very little butter till both sides are nicely browned. Serve very hot.77 SAVOURIES. Canapes Fumes. 1 small Finnan haddock. 1 tablespoonful white sauce. 1 tablespoonful cream. Seasoning. Slices of bread, ^ inch thick. Buttered egg (p. 76). Method : Stew the haddock till tender in milk and water, then take away all skin and bone, pound the flesh in a mortar, and rub through a wire sieve. Add the sauce and cream, sufficient to make a stiff paste, seasoning with pepper, cayenne, and salt if required. Cut the bread in 8 or 10 pieces, 11 inch by 2^- inch. Mark an inner square with a knife. Fry in hot fat, scoop out the inner square, and fill the hollow with buttered egg. Arrange the fish in pyramid form over the egg. Place in the oven and serve hot. Tomates aux Champignons. 1 oz. butter. 1 small shallot. 6 small mushrooms. 2 tablespoonfuls browned crumbs. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Pepper and salt. 3 medium-sized round toma- toes. Water-cress. Method: Melt the butter in a pan, fry the shallot and the chopped mushrooms, then add the parsley, pepper, salt and brown crumbs. Cut the tomatoes in halves and remove the seeds, fill the hollows with the prepared mixture, put a small piece of butter on each, sprinkle with brown crumbs, and bake in a moderate oven for 10 minutes. Serve with water-cress, which may be slightly sprinkled with salad oil, and chilli and tarragon vinegar.78 BREAD AND CAKES, ETC. Bread. 1 oz. yeast. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 1 teaspoonful flour. 3 small teaspoonfuls salt. About 1 h pints lukewarm water. 3 lb. flour. Mailiod : Test the yeast with sugar, flour and a little of the lukewarm water. Mix the flour and salt, make a hole in the centre, pour in the yeast, stir with a wooden spoon as if making a batter, adding the lukewarm water by degrees. When the water is all used, continue stirring till no more flour can be mixed in by the spoon, then lay the spoon aside and knead. Clear the sides of the bowl as soon as possible, and knead till the fingers do not stick. Turn the smooth side uppermost, cut across the top twice, cover the bowl with a thick warm cloth, and set where the air is warm till the dough has risen to about twice its original size—1 to 2 hours. Divide into loaves, kneading very lightly, put into warmed, greased tins, or form into cottage loaves, etc., and set to rise in a warm place. The tins should be rather more than half filled, and the dough rise till level with the top before baking. Bake in a hot oven, keeping the door shut for at least the first 15 or 20 minutes for small loaves, longer for large ones. When a brown crust has been formed, the heat must be gradually reduced and the bread finished in a moderate oven. This quantity divided into 4 loaves will take about ^ hour to cook.79 BREAD AND CAKES, ETC. Milk Bread.—To each 1 lb. of flour add 1 oz. butter, and use lukewarm milk instead of water for mixing. This bread is usually made into small loaves. When brown flour is used, rather less liquid is re- quired. Dinner Rolls. 1 lb. flour. 1 teaspoonful salt. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. castor sugar. 1 oz. yeast. About J pint lukewarm milk. Method : Rub the butter into the flour, add the salt and sugar. Make into a soft dough with the yeast and milk, and put to rise for 1 hour. Then knead again, and divide the dough into about 16 pieces. Form into rolls, set to rise on a warmed, floured tin for about 15 minutes. Brush over with egg, and bake about 15 minutes. Tea Cakes. \ oz. yeast. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 1 teaspoonful flour, ij pint lukewarm milk. J lb. flour. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 2 teaspoonful salt. 2 oz. butter. 1 egg. Method : Test the yeast with sugar, flour and a little of the lukewarm milk. Mix the flour, sugar and salt, and rub in the butter. Make a hole in the centre of the flour, pour in the yeast and beaten egg. Sprinkle with a little flour from the edge, but do not mix or beat. Cover with a thick, clean cloth, and set to rise where the air is warm for about 1 hour. Then mix with a wooden spoon, adding the rest of the lukewarm milk, and beating till the mixture is quite smooth and free from lumps. It mayPRACTICAL COOKERY. 8o not be necessary to add quite all the milk. The mixture must be soft and batter-like, but stiff enough to be shaped by hand. Put on a floured board, divide into 8 cakes, placing them on a warm, greased baking tin. Set to rise again for about ^ hour. Brush with beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven 12 to 15 minutes, keeping the oven door shut for the first 10 minutes. Sally Lunns. | oz. yeast. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 1 teaspoonful flour. ^ pint lukewarm milk. | lb. flour. 1 teaspoonful salt. 2 oz. butter. 1 egg- Method ; Test the yeast with sugar, flour and a little of the milk. Mix the flour and salt together. Melt the butter in the remainder of the milk. Make a hole in the centre of the flour, and with a wooden spoon mix in the yeast, milk and beaten egg, then beat the batter well. Put into 3 well-greased tins, about 6 inches in diameter and 2 deep. Set to rise for about 1 hour, or till level with the top of the tin, then bake in a quick oven 10 to 15 minutes. If the tins are not very well greased, the cakes will break in turning out. Finger Scones. ^ lb. flour. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 2 oz. butter. i 1 egg. 1 tablespoonful castor sugar. • Milk. Method : Rub the shortening into the flour, add the baking powder and sugar, mix well and moisten with the egg and milk. Cut into fingers, and bake 10 to 15 minutes. Brush over with milk when nearly baked.8i Bread and cakes, etc. Pikelets. | pint milk. £ pint water. 1 oz. butter* 2 lumps sugar. A little salt. 2 yolks. 1 white, i oz. yeast. 1 lb. flour* Method : Put the milk, water, butter, sugar ancl salt into a saucepan till a little warmer than new milk, then put into a quart jug with the eggs and yeast. Add 1 lb. flour, and stir quickly till free from lumps. Cover and set in a warm place till the mixture rises to the top of the jug. Eub a little butter on the baking-iron, and pour the batter either into a hoop or simply on the baking-hon. Turn with a broad knife. Rock Cakes. ^ lb. flour. Pinch of salt. ^ teaspoonful baking powder, li oz. dripping or lard. I teaspoonful grated ginger. A little nutmeg. 1^ oz. sugar. 1J oz. currants. J oz. candied peel. Half an egg. About 2 tablespoonfuls milk. Method : Mix the flour, salt and baking powder in a bowl, rub in the shortening, add the rest of the dry ingredients. Make into a very stiff dough with the egg and a little milk. Put on a floured or greased baking tin, making 6 or 7 cakes, as high and rocky as possible. Bake at once in a quick oven 10 or 15 minutes. London Buns. i lb. flour. Pinch of salt. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 oz. candied peel, in small dice. Grated rind of half a lemon. 1 egg. About 1 pint milk. Method : Mix the flour, salt and baking powder, rub 6PRACTICAL COOKERY. §2 in the butter, add all the rest of the dry ingredients and mix well. Make into a stiff paste with beaten egg and milk. Divide into 9 or 10 buns, place them on a greased baking sheet, brush over with milk, and sprinkle rough pieces of sugar over. Bake in a moderately hot oven about \ hour. Ginger Snaps. 1 lb. flour. 4 lb. butter. 4 lb. sugar. 4 lb. syrup. 1 oz. ginger. Method : Bub the butter into the flour, add the sugar and syrup, knead well, roll and cut. Bake in a moderate oven. When half cooked, brush over with sugar and water syrup to glaze the surface. Brandy Snaps. 4 lb. butter. 4 lb. sugar. 4 lb. syrup. 34 oz. flour. 4 oz. ground ginger. Method : Melt together the butter, sugar and syrup. Put into a basin the flour and ginger, and pour in the melted mixture. Pour on a baking sheet very thinly. Bake, and, when taken from the oven, cut and roll on the handle of a wooden spoon. Jumbles. 10 oz. flour. 6 oz. butter. 8 oz. castor sugar. 1 egg. Method : Bub the butter into the flour, mix in the sugar, add the well-beaten egg very gradually. TheBREAD AND CAKES, ETC. 83 paste must be very stiff. Make into tiny balls of equal size, then form into fancy shapes. Set aside till very cold and hard, then bake in a moderate oven about 10 minutes. Almond Macaroons. J lb. almonds. J lb. castor sugar. 1 large white of egg. Method : Blanch, skin and pound the almonds with a little orange-flower water; or ground almonds may be used with a few drops of almond essence added. Mix in the sugar, and pound the whole to a smooth paste with the white of egg, which should be broken up but not frothed. Boll the paste into balls the size of a nutmeg. Set them on rice paper, slightly flatten, lay on each the half of a blanched almond, and brush over with water just before baking. Bake in a very slow oven about f hour. Cake Delicious. I lb. butter. 6 oz. sifted castor sugar. \ lb. sifted flour. 3 eggs. i-teaspoonful essence of lemon. About ^ teacupful milk. A teaspoonful baking powder. Method : Beat the butter, and sugar to a cream, add the beaten eggs and flour alternately, beating well be- tween each addition. Put in the flavouring essence and sufficient milk to make the mixture of right consistency. Lastly add the baking powder, and bake at once in a moderate oven. Time, about H hours.g4 PRACTICAL COOKERY. St. George’s Hall Cake. | lb. flour. 2 oz. lard. 2 oz. butter. 6 oz. sifted sugar. 2 oz. candied peel. £ lb. cleaned currants. 1 teaspoonful grated ginger. \ oz. carraway seeds, if liked. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 3 eggs (separated). About J pint of milk. Method : Rub the shortening into the flour, add the rest of the dry ingredients and mix well. Mix a little milk with the yolks of eggs and stir in, add more milk gradually till the mixture, though stiff, is moist enough to be beaten. Give a quick, vigorous beating, then mix in very lightly the frothed whites. Bake in a moderate oven about 2 hours. German Pound Cake. ^ lb. butter. ^ lb. sifted sugar. 4 eggs. 10 oz. flour. A little milk—about | pint. Grated rind of 1 lemon. 2 oz. chopped candied peel. 3 oz. currants. 3 oz. sultana raisins. 1 small teaspoonful baking powder. Method: Beat the butter and sugar to a cream—till the grain of the sugar can no longer he felt under the spoon. Add beaten egg and sifted flour alternately, then milk as required. If the eggs are large, very little milk will be needed. Mix in the other ingredients, and im- mediately the baking powder has been added give a short, quick beating, then bake at once in a moderate oven. Time, about 2 hours.85 BREAD AND CAKES, ETC. Seed Cake. 3 lb. flour. Pinch of salt. i lb. butter (or butter and lard). A lb. castor sugar. 3 teaspoonful allspice. A little nutmeg. ^ oz. carraway seeds. 2oz. candied lemon peel. 3 eggs. About 3 piut milk. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, Method : Mix the flour and salt, rub in the shortening, add the other dry ingredients except the baking powder. Mix in the beaten eggs and milk, and beat the mixture well with a wooden spoon. Lastly, sprinkle in the baking powder, and bake at once in a very moderate oven. Time, about 1 hour. Note.—If preferred, £ lb. sultana raisins may be sub- stituted for the carraway seeds. Genoa Cake. 1 lb. butter. 1 lb. sugar. 8 large eggs. 14 lb. flour. 1 lb. currants. Method : Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add by degrees the beaten egg and siftecl' flour, then add the other ingredients. Put the mixture into square tins lined with paper, having the mixture not more than 3 inches deep. Sprinkle with almonds cut in strips and with powdered sugar. Bake in a moderate oven. 1 lb. sultanas. ^ lb. mixed peel. Grated rind of 1 lemon. \ lb. blanched almonds.PRACTICAL COOKERY. 86 Simnel Cake. 1 lb. flour. ^ lb. butter. 1 oz. yeast. 3 oz. citron. 3 oz. candied lemon peel. | teaspoonful ground cinnamon. Half a nutmeg. 5 yolks. 4 pint lukewarm milk, lb. currants. | lb. castor sugar. Method : Rub the butter into the flour, add the tested yeast and lukewarm milk. Mix to a dough, and set to rise in a warm place two hours. Clean the currants, chop the candied peel, mix the spices with the sugar and put these dry ingredients to get slightly warm. When the dough has risen, beat in the yolks and add the rest of ingredients. Bake two hours, having the oven first moderately hot, then cooler. Almond Icing for the Top.—£ lb. almonds, £ lb. icing sugar (see p. 88). Method : Put the eggs and sugar into a large basin, and place over a pan of hot (not boiling) water, whisking vigorously for 20 minutes, or until the mixture is light and creamy. Remove from the pan and add the butter, melted and clarified but not hot. Mix in the flour lightly with a wooden spoon; do not stir or beat. Put into 2 shallow tins 6 inches in diameter by 2 deep. Bake £ hour in a moderate oven. Genoese Pastry. 4 small eggs. J lb. sifted sugar. 2 oz. butter. 3 oz. sifted flour.BREAD AND CAKES, ETC. 87 Meringues. Method : To each large white of egg allow 2 oz. sifted castor sugar. The whites must be beaten to a stiff froth, then begin to add the sugar by dipping in the whisk and continuing the beating. The last half of the sugar must be mixed in lightly with a wooden spoon. Shape the meringues with a bag and pipe, or with spoons. Have ready a wet board covered with paper, lay on the merin- gues, sift over with castor sugar to dry the surface, then put into a very cool oven. When firm enough to be handled, press in, or scoop out, the soft centres, and return to the oven to dry perfectly. Very little heat is required. Meringues may be dried quite white or baked a very pale colour, as preferred. Flavouring and colouring may be added if liked. / Eclairs. 2 oz. butter. j ^ lb. sifted flour. Nearly \ pint water. 1 4 small eggs. Method: Put the butter and water into a pan, when boiling, add the flour and stir over heat till the paste does not stick to the sides of the pan. Remove the pan from the fire and add the eggs, one at a time, beating the mixture well between each addition. It is possible that the fourth egg may not be needed, therefore, after the third, put in the egg very gradually so as to bring the paste to the right consistency—smooth, but stiff enough to retain its shape. Use a forcing bag and pipe, lay on slightly floured tins, Bake in a moderate oven 20 to 30 minutes,PRACTICAL COOKERY. 88 Almond Icing. Blanch, dry, chop and pound the almonds; or, if liked, ground ones may be used with the addition of a few drops of almond essence. Take equal weight of almonds and sifted icing sugar, mix well, then moisten to a very stiff paste, using sugar-syrup, or beaten eggs. Either whites, yolks, or whole eggs may be used ; if whites only, they must be slightly beaten up, but not frothed. Work the paste till firm and close. Royal Icing. Pound the icing sugar, and put through a very fine wire sieve. Break up the white of egg slightly, but do not froth it. Mix the white of egg and icing sugar, beating well. A white of average size will generally be sufficient for about 5 oz. best icing sugar, but there is no need to measure or weigh. Beat well for about 20 minutes, adding sugar or white of egg to bring the icing to the right consistency when it will be soft and shining, but stiff enough to retain its shape when a little is dropped from the spoon. If not very well beaten, small, dry grains of sugar will prevent the smooth working of the icing. Add 3 or 4 drops of acetic acid to each | lb. of sugar. The acid helps to dry and harden the icing. A drop of blue may be added if necessary to improve the colour. When not actually in use, cover the basin con- taining royal icing with a clean, damp cloth. Soft Icing. Plain Syrup for Icing.— 9 oz. best loaf sugar. | \ pint water. Method : Put into a brass or enamel pan, let the sugar dissolve over gentle heat, boil fast for 1 minute. RemoveBREAD AND CAKES, ETC. Sg from the tire, skim if necessary. If tested by a saccha- rometer, the syrup should be 22 to 30 degrees. To Mix Soft Icing.—Put sifted icing sugar into a brass'or enamel pan, add a little cold or lukewarm (but never hot) syrup. Heat gradually, beating well; add sugar or syrup as is necessary to bring the icing to the right consistency, when it will be thick enough to coat anything dipped in it, and yet thin enough to run smoothly, leaving no roughnesses on the surface. Never let the icing be made hot, but it must be warm at the time of using. If used too hot it will be brittle and easily chip off; if too cold it will be soft and sticky. Flavour all soft icings and colour if preferred. Im- mediately after icing cakes, put them for a moment near the fire or in a cool oven to set the surface. If allowed to get hot in the oven the icing will be spoiled.go ICES. Lemon Water Ice. Rind of 2 lemons. Juice of 4 lemons. 6 oz. loaf sugar. 2 whites. 1 pint cold water. Method: Take the yellow rind from the lemons as thinly as possible and put into an enamel pan with the sugar and water. Put on the lid and simmer slowly for 7 minutes. Strain and put the syrup to get cold and add the lemon juice. Beat the whites to a very stiff froth, put them into a basin, add the cold syrup very gradually, mixing in as lightly as possible, then freeze at once. Orange Water Ice. b pint juice (about 6 oranges and § lb. white sugar, half a lemon). 1 pint cold water. Method: Dissolve the sugar in the juice and water, stir well and freeze. Raspberry Cream Ice. 4 lb. raspberry jam. Juice of half a lemon. 14 gills of milk. i pint whipped cream. A few drops of carmine. Method : Mix the jam and milk, pass through a tine hair sieve, add a few drops of carmine if required, and9l ICES. strain in the lemon juice. Whip the cream in a bowl, add the raspberry and milk, a little at a time, mixing in lightly and carefully. When the mixture is of uniform colour freeze at once. Yanilla Ice Cream. 1 pint milk. 1 pint double cream. 4 eggs. 4 tablespoonfuls vanilla essence. 10 oz. castor sugar. Method: Heat the milk, and pour it over the well- beaten eggs and sugar. Cook till thick, then strain and cool, stirring occasionally to prevent a skin forming. When quite cold, add the flavouring and the whipped cream, and freeze. Apricot Ice Cream. \ lb. apricot jam. i pint double cream. Juice of half a lemon. 1 pint milk. Method : Pass the jam through a fine wire sieve, mix in the lemon juice and the milk. When quite smooth, add the whipped cream, and freeze the mixture. Ice Pudding. J pint milk. 3 yolks. 2 whites. 1 small tablespoonful sugar. 2 oz. Savoy biscuits. 3 oz. finely chopped candied fruits. 3 dessertspoonfuls noyeau. 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. 4 pint whipped cream. Method : Make a custard of \ pint milk, 3 yolks, 1 white and the sugar, and set it aside to cool. Crush the biscuits, pour over them \ pint of boiling milk; when well92 PRACTICAL COOKERY. soaked add to them the custard, chopped fruit, vanilla, and noyeau. When the mixture is perfectly cold, mix in the whipped cream and the whisked white of 1 egg. Freeze till it becomes the consistency of a stiff batter, then put into a quart ice pudding mould. Grease the joints and hinges of the mould very thoroughly with lard or unsalted butter, so as to prevent any entrance of salt or water. Pack the mould in ice and salt for 2 or 3 hours. To turn out.—Remove the fat from the mould, loosen the lid and immerse for an instant in cold water. Dry the mould with a clean cloth and turn out on a folded d’oyley or paper.93 PRESERVES, ETC. Orange Marmalade. To each 5 oranges (of which 4 should be bitter oranges and 1 sweet) allow 1 lemon, 5 pints of water and 5 lb. sugar. Cut the fruit into quarters and remove the pips, putting them to soak in a little of the water. Slice the fruit, both rind and pulp together, very thinly, and soak it for 24 hours in the rest of the water. Strain the pips and add the water from them to the rind. Boil the whole briskly about 14 hours, or till the rind is tender, then add the sugar, and boil for another \ hour. Lemon Marmalade. Boil the lemons till very tender, changing the water three times. Keep the third water till required. When the lemons are cold peel them, scrape all the white pith from inside the rind, and cut the yellow rind into chips. Remove pips and pith from the fruit, adding the juicy pulp to the rinds. Weigh, and allow 2 lb. sugar and 1 pint of the reserved lemon water to each pound. Make a syrup of the sugar and water; when boiling, add the fruit, and boil about \ hour.94 PRACTICAL COOKERY. Mincemeat. 1 lb. beef suet. 1£ lb. currants. ^ lb. moist sugar. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful grated ginger. 1 teaspoonful ground cloves. 1 teaspoonful ground allspice. 1 nutmeg, grated. J pint brandy. £ pint sherry. 1 lb. Valentia raisins, f lb. mixed candied peel. G large apples. £ lb. almonds. Bind of 1 lemon. Juice of 2 lemons. Method : Chop the suet and apples very finely, chop the candied peal and almonds. Stone the raisins and chop them roughly, grate the lemon rind and mix all the dry ingredients. Strain in the lemon juice, and add the brandy and sherry. Press into jars, cover the surface with white paper soaked in brandy, and cover the jars, tying down tightly. Stick cinnamon. Method : Peel the melon, and remove the inner soft part. Divide the firmer parts into pieces from | inch to 1 inch square. Stick 1 clove and a morsel of cinnamon in each piece, and place all in a deep bowl. Boil the vinegar and sugar together, and while boiling pour over the melon, let it stand 24 hours, then repeat the process three times—that is, on three successive days. At the last boiling, drop the pieces of melon into the syrup and boil them 5 minutes. Bottle, and keep a short time before using. Melon Pickle. 1 medium-sized melon. Cloves. 1 pint vinegar. 1 lb. sugar.preserves, etc. 95 Bengal Chutney. 1 pint vinegar, li lb. moist sugar. 4 lb. cooking apples, weighed after paring. 1 lb. stoned raisins. 1 lb. sultanas. J lb. salt. 2 oz. powdered ginger. \ teaspoonful cayenne. 1 oz. garlic. Method : Put the vinegar and sugar into a pan, bring to the boil and skim well, then add the other ingredients. The stoned raisins should be cut up roughly, the sultanas left whole, each clove of garlic cut into 4 or 5 pieces, and the apples sliced. Boil gently till thoroughly blended and till the apples and garlic are quite tender.INVALID COOKERY. Beef Tea. £ lb. lean, juicy beef. | £ pint cold water. Method : Shred the beef finely across the grain, put it into a cup, pour the water over. Allow it to stand to draw out the juice, stirring it occasionally. Cover the cup with ungreased paper, and put into a saucepan con- taining cold water to come half-way up the cup. Heat very slowly, then simmer half an hour. In cases of fever no salt should be added. Before serving, every trace of grease must be removed from the surface. Raw Beef Tea. £ lb. lean beef. | J pint water. Method : Shred the beef finely, place in a small jar or cup with the cold water. Cover, and allow it to stand 1 or 2 hours. Strain off the liquid and use soon, as it will not keep. Serve in a coloured glass. Chicken Broth. After cleaning the chicken, remove the skin and every bit of fat both outside and inside. Cut up the flesh into neat pieces, scald and skin the feet, put all into a paninvalid cookery. Q7 with II pints of cold water and stew gently for 2 hours. Strain the broth and let it go cold. Take off every trace of fat and reheat, flavouring with salt and pepper as required, If liked, a tablespoonful of barley or rice may be added, and the soup flavoured with a little celery. Chicken Extract. Skin a small chicken, or half a large one. Remove the bones, chop the meat finely and put both meat and bones with a morsel of butter into a bottle. Cork the bottle, and wire down the cork. Place in a pan of cold water, bring to the boil, and boil 10 or 12 hours till the bones are reduced to a pulp. Pound the whole with seasonings, then rub through a fine wire sieve to keep back any splinters of bone. Use cold as a savoury jelly, or hot as a strengthening soup. Mutton Broth. 1 lb. lean mutton. I 1 dessertspoonful rice flour. 1 pint cold water. I Salt and pepper. Method : Cut the mutton into very small pieces, and steep it in the water 1£ hours or longer, stirring it once or twice. Heat very slowly, and simmer 10 minutes. Take out the pieces of meat, thicken with the rice flour moistened with cold water, cook 5 minutes, but do not actually boil the broth. Season just before serving. Remove all fat from the surface, unless the fat is specially ordered to be given to the patient. 798 PRACTICAL COOKERY. Invalid Mock Turtle Soup. 1 calf’s foot. 1 quart water; 2 oz, lean ham* Half a small carrot. A piece of turnip. A very small piece of onion. A sprig of thyme and parsley. 1 clove. 1 dessertspoonful arrowroot. Salt and pepper. \ glass of sherry. A few drops of browning. Method : Clean the foot, blanch it by putting in a pan of cold water and bringing it to the boil, then put into a basin of cold water and scrape carefully. Divide the foot, put into a saucepan with the cold water and the ham, skim well, and when the water boils add the vegetables, herbs and clove. Simmer for 4 hours, then strain the stock and lay the foot on a dish. When the stock is quite cold remove all fat from the surface, reheat and thicken with the arrowroot moistened with cold water. Boil 3 minutes, season with salt and pepper, and lay in the meat that has been removed from the foot and cut into small pieces. When the pieces of meat are hot through, add the sherry, and a few drops of browning if liked. Cream of Barley. \ lb. lean veal. 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls cream. 1 pint cold water. Salt and pepper. J- oz. pearl barley. Method : Wash the barley and soak it for 1 hour, or it may be put into cold water and brought to boiling point, then strained. Cut the veal into very small pieces, put into a pan with the water and barley, and simmer gently for 3 hours, or till the meat will pass easily through a wire sieve. Bub both meat and barley through the sieve, reheat, season carefully with salt99 INVALID COOKERY. and pepper, and add the cream just before serving. When it is desirable to make the soup in as short a time as possible, follow the method recommended for Rice Cream Soup, Method 2. Rice Cream Soup. 3 oz. fillet of veal. A very small piece of onion. 1 oz. rice. Salt and pepper. 1 pint milk. Method 1 : Cut the meat into small pieces, wash the rice, and put both into an enamel pan with the milk and onion. Simmer for 3 hours, then pass through a wire sieve and reheat, taking care not to boil the soup. It should be the consistency of thick cream. Method 2 : Shred the raw meat finely, and rub through a sieve, then cook with the other ingredients for 11- hours. Pass again through the sieve and reheat. This method requires shorter time for cooking than the first method. Baked or Boiled Flour. Fill a cup or small basin quite full of flour, pressing it tightly down. Bake in a moderate oven 4 or 5 hours, or tie a clean cloth tightly over, and boil for the same length of time. Take the flour from the cup or basin, scrape off the discoloured outside part, and grate down finely the remainder. Use in the place of arrowroot or cornflour. Flour is more nourishing than arrowroot or cornflour, and prepared in this way will be found equally digestible. Useful in cases of dysentery.100 PRACTICAL COOKERY. Chicken Panada. Breast of 1 chicken. i Cream, Salt. Method : Cut the chicken breast in pieces, removing the skin. Put into a jar, sprinkle with salt, just cover with cold water, and fasten an ungreased paper over the jar. Place in a pan with boiling water to come half-way up. Cover the pan and let the water boil very slowly for 2 hours. Pound the chicken, and rub through a fine wire sieve with a wooden spoon, using the liquid to make the pulp pass through more easily. At the time of serving, warm up the pulp and add a little cream. Minced Chop. 1 mutton chop. i teaspoonful ketchup. 2 taklespoonfuls water. Salt and pepper. J oz. bread crumbs. Method : Shred the meat, put it into a pan with the water, bread crumbs, ketchup, salt and pepper. Simmer for 10 minutes, stirring well. Serve on toast. Raw Beef Sandwiches. 1 oz. lean beef. | Slices of bread and butter. Method : Shred the beef finely, pound it, and rub through a wire sieve. Remove the crust from the slices of bread and butter. Spread one slice with the prepared beef, sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover with another slice, press lightly together and cut into neat shapes.INVALID COOKERY. IOI Stewed Sweetbread. 1 calf’s sweetbread. Milk or water. 2 peppercorns. 1 bay leaf. Salt. Slice of toast. Method : Soak the sweetbread 2 hours in salted water to whiten it and draw out the blood. Lay it in a pan with cold water to cover, bring gently to the boil, then trim away all fat and gristle. Lay the sweetbread in a small pan, cover with milk or water, or with a mixture of the two, and add the seasonings. Simmer slowly till tender—about ^ hour. Serve on a slice of toast, or, if sauce be allowed, the liquid may be slightly thickened with boiled or baked flour (p. 99) seasoned carefully and poured over the sweetbread. Invalid Custard. 1 egg. \ pint milk. 1 teaspoonful castor sugar. Butter. Method : Beat the egg and sugar, add the milk and mix well. Strain into a buttered cup, cover with an ungreased paper, and place in a saucepan containing 1 inch depth of boiling water. Put the lid on the pan and set it by the side of the fire, but do not let the water boil again. When the custard is firm in the centre remove it from the pan at once, let it stand for 2 minutes, then turn out of the cup. Time, about \ hour. This custard may be gently cooked in the oven if preferred,102 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 2 teaspoonfuls arrowroot. ^ pint milk. Cup of Arrowroot. 1 teaspoonful sugar. Method : Moisten the arrowroot with a little of the milk, put the remainder of the milk on to boil; when boiling, pour it over the arrowroot, stirring quickly all the time. Put it back into the saucepan and boil 3 minutes, then add the sugar. Arrowroot Pudding. ^ pint arrowroot (see above). \ 1 egg. Method : Make \ pint cup of arrowroot. While still hot, but not boiling, stir in the beaten yolk of egg. Whip the white to a very stiff froth, and mix it lightly in. Pour into a greased pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes. Beef-tea Custard. J pint beef tea. 1 white. 2 yolks of eggs. Salt and pepper. Method : Mix the ingredients well together and strain into a buttered cup. Cover with ungreased paper and steam very gently till set—about ^ hour. Serve hot or cold, or put a few pieces into a cup of broth. The water in the pan should not bubble after the custard is put to steam. Invalid’s Rice Pudding. 2 oz. rice. 1 oz. sugar. 1 pint milk. A little grated nutmeg. 1 oz. butter. Method : Wash the rice, add it to the milk, cover theINVALID COOKERY. 103 pan and simmer, stirring occasionally, till the rice is quite soft and the mixture thick. Add the other ingredients, put into a buttered dish and bake in a moderate oven about 15 minutes, or until the top is nicely browned. Milk and Gelatine. ^ oz. gelatine. A oz. sugar. A pint milk. A little vanilla essence. Method : Soak the gelatine in the milk, when soft stir over gentle heat and bring to boiling point, add the sugar and vanilla flavouring, and strain into a wet mould. When cold, turn out. Solid Tea. A pint milk. 1 teaspoonful sugar, if liked. J oz. isinglass. ! 2 teaspoonfuls tea. Method : Soak the isinglass in the milk and bring to the boil. Add the sugar if liked. Pour the mixture over the tea, stir, then cover for 4 minutes. Stir again, and strain into a wet mould. When cold, turn out. Port Wine Lozenges. £ pint port. J oz. isinglass. A inch stick cinnamon. 2 cloves. Rind of half a lemon. 3 oz. white sugar. Method : Soak the isinglass in the wine till soft, add the other ingredients and simmer till the isinglass is dissolved—about 5 minutes. Strain through muslin on to a wet plate, and when cold cut into lozenges,104 PRACTICAL COOKERY. Irish Moss Jelly. i oz. Irish moss. Strip of lemon rind. 1 pint milk or water. 1 oz. sugar. Method : Soak the moss in cold water and wash it well. Put it into a saucepan with the lemon rind and milk or water, simmer very gently for | hour, add the sugar, and strain into a wet mould. When cold, turn out. Orange Jelly. 3 oranges and 1 lemon. I £ oz. gelatine. ^ pint water. j J lb. sugar. Method : Peel the rinds very thinly, taking off only the coloured part, let them simmer gently in the water 5 minutes. Squeeze the juice over the gelatine and let it soak. Strain the water from the rinds to the gelatine, add the sugar and boil 5 minutes. Strain and pour into a mould. Egg Jelly (1). Kind of 1 lemon. 2 eggs. ^ oz. isinglass. | pint water. ■| lb. sugar. Juice of •] lemon. ^ pint sherry. 1 tablespoonful brandy. Method : Grate the lemon rind and separate the whites from the yolks. Soak the isinglass in the water, add the sugar, bring to the boil; when cooled, add the yolks and strain into a large basin. Add all the other ingredients except the whites, and stir occasionally till nearly set, then add the whites in a stiff froth and whisk all together till jellied. Serve in a rough pile on a glass dish.INVALID COOKERY. 105 Egg Jelly (2). i oz. gelatine. I Juice of 1 lemon. 4 pint water. 3 yolks. Rind of ^ lemon. I Sugar to taste. Method : Put the gelatine, water, lemon rind and juice into a pan and soak till the gelatine is soft, then bring to boiling point, stirring all the time. Cool slightly, add the well-beaten yoiks, and cook till the yolks thicken. Strain, and, when nearly cold, pour into moulds. Porter § oz. isinglass. 1 pint cold water. 4 oz. sugar. 4 pint porter. Jelly. Rind and juice of 1 lemon. The white and washed shell of 1 egg- Method : Place all the ingredients in a pan, and steep till the isinglass is soft. Set over the fire and whisk till boiling, then boil 3 minutes without stirring. Cover, and stand in a warm place 5 minutes, then pour through a hot jelly bag, and when cool, but still liquid, mould. Meat Jelly. 1 lb. lean beef. 1 chicken. 1 lb. lean veal. Salt. Method: Remove all skin and fat, and cut up both meat and chicken into very small pieces. Put into a stew-jar, with a sprinkling of salt, and cover closely, having no water with the meat. Set in a pan of boiling water and cook for 7 hours. Strain through a fine sieve, and when cold remove the fat. Serve this jelly a very little at a time,io6 PRACTICAL COOKERY. Meat Lozenges. 1^ lb. lean, juicy steak. A piece of butter the size of a | oz. gelatine. Salt. nutmeg. Method : Remove all skin and fat, and cut the meat into small pieces. Put the meat into a pan, add the salt and butter, cover the pan and set by the fire to draw out the juices, taking care there is no appearance of frying. Every 10 minutes drain off the juice that comes from the meat. When all the juice is extracted measure it, and allow £ oz. gelatine to \ pint of liquid. Let the two soak together till the gelatine is quite soft (about 1 hour), then heat gradually, stirring all the time, till the gelatine is perfectly dissolved. Be careful not to boil the juice. Strain on to a wet plate, and, when set, cut into lozenges. Method 1 : Toast a slice of bread evenly to a nice brown, avoiding the least appearance of dark colour. Put into a jug, pour 1 pint boiling water over, cover closely till cold, then strain and use. Method 2 : Pour cold water over the toast, cover the jug, and, when the water is coloured like sherry, strain. Toast water made in this way will be found clearer than that made by the first method. Method : Wash the rice well in cold water and strain off. Boil with 1 pint water for 1 hour. Strain and flavour Toast Water. Rice Water. 1 oz. Carolina rice. 1 pint water. Flavouring.INVALID COOKERY. 107 with lemon rind, or any spice liked. Useful in cases of dysentery and diarrhoea. Barley Water. 1^ oz. barley. j Strip of lemon rind. 1 pint water. ! Juice of half a lemon. Method : Wash the barley, put it in a saucepan with the water and lemon rind. Boil slowly half an hour. Strain, and add the lemon juice. Sweeten to taste. Linseed Tea. h oz. linseed. | £ oz. sugar-candy. 1 pint water. j Small piece of liquorice. Method : Wash the linseed, put into a saucepan with the cold water, and simmer ^ hour, adding the liquorice and sugar-candy. Strain before using. Lemonade. 1 lemon. | 1 pint boiling water. 1 oz. white sugar. Method : Rub the lemon with a clean cloth to remove the dust, peel off the yellow part of the rind as thinly as possible. Put the pieces of rind in a jug with the sugar, strain the juice into the jug, and pour in the boiling water. Cover and set aside till cold, then remove the rind.ioS PRACTICAL COOKERY. Milk Lemonade. Rind of half a lemon. Juice of 1 lemon. 5 pint of milk. 1 pint boiling water. 2 oz. sugar. Method : Pare off the rind very thinly. Squeeze the juice into'a jug and add the cold milk. Into another jug put the lemon rind and sugar, and pour in the boiling water. Pour the contents of one jug into the other. When cold, strain and use. Wine Whey. I pint milk. | 1 dessertspoonful sherry. Method: Boil the milk, add the sherry and bring again to boiling point. Let the pan stand near the fire for a minute or two, then strain through muslin and serve. Treacle Posset. pint milk. | 2 tablespoonfuls treacle. Method : Boil the milk, add the treacle, boil a minute or two, then draw the pan to the side of the fire and let it stand a few minutes. Strain through muslin and serve very hot. Use for a cold—to induce perspiration. Egg Flip. Break 1 egg into a cup, add 1 tablespoonful of water, milk or sherry, and beat together till quite light and frothed. Strain into a glass and serve. If liked, a little sugar may be beaten with the egg.INVALID COOKERY. IOC) Egg Nog. ;V piut new milk. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 1 fresh egg. 1 dessertspoonful brand}’. Method : Scald the milk, without boiling it, and set aside till cold. Beat the egg and sugar together till light and frothy, add the brandy and strain into a tumbler. Fill up the tumbler with the cold, scalded milk. Oatmeal Gruel. 1 tablespoonful oatmeal. I Sugar, salt, ) taste 1 pint water. ! Flavouring f Method : Put the water in a saucepan. When boiling add the oatmeal, previously moistened with a little cold water. Boil 10 minutes. Strain the gruel, and flavour as preferred. This gruel may also be made with milk. Caudle. | pint thick gruel. Sugar and nutmeg. Grated lemon rind. 1 glass sherry. 1 egg- Method : Add the flavourings and sherry to the hot gruel, and, when slightly cooled, stir in the well-beaten egg- Nutritious Coffee. i oz. coffee. | l pint milk. Method : Let the coffee be freshly ground. Put the milk into a pan, when nearly boiling add the coffee and boil 3 minutes. Clear it by pouring some into a cup,iio PRACTICAL COOKERY. then back again 3 or 4 times. Let it stand for a few minutes to settle, then pour off carefully. The coffee may be made still more nutritious by the addition of a well- beaten egg. Add sugar to taste. Peptonised Beef Tea. Mix lb. finely-minced lean beef with 1 pint water and 20 grains of bicarbonate of soda, and simmer for 1| hours. When it has cooled to a temperature of about 140° Fah. add 1 tablespoonful of pancreatic solution, cover and put the mixture in a warm place for 2 hours, stirring it occasionally. Strain off without pressure, and boil the liquid 3 minutes. Peptonised Gruel. To b pint thick, well-cooked, boiling gruel add pint new milk, thus reducing the temperature to about 140° Fah. Add 2 teaspoonfuls of pancreatic solution and 20 grains bicarbonate of soda, mix well, cover and set in a warm place for about 2 hours. Then boil for 3 minutes, and strain. Peptonised Milk. Dilute 1 pint of milk with pint of water, and divide the mixture into two portions. Heat one part to boiling point, then mix it with the cold liquid, getting a tem- perature of about 140° Fah. Add to this 1 teaspoonful pancreatic solution and 15 grains bicarbonate of soda. Mix well, and set aside in a covered jug in a warm place from 20 minutes to ^ h°ur- Then boil 3 minutes, and serve like ordinary milk.INDEX. METHODS OP COOKING AND PREPARING FOOD. Baking, 2. Boiling, 2. Braising, 6. Broiling, 3. Frying, 4. „ dry, 4. „ To Egg and Crumb for, 5. „ wet, 4. „ Batter, 5'. Gravy for Roast Meat, 8. Larding, 7. Roasting, 1. Steaming, 5. Stewing, 2. To clarify Fat, 7. To Steam a Pudding, 5. PASTRY. Flaky Crust, 10. Pastry, General Rules for, 9. Puff Pastry, 10. „ ,, Patties, 11. Short Crust, 9. STOCK. Brown Stock, 12. Second „ 12. White „ 12. SOUP. Almond Soup, 15. Consomme, or Clear Soup, 15. Crecy Soup, 13. Imitation Hare Soup, 14. Tomato Soup, 14. White Lentil Soup, 13. FISH. Dressed Cod, 18. Fish Pie, 20. Fish Stock, 18. Fried Sole or Plaice, 18. Haddock Stuffed and Baked, 19. Lobster Cutlets, 21. Potted Lobster, 21. Preparation of Fish, 17. Sole a la Grime Blanche, 20. „ „ Turqzie, 19. To fillet Soles, Plaice, etc., 17. To skin flat Fish, 17. „ „ round „ 17. POULTRY AND MEAT DISHES. Bacon Rolls, 24. Beefsteak Pie, 35. ,, Pudding, 27. Boiled Fowl, 24. ,, „ Sauce for Coating, 25. „ „ Garnish for, 25. Braised Fillet of Veal, 29. Casserole of Cold Meat, 42. Chicken Croquettes, 43. „ Legs d la Regence, 31. [33. „ Saul A aux Champignons, „ „ Fines Herbes, 33. Cotelettes cle Mouton a VA Isace, 30. „ „ „ la Portugaise, 30.112 INDEX. Curried Veal, Fowl or Rabbit, 26. Cutlets of Sweetbreads, 34. Durham Cutlets, 41. Fried Mutton Cutlets, 33. Galantine of Fowl, 38. ,, Stock for Cooking, 39. Haricot of Mutton, 26. Hash or Mince, 40. Kidney Saute, 32. Lapereau Saute, 33. Liver a la Francaise 34. Pork Sausages,. 39. Potted Beef,- M). Quenelles of Yeal, 36. Raised Pie, 36. Rissoles, 41. Roast Fowl, 22. ,, ,, Forcemeat for, 23. ,, ,, Gravy for, 24. Savoury Rolled Steak, 28. Stewed Steak, 25. Stewed Sweetbreads, 28. To Bone a Fowl, 37. To Draw a Fowl, 22. Yeal and Ham Pie, 35. Veal Cake, 37. VEGETABLES. Boiled Fruit Pudding, 50. Cabinet Pudding, 57. Custard a l’Espagnole, 56. Fruit Tart, 50. German Tart, 55. Lemon Tart, 55. Lobster Souffle, 60. Metropole Pudding, 53. Omelet, 60. Parmesan Souffle, 59. Rich Christmas Pudding, 54. Savoury Omelet Souffle, 61. Semolina Pudding, 51. Souffles, Preparation of Tins for, 57. Suet Pudding, 49. Sultan’s Pudding, 56. Superior Treacle Pudding, 52. Sweet Omelet Souffle, 61. Swiss Apple Pudding, 51. Tapioca Cream, 54. To Bake a Souffle, 58. To Steam a Souffle, 58. To Turn out a Souffle, 58. Vanilla Souffle, 58. Viennoise Pudding, 53. Welsh Cheese Cakes, 50. Yorkshire Pudding, 49. Asparagus, 47. Beetroot, 45. Cabbage, Boiled, 47. Carrots, Boiled, 44. Cauliflower, Boiled, 47. Celery, Stewed, 45. French Beans, 46. Green Peas, 46. Jerusalem Artichokes, 45. Potato Croquettes, 48. Potatoes Boiled without Skins 44. ,, ,, in the Skins, 44. Sea-kale, 45. Spinach, 46. Vegetable Marrow, 48. PUDDINGS, SOUFFLES, ETC. Apricot Souffle, 59. Bishop’s Pudding, 52. CREAMS, JELLIES, ETC. Apricot Cream, 64. Aspic Jelly, 66. Calf’s-foot Jelly, 64. Claret Jelly, 66. Ginger Cream, 63. Lemon Jelly, 65. ; Moulding Jelly, 67. Raspberry Cream, 63. Vanilla ,, 64. SAUCES FOR FISH, MEAT, ETC. Bread Sauce, 70. Brown „ 69. Caper ,, 68. Hollandaise Sauce, 72. Horseradish ,, 70.INDEX. i Maitre d’Hotel Butter, 70. Mayonnaise Sauce, 71. Melted Butter, 69. Onion Sauce, 69. Parsley „ 68. Tomato „ 71. White Chaudfroid Sauce, 72. White Sauce, 68. SWEET SAUCES. Custard, 73. Jam Sauce, 73. Vanilla Sauce, 71. White Sauce for Puddings, 73. SAVOURIES. Anchovy Eggs, 76. Bacon and Tomatoes, 75. Buttered Eggs, 76. Canapes Fumis, 77. Croustades dc Merluche Fume, 76. Macaroni Cheese, 75. Savoury Eggs, 76. Tomates aux Champignons, 77. BREAD, CAKES, ETC. Almond Icing, 88. Almond Macaroons, 82. Brandy Snaps, 82. Bread, 78. Cake Delicious, 83. Dinner Rolls, 79. Eclairs, 87. Finger Scones, 80. Genoa Cake, 85. Genoese Pastry, 86. German Pound Cake, 84. Ginger Snaps, 82. Jumbles, 82. London Buns, 81. Meringues, 87. Pikelets, 81. Rock Cakes, 81. Royal Icing, 88. St. George’s Hall Cake, 84. Sally Lunns, 80. 8 Seed Cake, 85. Simnel „ 86. Soft Icing, 88. Tea Cakes, 79. ICES. Apricot Ice Cream, 91. Ice Pudding, 91. Lemon Water Ice, 90. Orange „ „ 90. Raspberry Cream Ice, 90. Vanilla Ice Cream, 91. PRESERVES, ETC. Bengal Chutney, 95. Lemon Marmalade, 93. Melon Pickle, 94. Mincemeat, 94. Orange Marmalade, 93. INVALID COOKERY. Arrowroot Pudding, 102. Baked or Boiled Flour, 99. Barley Water, 107. Beef-tea, 96. ,, Custard, 102. ,, Raw, 96. Caudle, 109. Chicken Broth, 96. ,, Extract, 97. ,, Panada, 100. Cream of Barley, 98. Cup of Arrowroot, 102. Egg Flip, 108. „ Jelly, No. 1, 104. „ „ No. 2, 105. „ Nog, 109. Invalid Custard, 101. ,, Mock Turtle Soup, 98. Invalid’s Rice Pudding, 102. Irish Moss Jelly, 104. Lemonade, 107. Linseed Tea, 107. Meat Jelly, 105. „ Lozenges, 106. Milk and Gelatine, 103.INDEX. 114 Milk Lemonade, 108. Minced Chop, 100. Mutton Broth, 97. Nutritious Coffee, 109. Oatmeal Gruel, 109. Orange Jelly, 104. Peptonised Beef-tea, 110. „ Gruel, 110. „ Milk, 110. •„ Port Wine Lozengesj 103. /T Porter Jelly, 105. Raw Beef Sandwiches, 100. Rice Cream Soup, 99. Rice Water, 106. Solid Tea, 103, Stewed Sweetbread, 101. Toast Water, 106. Treacle Posset, 108. Wine Whey, 108.♦RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: I b”7 *2- Microfilm No: Date Particulars IS 1 II M U Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarks * %AU*W X '■*—rf»* ! W. mrvQi^i 1