LONDON S HORACE COX, 4 QUEEN f OFFICE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, E.CJ. THE^> SERIES SO u PS Price One Shilling,22101424231 dmamsKsmm tTTTI ■ X —Mli gTHE QUEEN” COOKERY BOOKS.LONDON: HUNTED BY HORACE 00X, WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS. K.C. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. <tL.THE “QUEEN” COOKERY BOOHS. NO. 1. SOUPS. COLLECTED AND DESCRIBED BY S. BEATY-POWNALL, Departmental Editor “ Housewife and Cuisine,” Queen Newspaper; ana Autlior of “ A Book of Sauces.” LONDON: HORACE COX, ‘‘QUEEN” OFFICE, WINDSOR HOUSE BREAM’S BUILDINGS, E.C. 189U.A dvertisements. BELLISS WORLD=FAMED REAL TURTLE SOUP. Guaranteed to be the product of the Finest Imported Live Turtle. ZDIZDsnSTEIR, PARTIES. A delicious and economical Soup, sufficient for Twelve Persons, can be made from Two Pints of Beilis’s Turtle Soup added to a Quart of good, clear stock. Obtainable at all Stores, Grocers, or direc from JEFFREY’S SQUARE, LONDON, E.C.! PREFACE. Little, if any, originality is claimed for the following recipes, most of which have appeared in the Cookery columns of the Queen during the last eight or nine years, from whence they have heen collected at the request of many readers of the Queen, to save reference to back numbers uot always within reach. Additional recipes have, how- ever, been given, to bring this little work as much up to date as possible; but all these, like the previous ones, have been carefully tested, and are all (as I know from practical experience) well within the capacity of any ordinary “ good plain cook,” gifted with fair intelligence and a little goodwill. I desire also to take this opportunity of acknow- ledging my indebtedness to the various authors of standard foreign cookery books, and also to offer my grateful thanks to Mrs. A. B. Marshall, and several other well-known chefs, whose kindness has so materially helped and rendered possible my wmrk in these last years. S. Beaty-Pownall. July, 1899.Advertisements. SPRINGS •. DELIGHTS & 7s [ttfttw LINCOLNSHIRE FARM PRODUCE. Old England’s Boast Beef, praised in story, Yields an appetising steam; Yet it needs, as crowning glory, “ Spring’s Delight ’’ HORSERADISH CREAM. Served at Her Majesty’s Table. In Jars, 6d., 1/-, and Royal Size, 3/-. g§ CHEESECAKE CURDS. In Jars, 1/- and 2/-. ORANGE BUTTER. In Jars, 6£d. and 1/-. FREE SAMPLES on applica- tion, by naming your grocer, or a jar of each Delight mailed free on receipt of P.O. 3/-. mm 5ole,/takers y Proprietors: SPRING &\S.] (gRIOO: LINCOLNSHIRECOKTESTTS. CHAPTER I. PAGE Stocks and Consommes ... ... ... ... ... 1 CHAPTER II. Consommes—(continued) ... ... ... ... 17 CHAPTER III. Purees ... ... ... ... ••• ••• ••• 31 CHAPTER IV. Pnrees—(continued) ... ... ... ••• 43 CHAPTER V. Broths and Thickened Sonps ... ... ... • • • 61 CHAPTER VI. Broths and Thickened Soups—(continued) 35 CHAPTER VII. Foreign Soup^, Ac. ... ■ ••• ••• ••• 403 CHAPTER VIII. Odds and Ends ... ... ... ••• ••• ••• 421Advertisements. Mustard Manufacturers by Special Warrant to H,M. the Queen. d. s. F. MUSTARD. See that Colman’s name is on the Tin. CORN FLOUR. For Blanc Manges, Custards, &c. Self-Rising1 Flour. :\)a For Bread, Pastry, Cakes, Puddings, Scones, &c. 108, CANNON STREET, LONDON, and CARROW WORKS, NORWICH.SOUPS. — ■ CHAPTBK I. STOCKS AND CONSOMMES. Since the increase in culinary taste of late years, a growing dissatisfaction with the methods and per- formances of the “ good plain cook ” has arisen in the land. Unfortunately, it cannot be denied that that estimable female is somewhat wanting in gas- tronomic lore, and at times leaves a good deal to be desired in her culinary practice. This deficiency is by no means to be wondered at when one considers the small chances she has of acquiring practical knowledge in this matter. I say “ practical ” advisedly, for of theoretical teaching there is enough and to spare, and its results are only too evident in the present state of affairs, when cookery teachers can be found by the score, competent (?) to teach every branch of kitchen knowledge; while to find a really trustworthy, capable coolc, one’s adventures ■would easily rival those of Diogenes and his lantern ! Under these circumstances, unless ladies themselves B2 SOUPS. are able to point out what they require, and smooth away difficulties, the trouble will tend rather to increase than to diminish. Fashions, like water, run down, not up; and once it becomes a matter of course for ladies to possess, and use, culinary knowledge, cookery will no longer be classed as amongst the menial occupations of womanhood. It is all very well to say, as many do, that our modern tendency is to attach far too much importance to culinary matters, but the fact remains that on these matters depend the major part of our national health and strength. Most certainly the cure for our national disgrace—drunkenness—will have to come from the kitchen. Under these circumstances, I offer no further excuse for the following informa- tion, which may, in a small way, perhaps, help young housekeepers on the road to housewifely perfection. Stock, as the liquor obtained by boiling down various nutritious (though not necessarily animal) substances is called, is of course the foundation of nearly all soups, whatever their kind. This stock may be utilized in several ways—viz., for consommes, purees, thick soups, and broths, all of which vary amongst themselves. Consomme is a clear stock obtained by simmering raw meat, bones, &c., in sufficient water, till all its succulence is extracted, the requisite flavour being obtained by the use of different vegetables added in varying proportions, and carefully considered quan- tities of spices. This stock is then clarified (after freeing it from all trace of fat) with fresh meat, eggSTOCKS AND CONSOMMES. 3 whites and shells, Ac. A very fair clear soup often, though improperly, called consomme, may be obtained from cooked bones, or a mixture of raw and cooked ones. This, if clarified nicely, produces a very palatable soup, answering most of the purposes of consomme, though gourmets would at once detect the difference, from the gelatinous flavour imparted by the use of bones. Purees are produced by pounding, or crushing through a sieve or tammy, the solid material, vege- table or animal, of which it is made. This form of soup is one of the most economical and also about the easiest to make. The one point to consider about this soup is that the solid part is apt to separate from the fluid, and no matter how fine the sieve or tammy used, to become gritty or granular in the process. To counteract this a liaison (as it is technically called), or thickening, consisting of either egg yolks, or some form of starch, mixed with a little milk or cream, is added. Thickened soups consist of clear stock (generally made with bones, Ac.) or second stock (obtained by re-utilising the materials used in making first-class consomme), thickened by the addition of eggs, or some form of starch, such as flour, arrowroot, sago, tapioca, Ac., or of a combination of these. Broth is simply stock freed from grease and served otherwise just as it is cooked, with the vegetables, rice, Ac., used in its composition, left in it. A typical example of this is the so-called Scotch broth. These four divisions represent the various classes b 2SOUPS. 4 of soups, though the soups themselves, or rather their foundations, may be either meat, poultry, fish, or vegetables, and very often a mixture; but the method of making is the same, though the actual ingredients may be varied. Besides these names, however, cooks employ various phrases and words which occasionally serve to puzzle the beginner; for instance, “ first stock,” “ second stock,” together with “ flavoured” and “un- flavoured ” stocks. Now the first stock is simply the liquid obtained by the first boiling of the material (whatever its nature), whereas second stock is obtained by using over again the bones, meat, &c., used in preparing consomme, clear, or gravy soup, together with the fresh meat and vegetables (carefully rinsed) employed in clearing the latter. This second stock is naturally weaker than the first, but forms an admirable basis for purees, thick soups, gravies, sauces, &c. Besides this there is another form of stock derived from the boiling down of all sorts of fragments, such as the bones, cooked and raw, of poultry, game, or butcher’s meat (or for fish soups, the bones and trimmings of fish may be similarly utilised), the giblets, legs, necks, &c., of any poultry or game, the scraps trimmed from joints of meat intended for entrees, the rinds, trimmings, and fag ends of tongues, hams, or bacon, the trimmings and outside strippings of vegetables, with of course the meat and vegetables left over from the clearing of con- somme. In addition to, or instead of the water used for this, the boilings of joints, poultry, &c.5 STOCKS AND CONSOMMES. can be used, and naturally add greatly to tlie flavour of the stock thus obtained. “ Unflavoured ” stock is that obtained from the boiling down of meat and bones without any vegetables, whereas when vegetables are cooked with the meat it is called “ flavoured,” from the additional taste given by the vegetables used. The advantage of the unflavoured stock is that it keeps well, and is most suited for sickroom use, where the vege- table flavouring might be objected to ; while the flavoured kind must be looked to and boiled up almost daily, as the vegetables in it increase its tendency to sour. When preparing stock, more especially for con- sommes and clear soups, there are a few points that must be carefully borne in mind. One is that for high class consomme the meat should be care- fully proportioned, allowing one part of veal to two parts of beef; the beef gives the substance, but undoubtedly the veal gives the requisite delicacy of flavour. French cooks for le grand bouillon, as they call this first stock, always add a little poultry meat, such as the carcase of an old hen, or other old fowl. It must be borne in mind that the meat used for making this stock is almost invariably used afterwards as a dinner dish, and is in consequence not allowed to boil to rags, as is only too often the case in English cookery. For this first stock take two pounds of beef from the shoulder or hough, free from fat and bone; if you intend to use this beef later on, be careful to tie it neatly into shape with a broad tape, otherwise cut it into medium-SOUPS. 6 sized pieces, like the veal, a pound of which may be either taken from the knuckle, or any equivalent amount of trimmings left over (raw) from any entree, &c.; add to this the carcase of a fowl, from which the fillets, &c. have been removed, together with the giblets, legs, neck, &c., well scalded. Place this meat into a pan large enough to hold it comfortably, together with three quarts of cold water and about a small dessertspoonful of salt (be careful about this as it is always easy to add, but impossible to subtract salt), in such a way that the water shall be about 1 in. to 1^ ins. from the top of the pan, as this permits of its boiling up and also being easily skimmed. Now bring this all very slowly to the boil, watching it carefully and removing every bit of scum as it rises; just as it is about to boil up throw in a good tablespoonful of cold water, which checks the boil and causes the scum to rise more freely ; repeat this once or twice each time it seems coming to the boil, till no more scum rises This must be most carefully attended to, as the clearness and delicacy of the subsequent consomme depends on it; if any of the scum is allowed to stay in the soup it will give it a most disagreeable greenish tinge, quite spoiling its proper colour which should be exactly like very pale light sherry. Having thus removed all the scum, put in the vegetables, &c., these must be lieedfully propor- tioned to prevent any special flavour preponderating. For the quantities given, allow : one middle- sized carrot, one middle-sized onion, one goodSTOCKS AND CONSOMMES. i leek, one small turnip (all halved), a slice or two of parsnip, if handy, and half a small stick of celery (or, failing this, half a teaspoonful of celery seed, tied up in a piece of muslin), and a bouquet garni, made by tieing together a small bunch of parsley, one or two green onions, a spray of thyme, and one bayleaf. A clove or two may be stuck into one half of the onion, if the flavour is liked. The tidiest way of putting these vegetables into the soup is by placing them all into a small net, which can be lifted out as a whole, for the vegetables should not be left in the soup when thoroughly cooked ; for after this point is reached, they will weaken the soup by absorbing the flavour of the meat, (N.B.—These vegetables should on no account be thrown away, for they will be found far more delicately flavoured than plain boiled ones, and make a delicious macedoine, or can be used for a homely but very palatable form of puree.) Now cover the pan after the stock has come back to the boil (putting in the cold vegetables is sure to put it off the boil for a little), draw it to the side of the stove and let it simmer as gently as may be for four to five hours (remembering about lifting out the vegetables), after which you pour it into a basin through a strainer. Let it stand till next day, or at any rate till perfectly cold, when all the fat must be very thoroughly removed. This fat must be carefully saved, as it is amongst the best materials for frying purposes. In many cases soup thus made is so clear that it will need no clarifying, but should it do so, proceed thus : Pass half a pound of lean beef (a piece from the neck, called theSOUPS. 8 “ sticking- piece,” answers admirably for this pur- pose) two or three times through the mincer, and put this into a delicately-clean pan, with a slice or two each of carrot, turnip, celery, and leek (do not add onion now, as it is apt to make the soup cloudy), a tiny bouquet, and the whites and shells of two or three eggs. The shells should have been washed if at all dirty, and crushed, and the whites lightly beaten till just frothy. Pour on to this the cold stock, and whisk it with a very clean whisk for a few moments, till it is all thoroughly mixed and just on the boil; as soon as you see that the head of froth, which will have formed on the top of the stock, begins to heave slowly, stop whisking, and let it boil gently, undisturbed for five minutes; then draw it to the side of the range, and let it simmer quietly for about an hour; let it stand for a few minutes to settle, then strain it off very carefully through a scalded soup cloth or a very clean old table napkin. The great points in clarifying the stock are to mix the latter very thoroughly with the fresh meat, egg, &c., before the whole becomes so hot as to curdle the albumen of the egg, &c., and then be careful after the rising of the white froth referred to above, to leave the pan quite undisturbed, so as to allow the head of froth (which will form more and more sti*ongly) to boil without being broken up. It may be mentioned that some cooks use white of egg and egg shells only, for clearing, but though these undoubtedly do clear the soup, they equally certainly detract from the flavour ; it is for this reason that the raw meat is added.STOCKS -AND CONSOMMES. 9 The above is in reality a form of the famous French pot an feu, and the stock produced from it is most delicate, but of not more than a pale straw colour. However, at present, pale-coloured consomme is the mode. It may be well at this point to say a word or two respecting the process of straining, which is sometimes a little trouble- some to the novice. If clear soups are much liked in the family it is quite worth while to invest in a proper soup strainer stand (Fig. 1) (which can also be utilised with a proper jelly bag, as a jelly strainer), but a very decent substitute can be made by turning up a chair with its seat on a table, or another chair, the basin for the soup being placed on the seat, and the stock run through the cloth fastened to the legs. The accompanying illustration (Fig. 2) gives the best idea of this home-made stand. Fig: 1.10 SOUPS. A contrivance of this sort has the advantage that the cook can see how the stock is running, and can return it. at once if it does not seem to he running clear. Remember the stock must not be turned carelessly into the napkin, but should be poured slowly and gently in, to avoid breaking the head of froth, &c. on the top. Perhaps, on the whole, the best plan is to use a cup or a ladle, and so lift it out carefully. This process, though apparently somewhat more trouble, is in reality a saving of time and trouble, as, treated thus, the soup will strain clear at once, whereas by the rougher process it may have to be put through the strainer two or three times. The above is the real consomme, the pure infusion of the meat; but a very fair and •Certainly less expensive consomme may be made in precisely the same way, only using beef and veal bones instead of the actual meat. Of course the same remark applies to these as to the meat, viz., all fat must be carefully removed, the marrow taken from the bones, and the bones themselves broken up. If a darker stock is desired, put an ounce or so of well clarified dripping into the pan, before laying in the meat and the vegetables, and when this is hot lay in the bones, vegetables, herbs, &c. ; cover down the pan and let it all fry together till the contents are nicely browned at the bottom of the pan, then put in the water and finish off as before. If a teaspoonful of brown sugar be fried with the rest of the ingredients, it enhances the colour and the flavour to all, save the more delicate palate of the gourmet.11 STOCKS AND CONSOMMES A similar stock can be made with cooked bones, the carcases and giblets, Ac., of poultry and game, to which the well-scraped rind of a few slices of bacon may be added, and this, if clarified, is by no means to be despised as a homely form of clear soup, though of course it lacks the delicacy of the true consomme. For this homelier form of clear soup you will require 61b. to 81b. of beef and veal bones for three quarts of water. Of the used bones take a somewhat larger proportion for the same quantity of liquid. After making either of the consommes described above, some very decent second stock can be made by putting into a pan the bones already used, together with the meat used in clarifying it (see that this has been well rinsed from any egg shell, Ac.), together with some fresh vegetables, herbs, Ac., and repeating the above process. It is worth the thrifty housewife’s while to remember that mutton bones, especially the shank bones, Ac., will make a very fair and colourless stock, which may serve as a basis for white stock, as it has but little flavour of its own, and readily assimilates that of the poultry or game used to flavour it, or “ perfume” it, as the French chefs say. Of course, for the best white stock equal quantities of veal and chicken, or rabbit bones or carcases, should be used, say 31b. or 41b. of each, toge her with the vegetables, the whole naturally not being previously fried. Game soup would be made in the same manner, the meat used in clarify- ing being raw chicken or rabbit and raw gameSOUPS. 12 respectively. An economical form of either may be made by taking 31b. or 41b. of poultry or game bones, either roast or raw, and breaking these up; proceed precisely as before, but instead of using water use second stock, either of veal or mutton if white stock is desired, or of beef and veal if brown game soup is wanted. In the latter case the bones, vegetables, &c., should be lightly fried first to deepen the colour, which for game should of course be a rich, dark brown. For this latter soup mush- rooms are a great addition to the flavour. This will explain the various methods of making meat stock. Fish stoclc is made practically in the same way. For every quart of water allow a full pound of fish and fish trimmings, such as the heads, tails, bones, &e., of any firm-fleshed white fish, such as cod, haddock, halibut, &c. ; to these may be added the shells, &c., of lobsters, the heads and tails of shrimps, prawns, &c., together with a carrot and one or two onions sliced, a dessert spoonful of lemon juice (thU must, of course, vary to taste), and a good bouquet. For this take a bunch of parsley, and on this lay a strip of the yellow peel of a lemon, two cloves, a bay leaf, a spray of thyme, two or three young spring onions, and, if liked, a small blade of mace. Turn the parsley down over this, and tie it up firmly with a little cotton. Put a few pepper- corns to the rest, then cover it with water, just as for any other consomme ; bring it all just to the boil, skim well till no more scum rises, then draw it to the side of the stove, and let it all simmerSTOCKS AND CONSOMMES. 13 together steadily for one to one and a half hours. This stock must be allowed to cool, be freed from fat, and finally be clarified with egg whites and shells and raw fish, precisely like meat stock. This gives a clear and colourless stock. If you wish for a brown fish stock, you must fry the bones, herbs, vegetables, Ac., in a little oil or butter for twelve to fifteen minutes, being careful to dry the fish trim- mings well before putting them in to fry. The original stock, unclarified, forms an excellent basis for all fish soups, or bisques, as the purees of shell- fish are called. Only firm-fleshed white fish can be used as a basis for fish stock ; such fish as salmon, mackerel, herring, Ac., would make it unusably rich and oily. For vegetable stock allow a full pound of mixed vegetables to the quart of liquid; take carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, and celery, putting into the pan 6oz. of carrots to 4oz. of turnips, 2|oz. each of leeks and onions, and loz. of celery; mince down all the vegetables, and fry the onions and leeks in a little butter till slightly coloured, then lay in the rest of the vegetables, a dust of sugar, a pinch of salt, and a little pepper ; fry these all for a few minutes, then moisten them all with two or three spoonfuls of water, cover down the pan, and let it all come to a glaze; this makes the stock clearer. Now pour on to it the requisite quantity of water, bring to the boil, skim well, then draw the pan to the side of the range, and throw in a handful each of mushrooms and dried peas, and let it all simmer steadily, till the vegetables are perfectly cooked, butSOUPS. 14 have not become a mash, and then strain off. This stock may be clarified just like the others. Another form of vegetable stock is made thus: Take lOoz. of dried peas, 3oz. carrots, 2|oz. onions, ^oz. celery or celery seed, and a nice bunch of herbs for each quart of water ; season to taste, and fry or not, according to the colour you wish your soup to be, and finish off precisely as before. This is not as delicate as the first one, which makes a really first- rate vegetable consomme. The water in which vegetables ha\e been boiled, beans especially, forms an excellent vegetable second stock, always granting that no socla has been allowed to cook with them. Before concluding this chapter on stocks, one may as well make the following observations. In houses where soup is liked, all meat trimmings, bones, carcases, giblets, &c., of poultry and game, strip- pings of vegetables, &c., all liquid in which meat or vegetables have been cooked (or, indeed, fish when fish stock is in question), always premising that no soda has been used in boiling the vegetables, must be carefully saved. All these, properly trimmed and rinsed, come in handy for the stock pot, and economise in the matter of stock meat-—frequently a cause of disagreement between mistress and maid. At the same time the cook must understand that her stock pot, if she have one, or the saucepan which does duty in that capacity, is not a kind of culinary dustbin, into which any waste substances can be promiscuously shot. It is to inattention to this rule that the stock pot has frequently received con- tumely. No fat, no bread or toast, neither cabbageSTOCKS AND CONSOMMES. 15 nor potatoes, cooked or raw, and no odds and ends of sauces can find a last resting-place in the stock pot. They may all be utilised in their proper place, but this place, I respectfully submit to the cook, is emphatically not the stock pot! A stock pot should be treated systematically, and thus treated is a most valuable accessory, requiring after the first, little or no trouble. Put the ingre- dients of which you propose making your stock ready into the pan in the morning, before the real heavy work of the kitchen begins ; bring it to the boil, and then let it simmer at the side of the fire the proper time, after which the whole thing should be euqfiied out of the pot, strained, the liquid being set aside to get cool, and the bones, &c., rinsed in warm water if to be used again, or put away at once if for no further use, the stock pot itself being well washed out and dried and put away, till wanted for the next day’s supply of stock. The next day, after re-filling and re-starting the stock pot, the previous day’s, supply can be freed from fat, clarified if necessary, or boiled up if not wanted for present use. Flavoured stock such as this must be boiled up every day, or it will become sour and spoilt. Re- member not tc put anything more into the pot after the stock has once been started; set any remains, you may have tidily away for next day’s use. It cannot be too strongly impressed on young cooks that attention to detail and the most scrupulous cleanliness are indispensable in soup-making, and indeed in every kind of cookery, if success is to be attained.16 SOUPS. Except in the case of large households, and with such this little book does not profess to deal, it will be found in every way more satisfactory to make only small quantities of stock at a time, as this prevents any risk of souring, which, in hot weather especially, is a frequent cause of waste. The cook should reckon about how much she is likely to want, and so prepare the requisite quantity for each day’s consumption at a time. Lastly, whilst on the subject of consommes and clear soups, housewives will find it convenient to remember the various forms of preserved soups, which in times of storm and stress are of the greatest assistance if skilfully handled. Of these the chief are probably—in bottles, Brand’s, Crosse and Blackwell’s, Lazenby’s, &c.; whilst in solid shape may be mentioned the well-known Maggi Consomme Capsules (together with the same maker’s invaluable little bottle of essence, a few drops from which imparts such marvellous distinction to a previously weak soup), Lazenby’s soup squares, and last, but not least, Marshall’s “ Sildeen,” a new and capital preparation for amateurs and novices in the culinary art, as it requires little, if any, attention save heating.CHAPTER II. CONSOMMES (Continued). Having mastered the preparation of stock, and obtained practice in the art of clarifying it, it is perfectly easy to produce an almost endless variety of consommes, as every fresh garnish introduces a fresh name at all events, and really it is on these same garnishes that the variety of the soup depends. To begin with, consomme can be served plain ; it can have the vegetable used to flavour it, cut up neatly and served in it, when it is generally abroad known as consomme a la bourgeoise, a la fermiere, or a la paysanne, according as the vegetables are cut up in dice, in triangles, or in rounds, &c. It may be served with tarragon, chervil, parsley, fennel, &c. either in tiny sprigs, or finely minced, a combination known abroad as a pluche (probably from the word eplucher—to pick to pieces), and which can appear alone or as a supplement to some other garnish, as in the C. Marie-Louise, &c. Or the long slender leaves of the green tarragon may be used; or the soup will take its name from the peas, asparagus points, or other vegetables used as a garnish, while the pates cVItalie (macaroni in various forms, such as spaghetti, lazagnes, vermicelli, &c.) and eggs c18 SOUPS. treated in different ways are all responsible l‘or different appellations. Besides these there are an almost infinite variety of distinctive titles for con- somme, some of which are classic and belong to all kitchens, whilst others owe their existence to passing fashions, topical allusions, and even political events. In fact many chefs invent names for tiny variations, introduced by themselves, for special occasions, which gain currency for a little time and then die out, or if successful obtain acceptance in kitchen nomencla- ture, in the place of their invention, though their fame may be only local. As an example, take the dinners given lately in honour of various great men, when Potage ii la Nansen, Glace Polaire, Biftelc a la Kitchener, Consomme Soudan, or similar titles, adorned the menus de circonstance, and served to puzzle the guests, who in many cases scarcely recog- nised old friends under their new names. French cooks have at all times been noted for this mania for names, and carried their politics as far into their kitchens as in every other department of life. For instance, a century since, in the days of the great Revolution, sauce maitre d'hotel became sauce d Vhomme de confiance, and cutlets, or something of that kind, d la servante, were re-named d la bonne femme, the former names being held to smack too strongly of a corrupt aristocracy to be fit for the use of devout citizens. Before giving some small list of well known garnitures, it may be well to say a few words respect- ing the preparation of some of the commoner of these. The herbs used in the pluche are either picked intoCONSOMMES. 19 small pieces, or finely minced, but in any case are served raw. Except in the cases given above where the stock-pot vegetables are used for garnish, the trimmed and shaped vegetables used should be cooked separately and only added to the soup at the time of serving. Carrots, turnips, celery, leeks, onions, and such like root vegetables, are after trimming, usually put on in cold water, which is brought to the boil, when the vegetables are at once strained off, and their cooking finished in a few spoonfuls of stock with a dust of salt and sugar, till they are almost glazed with the stock. Each sort should properly be cooked separately, to retain as much as possible the individual flavour. Green and delicate vege- tables, such as young green peas, French beans, asparagus points, &c., are simply boiled quickly to preserve their delicate colouring, in salted water. Fried bread, technically known as croutons, should be stamped out in rounds from the size of a shilling to a crown piece, according to the use to which they are put, and are then fried in well clarified dripping or fresh butter to a golden brown, and carefully freed from all fat and grease by draining on a sheet of kitchen paper. For croute au pot and such soups, many cooks prepare the croutons thus:—Having stamped out the sliced bread, these are soaked in stock, preferably that from which the fat has not been removed, and are then set on a buttered tin in the oven and left there till of a delicate brown, and quite crisp. It is a mistake to cut the fried bread for soups into dice, as only too many English cooks insist on doing ; as prepared thus, they simply dry c 220 SOUPS. up into little rocks, which can neither he bitten nor digested, and are consequently horribly unwholesome. Next in importance are quenelles, looked upon by many cooks as impossibilities, yet in reality easy enough to prepare, granted care and intelligence. For these, prepare a light forcemeat by mincing very finely say 5oz. of any kind of meat, white or brown, fish, &c., and pounding it smoothly, seasoning it rather highly to taste, and mixing it with 5oz. of panada (a thick sort of melted butter, made of 5oz. fine flour, loz. of butter, and half a pint of water). and again pounding it all together, then working it up to a smooth mass with the yolks of two or three eggs; it is next rubbed through a sieve (this is not necessary for ordinary use if the pounding has been attended to), and either shaped with two very small spoons (Fig. 3.), or forced out of a bag with a small pipe shaped to taste, in little balls, stars, &c., on to a buttered pan (Fig. 4.), and in either case poached in boiling stock or water. Another capital form of quenelles are the German bread quenelles made thus:—Melt 5oz. of butter, and work into it 7oz. of bread crumb, moistening Fig. 3.CONSOMMES. 21 it all with about a gill of cream or new milk, till you have a smooth, lithe paste about the consistency of that used for eclairs, work into this when cool two or more egg yolks, a dust of sugar, salt and coralline pepper, and lastly, a handful of grated Parmesan cheese ; test a piece by poaching it in a little boiling stock or water, to see if it is the right consistency, then shape it like any other quenelles, and either poach as before, or fry in plenty of clean boiling fat. In the latter case Fig. 4. these little dumplings should not be placed into the soup tureen, but be handed round separately. If the paste for these is too thick dilute with a little more cream; if too thin, thicken with a little additional flour. These dumplings are a nice addition to consommes whose garnish consists of plain vege- tables, notably green peas, pluche, &c. Custard for soup, generally called “royale,” is very easily prepared. Lightly beat together two whole eggs with two tablespoonfuls of cream or stock, salt, andSOUPS. 22 coralline pepper to taste, strain this into little well- buttered cups or moulds, cover these with pieces of buttered paper, stand the cups in a stewpan with some boiling water, and steam these custards for ten minutes or so, till firm. Mind they do not boil in the process or the custard will not be smooth, but watery and full of holes. Turn out when cold, cut into any desired shapes, and rinse well in a little warm water before adding them to the soup. These custards are often coloured by the addition of a few drops of the desired vegetable colouring. But this is a matter requiring judgment, for nothing is in worse taste than the mania some cooks have for changing the natural colours of the substances they use. The last garnishes needing mention are the various forms of macaroni, rice, sago, &c., which should all be cooked separately, and well rinsed before being added to the soup. If this precaution is omitted, the soup will infallibly be clouded. To boil macaroni, or any of the numerous paste nowT sold for soup garnishing, remember that it must be cooked in a very generous amount of salted and fast boiling water, which must be kept boiling sharply all the time the macaroni is cook- ing. Macaroni must be watched closely while cooking, and the moment it is cooked its water must be instantly put off the boil by the sudden addition of a pint of ice cold water for a large pan. Unfortunately, macaroni varies in the time it takes to cook, according to its variety, age, condition, &c. The only way to test it is to bite a piece, and if it eats short and crisp, though tender, it is done, and23 CONSOMMES. the cold water must be added at once. Rinse in a little boiling stock before adding it to the consomme or it will cloud the latter. Abroad, in Italy especially, the macaroni is always cooked in the soup, which, in consequence, is never quite clear. Average sized pipe macaroni takes generally from twenty to thirty minutes to cook, but it is better to watch it than to rely on time. There are of course scores of garnishes for soup, in fact their number is only limited by the cook or chef’s imagination ; but I have contented myself by giving such as are well within the limits of an ordinarily intelligent cook, who can depend on the assistance of a kitchenmaid, or a maid told off for that purpose, for the time being. While on the subject of additions to consommes, a word of warning must be given in regard to wine, so freely poured into the tureen by many cooks. That wine is a great addition in many cases admits of no denial, but it must possess the virtue of modesty, and not assert its presence too emphatically, or it will utterly destroy the delicacy of the consomme, in which the taste of the original stock, together with the flavour of the garnish from which it takes its name, should be clearly present. Over-seasoning, like over-colouring, is one of the great culinary vulgarities of the present day, and always leads a connoisseur to suspect that there is something wrong with the original soup, which the wine, &c, is used to conceal. Consomme Alexandra.—Clear light consomme, garnished with little stamped-out rounds of cooked chicken and dried blanched cherries.24 SOUPS. Consomme Andalouse.—Clear beef consomme',, garnished with strips of cooked cucumber and shapes of tomato custard, or slices of fried tomato. Consomme Baviere.—Light coloured consomme, with quenelles of semolina and cheese, made like the German bread quenelles mentioned above. Consomme Braban<;onne.—Clear fish stock, with sliced fish quenelles, and crayfish tails or cooked prawns. Consomme Brunoise.—Ordinary consommq with dice of cooked carrots, celery, leeks, turnips, &c. Consomme Celestine.—Consomme, with tiny pan- cakes cut into Julienne strips. Consomme Chasseur.—Clear, rather dark, game, soup, with game quenelles. Consomme Chiffonade.—A light consomme with a garnish of young green peas, and stamped out rounds of lettuce. Some cooks add rounds of sorrel, but in any case these rounds must be blanched. Consomme Christine.—Light consomme, either meat or poultry, garnished with small cooked chestnuts and dried cherries. Consomme Christophe Colornb.—Chicken consomme, with diamonds of hard-boiled white of egg, and of very yellow custard. Consomme Clermont.—Rather dark consomme, with rings of delicately fried and drained onions. Consomme Coclc-a-Leehie.—Chicken stock, with shreds of chicken, pearl barley, and shredded cooked leeks. Consomme Colbert.—Rather dark consomme with25 CONSOMMES. little balls of cooked Jerusalem artichokes. Or, light stock, with shredded cooked celery, glazed button onions, Jerusalem artichoke balls, and blanched lettuce. Consomme Condorcet.—Clear game consomme, with game quenelles, asparagus points, and cubes of foie gras truffe. Consomme Crecy.—Light stock rather strongly liavoured with carrot, and garnished with little balls of glazed carrots. Consomme Croute-au-poi. — Ordinary consomme with small croutons, and a garnish of the stock vegetables neatly shredded. See above for prepara- tion of croutons for this soup. Consomme Cussy —Clear vegetable stock, witli button onions stewed in sugar and butter, and either croutons and grated Parmesan, or the German bread balls. Consomme B'Artois.—Light consomme with young green peas and a pluche. Sometimes called Con- somme a la St. Germains. Consomme cVEsclignac.—Light consomme, with little cooked turnip balls and cubes of custard. Sometimes made with chicken stock and tiny chicken quenelles with the turnip balls. Consomme cV Orleans.—Rather dark consomme, with little green and white quenelles, the green either coloured, or made with spinach. Consomme d’ Or say.—Clear stock, asparagus points, tiny pigeon fillets, and very small poached eggs; pigeons’ eggs for choice, if procurable. Consomme Buchesse.—Light stock, chicken prefer-26 SOUPS. ably, with tiny savoury (cheese) profiteroles and vegetables cut into shapes. Consomme Due de Norfolk.—Clear fish stock, with small fillets of smelts, and coloured and white fish quenelles. Consomme Due de York.—A variation of the Chasseur consomme. Consomme Dufferin. —Clear fish stock curried, with stamped-out rounds of cooked sole and rice. Consomme Dustan.—Rather dark stock, with white haricot beans. Consomme Fleury.—Mixed vegetables and cooked rice. Consomme Florentine.—Light stock and cheese quenelles. Consomme Franchise.—Second stock, or beef bouillon, and mixed vegetables, with a pluche. Consomme Garbure.—Rather dark stock, with bread crusts cooked as for croute au pot, then dusted with cheese and spread with the stock pot vegetables neatly trimmed, and soaked over the fire in a little stock. Modern cooks send the croutons to table separately very hot, seasoned with grated cheese and coralline pepper, with a little heap of the vegetables, moistened with the stock, on each. Consomme Gervaise.—White stock, with stamped- out rounds of cold chicken, shred cooked leeks, and French beans, with a pluche, and spinach custard. Consomme Grande Duchesse.—White stock, with cheese and anchovy quenelles, and shreds of chicken and tongue.27 CONSOMMES. Consomme Hongroise.—Clear stock, into which when boiling little balls of savoury choux paste are dropped and finished in the soup. Consomme Imperatrice.—Very clear, strong con- somme, to which at the last moment are added delicately poached and trimmed fresh eggs. (A great restorative, said to have been first made for the Empress Eugenie, when tired after a hunt at Fontainebleau.) Consomme Imperials.—Clear stock, with rounds of custard, printanier garnish, and some finaneiere quenelles and rognons de coq. Consomme Indienne.—Clear mulligatawny, with rice, shreds of chicken, <fcc. Consomme Innocent.—White stock, with tiny quenelles, shreds of chicken, shred almonds, and little dice of custard. Consomme Jardiniere.—Light stock with mixed vegetables cut into pretty shapes. This is also called C. Macedoine. Consomme Jerusalem or Palestine. — Clear stock with little balls of cooked Jerusalem arti- chokes. Consomme Julienne.—Light or dark stock, with different vegetables cut into long thin strips, hence known as Julienne strips. Consomme Klondylce.—Very clear amber stock, garnished with little rough lumps of choux paste, previously fried a delicate golden brown in plenty of boiling fat, and well drained. The secret of this lies in getting the colour of both stock and choux a bright, gold tint.SOUPS, ■28 Consomme Knrsel.—The same as Printanier, with the addition of blanched rounds of lettuce. Consomme Lelie.—White stock with shredded chicken and almonds, and tiny balls of carrot and turnip, cooked. Consomme Marie-Louise.—Clear or white stock, with shred ham, savoury custard in dice, artichoke bottoms cut up, and a pluche. Consomme Massena.—Darkish stock, with cooked fillets of small birds (in France, thrushes are used), roast chestnuts, and little nouilles. Consomme Montglas.—Rich clear stock, with quen- elles of liver farce. Consomme Napoleon.—Dark stock, with tiny croquettes rolled in vermicelli, fried a golden brown, and well drained. Consomme Napolitain.—Light stock, with shred cooked ham and tongue, mushrooms, and cooked macaroni cut in inch lengths. Consomme Nivernaise.—Usually light stock, with sliced quenelles, trimmed vegetables, and Italian paste of any kind ; or, only tiny carrots. Consomme Palestine.—See Jerusalem. Consomme Parmentier.—Light stock with little quenelles of mashed potato. Consomme Petite Marmite.—A variante of Carbure and croute au pot. Generally served in tiny fire- proof marmites, or cooking pots, hence the name. A fried crouton is placed in each, with the shredded stock-pot vegetables. Consomme Poissoniere. — Fish stock and fish quenelles.CONSOMMES. 29 Consomme Pompadour.—Liglit stock, with small dice of vari-coloured custard, and little balls and cubes of carrot, turnip, &c. Consomme Portugaise.—Clear light stock, with shredded cooked leeks and stewed French plums. Consomme Prince.—Light stock, and tiny balls of cooked turnip. Consomme Prince de Galles.—Strong light stock, asparagus points, shreds of chicken enclosed in a rich cream farce in an almond shape, and pieces of custard to match. Consomme Princesse.—Clear chicken stock, with a cbiffonade garnish and a pluche. Consomme Printanier.—Clear stock, with spring or early summer vegetables, young green peas, and asparagus points. Consomme Printanier d la Roy ale.—As the pre- ceding, with the addition of cubes of custard. Consomme Rachel. — Clear stock, with tiny chicken and celery cream quenelles, truffles, and artichoke bottoms cut small. Or, quenelles of tarragon cream, lobster, and truffles (keeping the colours distinct.) Consomme Regence.-—Clear chicken stock, with chicken creams, tiny white and green quenelles, some very young peas, and hard-boiled pigeon’s, plover’s, or pheasant’s eggs. Consomme Romaine. — Dark stock and cheese quenelles. Consomme Rosiere.—Light stock, with tiny pink and white quenelles of ham and cheese. Consomme Royale.—Dark, very clear stock, with rounds and dice of custard.30 SOUPS. Consomme Basse. — Clear beef consomme with shreds of carrot, celery, and leeks. Consomme Sarah Bernhardt.— Light consomme, with tiny chicken quenelles, picked watercress, and sliced and blanched marrow. Consomme Sevigne. — Chicken stock, and little chicken creams made very light with whipped cream. Consomme Tolede.—Light stock, little pea shapes of red and white custard, and a pluche. Consomme Trieste.—As Tolede, with the addition of cooked spaghetti. Consomme Trois Racines.—Strong dark consomme, with shred carrots, turnips, and celery roots. Consomme Valette.—Light coloured stock, with slices of Tangerine oranges, freed from pips, and Julienne strips of the blanched orange skin. Consomme Xavier.—Clear stock, with carrots, turnips, &c , as for Julienne, but cut into the finest threads, and little cubes of custard. It should be noted that though, according to English custom, both Julienne and Brunoise are given amongst the consommes, this is strictly speak- ing incorrect. The real way of preparing these soups is to blanch the vegetables, cut in dice or strips according to the use to which they are to be put, then to stew them in butter till three parts cooked, and slightly coloured, when they are placed in the pan, the boiling stock poured into them, and their cooking is thus finished in the soup itself, which is in consequence, if not actually clouded, yet never so clear as proper consomme should be.CHAPTEB III. PUREES. Purees, as was said before, unlike consommes, &c., consist of the solid material from which the stock is derived, pressed through a sieve together with its liquid, and if necessary a further proportion of liquid of some kind, to bring it to the requisite consistency. After the question of flavour, the most important point in a puree is its texture. It must be neither too thin nor too thick; in the first case it will be watery, in the second it will be stodgy, and in either case will be a failure. A well-made puree should be about as thick as well- made melted butter (not the sticky paste that too frequently does duty for that compound, however), and perfectly smooth and velvety. This is obtained by careful sieving and by the liaison of some kind, which is indispensable with all well-made purees. Another point to remember is that these soups need to be sharply made, especially when made of meat or strong meat stock, as these are specially liable to deteriorate if they have to wait before serving. As soon as purees are sieved, if not for immediate use, they should be stood in some cool place, or if possible on ice. Once they have beenSOUPS. 32 sieved purees must never, on any account, actually boil again, though they must be sent to table as hot as is anyway possible. A puree that must be made beforehand should be rather thicker than for ordinary use, as to heat it when required for table, it must be stirred on the fire with sufficient hot liquid to bring it to the requisite consistency, and allowed to heat carefully, till it is just on (but not over) the point of boiling, when the liaison, of whatever kind is to be used, may be added to it. These directions, if carefully followed, will produce an excellent puree, almost, if not quite, as good as if made straight off, which with a single-handed cook, or one with a not too efficient assistant, is not always possible. It may be well to add that French cooks, when making a puree that will have to stand some time before use, allow one third of the liquid of the soup (or at any rate one third of the amount the soup will eventually require) for the sieving process, and add the remaining two-thirds as de- scribed above at the last. Purees can be made of almost every food stuff, whether meat, poultry, game, fish, or vegetables. In this country, with the exception of white soup, commonly called soujje a la reine, and hare soup, purees are mostly made with vegetables, and gene- rally dried ones, such as lentils, peas, &c., at that. Abroad, all sorts of remains of meat and game are used for this purpose, whilst of vegetables the list is only limited by the extent of garden produce at hand. Fish, save for liomelv and household use, is seldom used as a puree, save in the shape of a bisque or veryPUREES. 33 rich puree of shellfish. It is not easy to say whence this name is derived; oddly enough it is by some, said to have been at first applied to a puree of young wood pigeons. By other authorities the word is declared to have a Prove^al origin. The fact re- mains that in the present day it is almost always confined to a thick kind of shellfish soup. Vegetable purees are of two kinds, the ordinary thick soup, and the kind known in France as a creme, so-called partly from the delicacy of its make and materials, partly from the amount of milk or cream used in its composition. A creme is generally some- what thinner than a puree, and is mostly served with some kind of garnish, whereas the ordinary puree seldom boasts more than the traditional crouton as an accompaniment. The exception to this rule in England is pea soup, which is sent to table with dry powdered mint as well as the dice of fried bread, which are the English cook’s only idea of croutons. A creme, moreover, usually has delicate stock, such as white, poultry, or, in some instances, game stock as a foundation; whereas for purees, ordinary stock, the liquor in which meat or vege- tables were boiled, vegetable stock, milk, or even water may be perfectly well used, hence their economy. The best'way perhaps to explain the process of puree making will be to give a typical specimen of each kind. For instance, take potage puree a, la reine. Pick all the white flesh from the remains of a couple of roast or boiled fowls (properly speaking the fowls should have been roasted for the purpose, and be used at once whilst hot, but this is of course rather T>SOUPS. 34 a counsel of perfection) ; carefully removing any skin, sinew, &c. ; mince this white flesh pretty finely, then put it into a pan with a little stock, and seasoning to taste, and stir it over the fire till softened, when you turn it out and pound it to a smooth paste; mean- while, put half the amount of crumb of bread that you have of chicken into a basin, and pour on to it sufficient boiling chicken stock to cover it, put a plate over it, and leave it till the bread has soaked up as much of the stock as it can; then mix it gradually, little by little, to the pounded chicken, working it all together to a smooth paste, and seasoning it to taste with white pepper, salt, and if liked a dash of nutmeg. (Be careful in the matter of spice, for a strong flavour of any one thing is always to be deprecated in delicate cookery; moreover, spice such as nutmeg, and still more, mace, is often most disagreeable to some persons, and therefore should only be allowed a very subor- dinate position in the seasoning at any time, and should never be put in, without first consulting the tastes of the consumer), Now rub this puree very carefully through a hair sieve, return it to the fire in a delicately clean saucepan, and stir into it quickly and steadily sufficient chicken stock, or cream, or half and half, to bring it to the right thickness ; stir into it at the last a liaison of either 2oz. or 3oz. of fresh butter (woi'king this in, in pieces, adding the last one or two after you have removed the pan from the fire), or of one or more egg yolks beaten up in about a gill of single cream or new milk, and serve.PUREES. 35 This soup can be made equally well with rabbits, and a puree of the same kind is made abroad with the flesh of all kinds of game, the bread-crumb in these latter cases being sometimes replaced by cooked rice, sago, a thick puree of lentils, and in some cases baked and mashed potato, the diluting liquid natur- ally varying to suit the meat used. For those who have never tasted a puree of grouse thickened with bread soaked in strong game stock, or one of partridges thickened with a rather stiff mushroom or chestnut puree (this must be plain chestnut puree), there is an experience to which to look forward. As there is a right and wrong way of doing most d 236 SOUPS. things, so there is of sieving the substance used for a puree. Take a fair-sized basin, and set a hair sieve of proportionate size in it, wrong side up, the lower rim resting firmly inside the basin, as in the illustration (Fig. 5.), using for meat a wooden pestle, or a wooden spoon, as may be most convenient. The basin being firmly stood on the table makes the process far more satisfactory than when the sieve is slanted over a much smaller basin on the cook’s lap, as is only too often done. Of course, where two pairs of hands are available, especially in the case of the cremes referred to above, it is better to use a tammy cloth, and wring or press the soup through this. (Fig. 6.) For household use, however, the French tamis-pressoir—a fine wire sieve, with a kind of rotatory dasher fixed in it—is most useful, though naturally it does not bring the puree to such an absolutely velvety condition as the tammy, or the hair sieve.37 PUREES. The bisque, or fish puree, is made in much the same way, using, when the shellfish is expensive, either bread crumb, rice, or a thick puree of fish (that from which the fish stock is made), to add to its volume and consistency, always diluting it with fish stock, and using fresh butter for the liaison in the case of a white bisque, or lobster, cray- fish, prawn, anchovy, or coralline-pepper butter in the case of red fish. A few drops of Burgess’s essence of anchovy should always be added in these cases to the stock in which the breadcrumb, &c., is soaked. Lastly, the vegetable purees. For these a typical one for homely use is dried pea soup. Well wash the peas, to remove all dust. (Remember that peas, like lentils, beans, &c., should always be of the season in which they are used, for if they have been stored for over a year they are harder and propor- tionately more tasteless, even when they are not actually musty.) Now place the peas in a pan, with three pints of water, 3oz. or 4oz. of whole onions, 2oz. of celery (or celery seed tied up in a piece of muslin), three to four ounces of carrots, a bunch of herbs (parsley, thyme, &c.) and an ounce or so of salt (be careful not to overdo this.) Bring this all to the bod, then draw the pan to the side and let it all simmer steadily, till on pressing the peas between your fingers they will crush easily. To make them cook more quickly and tenderly, add to this stock during the cooking—from half hour to half hour—half a gill of cold water, never using in any case more than half pint of cold wafer in this way. (This replaces the ten to twelve hours soakingSOUPS. 38 formerly considered necessary for dried vegetables.) Let the stock just boil up again each time after adding the cold water, and as soon as the peas are nicely cooked drain them off, putting aside the liquor iu which they cooked ; now rub the peas through a wire sieve (or the tctmis-pressoir mentioned above), moistening them with about a third of the liquor as you sieve them, then return this puree to the pan, with the rest of the liquor; allow it just to boil up, when you draw the pan to the side of the stove and let it stand for half an hour, stirring it now and again with a wooden spoon lest it should catch; you can then add the liaison in two ways. The French method is to slice down diagonally one or two ounces of breadcrumb, place this in the tureen with three or four ounces of butter, and pour the nearly boiling soup upon it, stirring the latter well to melt the butter; or you can rub up one ounce of cornflour, or ordinary flour, with about half a gill of cold milk, till perfectly smooth, then add this to about one and a half gills of boiling milk, stirring it altogether over the fire till it becomes a very smooth cream, and pour this, boiling, very gradually to the hot soup, stirring the two together very carefully till perfectly blended; then allow them to boil together for five to ten minutes, season- ing to taste with pepper, and salt if necessary, and serve. If, however, you use the latter method of thickening your pea soup, you must in the first place lightly fry the herbs in about one or two ounces of well clarified dripping or butter, before putting in the peas, allowing them to colour, or not, accordingPUREES. 39 to whether yon are using dried or green peas, lentils, or haricot beans, &c. All kinds of dried pulse may be made into soup in this way, but the cook must bear in mind that if these homely purees are to be acceptable, she must be careful to keep the colour good in any case; thus if dried green peas are used, a little spinach or vegetable green should be added to bring up the tint, and the vegetables, &c. must not colour when fried in the first instance ; if white haricot beans are used, the French method of thickening should be preferred, and a little milk should be added to the water of which the soup is made. (It may be remarked in passing, that in Eng- land we make far too little use of lentils, which are in truth most nutritious. Few people seem to be aware that the expensive and popular Revalenta Arabica is almost, if not entirely, composed of purified and skinned lentils reduced to a fine flour.) Of course, if a richer soup is required than is given above, second, bone, or vegetable stock can be used, or the water in which salt beef, bacon, or a ham has been cooked may be thus utilised; but in this last case be very careful as to the salt, for the boilings of salt meat are apt to be so strongly salted as to render further salt unnecessary, if not actually a cause of failure. Another form of vegetable puree is made with root vegetables, such as potatoes, carrots, turnips, Jerusalem artichokes, &c., and is generally made somewhat in this way : melt one ounce of well clarified dripping or butter in a pan, and cook in it till tender, but without colouring, four ounces of onions, two to four ounces of celery (this depends on40 SOUPS. how strong you wish the taste of the celery to be), and a bunch of herbs ; then in about five minutes or so lay in a pound of potatoes, peeled and cut up, cover down the pan and let it continue to cook gently for twelve or fifteen minutes longer, shaking the pan now and again to prevent the contents burning, and add a quart of liquid with a few peppercorns, and seasoning. Let it now all cook gently till tender (about one and a-half hours), then rub it through the sieve, re-heat, add a liaison of flour and milk, and serve. With regard to the use of butter or fat in these soups it will be found to give a richer flavour, if less butter is used at first, or indeed if none at all be employed, the quantity so used ordinarily being stirred in at the very last. It is to this practice that French purees owe the creamy rich taste which usually distinguishes them from the more rough-and-ready English thick soups. It does not entail more expense, and very little if any more trouble, whilst the gain in flavour is unmistakable. This hint is derived from M. Gouffc, who, eminent chef as he was, did not think ordinary plain cooking beneath his notice, but applied to it the care and attention considered by the ignorant as only necessary for what they term c‘ high class cookery.” It maybe safely asserted that it is to the absurd and arbitrary division of cookery into so-called “ plain” and “ high class ” that we owe the slovenli- ness and unpalatableness of our British cuisine. For cremes, perhaps, creme de celeri will be as typical as any. For this take four or five good heads of celery, and cook them with a medium-PUREES. 41 sized onion in about one or two pints of either white stock, water, or half water and half milk, and when tender rub it all through a sieve; add sufficient of the liquor in which it was cooked to bring it to the right consistency, season to taste, and bring it just to, but not beyond the boil, then lift it off the fire, and stir in the yolks of one or two eggs, beaten up with from half to one gill of cream, and serve. In this way artichoke bottoms, asparagus, celeriac, cucumber, salsify, seakale, <&c., can all be cooked, adding a little more seasoning and spice according to the taste of the consumer, but always remembering that a vegetable creme must, however rich its texture, taste chiefly and predominantly of the vegetable from which it takes its name, even when game or poultry stock is used in its composition. The above directions will serve, if carefully followed, to help any young cook, but for her con- venience we may sum up the hints thus:— In cooking the vegetables, cook them thoroughly, and if fried in the first place, be careful to let them stand for a minute or two before sieving, to throw up the fat used for this purpose, which should be carefully skimmed off, or the soup will be greasy. It is for this reason I prefer the French method, by which the butter is only added as a liaison at the last, for this imparts a creamy taste, but if properly mixed in, never gives a greasy flavour. If the vegetables, &c., are fried at the beginning, as they naturally must be for dark soups, fry them quickly with the cover off, stirring all the time to prevent their catching, and where a very rich brown colour42 SOUPS. is desired, a pinch of moist sugar may be added; but if simply frying to bring out the flavour of the ingredients (which many persons think is not suffi- ciently done by plain boiling), fry with the cover on, only shaking the pan now and again to prevent its contents sticking ; and lastly, be particular with the liaisons. If these are made of milk and flour, rub the flour very carefully and smoothly with a quarter part of the liquid destined to form the liaison, whilst the latter is cold, then add this mixture to the remaining three-quarters of the liquid which must be boiling, and let it all cook together for five minutes or so, to thoroughly cook the flour, before adding it to the soup ; then let it all heat together gently till just on, but not over boiling point. If an egg liaison is to be used, the yolks must be carefully mixed first with a little cold stock, and then added gradually to the soup, which, if hot, should be first lifted off the fire, and allowed to cool for two or three minutes ; for were the eggs added to the soup when boiling, they would inevitably curdle and spoil the whole. For white soups the first cold stock is often replaced by milk, or for the delicate soups known as cremes, by cream. For these latter, in France especially, a butter and cream liaison is used, in which the butter is added with two or three spoonfuls of cream according to the quantity of soup. When a plain butter liaison is used, the butter should be added only at the last moment, as the soup is being lifted off the fire, as in this way, never having been cooked, it gives a peculiar fresh creamy taste, never obtained when the butter has been heated.CHAPTER IY. PUREES (Continued). The following recipes of various kinds of purees may serve as hints to the cook, and enable her to extend her list of such things almost indefinitely. Puree of Asparagus.—Take a fair-sized bundle of green asparagus, and remove the heads and also the hard parts. Blanch the rest of the asparagus, then drain it well and put it in a stewpan, with 2oz. of butter and lfoz. of flour, and stir it altogether over the fire with a clean wooden spoon for five minutes. Now moisten it with a full quart of ordinary white stock (that made from veal bones, or even mutton shank, will do), and after just bringing it to the boil, let it simmer gently at the side of the stove till the asparagus is tender enough to rub through a sieve, after which you replace it on the stove for fifteen to twenty minutes; now stir it well, add about half a j '.nt of good white stock, and just allow it to boil up ; pour it into the scalded-out tureen, and just as it goes to table stir in half a gill of cream and 2oz. of butter, together with the heads of the asparagus, which should have been simmered in salted water for fifteen minutes. A richer form of this soup, known as PureeSOUPS. 44 (Vasperges a la comtesse, is made very much in the same way, save that when first simmered in the butter, four tablespoonfuls of chicken glaze are mixed with them, and a few minutes later about three-quarters of a gill of sauce supreme (a rich white sauce made with chicken stock) is added ; it is allowed to reduce a third by rapid boiling, is then moistened with sufficient strong chicken stock, sieved, and lastly thickened with a liaison of two or more egg yolks beaten up with three or four spoon- fuls of double cream and an ounce or more of butter. It is then served with the asparagus heads, and any dainty garnish to taste. Both of these soups should be of a faint delicate green, and if the asparagus in itself is not sufficient to impart this, a few drops of spinach or other vegetable greening must be added, but in any case it must not be over- coloured ! Bisque of Crayfish.— Take sixty fine crayfish, freshly cooked, and remove all the flesh from the shells, keeping the best coloured of the latter to make into red butter. Take about half, or a little more, of the bodies or tails of the crayfish, and mince these with the flesh of the claws and a few of the shells, then pound these carefully and work them up to a smooth paste with a little good fish stock ; add this paste, with a bouquet of herbs, to sufficient stock to moisten it all well, let it boil up, and then simmer steadily for twenty-five to thirty minutes, after which sieve it, and re-heat it, working into it 5oz. or 6oz. of crayfish butter as you do so. Put the rest of the tails into the tureen, pour the soup uponPUREES. 45 them, and serve with croutons slightly sprinkled with coralline pepper handed with it. (A strip of lemon peel should be added to the bunch of herbs used for this soup.) A few spoonfuls of cooked rice or pearl barley can also be used as a garnish, or indeed pounded with the flesh of the fish as described before. A little (but very little) cayenne is an addition to this. Bisque of Lobster a la Castellane.—For this take the flesh of two small lobsters (the coarser crawfish does excellently for this soup), cut up this flesh, and toss it over the fire with about a gill of bechamel sauce, and let it cook till the sauce is half absorbed ; then add to it a small sherry-glassful of madeira (sherry or marsala), and finally bring it to the desired consistency with a brown fish stock (pre- viously thickened with a little brown roux till of the consistency of very thin cream), and sieve it. Re-heat, finish with 3oz. or 4oz. of lobster butter, a dash of cayenne, and the strained juice of a lemon. Put into the tureen some tiny pea-shaped fish quenelles, and a handful of nicely cooked rice, pour the soup on this and serve. For lobster butter, take the cooked coral of the lobster, or failing this the reddest parts of the shell, and pound it to a perfectly smooth paste with 4oz. of butter, finally wringing it through a tammy, and then mixing it with as much more butter as may be necessary. If the coral is uncooked, put the coral-butter into a little pan and let it heat for an hour in the bain-marie, then wring it through the tammy into a basin of cold water, and when solid, skim it oft', wipe it with a clean cloth, and add it as before to the desired amount of butter.46 SOUPS. Bisque of Oysters.—Beard the required number of oysters, saving the liquor; put the beards of the oysters into a quart or more of cold fish stock, according to the amount required, and let this boil up gradually to extract as much as possible of the oyster flavour, then strain it on to a white roux (made by melting 2oz. oi butter, and working it to a smooth paste with 2|oz. of flour), add the oyster liquor, with a squeeze of lemon juice, and a tiny pinch of coralline pepper, let it all just boil up, then add the oysters, and serve with a phiche. If wished richer, a liaison of two egg yolks and three or four spoon- fuls of cream may be stirred into the soup at the last, just before adding the oysters. Puree de Celeri a V Espagnole.—Just blanch five or six heads of celery if young, otherwise let them cook for a few minutes to soften them somewhat, then drain them and put them on with a little brown stock, and a tiny pinch of sugar, and let them cook till thoroughly tender, when they must be rubbed through a sieve, and mixed with a full gill of rich espagnole sauce; now add enough good stock *0 bring it all to the desired consistency, and again sieve it. Re-heat when wanted for table, with a jib. of butter, a piece of chicken glaze, and a tiny grate of nutmeg, and serve plain or with any garnish to taste. If desired, this soup can be made with milk, or cream, and white stock, and called a creme. Chestnut Puree. — Shell and blanch sixty large chestnuts, and remove the inner skin, then simmer them very gently till quite soft, in a full quart of good47 PUREES. stock; sieve them, and add enough stock to bring- them to the desired consistency, let it all boil up, and then simmer for a little at the side of the stove, carefully skimming oft: the fat, and serve, with croutons of fried bread. A little fresh butter, or thick cream added at the last, is a great addition to- this soup, which, for English tastes, requires a little more seasoning. Puree Clavel.—Make a puree with the flesh of some roast partridges, as described in soupe a la reine, and mix it with half a pound of good sago, cooked till tender in a quart of strong game stock ; rub it all through the sieve, adding more game stock, if necessary, to bring it to the desired quantity, finish off with a little fresh butter or cream, and serve with delicately fried croutons.. This is a delicious way of using up old game birds, or the foreign or Russian game. Puree Concle.—Put into a pan a pound of red haricot beans, with two large, or three medium-sized onions, and two quarts of salted cold water; bring it all to the boil, and let it simmer till the beans are quite soft; sieve the soup, and pour it on to two glasses of claret, allow it to simmer gently together for twelve to fifteen minutes, then finish off with two or three ounces of butter, and serve with fried croutons. The same puree can be made with white haricot beans, or flageolets; using, however, in the first case, milk instead of water, if wished (the water in which haricot beans are boiled must be saved, as it makes a first-rate foundation for many vegetable soups), or with ordinary white stock forSOUPS. 48 the flageolets; finishing off the haricots with a cream and egg-yolk liaison, and the flageolets with cream and butter, and a few drops of pale green colouring. Puree Conti.—Well wash a pound of lentils, the kind called in France lentilles a la reine, and put them in a pan with two quarts of water, a bouquet, an onion stuck with two cloves, a carrot, and a stalk or two of celery; let these all cook till tender •enough to sieve, moistening it with its own liquor, and then, after adding enough good game stock (made from the bones and carcases of cooked game), sieve it and return it to the fire with a little more stock, if necessary, stirring it well now and again to prevent its catching, and let it simmer at the side •of the stove for an hour, in a three-parts covered pan ; have ready some celery nicely, but not masliily cooked, stewed in stock, and place this, cut up into neat pieces, into the tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. Creme a Voseille.—Pick over and remove the stalks from some good sorrel, well washing it in plenty of cold water, then take two or three large handfuls, tear these up, and place them in a pan with three ounces of butter; when these are melted and the sorrel is thoroughly cooked, sprinkle in a teaspoonful of potato or corn flour, and stir it altogether for two or three minutes ; now add one and a-half pints of common white stock or water, as you choose, with salt and pepper to taste, and let it all boil together for fifteen minutes. Beat up the yolks of two or three eggs in a gill of single cream, mix them with49 PUREES. a cupful of tlie soup, previously allowed to cool for a minute or two, have ready some breadcrumb sliced across diagonally, pour the eggs, &c., on to this, then shim the soup, and lastly pour it all on to the rest in the tureen. Creme Creci a V Allemande.—Choose fine red carrots, and slice off the red part of seven or eight large ones; melt a good piece of butter, lay in the sliced carrots, salt them slightly, cover the pan and let them cook gently, stirring them now and again, over a gentle fire. When they are dry, add to them about a gill of good bechamel sauce, and let it all reduce for a few minutes. Then sieve it, bringing it to the desired consistency with two parts good strong consomme to one part cream, finish off with a butter liaison and serve with fried croiitons. Ordinary Crecy soup can be made in jnecisely the same way, only using dripping instead of butter, and common stock or water, and no cream, to dilute it; three pints of water to ten very red carrots will be found about the best proportion, and at the last an egg yolk beaten up with a little single cream or new milk, or a gill of milk mixed as above described with a spoonful of flour, should be used as a liaison. Unless this liaison is added, the soup will granulate and become (in appearance at least), dirty water clouded witn tiny atoms of carrots, instead of the rich smooth puree it should be. It will also separate in this way if the sieve through which it was j3assed was too coarse, or the supply of carrots too limited. In early spring and summer, say from the end of March to the end of May, carrots do not seem in ESOUPS. 50 condition for this soup, and then require to have a turnip, an onion, and a blade of celery added to them to give them flavour ; more carrots must also be used, as they are losing their colour, and unless the rule is strictly adhered to of only using the red part of the carrot, the colour of the soup will inevitablv suffer. Creme cle Ncivets. — Mince down and blanch in boiling salted water, seven or eight good turnips, for a few minutes, then drain them and put them on with a piece of butter and a pinch each of salt and sugar, and let them cook slowly over a gentle fire till they are dry. Now moisten them with a little stock, and again let them cook very slowly till they have almost absorbed the stock but are still quite white, for it is important to preserve their colour. When they are perfectly cooked, add a gill of good bechamel sauce, let it all boil up sharply till reduced to a thick puree, then sieve, dilute with the requisite stock, re-heat, finish off with a butter liaison aud serve. A very nice soup can be made by cooking the turnips first in a little well clarified beef dripping, then glazing and reducing them with some good common stock, sieving the result, diluting it with more stock, and finishing it off with a flour and milk liaison. Serve in either case with croutons. Creme d’ Orge —Put into a pan some good white stock freed from fat (for company rich chicken stock should be used, but ordinary uucoloured stock answers excellently for household purposes), and bring it sharply to the boil. Now throw in three- quarters of a pound of pearl barley (for two or three51 PUREES. quarts of stock), and let it cook (after bringing it to the boil) very gently at the side of the fire for four hours at least; then rub it through a sieve, adding more stock if necessary, return it to the fire, bring it to the boil, and finish off with a liaison of egg yolks and cream, or butter. Creme Parmentier.—Bake six or eight good floury potatoes, and when cooked crush them up with a good piece of butter, using a very clean wooden spoon for the purpose ; then rub this puree through a hair sieve (for ordinary use a wire sieve is suffi- cient), moistening it gradually with sufficient white (or at all events colourless) stock to bring it to the desired consistency, re-heat, and finish off with a liaison of either two egg yolks beaten up with three or four spoonfuls of cream, or a little cream and fresh butter stirred in just at the last as you are about to dish it. This can be served with any kind of garnish preferred. A very delicate form of this soup is made thus : Mix three pints of cold white stock with half a pound of potato flour, or fecula, being careful to get it perfectly smooth, then set it on the stove and stir it steadily and gently till it is just on the point of boiling (adding another half pint of stock if it seems likely to thicken too much), and as soon as it just reaches boiling point, draw it to the side, and keep it simmering gently but steadily for an hour. Now run it all through a strainer or sieve, stir in a liaison of egg yolk and cream as before, adding just at the last half an ounce of fresh butter, and pour it on to some pre- viously boiled asparagus points, or some young e 2SOUPS. 52 carrots and turnips stewed in butter and cut into little shapes, or tiny corks. Creme au Riz.—Put into a pan (preferably a fire- proof earthenware one) rather over two quarts of rich white stock well freed from fat, and into this put half a pound of good rice when it is just boiling up ; again bring it to the boil (for the rice will cool it), draw it to the side of the stove, and let it simmer steadily for an hour. Now rub it all through a sieve, diluting it if necessary with a little more stock, re-heat, add an egg yolk and cream liaison with a little butter, and if necessary a little salt and white pepper, and lastly half an ounce of butter, and serve with croutons or garnish to taste. This may be either a very economical soup, or an expensive one, just as you choose to make it; it will be excellent in either case. A very favourite way of flavouring, or “ perfuming,” this soup, according to French cooks, is to pound up the flesh picked from the carcase of one or more roast pheasants, and put this into the pot with the rice, &c., allowing it all to boil together for fifteen or twenty minutes, then rub it through once or twice, as may be necessary to get it smooth and creamy, and dilute with some strongly-flavoured stock made from the pheasant bones and carcases. Serve with a delicate Rachel or Tolede garnish. It must be re- membered that for delicate purees of this kind these garnishes are as appropriate as for consommes. Puree Dubarry.—Take two or three good cauli- flowers and break these np into little bunches, carefully trimming the stalks; blanch them, and layPUREES. 53 them in a pan with about one and a-half gills of good bechamel, which should be just at boiling point when they are laid in ; then boil up again and draw to the side of the stove and allow it all to simmer together steadily for twenty minutes or so, until the cauliflower is perfectly tender. Now crush it all through a sieve, moistening it as you do so with more or less rich stock, i-eason to taste with white pepper, salt, a dash of sugar, and add a liaison of egg yolks and cream, not forgetting the little piece of butter at the last. Puree Faubonne.—Prepare a puree as for the puree Conti, and add to it a pint of julienne (given later amongst the broths), and serve with croiitons. This soup can be made with almost any vegetable puree as a foundation, but it must have the reduced julienne garnish, which in France is always, when possible, made with the water in which beans or lentils, &c., have been cooked. Really consomme julienne was originally made by adding a certain proportion of the thick potage julienne to the clear stock. Puree Grenade.—Shred ten to twelve very fine white leeks, and stew them in butter till thoroughly tender, seasoning with a little salt and white pepper, and a dust of white sugar; then add to them about a gill of veloute sauce, and let it all boil up sharply for a few minutes to reduce it; dilute it with sufficient wnite (preferably chicken) stock, rubbing it all through a sieve, and finish with a small piece of chicken glaze and a dust of sugar. This soup is very good if made with skim milk, or ordinary second (colourless) stock, and finished off with an egg and milk liaison.54 SOUPS. 5 Puree cle Lievre.—Skin and empty a good-sized hare, putting aside the blood. Cut up the hare in small pieces of the same size, and toss these in butter for a few minutes with some parsley and some sliced onion, seasoning it all well with salt and pepper. When the hare is partly cooked and slightly browned, make a thickening with about four ounces of fine sifted and browned flour, mixed with a bottle of light claret and a quart of good, rather highly flavoured, stock, and let the hare cook in this till thoroughly done. Now remove the best pieces, drain them well from the soup, carefully remove any bits of broken bone, &c., and keep the pieces hot. Meanwhile return the rest of the hare to the pan, and leave this at the side of the stove to simmer, and throw up the fat, which must be care- fully skimmed off; now take a cup of the soup (after having strained the whole through a very clean wire sieve), and beat the blood of the hare which you have saved, with this cupful; then stir it gradually and smoothly into the rest of the soup, bringing it just to, but not beyond, boiling point. If the soup boils in the very slightest degree, the blood will curdle it and spoil the whole. Return the hare meat to the soup, and pour it all into a well scalded tureen. Some cooks add tiny balls of veal stuffing fried and well-drained, to this soup. Puree Mathilde.—Peel and seed four or five young and tender cucumbers, blanch, drain, and toss them in butter till tender and dry, then add to them a gill of bechamel and a small piece of chicken glaze, and let it all reduce sharply for a few minutes ; nowPUREES. tammy, diluting it as you do so with the requisite amount of white stock, stir in a drop or two of vegetable colouring to bring it to a delicate green, adding in a dash of sugar, a grate of nutmeg, a spoonful or two of cream, and just at the last an ounce or so of butter, and pour into the tureen on to anv garnish to taste. Puree Palestine.—Take fifteen or twenty medium- sized Jerusalem artichokes, peel them and toss them in a little butter for a few minutes, adding a seasoning of wdiite pepper, salt, and a very little sugar, till nearly cooked ; add to them a little stock, and let them finish cooking till perfectly tender, when you crush them through the sieve, moistening them as you do so with either white stock, milk, or water according to the richness of the soup you wish for. When wanted for use, reheat, adding seasoning and a little cream, milk, or fresh butter as you please, and serve with croutons. The ordinary way of making this soup is to cook the artichokes in either milk, or milk and stock (in the former case add a blade or two of celery and an onion to the artichokes), till tender enough to crush through a sieve, reducing this puree by rapid boiling if too thin, or adding a little more milk or cream to thin it. When milk only is used, a slice or two of smoked ham, or two or three bacon rinds are an improvement. Serve with croutons. Puree Parmentier aux Tomates.—Cut up four or five medium-sized and very mealy potatoes with the red part of two small carrots, lib. of ripe well- coloured tomatoes, and a small head of celery. Put into a pan 2oz. of butter (or well-clarified beef-SOUPS. 56 dripping will do), and as soon as this is melted put m the tomatoes and a middle-sized onion rather finely minced, and let all this cook in the covered pan for twelve or fifteen minutes ; after which pour in three pints of second stock (or even water), together with the potatoes, celery, &c., and seasoning to taste, and let it all cook gently till all the vegetables are in a pulp, when you rub it through a sieve, reheat, add a spoonful or so of cream, and serve with croutons fried in butter. Puree de Pois Verts.—Cook three pints of green peas in plenty of water, as quickly as possible to preserve the colour, season it, add a carrot and a medium-sized onion, and let it all stew together till tender, then lift out the carrot, drain off the water, and rub all the rest through the sieve; put this puree into a pan with a dust of sugar and a full quart, or rather more, of white stock, or the water in which the peas were boiled ; bring it all to the boil, stirring it carefully to prevent its catching, and the moment it begins to boil up draw it to the side of the stove, and allow it to simmer for a little. Have ready 4oz. of rice, previously boiled in white stock, dx*ain it well and put it into the tureen with the h<X puree, add an ounce of butter, and stir this well in till all melted, when it must be served at once. If the colour is too pale add a little spinach or vege- table greening, but add this very carefully, for if the least overdone it will destroy all the distinction of the soup. In the sirring, when peas are dear, the young peashells may be used to produce the stock, the peas themselves, after cooking, being lifted out,PUREES. 57 the soup finished off as before, and the peas added with the rice as a garnish. Puree cle Pois d VAllemande.—Stir together over the”fe;e till perfectly smooth 3oz. of fine sifted flour and a pint and a half of white stock, and when well blended and the flour perfectly cooked (this will take twelve or fifteen minutes), pour it through a fine strainer into three pints of boiling white stock, stirring it all the time with a wooden spoon lest it should be lumpy; now add one sixth of an ounce each of salt and caster sugar, together with one quart of freshly shelled green peas, and let these all simmer in the soup, stirring it all the time, till the peas are quite cooked, when you skim it well, pour it into the well-scalded tureen, add an ounce of fresh butter, and serve as soon as this is perfectly melted. Another peasoup is given amongst the broths, which is there given as served untammied, but if it is all crushed through a sieve, a few peas being kept back to garnish it, it makes a most delicate puree, even nicer than the two preceding ones. ; Puree Peine Caroline.—Mix five or six tablespoon- fuls of rice flour or creme de riz with a little cold stock to a smooth paste, then put it on the fire and let it cook, adding gradually sufficient stock to bring it to the j*ffhsistency of a ernooth bechamel sauce, and let it boil up well; now mix this with an equal amount of minced and pounded chicken, prepared as in puree a la Reine Margot, and finish off precisely like that puree, only at the last, when finishing it up, add 4oz. or 5oz. of very red crayfish butter, a grain of coralline pepper, and a spoonful or two of cream.SOUPS. 58 Puree Peine Margot.—Bake or roast five or six large and very mealy potatoes, and when cooked turn out all the potato from the baked skins, work it up whilst hot with a little butter, and crush it all through a sieve. Have ready the flesh of a roasted fowl (or a rabbit), minced and pounded with a little stock and butter, and blend this all with the mashed potato, dilute it with stock made from poultry bones, &c., rub it all through the sieve, and re-heat, stirring it all the time ; add a spoonful or two of cream, with seasoning if necessary, and serve at once. Puree Soubise.—Peel three large onions and cut them up pretty small; melt over a gentle fire two ounces of fresh butter, and lay in the onions, cover down the pan, and let them cook for an hour (the steam preventing their frying), but be careful they do not colour in the least. Now pour to them one and a-lialf pints of white stock and milk, or milk and water, very gradually, season to taste, add some slices of white breadcrumb, cut diagonally, re-cover the pan and set it all to cook again for an hour at least, being careful that it never boils the whole time, but just keeps at a gentle simmer ; then crush it all through a sieve, allowing it to boil up again if too thin, or adding a little more boiling milk or stock if too thick; add a spoonful or two of cream, and serve. A spoonful of grated gruyere cheese stirred into this soup just at the last, very gradually, stirring all the time, is a great addition, and so is a dash of coralline pepper. A very economical but most excellent version of this soup can be made by using the water in whichPUREES. 59 beans, or a cauliflower, have been boiled (mind there was no soda with it), instead of milk or stock, pro- ceeding- exactly as above, and finishing- off with a little new milk at the last, if the soup is white, or using- a little brown stock and a little butter, if the onions have been allowed to brown in the first instance. For this second soup well clarified dripping- can be used instead of butter. The British cook cannot be too often reminded that in France the water in which haricot beans, cauliflower, French beans, &c., have been boiled is always considered a famous groundwork for vegetable soups. Puree Tomates.—Remove the stalks from a pound of well washed and dried tomatoes, and cut them into quarters; then fry two ounces of minced onion and a small bouquet, in one ounce of butter till it begins to turn yellow, when you lay the tomatoes in with them and let them all stew very gently in a covered pan till tender; now fry half an ounce of flour in half an ounce of butter, or well clarified dripping, till it is perfectly smooth, when you dilute it with a little stock, next work in a little of the tomato puree, and repeat these two till you have used up all the tomato, and about one and a-lialf pints of plain white stock ; then let it come to the boil once more to thicken properly, skim, and pour it through a scalded strainer into the tureen, and serve with fried croutons. Puree Tomates aux Navets.—Cut up four or five medium-sized turnips, one small potato, and three or four ripe and very red tomatoes. Fry a minced onion in a pan with two and a-half ounces of well60 SOUPS. clarified dripping, or butter, for ten or twelve minutes; now pour to it about a quart of water or stock (according to what you have), add pepper and salt, a small bouquet, and the rest of the vegetables, and let them all cook together till tender enough to rub through a sieve, when you return it to the pan with about half an ounce of fresh butter ; just let it not quite boil up, and serve very hot. This soup, if properly made, is an extremely pretty red colour, and should be quite velvety. Puree Velours.—Cut the red part from some good carrots till you have eight ounces of it (the yellow part does quite as well for the stock pot), and put these into a pan with an ounce of butter, two ounces of the white part of some leeks, and a pinch of salt; let it cook for five minutes, then add half pint of veal, or chicken bone stock, bring it to the boil, and allow it to simmer gently till the carrot is quite tender, when you pulp the whole through a sieve. Now bring a fresh pint of stock to the boil, and stir into it half an ounce of tapioca, previously crushed up small; stir this into the broth for five minutes, then cover the pan and let it all simmer together for twenty minutes, skimming it carefully now and again. Now put the carrot pulp into a clean pan, and stir into it gradually, over the fire, the tapioca-thickened stock, and as soon as it is hot enough, serve. The beauty of this soup lies in its velvety substance, from which it derives its name ; so trouble must not be spared in sieving it thoroughly.CHAPTER V. BROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. The ordinary practice wlien describing soups, appears to he to class together broth and stock as synonymous terms, but this bracketting seems to me somewhat confusing, and I have therefore separated them, using “ stock ” as the generic name for the clear, strained liquid used as a foundation in soupmaking, and reserving “ broth ” as a distinctive appellation for soup prepared as a whole, and served as it stands, with all, or nearly all, its ingredients left in it. The best type of this form of soup is Scotch broth, in which the meat, vegetables, barley, &c., used in making it are quite as much component parts of the whole, as the liquid used to moisten it. Of these there are many kinds known in England, and very good they most of them are. Then there are thick soups, and the difference between these and purees (a difference frequently overlooked by the way), consists in the fact that they are artificially thickened with egg ) oik, starch of some kind, &c., and may, or may not, contain portions of the solid ingredients of which they are made as a garnish ; whereas a puree is obtained by crushing all the materials used in its manufacture through a sieve, till you produce a result<32 SOUPS. fully as thick as well-made sauce, and which, if garnished at all, is always so decorated with a specially prepared and separate garnish. French cooks fully acknowledge this difference, and never fail to distinguish between consomme, potage lie, and the puree, though sometimes a homely form of puree, of rather thin consistency, slightly thickened artificially, and to which some of the original vege- tables, &c., are restored before sending it to table, is known as potage puree au whatever it is made of; or sometimes more simply still potage a la so and so. This is an extremely useful form of soup for the economical housewife, as it enables her to prepare very appetising soups out of materials that would certainly not go far in the manufacture of the more definite soups. For instance, any remains of game can be utilised in this way; break up the bones, and if you have them, add the neck, trimmings, &c. every atom of flesh, however small, being carefully removed from the carcases ; cover these pieces with sufficient cold common stock to cover them well, add a carrot and half a turnip sliced, two or three green onions, a bunch of herbs, and a strip or so of celery (the outside leaves do excellently for this), and seasoning to taste ; run the meat taken from the bones through the mincer, and pound it, moistening it as you work it, with a little stock; then add the rest of the stock (strained but not clarified), and re-heat, adding to it as you do so a thickening made by rubbing a spoonful of flour smoothly with a, little stock, pouring it to the soup, and bringing the whole just to the boil together; add a tea-BROTHS. AND THICKENED SOUPS. spoonful of wine for a tureenful of soup sufficient for nine persons, varying the wine according to the game used for the soup, using red wine for hare or wild duck soup (an extremely nice but uncommon puree), and madeira (otherwise sherry, or marsala) for partridges, grouse, &c., then pour it all as hot as possible into the tureen, in which you have pre- viously put neatly-trimmed pieces of the vegetables used in making the stock, and serve croutons with it. It should have been mentioned above that when adding the roux, the soup if hot, should be lifted off the fire and the roux rubbed up with the liquid, stirred in gradually and very carefully, to prevent its clotting and thickening irregularly. If the stock is cold when the thickening is added, put the thickening to it, and at once stir it over the fire till it boils up. As a general principle very nice thickened soups can be made by using any purees of either game, vegetable, fish, &c., diluting them with stock (meat, fish, or vegetable), milk, or water, as happens to be most convenient, and lastly adding a liaison of either flour and milk, egg and butter, &c., as you choose, only remembering that if roux, either brown or white, be used, the soup must be allowed to simmer for a few minutes after it is added, though if egg is used as a liaison, this is unnecessary. When un egg liaison is prepared, as it often is for these thick soups, with some of the stock beaten up with it, mind the soup is added warm, not boiling, and that the whole egg is thoroughly beaten in at the first, for if not, when the bulk of the soup isSOUPS. 64 added it will certainty curdle the white of the egg, and make it look anything but nice. Another point not sufficiently attended to by our cooks concerns the sliced bread often added to these thick soups, in France especially. This must not be cut anyhow; if it is, it will remain in stodgy, clammy lumps, as unappetising to the palate as to the sight. The right way is to cut a good, square piece of bread free from all crust, and then cut off the corner on the slant, diagonally, and slice it thus in parallel lines, just as you cut a material “ on the cross.” If cut thus the bread appears to disintegrate quite easily, and blends pleasantly into the substance of the soup, without rendering its presence un- necessarily obvious. Potages Lies, or thickened soups. Brown Soup.—There is an old-fashioned English soup, often called “ gravy soup ” by the “ good plain cook.” For it, take three quarts of stock (that made from mutton or any other bones will do, as it is so coloured and flavoured that initial flavour of its own is needless) ; add to it one or two onions cut into rings and fried a dark brown, and let these boil in the stock for sufficient time to colour and flavour it; then strain off the liquor and add to it a sweetened roux made thus : melt one ounce of butter (or well clarified dripping will do), add to it a spoonful of sugar (the size of the spoon in this case is a matter for individual taste), and two table- spoonfuls of flour, and let it all cook slowly together till quite a dark brown, being careful it does not catch, or cook too fast, as in the latter case it wouldBROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 65 become spotty, and also acrid in taste ; stir it carefully whilst cooking, to get it quite smooth, then pour on to it about one-third of a pint from the soup, and stir this into it, letting it all amalgamate together; after which you add to it a wineglassful of red wine or very dark sherry, with a tiny blade of mace, some bruised peppercorns, and three or four cloves, pour the rest of the soup on to this, let it all boil together for two hours or so, then strain, and serve with fried bread. Gamekeeper's Soup. — Make some good strong stock from game bones, cooked and raw, game or poultry giblets, and soup vegetables; of this stock take one and a-half pints, and clarify it with egg shell and white, and two or three ounces of raw meat, then thicken it with half an ounce finest tapioca, simmer it altogether for twenty - five to thirty minutes, and then serve with the soup vegetables rinsed in a little stock, and trimmed into neat, but not too small, shapes. Glblet Soup (Potage aux abatis).—Take three or four sets of giblets (the heads, necks, pinions, livers, gizzards, and hearts, but put aside the livers of which various nice savouries can be made), pick over and scald these all well (the pinions and necks especially, as these are often unpleasantly feathered), skinning the feet, removing the beaks, and splitting the heads in two ; cut these all into neat pieces, add to them a slice of smoked ham, two or four well scraped bacon rinds, or 2oz. or 3oz. of lean, uncooked bacon, cut up small. Now melt an ounce of well clarified dripping or butter in a pan, lay in all the F66 SOUPS. pieces, and fry them till lightly browned, then add a gill of second stock, and a sherryglassful of marsala, and let this all cook together till it becomes a glaze ; now pour on to all this three pints of second or bone stock, together with a good bouquet, or a dessert- spoonful of dried herbs tied up in a bit of muslin, and bring it all to the boil, when you put into the pan 4oz. each of carrots, turnip, leeks, and onion, and an ounce of celery; then simmer it all again for three and a-half hours, when you strain it oft-. Let it stand till cold, when the fat must be care- fully skimmed off. Now make a roux with foz. each of butter and flour (it is well to have this ready beforehand, for it should be of a coffee brown, and this takes some time, for the reason given above when describing brown soup) ; and when this is a smooth paste pour U pints to a quart of the stock upon it, let it all come to the boil, skim well, run it through the sieve, re-heat, add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and a tiny dash of cayenne, and serve either as it is, or with some pieces of the meat cut from the bones, The latter is, however, nowadays reckoned old- fashioned. This soup can be made from any giblets, turkey, goose, duck, &c., but of course is not so delica/te as when made from chicken giblets. A very nice clear soup can be made, if after letting it stand to clear off the fat, you clarify it in the usual way, season it with lemon juice and pepper, and serve with little pieces of the meat floating through it. This is often called Consomme aux abatis. Hare Soup.—Skin a fresh hare, and wipe it wellBROTHS. AND THICKENED SOUPS. 67 with a clean cloth; cut it open and clean it, being- careful to save all the blood, which is wanted later on. Then cut up the body into neat pieces and put these into a pan with three quarts of water; or second stock can be used, or again, if the hare is a small, poor one, put 21b. of shin of beef with it. Bring it to the boil, add a good bouquet, two onions, one small carrot, half a head of celery, with twenty peppercorns and cloves, skim it carefully, and allow it to boil gently for one and a half hours. After this take off the meat from the back and the upper parts of the hind legs and put this aside, returning the bones, &c., to the stock, which must be allowed to cook for two hours more. Then cut off every scrap of meat from the bones, pound it to a paste, and rub the stock, vegetables and all, with this paste, through a hair sieve. Bring this puree to the boil, and stir into it an ounce of arrowroot previously rubbed smooth with a little mushroom ketchup, and a very little Worcester sauce ; let it boil up for five minutes, stirring it steadily, then draw it to the side, let it cool and then add the pieces of meat set aside, and the blood, stirring it now steadily one way, till the colour changes and the soup is all but, but not quite, boiling. Season to taste, scald out the tureen, put a small sherry-glassful of wine, port or sherry, into it, and pour on to it the hot soup, and serve at once. If care is not taken when adding the blood, the soup will curdle and be spoiled. (This is an old- fashioned Scotch recipe). Another very nice and more economical soup may be made thus:—skin, clean, and well wash the hare, reserving all the f 268 SOUPS. blood, and removing the carcase of the hare, which makes an extremely good roast (especially if the hare be large), leaving the neck, shoulders, and legs for the sonp. Cut these up into small pieces, and put them into a pan with 6oz. raw smoked ham, 4oz. each of sliced onion and of carrot, a small head of celery and a good bunch of herbs, together with -3oz. or 4oz. of good dripping, and fry it all sharply for five minutes over a clear fire, seasoning it to taste with pepper and salt; have ready a brown roux made with 2oz. of butter and 2-|oz. of flour, and when this is well blended moisten it with three pints of ordinary, or bone stock; add to this a claret glassful of port or marsala, let it all boil up together till smooth, then pour it on to the pieces of hare, vegetables, &c., and let all cook in it very slowly till thoroughly done, when you strain off all the liquor. Wash the bits of meat in a little warm stock, and keep them warm in the bain-marie. The soup must be returned to the fire and brought again to the boil and well skimmed. Meanwhile stand a small pan in the bain-marie, and when this is warm put into it a gill or so of the soup, and stir the blood you saved into it. stirring it well one way to get it thoroughly blended, when you pour it slowly and gradually into the bulk of the soup as the latter is re-heating; let it all just not come to the boil, lay the pieces of hare into the tureen, pour the soup on them, and serve at once. Some people consider that little balls of herb farce (such as you use for stuffing a hare), fried till delicately coloured, and a little red currant or rowanberry jelly are an addition toBROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 69 this soup, but that is simply a matter of taste. Of course you can make either clear or thick soup with the remains of a roast hare, in exactly the same way as you would any other game soup. Kidney Soup.—Well wash and dry a good ox kidney, remove all the fat and skin, and cut the kidney into small cubes. Now mix together on a paper a tablespoonful of hour (in Scotland, where this soup is particularly popular, they use fine oat- meal instead), a teaspoonful of salt, and half a tea- spoonful of pepper, and toss the kidney cubes in this till nicely coated. Melt 2oz. of butter or well clarified dripping, and when this is quite hot throw in the kidney, flour, &c., and stir it all over the fire till well browned, when you moisten it all with three pints of water; bring this to the boil, skim well, then add an onion stuck with a clove or two, half a carrot, half a turnip, and a bunch of herbs, and let it all simmer steadily (after re-boiling it up when the vegetables are put in) and slowly for two hours. Then strain it clear of the vegetables, add to it a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, and serve. If liked, the vege- tables can be cut into dice and served in the soup; but in that case it is as well to use two quarts of water. If the soup is liked of a dark colour the vegetables may be browned with the meat, and a pinch of sugar may also be added; in this case the vegetables can either be served in the soup, as above, or they may be rubbed through a sieve. Mock Turtle Soup.—Bone half a calf’s head, re- moving and putting aside the brains. Blanch the head (from which you have removed all the bones.70 SOUPS. keeping the meat as whole as you can) for ten minutes in boiling water, then lift it out, ancl put it aside to cool. Now put into a pan the bones of the head broken up, a pound each of shin of beef and veal knuckle or trimmings, cut into squares, half a pound of lean raw bacon, cut up small, 5oz. or 6oz. of finely minced onions, loz. of celery, a good bunch of mixed herbs, and twelve peppercorns, and fry it altogether in 4oz. of good beef dripping till it is just beginning to colour, add two quarts of any common stock, with salt to taste, and bring it all to the boil. Skim carefully, then lay in the calf’s head and 3oz. or 4oz. each of carrot and turnip cut up ; bring it again to the boil, then draw it to the side of the stove and let it simmer gently but steadily for three hours, after which strain off the stock and put the head itself into the larder between two plates weighted to press. When the stock is cold skim off all the fat, and clarify it with egg shells and whites and a few ounces of raw veal; now strain it off, and serve with little rounds cut from the gristly part of the head, tiny veal forcemeat balls fried, and a small glassful of marsala. To this some people also add egg balls made thus: Pound the hard-boiled yolks of three eggs with salt, cayenne, and the raw whites of one or two to a smooth paste; roll this into little balls, flour and fry them a golden brown. Drain well and use. These balls may also be boiled for two minutes in salted water. Mulligataivny Soup.—For this take about three to four pints of any good second stock (unless preparing special Indian, or the clear mulligatawny, it is a pityBROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 71 to use any very first-rate stock, as the condiments added to it would destroy its flavour at any rate), made from bones, chicken giblets, bacon rinds, two or three onions (one stuck with a clove) a carrot, and a good bunch of herbs, to which you may, if you like, add a teaspoonful of Liebig’s beef extract, and strain, cool, and skim well. Now put into a basin two tablespoonfuls of fresh grated cocoanut (or the desiccated will do), and the same of freshly ground almonds, and pour on to this a short half pint of boiling water, cover the basin with a saucer or a thick cloth, and let the nuts steep; melt l|oz. of butter in a good-sized stewpan, and lay into it 2oz. of finely minced shallots, or common onions, and a small clove of garlic, and fry these very gently till they begin to colour, when you add two table- spoonfuls of mulligatawny paste, or one of the paste and one of the curry, together with a dessert- spoonful of fine rice flour (or creme de riz), and stir it slowly over the fire with a wooden spoon, keeping it steadily, but gently, cooking for seven or eight minutes, adding a little more butter if it gets too dry. At this point put in a gill of the stock, and stir it all well into the mixture, incorporating it care- fully, adding mure and more stock as the previous quantity is worked in, till you have put in all the stock; then bring it all sharply to the boil, skim well, and let it simmer from fifteen to twenty minutes, when you strain and thicken it carefully with brown roux (Hoz. of flour cooked till smooth and coloured with loz. of flutter.) As was said before, it is better always to keep some roux, both white and72 SOUPS. brown, at hand, as either preparation, but the brown especially, takes some little time to prepare properly. When the soup is quite smooth, add the infusion from the nuts wrung through a napkin, re-heat almost to boiling-point and serve. If liked, the yolk of an egg may be beaten up with a gill of the soup, then returned to the latter and well stirred in at the last moment. Rice is of course served with this, and should be boiled in this way :—Put into a four-quart saucepan enough water to three-parts fill it, add to this the juice of half a lemon, and a dessert- spoonful of salt; bring this sharply to the boil, and when boiling hard drop into it 4oz. to 6oz. of well- cleaned rice, and keep the water hard at the boil, stirring the rice now and again gently ; when the rice has been on the fire for about ten minutes test a grain now and again, pressing it between your finger and thumb, till you find that the rice is tender through, though still quite firm ; at this point dash in at once about a pint of ice-cold water, and drain off all the liquid from the rice, returning the latter to the hot stewpan, shaking this well as you do so, then set it in a warm corner at the side of the stove, and leave it to dry, well covered with a clean cloth, gently shaking the pan now and again to separate the grains; adding in a few minutes ^oz. of fresh butter, and as this melts, the rice will fall from the sides of the pan. This drying process takes quite ten to fifteen minutes and must not be hurried. It is very difficult to make English cooks understand that rice must be cooked in an abundance of water, ’which must be boiling hard before the rice is added, thatBROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 73 must not be overcooked (in which case it is sure to he sticky and clammy), and that it must be dried as above carefully and slowly. It is for this reason one so seldom sees properly boiled rice on English tables, for in itself the process is childishly easy. You can make a very nice thin or gravy mulliga- tawny as above, but without the roux, or the egg thickening; in this case stir a little turmeric or saffron amongst the rice to tint it a little. Mulligatawny, Clear.—This is a very delicate soup, but requires a little attention to bring it to perfection, as it should be as clear as sherry, and about the colour of brown sherry, tasting decidedly of mulli- gatawny. To obtain this you must for this soup, use delicately clarified stock of first-rate quality, to the vegetables used in making which you have added the following condiments tied up in a piece of muslin:— ioz. each of coriander seed, and cardamums, joz. each of cummin seed and of fenugreek, a clove of garlic, twelve black peppercorns, a bay leaf, and the very thinly pared rind of a lemon. These must be put in as they are, without either pounding or bruising them, and the bag containing them must be lifted out of the stock directly the latter is sufficiently strongly flavoured. Just as this soup is to be served, add to it a very few drops of tabasco, or failing this a little Chili vinegar. It may be mentioned that clear oxtail flavoured in the same way with these spices is well known in clubs as potage queue de boeuf d V Indienne, and is deservedly jxjpular. Mulligatawny Maigre.—This soup can also beSOUPS. 74 prepared, either thick or clear, from either fish or vegetables, and is very good in either case. For the fish mulligatawny use a cod’s head and about a pound of fish trimmings; it can be made just like the thick soup given above, being careful as to the flavouring with vegetables, spice, &c. For vegetable mulligatawny use the bean stock previously given, taking about three pints of this latter (the recipes previously given are all based on the assumption that three pints of soup are needed). Now melt an ounce and a half of butter in a stewpan, lay into it 4oz. minced onion, and fry these to a pale brown colour, add a tablespoonful of fine rice flour and a dessertspoonful each of curry paste and powder (or a heaped tablespoonful of curry powder alone), fry this all together for at least ten or twelve minutes longer, then gradually work in the stock a little at a time, adding to it a tablespoonful of desiccated cocoanut or ground almonds if preferred, a tea- spoonful of red currant jelly, the juice of half a lemon, and if at hand a dessertspoonful of grated green ginger. Now bring it all to the boil, simmer it for twenty minutes, then rub it all through a sieve, re-heat, add the yolk of an egg beaten up with a little of the soup, and serve at once with rice. (I must observe that for these curry soup recipes I am indebted to Colonel Kenney-Herbert’s lectures on the subject of curries, &c., some years ago.) Oxtail Soup.—Cut up two tails into joints, and well dust them with flour; melt 3oz. of dripping in a pan, and brown the pieces of tail in this till nicely coloured, with a sliced onion. Pour over it all fiveBROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 75 pints of water or second stock, bring it to the boil, skim well, then allow it all to simmer, with a good bunch of herbs, half a carrot, a quarter of a turnip, and eighteen or twenty peppercorns, till the meat is thoroughly cooked, but does not actually leave the bones. Now strain off the soup, rinsing and setting aside the pieces of tail; let the stock cool, skim off all the fat, then return it to the pan, with a spoonful of mushroom ketchup ; let it boil for five minutes, again skim it, add the pieces of tail and serve in the soup, very hot. This soup requires very careful skimming to get rid of the fat, unless it can be left for a night to throw up all the fat to the surface. If, however, it has to be all made in the day, take some delicately clean kitchen paper, and drop this lightly on the surface of the soup, with- drawing it in a minute, when it will carry off a large proportion of grease with it; repeat this till it is quite clear. The same treatment applies to all soups, consommes especially. A delicious clear oxtail can be made thus : Cut the tail in joints, and break each of these by a blow from the chopper ; melt loz. of butter or well clarified dripping, and then fry in it 4oz. minced onion, three each of carrot and turnip, one of celery, and a nice bouquet ; when these begin to colour put in the pieces of tail, and again let it all cook till the meat also is lightly browned, when you moisten it all with a tumblerful of warm stock, and a sherryglassful of marsala; then let this all cook gently till reduced almost to a glaze, when you cover it all with more warm stock, or water, bring it gently to the boil.SOUPS. 76 skimming it most carefully, and when thoroughly clear of scum, draw it to the side of the stove and keep it simmering steadily for three and a-half hours. Now strain the stock off, let it cool, remove all fat and clarify if you choose, in the usual way, with raw meat and egg shell and white, strain, and serve when re-heated with neat pieces of the tail meat in it. The next day after this soup, the bones, clarifying meat, &c., can be used to produce a decidedly nice thick oxtail, in this way: Pour on to the tail, meat, <&c., together with the requisite vegetables, sufficient Avater to cover it all, and cook it till you have about one and a-half pints of good light stock, which you must let cool, and then free from fat. Meantime take 4oz. of the best part of the meat and pound it to a smooth paste, rubbing this through a wire sieve ; now melt ^oz. of butter in a pan, work into it |oz. of flour, let it cook together for three or four minutes, moistening it with the stock; work the meat puree into it, let it just boil up, then simmer it for ten minutes, and rub it all through a hair sieve. Warm up when wanted for use, adding to it a dessertspoonful of marsala. Potage a la Bonne Femme.—This is an entirely vegetable, but very nice soup. For it fry 3oz. or 4oz. of minced onions till tender, but not in the least coloured, then add to them 4oz. of sorrel leaves (previously well washed and picked over), loz. of chervil, and a nice lettuce, all finely shredded. Season with a saltspoonful each of salt and caster sugar, and stir it all over the fire for fully five minutes, then stir in a heaping tablespoonful ofBROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. i Hour, and again cook it for five minutes more ; now moisten it with one and a-lialf pints of equal parts of warm milk and water, bring it very slowly to the boil, then draw it aside and let it simmer gently for thirty to thirty-five minutes. Meantime beat up a whole egg with an ounce of butter, and mix it all with a gill of the soup, working it well together till the butter is perfectly melted. This is a point requiring attention in all cases where the liaison is made by beating up the egg with some of the stock ; for if not thoroughly blended, the white of the egg- will curdle when the soup is added to it, and spoil the look of the soup utterly. Now cut some thin slices of bread diagonally, lay three or four of these at the bottom of the soup tureen, pour the hot soup on them, and then stir in the liaison and serve at once. Of course, if liked, meat or vegetable stock can be used for this soup, but it is not in the least necessary. Potage a la Bourgeoise.—For this make some stock by re-boiling bones, meat, &c., used for con- somme, together with the well-rinsed meat used in its clarification; then work the vegetables left over from the consomme through a hair sieve, moistening' them as you do so with the strained stock, season to taste, re-heat, add a liaison au roux (i.e., flour rubbed very smooth and lightly cooked with a little milk), or an egg and stock liaison as in the preceding soup, and serve either with croutons, or if you like with the sliced bread in the tureen. Potage Camelia.—Have ready one and a-half pints of any nice giblet, poultry, or veal stock strained but not78 SOUPS. clarified; to this add two tablespoonfuls of finely crushed tapioca, let it boil up, then simmer it gently for twenty-five minutes, strain, and serve with a garnish of young carrots, turnip, green peas, and French beans, cooked separately, and finished with a little butter and sugar. Potage a la Creole.—Buy a medium-sized crab, and have it sent in uncooked but cleaned; break up the legs, but keep the body and claws whole. Put these into a pan with a bouquet (containing besides thyme, parsley, bay leaf and green onion, a spray or two of sweet basil and marjoram), ten or twelve pepper- corns, and enough second stock (either veal, poultry, or muttonsliank stock), to cover it all thoroughly. Bring it all to the boil, then draw it to the side of the stove and let it simmer for forty to fifty minutes, hi ow strain it and serve with the flesh of the claws and body, flaked with two forks into little pieces, in the soup. This soup may be served in two ways. One is to add a little marsala to it and send it to table with quartered lemon and cayenne pepper handed round as if it were a form of turtle ; the other and to my mind the most delicate, is to add a good glass- ful of chablis or sauterne and a delicate little pluche of tarragon, chervil, and tiny sprays of parsley. But this is simply a question of taste. Potage Elise.—This is an excellent soup to make after a dinner party, as the stock for it can be made with second stock from the consomme “perfumed” with the carcases, giblets, &c., of any birds used the previous day, and vegetables to taste, in the propor- tion of a full ounce each of carrot, turnip, onion andBROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 79 leeks, joz. of celery, and a small bunch of herbs to the quart. Strain this stock, and thicken it with a little flour and milk as described before, adding to it at the last a handful or two of sorrel (previously cooked in a little stock with a dash of salt and sugar, till tender, and then shredded), and some little flakes of the meat carefully picked from the bones of which the stock was made. Turn this all into a hot tureen and then add as liaison an egg well beaten up with a gill of the soup, and serve at once. Potage Jacqueline.—Have ready strained about three pints of any common light stock, and strain into this whilst hot, but not boiling, from one to l|oz. of arrowroot previously rubbed up smoothly with a little of the soup till it is as thick as good cream; now let it all just boil up, then simmer it for ten minutes, strain it, add to it spring vegetables cut into little balls and cooked separately (about a spoonful of these for each guest,) pour it all into the hot tureen, with the egg liaison beaten up with a little of the soup, stir it well together, and serve at once. Potage Puree Mancelle.—Prepare a good chestnut puree by shelling and blanching thirty to forty chestnuts, stewing them in a gill or so of stock, with a little butter and a good bunch of herbs, till tender enough to crush through a sieve, then moisten this all with sufficient game (second) stock to bring it all to a rather thin puree ; just boil up, add a spoonful or so of cream, and serve with fried croutons. Potage a la Mmagere.—There are really two forms80 SOUPS. of this—a more or less clear, and a thick one. Both are distinctly economical, as the clear one is made with the second stock from consomme materials, clarified, and served with tiny lozenges of carrot and wee Brussels sprouts previously cooked separately, and small round croutons, grated cheese being handed round. For the second form of this soup you take about a pint or so of the stock left over from the first kind, together with the meat used in clarifying it, add another pint of water, and after bringing all this to the boil, allow it to simmer together for two hours. Have ready minced 3oz. or 4oz. of onions, 2oz. each of leeks, can'ots, and turnip, loz. of celery, and a small bouquet; melt an ounce of good dripping (or butter), and fry all the vege- tables in this till they begin to colour. As soon as they reach this point add to them about a tumblerful of the hot, but not boiling stock, bring it to the boil, and then simmer it all till the vegetables are soft enough to pulp through a sieve. Now in a clean pan melt half an ounce of butter and stir into it half an ounce of flour, and cook them together for four or five minutes; then add the pulped vegetables, with enough stock to bring it all to the consistency of thin cream, again boil it up, and then pass it once more through a sieve. When wanted for table re-heat, and add to it a liaison made of one egg yolk carefully beaten up, with a spoonful or two of milk or single cream. Potacje de Navets au Sagoii.—Well wash a couple of spoonfuls of sago in warm water, then blanch and drain it, after which add it to about a quart of secondBROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 81 stock, and let it boil up ; draw it to the side of the stove till the sago jellies, when you pour it all, with some cooked and mashed turnips, through a sieve ; season with a little salt and white pepper, and serve with croutons. Potage Napolitain.—Prepare some good game stock, clarifying it in the usual way, or only strain dig- it ; then add to it some tiny queuelles made of scraps of game meat and some little rounds of breadcrumb, soaked in the stock fat and dried till crisp and golden brown in the oven. Potage a la Nimoise.—Have ready some nice fish stock strained, but not necessarily clarified, and beat up a couple of raw eggs with half a pint of the stock over the fire, keeping it stirred one way only, with a wooden spoon; slice down some white breadcrumb as described before, put this in tl:e tureen, pour the fish stock boiling on to it, then stir in the egg liaison, with some picked parsley, and serve at once. Potage aux Pates d'ltalie.—Have ready some nicely cleared stock, that made from beef and veal bones is best for this; cook 6oz. or 8oz. of Italian paste (the kind like little melon seeds is to be preferred) for about ten minutes, then throw them into cold water, drain well, add them now to the soup, and let it all boil up together for five minutes, then serve with grated Parmesan cheese handed round with it. The stock for this soup need not be very strong, though it must be nicely flavoured. Potage a la Portugaise.—Fry 6oz. of minced Portugal onions in lfoz. of butter till well coloured, then strew over them all a good spoonful of flour, G82 SOUPS. mix it well, and stir into it a teaspoonful of Liebig’s extract of beef, or a few drops of Maggi's essence, season with a little celery salt and a dash of coralline pepper, and pour on to it all nearly a quart of stock, bring it slowly to the boil, skim well, simmer it all for half an hour, sieve, and pour it into a hot tureen, adding as you do so the yolk of an egg beaten up and a spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. Potage Tomates.—Put a quart of tomatoes (fresh or tinned according to what you have) into a pan with about a pint of stock, milk or water, a small stick of celery, a good bunch of herbs, a small tea- spoonful of sugar and six peppercorns ; bring all this to the boil, then simmer till the tomato is quite soft. In another pan melt a tablespoonful of butter or well clarified dripping, and fry in this a sliced onion till tender, but not coloured, then strew in a tablespoonful of flour, and let this also cook without colouring. To this thickening, when cooked, add a little of the stock and stir it to a smooth mass, then add it gradually to the rest of the stock, &c., season to taste, rub it all through a sieve, re-heat, and serve with fried croutons and grated cheese. Turtle Soup.—This soup, made from the fresh turtle, is hardly likely to come within the ken of readers of this little book, but it is quite possible in these days to make a soup from the “ sun-dried ” or preserved turtle that will meet with much favour. This is to be bought in large semi-transparent flakes, rather uncomfortably suggestive, to the ordinary mind, of slabs of glue. It is, however, real turtleBROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 83 flesh, dried in the tropics and sent home in this desiccated shape. To prepare it; for one and a-half to two quarts of soup, take half a pound of the turtle, and soak this in cold water for three days, changing the water frequently; now drain and put it on in about two quarts of stock with (for this quantity), two or three strips of celery, one carrot, one turnip, one leek, two bay leaves, two or three onions, and a good bunch of herbs, containing besides the usual thyme, parsley, green onions, and piece of lemon peel, a blade or two each of sweet basil and marjoram; to this add two or three cloves, a small blade of mace, six black and white pepper- corns, and a Jamaica pepper tied up in a bit of muslin; bring this all to the boil, then let it simmer steadily for ten or twelve hours till the meat is well swelled, adding more stock as that in the pan reduces. When the turtle is cooked strain off the stock, let it cool, take off all the fat, clarify it in the usual way, and strain off through a delicately clean cloth. Now for each quart take one dessert- spoonful of best arrowroot, and mix this very smoothly with a wineglassful of sherry, then bring the stock to the boil, add in the arrowroot, and stir it all together till it boils again; now lift the turtle out of the vegetables, cut it into inch squares, rinse these in a little warm water, and add it to the boiling soup, together with a tin of turtle fat; let it boil together for a few minutes, then flavour it all with a squeeze of lemon juice and a little coralline pepper, and add, if liked, some egg balls (see recipe for this in mock turtle soup), and serve, with quartered g 2\ SOUPS. 84 lemon handed round. (This is Mrs. A. B. Marshall’s recipe.) When in a hurry a very praiseworthy substitute for ordinary turtle soup may be made by using the “ Sildeen ” soup, mentioned above, thus: Stir two good teaspoonfuls of arrowroot smoothly in two wineglassfuls of sherry, add a few drops of lemon or lime juice, and a dash of coralline pepper, and mix it up with a one pound tin or jar of preserved turtle, cut up rather small; then pour on to it two bottles of consomme Sildeen, let it just boil up, dissolve in it |oz. of Mrs. A. B. Marshall’s leaf gelatine, and serve. The quality and purity of the gelatine used for this is a very important consideration.CHAPTER VI. BROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS.—(Contd.J As was said before, broth is, strictly speaking, a thick form of soup, almost approaching a stew in appear- ance, and is served with most, if not actually all, of its component parts sent to table with it, e.g., the well-known mutton, or Scotch broth. Naturally such broth is of a very substantial nature, and is practi- cally a meal in itself; it is therefore unfitted fdr use as an introduction to a proper dinner, but it is a most satisfactory dish for lunch, nursery or school- room dinner, and last but not least, always acceptable to tired sportsmen and travellers, who find food easier to assimilate in this semi-liquid condition. To its other merits it adds that of economy, both in actual expense and in trouble, and it would be well if a knowledge of its merits were more generally spread amongst the working classes in this country, who could in this way, obtain savoury and sustaining food at a price far below what they now pay for less nutritious, or appetizing meals. Barley Broth (or Scotch Broth).—Put into a pan 31b. of mutton (the neck, shoulder, &c., are most used for this, for which indeed any scraps can, if necessary, be utilised), with three quarts of cold86 SOUPS. water, lOoz. to 12oz. of pearl barley, and a good spoonful of salt; lastly put in a good cupful of white, or double that quantity of old green peas; bring it slowly to the boil, shimming it very carefully, to remove as much scum as possible; when it begins to boil up put the lid on the pan, but keep it lifted by placing a wooden spoon across it (in Scotland the “spurtle” or broth stick, is used for this purpose), and allow it to boil steadily and not too fast for an hour ; the superfluous grease and froth escapes in this way, and leaves the broth clear of the fat, which, if made in the ordinary way, is always an objection to mutton broth. When it has boiled for an hour, put in two or three small carrots and turnips, cut up into dice (or the carrots may be grated), and the white part of three good leeks cut into inch lengths, for each quart, and again let it boil for an hour till the vegetables are thoroughly cooked. Fifteen minutes before it is ready put a spoonful or so of nice parsley picked (not cut up) small, and serve, either just as it stands, meat and all, in the tureen, or if the meat has been cooked in the piece, lift it out, rinse it free from vegetables, &c., with a little of the broth, and serve it on a separate hot dish either with a little of its own broth and a garnish of soup vegetables, or with well-made caper or nasturtium sauce over it. In this latter case it is well to lift the piece of meat out of the soup as soon as it is done, and continue cooking the vegetables alone, only returning the meat in time to heat it thoroughly. Such is the Scotch way of making this most ex- cellent dish, though of course there are manyBROTHS. AND THICKENED SOUPS. 87 variantes to be found in the “ land o’ cakes.” For instance, this broth is often made of a piece of beef from the “runner,” or thin flank, and is quite as good, made in just the same way; or curly kale not too finely shred, and an increased portion of leeks may replace the carrots and turnips of the original recipe. Many recipes use onions instead of the leeks, but the former do not make as nice broth as the latter, as these appear to dissolve and blend better than do the onions, which, moreover, disagree with many people. Another point to watch is the barley. This mud be fresh and sound, and then no more requires washing than flour does; unfortunately this is a point on which cooks, English ones especially, are not sufficiently careful, and hence often arises the dislike to mutton broth ; for if the barley is not first-rate, it gives a disagreeable, “ glairy,” ropy consistency to the liquid. When beef runner is used instead of muttou, curly kale should always be added to this soup. Brochan.—This is another form of Scotch broth, little known south of the Tweed, but most decidedly praiseworthy. For this beef must always be used, but no vegetables save curly kale, and for some tastes a leek or two, while the pearl barley is replaced by a handful of good oatmeal to each quart of water. Both these broths, brochan especially, were always (and probably in many places still are) made of salt meat (that salted down for the winter), and this is held to improve the flavour greatly. In fact, to Scotch taste fresh meat would spoil this soup. It mav be mentioned that salt beef and mutton hams dSOUPS. 88 often form its foundation, and up in the Highlands “ braxy ” meat is considered distinctly the best for it. Brochan, it should be remembered, is never so thick as broth ; in fact, it is only slightly thickened by the oatmeal, of which there must not be too much. (These are genuine Highland recipes.) Bread Broth.—For this slice down as many slant- ing slices of breadcrumb as there are guests, put these in a well-scalded and hot tureen, and pour on to them sufficient stock to swell the bread and thoroughly soak it; cover down the tureen, and keep it hot till the bread is thoroughly soaked and almost, but not quite, in a mash ; then pour on to it sufficient stock to make it into nice, not too thick, broth, and to this may be added some of the vege- tables used in preparing the soup, cut in small slices or rounds. The stock used for this may be that from the pot au feu (this is a French recipe), or it can be the second boilings of beef bones used in making first stock, but anyway it should be care- fully freed from grease. A little grated cheese, Parmesan or Gruyere, may be handed round with it, and is a decided addition. (Whilst on the subject of bone stock, it should be borne in mind that not until a bone looks white, dry, and full of holes, is the nutriment in it exhausted, and though the stock from a third boiling of bones may not be very strong in itself, yet it adds a good deal both to the substance and flavour of soups which might otherwise have to be made of water alone.)BROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 89 Cock-a-Leekie.—For this beef stock should properly be used, but good bone stock will be found very satisfactory. Put into a large pan about two quarts of strong, well-strained stock, and put into it an old fowl trussed as for boiling (an old black cock or an old cock grouse id ay be strongly recommended for this purpose), and as soon as the stock boils up, which it must do slowly, add nine or ten good leeks, freed from the root and most of the green part (the finer the leeks the nicer will this soup be), and let it boil up steadily, skimming it very carefully. Season it to taste with salt and pepper, and as soon as the leeks seem to have blended with the soup and the whole has become of a soft creamy consistency (this will be in about half an hour), add as many more leeks, and let it all cook very gently for about one hour and a half to two hours. The fowl may be served in the tureen, either whole or cut into joints, or it may be served separately with white or egg sauce, Ac., as you choose. Leeks cooked in this way with the carcase of a fowl and then rubbed through a sieve make delicious leek soup. Formerly stewed prunes or French plums were served with coc-k-a-leekie as a garnish. Cottage Broth.—Cut half a pound of neck of mutton up into small squares ; melt in a dry, clean pan a good tablespoonful of dripping or good fat, then lay into it the mutton and its bones, and fry them till nicely browned, turning them over and over with a spoon as they cook. Cut up a carrot and a turnip into dice, and add them to the meat; next put in two or three large leeks washed andSOUPS. 90 shred, turning all these ingredients well over with a sj)oon as they are added; lastly add a full teacup- ful of rice well washed, a teaspoonful of sugar, and the same of salt, with pepper to taste ; keep turning this all over and over with the spoon for five minutes, then pour to it two and a half quarts of water, cover the pan, bring it all to the boil, and keep it at a steady simmer for rather more than an hour, when it will be ready. It may require a little more seasoning. This soup is equally nice if made without the meat, but in that case add another leek or two. Colberi Broth.—Blanch thoroughly in salted water the hearts of four or five good heads of endive, then shred them down and toss them in a little butter till perfectly soft; now pour on to them suffi- cient stock to moisten them well, thicken with an egg or two beaten up with a spoonful or two of new milk or single cream, and serve very hot. This makes an excellent puree if crushed through a sieve, thickened with cream and egg yolks, and served with small poached eggs, when it is known as potage puree Colbert a la creme. Curry Broth.—Boil the head and feet of either a sheep, lamb, or young calf, till quite tender in three to four quarts of water (according to size) ; leave it till next day, then carefully remove all fat about it. Lift out the meat, rinse it in a little stock, and after taking out all the bones, cut it up small. Now brown a sliced or minced onion in an ounce or so of dripping, then fry in the same pan two table- spoonfuls of curry powder, dusting this as you doBROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 91 so with a tablespoonful of flour, and a teaspoonful of salt; then add a dessertspoonful of lemon or lime- juice (or good vinegar), and lastly stir to it the liquid in which the meat was boiled. Add the pieces of meat, let it all get very hot together, and serve with rice handed round. A French way of serving this (which is in reality a Cape and Mauritian dish), is to toss the meat for a minute or two with the onion, curry, &c., then turn it all with some good rice previously cooked in stock, into a soup tureen, and strain the boiling stock on to it. For company, the fried meat, curry, &c., is moistened with the stock which is allowed to boil up, and is then strained on to the boiled rice only; but the homely way is to most people’s taste the nicest. Fish Broth (French).—Bring some good fish stock to the boil, then put into it the hearts of two or three lettuces, a stick or so of celery, a good handful of sorrel, and some chervil, all shredded ; when these are thoroughly cooked, beat up the yolks of two or more eggs with a little of the stock, let it thicken over the fire, and then add the whole of the soup to it, stirring it well together ; now pour it into the tureen in which you have previously placed some diagonally sliced bread sprinkled generously with good salad oil, or oiled butter. A more dainty version of this is prepared as follows:—Bring some strong fish stock well freed from fat, to the boil, then stir into it a good lump of curry butter (i.e., curry rubbed up till smooth with a little butter), allow it to simmer for two or three minutes, then thicken it with a liaison of egg yolks92 SOUPS. and milk or cream, and pour it all into the tureen on to some cooked fillets of sole cut up small, some turned vegetables previously cooked in butter with a little sugar, and a fair quantity of crayfish tails or shelled prawns, and serve very hot. Fish Broth (Scotch).—Make a good stock with fish heads and trimmings, together with one or two cheap whole fish such as haddock, whiting, &c., allowing a quart of water to each lflb. of fish; add to it a good bunch of herbs, a leek or two or a green onion or so, and some peppercorns, let it all cook till the whole fish are cooked, when they must be lifted out. Now boil the rest to a mash, then rub it all through a coarse sieve. Thicken if neces- sary, with a little white roux, return the whole fish cut into three or four pieces, or into neat fillets, to the soup, add a little picked parsley, let it all boil up together, and serve in a tureen. Friar's Chicken.—Make a nice clear stock of poultry carcases, veal trimmings, or mutton shank bones, and strain it clear. Now cut up a young fowl as for curry, and put it into a pan with the strained stock, and a seasoning of white pepper, a little mace, and shred parsley ; when the chicken is fully and rather over cooked, lift out the pieces and keep them hot, then thicken the soup with the yolks of two eggs, and pour it into the tureen with the fowl joints. If you fry the fowl joints till nicely browned, in plenty of butter, you need use no stock. Rabbits are very good cooked thus. Garbure Gratinee.—This is a very favourite, if homely, French soup, seldom, if ever, seen inBROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 93 England. Line a saucepan with some slices of bacon or liam, and lay on this some cabbages, halved or quartered according to size, and some dice of ham or smoked bacon ; add to this two or three sliced carrots and onions, and a good bouquet, and let it all cook very gently, moistening it with stock straight from the stock pot (for this you need not remove the fat) ; as soon as the cabbage is cooked, have ready some breadcrumb sliced and previously well soaked in boiling stock, and generously dusted with grated cheese (it should be Grruyere and Parmesan mixed equally) ; now take a casserole or fireproof dish, and spread in it a layer of the cooked cabbage, dusting this also with cheese, then a layer of the soaked bread, and continue these layers, strewing cheese between each, until the pan is full, and finishing with a layer of cabbage which must be even more thickly spread with cheese than the other. Now place the dish in the oven, or in a Dutch oven, till it is well browned all through (or gratine as the French say.) Serve it burning hot, handing round with it some second stock nicely strained, for those who do not care for too thick a soup. Green Pea Broth.—Boil two quarts of old green peas in water till tender enough to rub through a sieve back into their own water; meantime put a pint of young green peas into an earthenware jar with 4oz. of butter, the heart of a cos lettuce, two or three small cucumbers, sliced and freed from pips (the crooked ones unfit for table do nicely for this), eight to ten small onions, and a teaspoonful of caster sugar; stew this all in the oven till tender, when94 SOUPS. you mix it with the pulped peas, and let it all boil up together. Stir a spoonful of cream into the soup, with a dash of cayenne, just at the last. If old peas are not handy, make the first stock by boiling the young peascods exactly as you did the old peas; a spray of mint should be cooked in the pan with the young peas, but carefully lifted out before they are added to the rest of the soup. This soup makes a delicious puree, if a few of the young peas are kept back, and the rest of the peas, lettuce, &c., is crushed through a sieve with the original stock, it is then allowed just to boil up to thicken it, the young peas are returned to it, and it is served with little croutons of cheese straw paste strongly seasoned with cayenne. Green Pea Broth (tinned).—Fry an onion and a carrot, sliced or minced, in an ounce of butter, till lightly coloured, then pour to this one and a-half pints of stock; season to taste with pepper and a teaspoonful of brown sugar, and let it all cook slowly for half an hour or so. Meanwhile, bring a pint of canned peas to the boil, with a spray of mint, in a little salted water, and when soft enough crush them through a sieve, moistening them as you do so with the ready-prepared and strained stock ; allow it all just not to boil up again, stir in an egg yolk and milk thickening, and serve with fried croutons of bread or cheese pasty and a dash of cayenne. Hotch-Potch.—Of this there are two kinds—the summer (or spring) and the winter one. For the former take 31b. or 41b. of the best end of the neck •or the loin of lamb, and after removing all unneces-BROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 95 sarv fat, put it into a clean pan, with two or three carrots cut into dice and two more grated, two or three turnips also cut into dice, a small cauliflower, and a lettuce broken up small, five or six spring or green onions shred, a little minced parsley, and about a pint of young green peas. There should be a quart of the cut up vegetables, without counting the peas. Pour on to these two quarts of water or thin second poultry or mutton-bone stock, and after bringing it to the boil, let it simmer steadily at the side of ilie fire for an hour and a half, then lift out the meat, cut it iuto cutlets or chops, and keep it hot. Now add another pint of young peas to the soup, and as soon as these are cooked lay back the chops into the soup, let it all heat together for a few minutes, the a serve. The great secret of success in this dish is to have meat and vegetables alike both young and fresh, though you may vary the latter according to what is at hand. Asparagus points, young cabbage, lettuce, &c., can all be used most successfully. Por winter liotcii-potch use fresh beef or mutton, or equal parts of both, using sliced and grated carrots, turnips, and leeks ; a little before the soup is ready add some finely-shred German greens and parsley ; season to taste. This soup must not be as thick ar the spring hotch-potch, still a little toasted oatmeal, or a handful of whole peas boiled in it, is an improvement. Only for this soup the meat must be fresh. Irish Broth.—Melt an ounce of butter or well- clarified dripping, and in it fry 4oz. of shred leeksSOUPS. 96 till they begin to colour, when you strew in half an ounce of flour, and mix this well; now moisten it all with about a pint and a half to a quart of stock made from mutton bones (any not too strongly- flavoured common stock will do for this), and as this is cooking stir into it about 4oz. of mashed potato, season with pepper, salt, and a tiny dust of mace, and when it is all a fairly smooth pulp work into it an egg yolk beaten up with a gill of new milk, and serve very hot. Fried croutons go with this. Julienne Broth.—Take equal quantities of turnip, celery, leeks, onions, cabbage, lettuce, sorrel, and the red part of carrots, and shred these all into the well- known julienne strips; then put the onions and leeks in a frying-pan with a little butter, for a few minutes ; blanching the rest of the vegetables to- gether with a little picked chervil, in salted water for five minutes. Now strain off all the water from these, and put them with the leeks and onions in a pan with a pinch of caster sugar, loz. of butter and just enough stock to cover them. Let them all simmer together for two hours or so, when you add in as much more stock as you require soup, let it all heat up together and serve. This soup is of course, thicker and nothing like so clear as the ordinary Consomme julienne, but it is distinctly nicer and with a delicate vegetable taste only obtained by this method, which is the real French julienne. A few young green peas, and asparagus points, cooked sepirately, may be added to this, if liked. No wine. Julienne Maigre.—For this shred into julienne strips 4oz. of the red part of some good carrots, loz.BROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 97 each of turnip and leeks, two full ounces of onion, and l|oz of celery with pepper and salt to taste. Toss these over the fire in 5oz. or 6oz. of butter, and when they are all nicely coloured add to them three pints each of the water in which haricot beans and lentils have been cooked, and let them simmer very gently altogether for four hours. Just as you are about to serve this slice |lb. of bread crumb, diagonally into the tureen, pour the soup boiling upon it and serve. A great deal of the success of this depends on the bean and lentil stock being clear and nicely flavoured. “ Kail, Scotch.”—This is really nothing more than Scotch broth, but there is an old-fashioned edition of it, said to have been the original “ kail,” celebrated by Sir Walter Scott (when “ the monks of Inisfail made gude ‘ kail ’ on Fridays when they fasted ! ”) The secret of this broth was that though the meat was omitted, the pearl barley was cooked in the water with the addition of an ounce or two of good dripping rubbed up smoothly with some toasted oatmeal; a rather generous allowance of vegetables being put in for each quart of water, curly kale or kail being specially prominent in the mixture for which the barley broth recipe previously given will answer capitally. Leek Broth.—Cut some leeks into inch lengths and toss these in butter or well clarified dripping, till well browned, then pour on to them sufficient stock for the quantity desired of soup, add some raw sliced potatoes, and allow these to cook till quite tender, but not mashy, in the stock and then pour it on to diagonally sliced bread and serve. H98 SOUPS. I Livonian Broth.—Blanch in salted water, then drain well, carrots, turnips, celery, parsley, leeks and onions shred into Julienne strips, allowing a pound of these mixed vegetables for each quart of stock (remember the turnip and celery should be in the proportion of 2oz. or l|oz. to 4oz. of the onions, leeks, and carrots respectively, with say foz. over for the parsley, to the quart of water); now add to these a couple of handfuls of blanched rice, and sufficient stock to moisten it all well, and let it cook till it is tender, adding more stock as required; when ready, stir into it a little boiling cream, with if liked, an egg yolk liaison (this is not necessary, though nice), and serve with fried croutons. Meg Merrilies' Broth (sometimes called Giypsy Broth.)—For this take from two to four pounds of trimmings, and coarse parts of venison, beef, or mutton, especially the shanks. Break up any bones there may be, and boil these all with two or three carrots and turnips, four onions, a leek or two, a bunch of herbs, and ^oz. of peppercorns, in three or four quarts of water, and after bringing it to the boil let it all simmer steadily for three hours. Now skin and cut down an old blackcock, half a hare, or a rabbit, a brace of partridges or of grouse, a pheasant or a fowl (in short, whatever comes handiest), cutting up all into neat pieces, rolling them in spice and flour, and frying them brown in a little dripping ; now strain off the stock, add to it the birds, with ten or twelve small onions, two or three heads of celery sliced, half a dozen peeled and quartered potatoes, and when it has boiled up add inBROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 99 a small white cabbage quartered, with salt and spice to taste. Just bring it to the boil, then let it simmer slowly and steadily till the game is all tender ; now add to it the pieces cut from the original meat and bones, allow these to heat, and then turn the whole savoury stew into the tureen and serve. A few mushrooms add immensely to this dish, which, how- ever, is really more of a rich stew than a soup, but is an excellent way of usin^ up all sorts of old game, for the greater the variety the better the soup. I have used pigeons, woodcock, snipe, old blackcock, fowl and rabbits, in the same brew, and always found it was appreciated. This is an excellent dish to send to the hill, in a Norwegian hot pot, or for a skating party. It was worked out from a second- hand version of the recipe given in Meg Dod. Potato Broth.—Take any bones left over from a joint, or trimmings, and if raw, fry them in an ounce or so of dripping, then pour on to them three pints of water, and after bringing them to the boil, let them cook steadily for an hour. Now strain off this stock on to six potatoes and three or four leeks, which have been parboiled, and then shred up thinly, together with grated carrot, season with pepper and salt, bring it all to the boil, and let it boil for an hour, stirring and skimming it every now and then. Crush the vegetables with a wooden spoon till the soup is thick (but do not sieve it), and serve very hot. Ox-cheek Broth.—Melt an ounce of dripping, and in it brown an ox-cheek and a few bones, cooked or raw, and broken up, then pour on to it three quarts h 2100 SOUPS. of water, bring gently to the boil, skimming well, and allow it to simmer till the water is reduced to two quarts; then add a teacupful of pearl barley, five or six good leeks, or, failing these, onions, a turnip, a carrot, and a good bunch of herbs, with salt and pepper to taste. When the oxcheek is cooked lift it out, cut off all the meat, and return the bone to the pot, and let it all cook till the vege- tables are quite tender. Then lift out the bone and the bunch of herbs, and either crush the rest all through a sieve, or strain out the vegetables, mince them roughly, as also the meat of the ox-cheek ; thicken the soup with an ounce or so of brown roux, return the vegetables and the meat to the soup, and serve. If made into a puree by sieving, a little of the vegetable must be kept back, cut into dice, and added with the meat to the puree as a garnish. St. Marceau Broth.—This is another form of the green pea broth previously given, especially if the ioundation is made of the peascods, as this makes a thinner puree ; it is all rubbed through a sieve, the peas kept back are added to it, together with some carefully stewed leeks cut into julienne strips, and some shred cooked lettuce, with a liaison of egg yolk and cream, the whole being served with fried croutons of bread, or preferably cheese pastry, strongly flavoured with coralline pepper. Sheep’s Head Broth.—To make this properly the sheep’s head (which should be large and fat), should be singed, together with the trotters, and both then soaked for some time in tepid water. Then clean it well, scraping both head and trotters, removing theBROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 10] brains, well washing and cleansing the head and all the gristly parts. The trotters should be split and the tendons removed. If you get the head, &c., from the butcher, however, he will have done all this for you. Now put a good cupful of pearl barley and twice that quantity of old and well-soaked peas into a pot with a full gallon of water, lay in the head, the trotters, and a couple of pounds of scrag of mutton, with some salt. Bring it all slowly to the boil, skimming it well all the time, and let it cook steadily. After it has boiled for about an hour add a grated carrot or two, a turnip cut into dice, three or four shred onions, and some parsley. It will now require from three to four hom-s more steady cooking, according to the age and size of the sheep’s head, remembering that the slower it is cooked the better will the broth be. The trotters will take far less time to cook, and should be lifted out when done, if to be served, Scotch fashion, on a separate dish with the sheep’s head. If not, cut the meat off the head and feet, and return it to the soup when to be served. But if economically minded, very nice brawn can be made of the sheep’s head. Soup Kitchen Broth.—The following excellent soup is “ lifted,” with an apology, from Sir Henry Thompson’s “Food and Feeding.” Take six pounds of shin of beef, cut the meat from it up in small pieces, and break up the bone. Put the minced meat into a gallon of warm water, and let it soak for two hours; then drain oft the liquor, and set aside the meat. Meantime put the bones on in another pan with another gallon of water, and102 SOUPS. boil them well for six hours, keeping the liquid always up to a gallon by the addition of more water as that in the pan evaporates. When cooked thus, strain the liquid and mix it with that obtained from soaking the meat. Have ready a puree of twenty pounds split peas, haricots, or lentils as you choose, previously soaked for twenty-four hours in cold water, then simmered very slowly for four hours, until tender enough to pulp through a wire sieve. Next mix seven pounds of fine or medium oatmeal very smooth with a little cold water, add by degrees two gallons of hot water, bring it to the boil, and then simmer it for an hour. Now add all these ingredients very slowly to eight gallons more of water, incorporating them well together; have ready, previously fried in a pound of lard or dripping, four or five pounds of onion, celery, and carrot, and when sufficiently tender, crushed through a coarse sieve or mashed down with a wooden spoon ; add this, with the minced meat, to the soup, with pepper and salt to taste; bring it all to the boil, and use. This will give twelve gallons of good strong broth. This makes a very strong, nourishing soup, and might well bear the addition of two or three gallons more of water, when it would still be a strong, nutritious broth.CHAPTEE VII. FOREIGN SOUPS. Having given some general account of the soups most ordinarily seen at British tables, it may be interesting to give a few, more distinctly foreign and national. As a matter of fact the name of these is almost legion, so only those known to myself are here given. Some of these are little short of stews, others again are clear; some are hot, some others are actually iced; whilst lastly, a few of the sweet soups, such favourites on the Continent, are included in the list. Beetroot Soup.—Well wash two large beetroots, and boil them in the usual way in their skins, till quite tender; when cold, remove the skin, and chop up the beetroot very finely with two large and previously parboiled onions; put into a pan three pints of bone stock weli seasoned to taste, add the minced vegetables, and bring it all sharply to the boil. When the vegetables are quite cooked, lift the pan off the fire, add a couple of spoonfuls of sour cream, and serve with fried croutons. This is a German form of the Russian bortsch. Bird's Nest Soup. - These birds’ nests are simply the nests of a particular kind of swallow, and if the104 SOUPS. real truth be spoken concerning them, are chiefly of use in the soup because of their gelatinous nature; for of themselves they have little, if any taste. Each nest prepared for commerce weighs about |oz., and one should be allowed for each guest, which, considering the price of each of these little pieces of gelatinous matter, makes an even more expensive soup than turtle made entirely from the turtle, and not as scandalmongers assert, on a basis of conger- eel stock. Soak the nests for twenty-four hours in cold water; if you are hurried use tepid, or even warm water, in which case the soaking time is halved at least. When you find they are swollen and softened, drain them on a clean cloth and care- fully remove all the little black spots visible on them (these are in reality stumps and bits of feather) with the point of a larding needle. Then rinse them in two or three waters, drain and lay them into boiling and well clarified chicken stock, which must not be over salted ; bring this all to the boil, then draw it to the side and allow it to simmer steadily for three- quarters of an hour. When just about to serve this, add a few drops of chili wme, or a dash of cayenne. The whole success of this soup depends on the stock used, which must be very rich, strongly flavoured, and absolutely clear chicken consomme. Bortsch.—This is a Russian dish, requiring for its perfection the fermented juice of beetroot. To prepare this fill a small headless barrel with well coloured and sound beet, peeled and quartered, cover them with spring water, throw a cloth over the open top of the barrel, place the latter in a105 FOREIGN" SOUPS. warm corner and leave it to ferment. At the end of eight or ten days cover the barrel and set it in the cellar. In a few days the juice of the beet can be strained off and bottled, the beet themselves being thrown away. Into a pot proportioned to the amount of soup to be made, put some knuckle of veal and some thin flank of beef (one part veal to two or three of beef), a duck, an old hen, 6oz. or 8oz. of smoked bacon eight or nine little cliipolata sausages (these are small, specially prepared, and dried sausages), two ozs. each of carrots, leeks, and onions, two or three parsley roots, and three or four cloves; now cover this with the fermented beetroot juice, bring it all to the boil, skim carefully and then simmer steadily till the various ingredients are cooked, re- moving each as it is done, till only the stock is left, which must then be clarified in the usual way with egg shells and raw meat, after removing all the fat. Meantime cut the fillets of the duck and fowl into neat pieces; the bacon into dice, the sausages after removing their skins, being sliced diagonally, to- gether with some dice cut from the stock beef; put all these into the tureen, together with two hand- fuls of cold, separately cooked, beetroot cut into julienne strips, and pour the boiling soup on to them. This soup must be crystal clear and of a rich red colour. This can also be served simply with a garnish of quenelles, or even pearl barley, whilst for ball suppers it is often served quite plain. Remember this must not be cooked in a tinned pot, or the colour—its great beauty—will suffer. Sour106 SOUPS. thick cream is often used to thicken this soup before pouring it on to the garnish. A couple of wineglass- fuls of this cream, which should be almost a curd, is enough for a good quantity of soup. This soup can be prepared in the same way, only using tench cut into pieces, and other fish instead of the meat, but must then be garnished with separately cooked pearl barley, the trimmed fillets of the fish, and a julienne of the leeks, celery, and parsley roots (together with some dried mushrooms), which have been cooked in the soup. This can also be thickened with the sour cream. Serve if liked with puff pastry croutons. Bouille-d-Baisse. — This is reckoned usually amongst the soups, but it is in reality merely a liquid fish stew. To have it in perfection it requires a quantity of fish not procurable away from the Mediterranean; still a very nice dish can be made with pike, whiting, haddock, small turbot, soles, gurnet, eels or eel-pout, carp, tench, perch, crawfish, and lobsters, using as many of these as you can. Where rock cod are available they are invaluable, as the proper dish is made in great measure of rock fish. The great thing is to have plenty of variety, and as fresh as any way possible. Another point to consider is the pan in which it is cooked. This should be a large but somewhat shallow one, and should be made of tin or wrought iron (the modern seamless steel would probably be the best), to ensure quick cooking, It must be served the moment it is ready for it spoils by waiting. To make it, put into the pan two large onions, eitherFOREIGN SOUPS. 107 sliced or minced, and pour over them a wineglassful of best salad oil, and fry till they are lightly coloured ; then lay on this the fish, cut into fillets or slices, together with a little parsley, a spray or two of garlic finely minced (of this the Proven9al cook is more liberal than northern tastes would approve), a slice or two of lemon without the pips, a tomato or two peeled and also freed from seeds, a bay leaf, a glass of light French wine, a few peppercorns, and salt, if necessary. Cover it all with sufficient fish stock (made from the trimmings of the fish, and the shells of the lobsters, &c., used for the dish), bring it sharply to the boil over a very fierce fire, and allow it to boil hard for ten or twelve minutes, by which time the stock should be slightly thickened and reduced a third part; now add a tiny pinch of saffron and a teaspoonful of minced parsley, and again allow it to boil up sharply four or five times. In the meantime cut some slices of bread, leaving the crust on them, and soak them well in the stock in which the fish was cooked (a little more boiling fish stock may be added to this, if liked liquid), then serve with the soup in the tureen, and the fish apart on a hot dish. The lemon, bay leaf, and the garlic, if whole, as is some- times the case, must be removed before serving the fish. To be made properly the proportions should be two parts sea (rock) fish, two parts fresh water fish, and one part shell fish, such as lobster, craw, or crayfish, & This is a Marseillaise recipe. Bourride.—Have ready some good and rather highly seasoned fish stock (the addenda given for108 SOUPS. the bouille-a-baisse indicate the component parts of this stock and its seasoning), add to this some egg yolks according to the quantity of stock (say four or five to the quart), and stir these into the stock over the fire without letting it boil, until it thickens ; then lift it off the fire, still stirring, and pour it into the tureen on to some sliced bread, add a little ayoli (sometimes called Provencal butter), made by pounding together some peeled garlic cloves, with sufficient oil added drop by drop to bring it all to a thick paste about the consistency of stiff butter, when you work into it, as you pound it in the mortar, a few drops of tepid water, and a squeeze of lemon juice, and serve. Clam Chowder Soup.—Cut into pieces forty to fifty good clams, and put these into a well-buttered stew pan with five or six onions blanched and minced, two to three pounds of potatoes (when they are three or four to the pound), peeled and cut into dice, a bouquet, a tiny blade of mace, a grate of nutmeg, salt, cayenne, and white pepper, then pour in sufficient fish stock to cover it all, and boil it up sharply ; then stew it for thirty minutes, when you remove it from the fire, pour to it a bottle of red wine, an ounce or two of white roux (or a handful of “ crackers,” i.e., thickish water biscuits baked till crisp), and let it all cook together for a few minutes longer, when you lift out the bouquet, stir in a piece of fresh butter, and when this is dissolved, serve. Clam Soup.—Well wash and rinse a pint of clams till free from sand; then strain this rinsing water through a very fine napkin to get rid of the sand,FOREIGN SOUPS. 109 and put the water into a pan with a pound of tinned or fresh tomatoes sliced, a peeled and sliced onion, a whole red pepper, two teaspoonfuls of salt, and the hard parts of the clams cut up small, and stew together gently for one hour ; now strain it to half a pint of new milk, ^oz. of butter, and 2oz. of finely crushed cracker dust, and stir it till it boils; then lay in the soft parts of the clams, set aside for the purpose, let these just heat, add more salt and pepper if required, and serve. The tinned clams can be used for this. A few drops of essence of anchovy are a great improvement to this soup. Gascon Broth.—Cut two or three cabbages into four, blanch and rinse them well, then tie up each quarter; now line a pan with slices of bacon, arrange the cabbage on this with some dice of bacon, some thin slices of veal or veal trimmings, and a few pieces of smoked ham. Cover this again with sliced bacon, and on this again lay some cut up carrots, onions, and a bunch of herbs, and pour on to it some good beef-bone-stock. When quite cooked, which it must be very slowly, cut some bread as given before for soup, pour enough of the stock on to it to soften and swell it, and meanwhile take out the cabbages, removing the strings, press them a little in a clean cloth, and lay them in a casserole that will stand the fire, dusting both it and the cabbage pretty thickly with grated cheese (equal parts of Parmesan and Gruyere), then put on this a layer of the soaked bread, then more cabbage and cheese and more bread, till the pot is pretty well full, finishing with a thickly-coatedSOUPS. 110 layer of the cabbage, and pour the rest of the stock to it. Set the pan for a few minutes in the oven, .and then serve at once. Gombo.—This is a kind of Creole broth, and is an excellent way of using up unproduceable scraps of eooked poultry, game, meat, &c. For it, cut up and season the meat, and fry it in plenty of oil or butter to a light brown ; add boiling water in proportion to the meat. Two pounds of any meat and bones, with half a pound of ham or smoked bacon, will do for a gallon of water, in which it must, after bringing it to the boil, be simmered for quite two hours. Then lift out the bones, add to it a quart of sliced okra or •a tin of canned okra (previously heated by immersing the unopened tin in boiling water), and let it all boil together for five or six minutes. To this soup you ■can add a pint of picked shrimps or prawns, or a •couple of crabs, a pod or so of red pepper, tomatoes, green corn, &c., in short, anything you like. It is like bouille-a-baisse, more a rich stew than a soup. A vei'y dainty kind can be made by using a young fowl, with a good slice (say 4oz.) of ham, adding to this, after frying it all a pretty brown, a quart of ■okras and two quarts of water, and let this all boil down to three pints. Ten minutes before serving pour into it half a pint of oyster liquor, and then add a score or so of oysters, just in time to plump these without actually boiling them (which would turn them to leather), and serve with plainly boiled rice. Ham Soup.—Cut up a pound and a half of fine •cooked Spanish ham, and pound it in a mortar,FOREIGN SOUPS. Ill moistening it with a little good first stock ; then add to it a good spoonful each of thick Soubise sauce and of Espagnole, and rub the whole through a sieve, moistening it as you do so with the quantity of stock required for the soup ; let it all boil up, then add to it a gill of Madeira (or sherry), allow it to simmer gently for eight or ten minutes, finish it off with a little piece of fresh butter, and serve with fried croutons. Hessian Soup.—Put into a pan two pounds of shin of beef cut up, one pint split peas, two onions, four carrots, six potatoes, and two heads of celery, all cut up, with some whole peppers, salt, and five quarts of water; bring this to the boil, then stew it steadily till the liquid is reduced to half, and then either serve it as it is, or rub it all through a wire sieve. Klodnik.—This is a soup much appreciated in Poland at the season when the sturgeon and the cray- fish, together with the young cucumbers, are in. For it take two good handfuls of the young green leaves of the beet, a handful of chives, and one of fennel; well wash and blanch all these separately in boiling salted water, wring them dry, mince them and place them in a silver pan with a short pint of salted cucumber juice and the same quantity of kvas (light Russian beer), and place it all at once on ice. Now cut two small fresh cucumbers and one salted one into dice after removing the seeds, and place these in an earthenware pan ; trim three or four dozen crayfish tails, about three-quarters of a pound of cold braised sturgeon also flaked small, six hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters and these112 SOUPS. again into halves, and place these, together with a pinch each of raw minced chives and fennel, with the rest. An hour before serving run l|pints of thick sour cream through a tammy, and mix it with the minced herbs, cucumber juice, kvas, &c., and when thoroughly blended add the other ingre- dients with at the last some well-washed ice cut into pieces the size of a walnut; taste it all, and when ice- cold, serve. This is one of the famous Russian iced soups. Minestrone.—This is an Italian soup, and really means little more than the superlative of minestra or broth; but it is stronger and thicker than the latter. For this chop up half a pound of ham, and put it into a pan with a savoy coarsely shredded, two or three handfuls of white haricot or flageolet beans, and a slice of fat ham or bacon ; moisten it all with about 2^ to 3 quarts of stock, and bring it sharply to the boil; keep it boiling for ten minutes. Then add some young celery roots cut up small, some more cabbage (three or four good spoonfuls of the shred vegetable) and about the same of haricot beans ; again let it all boil for about ten minutes, then put in a couple of smoked Milanese sausages, a handful or two each of young broad beans, asparagus points, and green peas, and lOoz. of rice, and let it all cook till the rice is done, which it should be in rather under a quarter-of-an-hour. At the last stir a good ladleful of grated Parmesan into the soup, put the vegetables, &c., into the tureen, and the sausages sliced, and pour the soup all on to it and serve. The stock for this need only be the thinnest of second stock.FOREIGN SOUPS. 113 Pepper Pot.—A West Indian recipe for this runs as follows:—Into an earthen vessel (a marmite or casserole), put, for every quart of cold water, three tablespoonfuls of pure casseripe (the prepared juice of the cassava or manioc), a handful of bird peppers (or cayenne), salt to taste, three-quarters of a pound of all sorts of vegetables (onions being pre- dominant), three-quarters of a pound of all sorts of meat cooked or otherwise, veal, fowl, pickled pork, beef, mutton, &c.~, according to what you have, and if liked a little rice; let it boil up and skim well, then when nearly cooked put in the flesh of a lobster or a crab, cut up small, and some hard-boiled eggs ; remove all the fat that rises, add more pepper or cayenne if needed, and serve in a deep dish. More meat and more cassaripe should be added daily, the pot being boiled up each day. The natives say that this dish is all the better if it has been kept going with these replenishments for months, as the pot gets seasoned and the whole stew becomes more succulent. In the West Indies okras, plantains (or bananas), yams &c., are all added to the dish. A fair imitation of this may be produced in England by stewing all sorts of meat well covered with cassaripe sauce, which can be bought in bottles, adding a few vegetables as you like. Treat it exactly as in the previous recipe, only remember it is more of a solid stew than tlm original pepper-pot, which is most like very thick Scotch broth. Puckero.—Put into a fireproof earthenware pot two pounds of lean beef, with a set of giblets, 6oz. to 8oz. of salt pork (or unsmoked bacon), and three hand- iSOUPS. 114 fills of well soaked garbanzos or chick-peas, moistening it all with sufficient water (according as you wish it to be soup or stew), bring it to the boil, skim well, and then draw it to the side of the stove. Let it simmer steadily for two hours, then add two leeks, some chervil, a large carrot, and a clove of garlic, together with either a cabbage lettuce, or a good chunk of pumpkin peeled and seeded ; at the end of another hour put in some of the little pork sausages known as chorizos, or another slice or two of highly smoked ham, and allow it to simmer forty to fifty minutes longer. Have ready some finger-long croutons, and place these in the tureen, strain the liquor ef the soup on to them, and allow them to swell; meantime set the vegetables on a very hot dish, with the meat, ham, &c., on the top, and serve all together. A few green, or two or three red peppers are a great addition, if added whole and stewed in this dish. Russian Nettle Broth.—Blanch five or six good handfuls of young green nettles, with a handful or so of equally young spinach, drain them well; toss a minced green onion in a little butter, then put in the nettles and fry them also; then rub the whole through a sieve. Now pour to it sufficient light bone stock, adding about a wineglassful of thickish cream to bind it, and serve garnished with quartered hard-boiled eggs. This is a favourite Russian spring soup, they holding it to be a most wonderful blood purifier. In country places at home, in Scotland especially, nettle broth was always used in the spring for the same115 FOREIGN SOUPS. reason, and made in much, the same way, using mutton broth to moisten it. Stcky.—This is the famous Russian cabbage soup, a dish eaten by every class in that country. For it the Russians use pretty much the same stock as for Bortsch, i.e., that made from beef, fowl, and duck, but for ordinary purposes good beef bone stock answers very well. Shred down a couple of nice cabbages and two or three minced onions, and after blanching and drying them, toss them in a little butter or dripping, or a few slices of not too fat bacon, then moisten with a little of the stock, and cook in this, adding a little more liquid each time that iu the pan has evaporated, till the cabbage is cooked; mix in two spoonfuls of flour, and try this also for a few minutes; adding a little stock gradu- ally till you have got the quantity you require. Let it all boil up and pour it into the tureen, adding little slices and cubes of the meat of which the stock was madn. A few carrots, leeks, and a little parsley may also be braized with the cabbage. This is only one method (and one of the simplest), of making this soup. Sweet Soups.—These are a form of soup seldom if ever seen in this country, though abroad they are highly appreciated, especially in summer, when they are often served iced. Perhaps a few may be found acceptable, and at all events would offer a little variety on the usual round of nursery sweets. It may be observed that many thin kinds of custard would, in Germany especially, come under this heading, and be eaten with rusks or zwieback, either i 2116 SOUPS. with or without thick cream. Most of the following soups would be the better for such additions, even when not specified. Apple Soup.—Peel, core, and quarter a pound of good sound apples, and place them in a pan with a. quart of water, the grated rind of a lemon, a few almonds blanched and pounded, a piece of cinnamon, a wineglassful of claret, and sugar to taste ; bring this all to the boil, and allow it to stew till the apples are quite soft; then add a little white roux or a thickening of potato flour, or ground almonds as you choose. Rub it all through a sieve, moistening it as you do so with half a pint or so of water, in which you have previously boiled the cores and peel of the apples (the quantity of this must depend on the consistency to which you wish to bring your soup). Re-heat it in the bain marie, and serve very hot, sprinkled with powdered cinnamon and sugar, handing rusks, or toasted sponge cake, with it. Beer Soup (German).—Bring two quarts of bottled beer to the boil, remove a little of the froth, sweeten to taste with brown sugar, add the rind of a lemon cut in fine strips free from pith, and a little stick cinnamon. Have ready some crisp, nicely-toasted bread cut in strips or fingers (or use zwieback); place these in the tureen, pour the scalding soup upon it, and serve. Beer Soup (Russian).—Bring two quarts of barley beer to the boil, with 6oz. or 7oz. of loaf sugar; beat up the yolks of six or eight eggs with a gill of sour cream, strain these into a large hot basin,117 FOREIGN SOUPS. work to them gradually the boiling beer, and serve very hot. Chocolate Soup.—Put into a pan 2oz. or 3oz. of best chocolate, grated or powdered, together with a stick of cinnamon or vanilla, as you choose ; pour on to it a quart of new milk, sweeten to taste, bring it all to the boil, and let it cook till the chocolate is all melted and the whole is smooth ; meantime, whip the yolks of four or five eggs to a stiff froth, draw the soup to the side of the stove, and when it has cooled for a few minutes work in the eggs sharply, and pour the hot soup at once into a tureen, in which you have already placed some nice sweetened coffee rusks. Chocolate Soup (Mock).—Brown 2oz. of fine sifted flour in the oven till of a rich chocolate brown (be careful it does not catch or burn), then put it into a pan with a tablespoonful of sugar, a clove or two, and a piece of vanilla or cinnamon stick; pour to this a pint of new milk, boiling, then stir it all steadily till it re-boils, being careful it does not get lumpy, add in egg yolk as in preceding recipe and serve very hot. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, with a little caster sugar, and drop spoonfuls of this on to the boiling soup a minute or two before serving it. This garnish may also be added to the preceding soup. Use vanilla sugar with the egg whites. Claret Soup, Icecl.—Boil 2oz. of sago in a pint of water till quite thick, like mucilage, then add to it a bottle of claret, two spoonfuls of sugar, and a little grated nutmeg. Stir it all well together, then strain118 SOUPS. it, and set it on ice or in a cold place till ice cold. (This is a Danish dish.) Danish Cream Soup.—To a pint and a-half of white wine add the yolks of four eggs, the strained juice of a lemon, half the peel grated (or rub off the yellow part of the rind on the sugar), and sugar to taste ; stir it all over a slow fire till it all but boils. It will be thick like custard, and should be garnished with balls of egg white as in the chocolate soup, or little puffs of whipped cream. Serve toasted sponge cake with it. Marsala Soup.—Put into a pan a quart of Marsala and half that quantity of water, and boil it all up together with a piece of stick cinnamon and sugar to taste. Cut some stale sponge cakes into fingers, roll these in sugar and set in the oven till the sugar spreads on them. Draw the pan of soup to the side of the stove, let it cool for a minute or two, then stir to it the yolks of f our eggs, scir it all till it thickens lightly, then pour it into a tureen on the baked cake. (This is a favourite German soup.) Bodegrod.—Draw the juice from a quart each of raspberries (or strawberries) and red currants in a jar in the oven, with half a pint of water, and when it is all extracted, strain it into an earthenware pan and bring it to the boil; (if flavoured with stick cinnamon, or vanilla, whole almonds, sweet and bitter, &c., let them boil up with it, but if esseuee is to be used do not add it till the last.) M'hen well boiled up add to it three tablespoonfuls of ground rice or fine sago, and boil for twenty minutes, stirring it constantly, sweetening it just at the last119 FOREIGN SOUPS. as you lift it off the fire, and adding the flavouring, if essence is used, then. It is difficult to give the proper proportions of liquid, as it depends greatly on the fruit. The dish should he as thick as thin custard, unless you serve it as a pudding, when it should be allowed to thicken up well. Serve with whipped cream. Sweet Milk Sotcp.—Of this there is a great variety, though perhaps the commonest form is this : beat up the yolks of two fresh eggs in about three pints of new milk, then stir this gradually on to a full table- spoonful of fine sifted flour, and stir over the fire, but without boiling, till it is all perfectly smooth and well blended. Now add to it a piece of thinly pared lemon peel, or one or two peach leaves, a salt- spoonful of salt, and sugar to taste, and again stir it all over the fire till just on the point of boiling, when you at once pour it into the well scalded tureen, adding to it as you do so spoonfuls of the egg white beaten to a meringue with a little caster sugar, and dusted with powdered cinnamon. This soup may be varied by the flavourings, or the eggs may be omitted, and the soup thickened with sweet and bitter almonds (loz. of the last to 4oz. of the former), pounded to a smooth paste, with a little milk to prevent their oiling, when they are worked into the boiling soup, and well blended with it. only remembering that after the almonds are added the soup must not boil again. Have some little rounds of fried bread lightly sifted over with vanilla or cinnamon sugar, and glazed, either in the oven or120 SOUPS. with a salamander, place these in the tureen, and pour the soup on to them. Sweet Rice Soup.—Wash, drain, and dry well about 6oz. of rice, then stew it very gently in three pints of milk till perfectly tender, for half an hour; now add 6oz. to 8oz. loaf sugar, and again stew for a little, when you pour it into soup plates, shaking these gently to get an even surface, strew on the top freshly pounded cinnamon, or grated chocolate, and serve icy cold, with, or without, cream, or a fruit compote. This is a Portuguese dish, and the great art is to get it soft and semi-liquid without being sloppy. Like so many of these sweet soups this is almost a pudding. Sweet Sago Soup.—Boil 6oz. or 7oz. of sago in water for a few minutes, then change the water, add more fresh and boiling, with a grain of salt, and sugar to taste, and let the sago cook till done. Now heat rather less than three pints of claret to boiling point, aud pour it on to the sago, off the fire, and serve, without returning it to the fh’e.CHAPTER VIII. ODDS AND ENDS. The only points remaining with reference to soups appear to be a few words on the subject of garnishes, together with some simple directions for soups and broths for sick room use. To begin with the garnishes. This is the tech- nical name for any addition made to the soup after it is finished, and just before sending it to table. Of the commonest forms, the pluche, or spoonful or two of herbs such as chervil, parsley, tarragon, &c., picked (or epluche) into tiny sprays (always used raw), and the crouton, both savoury and sweet, full descrip- tions have already been given. It may be added that it is far nicer to have the croutons crisped in the oven, in a buttered baking dish, after carefully soak- ing them in stock from which the fat has not been removed, than to fry them ; but. if the latter is the necessary method, be careful to have the butter, or dripping, used for the frying most carefully clarified, or the croutons will not fry a nice, even, gold colour, which is Ihe mark of perfection. Scraps of puff pastry, whether plain, or seasoned with cayenne, grated cheese, or essence of anchovy, make most excellent little croutons, whether fried or baked.122 SOUPS. Another satisfactory garniture can be made by rolling out this pastry very thin, stamping it out in rounds, and placing on half of these a little heap of any nice farce, whether meat or fish, or little cubes of cheese custard, or of plain Gruyere cheese previously marinaded in a little oil, covering this with the rest of the rounds, pinching the edges well together, and dropping these little rissoles into boiling fat for a few minutes till of a golden brown, draining them carefully (they will make the soup disagreeably greasy if this is omitted), and lightly dusting them with coralline pepper and minced parsley before sending them to table. Next to croutons comes the royale, or soup custard. This is very easily made. Season a whole egg to taste with pepper and salt, and mix with it a table- spoonful of either cream or strong stock ; strain this and pour it into any small mould, stand this in a pan on a piece of folded paper (this is to prevent the bottom hardening and becoming leathery), and pour sufficient boiling water into the pan to reach three-parts up the mould; cover with a buttered paper, and steam till firm. Let it stand till cold, then turn it out, and cut it into cubes, rounds, slices, &c., as you please ; rinse well in warm water before using these. Be sure the custard does not boil whilst cooking in this way, or it will curdle, and become watery and full of holes. If required (as for some of the soups before mentioned), to be coloured, make them with cream, colouring this red, green, &c., as needed with a little vegetable colouring. (But it can never be too frequently repeated that123 ODDS AND ENDS. colouring bottles are, like cruet sauces, a great danger to the inexperienced, for nothing betrays the inexperienced, or fifth-rate cook, so much as the abuse of either of these.) Young peas, or the green tops of asparagus, which are used for a garnish, are put into boiling water with a little salt, and gently cooked for twelve to fifteen minutes, according to size and tenderness. For vegetable garnish, such as julienne, &c., peel and cut the vegetables into inch lengths, then split these into tiny sticks, cubes, or threads, according to the use to be made of them ; blanch each kind separately, by putting them on in cold water enough to cover them, bring this to the boil, and at once drain it off, return the blanched vegetables to their respective pans, cover with a little salted boiling- water, or thin stock, and cook them till tender, when they are again strained, tossed for a minute, in hot butter, and then used. The recipe for cooking macaroni has already (like that for rice) been given in the previous chapters. Macaroni makes a capital and easily prepared garnish, whether left in two- inch long pipes, or sliced down into little rounds; or whether any of the various sorts of soup macaroni, made in the most wonderful little figures, be used or not. Macaroni when used as a garnish in Kngland, is generally rinsed before adding it to the soup to avoid the cloudiness it often causes, but unless the soup be tli ' finest consomme, it is better to put the macaroni in as it stands, and serve with grated cheese handed with it. The slight haze macaroni thus served gives to the soup, is abroad, looked onSOUPS. 124 as a speciality of the potage aux pates cVItalie. Beef marrow is used as a garnish for some soups, and it may be mentioned that for invalids, where allowed, it is excellent. Split the bone and lift out the marrow; throw it into lightly salted cold water, bring this to the boil, then at once drain off and throw it into cold water till needed. This, added to strong clear consomme, is most nourishing. All the above can be prepared by the plainest of plain cooks, provided she will take a little pains. The following, however, need a little (not much) more skill. The farce for quenelles is made in various ways. For instance, take 5oz. of raw chicken, veal, or rabbit, 3oz. of panade, one table- spoonful of thick bechamel sauce, |-oz. of butter, and one large egg, with coralline pepper and salt to taste. (If liked, a little chopped tongue, truffle, or pate de foie gras may be added to this mixture.) Pound the meat separately till smooth, then pound with the panade till they are thoroughly incor- porated, when you rub it through a sieve and work into it a tablespoonful of cream; shape it with two spoons as in the illustration, Pig. 3,ODDS AND ENDS. 125 and then poach it in a buttered saucepan in a little boiling water or stock. Another way, when you wish for slices of quenelle meat, is to put the mixture into a forcing bag with a plain pipe, and force it out in a long sort of stick, as in Fig. 7. This is poached as before, left in cold water till wanted, and when cold sliced as required. A third way is to break up the quenelle farce when ready, into small pea-sized shapes, and then roll these lightly into balls with your well-floured hands; but this requires great lightness and quickness of hand, or the quenelles will become stodgy. For fish farce pound first separately, and then together, 3oz. each of any nice white fish, and panade; now add a pinch of salt, a dust of coralline pepper, a saltspoon- ful of essence of anchovy, and one large or two small eggs ; mix, rub it all through a sieve and use like the other quenelle mixtures. Quenelle mixtures can be made by these recipes from almost any kind of meat. By-the-bye, herb farce balls, a favourite garnish for hare soup, either clear or thick, are made by taking little lumps of hare or veal stuffing, rolling these in flour, and then finishing them with one’s hands as described above for the pea-shaped quenelles. These are then either poached or fried, as you please. After the quenelles come profiteroles, a variation of the little cream-filled choux so dear to children. For these p ut £pint of cold water into a pan with 2oz. of butter, a pinch of salt and a dust of coralline pepper ; let this all come to the boil, then sprinkle in 2k)z. of fine flour, and mix it well over the fire.126 SOUPS. working it sharply all the time till it becomes very smooth and does not stick to your pan; then work in when it is a little cooled, one by one, two small eggs, and an ounce of grated Parmesan, with a good dust of coralline pepper, and work it till it will slowly slide back from the spoon leaving the latter quite clear, and becomes a firm elastic paste. Now put it on a well-floured board and break off little pieces, either rolling them into tiny balls, or leaving them in little rocky lumps, as you please, brush them over lightly with egg yolk beaten up with a little water, and leave them for twelve or fifteen minutes to stand on a well-floured baking-sheet; then bake them in a slow oven till of a nice golden colour. These little balls can also if liked, be fried in clean hot fat, and well drained before being added to the soup. Or you can wrap little pieces of gruyere, previously marinaded in a little salad oil and well dusted with coralline pepper, in tiny rounds of this paste, and fry as before. Be sure and have them very small. Lastly, there is nouille or nudel paste. For this work half a pound of fine flour to a stiff smooth paste with three or four raw egg yolks, a saltspoonful of salt and a dust of coralline pepper, with only just enough cold water to bring it to the right consistency. Roll this out very thin, and use in many ways; for instance, cut it in strips fin. wide by 2in. long, cook for twenty to twenty-five minutes in enough boiling milk and water or weak stock to cover them, then drain well, and place in the tureen and pour the boiling soup upon them. Or they can be usedODDS AND ENDS. 127 as tiny rissoles as recommended for the clieese paste or the profiterole paste. Lastly, to conclude as I began, it cannot be too strongly impressed on the inexperienced cook to practice due modesty in every form of her garnish and flavouring. Wine is a very good thing in its wav, bnt when you take soup you wish it to taste of the substance from which it takes its name, not to have your mouth and throat burned by the fiery compound so many cooks (aye, and mistresses too), believe in as “ cooking sherry.” If you use wine at all, it must be good, and quite as sound as the wine you place before your guests to drink. You need not put vintage port, or your finest Amontillado into the hare soup, or the consomme, but neither ought you to countenance the economy (?) which sends the corked bottles or the drainings of the long-opened claret decanters to the kitchen for culinary use. Excellent and sound wine, both red and white, can be bought at a price that compares favourably with the cooking sherry aforesaid, and will be in keeping with its constituent parts, without endan- gering the digestion of your guests. Again, lock the cruet stand out of your cook’s reach if you intend to have proper, unadulterated soup. That dear, good woman can never be taught the relative strength of Worcester, Harvey, or Soy sauce, and having spoiled her stock by careless cooking, is quite proud of herself when she has, as she phrases it, “brought up ” the flavour and colour of her soup by a copious admixture of these (in such conditions) deleterious condiments; and lastly remember thatSOUPS. 128 in no case should a soup be artificially coloured. Sue colorant, pastilles de legumes, &c., are all very well in their way, perhaps, but no self-respecting cook would use them, betraying as they do the carelessness and ignorance which has spoilt the tint and the flavour of her stock in the first place. By careful frying, with the addition of a little brown sugar to the vegetables, &c. in the initial prepara- tion, stock can be brought up to any shade required with perfect ease and no additions. A cook who cannot produce soup without these aids (?) is simply incapable of making soup at all, and the sooner she sets to work and learns the proper method, the better both for herself and her employers. A word or two with reference to sick-room soups, and I have done. Foremost amongst sick-room necessaries is beef tea, that stancl-bye of every nurse, even to this day, when we have at last learned that it is far more of a stimulant than a food. Yet there are very few people who really know how it should be prepared. The following recipes have at all events the merits of much using to recommend them, having been successfully tried over and over again. First, beef tea pure and simple. Take a pound of good beef steak, and free it from every particle of fat, sinew, &c., and then mince it as fine as possible; put this mince into a delicately clean saucepan, with a tight-fitting lid, together with two or three peppercorns, and a pint and a half of cold water; bring it all slowly to the boil, then let it simmer steadily for an hour, after which itODDS AND ENDS. 129 must be strained, and when cold carefully freed from the smallest particle of fat (the plan of using clean paper to remove the fat is most to be recom- mended for this purpose). It can then be re-lieated as wanted, and will be found light and appetising, sent to table with fingers of delicately made toast. If you wish to add to the value of your beef tea, use stock made from beef bones (but no vegetables without the doctor’s orders), carefully strained and freed from fat, instead of the cold water. Abroad a handful of rice is, when allowed, cooked with beef tea, and adds much to its nutritive powers. Beef Tea in Haste.—If in a hurry, beef tea can be made thus : Scrape with a blunt knife all the pulp from 4oz. to 6oz. of raw lean steak, and pour a gill of cold water on to this pulp ; let it steep for ten or twelve minutes, then bring it slowly to the boil, over a gentle fire, and continue to simmer it steadily, but quietly, for fifteen minutes; now strain it well, remove the fat with a bit of paper, add a little salt, and send up with strips of dry toast. Cut a pound of good lean beef up small, and place it in a jar with a tight-fitting cover, add to it a small pinch of salt, and three- quarters of a pint of cold water; close the jar down tightly and set it in the oven, and in an hour you will have a good cupful of beef tea. The beef will stand a second supply of water, but the result will of course not be so strong as in the first case. But remember, though you may add a second lot of water, you must never add fresh meat to it. KSOUPS. 130 Essence of Beef.—For this scrape the beef as before, quite free from all fat, skin, or fibre, and place this pulp in a jar, standing the latter either in the bain-marie, or in another pan three parts its depth full of boiling water; add a pinch of salt to the meat and let it stand in the bain-marie till all its juice is extracted. Put no water with it. Essence of Meat.—Take equal parts of veal and beef, carefully freed from the slightest particle of fat or sinew, and put it in a jar without any water, and a little salt, if allowed; cover it down very closely and let it stand on the hot plate and simmer (not boil) for four or five hours, till every drop of juice is extracted from the meat, then skim off the fat very carefully. A spoonful of this juice is sufficient at a time, as it is very strong. N.B.—Use two or three pounds of each kind of meat, for it takes a good bit to produce a fair amount of meat juice. Raiv Beef Tea.—(This is invaluable in cases of extreme exhaustion, as in typhoid fever.) Scrape an ounce of lean beef to a pulp, then pour to it a good tablespoonful of cold water, cover the cup, and let the mixture stand for twelve or fifteen minutes. Give this in teaspoonfuls, being careful not to let the patient see it, as its appearance is not appetising. This is better made in the quantities given above, as it should be given fresh. Chicken Broth.—Remove the fillets from a well cleansed fowl (these can be used for other purposes), and break or chop the rest of the carcase small, carefully rinsing any portions that are not perfectly clean, and remove any fat, though the skin can131 ODDS AND ENDS. be left. The well-washed and scraped giblets should be added to the carcase. Place all this in a rather deep pan, add a little salt, and cover it all well with cold water. Put the lid on the pan, and bring the stock to the boil, skimming it carefully as long as any scum rises, then when it looks quite clear allow it to simmer steadily but slowly for four or five hours, till all the goodness is extracted. Now strain through a clean fine napkin, and put it aside till cold, when the fat must be entirely removed. It can be served as it is now, with (if allowed) a little minced parsley scattered in it; or it maybe thickened with a little arrowroot (rubbed smooth in a little cold water, then boiled in the soup for ten minutes), or tapioca (bring the stock to the boil, sprinkle in a little tapioca, and cook it all for ten minutes, or till the tapioca looks clear), or, if liked, a little rice can be boiled till tender in the soup. If liked, some shreds of the chicken may be taken from the carcase and heated in the soup for a few minutes before serving. This is a nice addition when rice is used. Essence of chicken can be made precisely like essence of beef, and, like it, will take from five to six or seven hours to make. Lastly, there is a wonderful restorative broth (originally derived from a French source), which like many other of the preceding recipes, has been given in the columns of The Queen. Slice some onions into ^in. slices, and line the bottom of a three-quart stewpan with a layer of these slices, fitting them closely, but never permitting them to overlap ; on this place a layer of fat baconSOUPS. 132 scrupulously freed from rind, rust, &c; on this a layer of carrot, put in exactly as the sliced onion was. On the top of this place two pounds of good beef steak, freed from fat, skin, gristle, &c., and cut into cubes the size of a hazel nut. Season all this with three or four sprays of parsley and one of thyme both very finely minced, a small handful of salt (be careful with this as more salt can always be added if required), about the same of whole peppers, and two or three cloves. Lastly, pack in a calf’s foot, well cleansed, and broken into small pieces, press the whole down as closely and firmly as you can, and put on the lid, weighting it into position. Set the pot on a clear smokeless fire, seeing that no flames rise up the sides of the pan (a gas ring is really the best for this purpose), and let it cook steadily for ten minutes, when it should give out a strong rich smell; still leave it on the fire, and in another ten minutes or so, it will smell as if it were burning. At this point pour in quickly, enough absolutely boiling water to cover the calf’s foot to quite half an inch in depth, re-cover the pan and allow it all to cook steadily for twenty minutes or so longer. Then strain it into an earthenware basin, and leave it till it has jellied, when all the fat can be removed. It will be a not very stiff jelly, of a bright, clear, sherry colour. Use hot or cold. If the pot with the meat &c., is again filled up to the top with boiling water, it will, if cooked steadily for two or three hours, yield another quart of excellent stock, though naturally not so strong as the first brew.ODDS AND ENDS. 133 One word in conclusion. When cooking for invalids, do not make the mistake of attempting to use inferior meat, or of “ saving trouble.” If any good is to be done, the sick-room attendant must give of her very best, both in material and. in work, and the success of her efforts will once more show the truth of the old saw that “ the longest way round is often the shortest road home ! ” Emphatically is this the case with the restorative mixture above given, as from long experience I know that only strict ad- herence to every detail, however apparently unim- portant, will produce the desired result, which, if properly made, is about the strongest restorative mixture to be found in the nurse’s list.INDEX. Beef marrow, to cook, 124. „ tea, 128. „ „ in haste, 129. „ „ raw, 130. Bisque, 13, 32, 37. Bouquet garni, 12. Bread for soup, 38, 64. „ quenelles, 20. Broths— To make, 3, 61, 85. Barley (Scotch), 85. Bread, 87. Broehan, 87. Chicken (sick room), 130. Cock-a-leekie, 89. Colbert (chicory), 90. Cottage, 89. Curry, 90. ,, and rice, 91. Fish (French), 91. „ (Scotch), 92. Friar’s chicken, 92. Garbure gratine, 92. Green pea, 93. „ „ (turned), 94. Hotch-potch (summer), 94. Broths (Continued)— Hotch-potch (winter), 95. Irish broth, 96. Julienne gras, 96. ,, maigre, 96. “ Kail ” Scotch, 97. Leek,97. Livonian, 98. Meg Merrilies, 98. Potato, 99. Oxcheek, 99. St. Marceau, 100. Sheep’s head, 100. Soup kitchen, 101. Consommes— To make, 2, 5, 11. A l’Alexandra, 23. „ l’Andalouse, 24. ,, aux abatis, 66. „ la Baviere, 24. „ „ bourgeoise, 17. ,, ,, Brabamjonne, 24. „ ,, Brunoise, 24. ,, ,, Celestine, 24. ,, ,. Chasseur, 24. ,, ,, Chiffonade, 24. „ „ Christine, 24.SOUPS. 136 Consommes (Continued)— A la Christophe Colomb, 24. ,, „ Clermont, 24. ,, „ Cock-a-leekie, 24. ,, „ Colbert, 24. „ „ Condorcet, 25. „ „ Creci, 25. „ „ Crobte-au-pot, 25. „ „ Crissy, 25. „ „ D’Artois, 25. ,, „ D’Esclignac, 25. „ „ D’Orleans, 25. „ „ D’Orsay, 25. ,, „ Due de Norfolk, 26. „ ,, „ ,» York, 26. „ „ Ducbesse, 25. „ ,, Dufferin, 26. „ „ Dustan, 26. „ „ Fermiere, 17. „ „ Fleury, 26. „ „ Florentin, 26. ,, „ Franchise, 26. ,, „ Garbure, 26. ,, „ Gervaise, 26. ,, „ Grand duchesse, 26. „ ,, Hongroise, 27. „ „ Imperatrice, 27. ,, ,, Impiiriale, 27. „ „ Indienne, 27. „ „ Innocent, 27. ,, ,, Jardiniere, 27. „ „ Jerusalem, 27. ,, „ Julienne, 27, 30. „ ,, Klondyke, 27. „ „ Kursel, 28. „ „ Lelie, 28. Consommes (Continued)— A la Marie-Louise, 28. „ ,, Massena, 28. „ „ Montglas, 28. ,, ,, Mulligatawny, 73. ,, „ Napoleon, 28. „ „ Napolitaine, 28. „ „ Nivernaise, 28. „ ., Palestine, 27. „ „ ?armentier, 28. „ ,, £?aysanne, 17. ,, „ 'j’etite marmite, 28. „ ,, Poissoniere, 28. „ „ Pompadour, 29. „ „ Portugaise, 29. ,, „ prince, 29. „ „ „ deGalles, 29. ,, „ Princesse, 29. ,, „ Printaniere, 29. „ ,, Printaniere a la Eoyale, 29. „ „ Eachel, 29. „ ,, Eegence, 29. ,, „ Somaine, 29. „ ,, Eosiere, 29. „ ,, Eoyale, 29. ,, ,, Eusse, 30. „ ,, Sarah Bernhardt,30. „ ,, Sevigne, 30. ,, „ Tolede, 30. ,, „ Trieste, 30. „ „ Trois racines, 30. „ „ Tortue, 83. „ ,, Valette, 30. „ „ Xavier, 30. Cremes, 33, 40, 42. Croutons, 19, 121.INDEX. 137 Egg balls, 70. Essence of beef, 130. ,, „ chicken, 130. ,, „ meat, 130. Fat, to remove, 75. Fish stock, 12. Garnishes, 18, 21, 121. Grand bouillon, 5. Herb farce balls, 125. Julienne, 30, 97. Liaisons, 3, 34, 8, 40, 49, 63, 76. Lobster butter, 45. Oatmeal, 87. Panade, 20. Partridge and mushroom puree, 35. Pea soup, 37. Pluche, 17, 78, 121. Pot au feu, 5, 9. Profiteroles, 125. Purees— To make, 3, 31, 39, 61,63. Of asparagus, 43. ,, „ k la Com- tesse, 44. bisque of crayfish, 44. „ of lobster, Castil- lane, 45. bisque of oysters, 46. Celeri a l’Espagnole, 46. of chestnuts, 46. Clavel, (Partr.dge S.) 47. Conde (Beau S.), 47. Conti (Lentil S.), 48. Creci, 49. Creme au celeri, 40. Purees (Continued)— Creme Creci a l’Alle- mande, 49. „ aux navets, 50. ,, d’orge, 50. „ a l’oseille, 48. ,, Parmentier, 51. „ au riz, 52. Duba.rry (Cauliflower), 52. Faubonne (mixed vege- tables), 53. Grenade (Leeks), 53. De lievre, 54. Mathilde (Cucumber), 54. Palestine, 55. Parmentier aux tomates, 55. de pois verts, 56. „ „ „ (dried), 37. ,, ,, ,, it 1 Alle- mande, 57. a la reine, 32, 33. „ ,, ,, Caroline, 57. „ „ „ Margot, 58. Soubise (onion), 58. aux tomates, 59. ,, „ et aux navets, 59. Velours, 60. Quenelles, 20, 124. ,, bread, 20. Restorative soup, 131. Revalenta Arabica, 39. Rice, to cook, 72. Roux, 64, 77. Royale, 21, 122. Scum, and skimming, 6. L138 SOUPS. Sievingandtammying,9,35,36. Soup, to clarify, 7. Soup meat, to cook, 5. Soups, Foreign— Beetroot, 103. Bird’s nest soup, 103. Bouille-a-baisse, 106. Bourride, 107. Bortsck, 104. Clam chowder, 108. Clam, 108. G-ascon broth, 109. Gombo, 110. Ham, 110. Hessian, 111. Klodnik (iced), 111. Minestrone, 112. Pepperpot, 113. Puchei'o, 113. Russian nettle, 114. Tschy (Cabbage), 115. Soups, Sweet— Apple, 116. Beer (German), 116. „ (Russian), 116. Chocolate, 117. „ (mock), 117. Claret (iced), 117. Danish cream, 118. Marsala, 118. Rodgrod, 118. Sweet milk, 119. ,, rice, 120. „ sago, 120. Soups, Thickened— Brown, or gra Gamekeeper’ Soups, Thickened (CcmhZ.) Giblet, 65. Hare, 66. Kidney, 69. Mock turtle, 69. Mulligatawny, 70. „ (maigre), 74. Ox-tail (thick), 74. „ (clear), 75. Potage bonne femme, 75. ,, bourgeoise, 77. ,. Camelia, 77. „ Creole, 78. ,, Elise, 78. „ Jacqueline, 79. ,, Mancelle (chest- nuts), 79. ,, a la menagere, 79. ,, de navets au sagou, 80. ,, Napolitain, 81. ,. Nimoise, 81. ,, pates d’ltalie, 81. ,, Portugaise, 81. ,, Queue de boeuf, a l’lndienne, 73. „ Tomates, 82. „ Tortue, 82. Stock, to make, 2, 4, 88. „ fish, 12. „ second, 4. ,, vegetable, 13, 14. „ white, 11. ,, pot, 14, 15. Tammying, 36. Vegetables for soup, 6, 41,123.Advertisements. IMPERIAL DAMASK Cm half a carrot, half a turnip, a small onion, green peas, a cauliflower, ^nd aX email of good mutton broth Cut the ll carrot, turnip, and onion into dice, and ; < allow them to {simmer m mutton broth | j til' tender. Cook a small cauliflower (< separately, drain it, and divide the flower j into pieces ; add to the broth, and then i stir in a gill of green pens, .upnnkio in N SiRNS, 21 OJ, ;oths. st'r m a gin or gmvu t ,, j a teaspoonfol of chopped par^ey iuet, . . . j-rirn before seryinff, and season well. bmaU ^|^[_| | | QQ ( rd Wear. CLOTHS, w Linen. TING, OCHE, URER, IIaT. chops off the neck may be cooked and served in the hotcb-potch if diked. OEiiNOR CAKB FOREloW mvu ijUUjiVrHU urrudihgir wajnditJ ittPT ATTENTION.Advertisements. FOR FIRST-CLASS JELLIES ALWAYS USE NELSON’S OPAQUE GELATINE.Tlje scries will consist of tlje following SOUPS. ICES. ENTREES, MEAT AND GAME. SWEETS. SAVOURIES AND BREAKFAST DISHES, VEGETABLES. TJwHvX.r CAKES AND BISCUITS. HOUSEHOLD HINTS. PICKLES AND PRESERVES.