22101442596 JOHN HODGKIN, F.L.S.I Med K9461 LITTLE DINNERSBY THE SAME AUTHOR. EVERY-DAY MEALS. BEING ECONOMIC AND WHOLESOME RECIPES FOR BREAK- FAST, LUNCHEON, AND SUPPER. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth, price 2s. 6d. “ A hearty word of praise must be givon to Miss Hooper's ‘ Every-Day Meals.’ The dishes are well chosen, the directions for making them are expressed in clear unambiguous language, and, as a rule, the recipes are of the best, without being extravagant.”—Saturday Review. COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Third Edition. Crown 8 vo, cloth, price 2s. 6d. “ The Author’s hints and instructions are admirable for their soundness and terse common sense. Her various directions for making gruels are simply perfect.”—Daily Telegraph. “ A handy volume, the utility of which can hardly be exaggerated.”— Court Journal. “ Fulfils to the utmost extent the promise held out on the title page.” —Pall Mall Gazette. London: Kf.gan Paul, Trench, & Co., 1, Paternoster Sq.LITTLE DINNERS HOW TO SERVE THEM WITH ELEGANCE AND ECONOMY BY MARY HOOPER PROFESSOR OF DOMESTIC ECONOMY, CRYSTAL PALACE SCHOOL OF ART, ETC. AUTHOR OF ‘COOKERY FOR INVALIDS,’ ‘EVERY DAY MEALS,’ ETC. SIXTEENTH EDITION London Keg an Paul, Trench, & Co., 1, Paternoster Sq. 1883.2z( 70$ WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. (37 [The rights of Translation and of Reproduction arc reserved.]PREFACE. Were it not that something new and useful remains to be added to the numerous manuals of Cookery already in existence, some apology for offering this little hand-book to the public would be needed. All young housekeepers, and, indeed, not a few of the more experienced, know the difficulty of getting up little dinners for five or six persons without incurring too great an expense, or too severely taxing the powers of the cook. Such dishes as the time-honoured cod and oyster sauce, the haunch or saddle of mutton, always costly, are now quite beyond the reach of persons with small incomes, and it has become necessary for them to find less expensive substitutes, or to cease to dispense hospi- tality at all.PREFACE. VI It is a great point, also, if little dishes can be served for family use instead of the waste- ful, extravagant joint, which leaves so much cold meat to be disposed of; for cold meat is not so nourishing as fresh cooked meat, nor when re- warmed is it so wholesome. One great drawback which many people feel to such substitutes, is the cost of the materials required; for cookery books, as a rule, speak so lightly of ‘ quarts ’ of cream, and ‘ dozens ’ of eggs and oysters, as to cause them to be given up in despair. But the following recipes are designed to show that no considerable expense need be incurred in making little dishes, and that the real secret of good cookery lies in the skill and care with which the most ordinary material is turned to ac- count. Many parts of fish and meat, although of prime quality, are unfit for perfectly plain cooking, are consequently to be had at a moderate cost, and may be made into elegant and delicious dishes. But supposing the question of expense to be satis- factorily settled, there will probably remain the formidable one—how to get such little dishesvii PREFACE. properly cooked. You will very likely be told that French dishes take so much time that it is im- possible to get them done. To this it may be answered that the days are of pretty much the same length in England as in France, and it is rather the patience and tact of our neighbours which are wanting in us, and which give them their im- mense superiority in culinary matters. It would, of course, be ridiculous to expect a cook to send up a dinner of many dishes in a totally different style to that to which she had been ac- customed ; but if she were allowed every day to prepare one or more of the dishes in the following bills of fare, she would soon grow used to a better style of cookery, and find no difficulty in serving a perfect ‘ little dinner ’ for a party. No doubt there is, as a rule, too great a pre- ponderance of solid meat at the principal meal of the middle-class family. A joint of meat with but a moderate allowance of vegetables, and perhaps a pudding to follow, is the usual every-day dinner. Now there are few stomachs which are not unduly taxed by the quantity of animal food required toVI11 PREFACE. stay the cravings of hunger, and it is beyond ques- tion that there are from this cause an increasing number of young dyspeptics. It is not, as has been said, a question of expense to provide a more varied diet. With management the cost is very small. Broth, with some such addition as rice balls, or any of the Italian pastes, a dish of tasty, well-prepared macaroni, of eggs, savoury rice, or even savoury oatmeal pudding, should always precede the meat when fish is too dear. Thus, by greatly diminishing the need of so much exclusively animal diet by providing fitting substi- tutes, the digestive organs and the purse are both saved. Some recipes for dishes which may usefully precede the ‘piece de resistance of a family dinner are given at the end of the book. So far from there being any real difficulty in procuring the morceaux required for the little dishes in the following menus, they are precisely those which may be most easily and cheaply obtained. But it will not do, if economy is an object, to order them from the butcher or fishmonger. Ten to one if they will send the weight or cut asked for, andix PREFACE. ten to one also if any other will answer. The Spanish proverb, 4 he who wants a thing goes for it, he wdio would miss a thing sends for it,’ should be borne in mind by all housewives and cooks. True artists are always most careful about the kind and quality of the material they use, and it is only by going to market and choosing for yourself that you will get the right thing. The system of ‘ sending for orders ’ is unknown in France. Everybody goes to market there, and here lies another secret of the national success in cookery. \ Certainly not the least important consideration is that of the relative wholesomeness of food cooked in what may be called the Anglo-French manner (real French cookery will probably never obtain popular favour with us) and of English cookery. For the first it is contended that it is light, diges- tible and appetitive, that it utilises every scrap of material, frequently makes comparatively insipid substances delicious, renders them far more nutri- tious, and is consequently more economical than plain roasting and boihng. There are few among us who cannot vouch for its being often so very plainPREFACE. X as to deprive meat, fish, and vegetables, wherever possible, of their flavour and succulence. It has been said when things are at their worst they begin to mend; let us hope, then, our culinary .miseries have culminated, and that, with the esta- blishment of numerous schools for cookery, a new order of things may gain ground. It is altogether impossible to overrate the importance of establish- ing schools of practical instruction which must have the effect of spreading a knowledge, not only of scientific, but of simple cookery, based on proper principles. It is scarcely second in importance to the foundation of a new school of medicine; for this could only aspire to the cure of disease, whereas it is the highest attribute of good diet to prevent it. A learned antiquary, Dr. Samuel Pegge, writing early in the last century, says: ‘ Cookery was ever reckoned a branch of the art medical; the verb curare signifies equally to dress victuals and to cure a distemper, and everybody has heard of Dr. Diet and Kitchen Physic.’ He goes on to say that in older times cooks were often physicians, and were held in high reputation even in Athens. Close uponxi PREFACE. our own times comes the practical and erudite Dr. Kitchener, with his testimony to the superior value of culinary skill. In his preface to the ‘ Cook’s Oracle,’ a book which in its time has been so useful, he says : ‘ If medicine be reckoned among the arts which dignify their professors, cookery may lay claim to an equal if not a superior distinction; to prevent diseases is surely a more advantageous art to mankind than to cure them/ To ensure the success of a dinner, however small, attention should be given so to arrange it that it shall not be beyond the resources of the cook; if, for instance, two roasts, a joint and game, are ordered, when she has but a single range at her command, one of the dishes will most likely be spoiled. It should also be borne in mind that it is often difficult, in some cases impossible, to keep a number of saucepans and stewpans all at a proper temperature at one time; and a lady should, in ordering dinner, consider the capabilities of her range as well as the capacity of her cook. No doubt clever cooks are great at contrivances and do wonders in emergencies ; but disappointment will, asPREFACE Xll a rule, be the late of those who trust to makeshifts in culinary matters. It will be observed, in the fol- lowing menus, that care has been taken to make them suitable, not only to small incomes, but to small establishments, and that they are so arranged as to divide the work between the roasting fire, the oven, and the stewpan. The number of diners contemplated is four to six. In case it may not be convenient to use any one bill of fare entire, a number of supplementary re- cipes are given, from which a suitable choice may be made. It is hoped that the novel plan of giving the '"recipes for each dish, together with the bill of fare, will prove useful, as it will enable ladies to see at a glance of what they are composed, and the method of their preparation. Eecipes are given for every kind of preserve, condiment, or flavouring used in the dishes. The attention of the housewife is directed, not only to the superior delicacy imparted to all sauces and sweets by such home-prepared things, but to their economyx\\\ PREFACE. and purity. To such little matters as these most housekeepers can give some attention. It were, indeed, greatly to be wished that the fashion of our grandmothers’ time would revive, and ladies vie with each other in the art of preparing delicacies for the table. Not until it does, not until a practical ac- quaintance with the culinary art shall be considered a necessary part of every woman’s education, will books or schools of cookery have any appreciable effect. It cannot be too strongly urged upon the ladies of the middle classes, that there never was a time when it was so necessary for girls to be in- structed in every branch of domestic economy. We cannot misread the signs of the times, or doubt that, unless the men of the next generation can find useful wives, matrimony will become even a greater diffi- culty for them than it is now. All knowledge and accomplishments have their time and place, but domestic management is universally required; and can any other study or accomplishment bear such abundant fruit or go so far to secure health, happi- ness, and comfort for husband and children? LetPREFA CE. xiv all be sure that she who in these days of expensive living shows how the best use can be made of cheap material, and who in any measure helps to revive what threatens to become a lost art in the home, does a work which far outweighs any within the power of woman. MARY HOOPER February, 1874.CONTENTS. FACIE General Remarks on Cooking and Serving Dinners . . 3 JANUARY. Calf's Tail Soup . PAGE . 21 Stewed Pheasant . . 26 Turbot a la Reine . . 23 Lemon Omelets. . . 27 Fillet of Beef . 24 Lemon Paste.... 27 Roasted Artichokes . . 26 Chestnut Cream , . 28 FEBRUARY. "White Celery Soup . . 31 Cauliflower au gratin . 33 Cod-fish & la Royale . 31 Roasted Hare . 34 Yeal Cutlets. . . . 32 Sultana Pudding . . . 35 Sauce Robert ... 33 Chocolate Souffle . , 36 MARCH. Chicken Giblet Soup . 39 Salmi of W7ild Duck 41 Scolloped Collops . . 39 Norwood Pudding . . 42 Rolled Loin of Mutton . . 40 Strawberry Souffle . 43 Glazed Onions . . 41 APRIL. Mutton Soup . . . 47 Spinach a la Reine . 50 Whiting a la Hollandaiso . 48 Fricassee of Rabbit 51 Imitation Dutch Sauce 48 Alexandra Lemon Pudding 51 Roulade of Veal . 49 Castle Cream 53CONTENTS. XVI MAY. PACK PAGE Macaroni Sonp . . 57 Potatoes a l’ltalienne . 60 Rolled Herrings . . . 58 Stewed Pigeons . . 60 Asparagus Eggs 59 Almond Cream. . , 61 Beef Cutlets . . 59 Orange Fritters . , . 62 1 JUNE. Lobster Soup . . . 65 Raspberry and Currant Tart 67 Neck of Lamb a la Jardiniere 65 Cheese Fond a . . . 63 Chicken and Onions . . 66 JULY-. Vegetable Marrow Soup . 71 Purdo of Peas 73 Salmon Cutlets . 71 Orange Pudding . , 74 Boned Shoulder of Lamb . 72 Snow . . . . • 74 Braised Duck . . 72 AUGUST. Clear Gravy Soup . . 77 French Beans Sautes . 81 Stewed Eels . . » . 78 Apricot Pudding . 81 Lamb’s Ery 79 Lemon Sponge . . St Neck of Venison . . 80 SEPTEMBER. Sorrel Sonp . . . 85 Brussels Sprouts . . » 88 Baked Haddock . 85 Victoria Pudclmg . . 88 Stewed Knuckle of Veal . 86 Lemon Cream . . a 89 Roasted Rabbit • . 87 OCTOBER. Veal Broth 93 Tomato Sauce . 95 Fillets of Cod . 93 Braised Partridges . 96 Caper Sauce 94 Custard Pudding . . < 96 Brown Caper Sauce . . 94 Raspberry Jelly e 97 Roasted Steak . . 94xvu CONTENTS. NOVEMBER. PAGE Mulligatawney Soup . . 101 Soles-with Oysters . . 102 Oyster Sauce. . . .102 Neck of Mutton a la Duckesso 103 Potato Croquets . Roast Wild Duck Lemon Pudding . Crfeme du The . . DECEMBER. Palestine Soup . . .111 Fillets of Sole a la Reine . Ill Stewed Beef a la Jardiniere 112 Pork Cutlets . . . 113 Jugged Hare Mince Pies. Tlie Mincemeat Puff Paste .... Tipsy Cake ORIGINAL RECIPES. SOUPS AND SAUCES. Soup Making . 121 Butter Sauce . Gravy Soup 122 Parsley Sauce Cheap Gravy Soup . 123 Brown Butter Sauce Ox Tail Soup . 124 White Sauce . Ox Cheek Soup . 124 Bread Sauce Soup Julienne . 125 Onion Sauce . Mock Turtle Soup. . 125 Apple Sauce Green Pea Soup 126 Horse-radish Sauce Hare Soup . . 127 Mayonnaise Sauce Glaze .... 127 Salad Dressing Brown Gravy . 128 Baked Salmon . Salmon Cutlet en Papillote . Fillets of Salmon with Potatoes Sole au gratin Sole a la Hollandaise Boiled Haddock with Mush- rooms .... Eels a la Reino ' . Baked Whiting. . FISH. 137 137 138 138 139 White Bait . . Potato Case with Lobster Scolloped Oysters . . Soft Cod Roe Fried . Cod Roe a la Hollandaise 139 140 140 Another Way . Scolloped Cod Roe Fish Balls . a PAGE 105 105 106 107 114 115 115 118 129 129 130 130 131 131 131 132 132 133 141 142 142 143 143 144 144 145CONTENTS. xviii MEAT DISHES. Fillet Steaks’with Potato Chips PAGE 149 Fillet Steaks with Mushrooms 150 Fillets of Steak with Fried Bread .... 150 Beef Olives .... 151 Rump Steak Pudding 151 Beef or Mutton Puffs . 152 Cottage Pie 152 Haricot of Ox Cheek 153 Ox Cheek Pie . 153 Ox Heart .... 153 Tripe with Onions . 155 Tripe Saute .... 156 Mutton Cutlets. 156 Neck of Mutton Cutlets 157 Scrag of Mutton a la Russe 158 Sheep’s Head 159 Sheep’s Head Scotch Fashion 160 Sheep’s Head a la Russo 161 Breast of Mutton 161 Ship’s Hearts Stewed . 162 Sheep’s Hearts Roasted 163 Mutton Pudding . 164 Devonshire Pie. . 165 Mutton Pasty . . 166 Breast of Lamb Cutlets . PAGH 167 Sweetbreads .... 168 Calf’s Head 168 Veal Cutlets a la Polonaise 169 Chump End of Loin of Veal 170 Rechauffe of Roast Veal 170 Fricassee of Knuckle of Veal 171 Minced Veal. 172 Potato Hash 172 Liver a la Francaise 173 Brains .... 173 Dry Curries .... 174 Pork and Kidney Pudding 174 Forcemeat .... 175 Sausage Balls . . . 176 Curried Forcemeat Balls 177 Forcemeat Pie . 177 Forcemeat Pudding 177 Forcemeat Balls for Soups and Garnish .... 177 Rice Case with Forcemeat,. 178 Forcemeat Rissoles 178 Rissolettes . 179 Quenelles . . . . 179 Patties .... 180 POULTRY AND GAME. Roast Game and Poultry . 183 ,, Braised Fowl . . . 184 Fricassee of Fowl with Button Onions . . . . 184 Chicken Legs en Papillotes . 185 Devilled Fowl . . . 186 Stewed Chicken Giblets . 186 Chicken Giblet Pie . . 187 Mayonnaise of Chicken . . 187 Fillets of Hare. . 187 CurriedRabbit . 188CONTENTS. xlx VEGETABLES PAGE AND SALADS. PAGE Potatoes au gratin . 191 Fried Parsley 194 Potatoes a la Maitre d’Hotel 191 Baked Mushrooms . . 195 Stewed Vegetable Marrow 192 Fried Mushrooms . 194 Vegetable Marrow Stuffed . 192 Stewed Mushrooms . 195 Stuffed Tomatoes . . 193 Salad 196 Puree of Haricot Beans 193 Tomato .Salad . 196 Stewed Celery . 194 Dressed Beet Root. . 197 SAVOURY MACARONI, RICE, OATMEAL, EGGS, &c. Macaroni au gratin 201 Hard Boiled Eggs with Onions 206 Macaroni with Bacon 201 Curried Eggs . 206 Macaroni with Onions . 201 Eggs aux Fines Herbes. ' 207 Savoury Macaroni Pudding 202 Eggs with Mushrooms 207 Macaroni with Cheese . 202 Ground Rice Dumplings. Sub- Savoury Rice Pudding 202 stitute for Potatoes . 207 Savoury Oatmeal Pudding . 203 Light Dumplings 208 Savoury Tapioca . . 203 Cheese Canapees . 208 Savoury Rice 203 Cheese Straws . 208 Savoury Bread Pudding . 204 Cheese Fondu 209 Fried Bread .... 204 Cheese Crab 209 Fried Bread Crumbs 205 # PUDDINGS, CREAMS, &c. Remarks on Pudding Making 213 Semolina Pudding . . 221 Whites of Eggs 213 Roderigo Pudding 221 Sweet Omelet . . 216 Sweet Macaroni 222 Omelet Souffld . . 217 Parsonage Puddings . t 222 Sponge Souffle . . . 217 Apple Charlotte 223 Queen’s Pudding . 217 Friar’s Omelet 223 Orange Custard Pudding . 218 Welsh Cheesecakes . 223 Princess’s Pudding 218 Hastings Pudding. 224 Rice Pudding a la Reine . 219 Rich Plum Pudding . 224 Plain Rice Pudding 219 A Nice Plum Pudding . 225 Rice Pudding . 219 Children’s Plum Pudding . 225 Apple and Rico Pudding 220 Carrot Plum Pudding . 225 Tapioca Pudding 220 Plum Pudding for the Poor 226 Rich Tapioca Pudding , , 221 Sauce for Rich Pudding 226XX CONTENTS. Brandy Sauce . PAGE 226 Rice Cream . PAOB 232 Sauce for Plain Plum Pudding 227 Rice a la Cond6 • 232 Fig Pudding . 227 Shape of Rice . 233 Fruit Pudding . . . 227 Shape of Ground Rice . 233 Second Day Pudding . 228 Apple Fool . • 234 Damson Layer Pudding 228 Apples a la Princess . • 234 Trifle .... 229 Stewed Pears with Rice • 235 Tipsy Dish .... 230 Apple Cake • 235 Lemon Jelly 230 Stewed Prunes • 235 Imitation Lemon Cream 231 To Boil Rice • 236 Bum Cream . Vanilla Cream 231 232 Boiled Flour. • 236 PRESERVES, EXTRACTS, SYRUPS, LIQUEURS, PICKLES, &c. Raspberry and Cherry Jam . 239 Curagoa . . . . 246 Strawberry and Raspberry Noyeau 247 J am .... 240 Crfeme de Peclio . . 247 Apricot Jam .... 240 Ginger Cordial . 248 Rhubarb Jam . 240 Cherry Brandy . . • 248 Red Currant Jelly . . 241 Pickled Walnuts 249 Apple Marmalade 241 To Pickle Gherkins . 249 Another Way 242 Pickled Onions . 250 Nutmeg Extract 242 Pickled Cucumbers . 250 Clove Extract . . . 242 Pickled Mushrooms . 251 Vanilla .... 242 Chutney • 251 Extract of Seville Orange Peel 242 Colouring. 252 Almond Flavour . . 243 Garlic Extract . . • 252 Extract of Lemon Peel . . 243 Shalot Vinegar . 253 Lemon Syrup . 243 Tarragon Vinegar . . • 253 Capillaire or Simple Syrup . 244 Chili Vinegar . 253 Raspberry Syrup , 245 Prince Alfred’s Sauce • 254 Cherry Syrup . . Raspberry Vinegar . . 245 245 Herbaceous Seasonings 254 INDEX 257GENERAL REMARKS ON COOKERY AND SERVING DINNERS 15GENERAL REMARKS OK COOKERY AND SERVING DINNERS. The great art of all cookery, whether of a simple or elaborate character, lies in making the most of the material under treatment, so as never to abstract either flavour o nourishment, and whenever possible to augment both. This, especially in the case of vegetables, is but little understood in England, where their use and value are, by cooks at least, so under-rated that care or attention in their preparation is not considered necessary. Thus from year’s end to year’s end the potato appears on our tables in no other form than plain boiled, to our great loss, for if cooked in any one of the ways in which fat can be em- ployed it is not only rendered more nourishing, but more digestible. Many persons with whom plain boiled potatoes disagree can eat them, if, after being half-cooked by boiling, they are browned in the oven or before the fire with a little fat. If, however, one proposes the use of a little butter in cooking vegetables one is accused of » 2LITTLE DINNERS. extravagance, yet people never consider how far more extravagant it is to waste good food by the careless man- ner of its preparation. Take for instance cabbage and greens of all sorts. Under the most approved treatment they are generally boiled with so much soda as to extract all flavour, leaving only a mass of watery pulp, which, if eaten with meat, destroys its savour and relish. The use of that inexpensive article a vegetable presser is compara- tively rare, and it is not easy to press out all. the water by any other of the rough and ready means generally em- ployed. Vegetable marrow, again, is, as a rule, so treated as to render it most insipid. The method of cooking most in vogue, of course, because considered the least trouble, is to cut the marrow in slices and boil them in water, with, if by good luck it is not forgotten, a little salt. In this way vegetable marrow is utterly ruined. The proper manner to cook it quite plainly is to prick it with a fork and boil it whole, and when done to cut it into quarters, take out all the seeds, gently press out the water, without breaking the marrow, and serve either with butter sauce or dissolved butter poured over it. A stall better way is, after preparing the marrow as above, to put it into a stewpan with a little butter, pepper and salt, and toss it over the fire for five minutes. Indeed, this simple saute of most vegetables is greatly to be recommended. Not to multiply instances further, the onion shall conclude5 REMARKS ON COOKERY\ the list of vegetable grievances. If you recommend the use of this wholesome nourishing vegetable, you are generally met with an expression of disgust, or an assur- ance that c it does not agree with us.’ But, why does it disagree with people ? Because it is generally only half- cooked, or in such a manner as to make it strong and indigestible. Properly cooked, onions rarely disagree with anyone, and are indeed in some cases very valuable for invalids. One of the best and most simple ways of dressing onions is to boil them in water with a little salt until so tender they can be pierced with a straw. They may be served thus as an accompaniment to almost any meat dish, or, when drained, may be simmered for a few minutes in a little gravy, butter sauce, or a small piece of butter with pepper and salt. When onions are fried they should first be parboiled, then no unpleasant con- sequences after eating them need be apprehended. The water in which onions are boiled should never be thrown away, it is a useful addition to soups and gravies. There is even more cause to complain of the wasteful treatment of fish than of vegetables, because the water in which the latter are boiled, with few exceptions, is useless; but the liquor in which fish has been boiled very often contains a great deal of savour and nourish- ment, yet is very rarely put to any use. It makes an excellent basis for soup, and when not required for this ourpose should be kept from time to time, and used for6 LITTLE DINNERS. again boiling or stewing fish, which thus gains instead of losing its fine qualities, as it does to a great extent when boiled in plain water. Warmed every day and put into clean vessels fish liquor will keep for a considerable time, even in hot weather. The bones of fish are useful for making stock for many purposes, and especially for that last mentioned. Soles are deprived of much of their flavour and are rendered dry by skinning; they should always be scraped. Much fish is wasted for want of the simple precaution of rubbing it over with a little vinegar ; it may thus be kept good for days, and by properly wiping can be used for frying. All white fish is improved by this treatment, a very little salt being added if for use the same day. We will but glance in this place at the great and universal waste of meat, the better plan being to show, as in the following recipes, how to economise in its use. As has before been said, the great object we have in view is to popidarise other forms of diet than that which is com- prised in the term ‘plain roast and boiled.’ In the former the waste is frequently enormous, especially in cases where (he cook over-roasts the joints for the sake of seeming to herself the perquisite of dripping, a perquisite, by the way, which no good housekeeper will concede. The cost of fuel for domestic purposes is now very great, and large fires are ■requisite for roasting joints weighing even eight or nine pounds. It is, therefore, a great point if dinners can beREMARK'S ON COOR'ERV. 7 cooked with less expenditure of heat and composed of less costly material than the aforesaid joints. As a means of effecting great saving in roasting poultry, small joints suck as loin of mutton, fillet of beef, or even a small Welsh leg of mutton, a shoulder weighing five or six pounds, &c., a kind of Dutch oven called a V oven, measuring fourteen by ten inches, is recommended. It has a sloping cover which is reversible, so that the meat can be constantly turned without being removed from the hooks; it also admits of basting with great facility. Any of the joints given in the bills of fare, as well as those mentioned above, may be roasted in this oven with a mere handful of fire, and will be found quite as nice as if done on the spit. These ovens can be procured of any iron- monger ; the cost is seven and sixpence each; they can be used with any kind of range. Anxious inquiries are being made on all sides for the most economical cooking ranges, and as to the comparative extravagance of the old-fashioned open range and the modern kitchener. It may safely be asserted that the former has no merit on the score of economy, and that it is not possible to cook by it so well as by a closed range. There are, how- ever, some people who say that meat is not eatable roasted in a kitchener. As the result of experiments it has been found that the best judges are unable to detect the differ- ence between a joint roasted before the fire and in an oven with proper ventilation. Everything, indeed, depends8 LITTLE DINNERS. on the principle of ventilation, and in this respect the plan of the first patentee, Flavel, of Leamington, has never heen surpassed. The great difficulty of introducing gas stoves into middle-class houses has hitherto heen the cost of the gas3 but Messrs. S. Leoni and Co. have now succeeded in obviating this difficulty, and their gas stoves, both as re- gards economy and efficiency of action, are deserving of all praise. It is always desirable to have a small gas stove in every kitchen, for occasional use when the fire goes out; it is also most convenient for any little experiment the lady of the house desires to make. Boiling meat is certainly more economical than roast- ing it, hut then there are only legs of mutton, pork and lamb, and salted beef, which can properly be so treated. When the broth in which the three first mentioned are cooked is used, and providing the meat has not to be eaten cold, there is much to he said in favour of boiling, hut in small families, or families with moderate means, these joints must now he regarded rather as a treat for high days than as daily fare. It must he understood that meat which has heen cooked at boiling point, instead of just helow it, has lost much of its savour, and is generally hard and indigestible. Boiled beef is so much relished by many persons that we hesitate to condemn it. Still the truth must be told; it is neither so wholesome, nourishing, nor economical, as fresh meat. All the juices are ex-RE AT ARKS ON COOKERY 9 tracted in the process of salting, and it is thus rendered hard and indigestible. The broth of boiled beef has no more valae than plain salt and water, ana it is a great error to suppose it will make a nourishing soup. There can be no question that stewing is one of the best and most wholesome forms of cookery. But English cooks of this generation have very little knowledge of the art, and such stews as they prepare are generally wasteful and indigestible. Two causes contribute to this failure. The want of proper utensils and of knowledge how to regu- late the temperature so that the contents of the stewpan are kept just below boiling point—or at that stage known as simmering. There are a number of pieces of meat now considered inferior, which, properly stewed, make exquisite dishes, and a good cook will send to table even the shin of beef as tender as a chicken. A celebrated physician has said that the action of the stewpan is very nearly like that of the stomach, and that it is a great gain when the first can be made to do some of the work often unduly assigned to the latter. The great French novelist, who finished his literary labours by writing a voluminous cookery-book, says, ‘ what would the culinary art be without the stewpui ? It is, without contradiction, the favourite arm, the talisman, the good fortune of a cook; ’ and he goes on to assert that the superiority of French cookery is due to ‘ the honour with which the professors of the art invest the stew-pan/IO LITTLE DINNERS. In large and well-appointed kitchens, cooks have1 every kind of utensil necessary for bringing- their work to perfection. In smaller establishments, however, the case is frequently reversed; and hence, no doubt, one great reason that our national style of cookery remains so bad. In many kitchens copper stewpans are not to be found, and it is impossible to make any good stew or delicate sauce in iron saucepans, which, from long use, or it would be fitter to say misuse, have acquired a flavour of their own, which they impart to everything put into them. An idea prevails that copper utensils are dangerous and poisonous. If this were the case the whole French nation would have been poisoned ere this, for the abomin- able iron saucepan is unknown amongst them. Copper stewpans are, indeed, dangerous to health and even life if kept in a dirty state, or if things are allowed to get cold in them. But these accidents are so easily avoided, or rather arise so exclusively from the grossest negligence, that they can never be urged as valid reasons against the use of copper utensils. The outside of a stewpan is easily kept bright by the aid of polishing paste sold by all ironmongers. As to the inside, if, the moment the pan is done with, it be quite filled with water and a little soda or sand, o'- even fine ashes, put in and allowed to boil awhile, it almost scours itself and will require little mors than wiping out. Iron stewpans lined with enamel are the best substitutes for copper, and in cases where it isREMARKS ON COOKERY. n desired to avoid the trouble of keeping things bright may be preferable. Broiling is an excellent method of cooking all small things which do not require to be exposed long enough to the fire to harden the surface. Few tilings surpass a well-broiled steak or mutton chop, and the only art re- quired to serve either in perfection is to turn frequently over a clear fire. A very useful addition to the closed range is a small standard let into a square hole at the back and pierced at regular distances for a gridiron specially adapted to it, so that the height can be most conveniently regulated. Thus things which require to be cooked rapidly at first can be placed on the gridiron either over the fire or in hole number four of the standard, it can then be raised and the cooking finished by changing the gridiron to number one or two hole, as the case may be. Great are the virtues and resources of the frying-pan ; by its aid alone a 3uperb dinner might be served. Yet vices, not its own, are often attributed to it. Meat, some say, is hardened in the process of frying, and one medical writer gravely says, 6 frying is the least eligible mode of cookery, on account of the animal fat, butter, or oil which are necessarily used in this process.’ Now when frying is properly conducted the fat in which things are fried no more enters into the substance of them than the water does into those which are boiled. It merely acts asLITTLE DINNERS. 12 a vehicle for conveying heat, and if of a proper tempera- ture (about 350) will never make anything greasy. Clari- fied ‘ pot top ’ is the best of all fat for frying, and clarified dripping answers well. A mixture of lard and clarified beef-suet can be used, failing these. In point of fact, things properly fried are not only very delicious, but as wholesome as when boiled or roasted. The great secret of frying well is to have plenty of boiling fat, and to immerse in it the article to be fried. A wire basket is most useful, as it ensures immersion and enables the cook thoroughly to drain away all fat. It is to be regretted that we have no English word which properly translates the French word saute as applied in cookery, because the distinction between frying as just described in sufficient boiling fat to immerse, and tossing or lightly frying in a little butter, would then be better understood. It is not always convenient or necessary to use a stew- pan half full of fat, and such small and delicate things as sweatbreads, brains, kidneys, and mutton cutlets are better sautes in a little butter. Any other kind of fat should be cautiously used to saute, as it cannot be drained away as in frying, and will therefore impart its flavour to the article under treatment. A word must be said in favour of macaroni, an article of diet somewhat neglected in England. When we remember that it is the principal food of a continental nation we cannot but feel surprised that it has had no popularity'5 REMARKS Oi\ COOKERY. with us. It is indeed only known to many people as a rich and indigestible dish with a tough covering of toasted cheese, and to others as a very insipid accompaniment to soup. Like many other simple things, potatoes and rice for instance, macaroni requires to be cooked with care and attention, and when these are bestowed it is not only delicious but nourishing. Excellent macaroni can be procured for fivepence a pound, and the best for seven- pence. An ounce is a liberal allowance for each person, whether as a sweet or savoury dish ; thus a good nourish- ing accessory to a dinner may be served at a halfpenny per head, which includes the cost of gravy, butter, or sugar and spices. Macaroni is not dearer in London than pota- toes, and contains more nourishment in a smaller compass. It can be dressed in an endless variety of ways, for which a number of good recipes are given at the end of the book, and it is hoped macaroni may soon become, as popular with all classes of the community as it deserves to be. It is to be regretted that the use of Hors d’oeuvres, even at our small family repasts, is so little understood. Many little delicacies of this kind are inexpensive, and often serve to stimulate the jaded appetite, and even when that is not necessary give variety to a meal and cause it to afford a satisfaction wnich is not without service to the digestive organs. A few prawns or shrimps, a dressed cucumber or saladLITTLE DINNERS. U with a minced anchovy, a mayonnaise of any kind of cold fish, a salad of cold vegetables with hard-boiled eggs, anchovy or caviar canapes, toast spread with potted meat or fish, grated tongue, or potted cheese may be used with advantage, besides a host of other excellent things to be obtained at good Italian warehouses. Next in importance to cooking a dinner comes serving it properly. No matter how well the cook may have seasoned her dishes, if they are sent up cold, or with un- warmed plates, they are more than half spoiled, and no matter how expensive the feast, it cannot be enjoyed un- less everything on the table is of spotless cleanliness. This principle, which must guide the service, will be the same whether the means of the entertainer are large or small. The tablecloth must be of good rich damask, fine, smooth and glossy. A coarse cloth cannot be made to look well, and will detract from the appearance of everything put upon it. The table should always be ornamented with fresh flowers, or, when these are not to be had, green leaves with a few bright berries or evergreens and everlasting flowers may be very tastefully arranged. If possible, one of the wine-glasses should be coloured, red or green for hock or light wine, the other or others, as the case may be, of pure crystal. It is within the power of most people to furnish their tables with the elegant clear glass now in fashion. That having a small engraved star is particularly beautiful, and it is well if water-bottles, decanteis.i5 REMARKS ON COOKERY. tumblers and 'wine-glasses can all be used en suite. A water-bottle should be placed between every two persons, or if the party is small, at the four corners of the table. The same rule should be followed with Gait-cellars and cruets. Unless the mistress has clever and trust- worthy servants, she should herself see that the salt is fine and good, that the cruets are all filled and in order, especially that the anchovy sauce has not become encrusted round the neck of the bottle, and that the mustard-pot has been recently replenished. Table napkins should be as fine and large as can be afforded, and be neatly folded, so as to enclose a piece of light bread or French dinner roll. It is proper to have bread or roll of the day’s baking, but staler should always be at hand for those who prefer it. It is as well to follow the old fashion, and especially in the case of having but limited attendance, of laying as many knives, forks and spoons as may be required—thus, a table-spoon for soup, fish knife and fork, large knife and fork, or two, dessert-spoon and fork for sweets, knife for cheese. The dinner a la Russe is an elegant mode of service for those who have a skilful carver and plenty of waiters, but should never be attempted under other conditions. A hostess is bound to see that her guests are well and plenti- fully served, and this first rule of hospitality mil best be insured if she herself undertake the duties of the table. In the case of small friendly parties, it is not desirable toLITTLE DINNERS. 15 crowd the table with dessert dishes, however pretty they may be: it is better for vegetables and sauces to occupy the available space, and when there is but one waitress for the hostess to assist the guests, and they each other. Nothing is more absurd than for a guest to wait whilst the over-tasked attendant fetches what is required, when it might be readily passed by his next neighbour. Great care should be taken in the selection of cheese. Roquefort and Gruyere are the best of foreign cheese, and are not, because of the small quantity required of them, more ex- pensive in the long run than fine English or even Ameri- can cheese. It is customary now to serve these last grated, but whenever this is done small square cut pieces should be handed on the same salver. Butter, made into small neat pats, should be offered with cheese, as well as biscuits or pulled bread. The land of wine to be served with a dinner of mode- rate pretensions is a question of some importance. A general answer only, however, can be given, as it must or should depend on the means of the host. It is by far too common a practice to offer to guests a variety of wines with high-sounding names which really only dis- guise liquid poison. Nothing can exceed the treachery of asking people to dinner under the guise of friendship, and then giving them either to eat or to drink of that which may be injurious to health. Champagne, Amontillado sherry or old port should never be used by those who17 REMARKS ON COOKERY. cannot afford to pay a price that will insure purity, for it is only under exceptional circumstances that wines of a high class can be bought cheaply. All wines of a Khenish character are suitable for dinner use. Sauterne and Chablis of good quality are not expensive, and good sound claret is within everybody’s reach. Besides the wines of France and Germany, those of Hungary and Greece are admirably suited for such dinners as are proposed in this book. As a general rule, when Sauterne is served with fish, claret will do well with the other dishes, and a glass of sherry be acceptable with sweets and cheese. Dining the summer claret-cup may be served after a glass of sherry with the fish. Unless the claret is of a rich kind, which is unnecessary, not more than one-third water should be mixed with it, and it is a mistake to make the cup so sweet as to destroy the refreshing sharpness of the grape-juice. With regard to dessert we would say have few dishes and those of the choicest. Do not, unless you can afford to pay extravagant prices, get fruit which is out of season. It rarely has its proper flavour, and it is ostentatious to place before your guests costly things merely as such. In the summer, for instance, a dish of freshly-gathered straw- berries, and fine ripe cherries, with cakes foi a centre, are ample for the dessert of a small dinner. Only in the intermediate seasons should dried fruits, compotes and things of that kind be resorted to. cLITTLE DINNERS. iS Ill winter, pears of the best growth—observing that two of the very large kind are enough for a dish—with apples and nuts make a good and sufficient dessert. Plain biscuits should always he on the table, in the biscuit canister of- glass or silver. It is customary for coffee to be served before the ladies rise from the table. It should he sent up in very small cups, without cream or milk, and without being too strong be really cafe, noir. After this, a small glass of eau-de-vie or liqueur may be offered ; and the last will be more readily accepted if the host can give some little history of it, or say it was made by the hostess or under her superintendence. In concluding these few observations let me beg all to remember that the excellence of a dinner does not depend on its costliness, but on the degree of care given to its arrangement and preparation. A kind-hearted and hos- pitable hostess can invest ordinary things with so much grace that her guests will rise from a small, well- served, inexpensive dinner with a sense of satisfaction wanting to many a costly banquet. In dispensing hos- pitality it should always he borne in mind that, in giving of the best according to our means, we greatly enhance its value by the practical evidence of good will which is siiown in the trouble taken to insure the pleasure of our guests. In the quaint words of an old poet:— Such a host, my friend, expends much more In oil than cotton; solely studying love!JA1TU ARY CALF’S TAIL SOUP TURBOT A LA REIKE FILLET OF BEEF—ROASTED ARTICHOKES STEWED PHEASANT LEMON OMELETS—CHESTNUT CREAMCalf s Tail Soup, This soup will be a novelty to many persons; and indeed the fact of calves possessing tails has been much over- looked by epicures and cooks, whilst the butchers, finding no general demand for the tails, have usually left them as perquisites for the men who collected the skins. One is inclined to envy those who have had the long and un- disturbed enjoyment of these delicious morceaux. It will probably be necessary to order the tails a day or two before they are wanted ; two will be sufficient for soup for six persons, and the cost should be very small. Having divided the tails into handsome pieces, in the same manner as that of an ox, dip them in milk, then in flour highly seasoned with pepper and salt, fry them until a delicate brown, and then stew for about two hours, or until perfectly tender, in a pint of well-seasoned stock with an onion, carrot, and turnip; this liquor, when the fat has been removed, to be added to a good gravy soup, or one made as follows: Cut a pound and a half of beef from the neck into dice, fry in a little butter until brown, with a few bacon bones on which there is very little meat,22 LITTLE DINNERS. slice four onions and fry them also a nice golden colour. Upon the care with which this preliminary process is carried on will depend the excellence of the soup. Cut up a carrot and turnip and put with the meat, &c., into the soup-pot, with three pints of water, stock, or the liquor in which any fresh meat, fowl, or rabbit has been boiled ; put a little water into the frying-pan, let it boil up in order that none of the colouring matter may be lost, add it to the soup, and, having skimmed, let it simmer gently for four hours. Half an hour before the soup is finished, put in a small piece of celery, or a good pinch of celery- seed tied in muslin. When done, strain the soup and press the meat and vegetables well with the back of a spoon, so as to extract all the moisture from them. Let the soup stand until cool enough to remove every particle of fat; when about to serve, let it boil, and stir in a dessertspoonful of Brown and Poison’s corn-flour, and one of flour mixed smooth in cold water ; if salt or pepper is required, add it, put in the pieces of tail with the liquor in which they were stewed, let all get hot together, and serve. It is very usual to despise soup-meat as having had all the nourishment drawn out of it; but this is a great mis- take, as in the fibre lies the chief strength. The meat and vegetables from which soup has been made should on no account be thrown away. If properly treated, an ex- cellent meal for the family may be made. One good way=3 JANUARY. of serving it is, to place the meat and vegetables in a deep pie-dish, with a little gravy or butter sauce, season, and then put on a cover of mashed potatoes. Bake until hot through. Or, have ready some boiled potatoes, cut them into slices, also a well-cooked onion or two, put them with the soup-meat and vegetables, with enough broth or plain butter sauce to moisten them ; let them simmer together for ten minutes, and serve. Turbot a la Heine. Choose about three pounds of the tail of a fine fresh turbot; rub it over with vinegar, pepper, and salt, and let it lie for two or three hours ; then remove the bone, and put in its place the following stuffing:—Soak the crumb of a French roll in cold milk, squeeze it as dry as possible, put it in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, the yolk of an egg, a pinch of salt, and a grain of cayenne-pepper ; work the mixture over the fire until it is smooth and compact, then take about half its weight in preserved lobster and mix together into a paste. If more convenient, a dessert- spoonful of Burgess’s essence of anchovy may be substi- tuted for the lobster. After putting in the stuffing sew up the fish, place it black side downwards in a well- buttered tin baking-dish with a quarter of a pint of Sauterne or other wine of the same character—sherry will not do—a teaspoonful of vinegar and ditto of essence ofLITTLE DLNNERS. -4 anchovy, a pinch of pepper and salt, and an ounce of fresh butter. Bake for about an hour, basting the fish fre- quently with the liquor, taking care it does not become the least brown. Have ready a good white sauce, made as follows :—Mix a tablespoonful of fine flour in two of cold milk; have ready a quarter of a pint of boiling milk which has been re- duced from half a pint by slowly boiling, and mix it with the thickening; stir over the fire until a proper consistency ; break in two ounces of fine fresh butter and the yolk of an egg, keep stirring five minutes longer, and then strain into the sauce the liquor in which the fish was cooked; perform this last part of the operation carefully, stirring briskly all tire time. If you will afford them, a few oysters will be a great improvement to the sauce. Put the turbot on its dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. If it is not convenient to use wine for cooking the turbot, substitute the given quantity of good white stock, with the juice of a lemon ; or the bone taken out of the fish may be boiled and gravy made that will answer well for the purpose. A very small turbot may be cooked whole in this manner, and a brill is also very good. Fillet of Beef. Except in the shape of4 fillet steak,’ fillet of beef is little used and less appreciated in England, whilst in France itJANUARY. 2S is much sought for, and esteemed as the most tender and digestible morceau in the whole ox. English people con- demn it as tasteless ; if it is, it is the fault of the cook. Properly speaking, a fillet of beef includes the whole under-cut of the sirloin and rump; but as joints are cut with us, it is not possible to obtain it in one piece, therefore the under-cut of the rump alone must be bought, or the under-cut may be removed from a sirloin before roasting, without any prejudice to the upper side, and it can be treated in the same manner as the under-cut of the rump. From a fine rump of beef the fillet will weigh about four pounds; if charged as it usually is at steak price, it should have no skirt and little suet, and will be found an economi- cal dish. Get the meat the day before you require to cook it, rub in a dessertspoonful of vinegar, very lightly pepper and salt, and hang in a cool place until wanted, then rub in a teaspoonful of the finest salad oil—huile cVAix is best—and roast it slowly. It should be rather underdone. Have ready a nice rich brown gravy, the thickness of cream, and baste the fillet with it before the fire ten minutes before serving. Put it on a dish with the fat side uppermost—the carver will cut slices fillet- wise. Roasted artichokes may either be served in the gravy as a garnish to the fillet, or separately. If the cook understands larding it is a great improve- ment, or, as a substitute, a thick slice of fat bacon fastened over the under-side of the fillet during roasting will be found good.LITTLE DINNERS. 26 Roasted Artichokes. Take a dozen large Jerusalem artichokes, wash, brush, and peel in the usual manner; then trim into the shape of eggs, all as nearly of a size as possible. Put into a tin baking-dish two ounces of butter, lard, or dripping, with a little pepper and salt; when the fat is melted, put in the artichokes and roast them for half an horn, either in a Dutch oven before the fire, or in the oven. They should be basted frequently and cooked rather quickly, and when done they will be a rich brown. If more convenient the artichokes may be fried. The trimmings should not be wasted, but be used for making soup or puree. Stewed Pheasant. Prepare the bird as for roasting; stuff the crop with forcemeat, and flour the skin. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, then carefully fry the pheasant until nicely browned. This done, place round it half-a-dozen small onions cut in quarters, and a cupful of very strong, highly-seasoned gravy; cover the pan closely, then let it simmer very slowly for three-quarters of an hour, or until the bird is tender. Take it up and keep hot whilst you prepare the gravy; strain it and take off every particle of fat, thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour, let it boil up and serve round the pheasant.JANUARY. 27 Lemon Omelets. These are not omelets proper, but an imitation of them. They have the advantage of being more easily prepared by an ordinary cook, and of being less rich than real omelets. Beat up the yolks of four eggs, mix a teaspoonful of flour and dessertspoonful of Brown and Poison’s corn-flour in two tablespoonfuls of cold milk or cream, and stir into the eggs. Pour on this half a pint of boiling milk, and, when ready for the oven, stir in the whites of the eggs beaten to a strong froth. Take four common pudding- plates, or, if you have them, tin dishes that will hold about the same quantity, and melt on each just sufficient butter to cover them, divide the omelet mixture pretty equally, and bake in a quick oven until well set. They should be done in ten minutes. Turn the omelet on to a hot dish, and spread over half of it about a teaspoonful of lemon paste, or, if that is not convenient, any nice preserve, fold over and sift a little sugar, serving it as quickly as possible. The omelets may be flavoured with any essence, and are very good without the addition of preserve or lemon paste. Lemon Paste. Half a pound of finely powdered sugar, two ounces of butter, three eggs, two lemons.28 LITTLE DINNERS Put tlie butter into a clean bright stewpan, melt, but do not oil it, then stir in the sugar, and when it is thoroughly dissolved add the eggs, beaten and strained, then put in the grated peel of the lemons and the strained juice, stir all together until it becomes as thick as honey. This mixture, covered down like jam, will keep in a cool dry place for some months. Chestnut Cream. Take a dozen fine chestnuts, remove the husks, and put them to boil in a quarter of a pint of milk slightly sweet- ened with lump-sugar. When quite tender, drain away the milk, and mash up the chestnuts with an ounce of sifted sugar and a few drops of essence of vanilla. Eub the chestnuts through a coarse tin gravy-strainer, keeping the puree as light as possible in order that it may look like vermicelli. Kent’s patent potato masher and bread grater is admirably adapted for making this purde. Whip a quarter of a pint of thick cream until it is very firm, and place it in the middle of a glass dish, then strew the chestnuts over it, keeping it in as good a shape and as high as you can. The moment before serving, pour round the base some syrup of cherries slightly flavoured with vanilla. Soak a few dried cherries in brandy for an hour, and place at equal distances round the cream. If cherry- syrup is not attainable, currant-jelly made into a syrup with a little water can be substituted.PESRUARY WHITE CELERY SOUP COD FISH A LA ROYALE \ VEAL CUTLETS SAUCE ROBERT CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN ROASTED HARE SULTANA PUDDING CHOCOLATE SOUFFLEWhite Celery Soup. Take three heads of fine celery, and having well washed and trimmed them, put them to boil with four onions in two quarts of any white broth or stock. When the celery is perfectly tender, rub it through a sieve, re- turn it to the broth, and thicken with a dessertspoonful of corn-flour and one of flour mixed in a pint of new milk. Add a lump of sugar, and salt, if necessary, stir the soup until perfectly thickened, and then break in two ounces of fine fresh butter; when it is dissolved pour the soup into the tureen and serve. It is usual with all white soups to serve separately fried bread, cut in dice, but when this is objected to the crumb of a French roll similarly cut should be substituted. Cod-fish a la E-oyale. Take the tail-end of a cod-fish, or the whole of a small fish may be similarly treated, pass a knife down each side of the back-bone, and then press in the following stuffing:— Rub the crumb of a French roll through a coarse gravy-32 LITTLE DINNERS. strainer, have very finely chopped an ounce, of beef-suet or cooked fat bacon, a pinch of dried parsley and sweet herbs, salt and pepper, mix with an egg and half a tea- spoonful of essence of anchovy. Make half a pint of thin melted butter, squeeze into it the juice of half a lemon, pepper and salt lightly, add a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy and pour into a tin baking-dish. Lay in the fish, hake in a moderate oven for about an hour, basting frequently and taking care it does not brown. Should the sauce reduce too much and get thick in the process of cooking, add a little water, a hit of butter and a few drops of anchovy. When the fish is done, remove it to a hot dish and strain the sauce over it. If the baking-dish is presentable, it is a good plan to serve the fish in it, as there is thus no loss of heat. Veal Cutlets. Get about two pounds of the best end of a neck of veal. Cut away the meat from the bones in one piece with a sharp knife, then divide it into neat cutlets about half an inch thick. Brush them over with the yolk of an egg, and then dip them in an equal quantity of finely sifted bread-crumbs and raspings highly seasoned with pepper and salt. Fry them quickly in a little butter, first on one side until a nice brown and then on the other.FEBRUARY. 33 Sauce Robert. Fry the veal bones and trimmings with an equal quan- tity of bacon bones until a nice brown, then slice three large onions and fry them in a little butter a good golden colour, put all together into a stewpan with a pint of water, and let it boil until reduced to a quarter of a pint. Having removed the grease, let the gravy boil up, stir in a dessertspoonful of flour mixed in a little cold water or stock, then add an ounce of butter, stirring until melted, and finish with a good pinch of mustard mixed in a dessert- spoonful of Prince Alfred’s sauce (page 254), or other sauce of the same kind. Pour round the cutlets and serve Cauliflower au gratin. Wash a fine head of cauliflower. If placed in a pan of lukewarm water, with the flower downwards, any insect in it will get into the water. The usual method of adding salt to the water is not good, as it frequently causes the insects to die in the vegetable. Take away all the green and divide the cauliflower into neat branches ; boil these in salt and water until tender. Drain them and dip each piece in dissolved butter, and afterwards in finely sifted raspings mixed with a little pepper and salt. Then arrange them in a tin dish, and put in the oven for five minutes, or until a nice rich brown, and garnish the cutlets with them. D34 LITTLE DINNERS Roasted Hare. A small bare may be roasted with great ease in the V oven, and it will be found more juicy than when cooked in any other way. Make a rich stuffing of equal quantities of sifted bread-crumbs, and beef-suet, chopped very fine. To half a pound put a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, a small teaspoonful of dried sweet herbs, the grated rind of half a lemon, a pinch of black pepper and nutmeg, and half a teaspoonful of salt. Mix together with egg and sufficient port wine to make into a smooth compact paste. Put it into the body of the hare and sew it up tightly. Fasten over the back of the hare with twine slices of fat bacon half an inch thick. Lay it in the oven and baste frequently with lard. It will take about an hour. When nearly done, remove the bacon from the back, and drain all the fat from the pan. Tie two ounces of butter in a piece of muslin, and as the hare lies before the fire, pass the butter over it again and again, until it becomes nicely browned and frothed, or it may be basted with butter. Pour round the dish the gravy that may be in the pan, as some epicures prefer this, others like a good beef gravy flavoured with port wine. As tastes vary so much, it is best to have a boat of good plain beef gravy, and another of liver sauce, made as follows :— Take the liver, heart, and kidneys of the hare, fry in butter until brown, then boil in a quarter of a pint ofFEBRUARY. 35 strong gravy with one onion. When the liver is tender, break it up and rub it through a fine sieve, or pound it in a mortar, strain the gravy on to it, and when it has boiled up together add a glass of port wine and currant-jelly to taste, with sufficient cayenne to make it rather hot. When the hare has been properly basted, the bacon used to cover the back will not have become unfit for use. It will serve for making stuffing, as an addition to rissoles, or will be very good eaten cold. Sultana Pudding. Butter a pint mould or basin. Lay on it thickly fine Sultana raisins, which have been carefully wiped and picked, then fill up the basin lightly with the crumb of a French roll cut in rounds, shred an ounce of suet finely, and strew over each round. Fill up the mould with a custard made of two eggs and half a pint of milk (see * remarks on Pudding Making ’), flavoured with a little ground cinnamon and lemon extract. A little finely shred lemon candy peel is an improvement to the pudding, it should be placed at the bottom of the basin. This pudding is best steamed, and should be ready in an hour and a quarter ; if, however, it must be boiled, it should be done very slowly, and with sufficient water to reach half-way up the pudding-basin. For sauce, dissolve six lumps of sugar in a tablespoonfulLITTLE DINNERS. of V an Houten’s cocoa, which is the best of all manufac- of boiling water, add a wine glass of Marsala or sherry, put it into a jam-pot, and set it in a saucepan of boiling water to get hot; just before serving the pudding pour it round the base. Two tablespoonfuls of flour. Two tablespoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar. Two ounces of butter. A quarter of a pint of milk. Stir together over the fire until it boils. Then let it become nearly cold, and stir in the yolks of four eggs and two bars of chocolate finely grated, or a quarter of an ounce tured cocoa. When ready for the oven, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a strong froth. Bake three-quarters of an hour. If preferred, the chocolate may be omitted, and the souffle flavoured with vanilla. Chocolate Souffle.zm: _a_ zer> o iee CHICKEN GIBLET SOUP SCOLLOPED COLLOPS ROLLED LOIN OF MUTTON GLAZED ONIONS SALMI OF WILD DUCK NORWOOD PUDDING STRAWBERRY SOUFFLEChicken Giblet Soup. The giblets of fowl are generally to be bought at a very moderate cost at the poulterers in large towns, and not only do they make an excellent soup, but, properly pre- pared, will answer for several delicious dishes. Procure three or four sets of giblets, and having washed and after- wards dried them in a cloth, flour and fry them with a pound of gravy beef cut into dice, four large onions sliced, and two or three bones from which streaked bacon has been cut. Set the whole to boil in two quarts of water, or stock if you have it. After you have skimmed it let it boil gently for three hours. When done, strain the soup, and when cold, remove all fat from it. Pick out all the chicken livers from the rest of the soup-meat, and pound them till perfectly smooth, rub them to a paste with two ounces of butter and one of flour, mix with a little of the boiling soup, stir all together, let it boil up for a minute and serve. Scolloped Collops. When you buy them, choose those which have not opened their shells. When carefully taken off the shell,LITTLE DINNERS. 40 wash them very thoroughly to cleanse them from the sand, which is generally present in large quantity. Prepare a sauce, say for half a dozen collops, with one tahlespoonful of corn-flour, and one of flour, mixed in two tablespoonfuls of cold milk, stir it over the fire with four or five of boiling water until it begins to get very thick, then add two ounces of butter, and continue stirring until perfectly smooth, add a little salt and cayenne pepper, and put the collops into it, butter a deep tin dish, lay on it a thin layer of finely sifted bread-crumbs, then arrange the collops on it and cover them well up with bread-crumbs. Spread dissolved butter over the top, and bake slowly for three- quarters of an hour, increasing the heat the last ten minutes in order to brown it. Rolled Loin of Mutton. With a sharp knife remove all the bones from three pounds of the best end of a loin of mutton, cut away the fillet from the bones, mince it very finely, add an equal weight of bread crumbs, a shalot scraped and minced, a little fresh parsley chopped, pepper and salt, and enough egg to bind it. Place this on the mutton, bind it up lightly with tape, rub the outside with flour, pepper and salt, and roast slowly in the Y-oven, or in any other way you choose. Fry the bones with onions until brown, and make them into a good gravy, with a little stock, and anyMARCH. 4i morsels of meat you happen to have. Thicken the gravy and pour round the meat. Giarnish with stewed or glazed onions. Glazed Onions. Choose small ones, as nearly the same size as possible. For a dozen onions put an ounce of butter, an ounce of lump-sugar, a little salt and pepper, and sufficient gravy to cover the onions. Put in the onions and let them boil gently until done, then take them out and set the gravy to boil sharply without the lid of the stewpan until re- duced to a glaze, then thoroughly coat the onions by shaking them in it. Place round the mutton, taking care not to let them be covered with the gravy. Salmi of Wild Duck. There are two important matters to be observed in making a salmi or hash. The first that the gravy Shall be rich and appropriate, well flavoured with the game of which it is made, and thick, but not as English cooks are so fond of thickening, with uncooked flour. The second that the game shall be made hot through, but not boiled or even simmered. In the case of a salmi of wild duck this last rule must be carefully observed, for wild duck overdone is utterly spoiled. Lightly roast two wild ducks, let them get cold, cut42 LITTLE DINNERS. them up into joints, skin them, reserve all the best pieces for the salmi, and use the other portion with the skin for the gravy. Put the trimmings of the ducks into a stew- pan with a pint of plain beef gravy, half a pint of Bordeaux wine, three onions fried to a golden colour, a small bundle of sweet herbs, four peppercorns, two cloves, two shalots, a lump of sugar and a pinch of salt. Boil gently for two hours until reduced to a pint, having taken off the fat let the gravy boil up, and then mix gradually with it an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour that have previously been well worked together over the fire into a smooth paste. Set the stewpan without the lid over a sharp fire, and let the gravy boil until reduced to half a pint, then put in the pieces of duck; let them get hot through, and serve with fried bread round the dish. Norwood Pudding. Butter a tart-dish. Cut the crumb of a stale French roll into thin slices, and over each spread a layer of the following mixture:—An ounce of finely sliced beef-suet, half an ounce of bruised candy peel, chopped almost to dust, three tablespoonfuls of apple marmalade, or of baked apples sweetened, and four bitter almonds pounded; mix all well together. Having arranged the slices of roll neatly in the dish, pour over a custard made of an egg and half a pint of milk (see remarks on pudding making),43 Strawberry Souffle. MARCH. sweetened and flavoured with brandy or Curafoa. Let the pudding hake in a slow oven for two hours, turn it out of the dish, and sift white sugar over it. Spread strawberry jam about half an inch thick at the bottom of a tart-dish. Make a custard as follows :—Pour on the yolks of four or five eggs half a pint of boiling cream or milk, stir it over a slow fire until it becomes thick, taking care it does not curdle ; sweeten lightly and add a few drops of almond flavouring. Put the custard over the jam, and on the top of it the whites of the eggs whisked to a very strong froth. Sift some fine sugar over the souffle, and put it in a slow oven until it assumes a pretty golden colour. Serve cold.APRIL MUTTON SOUP \ WHITING A LA HOLLANDAISE ROULADE OE VEAL SPINACH A LA HEINE FRICASSEE OF RABBIT ALEXANDRA LEMON PUDDING CASTLE CREAMMutton Soup. Get a perfectly fresh sheep’s head, dressed with the skin on, soak it in tepid water, take out the tongue and brains, break all the thin hones inside the cheek, and carefully wash it in several waters. Put it on in a quart of water with a teaspoonful of salt, and let it boil ten minutes. Pour away this water, and put two quarts more with one pound of scrag of mutton, cut up six onions, two turnips, two carrots, a sprig of parsley, and season with pepper and salt. Let it boil gently for four or five hours, when the head and neck will not be too much cooked for the family dinner, and may be served tossed up either in parsley or onion sauce. Strain the soup, let it cool so as to remove every particle of fat. Rub' the vegetables through a sieve to a fine puree, mix a tablespoonful of corn-flour in a quarter of a pint of milk, make the soup boil up and stir it in with the vegetables. Have the tongue boiled until very tender, skin and trim it, have the brains also well cooked and chop or pound them very fine with the tongue, mix them with an equal weight of sifted bread-crumbs, a tablespoonful of chopped green parsley, pepper, salt, egg, and if necessary a small quantityLITTLE DINNERS. 48 of flour to enable you to roll the mixture into little balls. Put an ounce of butter into a small frying-pan, and fry the balls until a nice brown, lay them on paper before tbe fire to drain away all tbe fat, and put them into tbe soup after it is poured into tbe tureen. Scald and chop some green parsley and serve separately on a plate. It is generally necessary to order a sheep’s bead with tbe skin on a day or two before you require it. It is to be regretted they are ever skinned, as much nourishment is thereby lost. Whiting a la Hollandaise. Get whiting which are too small for the usual method of frying, and consequently to be had cheap. They must not, however, be smaller than a large herring. Having cleaned but not skinned the fish, very lightly sprinkle with salt and pepper and allow them to remain for an hour. Then put them in the fish-kettle, with boiling water and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Let the fish simmer very gently from eight to ten minutes, take them up, being careful to drain thoroughly. Serve them with the following sauce:— Imitation Dutch Sauce. Mix a tablespoonful of fine flour in two of cold water, stir it into half a pint of fast boiling water.49 APRIL. stir over the fire until properly thickened, then add a pinch of salt, two ounces of butter broken up, and when well mixed the juice of half a lemon, or a teaspoonful of vinegar; lastly, put in carefully the yolks of two eggs lightly beaten, and having stirred over a slow fire for five minutes serve in a tureen. The sauce should be as thick as very good cream. Roulade of Veal. Take about three pounds of the best end of a neck of veal, with a sharp knife remove the bones, lay the meat flat, and sprinkle it over thickly with chopped parsley, sweet herbs, and pepper and salt. Lay over this very thin slices of fat bacon, and then roll up the meat, tying it into shape with broad tape. Eub over the outside of the meat with lard or bacon fat, a little pepper and salt, and flour, and roast quickly for about an hour and a half, basting it very frequently. It must be beautifully brown on all sides. Make a gravy of the bones taken from the meat, by frying them with a bacon bone or two, a quarter of a pound of gravy beef, and three onions, boil in a pint and a half of stock or water, and in about an hour add a sprig of marjoram and thyme. When reduced to a pint, strain and take off all the fat, thicken the gravy with a very little corn-flour, and let it boil until reduced to half a pint; if necessary, add salt and a little pepper. When £5° UTTLE DINNERS. the meat is done, place it in a dish before the fire, and baste it for ten minutes continually with some of the gravy. Then remove it on to the dish on which it is to go to table, and pour over the remainder of the gravy. Garnish with spinach a la reine. Spinach a la reine. Wash and pick three or four pounds of spinach, taking care that it is perfectly free from grit, and that no stalks are left on the leaves. Drain the spinach and put into a large saucepan, with a teaspoonful of salt, no water, set it over the fire, cover with the lid until the juices begin to draw, then remove it and stir the spinach occasionally to prevent its burning. Let it boil until perfectly tender, drain it in a sieve until dry. Then place in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of cream, or if more convenient rich thick gravy may be substituted, stir until the vegetable becomes dry, make any nice little mould, not larger than an egg-cup, very hot, and press some of the spinach into it; turn it out, and repeat the process until you have enough cakes to garnish your dish. Or the spinach may he put into a vegetable presser, and when tinned out cut into neat shapes.APRIL. 5* Fricassee of Rabbit. Boil a good size rabbit in a quart of stock or water, with a quarter of a pound of streaked bacon, two onions, a sprig of thyme and marjoram, a pinch of salt and pepper. When tender, take out the rabbit and bacon, cut up the former into neat joints, reserve all the best for the fricassee, put back the head, neck, and all unsightly pieces into the liquor, let it boil until reduced to a pint, then strain it off and take off every particle of fat. When this is done, again allow the gravy to reduce to half a pint, then put in the joints of rabbit, with a sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, and let it simmer for half an hour; take or strain out the herbs, add a pinch of grated nutmeg and lemon peel, and thicken the gravy, either with a cupful of cream or milk with a dessert- spoonful of corn flour; if milk is used, stir in an ounce of fresh butter. Cut up the bacon boiled with the rabbit into very thin neat slices, let it get hot in the fricassee without boiling, arrange neatly on the dish, and serve with the rabbit. Alexandra Lemon Pudding. Brush over a pint pudding-basin or mould with dissolved butter, and line it with the crumb of a French roll, cut into thin slices, and thickly spread with lemon paste (see52 LITTLE DINNERS. page 27). Make a liquid custard of half a pint of new milk and two eggs, sweeten, and grate a little lemon peel into it, fill up the basin with it, and place a layer of roll on the top, cover with a paper cap, and set it in a stewpan with sufficient boiling water to reach half- way up the basin. Let it stand closely covered at a heat just below boiling point for an hour. The excellence of the pudding depends very much on the care with which this direction is observed. If the pudding be allowed to boil, the custard will mix with the bread and it will be tough, if, on the contrary, the water be not kept just below boiling point, the custard will not set and the pudding will be watery. If preferred, sponge finger biscuits, two ounces, may be substituted for bread, but when they are used only one egg is required for the custard. When the pudding is turned out of the mould, pour the following 6auce round the base:—A teaspoonful of corn- flour, one of flour ; mix with a tablespoonful of cold water. Dissolve about six lumps of sugar in a quarter of a pint of boiling water, and pour over the flour. Let it just boil, then stir in a small pat of butter, a few drops of lemon flavouring, and the juice of half a lemon. If lemons are scarce a pinch of citric acid may be substituted.53 APRIL. Castle Cream. Make half a pint of milk or cream into custard, with the yolks of two or three eggs, in the same manner as for strawberry souffle, sweeten and flavour with brandy or curapoa and a little lemon peel. Soak a quarter of an ounce of gelatine in three tablespoonfuls of milk, let it boil until dissolved in the vessel in which the custard was made, and when both are nearly cold mix well together. Have ready two ounces of dried glace cherries and any other nice dried fruit you may have cut small, an ounce of ratifias and a sponge cake cut into squares, all soaked in brandy or curapoa, the fruit for an hour or two, the cakes for a few minutes. Arrange some of the cherries at the bottom of a pretty mould, then put a little custard, then cakes, cherries, &c., and so repeat until the mould is full. This must be made the day before it is wanted. It is a de- licious sweet, and very easily turned out of the mould. When on its dish, pour round the base a little fruit- syrup ; cherry or raspberry is best, but if you have none, dissolve a little currant-jelly in an equal quantity of water. This cream te very delicious flavoured with vanilla, but when used the fruit and cakes must be soaked in cherry-brandy or brandy, not curapoa.- Iim: .a. it MACARONI SOUP ROLLED HERRINGS BEEF CUTLETS POTATOES A ASPARAGUS EGGS STEWED LTTALIENNE PIGEONS ALMOND CREAM ORANGE FRITTERSMacaroni Soup. This is merely a good gravy soup well flavoured with vegetables and slightly thickened with corn-flour. The chief matter for remark, therefore, is the proper prepara- tion of the macaroni. It is often disliked in soups, and is not so much used as it should be, because it is insipid, and often imparts a flat flavour to the liquid. Nothing is easier than to avoid this, and when properly prepared for soup macaroni is delicious, and is much relished. For a quart of soup break up six ounces of macaroni (best Italian) into a pint of boiling water in which two large onions and a bacon bone or two have simmered for an hour, add an ounce of butter, season highly with pepper and salt. Let the macaroni boil gently for an hour, when it will be very tender without being in the least sticky as ill- prepared macaroni often is. It may be necessary to add a little water from time to time as the macaroni swells. White stock or broth may be substituted if convenient, but care must be taken not to injure the colour of the macaroni. When the soup is ready, put the prepared macaroni into the tureen and pour it over.5s LITTLE DINNERS. The foundation for this soup may be made in the same manner as calf’s-tail or gravy soup. Rolled Herrings. Choose the herrings with soft roes. Having scraped and washed them, cut off the heads, split open and cleanse the fish, and take out the roes. Hold one in the left hand, and with thumb and finger of the right press the back-bone to loosen it, then lay fiat on the board and draw out the bone; it will come out whole, leaving none behind. Dissolve a little fresh 1 utter, pass the inner side of the fish through it, sprinkle pepper and salt lightly over, then roll it up tightly with the fin and tail outwards, roll it in flour and sprinkle a little pepper and salt, then put a small game skewer to keep the herring in shape. Have ready a good quantity of boiling fat, it is best to do the herrings in a wire basket, and fry them quickly for ten minutes. Take them up and set them on a plate before the fire, in order that all the fat may drain from them. Pass the roes through flour mixed with a sufficient quantity of pepper and salt, fry them brown and garnish the fish with them and crisped parsley. A difficulty is often felt in introduc- ing herrings at dinner on account of the number of small bones in them, but this is obviated by the above method of dressing, as with care not one bone should be left in. It is a mistake to suppose that because the herring is a rich59 MAY. fish it should be fried in a small quantity of fat. When immersed in plenty of boiling fat the fish-oil which causes them to be disagreeable to some people is drawn out, and they are rendered perfectly wholesome and digestible. Asparagus Eggs. Put into a stewpan two tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, two of good gravy, with two ounces of butter, a little salt and pepper, Break into this six eggs, and when they begin to set throw in the asparagus prepared thus :—Take two dozen heads of small asparagus, cut the green tops into pieces the size of large peas, throw them into boiling water with plenty of salt, when done, drain them on a sieve. Let them be stirred over the fire with the eggs for half a minute, then pour them on to their dish and garnish them with fried bread. Beef Cutlets Procure a sufficient quantity of fillet steak in one piece. Trim away all fat, gristle and skirt. Cut the fillet into neat slices about half an inch thick, and sprinkle them over with pepper and salt, allowing them to remain for an hour or two before cooking. A few drops of oil and vinegar rubbed into the cutlets helps to give them flavour. Put them on a gridiron and cook them slowly for five minutes, turning them frequently. Have ready aCo LITTLE DINNERS. finely minced shalot, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of salt and a little pepper, all mixed in a pat of butter, and immediately before serving lay a piece the size of a nut on each cutlet. The trimmings of the cutlets will make an excellent cottage-pie for the family dinner. Potatoes a l’ltalienne. Wash, peel and boil a pound of fine potatoes. Mash them up thoroughly with a little salt, a tablespoonful of cream, a small pat of butter and the yolks of two eggs. Beat the whites to a strong froth and mix them lightly with the potatoes. Pile them up in a rocky form on a silver or a bright tin dish, let them bake quickly in the oven until brown. They will take about twenty minutes. If any of the potato is left it is delicious treated as follows:—Cut the potato into slices or neat little squares, dip them in beaten egg and finely sifted bread-crumbs, and fry brown in butter, or they may be fried without the egg and bread-crumbs. They make a nice garnish for any little dish. Stewed Pigeons. Have a pair of fine plump young pigeons, and when dressed lay them in half a pint of Bourdeaux wine to soak for an hour or two. Have ready a stuffing made of61 MAY. chopped onion, a very little sage, streaked bacon and half it9 weight in bread-crumbs. Mix up with egg, fill the bodies of the birds and fasten up securely so that none of the stuffing can escape. Put them in a stewpan with the wine they soaked in and half a pint of good gravy. Let them simmer very gently for an hour when they will he perfectly tender. Take them out of the gravy, egg and sift fine raspings over them. Set them in a quick oven or before the fire for five minutes, hasting them with butter until browned. Meanwhile, having taken the grease off the gravy, let it boil up sharply without the lid of the stew- pan until reduced to half a pint. Put the pigeons in it and keep hot for half an hour, but do not let the breast be touched with the gravy, which should be served on the dish with the pigeons. Almond Cream. Boil a laurel leaf in half a pint of new milk or cream, pour it whilst boiling on the yolks of three eggs, lightly beaten, sweeten, and add a dozen bitter almonds, worked to a paste in the mortar, or sufficient almond extract to flavour nicely. Soak a quarter of an ounce of Nelson’s gelatine in half a teacupful of milk, and then boil it until dissolved, when nearly cold mix it with the cream and whisk it until it is beginning to set, then put it into a mould. Do not turn it out for at least twelve horns. This is a nice cream and easily made,62 LITTLE DINNERS. Orange Fritters. Two hours before required for use, make a batter as follows:—Mix two large tablespoonfuls of fine flour with four of water, a tablespoonful of dissolved butter or oil, the yolk of one egg and a small pinch of salt. When ready for use, beat the white of the egg to a strong froth and mix lightly with the batter. It should be thick enough to coat the spoon well, but if too much flour is used the fritters will be spoiled. Divide the oranges in half, remove the peel, pith and seeds, sprinkle sugar over the pieces and let them remain for an hour, when drain and dip each separately in the batter. Have ready some good frying fat, and take care it boils when you drop in each fritter. Two or three minutes will suffice to cook them. Sift sugar over the fritters and serve imme- diately.JTJ1TB ■♦O* LOBSTER SOUP NECK OF LAMB A LA JARDINIERE ' CHIOKEN AUX ONIONS CURRANT AND RASPBERRY TART CHEESE FONDULobster Soup. The foundation of this soup should be made of fish A cod’s head is the best; any white stock, however, whether of fish or meat, answers perfectly well. Take care that every particle of fat is removed from the stock, let it boil up, and to three pints stir in two tablespoonfuls of Brown and Poison’s corn-flour mixed in a pint of new milk. Stir over the fire until thickened, then put in two ounces of fresh butter, and when it is dissolved beat in gradually the yolks of two eggs, and stir it at a moderate heat for ten minutes. Withdraw the stewpan to the side of the range, so that it will keep hot without simmering. Put in the soup half a tin of Bray and Hayes’ preserved lobster, let it stand for ten minutes, then serve. This is a very convenient soup if it is required in a hurry. Neck of Lamb a la Jardiniere. Procure two scrags of neck of lamb, each weighing about a pound and a half. Cut them into handsome FLITTLE DINNERS. 66 pieces, lay them in a stewpan, meat downwards and com- pactly fitted together. Sprinkle pepper and salt over, lay on them a dozen young onions, as many spring carrots, and six or eight turnips cut in quarters. Cover the pan closely, set it on the range and let it cook slowly in its own juices. The heat must never be sufficient to fry or it will dry up the moisture. Let it remain thus for an hour, then try if the meat is becoming tender ; if so, turn the bones downwards, and again let it simmer for an hour. When the vegetables are tender, take them out and set them aside in a covered vessel on the range so that they will keep warm. When the meat is perfectly tender, but it must not be the least ragged, take it up. Put half a pint of cold water to the gravy, which will cause the fat to rise, take it all off, season nicely with pepper and salt, let. the gravy boil up and thicken with flour. Put the meat back into the gravy and let it simmer for a few minutes. Take the vegetables cooked with the meat and chop them up, put them into a stewpan with a small pat of butter, shake them about until hot, and having added a few peas, cooked separately, put them in little heaps round the dish on which you serve the lamb. Chicken and Onions. Prepare a fine chicken as for boiling, fill up the body with small onions which have been parboiled in milkJUNE 67 with a little salt. Make a stock to boil the chicken in of the giblets, a little bacon, four large onions, and pepper and salt to taste. Let the chicken simmer in this stock for three-quarters of an hour, or until perfectly tender. Make a white sauce by boiling four onions in a quart of milk until reduced to one pint. Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour in two or three of cold milk, and having taken the onions from the boiling milk, stir in the thickening, taking care to keep it perfectly smooth. Now stir over a slow fire until the sauce becomes as thick as good cream, when break up two ounces of good fresh butter, and put it into the sauce with a grain of cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Stir the sauce over the fire until the butter is well mixed, but take care it does not boil. Pour the sauce over the chicken and serve. If, for any reason, onions are not approved, substitute button mushrooms. Stuff the crop of the chicken with them, and for the sauce, stew some in milk, and proceed exactly as for the above. A little cream is a most acceptable addition to either of these sauces. As a matter of economy the onions used for the sauce can be made to serve for stuffing the chicken, or to give flavour to the stock for boiling it. Raspberry and Currant Tart.. Take an equal weight of raspberries and currants, to a pound of fruit put half a pound of brown sugar,68 LITTLE DINNERS. thoroughly mixing them before putting them into the tart-dish. Make the crust thus :—A quarter of a pound of fine flour, dried and sifted, .two or three ounces of butter or lard, and two tablespoonfuls of finely sifted lump- sugar. Mix all thoroughly together with a silver fork, and make into a paste with the yolk of an egg and one teaspoonful of water. Put a little flour on your board, and, with the palm of the hand, work the paste for a minute or so, until the ingredients are thoroughly incor- porated. Then roll it out once and put on the dish in the usual manner. The oven must be moderate, for this kind of paste catches quickly and is spoiled by being brown. After the tart has been in the oven about a quarter of an hour, cover it with a sheet of greased paper. When the fruit has boiled and the crust is quite firm in the middle the tart will be done. Cheese Fondu. Boil a pint of milk, pour it over a French roll, beat up and mix with it half a pound of good cheese grated and the yolks of four eggs well beaten. When about to bake it, beat the whites of the eggs to a strong froth and stir them in lightly. Put the fondu into a tart-dish, if you have no silver one suitable, and bake in a quick oven. It Avill take about twenty minutes.cr tj Xj y VEGETABLE MARROW SOU*> SALMON CUTLETS BONED SHOULDER OF LAMB WITH MUSHROOMS BRAISED DUCK PUREE OF GREEN PEAS ORANGE PUDDING SNOWVegetable Marrow Soup. Put two small vegetable marrows, quartered and cored, into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, an onion, a little pepper and salt, and half a pint of stock. Boil gently until done, then rub them through a sieve, and mix the puree with half a pint of new milk or cream, a quart of good white stock, and two lumps of sugar. Let all get hot together, without boiling. One or two yolks of egg give richness to the soup ; they should be beaten for a minute and stirred in with a little milk or cream, just before the soup is finished, but it must never boil after the addition of the eggs. Fried bread should be served with this 3oup. Salmon Cutlets. The cutlets may be taken from the tail-end of a large fish, and should be about half an inch thick. Dissolve a little butter and dip each piece in it. When it is set, brush the cutlets over with yolk of egg and dip each piece on both sides in very finely sifted bread-crumbs, highlyLITTLE DINNERS. 72 seasoned with, pepper and salt. They will be best fried in the wire basket with plenty of fat, but may he perfectly well done in the frying-pan with a small piece of butter, turning them on one side as soon as brown on the other. Arrange the cutlets neatly on a dish, and pour round a sauce made as follows:—Take a cupful of rich brown gravy, thicken it with butter and flour, and warm up in it some small pieces of hot pickle, such as gherkins or cucumbers. If preferred, a tablespoonful of Prince Alfred’s sauce (see page 254) or any other piquant sauce may be substi- tuted. Boned Shoulder of Lamb. Saw off the shank and carefully remove the blade-bone of the shoulder, chop up a few mushrooms, previously stewed in butter, and put them in the cavity, sprinkle pepper and salt over, roll the shoulder up tightly, and secure it with string. Roast, and when done, serve with mushrooms, stewed either in butter or gravy. Braised Duck. Take a small duck, and before trussing as for roasting place inside it two onions chopped fine; if sliced and placed between two plates in the oven for ten minutes it will take off the strength, and enable you to chop them without inconvenience. Mix them with a dessertspoonful73 JULY. of sage, chopped very fine, a tablespoonful of bread- crumbs, and pepper and salt. Fasten up the duck securely, so that none of the seasoning can escape. Put an ounce of butter into a stewpan, and fry the duck until a nice brown. Then put in the stewpan as much good gravy as will half cover the duck, with an onion cut in slices. Simmer very gently for three-quarters of an hour. Take up the duck and keep it warm, whilst you strain and take the grease off the gravy, which boil sharply over the fire until reduced to half the original quantity. Return the duck to the gravy and let it stand, just below the simmer- ing point, for a quarter of an hom-. Take it up and serve with the puree of peas, either tastefully arranged round the dish or separately. Plain boiled peas may be used, but the puree is very convenient if they are not in the finest condition. Puree of Peas. Shell half a peck of peas, boil them with an onion, a little mint, and plenty of salt in the usual manner. When done, drain them and rub them through a sieve, add an ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of sifted sugar, and, if requisite, a little more salt. Put the puree into a stew- pan with a spoonful of cream or milk, and stir it over the fire for five minutes. A little spinach boiled with the peas improves the colour.74 LITTLE DINNERS. Orange Pudding. A quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of suet, two ounces of flour, quarter of a pound of sifted loaf-sugar, a quarter of a pound of orange marma- lade. Mix with one egg, and put the pudding into a buttered basin or mould. Steam for three hours. For sauce, boil a dessertspoonful of marmalade in a quarter of a pint of water for ten minutes, strain it, make it boiling hot, and stir into it a teaspoonful of corn-flour and one of flour mixed smooth in a tablespoonful of cold water. Sweeten with about an ounce of lump-sugar, and add a pinch of citric acid. Let it simmer until thickened, then stir in half an ounce of butter, and pour round the base of the pudding the moment before serving. Snow. Make a custard as for strawberry souffle. When cold, put it in a glass dish, and lay the snow on it as you make it. Beat the whites of the eggs to a very strong froth with a tablespoonful of sifted sugar. Have in a frying-pan half a pint of milk and water, and put on it a table- spoonful of the froth at a time. Let it simmer until set, then take up with a fish-slice and pile up on the custard. It should present a very pretty rocky appearance, and look like real snow. If you choose a few preserved cherries may be used for ornamentAUGUST CLEAR GRAVY SO DR STEWED EELS LAMB'S FRY ROAST NECK OF VENISON FRENCH BEANS SAUT^ APRICOT PUDDING LEMON SPONGE4Clear Gravy Soup. Take three pounds of beef from the neck (the butchers call it4 sticking’) and a slice of lean ham. Cut them into dice, put with a bit of butter into a stock-pot, cover close, and allow it to stand at a moderate heat to draw out the juices, being careful that it does not burn, as no after pains can repair this misfortune. When the juices are extracted (if the meat is good and fresh there will be more than half a pint) increase the heat, so as to allow the watery portions to evaporate. When you hear a frying sound, and find the moisture drying up and the meat covered with a thick rich coating, put in half a pint of water and again allow reduction. Then put in two quarts of cold water, let it boil, skim it, and allow it to boil gently, with the lid slightly raised, for three hours. Put into a separate stewpan two turnips, a large carrot, and eight onions sliced and fried, two or three peppercorns and a saltspoonful of celery-seed tied in muslin ; boil the whole in a pint of water until tender. Strain off the liquor as clear as possible and add it to your soup half an hour before straining. Put a little pepper, but no saltLITTLE DINNERS. 78 unless, when the soup is ready for table, you find it is required. Strain the soup through a gauze strainer, and when cool take off every particle of fat. No other pro- cess ought to he required to fine the soup, hut if at all thick proceed as follows :—Make the soup warm, stir in the whites and shells of three eggs very well beaten, and allow it to boil gently for a quarter of an hour. Let it stand away from the fire for five minutes, then pass it through a flannel hag or sieve. If you wish to make the soup very strong add a piece of glaze before the clarification, or you may dissolve half an ounce of Nelson’s gelatine and use in the same way. The meat and vegetables of which this soup has been made can be used for good and nourishing dishes. Stewed Eels. Never buy eels unless they are alive, as they lose their flavour by keeping. An eel for stewing should not weigh less than a pound, still a smaller size will do. The eels being skinned and cleaned, cut off the heads and tails and reserve for the gravy. Cut up the rest in pieces about three inches long, roll them in flour, pepper and salt, and fry them in plenty of fat. When brown, set them before the fire, and drain every particle of grease from them. Eels thus cooked are deprived of the oil which makes them so distasteful to some people. When cold, put theAUGUST. 79 fish into a rich rather thick gravy, made of beef and the heads and tails of the fish, and flavoured with essence of anchovy, a little mushroom vinegar, and a glass of sherry. Let the eels simmer gently in this gravy for a quarter of an hour, and serve up on a hot-water dish. Lamb’s Fry. A really proper fry should consist not only of sweet- breads and liver, hut of the heart, melt, brains, frill and kidneys, each of which requires a different treatment. It is quite as easy to cook a fry properly, as to flour and fry it hard and over-brown, as is too frequently done. Trim the sweetbreads neatly, and simmer them for a quarter of an hour in good white stock with an onion; when they are done, take them up and put the brains in the gravy, allowing them to boil as fast as possible in order to harden them, let them get cold, then cut into slices, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry with the sweet- bread in a little butter. After the brains are taken out of the gravy, put the slices of heart and melt in and let them stew slowly until tender, when they are ready, flour them, and fry with the liver and frill until brown. Lastly, put the kidneys, cut in slices, into the pan, and very gently fry for about a minute. Shake a little flour into the pan. Stir it about until it begins to brown, then pour on to it the gravy in which the sweetbreads, &c., were8o LITTLE DINNERS. stewed. See it is nicely seasoned, and pour round the try, which should be neatly arranged in the centre of the dish. Garnish with fried parsley. Keck of Venison. This is a portion of venison most convenient for a small party, as a piece weighing three or four pounds can be had, and even epicures esteem it very highly. Take the best end of the neck, remove the bones care- fully with a sharp knife, roll the meat up, and tie it at the ends with a piece of fine twine. Wrap the neck thus prepared in a piece of buttered paper, then roll in a crust made of coarse flour and water, and again over this fasten securely a piece of greased paper. This will cook well in the V oven. It may he laid in the pan and hasted very frequently, and will take about an hour and a half before a very moderate fire. When done, remove the crust, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over the meat, then froth up with a little butter, and brown quickly, either with a salamander or before the fire. Fry the venison bones with two sliced onions, a little gravy beef, and a bacon bone or so, and make into a rich gravy. Serve also a sauce made of a little currant-jelly dissolved in some of the gravy, a lump of sugar, a few drops of chili vinegar, and a glass of port wine. Have currant-jelly also on the table.Si A UGUST. French Beans Sautes. For this purpose the beans must be chosen small and young, as they are to be cooked whole. Pick, and put them in plenty of boiling water with a pinch of salt; boil in an uncovered stewpan until tender. Drain them, put them back into the stewpan, and toss them over a brisk fire in the proportion of two ounces of butter to a pound of beans, a pinch of salt, and a few drops of lemon juice. When all are well mixed, turn them into a hot vegetable- dish and serve. Apricot Pudding. Butter a tart-dish, spread at the bottom a thin layer of apricot jam, over this a layer of buttered French roll, and so on till the dish is lightly filled. Pour over it a liquid custard made in the proportion of two eggs to a pint of milk. Put it in a very slow oven, and bake for two hours. When the pudding is turned out on its dish, pour round it a sauce made by boiling a tablespoonful of apricot jam in two of water, with a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Lemon Sponge. Soak half an ounce of gelatine in a quarter ot a pint of cold water. Dissolve it in another quarter of a pint of GtLITTLE DINNERS. 82 boiling water. Then put to it a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar and the peel of half a lemon. Let it simmer for half an hour, then strain, and allow it to stand until cool, but not so that it sets. Add to it the juice of a large lemon, and whisk until it is perfectly white and thick. Dip a mould into cold water, drain it. and then put in the sponge. Let it stand until the next day, then dip the mould into tepid water for half a minute, loosen the edges carefully with the top of a teaspoon, and turn out the sponge.S E P T E Is/L IB IE IR> SORREL SOUP BAKED HADDOCK STEWED KNUCKLE OF VEAL ROASTED RABBIT BRUSSELS SPROUTS VICTORIA PUDDING LEMON CREAM g 2V Sorrel Soup. Carefully wash half a pound of sorrel, and having picked, cut it in shreds; put it into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, and stir over the fire for ten minutes. Now stir in an ounce of flour, mix well together, and add a pint and a half of good white stock, made as for veal broth. Let it simmer for half an hour. Having skimmed the soup, stir in the yolks of three eggs beaten up in half a pint of milk or cream. Stir in an ounce of butter, and when dissolved pour the soup over thin sippets of French roll in the soup tureen. Baked Haddock. Two moderate-sized fish will he ample for a party of six persons. Have the eyes removed, and neatly trim the fish with the scissors. Roll the fish round, and fasten the tail to the head by means of a piece of fine twine, which must be removed before serving. Make a stuffing of two ounces of bread-crumbs, two of cold boiled fat bacon, a teaspoonful of chopped green parsley, a small pinch of86 LITTLE DINNERS. salt and pepper, a few drops of essence of anchovy, and sufficient egg to make into a stiff paste. Place this in the body of the fish and sew it up neatly. Before serving draw out the thread. Mix a tablespoonful of flour in one of cold water, pour on it half a pint of boiling water, and stir in an ounce of butter and a dessertspoonful of Bur- gess’s essence of anchovy. Pour it into a tin baking- dish, and then place in the fish. Three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven will bake the haddock. It must frequently be basted and not allowed to get brown. When done, either serve the fish in the baking-dish placed on another, or carefully take it up, put on a hot dish, and pour the sauce round it. A few shrimps are a nice addition to the sauce, and should be put in when the fish is rather more than half done. Stewed Knuckle of Veal. Get a leg knuckle of fine veal weighing about five pounds. Let the butcher chop it just to turn up the lower part of the bone, so that it can be placed conveniently on the dish, but do not allow him to cleave it at the meat. Wash the knuckle in warm water and put it into a large stewpan, or the stock-pot answers well, with an oimce of butter, the meat end downwards. When lightly browned, turn it about and brown on all sides. Then put in a slice of fat bacon cut into dice, a shake of pepper, and a small87 SEPTEMBER. teaspoonful of salt, cover the pot closely, and let it sim- mer for an hour to draw the juices. Do not open the pot during this time. Then turn the knuckle, and put in half a pound of sliced onions and about the same quantity of carrots, and cover the pot closely for another hour. There ought to be enough of its own juices to cook the knuckle, hut, if not, add half a pint of stock or water and simmer another hour, in all three hours. Now take out the meat and vege- tables and set them aside to keep hot. Add to the gravy a pint of cold Water ; skim off all the fat. Make it as thick as cream with flour and ascertain that it is nicely seasoned. When the gravy has boiled up, return the meat and vege- tables to it, and let all simmer together for a quarter of an hour. Put the meat on a large dish, pour the gravy over, and garnish neatly with the vegetables cooked with it. This is a very delicious dish. Roasted Rabbit. It is often said that rabbit roasted is dry, but this is the fault of the cook. If you have a fine fat rabbit, and dress it in precisely the same manner as directed for roasted hare, it will be delicious. Take especial care that the slices of bacon are securely fastened on the back, and that the roasting proceeds slowly. Three-quarters of an hour will roast a large rabbit. The best way of carving roasted rabbit is to cut slices88 LITTLE DINNERS. lengthways down the back-bone, and if there is not suffi- cient of these to serve the party, next cut off the legs. .Brussels Sprouts. Having boiled the sprouts until tender, taking care to keep them a good colour, drain them thoroughly, and then toss them up in a stewpan for five minutes with a little fresh butter, pepper and salt. Lay them in the vegetable-dish on a round of buttered toast, cut into slices so as to facilitate serving. Victoria Pudding. Quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, three ounces of suet shred very finely, quarter of a pound of apple mar- malade, the juice of half a lemon and the peel grated, two ounces of sifted loaf-sugar, one egg, and a small pinch of salt. Mix all together, put the pudding into a buttered mould, and boil for three hours. Make a sauce by mixing two teaspoonfuls of corn-flour in cold water and a quarter of a pint of boiling water. Stir in a tablespoonful of apple marmalade, a little lemon juice and flavouring, simmer for five minutes, stir in half an ounce of butter, pour round the base of the pudding and serve.89 SEPTEMBER. Lemon Cream. Grate the rind of a small lemon, squeeze and strain the juice. Mix with it a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf-sugar, two wineglassfuls of sherry, and half a pint of rich cream. Let it stand an hour. Then whip it for twenty minutes and put in jelly glasses. This quantity will fill a dozen glasses. *O C T O B E JEh VEAL BROTH FILLETS OF COD CAPER SAUCE ROAST RUMP STEAK TOMATO SAUCE BRAISED PARTRIDGES CUSTARD PUDDING RASPBERRY JELLYYeal Broth. Get three or four pounds of scrag, or a knuckle of veal, chopped into small pieces, also a ham hone, or slice of ham, and cover it with water; let it boil up, and skim it until nothing more rises. Put in then four or five onions, a turnip, and, later, a bit of celery, or celery-seed tied in muslin, a little salt, and white pepper; let it boil gently for four hours. Strain the gravy, and having taken off all the fat, return to the stock-pot and let it boil, then slightly thicken with corn-flour, about one teaspoonful to a quart of soup. Mix the thickening with a little cold milk, stir into the soup, and let it simmer before serving. Chop parsley nicely, scald it, and serve separately on a plate. Three pounds of veal should make from three pints to two quarts of good soup. The bones will bear boiling two hours longer, and make good stock or foundation for glaze. Fillets of Cod. Have slices nearly an inch thick cut from the middle of the fish. Sprinkle pepper and salt over and let themLITTLE DINNERS. 94 ( remain for an hour, then dry in a cloth, egg them over, and dip them in finely sifted bread-crumbs, with plenty of pepper and salt and a pinch of dried and sifted parsley. Have ready some good frying fat, boiling hot, and fry the fillets if possible in the wire basket, as they require to be quickly done and to be covered with fat. Caper Sauce. Take a tablespoonful of French capers, simmer them for ten minutes in a bright saucepan, without the lid, with a quarter of a pint of clear broth or water. Press the capers with a silver or wooden spoon until well mashed. Mix a dessert-spoonful of flour with two of cold water, put it into the capers whilst boiling, stir over the fire until thickened, break in an ounce of butter, and, when it is dissolved, put in a teaspoonful of caper vinegar and serve. Brown Caper Sauce. Boil the capers in good brown gravy, instead of water, and proceed as directed above. Roasted Steak. This is particularly recommended for a small party, and is most useful when it is desirable to avoid a quantity of cold meat. It is besides very delicious, and has all theOCTOBER. 95 flavour and quality of the middle cut of the sirloin. It is best roasted in the V or gas oven, as this joint is apt to be dried up by any other method. Unless your butcher sends out large quantities of meat, it will be as well, to avoid disappointment, to order this cut the day before you require it, especially as it is in great demand for broiling steaks. Ask him, when the rump is cut out to within two or three pounds, to take the remainder off the bone in one piece. All you will then have to do will be to tie the piece of meat up into a neat round shape, lightly pepper, salt and flour it. Hang it up in the V oven before a small fire, baste and turn frequently. It will take about an hour and a quarter. Serve with plain beef gravy in the dish. Tomato Sauce. Boil two sliced onions in just enough water to cover them, and when they are nearly done, cut up half a dozen fine ripe tomatoes and put them into the stewpan with an ounce of butter, a dessertspoonful of salt, and a shake of pepper. If tomatoes are scarce, a sharp apple cut in quarters, and the seeds taken out, may be used with them. Let the tomatoes simmer three-quarters of an hour. Then rub them through a sieve; the puree, if properly managed, will be as thick as good apple sauce. Beturn it to the stewpan with a small piece of butter, and let it get thoroughly hot.96 LITTLE DINNERS. Braised Partridges. Save all the giblets of two well-hung partridges, fry them in butter with half a pound of gravy meat, a few bacon bones and two onions. When all are nicely browned, put them into a stewpan with a quart of good stock : if you have any remains of game put them in. Let it boil until reduced to a pint. Then put in the partridges trussed like pigeons, with a sprig of thyme and marjoram, and let them simmer gently for an horn, or until perfectly tender. Take up the birds; keep them hot whilst you reduce the gravy after straining, by boiling it up sharply in a stewpan without the lid. Brush over the breasts of the partridges with good glaze, pour the gravy round them and serve. Birds that are not very young may be cooked to advan- tage in this way, but they must be simmered nearly double the time required for those in fine condition. Really old partridges should be consigned to the stock-pot. Custard Pudding. The great secret of making this pudding successfully lies in never allowing the water in which it is cooked to boil. It is one of the most delicate and delicious pud- dings, and at the same time easily made. Take a spoon- ful of finely sifted sugar and let it dissolve in a plain tinOCTOBER. 97 pudding-mould, turn it about on the range until it begins to colour, taking care that every part of the mould is covered with it. Boil a pint of milk with the peel of half a lemon for five minutes, then pour it whilst boiling on four eggs lightly beaten. Sweeten to taste, and pour into the mould. Set the pudding in a stewpan with only enough water to reach half-way up the mould. Let the water always keep below boiling point, and in about half an hour the pudding will be set. Turn it out and serve hot. Put a quarter of an ounce of isinglass in four table- spoonfuls of water, let it soak for a quarter of an hour, set the jar in a saucepan of boiling water until properly dissolved, and then stir in half a pint of raspberry-syrup ; pour it into a mould, put in a cold place, then turn out in the usual way. Raspberry Jelly. H1TO YEMBER MULLIGATAWNEY SOUP SOLE WITH OYSTERS NECK OE MUTTON A LA DUCHESSE POTATO CROQUETS ROAST WILD DUCK LEMON PUDDING C'Rj&ME DU THE h 2mi. .Mulligatawney Soap. Unless this soup is to he eaten by those who like Indian dishes, the chief point is to avoid making it too strong of the curry-powder. This varies so much in strength that it is impossible to give the exact quantity. The cook therefore must be guided by the quality of her material. Mulligatawney may be made cheaply and yet be very delicious. Supposing boiled fish has been used the day before, the bones may be returned to the liquor, with any meat trimmings in the house; remains of fowl or game, or a pound or so of fresh meat or a few bones may be used to make the stock. If a superior soup is desired, the stock may be made of fowl or veal, and the liquor in which fowls have been boiled will be good enough. Slice and fry brown in butter six large onions, and quarter, do not peel, four sharp apples. Let them boil in a little stock until tender. Then mix with them a quarter of a pound of flour, and the requisite quantity of curry-powder, say a small teaspoonful. Put a quart of stock, and when the soup has boiled, skim it, let it sim-LITTLE DINNERS. 102 liier for half an hour, then carefully take off all the fat, strain the soup, and rub the onions, &c., through a sieve. Let the soup again get hot, and add to it any available pieces of fish, poultry, game or any delicate cooked meat, cut into neat little shapes. When these have boiled to- gether for ten minutes the soup will be ready. Before serving taste if salt enough. Boiled rice should be sent up on a separate dish. Soles with Oysters. Procure a pair of fine thick soles, scrape, but do not skin them. Lay them on a dish with a quarter of a pint of vinegar, and sprinkle over the white side with pepper and salt. Let them remain for two hours, or longer if convenient. When ready to cook the fish, put them into the kettle with the vinegar and a pint of water in which a sliced onion and four white peppercorns have been boiled, or better still, if you have it, fish stock. Let the liquor be boiling when you put in the fish, but do not let it do more than gently simmer afterwards until the fish are done. They will take about twenty minutes. Dish them up and pour over the sauce. Oyster Sauce. Take the beards off a dozen large fat oysters, and having washed, scald them in half a pint of white stock for103 NO VEMBER. two minutes. Strain this liquor and add it to that of the oysters, also carefully strained. Let it boil, and then mix into it a tablespoonful of flour rubbed smooth in two of cream. Stir over the fire -until properly thickened. Then add two ounces of butter broken up, a very little cayenne pepper, and, if necessary, a little salt. With a sharp knife cut each oyster in half, put them into the sauce, and let it stand in the covered stewpan for five minutes, but on no account allow it to boil or even simmer after the oysters are put in. Stir in a few drops of lemon juice and serve. Unless necessary, from motives of economy, it is better not to split the oysters. An uncleanly practice prevails at the shops of washing the oysters in the leaden tray or sink in which other fish are cleaned, and sometimes of adding some of the dirty water and calling it oyster liquor. If you can, see the oysters opened, and do what is needful in the way of cleansing them from any shell or grit when you get them home. Neck of Mutton a la Duchesse. Procure a whole neck of mutton, that is, the neck not divided down the middle, but cut entire from the sheep. This will be the scrag united, and will weigh about three pounds. It must be perfectly fresh. Having well washed the neck, dry, flour, and fry it, turning it aboutLITTLE DINNERS. 104 until nicely browned, then place it in a deep stewpan or in the soup-kettle. Cover it with nicely seasoned stock, and put in six onions, two turnips and a carrot. Cover the pot close, and let it simmer until the vegetables are tender, as they will be in an hour and a half to two horns; take them out, and set them aside to garnish the neck, which will take from four to five hours’ gentle simmering. When done it should he as tender as chicken, and sufficient time for cooking should always he allowed, as it is rather improved than otherwise by standing at a low heat when finished. When the neck is done, take it out of the gravy, which set aside to cool in a pan of cold water, in order that all the fat may he readily removed. Keep the neck hot, in the meantime, by covering it close in the pot in which it was cooked. Having taken the fat off the gravy put it into a stewpan, and let it boil rapidly without the lid until reduced to about a pint. If it is not then thick enough, add a teaspoonful of Brown and Poison’s corn-flour and one of flour, mixed smooth in two tablespoonfuls of cold water or stock. This done, return the neck to its gravy, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. Mince the vegetables cooked with the meat, place them in a stewpan with a little piece of butter, shake them over the fire until thoroughly hot, arrange them neatly in little heaps on the dish round the neck. Peas, asparagus tops, or sprigs of cauliflower, cooked sepa- rately, may he added to the above vegetables. They notNOVEMBER. 105 only make an improvement but look pretty. The carver will cut the meat from the bone longitudinally in large handsome slices. A whole neck of mutton, gently boiled for four or five hours in salted water, with two carrots, two onions, and three turnips, and served with caper sauce, is very good. Potato Croquets. Boil very dry some good mealy potatoes. Mash them up thoroughly, being careful to remove any lumps, add pepper and salt and sufficient egg to make a stiff paste. Make the potato into balls of equal size, roll them in finely sifted bread-crumbs, dip them in egg, and again roll them in bread-crumbs. Have ready some good frying fat, and when it boils put the croquets into the wire basket and fry them, shaking lightly, for about a minute. So soon as they assume a golden colour they are done. Roast Wild Duck. The duck must be roasted quickly, basted frequently with butter, and when nearly done be lightly dredged with flour. It must be sent to table somewhat underdone, but at the same time very hot, with a rich brown gravy in the dish. Serve in a boat two glasses of port wine made hot,LITTLE DINNERS. 106 the juice of a lemon, a few drops of Chili vinegar, and a pinch of salt added to it. Many persons like to prepare this sauce at table, but it is a mistake to attempt it unless you have a proper silver dish and spirit burner. Lemon Pudding. Put through a tin strainer a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, chop very fine a quarter of a pound of suet, mix with two eggs, the grated rind of a lemon and the juice, a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf-sugar and a very small pinch of salt. Butter a mould or basin, put in the pudding, cover with a paper cap, and steam it for three hours. Serve with sugar sifted over it and the follow- ing sauce round the base :—Mix one teaspoonful of corn- flour and one of flour in a dessertspoonful of cold water, dissolve four or five lumps of sugar in a quarter of a pint of boiling water, stir the thickening into it, with either the juice of a lemon or a pinch of citric acid. Let it simmer up, stirring it all the time, and when finished put in a piece of butter the size of a walnut and stir until dissolved. Half a teaspoonful of extract of lemon (see page 243) may be added, but bought essences should be avoided, they give too pungent a taste to so delicate a sauce.10/ NOVEMBER. Creme du The. Put half an ounce of fine orange-flavoured Pekoe tea into an earthenware tea-pot, and pour on it a pint of boiling milk. Let it stand until nearly cold, when pour it off fine, and, if necessary, strain it to free it from every particle of leaf. Put the liquor into a bright stewpan, with enough lump-sugar to make it sweet; when it is hot, add to it a quarter of a pint of rich cream, and the yolks of five eggs. Stir over a slow fire until it becomes a thick custard. Stir occasionally until cold, when put it into a deep glass dish, and serve with a silver or glass ladle. Savoy finger biscuits should be handed round with it.*D E O E IM! 33 33 PALESTINE SOUP FILLETS OF SOLE A LA REINE STEWED BEEF A LA JARDINIERE PORK CUTLETS TOMATO SAUCE JUGGED HARE MINCE PIES TIPSY CAKE/Palestine Soup. Take two quarts of any white stock, or liquor in which fowl, fresh pork, rabbit or mutton has been boiled will probably be good enough, and boil in it two pounds of Jerusalem artichokes, weighed after they are peeled, four large onions, a small stick of celery and two lumps of sugar. When the vegetables are perfectly tender, rub them through a sieve, let the soup boil up, and stir in half a pint of milk or cream, and an ounce of best butter. If the soup is not thick enough, mix a little corn-flour with the milk before stirring it into the soup. Serve with bread cut into dice, fried a light brown as directed for fried bread, page 201. Fillets of Sole a la Heine. Skin and trim a pair of thick soles. Eemove the flesh from the hones with a sharp knife, and divide each strip into neat square pieces, about two inches long. Dip each piece in beaten egg, then in bread-crumbs, well seasoned with pepper and salt, and a little dried parsley. Fry them until a nice brown. Make a rich gravy of beef and112 LITTLE DINNERS. the trimmings of the soles, thicken it with flour and butter, ad'd a little essence of anchovy, and, to half a pint of gravy, a small glass of sherry. When the gravy is finished and hot enough to serve, put in the fillets of fish and let them stand to get hot through in it, but it must not boil; serve on a silver hot-water dish if you have one. Stewed Beef a la Jardiniere. The best part for this dish is unquestionably that which contains the most sinew; choose, therefore, what some people call the roll of a shin of beef, that is, the portion nearest tlie hoof, and which, when cut out whole, will weigh from two to three pounds. Trim off the ends, if there is much gristle, and use them to make stock. Put the beef into a large stewpan, with as much weak stock or water as will half cover it. Pepper and salt thickly the upper side of the meat, and lay over it six onions, two carrots, a turnip and a sprig of parsley. Let it simmer one hour and a half, then turn the beef and sprinkle pepper and salt over the other side, and let it simmer another hour and a half, by which time the meat should be perfectly tender, with the sinews like jelly, but if at all ragged the dish is spoiled. Some meat takes longer than others, but always allow three hours, as it is all the better, if done before the time, for standing at a low heat in itu gravy. When the vegetables are perfectly tender, take”3 DECEMBER. them out, chop them up, season nicely, and set them in a small saucepan with a bit of butter ; and just before they are required to garnish the dish put them on the stove to warm. When the beef is done, take it out and set it on the stove with a basin over it to keep just warm. Skim, season, and thicken the gravy, and add half a teaspoonful of Indian Soy; then return the beef and let it simmer a quarter of an hour. Put the garnish of vegetables round the dish in little heaps. This will be found a most delicious and economical dish. If made the day before it is wanted it is equally good, and will then only require to be simmered for half an hour. Pork Cutlets. Cut them from a loin of small dairy-fed pork. The best plan is to take the meat in one piece from the bones, and then divide it into cutlets. Trim away nearly all the fat, and let the cutlets be about half an inch thick. Save the kidney for a breakfast dish, but use the under fillet as cutlets. Take all the bones and skin, with any bits of bacon and ham you may have, fry them brown with two sliced onions, and put them on to boil for two hours in only enough water to cover them, the object being to make the gravy strong. Strain it and get it cold, in order to remove the fat. This done, put it on to boil down with a little isinglass or gelatine, and enough browning to give it a I114 LITTLE DINNERS. good colour. When you have broiled the cutlets until they are nicely done and a little brown, brush them over with this glaze, arrange neatly on a dish, and put round them some tomato sauce, made from tomato compote, to he had at all Italian warehouses. In order not to waste any, put the compote into an earthenware jar with a little of the pork glaze, set it in a saucepan of water, and so let it got hot. Jugged Hare. Cut a hare into nice joints, flour and fry them brown, arrange on the bottom of a stewpan a layer of fat bacon in very thin slices, then fit in the hare closely, and cover it over with another layer of bacon Put in a bay leaf a few peppercorns and cloves pounded, a pinch of salt, half a pint of claret, and half a pint of good beef gravy. Set it to simmer very gently until done. A young hare will take about an hour and a half. When tender, take out the pieces of hare, and keep them warm whilst the gravy is pre- pared. Strain it, and having removed all fat let it boil down to half its original quantity, then mix with a glass of port wine and a tablespoonful of currant-jelly, and if necessary thicken with a little butter and flour. Season with cayenne pepper. When the gravy is ready, put the hare hack into it, let it get thoroughly hot and serve.DECEMBER. US Mince Pies. The Mincemeat. One pound raisins, one pound currants, one pound sultanas, one pound moist sugar, one pound apples, half pound suet, two ounces candied orange peel, two ounces ditto citron, one ditto lemon, half ounce bitter almonds (blanched), one grated nutmeg, one teaspoonful ground cinnamon, one ditto ginger, half ditto cloves, half ditto all- spice, a large tablespoonful of orange marmalade, the juice and grated rind of two lemons, a little curapoa to moisten the whole. All the ingredients being put into a large pan must he thoroughly mixed with the hands, and allowed to stand a few days before using. Should a plainer mince- meat he desired, any proportion of well-sweetened apple sauce may he added to the better quality ; a little more spice will also be required. The suet is much better scraped and rolled than chopped. It should be intimately mixed with the sugar and spice, and then have the other ingredients added to it. Everything should be chopped very small, and is most effectually done in a mincing machine. Puff Paste. One pound of floiu, one pound of butter, yolks of two eggs, juice of a lemon, pinch of salt, half a pint of cold water, or according to the state of the butter; about two I 2n6 LITTLE DINNERS. ounces of flour will be required besides tlie above quantity for sifting the board, &c. A fine tin gravy-strainer is best for this purpose. Let your flour be thoroughly dry and sifted, but on no account let it go near the fire when you are about to use it. Have the water perfectly cold and clear, and if you use any lard it should be almost as firm as the butter, or it will not roll in well. The yolk of egg and lemon juice materially assist in giving elasticity to the paste, and will allow of it being rolled as thin as a wafer. The proportions given above will make quite eighteen mince-pies in round tins three inches in diameter. Put your sifted flour into a basin, mix in lightly with a silver fork about a quarter of your butter, add your salt (be chary of it), then the water in which you have previously mixed the yolks of the eggs and the lemon juice. When all is mixed into a paste—and here is the great secret—neither too dry nor too wet— should the butter and lard be soft, then the paste requires to be moister than if they are hard—lay it on your board or slab, and having rolled it out to about half an inch thick, lay half your butter in the middle, sift flour thickly, and fold the paste neatly over the butter; sift flour well over the board, give the paste three or four sharp blows with the rolling-pin, and proceed to roll out until the butter seems well mixed. At this point if the pastiy is light it will give out air bubbles. Take away enough of this paste to line the bottom of your patty-pans, and put117 DECEMBER. the rest by in a cool place whilst you do them. Roll out the lining1 for your tins as thin as you can, as if too thick at the bottom it is apt to eat sodden. Now finish the crust for your tops and edges by putting in the remainder of your butter, sifting flour and doubling over the pastry as before. Again let it lie for half an hour in a cool place. When you have rolled the paste out, so that you are sure the butter is well incorporated, divide the mass and roll out almost as thin as a wafer what you will require, for the edges of the pan. The only part of the pie in which thickness of pastry is allowable is at the edges. Cut the paste into strips the length that will be required to go round the patty-pan, and lay four strips one on the other, press lightly together, and having, with your finger, wetted the edge of the under paste of the pie, lay it on. Now fill your crust liberally with mincemeat—do not be afraid of putting too much. Lastly, having rolled out the remainder of your paste as thin as possible, wet the edge, and place three folds on each pie for a cover; neatly trim the edges with a sharp knife. Bake in a quick oven, yet not so quick as to brown the pies before they are nearly done, when they should be very highr showing each layer of pastry, and presenting a most tempting appearance. Do not put them in a cold place too soon after baking. Should the pies be made before the day they are wanted, they should be put into a hot oven for five minutes, allowed to cool before serving, andiiS LITTLE DINNERS. then be sifted over with very fine sugar. To look perfectly nice it should be sifted through muslin. Tipsy Cake. Choose a long sponge cake; one baked in the shape of a hedgehog is the most appropriate. Blanch sweet almonds, and cut them into long strips as nearly of a size as possible. Stick these regularly into the cake, set it in a deep dish, and then, at least twelve hours before it is re- quired for use, pour over it as much sherry wine and brandy, mixed in equal quantities, as it will imbibe; or, if this is too expensive, use sherry alone, or raisin wine. Make a rich custard, and, shortly before serving, pour it cold round the base M the cake (see page 42).SOUPS AND SAUCES.Soup Making. No culinary operation demands less skill than ordinary soup making, yet it is one too often negligently per- formed. By paying attention to a few simple funda- mental rules, good soup may be made from half the quantity of material required by a cook who will not observe them. Soup which is made by throwing the materials without due preparation into water, and allow- ing them to boil to rags, will generally taste flat, and the admixture of catchup, sauces, and colouring may disguise the evil, but will never make it tolerable to an educated palate. A well made soup requires no colouring, no flavouring beyond that of the meat and vegetables, with the usual seasoning of pepper and salt, unless it is intended to give it some special character, as by curry-powder, wine or acids. Frying the meat, vegetables, and bones (these should always be broken as small as possible), supplies at once colour A weak soup thus made will be more acceptable than one far stronger, but which is ‘ doctored ’ to disguise the insipidity caused by the care- less manner of its preparation.LITTLE DINNERS. \22 Economy has been studied in all our recipes, but every housewife should know that there is a kind of soup, cheap and tasty, for which no recipe can be given. Bones and scraps, pot liquor, and the water in which onions, turnips, and carrots have been boiled, make excellent soup for family use, either with or without the addition of a little fresh meat. Vegetables used to flavour should be served with the soup, either minced or rubbed to a puree. A careful cook even in a small family should always be able, at an almost nominal cost, to serve relishing soups for everyday use. There can be no question that such soups, from every point of view, form an important ad- junct to a dinner. Gravy Soup. Cut two pounds of beef from the neck into dice and fry until brown. Break small two or three pounds of bones and lightly fry them. Bones from which streaked bacon has been cut make an excellent addition, but too many must not be used lest the soup be salt. Slice and fry brown a poimd of onions, put them with the meat and bones and three quarts of cold water into the soup pot, let it boil up, and having skimmed, add two large turnips, a carrot cut in slices, a small bundle of sweet herbs, and half a dozen peppercorns.SOUPS AND SAUCES. 123 Let the soup boil gently for four or five hours, and about one hour before it is finished, add a little piece of celery or celery-seed tied in muslin. When done, strain the soup, and let it get cold in order to- remove all the fat. This done, let the soup boil up, and stir into it a tablespoonful of Brown and Poison’s corn-flour, mixed in four of cold water. Season to taste. Small forcemeat balls are a usual addition to this soup. The above quantities of material should make more than two quarts of good soup Cheap Gravy Soup. Get a bullock’s melt (calfs or sheep’s answer as well, but of course do not go so far), cut into small pieces and fry brown, with two pounds of bones, and one pound of onions. Cover with three quarts of water—or water in vhich bacon has been boiled—or a few bacon bones are a good addition. When the pot has boiled, skim it, and put in three carrots and turnips, and a few pot herbs, and a quarter of a pound of Scotch oatmeal, and let it boil for four homs. Strain it and take off all the fat, let it boil and stir in-two ounces of corn-flour, mixed smooth in cold water, season and serve.124 LITTLE DINNERS. Ox-tail Soup. Make the soup exactly as gravy soup, with the addition of an ox-tail. Divide it into joints and fry brown. Then boil until perfectly tender, so that the meat comes easily off the bones, take it up and cut it into handsome pieces. When required for the soup, re-warm it in a little stock, as it would make the soup greasy if boiled up in it. When the soup is ready, put in two lumps of sugar, a glass of port wine, and pour immediately into the tureen. Ox-cheek Soup. This is an economical soup, and at the same time, if well made, very good. Have the bones of the cheek well broken, and wash it well in plenty of salt and water. Put it in the soup-pot and cover with water, let it boil ten minutes, then pour away this water. Fry six large onions, and put them into the soup-pot with two carrots and turnips, a little celery and blade of mace, six pepper- corns and cloves, and as much stock or water as will cover the cheek. Let it boil gently for four hours, by which time the cheek will be done. Remove the meat from the bones, and choose some of the best pieces to serve in the soup. The remainder can be used for other dishes and is very good. Finish as gravy soup, with the addition, if you like, of a glass of sherry.SOUPS AND SAUCES. i?.S Soup Julienne. Wash, and scrape a large carrot, cut away all the yellow parts from the middle, and slice the red outside it an inch in length, and the eighth of an inch thick. Take an equal quantity of turnip, and three small onions, cut in a similar manner. Put them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter and a pinch of pounded sugar, stir over the fire until a nice brown colour, then add a quart of clear, well-flavoured stock, and let all simmer together gently for three hours ; when done, skim the fat off very carefully, and ten minutes before serving add a cabbage lettuce cut in shreds and blanched for a minute in boiling water ; simmer for five minutes and the soup will be ready. Any clear soup may be converted into Julienne by adding prepared vegetables as above. Many cooks, to save time and trouble, use the compressed vegetables, and they are to be had in great perfection at all good Italian ware- houses. Mock Turtle Soup. This would be expensive if the calf’s head had to be bought to make it, but if made from the liquor in which calf’s head has been boiled (p. 168) the cost will be moderate. Put into this liquor, which if too weak may be reduced to the required quantity, by boiling without the lid of the126 UTTLE DINNERS. stewpan, the bones of the head, a pound of gravy meat, cut in dice and fried brown, three onions sliced, also fried brown, a carrot, a turnip, a little celery—the celery added when the soup is half made, as it loses its flavour by long boiling—and a small bundle of sweet herbs. Boil gently for three hours, strain and take off all fat and let it boil up, thicken with corn-flour, and add a glass of sherry. Put into the soup small pieces of the meat of the head and forcemeat balls (see page 175), let them get hot in it and serve. Green Pea Soup. Boil a pint of large peas in a quart of water, with a sprig of parsley and mint, and a dozen or so of green onions. When the peas are done, strain and rub them through a sieve, put the puree back into the liquor the peas were boiled in, add a pint of good veal or beef broth, a lump of sugar, and pepper and salt to taste. Let the soup get thoroughly hot without boiling. Stir in an ounce of fresh butter and it is ready. The broth for this soup may be made either of one pound of gravy beef with ham or bacon bones, or of one poimd and a half of the scrag end of a neck of veal. The meat must not be fried, as it would spoil the colour of the soup, which should be a beautiful green. A pound of spinach boiled with the peas will assist this. Care must127 SOUPS AND SAUCES. be taken that the puves is very smooth, and that it mixes well with the soup. Some cooks to effect this add milk and flour, hut these are not proper additions and ought not to be necessary Serve fried bread with the soup. Hare Soup. Half roast a hare, and having cut away the meat m long slices from the back-bone, put it aside to make an entrde. Fry four onions, take a carrot and turnip, celery, a small quantity of thyme and parsley, half a dozen pepper- corns, a small blade of mace, some bacon bones or a slice of lean ham, with the body of the hare cut up into small pieces, in two quarts of good stock. When you have skimmed the pot, cover close and allow it to boil gently for three hours, then strain it, take off every particle of fat, and having allowed it to boil up thicken it with a dessert-spoonful of corn-flour. Stir in two lumps of sugar, a glass of port wine, and season if necessary. Glaze. Take a knuckle of veal with very little meat on, three pounds of shin of beef, a ham bone or slice of ham, a dozen onions, a few herbs, and two or three cloves and peppercorns. Let your butcher chop the knuckle of veal into small pieces. Cut up the beef and ham, put all into your stock- pot, let the juices draw out slowly, and then reduce as128 LITTLE DINNERS. directed for clear gravy soup ; when this is done, cover the meat with water, and when it has boiled up, skim it, and let it boil six or eight horns. Strain it, first through a colander, then through a very fine lawn-sieve, let it stand until the next day, take off every particle of fat, then put the glaze into a stewpan, boil up without the lid, and take off any scum as it rises. Let it boil very fast until it is reduced to a small quantity, and becomes gluey, then pour into a basin or soup-plate, and it will turn out next day very hard. This is most useful to enrich soups and gravies ; indeed, soup can be made by pouring boiling water on a little of it. It is always very good for travellers as meat lozenges. An economical glaze can be made with mutton shanks and any bones you have by you, and is very good if carefully made. Brown Gravy. In households where one meat meal is had every day, there need be no lack of gravy to make little dishes. It is one point of good management never to be without stock or gravy. If, however, it is neccessary to make it of fresh meat, beef should be chosen from the neck, cut in dice, and fried a nice brown. Any trimmings of barn or bacon will be found a good addition to gravy, but should not be used when meat has to be warmed in it for table, as it is apt to turn it red. Onions should always be fried a richSOUPS AND SAUCES. 129 brown, and are best done in butter. Allow a quart of water to each pound of beef, and if you require strong gravy, let it boil down to about half. A peppercorn or two, a sprig of thyme and parsley, may be used for most brown gravies. Let the gravy boil slowly until rich enough, then strain, and when cool remove the fat; let it boil up, season if necessary, and thicken with a teaspoonful of boiled flour mixed smooth in cold water to about half a pint of gravy. Butter Sauce. The following is the best and most expeditious method of making butter sauce, or, as it is often called with us, ‘ melted butter.’ Less butter is required than when mixed in any other manner, as the flavour of it is not lost by boiling. <» One ounce of flour mixed smooth in four tablespoon- fuls of cold water. Stir it into half a pint of fast boiling water, add a pinch of salt, let it boil up, then stir in an ounce and a half of butter ; when it is dissolved, serve the sauce. Parsley Sauce. To be made as butter __ sauce. The parsley to be chopped and thrown into the boiling water just before mixing with the flour. KLITTLE DINNERS. 130 Brown Butter Sauce. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan and stir over the fire until it begins to get brown, then put in a table- spoonful of Tarragon vinegar, one of Prince Alfred’s or similar sauce, twelve chopped capers and a little essence of anchovy. Simmer together for two or three minutes, and serve with salmon cutlets or other grilled fish. White Sauce. Boil two onions in a pint and a half of milk until it is reduced to a pint. Take out the onions ; press them so as to extract all the juice. Stir into the milk whilst boiling two ounces of fine flour mixed in a quarter of a pint of cold milk. Stir over the fire until it simmers and is as thick as rich cream; add salt and cayenne pepper. Put in two ounces of butter, and when melted serve the sauce. Cream in any proportion may be added to this sauce, and improves both its flavour and appearance. If a very rich sauce is desired, it should be made of equal quantities of milk and cream. A little highly concentrated veal or fowl stock may also be used.131 SOUPS AND SAUCES. Bread Sauce. Boil an onion in a pint of milk for ten minutes, take it out and pour the milk over about a quarter of a pound of finely sifted bread-crumbs, add cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Stir over the fire until it boils and is quite thick. A small piece of butter or a little cream may be added. Onion Sauce. Peel and slice six large onions, put them into a stew- pan with cold water and a little salt, boil until perfectly tender, then drain away the water and mash the onions to a pulp with a wooden spoon. Stir in a tablespoonful of flour, mix with half a pint of cold milk, add pepper and salt to taste, and stir the sauce over the fire until it boils and is thick. Or, prepare and boil the onions as above, and when tender rub them through a sieve. Mix a tablespoonful of flour in a quarter of a pint of milk or cream, or as much as will give the required thickness. Stir the sauce over the fire until it boils. Apple Sauce. Fare, core, and cut in quarters good cooking apples. Put them in a stewpan with a spoonful of water to eachLITTLE DINKERS. 132 pound of apples. Cover closely and let them boil, beat up to a pulp with a wooden spoon and stir until they become dry. Then sweeten with half a pound of sugar to a pound of apples. Stir over the fire for five minutes and use as directed. Horse-radish Sauce. Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream and mix with it a quarter of a pint of cream, half a stick of horse-radish grated finely, pepper, salt and distilled white vinegar to taste. The sauce should be as thick as good cream; it should be kept cool. Serve in a sauce tureen. Mayonnaise Sauce. Mix two pinches of salt with the yolks of two raw eggs, then work in vigorously with a wooden spoon, at first drop by drop, four tablespoonfuis of the finest salad oil; Huile d’Aix, to be procured of Messrs. Fortnum and Mason, Piccadilly, is the best to be had in England. When the mixture is worked enough it will be as thick as Devonshire cream. Mix a teaspoonful of Tarragon vinegar and one of Chili vinegar with the same quantity of French vinegar. Work this in drop by drop, and the sauce will assume a rich creamy appearance. It should thickly coat a spoon. Great care is required in making this sauce, or it will curdle and be useless. It is improved by being placed on ice for an hour before using.133 SOUPS AND SAUCES. Salad Dressing. Proceed exactly as above, but substitute for the Tarragon and chili vinegar an equal quantity of French vinegar, and mix with a teaspoonful of mustard.FISHBaked Salmon. Any part of the fish may be thus cooked, but the middle cut is most suitable. Butter a sheet of nice white writing-paper and wrap the fish up in it, folding the edges tightly together. Lay it in a tin baking-dish with a quarter of a pound of butter. Put it in the oven and baste very frequently. In a good oven the fish will take from three-quarters of an horn- to an hour. When done, remove the paper, send it to table without a drainer, and with a little of the basting butter on the dish. Serve with butter sauce and dressed cucumber. Salmon Cutlet en Papillote. Have a slice an inch thick cut from the middle of a large fish. It will weigh about a pound and a half. Wrap it up in oiled writing-paper, and fry in plenty of fat; it will take about ten minutes. Take it up, drain all fat away, and serve in the paper.LITTLE DINNERS. 133 Fillets of Salmon with. Potatoes. Take slices of salmon three-quarters of an inch thick ; cut them into neat shapes. Put them into a stewpan with two or three ounces of butter, pepper and salt, cover over and let them cook gently, without frying, until done Cut some potatoes in the shape of corks, half cook them by boiling, drain, and put them into a stewpan with butter, pepper, and salt. Let them cook slowly, shaking them about and taking care they do not brown. Dish the potatoes in the centre of the dish with the salmon cutlets round. Make a sauce as follows:—Take enough white sauce for your dish, mis with it sufficient of Burgess’s essence of anchovy to make it pink, add a squeeze of lemon juice and a very little cayenne, stir in the remains of the butter in which the salmon was cooked, pour the sauce over it and the potatoes, and serve. Sole au Gratin. Have a pair of thick soles scraped. Trim neatly, and lay them in vinegar for an hour or two. Spread a little butter on a tin baking-dish, and lay the fish in it, the dark side downwards. Mix a glass of white wine, sauterne or hock is best, with a teaspoonful of Burgess’s essence of anchovy, a tablespoonful of mushroom vinegar, a minced shalot, and a few drops of Chili vinegar; pourFISH. T39 this round the fish, but it must not touch the upper side. Brush this over with dissolved butter, sprinkle lightly with pepper and salt, and cover, but not too thickly, with a mixture of finely sifted bread-crumbs and light brown raspings; put into a moderate oven and bake for half an hour. The crumbs on the surface of the fish must be brown and crisp, and if necessary the salamander must be used. Place the fish on a dish and serve with the sauce poured round. Sole a la Hollandaise. Large fish should be used for this purpose. Make a liquor in which to cook it of half a pint of vinegar, a tea- spoonful of salt, an onion, half a dozen peppercorns, a blade of mace and three pints of water. Let this boil together for an hour and strain it; put in the sole, cover close and let it stand at a heat, just below boiling, for half an hour, giving it a boil for one minute at the last. Take it up, drain, and pour over parsley sauce, made slightly acid with lemon juice, or imitation Dutch sauce as for whiting. The liquor in which the fish was cooked should be saved, as it is better each time it is used, and will only require the addition of a little vinegar. Boiled Haddock with Mushrooms. Roll the fish round, boil it in water with a tablespoonful of vinegar and two or three peppercorns, and salt. When140 LITTLE DINNERS. done, take it up and place it on a fish-drainer. Serve with the following sauce in a boat:—Stew some mushrooms in butter with pepper and salt until tender, chop them up, put them with their liquor into some butter sauce, let them simmer together for two or three minutes. The sauce should be quite thick with mushrooms ; about two table- spoonfuls of mushrooms to one of butter sauce. Eels a fa Heine. The eels being cleaned and skinned, cut them into pieces about two inches long. Then boil them gently in a liquor prepared as for soles a la ITollandaise ; when done, take them up, drain, and put into parsley and butter, with a little squeeze of lemon juice. Let them stand in the sauce without boiling for ten minutes and serve. Baked Whiting. Small whiting answer well for this purpose. Tie them round the tail to the mouth, dip them in dissolved butter, lightly sprinkle with pepper and salt, and strew pale raspings over them. Put a little butter in a tin baking- dish, put the fish in it, and bake in a rather quick oven for a quarter of an hour.T41 FISH White Bait. These delicate and delicious little fish may be bought at all good fishmongers, and it is not the expense which prevents their appearance more frequently at private tables. A wire basket and plenty of good frying fat are indispensable, and with a little care white bait may he as easily cooked as any other fish. First drain the fish on a sieve, and then strew them on a cloth, well covered with flour; this done, lay another floured cloth over and turn them on to it. Having well covered the white bait with flour, drop a few at a time into the wire basket until the bottom is covered ; shake lightly to free them from unnecessary flour. Have ready some clear, clean frying fat, and when boiling hot dip the basket in. Move it about gently until the fish become crisp, as they will be in about two minutes. When done, turn the white bait on to paper to absorb the grease; keep hot whilst you repeat the process until you have enough. Pile the white bait high on a napkin neatly folded, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve with lemon and brown bread and butter. A little salt and cayenne pepper may, if approved, be sprinkled over the fish after it is fried.142 LITTLE DINNERS. Potato case with Lobster. Boil and mash very smooth and dry, enough potatoes for your case, add to a pound of them the yolks of two eggs, work over the fire in a stewpan until dry, then mould in the same manner as a rice case, brush it over with yolk of egg, and bake until nicely coloured. With a quarter of a pint of white sauce mix half a teaspoonful of Burgess’s Essence of Anchovy and one of lemon juice, stir into it half a tin of preserved lobster, and let it stand by the side of the fire to get hot, but do not let it boil. Fresh lobster can be used, of course, but is more expensive. When ready, pour the lobster with its sauce, which should be thick, into the case and serve. Scolloped Oysters. Allow four oysters to each person. Take off their beards and the hard white portion, and simmer these with two tablespoonfuls of water, two or three minutes; not longer, or the liquor will be bitter. Butter a nice bright tin tart-dish, put on a thick layer of finely sifted crumbs, then the oysters; sprinkle salt and white pepper lightly over and pour on the liquor. Mix a little pepper and salt with the remaining bread-crumbs, and thoroughly cover up the oysters. Put bits of butter thickly on the top, and bake in a good oven twenty minutes. If143 FISH. not brown when finished, either dust lightly over the top a few very finely sifted raspings or use the salamander. If preferred the oysters can be scolloped in tin or silver shells, one being allowed for each guest. Soft Cod Roe Fried. Take the whole of a small roe or a portion of a large one, about the size of a calf’s sweetbread. Boil half a pint of water with a tablespoonful of vinegar, a large pinch of salt, and a shake of pepper. Put the roe in, and let it boil for ten minutes ; then take it up and drain it. Beat up half an egg, yolk and white together, in a basin, and pass the roe through it so as to touch every part. Have ready some finely sifted bread-crumbs, mixed with an equal quantity of raspings, and well seasoned with pepper and salt, and dip the roe in them, taking care it is nicely covered. Have ready some good frying fat, and when boiling put in the roe; fry it on one side until brown and crisp, then turn and finish on the other. Butter sauce and anchovy may be eaten with it, or butter sauce with a little lemon juice and cayenne pepper added is excellent. Cod Roe a la Hollandaise. Having washed the roe, boil it for a quarter of an hour as in the foregoing recipe. When perfectly firm it is done.*44 LITTLE DINNERS. Take it up, place on a hot disk, and pour over it the following imitation of Dutch sauce:—Mix a heaped table- spoonful of fine floor in two of cold water; stir it into half a pint of boiling water, or the liquor in which the roe was cooked, in a perfectly bright saucepan; stir over the fire until properly thickened, then add a pinch of salt, an ounce of butter broken in hits, and, when well mixed, the juice of half a lemon, or a teaspoonful of vinegar; lastly, stir in carefully the beaten yolk of an egg, or two if you will afford them, and having stirred quickly for five minutes over a slow fire, pour over the roe and serve. Parsley sauce may be used instead of the above. Make it in exactly the same manner, only substi- tute chopped parsley for the egg. Another 'Way. Having washed the roe, pick it to pieces, rejecting any bits of skin. Boil as directed in the first recipe. When done, drain it, and serve with either of the above, or plain butter sauce with a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy stirred in. Scolloped Cod Eoe. Take about three-quarters of a pound of roe cooked as in the last recipe; mix a large teaspoonful of corn-flour and one of flour in two of cold water: stir this into threeFISH. H5 tablespoonfuls of the liquor (at boiling point) in which the roe was cooked; add half an ounce of butter, a tea- spoonful of essence of anchovy and a pinch of cayenne pepper, stir briskly over the fire until thick, mix the roe with it so as thoroughly to coat it; sprinkle a layer of finely sifted bread-crumbs on a well-buttered tin dish ; then put on the roe, spread evenly, and finish by covering to the thickness of a quarter of an inch with bread-crumbs lightly seasoned with pepper and salt; spread a little dis- solved butter over the crumbs, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. When done, if not nicely browned, finish with the salamander. Pound cold fish in a mortar, season it with pepper and salt, and add a little essence of anchovy. Flour your hands and roll the fish into small balls, dip them in a beaten egg, then in finely sifted bread-crumbs, repeat the process of egg and crumbing, put the balls into the wire basket, and immerse in a stewpan of boiling fat; shake gently until brown. Turn the balls on to paper for a minute to absorb the grease and serve with fried parsley. Fish Balls.MEAT DISHESFillet Steaks with Potato Chips. Trim the fillet as for roasting, cut it into slices half an inch thick, pepper and salt lightly, and allow them to stand for an horn- or two. Put a little butter into the frying-pan, fry the fillets, first on one side, then on the other, dish them up nicely in the centre of a dish, and put round potato chips prepared as follows :—Peel fine kidney potatoes, cut them in very thin round slices of an equal size (that which is not used for the chips can be either fried or boiled for the family dinner), lay them in a cloth to dry, and fry in the wire basket in good fat. Dripping will answer, hut the best frying fat is clarified pot skimmings ; next to this beef-suet melted down with an equal quantity of lard. Oil is the best of all for frying potatoes, but is expensive, and requires some care in the use. Put only enough chips to cover the bottom of your basket; when you take them out, throw them on paper before the fire to absorb any grease, and repeat the process until you have enough chips. They can, if pre- ferred, be fried without the basket, and taken out of the fat with a skimmer.150 LITTLE DINNERS. Fillet Steaks with Mushrooms. Prepare the fillets as in the foregoing recipe, broil ohem, and place neatly on a dish with chopped mushrooms in the centre. Peel and trim the mushrooms, put them into a stewpan with a little butter, and pepper and salt, let them stew gently until perfectly tender ; they will take from ten to twenty minutes, according to size. When done, drain them from the liquor and chop them; this done, put them back, warm up in it and place on the dish with the fillets. Fillets of Steak with Fried Bread. For this purpose the fillet must be very neatly trimmed, and all the slices be very nearly of a size. Cut them about half an inch thick, and then prepare as many pieces of bread as you have fillets, and of the same size and shape. Cook the fillets as directed for fillets with potato chips, and fry the bread nicely in the wire basket (see fried bread). Arrange them on the dish for serving; first a fillet, then a slice of fried bread, and so on until all are used. In the centre of the dish put a little rich thick gravy and serve immediately.MEAT DISHES. *5* Beef Olives. Have some rump steak cut a quarter of an inch thick, divide it into pieces about five inches wide, spread over each a thin layer of sausage meat, roll up tightly, and put a skewer through to keep in shape; egg, bread-crumb, and fry until lightly cooked. Serve with good gravy in the dish. Rump Steak Pudding. Line a pudding-basin with a paste made of equal pro- portions of beef-suet and flour, with water in proportion of half a pint to a pound of the latter. Lay in pieces of rump steak nicely trimmed, and sprinkle over pepper and salt, then a layer of mushrooms skinned ; repeat the layer of steak, and so on till the basin is full. Pour in as much stock or water as the basin will conveniently hold, put on a lid of paste, and boil from two hours to two hours and a half, according to size. When the pudding is done, send it to table in its basin, with a napkin neatly fastened round. Two or three sheep’s kidneys cut in quarters may be substituted for the mushrooms ; oysters are excellent. The carver should remove a round piece of the top crust and pour in a little gravy, which should be made of the mushroom trimmings and a little meat.152 LITTLE DINNERS. Beef or Mutton Puffs. Roll or pound cold potatoes perfectly smooth, add a quarter of their weight of flour, ruh them together, season with pepper and salt, mix into a paste with egg, roll out thinly, and cut into pieces about four inches square. Place on them slices of cold meat and well cooked bacon, very thinly sliced; pepper and salt highly, fold the paste over the meat, and press the edges together. Fry care- fully, first on one side, then on the other. Serve very hot. Cottage Pie. Cut into dice one pound and a half of any coarse lean part of beef (from the ‘sticking piece' is best), and put it into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, a pinch of pepper and salt, and four minced onions. Let this simmer in its own juices until perfectly tender. If not allowed to cook too fast, there will be nearly half a pint of gravy from fine fresh meat. It will take nearly two hours to cook properly. When ready, put the meat and onions into a pie-dish, mix the gravy with sufficient plain butter sauce to fill the dish, and cover it with nicely mashed potatoes. Mark the cover in squares on the top, by crossing it with a knife; hake for twenty minutes. The potato crust153 MEAT DISHES. should he nicely browned. A little milk or buttei should be mixed with the potatoes, as it enables them to be smoothed more easily. This pie may also be made of rump steak or cold meat, and will not then require stewing. Haricot of Ox Cheek. Fry some sliced onions until a nice brown. Cut up a cooked carrot, and add any other vegetable in season. Warm them in a little of the gravy in which the cheek was stewed as for soup. Put in the pieces of meat, season, and let them simmer together for ten minutes. If there is any fat on the gravy remove it, stir in enough flour to make it as thick as cream, simmer together for five minutes and serve. Ox Cheek Pie. The cheek having been stewed as for soup, cut it into neat pieces. Lay them in a tart-dish, with parboiled onions between each layer, and a good seasoning of pepper and salt. Fill up the dish with gravy, and cover with a crust made as for Devonshire pie. Ox Heart. This is now one of the cheapest dishes, an ox heartLITTLE DINNERS. ‘54 weighing about five pounds, and the average cost being two shillings and threepence. It is not so popular as it would be if the method of cooking were understood. In the first place, it is not necessary to cook the whole heart; half or a quarter of it may be used to great advantage, and is good stewed, in a pie, minced, rissolettes, hashed, in a pudding, fried with potatoes, potted, or as a sausage. It must, however, be first stewed, no matter what the form in which it is subsequently used. First wash and cleanse the heart, trim it and cut in half, rub flour over, and fry until brown. Then put it in a stewpan with four or five fried onions, a sprig of thyme, and enough water seasoned with pepper and salt or weak stock to cover it. Let it simmer gently for three hours or until perfectly tender, then take it up, remove all fat from the gravy, reduce it to a small quantity by boiling without the lid of the stewpan, thicken, season, and, if liked, add a glass of claret and a lump of sugar; return the heart to the gravy. Serve very hot. If only half the heart is required for a dish, the other may be fried and will then keep, even in warm weather, for two days; or if rubbed with vinegar and turned every day, will not only keep very well, but will be improved by the process. If, after the heart is stewed, it is put into the Dutch oven, and basted with a little butter for ten minutes, it will be very delicious, but must not then be returned to*55 MEAT DISHES. the stewpan, but be placed on a dish and have the gravy t poured round. Stuffing balls made of equal quantities of bread- crumbs and suet, with a little flour, chopped parsley and sweet herbs, a little grated lemon peel, the whole seasoned with pepper and salt, and moistened with egg, are a good addition to this dish. Having mixed the ingredients, flour your hands, roll into little balls, and fry gently until crisp and brown; put in the gravy, and simmer for a minute. After the heart has been stewed, it may be used for any of the purposes mentioned above, according to the recipes for similar dishes. Tripe with Onions. When tripe comes in from the shop, it should be con- sidered only half cooked, and from two to three hours is not too much time to simmer it. Place it in a stewpan with four large onions, half a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of white pepper, and half a pint of water to each pound of tripe. When perfectly tender, take it up, keep hot whilst you take the fat off the gravy, which allow to boil without the lid of the stewpan until reduced to half the original quantity; then thicken it with flour and new milk, put the tripe and onions into it, let it simmer for a quarter of an hour, and serve very hot.156 LITTLE DINNERS. Tripe prepared in this way is delicious fried in batter made as page 62, or plainer if desired. Tripe Saute. Stew a pound of tripe in well seasoned stock; when perfectly tender, cut it into neat square pieces, then fry a light brown in a little butter, and season with pepper and salt. Cut a pound of onions in slices, fry a nice brown, and then simmer them until very tender in a little of the liquor in which the tripe was stewed. When they are done, put the tripe with them into the stewpan, add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and one of vinegar, simmer together for a minute and send to table imme- diately. Mutton Cutlets. Taken from the neck, mutton cutlets are expensive, but those from the loin will be found not only convenient, but to answer Avell at a smaller cost. First remove the under cut or fillet from about two pounds of the best end of a loin of mutton, cut off the top, which will be useful for stewing, and is especially good eaten cold, and then remove the meat in one piece from- the bones. Now divide it and the fillet into cutlets about half an inch thick, egg them over and dip them in well157 MEAT DISHES. seasoned bread-crumbs, fry them until a nice brown, and serve with gravy made from the bones and an onion. This way of cooking the loin is much more economical than in chops, because with them the bones and tops are wasted, whereas in cutlets all is used up. To stew the top, put in a stewpan, the fat downwards, sprinkle pepper and salt, and slice an onion or two over^ and set it to fry gently for an houi or more. Take up the meat, and put a quarter of a pint of cold water to the fat, and when this has risen in a solid cake, take it off, mix a little flour with the gravy which will be found beneath the fat, add pepper, salt, and some cooked potatoes cut in slices. Cut the meat in neat squares ; let it simmer gently in the gravy with the potatoes for half an hour. Neck of Mutton Cutlets. As has been remarked, these are expensive, but if the whole neck is purchased and judiciously used the cost will be much reduced. The scrag end of the neck may be used as directed for neck of lamb a la jardiniere, but will, of course, take longer to stew. There will then remain a portion which will not make handsome cutlets, but will be very good when taken from the bones and cut into thin slices, dipped in egg and bread-crumb and fried. The bones will make excellent gravy, and if boiled gently and not too long, any meat remaining on them may be scraped158 LITTLE DINNERS. off and made into mince or rissoles. An excellent Irish stew may also be made from this portion. After disposing of what is considered the inferior portion of the neck, we come to that called the £ best end,’ which will give seven chops. Trim away the breast, which will serve for stewing, &c., saw off the spine-bone and cut the chops, taking away about an inch of meat from the long bone, remove the gristle and nearly all the fat, then flatten the cutlets with the bat. Dip them in milk and pass them through bread-crumbs, pressing on them as many as you can, and then in dissolved butter ; then again through bread-crumbs, which must be highly seasoned with pepper and salt. Broil the cutlets over a clear fire, and serve either with a puree of any vegetables or a jardiniere. Put the puree, which must be thick, in the centre of the dish, pile it up and place the cutlets round it, the thick end downwards. Or a good plain gravy may be served under the cutlets. Scrag of Mutton a la Russe. Take about a poimd and a half of scrag of mutton in one piece, boil it gently for about three boms in a quart of water, with a teaspoonful of salt, two onions, a turnip, a carrot and a pinch of pepper. When the meat is perfectly tender, so that the bones can easily be taken out, brush it over well with yolk of egg, then sprinkle over it a mixture*59 MEAT DISHES. of finely sifted bread-crumbs, raspings, a shake of flour, a little dried and sifted parsley, and sufficient pepper and Balt to season it highly. Put the meat into the Dutch oven, haste it until brown with an ounce of butter, and serve -with good gravy or brown caper sauce. The broth may be served with the vegetables minced, a little celery being added, and for those who like it, a small quantity of chopped parsley put into the tureen and the broth poured boiling over it. Take care to remove all fat from the broth; it will rise very quickly if the basin is set in a larger one containing cold water changed frequently. Sheep’s Head. Get a perfectly fresh sheep’s head, and having taken out the tongue and brains, soak it in tepid water. With a blunt knife break all the soft bones inside the head, and take care most thoroughly to cleanse it. Put it into a saucepan with enough water to cover it and a tablespoonful of salt. To ensure perfect cleanliness, when it has boiled five minutes take the head out and pour away this water. Put the head on again to boil with two quarts of water, six onions, two turnips and carrots, and pepper and salt. Let it boil gently for three or four hours, or until so tender the meat will readily slip from the bones : having taken them all out carefully, place the meat of the head on a hot dish, and pour over it either a good onion, caper, ori6o LITTLE DINNERS. parsley sauce. Or take all the vegetables cooked with the head, rub them to a puree through a sieve, have ready a little good butter sauce made with milk, nicely season it, mix with the puree, pour over the meat and serve. The broth is very good with the addition of a little celery and chopped parsley, and may be served either with or without the vegetables cooked in it. The tongue and brains may be reserved for separate dishes, or used as in the following recipe. A slight thickening of corn-flour is liked by most persons. Excellent soup of any kind • may be made of this broth, and an economical one by merely boiling a few bacon bones in it, with any other bones or scraps. Chap- man’s wheat-flour makes a cheap thickening for plain soups, and tapioca or oatmeal is very good. Sheep’s Head Scotch Fashion. The above recipe is for dressing sheep’s heads as they are generally sold by butchers. To get one with the skin on it must be ordered. A head with the skin on is much more economical than without; the usual excuse of haste is given with us for removing it; it takes time and trouble to prepare with the skin on. Treat the head with the skin on exactly as directed in the first recipe, only it will take an hour longer to boil. It must be perfectly tender, so that the bones come out easily. Having laid it on a161 MEAT DISHES. hot dish, garnish it with slices of lemon and fried parsley. Make a sauce of the brains as follows—Boil them in salt and water with an onion for a quarter of an hour, chop them up, mix with them a teaspoonful of finely powdered sage, and season well with pepper and salt. Have ready a quarter of a pint of butter sauce, stir in the brains, let all get hot together without boiling, serve in a boat. The tongue should be boiled separately in strong salt and water, with a clove, peppercorn, and a few drops of vinegar. Serve on the dish with the head. Sheep’s Head a la Russe. Having taken out all the bones, proceed exactly as for neck of mutton a la Russe. Breast of Mutton, With the poor, to whom fat is a necessity, this dish is much in vogue ; but to be economical, even from their point of view, it must be bought at a low price. Persons accustomed to the prime parts of mutton are wont to despise the breast; but it may, with a little care and skill, be made into excellent dishes. It is essential that it should be partly prepared the day before using, as it cannot be sufficiently freed of fat until cold. After pre- paring in the following manner, the meat may be made either into a mutton pasty, Devonshire pie,mutton pudding, M162 LITTLE DINNERS. stew or curry. It is besides excellent eaten cold. Cut the breast into convenient pieces, and lay them in a stew- pan, meat downwards, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and slice three onions over them. If it is desired to use the fat drawn from the mutton in any way in which the flavour of onions would be objectionable, they must be omitted. Set the stewpan at a low heat, and allow the meat to cook gradually in its own fat and juices. It will take about three hours. When done, put away the meat on a dish and the fat in a basin. The next morning a little gravy will be found beneath the cake of fat, which will, from a breast of mutton weighing about three pounds, be as much as three-quarters of a pound to one pound. It is excellent fat either for making family cakes and pies or for frying. Use the gravy, with the addition of a little water or stock, onion or other vegetables, to dress the meat in any of the ways above mentioned. Sheep’s Hearts Stewed. Having well washed the hearts, drain and dry them; make a stuffing in the proportion of two oimces of beef- suet to three of sifted bread-crumbs, and a small table- spoonful of flour ; put a good quantity of parsley, a pinch of sweet herbs, a grate of lemon peel and nutmeg, season with pepper and salt, and make the whole into a stiff paste with egg. Stuff the hearts with it, taking care not to have163 MEAT DISHES. them so full that the stuffing will burst out; this done, brush the hearts over with milk, and then roll them in flour. Put them, with the broad end downwards, into a stewpan, with a little butter; let them fry for a few minutes, then turn them about on all sides, and when nicely browned, put into the stewpan with a pint of good stock, or, if you have none, water in which an onion has been boiled, and well seasoned with pepper and salt. Let them simmer for an hour and a half, or until tender. Drain away the gravy and remove all the fat from it; either reduce it by boiling sharply without the lid of the stew- pan, or thicken with a little flour; pour over the hearts and serve very hot. If to be eaten with currant jelly, a glass of claret in the gravy will be an improvement; add also a lump of sugar. Calf s heart is excellent cooked in this manner. Sheep’s Hearts Eoasted. Having washed the hearts, stuff each with an onion parboiled and then minced fine; add to it two table- spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, half a teaspoonful of chopped or dried sage, and sufficient black pepper and salt tc season highly, Press the stuffing well into the hearts, and, if necessary, fasten a little muslin over the top to keep it in. Whilst roasting baste very frequently. Sheep’s hearts may be baked, stuffed in this manner ; but care164 LITTLE DINNERS. must be taken not to let them get dry. Any heart that may be left is excellent hashed. Mutton Pudding. Get from a pound and a half to two pounds of scrag of mutton, take off all the fat, boil it gently for two hours, meat downwards, in a quart of water, with two onions, and a good seasoning of pepper and salt. Take up the meat; 6et the broth aside to cool, in order that you may take off the fat. Carefully remove the meat from the bones. Make a crust with the fat from the scrag, or of mutton or beef suet, in the proportion of two ounces of fat to four ounces of flour ; line a pudding-basin with this, slice in two cooked potatoes, lightly pepper and salt them, then the onions cooked with the mutton, then the meat of the scrag, and, as a great improvement to the pudding, a sheep’s kidney sliced, or half an ox kidney; sprinkle pepper and salt over, and put on the top two more sliced potatoes. Fill up the basin with some of the broth, put on a lid of paste, and boil the pudding for two hours. Keturn the bones to the remainder of the broth with an onion ; let them boil until the pudding is ready, then serve the broth in a sauce boat. All meat puddings should be served in the basin in which they are boiled, a napkin being neatly folded round. The carver should remove a round piece from the lid of the pudding, andMEAT DISHES. 165 pour in enough of the broth from the sauce boat to fill it up ; this will ensure each person getting the same kind of gravy. This pudding may be made of sheep’s head after it has been boiled, as directed in the following recipes. To make the crust for a richer pudding use equal quan- tities of suet and flour. Mix a pinch of salt with the flour and suet, make into a paste with cold water, in the proportion of half a pint to a pound of flour. Flour the paste-board, and roll out the crust a quarter of an inch thick. Dissolve a little butter, and brush the inside of a basin thickly with it, then line with the paste. Devonshire Pie. This made as is usual in the county from which it takes its name, and where it is also called c Squab Pie,’ is so rich that few persons like it. The following recipe will be found free from this objection, as mutton is sub- stituted for pork, and all the ingredients are cooked and freed from fat before being put into the pie. Take a pound and a half of the scrag of mutton, cut it up into convenient pieces, and put it into a stewpan with half a pint of water, two large pinches of salt and one of pepper, and two large onions sliced. Let it simmer for two hours, or until perfectly tender, then set the gravy to cool. Draw all the bones out of the meat, and arrange it neatly in a pie-dish, place on the top the onions cooked166 LITTLE DINNERS. with it, sprinkle lightly with pepper and salt, and spread over a thin layer of nicely sweetened apple sauce, or apple marmalade, and having removed the fat from the gravy, pour it over the meat, &c. Make a crust as follows :—Use suet finely shred, not chopped, in the proportion of three ounces to five ounces of flour, and water in that of half a pint to a pound of flour. Having mixed these ingredients with a pinch of salt into a smooth paste, roll it out, and heat it until the suet and flour are thoroughly incorporated. Then roll it out in the usual manner, and put it on the pie. This crust is very good eaten hot, and is wholesome and digestible. If a richer crust is desired, an ounce of butter or lard may be added to the given proportions, which are about sufficient to make a crust for a pound and a half of mutton. If pie-crust is objected to, a layer of well mashed potatoes may be substituted, or slices of bread, fried a light brown and laid on as a cover, are very good. The whole of the contents of the pie having been thoroughly cooked, it will be ready so soon as the crust, of whatever kind, is nicely baked. Mutton Pasty. The under cut of a shoulder is best for this purpose. With a sharp knife cut the lean meat away from an un- cooked shoulder of mutton ; let the slices be thin. This will not in the least interfere with the upper side, whichi67 MEAT DISHES. may be hung as long as required after the under cut is removed. Lay the slices of meat in a pie-dish, sprinkle pepper and salt over them, and nearly fill the dish with a gravy that will jelly; it may be made with mutton shanks and a little gravy beef, two nicely fried onions, a few peppercorns, and a very small bit of mace. If for eating cold, cover the pasty with a good puff paste, and bake in a quick oven. If to be served hot, a cover of mashed potatoes, or a crust as for Devonshire pie is suit- able. Breast of Lamb Cutlets. Tie two breasts of lamb together, and boil them very gently in a quart of stock or water with two onions, a carrot, and a sprig of thyme. When the meat is per- fectly tender, draw out the bones, and press the meat between two dishes until cold. Then cut it in pieces the size and shape of cutlets, dip them in dissolved butter and crumb them, then egg and crumb them again. Make a puree of turnips, or any vegetables you please,' put in the centre of the dish, and place the cutlets round it. Serve with white sauce in a boat.LITTLE DINNERS. i68 Sweetbreads. These are generally somewhat expensive, but, as they must have a quick sale, butchers are at times glad to dis- pose of them at a reasonable cost. It must be borne in mind that a pair of fine calves’ sweetbreads at three shil- lings are cheaper because they go further than a chicken at the same price in London. Carefully wash and trim the sweetbreads, then put them in a stewpan with enough stock or water, seasoned with pepper and salt, to cover them, an onion, a sprig of parsley and thyme, and a small piece of lemon peel. Simmer gently for twenty minutes. Take up and drain them, brush over with egg and crumb them, then put them in the Dutch oven before the fire, and baste con- stantly with butter until nicely browned. Serve them with rich brown gravy, with a little lemon juice added, or tomato sauce, if preferred. Lambs’ sweetbreads are parboiled in the same manner, then dipped in egg and seasoned bread-crumbs and fried. Calf’s Head. Procure half a calf s head; let it soak in cold water with a spoonful of vinegar and a little salt for two hours. Remove the brain and tongue, put the head on with suffi-MEAT DISHES. 169 cient water to cover it, and a tablespoonful of suit; when it has boiled ten minutes, pour away the liquor, and again cover the head with water. Add two onions with a clove stuck in each, a small bundle of parsley with a sprig of thyme tied up with it, a tablespoonful of white vinegar, and a large tablespoonful of salt. Let all boil gently for two hours, or until the head is sufficiently tender to slip from the bones. Having removed them, lay the head on its dish, and cover either with rich brown gravy or white sauce. After the tongue, which can be boiled with the head, is skinned, cut in small pieces and lay it on a separate dish ; place round it in little heaps, alternating with neat rolls of toasted bacon, the brains, prepared as follows:— Boil the brains very fast in a little of the liquor in which the head is cooked ; when quite firm chop them up, and put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, a pinch of salt and pepper, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Stir over the fire until the butter is dissolved, then sprinkle in a dessert- spoonful of flour, again stir for five minutes, and serve. Veal Cutlets a la Polonaise. Cut the meat from the bones of the best part of a neck of veal, divide it into cutlets three-quarters of an inch thick, fry them in a little butter, just to brown them slightly, then simmer them until perfectly tender in good170 LITTLE DINNERS. white gravy, well flavoured with onion and slightly thickened with corn-flour. When they are done, take them up and skim the gravy; let it boil down to a small quantity. Trim some slices of lean ham to the size of the cutlets, fry them in butter until done, dish the veal up in a circle, a slice of ham between each piece. Strain the sauce into the centre of the dish. The gravy for this dish should be made of the bones of the neck from which the cutlets have been taken. Chump End of Loin of Veal. Get about three pounds, remove all the bone you can, and cleverly insert a stuffing. Close it up as tightly as possible ; if necessary, bind it round with tape, and fasten over a thin piece of muslin to keep in the stuffing. Eoast it, basting frequently. Make the stuffing of equal quantities of finely chopped suet and bread-crumbs, a pinch of marjoram and thyme, a good quantity of chopped parsley, a grate of lemon peel and nutmeg, pepper and salt, and enough egg to make the whole into a paste. Rechauffe of Roast Veal. Cut the veal in thin slices, and spread over each a little of the remaining stuffing; pepper, salt, and flour lightly. Then make a batter with two eggs, well beaten, a pinch of dried parsley, pepper and salt, half a pint of171 MEAT DISHES. skim milk, four tablespoonfuls of flour. Put an ounce of butter into the pan, let it boil, pour in the batter like a thick pancake, then lay in the middle, one on the other, the slices of meat; fry slowly ten minutes, shaking the pan to prevent burning. Then turn up the edges of the pancake over the meat, and turn it over on to the other side ; fry another five minutes, and then with a slice put the cake on to its dish. Pour over it a little rich gravy, in which any peas, French beans, or other nice vegetables have been warmed, and serve immediately. This dish looks very pretty and is delicious. Fricassee of Knuckle of Yeal. Cut the meat remaining on a cold knuckle into thick slices, and having cleared the bone, set it to boil for two hours in three pints of water; it will then give half a pint of good rich gravy. Take the fat off it, and add an equal quantity of milk, in which two onions have been stewed. Rub these to pulp, use it with flour to thicken the gravy, season nicely; put in your pieces of veal with any of the gelatinous morsels, and let them simmer for an hour. Then serve with toast sippets or fried bread. The bones will again bear boiling, and should yield a pint of strong jelly.172 LITTLE DINNERS. Minced Veal. Cut up the meat into slices half an inch thick, then into strips of the same thickness, and finally into neat dice-shaped pieces. Reserve all skin, brown hits, and sinew to make the gravy. Let the meat simmer in it, with an onion and a piece of lemon peel, until quite tender, when add to it a sufficient quantity of milk, thickened with flour, and let all simmer together. Take out the onion and lemon peel, and serve with fried bread and rolls of bacon round the dish. This is an old recipe which has not been improved on in the modern fashion of mincing veal. To make the bacon rolls, cut slices of streaked bacon very thinly, and about two inches long, roll them up, and place as you do them close together on a small skewer. Cook them before the fire in the Dutch oven, and when done, draw out the skewer ; the rolls will thus keep their shape. Potato Hash. Put some cold chopped potatoes into the frying-pan with a little fat, stir them about for five minutes, then add to them an equal quantity of cold meat, cut into neat little squares, season nicely with pepper and salt, fry gently, stirring all the time, until thoroughly hot through173 MEAT DISHES. Liver a la Francaise. Cut some slices of calf’s liver half an inch thick, and lay them neatly in a stewpan slightly buttered, sprinkle pepper and salt over the upper sides, slice two ounces of fat bacon as finely as possible, chop a teaspoonful of parsley and a small shalot very fine, and spread them evenly dver the liver; cover the stewpan closely, and set it on a fire so moderate that it will draw out all the juices without simmering; the least approach to this hardens the liver and spoils it. If the range is too hot, set the stew- pan on an iron stand. When the liver has thus stood for a hour and a half it will be done. Take it up, put it on a hot dish, and cover it close, whilst you boil the bacon and the gravy together for two minutes, then pour over the liver and serve immediately. Liver cooked in this manner is digestible, and can be eaten by persons who could not venture to do so when fried. Brains. Sheep’s, calf’s, pig’s or ox brains may all be treated in the following manner. Having carefully washed the brains, boil them very fast, in order to harden them, in well seasoned gravy. When they are done, take them out of the gravy, and set them aside until coll. Cut them174 LITTLE DINNERS. either in slices or in halves, dip each piece in egg, then in bread-crumbs, well seasoned with dried and sifted parsley, pepper and salt; fry them in a little butter until brown. The gravy having become cold, take off the fat, and boil it in a stewpan without a lid until it is reduced to a small quantity ; pour it round the brains and serve. A slice of tomato, prepared as for salad, may he placed between or under each piece of brain, or a little pickled cucumber may be served in the gravy. Brains are excellent fried in hatter. Dry Curries. Any kind of cold meat will do for this purpose, hut fowl, rabbit, mutton or pork are best. Fry one onion in a little butter until brown, mix it with the meat cut into small neat dice, and fry together until hot through. Then sprinkle very lightly over a little curry powder, salt and pepper ; mix well together, and pour over enough cream or milk slightly to moisten the curry. Stir it about until again dry and serve. Pork and Kidney Pudding. Make a crust as for steak pudding, and line a basin with it. Cut thick slices from the chump end of a fore loin of pork, put a layer at the bottom of the basin, sprinkle penner and salt over, then a layer of sausage meat, and a175 MEAT DISHES. layer of mutton or pork kidneys cut in quarters, and so on until the basin is nearly full. Pour in as much stock water or gravy made from the bones and trimmings of the pork, as you can, put on a lid of paste and boil the pildding for two horns if large, an hour and a half if small. This is an exceedingly good pudding and by many people preferred to one made of beef. It is convenient to make it at the same time as sausages as some of the meat from the loin can be reserved, and is equally good if very lightly salted, and set aside until the next day. Forcemeat. This may be made in a number of ways, either in simple or elaborate fashion, and with a great variety of material. A clever cook, in possession of a pound or two of forcemeat, might send up a very delicious dinner of at least half a dozen different dishes. The most useful forcemeats are made from beef, veal and pork, but fish, poultry, and game may also be employed. The operation of making forcemeat in any quantity, for those who have not a mincing machine, is rather tedious, but still may be successfully performed. The following recipe for making a forcemeat of pork, which will answer for all general purposes, is given as a model, though for some things it may be necessary to further pound it in a mortar. Cut a pound of fat pork into thin stripes; take careLITTLE DINNERS. 176 that it is perfectly free from skin and gristle. The loin will he found best for this purpose. Mix an ounce of finely sifted bread-crumbs with one large teaspoonful of salt, a small one of black pepper, and one of dried and sifted sage. Pour over the meat a teacupful of gravy made from the bones and trimmings of the pork, sprinkle the seasoning equally over, and mix it thoroughly. Then pass it through the mincing machine. If you have not one, chop the meat, and mix the seasoning with it after- wards. Topham’s ‘ Combination Mincer,’ to be had at Kent’s, High Holborn, is invaluable; it not only makes sausages to perfection, but pounds meat so finely for forcemeat and potting that there is no necessity for using the pestle and mortar. Sausage Balls. Put a little flour on your hands, take a piece of the forcemeat, and roll it into balls. Repeat the operation until you have enough. Fry the balls in a little butter, shaking and turning them continually. They will take about ten minutes177 MEAT DISHES. Curried Forcemeat Balls. Prepare as the last recipe. Have a good gravy well seasoned with curry-powder, warm the halls in it without ooiling them, and serve with a little boiled rice. Forcemeat Pie. Put a layer of forcemeat at the bottom of a tart-dish? beat up two or three eggs, a tablespoonful of milk to each, with a little pepper and salt, pour over and cover with pie- crust ; it should be light and thin. Bake in a good oven for half an hour. Forcemeat Pudding. Soak the crumb of a French roll in milk, beat it up smooth with a quarter of a pound of forcemeat and the yolks of two eggs, add a little pepper and salt if necessary. __ « When about to bake, beat the whites of the eggs to a strong froth and stir them into the pudding ; put it into a buttered tart-dish and bake it in a hot oven for half an hour. Serve a little good gravy in a boat. Forcemeat Balls for Soups and Garnish. Add to the above forcemeat a third of its weight of bread-crumbs, soaked in milk, and worked dry in a stew- Ni?8 L17TLE DINNERS. pan, with a little butter and an egg. When well mixed together and cold, roll into balls the size of a marble, and fry them brown in butter. Drain them free from fat, and put them into the tureen after the soup is in it. Rice case with Forcemeat. Boil half a pound of Carolina rice in a quart of water with an ounce of bacon fat or butter; pepper and salt to taste. When it is done and dry enough, pound it in a mortar, then roll into a ball, put it on a baking-sheet, and mould it with the hands into the shape of a raised pie. Brush it over with dissolved butter, and put it in the oven until it colours nicely. Put into it as many fried sausage balls as it will contain, and pour over them a little thick brown gravy or sauce Robert. Forcemeat Rissoles. Roll out some puff paste (a quarter of a pound will make a good many- rissoles) to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Cut some rounds either with the top of a cup or a paste-cutter. Pound a little sausage meat in the mortar, take a piece, the size of a teaspoon, and lay it on a round of paste, wet the edges and fold over to the shape of a puff, press well together and mark with a paste-cutter. When you have made sufficient, fry them in hot fat. Serve on a napkin with a garnish of fried parsley.MEAT DISHES. 179 Rissolettes. Chop cold beef or mutton very fine, add to it about a fourth of its weight in bread-crumbs, a finely minced shalot, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste; mix with egg into a stiff paste. Flour your hands and roll the meat into egg-shaped balls. Put a little butter into the frying-pan, and fry the rissolettes, first on one side and then on the other, taking care they do not get over brown. As the meat has been previously cooked, the rissolettes will only require to be made hot through. Serve with a little good gravy in a boat. Quenelles. This is a simple and inexpensive recipe, and there should be no difficulty in getting the quenelles made by an ordinary cook. They are very nice made small, as an accompaniment to soup, and in a larger size as an entree. Take two ounces of sifted bread-crumbs, moisten them with a little milk or cream, and before using them put the crumbs into a cloth and squeeze out as much moisture as possible. Then put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and stir over the fire until the paste becomes smooth and compact; mix with it a well beaten egg, and again stir over the fire until dry. Have ready an ounce ofi8o LITTLE DINNERS. any kind of pounded meat, game, poultry, or fish, well and highly seasoned, and in the case of the latter, a little anchovy added. Mix all together and set aside to get as cold as possible. When ready for use, flour your hands, and roll the quenelles into the shape of small eggs, if for an entree, if for soup, the size of a teaspoon. Have a stewpan half filled with boiling broth, or water, flavoured with onions, pepper and salt, drop in the quenelles, and poach them. Eight or ten minutes will cook the largest size. They may be served either with a rich gravy or white sauce flavoured with lemon juice. Patties. These may he made in great variety, both in shape and material, but it requires an experienced hand to make patties without pans, and there is some waste with them. Those made as follows are excellent. Line small round patty-pans with puff paste, exactly the same as for mince- pies, fill them with either cooked veal, pork, mutton, fowl, or game, cut into neat dice, and mix so as to coat the meat thickly with rich, well flavoured white sauce; put on a cover of paste and hake in a quick oven.POULTBY AKD GAMERoast Game and Poultry. Whenever a fowl or a pheasant has no other stuffing, an ounce of butter, mixed with a good pinch of pepper, salt, and nutmeg, should be put into the body, which must be so securely fastened that the seasoning cannot escape when melted. The flavour of game and poultry is much improved by basting with butter, and the fat saved from toasted bacon is an excellent substitute. Where there is much game or poultry roasted, this should not be re- garded as an extravagance, as the fat with a little more added will serve over and over again. - Each time the fat is .used, a deposit of rich gravy will be found beneath it; this is most valuable, and should always be added to that to be served with game or poultry ; indeed, this deposit with the giblets, and perhaps a bacon bone, ought to maks a rich and sufficient gravy for one fowl. A thick slice of fat bacon, large enough to cover the entire breast, is not only a great improvement, but an economy in roasting a fowl, because it prevents loss of goodness and makes it eat juicy and firm. This can be easily managed in families where they make use of boiledLITTLE DINNERS. 184 bacon. First, before cooking, remove the rind as thinly as possible, then cut off a thick slice of the fat and reserve for roasting purposes. The bacon -will not have lost any of its quality, and will probably be fat enough. The slice used to cover the breast of the fowl should be removed a few minutes before serving, in order that the skin may be nicely browned. The bacon itself will be good eaten with the fowl, or cold, or for several of our recipes. Braised Fowl, Truss a fowl as for roasting. Stuff the crop with good forcemeat or sausage meat. Lay slices of bacon over the breast, and put in a braising-pan with as much good stock as will reach half way up the legs, two onions, and a small bundle of sweet herbs. Let it stew very gently until per- fectly tender, then take it up, remove the bacon from the breast, and keep warm whilst you take the fat off the gravy, and reduce it by boiling without the lid of the stewpan to about one-half. Brush over the breast of the fowl with good glaze, pour the gravy round and serve. Fricassee of Fowl with Button Onions. Cut up a tender fowl into the usual joints, put them into a pint and a half of white stock or water, nicely seasoned with pepper and salt, a sprig of parsley, mar-POULTRY AND GAME. 185 \ joram and thyme, and an onion with two cloves stuck in it. Let the stewpan boil for one minute, then skim the gravy and allow it just to simmer for half an hour. Meanwhile boil three dozen button onions in a pint of milk with a little salt, strain them, and reserve the liquor to make the sauce. When done, take up the fowl, strain the gravy and take off all the fat, let it boil in the stewpan without the lid until reduced to one-half, add the onion milk made as thick as good cream with boiled flour, break in two ounces of fine fresh butter, taste that the sauce is well seasoned, and put in the fowl. Let it get hot in the sauce, and then stand at the stove corner for a quarter of an hour. Arrange the button onions neatly round the dish on which the fowl is served. Chicken Legs en Papillotes. Take the legs of cold chicken, remove the bones, dip them in dissolved butter, with a little chopped parsley, pepper, and salt mixed with it. Lay on both sides of each leg a very thin slice of cooked fat bacon, and wrap it in a piece of buttered paper, cut so that it will fold over neatly at the edges. Lay them on a gridiron over a slow fire for ten minutes, turning them twice and being very careful they do not burn.LITTLE DINNERS. 186 Devilled Fowl. The legs of either roasted or boiled fowls are suitable for this purpose. Score the flesh deeply and coat thickly with the following mixture :—Melt an ounce of butter, mix with it a teaspoonful of chutney, a pinch of cayenne, white pepper and salt. Put the legs on the gridiron over a slow fire, taking great care that they do not burn. Cook slowly for a quarter of an hour, turning them very frequently. Take the legs off the gridiron and pour a little dissolved butter over each ; if required to be very hot a little pepper should be shaken over them. Stewed Chicken Giblets. Take three or four sets of chicken giblets. "Wash, ary, flour, and fry them in a little butter. Cut the gizzards into slices, and put with the other giblets into a stewpan with half a dozen onions, fried, a small bundle of sweet herbs, and enough stock or water seasoned with pepper and salt to cover them. Simmer for about an hour or until perfectly done. Take them up, strain the gravy, and free it from fat. Rub the onions through a sieve and mix with a tablespoonful of boiled flour, stir this into the gravy, let it boil up, put in the giblets, let them get hot in it and serve. A few forcemeat balls, if convenient, should be served with this dish. A puree of green peas or dried haricot beans goes well with it.POULTRY AND GAME. 187 Chicken Giblet Pie. Prepare the giblets as for stewing. When done, re- move the meat from the necks and pinions, and lay it with the rest of the giblets in a pie-dish, put slices of boiled bacon between each layer, fill up the dish with gravy, and cover with a crust, either as for Devonshire pie, or of mashed potatoes. Bake for half an hour. Mayonnaise of Chicken. The remains of fowl, game, or fish may be used to advantage as a mayonnaise. Take the fowl from the bones, free it from skin, and cut it into neat little squares like dice, mis with it a few spoonfuls of mayonnaise sauce, and let it remain for some hours. When about to serve, pile it up in the centre of a dish, and pour sufficient sauce over to cover it. Ornament tastefully with cabbage-lettuce and watercresses, and serve salad separately. Fillets of Hare. Cut slices from the back, as directed for hare prepared for soup. Cut them into four pieces, put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter and a little salt, let them simmer in it for twenty minutes. Take them out,LITTLE DINNERS. 183 work a spoonful of flour into tlie remains of the butter and when it has become a stiff paste, moisten with a glass of claret or Burgundy; season slightly with cayenne, put in a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, stir until dissolved, then pour over the hare and serve Curried Rabbit. Boil a pound of pickled pork for three-quarters of an hour, with three onions, a sprig of thyme, and a quart of water. Then put in a fine young rabbit and boil gently for half an hour. Take up the rabbit and pork, cut up the former into handsome joints, and the pork into neat slices. Put back into the liquor the head, neck, liver, and any pieces of the rabbit you like, with the bones and trim- mings of the pork, and let them boil for an hour, then strain and skim the liquor free from all fat. Allow it to reduce by boiling without the lid of the stewpan to one- half; put in the pork and rabbit and allow them to sim- mer gently for half an hour. Rub the onions boiled with the rabbit to a pulp, add them to a quarter of a pint of milk or cream, in which a tablespoonful of flour, a tea- spoonful of curry-powder, and a teaspoonful of Captain White’s curry-paste have been mixed. Put this to the gravy, stir over the fire until it has thickened, and serve the curry with well boiled Patna rice on a separate dish.VEGETABLES AND SAT,ADRPotatoes au gratin. Peel some potatoes and cut into strips about half au inch thick. Wash and dry them in a cloth, dip them in egg and finely sifted bread-crumbs. Put them into a wire basket and fry until done in plenty of boiling fat. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, pepper and salt, immerse in the fat for about a second, put them on paper to absorb the grease, and serve very hot. Potatoes a la Maitre d’Hotel. Very small new potatoes may with advantage be used up in this way. Take care they are nicely scraped, and are as white as possible. They must first be boiled in the usual manner with plenty of salt, and be served up with the following sauce to cover them:—Mix a tablespoonful of flour in one of cold water, and then put into a quarter of a pint of boiling water; stir over the fire until properly thickened, put in a large tea- spoonful of finely chopped parsley, two ounces of butter, and a pinch of salt and pepper. Continue stirring until the butter is dissolved, but do not allow the sauce to boil; finally put in a squeeze of lemon juice. Large potatoes may be dressed in this manner, but must be cut in thin slices after being boiled.LITTLE DINNERS. 192 Stewed Vegetable Marrow. Cut the marrow into quarters, peel and take out all the seeds, put it into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and a pinch of pepper and salt, let it cook until done in its own juices. Then mix a little flour with it to thicken slightly, let it boil up and serve. A few spring onions or an onion sliced are very nice cooked with the marrow. Vegetable Marrow Stuffed. Cut off the ends of a marrow, and with a scoop or the top of a spoon remove all the seeds from the middle, which fill up with any forcemeat or cold meat minced. If there is nothing else convenient, equal quantities of bread- crumbs and cold bacon, with a little chopped parsley and. shalot, seasoned with pepper and salt, will be found very good. Having put the stuffing into the marrow, make a stiff paste of flour and water, and close the ends up with it. Put the marrow into any deep dish with a little butter or other fat, cover it close, set it in a good oven, and bake two hours, or until perfectly tender. When done, remove the paste from the ends, and send the marrow to table with its own gravy.VEGETABLES AND SALADS. 193 Stuffed Tomatoes. Choose the tomatoes of a good round shape, and as free from blemishes as possible, remove the stalks and seeds, then place inside them any good forcemeat, or meat prepared as for rissolettes. Put a little butter in a deep pie-dish, place the tomatoes in it, and cover close with a plate or dish. Bake for an hour, or until done, basting occasionally. Serve very hot. Puree of Haricot Beans. If the beans are left to soak all night in cold water they will be easily shelled, but if this is not convenient boiling water must be poured over them, and after they have stood a few minutes be drained, the skins will then come off easily. Choose the large white sort; half a pint will make a dish sufficient for five or six persons. Put the beans when shelled into enough broth or water to cover them, with an ounce of butter or bacon fat; let them boil until tender, they will probably take three hours. Watch that they do not boil dry; when done, rub them through a sieve. They should be a very thick puree. Taste that it is nicely seasoned, return it to the stewpan with an ounce of butter, stir until hot, and serve either as an accompaniment to other dishes, alone, or with fried bread. 0LITTLE DINNERS. <94 Stewed Celery, Great care must be taken in washing the celery. Cut off the tops, take away the outside leaves, and neatly trim the roots. Boil the sticks in salt and water for five minutes, then again carefully wash them. Put them into a stewpan with sufficient stock to cover them, an onion, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, and pepper and salt. Boil very gently for two hours, or until per- fectly tender. When done, drain and lay the celery in a dish. Strain and boil down the liquor in which they were stewed to a small quantity, add to it if necessary a drop or two of colouring, a small piece of glaze, and thicken with butter and flour. Pour over the celery ana serve. Fried Parsley. Wash, pick, and dry the parsley by shaking it in a cloth. Put into the wire basket, and fry for half a minute in hoiliug lard. Drain and throw it on to paper to absorb the grease, and use for garnishes. Fried Mushrooms. The large mushrooms are best for this purpose. Take off the skin and trim the stalks, lay them on the upper side in a frying-pan, with a little dissolved butter or lard.195 VEGETABLES AND SALADS. Sprinkle pepper and salt over the uppermost or black side, and let the mushrooms cook very gently until they are perfectly tender. Put them into a hot dish and pour their gravy over them. Baked Mushrooms. Prepare the mushrooms as in the foregoing recipe, put a little butter on a plate, lay the mushrooms on it, sprinkle with pepper and salt, cover with another plate, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour, or until done. The gravy from mushrooms cooked in this manner should be plentiful. Stewed Mushrooms. For this purpose mushrooms should be very fresh, and those of natural growth are to be preferred. Choose the large white buttons, though if it is not an object to keep the sauce a light colour, any size will do, peel or turn them, that is, pare them with a sharp knife. Put two ounces of fresh butter into a stewpan, lay in the mush- rooms, the upper side downwards, sprinkle pepper and salt over, let them simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour, longer if they are large and thick. When tender, put to them sufficient white sauce to cover them, and let them simmer together for half an hour. Serve as sauce or to be eaten with fried bread.,1 196 LITTLE DINNERS. Salad. Our English salads are generally spoiled by the mois- ture left clinging to them after washing for the table. It is the first essential in preparing a salad most carefully and thoroughly to dry every leaf. This is best done after having drained away the water, by laying the salad on a cloth several times folded, and finally shaking it in another, care being taken not to crush or bruise the leaves. This being done, cut up the larger salad very neatly and evenly, mis with it some of the smaller salad, and, if allowed, a very little onion also cut up finely, sprinkle the remainder of the small salad on the top of the bowl, and ornament with sliced beet-root, radishes, and hard-boiled eggs cut into neat shapes. It is better to serve the salad and dressing separately, as many persons prefer oil and vinegar, but if poured over the salad, it should not be done until the moment of serving, or its crispness will be destroyed. When salad is served with meat, separate plates should be provided. They are to be had now of a crescent shape, which fit the meat plate. Tomato Salad. Mix one drop of extract of garlic with a teaspoonful of vinegar j spread it over a flat dish. Wash and dry theVEGETABLES AND SALADS. Boil about two hours, wipe off the skin, and cut the 197 tomatoes, then cut them into thin slices, and lay them on the dish, and sprinkle heavily with fine salt; tomatoes re- quire a liberal allowance of it, in whatever form they are used. Shake a very little pepper ; put a few drops of oil and about a teaspoonful of vinegar over each slice. Pre- pare the salad an hour or two before required for use. beet-root in slices. Pour a little salad oil over, season with cayenne pepper and salt, add a small teaspoonful of sifted sugar, and best French vinegar in required quantity. Dressed Beet Boot.SAVOURY MACARONI, RICE. OATMEAL EGGS, dbc.Macaroni an gratiu. Break two ounces of best Italian macaroni into a pint of highly seasoned stock, let it simmer until very tender. When done, toss it up with a small piece of butter, and add pepper and salt to taste ; put on a dish. Sift over it some fried bread-crumbs and serve. If the macaroni is kept well covered with the stock, it will take about an horn to cook, but it should be tried from time to time, and never allowed to get pulpy. Macaroni with Bacon. Boil two ounces of streaked bacon, cut into dice, or chop it, and add it to macaroni prepared as above. Macaroni with Onions. Prepare macaroni as for au gratin. Fry two or three onions a delicate brown, boil them in gravy until tender, and mix with the macaroni. The onions may be plain boiled if preferred.202 LITTLE DINNERS. Savoury Macaroni Pudding. Prepare macaroni as above, and finish as savoury rice pudding. Macaroni with Cheese. Boil two ounces of macaroni in half a pint of water, with an ounce of butter, until perfectly tender. If the water evaporates add a little more, taking care that the macaroni does not stick to the stewpan or become broken. When it is done, drain away the water, and stir in two ounces of good cheese grated, cayenne pepper, and salt to taste. Keep stirring until the cheese is dissolved ; pour on to a hot dish and serve. A little butter may be stirred into the macaroni before the cheese, and is an improve- ment. Savoury Rice Pudding. Boil a teacupful of rice in a pint of good stock with an onion. Make a custard with half a pint of milk and one egg, season with pepper and salt, a little chopped parsley, and a shalot minced fine. Mix with the rice and bake in a slow oven.SAVOURY MACARONI, RICE, OATMEAL,ETC. 203 Savoury Oatmeal Pudding. Mix two ounces of fine Scotch oatmeal in a quarter of a pint of milk, add to it a pint of boiling milk, and stir over the fire for ten minutes. Then put in two ounces of sifted bread-crumbs, or as much as will make the mix- ture rather stiff. Take it off the fire and mix with it two ounces of suet, an onion minced finely, two eggs, and a tea- spoonful of chopped marjoram and sage. Butter a York- shire pudding pan, put in the pudding, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. Turn it out on to a hot dish, and have a little good gravy in a boat. Savoury Tapioca. Put two ounces of tapioca into a slow oven with a pint of stock, let it swell for an hour. Then mix with it two onions—boiled and rubbed to a 'puree—and half a pint of any kind of soup or gravy. Let it bake slowly for an hour. Serve with fried bread stuck round the dish. Savoury Rice. To prepare this in an economical manner, instead of using slices of streaked bacon, take the bones from which it has been cut, and on which very little meat remains. Scrape the under side of the bones, wash, and put themLITTLE DINNERS. 204 into a saucepan with plenty of water, two or three onions, and a carrot cut in rounds. When the bacon is done, take it off the bones, and mince it up very finely, return it to the liquor, and add a breakfast-cupful of rice to each quart of water. Boil the rice until it has properly swelled, and has absorbed all the liquor ; add a little pepper and salt if necessary. This is generally much liked. Savoury Bread Pudding'. Scald a French roll in half a pint of well seasoned gravy or milk in which two onions have been boiled. Beat it- up and remove any lumps. Rub the onions to a puree and mis with the bread. A little potted meat, ham, or fish may be added, if convenient. Season the pudding; well beat up two eggs and mix with it. Bake in a quick oven. A little gravy served with this is an improvement. Fried Bread. Considering how simple and delicious a thing this is, it is wonderful how seldom it appears on the tables of the middle classes. Poor people are well aware of its value, and with them it largely supplies the place of animal diet. The objection generally made to it is that it is rich, but if properly done it absorbs very little fat, andSAVOURY MACARONI, RICE, OATMEAL, ETC. 205 may be eaten by delicate children, who are usually very fond of it. The first essential is to have plenty of boiling fat in a stewpan deep enough to hold a wire basket; the nest that the bread shall not be too thick. When the fat is a proper temperature, lay as many pieces of bread, cut in neat shapes, half an inch thick or rather less, in the wire basket as will cover the bottom, and plunge it in ; keep moving, and in less than a minute the bread will have assumed a rich golden colour—be just crisp, without being hard. Withdraw from the fat, and put the bread on paper to absorb any superfluous fat, and repeat the process of frying until you have enough sippets. Fried Bread Crumbs. Crumbs for this purpose, as well as for most others, should be passed through a fine wire sieve, and then dried in the oven. Put a quarter of pound of crumbs, with an ounce of butter, into a clean frying-pan; stir about with a spoon over the fire until they assume a golden colour. When done, turn them on to a sheet of paper, to free them from grease. Then season them with salt and cayenne pepper if to be eaten with game, or with salt alone if for gratins. These fried crumbs may be kept ready for use, and when required should be put into the oven to freshen them. An easy way of preparing the crumbs is to melt a little butter on a tin dish, mix the206 LITTLE DINNERS. crumbs with it, and put them in a moderate oven, stirring them occasionally. They will soon become crisp and of a bright golden colour. Hard boiled Eggs with Onions. Half cook four or five onions, by boiling them in salt and water. Take them up, drain, and cut them in slices a quarter of an inch thick. Fry them in a little butter until brown, and simmer for a quarter of an hour in a pint of nicely thickened and seasoned broth, then put in six hard boiled eggs, cut in thin slices, mix with the onion, simmer together for a minute and serve. Curried Eggs. Make a puree of green peas, or carrots, turnip or onion, by boiling them till tender in stock or salted water, and then rubbing them through a sieve. Mix smooth in a little milk or cream, curry-powder and salt to taste, add to the puree, and stir altogether over the fire until it becomes quite thick. Have ready eggs boiled hard, cut them in slices, lay them on a dish, and pom the puree over them. Fry some sippets of bread and place them round the edge of the dish.SAVOURY MACARONI, RICE, OATMEAL, ETC. 207 Eggs aux Fines Herbes. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan ; when melted, stir in half a pint of new milk, and a pinch of salt and pepper. Break in six eggs, and stir with a whisk briskly over the fire for two minutes, then put in a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, and continue stirring until the eggs begin to set, when take off the fire, and continue whisking until they are as thick as Devonshire cream and rather lumpy. Serve with fried bread round the dish. Eggs with Mushrooms. Trim and peel the mushrooms, put them in a stewpan with a little fresh butter, pepper and salt, and let them stew until tender. When done, put them into a shallow tart-dish, and break over enough eggs to cover them, keeping them whole. Strew fried bread-crumbs and a little pepper and salt on the top, and put into a sharp oven for four or five minutes, or until the eggs are set but not hard. When finished, fried sippets may be placed round the edge of the dish. Ground Rice Dumplings. Substitute for Potatoes. Mix a quarter of a pound of ground rice in a little cold milk. Stir it into half a pint of boiling milk with208 LITTLE DINNERS. two ounces of butter and a pinch of salt. Boil it, stirring all the time, until thick. Let it get cold, then stir in three eggs well beaten. Dip a dessertspoon in boiling water, and take out a spoonful of rice at a time, and throw it into a stewpan of boiling water with a little salt. Five minutes will poach the dumplings. If to be eaten with fruit, a tablespoonful of sifted sugar to be mixed with the rice. Light Dumplings. Two ounces of butter beaten to a cream, and mixed with three eggs, six ounces of flour, and a little salt. Poach in the same manner as the foregoing, but they will take ten minutes, and will rise on the top when done. If for a sweet dish, a little sifted sugar to be added. Cheese Canapees. Fry little pieces of bread cut into neat shapes a light brown, sprinkle over them a little grated cheese, pepper, and salt, put them in the Dutch oven before a clear fire until the cheese is melted, and serve immediately. Cheese Straws. A quarter of a pound of flour, three ounces of grated cheese, a pinch of salt, and a small one of cayenne pepper.SAVOURY MACARONI, OATMEAL, RICE, ETC. 209 Mix into a paste with the yolk of an egg. Roll out to the thickness of a shilling about four or five inches long, cut into strips the third of an inch wide, twist them as you would a paper spill, and lay them on a baking-sheet lightly floured. Bake in a moderate oven until crisp, but they must not be the least brown. If put away in a tin, these cheese straws will keep a long time. Cheese Fondn. Pour half a pint of boiling milk on the crumb of a French roll, beat it up with a quarter of a pound of good cheese grated, and the yolks of two eggs well beaten. Just as it is ready for the oven, stir in the whites of four eggs beaten to a solid froth. Bake in a quick oven, either in a silver or tart dish, with a high band of paper round. It will take about twenty minutes, and must be served as quickly as possible. Cheese Crab. One ounce of good flavoured cheese, one ounce of fresh butter, a pinch of cayenne pepper, a saltspoonful of dry mustard, a teaspoonful of vinegar or Prince Alfred’s sauce, a few drops of essence of anchovy, and salt to taste. Pub the cheese and butter together until well mixed, add the other ingredients gradually, and work the whole into a smooth paste. To be eaten with crisp dry toast. P■ ' ■PUDDINGS, CBEAMS, &c. iRemarks on Pudding Making. The milkman, like other purveyors, is often blamed for the fault of the cook, and when our rice or tapioca puddings appear on the table with the thick material floating in a sea of whey, we deplore that it is impossible to procure genuine milk in towns. The fact is, however, ■the best milk, fresh from the cow, will curdle in cooking if improperly used. Two precautions must be taken-to avoid this misfortune. The first, to pour the milk boiling on to the eggs, which must then be beaten together. The second, to bake very slowly. All milk puddings properly baked eat richer than those which are hurried, and one egg will make a thicker custard with slow baking than three in too hot an oven. A milk pudding too quickly baked will have the eggs mixed with the farinaceous substance, and generally the milk turned to whey, whilst one slowly baked will have the milk and eggs set into a rich custard on the top. Whites of Eggs. It is often a puzzle to know what to do with the whites of eggs left when the yolks have been appropriated forLITTLE DIE LERI. 211 custard or other purposes. They can, however, be used for making puddings, and, if properly treated, few persons would detect the absence of the yolk. If it is desired the eggs should mix with the rice or tapioca, and form a light brown top to the pudding, they must be well beaten ; if a custard is desired, only lightly beaten, and boiling milk stirred on them. The custard will set nicely on the top if the pudding is very slowly baked, and although it will be white it will eat very rich and good. Whipped white of egg is an elegant addition to many dishes, but care must be taken to use with it sufficient sugar and lemon or vanilla flavouring to take away its raw taste. Whipped to a strong froth with sugar, placed on the top of a pudding, just set, and browned in the oven, whites of eggs at once convert an ordinary into a superior pudding. It is not easy to describe the manner of beating up eggs so as to bring them to a very solid state, for suc- cess depends so much on what is popularly known as ‘ knack,’ and is partly gained by experience. One person will beat until afraid her arm will drop off, and another knock out the bottom of the basin, without bringing the eggs to a froth, whilst she who is possessed of the aforesaid ‘ knack ’ will produce an entirely satisfactory result, with- out effort to herself or injury to her tools. Success in bringing whites of eggs to a strong froth depends less on the time and labour bestowed than on the method em-215 PUDDINGS, CREAMS, ETC. ployed—in short, the skilful application of the rotary movement. Have a deep howl with a circular bottom, and in beat- ing the eggs, keep the whisk as much as possible in an upright position, moving it very rapidly without bearing on the bottom of the basin. A little boiling water, a tablespoonful to two eggs, and a teaspoonful of sifted sugar, put to them before beating is commenced, facilitates the operation, and in the result whites of eggs will be firmer and yolks thicker than without the sugar and water. New laid eggs are exceedingly difficult to beat up well, and do not make cakes and puddings so well as those which have been kept for some time. They may, how- ever, be rendered more suitable for culinary purposes by Keeping them for some hours in a bowl of warm water, the temperature of which should not exceed ninety degrees. It may be useful to poultry-keepers to know that if after a hen has been sitting nine days the eggs are ex- amined, and those which are unfertile removed (they are transparent when held before a candle in a dark place), they will be good for culinary use. The test of eggs being thoroughly beaten will be found in letting them stand a moment; if they then sink or give back to their original form, they are not beaten enough. For souffles the whites of eggs should be firm enoup-h to cut, then they do not fall when put into theLITTLE DINNERS. 2l6 oven. A fork is so generally used for beating- eggs that it may seem strange to say it is not the most appropriate instrument. A knife or a thin strip of wood is better. The whisk for a small quantity of egg is generally avoided, but a wire spoon, which may be purchased for a few pence of any ironmonger, is admirably adapted for beating eggs. Sweet Omelet. Put two ounces of butter into an untinned iron frying- pan, and as soon as it reaches boiling point, pour in four eggs, beaten for three minutes with a tablespoonful of milk or cream, and a teaspoonful of finely sifted sugar. Stir the eggs and butter quickly together until the eggs begin to set, and then shake until the under-side becomes a delicate golden colour. Lay on half the omelet a spoonful of apricot, raspberry or strawberry jam, fold over the other half, turn it on to its dish, sift a little sugar over, and serve in- stantly. The whole operation of cooking an omelet should not exceed four minutes, and although apparently so simple, rapidity and some degree of tact are necessary to ensure success. It is desirable that a pan should be kept ex- pressly for frving omelets and used for nothing else. When done with, it should be wiped dry, but not washed. For an omelet of four eggs it should not be more than six inches in diameter.PUDDINGS, CREAMS, ETC. 217 Omelet Souffle. To the yolks of four eggs put a tablespoonful of flour, a quarter of a pound of finely sifted sugar, a small pinch of salt, and lemon or vanilla flavouring to taste. Beat these ingredients to a thick batter, and then add the whites of six eggs, whisked to a strong froth. Pile the mixture on a dish, bake it quickly until it has risen well and is very light. Sift sugar over, and serve immediately. A quarter of an hour ought to bake the souffle. Sponge Souffle. Cover the bottom of a tart-dish with sponge cakes, pour over a little brandy and sherry, put in a moderate oven until hot, then pom- on the cakes the whites of four or five eggs, beaten to a strong froth, with a little sugar. Bake for a quarter of an hour in a slow oven. Queen’s Pudding. • Half a pound of bread-crumbs, a pint of new milk, two ounces of butter, the yolks of four eggs, and a little lemon flavouring. Boil the bread-crumbs and milk to- gether, then add the sugar, butter and eggs ; when these are well mixed, bake in a tart-dish until a light brown. Then put a layer of strawberry jam, and on the top of this:iS LITTLE DINNERS. tlie whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, with a little sifted sugar. Smooth it over with a knife dipped in boil- ing water, and bake for ten minutes in a slow oven. Orange Custard Pudding. Boil a pint of new milk, pour it on to three eggs lightly beaten, mix in the grated peel of an orange and two ounces of loaf-sugar. Beat all together for ten minutes, then pour the custard into a pie-dish, set it in another containing a little water, and put it in a moderate oven. When the custard is set (it generally takes about ¥ half an hour), take it out and let it get cold. Then sprinkle over rather thickly some very finely sifted sugar, and brown it with the salamander To be eaten cold. Princess’s Pudding. Beat up three eggs with half a pint of boiling milk and two ounces of powdered loaf-sugar; flavour with brandy. Butter a plain mould or basin and pour in the pudding, and steam as directed for custard pudding. Turn it out and put on it, so as to cover it all over in a rocky shape, the whites of two or three eggs beaten to a strong froth, with a large teaspoonful of powdered sugar to each egg, and a few drops of extract of vanilla. Put the pudding into a brisk but not too hot an oven, and when the eggs are just coloured and set, serve it.219 PUDDING'S, CREAMS, ETC. Rice Pudding a la Reine. Boil a quarter of a pound of rice in a pint and a half of new milk, with an ounce of butter. Sweeten with two ounces of sugar ; when done, allow it to cool, and mix in an egg. Butter a tart-dish or a plain mould, strew over it equally some finely sifted bread-crumbs, then put in a layer of rice and bread-crumbs, and over, this spread apricot marmalade, then another layer of rice, and so on until the dish is full. Bake in a moderate oven for about an hour or until done. When you take it from the oven, let it stand five minutes, then turn it out and serve custard with it. Plain Rice Pudding Wash two ounces of Carolina rice, put it into a tart- dish with a pint of milk, and bake in rather a quick oven for an hour, or until the rice has absorbed all the milk* and is well swelled. Serve with sugar or preserve. Rice, thus prepared, answers for all purposes where rice is required to be swelled in milk, as for the following recipes, is as good as if boiled, and takes less milk. Rice Pudding. This recipe will be found useful when milk is scarce. Bake two ounces of rice in a pint of water with an ounceLITTLE DINNERS. 20 of butter or other fat; when done, put to it a custard made as for tapioca pudding, and bake slowly for two hours. Apple and Rice Pudding. .Make a rice pudding, as directed for plain rice pud- ding ; when baked, sweeten with lump sugar, and flavour with ground cinnamon. Butter a tart-dish and lay in it a layer of rice half an inch thick, then a layer of stiff apple sauce or apple marmalade, and so on until the dish is full. Bake for an hour in a moderate oven and serve hot. An egg may be added to the rice before putting to the apple and improves the pudding. Tapioca Pudding. Put two ounces of tapioca into a tart-dish, with an ounce of butter or shred beef-suet, and half a pint of cold water. Let it swell in the oven for half an hour. Beat it up with a quarter of a pint of milk, and let it stand in the oven a quarter of an hour longer or until properly swelled ; then put to it a custard made of an egg, half a pint of milk, sugar to taste, a little grated nutmeg, or any fla- vouring preferred. Bake in a slow oven for about an hour. This is a simple inexpensive pudding; the following recipe is richer.PUDDINGS, CREAMS, ETC. 221 Rich Tapioca Pudding. Put. two ounces of tapioca into a pint of boiling milk, pour into an earthen jar, and set it in a saucepan of boil- ing water to swell. Let the tapioca boil for an hour, or until perfectly soft, then beat it up with two ounces of butter and a custard made of two eggs, half a pint of new milk, two ounces of loaf-sugar, and a little grated lemon peel. Bake in a slow oven for about an hour and a half. Semolina Pudding. Boil two ounces of semolina in a pint of milk, sweeten and flavour with nutmeg, beat in an egg, put into a buttered tart-dish, and bake for an hour in a slow oven. Roderigo Pudding. Take a pint of water to a quarter of a pound of sago, twelve ounces of sugar, boil them three-quarters of an hour, then add twelve ounces of fresh fruit, raspberry or any other kind, boil for an hour, and put into a mould. "When about to serve, turn out, and pour a little syrup round the base ; milk or cream should be eaten with it.222 LITTLE DINNERS. Sweet Macaroni. Boil two ounces of best macaroni in half a pint of water with an ounce of butter. When it is done, and has absorbed all moisture, put to it three tablespoonfuls of milk or cream, two ounces of powdered lump-sugar, and a little flavouring. Stir over the fire until it becomes quite thick, taking care not to break the macaroni. Serve either with or without stewed fruit. Parsonage Puddings. Three eggs, a quarter of a pound of pounded loaf- sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of fine flour. Beat the butter and sugar together until it froths, mix in the eggs, then the flour, and beat all well together, add a little grated lemon or flavouring, butter small cups or tins, and bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. Serve with wine sauce in a boat. Mix a tablespoonful of corn-flour with a little cold water; then stir it into a quarter of a pint of sherry wine, made boiling hot, sweeten, and stir over the fire until it thickens. These puddings are good made with half the quantity of butter named above.PUDDINGS, CREAMS, ETC «3 Apple Charlotte. Take the crust off a small tin loaf of baker’s bread, cut the crumb into slices, the third of an inch thick, and shape them so that they will fit compactly into a tart-dish; put them into the wire basket, and fry as directed for fried bread, taking care that they are very lightly done ; now place the bread in the tart dish, well buttered, so as to cover it perfectly, nearly fill the dish with well made dry apple sauce, flavoured with lemon, put on a cover of fried bread, bake in a moderate oven for an hour, turn out the pudding, and serve with sugar sifted over. Friars Omelet. Make six moderate sized apples into sauce, sweeten with powdered loaf-sugar, stir in two ounces of butter, and when cold, mix with two well beaten eggs. Butter a tart-dish, and strew the bottom and sides thickly with bread-crumbs, then put in the apple sauce, and cover with bread-crumbs, to the depth of a quarter of an inch, put a little dissolved butter on the top, and bake for an hour in a good oven. When done, turn it out, and sift sugar over it. Welsh Cheesecakes. Dry a quarter of a pound of fine flour mix with two ounces of sifted loaf-sugar, and add it by degrees to twoLITTLE DINNERS. 224 ounces of butter, beaten to a cream ; then work in three well beaten eggs, flavour with grated lemon peel or extract. Liue patty-pans with short crust (see page 67), put in the above mixture, and bake in a quick oven. Hastings Pudding. Butter a tart-dish, spread at the bottom a thin layer of orange marmalade, or jam if preferred. Cut the crumb of a French roll into thin slices, and put a layer of mar- malade on each, sprinkle very finely shred suet over, then another layer of bread, suet, and marmalade, until the dish is full. Make a liquid custard of half a pint of milk and an egg, sweeten, pour over the pudding, and bake very slowly for two hours. Rich Plum Pudding. One pound of raisins, half a pound of sultanas or currants, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of flour, half a poimd of bread-crumbs, three-quarters of a pound of suet, quarter of a pound of mixed candied peel, a small nutmeg grated, a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, ditto ginger, ditto pudding spice, juice of one lemon, and peel grated, one orange ditto, six bitter almonds pounded, and a pinch of salt. Mix (the day before the pudding is boiled) with six eggs, a glass of brandy or curapoa, and22$ PUDDINGS, CREAMS, ETC. sufficient marsala, or good home made wine, to make it rather moist, and allow the ingredients to swell well. Boil eight hours if made in one mould, six if divided into two. A Nice Plum Pudding One pound of bread-crumbs, half a pound of suet, four eggs, half a pound of raisins, half a pound of sultanas, two ounces of candied peel, half a pound of sugar, a little nut- meg and spice. Mix with a small quantity of wine or milk, and boil four hours. Children’s Plum Pudding. Half pound raisins, half pound sultanas or chopped currants, half pound suet, one pound bread, soaked in milk and beaten smooth, quarter pound flour, two ounces candied peel, half poimd sugar, a little spice, and pinch of salt. Boil six hours or less according to size. Carrot Plum Pudding. Quarter pound flour, quarter pound suet, quarter pound grated carrots (raw), quarter pound potatoes, mashed free from lumps, quarter pound sugar, quarter pound currants, quarter pound raisins, one ounce candied peel, a little nutmeg and other spices, ’ and mix together. No liquid is required to mix this pudding; the carrots will give sufficient moisture, and if they are fresh and fine, Q226 LITTLE DINNERS. it is impossible to detect their presence in the pudding. Boil six hours and serve with good brandy sauce. Plum Pudding for the Poor. One pound flour, half pound sugar, half pound raisins or sultanas, quarter pound mutton suet or dripping, quarter poimd treacle, a small teaspoonful Yeatman’s yeast powder, ground ginger, pudding spice and cloves, to give a good flavour. Mix quickly with skim milk or water. Sauce for Rich Pudding. Two teaspoonfuls of corn-flour, two tablespoonfuls of water, half a pint of sherry, two ounces of lump-sugar, the yolks of two fresh eggs, a small pinch of nutmeg, a tablespoonful of curapoa, a wineglassful of brandy. Mix the corn-flour smooth with the water, and beat up the eggs thoroughly in it. Dissolve the sugar in the sherry and make it boiling hot, pour it gently into the eggs and corn- flour, and then stir the whole over the fire until it is the thickness of cream. Take it off, and mix in gently the brandy and curapoa. Serve in a boat. Brandy Sauce. Make as the above, only use water instead of wine and omit the eggs. When the sauce has thickened, stir in an ounce of butter and a wineglassful of brandy.I PUDDINGS; CREAMS, ETC. 227 Sauce for plain Plum Pudding. Make half a pint of butter sauce, sweeten with loaf- sugar, and stir in a glass of sherry and two tablespoonfuls of brandy or curapoa ; if the former is used, add a grate of nutmeg and a few drops of lemon flavour. Fig Pudding. Chop half a pound of figs very finely, mix them with a quarter of a pound of coarse sugar, a tablespoonful of treacle, one of milk, half a pound of flour, half a pound of suet, three eggs, and a little nutmeg. Butter a mould, put in the pudding, and having tied down with a floured cloth, boil for four hours, and serve with brandy or wine sauce. Fruit Pudding. Take fine ripe plums (or any other fruit you prefer), take out the stones, crack them, put the kernels to the fruit. Sugar, when put to apples before boiling, is apt to harden them. Make a crust in the proportion of four ounces suet to six of flour, a pinch of salt, and water ' to make a thick paste. If you wish the crust to be very thin and delicate, roll it out once before putting it m the basin, otherwise it is not necessary. Put in the sweetened fruit, then a lid of paste on the pudding, and boil nearly two hours. It makes a nice addition to this q 2LITTLE DINNERS. .228 pudding to stew some of the same kind of fruit separately in a pie-dish; in the oven is best. Sweeten and serve in a glass dish, and help a little with the pudding, which seldom contains fruit in proportion to crust. Serve with thick milk made as follows :— Beat up the yolk of an egg, pour on it boiling hot a quarter of a pint of new milk; sweeten to taste, and let it he perfectly thick and cold before serving. If necessary, set it in cold water; or if the weather is hot, afford a morsel of ice. Second Day Pudding. Chop the remains of a fruit pudding quite fine, add to it a quarter of its weight in flour, suet, sugar, and black currant or other preserve, or stewed fruit; mix all with an egg; butter a pie-dish, cover over with a tin plate, set it to hake slowly for nearly two hours, so that it sets, hut does not brown; then turn it out, sift sugar thickly over, and serve. Any kind of fruit pudding may be thus used up, and is very delicious. Damson Layer Pudding. Make a crust of two ounces of butter, two of finely shred beef-suet, four of flour, and a quarter of a pint of water. Boll it out and line a buttered basin with it, lay at the bottom a layer of jam, then on it a layer of crust, and so on until the basin is full. Boil an hour and a half.P UD DINGS, CPE A MS, ETC. 229 Trifle. The art of whipping cream is little understood. Many cooks think they must whip the mass until it becomes like butter, and as sometimes this is not possible, of course they blame the cream. Even from rather poor cream a good whip may be produced, if the following simple direc- tions are attended to :—put the cream into a good sized basin, whisk for half a minute, when a little froth will rise; remove this on to a piece of muslin laid on a sieve, placed over a basin, whip again, and continue lightly skimming the froth from the cream as it rises. When you have enough, set the whip aside for some hours, or until the next day, if convenient. It will then have become solid, and the cream which has drained into the basin can be used to assist in making the custard for the trifle. A little sifted sugar and any flavouring can, if desired, be added to the cream before whipping; but it is not essential to the operation. Put at the bottom of a deep trifle-dish a layer of strawberry and raspberry jam, then one of macaroons, and another of sponge finger biscuits; pour over these sufficient brandy and sherry mixed to soak them, then a custard, made as for strawberry souffle, and lastly, pile the whipped cream on the top as high as you can. * Hundreds and thousands ’ may be scattered over; but are not necessary to the perfection of this ex- cellent old-fashioned dish. A small and less expensive trifle may be made as in the following recipe.LITTLE DINNERS. 230 Tipsy Dish. Put a layer of raspberry jam at the bottom of a glass dish, lay on sponge cakes and ratifias to cover it. Pour over sufficient sherry wine and brandy to soak them, and then custard to fill up the dish. Whip the whites of the eggs, lift from the custard with a little finely sifted sugar and lemon or vanilla flavouring, and pile them on the top oi the custard. The small sugar-plums called ‘ hundreds and thousands ’ strewn over make the dish look pretty. Lemon Jelly. Use Nelson’s patent gelatine. Soak an ounce in half a pint of cold water for an hour, stir it into a pint and a half of boiling water, raisin or cowslip wine. Cut the peel of a lemon thinly and put it into the jelly with the strained juice of three, and a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar, or according to taste. Let this boil for five minutes; take it off the fire, allow it to stand till cool, stir in briskly the whites and shells of two eggs well beaten, and again allow the jelly to boil without stirring ; then take it off the fire, and when it has stood two minutes strain through a close flannel bag. Now stir into the jelly half a pint of sherry mixed, if approved, with a little brandy. It is best not to boil the wine, as it loses thereby both spirit and flavour. Care must be taken to keep the jelly near the fire whilst passing through the bag.231 PUDDINGS, CREAMS, ETC. Kent’s registered jelly strainer saves much time and trouble, and is on all accounts to be preferred to the old- fashioned bag and stand. Imitation Lemon Cream. This will be found useful when cream is not to be had. Put the thin peel of two lemons into half a pint of boiling water, and when it has stood a little, dissolve half a pound of loaf-sugar in it. When nearly cold, add three eggs, the whites and yolks well beaten together, and the juice of the lemons. Put this into ajar, set it in a saucepan of water, and stir until it is well thickened. After taking from the fire, stir occasionally until cold. Make twenty- four hours before wanted. Serve in glasses or a glass dish. If preferred, this cream can be made into a shape by dissolving a quarter of an ounce of Nelson’s gelatine, and adding to it when nearly cold. It must be thoroughly stirred in. Rum Cream. Make a custard of half a pint of cream, three eggs, and two ounces of lump-sugar ; stir into it when nearly cold a quarter of an ounce of Nelson’s gelatine, dissolved by boiling it in milk, and a wineglassful of rum. Stir well until thoroughly mixed, put into a mould, and serve theLITTLE DINNERS. 232 next day. A little capillaire flavoured with rum may he poured round the cream after it is placed on its dish. Vanilla Cream. Make a custard of the yolks of three egg’s and half a pint of milk or cream. Sweeten to taste and flavour with extract of vanilla. Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of Nelson’s gelatine in boiling iqilk, and stir into the custard when nearly cold; put it into a mould, and let it stand until the next day. Eice Cream. Bake one ounce of Carolina rice in half a pint of milk; when done, remove the skin from the top. Boil a quarter of an ounce of gelatine in half a pint of milk or cream until dissolved, and make into custard with the yolk of an egg and two ounces of loaf-sugar. Mix with the rice and flavour with vanilla. A few glace cherries and any other sweetmeat cut in small pieces, or sultana rasins soaked for a quarter of an hour in a spoonful of brandy, may be added to the cream, and are a great im- provement. Butter a mould, pour in the cream, and let it stand until firm enough to turn out. Rice a la Conde. Bake rice as for the foregoing; when cold, put a layer on a xslass dish in as round a shape as you can, then onPUDDINGS, CREAMS, ETC. =33 this a layer of any rich preserve, then another layer of rice and preserve, and so on till all the rice is used. Have ready a rich cold custard, pour over and serve. Shape of Rice. Boil a quarter of a pound of whole rice in a quart of milk until it is perfectly tender, add two ounces of loaf- sugar, the yolk of an egg, and almond or vanilla flavouring. Beat all together, but do not let it boil after adding the egg. Put the rice into a mould, let it stand for some hours until well set, turn it on to a glass dish. I Shape of Ground Rice. Mis two ounces of ground rice in a quarter of a pint of cold milk; pom- on it a pint of boiling milk, and stir in a stewpan over the fire for ten minutes. Then add half an ounce of butter, an egg well beaten, and an ounce and a half of sifted sugar; stir over the fire for two or three minutes, and then pour into a mould previously wetted. A dozen glace cherries soaked in brandy may be . dropped into the rice, and are an improvement. When cold and well set, turn out, and pour a little fruit syrup round the base of the rice shape.LITTLE DINNERS. 234 Apple Fool. Bake good sharp apples; when done, remove the pulp, and rub it through a sieve, sweeten and flavour with lemon ; when cold, add it to a custard made of eggs and milk, or milk or cream sweetened will he very good. Keep the fool quite thick; serve with rusks or sponge finger biscuits. Apples a la Princess. Peel four or five Bibstone pippins, take out the cores with a scoop so as not to injure the shape of the apples, put them into a deep baking-dish with three glasses of sherry wine, half a pint of water, a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar, and the peel of a small lemon. Cover the baking-dish with a plate, let the apples cook slowly until tender, but without being the least broken. Then put them on the dish in which they are to be served. Boil the syrup down to one-half of the original quantity; let it get cold. Place between the apples a little well boiled rice, every grain being separate, and pour the syrup gently over each apple so that it will run into the rice. Fill the cavity made in the apple by the withdrawal of the core with apricot marmalade or other rich preserve. The apples look very pretty with a glace cherry, and little pieces of angelica cut to represent leaves, placed on the top of each.PUDDINGS, CREAMS, ETC. Stewed Pears with Rice. Put four large pears cut in halves into a stewpan with a pint of claret, Burgundy, or water, and eight ounces of sugar; simmer them until perfectly tender. Take out the pears and let the syrup boil down to half; flavour it with vanilla. Have ready a teacupful of rice, nicely boiled in milk and sweetened, spread it on a dish, lay the pears on it, pour the syrup over and serve. This is best eaten cold. Apple Cake. Mix half a pound of fine apple sauce, flavoured with lemon, with the whites of three or four eggs, beaten to a strong froth; make it up into a rocky shape, and pour custard round the dish. Stewed Prunes. Wash the fruit in warm water to free it from grit; for every pound allow half a pound of loaf-sugar, or moist if preferred, and one pint of water. Boil the sugar and water together for ten minutes, then put in the fruit and let it boil gently until perfectly tender, so that it breaks if touched with the finger. Drain the syrup from the prunes, and set them aside whilst it is boiled until it becomes thick, when pour it over the prunes, and let them stand until the next day.236 LITTLE DINNERS. To Boil Rice. Pat half a pound of rice'into two quarts of boiling water with a pinch of salt, or more if to eat with savoury dishes. Let it boil fast for twenty minutes. Strain into a colander or sieve, pour over it a cup of cold water, let the saucepan stand a minute on the range to dry, put back the rice into it, let it stand near the fire for five minutes, shaking occasionally. By this method the grains keep separate, and a pudding-like appearance is avoided. Rice thus cooked may be afterwards baked or boiled in milk, and used for most of the dishes here given. Boiled Flour. This is more delicate for all purposes than baked flour, and is cheap and easily prepared. It answers for thicken- ing soups, gravies, and for making delicate white sauces. It is invaluable for children and invalids. Take a pudding-basin, and press into it, with a spoon, as much of the best white flour as you can. It must be pressed into the basin with the back of the spoon, or with tbe knuckles, until it forms a hard compact mass. When it is not possible to get more into the basin, tie it over with a cloth, and let it boil for twelve hours. When taken up, remove the cloth, and allow the flour to stand in the basin until the nest day. Take off the skin from the top, ‘ grate or roll the mass until smooth, pass it through a fiue strainer, and put away in covered jars for use.PEESEBVES, EXTEACTS, SYKUPS, LIQUEUBS, PICKLES, &aTlie method of making all jams is pretty much the same. The fruit should always be boiled before putting in the sugar, which should be of the finest quality, and in large lumps, as by breaking small the crystals are de- stroyed. The colour is preserved by this method ; the scum is more easily removed before putting in the sugar, and with less waste, and the jam keeps better, as the watery particles of the fruit are more readily and certainly given off. For every half pound of sugar with its due proportion of fruit there will be a pound jar of preserve. For every half pound of sugar with its proportion of fruit juice there will be a twelve ounce jar of jelly. Easpberry and Cherry Jam. Take to every pound of raspberries half a pound of good cooking cherries ; stone them, and boil the fruit to- gether for a quarter of an hour. Skim, and add for every pound of fruit three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Let it boil, keeping well stirred, for an hour, or until it drapes or hangs on the spoon. If the jam requires further skim- ming, do not begin to do so until it has boiled three-LITTLE DINNERS. 240 quarters of an hour from the first—it is wasteful to skim too early. The next day, cover down the pots with paper brushed over on the inner side with the white of an egg beaten to a froth. When dry this covering will be air-tight, and like a drum. i Strawberry and Raspberry Jam. To eight pounds of strawberries put four pounds of raspberries. Proceed as for the above. Apricot Jam. Skin and stone the apricots, strew over them a little powdered sugar, and let them stand until the next day. Then strain off the juice, and having boiled it up, add to every pint three-quarters of a pound of sugar. When it has jellied, throw in the fruit, and boil until it will set. Rhubarb Jam. Take the rhubarb, peel and cut it as for a tart; put it into a preserving kettle, and boil for a quarter of an hour. Then put in sugar, in the proportion of three-quarters of a pound to the pound of fruit, and to each pound four bitter almonds blanched and split in half. Boil for a full hour longer, or until it is a beautiful green and very thick. Almonds that have been used for making flavouring are best for this purpose, and with them the jam is an excellent substitute for greengage. There are many sorts ofPRESERVES, EXTRACTS, SYRUPS, ETC. 24f rhubarb; avoid large, coarse growths, and be sure it is perfectly fresh. The later in the season rhubarb jam can be made the better; the second growth having more fibre and less juice than the first makes a stronger preserve. Red Currant Jelly. Take ripe fine fruit; see that it is dry. Express the juice with the hands through a piece of tammy or canvas. Measure it, and boil up in the preserving pan for a quarter of an hom. Then add sugar in the proportion of three- quarters of a pound to every pint of juice. Proceed as for raspberry jam. Skim lightly as required, particularly when the jelly is nearly done, when it should be perfectly bright. If you have any little moulds, the jelly looks prettier than when tinned out of the common jar. Apple Marmalade. Take some good sharp apples fresh from the tiees. Pare, core, cover them with cold water, and boil until tender. Then drain off the juice, and to every pint of it put three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Boil it until it jellies, then return the fruit to it, and boil until the whole will set firm. Put into pots, cover close and keep m a cool place. This is an excellent substitute for apple sauce when apples are scarce. Boil a little water, mix the marmalade with it, warm it up, and serve with the addition of a little lemon j uice. 11LITTLE DINNERS. 242 Another Way. Peel, quarter, and core twelve pounds of sharp apples. Pour over them three pints of cold water, let them boil until they will beat to a smooth pulp, then add nine pounds of lump-sugar, broken small, and boil until the marmalade becomes perfectly firm. Continual and brisk stirring is necessary, but no skimming. Nutmeg Extract. Grate or pound a few nutmegs, put in a bottle, and to each nutmeg allow about two tablespoonfuls of gin. Proceed as directed for extract of lemon peel. Clove Extract. Take an ounce of cloves, pound them, put them into a half-pint bottle, and fill up with gin. Proceed as above. Vanilla. Cut up a stick into very small pieces. Put into a small bottle, and add two tablespoonfuls of brandy. Proceed as for lemons. Extract of Seville Orange Peel. Prepare in the same manner as above, to be used in the manufacture of Curapoa. It is very useful also as aPRESERVES, EXTRACTS, SYRUPS. ETC. 243 tonic. A teaspoonful in a glass of sherry or water will give appetite if taken before dinner. Almond Flavour. Blanch half a pound of hitter almonds, put into a quart bottle, and cover them with one pint of gin ; shake occasionally during a month, drain off, and allow to stand until clear. Then carefully drain off the clear portion and use in the preparation of noyeau. The settling can be kept for flavouring puddings, &c. The almonds will be useful for icing cakes, mincemeat, and other purposes, and will keep a long time in the bottle, as they retain a great deal of the spirit. Extract of Lemon Peel. Peel very thinly twenty-five lemons, put the peel into two quart bottles, fill them up with brandy or un- sweetened gin, shake occasionally during a month, then drain off the liquor into small bottles. The peel will keep for years, and can be used chopped finely for any purpose where lemon peel is required. Lemon Syrup. Take the juice of the oranges and lemons, the pt.ex of which has been used for making the extract, and add it in the proportion of a pint of juice to a pint of the followingLITTLE DINNERS. 244 syrup :—Take six pounds of sugar, and boil in three pints of water. When it has boiled ten minutes, take off the scum, and let the syrup boil another quarter of an hour. Then add the lemon juice, take off every particle of scum as it rises, and let the syrup boil until it assumes a rich golden colour. Bottle it, and when cold seal the corks. Keep in a cool place ; lemons can be used alone if you are not making extract of Seville orange peel. Dessert oranges will not answer for this purpose. This makes a delicious summer drink, either with water or sherry and water. A few drops of the peel extract should be added when mixed, or a little may be put into each bottle of syrup. Capillaire or Simple Syrup. This is used for sweetening liqueurs and cordials, and is always useful in a family. If properly made, it keeps a long time. Put a pound of the finest loaf-sugar in large lumps into a pint and a half of boiling water. Stir until dis- solved, and then let it boil until it begins to thicken and assume a slight yellow tinge. Skim it carefully all the time, and if due attention is given to this, it will require no other clarification. When finished, put the syrup into a jug, and bottle it when perfectly cold.PRESERVES, EXTRACTS, SYRl/PS, ETC. 245 Raspberry Syrup. Lightly press the fruit with a silver spoon, and sprinkle a little finely pounded sugar over it. A quarter of a pound to half a dozen pounds of fruit will he enough. Let it stand twelve hours. Drain away all the j uice from the fruit through a gauze sieve, measure it, and let it boil for twenty minutes in the preserving kettle. Skim it well at intervals. Put half a pound of finest loaf-sugar in large lumps in each pint of juice, and let it boil until it begins to thicken. Pour into an earthen vessel, and when cold put the syrup into small bottles; use good corks, and seal them over to exclude all air. The fruit from which the juice has been extracted will still be useful, and may be made into jam, either with or without a little rhubarb. Cherry Syrup. Take fine ripe morella cherries and slightly bruise them. Put them into the preserving kettle, and let them simmer until the juice is well drawn. Then strain through a lawn sieve, lightly pressing the fruit. Put the juice back into the kettle, and finish the syrup as directed for raspberries. Raspberry Vinegar. Take two quarts of raspberries; let them be quite fresh. Put them into one quart of vinegar. Let itLITTLE DINNERS. 246 stand twenty-four hours; then drain off, but do not squeeze the fruit. Put in two quarts more raspberries. Let them stand again twenty-four hours. Having re- peated this a third time, put the vinegar into a jar ; measure it, and to every pint add one pound of loaf-sugar. Set the jar in boiling water, and stir frequently until tha sugar is dissolved. This improves much by keeping, and is in perfection from six to twelve months after making. Curacoa. Take a bottle of Martell’s brandy, add to it a pint of capillaire, and sufficient of your orange extract to give it a pleasant bitterness, a tablespoonful of almond extract, and a few drops of colouring to make it a nice brown. A little cherry brandy is an improvement. Shake well together, and if all your ingredients were as clear as they should have been, the liqueur will be ready for use; if otherwise, it must stand to fine, and be bottled off when clear. It improves by keeping. Unsweetened gin may be substituted for brandy. A delicious but rather more troublesome sweetening for this liqueur may he made as follows:—Take one pound of finely powdered loaf-sugar, put it in a sugar boiler, shake it over a clear fire until it assumes a rich gold colour; it must not be the least burned, but have the flavour of fine caramel. Then put a pint of water, and boil gently for half an hour. Skim as required. When cold make the liqueur.PRESERVES, EXTRACTS, SYRUPS, ETC. U7 Noyeau. Add to a bottle of Martell’s brandy a pint of syrup, or as much as will give it the required sweetness, and flavour it with the almond extract, adding a little of the lemon extract, but its flavour must be subordinate to the almonds. Shake well together, and it is ready for use. Care must be taken to have the syrup very clear, also the almond extract, as if otherwise the liqueur will be troublesome to fine, and require to be passed through filtering paper. Creme de peche. This is an exceedingly delicate and beautiful liqueur, and requires careful making. Put your peaches or nectarines into ajar, with an air-tight lid, and cover them with brandy ; let them stand for a month, then drain off the liquor and bottle it; let it again stand until it be- comes clear—the dregs make a useful liqueur for flavouring cakes, creams, puddings, &c.—then again cover the peaches with brandy and let them stand a week. Drain the liquor from them, and let it also stand to fine. When both this and the first straining are ready, mix them ; add enough syrup to make the liqueur sweet enough, not to injure the flavour of the fruit, and a few drops of the almond extract. Let it stand until quite clear, and carefully bottle off into small bottles. The peaches can be covered248 LITTLE DINNERS. with syrup. They keep a long time, and can be used for various sweetmeats ; indeed, if they had not lost the beauty of their appearance, they would be nice for dessert. Peaches, which from any cause are unfit for the table, make this liqueur very well, but the finer the fruit the more certain the result. Ginger Cordial. Crush half a pound of fine whole ginger in the mortar, or cut it into small pieces. Put it into a bottle with half a pint of unsweetened gin. Let it stand a month, shaking it occasionally. Drain it off, and allow it to settle. Then again pour it from the sediment, and when it has stood a few days, add a sufficient quantity to give the required strength to either brandy or gin. Sweeten with capil- laire, and add a few drops of colouring. Cherry Brandy. Prick sufficient morrella cherries to fill the bottles, which should be wide-mouthed, and then pour in as much brandy as they will contain. Let them stand at least sis months. Then drain off the brandy, and sweeten it with capillaire or cherry syrup, which last makes a splendid liqueur; it will be ready for immediate use. The bottles containing the cherries may be filled up with capillaire, and when it has stood a month, may be drawn off, and a little gin or brandy added.249 PRESERVES EXTRACTS, SYRUPS, ETC. Pickled Walnuts. About the middle of July procure the walnuts and prick each with a large needle. Hold the walnuts in a cloth during this process to avoid staining the hands; cover them with strong salt and water; let them stand two or three days, changing the water every day. Then pour over them a strong brine made of salt dissolved in boiling water (let it get cold before using), stand three days, and then repeat the process. Drain and expose them to the sun until they are black. Put them into a jar, and pour over them as much best vinegar as will cover them. To each hundred walnuts allow six spoonfuls of mustard seed, one ounce of whole black pepper, two or three shalots, two ounces of whole ginger crushed, a few cloves, and a blade or two of mace. Tie them down closely for six months. At the end of that time, drain off the vinegar, and use as ketchup. Fill up the jars with fresh vinegar, and add, if you think necessary, a few more peppercorns. To pickle Gherkins. i, Put a hundred gherkins into a strong brine of salt and water, let them stand twenty-four hours ; then wipe them singly very dry. Put into a bell metal pot five pints of white wine vinegar, half an ounce of white pepper, two small blades of best white ginger, a blade of garlic, half anLITTLE DINNERS. 250 ounce of shalot, and a small bit of mace, boil altogether; then put in the gherkins, and simmer them till green, which will be in about five minutes. Put into a jar with the vinegar and spice, and cover closely for three days, then drain off the vinegar, boil it, and put it again to the gherkins ; cover them as before until cold, and then tie down so as to be air-tight with bladder. Be sure not to boil the gherkins. Pickled Onions. Take small onions, stand over the fire whilst peeling them and they will not hurt your eyes, or, if you prefer it, throw the onions into hot water. Having peeled and put them into salt and water, let them remain until the next day, drain and repeat the process, adding a very small bit of alum to the salt water. Put them into a jar with a little horse-radish, a blade or two of mace, a chili or two, and some white peppercorns; let them be well covered with vinegar. At the end of six months, proceed as for walnuts. Pickled Cucumber. Peel the cucumber, which should be fine and large, take out the soft part in the middle, and cut it into neat pieces about half an inch square. Put into a wide- mouthed bottle, with a dozen chilies to a good sizedPRESERVES, EXTRACTS, SYRUPS, ETC. 251 cucumber, and a little salt, fill up the bottle with the best distilled white vinegar, let it stand for a month, then it will be ready for use. Get some small button mushrooms, see they are quite clean, and cut the stalks neatly as you do them ; place them in a jar, one of those with an air-tight cover is best, and the mushrooms keep well in them ; cover them with good vinegar, add a teaspoonful of salt, white peppercorns, and a blade of mace to each pint of mushrooms. The vinegar in which these have been pickled is very useful, but will probably require boiling up after keeping a few months, as it is apt to get mouldy and lose flavour. Be sure the mushrooms are fresh and true. Pickled Mushrooms. Chutney. Tomatoes . Raisins Powdered ginger . Brown sugar Garlic. Shalots Apples pared and corec 1 pound. 4 ounces. Chilies Salt . 4252 LITTLE DINNERS. Pound the raisins, chilies, shalots, and garlic separately. Break up the tomatoes, and mis the whole together; put into ajar, and add two quarts of vinegar. Place the jar, covered over, on the stove, and let the pickle remain a month at a moderate heat, stirring it every day. Strain off, and bottle the liquor for use with any fish, cold meat, &c., and for flavouring hashes, mince, &c. Then put the sediment, which is the chutney, and must not he drained too dry, into pickle bottles. After keeping a few months, it will he improved by the addition of a little more vinegar or Chili vinegar. Colouring. Take one pound of raw sugar, put it into an old frying- pan, set it over a slow fire, and stir until it is all dissolved and a deep brown colour. Care must be taken at this point that it does not boil over. Pour in gently a pint and a half of water, stir until mixed, let it boil up, remove from the fire, put into a jug, and when cold, bottle it. A few drops will colour gravy, sauces or liqueurs. Garlic Extract. Peel as many cloves of garlic as will half fill a small bottle, fill it up with spirits of wine, cork closely, shake occasionally, and in a few days the extract will be ready for use. It is, however, improved by keeping.PRESERVES, EXTRACTS, SYR UPS, ETC. 253 A skewer dipped in the bottle, drained, and then used to stir gravy or stuffing, will generally be found to give sufficient flavour; but, in any case, garlic must always be cautiously employed, and not more than one drop of the extract should be used without tasting. Shalot Vinegar. Put two quarts of best white vinegar into a jar, with half a pound of peeled and bruised shalots, and two ounces of chilies ; let this stand in a warm oven or on a hot plate for forty-eight horns. Let it remain twenty-four hours in a cold place, then strain and pour into a bottle. It should be clear. Tarragon Vinegar. Pick off the leaves, put them into a bottle, and fill up with vinegar. Let it stand a month, and then strain it. This is useful in small quantities in some salad dressings, and for mayonnaise. Ghili Vinegar. Take a few chilies and put into a bottle, and fill it up with vinegar. It will be ready in a week, and can be drained off as required. A little pyroligneous acid, reduced to the strength of vinegar with water, makes this of a more delicate flavour than common vinegar*54 LITTLE DINNERS. Prince Alfred’s Sauce. Vinegar H pints. Water ..... i „ India Soy ..... Walnut catsup .... j. 2 » Chilies 1 ounce. Shalots ..... 2 „ Burnt sugar (or colouring) . 1 » Salt 9 ~ 55 Bruise tlie shalots, and boil the whole for ten minutes ; let it stand until cold, strain and bottle it. This is an excellent sauce for cold meat, fish, or steaks, and can be used whenever piquant sauce is required. Herbaceous Seasonings. All good housewives will have herbs dried in their season duly sifted and put away in bottles for winter and occasional use. Of these parsley is the most important. It should be carefully picked, and freed from grit by shaking in a dry cloth, then laid on an iron sheet or dish on the hob or range until it becomes dry and crisp. It must not be subj ected to too great a heat, or it will changePRESERVES, EXTRACTS, SYRUPS, ETC. 255 colour. When dry, rub the parsley through a fine gravy strainer or sieve, and put away in closely corked bottles for use. Thyme and other sweet herbs and sage may be treated in the same manner, or, if preferred, dried in bundles by hanging from the kitchen ceiling.INDEX. ALE BCB Alexandra lemon pudding, 51 Almond cream, 61 — flavour, 243 Apple and rice pudding, 220 — cake, 235 — Charlotte, 223 — fool, 234 — marmalade, 241, 242 Apples a la Princesse, 234 Apricot jam, 240 — pudding, 81 April, dishes, &c., for, 47-53 Artichokes, roasted, 26 Asparagus and eggs, 59 August, dishes, &c., for, 77-81 BACON, with macaroni, 201 Baked haddock, 85 — mushrooms, 195 — salmon, 137 Batter, frying, 62 Beans, French, sautes, 81 Beef cutlets, 59 — fillet of, 24 — stewed a la Jardiniere, 112 Beef olives, 151 — puffs, 152 Beet root dressed, 197 Boil, rice to, 236 Boiled flour, 236 Boiling, 8 Boned shoulder of lamb, 72 Brandy sauce, 226 Brains, 173 Braised duck, 72 — fowl, 184 — partridges, S3 Bread crumbs fried, 205 — fried, 204 — pudding, savoury, 204 — sauce, 131 Breast of lamb cutlets, 167 mutton, 161 Broiling, 11 Broth, veal, 93 Brown bur,ter sauce, 130 — gravy, 128 Brussels sprouts, 88 Butter sauce, 129 8258 INDEX. CAK CAKE, apple, 235 —, tipsy, 118 Calf’s head, 168 — tail soup, 21 Canapees cheese, 208 Caper sauce, 94 brown, 94 Capillaire, 244 Carrot plum pudding, 225 Castle cream, 53 Cauliflower au gratin, 33 Celery, stewed, 194 — white soup, 31 Cheese cake, Welsh, 223 — canapees, 208 — crab, 209 — fondu, 68, 209 — selection of, 16 — straws, 208 — with macaroni, 202 Cherry brandy, 248 — and raspberry jam, 239 — syrup, 245 Chestnut cream, 28 Chicken giblet pie, 187 soup, 39 stewed, 186 — legs en papillotes, 185 ■— mayonnaise of, 187 — and onions, 66 — pie, 187 Chili vinegar, 253 Chips, potato, 149 Chocolate souffle, 36 Chutney, 251 Clear gravy soup, 77 Clove extract, 242 Cod, fillets of, 93 — roe a la Hollandaise, 143, 144 scolloped, 144 — soft roe fried, 143 Codfish a la Royale, 31 Collops scolloped, 39 DEV Colouring, 252 Cooking and serving, general re- marks on, 1 Cordial, ginger, 24S Cottage pie, 152 Crab cheese, 209 Cream, almond, 61 — castle, 53 — chestnut, 28 — lemon, 89, 230 — rice, 232 — rum, 231 — vanilla, 232 Creams, &c., 231-6 Creme de peche, 247 — du th£, 107 Croquets, potato, 105 Cucumber, pickled, 250 Curaqoa, 246 Currant and raspberry tart, 67 Curried eggs, 206 — forcemeat balls, 177 — rabbit, 188 Curries, dry, 174 Custard pudding, 96 orange, 218 Cutlet, beef, 59 — breast of lamb, 167 — mutton, 156 neck of, 157 — pork, 113 — salmon, 71 en papillotes, 137 — veal, 32 a la Polonaise, 169 TjAMSON layer pudding, 229 ^ December, dishes, &c., for, 111- 118 Dessert, 1/ Devilled fowl, 186INDEX. 259 DEV Devonshire pie, 165 Dinner a la Russe, 15 Dressed beet root, 197 Dry curries, 174 Duck, braised, 72 — salmi of wild, 41 — wild, roast, 105 Dumplings, ground rice, 207 — light, 208 Dutch sauce, imitation of, 48 EELS a la Reine, 140 — stewed, 78 Eggs and asparagus, 59 — aux fines herbes, 207 — curried, 206 — hard boiled with onions, 206 — whites of, 213 — with mushrooms, 207 Extract of clove, 242 garlic, 252 lemon peel, 240 nutmeg, 242 Seville orange peel, 242 Extracts, &c., 239-254 February, dishes, &c., for, 31- 36 Fig pudding, 227 Fillet of beef, 24 steaks with mushrooms, 150 potato chips, 149 Fillets of cod, 93 hare, 187 salmon with potatoes, 138 sole a la Reine, 111 steaks with fried bread, 150 Fish, treatment of, 5, 6 — 137, 145 — balls, 145 Flour, boiled, 236 GRE Fondu, cheese, 209 Forcemeat, 175 — balls curried, 177 for soup and garnish, 177 — pie, 177 — pudding, 177 — rice case with, 178 — rissoles, 178 Fowl braised, 187 — devilled, 186 — fricassee of, 184 French beans sautes, 81 Friar’s omelet, 223 Fricassee of rabbit, 51 fowl, 184 knuckle of veal, 171 Fried bread, 204 crumbs, 205 — cod’s roe, soft, 163 — mushrooms, 195 — parsley, 194 Fritters, orange, 62 Fruit pudding, 227 Fry, lamb’s, 78 Frying pan, the, 11 GAME, poultry, &c., 183-8 Garlic extract, 252 Gas stoves, 8 Gherkins to pickle, 249 Giblets, chicken soup, 39 — — pie, 187 stewed, 186 Ginger cordial, 248 Glaze, 127 Glazed onions, 41 Gravy, brown, 128 — soup, 122 clear, 77 cheap, 123 Green pea soup, 12626o INDEX. HAD H ADDOCK, baked, 85 — boiled with mushrooms, 139 Hare, fillets of, 187 — jugged, H4 — roasted, 34 — soup, 129 Haricot beans, pur fie of, 193 — of ox cheek, 153 Hash potato, 172 Hastings pudding, 224 Head, calfs, 168 — sheep’s, 159 a la Russe, 161 Scotch fashion, 160 Hearts, sheep’s, roasted, 163 stewed, 162 Herbaceous seasonings, 254 Herrings, rolled, 58 Hors d’oeuvres, 14 Horse-radish sauce, 132 IMITATION Dutch sauce, 48 — lemou cream, 231 JAM, apricot, 240 — cherry and raspberry, 239 — rhubarb, 240 — strawberry and raspberry, 240 January, dishes, &c., for, 21-8 Jelly, lemon, 230 — raspberry, 97 — red currant, 241 Jugged hare, 114 Julienne soup, 125 July, dishes, &c., for, 71—4 June, dishes, &c., for, 65, 68 KNUCKLE of veal, fricassee of, 171 — stewed, 86 MOO LAMB, breast of, cutlets, 167 — boned shoulder of, 72 — neck of a la Jardipiere, 65 Lamb’s fry, 79 Lemon cream, 89 imitation of, 231 — jelly, 230 — omelets, 27 — paste, 27 — peel, extract of, 243 — pudding, 106 Alexandra, 51 — sponge, 81 ■— syrup, 243 Leoni’s gas stoves, 8 Liqueurs, &c., 239-254 Liver a la Franqaise, 173 Lobster soup, 65 Loin of mutton, rolled, 40 —'„-t- veal, chump end. 170 Macaroni, au gratin, 205 — pudding, savoury, 20? — soup, 57 — sweet, 222 — uses of, 13 — with bacon, 201 cheese, 202 onions, 201 March, dishes, &c., for, 39-43 Marmalade, apple, 241, 242 May, dishes, &c., for, 57-62 Mayonnaise of chicken, 187 — sauce, 132 Meat dishes, 149-ISO — saving of, 7, 8 — waste of, 6, 7 Mince meat, 115 — pies, 115 Minced veal, 172 Mock turtle soup, 125INDEX. 261 MUL Mulligatawney soup, 101 Mutton, breast of, 161 — cutlets, 156 — neck of, a la Duchesse, 103 cutlets, 157 — pasty, 166 — puffs, 152 — pudding, 164 — rolled loin of, 40 — scrag of, a la Busse, 158 — soup, 47 Mushrooms, baked, 195 — fried, 194 — pickled, 251 — stewed, 195 — with eggs, 207 NECK of lamb a la Jardiniere, 65 mutton -a la Duchesse, 103 venison, 81 Norwood pudding, 42 Noyeau, 247 November, dishes, &c., for, 101-7 Nutmeg extract, 242 OATMEAL pudding, savoury, 203 October, dishes, &c., for, 93-7 Olives beef, 151 Omelet, friar’s, 223 — lemon, 27 — souffle, 217 — sweet, 216 Onion sauce, 131 Onions, chicken and, 66 — glazed, 41 — pickled, 250 — with, hard boiled eggs, 20f macaroni, 201 tripe, 155 POR Orange custard pudding, 218 — fritters, 62 — peel, extract of, 242 — pudding, 74 Original recipes, 121, 284 Oyster sauce, 102 Oysters, scolloped, 142 — soles with, 102 Ox cheek, haricot of, 153 pie, 153 soup, 124 — heart, 153 — tail soup, 124 I PALESTINE soup, 111 Parsley, fried, 194 Parsonage puddings, 222 Partridges, braised, 96 Paste, lemon, 27 — puff, 115 Pasty, mutton, 166 Patties, 180 Pears stewed with rice, 235 Peas, puree of, 73 Pheasant, stewed, 26 Pickle, to, gherkins, 249 Pickled cucumbers, 250 — mushrooms, 251 — onions, 250 — walnuts, 249 Pickles, &c., 239-254 Pie, chicken giblet, 187 — cottage, 152 — Devonshire, 165 — forcemeat, 177 — ox cheek, 153 Pies, mince, 115 Pigeons, stewed, 60 Plum pudding, 224-6 Pork and kidney pudding, 174262 INDEX. POB Pork cutlets, 113 Potato case with lobster, 142 — croquets, 105 — hash, 1/2 Potatoes a 1’Italienne, 60 >— a la IVIaitre d’Hotel, 191 — au gratin, 191 — treatment of, 3, 4 Poultry and game, 183-8 Preserves, &c., 237-254 Prince Alfred’s sauce, 254 Princess’s pudding, 218 Prunes, stewed, 235 Pudding, Alexandra lemon, 51 — apple and rice, 220 — apricot, 81 — custard, 96 — damson layer, 229 — fig, 227 — forcemeat, 177 — fruit, 227 — Hastings, 224 — lemon, 106 — mutton, 164 — Norwood, 42 — orange, 74 , custard, 218 .— parsonage, 222 — plum, a nice, 225 rich, 224 carrot, 225 children’s, 225 for the poor, 226 sauce, for, 227 — Pork and kidney, 174 — Princess’s, 218 — Queen’s, 217 — rice, 219 a hi Heine, 219 plain, 219 — Rnderigo, 221 RIC Pudding, rump steak, 151 — sauce for, 226 — savoury bread, 204 macaroni, 202 oatmeal, 203 rice, 202 — second day, 228 — semolina, 221 — Sultana, 35 — tapioca, 220 rich, 221 — Victoria, 88 Puddings, creams, &c., 213-226 — remarks on making, 213 Puffs, beef, 152 — mutton, 152 — paste, 115 Puree of haricot beans, 193 peas, 73 Potato chips, 149 Quenelles, 179 Queen’s pudding, 217 RABBIT, curried, 188 — fricassee of, 51 — roasted, 87 Baspberry and cherry jam, 239 currant tart, 67 strawberry jam, 240 — jelly, 97 — syrup, 245 — vinegar, 245 Rechauff e of roast veal, 170 Recipes, original, 121-254 Red currant jelly, 241 Rhubarb jam, 240 Rice case with forcemeat, 178 — pudding, 219 a la Cond6, 232263 INDEX. EIC Eice pudding A la Reine, 219 apple and, 220 — cream, 232 — savoury, 202, 203 — shape of, 233 ground, 233 — dumplings, 207 — to boil, 230 — with stewed peas, 234 Eissoles, forcemeat, 178 Eissolettes, 179 Eoast game and poultry, 183 — veal, rechauffe of, 170 — wild duck, 105 Eoasted artichokes, 26 — hare, 34 — rabbit, 87 — steak, 94 Eobert sauce, 33 Eoderigo pudding, 221 Eolled loin of mutton, 40 — herrings, 58 Eoulade of veal, 49 Eum cream' 231 - Eump steak pudding, 151 SALAD, 196 — dressing, 133 — tomato, 196 Salads, vegetables, &c., 191-7 Salmi of wild duck, 41 Salmon, baked, 137 — cutlets, 71 — — en papillotes, 137 — fillets of, with potatoes, 138 Sauce, apple, 131 — brandy, 226 brown, 130 — bread, 131 — brown, 94 — butter, 129 — caper, 94 SOL Sauce, caper, brown, 94 — Dutch, imitation of, 48 — for plain pudding, 227 rich pudding, 226 — horse-radish, 132 — imitation Dutch, 43 — mayonnaise, 132 — onion, 131 — oyster, 102 — parsley, 129 — Prince Alfred’s, 254 — Eobert, 33 — tomato, 95 — white, 130 Sausage balls, 176 Savoury bread pudding, 204 — macaroni pudding, 202 — oatmeal pudding, 203 — rice, 202 pudding, 202 — tapioca, 203 Scrag of mutton a la Eusse, 158 Scolloped cod roe, 144 — collops, 39 — oysters, 142 Seasonings, herbaceous, 254 Second day pudding, 228 Semolina pudding, 221 September, dishes, &c., for, 85-89 Serving and cooking, remarks on, 3 Shalot vinegar, 253 Shape of rice, 233 Sheep’s head, 159 Scotch fashion, 160 a la Eusse, 161 — hearts roasted, 163 stewed, 162 Shoulder of lamb, boned, 72 Snow, 74 Sole a la Hollandaise, 139 — au gratin, 138 — fillets of, a la Eeine, 111INDEX. :t>4 SOL Soles •with oysters, 102 Sorrel soup, 85 Souffle ckocolat, 63 — omelet, 217 — sponge, 217 — strawberry, 43 Soup, calfs tail, 21 — chicken giblet, 39 — clear gravy, 77 — glaze, 127 — gravy, 122 brown, 128 — green pea, 126 — hare, 127 — Julienne, 125 — lobster, 65 — macaroni, 57 •—' making, 121 — mock turtle, 125 — Mulligatawney, 101 — mutton, 47 — ox cheek, 124 tail, 124 — Palestine, 111 — sorrel, 85 — vegetable marrow, 71 — white, 130 celery, 31 Soups and sauces, 121-133 Spinach a la Eeine, 50 Sponge lemon, 81 — souffle, 217 Sprouts, Brussels, 88 Steaks, fillet, with fried bread, 150 mushrooms, 150 potato chips, 149 ■— roasted, 94 — rump, pudding, 151 Stewed beef a la Jardiniere, 112 — celery, 194 — chicken giblets, 185 — eels. 78 VAN Stewed knuckle of veal, 86 — mushrooms, 195 — pears with rice, 235 — pheasants, 28 — pigeons, 60 — prunes, 235 — vegetable marrow, 192 Stewing, 9 Stewpans, 10 Strawberry and raspberry jam, 240 — souffle, 43 Straws, cheese, 208 Stuffed tomatoes, 193 — vegetable marrows, 192 Sweet breads, 168 — macaroni, 221 — omelet, 216 Sultana pudding, 35 Syrup, capillaire or simple, 244 — cherry, 245 — lemon, 243 — raspberry, 245 Syrups, &c., 239-254 Tapioca pudding, 220,221 — savoury, 203 Tarragon vinegar, 253 Tart, raspberry and currant, 67 The, creme du, 107 Tipsy cake, 118 — dish, 230 Trifle, 229 Tripe saute, 156 — with onions, 155 Tomato salad, 196 — sauce, 95 — stuffed, 193 Turbot a la Eeine, 23 VANILLA, 242 — cream, 232265 INDEX. TEA Veal, roulade of, 49 — broth, 93 — chump end of loin of, 170 — cutlets, 32 a la Polonaise, 169 — fricassee of knuckle of, 171 — minced, 172 — stewed knuckle of, 86 — rechauffe of roast, 170 Vegetable marrow soup, 71 stewed, 192 stuffed, 192 treatment of, 4, 5 Vegetables and salads, 191-7 Venison, neck of, 80 Victoria pudding, 88 Vinegar, Chili, 253 WTN Vinegar, raspberry, 245 — shalot, 253 — Tarragon, 253 WALNUTS, pickled, 249 Welsh cheesecake, 223 White bait, 141 — celery soup, 31 — sauce, 130 Whites of eggs, 213 Whiting a la Hollandaise. 48 — baked, 140 Wild duck, roast, 105 salmi of, 41 Wines, selection of, 17 1 BRADBURY, AGNEW, £ CO., MUSTERS, WIIITEFniAfibA LIST OF KEG AN PAUL, TRENCH & CO. PUBLICA TIONS.I, Paternoster Square, London. A LIST OF KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH & CO.’S PUBLICATIONS. CONTENTS. PAGE General Literature. . 2 International Scientific Series . . , .27 Military Works. . . 30 PAGE Poetry 32 Works of Fiction . . 40 Books for tiie Young . 42 GENERAL LITERATURE. ADAMS, F. 0., F.R.G.S.—The History of Japan. From the Earliest Period to the Present time. New Edition, revised. 2 vols. With Maps and Plans. Demy 8vo, 21 s. each. ADAMSON, H. T., B.D.—The Truth as it is in Jesus. Crown 8vo, 8r. 6d. The Three Sevens. Crown 8vo, 5s. 6d. A. K. H B.—From a Quiet Place. A New Volume of Sermons. Crown 8vo, $s. ■ ALBERT, Mary.—Holland and her Heroes to the year 1585. An Adaptation from “Motley’s Rise of the Dutch Republic.” Small crown 8vo, 41. 6d. ALLEN, Rev. R., M.A.—Abraham ; his Life, Times, and Travels, 3,800 years ago. With Map. Second Edition. Post 8vo, 6s. ALLEN, Grant, B. A.— Physiological ^Esthetics. Large post 8vo, 9s. ALLIES, T. W., M.A.—Per Crucem ad Lucem. The Result of a Life. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 25s. A Life’s Decision. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. ANDERSON, R. C., C.E.—Tables for Facilitating the Calcula- tion of Every Detail in connection with Earthen and Masonry Dams, Royal Svo, £2 2s.3 Regan Paul, Trench & Cols Publications. ARCHER, Thomas.—About my Father’s Business. Work amidst the Sick, the Sad, and the Sorrowing. Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d. ARMSTROcVG, Richard A., B.A.—Latter-Day Teachers. Six Lectures. Small crown Svo, 2s. 6d. ARNOLD, Arthur.—Social Politics. Demy 8vo, iqr. Free Land. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. AUBERTIN, J. J.—A Flight to Mexico. With Seven full-page Illustrations and a Railway Map of Mexico. Crown 8vo, Is. 6d, BADGER, George Percy, D.C.L.—An English-Arabic Lexicon. In which the equivalent for English Words and Idiomatic Sentences are rendered into literary and colloquial Arabic. Royal 4to, £9 9s. BAGEHOT, Walter.—The English Constitution. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, Is. 6d. Lombard Street. A Description of the Money Market. Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo, Js. 6d. Some Articles on the Depreciation of Silver, and Topics connected with it. Demy Svo, Sr. BAGENAL, Philip //.—The American-Irish and their In- fluence on Irish Politics. Crown 8vo, Sr. BAGOT, Alan, C.E.— Accidents in Mines: Their Causes and Prevention. Crown 8vo, 6s. The Principles of Colliery Ventilation. Second Edition, greatly enlarged. Crown Svo, $s. BAKER, Sir Sherston, Part.—Halleck’s International Law; or, Rules Regulating the Intercourse of States in Peace and War. A New Edition, revised, with Notes and Cases. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 38^. The Laws relating to Quarantine, Crown Svo, 12s. 6d. BALDWIN, Capt. J. H.—The Large and Small Game of Bengal and the North-Western Provinces of Indias With numerous Illustrations. Second Edition. 4to, 21s. BALLIN, Ada S. and F. L.—A Hebrew Grammar. With Exercises selected from the Bible. Crown Svo, Js. 6d. BARCLAY, Edgar.—Mountain Life in Algeria. With numerous Illustrations by Photogravure. Crown 4to, i6r. BARNES, William.—An Outline of English Speechcraft. Crown 8vo, 4J. Outlines of Redecraft (Logic). With English Wording. Crown Svo, 3.?. BARTLEY, G.C. T.— Domestic Economy: Thrift in Every-Day Life. Taught in Dialogues suitable for children of all ages. Small crown 8vo, 2s.A List of 4 BAUR, Ferdinand, Dr. Ph.—A Philological Introduction to Greek and Latin for Students. Translated and adapted from the German, by C. Kegan Paul, M.A., and E. D. Stone, M.A. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. BAYNES, Rev. Canon R. H.—At the Communion Time. A Manual for Holy Communion. With a preface by the Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of Derry and Raphoe. is. 6d. BELLARS, Rev. IF.—The Testimony of Conscience to the Truth and Divine Origin of the Christian Revela- tion. Burney Prize Essay. Small crown Svo, 3-r. 6d. BELLINGHAM, Henry, M.P.—Social Aspects of Catholicism and Protestantism in their Civil Bearing upon Nations. Translated and adapted from the French of M. le Baron de Plaulleville. With a preface by His Eminence Cardinal Manning. Second and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 3 s. 6 d. BENT, J. Theodore.—Genoa : How the Republic Rose and Fell. With iS Illustrations. Demy 8vo, iSr. BLUNT, The Yen. Archdeacon.—The Divine Patriot, and other Sermons. Preached in Scarborough and in Cannes. Crown 8vo, 6s. BLUNT, WilfredS— The Future of Islam. Crown 8vo, 6s. BONWICK, y, FR. GW.—Pyramid Facts and Fancies. Crown Svo, 5x. Egyptian Belief and Modern Thought. Large post Svo, ios. 6d. BOUVERTE-PUSEY, S. E. B.—Permanence and Evolution. An Inquiry into the Supposed Mutability of Animal Types. Crown Svo, Sr. BOWEN, H. C., M.A.— Studies in English. For the use of Modern Schools. Third Edition. Small crown Svo, is. 6d. English Grammar for Beginners. Fcap. Svo, ir. BRIDGETT, Rev. T. E.—History of the Holy Eucharist in Great Britain. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, iSr. BRODRICK, the Hon. G. C.—Political Studies. Demy 8vo, iqr. BROOKE, Rev. S. A.—Life and Letters of the Late Rev. F. W. Robertson, M.A. Edited by. I. Uniform with Robertson’s Sermons. 2 vols. With Steel Portrait, "js. 6d. II. Library Edition. With Portrait. Svo, 12s. III. A Popular Edition. In I vol., 8vo, 6s. The Spirit of the Christian Life. A New Volume of Sermons. Second Edition. Crown Svo, "js. 6d>Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.'s Publications. 5 BROOKE, .S'. A—continued. The Figbt of Faith. Sermons preached on various occasions. Fifth Edition. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d. Theology in the English Poets.—Cowper, Coleridge, Words- worth, and Burns. Fourth and Cheaper Edition. Post Svo, $s. Christ in Modern Life. Sixteenth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 5-r. Sermons. First Series. Twelfth and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, $s. Sermons. Second Series. Fifth and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 5j. BROOKE, IV. G., M.A.—The Public Worship Regulation Act. With a Classified Statement of its Provisions, Notes, and Index. Third Edition, revised and corrected. Crown Svo, 3.t. 6d. Six Privy Council Judgments.—1850-72. Annotated by. Third Edition. Crown Svo, gs. BROWN, Rev. J. Baldwin, B.A.—The Higher Life. Its Reality, Experience, and Destiny. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s. Doctrine of Annihilation in the Light of the Gospel of Love. Five Discourses. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. The Christian Policy of Life. A Book for Young Men of Business. Third Edition. Crown Svo, 31. 6d. BROWN, J. Crown lie, LL.D.—Reboisement in France; or, Records of the Replanting of the Alps, the Cevennes, and the Pyrenees with Trees, Herbage, and Bush. Demy Svo, 12s. 6d. The Hydrology of Southern Africa. Demy Svo, ior. 6d. BROWN, S. Borton, B.A.—The Fire Baptism of all Flesh ; or, the Coming Spiritual Crisis of the Dispensation. Crown Svo, 6s. BROWNE, W. R.—The Inspiration of the New Testament. With a Preface by the Rev. J. P. Norris, D.D. Fcap. Svo, 2s. 6d. BURCKHARDT, Jacob.—The Civilization of the Period of the Renaissance in Italy. Authorized translation, by S. G. C. Middlemore. 2 vols. Demy Svo, 24r. BURTON, Mrs. Richard.—The Inner Life of Syria, Palestine, and the Holy Land. With Maps, Photographs, and Coloured Plates. Cheaper Edition in one volume. Large post Svo, 1 or. 6d. BUSBECQ, Ogier Ghiselin de.—His Life and Letters. By Charles Thornton Forster, M.A., and F. H. Blackburne Daniell, M.A. 2 vols. With Frontispieces. Demy 8vo, 241'. CARPENTER, Dr. Phillip P. — His Life and Work. Edited by his brother, Russell Lant Carpenter. With Portrait and Vignettes. Second Edition. Crown Svo, *js. 6d.A List of 6 CARPENTER, IV, B., LL.DM.D., F.R.S., etc.—The Principles of Mental Physiology. With their Applications to the Training and Discipline of the Mind, and the Study of its Morbid Condition,. Illustrated. Sixth Edition. 8vo, 12s. CERVANTES.— The Ingenious Knight Don Quixote de la Mancha. A New Translation from the Originals of 1605 and 1608. By A. J. Duffield. With Notes. 3 vols. Demy Svo, 421. CIIEYNE, Rev. T. K.—The Prophecies of Isaiah. Translated with Critical Notes and Dissertations. 2 vols. Second Edition. Demy 8vo, 25r. CLAIRAUT. — Elements of Geometry. Translated by Dr. Kaines. With 145 Figures. Crown Svo, 4s. 6d. CL A YDEN, P. TV.—England under Lord Beaconsfleld. The Political Plistory of the Last Six Years, from the end of 1873 to the beginning of 1880. Second Edition, with Index and con- tinuation to March, 1880. Demy Svo, i6r. CLODD, Edward, F.R.A.S.—The Childhood of the World : a Simple Account of Man in Early Times. Sixth Edition. Crown Svo, 3*. A Special Edition for Schools. Ir. The Childhood of Religions. Including a Simple Account of the Birth and Growth of Myths and Legends. Ninth Thousand. Crown Svo, S-f- A Special Edition for Schools, is. 6d. Jesus of Nazareth. With a brief sketch of Jewish History to the Time of His Birth. Small crown Svo, 6s. COGJ/LAN, y. Co/e, D.D.—The Modern Pharisee and other Sermons. Edited by the Very Rev. H. IP. Dickinson, D.D., Dean of Chapel Royal, Dublin. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 7r. 6d. COLERIDGE, Sara.—Phantasmion. A Fairy Tale. With an In- troductory Preface, by the Right lion. Lord Coleridge, of Ottery St. Mary. A New Edition. Illustrated. Crown Svo, Js. 6d. Memoir and Letters of Sara Coleridge. Edited by her ’ Daughter. With Index. Cheap Edition. With one Portrait. 7 s. 61d. Collects Exemplified. Being Illustrations from the Old and New Testaments of the Collects for the Sundays after Trinity. By the Author of “ A Commentary on the Epistles and Gospels.” Edited by the Rev. Joseph Jackson. Crown Svo, Sr. COLLINS, Mortimer.—The Secret of Long Life. Small crown Svo, 3r. 6d, CONNELL, A. K.—Discontent and Danger in India. Small crown Svo, 3.1. 6d.Kcgan Paul’ Trench & Co.'s Publications. J COOKE, Prof. J. /’.—Scientific Culture. Crown 8vo, is. COOPER, H. y.—The Art of Furnishing on Rational and ./Esthetic Principles. New and Cheaper Edition. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. CORFIELD, Prof., M.D.—Health. Crown 8vo, 6s. CORY, William.-—A Guide to Modern English History. Tart I. —MDCCCXV.-MDCCCXXX. Demy 8vo, gr. Part II.— MDCCCXXX.-MDCCCXXXV., 15*. CORY, Col. Arthur.—The Eastern Menace. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. COTTERILL, H. /.—An Introduction to the Study of Poetry. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. COURTNEY, W. Z.—The Metaphysics of John Stuart Mill. Crown 8vo, 5r. 6d. COX, Rev. Sir George W., M.A., Bart.—A History of Greece from the Earliest Period to the end of the Persian War. New Edition. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 36J. The Mythology of the Aryan Nations. New Edition. Demy 8vo, 16s. A General History of Greece from the Earliest Period to the Death of Alexander the Great, with a sketch of the subsequent History to the present time. ‘New Edition. Crown 8vo, Js. 6d. Tales of Ancient Greece. New Edition. Small crown 8vo, 6s. School History of Greece. New Edition. With Maps. Fcap. 8vo, 3.s'. 6d. The Great Persian War from the History of Herodotus. New Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 3^. 6d. A Manual of Mythology in the form of Question and Answer. New Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 31. An Introduction to the Science of Comparative Myth- ology and Folk-Lore. Crown 8vo, 9s. COX, Rev. Sir G. W., M.A., Bart., and JONES, Eustace Hinton.— Popular Romances of the Middle Ages. Second Edition, in 1 vol. Crown 8vo, 6s. COX, Rev. Samuel.—Salvator Mundi ; or, Is Christ the Saviour of all Men ? Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s. The Genesis of Evil, and other Sermons, mainly expository. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. A Commentary on the Book of Job. With a Translation. Demy 8vo, 1 Sr. CRAUEURD, A. H.—Seeking for Light: Sermons. Crown 8vo, 5s. CRAVEN, Mrs.—A Year’s Meditations. Crown 8vo, 6r. CRAWFURD, Oswald.—Portugal, Old and New. With Illustra- tions and Maps, New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.A List of 8 CROZIER, John Beattie, M.B.— The Religion of the Future. Crown Svo, 6s. Cyclopsedia of Common things. Edited by the Rev. Sir George W. Cox, Bart., M.A. With 500 Illustrations. Third Edition. Large post Svo, 7s. 6d. DALTON, Rev. John Area/e, M.A., R.A7.—Sermons to Naval Cadets. Preached on board PI.M.S. “Britannia.” Second Edition. Small crown Svo, 3^. 6d. DAVIDSON, Rev. Samuel, D.D., LL.D.—The New Testament, translated from the Latest Greek Text of Tischen- dorf. A New and thoroughly revised Edition. Post 8vo, ior. 6d. Canon of the Bible : Its Formation, History, and Fluctuations. Third and revised Edition. Small crown Svo, 5^. The Doctrine of Last Things contained in the New Testa- ment compared with the Notions of the Jews and the Statements of Church Creeds. Crown Svo. DAVIDSON, Thomas.—The Parthenon Frieze, and other Essays. Crown Svo, 6s. DAVIES, Rev.J. L., M.A.—Theology and Morality. Essays on Questions of Belief and Practice. Crown 8vo, Js. 6d. DAWSON, Geo., M.A.—Prayers, with a Discourse on Prayer. Edited by his Wife. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. Sermons on Disputed Points and Special Occasions. Edited by his Wife. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. Sermons on Daily Life and Duty. Edited by his Wife. Third Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. The Authentic Gospel. A New Volume of Sermons. Edited by George St. Clair. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. DE REDCLIFFE, Viscount Stratford.—Why am I a Christian ? Fifth Edition. Crown Svo, 3s. DESPREZ, Phillip S., B.D.—Daniel and John ; or, the Apocalypse of the Old and that of the New Testament. Demy Svo, 121. DIDON, Rev. Father. — Science without God, Conferences by. Translated from the French by Rosa Corder. Crown Svo, cloth, 5j. DOWDEN, Edward, IT..D.—Shakspere : a Critical Study of his Mind and Art. Sixth Edition. Post Svo, 12s. Studies in Literature, 17S9-1877. Second and Cheaper Edition. Large post Svo, 6s. DREWRY, G. 0., AID.—The Common-Sense Management of the Stomach. Fifth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. 6d. DREWRY, G. 0., M.D., and BARTLETT, II. C., Ph.D.—C up and Platter ; or, Notes on Food and its Effects. New and Cheaper Edition. Small Svo, is. 6d.9 Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.'s Publications. DUFFIELD, A. J— Don Quixote : his Critics and Commen- tators. With a brief account of the minor works of Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra, and a statement of the aim and end of the greatest of them all. A handy book for general readers. Crown Svo, y. 6d. DU MONCEL, Count— The Telephone, the Microphone, and the Phonograph. With 74 Illustrations. Second Edition. Small crown 8vo, 5s. EDGEWORTH, F. Y—Mathematical Psychics. An Essay on the Application of Mathematics to Social Science. Demy 8vo, "js. 6d. ED/S, Robert IV., F.S.A., etc.—Decoration and Furniture of Town Houses : a Series of Cantor Lectures, delivered before the Society of Arts, 1880. Amplified and Enlarged. With 29 Full-page Illustrations and numerous Sketches, Second Edition. Square 8vo, 12s. 6d. Educational Code of the Prussian Nation, in its Present Form. In accordance with the Decisions of the Common Pro- vincial Law, and with those of Recent Legislation. Crown 8vo, 2S. 6d. Education Library. Edited by Philip Magnus :— An Introduction to the History of Educational Theories. By Oscar Browning, M.A. Second Edition. 3-l 6</. John Amos Comenius : his Life and Educational Work. By Prof. S. S. Laurie, A.M. 31-. 6d. Old Greek Education. By the Rev. Prof. Mai-iaffy, M.A. 3-r. 6d. Eighteenth Century Essays, Selected and Edited by Austin Dobson. With a Miniature Frontispiece by R. Caldecott. Parchment Library Edition, 6s. ; vellum, Js. 6d. ELSDALE, Henry.—Studies in Tennyson’s Idylls. Crown Svo, 51. ELYOT, Sir Thomas.—The Boke named the Gouernour. Edited from the First Edition of 1531 by PIenry Herbert Stephen Croft, M.A., Barrister-at-Law. With Portraits of Sir Thomas and Lady Elyot, copied by permission of her Majesty from PIol- bein’s Original Drawings at Windsor Castle. 2 vols. Fcap. 4to, 50J. Eranus. A Collection of Exercises in the Alcaic and Sapphic Metres. Edited by F. W. Cornish, Assistant Master at Eton. Crown 8vo, 2s. EVANS, Mart:.—The Story of Our Father’s Love, told to Children. Fifth and Cheaper Edition. With Four Illustrations. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d.A List of 10 EVAN'S, Mark.—•continued. A Book of Common Prayer and Worship for House- hold Use, compiled exclusively from the Holy Scriptures. Second Edition, Fcap. 8vo, ij. The Gospel of Home Life. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. The King’s Story-Book. In Three Parts. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. each. *** Parts I. and II. with Eight Illustrations and Two Picture Maps, now ready. FELKIN, H. M.—Technical Education in a Saxon Town. Published for the City and Guilds of London Institute for the Advancement of Technical Education. Demy 8vo, 2s. FLOREDICE, W. II.—A Month among the Mere Irish. Small crown 8vo, 5-f. Folkestone Ritual Case : the Arguments, Proceedings, Judgment, and Report. Demy 8vo, 25r. FORME V, Rev. Henry.—Ancient Rome and its Connection with the Christian Religion : An Outline of the History of the City from its First Foundation down to the Erection of the Chair of St. Peter, a.d. 42-47. With numerous Illustrations of Ancient Monuments, Sculpture, and Coinage, and of the Antiquities of the Christian Catacombs. Royal 4to, cloth extra, £2 1 or. ; roxburgh half-morocco, £2 i2r. 6d. FRASER, Donald.—Exchange Tables of Sterling and Indian Rupee Currency, upon anew and extended system, embracing Values from One Farthing to One Hundred Thousand Pounds, and at rates progressing, in Sixteenths of a Penny, from ir. 9d. to 2r. 3d. per Rupee. Royal 8vo, lor. 6d. FRISIVELL, J. Haul.—The Better Self. Essays for Home Life. Crown 8vo, 6s. G4RDINER, Samuel R., and J. BASS MULLINGER, M.A.— Introduction to the Study of English History. Large Crown 8vo, gr. GARDNER, Dorsey.—Quatre Bras, Ligny, and Waterloo. A Nanative of the Campaign in Belgium, 1815. With Maps and Plans. Demy 8vo, i6r. GARDNER, J, M.D.—Longevity : The Means of Prolonging Life after Middle Age. Fourth Edition, revised and enlarged. Small crown 8vo, 4-f. GEBLER, Karl Von.—Galileo Galilei and the Roman Curia, from Authentic Sources. Translated with the sanction of the Author, by Mrs. George Sturge. Demy Svo, 12s. GEDDES, James— History of the Administration of John de Witt, Grand Pensionary of Holland. Vol. I. 1623-1654. With Portrait. Demy 8vo, 15s.Kegan Paul, Trench & Cols Publications. II GENNA, A. — Irresponsible Philanthropists. Being some Chapters on the Employment of Gentlewomen. Small crown Svo, 2s. 6d. GEORGE, Henry.—Progress and Poverty : an Inquiry into the Causes of Industrial Depressions, and of Increase of Want with Increase of Wealth. The Remedy. Second Edition. Post Svo, 7s. 6d. GILBERT, Mrs.—Autobiography and other Memorials. Edited by Josiah Gilbert. Third and Cheaper Edition. With Steel Portrait and several Wood Engravings. Crown Svo, Js. 6d. GLOVER, F., M.A.—Exempla Latina. A First Construing Book, with Short Notes, Lexicon, and an Introduction to the Analysis of Sentences. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. GODWIN, William.—The Genius of Christianity Unveiled. Being Essays never before published. Edited, with a Preface, by C. Kegan Paul. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d. GOLDSMID, Sir Fraticis Henry, Bart., Q.C., M.P.—Memoir of. With Portrait. Second Edition, revised. Crown Svo, 5r. GOODENOUGH, Commodore J. G.—Memoir of, with Extracts from his Letters and Journals. Edited by his Widow. With Steel Engraved Portrait. Square 8vo, 5.?. *** Also a Library Edition with Maps, Woodcuts, and Steel Engraved Portrait. Square post Svo, 141. GOSSE, Edmund W.—Studies in the Literature of Northern Europe. With a Frontispiece designed and etched by Alma Tadema. Large post 8vo, 12s, GOULD, Rev. S. Baring, M.A.—The Vicar of Morwenstow : a Memoir of the Rev. R. S. Hawker. With Portrait. Third Edition, revised. Square post 8vo, 10s. 6d. Germany, Present and Past. New and Cheaper Edition. Large crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. GOWAN, Major Walter E.—A. Ivanoff’s Russian Grammar. (16th Edition.) Translated, enlarged, and arranged for use of Students of the Russian Language. Demy Svo, 6r.j GRAHAM, William, M.A.—The Creed of Science, Religious, Moral and Social. Demy 8vo, 12s. GRIFFITH Thomas, A.M.—The Gospel of the Divine Life: a Study of the Fourth Evangelist. Demy Svo, 14s. GRIMLEY, Rev. H. N., M.A.—Tremadoc Sermons, chiefly on the Spiritual Body, the Unseen World, and the Divine Humanity. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. GRUNER, M.L. — Studies of Blast Furnace Phenomena £ra6njlated.by L. D. B. Gordon, F.R.S.E., F.G.S. Demy Svo,'A List of 12 GURNEY, Rev. Archer.—Words of Faith and Cheer. A Mission of Instruction and Suggestion. Crown 8vo, 6s. HAECKEL, Prof. Ernst.—The History of Creation. Translation revised by Professor E. Ray Lankester, M.A., F.R.S. With Coloured Plates and Genealogical Trees of the various groups of both Plants and Animals. 2 vols. Second Edition. Post 8 vo, 32^. The History of the Evolution of Man. With numerous Illustrations. 2 vols. Post 8vo, 32*. Freedom in Science and Teaching. With a Prefatory Note by T. Id. PIuxley, F.R.S. Crown 8vo, 5s. Half-Crown Series :— Sister Dora : a Biography. By Margaret Lonsdale. True Words for Brave Men : a Book for Soldiers and Sailors. By the late Charles Kingsley. An Inland Voyage. By R. L. Stevenson. Travels with a Donkey. By R. L. Stevenson. A Hook in the Apennines. By Leader Scott. Notes of Travel : being Extracts from the Journals of Count Von Moltke. Betters from Russia. By Count Von Moltke. English Sonnets. Collected and Arranged by J. Dennis. Lyrics of Love. From Shakespeare to Tennyson, Selected and Arranged by W. D. Adams. London Lyrics. By F. Locker. Home Songs for Quiet Hours. By the Rev. Canon R. H. Baynes. IIALLECK'S International Law; or, Rules Regulating the Inter- course of States in Peace and War. A New Edition, revised, with Notes and Cases by Sir Siierston Baker, Bart. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 38X. IIAR TING TON, The Right Hon. the Marquis of, M.P.—Election Speeches in 1879 and 1880. With Address to the Electors of North-East Lancashire. Crown 8vo, 3.s'. 6d. IIA WEIS, Rev. H. R., M.A.—Current Coin. Materialism—The Devil—Crime—Drunkenness—Pauperism—Emotion—Recreation —The Sabbath. Fourth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, Sr. Arrows in the Air. Fourth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, Sr. Speech in Season. Fifth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, $s. Thoughts for the Times. Twelfth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r.Kcgan Paul, Trench & Cols Publications. 13 IIAIVEIS, Rev. II. R., M. A.—continued. Unsectarian Family Prayers. New and Cheaper Edition. Fcap. 8vo, ir. 6d. HAWKINS, Edwards Comerford.—Spirit and Form. Sermons preached in the Parish Church of Leatherhead. Crown 8vo, 6s. IIAYES, A. H., Junr— New Colorado, and the Santa Fe Trail. With Map and 60 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, gs. HELLWALD, Baron F. Von.—The Russians in Central Asia. A Critical Examination, down to the Present Time, of the Geography and History of Central Asia. Translated by Lieut. - Col. Theodore Wirgman, LL.B. With Map. Large post 8vo, 12 s. HINTON, J.—'The Place of the Physician. To which is added Essays on the Law of Human Life, and on the Relations between Organic and Inorganic Worlds. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, y. 6d. Philosophy and Religion. Selections from the MSS. of the late James Hinton. Edited by Caroline Haddon. Crown Svo, Sr. Physiology for Practical Use. By Various Writers. With 50 Illustrations. Third and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. An Atlas of Diseases of the Membrana Tympani. With Descriptive Text. Post Svo, £6 6s. The Questions of Aural Surgery, With Illustrations. 2 vols. Post Svo, 12s. 6d. Chapters on the Art of Thinking, and other Essays. With an Introduction by Shadworth Hodgson. Edited by C. H. Hinton. Crown 8vo, 8r. 6d. The Mystery of Pain. New Edition. Fcap. Svo, ir. Life and Letters. Edited by Ellice Hopkins, with an Intro- duction by Sir W. W. Gull, Bart., and Portrait engraved on Steel by C. H. Jeens. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, Sr. 6d. HOOPER, Mary.—Little Dinners: How to Serve them with Elegance and Economy. Thirteenth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. Cookery for Invalids, Persons of Delicate Digestion, and Children. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 3r. 6d. Every-Day Meals. Being Economical and Wholesome Recipes for Breakfast, Luncheon, and Supper. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, Sr. HOPKINS, Ellice.—Life and Letters of James Hinton, with an Introduction by Sir W. W. Gull, Bart., and Portrait engraved on Steel by C. PI. Jeens. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 8r. 6d.A List of 14 HORNER, The Misses.—Walks in Florence. A New and thoroughly Revised Edition. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. Limp cloth. With Illus- trations. Vol. I. —Churches, Streets, and Palaces, ior. 6d. Vol. II.—Public Galleries and Museums. 5r. HOSPITALIER, E.—The Modern Applications of Electricity. Translated and Enlarged by Julius Maier, Ph.D. With 170 Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 16s. Household Readings on Prophecy. By a Layman. Small crown 8vo, 2s- 6d. HUGHES, Henry.—The Redemption of the World. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. HULL, Edmund C. I.—The European in India. With a Medical Guide for Anglo-Indians. By R. S. Mair, M.D., F.R.C.S.E. Third Edition, Revised and Corrected. Post 8vo, 6s. IIUNTLNGFORD, Rev. E., D.C.L.—The Apocalypse. With a Commentary and Introductory Essay. Demy 8vo, 9s. HUTTON, Arthur, M.A.—The Anglican Ministry: Its Nature and Value in relation to the Catholic Priesthood. With a Preface by His Eminence Cardinal Newman. Demy 8vo, 14J. JENKINS, £., and RAYMOND, J —The Architect’s Legal Handbook. Third Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 6s. JENKINS, Rev. R. C., M.A.—The Privilege of Peter, and the Claims of the Roman Church confronted with the Scriptures, the Councils, and the Testimony of the Popes themselves. Fcap. 8vo, 2s- bek JENNINGS, Mrs. Vaughan.—Rahel: Tier Life and Letters. With a Portrait from the Painting by Daffinger. Square post 8vo, 7s. 6d. JERVIS. Rev, W. Henley.— The Galilean Church and the Revolution. A Sequel to the History of the Church of France, from the Concordat of Bologna to the Revolution. Demy 8vo, i8r. JOEL, L.—A Consul’s Manual and Shipowner’s and Ship- master’s Practical Guide in their Transactions Abroad. With Definitions of Nautical, Mercantile, and Legal Terms; a Glossary of Mercantile Terms in English, French, German, Italian, and Spanish ; Tables of the Money, Weights, and Measures of the Principal Commercial Nations and their Equivalents in British Standards; and Forms of Consular and Notarial Acts. Demy 8vo, 12s. JOHNSTONE, C. F., M.A.—Historical Abstracts: being Outlines of the History of some of the less known States of Europe. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. JONCOURT, Madame Made <&.—Wholesome Cookery. Crown 8vo, 2s- 6d.Kegan Paul', Trench & Co.'s Publications. IS JONES, C. A.—The Foreign Freaks of Five Friends. With 30 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 6s. JONES, Lucy.—Puddings and Sweets ; being Three Hundred and Sixty-five Receipts approved by experience. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. JOYCE, P. tV., LL.D., etc.—Old Celtic Romances. Translated from the Gaelic. Crown 8vo, Js. 6d. KAUFMANN, Rev. M, B.A.— Socialism : Its Nature, its Dangers, and its Remedies considered. Crown 8vo, "js. 6cl. Utopias ; or, Schemes of Social Improvement, from Sir Thomas More to Karl Marx. Crown 8vo, Sr. NAY, Joseph.—Free Trade in Land. Edited by his Widow. With Preface by the Right Hon. John Bright, M.P. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. KEMPIS, Thomas A—Of the Imitation of Christ. Parchment Library Edition, 6s. ; or vellum, 7s. 6d. The Red Line Edition, fcap. 8vo, red edges, 2s. 6d. The Cabinet Edition, small 8vo, cloth limp, ir. ; cloth boards, red edges, ir. 6d. The Miniature Edition, red edges, 32mo, ir. *** All the above Editions may be had in various extra bindings. KENT, C.—Corona Catholica ad Petri successoris Pedes Oblata, De Summi Pontificis Leonis XIII. As- sumptione Epigramma. In Quinquaginta Linguis. Fcap. 4to, 1 Sr. KEENER, Dr. A.—Flowers and their Unbidden Guests. Translation edited by W. Ogle, M. A., M.D. With Illustrations. Square 8vo, 9r. KETTLEWELL, Rev. S.—Thomas a Kempis and the Brothers of Common Life. 2 vols. With Frontispieces. Demy 8vo, 3or. KIDD, Joseph, M.D.—The Laws of Therapeutics ; or, the Science and. Art of Medicine. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6r. KINAIIAN, G. Henry, M.R.I.A.—The Geology of Ireland, with numerous Illustrations and a Geological Map of Ireland. Square 8vo, 1 Sr. KINGSFORD, Anna, M.D.—The Perfect Way in Diet. A Treatise advocating a Return to the Natural and Ancient Food of our Race. Small crown 8vo, 2r. KINGSLEY, Charles, M.A.—Letters and Memories of his Life. Edited by his Wife. With two Steel Engraved Portraits, and Vignettes on Wood. Eleventh Cabinet Edition. 2 vols. Crown 8vo, 12 s. All Saints’ Day, and other Sermons. Edited by the Rev. W. Harrison. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, ’/s. 6d. True Words for Brave Men. A Book for Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Libraries. Eighth Edition, Crown 8vo, 2s, 6d,A List of i6 KNIGHT, Professor TV—Studies in Philosophy and Literature. Large Post Svo, fs. 61. KNOX, Alexander A.—The New Playground ; or, Wanderings in Algeria. Large crown 8vo, ior. 6d, LAURIE, S. S.—The Training of Teachers, and other Educational Papers. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. LEE, Rev. F. G., D.C.L.—The Other World ; or, Glimpses of the Supernatural. 2 vols. A New Edition. Crown 8vo, 151. LEWIS, Edward Dillon.—A Draft Code of Criminal Law and Procedure. Demy 8vo, 21 s. LINDS A V, TV. Lauder, M.D.—Mind in the Lower Animals in Health and Disease. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 32s. Vol. I.—Mind in Health. Vol. II.—Mind in Disease. LLOYD, Walter.—The Hope of the World : An Essay on Universal Redemption. Crown 8vo, Sr. LONSDALE, Margaret.—Sister Dora : a Biography. With Portrait. Twenty-fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. LORLMER, Peter, D.D.—John Knox and the Church of Eng- land. His Work in her Pulpit, and his Influence upon her Liturgy, Articles, and Parties. Demy 8vo, 12s. John Wiclif and his English Precursors. By Gerhard Victor Lechler. Translated from the German, with additional Notes. New and Cheaper Edition. Demy 8vo, ior. 6d. LOWDER, Charles.—A Biography. By the Author of “ St. Teresa.” Sixth Edition. Large crown 8vo. With Portrait. 7s. 6d. MACULA VELLI, Niccoli. The Prince. Translated from the Italian by N. H. T. Small crown Svo, printed on hand-made paper, bevelled boards, 6s. MACKENZIE, Alexander.—How India is Governed. Being an Account of England’s work in India. Small crown Svo, 2s. MACNAUGHT, Rev. John.—Coena Domini : An Essay on the Lord’s Supper, its Primitive Institution, Apostolic Uses, and Subsequent History. Demy Svo, 14s. MAGNUS, Mrs.—About the Jews since Bible Times. From the Babylonian Exile till the English Exodus. Small crown 8vo, 5r. MAIR, R. S., M.D., F.R.C.S.E.—The Medical Guide for Anglo- Indians. Being a Compendium of Advice to Europeans in India, relating to the Preservation and Regulation of Health. With a Supplement on the Management of Children in India. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, limp cloth, 3*. 6d. MANNING, His Eminence Cardinal.—The True Story of the Vatican Council. Crown 8vo, Sr.1 Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.'s Publications. 17 MARKHAM, Capt. Albert Hastings, R.N.— The Great Frozen Sea : A Personal Narrative of the Voyage of the Alert during the Arctic Expedition of 1875-6. With 6 Full-page Illustrations, 2 Maps, and 27 Woodcuts. Fifth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. A Polar Reconnaissance : being the Voyage of the Is!jam to Novaya Zemlya in 1879. With 10 Illustrations. Demy 8vo, i6a Marriage and Maternity ; or, Scripture Wives and Mothers. Small crown 8vo, 4A 6d. MAR TINEA U, Gertrude.—Outline Lessons on Morals. Small crown 8vo, 3s. &d. McGRATH, Terence.—Pictures from Ireland. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. MEREDITH, M.A.—'Theotokos, the Example for Woman. Dedicated, by permission, to Lady Agnes Wood. Revised by the Venerable Archdeacon Denison. 32mo, limp cloth, is. 6d. MERRITT; Henry.—Art-Criticism and Romance. With Re- collections and 23 Illustrations in eau-forte, by Anna Lea Merritt. 2 vols. Large post 8vo, 25*. MILLER, Edward. —The History and Doctrines of Irvingism ; or, the so-called Catholic and Apostolic Church, 2 vols. Large post 8vo, 25s. The Church in Relation to the State. Large crown 8vo, "js. 6 d. MILNE, James.—Tables of Exchange for the Conversion of Sterling Money into Indian and Ceylon Currency, at Rates from is. 8d. to 2s. 3d. per Rupee. Second Edition. Demy 8vo, £2 2s. MINCHIN, J. G.—Bulgaria since the War : Notes of a Tour in the Autumn of 1879. Small crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. MOCKLER, E.—A Grammar of the Baloochee Language, as it is spoken in Makran (Ancient Gedrosia), in the Persia-Arabic and Roman characters. Fcap. 8vo, 5a MOLESWORTH, Rev. IV. Nassau, M.A.—History of the Church of England from 1660. Large crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. M0RELL,J. R.—Euclid Simplified in Method and Language. Being a Manual of Geometry. Compiled from the most important French Works, approved by the University of Paris and the Minister of Public Instruction. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. 6d. MORSE, E. S., Pli.D.—First Book of Zoology. With numerous Illustrations. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. MUNRO, Major-Gen. Sir Thomas, Bart., K.C.B., Governor of Madras. —Selections from his Minutes and other Official Writings. Edited, with an Introductory Memoir, by Sir Alex- ander Arbuthnot, K.C.S.I., C.I.E. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 30A NELSON, J. II., M.A.—A Prospectus of the Scientific Study of the Hindu Law. Demy 8vo, 9a c18 A List of NEWMAN,; J. H., D.D.—Characteristics from the Writings of. Being Selections from his various Works. Arranged with the Author’s personal Approval. Sixth Edition. With Portrait. Crown Svo, 6s. *** A Portrait of the Rev. Dr. J. H. Newman, mounted for framing, can be had, 2s. 6d. New Werther. By Loki. Small crown Svo, 2s. 6d. NICHOLSON', Edward Byron.—The Gospel according to the Hebrews. Its Fragments Translated and Annotated with a Critical Analysis of the External and Internal Evidence relating to it. Demy 8vo, os. 6d. A New Commentary on the Gospel according to Matthew. Demy Svo, 12s. The Rights of an Animal. Crown Svo, 3*. 6d. NICOLS, Arthur, F.G.S., F.R.G.S.—Chapters from the Physical History of the Earth : an Introduction to Geology and Palaeontology. With numerous Illustrations. Crown Svo, 5s. Notes on St. Paul’s Epistle to the Galatians. For Readers of the Authorised Version or the Original Greek. Demy 8vo, 2s. 6d. Nuces: Exercises on the Syntax of the Public School Latin Primer. New Edition in Three Parts. Crown 8vo, each ir. *** The Three Parts can also be had bound together, 3J. OATES, Frank, F.R.G.S.—Matabele Land and the Victoria Falls. A Naturalist’s Wanderings in the Interior of South Africa. Edited by C. G. Oates, B.A. With numerous Illustra- tions and 4 Maps. Demy Svo, 21 s. OGLE, W., M.D., F.R.C.P.—Aristotle on the Parts of Animals. Translated, with Introduction and Notes. Royal 8vo, I2r. 6d. O'MEARA, Kathleen.—Frederic Ozanam, Professor of the Sorbonne : His Life and Work. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d. Henri Perreyve and his Counsels to the Sick. Small crown Svo, Sr. Our Public Schools—Eton, Harrow, Winchester, Rugby, Westminster, Marlborough, The Charterhouse. Crown 8vo, r6. OWEN, F M.—John Keats : a Study. Crown Svo, 6r. OWEN, Rev. Robert, B.D.—Sanctorale Catholicum; or, Book of Saints. With Notes, Critical, Exegetical, and Historical. Demy Svo, i8r. An Essay on the Communion of Saints. Including an Examination of the Cultus Sanctorum. 2r. OXENHAM, Rev. F. Nntcombe.—What is the Truth as to Ever- lasting Punishment. Part II. Being an Historical Inquiry into the Witness and Weight of certain Anti-Origenist Councils. Crown Svo, 2r. 6d. *** Parts I. and II. complete in one volume, 7r.Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.'s Publications. 19 Parchment Library. Choicely Printed on hand-made paper, limp parchment antique, 6s. ; vellum, Js. 6d. each volume. The Christian Year. Thoughts in Verse for the Sundays and Holy Days throughout the Year. With Miniature Portrait of the Rev. J. Keble, after a Drawing by G. Richmond, R.A. Shakspere’s Works. Now publishing in Twelve Monthly Volumes. Eighteenth Century Essays. Selected and Edited by Austin Dobson. With a Miniature Frontispiece by R. Caldecott. Q. Horati Flacci Opera. Edited by F. A. Cornish, Assistant Master at Eton. With a Frontispiece after a design by L. Alma Tadema, etched by Leopold Lowenstam. Edgar Allan Poe’s Poems. With an Essay on his Poetry by Andrew Lang, and a Frontispiece by Linley Sambourne. Shakspere’s Sonnets. Edited by Edward Dowden. With a Frontispiece etched by Leopold Lowenstam, after the Death Mask. English Odes. Selected by Edmund W. Gosse. With Frontis- piece on India paper by Hamo Thornycroft, A.R.A. Of the Imitation of Christ. By Thomas A. Kempis. A revised Translation. With Frontispiece on India paper, from a Design by W. B. Richmond. Tennyson’s The Princess: a Medley. With a Miniature Frontispiece by II. M. Paget, and a Tailpiece in Outline by Gordon Browne. Poems: Selected from Percy Bysshe Shelley. Dedicated to Lady Shelley. With a Preface by Richard Garnet and a Miniature Frontispiece. Tennyson’s “In Memoriam.” With a Miniature Portrait in eau-forte by Le Rat, after a Photograph by the late Mrs. Cameron. Gay’s Fables. With an Introduction by Austin Dobson. In the Press. French Lyrics. Selected and Annotated by G. Saintsbury. In the Press. Select Letters of Percy Bysshe Shelley. Edited, with an Introduction, by Richard Garnett. In the Press. PARKER, Joseph,D.D.—The Paraclete: An Essay on the Personality and Ministry of the Ploly Ghost, with some reference to current discussions. Second Edition. Demy 8vo, i2j. PARR, Capt. II. Hallam, C.M.G.—K Sketch of the Kafir and Zulu Wars : Guadana to Isandhlwana. With Maps. Small crown 8vo, 5r. PARSLOE, Joseph. Our Railways. Sketches, Plistorical and Descriptive. With Practical Information as to Fares and Rates etc., and a Chapter on Railway Reform, Crown 8vo, 6s.A List of 20 PATT1S0N, Mrs. Mark.—The Renaissance of Art in France. With Nineteen Steel Engravings. 2 vols. Demy Svo, 321. PEARSON, Rev. S.—Week-day Living. A Book for Young Men and Women. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 5^. PENRICE, Maj. J., B.A.—A Dictionary and Glossary of the Ko-ran. With Copious Grammatical References and Explana- tions of the Text. 4to, 21 s. PESCHEL, Dr. Oscar.—The Races of Man and their Geo- graphical Distribution. Large crown Svo, gs. PETERS, F. A.—The Nicomachean Ethics of Aristotle. Trans- lated by. Crown Svo, 6s. PIDGEON, D.—An Engineer’s Holiday; or, Notes of a Round Trip from Long. o° to o°. 2 vols. Large crown 8vo, 16s. PLA YFAIR, Lieut.-Col.—Travels in the Footsteps of Bruce in Algeria and Tunis. Illustrated by facsimiles of Bruce’s original Drawings, Photographs, Maps, etc. Royal 4to cloth, bevelled boards, gilt leaves, £3 3J. POLLOCK, Frederick.—Spinoza, his Life and Philosophy. Demy Svo, i6r. POLLOCK, TV. H.—Lectures on French Poets. Delivered at the Royal Institution. Small crown Svo, 5r. POOR, Laura E.—Sanskrit and its Kindred Literatures. Studies in Comparative Mythology. Small crown Svo, 5,r. PRICE, Prof. Bonatny.—Currency and Banking. Crown Svo, 6s. Chapters on Practical Political Economy. Being the Sub- stance of Lectures delivered before the University of Oxford. New and Cheaper Edition. Large post Svo, $s. Proteus and Amadeus. A Correspondence. Edited by Aubrey De Vere. Crown Svo, Sr. Pulpit Commentary, The. Edited by the Rev. J. S. Exell and the Rev. Canon H. D. M. Spence. Genesis. By the Rev. T. Whitelaw, M.A. ; with Homilies by the Very Rev. J. F. Montgomery, D.D., Rev. Prof. R. A. Bedford, M.A., LL.B., Rev. F. Hastings, Rev. W. Roberts, M.A. An Introduction to the Study of the Old Testament by the Rev. Canon Farrar, D.D., F.R.S. ; and Introductions to the Pentateuch by the Right Rev. H. Cot- terill, D.D., and Rev. T. Whitelaw, M.A. Sixth Edition. 1 vol., I5-G Exodus. By the Rev. Canon Rawlinson. With Homilies by Rev. J. Orr, Rev. D. Young, Rev. C. A. Goodhart, Rev. J. Urquhart, and the Rev. PI. T. Robjohns. Second Edition. i6r.Kegan Paul, Trench & Cols Publications. 21 Pulpit Commentary, The.—continued. Leviticus. By the Rev. Prebendary Meyrick, M.A. With Introductions by the Rev. R. Collins, Rev. Professor A. Cave, and Homilies by Rev. Prof. Redford, LL.B., Rev. J. A. Macdonald, Rev. W. Clarkson, Rev. S. R. Aldridge, LL.B., and Rev. McCheyne Edgar. Third Edition. 15L Numbers. By the Rev. R. Winterbotham, LL.B. ; with Homilies by the Rev. Professor W. Binnie, D.D., Rev. E. S. Prout, M.A., Rev. D. Young, Rev. J. Waite, and an Intro- duction by the Rev. Thomas Whitelaw, M.A. Third Edition. 15L Deuteronomy. By the Rev. W. L. Alexander, D.D. With Homilies by Rev. C. Clemance, D.D., Rev. J. Orr, B.D., Rev. R. M. Edgar, M.A., Rev. D. Davies, M.A. Price 155. Joshua. By Rev. J. J. Lias, M.A. ; with Homilies by Rev. S. R. Aldridge, LL.B., Rev. R. Glover, Rev. E. De Pressens£, D.D., Rev. J. Waite, B.A., Rev. F. W. Adeney, M.A. ; and an Introduction by the Rev. A. Plummer, M.A. Fourth Edition. 12s. 6d. Judges and Ruth. By the Right Rev. Lord A. C. Hervey, D.D., and Rev. J. Morrison, D.D. ; with Homilies by Rev. A. F. Muir, M.A., Rev. W. F. Adeney, M.A., Rev. W. M. Statham, and Rev. Professor J. Thomson, M.A. Third Edition, ior. 67. 1 Samuel. By the Very Rev. R. P. Smith, D.D.; with Homilies by Rev. Donald Fraser, D.D., Rev. Prof. Chapman, and Rev. B. Dale. Fourth Edition. 15.?. 1 Kings. By the Rev. Joseph PIammond, LL.B. With Homilies by the Rev. E. De Pressens£, D.D., Rev. J. Waite, B.A., Rev. A. Rowland, LL.B., Rev. J. A. Macdonald, and Rev. J. URQUHART. Third Edition. 15.?. Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther. By Rev. Canon G. Rawlinson, M.A. ; with Homilies by Rev. Prof. J. R. Thomson, M.A., Rev. Prof. R. A. Redford, LL.B., M.A., Rev. W. S. Lewis, M.A., Rev. J. A. Macdonald, Rev. A. Mackennal, B.A., Rev. W. Clarkson, B.A., Rev. F. Hastings, Rev. W. Dinwiddie, LL.B., Rev. Prof. Rowlands, B.A., Rev. G. Wood, B.A., Rev. Prof. P. C. Barker, LL.B., M.A., and the Rev. J. S. Exell. Fifth Edition. 1 vol., 12s.- 67. Punjaub, The, and North-Western Frontier of India. By an Old Punjaubee. Crown 8vo, 5^. Rabbi Jeshua. An Eastern Story. Crown 8vo, 3J. 67. RADCLIFFE, Frank R. Y.—The New Politicus. Small crown 8vo, 2 s. 67. RAFENSHA W, John Henry, B.C.S.—Gaur : Its Ruins and In- scriptions. Edited by his Widow. With 44 Photographic Illustrations, and 25 facsimiles of Inscriptions. Royal 4to, I3A 67.A List of 22 READ, Carvetlu—On the Theory of Logic: An Essay. Crown 8vo, 6s. Realities of the Future Life. Small crown Svo, ij. 6d. RENDELL, J. M.—Concise Handbook of the Island of Madeira. With Plan of Funchal and Map of the Island. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. REYNOLDS, Rev. J. IV.—The Supernatural in Nature. A Verification by Free Use of Science. Second Edition, revised and enlarged. Demy Svo, i/p. The Mystery of Miracles. New and Enlarged Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. RIBOT, Prof. Th.—English Psychology. Second Edition. A Revised and Corrected Translation from the latest French Edition. Large post 8vo, gs. Heredity : A Psychological Study on its Phenomena, its Laws, its Causes, and its Consequences. Large crown Svo, gs. ROBERTSON, The late Rev. F. W., M.A.—Life and Letters of. Edited by the Rev. Stopford Brooke, M.A. I. Two vols., uniform with the Sermons. With Steel Portrait. Crown Svo, Js. 6d. II. Library Edition, in Demy Svo, with Portrait. 12s, III. A Popular Edition, in x vol. Crown 8vo, 6s. Sermons. Four Series. Small crown Svo, 3-r. 6d. each. The Human Race, and other Sermons. Preached at Chelten- ham, Oxford, and Brighton. Large post Svo, 7s. 6d. Notes on Genesis. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 3-r. 6d. Expository Lectures on St. Paul’s Epistles to the Corinthians. A New Edition. Small crown 8vo, 5*i Lectures and Addresses, with other Literary Remains. A New Edition. Crown Svo, Sr. • An Analysis of Mr. Tennyson’s “ In Memoriam.” (Dedicated by Permission to the Poet-Laureate.) Fcap. 8vo, 2s. The Education of the Human Race. Translated from the German of Gotthold Ephraim Lessing. Fcap. Svo, 2s. 6d. The above Works can also be had, bound in half morocco. *** A Portrait of the late Rev. F. W. Robertson, mounted for framing, can be had, 2s. 6d. RODWELL, G. F., F.R.A.S., A.C.^.-Etna : A History of the Mountain and its Eruptions. With Maps and Illustra- tions. Square 8vo, gs. ROLLESTON, T. JV. H., B.A.—The Encheiridion of Epictetus. Translated from the Greek, with a Preface and Notes. Small crown 8vo, 3.?. 6d.Kcgan Paul, Trench & Cols Publications. 23 Rosmini’s Philosophical System. Translated, with a Sketch o. the Author’s Life, Bibliography, Introduction, and Notes by Thomas Davidson. Demy 8vo, i6r. SALTS, Rev. Alfred, LL.D. —Godparents at Confirmation, With a Preface by the Bishop of Manchester. Small crown 8vo, limp cloth, 2s. SALVATOR, Archduke Ludwig.—Levkosia, the Capital of Cyprus. Crown 4to, ior. 6d. SAMUEL, Sydney M.—Jewish Life in the East. Small crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. SA YCE, Rev. Archibald Henry.— Introduction to the Science of Language. 2 vols. Large post 8vo, 2$s. Scientific Layman. The New Truth and the Old Faith : are they Incompatible ? Demy 8vo, 10s. 6d. SCOONES, W. Baptiste.—Four Centuries of English Letters : A Selection of 350 Letters by 150 Writers, from the Period of the Paston Letters to the Present Time. Second Edition. Large crown 8vo, gs. SCOTT, Robert AT.—Weather Charts and Storm Warnings. Second Edition. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, 3^. 6d. SHAKSPEARE, Charles.—Saint Paul at Athens. Spiritual Christianity in relation to some aspects of Modern Thought. Five Sermons preached at St. Stephen’s Church, Westbourne Park. With a Preface by the Rev. Canon Farrar. Crown 8vo, 5r. SHELLE Y, Lady.—Shelley Memorials from Authentic Sources. With (now first printed) an Essay on Christianity by Percy Bysshe Shelley. With Portrait. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5^. SILILLITO, Rev. Joseph.—'Womanhood : its Duties, Temptations, and Privileges. A Book for Young Women. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, y. 6d. SHIPLEY, Rev. Orby, M.A.—Church Tracts: or, Studies in Modern Problems. By various Writers. 2 vols. Crown 8vo, 5j. each. Principles of the Faith in Relation to Sin. Topics for Thought in Times of Retreat. Eleven Addresses delivered during a Retreat of Three Days to Persons living in the World. Demy 8vo, 12/. Sister Augustine, Superior of the Sisters of Charity at the St. Johannis Hospital at Bonn. Authorised Translation by Hans Tharau, from the German “ Memorials of Amalie von Lasaulx.” Second Edition. Large crown 8vo, "js. 6d. SMITH, Edward, M.D., LL.B., F.R.S.—Health and Disease, as Influenced by the Daily, Seasonal, and other Cyclical Changes in the Human System. A New Edition. Post 8vo, 7s. 6d.24 A List of SMITH, Edward, M.D., LL.B., F,R.S.—continued. Practical Dietary for Families, Schools, and the Labouring Classes. A New Edition. Post 8vo, 3.?. 6d. Tubercular Consumption in its Early and Remediable Stages. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. SPEDDING, James.—Reviews and Discussions, Literary, Political, and Historical not relating to Bacon. Demy 8vo, 12s. 6d. Evenings with a Reviewer; or, Bacon and Macaulay. With a Prefatory Notice by G. S. Venables, Q.C. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 18s. STAFFER, Paul. — Shakspeare and Classical Antiquity: Greek and Latin Antiquity as presented in Shakspeare’s Plays. Translated by Emily J. Carey, Large post 8vo, 12s. ST. BERNARD.—A Little Book on the Love of God. Translated by Marianne Caroline and Coventry Patmore. Extra, gilt top, 4-r. 6d. STEPHENS, Archibald John, LL.D.—The Folkestone Ritual Case. The Substance of the Argument delivered before the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council on behalf of the Re- spondents. Demy 8vo, 6s. STEVENSON, Rev. W. F—Hymns for the Church and Home. Selected and Edited by the Rev. W. Fleming Stevenson. The Hymn Book consists of Three Parts :—I. For Public Worship.—II. For Family and Private Worship.—III. For Children. * * Published in various forms and prices, the latter ranging from 8d. to 6s. Lists and full particulars will be furnished on application to the Publishers. STEVENSON, Robert Louis.—Travels with a Donkey in the Cevennes. With Frontispiece by Walter Crane. Small crown 8vo, is. 6d. An Inland Voyage. With Frontispiece by Walter Crane. Small Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Virginibus Puerisque, and other Papers. Crown 8vo, 6s. STRACHEY, Sir John, G.C.S.I., and Lieut.-Gen. Richard STR ACHE Y, R.E., F.R.S.—The Finances and Public Works of India, from 1869 to 1881. Demy 8vo, i8r. STRECKER- WISLICENUS.—Organic Chemistry. Translated and Edited, with Extensive Additions, by W. R. Hodgkinson, Ph.D., and A. J. Greenaway, F.I.C. Demy 8vo, 2ir. SULLY, James, M.A.—Sensation and Intuition. Demy 8vo, I or. 6 d.Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.'s Publications. 25 SULLY, James, ALA.—continued. Pessimism : a History and a Criticism. Second Edition. Demy 8 vo, 14-r. SYME, David.—Outlines of an Industrial Science. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. Representative Government in England. Its Faults and Failures. Second Edition. Large crown 8vo, 6r. TA YLOR, Algernon.—Guienne. Notes of an Autumn Tour. Crown 8vo, 4-f. 6d. THOAISON, J. Turnbull.—Social Problems; or, An Inquiry into the Laws of Influence. With Diagrams. Demy 8vo, ios. 6d. TLDMAN, Paul F.—Gold and Silver Money. Part I.—A Plain Statement. Part II.—Objections Answered. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, is. TODHUNTER, Dr. J.—A Study of Shelley. Crown Svo, Is. TREMENHEERE, Hugh Seymour, C.B.— A Manual of the Principles of Government, as set forth by the Authorities of Ancient and Modem Times. New and enlarged Edition. Crown 8vo, $s. TUKE, Daniel Hack, M.D., F.R.C.P.—Chapters in the History of the Insane in the British Isles. With 4 Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 12s. TWINLNG, Louisa.—Workhouse Visiting aqd Management during Twenty-Five Years. Small crown 8vo, 31-. 6d. UPTON, Major R. D.—Gleanings from the Desert of Arabia. Large post 8vo, 10s. 6d. VACUUS, Viator.—Flying South. Recollections of France and its Littoral. Small crown 8vo, 31. 6d, VAUGHAN, H. Halford.— New Readings and Renderings of Shakespeare’s Tragedies. 2 vols. Demy Svo, 25*. VLLLARI, Professor.—Niccolo _ Machiavelli and his Times. Translated by Linda Villari, 2 vols. Large post 8vo, 24s. VOLCICXSOAL, E. W. V.—Catechism of Elementary Modern Chemistry. Small crown 8vo, 3J. VYNER, Lady Alary.—Every Day a Portion. Adapted from the Bible and the Prayer Book, for the Private Devotion of those living in Widowhood. Collected and Edited by Lady Mary Vyner, Square crown 8vo, 5-r. WALDSTEIN, Charles, Ph.D.—The Balance of Emotion and Crown 8vo' fa Introductory Essay to the Study of Philosophy.A List of 2 6 WALLER, Rev. C. B.— The Apocalypse, reviewed under the Light of the Doctrine of the Unfolding Ages, and the Restitution of All Things. Demy 8vo, 12s. WALPOLE, C/ias. George.—History of Ireland from the Earliest Times to the Union with Great Britain. With 5 Maps and Appendices. Crown 8vo, ioj. 6d. WALSHE, Waller Hayle, M.D.—Dramatic Singing Physiolo- gically Estimated. Crown 8vo, 3J. 6d. WATSON, Sir Thomas, Bart., M.D.—The Abolition of Zymotic Diseases, and of other similar Enemies of Mankind. Small crown 8vo, 3 a 6d. WEDAIORE, Frederick.—The Masters of Genre. Painting. With Sixteen Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. WHEWELL, William, D.D.—His Life and Selections from his Correspondence. By Mrs. Stair Douglas. With a Portrait from a Painting by Samuel Laurence. Demy 8vo, 2is. WHITE, A. D., LL.D.—Warfare of Science. With Prefatory Note by Professor Tyndall. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. . WHITNE V, Prof. William Dwight. — Essentials of English Grammar, for the Use of Schools. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. WICKSTEED, P. IP.—Dante : Six Sermons. Crown 8vo, Jr. WILLIAMS, Rowland, D.D.—Psalms, Litanies, Counsels, and Collects for Devout Persons. Edited by his Widow. New and Popular Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s- 6d. Stray Thoughts Collected from the Writings of the late Rowland Williams, D.D. Edited by his Widow. Crown 8vo, 3r. 6d. WILLIS, R., M.D.—Servetus and Calvin : a Study of an Important Epoch in the Early History of the Reformation. 8vo, 16s. William Harvey. A History of the Discovery of the Circulation of the Blood : with a Portrait of Harvey after Faithorne. Demy 8vo, 141-. WILSON, Sir Erasimis.—Egypt of the Past. With Chromo-litho- graph and numerous Illustrations in the text. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 12s. WILSON, H. Schiitz.—The Tower and Scaffold. A Miniature Monograph. Large fcap. 8vo, Ij. WOLLS TONE CRAFT, Mary.—Letters to Imlay. New Edition, with a Prefatory Memoir by C. Kegan Paul. Two Portraits in eau-forte by Anna Lea Merritt. Crown 8vo, 6s.Kegan Patil, Trench & Co.'s Publications: 27 WOLTMANN, Dr. Alfred, and WOERMANN, Dr. Karl.— History of Painting. Edited by Sidney Colvin. Vol. I. Painting in Antiquity and the Middle Ages. With numerous Illustrations. Medium 8vo, 28.r. ; bevelled boards, gilt leaves, 30J. WOOD, Major-General J. Creighton. —Doubling the Consonant. Small crown 8vo, is. 6d. Word was Made Flesh. Short Family Readings on the Epistles for each Sunday of the Christian Year. Demy 8vo, 10s. 6d. WREN, Sir Christopher.—His Family and His Times. With Original Letters, and a Discourse on Architecture hitherto un- published. By Lucy Phillimore. With Portrait. Demy 8vo, 14J. WRIGHT, Rev. David, M.A.—Waiting for the Light, and other Sermons. Crown 8vo, 6s. YOUMANS, Eliza A.—An Essay on the Culture of the Observing Powers of Children, especially in connection with the Study of Botany. Edited, with Notes and a Supple- ment, by Joseph Payne, F.C.P., Author of “Lectures on the Science and Art of Education,” etc. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. First Book of Botany. Designed to Cultivate the Observing Powers of Children. With 300 Engravings. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. YOUMANS, Edward L., M.D.—A Class Book of Chemistry, on the Basis of the New System. With 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, $s. THE INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC SERIES. I. Forms of Wrater: a Familiar Exposition of the Origin and Phenomena of Glaciers. By J. Tyndall, LL.D., F.R.S. With 25 Illustrations. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5^. II. Physics and Politics ; or, Thoughts on the Application of the Principles of “Natural Selection” and “ Inheritance ” to Political Society. By Walter Bagehot. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 4X. III. Foods. By Edward Smith, M.D., LL.B., F.R.S. With numerous Illustrations. Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s. IV. Mind and Body : the Theories of their Relation. By Alexander Bain, LL.D. With Four Illustrations. Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo, 4j. V. The Study of Sociology. By Herbert Spencer. Tenth Edition. Crown 8vo, $s. VI. On the Conservation of Energy. By Balfour Stewart, M.A., LL.D., F.R.S. With 14 Illustrations. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5j.28 A List of VII. Animal Locomotion ; or Walking, Swimming, and Flying. By J. B. Pettigrew, M.D., F.RiS., etc. With 130 Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 55. VIII. Responsibility in Mental Disease. By Henry Maudsley, M.D. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. IX. The New Chemistry. By Professor J. P. Cooke. With 31 Illustrations. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. X. The Science of Law. By Professor Sheldon Amos. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, Sr. XI. Animal Mechanism : a Treatise on Terrestrial and Aerial Loco- motion. By Professor E. J. Marey. With 117 Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. XII. The Doctrine of Descent and Darwinism. By Professor Oscar Schmidt. With 26 Illustrations. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, Sr. XIII. The History of the Conflict between Religion and Science. By J. W. Draper, M.D., LL.D. Fifteenth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. XIV. Fungi : their Nature, Influences, Uses, etc. By M. C. Cooke, M.D., LL.D. Edited by the Rev. M. J. Berkeley, M.A., F.L.S. With numerous Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. XV. The Chemical Effects of Light and Photography. By Dr. Hermann Vogel. Translation thoroughly revised. With 100 Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, Sr. XVI. The Life and Growth of Language. By Professor William Dwight Whitney. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. XVII. Money and the Mechanism of Exchange. By W. Stanley Jevons, M.A., F.R.S. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. XVIII. The Nature of Light. With a General Account of Physical Optics. By Dr. Eugene Lommel. With 188 Illustrations and a Table of Spectra in Chromo-lithography. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, Sr. XIX. Animal Parasites and Messmates. By Monsieur Van Be'neden. With 83 Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, Sr. XX. Fermentation. By Professor Schutzenberger. With 28 Illus- trations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, Sr. XXL The Five Senses of Man. By Professor Bernstein. With 91 Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. XXII. The Theory of Sound in its Relation to Music. By Pro- fessor Pietro Blaserna. With numerous Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, S-f- XXIII. Studies in Spectrum Analysis. By J. Norman Lockyer, F.R.S. With six photographic Illustrations of Spectra, and numerous engravings on Wood. Crown 8vo. Second Edition. 6s. 6d.Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.'s Publications. 29 XXIV. A History of the Growth of the Steam Engine. By Professor R. H. Thurston. With numerous Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. 6d. XXV. Education as a Science. By Alexander Bain, LL.D. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. XXVI. The Human Species. By Professor A. de Quatrefages. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s. XXVII. Modern Chromatics. With Applications to Art and In- dustry. By Ogden N. Rood. With 130 original Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. XXVIII. The Crayfish : an Introduction to the Study of Zoology. By Professor T. H. Huxley. With 82 Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 55. XXIX. The Brain as an Organ of Mind. By H. Charlton Bastian, M.D. With numerous Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 5j. XXX. The Atomic Theory. By Prof. Wurtz. Translated by G. Cleminshaw, F.C.S. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s. XXXI. The Natural Conditions of Existence as they affect Animal Life. By Karl Semper. With 2 Maps and 106 Woodcuts. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, Sr. XXXII. General Physiology of Muscles and Nerves. By Prof. J. Rosenthal. Second Edition. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 5s- XXXIII. Sight : an Exposition of the Principles of Monocular and Binocular Vision. By Joseph le Conte, LL.D. With 132 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 5r. XXXIV. Illusions : a Psychological Study. By James Sully. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s. XXXV. Volcanoes: what they are and what they teach. By Professor J. W. Judd, F.R.S. With 92 Illustrations on Wood. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 5r. XXXVI. Suicide : an Essay in Comparative Moral Statistics. By Prof. E. Morselli. With Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 55. XXXVII. The Brain and its Functions. By J. Luys. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 5s. XXXVIII. Myth and Science : an Essay. By Tito Vignoli. Crown 8vo, 5r. XXXIX. The Sun. By Professor Young. With Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 3vo, 5r. XL. Ants, Bees, and Wasps: a Record of Observations on the at™ S°c,ial Hymenoptera. By Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P. With 5 Chromo-lithographic Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5*.A List of 30 XLI. Animal Intelligence. By G. J. Romanes, LL.D., F.R.S. Crown 8vo, 5s. XLII. The Concepts and Theories of Modern Physics. By J. B. Stallo. Crown 8vo, 5^. MILITARY WORKS. Army of the North German Confederation : a Brief Description of its Organisation, of the Different Branches of the Service and their rdle in War, of its Mode of Fighting, etc. Translated from the Corrected Edition, by permission of the Author, by Colonel Edward Newdigate. Demy 8vo, 5s. BARRINGTON, Capt. J. T.—England on the Defensive ; or, the Problem of Invasion Critically Examined. Large crown 8vo, with Map, 7s. 61. BLUME, Major W.—The Operations of the German Armies in France, from Sedan to the end of the War of 1870-71. With Map. From the Journals of the Head-quarters Staff. Translated by the late E. M. Jones, Maj. 20th Foot, Prof, of Mil. Hist., Sandhurst. Demy 8vo, gs. BOGUSLA WSKI, Capt. A. von.—Tactical Deductions from the War of 1870-1. Translated by Colonel Sir Lumley Graham, Bart., late 18th (Royal Irish) Regiment. Third Edition, Revised and Corrected. Demy 8vo, 7s. BRACKENBURY, Col. C. B., R.A., C.B.—Military Handbooks for Regimental Officers. I. Military Sketching and Recon- naissance, by Lieut.-Col. F. J. Hutchison, and Capt. PI. G. Mac- Gregor. Fourth Edition. With 15 Plates. Small 8vo, 6s. II. The Elements of Modern Tactics Practically applied to English Formations, by Lieut-Col. Wilkinson Shaw. Fourth Edition. With 25 Plates and Maps. Small crown 8vo, gs. BRIALMONT, Col. A.—Hasty Intrenchments. Translated by Lieut. Charles A. Empson, R.A. With Nine Plates. Demy 8vo, 6s. CLERY, C., Lieut.-Col.—Minor Tactics. With 26 Maps and Plans. Fifth and revised Edition. Demy 8vo, i6r. DU VERNOIS, Col. von Verdy.—Studies in Leading Troops. An authorised and accurate Translation by Lieutenant H. J. T. IPildyard, 71st Foot. Parts I. and II. Demy 8vo, 7s. GOETZE, Capt. A. von— Operations of the German Engineers during the War of 1870-1. Published by Authority, and in accordance with Official Documents. Translated from the German by Colonel G. Graham, V.C., C.B,, R.E. With 6 large Maps. Demy 8vo, 21 s.Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.'s Publications. 31 HARRISON, Lieut.-Col. R.—The Officer's Memorandum Book for Peace and War. Third Edition. Oblong 32010, roan, with pencil, y. 61. IIELVIG, Capt. //.—The Operations of the Bavarian Army Corps. Translated by Captain G. S. Schwabe. With 5 large Maps. In 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 24s. Tactical Examples : Vol. I. The Battalion, 15s. Vol. II. The Regiment and Brigade, ior. 6d. Translated from the German by Col. Sir Lumley Graham. With nearly 300 Diagrams. Demy 8vo. HOFFBAUER, Capt— The German Artillery in the Battles near Metz. Based on the Official Reports of the German Artillery. Translated by Captain E. O. Hollist. With Map and Plans. Demy 8vo, 21 s. LA YMANN, Capt.—The Frontal Attack of Infantry. Translated by Colonel Edward Newdigate. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Notes on Cavalry Tactics, Organisation, etc. By a Cavalry Officer. With Diagrams. Demy 8vo, 12s. PARR, Capt. H Hallam, C.M.G.—The Dress, Horses, and Equipment of Infantry and Staff Officers. Crown 8vo, is. SCHAW, Col. H.—The Defence and Attack of Positions and Localities. Second Edition, revised and corrected. Crown 8vo, 3^. 6d. SCHELL, Maj. von.—The Operations of the First Army under Gen. von Goeben. Translated by Col. C. H. von Wright. Four Maps. Demy 8vo, 9s. The Operations of the First Army under Gen. von Stein- metz. Translated by Captain E. O. Hollist. Demy 8vo, ior. 6d. SCHELLENDORF, Major-Gen. B. von.—The Duties of the General Staff. Translated from the German by Lieutenant Hare. Vol. I. Demy 8vo, ioj. 6d. SCHERFF, Maj. W. von.—Studies in the New Infantry Tactics. Parts I. and II. Translated from the German by Colonel Lumley Graham. Demy 8vo, 7s. 6d. SHADWELL, Maj.-Gen., C.B.—Mountain Warfare. Illustrated by the Campaign of 1799 in Switzerland. Being a Translation of the Swiss Narrative compiled from the Works of the Archduke Charles, Jomini, and others. Also of Notes by General H. Dufour on the Campaign of the Vallelline in 1635. With Appen- dix, Maps, and Introductory Remarks. Demy 8vo, i6r. SHERMAN, Gen. W. T.—Memoirs of General W. T. Sherman, Commander of the Federal Forces in the American Civil War. By Himself. 2 vols. With Map. Demy 8vo, 24s. Copyright English Edition.32 A List of 7 s. 6d. STUBBS, Lieut.-Col. F. W.—The Regiment of Bengal Artillery. The History of its Organisation, Equipment, and War Services. Compiled from Published Works, Official Records, and various Private Sources. With numerous Maps and Illustrations. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 32^. STUMM, Lieut. Hugo.—Russia’s Advance Eastward. Based on Official Reports. Translated by Capt. C. E. H. Vincent. With Map. Crown 8vo, 6j. VINCENT, Capt. C. E. //.—Elementary Military Geography, Reconnoitring, and Sketching. Compiled for Non- commissioned Officers and Soldiers of all Arms. Square crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Volunteer, the Militiaman, and the Regular Soldier. By a Public Schoolboy. Crown 8vo, 5J. WARTENSLEBEN, Count LI. von.—The Operations of the South Army in January and February, 1871. Com- piled from the Official War Documents of the Head-quarters of the Southern Army. Translated by Colonel C. H. von Wright. With Maps. Demy 8vo, 6j. The Operations of the First Army under Gen. von Manteufel. Translated by Col. C. H. von Wright. Uniform with the above. Demy 8vo, 9s. WICKHAM, Capt. E. H., R.A.—Influence of Firearms upon Tactics : Historical and Critical Investigations. By an Officer of Superior Rank (in the ,German Army). Translated by Captain E. H. Wickham, R.A. Demy 8vo, 7s. 6d. WOINOV1TS, Capt. /.—Austrian Cavalry Exercise. Translated by Captain W. S. Cooke. Crown 8vo, 7s. POETRY. ADAMS, W. D.—Lyrics of Love, from Shakspeare to Tennyson. Selected and arranged by. Fcap. 8vo, extra, gilt edges, 35. 6d. ADAM OF ST. VICTOR.— The Liturgical Poetry of Adam of St. Victor. From the text of Gautier. With Translations into English in the Original Metres, and Short Explanatory Notes, by &Digby S. Wrangham, M.A. 3 vols. Crown 8vo, printed on hand-made paper, boards, 21s. Antiope : a Tragedy. Large crown 8vo, 6s. AUBERTIN, J. J.—Camoens' Lusiads. Portuguese Text, with Translation. Map and Portraits. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 30*. Seventy Sonnets of Camoens. Portuguese Text and Transla- tion, with some original Poems. Dedicated to Capt. Richard F. Burton. Printed on hand-made paper, bevelled boards, gilt top,Kegan Paul, Trench & Cols Publications. 3 3 A UCHMUTY, A. C.— Poems of English Heroism : FromBrunan- burh to Lucknow; from Athelstan to Albert. Small crown Svo, is. 6d. A VIA.—The Odyssey of Homer. Done into English Verse by. Fcap. 4to, 15.J. BANKS, Mrs. G. L.—Ripples and Breakers : Poems. Square Svo, 5-r. BARNES, William.— Poems of Rural Life, in the Dorset Dialect. New Edition, complete in one vol. Crown Svo, 8r. (id. BAYNES, Rev. Canon H. R.—Home Songs for Quiet Hours. Fourth and cheaper Edition. Fcap 8vo, cloth, 2s. bd. %* This may also be had handsomely bound in morocco with gilt edges. BENNETT, Dr. W. C.—Narrative Poems and Ballads. Fcap. Svo, sewed in coloured wrapper, ij. Songs for Sailors. Dedicated by Special Request to H.R.H. the Duke of Edinburgh. With Steel Portrait and Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 3j. 6d. An Edition in Illustrated Paper Covers, is. Songs of a Song Writer. Crown Svo, 6s. BEVINGTON, L. S.—Key Notes. Small crown Svo, 5*. BILLSON, C. J.—The Acharnians of Aristophanes. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d. BOWEN, H. C., M.A.—Simple English Poems. English Literature for Junior Classes. In Four Parts. Parts I., II., and III., 6d. each, and Part IV., is. BRYANT, W. C.—Poems. Red-line Edition. With 24 Illustrations and Portrait of the Author. Crown Svo, extra, 7s. 6d. A Cheap Edition, with Frontispiece. Small crown Svo, 3s. 6d. BYRNNE, E. Fairfax.—Milicent: a Poem. Small crown Svo, 6s. Calderon’s Dramas: the Wonder-Working Magician — Life is a Dream—the Purgatory of St. Patrick. Translated by Denis Florence MacCarthy. Post Svo, ior. Chronicles of Christopher Columbus. A Poem in 12 Cantos. By M. D. C. Small crown Svo. CLARKE, Mary Cowden.— Honey from the Weed. Verses. Crown 8vo, Js. COLOMB, Colonel.-— The Cardinal Archbishop : a Spanish Legend. In 29 Cancions. Small crown 8vo, 5s. CONWA V, Hugh.—A Life’s Idylls. Small crown Svo, 3r. 6d. COFFEE, Francois.—L’Exilee. Done into English Verse, with the sanction of the Author, by I. O. L. Crown Svo, vellum, 5*.A List of 34 DAVIES, T. Hart.—Catullus. Translated into English Verse. Crown 8vo, 6s. DE VERE, Aubrey.—The Foray of Queen Meave, and other Legends of Ireland’s Heroic Age. Small crown 8vo, 51. Alexander the Great: a Dramatic Poem. Small crown 8vo, 5^. The Legends of St. Patrick, and other Poems. Small crown 8vo, 5r. St. Thomas of Canterbury : a Dramatic Poem. Large fcap. 8vo, Sr. Legends of the Saxon Saints. Small crown Svo, 6s. Antar and Zara: an Eastern Romance. Inisfail, and other Poems, Meditative and Lyrical. Fcap. Svo, 6s. The Fall of Rora, The Search after Proserpine, and other Poems, Meditative and Lyrical. Fcap. Svo, 6s. The Infant Bridal, and other Poems. A New and Enlarged Edition. Fcap. Svo, Js. 6d. DOBELL, Mrs. Hornet.—Ethelstone, Eveline, and other Poems. Crown Svo, 6s. DOBSON, Austin.—Vignettes in Rhyme, and Vers de Societe. Third Edition. Fcap. Svo, 5s. Proverbs in Porcelain. By the Author of “Vignettes in Rhyme.” Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. Dorothy : a Country Story in Elegiac Verse. With Preface. Demy 8vo, 5-f. DOIVDEN, Edward, LL.D.—Poems. Second Edition. Fcap. Svo, 5-r. Shakspere’s Sonnets. With Introduction. Large post Svo, 7s. 6 d. DOWNTON, Rev. H., M.A.—Hymns and Verses. Original and Translated. Small crown 8vo, 35. 6d. DUTT, Torn.—A Sheaf Gleaned in French Fields. New Edition, with Portrait. Demy Svo, 10s. 6d. Ancient Ballads and Legends of Hindustan. With an Introductory Memoir by Edmund W. Gosse. Small crown Svo, printed on hand-made paper, Sr. EDWARDS, Rev. Basil.—Minor Chords ; or, Songs for the Suffering : a Volume of Verse. Fcap. Svo, y. 6d. ; paper, 2s. 6d. ELDRYTH, Maud.—Margaret, and other Poems. Small crown Svo, 3s- 6d. ELLIOTT, Ebeneser, The Com Law Rhymer.—Poems. Edited l»y his son, the Rev. Edwin Elliott, of St. John’s, Antigua. 2 vols. Crown Svo, iSr.Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.’s Publications. 35 English Odes. Selected, with a Critical Introduction by Edmund W. Gosse, and a miniature frontispiece by Hamo Thornycroft, A.R.A. Elzevir 8vo, limp parchment antique, 6s. ; vellum, 7.s'. 6d. Epic of Hades, The. By the Author of “Songs of Two Worlds.” Thirteenth Edition. Fcap. Svo, 7 s. 6d. * Also an Illustrated Edition, with 17 full-page designs in photo- mezzotint by George R. Chapman. 4to, extra, gilt leaves, 2cj. ; and a Large Paper Edition, with Portrait, ior. 6d. EVANS, Anne.—Poems and Music. With Memorial Preface by Ann Thackeray Ritchie, Large crown Svo, 7s. GOSSE, Edmund IV.—New Poems. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d. GROTE, A. R. Rip van Winkle : a Sun Myth; and other Poems, antique^r™ *V°’ Pr*nted on hand-made paper, limp parchment GURNEY, Rev. Alfred.—The Vision of the Eucharist, and other Poems. Crown 8vo, 5.?. Gwen : a Drama in Monologue. By the Author of the “ Epic of Hades. Third Edition. Fcap. Svo, 5.5*. HAWKER, Roil. collected Godwin. Stephen. —The and arranged. With Portrait. Poetical TVorks of. Now first With a Prefatory Notice by T. G. Crown 8vo, 12 s. HELLON, Id G.—Daphnis: a Pastoral Poem. 3s. 6d. Small crown Svo, HICKEY%W0E\SH,~K SCUlpt°r> and cthcr Poems. Small crown HOLMES,. KG. A.-Poems. First and Second Series. Fcap. Svo, U With f'V Eduted by F; A- CoRNISH> Assistant Master at Eton. Z W Frontispiece after a design by L. Alma Tadema, etched 71 6^°P° d Lowenstam- Parchment Library Edition, 6s.; vellum, Vislon' and “‘her Poems 7£A™lffg‘^-The Girdle Legend of Prato. Smal KmG' »lS/'“T™hsevoD7rCSeS' F°“rth Eii,i0"'»U'P°rtrait Aspromonte, and other Poems 4s. 6d. Second Edition. Fcap. SvoA List of 36 LANG, A.—XXXII Ballades in Blue China. Elzevir 8vo, parchment, 55. \LEIGH, Arran and Isla.—Bellerophon. Small crown 8vo, 5s. LEIGHTON, Robert.—Records, and other Poems. With Portrait. Small crown 8vo, Js. 6d. LOCKER, F.—London Lyrics. A New and Revised Edition, with Additions and a Portrait of the Author. Crown 8vo, 6s. *** Also a New and Cheaper Edition. Small crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Love Sonnets of Proteus. With Frontispiece by the Author. Elzevir 8vo, 5J-. LOWNDES, Henry’.—Poems and Translations. Crown 8vo, 6s. LUMSDEN, Lieut.-Col. H. W.—Beowulf: an Old English Poem. Translated into Modern Rhymes. Small crown 8vo, 55. MACLEAN', Charles Donald.—Latin and Greek Verse Transla- tions. Small crown 8vo, 2s. MAGNUSSON, Eirikr, M.A., and PALMER, E. II, M,A.—Johan Ludvig Runeberg’s Lyrical Songs, Idylls, and Epi- grams. Fcap. 8vo, 5s. MEREDITH, Owen, The Earl of Lytton.—Lucile. With 160 Illustra- tions. Crown 4to, extra, gilt leaves, 21s. MIDDLETON, The Lady.—Ballads. Square i6mo, 31. 6d. MOORE, Mrs. Bloomfeld.—Gondaline’s Lesson : The Warden’s Tale, Stories for Children, and other Poems. Crown 8vo, 5*. MORICE, Rev. F. D., M.A.— The Olympian and Pythian Odes of Pindar. A New' Translation in English Verse. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. MORSHEAD, E. D. A. — The House of Atreus. Being the Agamemnon, Libation-Bearers, and Furies of zEschylus. Trans- lated into English Verse. Crown Svo, Js. NADEN, Constance W.— Songs and Sonnets of Spring Time. Small crow'n Svo, 5-f. NICHOLSON, Edward B.—The Christ Child, and other Poems. Crown Svo, 4s. 6d. NOAKE, Major R. Compton —The Bivouac ; or, Martial Lyrist. With an Appendix : Advice to the Soldier. Fcap. Svo, 5s. 6d. NOEL, The Hon. Roden.—A Little Child’s Monument. Second Edition. Small crown 8vo, 3-f. 6d. NORRIS, Rev. Alfred.—The Inner and Outer Life Poems. Fcap. Svo, 6s. Ode of Life, The. By the Author of “The Epic of Hades,” etc. Fourth Edition. Crown Svo, 5*.Karan Patti Trench & Cols Publications. 37 o ' O’HAGAN, John.— The Song of Roland. Translated into English Verse. Large post 8vo, parchment antique, ios. 6d. PAUL, C. Kcgati.—Goethe’s Faust. A New Translation in Rhyme. Crown 8vo, 6s. PAYNE, John— Songs of Life and Death. Crown 8vo, 5s. PENNELL, LI. Cholmondeley.—Pegasus Resaddled. By the Author of “Puck on Pegasus,” etc., etc. With 10 Full-page Illustrations by George Du Maurier. Second Edition. Fcap. 4to, elegant, 12s. 6d. PFEIFFER, Emily.—Gian Alarch : His Silence and Song : a Poem. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. Gerard’s Monument, and other Poems. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. Quarterman’s Grace, and other Poems. Crown 8vo, 5s. Poems. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. Sonnets and Songs. New Edition. l6mo, handsomely printed and bound in cloth, gilt edges, 4.?. Under the Aspens; Lyrical and Dramatic. With Portrait. Crown 8vo, 6s. PIKE, Warburton.—The Inferno of Dante Allighieri. Demy 8vo, 5 ,r. POE, Edgar Allan.—Poems. With an Essay on his Poetry by Andrew Lang, and a Frontispiece by Linley Samboume. Parchment Library Edition, 6s. ; vellum, Js. 6d. RHOADES, James.—The Georgies of Virgil. Translated into English Verse. Small crown 8vo, 5s. ROBINSON, A. Mary F.—A Handful of Honeysuckle. Fcap. 8vo, 3s. 6d. The Crowned Hippolytus. Translated from Euripides. With New Poems. Small crown 8vo, 5s. Schiller’s Mary Stuart. German Text, with English Translation on opposite page by Leediiam White. Crown 8vo, 6s. Shakspere’s Sonnets. Edited by Edward Dowden. With a Fron- tispiece etched by Leopold Lowenstam, after the Death Mask. Parchment Library Edition, 6s. ; vellum, 7s. 6d. Shakspere’s 'Works. In 12 Monthly Volumes. Parchment Library Edition, 6s. each; vellum, 7s. 6d. each. SHELLEY, Percy Bysshe. —Poems Selected from. Dedicated to Lady Shelley. With Preface by Richard Garnett. Parchment Library Edition, 6s.; vellum, 7s. 6d. Six Ballads about King Arthur. Crown 8vo, extra, gilt edges, 3s. 6d.A List of 33 SKINNER, James.— Coelestia. The Manual of St. Augustine. The Latin Text side by side with an English Interpretation in Thirty- six Odes with Notes, and a plea for the study (/Mystical Theology. Large crown 8vo, 6s. Songs of Two Worlds. By the Author of “The Epic of Hades.” Seventh Edition. Complete in One Volume, with Portrait. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. 6d. Songs for Music. By Four Friends. Containing Songs by Reginald A. Catty, Stephen H. Gatty, Greville J. Chester, and Juliana Ewing. Square crown 8vo, 5r. STEDMAN, Edmund Clarence.—Lyrics and Idylls, with other Poems. Crown 8vo, Js. 6d. STEVENS, William.—The Truce of God, and other Poems. Small crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. TA YLOR, Sir H.—Works Complete in Five Volumes. Crown 8vo, 30J. TENNYSON, Alfred.—Works Complete :— The Imperial Library Edition. Complete in 7 vols. Demy Svo, ior. 6d. each ; in Roxburgh binding, 12s. 6d. each. Author’s Edition. In 7 vols. Post Svo, gilt 431. 6d.; or half- morocco, Roxburgh style, 525. 6d. Cabinet Edition. 13 vols. Each with Frontispiece. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. 6d. each. Cabinet Edition. 13 vols. Complete in handsome Ornamental Case. 35-r. The Royal Edition. In x vol. With 26 Illustrations and Portrait. Extra, bevelled boards, gilt leaves, 21s. The Guinea Ed'ition. Complete in 13 vols. neatly bound and enclosed in box, 2is. ; French morocco or parchment, 31J. 6d. Shilling Edition. In 13 vols. pocket size, ir. each, sewed. The Crown Edition. Complete in 1 vol. strongly bound, 6s. ; extra gilt leaves, Js. 6d. ; Roxburgh, half-morocco, &r. 6d. *** Can also be had in a variety of other bindings. " In Memoriam.” With a Miniature Portrait in eauforte by Le Rat, after a Photograph by the late Mrs. Cameron. Parchment Library Edition, 6s.; vellum, 7s. 6d. The Princess. A Medley. With a Miniature Frontispiece by H. M. Paget, and a Tailpiece in Outline by Gordon Browne. Parchment Library Edition, 6s.; vellum, js. 6d. Songs Set to Music by various Composers. Edited by W. J. Cusins. Dedicated, by express permission, to Her Majesty the Queen. Royal 4to, extra, gilt leaves. 2ir. ; or in half-morocco, 25J.Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.’s Publications. 39 TENNYSON', Alfred.—continued. Original Editions:— Ballads, and other Poems. Small 8vo, 5* Poems. Small 8vo, 6s. Maud, and other Poems. Small Svo, 3-r. 6d. The Princess. Small Svo, 3-f. 6d. Idylls of the King. Small 8vo, Sr. Idylls of the King. Complete. Small 8vo, 6s. The Holy Grail, and other Poems. Small 8vo, 4J. 6d. Gareth and Lynette. Small Svo, 3^. Enoch Arden, etc. Small 8vo, 3.?. 6d. In Memoriam. Small 8vo, 4J. Harold : a Drama. New Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. Queen Mary : a Drama. New Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. The Lover’s Tale. Fcap. Svo, 3.?. 6d. Selections from the above "Works. Super royal i6mo. 31. 6d.; gilt extra, 4?. Songs from the above Works. i6mo. 2s. 6d.; extra, 3s. 6d. Idylls of the King, and other Poems. Illustrated by Julia Mar- garet Cameron. 2 vols. folio, half-bound morocco, £6 6s. each. Tennyson for the Young and for Recitation. Specially arranged. Fcap. Svo, is. 6d. The Tennyson Birthday Book. Edited by Emily Shakespear. 32mo, limp, 2s. ; extra, 3^. *** A superior Edition, printed in red and black, on antique paper, specially prepared. Small crown Svo, extra, gilt leaves, 5s. ; and in various calf and morocco bindings. Horse Tennysonianse sive Eclogae e Tennysono Latine Redditse Cura A. J. Church, A.M. Small crown Svo, 6s. THOMPSON, Alice C.—Preludes : a Volume of Poems. Illustrated by Elizabeth Thompson (Painter of “The Roll Call ”). 8vo, Js. 6d. TURING, Rev. Godfrey, B.A.—Hymns and Sacred Lyrics. Fcap. Svo, 35. 6d. TODHUNTER, Dr. f.—Laurella, and other Poems. Crown Svo, 6s. 6d. Forest Songs. Small crown Svo, 3^. 6d. The True Tragedy of Rienzi : a Drama. 3s. 6d. Alcestis : a Dramatic Poem. Extra fcap. 8vo, 5s. A Study of Shelley. Crown Svo, 7s.A List of 40 Translations from Dante, Petrarch, Michael Angelo, and Vittoria Colonna. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. 6d. TURNER, Rev. C. Tennyson.—Sonnets, Lyrics, and Trans- lations. Crown 8vo, ys. 6d. Collected Sonnets, Old and New. With Prefatory Poem by Alfred Tennyson ; also some Marginal Notes by S. T. Coleridge, and a Critical Essay by James Spedding. Fcap. 8vo, "]s. 6d. WALTERS, Sophia Lydia.—The Brook : a Poem. Small crown 8vo, 3-j. 6d. A Dreamer’s Sketch Book. With 21 Illustrations by Percival Skelton, R. P. Leitch, W. H. J. Boot, and T. R. Pritchett. Engraved by J. D. Cooper. Fcap. 4to, 12s. 6d. IVA TERFIELD, W.—Hymns for Holy Days and Seasons. 32mo, is. 6d. WAY, A., ALA.—The Odes of Horace Literally Translated in Metre. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. WEBSTER, Augusta.—Disguises : a Drama. Small crown 8vo, 5s. Wet Days. By a Farmer. Small crown 8vo, 6s. WILKINS, William.—Songs of Study. Crown Svo, 6s. WILLOUGHBY, The Hon. Airs.—On the North Wind—Thistle- down : a Volume of Poems. Elegantly bound, small crown Svo, 7s. 6d. WOODS, James Chapman.—A Child of the People, and other Poems. Small crown Svo, Sr. YOUNG, Wm.—Gottlob, etcetera. Small crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. YOUNGS, Ella Sharpe— Paphus, and other Poems. Small crown Svo,' 3*. 6d. WORKS OF FICTION IN ONE VOLUME. BANKS, Airs. G. L— God’s Providence House. New Edition. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d. BETHAM-ED WARDS, Aliss M.—Kitty. With a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, 6r. Blue Roses’, or, Helen Malinofska’s Marriage. By the Author of “Vera.” New and Cheaper Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown Svo, 6r. FRISWELL, J. Hain.—One of Two ; or, The Left-Handed Bride. Crown Svo, 3-f. 6d. GARRETT, E.—By Still Waters : a Story for Quiet Hours. With 7 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 6s.Kcgaii Paul, Trench & Co.s Publications. 4 f 1IARDY, Thomas.—A Pair of Blue Eyes. Author of “Far from the Madding Crowd.” New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. The Return of the Native. New Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, 6s. HOOPER, Mrs. G— The House of Raby. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d. INGELOW, Jean.—Off the Skelligs : a Novel. With Frontispiece. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. MACDONALD, G.—Malcolm. With Portrait of the Author engraved on Steel. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. The Marquis of Lossie. Fourth Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, 6s. St. George and St. Michael. Third Edition. With Frontis- piece. Crown 8vo, 6s. MASTERMAN, J.—Half-a-Dozen Daughters. Crown 8vo, 3s- MEREDITH, George.—Ordeal of Richard Feverel. New Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. The Egoist: A Comedy in Narrative. New and Cheaper Edition, with Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, 6s. PALGRAVE, W. Gifford.—Hermann Agha; an Eastern Narrative. Third Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. Pandurang Hari ; or, Memoirs of a Plindoo. With an Introductory Preface by Sir H. Bartle E. Frere, G.C.S.I., C.B. Crown Svo, 6s. PA UL, Margaret Agnes.—Gentle and Simple ; a Story. New and Cheaper Edition, with Frontispiece. Crown Svo, 6s. SHA W, Flora L.—Castle Blair ; a Story of Youthful Lives. New and Cheaper Edition, with Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, 6s. STRETTON, Hesba.—Through a Needle’s Eye : a Story. New and Cheaper Edition, with Frontispiece. Crown Svo, 6s. TAYLOR, Col. Mcadmus, C.S.I., M.R.I.A.—Seetaa Novel. New and Cheaper Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, 6s. Tippoo Sultaun : a Tale of the Mysore War. New Edition, with Frontispiece. Crown Svo, 6s. Ralph Darnell. New and Cheaper Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, 6s. A Noble Queen. New and Cheaper Edition. With Frontis- piece. Crown Svo, 6s. The Confessions of a Thug. Crown Svo, 6s. Tara a Mahratta Tale. Crown Svo, 6s. THOMAS, Moy.—A Fight for Life. Crown Svo, 3^. 6d. Within Sound of the Sea. New and Cheaper Edition, with Frontis- piece. Crown 8vo, 6s.A List of 42 BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. Aunt Mary’s Bran Pie. By the Authorof “ St. Olave’s.” Illustrated. 3^. 6d. BARLEE, Ellen.-—Locked Out: a Tale of the Strike. With a Frontispiece. Royal i6mo, is. 6d. BON WICK, J., F.R.G.S.—The Tasmanian Lily. With Frontis- piece. Crown Svo, 5s. Mike Howe, the Bushranger of Van Diemen’s Land. New and Cheaper Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, 2s- 6d. Brave Men’s Footsteps. A Book of Example and Anecdote for Young People. By the Editor of “Men who have Risen.” With 4 Illustrations by C. Doyle. Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo,. 3-f- 6d. Children’s Toys, and some Elementary Lessons in General Knowledge which they teach. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, 5s. COLERIDGE, Sara. — Pretty Lessons in Verse for Good Children, with some Lessons in Latin, in Easy Rhyme. A New Edition. Illustrated. Fcap. 8vo, 31. 6d. D'ANVERS, N. R.—Little Minnie’s Troubles : an Every-day Chronicle. With 4 Illustrations by W. H. Hughes. Fcap. 8vo,. 3 s. 6d. Parted : a Tale of Clouds and Sunshine. With 4 Illustrations. Extra fcap. 8vo, 2s- 6A Pixie’s Adventures", or, the Tale of a Terrier. With 21 Illustrations. i6mo, 4J. 6d. Nanny’s Adventures : or, the Tale of a Goat. -,Writh 12- Illustrations. i6mo, 4J-. 6d. DAVIES, G. Christopher.—Rambles and Adventures of our School Field Club. With 4 Illustrations. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 35. 6d. DRUMMOND, Miss.—Tripp’s Buildings. A Study from Life, with Frontispiece. Small crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. EDMONDS, Herbert.—Well Spent Lives : a Series of Modern Bio- graphies. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. EVANS, Mark.—The Story of our Father’s Love, told to Children. Fourth and Cheaper Edition of Theology for Children. With 4 Illustrations. Fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. FARQUHARSON, M. I. Elsie Dinsmore. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d. II. Elsie’s Girlhood. Crown 8vo, 2s- ^d. III. Elsie’s Holidays at Roselands. Crown Svo, 31. 6d. HERFORD, Brooke.—The Story of Religion in England : a Book for Young Folk. Crown 8vo, V. r ( ''VKegan Paul, Trench & Co.'s Publications. 43 INGELOW, Jean—The Little Wonder-horn. With 15 Illustra- trations. Small Svo, 2s. 6d. JOHNSON, Virginia W.—The Catskill Fairies. Illustrated by Alfred Fredericks. 5*. HER, David.—The Boy Slave in Bokhara: a Tale of Central Asia. With Illustrations. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 3-r. 6d. The Wild Horseman of the Pampas. Illustrated. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 2s- 6</. LAMONT, Martha MacDonald.—The Gladiator: a Life under the Roman Empire in the beginning of the Third Century. With 4 Illustrations by Ii. M. Paget. Extra fcap. Svo, 2s- 6<f. LEANDER, Richard.—Fantastic Stories. Translated from the German by Paulina B. Granville. With 8 Full-page Illustrations by M. E. Fraser-Tytler. Crown 8vo, 5n LEE, Holme.—Her Title of Honour. A Book for Girls. New Edition. With a Frontispiece. Crown Svo, 5J. LEWIS, Mary A.—A Rat with Three Tales. New and Cheaper Edition. With 4 Illustrations by Catherine F. Frere. 2s- 6d. MAC HENNA, S. J— Plucky Fellows. A Book for Boys. With 6 Illustrations. Fifth Edition. Crown Svo, 2s- 6d. At School with an Old Dragoon. With 6 Illustrations. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 2s- 6»f. Me CLINTOCH, L.— Sir Spangle and the Dingy Hen. Illus- trated. Square crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. MALDEN, H. E.—Princes and Princesses : Two Fairy Tales. Illustrated. Small crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Master Bobby. By the Author of “ Christina North.” With 6 Illus- trations. ‘ Fcap. Svo, 3-r. 6d. NAAHE, J. T.—Slavonic Fairy Tales. From Russian, Servian, Polish, and Bohemian Sources. With 4 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 5f. PELLETAN, E.—The Desert Pastor, Jean Jarousseau. Trans- lated from the French. By Colonel E. P. De L’Hoste. With a Frontispiece. New Edition. Fcap. Svo, 2s- REANEY, Mrs. G. S.—Waking and Working ; or, From Girlhood to Womanhood. New and Cheaper Edition. With a Frontis- piece. Crown Svo, 3j. 6d. Blessing and Blessed: a Sketch of Girl Life. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 3^. 6d. Rose Gurney’s Discovery. A Book for Girls. Dedicated to their Mothers. Crown 8vo, 3J. 6d. English Girls *. Their Place and Power. With Preface by the Rev. R. W. Dale. Third Edition. Fcap. Svo, 2s. 6d.44 A List of Kegan Paul, Trench & Cols Publications. REANE V, Mrs. G. S.—continued. Just Anyone, and other Stories. Three Illustrations. Royal i6mo, ir. 6d. Sunbeam 'W'illie, and other Stories. Three Illustrations. Royal i6mo, is. 6d. Sunshine Jenny, and other Stories. Three Illustrations. Royal 161110, is. 6d. ROSS, Mrs. E. (“Nelsie Brook ”)—Daddy’s Pet. A Sketch from Humble Life. With 6 Illustrations. Royal i6mo, is. SADLER, S. W., R.N.—-The African Cruiser ; a Midshipman’s Adventures on the West Coast. With 3 Illustrations. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d. Seeking his Fortune, and other Stones. With 4 Illustrations. ‘ New and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d. Seven Autumn Leaves from Fairy Land. Illustrated with 9 Etchings. Square crown 8vo, 2s- 6d. STOCKTON, Frank R.—A Jolly Fellowship. With 20 Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, 5r. STORR, Francis, and TURNER, Halves.—Canterbury Chimes; or, Chaucer Tales retold to Children. With 6 Illustrations from the Ellesmere MS. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 3s. 6d. STRETTON, Hesba.—David Lloyd’s Last Will. With 4 Illustra- tions. New Edition. Royal i6mo, 2s. 6d. The Wonderful Life. Sixteenth Thousand. Fcap. Svo, 2s. 6d. Sunnyland Stories. By the Author of “Aunt Mary’s Bran Pie,” Illustrated. Second Edition. Small Svo, 2s- 6d. Tales from Ariosto Re-told for Children. By a Lady. With 3 Illustrations. Crown Svo, 4?. 6d. WHITAKER, Florence.—Christy’s Inheritance. A London Story. Illustrated. Royal i6mo, is. 6d. ZIMMERN, II.—Stories in Precious Stones. With 6 Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown Svo, Sr. ■PRINTED EY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDON AND BECCLES.