CTION 22102014468 J**/ . m* 3 ,.Ai /TaSti m »W"fâ:A ht* - mm HSil £*fU ..«i, s#fcai L ï>r 1 &§bL* J ù ’Sj' *,: L'V% P\ v *b |^1 .^YÎi ■14..' < ^ JtJfÊP&t* Ml W^S\ 'À ' '!Med K8768 « ^ - ni PrzSj |L.^\ 1-^iSj XoBntf jtV \ ®n?i L> âÈ L*' rj Ifflpw ssjps ' MB \; ^JÿjP ^ 4^ -1 jÉgSjâ mm jgli-\J !MpL *J R./n .BS U'7' yjkMfÆ\ Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28130480366 MENUS AND 1200 RECIPES 0F THE BARON BRISSE IN FRENCH AND ENGLISH TRANSLATED BY MRS. MATTHEW CLARK SEVENTH EDITION LONDON SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & RIVINGTON L nnited §t. ÿmtetan’s gjonse Fetter Lane, Fleet Street, E.C. [ AU rights reserved]~l^LQ t WORKS ON DOMESTIC COOKERY. Croivn 8vo, price 5s. MARY HARRISON’S COOKERY BOOKS. THE SKILFUL COOK. A Practical Manual of Modem Expérience. By Miss Mary Harrison, Eirst-Class Diplômée of the National Training School for Cookery, South Kensiugton. *** The aim of this book is to présent a Useful Collection of Approved Receipts, framed according to the most recent Expé- rience—the various Dishes being accompanied by clear Practical Directions. A Sélection of Menus is given—adapted to Dinner Parties of varying size and cost. In Préparation. THE COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. By Miss Mary Harrison. Crown 8yo, cloth. SALADS AND SANDWICHES : Giving Parti- culars how to make some Thousands of Salads and Hundreds of Sandwiches. By T. Herbert. Crown 8vo, boards, 1*. THE HOME KITCHEN. A Collection of Practical and Inexpensive Receipts. By Marion Harland. THE ROYAL COOKERY BOOK. By Jules Goutté. Fully illustrated. Coloured Plates, £2 2s. Domestic Edition (illustrated with 161 woodcuts), 10.«. 6d. LONDON : SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & RIYINQ TON, Ltd., R LANE, IXEET STREET, E.O. Coll. welMOmec Call No.PREFACE. This book, which was already one of the most useful and practical of cookery books, has been rendered more complété in'this édition by many alterations and modifications. The bills of fare are written entirely according to our French customs. Dishes used by both rich and poor are given in their proper seasons. The recipes hâve corne from many different schools of cookery, and are clearly and concisely explained. In this édition, as in my previous ones, I hâve not attempted to give recipes for using up scraps, as this art is only useful when you run short of provisions ; it is quite a mistake to imagine that warming up previously cooked méat is economical, as ail good transformations must be expensive. The only way to use up scraps of méat is to warm them in any of the simple sauces, recipes for which will be found further on. Scraps of fowl or game must not corne under this category, as ail salmis and marinades hâve to be made from fowls or game which hâve been previously roasted. Entrées of game or fowl must always be warmed up, in the same sauce, if required to be used on the second day. In cookery, above ail things, “ Nothing can corne ol nothing.” The Author.TRANSLATONS NOTE. The first object I had in translating this work, was to please my cook ; but having been asked by many of ray friends to give them the recipes (in English) for some of the celebrated Baron’s excellent dishes, I determined to allow my poor translation to appear in print. May I, under these circumstances, ask the forgiveness of ail English cooks, if I venture to give them a few hints hovv best to carry out the views of one of the greatest of French chefs ? Soi/ps.—The reader will at once see that no colouring is ever used in French soups. Fish.—There are many kinds of fish mentioned, which you rarely see named in the fishmongers’ bills of fare, but they can be procured at any good fishmonger’s if asked for, such as Garfish, Weaver, or Whiting Pollock. Crayfish in excellent condition can always be procured at Schelbs, in Wigmore Street. Beef—Whenever boiled beef is mentioned, it means fresh, not sait méat. Vegetables.—Celery roots and cardoons, both most delicious vegetables, are seldom seen at English dinner-tables, but they hâve been for sale at Martin’s, in Covent Garden, for several years past. . „ , , Cooking wine.—Chablis is the white wine generally used for cooking in France ; so in the recipes, I hope it will always be used, unless Madeira or Sherry is specially mentioned. Bills of fare for fast days.—There are so many good dishes for our fast days given in this book, that I hope ail Catholic families will try them, and perhaps pass happier Fndays than hitherto. Edith Matthew Clark.ORDER OF DINNER The art of giving dinners consists in the knowledge of certain rules, consecrated by custom and determined by fashion, as to the choice of dishes and the reason of their sélection, according to time and circumstances. Every country has its different customs which very much dépend on the climate and character of its people. But I will now only speak about the manner of serving dinners in our beautiful country of France, as I feel I need go no further for fashions ; ail the world acknowledges that it is frorn us that the most varied culinary resourccs corne, and it is also in France that the cleverest artists hâve devoted their talents to the préparation of dishes, with which to enrich our bills of fare. In fact, it is to us that ail fashions of different nations are brought to be accepted according to their merits, and this exchange of new thoughts and ideas has created what is called “fashicnable life.” Décorations of the Dinner-table. How to lay the Covers.—The Order of Dinner. Fornierly dinner-tables were heavily decorated with massive bronze, silver, and cut-glass ornaments, which prevented the guests from seeing each other across the table, and rendered conversation with your opposite neighbour impossible. At the présent time, these ornaments hâve been superseded by low tlower-baskets of either glass or silver. Formerly candelabra only held four or five candies, now they hold as many as fourteen or fifteen, so we require fewer and hâve more light. Each guest must hâve a tumbler and three wine-glassesVI ORDER OF DINNER. placed on his right-hand side, arranged according to the ordor in which the wines are served. First, Madeira ; second, Bordeaux; third, Champagne. During dinner extra wines hâve spécial glasses handed with them. Finger-glasses with warm water must be handed after crayfish or prawns. The dessert plates must always hâve a doiley and a finger- glass placed on them. There are two different ways of serving dinner,—the French and the Russian. The French dinner is divided into three courses, theffrst com- prises soup, small side dishes, fish, and entrées ; the second, roasts, vegetables, and sweets ; the third, dessert, each course being ail placed on the table at the saroe time. The Russian fashion is to place ail cold dishes on the table. The hot dishes are carved in the kitchen and handed one by one to the guests. Each of these arrangements lias its advan- tages and disadvantages. In the French fashion your dishes often get cold before you can eat them, and in the Russian the guests are deprived of seeing élégant dishes prettily placed on the table. However, it lies entirely in the hands of the host to choose between these two fashions, according to the capabilities of his household. Order in which to serve Dinner. Soups. Small side dishes, viz. Sardines, Radishes, &c. Melon. Small hot side dishes, viz., Stuffed Olives, Marrow-bones, &c. Fish. Joint. Entrées of Méat, Fowl, and Game. Cold entrées. Punch Ice. (The punch must always be served between the cold entrées and the game.”)ORDER OF DINNER. Vil Roast Chickens and Game. Salad. Dressed Vegetables. Sweets. After this clear the table of everything, except flowers and fruit, and hand cheese, fruits, cakes, bonbons, and ices. Coffee and liqueurs are handed in the drawing-room. ORDER IN WHICH THE WlNES ARE HANDED. During the whole of dinner, well-iced dry and sweet champagne must be served. After the soup. Madeira and Vermouth. With the fsh. Burgundies : either Beaune, Volnay, or Pomard. Clarets : either Mouton, Rausan-Se'gla, Leoville, Gruand-La- rose, Lascombes, Pichon-Longueville, Clos-d’Estournel, or Monrose. Between the cold entrées and the game, offer with the punch ice either Château Yquem or Rhine wine ; these wines must only be slightly iced, and served in green glasses. With the roasts and dressed vegetables. Burgundies : La Romanée Conti, Clos Vougeot, or Chambertin. Clarets : Château Lafite, Margaux, Latour or Hautbrion. With the sweets. Sherry. During dessert. Sweet wines, such as Malmsey, Muscatel, or Tokay. Duties of the Host to his Guests. You must welcome your guests with effusion, so that they may feel quite at home before sitting clown to dinner. Try if possible to introduce your guests to each other before dinner,Vlll O RD ER O F D INNE R. particularly if you think there are two people who will sympa- thize with each other. The decision how to place the guests at table must always be a troublesome business for the host ; in fact, I consider this the most difficult part of giving a dinner, if you wish it to go off well. The host must always hâve his eye on his guests’ plates and glasses, to make sure they hâve ail they require ; and if a guest refuses a dish, the host must try and persuade him to change his mind. A host whose guest has had to ask for anything is a dishonoured man. Duties of a Guest towards his Host. The first duty of a guest is to be punctual. Unpunc- tuality must necessarily cause confusion in the kitchen. A dish you hâve had to wait for is generally good, whilst a dish which has had to wait is generally the contrary. The resuit is that the cook gets demoralized, he loses his temper at the dinner not being appreciated, and certainly it is sufficient cause to discourage the best of chefs. In conséquence it follows that the cook gets into the bad habit of sacrificing the flavour of a dish to the form of serving, finding he has not given satisfaction in the cooking, he tries to please the eye. I cannot speak too strongly on the affectation of being late for dinner, and a good host ought not to wait for one or two people who are late whilst five or six others are watching the hands of the dock and yawning convulsively, a sure proof of how hungry they are. Shame on unpunctual people ! These persons are sometimes called inexact, but it is a wrong name to give them ; for a really inexact man will arrive one day ten minutes before his time and the next day ten minutes after, but unpunc- tual people are very exact, they always corne late. They are generally people who find it is the only means of attracting attention, and there are others who think it makes them of importance. Unpunctuality really means a wish to force people to ac- knowledge their slavery to the laws of society.PROVISION CALENDAR. January. Under the first kings of France the year commenced on the ist Of March, but during Charlemagne’s reign it was altered to Christmas-time ; after Hugh Capet it was changed to Easter ; and under Charles IX., the lover of the beautiful Marie Touchet, theanagram of whose name is “Je charme tout,” the ist of January became New Year’s day ; and it was announced ail over Paris with a flourish of trumpets that for the future the 3ist of December would close the year. This was a very good decision, for January is worthy of being the first month of the year; the winter season blessed by ail gourmands now commences. I hâve before my eyes an engraving of the sixteenth century, where the twelve months of the year are represented by as many figures. January is personified by a man at table ; he is eating hke Gargantua, and drinking like Bassompierre, who used to drink a large butt of wine at one draught to the health of the thirteen Swiss cantons ; not like St. Macaire of Alexandria, whose saint s day is the 2nd of January, for he only used to eat one leaf of raw cabbage every Sunday ; but much more like Chailemagne. January is without doubt the great month for eating. Provisions in season during January. Ail butcher’s méat is good, and fattened poultry are in their prime. Added to the usual game, we hâve woodcock, larks, geese, and wild duck. The Mediterranean provides us with fresh tunny, and ail other fish are in perfection. Truffles hâve more perfume than at any other time of the year. lhe fiist forced asparagus cornes into the markets.X PROVISION CALENDAR. February. Inalltheold almanacks February is represented by an old man warming himself; he is poking the fire and shivering like Méry, who always wished that the summer would corne and spend the winter at Marseilles. This legendary figure seems to say to us, “ Pray make yourselves comfortable.” During this month indigestion is the order of the day. We are in carnival time, which Jules Janin translates as “ Adieu to flesh;” carnival, with ail its follies and intempérances. Ava- lanches of truffled fowls and pies of the most tempting description corne from the sacred places where truffles are produced. Hovv is it possible not to succumb ? The temptation is too great ! Much eating conduces to much drinking, and this can never be more safely done than before Lent ; the military man is able to carry his wine ; the southerner need not fear sunstroke, and the northerner does not get into a fog The great gastronomical battle always takes place during Shrova. tide; after which the gastronomical year may be said to close, and a little diet is most necessary ; Lent might almost be called the gourmand’s holiday. Provisions in season during February. We hâve ail the same as in January, with the exception of a few more forced vegetables. Butcher’s méat continues in per- fection. Game is scarcer, but excellent. The plump white woodhens are at their best, particularly those from Bains, in the Vosges ; and we must not forget to shed a tear for the redbreast, which we are deprived of having at our tables by the gentlemen of the Muséum of Natural History, who hâve forbidden their being killed. These professors hâve most assuredly never tasted this little bird, or they would never hâve issued this law. March. Repose is as much the resuit of a well-organized digestion as of a quiet mind. The fatigues of the carnival are only axi PROVISION CALE ND A R. dream in March, and Châteaubriand always told Madame Recamier that the most beautiful half of our lives was composed of our memories. We must religiously recommence to enjoy the rich gifts which are provided for lovers of gastronomy. We hâve kept Lent amongst our traditions, simply to give historical pleasure to St. Matthew, St. Mark, and Pope Telesphore, not forgetting the lovers of the God “Eish.” No one looks on Lent with sadness. A peasant, vvho had once been a rich man’s servant, was heard to say, “ I cannot fast, it is far too ex- pensive ; for to fast you must hâve water game, Geneva trout, carp from the Rhine, forced fruit and vegetables, truffles and champagne.” The peasant was perfectly right, for surely the meals of some of our most religious devotees cannot be put under the category of “ Abstinence.” Provisions in season during March. Butcher’s méat is not quite so good, but it is the effect of spring weather on the cattle. We hâve to fall back on the sea for our resources, not by throwing ourselves into it from a rock, like the unhappy Sappho, but by welcoming myriads of turbot, brill, soles, lobsters, and especially oysters, which are better now than at any other time of the year. Hens begin to lay abun- dantly, and we hâve forced asparagus, artichokes, radishes, lettuce, peas, French beans, and cauliflowers. April. Palm Sunday and Easter are generally celebrated in this month, and so naturally we corne to the Pascal Lamb ; other lambs meekly fall under the butcher’s knife, and hams présent themselves under the triple banner of York, Mayence, and Bayonne. Three cheers for the pork-butchers ! No wonder that even poets hâve sung in their praises. Butcher’s méat begins to improve and the First outdoor vegetables, such as asparagus and greenpeas, gladden the hearts of kings and pensants. In contra- distinction to these earthly constellations, we are rejoiced by the sight of a sea star, namely, mackerel, which is so frequentlyxn P RO VISION CALENDAR. dressed maître d’hôtel. Kings hâve often in vain named towns and monuments, but mackerel à la maître d’hôtel is a dish for ail centuries. The shad leaves the sea, and cornes up the rivers, to try and console us for the loss of game and good poultry. It is true we are still a little under the shadows of Lent, but nature is waking us up to more joyous feelings. Vege- tables and many-coloured flowers refresh our eyes, and we hâve arrived at the season when our superior feelings of justice must décidé against those of the poultry-yard, as regards spring chickens. Mackerel are usually the avant- couriers of sturgeon, which latter fish you can at présent buy very cheaply in Paris, no doubt from its having caused many an indigestion when larded with fiilets of eel and anchovy and basted with thick crayfish sauce. Provisions in season during April. The same as in March, with the exception of a few more vegetables. May. This month is often called the month of Mary, without any préjudice to August, which is not only the spécial month dedi- cated to the Virgin, but also to the Emperor Augustus. During May lovers and gourmands are of the same mind, the markets try to vie with nature, and deck themselves out gaily with spring chickens, youngfowls, and the adorable duckling from Rouen and Nantes, ail of which corne to gladdenour eyes. Amiable tame pigeons, tender as doves, are especially abundant and goodjust now, they mingle so gracefully with green peas and make a most delicious dish. Fresh morels make tlïeir appearance with their sweetperfume and flavour; dear amiable, juicy little morels which are so easy of digestion. We receive millions of artichokes and early vegetables from the south, and we thank it heartily for our anticipated enjoyments, but we must not forget that the finest fruit and vegetables corne from “ île de France.” Welcome also to the fresh butter which, thanks, to the young grass, is now in perfection.xm PROVISION CALE ND A R. Provisions in se a son divin g May. Vegetables are more abundant ; besides which we hâve melons, French beans, caulitiowers, and cucumbers, early peas, broad beans, lettuce, and young turnips, forced straw- berries, and cherries. June. Here we are at the last month of spring, and it is specially celebrated for its beautiful red fruits and flowers. No one can dinebetter than the bees do this month. Let us follow their good example and abandon to a certain extent our carnivorous tastes, and enjoy ail the savoury and abundant productions which are in season. We now hâve fine young fowls to charm us, and their number is further augmented by invaluable turkey poults and gallant young cocks, which we rnust no more confound with the interesting capon, than we would compare a fine opéra singer with one of the choir at the Sistine ChapeL Provisions in season during June. Under glass : egg-plants, cucumbers, and tomatoes. We can no longer count on asparagus, but out of doors there are French beans, spinach, Morella cherries, raspberries, cherries, strawberries, currants, and gooseberries. July. During this month the poultry-yard is in its full glory. There are fattened turkey poults, pullets, and capons. We must not forget veal, which is at its prime. Our markets are filled with river and sea fish ; but we must begin to examine our fish critically from head to tail. The hay having been eut, we are enabled to catch crayfish, the little red fish which goes back- wards, and which naturalists say is not a fish, is not red, and does not go backwards. Now is the time to rnake use of the well-flavoured young rabbits which are in season, and with these resources our dinners can be charmingly varied, whatever any one may say to the contrary. An experiencedXIV PROVISION CALE ND A R. dinner-eater is far too clever to grumble at imaginary deprivations during the month of July. Provisions in season during July. Ail vegetables are in season, and potatoes in abundance. Figs, apricots, peaches, early pears, and apples are now ripe. August. August was the Emperor Augustus’ favourite month, and no one can hâve been a better judge ot a good dinner than he was. This emperor had the whole world at his feet, and he could well set heat and cold at défiance. Rome was at this time not only the capital of the world, but also of gastronomy. Everything worth having was brought to Rome, without Augustus having to exclaim, as did Louis XIV., “I had al/nost to wait.” Large cities become deserted in August on account of the great heat, and people either go to the country, to the sea-side, or to drink the waters. They go about the country and fields, and do not think much about eating. How- ever, at the end of the month shooting begins, and gourmands are provided with young quail, leverets, and young wild boar. Other game is not worth much just yet. Provisions in season during August The same as in July. Melons, figs, peaches, plums, pears, green almonds, green walnuts, and ail kinds of vegetables. September. Partridge-shooting commences, and at the same time the vintages in the wine districts. Now is the season when you begin to eat with thought. Ail butcher’s méat is good. Game will improve, but we get much which is very good. Thrushes hâve pecked sufficiently at the grapes to mâke them worth eating. Sea fish is abundant, and ail fruits are in per- fection. Truffles and oysters make their appearance very timidly. It is better not to be too familiar with them just yet, so as to enable your palate to get in order, and also to allov;xv PROVISION CALENDAR. the sun to put out a few of its fires, after which you will enjoy them with the enthusiasm which they deserve. William the Conqueror took England for the sake of an oyster-bed, and Talleyrand governed the world by the aid of truffles. Young plover begin to appear, and Guignard says they are the most delicate-eating bird. Certainly they knovv the art of making them into delicious pies at Chartres. Provisions in season during September. September eggs are very good, though not to be compared to those laid in May. Artichokes are better now than at any other time of the year, and it is time to pick our nuts. October. It is for poets to make odes to spring, and for gourmands to make verses to autumn. Happy month of October, its only fault being that it is the last month of the gourmand’s holiday. During October nature is still beautiful, and ail food is good. It always brings back to me the happiest réminiscences. I can almost feel the sweet air of the woods blow against my face. What a jovial season ! We are so gay, so strong, and havesuch an appetite. Thank God, I hâve always kept my lighthearted- ness, vigour, and appetite ; but wben I think of some of the com- panions of my youth, years gone by, oh ! what phantoms they now are, with no digestion, dull eyes, trembling hands that can hardly hold either fork or glass ; they may perhaps enjoy fortune and honours, but what wouldn’t they give to be able to enjoy a good dinner as I do ? When Brutus was dying of hunger after a defeat, he exclaimed, “ Fortune is but a name.” Provisions in season during October. Added to pears and apples we now hâve almonds, medlars, and chestnuts. November. Here we are in cold and foggy November, the gastronomical scene has changed ; yesterday we were in the country, to-day we find ourselves in town. The actors are the same, onlvXVI PROVISION CA LE ND A R. feeling much strengthened and determined to brave indigestion, which after ail can only be called “Remorse of the stomach.” We hâve onerecruit in our culinary army, a very unpretentious one, but that does not prevent its assaulting our appetite : I mean the fresh herring with soft roe, and eaten with mustard sauce. There is a saying that many people die in November, so I advise my friends to hâve more than one invitation to dinner for the same day, so that if one host fails, they can always hâve recourse to another to console them. - Provisions in season during November. We are no longer troubled about provisions, our duty is to eat them. December. The festive season has now arrived for those gourmands, mostly bachelors who, like Rabelais, always dine out, and show their gratitude by not returning the hospitality offered to them. The hour of execution has sounded, but what an amount of tact is required not to give offence. Who are we to please, husband, wife, father-in-law, or mother-in-law ? Try now, you husbands, who keep your house with a firm hand, and arrange the invitations. I make a bet that the mother-in-law has her own way ; ail I warn the guest to do is not to remind the mother-in-law that he remembers her in the cornet year of 1811, or that the tail of her pet dog does not curl, for it would be sad to end the year with an empty stomach. Provisions in season the same as in November.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. TANUARY 1. Potage à la Condé. Barbue à la béchamel. Aloyau au vin de-Madère. Poulets rôtis à la peau de goret. -Artichauts à la barigoule. Baba au rhum. Purée of haricot beans à la Coudé. Brill, béchamel sauce. Sirloin of beef, Madeira sauce. Roast fowl à la sucking-pig. Stuffed artichokes à la barigoule. Rum cake or Baba. Purée of haricot beans à la Condé. Make a purée of red haricot beans in the same manner as a purée of white haricot beans (see 2nd of July). Put some slices of fried bread in a soup-tureen, and pour the soup over thern. Brill, béchamel sauce. Soak your brill in fresh water for two hours, drain, and cover with sait in a deep dish for an hour. Boil in boiling sait and water for twenty or twenty-five minutes over a slow fire. Be careml that the fish does not break. Hand some béchamel sauce in a sauceboat (see iôth of August). Roast fowl à la sucking--pig\ Roast your fowl before a good fire ; when nearly cooked, set fire to a lump of lard wrapped up in a pièce of paper, which hold in a large iron spoon, let the melting lard drop on the fowl, this will produce a crackly skin like that of a roast sucking-pig. Stuffed artichokes à la barig-oule. Irim and wash your artichokes, fill them with a stuff- ing composed of chopped mushrooms, eschalot, parsley, and bacon ; the stuffing having first been warmed in fresh butter and seasoned with sait and pepper. Tie a piece of string round each artichoke, and simmer in a saucepan lined with bacon ; sprinkle with salad oil, and serve with their own sauce reduced.2 THE 366 BILLS O F TARE. JANUARY 2. Potage à la julienne. Julienne soup. Anguille a la minute. Eels à la minute, belle de mouton garnie de rissoles. Braisedsaddleofmuttonwithrissoles Mauviettes rôties. Roast larks. Laitues farcies. Stuffed lettucés. Flan de creme meringuée. Open tart of frangipane. Julienne soup. Cut up equal quantifies of turnips, carrots, and celery into small strips, warm over a slow tire in a little fresh butter until slightly browned ; add some strips of leek, lettuce, sorrel- leaves, chervil, and a small lump of sugar. Boil these vegetables in your stock over a slow tire for an hour; shortly beforeserving add, if in season, a tablespoonful of green peas and a handful of asparagus heads. Clear the soup of ail fat, and pour into a soup-tureen on slices of fried bread crust. Eels à la minute. Skin your eels and cut into pièces ; boil in sait and water for ten or fifteen minutes according to the size of the eels, place on a dish, pour some hot maître d’hôtel sauce (see 23rd of March) over them, add a few drops of lemon juice, and garnish with hot boiled potatoes. Braised saddle of mutton with rissoles. Braise the saddle of mutton (see braise 28th of May) and serve with the gravy reduced, garnish with rissoles (see 25th of January).THE 3 66 BILL S O F FA RE. 3 JANUARY 3. Potage brunoise aux pâtes d’Italie. Morue à la crème. Côtes de bœuf braisées, garnies de petits pâtés. Perdreaux rôtis. Marinade de choux-fleurs. Compote de poires. Brunoise soup with Italian paste. S lices of cod with cream sauce. Braised ribs of beef with patties. Roast partridges. Cauliflower fritters. Compôte of pears. Brunoise soup. Slice some carrots, turnips, leeks, celery, and onions, wash and drain them ; warm in a saucepan, with some fresh butter until brown ; add a little stock and reduce to a glaze, pour into the necessary quantity of clear soup, and, when boiling, add some Italian paste, which has been boiled separately. Slices of cod with cream sauce. Soak a salted cod’s tail and boil in boiling water, drain and eut it up into slices. Melt half a pound of butter in a sauce- pan, thicken with a little flour, and flavour with pepper and a very little nutmeg; when of a proper substance add a pint of cream and some finely chopped parsley, stir over the fire for five minutes, add the slices of fish, simmer for ten minutes, and serve. Cauliflower fritters. Blanch your cauliflower, break into pièces and dip into thick white sauce (see 3ist of January),leave until cold, and see that they are thoroughly covered with the sauce ; take each piece separately in a spoon, dip into batter (see i3th of November), and fry in boiling lard or butter. Serve very hot, garnished with fried parsley. B 34 THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. JANUARY 4. Potage croûte au pot. Merlans aux fines herbes. Poulet à la chasseur. Filet de bœuf rôti. Pommes de terre sautées. Meringues à la Chantilly. Soup with crusts of bread. Baked whiting with sweet herbs. Chicken à la chasseur. Roast fillet of beef. Fried potatoes. Meringues à la Chantilly. Soup with crusts of bread. Lay slices of toasted crust of bread in a deep dish, and moisten with uncleared stock, put the dish into the oven until the toast is brown and quite dry ; place the crusts in the soup- tureen and pour the necessary quantity of cleared stock over them. Baked whiting with sweet herbs. Clean the whiting and lay in a baking dish which has been previously buttered and sprinkled with chopped parsley, onion, a little sait, and scraped nutmeg. After placing the whiting in the dish, pour a little fresh melted butter over them, and moisten with equal quantifies of white wine and stock. Put the dish in the oven, and when the whiting are half cooked, turn them carefully ; when sufficiently done, turn their juice into a saucepan, being careful not to disturb the whiting, add some melted butter and flour to the sauce and boil, add a few drops of lemon juice when ready and a pinch of white pepper. Pour the hot sauce over the whiting, and serve in the same dish in which they hâve been cooked. Koast fillet of beef. Dress and lard your fillet of beef, and put to soak in salad oil with a little sait, pepper, parsley, slices of raw onion, and a laurel-leaf, for twelve hours. Roast on the spit for three quarters of an hour. Serve with its own gravy, simply adding a few drops of vinegar or the juice of a lemon.THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. 5 JANUARY 5. Potage à la purée de carottes. Brochet sauce au beurre d’anchois. Noix de veau à l’oseille. Canard sauvage rôti. Purée de lentilles. Soufflé vanillé. Purée of carrots. Pike, anchovy sauce. Chump of veal with sorrel. Roast wild duck. Purée of lentils. Vanilla soufflé. Purée of carrots. Mince the best parts of some large fresh carrots, put them in a saucepan with some fresh butter and a pinch of sugar, stir until brown, moisten with stock ; add a raw peeled potato, and simmer over a slow fire until cooked; pass through a tammy, thin the purée with stock, and serve. Hand fried bread eut into dice separately. Pike, anchovy sauce. To clean your pike you must first eut a hole in its stomach to separate the intestines, and then draw them out through the gills ; when the inside is ail drawn out, roe and ail, boil in sait and water, and serve on a napkin. Hand anchovy sauce with it (see 5th of April). Poast wild duck. Truss the duck, roast by a quick fire, and serve with a lemon. Purée of lentils. Boil the lentils in sait and water with a smallbunch of herbs, and some chopped onion and carrot, when boiled pass through a tammy and put the purée on the fire, adding either some fresh butter or a little stock to it. Serve with pièces of fried bread.THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. 6 JANUARY 6. Potage au pain. Pièce de bœuf bouillie sauce aux tomates. Pieds de veau frits. Lièvre rôti. Écrevisses à la bordelaise. Gâteau des rois. Fried calfs feet. Roas.t hare. Crayfish, bordelaise sauce. King’s cake. . Bread soup. Boiled beef and tomatoes. Bread soup. A few minutes before serving, line the bottom of your soup- tureen with crusts of bread, pour sufficient boiling clear stock over thern to make them swell, and add the necessary quantity of soup ; never boil the bread in the stock, as it is sure to spoil it Hand either grated Parmesan cheese, or the vege- tables which hâve flavoured the stock in a separate dish. Cook the same as chump of veal à la bourgeoise (see i7th of January), and dish up on a purée of sorrel. Cut some perfectly ripe tomatoes into halves, sitmner for half an hour in a saucepan, with some minced lean ham, thyme, laurel-leaves and white pepper, moisten with a tea-cupful of stock and simmer until quite thick, pass through a tammy. When required for use, a little butter or glaze can be added to Chump of veal with. sorrel. Tomato sauce. the sauce.THE 366 BTLLS OF FARE. 7 JANUARY 7. Potage au macaroni avec parmesan. Poularde à la Montmorency. Bar grillé sauce tartare. Gigot rôti. Purée de marrons. Omelette soufflée. Maccaroni soup. Pullet à la Montmorency. Broiled bass, tartare sauce. Roast leg of mutton. Purée of chestnuts Omelet soufflé. Maccaroni soup. Soak your maccaroni in sait and water, and boil in a little stock : when cooked, put it in the soup-tureen and pour the necessary quantity of boiling stock over it. Hand either scraped Gruyère or Parmesan cheese vvith it. Dress a large fat pullet, lard the breast and stufif it with foie gras, hard boiled eggs, and chopped bacon : cook and brown it like a fricandeau (see nthof May). After plucking, cleaning, and trussing your partridges cover them with slices of bacon, and roast before a quick fire for fifteen minutes ; sprinkle with sait five minutes before taking off the fire. Serve with brown gravy. Boil your crayfish in court-bouillon sauce (see i8th of April) cook some chopped carrots and onions in butter, reduce to a glaze, then add a little white wine and some of the juice of the crayfish, reduce again and pass through a tammy, season strongly with parsley and cayenne-pepper : warm your crayfish in this sauce, and serve in a deep dish. Pullet à la Montmorency. Roast partridges. Crayfish, bordelaise sauce.8 THE 366 BILLS OF FA RE. JANUARY 8. Potage à la parisienne. Carpes frites. Poitrines de mouton à la sauce piquante. Dinde rôtie. Céleri au jus. Tartelettes aux poires. Parisian soup. Fried Carp. Breast of mutton, piquante sauce. Roast turkey hen. Stewed celery. Pear tartlets. Parisian soup. Cut some leeks into pièces about one and a half inches long, warm in butter, and when brown put them into your stock with some slices of raw potato, and boil well. When cooked pour into the soup tureen over some slices of bread. Pried carp. Clean the carp, then split it open down the back, keep the roe ; soak the fish for a few minutes in vinegar with a little thyme, parsley, laurel-leaves, nutmeg, sait, and pepper. Flour the carp and fry it ; when half cooked, add the roe, also well floured, try to keep it firm and a good colour. Serve, sprinkled with sait and the roe placed on the carp. Garnish with fried parsley. Breast of mutton, piquante sauce. Dress two breasts of mutton, tie them round with string and either boil or broil them : when enough cooked, bone and skin them, tie them up again and sprinkle with sait and pepper, after which bread-crumb and broil them. Serve with piquante sauce (see 2Ôthof June). Stewed celery. Blanch your celery, boil in stock, and simmer in brown gravy. A few slices of truffles add immensely to the fla\our.THE 366 BILLS O F TARE. 9 JANUARY 9. Anguille à la Suffren. Potage Colbert. Colbert soup. Eel à la Suffren. Poulet à l’estragon. Chicken with tarragon. Quartier de chevreuil rôti. Épinards au jus. Roast roebuck. Stevved spinach. Bavaroise au chocolat. Bavarian chocolaté créant. Colbert soup. Thoroughly blanch the hearts of four or five heads of endive, warm them in butter, and add the necessary quantity of stock thickened with yolks of egg and créant. When done add sonie poached eggs. Skin your eel and lard it with fillets of anchovies and gherkins, lay it in a circle in a stew-pan, and cook with marinade sauce (see 3rd of December). Put hot coals on the cover ofthe stew- pan ; when done, serve, covered with tomato sauce, to which add a pinch of cayenne-pepper. Boil some finely chopped tarragon-leaves and take a third of them to mix with a stuffing rnade of rninced liverof chicken, scraped lean bacon, sait and pepper, stuff the fowl with it, truss and cover with slices of bacon ; wrap up in a sheet of buttered paper and roast. Melt some fresh butter, stir in a little flour, and add the remainder of the tarragon leaves, a little gravy, a few drops of vinegar, sait and pepper. When the fowl is two- thirds cooked, take it off the spit and simmer in a stew-pan with the sauce until quite done. Thicken the sauce with two or three yolks of egg before serving. Eel à la Suffren. Chicken with tarragon.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. IO JANUARY 10. MENU EN MAIGRE. DINNER FOR FAST DAY. Rice soup with almonds. Pickled carp. Poached eggs with tarragon. Fried smelts. Maccaroni au gratin. Jam fritters. - Riz au lait d’amandes. Carpe au bleu. Œufs pochés à l’estragon. Éperlans frits. Macaroni au gratin. Beignets aux confitures. Rice soup with almonds. Put three quarters of a pound of half-boiled rice into three and a half pints of hot milk, simmer until thoroughly boiled, season with sait and a pinch of powdered sugar; add half a pint of milk of almonds just before taking off the fire. In dressing the carp, be careful to open it as little as pos- sible ; tie up the head and place in a fish-pan, pour some boil- ing vinegar over it, then a tumbler of red wine, three large onions sliced, two carrots, parsley, sage, a little garlic, thyme, laurel leaves, and a few cloves. Let this simmer over a slow fire for an hour, after which leave in the fish-pan until cold, when it will be ready to serve. Hâve some boiling water, with a little vinegar and sait in it, ready to poach your eggs ; when done, drain the eggs carefully, and serve with white sauce (see 3 ist of January) Pickled carp. Poached eggs with white sauce.THE 366 BILES OF FA R F. 11 JANUARY 11 Potage aux petits oignons. Maquereaux grillés à la maître d’hôtel. Quartiers d’oie à la lyonnaise. Filet de bœuf rôti. Choux-fleurs au gratin. Abricots au riz, chauds. Young onion soup. Broiled mackerel à la maître d’hôtel. Hashed goose à la lyonnaise. Roast fillet of beef. Cauliflower au gratin. Hot rice and apricots. Young: onion soup, Peel and blanch your onions carefully ; cook them in a little fresh butter until a good brown colour, put thejn into your stock, with a pinch of black pepper, when boiling clear the soup of ail grease, and pour into the soup-tureen over slices of fried bread. Clean and split open your mackerel, and put them to soak for half an hour in olive oil, with sait and pepper. Broil them, and when cooked put them on a dish and lay some cold maître d’hôtel sauce (see 23rd of March) in a wooden spoon over them, add a little lemon juice to the sauce. Serve the mackerel very hot. Broiled bass, tartare sauce. Broil your bass, and serve with tartare sauce (see 15th of March). Cut the legs of the goose into small pièces, and fry in the fat of the goose ; when done, fry some sliced onions in the sarae fat until brown, drain them, and lay on the pièces of goose, which must be piled up on a dish. Cover with poivrade sauce (see 21 st of March). Broiled mackerel à la maître d’hôtel. Hashed g-oose à la lyonnaise.12 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. JANUARY 12. Potage à la Faubonne. Soup à la Faubonne. Stewed carp and eel. Saddle of mutton. Matelote de carpe et d’anguille. Selle de mouton à l’anglaise. Chapon rôti, au cresson. Macaroni à l’italienne. Pommes à la Bourdaloue. Roast capon and watercress. Maccaroni cheese. Apples à la Bordaloue. Soup à la Faubonne. Cut up some young onions, celery, lettuce, and sorrel-leaves, brown them in fresh butter, add them to your stock, and, when boiling, thicken with a purée of green peas, and serve. Hâve a carp, an eel, some barbel, and live crayfish, cut ail but the crayfish into pièces, and warm in some browning made of butter and flour, add some half-cooked onions, chopped mushrooms, a bunch of herbs, sait and pepper ; moisten with good stock, red wine, and boil over. a quick fire. When well boiled simmer half an hour over a slow fire. Serve with sippets of fried bread. Hang your saddle until tender, then roast on the spit, wrapped up in buttered paper. A few minutes before serving take off the paper, to give the mutton a good brown colour. Serve with its own gravy. Stewed carp and eel. Roast saddle of mutton. Roast capon with watercresses. Roast the same as a fowl (see 25U1 of J une),ï3 THE 366 B IL LS OF FARE. JANUARY 13. Potage paysanne. Barbue sauce diplomate. Civet de lièvre. Cailles ou merles de Corse rôtis. Artichauts à la barigoule. Beignets de pommes chauds. Peasant’s soup. Brill, diplomatie sauce. Jugged hare. Roast quails or blackbirds. Stufïfed artichokes. Hot apple fritters. Peasant’s soup. Chop up some cabbage, carrots, onions, and celery, put them on the lire in a saucepan with some fresh butter and sait. As soon as the vegetables are soft, moisten them with stock and simmer over a slow fire for three hours ; add sufficient water for the soup required, and simmer for half an hour. It is better if either lentils or haricot beans hâve been boiled in the water you add. At the end of half an hour, put in some chopped sorrel-leaves and lettuce, and boil. Pour the soup over crusts of bread in the soup-tureen. Dress the brill and place in a fish-pan with some parsley, a sliced onion, sait and pepper, a bottle of white wine, and three wine-glasses of water. Cover the fish with buttered paper and place the pan in a slow oven. Serve with béchamel sauce (see iôth of August) mixed with some crayfish juice. Lard your turkey and roast, covered with buttered paper ; when nearly done, take off the paper so as to brown the skin. Serve with its own gravy. Brill, diplomatie sauce. Roast turkey-lien.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. M JANUARY 14. Potage au tapioca. Pièce de bœuf bouillie garnie d’oignons glacés. Mauviettes en salmis. Gigot rôti. Salade de légumes. Pouding. Tapioca soup. Boiled beef with glazed onions. Salmis of larks. Roast leg of mutton. Vegetable salad. Plum pudding. Tapioca soup. Warm some clear soup, and when boiling, add your tapioca. Allow four table-spoonsful of tapioca to each quart of soup. Choose some small white onions, as much of one size as possible, peel carefully ; butter the bottom of the saucepan, lay the onions in it side by side, add a little water, sait, pepper, powdered sugar, and a lump of butter ; cover with a buttered sheet of paper, cook over a quick fire until the sauce is reduced one-half, after which simmer until reduced to a glaze ; place the onions on a dish, and if the sauce is too thick, add some thin Spanish sauce, clear of ail grease, pass through a tammy, and pour over the onions. Warm your larks in butter and a little sait, when a good colour, add some white wine, stock, and chopped mushrooms, eschalots, and parsley, boil and serve, garnished with sippets of fried bread. Glazed onions. Salmis of larks.THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. i5 JANUARY 15. Potage aux œufs pochés. Barbue à la Sainte-Menehould. Côtellettes de mouton aux pignons. Caneton rôti. Gratin de pommes de terre. Meringues à la Chantilly vanillées. Soup with poached eggs. Brill à la Saint Menehould. Mutton cutlets with onions. Baked potatoes with bread-crumbs. Roast duckling. Meringues à la Chantilly. Brill à la Saint Menehould. Warm sortie pièces of cold boiled brill in a thick béchamel sauce (see iôth of August), pile up the whole on a baking-dish, smooth over with the blade of a knife, and sprinkle with bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, brown in the oven, or with a salamander. Trim and beat your cutlets to flatten them, lard them with bacon and ham, put the dressings in a saucepan with three or four onions, two carrots, parsley, and leeks ; place the cutlets on this, and moisten with stock until they are thoroughly wet, cover with slices of bacon, and put a buttered paper over it ail ; as soon as it boils, put on the cover of the saucepan, and lay some hot coals on it ; when cooked, drain off the cutlets and trim them again ; pass the juice through a tammy, and reduce to a glaze, replace the cutlets ; when well covered on both sides with the glaze, place them round a dish and pour a purée of white onion sauce (see 1 ith of December) in the centre. Surround the cutlets with young onions, which hâve been boiled in stock. Mutton cutlets with onions.THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. i6 JANUARY 16. Potage brunoise au riz. Merlans frits. Bœut à la mode. Bécasses rôties. Petits pois à la française (con- serves). Pains de la Mecque au citron. Brunoise soup with rice. Fried whiting. Bœuf à la mode. Roast woodcock. Preserved green peas à la lyonnaise. Mecca loaves flavoured with lemon. Brunoise soup witli rice. Cut up sorne carrots, turnips, celery, white- cabbage, and leeks into dice, boil thoroughly in stock, when done add the required quantity of clear soup and a few table-spoonsful of boiled rice. Fried whiting1. Clean your whiting, leave the livers, cut off the fins and tails, make two or three slits crossways down the sides, sprinkle with flour, and fry in boiling lard ; when a good colour, dry in a cloth, sprinkle with sait, and dish up on a napkin, garnished with fried parsley. Roast woodcock. Draw your woodcock, and mince the trail, with half the quantity of bacon, some chopped onion and eschalot, sait and black pepper, stufï the birds with this, cover with slices of bacon, roast before a quick fire and serve on toast. Some people prefer not to stuff woodcock, but simply to roast them covered with slices of bacon and leaving the trail.17 THE 366 BILLS O F TARE. JANUARY 17. Potage aux nouilles. Rougets en caisse. Noix de veau à la bourgeoise. Lièvre rôti. Artichauts frits. Baba au rhum. Chump of veal à la bourgeoise. German paste soup. Red mullet in cases. Fried artichokes. Rum cake or Baba. Roast hare. German paste soup. Take a pint of flour, three yolks of egg, two whole eggs, sait, black pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, stir in sufficient stock to make it into a thin paste. Warm some stock, and when quite boiling, pass the paste through a drainer into it ; be care- ful to keep it at boiling-point or the paste will melt ; when sufficiently done, add the required quantity of stock, and serve. Butter a stew-pan, and line with slices of bacon and trim mings of veal. Lard a chump of veal, and place in the stew- pan, add a tumblerful of stock, a bouquet of parsley, leeks, cnions, and carrots, cook over a moderate fire with hot coals on the cover of the stew-pan ; when done, drain the veal and glaze it. Pass the sauce through a tammy, reduce to a glaze, add two tablespoonsful ofSpanish sauce (see 3rd of November), or if you hâve not any ready, moisten with a little thin browning, some white wine and gravy, stir in a lump of butter and poui over the veal. Chump of veal à la bourgeoise. CTHE 366 BILLS OF FARE. iS JANUARY 18. Potage à la Crécy Carpe â la Chambord. Selle de mouton braisée Faisan bardé rôti. Haricots verts à la maître d’hôtel (conserves). Tartelettes aux pommes. Crécy, or carrot soup. Carp à la Chambord. Braised saddle of mutton. Roast larded pbeasant. Preserved French beans, maître d* hôtel. Apple tartlets. Crécy, or carrot soup. Cut some carrots, turnips, celery, and onions, blanch in boiling water, and put on the fire with some thin slices of lean ham, some fresh butter, a pinch of sugar, and a little stock; when boiled, mash the vegetables, pass through a tammy and moisten them with the water they were boiled in. Simmer this purée for two hours, clear of ail grease, and serve with dice of fried bread. Carp à la Chambord. Dress and skin a large carp, lard it on one side with fine fillets of bacon, stuff with the quenelle stuffing (see 3rd of September), and boil in court-bouillon sauce (see i8th of April) with some white wine and herbs ; when boiled, take it out of the fish-pan and place on a dish in the oven to brown the larded side ; serve, surrounded by quenelles, larded sweet-breads, large crayfish, fried bread, the bottoms of artichokes, and a sauce made of the juice of the carp added to some Spanish sauce (see 3rd of November). Compote of stewed fruit à la Normande. Simmer some freshly made cider for six hours, stir occa- sionally and skim ; when reduced one-half, add some pears cut into quarters, peeled, and the cores scooped out. See that the fruit îs well covered with cider as it must simmer for twelve hours ; when the substance of jam, put the compote into jam- pots; this preserve, if carefully made, will keep for years. Sometimes pièces of tender carrot, cut the same shape as the pièces of pear, are added to this compote ; if such is the case put them in the cider long before the pears.*9 THE 366 B1LLS OF TARE. c 2 JANUARY 19. Potage aux poireaux. Poularde au riz. Civet de chevreuil. ' Brochet au bleu. Choux de Bruxelles sautés au beurre. Œufs aux pistaches. Leek soup. Chicken and rice. Jugged venison. Pickled pike. Dressed Brussels sprouts. Eggs with pistachio nuts. Leek soup. Brown sorne leeks in fresh butter, when a good colour put them into your stock and boil for half an hour ; when ready, pour into your soup-tureen over slices of bread. Chicken and rice. Truss your fowl for boiling, and cook it as in the recipe “ Half braise ” (see 31-d of September). Blanch three quarters of a pound of fine rice, and boil in sorne of the juice from the fowl ; when done, put the fowl on a dish, clear the grease off the rice, season it with sait, black pepper, and fresh butter, and pour over the chicken. Jugged venison or roebuck. Cut up a breast and neck of venison, warm in melted butter, add a little flour, a tumblerful of red wine, laurel leaves, the juice of a lemon, a bouquet of parsley and thyme, a pinch of mixed spice, moisten with stock, simmer for two hours, and serve. Baked purée of potatoes with bread-crumbs. Make a purée of potatoes (see 3oth of December), lay in a tin or plated dish, sprinkle with grated crusts of bread, moisten with fresh melted butter, brown in the oven or with a sala- mander, and serve very hot.20 THE 366 ^/ZZS 0F FARE. JANUARY 20. MENU EN MAIGRE. Potage aux herbes. Rouget en caisse. Brochet au bleu. BILL OE RARE FOR FAST DAY. Herb soup. Red mullet in cases. Croquettes de pommes de terre. Cardons au gratin à l’italienne. Croquenbouche aux fruits glacés. Pickled pike. Potato- croquettes. Baked cardoons à l’italienne. Candied fruit; Herb soup. Put a large piece of fresh butter in a saucepan, with some leeks, sorrel, chervil, and lettuce leaves, a bouquet of mixed herbs, sait and pepper ; when sufficiently done, add the re- quired quantity of water, boil well, and thicken with yolks of egg and créant. Clean out your fish, save the livers and replace them in the mullet with some well salted butter, pepper, and finely chopped parsley. Wrap each mullet in an oiled sheet of paper, sprinkle over with olive oil, chopped parsley, pepper, sait, and a little garlic, place them on the gridiron with red-hot coals under- neath and hold a salamander over them, this prevents your having to turn the fish. When cooked, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the mullet. Some cooks do not clean out their red mullet. Thoroughly clean and scale your pike, and sew up its head. The day previous to eating it, boil gently in couit-bouillon sauce (see iSth of April) made with red wine, add a few bay- leaves. When cooked, leave it in the sauce. Next day, before serving, drain off ail the liquid, and garnish with parsley. Hand oil and vinegar with this dish. Red mullet in cases. Pickled pike.21 THE 366 B1LLS O F TARE. JANUARY 21. Potage à la française. Bœuf garni de petits pâtés. Ris de veau à l’espagnole. Perdreaux rôtis. Salade de homard. Charlotte de poires.- French soup. Beef garnished with patties. Sweet-bread, Spanish sauce. Roast partridges. Lobster salad. Pear Charlotte. French. soup. Break the best pièces of vegetable out of your stock-pot, and place them in the soup-tureen, pour boiling clear stock on to them, and throw in a teaspoonful of chopped chervil. Hand fried toast with this soup. Drain and blanch your sweet-breads and let them cool, lard them, line a saucepan with slices of veal and bacon, and pièces of onion and carrot, lay the sweet-breads on this, without pressing them, and moisten with stock, cover with buttered paper and place on the fire ; when cooked, put the dressings in another saucepan and reduce to a glaze, replace the sweet- breads and reduce again ; when browned put in a dish ; loosen the glaze from the saucepan by adding a little browning, which you must thin with some stock, and pour over the sweet- breads. Put four and a half ounces of fresh butter in a bowl, three yolks of fresh eggs, a little sait, and a teaspoonful of vinegar ; warm in a bain-marie until it thickens. Just before serving, add the juice of a lemon. Sweet-breads, Spanish sauce. Hollandaise or Dutch sauce.22 THE 366 ZZZZZ OR TARE. JANUARY 22. Potage aux pâtes d’Italie. Maquereaux bouillis à l’eau de sel. Cotes de bœuf braisées à la purée de tomates. Poulet rôti. Céleri-rave à la sauce au beurre. Baba au rhum. Soup with Italian paste. Boiled mackerel. Braised ribs of beef, purée of tomatoes. Roàst fowl. Celery roots with butter sauce. Baba or rum cake. Soup -with Italian paste. Blanch seven ounces of Italian paste, those the shape of a melon seed are the best, boil for ten minutes in water, and put to cool, then drain in a sieve. Put them into the stock, and boil for five minutes, season according to taste, and serve with grated Parmesan cheese. Braised ribs of beef with purée of tomatoes. Tie up your piece of méat and place in a stew-pan, withhalf a bottle of white wine, a spoonful of brandy, tvvo pints of stock, three and a half ounces onion, stuck with three cloves, three and a half ounces carrot, a bouquet of thyme, laurel-leaves and parsley, and some whole black peppers ; boil and skim, after which either bake in the oven or hâve some hot coals on the lid of the stew-pan, being careful to take it off the fire every half-hour. As soon as the beef is sufficiently cooked, put the juice in a saucepan, reduce it to about the quantity of two wine- glassesrul, and mix with your purée of tomatoes, keep on the lire for ten minutes. Serve the ribs of beef separately frorn the sauce. Celery roots with butter sauce. Boil the roots in water with plenty of sait, w'hen cooked, drain them, and put a lump of fresh butter on the celery ; when melted, take off the fire. Serve with butter sauce. Fresh butter sauce. Melt some fresh butter, and flavour with sait, pepper, and chopped parsley.23 THE 366 BILES O F TARE. JANUARY 23. rPotage à la purée de pois. Barbeau au court-bouilloa. Haricot de mouton. Grives rôties. Artichauts à l’italienne. Omelette aux confitures. Pea soup. Barbel boiled in court-bouillon. Plaricot of mutton. Roast thrushes. Artichokes, Italian sauce. Sweet omelet. Pea soup. Boil the peas in stock with a carrot and two onions ; as soon as they are cooked, pass tliem through a tammy and add stock to your taste ; boil for twenty minutes. Pour into the soup- tureen over fried bread. . Barbel boiled in court-bouillon. If the barbel is large, simply clean it and take the scales off after boiling. Pour some boiling vinegar over it and sprinkle with pepper and sait ; then place in a fish-pan some wine, three cloves, laurel-leaves, onions, lemon peel, a bouquet of herbs, sait and pepper ; when this mixture begins to boil, put in the barbel and boil it, when cooked, scale the fish, drain it well and serve on a napkin, garnish with watercress. Any kind of sauce will go with this fish. Haricot of mutton. Cut up part of a loin of mutton, and brown the pièces in some butter, when a good colour, take them off the fire, reduce the sauce, and replace the méat, adding some stock, small potatoes, a bouquet of thyme, laurel leaves, and parsley, sait, pepper, and a tiny pinch of nutmeg. Cook over a slow fire, skim and serve.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 24 JANUARY 24. Potage bisque d’écrevisses. Crayfish soup. Stewed calf’s head. Chicken fritters. Roast haunch of boar. Soufflé of apples. Blanc mange of maizena, flavoured with tea. Tête de veau nature. Marinade de volaille. Cuissot de sanglier rôti. Pommes sautées. Bavarois au thé. Stewed calf’s head. Bone the calf’s head, keep the brains separate and drain them for an hour, then boil them with some water and lemon juice and leave them in their water. Scald the calfs head, eut out the tongue and put it to cool. Cut the head into four pièces, and place in a stew-pan large enough for it only to fill it two- thirds ; in another saucepan put two ounces of thyrne, one ounce laurel leaves, three and a half ounces onion, one ounce carrot, two ounces flour, two quarts of water, sait, whole black pepper, and two wine-glasses of vinegar ; when this boils pour it over the calfs head, and place it on the tire, adding the tongue. After boiling for two hours and a half, place the two pièces with the ears at one end of a dish and the two other pièces opposite, split the tongue, lay in the centre of the dish, put the brains on it, and garnish with parsley. I consider this the best manner of cooking calfs head. Fry some slices of bread-crumb or brioche (see 24th ofDecem- ber) about a quarter of an inch thick and three inches in diameter, in some very fresh melted butter, until of a golden colour, be careful to keep the bread soft. Spread whatever jam or compote you prefer on each slice and place round a dish, fill the centre with a syrup, made with the same kind of preserve, melted in equal quantities of sherry and water, pour in when hot, and place the dish in the oven for a few minutes. Fried slices of bread-crumb or brioche.25 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. JANUARY 25. Rosbif garni de rissoles. Filets de merlan à la Conti. , Dinde rôtie. Epinards au jus. Elan de poires. Potage au riz. Rice soup. Roast beef and rissoles. Fillets of whiting à la Conti. Roast Turlcey. Stewed spinach with gravy. Pear tart. Rico soup. Thoroughly wash and scald your rice, when cool, drain it and place in boiling stock, and simmer gently over a slow fire until cooked. Rissoles are composed of cold roast méat, rninced well, spiced and rolled in very thin paste, which you fry in lard or butter. Cut each fillet into four pièces and fry in melted butter, sait, pepper, and the juice of two lemons. When the fillets are brown on both sides, dry them on a cloth ; add sorne slices of truffles to the butter, reduce, and thicken with a little more butter. Serve on pièces of fried bread. Clean your sprouts carefully and boil in boiling water and sait, drain them thoroughly, and put them in a frying-pan with some fresh butter, when the butter is melted, place them on a dish and sprinkle with sait and pepper. Rissoles. Fillets of whiting' à la Conti. Brussels sprouts with butter.THE 366 BILLS O F TARE. 26 JANUARY 26. Potage en fausse tortue. Mock turtle soup. Eperlans au gratin. Baked smelts. Langue de bœuf braisée sauce Braised ox tongue, tomato sauce, tomate. Gigot de chevreuil rôti. Roast leg of roebuck. Purée de haricots à la crème. Purée of haricot beans witli cream. Beignets de pommes. Apple fritters.' Mock turtle soup, French. fashion. Take tvvo pounds of lean mutton, with scraps of turbot or any kind of fish, such as salmon, whiting or carp, use heads and ail, warrn in a saucepan with butter and a bouquet of herbs until brown, then boil in water till the bones drop frora the mutton ; pass the stock through a cloth, clear it with whites of egg, reduce until it is thick enough to bear the addition of half a bottle of Madeira without making it too thin ; then add the quarter of a calf’s head which has been previously boiled in white wine and eut into small squares, season with cayenne and serve. Baked smelts. Wash and clean your smelts and lay them in a tin dish with some melted fresh butter, dried herbs, sait, pepper, and a little nutmeg, cover them entirely with scraped crust of bread, moisten with hot melted butter drop by drop and then pour a little white wine over it. Reduce the sauce in a slow oven and brown with a salamander. Braised ox-tongue. Thoroughly wash and trim your tongue, lard it, and simmer over a slow tire for five or six hours with some slices of bacon, veal, or beef, a few slices of carrots, onions, thyme, laurel leaves, and cloves. When sufficiently cooked, skin and trim the tongue and split it in half, so as to form the shape of a heart on the dish. Serve with tomato sauce (see 6th of January).27 THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. JANUARY 27. Potage croûte au pot. ' Bœuf bouilli garni de choux. Ris de veau à la Toulouse. Canards rôtis. Lentilles en purée. Meringues à la Chantilly. Soup witb gravy crusts. Boiled beef and cabbage. Sweet-bread à la Toulouse. Roast ducks. Purée of lentils. Meringues à la Chantilly. Soup witb fried gravy crusts. This soup is made exactly like “ French Soup ” (see 2ist of January) with this simple alteration, “Toast sorae crusts of bread brown, put in a saucepan, pour some uncleared stock over them and leave to simmer until the stock is dried up and the crusts are crisp.” Place these crusts in your soup-tureen and pour the boiling French soup over them. Boiled beef and cabbage. Boil a piece of rump-steak in some stock ; when cooked, surround it with pièces of cabbage, sausage, and bacon, which hâve been separately bpiled, place them alternately round the dish. Sweet-breads witb wbite sauce. Blanch, trim, and dry your sweet-breads, put them in a sauce- pan with a little butter, sprinkle with flour, and shake them, moisten with water and cook over a slow fire ; just before serving add some small onions and button mushrooms which hâve been cooked separately ; thicken the sauce with the yellow of an egg, and flavour with lemon juice. Cauliflower witb butter sauce. Break your cauliflowers into small pièces and soalc in cokl water with a little vinegar, blanch them by soaking in boiling water for three or four minutes, drain and trim them, boil in boiling water and sait ; be careful notto overboil, as the pièces must be firm. Serve hot, pour some butter sauce (see 2 2nd of J anuary) over them.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 2 S JANUARY 28. Potage aux lazagnes. Filets de soles à la Orly. Poulet sauté. Rosbif rôti. Laitues au jus. Croûtes à la normande (chaudes). Clear soup with Italian paste. Fillets of sole à la Orly. Brown fricassée of chicken. Roast beef. Stewed' lettuce. Fried toasts à la Normande. Clear soup -with. Italian paste. Préparé like the soup on the 2 2nd of January. Fillets of sole à la Orly. Fillet your soles and soak thern in lemon juice with sait and whole black pepper. Boil the dressings of the fish in white wine, a bouquet of herbs, sait and pepper ; reduce the sauce, and strain. Flour and fry the fillets, drain them, and serve with the sauce separate. Baked cauliflower with. bread-crumbs. Break your cauliflower into small pièces and soak in cold water and vinegar, blanch in boiling water for two or three minutes, when cool, boil in boiling water, but keep them firm. Hâve some white sauce (see 3ist of January) ready, to which add some grated Parmesan cheese. Place your pièces of cauliflower in layers in a tin dish, cover each layer with the sauce, sprinkle the whole with grated Parmesan cheese and browned bread-crumbs, moisten with melted butter, and brown in the oven or with a salamander.29 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. JANUARY 29. Potage de consommé aux quenelles. Truites à la Saint-Florentin. Selle de mouton à l’anglaise. Chapon rôti. Petits pois au beurre (conserves). Beignets soufflés. Clear soup with quenelles. Trout à la Saint Florentin. Roast saddle of mutton. Roast capon. Preserved green peas. Fritters. Clear soup with. quenelles. Préparé your quenelles (see 3rd of September) and boil them in a little stock, drain, place in the soup-tureen, and pour the necessary quantity of stock over them. Procure some fine trout, clean them by the gills and stufF with fresh butter, mixed with fine herbs, sait, and pepper, cook in a fish-pan with sufficient white wine to be three inches above the fish, add a crust of bread, onions, a bouquet of herbs, two heads of cloves, a little nutmeg, sait, and pepper, cook over a bright fire so that the wine may catch lire ; as soon as the fiâmes begin to subside add some butter mixed with flour. Place the fish on a dish and cover with its own sauce, passed through a tammy. Hang your mutton until tender; wrap it up in buttered paper and roast ; when nearly done, take off the paper so as to brown the mutton, serve with strong gravy. Hand a purée of turnips (see i3th of May) with the mutton, and a sauce made of rnelted butter, fiavoured with chopped parsley, sait, and pepper. Trout à la Saint Florentin. Roast saddle of mutton.THE 366 BILES OF FARE. 3° JANUARY 30. MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DA\ Potage à la purée de navets. Purée of turnips. Oyster patties. Bouchées aux huîtres. Morue à la béchamel. Carpes frites. Codfish, béchamel sauce. Fried carp. Salade de légumes. Gâteau de riz. Vegetable salade Rice cake. Puree of turnips. Wash and scrape a pound of turnips, boil over a slow fire, in three pints of water, a quarter of a pound of butter, and half a pound of well-washed rice, be careful that the turnips do not stick to the bottom of the saucepan. When boiled pass through a tammy, and put the purée on the fire ; if too thick add a little milk. Stir with a wooden spoon, and when hot add four ounces of fresh butter and three wine-glasses of double cream, You can either hand fried toast or well-boiled rice with this purée. Roll your puff paste six times, eut with a round tin cutter about five inches in diameter, glaze with the white of an egg, then press a smaller round cutter in the centre, enough to eut the paste slightly, this will form the cover to your patty ; bake by a brisk fire, when done eut out the covers with a sharp pen- knife, be careful to leave a little paste to form the bottom ot the patty. Hâve some oysters and chopped button mushrooms ready, warmed in béchamel sauce (see i8th of August), fill the patties, and serve vejjv hot. Oyster patties.31 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. JANUARY 31. Potage purée aux croûtons. Gigot de mouton bouilli sauce aux câpres. Goujons frits. Oie rôtie. Champignons farcis. Gele'e au kirsch. Pea soup with fried toast. Boiled leg of rnutton, caper sauce. Fried gudgeon. Roast goose. Stuffed mushrooms. Kirsch jelly. Pea soup with fried toast. For recipe see 23rd of January. Boiled leg of mutton, caper sauce. Boil your mutton in a stock-pot with water, skim it, and add carrots, onions, a bouquet of parsley, leeks, cloves, laurel leaves, and a head of garlic; simmer for two hours, drain, and serve with white caper sauce (see 3rd of May). White sauce. Mix a dessert-spoonful of flour with a little butter and half a wine-glass of water, the juice of half a lemon, sait, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg ; place on a quick fire and stir, when the sauce has boiled over two or three times, take it offthe fire, and serve. Roast goose stuffed witli chestnuts. Préparé your goose and stuffit with thefollowing ingrédients, minced bacon, the goose’s liver, sait, pepper, grated nutmeg, and chestnuts, which hâve been previously cooked and peelecl. Roast the goose and baste frequently. ‘When done serve with its own gravy and sprinkle with sait, pepper, and the juice of a lemon. Fried Bread or Brioche à la Normande. See “ Fried Bread,” 24A of January, and “ Stewed Fruit à la Normande” (i8th of January).32 THE 366 BILES OF TARE. FEBRUARY 1 Potage bisque d’écrevisses. Côtes de bœuf braisées. Cervelles de veau en marinade. Lièvre rôti. Laitues au jus. Omelette soufflée. Braised ribs of beef. Calf’s brain fritters. Roast hare. Stewed lettuces. Ornelet soufflé. Crayfish soup. Crayfisli soup, Wash fifty fine live crayfish in several waters, drain and boil in stock with some carrots and parsley. When done take the saucepan off the fire, and leave the crayfish in it for ten minutes well-covered up, after which put them in a sieve and keep the juice. When the crayfish are nearly cold, break off the tails of the bigger ones and reserve them, pound the bodies and the smaller crayfish in a mortar until of a thick red paste, soak a lump of bread-crumb as big as your fist in the juice, dry before tne fire and pound into the paste, mix in some stock until of a proper substance, pass through a tammy into a saucepan, put on the fire, add the tails of the crayfish, and be careful not to let the soup boil, flavour with plenty of sait and a pinch of cayenne.pepper. Serve very hot. Clean, blanch, and trim your lettuces, tie them in bunches, putting two or three together, simmer for two hours in a sauce- pan with stock, a bouquet of herbs, chopped onions, sait, and pepper, line the saucepan with buttered paper. When cooked untie the lettuces and serve with their own sauce, which must be reduced and passed through a tammy. Stewed lettuces,THE 366 BILES OF TARE. FEBRUARY 2. Potage au vermicelle. Merlans au gratin Poulet sauté. Gigot de mouton rôti. Haricots à la bretonne. Pommes meringuées. Vermicelli soup. Baked whiting with bread-crumbs. Brown fricassée of chicken. Roast leg of mutton. Plaricot beans à la bretonne. Meringue of apple. Vermicelli soup. Blanch the vermicelli in boiling water for three or four minutes, let it cool, drain, and throw into boiling stock, stir for a few minutes and serve. Haricot beans à la bretonne. Mince half a pound of onions, blanch, and drain. Brown in five ounces of butter, and when a good colour add an ounce of flour, some sait and pepper, leave on the fire for five minutes ; moisten with a pint and a half of stock, and cook for twenty minutes, stirring ail the time ; then add a pint of haricot beans, which hâve been well boiled, and an ounce of butter ; warm, and serve. Meringue of apple. Cut half-a-pound of fine apples into slices, and warm in a saucepan with seven ounces of butter, same quantity of sugar, when cooked pile prettily on a dish ; whip the whites of four eggs to a cream, sweeten with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, cover. the apples evenly with this, sprinkle with sugar and brown in a slow oven. You may.flavour the white of egg with vanilla or lemon juice. D34 THE 366 BILLS 0F FA RE. FEBRUARY 3. Fotage julienne, Tanches à la poulette. Perdrix aux choux. Rosbif aux pommes. Ecrevisses au court-bouillon, Omelette au rhum. Julienne soup. Stewed tench. Partridges with cabbage. Roast beef and potatoes. Crayfish. Rum omelet. Stewed tench.. Wash, scale, scrape, and drain the fish. Cut into pièces, warm in fresh butter, when firm, add a tablespoon of flour and moisten with white wine ; season with sait, whole black pepper, a bouquet of herbs, add some button mushrooms and young on ions ; when the stew is ready, thicken the sauce with the yolk of an egg. Boiled crayfish. Boil some live crayfish in white wine or equal quantities of water and vinegar, seasoned with thyme, laurel leaves, carrots, onions, sait, and pepper ; boil for half an hour, add the cray- fish, be careful they are well covered with the sauce, boil for seven or eight minutes, take off the fire and leave the crayfish in the saucepan until cold, drain and dish up with ail the heads raised in the centre on a bed of fresh parsley. Vegetable salad. Boil in separate saucepans equal quantities of carrots, peas, asparagus heads, French beans, potatoes, and half the quantity of turnips ; when done, drain carefully, and place in a salad bowl in separate groups with a fine head of boiled cauliflower in the centre. Cover with the following sauce. Salad sauce. Take twelve tablespoonfuls of olive oil, two of vinegar, half a teaspoonful anchovy sauce, sait, black pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a head of garlic, stir well, and remove the garlic before pouring over the salad.35 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. FEBRUARY 4. Potage crème de riz à la peluche de cerfeuil. Filet de mouton braisé. Ris de veau à la Toulouse. Canards sauvages rôtis. Salade de homard. Beignets aux abricots. Cream of rice soup with chervil. Braised fillet of mutton. Sweet-breads à la Toulouse. Roast wild duck. Lobster salad. Apricot fritters. Cream of rice soup with chervil. Boil sortie rice in chicken broth for an hour, pass through a tanimy, add the necessary quantity of stock, and serve, adding at the last some chopped chervil. Sweet-bread à la Toulouse. Cook the sweet-breads in Spanish sauce (see 2ist of January), and garnish à la Toulouse. Garnish à la Toulouse. This garnish is composed of scollops of foie gras, truffles, whole mushrooms, cockscombs, and livers, and lamb’s sweet- breads. The scollops are made from previously cooked foie gras ; the truffles must be boiled in glaze and white wine ; the mushrooms blanched with butter and lemon juice ; the cocks- combs trimmed, washed, and boiled until they are blanched ; the livers boiled, and the lamb’s sweet-bread fried. Ail these ingrédients are placed round the dish, the foie gras slightly glazed, the cockscombs, mushrooms, livers, and lamb’s sweet- breads covered with velouté sauce (see 23rd of August), and the truffles strongly glazed. Lobster salad.' Cut up the claws and tail of a lobster or sea crayfish, lay thern on a bed of hearts of lettuce, garnish with hard-boiled eggs, anchovies, olives, capers, and fine herbs. Cover with a thick Mayonnaise sauce (see 24th of June). d 2THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. FEBRUARY 5. Potage au vermicelle. Bar sauce au câpres. Abatis de dinde à la Chipolata. Stewed turkey giblets with Chipolata sausage. Vermicelli soup. Bass, caper sauce. Filet de bœuf rôti. Pommes de terre sautées. Biscuits au chocolat. Roast fillet of beef. Fried potato chips. Chocolaté biscuits. Stewed giblets of Turkey with. Chipolata sausage. Pick, scald, and singe the giblets, eut the necks into four pièces. Take the eyes out of the heads, eut the pinions in two, the claws in two, the gizzards into four pièces, do not use the livers unless very fresh, which is rare. Cut some lean bacon into large dice, and brown in fresh butter. Cut some turnips to about the size of a cork and brown, boil some carrots, cut into round balls and brown with slices of onion, put these vegetables on a dish. Brown the giblets to a good colour, without burning, add some flour, stir for five minutes over the tire, moisten with equal quantifies of stock and water, and a teaspoonful of brandy, stir until it boils; then add bacon, carrots, a bouquet of parsley, sait, pepper, and simmer. Half an hour before serving put in some onions, turnips, Chipolata sausage, and carefully peeled roast chestnuts. Boil for ten minutes, skim, and serve. Clean, wash, and drain the bass, soak for an hour in olive oil, flavoured with mixed herbs, sait, and pepper, broil and serve with caper sauce (see 3rd of May). Bass, caper sauce.THE 366 BTLLS OF FARE. 37 FEBRUARY 6. Potage avec semoule et chiffonade d’oseille. Selle de mouton braisée à la purée de navets. Carpe au ragoût de laitances. Dinde rôtie. Céleri au jus. Gaufres à la crème. Semolina soup with sorrel. Braised saddle of mutton, purée of tumips. Carp with stewed roe. Roast turkey-hen. Stewed celery. Wafers with cream. Semolina sonp -with. sorrel. Boil the semolina in stock until it swells, then add the necessary quantity of stock, and boil for ten minutes ; when quite boiling, add some chopped sorrel-leaves. Braised saddle of mutton. Trim the saddle and tie round the ends with a string to keep it compact ; line a large stew-pan with slices of bacon, lay the saddle in it, on the fat side, add two tablespoons of stock, two carrots, two large onions, a bouquet of herbs, and a tablespoon of old brandy. Place the stew-pan on the fire, moisten with stock and cover with buttered paper ; simmer for four hours, and keep hot coals on the lid ; drain the saddle, eut the string, replace the mutton in the stew-pan, and glaze ; put hot coals on the cover, but do not fix it on tight. When cooked, place on a dish, reduce the sauce and pour over it. Surround with a purée of turnips (see i3th of May). Carp with stewed roe. Boil the carp in court-bouillon (see i8thof April), and serve on a stew of roe (see 2 2nd of May) ; you can simmer the carp in the stew for a few minutes, if preferred.38 THE 366 BILL S O F FA RE. FEBRUARY 7. Potage au sagou. Poularde au gros sel. Filets de soles à la Orly. Gigot de chevreuil rôti. Purée de cardons à la crème. Petits gateaux de riz. Sago soup. Fowl boiled in pig’s bladder. Fillets of sole à la Orly. Roast leg of venison. Purée of cardoons with cream. Smallrice cakes. Sago soup. Wash the sago in warra water, blanch and drain, boil in stock. When boiling take off the fire, and leave. by the fire until it becomes a jelly ; add a purée of turnips to it (see i3th of May), and serve. Fowl boiled in pigr’s bladder. Clean and truss the fowl for boiling, blanch for a minute in boiling water, cover with slices of bacon, and put into a well scalded pig’s bladder, tie it up tight so that no water may get in, and boil in a stew-pan, full of boiling water, when sufficiently done, take the fowl out of the bladder, sprinkle the breast with plenty of bay sait, and serve. Purée of haricot beans with cream. Boil the haricot beans in sait and water, with a bouquet of herbs and onions ; when cooked pass through a tammy and add either some fresh butter or cream, and season with sait and pepper. A good sauce for ail roasts. Simmer a wineglass of red wine, an anchovy, a little stock, a chopped eschalot, and the juice of a lemon in a saucepan. Pass through a tammy, and mix with the gravy of your roast.THE 366 BTLLS OF FARE. 39 FEBRUARY 8. Potage à la purée de pommes de terre. Cabillaud sauce hollandaise. Jambon d’York à l’anglaise. Bécasses rôties. Champignons à la bordelaise. Gelée au marasquin. Purée of potatoes. Cod, Plollandaise sauce. York ham à l’anglaise. Roast woodcock. Mushrooms à la bordelaise. Maraschino jelly. Purée of potatoes. Either bake or boil some fine potatoes, peel, and pass through a tammy, warm in a stew-pan with some melted butter, add sait and pepper, and milk enough to make the proper substance of a thick soup, boil, and serve with fried bread. York hani à l’anglaise. Cook the ham as in the recipe fsee 2ist of April), and serve with stewed spinach (see i6th of June). MusÏLrooms à la Bordelaise. Choose some big, firm, fresh mushrooms; peel, wash, and drain them, make one or two slits on the top side of the mushrooms, soak for an hour and a halfin oil, sait, and pepper. Broil them, turn when half cooked, so that each side may be equally broiled. Warm the olive oil in which the mushrooms were soaked, season with finely chopped chives and parsley : dish up the mushrooms, sprinkle withafew drops of vinegar or lemonjuice, and pour the hot olive oil over them. Roast teal. Roast the same as duck or duckling. Teal can be eaten on fast days.THE 366 BILLS O F FA FF. 40 FEBRUARY 9. Purée aux croûtons. A Barbillons grillés. Cotes de bœuf braisées aux carottes. Cochon de lait rôti. Macédoine de légumes en salade. Eclairs au café. Pea soup with toast. Broiled barbel. Braised ribs of beef with carrots. Roast sucking-pig. Salad of mixed vegetables. Coffee Angers glazed with coffee. Broiled Terrcli. Place the tench for a moment in boiling water, scrape with a kmfe without cutting the skin, scale and clean with care, stuff with fresh butter mixed with chopped garlic and fine herbs, broil and serve on tomato sauce flavoured with anchovy, or green sauce (see 6th of April), or sauce Robert (see 4th of March). Salad of mixed vegetables. Boil some slices of carrot and turnip in stock ; other vege- tables, such as peas, French beans, asparagus heads, haricot beans, onions, and cauliflower should be boiled in sait and water. When cold and drained, arrange these vegetables prettily in a salad bowl, and dress with salad dressing (see 3rd of February), with the addition of a tablespoon of strong cold gravy. Stewed cardoons with marrow. Stew your cardoons as in the recipe (see 8th of October). Toast some slices of bread-crumb about half an inch thick, spread some previously blanched marrow on the toast, glaze with beef glaze, dish up the stewed cardoons, and garnish with the toasts.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 41 FEBKUARY 10. MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Potage julienne maigre. Brochet sauce raifort. Vol-au-vent à la béchamel. Dame d’esturgeon rôtie. Choux-fleurs au fromage. Soupirs de nonne. Julienne soup for fast day. Pike, horseradish sauce. Vol-au-vent of eggs, béchamel sauce. Roast fillet of sturgeon. Cauliflower with cheese. Nun’s sighs. Julienne soup for fast day. Préparé like Julienne soup (see 2nd of January), only use water and butter instead of stock. Vol-au-vent of eggs, béchamel sauce. Put four ounces of flour, one ounce of butter, two pints of rnilk, a srnall eschalot, a pinch of thyme, a laurel-leaf, and a tea- spoon of chopped parsley in a saucepan, and cook for twenty minutes, stirring ail the time. Pass through a tammy and put in a saucepan large enough to hold twelve hard-boiled eggs, eut up in slices, put on the tire ten minutes before required, stir until it boils, take the eggs out, add five ounces of butter, which stir in well ; when dissolved, place the eggs and some button mushrooms in the vol-au-vent case, and pour the sauce over them ; be careful the sauce is not too thick, if so add a little milk. Roast fillet of sturgeon. Lard the fillet with strips of well-seasoned eel, soak in white wine, sait, whole black pepper, and a pinch of spice ; roast and baste with the wine. Hand with sauce piquante (see 2Ûth of June), made with water instead of stock.THE 3 66 T IL LS O F TARE. 42 FEBRUARY n. Potage au vermicelle. Barbue sauce aux câpres. Tête de veau à la Destilière. Filet de boeuf piqué rôti. P irée de pommes de terre. Pommes garnies de croûtes au madère. Calf’s head- à la Destilière. Stewed apples on toast. Larded fillet of beef. Purée of potatoes. Vermicelli soup. Brill, caper sauce. Pike, horseradish sauce. Boil the pike in court-bouillon (see i8th of April), and serve with horseradish sauce (see i8th of November). Bone the calf’s head, blanch the brains in boiling water with a few drops of vinegar. Cook in thin white sauce (see iôth of April) for three quarters of an hour, take off the fire and leave them in the saucepan until cold ; at the same time drain and blanch the calf’s head, when cold, dry and eut it into small pièces leaving the eyes and ears whole ; boil in thin white sauce over a quick fire, then simmer for three or four hours, which is quite sufficient. Drain and arrange on a dish, eut the brains in half, and place at each end of the dish ; eut up the tongue into dice, ready to put into the sauce. Take two table- spoons of Spanish sauce (see 2 2nd of August) or some thin glaze, add half a bottle Chablis, one hot chili-pepper well pounded, six tablespoons of stock, and reduce ; add some small rounds of pickled gherkins, the dice of lamb’s tongue and some chopped button mushrooms. Pour this sauce over the calf’s head. Calf’s head à la Destilière.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 43 FEBRUARY 12. Potage au pain. Pièce de bœuf garnie d’oignons glacés. Dames d’alose grillées maître d’hôtel. Chapons bardés, rôtis. Betteraves à la crème. Compote d’oranges. Bread soup. Stewed beef and onions. Broiled slices ofshad, maître d’hôtel. Roast larded capons. Beetroot with cream. Orange salad. Broiled slices of sliad, maître d’hôtel. Cut the shad into slices about an inch thick, soak in olive oil, with fine herbs, sait, and pepper for an hour ; broil over a slow fire, serve with maître d’hotel sauce (see 2 3rd of March). Beetroot with cream. Peel and slice your beetroot, boil over a slow fire in be'chamel sauce (see iôth of August). Orange salad. Peel the oranges, prick them with a fork in several places, and soak in cold water, put them in a preserving-pan, with boiling water and some shavings of the orange peel ; boil for ten minutes, change the water, and boil again until quite tender, plunge them into cold water, put sufficient refined syrup into the preserving-pan to cover the oranges, which drain well and boil in the syrup, without the peel, until quite thick. Take off the fire, pour the syrup and oranges into a deep dish ; cut the fruit into quarters when cold ; place in a dish with the shavings in the centre, pour the syrup over them.THE 366 B1LLS O F FA EF. 44 FEBRUARY 13. Potage à la purée de marrons. Filets de merlans au gratin. Purée of chestnuts. Baked fillets of whiting with bread- crumbs. Haricot of mutton. Roast ham. Stewed spinac-h. Rice soufflé. Haricot de mouton. Tambon à la broche, c-pinards au jus. Soufflé de riz. Puree of chestnuts. Peel sixty chestnuts, scald them in boiling water, remove the inside slcin, and boil in stock, when done, pass through a tammy, add sufficient stock to make the soup a proper substance, and pour over slices of fried bread. Serve very hot. Baked fillets of whiting' with bread-crumbs. Line the bottora of a tin or plated dish with fish forcemeat (seeôth of April), lay your fillets on it and cover them with a layer of the same forcemeat, smooth over with the blade of a knife warmed in hot water, sprinkle with grated bread-crust, moisten with fresh melted butter and balce, when done pour some Italian sauce over it (see i3th of October). Trim the artichokes, remove the chokes, eut into four pièces, blanch, and drain. Boil in equal quantities of white wine and stock, season with sait, pepper, lemon juice, and a little butter, when done, drain and serve, covered with Italian sauce (see 13U1 of October). Artichokes, Italian sauce.THE 366 B IL LS OF FARE. 45 FEBRUARY 14. Fotage inlienne. Surmulet au beurre fondu. Tendrons de veau au blanc. Gigot de mouton rôti. Navets glacés au jus. Gâteau d’amandes. Julienne soup. Grey mullet, melted butter. Tendons of veal, white sauce. Roast leg of mutton. Stewed turnips. Almond cake. Grey mullet with melted butter. Broil the mullet, and pour fresh melted butter with chopped parsley, pepper, and sait over it. Préparé the tendons in the same way as breast of veal (see iôth of December). Peel the turnips ail to one size, blanch, and drain ; butter a saucepan large enough for the turnips to lay side by side, place them on the butter and moisten with stock, flavour with sait, a little powdered sugar, and a stick of cinnamon ; as soon as they begin to boil, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, take the saucepan off the fire, place it near the oven and put hot coals on the cover, when sufficiently cooked uncover the saucepan and leave the turnips until glazed ; when cold place them on a dish, melt the glaze with a little stock, take out the cinnamon, and pour this sauce over the turnips. Mix two pints of flour with a piece of fresh butter the size of an egg, a pinch of sait, four eggs, five ounces of powdered sugar, seven ounces of well-powdered almonds ; when well mixed place in a mould and bake ; when done, ice the cake with pink icing sugar. Tendons of veal with white sauce. Stewed turnips. Almond cake.46 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. FEBRUARY 15. Potage Faubonne. Fauborme soup. Noix de veau à la chicorée. Chump of veal with chicory, Lapereau sauté. Limandes frites. Stewed rabbit. Fried dabs. Champignons farcis. Stuffed mushrooms. Chocolaté créant. Crème au chocolat. Chump of veal with chicory. Make an incision half an inch deep, lengthways and across the skin of the chump ; trim the other side of the veal so as to make it quite smooth and lard it ; place in a stew-pan with some carrots, onions, a bouquet of parsley, and a little stock, simmer until the bottom of the saucepan is coloured, add one pound of méat, moisten with a little water and stock, cook over a slow fixe with hot coals on the cover, or in the oven ; when three- auarters done remove the vegetables and bouquet, which will hâve sufficiently flavoured the méat and would only absorb the gravy. Make a larger fire and moisten the veal with its own juice until it is glazed, which will take about half-an-hour. Take ail the fat off the sauce and pass through a tammy. Make a foundation of purée of chicory or sorrel (see 23rd ot December) on a dish, place the chump on it, and cover with the sauce. Scrape your fish with care, fry, and serve with fried parsley. Fried dabs.THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. 47 FEBRUARY 16. Potage à la purée d’artichauts. Alose à la sauce aux câpres. Rosbif à la mode. Caneton de Rouen rôti. Choux-fleurs en salade. Chartreuse de pommes. Purée of artichokes. Shad, caper sauce. Bœuf à la mode. Roast duckling. Cauliflower salad. Chartreuse or apple marmalade. Purée of artichoke soup, See the recipe below for purée of bottoms of artichokes, add sufficient stock to make a thick soup, and serve with fried dice of bread. Cut out the bottoms of the artichokes, blanch them, and re- move the chokes, boil in water with a little flour, sait, and lemon juice ; when done, mash them and mix with some béchamel sauce (see iôth of August), pass through a tammv and warm in cream and fresh butter. Choose a tender piece of rump-steak, beat it, well lard with thick fillets of bacon, simmer over a fire for at least six hours, with trimmings of bacon, calves’feet, onions, carrots, a bouquet of mixed herbs, laurel leaves, thyme, a head of garlic, two or three heads of cloves, sait, and pepper ; cover the top of the saucepan with a cloth, so as to keep on the cover very tight. When cooked, clear the sauce of ail grease, pass through a tammy, pour over the beef and serve. Roast duckling-. Clean, draw, and truss your duckling, wrap up in slices of bacon, and roast. Serve with its own gravy. Purée of artichokes. Bœuf à la mode.THF 366 B TL LS O F FA FF. 48 FEBRUARY 17. Potage à la purée de lentilles. TDâ* J. 3 J _ 1 ’ _ Pâté chaud de lamproie. Puree of lentils. Hot lamprey pie. Tourne-dos à la sauce piquante. Fillets of beef with piquante sauce. Roast guinea fowl. Purée of chicory with fried bread. Plum pudding. Pintade rôtie. Purée de chicorée aux croûtons. Pouding. Purée of chicory with fried bread. Trim and wash eight fine heads of chicory, eut off ail the green, drain and boil for tvventy minutes in boiling sait and water, place in cold water to cool as quick as possible, drain and dry in a cloth. Cut up into small pièces, warm in a sauce- pan with butter, sait, and pepper, stir in a little flour, moisten with stock, reduce and serve, garnished with sippets of fried bread. Hâve a pound of stoned raisins, six eggs, half a tumbler ’of rum or brandy, five ounces of chopped suet, a pound of flour or cornflour, two ounces of powdered sugar or moist sugar, two tumblersful of milk, chopped citron, a pinch of grated nut- meg, stir ail well together, add some bread-crumbs soaked in milk, tie up in a pudding-cloth and boil for four hours, turn the pudding occasionally. When cooked, cut up the pudding into slices, sprinkle with either rum or brandy, and set fire to it. Plum pudding'.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 49 FEBRÜARY 18. Pièce de bœuf garnie de petit3 pâtés. Potage au pain. Bread soup. Roast beef with patties. Canards aux navets. Terrine de foies gras. Salade de légumes. Beignets d’oranges. Stewed ducks and turnips. Pâté of foie gras. Vegetable salad. Orange fritters. Curry soup with rice. Fry some slices of onions and warm in a stew-pan with a little curry-powder and butter, add the necessary quantity of stock ; boil and pass through a tammy, pour over rice, which has been boiled in stock, and serve. Truss your duck and brown in a stew-pan with some fresh butter, peel and eut some young turnips into equal sizes and brown in the same butter, stir in a little powdered sugar. Reduce some stock to a thin brown sauce, season with sait, pepper, a bouquet of parsley, chives, half a head of garlic, and laurel leaves, stew the duck in this sauce, and when half cooked add the turnips, turn the duck from time to time, and be careful not to break the turnips, cook over a slow tire. Clear the sauce of ail grease, and serve. Peel your oranges, eut them into quarters, remove the pips, and cover with powdered sugar; dip into batter (see i3th, of November) and fry in boiling lard, drain and dish up, sprinkled with powdered sugar. Stewed duck and turnips. Orange fritters. E0° THE 366 BILLS O F TARE. FEBRUARY 19. Potage aux pâtes d’Italie. Rougets en caisse. Bœuf braisé garni de pommes de terre frites. Poularde rôtie. Choux de Bruxelles sautés. Pommes au beurre. Clear soup with Italian paste. Red mullet in cases. Braised beef and fried potatoes. Roast fowl. Brussels sprouts with butter. Stewed apples. Brill à la Conti. Skin and clean a fresh brill, eut several slits down the back, simmer over a slow lire until cooked, in a tumblerful of olive oil, half a tumbler of stock, the sarae quantity of white wine, sait, pepper, and chopped herbs; drain, and dish up. Reduce two tumblersful of stock to half that quantity, season with a pinch of fïnely-chopped parsley, and pour over the brill. Stewed apples. Peel some fine cooking apples, scoop out the cores and stew in syrup until three parts cooked, drain and leave until cold. Boil the same quantity of apples in sugar and water, seasoned with lemon peel, a stick of cinnamon, and fresh butter, when quite soft, rnash up into a thick marmalade, pour into a deep dish, spread a layer of jam over it and place the apples on the top, fill them with fresh butter; sprinkle well with powdered sugar, and brown in the oven. Before serving, garnish the centre of each apple, with either a dried cherry or some jam. Lobster butter. Pound the spawn of a lobster with some fresh butter, if you hâve not enough spawn use alittle of the red skin of the méat as the butter must be of a good red colour, pass through a fine hair sieve, and serve.51 THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. FEBRUARY 20. MENU EN MAIGRE. Potage purée de navets à la crème. Barbue marinée. Bouchées de homard à la béchamel. Pilets rôtis. Artichauts à l’italienne. Gâteau aux amandes. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Purée of turnips with creain. Baked brill. Lobster patties à la béchamel. Roast pintail. Artichokes a l’Italienne. Almond cake. Baked brill. Clean your brill, make several deep cuts across the back, and soak for tvvo hours in olive oil, seasoned with sait, pepper, chives, a laurel leaf and the juice of a lemon. Dip into melted butter, sprinkle with sait, bread-crumbs, and bake. When done dish up on a purée of either sorrel or tomatoes. Préparé the paste the same as for oyster patties (see 3oth of January). Boil a lobster in court-bouillon (see i8th of April), chop it up very fine, warm in béchamel sauce, add some lobster butter, and pour into the patties. Trim your artichokes, remove the chokes, blanch in boiling water, eut into quarters, lay in the bottom of a stew-pan and boil in white wine, butter, and lemon juice; when done, drain and dish up, covered with white Italian sauce for fast day, which is done by making it with cream instead of stock (see i3th of OctoberJ. Lobster patties. Roast pintail, Cook the same as roast wild duck. Artichokes à l’Italienne, F. 2THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 52 FEBRUARY 21. Potage à la purée de haricots. Morue aux pommes de terre. Noix de veau en fricandeau. Terrine de Nérac. Nérac pâté. (Game pie from the south of France.) Baked cauhflower with bread- crumbs. - Omelet soufflé. Purée of haricot beans. Cod with potatoes. Fricandeau of veal. Choux-fleurs au gratin. Omelette soufflée. Cod and potatoes. Boil the cod in sait and water, when done, simrner in béchamel sauce (see iôth of August), and serve with slices of potato fried in boiling lard. Cut your potatoes into thin slices and plunge into boiling lard or butter, let it boil over two or three times, sprinkle with sait and white pepper, drain, and serve very hot. Choose a fine chump of veal, lard one side with thick fillets of bacon and the other side with fine ones, simmer for two or three hours in a stew-pan, with stock, sait, pepper, onions, carrots, a bouquet of herbs, two heads of cloves, trim- mings of beef and bacon, moisten occasionally with its own gravy, when done remove the veal, pass the sauce through a tammy, skim off the grease and reduce, when quite thick brown the veal in it. Dish up the fricandeau; add a little glaze and stock to the sauce, andeither pourit over the veal or keep it to flavour a purée of spinach or sorrel, which must be served with the veal. Fried potatoes. Fricandeau of veal.53 THE 366 B1LLS OF FARE. FEBRUARY 22. Potage de riz au kari. Alose grillée à l’oseille. Broiled shad and sorrel. Curry soup with rice. Poitrine de mouton braisée. f—y J A ■ • Canard sauvage rôti. Œufs farcis à la crème. Pommes en croustarde. Braised breast of mutton. Roast wild duck. Stuffed eggs with cream. Open apple tart. Broiled shad and sorrel. Thoroughly clean and wash your fish, make several slits down each side, and warm for a quarter of an hour in a saucepan with olive oil, sait, pepper, and a laurel leaf ; fill the slits with butter mixed with finely-chopped herbs, bake in the oven, and serve on a purée of sorrel. You can also broil it on a gridiron, in which case the slits must not be tilled with butter. Shell some hard-boiled eggs, eut them in half, lengthways, scoop out the yolks, and pound with the same quantity ot butter as there are yolks, a lump ofbread-crumb soaked in milk, finely-chopped parsley and chives, sait, a pinch of grated nut- meg, the same quantity of mixed spice and two or three raw yolks of egg ; when well pounded, pass through a fine sieve, spread a layer of tliis stuffing on a dish, fill the empty whites of egg with the remainder, and brown in the oven, pour some béchamel sauce (see iôth of August), made with double cream, over them, and serve. Stuffed eggs with cream.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 54 FEBRUARY 23. Poulets à la bonne femme. Rosbif à l’anglaise Pommes de terre sautées. Œufs à la neige. Potage à la crème d’orge. Raie au beurre noir. Purée of barlev. Skate, black butter sauce. Chicken à la bonne femme. Roast beef. Fried potatoes. Poaclied whites of egg. Purée of barley. Préparé the same as pure'e of rice (see 2 7th of February). Cut up your fowls into joints ; warm four ounces of chopped carrots, and the same quantity of onions in some butter, when brown, add the pièces of fowl, season with sait, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, toss over the fire for ten minutes ; stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour and five minutes after add a tumblerful of stock, a wineglass of white wine, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and half a pound of peeled tomatoes with ail the pips carefully removed. Cook over a slow fire for twenty-five minutes, add two punnets of mushrooms, peeled and cut up to the size of a florin, leave on the fire for ten minutes, take out the bouquet of herbs, season with an ounce of finely-chopped parsley, dish up the pièces of chicken in a pyramid and pour the sauce and vegetables over them. Brown your onions over a slow fire in butter and sait, when a good colour stir in a little flour, moisten with good stock, reduce and pass through a tarnrny. If required forsoup, some stock must be added to the puree, and fried biead handed Chickens à la bonne femme. Purée of onions à la bretonne. with it,55 THE 366 BILL S O F LA FF. FEBRUARY 24. Potage julienne. Truite au court-bouillon. Jambon d’York à l’anglaise. Pigeons rôtis. Champignons farcis. Gâteau à la crème. Julienne soup. Trout boiled in court-bouillon. York ham à l’anglaise. Roast pigeons. Stuffed mushrooms. Cream cake. Trout boiled in court-bouillon. Boil your trout in court-bouillon (see i8th of April) ; when done, drain and lay on a dish, on which you hâve placed a napkin and a bed of fresh parsley; reduce the sauce, thicken with a little flour, and hand in a sauceboat. York ham à l’anglaise. Cook the same as roast ham (see 2ist of April), and serve with stewed spinach. Braised leg of mutton. Bone a leg of mutton, leave the end of the bone, to use as a handle, lard with thick fillets of bacon, seasoned with mixed spices, sait, pepper, chopped parsley, and eschalots, tie or skewer up the mutton to its original form. Line a braising-pan with slices of beef, six carrots, and the same num- ber of onions, add the mutton, moisten with stock and half a tumblerful of brandy, season with laurel leaves, thyme, three heads of cloves, and two heads of garlic, cover with a sheet ol buttered paper, and simmer for five hours with hot coals on the lid of the braising-pan ; when done, drain the mutton and glaze it, serve with its own sauce passed through a tammy and cleared of ail grease, or with a purée of chicory. Chocolaté or coffee glaze for cakes. Boil a pound of sugar in half-a-pint of water in a preserving- pan ; when a thick syrup, stir in either some powdered chocolaté dissolved in a little water, or some strong coffee ; glaze your biscuits or cake with this, and place in the meat-screen until set.56 THE 366 BILLS O F TARE. FEBRUARY 25. Potage aux choux. Petit salé aux choux. Langue de veau sauce tomates. Pluviers ou vanneaux rôtis. Cardôns à la moelle. Madeleines. Cabbage soup. Sait pork and cabbage. Calf's tongue, tomato sauce. Roast plover or lapwings. Stewed cardoons and marrow. Madeleine cakes. Cabbage soup. Boil a piece of sait pork in water for an hour ; add a blanched cabbage eut into quarters, carrots, turnips, leeks, celery, an onion stuck with a head of clove, pepper, and a saveloy, simmer over a slow fire for four hours ; when ready to serve, pour the soup over slices of bread in a soup-tureen, hand the vegetables and pork in a separate dish. Sait pork and cabbage. See above for recipe. Calf’s tongue with tomato sauce Trirn and scald your tongue, and leave until cold ; lard it with fillets of bacon well seasoned with mixed spice and chopped herbs, simmer in a stew-pan for four hours, in stock seasoned with a bouquet of mixed herbs, two carrots, two onions, and three heads of cloves ; when done, split the tongue in half, skin it and serve, covered with tomato sauce. Roast plover. These birds must never be drawn, but wrapped up in slices of bacon and roasted. Lay some pièces of toast in the dripping- pan, and serve the plover on them. Purée of chicory -with. cream. Préparé thesame as purée of chicory (see 17* of February), but before serving stir in some cream, a lump of fresh butter, and a little flour.THE 366 B ILES OF FA RE. 57 FEBRUARY 26. Potage purée de pois au riz. Aloyau braisé à la royale. Brandade de morue. Purée of green peas with rice. Cream of sait cod. Braised sirloin of beef à la royale. Artichauts frits. Poulet rôti. Roast chickens. Fried artichokes. Biscuit glacé au chocolat. Savoy cake glazed with chocolaté. Purée of green peas with rice. Make a purée of green peas (see 23rd of January), when your soup is ready to serve, add some boiled rice to it. Soak the pickled cabbage in boiling water for ten minutes, drain and dry in a cloth. Boil, in stock, a little dripping and coarSe black pepper ; when cooked, arrange round a dish, and fill the centre with stewed oysters (see 8th of April). Bone your sirloin and roll it \ lard with plenty of fillets of bacon, place in a braising-pan and braise (see 28th of May) ; as soon as it boils, make a smaller fire and simmer for four hours ; take out the beef and reduce the sauce to a glaze, pass through a tammy and skim off ail grease. Warm the beef in this sauce, and serve covered with it. Cook your spinach in fresh butter ; when done, stir in some pounded maccaroons, sugar, grated lemon-peel, and a pinch of sait. Hand sponge fingers with this dish. Savoy or sponge cake glazed with chocolaté. Make a Savoy cake (see i3th of August), and glaze with chocolaté (see 24th of February). Pickled cabbage with oysters. Braised sirloin of beef à la royale. Sweet spinach.5§ THE 366 BILL S OF FARE. FEBRUARY 27. Potage à la purée d’oignons bretonne. Quartier d’agneau tarci. Oie en daube. Goujons frits. Asperges en branche. Flan de creme à la frangipane. Purée of onions à la bretonne. , Stuffed forequarter of larnb. Cold braised goose. Friedgudgeon. Boiled asparagus. Marrow frangipane.tart. Purée of rice. Boil some rice in chicken broth for an hour, pass through a tammy, add the necessary quantity of stock, season with sait and pepper, warm and serve with dice of fried bread. Truss your goose for boiling, and co ver it with slices of bacon well seasoned with finely-chopped parsley, chives, eschalots, half a head of garlic, thyme, sage, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, Peel some roasted chestnuts, warm them in iresh butter, and fill the goose with them ; line a braising-pan with slices of bacon, put in the goose, cover with more bacon, and moisten with equal quantities of water, stock, and white wine ; surround the goose with pièces of knuckle of veal, four carrots, four onions, four heads of cloves, a parsnip, whoie black peppers, mixed spices, and a bouquet of herbs. Simmer for four hours ; when done, place the goose on a dish ; skim ail grease off the sauce, pass it through a tammy, reduce, and leave until cold, when it will become a jelly ; garnish the goose with it, and serve. Cold braised goose. See 4th of December.TI-IE 366 B/LLS O F FA RE. 59 FEBRUARY 28. Potage aux laitues. Maquereaux bouillis. Lettuce soup. Boiled mackerel, Côtelettes de mouton à la jardinière. Canetons de Rouen rôtis. Mutton cutlets à la jardinière. Roast duckling. Stuffed lettuce. Pistachio cake. Laitue à la flamande. Gâteau de pistaches. Lettuce soup. Blanch your lettuces and drain them, simmer over a slow lire in a little stock, and leave until they hâve absorbed ail the liquid, after which add the required quantity of soup, and when hot pour into a soup-tureen, on slices of bread. Trim the cutlets, melt some fresh butter in a shallow sauce- pan, add the cutlets, and season with sait, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, when done on one side, turn the cutlets ; as soon as they are thoroughly cooked, arrange them round an entrée dish, and garnish the centre with the following vege- tables : Take some button mushrooms, french beans, gyeen peas, young carrots, and turnips, eut into small balls, and boil in stock ; moisten some brown thickening with stock and simmer the vegetables in it until the sauce is quite thick ; place a fine white head of boiled cauliflower in the centre of the cutlets, and surround with these vegetables. Préparé the sarne way as Russian salad (see 3ist of October), leaving out the partridge and chicken. Mutton cutlets à la jardinière. Vegretable salad and smoked salmon.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 6o FEBRUARY 29. MENU EN MAIGRE. Purée de pois verts au riz. Cabillaud à la hollandaise. Choucroute aux huîtres. Écrevisses en buisson. Salade de légumes garnie de saumon fumé. Blanc-manger. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Purée of green peas and rice. Cod à la hollandaise. Pickled cabbage and oysters. Crayfish. Vegetable salad with smoked sa! mon. Blanc-mange. Purée of haricot beans. Préparé the same aspure'e of haricot beans (see 2nd ofjuly), but for fast days use cream or milk instead of stock. Blanc-mange of almonds. Blanch one pound of sweet almonds and half an ounce of bitter almonds, soak in cold water, so as to make them per- fectly white, pound in a mortar and moisten gradually with two pints of milk, squeeze through a cloth into a bowl. Dissolve two ounces of gélatine and three quarters of a pound of sugar in a pint and a half of water, when cold add to the milk of almonds, flavour with a little orange-flower water, pour into a mould and place in the refrigerator for two hours, by which time it will hâve set. Mushrooms on toast. Peel your mushrooms and place in a saucepan with a lump of fresh butter, chopped parsley and chives, sait, black pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg and some stock, toss them until cooked. Butter some round slices of crust of bread, toast them, and place on a dish. Thicken the sauce of the mush- rooms with yolks of egg, squeeze some lemon juice over them, and dish up on the pièces of toast.61 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. MARC H 1. Potage à la purée de lentilles. Carpe à l’étuvée. Cote de bœuf braisée au macaroni. Accolade de lapereaux rôtis. Artichauts à la bonne femme. Tartelettes de pommes. Purée of lentils. Stevved carp. Braised ribs of beef with maccaroni. Brace of young rabbits roasted. Artichokes à la bonne femme. Apple tartlets. Stewed carp. Warm some fresh butter, a pinch of flour, and a few young onions in a stew-pan ; when brown, add your carp eut into thick slices, moisten with stock and red wine, and season with butter, parsley, chives, eschalots, thyme, laurel leaves, mush- rooms, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and young onions, stew over a quick fire, and serve, garnished with fried sippets of bread. Braised ribs of beef with maccaroni. Boneand roll the ribs of beef, and braise with white wine (see 28th of May) ; when cooked, remove the beef, pass the sauce through a tammy, skim off ail fat, pour half into a sauceboat, add the remaining half to some boiled maccaroni, season with sait, pepper, a lump of fresh butter, and grated Parmesan or Gruyère cheese ; place on a dish, and lay the ribs of beef on it. Artichokes à la bonne femme. Trim the artichokes, and boil in boiling sait and water ; when done, plunge them into cold water, eut out the chokes and warm them in boiling water, drain, and dish up, well-covered with white sauce (see 2 3rd of August).62 THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. MARCH 2. Potage brunoise aux pâtes d’Italie. Châteaubriand grillé. Brunoise soup with Italian paste. Broiled fillets of beef à la Chateau- briand. Croquettes de poisson. Pâté de foies gras Asperges en branches. Chartreuse de pommes. Fish croquettes. Pâté of foie gras. Asparagus. Apple chartreuse or marmalade. Broiled fillets of beef à la Chateaubriand. Cut your fillets at least two incites thick, soak in oil for an hour, and broil. Serve with Chateaubriand sauce (see 2ist of March), and garnish with fried potatoes and trufiles. Peel twenty fine cooking apples, scoop out the cores, cut them in half and slice them, boil a third of them in water, sugar, and a pinch of saffron, drain, and boil the other third with cochineal, and the remainder in plain sugar and water, line a mould with buttered paper, stick some thin strips of angelica round the sides in any pattern you may fancy, place the different coloured slices of apple in rings round the mould and fill the centre with a marmalade made from the apple trimmings, turn out of the mould, and serve. If a white chartreuse is preferred, the apples must be soaked in lemon juice and water before being cooked. Apple chartreuse or marmalade.63 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. MA RC H 3. Consommé aux profiteroles. Brochet sauce aux câpres. Chou farci. Selle de mouton rôtie. Purée de haricots. Omelette soufflée. Clear soup with profit rolls. Pike with caper sauce. Stuffed cabbage. Roast saddle of mutton. Purée of haricot beans. Omelet soufflé. Stuffed cabbage. Choose a large white, close cabbage, take off ail the hard green outside leaves, and blanch it ; eut ont the heart and press between two plates to squeeze out ail water. Make a stuffing with finely-minced sausage-meat, four yolks of egg and marrow, mix well together and spread a teaspoonful between each leaf, tie up the cabbage to its original shape—be careful not to eut the leaves with the string—sirnmer over a slow fire in stock, season with a bouquet of herbs, onions, a saveloy, carrots, a pinch of grated nutrneg, sait, and black pepper, cover the whole with slices of bacon ; shake the stew-pan occasionally so that the cabbage may not stick to the bottom and get burnt. Dish up the cabbage after cutting off the string. Pass the sauce through a tammy, clear of ail grease, stir in a little thin browning, and pour over the cabbage.64 THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. MARCH 4. Potage à la française. Bœuf bouilli sauce Robert. Poularde en entrée de broche. Carpes frites. Choux de Bruxelles au beurre. Biscuit glacé au chocolat. French soup. Boiled beef with Robert sauce. Roast fowl with tomato sauce. Fried carp. Brussels sprouts with butter. Savoy or sponge cake glazed with chocolaté. ' Bobert sauce. Brown some slices of onion in butter, and add a little flour. Moisten with stock, white wine, and a few drops of vinegar, boil for half an hour, skim ofif ail grease, season with sait and pepper, stir in a teaspoonful of mustard, and serve. Choose a fine fowl, stufif it with butter mixed with the juice of a lemon and a little sait, truss as if for boiling. Rub the breast with lemon juice, sprinkle with sait and pepper, lay slices of lemon on it, with no peel or pips, wrap up in slices of bacon and a buttered sheet of paper, roast on the spit with the back of the fowl nearest the fire ; it will take about an hour to cook ; remove the bacon, &c., and serve with tomato sauce. Cook a brill in sait and water over a slow fire ; do not let it boil, or the fish will break ; drain it, and serve with béchamel tauce (see i6th of August) in a sauceboat. Boast fowl with tomato sauce. Brill, béchamel sauce.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 65 MARC H 5. Potage brunoise. Alose à la hollandaise. Pigeons en ragoût d’écrevisses. Rosbif en broche. Salsifis frits. Meringues à la crème. Brunoise soup. Boiled shad, Plollandaise sauce. Stevved pigeons and Cray fi.sh. Roast beef. Fried salsifis. Meringues with cream. Boiled shad, Hollandaise sauce. Clean out the shad by the gills, but do not scale it. Boil in sait and water, when quite boiling make a smaller fire and simmer for half-an-hour. Dish up, garnished with fresh parsley and boiled potatoes. Hand some Hollandaise sauce separately. Stewed pigeons with crayfish. Blanch your pigeons and beat the backs so as to spread out the breasts, boil in equal quantities of stock and white wine, and season with sait and pepper, a bouquet of parsley, chives, and two heads of cloves ; when done take them out of the stew- pan and cook some mushrooms, twelve shelled crayfish, and a * little flour in the sauce of the pigeons, boil for half an hour, reduce and thicken the sauce with yolks of egg and cream, season with finely-chopped parsley and a pinch of grated nut- meg, pour over the pigeons, and serve, garnished with the heads of the crayfish. F66 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. MARCïI 6. Potage au vermicelle. Filets de soles à l’italienne. Pluviers rôtis en entrée de broche. Rognon de veau rôti. Asperges à la sauce blanche. Soufflé de riz. Vermicelli soup. Fillets of sole, Italian sauce. Roast plover with stewed mush- rooms. Roast calf’s kidney. Asparagus with white sauce. Rice soufflé. Roast plover with stewed mushrooms. Choose some young fat golden plover ; chop up the trail with parsley, eschalots, sait, pepper, and scraped bacon, stuft the plover with it, cover with slices of bacon and buttered sheets of paper, and roast. When done, serve on stewed mushrooms (see 27th ofNovember). Asparagus with white sauce. Scrape and wash some fine heads of asparagus, tie them up into small bundles, cook in boiling sait and water, take off the fire before the asparagus becomes too soft, serve with white sauce, handed separately. Rice soufflé. Boil seven ounces of rice flour in a pint of milk with a little sugar and some pounded maccaroons, stir until it becomes a thick smooth paste, flavour with vanilla or lemon, add four or five yolks of egg, whip up the whites of the eggs and stir them in, pour into a souffle' dish, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. A potato souffle' is pre- pared in the same manner, only potato flour is used instead of rice.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 67 MARCH 7.. Potage paysanne. Lamproie à l’italienne. Culotte de bœuf braisée. Volaille rôtie. Pommes de terre à l’anglaise. Crème à la vanille. Lampreys à l’italienne. Potatoes à l’anglaise. Vanilla cream. Braised rump-steak. Roast fowl. Peasant soup. Lamprey à l’Italienne. Fillet a fine lamprey and stevv in a tumblerful of white wine, a wine-glass of olive oil, chopped young onions, mixed herbs and four heads of garlic, when boiling add the juice of a lemon, and reduce the sauce. The garlic can be omitted if not liked. Peel your potatoes and boil in sait and water. Melt a lump of fresh butter in a saucepan, slice the potatoes, warm in the butter, season with sait and pepper, and serve. Do not let the butter clarify. This garnish is composed of knuckle of ham, bacon, sausages, german sausage, carrots, turnips, and glazed onions. The larger part of the garnish is composed of well boiled white cabbages, which hâve been thoroughly dried in a saucepan ; brussels sprouts can also be used. This is an excellent garnish for a rump-steak, a fillet of beef, or a roast ham. Potatoes à 1’Ang-laise. Flemish garnish. F 268 THE 366 BILLE O F FA RE. MARC H 8. Potage de riz Crécy. Gigot bouilli sauce aux câpres. Anguille à l’anglaise. Vanneaux rôtis. Céleri-rave à la demi-glace. Beignets de pommes à la d’Orléans. Purée of carrot and rice. Boiled leg of muttou, caper sauce. Eel à l’anglaise. Roast lapwings. Glazed celery roots. Apple fritters à la d’Orléans. Eel, Engrlish fashion. Soak some thick slices ofeel for twenty-four hours in vinegar sait, pepper, and the peel of tvvo or three lemons ; dry them in a cloth and either roll in some very thin paste or dip into batter, fry until a good colour. Reduce some stock until thick, add the juice of a lemon, stir in some anchovy, and hand in a sauceboat with the fried eel. Do not draw your lapwings, wrap them up in slices of bacon and a buttered sheet of paper ; lay some slices of fried bread in the dripping-pan, roast the birds and serve on bread. Lap- wing’s eggs are very excellent to eat and difficult to procure. Rcll out some brioche paste (see 24th of December), peel and scoop out the cores of some cooking apples, eut them in half, stew in syrup, drain and leave until cold. Roll each piece in some of the paste, and plunge into boiling lard. Boil the skate in sait and water, place in a dish, and cover with black butter sauce. Garnish with pickled gherkins and fried parsley. Roast lapwing's. Apple fritters à la d’Orléans. Skate witli black butter sauce.THE 366 BTLLS OF FARE. 69 MARCH 9. Potage Condé. Carpe garnie d’un ragoût de lait- ances. Jambon à la choucroute. Caneton de Rouen rôti. Artichauts frits. Tartelettes à la vanille. Condé soup. Carp with stevved 10e. Plam and pickled cabbage. Roast duckling. Fried artichokes. Vanilla tartlets. Fried artichokes. Cut your artichokes into slices lengthways, remove the chokes, cut off the tops of the leaves, trim the bottoms, wash them in vinegar and water, drain them and dip into a thin paste, made ofeggs, flour, cream, pepper, sait, and half a wine- glass of brandy ; fry in either olive oil or lard ; serve garnished with fried parsley and sprinkled with sait. Vanilla tartlets. Pound five ounces of Jordan almonds and the same quantity of sugar in a mortar, add one ounce of powdered sugar and some vanilla sugar. Whip up six whites of egg, add the almonds and sugar ; line your tartlet-pans with some light paste and fill with the whipped eggs, bake in a slow oven, glaze with some white sugar, and serve either hot or cold.70 THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. MARC H 10. MENU EN MAIORE. Potage à la Monaco. Alose grillée à l’oseille. Salmis de pilets. Brochet farci et rôti. Œufs à la tripe. Gâteau de riz. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. White soup à la Monaco. Broiled shad and sorrel. Salmis of pintail. Stufled roast pike. Eggs à la tripe. Rice cake. White soup à la Monaco. Cut up sortie bread into slices, sprinkle with powdered sugar, toast and place them in a soup-tureen, sprinkle with sait ; pour some boiling cream or milk, thickened with yolks of egg, over the toast, and serve. Broiled shad with sorrel. Soak your shad for an hour in olive oil, seasoned with mixed herbs, sait, and pepper. Broil on the gridiron, moisten with the oil in which it was soaked, and serve on a pure'e of sorrel (see 23rd ofDecember). Stufled roast pike. Keep your pike for two days after catching ; scale, draw it, and lard with fillets of anchovies and gherkins, and stuff with egg stuffing (see iôth of December). Spread some branches of mixed herbs, sprinkled with mixed spice and sait, on a large sheet of buttered paper, in which wrap the pike, fasten it on with skewers and roast, baste with white wine and melted butter. Serve with thick piquante sauce (see 2Ôth of June). Nun’s sig-hs. Warm a lump of butter the size ofa walnut, a lumpof sugar, a little lemon-peel, and a pinch of sait in a tumblerful of water, let it boil over two or three times ; stir in some flour until it becomes a thick paste, and continue stirring until it is cooked, which you can tell, if the paste does not stick to yourfinger; leave in the saucepan until cold, then stir in one egg at a time until it is thin enough to drop out of a spoon. lake a dessert spoon and drop lumps of the paste about the size of a walnut into lard which is not quite boiling, take out when swollen to four times their original size and of a golden colour. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot ; they are also very nicecokl. The flavouring can be varied by omitting the lemon-peel and stirring in a little orange-flower water with the first egg.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. V MARC H 11. Consommé aux croûtes grillées. Poule au pot. Sauté de lapereaux. Rosbif rôti. Choux-fleurs gratinés au Parmesan. Crème au chocolat. Soup with baked bread-crusts. Fowl boiled in stock. Young rabbits fried. Roast beef. Baked cauliflowers with Parmesan cheese. Chocolaté cream. Fowl boiled in stock. Cook your fowl in uncleared stock after the vegetables hâve been put in (see ist of July), simmer until sufficiently done, serve sprinkled with coarse sait, and hand sorae bourgeoise sauce in a sauceboat. Young1 rabbits fried. Cut up your rabbits into joints, soak in water and dry in a cloth to remove ail blood, warm some butter seasoned with mixed spices, sait, and pepper in a frying-pan, toss the pièces of rabbit in it until quite firm, sprinkle with chopped parsley and eschalots, leave on the fire for a few minutes, and serve. Only very young rabbits can be used for this dish. Chocolaté cream. Stir two ounces of powdered sugar into a pint of double cream, boil until reduced to about half the quantity ; when cold, add the yolks of three eggs, and two ounces of finely-grated chocolaté ; cook in a bain-marie ; when done, pour into a glass dish, and serve cold. Chocolaté Angers with cream. Make some paste, the same as for nun’s sighs (see ioth of March), only keep it thick enough to roll out and cut into the shape of ladies’ Angers ; bake in the oven, glaze with chocolaté (see 24th of February), and fill with chocolaté cream.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. Garnish. à la Godard. MARC H 12. Potage au tapioca. Tapioca soup. Cabillaud à la hollandaise. Poularde à la bourgeoise. Boiled fowl, bourgeoise sauce. Cod à la hollandaise. Gigot d’agneau rôti. Champignons au gratin. Roast leg of lamb. Baked mushrooms. Gâteau de semoule à la crème. Semolina cake with cream. Cod à la Hollandaise. Clean out your cod, fill it with coarse sait, rub the sides and sprinkle them with fine sait, and leave in a cool place for three or four hours. Two hours before cooking it, wash the cod, make several slits down the back, tie a string round the head, and soak in milk and water. Boil in boiling sait and water, add two pints of boiling milk, and leave on the fire for three-quarters of an hour, if a very large fish it will take a little longer to cook. When done dish up on a napkin, garnished with boiled potatoes and fresh parsley. Melt some fresh butter in a bain-marie, season with sait, pepper, a pinch of mixed spice, and the juice of a lemon \ hand in a sauceboat with the cod. This is used chiefly for garnishing roast turkeys, fat pullets or a fillet of beef. Boil some large truffles, cockscombs and sweet- breads larded with fillets of truffles in stock, season with sait and pepper, cook some large quenelles (see 3rd of September) in the same stock and garnish your dish.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 73 MARCH 13. Potage au macaroni avec Parmesan. Épaule de mouton en ballon aux oignons glacés. Poulet à la chasseur. Pâté de saumon, ou poissons frits. Salade de pommes de terre. Éclairs aux œufs. Maccaroni Soup with Parmesan cheese. Braised shoulder of mutton and glazed onions. Grilled chicken à la Chasseur. Salmon pie or fried fish. Potato salad. Chocolaté lingers with cream. Braised shoulder of mutton and glazed onions. Eone your shoulder of mutton, leaving the stump to use as a handle, lard with bacon well seasoned with chopped herbs, sait, and pepper, roll the mutton into the shape of a balloon, and sew together with a trussing-needle. Line a braising-pan with slices of bacon, put in the shoulder of mutton, add the shoulder-bone, some carrots, onions, two heads of cloves, laurel-leaves, thyme, and some stock; cover with slices of bacon and a buttered sheet of paper, and simmer over a slow lire. When done, eut the string with which it has been sewn to- gether, and dish up, garnished with glazed onions (see 14Ü1 of January). Grilled chicken à la Chasseur. If possible procure some young chickens for this dish, split them down the back and beat until flat ; if you hâve large fowls, they must be eut up into joints. Soak for an hour in olive oil, seasoned with sait, pepper, slices of onion, parsley, and lemon juice ; bread-crumb lightly, and grill on a gridiron; if eut up into joints, dish up in a pyramid. Add some slices of fried onion and chopped ham to some Madeira sauce (see içth of August), and pour over the grilled chicken.THE 366 BILLS OF FARR. 74 MARCH 14. Potage crème de riz à la peluche de cerfeuil. Esturgeon au court-bouillon. Langue de bœuf au gratin. Canards sauvage rôtis. Asperges à l’huile. Omelette au rhum. Purée of rice with chervil. Stewed sturgeon. Baked ox-tongue. Roast wild duck. Asparagus with oil and vinegar. Rum omelet. Stewed sturgeon. Choose either a small sturgeon, or hâve a slice from a large one, boil in court-bouillon (see i8th of April), cover the lid of the saucepan with hot coals, moisten the fish occasionally with the sauce in which it is boiling, and serve with Italian sauce, to which add some of the fish liquor reduced, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Baked ox-tongue. Trim your tongue and braise it (see 28th of May); when cooked, skin it, and leave until cold. Cut it up into thick slices. Pound the crumb of a stale loaf in a mortar, with some chopped parsley, chives, three eschalots, a few tarragon- leaves, capers, an anchovy, and fresh butter, cover the bottom of a plated or tin dish with half of this stuffing, lay the slices of tongue on it, and cover with the remaining half; sprinkle with a little melted butter and stock, and bake, serve when a good colour. Asparagus with. oil and vinegar. Cook the same as asparagus (see 6th of March), but hand oil and vinegar with it, instead of white sauce.75 THE 366 BTLLS OF TARE. MARC H 15. Potage à la parisienne. Bœuf à la mode. Pluviers en salmis. Alose rôtie. Petits pois nouveaux à l’anglaise. Crêpes. Green peas à l’anglaise. Parisian soup. Bœuf à la mode. Salmis of plover. Roast shad. Pancakes. Roast shad. You must hâve a fine, fat shad to be able to cook it in this manner. Clean and scale your fish, make several slits down the sides, do not eut too deep, and soak for an hour in olive oil, season with sait, pepper, parsley, chives, and thyme ; turn the fish several finies whilst soaking, roast, and baste it with the olive oil. Dish up on a napkin, and garnish with fresh parsley. The best manner to carve such a large fish is to make a deep incision down the back from head to tail, and then to eut off slices down the side ; ten good helpings ought to be eut ofï a shad twenty-five inches long without touching the inferior parts of the fish. Cut off the fins before serving. The roe of the sturgeon is excellent Fry the fillets in hot melted butter, when done, cover with Italian sauce (see i3th of October). Take three tablespoonfuls of béchamel sauce (see iôth of August), stir in a bowl with two yolks of egg, a little sait, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; when well mixed, add some olive oil, drop by drop, until the sauce is quite thick, flavour with a few drops of tarragon, add a little finely-chopped chervil, tarragon, and eschalot. Serve in a sauceboat. Fillets of sole with. Italian sauce. Tartare sauce.76 THE 366 BILES OF TARE. MARC H 16. Potage aux pâtes d’Italie. Clear soup with Italian paste. Broiled plaice. Sirloin of beef à la Godard. Carrelets grillés. Aloyau à la Godard. Volaille rôtie. Céleri au jus. Parfait au café. Roast fowl. Stewed celery. Coffee blanc-mange. Broiled plaice. Clean and wash your fish, dip into olive oil, sprinkle with sait and pepper, place a mat of straw reeds, like those used for cream cheeses, on the gridiron, broil the fish on it over a slow fiie ; when done, cover with caper sauce (see 3rd of May). Trim and bone your sirloin, roll the topside and tie round with string, put it in a braising-pan and braise (see 28th of May). When the beef is cooked, place it on a dish, pass the vegetables and sauce through a tammy, skim off ail grease and warm in a saucepan with a little stock, sliced sweet-breads, some bottoms of artichokes eut into quarters, button mushrooms, and add at the last some fried eggs. Garnish the beef with it, and serve. Warm a lump of butter the size of a walnut, a pinch of black pepper, some grated nutmeg, and a tumblerful of cream, let it boil over two or three times, stir in some fiour until it becomes a thick paste, leave until cold, add one egg at a time until the paste is thin enough to drop out of a spoon, take a teaspoonful at a time of the paste and drop into boiling water. W hen poached the quenelles will he ready to serve. Sirloin of beef à la Godard. Cream quenelles.77 THE 366 BILES OF FARE. MARC H 17 Consommé aux quenelles. Truite à la Chambord. Lapereau en papillote. Selle d’agneau rôti, cresson. Roast saddle of lamb and water- Trout à la Chambord. Broiled young rabbits in cases. Clear soup with quenelles. cresses. Epinards au velouté. Tourte à la crème d’amandes. Spinach with velouté sauce. Open tart with almond créant. Trout à la Chambord. Plunge the trout into boiling water and skin them, after which vvash them thoroughly in several waters, drain, and cook in wine marinade sauce (see 3rd of December), when done, drain and place on a dish. Cook sonie larded sweet- breads, fish quenelles, and crayfish in financière sauce (see 2 7th of December), and garnish the trout with them. Cut up the rabbits into joints, remove ail the larger bones, and cover each piece with the following stuffing: take some stale grated bread-crumb, scraped bacon, finely-chopped parsley, eschalots, mushrooms, sait, pepper, and a head of garlic, mix well together. Cover each piece with a slice of bacon, and wrap up in a case of buttered paper, broil over a slow fire, and serve in the cases. Roll and skewer the flanks of the saddle, wrap it up in buttered sheets of paper, roast for an hour and a half, baste frequentiy, and serve with its own gravy. Broiled young- rabbits in cases. Roast saddle of lamb.73 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. MARCH 18. Potage au pain. Bread soup. Braised beef with tomato sauce. Pièce de bœuf sauce tomates. Anguille au soleil. Pintades rôties. Fried eel. Roast guinea fowl. Green peas and butter. Meringues with cream. Petits pois au beurre. Meringues à la crème. Fried eel. Cut an eel into thick slices, and boil in marinade sauce (see 3rd of December) ; when cold, drain it, bread-crumb and dip into eggs beaten up with sait and pepper, fry the pièces of eel, and serve, covered with ravigote sauce (see 2çth of May). Whip up twelve whites of eggs with an egg-whisk until a thick cream ; stir in a pound of sifted sugar, flavour with either essence of vanilla or lime juice, lay some sheets of paper on a slab of wood, take a table-spoonful at a time of the whipped egg, drop on the paper in an oval shape, smooth the surface by drawing the spoon quickly over it, sprinkle with sifted sugar, and bake in a slow oven until a golden colour. When done take the meringues carefully ofif the paper, scoop out the centres with a spoon, place them in a sieve, and dry in the oven. Just before serving, fill the merin- gues with whipped cream, flavoured with either vanilla or lemon juice and a little powdered sugar, join two halves together, and dish up in a pyramid. This garnish is composed of fat goose’s liver, kidneys, cocks- combs, truffles, and quenelles of fowl, ail cooked in Spanish sauce (see 3rd of November), with the addition of a wine- glassful of sherry; and is mostly used for garnishing fat pullets, fowls, or fillets of beef. Garnish. à la financière.79 THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. MARC II 19. Consommé aux œufs pochés. Tanches au court-bouillon. Tendrons d’agneau aux pointes d’asperges. Rosbif à l’anglaise. Pommes de terre sautées. Crème d’amandes. Clear soup with poached eggs. Tench boiled in court-bouillon. Braised breasts of lamb and asparagus. Roast beef. Fried potatoes. Almond cream. Tench boiled in court-bouillon. Scale and clean your tench, and boil in court-bouillon (see i8th of April) ; when done, serve with white caper sauce in a sauceboat. Braised breasts of lamb and asparagus. Put two breasts of lamb in a braising-pan, and braise them (see 2 8th of May) ; when cooked, leave in the braising-pan until cold ; eut them up into pièces, and cook in a stew-pan with some clear ■ stock, leave on the lire until reduced to a glaze. Dish up with a fried slice of bread between each piece of lamb, and garnish the centre of the dish with stewed asparagus (see 2 8th of April). Almond cream. Blanch three ounces of Jordan almonds, three bitter almonds, and pound them ; stir into apint of boiling cream, pass through a hair sieve, and add three yolks of egg, three ounces of powdered sugar, and a little orange-flower water j cook in a bain-marie ; when done, pour into a glass dish, and serve cold, garnished with burnt almonds. Garnish à la Chipolata. This garnish is composed of Chipolata sausages, lean bacon peeled roast chestnuts, carrots eut into small round balls, and button mushrooms, cooked in Spanish sauce (see 3rd of November).8o THE 366 BILLS O F FA FF. MARCHE 20. MENU EN MAIGRE. Julienne maigre. Truite sauce genevoise. Macaroni en timbale. Sarcelles rôties. Haricots rouges à la bourguignonne. Gâteau de riz au caramel. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Julienne soup for fast day. Trout, Geneva sauce. Timbale of maccaroni. Roast teal. Red haricot beans à -la bourgui- gnonne. Rice cake with burnt sugar. Timbale of maccaroni. Boil your maccaroni in sait and water, when done, drain, and season with pepper, fresh butter, and equal quantities of grated Parmesan and Gruyère cheese. Line a mould with some short paste rolled out very thin, fill with the maccaroni, cover with paste, and lay a sheet of buttered paper over it to prevent the paste getting burnt, bake in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour, or longer if it is a very large mould ; when cooked, turn it out of the mould and serve very hot. Red haricot beans à la bourguignonne. Boil some red haricot beans in the stock of julienne for fast days (see 3oth of June), add a lump of butter, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and an onion stuck with cloves. When quite- cooked, remove the onion and bouquet of herbs, and stir in a little red wine, sait, and pepper. Serve hot. Semolina quenelles. Stir five yolks of egg. six ounces of fine semolina, sait and a pinch of grated nutrneg into six ounces ot tiesh butter. Take a dessert-spoonful at a time of this paste and poach in boiling water, when the quenelles will be ready for use.8 r THE 366 BTLLS OF TARE. MARC H 21. Potage Crécy. Bar à l’eau de sel. Côtelettes de porc frais grillées, sauce poivrade. Dinde rôtie. Asperges en branches. Pains de la Meccpte. Purée of carrots. Boiled bass. Pork cutlets with poivrade sauce. Roast turkey-hen. Asparagus. Mecca loaves. Boiled bass. Clean, scrape, and wash your fish, drain it, and cook in warm sait and water ; as soon as it boils, take the fish-pan off the fire and place it near enough to the lire for the water to si ramer for twenty minutes, leave the fish in its liquor until time to serve it. Dish up on a napkin, garnished with fresh parsley and boiled potatoes. Poivrade sauce. Take a tumblerful of vinegar, a quarter of an ounce of laurel- leaves, the same quantity of thyrae and onion, one ounce of chopped parsley, one ounce of chopped eschalot, sait, and *■ pepper, simmer in a saucepan until reduced, but do not let ic burn ; stir in an ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of flour, and some stock, continue stirring for a quarter of an hour, with a wooden spoon, take off the fire, and serve. Chateaubriand sauce. Melt some méat glaze in a little white wine, stir in some Spanish sauce (see 3rd of November), and when time to serve thicken with maitre d’hôtel sauce (see 23rd of March). o82 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. MARC H 22. Potage purée de pommes de terre à la peluche de cerfeuil. Alose à la hollandaise. Côtelettes de mouton aux pointes d’asperges. Bécassines rôties. Artichauts à la barigoule. Biscuit au beurre. Purée of potatoes with chervil. Boiled shad, hollandaise sauce. Mutton cutlets with asparagus. Roast snipe. Stuffed articliokes à là barigoule. Butter biscuits. Purée of rice with chervil. Make a purée of rice (see 2 7th of February), stir in the necessary quantity of stock, and two teaspoonsful of chopped chervil. Leg of mutton à la Provençale. Hang a leg of mutton until very tender; lard it with fillets of anchovies, garlic, and bacon, wrap it up in a sheet of paper spread with lard, roast, and serve with piquante sauce. Stuffed artichokes à la barigoule. Choose some young artichokes oi medium size, eut out the chokes, trim the leaves, and blanch them. Warm some chopped parsley, mushrooms, eschalots, scraped bacon, a pinch of mixed spice, sait, and pepper, in butter; when done, Ml the artichokes with this stuffing, tie a string round them to keep the leaves in their original shape, and place them in a sauce- pan, covered with slices of bacon, and sprinkled with olive oil, fix the lid on tight, and when cooked, serve the arti- chokes with their own sauce reduced, or with Italian sauce.33 THE 366 B/LLS OF FARE. G 2 MARC H 23. Consommé aux lazagnes. Goujons frits. Fricassée de poulets. Gigot rôti. Purée de navets. Gâteau de riz. Clear soup with Italian paste. Fried gudgeon. Fricassée of foivl. Roast leg oi' mutton, Purée of turnips. Rice cake. Fricassée of fowl. Cut up your fowls into joints and soak in warm water until thoroughly clean, dip the pièces into cold water, drain, singe the legs, so as to remove the skin, split the gizzards, cut off the heads and use the best half of the necks ; wash the livers, sprinkle the whole with flour and warm in a saucepan, stir them ail the time so that the butter may not brown, after five minutes add some stock, two heads of cloves, cockscombs, pièces of sweet-bread, mushrooms, morels, a bouquet of mixed herbs, sait, and pepper; simmer over a moderate fire until sufficiently done, thicken the sauce with yolks of egg, a little cream and lemon juice ; pile the pièces of chicken in an entrée dish, reserving the breasts and wings for the last, pour the sauce over them and garnish with large crayfish. This excellent entrée rnust be numbered amongst the classical dishes of French culinary art. Take a tablespoonful of mixed herbs, composed half of finely-chopped parsley, a quarter of chervil leaves, and a quarter of watercress, mix into a pound of fresh butter, add one or two chopped tarragon leaves, the juice of a lemon and two or three yolks of egg, this butter will keep a long time. Maître d’hôtel butter.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 84 MARCH 24. Potage Faubonne. Faubonne soup. Saumon sauce genevoise, Poularde à la Grimod. Salmon, Geneva sauce. Fowl à la Grimod. Roast fillet of beef. Filet de bœuf rôti. Asperges au beurre. Œufs à la neige. Asparagus with butter. Poached whites of egg. Fowl à la Grimod de la Reyniere. Clean and truss a fine fowl or fat pullet, beat the back so as to flatten the breast as much as possible, fill it with a stuffing composed of chopped truffles, chicken’s liver, mush- rooms, parsley, chives, sait, coarse black pepper, beef marrow, and a little butter and lard. Warm the fowl for a few minutes in melted butter, and cover it with slices of crumb of bread, eut the length of the fowl and about a quarter of an inch thick, lay some slices of lean ham of the same size over them, and wrap the whole in a buttered paper, roast, and serve with its own gravy. Préparé the same as stuffed mushrooms (see 4thof September). Boil a pint of milk, two tablespoonsful of orange-flower water and four ounces of sugar in a saucepan ; whip up six whites of egg and drop in a dessert-spoonful at a time of the whipped egg into the milk ; when poached,place them on adish, thicken the milk with beaten yolks of egg, and pour over the poached whites. Serve cold. Baked nmshrooms with bread-crumbs. Poached whites of egg.8S THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. MARCH 25. Potage au pain. Bread soup. Bœuf bouilli garni de choux. Boiled beef and cabbage. Barbue à la Parmesane. Baked brill with Parmesan clieese. , Jambon rôti. Roast ham. Epinards au jus. Stewed spinach. Darioles à la duchesse. Duchess cakes. Baked brill with Parmesan cheese. Break up any pièces of brill wliich may hâve been left from the previous day’s dinner, take out ail the bones, and warm in thick bechamel sauce (see iôth of August) ; place on a tin or plated dish, smooth with the blade of a knife dipped in boiling water, bread-crumb, and sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese , brown in the oven or with the salamander, and serve very- hot. Duchess cakes. To make eighteen cakes, take one ounce of flour and stir well together with an egg ; add six yolks of egg, four ounces powdered sugar, six pounded maccaroons, a pinch of sait, and lastly a whole egg, stir until perfectly mixed, and add a pint of cream, sonie strips of citron, a tablespoonful of currants, a pinch of chopped angelica, glacé cherries, and some preserved orange- flower leaves. Butter some small moulds, fill them with the cream, bake, and when cooked, glaze with white sugar, and serve very hot. These little cakes are most delicious.86 THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. MARCH 26. Potage printanier. Spring soup. Anguille à la bordelaise. Eel à la bordelaise. Côtelettes de veau à la milanaise. Veal cutlets à la milanaise. Croûte aux champignons. Compote de poires. Canards sauvages rôtis. Roasf wild duck. Muskrooms on toast, Compote of peàrs. Clear stock à la Française. This soup, which is the resuit of keeping a stockpot alvvays going, is generally made in an earthenware pot, or in a well- tinned stockpot. Cut up your soup-meat into small pièces, crush the bones, put in as many pints of water as there are pounds of beef, flavour with sait, place on the fire, when it boils, skim, and add carrots, turnips, parsnips, a bouquet of parsley, a laurel-leaf, two heads of cloves, a broiled onion, and a lump of sugar. Simmer for seven hours ; if the soup is required to be extra good, a fowl can be boiled in it, but if so, no sugar will be required. Clear off ail grease, and pass through a tammy. Cut up some carrots, turnips, and leeks into fine strips, Avarm in fresh butter until slightly brown ; boil in a little stock for an hour, add some asparagus heads, green peas, and french beans, which hâve been boiled in water ; pour in the necessary quantity of stock, skim off ail grease, and when boiling, pour into a soup-tureen over toasted crusts of biead. Spring: soup.87 7HE 366 BILLS OF FARE. MARCH 27. Potage à la purée de pois. Morue à la maître d’hôtel. Côtelettes de mouton sauce tomates. Pâté de bécassines. Macédoine de légumes en salade. Soupirs de nonne. Purée of green peas. Sait cod à la maître d’hôtel. Mutton cutlets with tomato sauce. Pâté of snipe. Mixed vegetable salad. Nun’s sighs. Sait cod à la maître d’hôtel. Soak a piece of sait cod for twenty-four hours, change the water frequently, scrape the fish and boil in water, vvhen cooked, drain and place in a fish-pan. Melt sufficient fresh butter to make a good sauce for the cod, flavour with pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, chopped parsley and chives, a pinch of flour, and a tea-cupful of the water in which the cod was boiled; stir this sauce, and pour it over the fish ; leave on the lire until the cod is quite hot, stir the sauce the whole time, or the butter will become oily, squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, and serve when the sauce has thickened. Fish glaze. Simmer the heads and trimmings of turbot, whiting, and gurnet in water, with a fifth part of white wine, for several hours; season with carrots, leeks, onions, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and a head of garlic. Pass through a tammy, and reduce to a glaze, and keep until required. Chicken glaze. Préparé the same as above, only use trimmings and bones of chicken instead of fish. Mutton cutlets with tomato sauce. Trim your cutlets, dip them into melted butter, sprinkle tvith sait and pepper, and grill on the gridiron, be care- ful to turn the cutlets, serve them at the end of five or six minutes with tomato sauce (see 6th of January).88 THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. MARCH 28. Consommé à la chiffonnade de cer- Clear soup with chervil-leaves. feuil. Limandes frites, sauce Colbert. Foie de veau à l’italienne. Quartier d’agneau farci rôti. Fried dab, Colbert sauce. CalFs liver à l’italienne. Stuffed forequarter of lamb. Gâteau aux amandes. Salsifis frits. Fried salsifis. Almond cake. Clear soup with chervil-leaves. Cut up some chervil-leaves, and boil in your stock; the flavour of these leaves is a grcat improvement if the stock happens to be rather poor. Cut up the liver into thin slices ; put some olive oil, melted lard, and white wine in a saucepan, cover the bottom with chopped parsley, chives, and mushrooms, sprinkled with sait and pepper, place a layer of calfs liver on this, and continue in the same manner until the saucepan is nearly full, cover with slices of bacon, and cook over a slow lire with hot coals on the lid of the saucepan; serve either with Italian sauce (see i3th of October), or with its own sauce reduced, and cleared of ail grease. Take the méat out of two or three sausages, some chopped bacon, a wine-glassful of créant, some bread-crumbs and chopped mixed herbs, mix the whole well together, and thicken with yolks of egg ; raise the shoulder with a knife without cutting the skin, fill with the stuffing, and sew it down with a trussing-needle and string. Wrap in a buttered sheet of paper, and roast. Serve with Spanish sauce (see 3rd of November), or with stewed bottoms of artichokes. CalCs liver à l’Italienne. Stuffed forequarter of lamb,THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 89 MARC H 29. Garbures gratinées. Bread and cabbage soup à la Raie au beurre noir. Rosbif garni de pommes de terre. Terrine ou Pâté froid. Céleri-rave au jus. Tartelettes de poires. gasconne. Skate with black butter sauce. Roast beef and baked potatoes. Cold game pie. Stevved celery roots. Pear tartlets. Bread and cabbage soup à la Gasconne. Line a stew-pan with slices of bacon, add some white cabbages eut into quarters, chopped bacon, carrots, onions, a bouquet of mixed herbs, sait, and pepper, simmer over a slow firein stock until cooked. Simmer some slices of bread-crumb in stock until quite soft. Sprinkle the bottom of an earthen- ware pot which is fire-proof, with equal quantities of grated Parmesan and Gruyère cheese, fill with alternate layers of cabbage, and soaked bread-crumb, sprinkle each layer with grated cheese, arrange so that you finish filling the pot with cabbages, which must hâve an extra quantity of cheese sprinkled over them ; brown in the oven, and serve very hot. Hand some clear stock in a separate tureen, as some people do not like such thick soup. Reduce equal quantities of vinegar and water, sweeten with a lump of sugar, and stir in some finely-chopped mint. Mint sauce.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 9o MARC H 30. MENU EN MAIGRE. Potage aux choux verts. Alose au court-bouillon. Timbale de macaroni à l’italienne. Carpes frites. Asperges à la crème. Gâteau de riz. BILE OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Green cabbage soup. Shad boiled in court-bouillon. Timbale of maecaroni à l’italienne Fried carp. Asparagus with cream. Rice cake. Shad boiled in court-bouillon. Clean out your fish by the gills, sew up the head, and boil in court-bouillon (see i8th of April). When done, drain and dish up on a napkin, garnished with fresh parsley. Hand some white sauce (see 3*st of January) in a sauceboat, or oil and vinegar. A sauce can also be made by passing whatever court-bouillon remains through a tarnrny and warm- ing it in a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, stir in a little flourand a dessert-spoonful of anchovy butter (see xyth of May), and hand in a sauceboat. Asparagus with cream. Cut up some heads of asparagus, wash and drain them, melt some fresh butter in a saucepan, warm the asparagus heads in it, and stir in some béchamel sauce (see iôth of August) ; when done, serve covered with the sauce. Rice cake. Thoroughly wash half a pound of fine rice, boil in boilingmilk and a little lemon-peel ; when done, leave until cold, stir in five ounces of powered sugar, a pinch of sait, four whole eggs, and four yolks of egg ; keep the whites in a bowl. Butter a mould, and sprinkle with bread-crumbs, whip up the whites of egg and stir them into the rice, fill the mould and bake lor half an hour ; when cooked, turn out of the mould, and serve.THE 366 T/LIS O F FA RE. 9i MARC H 31. Potage printanier. Rougets sauce aux huîtres. Marinade de cervelles. Filet de bœuf rôti au Madère. Petits pois nouveaux à l’anglaise. Tartelettes de fraises. Spring soup. Red mullet and oyster sauce. Calf’s brain Iritters. Roast fillet of beef, Madeira sauce. Green peas à l’anglaise. Strawberry tartlets. Red mullet and oyster-sauce. Boil two onions, achopped carrot, sonie branches of parsley, and sait in three pints of water, and two tablespoonsful of vinegar, leave on the fire for twenty minutes, pass through a tammy ; when cold, place in a stew-pan, add your mullet, which hâve been cleaned, boned, and the heads sewn up, boil over a quick fire, and when cooked, simmer for ten minutes, eut off the string from the heads before serving, drain, and dish up, covered with oyster sauce (see i8th ofNovember). Roast fillet of beef, Madeira sauce. Roast your fillet and baste with dripping, to which you hâve added two tumblers of Madeira and a pinch of white pepper. Clear the gravy of ail grease, and serve with the beef. Calf’s brain fritters. Cook the same as chicken fritters (see 4th of June). Purslane fried in batter. Take some stalks of purslane, the juice of a lemon, some powdered sugar, and a pinch of grated cinnamon, pound them well together, and leave to soak for two hours. Dip the stalks into batter, to which you hâve added a little brandy, and fry over a slow fire. Serve, sprinkled with powdered sugar.92 THE 366 BILLS O F TARE. APRIL 1. Potage à l’oseille. Tanches sur le gril. Langue de bœuf au Parmesan. Stewed ox-tongue with Parmesan chqese. Sorrel soup. Broiled tench. Longe de veau rôtie. Purée de lentilles. Meringues à la crème. Roast loin of veal. Purée of lentils.. Meringues with cream. Purée of lentils. Boil your lentils in sait and water with a piece of bacon, when done pass through a tammy, thin the purée with stock, and serve with fried bread. If by mistake too much stock is added, the purée must be placed on the fire and reduced, care being taken that it does not burn. Wash three or four fine tench in boiling water, leave to soak for a few minutes, after which scrape off the scales, beginning from the head, so as not to eut the skin, clean them out and soak for an hour in olive oil, seasoned with chopped parsley, chives, eschalots, thyme, laurel-leaves, sait, and pepper ; wrap each fish in two sheets of paper, which hâve been soaked in the oil and thickly covered with the chopped seasoning in which the tench were soaked ; broil, and remove the papers before dish- ing up. Pour piquante sauce (see 2Ôth of June) over the fish. Trim and blanch the tongue, boil in stock, skin, and eut up into slices ; simmer in a tumblerful ot dry white wine and the same quantity of stock until the liquor is reduced one half pour part of the sauce into a plated dish, grate some Parmesan cheese over it, add the slices of tongue, cover with the re- mainder of the sauce, sprinkle with grated cheese, and brown Broiled tendu Stewed ox-tongue with Parmesan cheese. in the oven.93 THE 366 B1LLS OF FA RE. APRIL 2. Potage au pain. Bœuf garni de légumes. Marinade de volaille. Brochet au bleu. Macaroni à la sauce tomate. Pommes au riz. Bread soup. Boiled beef with vegetables. Chicken fritters. Pickled pike. Maccaroni with tomato sauce. Stewed apples with rice. Soup with toasted crusts of bread. Préparé the same as bread soup (see 6th of January). Maccaroni with tomato sauce. Boil a pound of maccaroni in boiling water with a lump of fresh butter, an onion, two heads of cloves, and sait ; when done drain the maccaroni and place in a saucepan with five ounces of grated Gruyère cheese, five ounces Parmesan cheese, a pinch of grated nutrneg, some coarse black pepper, and six tablespoonsful of créant, toss over the fire until the cheese becomes thick and stringy. Dish up in a pyramid covered with thick tomato sauce (see 6th of January). Stewed apples with rice. Scoop out the cores and peel some fine russet apples, and stew them in clarified sugar. Boil some rice in milk with a pinch of sait, a few strips of lemon-peel and sugar enough to sweeten it, leave on the fire until the rice is quite soft and has absorbed nearly ail the milk, remove the lemon-peel and place in a dish, arrange the stewed apples on the rice and put in the oven until a pretty golden colour. Compote of gooseberries. Pick off the stalks of your gooseberries, wash and drain them, lay in a deep pie-dish, and pour hot clarified sugar over them. Serve when cold. Germait sauce. Reduce some be'chamel sauce (see i8th of August), thicken with four yolks of egg, stir in half a tumblerful of crearn, season with sait, pepper, and a pinch of sugar, and warm in a saucepan.THE 366 BILES OF TARE. 94 / APRIL 3. Potage au tapioca. Filets de soles au gratin. Côtelettes de mouton jardinière. Poulet rôti au cresson. Choux de Bruxelles au beurre. Beignets d’abricots à l’eau-de-vie. Tapioca soup. Baked fillets of sole with bread crumbs. Mutton cutlets à la jardinière. Iloast fowl with watercresses. Brussels sprouts. Apricot fritters with brandy. Baked fillets of sole with. bread-crumbs. Cut each sole into four fillets by making a slit down the back and passing a knife between the fish and the backbone. Spread some forcemeat (see 6th of April) on each fillet and roll them. Line a tin or plated dish with a thin layer of the same force- meat, place the fillets round the dish and fil! ail the empty spaces with forcemeat ; bread-crumb, moisten with melted butter, and brown in the oven or with a salamander. Eel à la Bordelaise. Wash and clean out your eel, split it in two, remove the back- bone and boil in white wine, flavoured with sait, pepper, parsley, and slices of onion, when cooked, place the fish between two cloths, press with a heavy weight until quite fiat, cut it into fillets and warm in some white wine sauce, which has been reduced and thickened with fish glaze (see 27Ü1 of March) ; when quite hot, dish up the fillets in a pyramid and cover with their own sauce. Garnish with glazed onions (see 14* of January). Apricot fritters with. brandy. Cut your apricots into halves, remove the stones, and place each pièce between two round slices of either brioche or bread which hâve been soaked in brandy; dip into batter (see îjth of November), and fry in hot butter or lard until a golden colour, drain and sprinlde with powdered sugar, glaze m 11e rven or with the salamander.95 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. APRIL 4. Potage au riz purée de pois. Turbot au gratin Bœuf à la mode. Canards rôtis. Artichauts à la lyonnaise. Gâteaux fourré/s aux confitures. Purée of green peas with rice. Baked turbot. Bœuf à la mode. Roast ducks. Artichokes à la lyonnaise. Jam puffs. Baked turbot. Boil a turbot in sait and water, when cold remove ail the bones from the fish, break it into pièces and warm in white béchamel sauce (see i8th of August) ; when thoroughly mixed place in a tin or plated dish, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, moisten with melted butter, and brown in the oven. Jam puffs. Cut out some puff paste with a large round tin cutter, scoop out the centre of half the rounds and fill them with jam, cover with the remaining halves, after moistening the edges of the paste with a little water, glaze with whipped yolk of egg, and bake ; when cooked, sprinkle the puffs with powdered sugar, and glaze in the oven or with a salamander. Pistachio cake. Blanch one pound of pistachio nuts and pound in a mortar with the white of an egg, add a little scraped green lemon- peel, half a pound of powdered sugar, ten eggs, the whites of which must be whipped, and mix ail together, pour into a well- buttered mould, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. rl urn out of the mould and serve either hot or cold.THE 366 J3ILLS O F TARE. 96 APRIL 5. Potage aux œufs pochés. , Truite au beurre d’anchois. Epigrammes d’agneau aux pointes d’asperges. Filet de bœuf rôti. Choux-fleurs sauce hollandaise. Blanc-manger au café. Clear soup witlr poached eggs. Trout and anchovy butter. Breast and neck of lamb with asparagus heads. Roast fillet of beef. Cauliflower with hollandaise sauce. Coffee blanc-mange. Trout and anchovy butter. Boil the trout in court-bouillon (see i8th of April), and serve with anchovy butter in a sauceboat. Anchovy butter. Clean and bone your anchovies and pound them in a mortar with double their quantity of fresh butter ; if required for sauce stir in sonie warm reduced stock, and mix in a saucepan until quite hot. Breast and neck of lamb with asparagus heads. Tie a string round the breast, and braise it (see 28th of May) ; when cooked remove ail bones and place between two dishes with a heavy weight on them to press down the méat ; when cold eut into pièces the shape of a cutlet, stick a small bone into each piece so as to give the appearance of a cutlet bone, dip into German sauce (see 2nd of April), egg and bread-crumb them twice over, and fry in melted butter. Cut up the neck into cutlets, and toss them in a saucepan with some fresh butter; when done, arrange the pièces of breast and cutlets alternately round an entrée dish and garnish the centre with asparagus heads cooked in béchamel sauce (see i8th of August). Bread panada. Boil a piece of stale crumb of bread in either stock or water; when done, press between two plates or wring in a cloth, warm in a saucepan with a little fresh butter, sait, pepper, chopped parsley, and four or five yolks of egg, sur until thoroughly mixed, pour into a dish, and place before the fire until quite dry.THE 366 BILLS. O F FARE. 97 APRIL 6. Potage Faubonne. Mulet grillé. Gigot de mouton braisé garni de rissoles. Vanneaux bardés rôtis. Carottes glacées. Tartelettes aux cerises. Faubonne soup. Broiled grey mullet. Braised leg of mutton with rissoles. Roast lapwing. Glazed carrots. Cherry tartlets. Broiled grey mullet. Scale and clean the mullet and put it to soak for half an hour in olive oil, seasoned with slices of onion, parsley, sait, and pepper. Broil the fish over a slow fire, and serve with maître d’hôtel sauce (see 23rd of March), or green sauce. Green sauce. Boil some slices of liant and veal in equal quantifies of stock and white wine ; when cooked, simmer over a slow fire until the sauce is reduced, and pass through a tammy. Pound some fresh mixed herbs in the mortar, squeeze out the juice through a cloth on to the sauce, season with sait, pepper, and lemon juice, and thicken with yolks of egg. Glazed carrots. Peel some young carrots ail to the same size and shape, blanch them in boiling water, drain, and warm in a saucepan with fresh butter, a pinch of powdered sugar and stock, when boiled make a larger fire, and leave the saucepan on it until the sauce is reduced to a glaze. Forcement. Take equal quantifies of breast of chicken, dry bread panada made with stock and calf’s udder, pound them sepn- rately, after which mix them together and pound again, thicken with yolks of egg, and season with sait, pepper, and à pinch of nutmeg. This forcement is generally used with baked fish and vegetables- H93 THE 366 B1LLS OF TARE. APRIL 7. Potage à l’oseille. Maquereaux à la maître d’hôtel. Bilteck garni de pommes de terre. Mackerel à la maître d’hôtel Sorrel soup. Terrine de foie gras. Morilles à l’italienne. Gâteau d’amandes. Steak and potatoes. Pâté de foie gras. Morels à l’italienne. Almond cake. Steak and potatoes. The undercut of the sirloin is the best part of beef from which to eut your steaks ; eut up into pièces three inches thick, and beat until an inch flatter, sprinkle with sait and pepper, broil over a quick fire, turn when half done, and take off the gridiron directly the gravy begins to drop. Serve the, steaks on a very hot dish, with a lump of fresh butter placed on each one. Garnish with fried potatoes. Maître d’hôtel butter, anchovy butter, pickled cabbage, gherkins, olives, pickled watercress, or Madeira sauce canbe handed with this dish. Blanch your morels and warm them in a little fresh butter, ceasoned with chopped parsley, sait, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, add a tumblerful of white wine, and simmer for half an hour; when cooked, add some stock, thickened with browning, the juice of half a lemon, and a lump ofchicken glaze (see 27* of March) the size of a walnut. Dish up, gar- nished with small round sippets of fried bread. Morels à l’Italienne,THE 366 BILLE OE FA RE. H 2 99 APRIL 8. Potage de riz au gras. > Raie à la Sainte-Menehould. Ragoût de veau à la bourgeoise. Rouges de rivière bardés rôtis. Salsifis frits. Tarte aux fraises. Brunoise soup wlth rice. Skate à la Sainte-Menehould. Stewed veal à la bourgeoise. Roast shovellers. Fried salsifis. Strawberry tartlets. Skate a la Sainté Meneliould. Take sortie milk, a lump of fresh butter, and a little flour season with parsley, a bouquet of mixed herbs, slices of onion’ a head of garlic, and two large pinches of mixed spice, stir in a saucepan until it boils ; add your slices of skate, and leave UnïkC00Jked ’ dram the fish’ dip each slice into melted butter and bread-crumb, repeat this, and broil over a slow tire. Dish up on rémoulade sauce (see 23rd of October). Stewed veal. Stir a lump of butter and a little flour in a saucepan until brown ; .fa wh.te stew is required do not allow the butter to -hu'ttlr’ t,Ut '?'Jr veal.m,° P'eces, and warm in the melted butter, when the méat is firm, add a little warm water: season . young ornons, sait, pepper, thyn.e, laurel-leaves, button “ootedT' m°r ' rU"S Carr°tS' and peas : ,,hen ‘horoughly wïth voiks of e Tr °'- ,■ f 3 White SteW’ thkke" the 3auce witn yolks of egg before dishing up. Stewed oysters. Cook the same as stewed veal (see above).IOO THE 366 BILES OF FARE. APRIL 9. Potage aux quenelles de volaille. Pièce de bœuf sauce Robert. Ris de veau frits. Poularde rôtie. Asperges en branches. Gâteau de riz. Clear soup with quenelles of chicken. Boiled beef, Robert sauce. Fried sweet-breads, Roast pullet. Asparagus. Rice cake. Clear soup witli quenelles of chicken. Préparé some chicken forcemeat (see 3rd of September), shape it into quenelles in a teaspoon, and poach them in the required quantity of clear stock, which must be boiling, and serve. Fried sweet-breads. Trim and blanch your sweet-breads, and dip them into lukewarm stock, to which you hâve added melted butter, chopped herbs, eschalots, and chives, the juice of a lemon, sait and pepper ; drain the sweet-breads, dip them into batter (see i3th of November), and fry until a golden colour. Serve with tomato sauce (see 6th of January), and garnish with fried parsley. Kice cake. Wash five ounces of rice, and cook in milk ; when thoroughly boiled and swollen, pour into a dish, and leave until cold. Take a pint of flour, a pinch of sait, four eggs, half a pound of butter, and mix together, pound them in a mortar with the cold rice, pour into a plain buttered mould, and bake for an hour ; when doue, turn out of the mould, cover with whipped whites of egg, and brown in the oven.io r THE 366 BILES 01 TARE. APRIL io. MENU EN MAIGRE. Potage à l’oignon. Matelote d’anguille et de carpe. Œufs brouillés aux pointes d’asperges. Écrivisses en buisson. Morilles à l’Andalouse. Kluskis au fromage à la crème. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Onion soup. Stewed carp and eel. Buttered eggs with asparagus heads. Crayfish. Morels à l’Andalouse. Kluskis of cream cheese. Morels à l’Andalouse. Brown some dice of ham in olive oil, and when a good colour add your morels ; moisten with a tumblerful of sherry, a wine- glass of Madeira, season with sait, pepper, a teaspoonful of powdered capsicum, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and some chopped parsley. Cook for three quarters of an hour, and before serving thicken the sauce with brown thickening, and flavour with lemon juice. Kluskis of cream cheese. Take half a pound of fresh butter, six eggs, six table- spoonsful of cream cheese, a pinch of powdered sugar and sait, and sufficient grated bread-crumb and cream to make a paste, mix well together, and roll into the shape of rissoles, poach in boiling sait and water, drain them, and serve, covered with black butter sauce (see i4th of October). Poivrade sauce. Take a tumblerful of vinegar, a little fresh butter, a tea- spoonful of chopped chives, a pinch of chopped herbs, thyme, laurel-leaves, sait, and black pepper, reduce in a saucepan, add some méat glaze and a little stock, stir over the lire until quite thick, and pass through a tammy.102 THE 366 BILES OF FARE. APRIL 11. Potage printanier aux œufs pochés. Spring soup with poached eggs. Quartier de pré-salé à la bretonne. Forequarter of South-down mutton à la bretonne. Ailerons de dinde à la chicorée. Turkey pinions with purée of chicory. Pâté de saumon. Salmon pie. Salade de légumes. Vegetable sala'd. Baba au rhum. Baba or rum cake. Salmon pie. Pound one pound of cold boiled pike or whiting, and pass through a coarse sieve ; take three quarters of a pound of butter and a quarter of a pound of very dry bread-crumb, season with sait and pepper, pound in the mortar, and when quite smooth, add it to the pounded fish with a whole egg and three yolks of egg, stir well together, and poach this forcemeat in boiling stock. Cut a piece of salmon, weighing about two pounds, into slices an inch thick, skin, and bone them. Line a plain mould with paste, made with equal quantities of flour and butter, and fill it with alternate layers of forcemeat and salmon ) when nearly fu.ll, cover with a leaf of paste, moisten the edges so that it may fit closely, and lay a thick layer of hot water paste over it ail, make a hole about the size of a shilling in the paste, and bake for an hour and a half. Turkey pinions with purée of chicory. Préparé the same as turkey pinions (see 4th of October), but serve with a purée of chicory.THE 366 BILZ'S OF FARE. APRIL 12. Potage aux pâtes d’Italie. Clear soup with Italian paste. Baked sait cod with bread-crumbs. Stewed leg of mutton. Roast snipe. Young spinach with cream. Strawberry tart. Morue au gratin. Gigot de sept heures. Bécassines rôties. Epinards nouveaux à la crème. Tourte aux fraises. Baked sait cod with bread-crumbs. Soak some sait cod for a fevv hours and boil it, remove ail bones and break it into pièces. Warm some fresh butter, flour, sait, black pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and cream in a saucepan, stir with a wooden spoon until it boils ; place the pièces of cod in a deep dish, and pour the hot sauce over them; when cold ; pile up the fish in a pyramid on a tin 01 plated dish, smooth over with a warm knife, and sprinkle with bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan or Gruyère cheese; moisten thoroughly with melted butter, bread-crumb again, and sprinkle a little more melted butter over it ; place the dish in a moderate oven until sufficiently browned. Serve, garnished with fried bread. Bone a leg of mutton, and brown it in a stew-pan with some fresh butter ; when agood colour, add a little water, three heads of garlic, four or five onions, two carrots, sait, and pepper ; simmer for seven hours, when it will be sufficiently cooked. Place the mutton on a dish, clear the sauce of ail grease, thicken it with potato flour, and pour over the leg. Hand either a pureé of chicory, haricot beans, or chestnuts in a separate dish. Stewed leg- of mutton.104 THE 366 BILLS 0F FARE. APRIL 13. Purée de pommes de terre à la chif- fonnade de cerfeuil. Accolade d’anguilles à la broche. Tourne-dos, sauce poivrade. Quartier de devant d’agneau rôti. Pommes de terre frites. Charlotte russe. Purée of potatoes with chervil- leaves. Brace of eels roasted. Fillets of beef with poivrade sauce. Roast forequarter of lamb. Fried potatoes.. Charlotte russe. Brace of eels roasted. Choose two eels of the same size, eut off tbe heads and tails, skewer them together back to back, so arranged that the head of one is skewered to the other one’s tail, place them in a deep dish or fish-pan, with a pint of white wine, some well flavoured stock, and bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour ; strain them, and wrap in a large sheet of buttered paper, roast for twenty minutes, and dish up ; makesome sauce byreducing the liquor in which the eels were boiled to a glaze, stir in a tumblerful of sherry, season with sait, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, and pour over the eels. Serve very hot. Cover the lamb with slices of bacon, and wrap it up in sheets of buttered paper, roast, and when sufficiently cooked, take off the spit, raise the shoulder from the neck with a knife and fill the cavity with maître d’hôtel butter (see 23rd of March), and serve with its own gravy. Roast forequarter of lamb.*°5 THE 366 BILLS O F FA EF. APRIL 14. Potage au macaroni. Maccaroni soup. Grenadins de filets de soles. Larded fillets of sole with forcemeat. Pigeons aux petits pois. Stewed pigeons and green peas. Filet de bœuf rôti, sauce Madère. Roast fillet of beef with. Madeiri sauce. Asperges au beurre. Asparagus. Omelette souillée. Omelet soufflé. Larded fillets of sole with forcemeat. Line a saucepan with slices of bacon, put a large truffle in the centre, lard some fillets of sole and lay them in rays, start- ing from the truffle, place two fillets of mullet in the space between each fillet of sole, dividing them with half a fillet of sole larded with truffles ; garnish round with small shelled crayfish, spread a layer of forcemeat (see 3rd of September) about an inch thick over the fillets, be careful not to leave any interstices, and fill up the saucepan with mincemeat (see 28th of August) ; cover the whole with hot water paste, and bake in the oven ; when done, turn out of the saucepan on to the drainer, remove the slices of bacon, glaze with méat glaze, and serve. Hand some Spanish sauce (see 3rd of November), with a little glaze added to it, in a sauceboat. Roast fillet of beef with Madeira sauce. Trim your fillet, lard, and soak it in oil for four hours, seasoned with slices of onion, parsley, sait, and pepper. Wrap it up in buttered paper, and roast ; remove the paper five minutes before taking off the spit. Fifty minutes is the usual time for roast- ing a fillet weighing about five pounds. Hand Madeira sauce (see içth of August) separately.io6 THE 366 B1LLS OF FA RE. APRIL 15. Potage au vermicelle maigre. Rougets barbets sauce tartare. Côtelettes de veau à la milanaise. Canard rôti. Petits pois à l’anglaise. Meringue à la crème. White vermicelli soup for fast day. Red mullet with tartare sauce. Veal cutlets à la milanaise. Roast duck. Green peas à l’anglaise. Meringues with cream. Red mullet with. tartare sauce. Préparé and cook your mullet the same as on the 2oth of January, but do not wrap them in paper cases. Serve with tartare sauce (see 15Ü1 of March). Cut your cutlets half an inch thick and beat them as fiat as possible without breaking the bone, rub them over with sait and pepper, dip into melted butter, sprinkle with grated Par- mesan cheese, and egg and bread-crumb them, if not sufficiently covered, egg and bread-crumb a second time ; fry the cutlets in fresh butter, and drain them. Serve with either maître d’hôtel butter or tomato sauce, and garnish with a lemon cut into slices. Boil your peas in boiling sait and water, season with an onion and a bouquet of parsley, when done, remove the onion and parsley, drain, and pour on to a lump of fresh butter, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve very hot. Hand some powdered sugar separately. Veal cutlets à la Milanaise. Green peas à l’Anglaise.THE 366 BILIS 01* FAEE. 107 APRIL 16. Potage au pain. Bread soup. Boiled beef, Robert sauce. Vol-au-vent of quenelles. Bœuf bouilli sauce Robert. Vol-au-vent de quenelles. Poulet rôti. Épinards au jus. Gâteau de plomb. Roast fowl. Stewed spinach. Lead cake. Lead cake. Take two quarts offlour, make a vvell in the centre, and fill it with one ounce of sait, two and a half ounces of sugar, two pounds of butter, and twelve eggs, mix well together and roll out the paste three times, if too thick add a little milk ; leave the paste on a wooden slab for half an hour, then add half a pound of butter, roll it out four times and fold into a thick cake, eut out the edges with a tin cutter, prick the top of the cake, egg over with whipped yolks of egg, and bake for an hour and a half. Brown thickening is the foundation of nearly ail brown sauces, and is prepared in the following manner : Take one pound of fresh butter, melt it in a saucepan, skim it, and when clarified, stir in a pound of flour, moisten with either water or stock, and stir with a wooden spoon until brown, when it will be ready for use. Préparé the same as brown thickening, but do not leave on the fire long enough to become brown, as this thickening is chiefly used for white sauces.ioS THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. APRIL 17. Potage paysanne. Anguille aux montants de laitue romaine. Oreilles de porc à la lyonnaise. Rosbif rôti. Haricots verts à la poulette. Flan de poires. Peasant soup. Fricassée of eel and lettuce. Pigs ears à la lyonnaise. Roast beef. French beans with white sauce. Open pear tart. Pig’s ears à la Lyonnaise. Singe the pig’s ears, scrape, clean, and eut them into strips, simmer in stock, seasoned with fried slices of onion, pepper, sait, and a little flour ; when cooked, add the juice of a lemon, and serve, garnished with fried sippets of bread. French. beans with white sauce. Cut up your french beans, soak them in cold water, and boil in boiling sait and water ; when done, plunge them into cold water and drain. Warm some chopped onions in fresh butter, but do not brown them ; when nearly cooked, stir in a little flour, sait, pepper, chopped parsley, chives, and a wine-glassful of stock, add the beans, and when boiling thicken the sauce with yolks of egg, and flavour with lemon juice. Do not let the sauce be too thin. Asparagus with butter sauce. Boil your asparagus in sait and water, and serve with butter sauce (see 22nd of January).109 THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. APRIL 18. Potage purée de pois au riz. Brochet au court-bouillon. Epaule d’agneau glacée. Purée of peas with rice. Pike boiled in court-bouillon. Glazed shoulder of lamb. Roast guinea fowl. Fried potatoes. Compote of cherries. Pintade rôtie. Pommes de terre sautées. Confitures de cerises. Court-bouillon, or white wine sauce This sauce is so useful that it always ought to be at hand in every kitchen, and whenever any is taken out of the bowl in which it is kept, it must be replaced by the sanie quantity of white wine. Fill a fish-pan nearly to the brim with white wine, a wine-glassful of brandy, the same quantity of sherry, and season with sait, peppér, two heads of cloves, a head of garlic, sliced onions, carrots, turnips, parsnips, celery, chervil, parsley, laurel-leaves, thyme, and a lump of lard or fresh butter, if for fast days use olive oil ; boil over a quick fire until reduced a third ; if the wine catches fire, it will greatly improve the flavour of the sauce. When used for cooking fish or crayfish, see that the court-bouillon is boiling before putting them in, and hâve sufficient quantity to cover the fish thoroughly. A cheaper manner of preparing the sauce is by using equal quantities of vinegar and water instead of white wine, and by omitting some of the vegetables. Bone your shoulder, lard the top part of it, and skewer into any shape preferred. Cook the same as fricandeau of veal (see 1 ith of May), reduce the sauce in which it has been braised, and glaze the shoulder with it. Glazed shoulder of lamb.I IO THE 366 BILLS O F TARE. APRIL 19 Potage à la purée de poireaux. Purée of leeks. Côtelettes de mouton à la jardinière. Brandade de morue. Poulet rôti. Cream of sait cod. Mutton cutlets à la jardinière. Roast chicken. Macaroni au gratin, npinards au sucre. Maccaroni clieese. Sweet spinach. . Cream of sait cod. Soak a nice piece of sait cod for twenty-four hours in fresh water, boil it in cold water, and when done, skin and bone it carefully, break into small pièces, and warm in melted butter, a little olive oil, chopped garlic and parsley, stir with a wooden spoon until it becomes a thick cream, moistening from time to time with either olive oil, butter, or milk. Unless great care is taken to stir the whole time, the fish will not dissolve as it ought. Trim your cutlets, cover them with slices of bacon, and cook them in a stew-pan with a little stock. When done, take out the cutlets, and boil some bottomsof artichokes, salsifis, carrots, and turnips in the same stock, and leave on the fire to simmer until the vegetables hâve absorbed ail the gravy ; clear off ail grease, and pour the vegetables over the cutlets, which hâve been kept hot. Mutton cutlets à la jardinière.THE 366 B IL LS O F FA RE. 11 r APRIL 20. MENU EN MAIGRE. Potage à la purée de navets. Raie au beurre noir. Vol-au-vent de légumes. Goujons frits. Haricots verts à l’anglaise. Pommes en croustade. BILL OF RARE FOR FAST DAY. Purée of turnips. Skate with black butter sauce. Vol-au-vent of vegetables. Fried gudgeon. French beans à l’anglaise. Open apple tart. Sait cod with black butter sauce. Soak your cod for twenty-four hours in fresh water, boil in c°ld water. When done, place on a dish, cover with black butter sauce, and garnish with fresh parsley. French beans à l’Anglaise. Cut up your beans, bod them in sait and water, drain, and pour into a vegetable dish, on to a large lump of fresh butter sprmkle with chopped parsley, and serve very hot. Open apple tart. Line a plain mould with short paste, brush some yolk of eg°- over ît, and bake until a golden colour, turn it out, and fill the case half full of apple marmalade (see 3ist of January), place some whole stewed apples on it, garnish them with apricot jam and dned chernes, surround the tart with pièces of apple jelly and apricot jam, and serve. 3 3X 12 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. APRIL 21. Jambon à la broche aux épinards. Salmis de cuisses de canetons. Anguille rôtie à la sauce verte. Potage croûte au pot. Soup with bread-crusts. Roast ham and spinach. Salmis of duck’s thighs. Asperges en branches. Pouding à la d’Orléans. Roast eel with green sauce. Asparagus. Orléans pudding. Roast ham. Soak the ham for twelve hours in water ; place it in a deep dish or earthenware pan, and soak for twenty-four hours in white wine, seasoned with sliced onions, carrots, parsley, laurel- leaves, and thyme ; cover the pan with a cloth, and press on the lid very tight to prevent the air getting in. Roast the ham, baste with the wine in which it was soaked. When sufficiently done, dish it up on a purée of spinach. The thighs or insides of the legs of ducks are considered the most délicate part of the bird, and even in great kitchens they are kept from ducks served the previous day, and made into a salmis. Cut off the insides of the legs, and put them on one side, pull the remainder of the duck into shreds, and boil in equal quantities of claret and stock, season with sait, pepper, eschalots, and parsley, reduce and simmer, until the sauce îs quite thick, pass through a tammy, and warm the thighs in this sauce, take off the fire before it boils ; dish up in a pyramid, cover with the sauce, squeeze a little lemon juice over it, and garnish with fried sippets of bread. Salmis of duck’s thighs.113 THE 366 BILLE OF FARE. APRIL 22. Potage au macaroni. Poulet au gros sel. Soles en turban. Baked fillets of sole, turban fashion. Roast leg of mutton. Haricot beans à la bretonne. Maccaroni soup. Boiled chicken. Gigot rôti. Plaricots à la bretonne. Gâteaux à la crème. Cream pastry. Baked fillets of sole, turban fashion. Cut a piece of crumb of bread into the shape of a small sugar-loaf, place in the centre of a tin dish with the narrowest part downwards ; cover with slices of bacon, spread a layer of forcemeat over them, and stick on the fillets of sole in such a way as to form the shape of a turban, garnish with small rounds of truffles, moisten with melted butter, flavour with lemon juice, cover with slices of bacon and a buttered sheet of paper ; bake, and when done, remove the paper, slices of bacon, and the piece of bread from the centre, and fill the hole with tomato sauce. Take two pints of flour and stir in a tumblerful of double cream and a pinch of sait ; when mixed, roll out the paste and leave for half an hour ; add half a pound of butter, roll five times, and cut out into any shape you please; glaze with beaten yolks of egg, and bake. Cream pastry. Butter biscuits. These biscuits are made the same as cream cake. ITHE 366 BILLS OF FARE. APRIL 23. Potage au pain. Bread soup. Culotte de bœuf garnie de croquettes. Poulets à la d’Escars. Rump-steak with croquettes. Chicken à la d’Escars. Éperlans frits. Oseille en purée. Fried smelts. Purée of sorrel. Pommes meringuées. Meringue of apple. Chicken a la d’Escars. Truss your chicken for boiling, lard the breasts and place in a stew-pan lined with slices of bacon, add a slice of ham, an onion stuck with cloves, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and some slices of carrot ; moisten with a large wine-glassful of stock and the same quantity of sherry ; cover the whole with slices of bacon, and cook over a moderate lire with hot coals on the lid of the saucepan so as to brown and glaze the bacon. When the chicken is sufficiently done, drain it ; pass the sauce through a tammy, skim off ail grease, reduce it, stir in a little brown thickening, and pour over the chicken. Chop up some sorrel, lettuce, and a few chervil-leaves with a little white beet, stir over the fire in a saucepan until thoroughly dissolved without the addition of any liquid, when done, add a lump of fresh butter, sait, and pepper, thicken with yolks of egg and cream, and serve. Cook the same as roast fillet of veal (see iôth of June). Purée of sorrel. Boast calfs kidney.THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. 1 iS APRIL 24. Potage au tapioca. Maquereaux à la maître d’hôtel. Poularde au gros sel. Foie de veau rôti. Patates au beurre. Gâteau feuilleté. Tapioca soup. Mackerel à la maître d'hôtel. Boiled fowl. Roast calf’s liver. Svveet potatoes with butter. Light pastry. Roast calf's liver. Choose a fine white calfs liver, lard it with thick filletà of bacon, sprinkle with chopped garlic, herbs, and mixed spice, and cover with a thick layer of lard ; roast before a moderate tire; when cooked, skim ail grease ofF the dripping, flavour with lemon-juice, and pour over the liver. Another way of cooking calf’s liver is to roast it, without larding ; pour piquante sauce, flavoured with chopped capers or gherkins over it. liig-ht pastry. Make a soft paste, with one pound of flour, water, and a pinch of sait, leave for half an hour ; roll it out, spread some fresh butter over it, fold and roll out again, repeat this three or four tiraes ; eut out in any shape you fancy, and bake in a quick oven. Sweet potatoes with butter. Steam the sweet potatoes, when cooked, peel and slice them. Warm in a saucepan with a little fresh butter and sait.1 r6 THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. APRIL 25. Potage au pain. Pièce de bœuf bouilli, garnie à la flamande. Ailerons de dindon à la Sainte-Me- nehould. Homard au court-bouillon. Purée de pommes de terre au gratin. Brioches aux fruits. Bread soup. Boiled beef à la flamande. Turkey pinions à la Sainte-Mene- hould. Lobster boiled in court-bouillon. Baked purée of potatoes with bread- crumbs. Brioche with stewed fruits. Turkey pinions à la Sainte-Menehould. Boil eight or ten turkey pinions in equal quantifies of stock and white wine, season with sait, pepper, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, leave on the fire until the sauce sticks to the pinions, place in a dish, cover with the sauce, and when cold dip them into olive oil, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and broil, when a good colour, dish up ; squeeze a little lemon juice over them, and serve. Lobster boiled in court-bouillon. Boil your lobster in court-bouillon (see i8th of April),adda lump of fresh butter, parsley, a chili pepper, two or three leeks, sait, and a tablespoonful of vinegar ; leave on the fire for twenty-five minutes. When cold, serve the lobster with the following sauce. Lobster sauce. Scoop out the body of the lobster, and stir in a bowl with the spawn, some olive oil, a teaspoonful of mustard, a pinch of chopped herbs, two pounded eschalots, a little white pepper, ten or twelve drops of Soy sauce, a small liqueur glass of anisette, and the juice of two or three lemons ; when thoroughly mixed the sauce will be ready for use.THE 366 BILES OF FAEE. 117 APRIL 26. Potage de riz à la purée d’oseille. Rougets barbets en caisse. Tendrons de veau aux pointes d’asperges. Accolade de lapereaux. Pommes de terre nouvelles à la crème. Cougloff à l’allemande. Purée of sorrel with rice. Red mullet in cases. Tendons of veal with asparagus. Roast brace of young rabbits. New potatoes boiled in cream. Cougloff, or German cake. Braised rump-steak. Préparé the same as braised ribs of beef (see 2 2nd of January). Roast brace of youngr rabbits. Skin, singe, and clean out your rabbits, leave the livers, lard the backs and thighs, slcewer them together, and roast ; serve, covered with Italian sauce. New potatoes boiled in cream. Stir a lump of fresh butter, a tablespoonful ot flour, some chopped chives and parsley, sait, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg in a saucepan, add sufficient cream in which to warm the potatoes, when it boils, add the potatoes, which hâve been previously boiled and sliced, warm in the sauce, and serve very hot. Coug-loff, or German cake. Dissolve a lump of German yeast the size of two eggs, and half an ounce of sait, in half a tumblerful of warm water, stir it into one pound of flour, add four eggs, half a pound of stoned raisins, two ounces ofcurrants, four ounces of powdered sugar, and a little warm milk ; when well mixed, roll into a bail, wrap up in a cloth sprinkled with flour, and place in an earthenware pan near the fire ; if cold, cover with a blanket, and turn the paste occasionally ; leave to rise about the same time as you would bread. When ready for use, roll out the bail of paste on a wooden slab, glaze it with yolk of egg, and bake. This is a most delicious cake.THE 366 BILZS OF FARE. 118 APR1L 27. Potage printanier. Spring soup. Carpes à l’étuvée. Stewed carp. Poulardes à l’estragon. Pullets with tarragon. Rosbif rôti. Roast beef. Oignons farcis. Stuffed onions. Blanc-manger au café. Coffee blanc-mange. Stuffed onions. Pick out some large onions, peel, blanch, and drain them, scoop out the centres and fill with forcemeat (see 3rd of Sep- tember), place them at the bottom of a large stew-pan, cover with slices of bacon, sprinkle with sait and sugar, and cook over a quick tire \ when done, remove the onions, reduce the sauce, and pour over them. Bacon omelet. Mince half a pound of lean bacon very fine and fry in either butter or lard ; hâve the required number of eggs ready beaten and seasoned with sait and pepper, add to the bacon, and when the omelet is cooked, serve with piquante sauce. Coffee blanc-mange. Toast a quarter of a pound of coffee-berries, grind, and put them in a tumblerful of boiling water, leave until the grounds hâve settled at the bottom of the tumbler, pour the clear coffee into a bowl, and add half a pound of sugar and half an ounce of dissolved gélatine. Pound one pound of sweet almonds in a mortar, add three tumblersful of water, and squeeze the whole through a cloth ; pour half of this hquid on to the coffee, and stir the other half into half a pound of sugar and a quarter of an ounce of gélatine, which hâve been dissolved in a tumblerful of warm water. Place a mould in a pailful of ice and pour in alternate layers of coffee and inilk of almonds as they freeze.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 119 APRIL 28. Potage aux nouilles. Cabillaud à la hollandaise. Poulets à la Marengo. Pâté froid. Pointes d’asperges au jus. Crème au café. German paste soup. Cod à la hollandaise. Chicken à la Marengo. Cold pie. Stewed asparagus heads. Coffee cream. Cold pies and hcw to make them. There are a variety of cold pies, such as veal and ham, chicken, fish, game, or foie gras. Line a mould with short paste and spread a thick layer of either méat, game, or fish forcemeat, fill up the mould with whatever méat or fish you intend using, press it down firmly, sprinkle with sait and pepper, and cover with a thick pie-crust ; make a hole in the centre, put in a small roll of paper to keep it open, and glaze with whipped white and yolk of egg. Bake the pie, and when done, keep until cold. Fill up the hole in the paste with a lump of uncooked flour and water until time to serve. Stewed asparagus heads. Melt some fat of bacon, season with white pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, sait, chopped parsley and chervil ; add your asparagus heads, moisten with stock, and when cooked, stir in a little beef gravy, and serve.I 20 THE 366 BILLS 0F TARE. APRIL 29. Potage printanier. Maquereaux bouillis ou à l’eau de sel. Marinade de cervelles. Filet de bœuf rôti. Macaroni à l’italienne. Crème fouettée de fraises et de framboises. Spring soup. Boiled mackerel. CalFs brain fritters. Roast fillet of beef. Maccaroni à l’italienne. Whipped strawberry and-raspberry cream. Boiled mackerel. Clean out your fish, leave the livers, and eut several slits crossways down the sides, tie up the heads with string, and boil in strong sait and water, seasoned with pepper, parsley, and an onion ; when cooked, drain, and serve with either mussel or caper sauce. "Whipped strawberry and raspberry cream. Whip two pints of double cream, and put ail the froth in a fine hair sieve. Crush a pound of mixed strawberries and raspberries through a sieve, sweeten the juice with powdered sugar, mix the cream and juice together, whip, and serve. Shrimp sauce. / Take equal quantities of butter sauce (see 2 2nd of January), and white poivrade sauce (see 2ist of March), warm in a saucepan with a little shrimp butter, a few drops of essence of anchovy, and some peeled shrimps. Serve very hot. Shrimp butter. Préparé the same as lobster butter (see 19* of February).THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. 121 APRIL 30. MENU EN MAIGRE. Julienne maigre. Barbeau grillé. Œufs à la tripe. Brochets à l’huile. Navets à la poulette. Souffle aux amandes (chaud). BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Julienne soup for fast day. Broiled barbel. Eggs à la tripe. Pilce pickled in oil. Turnips with white sauce. Hot almond soufflé. Broiled barbel. Cut some deep slits down the side of the barbel, and fill them with fresh butter and sait, broil the fish and serve either v ith anchovy sauce, or green sauce, flavoured with sait, pepper, essence of anchovy, garlic, and chopped olives. Eg'g's à la tripe. Warm some slices of onion in fresh butter until quite soft, but do not let them brown, stir in a teaspoonful of flour’ sait, pepper, a pinch of grated nutrneg, and the necessary quantity of créant, in which to cook your eggs, reduce until quite thick, warm some sliced hard-boiled eggs in the sauce and take off the lire before they boil. Turnips stewed in white sauce. Cut up some young turnips into small balls, blanch and boi them in white thickening, moisten with a little stock 01 until the sauce îs reduced, sprinkle with powdered suga/ add a little fresh butter, and just before serving thicken with yolks of egg.122 THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. MAY 1. Purée of green peas. Brill stewed with mixed herbs. Devilled chicken. Roast sucking-pig. Young carrots stewed in white sauce. Open jam tart. Boast sucking-pigr. Scald, scrape, singe, and clean out your sucking-pig ; stuff it with fresh butter seasoned with chopped herbs, sait and pepper ; soak for half an hour in cold water, drain, dry m a cloth, roast it, and baste with olive oil. Hand piquante sauce separately. Another stuffing used for roast sucking-pig is to chop up the liver, with bacon, mushrooms, capers, mixed herbs, sait and pepper, warmed in butter. Hot pies. Line a plain mould with short paste, fill the centre with dry flour, cover with a layer of the same paste ; bake, and when done take off the cover, remove the dry flour, turn out of the mould and fill the case with whatever stewed méat or game you hâve prepared, replace the cover, warm in the oven, and serve. Sucking-pig pie. This pie must be served cold See cold pies (28th of April). Potage à la purée de pois verts. Barbue aux fines herbes. Poulets à la diable. Cochon de lait rôti. Carottes nouvellesàlasauce blanche. Gâteau fourré.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 123 MAY 2. Lapin en gibelotte. Potage Faubonne. Perche grillée. Faubonne soup. Broiled perch. Rognon de veau rôti. Petits pois au jus. Stewed eel and rabbit. Tartlettes aux fraises. Roast calfs kidney. Stewed green peas. Strawberry tartlets. Stewed eel and rabbit. Cut a rabbit and a small eel into pièces, warm in brown thickening seasoned with young onions and mushroomsj when a good colour, add a little white wine, double the quantity of stock, sait, pepper, thyme, parsley, and chives : take out the pièces of eel and the onions, cook the rabbit over a quick tire until the sauce is reduced two-thirds ; add the eel and onions, simmer until done, clear the sauce of ail grease, and serve. Some people prefer to use the bottoms of artichokes instead of eel Garnish with fried sippets of bread. Break your eggs into a bowl, add sait, pepper, a little water, and some small lumps of butter, beat for one or two minutes ; melt a piece of butter in a frying-pan, do not let it brown, pour in the eggs, keep shaking the frying-pan so that the omelet does not burn ; when nearly done place a lump of butter on it fold, and serve very hot. Omelet.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 124 MAY 3. Potage à la semoule. Truites à la hussarde. Poulet rôti. Côtelettes de mouton à la purée de champignons. Petits pois nouveaux à l’anglaise. Omelette aux confitures. Semolina soup. Trout à la hussarde. Roast chicken. Mutton cutlets with purée of mush- rooms. Green peas à l’anglais.e. Sweet omelet with jam. Trout à la hussarde. Clean out your trout, and stuff with butter and chopped herbs, soak for an hour in olive oil, and broil them. Hand poivrade sauceboat. Rabbits à la Vénitienne. Cut up a rabbit, lard ail the large joints, braise in a stew- pan with some slices of veal, a tumblerful of white wine, half a tumblerful of olive oil, four heads of garlic. sait and pepper. Place the lid on the stew-pan, and cook over a moderate fire ; when done, dish up the pièces of rabbit in a pyramid \ pass the sauce through a tammy and pour over them. Caper sauce. Mix a quarter of a pound of butter, the same quantity of flour, a tumblerful of water, sait and pepper in a saucepan, when boiling take off the fire, stir in half a pound of butter ; put some capers in a sauceboat, and pour the sauce over them. Make this sauce just before serving, and do not let it get too thick.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. I25 MAY 4. Potage paysanne. Pièce de bœuf bouillie garnie à la forêt de Sénart. Poulets à la sauce tomates. Quartier de pré-salé rôti. Pommes de terre à la parisienne. Meringues aux fraises. Peasant soup. Boiled beef à la forêt de Sénart. Braised fowls with tomato sauce. Roast shoulder of mutton. Potatoes à la parisienne. Strawberry meringues. G-arnish à la forêt de Sénart. . Tie UP some lar§e branches of parsley into bunches and fry m butter, place them as close as possible round your joint of boiled beef, so as to give the appearance of a forest. Braised fowls with tomato sauce. Pluck and draw your fowls, remove the breast-bones and stufif them with melted butter seasoned with sait, pepper, and lemon juice. Line a braising-pan with slices of bacon, lay slices of lemon on the breasts of the fowls, place them in the pan, and cover the whole with slices of bacon, braise for three quarters of an hour with hot coals on the lid ; when cooked, dry the fowls in a cloth, remove the slices of lemon and serve on tomato sauce. Potatoes à la Parisienne. Chop up some onions very fine, and brown in equal quan- T 0 utter and lard '>• when a good colour, moisten with either water or stock, add your potatoes, season with a bouquet ot herbs, sait and pepper. When cooked serve very hot. Choux, or lig-ht batter-cakes. ,P,reïnre,the fme as nun’S sighs (see Ioth of March3, but serve ld, filled with cream.THE 366 B1LLS OF TARE. I2Ô MAY 5. Potage aux pâtes d’Italie avec Par- mesan. Filets de grondins en turban. Ris de veau en fricandeau. Filet de porc piqué rôti. Petits pois à l’anglaise. Madeleines. Soup with Italian paste and Par- mesan cheese. Fillets of gurnet, turban fashion. Fricandeau of sweet-breads. Roast fillet of pork larded. Green peas à l’anglaise. Madeleine cakes. • Fricandeau of sweet-breads. Trim, drain, and blanch your sweet-breads, lard with well- flavoured bacon, and braise (see 28th of May) for three quarters of an hour. Pass the sauce through a tammy, reduce, add a pinch of powdered sugar, glaze the tops of the sweet-breads with it, and serve on a purée of either sorrel, tomato, chestnuts, or mushrooms ; or, better still, with some stewed cucumbers on a purée of either spinach or chicory. Madeleine cakes. Take eleven ounces of powdered sugar, half a pound of flour, six whole eggs, four yolks, two tablespoonsful of brandy, a pinch of sait, and the grated peel of a lemon, stir until thoroughly mixed ) dip thirty-two small moulds into three quarters of a pound of melted butter, add whatever butter re- mains to the paste, stir in a saucepan until dissolved, pour into the moulds, and bake in a moderate oven. Fillets of gurnet, turban fashion. Préparé the same as fillets of sole, turban fashion (see 2 2nd of April).THE 366 B TELS OF TARE. 127 MAY 6. Potage Condé. Condé soup. Barbue sauce hollandaise. Brill, Hollandaise sauce. Côtelettes de veau à la Gingarat. Veal cutlets à la Gingarat. Canetons rôtis.. Roast ducklings. Concombres a la demi-glace. Glazed cucumbers. Pouding a la d’Orléans. Orléans pudding. Veal cutlets h la Gingarat. Cut up some pickled tongue into narrow strips, scrape a piece of lean bacon, season with white pepper and a pinch of grated nutmeg, warm in a saucepan ; when cooked lard your cutlets with the fillets of tongue, toss them in a saucepan with fresh butter, when the méat is firm take ofif the fire. Line a stew-pan with slices of ham and bacon, add the trimmings of the tongue and the cutlets, cover with bacon and fill up the stew-pan with sliced carrots and onions, moisten with stock, and ( o°k for two hours over a slow fire with hot coals on the lid. When done, drain and glaze the cutlets ; pass the sauce through a hair sieve, add a little brown thickening, reduce until half the quantity, and pour over the cutlets. Roast leg of mutton. Trim, beat your leg of mutton, and roast it ; allow a quarter of an hour for each pound ; add a little stock to the dripping, clear of ail grease, and hand in a sauceboat, which has been heated in boiling water.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 128 MAY 7. Consommé aux carottes nouvelles. Raie à la noisette. Oreilles de veau aux champignons. Pintades rôties. Coquilles d’œufs aux huîtres. Tourte à la frangipane. Clear soup with slices of young carrots. Fillets of skate. Calf’s ears with mushrooms. Roast guinea-fowl. Scolloped eggs and oysters. Frangipane tart.. Fillets of skate. Boil two fine fillets of skate in sait and water, drain and place on a dish. Blanch and pound the liver of the skate, stir it into butter sauce (see 2 2nd of January), flavour with a tea- spoonful of tarragon vinegar and a pinch of grated nutmeg, and pour over the fillets. Scolloped eggs and oysters. Melt some fresh butter, season with sait, pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, chopped parsley, chives, and morels ; cook four dozen oysters in this sauce, and, when nearly done, add five or six sliced hard-boiled eggs, simmer over a slow fire for a quarter of an hour; pour into scollop shells, sprinkle with grated bread-crust, and brown in the oven. Frangipane. An Italian prince called Cæsar Frangipane is said to hâve given his name to this cream or custard, which is generally used for filling open tarts, dariole cakes, or tartlets. Take two whole eggs and four yollcs, stir into sufficient potato flour to make a thick sauce, after which add two pints of milk or cream. Warm over a slow fire, stir until it boils, add a quarter ot a pound of melted butter or beef marrow, continue stirrmg until quite thick, and flavour with vanilla. Cook in a bain-marie.THE 366 B1LLS OF TARE. 129 MAY 8. Potage aux choux verts. Turbot sauce béchamel. Lapereaux au chasseur. Rosbif à l’anglaise. Morilles aux croûtons. Crème au chocolat. Spring cabbage soup. Turbot, béchamel sauce. Young rabbits au chasseur. Roast beef. Morels on toast. Chocolaté cream. Spring- cabbage soup. Préparé the same as cabbage soup (see 25th of February). Young- rabbits au chasseur. Cut up your rabbits into joints, and warm in a stew-pan over a quick tire, with some butter, chopped ham, parsley, onions, and chives, a crushed head of garlic, a bouquet of mixed herbs, sait and pepper; sprinkle with flour ; when brown, moisten with equal quantities of white wine and stock, add two small basketsful of chopped mushrooms, and leave on the fire until the sauce is quite thick. Remove the bouquet of herbs before serving. Morels on toast. Warm some morels in butter, seasoned with parsley and c îves, stir in a teaspoonful of flour, moisten with stock, and reduce remove the parsley and chives, thicken the sauce with yolks of egg and cream, and sweeten with a little sugar. Cut a slice of crust off a long, light roll, butter it on both sides toast over a qmck fire, place on a dish with the crumb side upwards, and fill with the stewed morels. KTHE 366 BILLS 0F TARE. 130 MAY 9. Potage à la parisienne. Colin frit. Gigot à la Durand. Pâté de bécassines. Œufs brouillés aux pointes d’as- perges. Pommes au riz. Parisian soup. Fried whiting pollock. Leg of mutton à la Durand. Snipe pie. Buttered eggs with asparagus lieads. Stewed apples and rice. Fried whiting pollock. This fish, which is a species of cod, is most wrongfully neglected, and if prepared in the following manner will be found excellent. Cut up your fish into slices about one and a half inches thick, soak for tvvo hours in olive oil seasoned with sait, pepper, and mixed herbs ; warm three tablespoonsful of olive oil in a frying-pan, fry the slices of fish in it over a slow fire ; when done, drain, place in a dish and keep warm in the oven ; squeeze the juice of a lemon into the oil remaining in the frying-pan, season with sait and pepper, beat well with a fork, which will thick en the sauce, pour over the slices o whiting pollock, and serve. Stewed apples and rice. Peel and scoop out the cores of some fine russet apples, simmer in clarified sugar until stewed. Blanch your rice and boil in milk, keep it firm by adding the milk gradually, sweeten with sugar, stir in a pinch of sait ; when done, pour into a dish, place the apples on the rice, fill ail the spaces between the fruit with rice, and brown in the oven. Serve very hot.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. K 2 1. ii MAY 10. MENU EN MAIGRE. Potage à la purée de navets. Soles à la parisienne. Vol-au-vent de quenelles de poisson. Homard à la broche. Asperges à la sauce blanche. Talmouses à la Saint-Denis. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Purée of turnips. Soles à la parisienne. Vol-au-vent of fish quenelles. Roast lobster. Asparagus with vvhite sauce. Cheese biscuits à la Saint-Denis. Soles à la Parisienne. Scrape and clean out your soles, eut off the heads and talls, and toss in a sautapan with sufficient fresh butter to cover them, sprinkle with chopped parsley, chives, sait and pepper • tuin the fish, and when cooked, dish up covered with Italian sauce. Cheese biscuits à la Saint-Denis. Take a large handful of fine wheaten flour, half a pound of cream curds, five ounces of Brie cheese, which has been care- fully scraped, and a pinch of sait, pound in a mortar, add five ounces of melted butter, stir in sufficient eggs to make a thick paste, which roll very thin, and eut out into small round biscuits. Bake in a quick oven, and serve hot. Garlic butter. Pound six heads of garlic and pass through a tammy • pound with three ounces of butter until a thick cream. ’I32 THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. MAY 11. Potage à la julienne. Julienne soup. Broiled salmon. Saumon grillé. Rosbif garni de rissoles. Roast beef gamished with rissoles. Poulets rôtis. Chicorée au jus. Gelée au citron Roast fowls. Stewed ehicory. Lemon jelly. Broiled salmon. Cut the tail of a salmon into slices, soak for an hour in olive oil, season with parsley, mixed herbs, laurel-leaves, sait and pepper; broil on the gridiron, baste with some of the olive oil. When cooked, remove the skin, and serve covered with white caper sauce (see 3rd of May). Lard one side of your chump of veal with thick fillets of bacon, and the opposite side with very fine strips ; line a stew- pan with slices of bacon and beef, season with onions, carrots, two heads of cloves, and a bouquet of mixed herbs, add the veal, moisten with stock, and simmer for three or four hours, sprinkle with its own gravy from time to time. When cooked, take out the veal and pass the sauce through a tammy, reduce to a glaze in a stew-pan, place the veal on it with the finely- larded side downwards, and leave until a good colour. If any of the glaze sticks to the bottom of the stew-pan, add a little stock to it, and pour over the fricandeau. Fricandeau of veal.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 133 MAY 12. Potage de riz à la purée de pois. Truite sauce genevoise. Poitrine de mouton braisée Lapereaux rôtis. Haricots panachés à la maître d’hôtel. Meringues à la Chantilly. Purée of green peas with rice. Trout, Geneva sauce. Braised breast of mutton. Roast young rabbits. French beans and haricots à la maître d’hôtel. Meringues à la Chantilly. Braised breast of mutton. Line a stevv-pan with slices of bacon, season with young onions, tarragon-leaves, a pinch of mixed spice, sait and pepper, add the breast of mutton, and as soon as it simmers moisten with two tumblersful of stock, and cook over a slow fire. When done, pass the sauce through a tammy, pour over the mutton, and serve. French beans and haricots à la maitre d’hôtel. Boil equal quantifies of French beans and fresh young haricot beans in sait and water; when cooked, drain and place in a dish near the fire. Melt a large lump of butter flavour with chopped herbs, sait and pepper, warm the beans in tins, and serve very hot. iish glaze. Smmer the head and trimmings of a turbot in a stew-pan with three or four whiting, the same quantity of gurnet, some onions, carrots, leeks, a bouquet of mixed herbs, a little sait and a head of garlic ; cover with water and two tumblersful of white wine, cook over a slow fire for several hours, pass requiem ^ UntU a ‘hick g,aze' and k«P untilTHE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 134 MAY 13. Potage au tapioca. Tapioca soup. Tendrons de veau à la poulette. Breast of veal à la poulette. Filets de soles à la Orly, sauce Fillets of sole à la Orly, tomato tomates. sauce. Gigot rôti. Roast leg of mutton. Purée de haricots. Purée of haricot beans. Bavarois aux fruits. Bavarian cream and fruit. Breast of veal à la poulette. Cut up a breast of veal into small square pièces, blanch and drain, pass the water through a tammy, moisten the veal with sorae of it, and warm in a saucepan, stir in a little flour, sonie fresh butter, season with carrots, mushrooms, laurel- leaves, sait, black pepper, and a bouquet of chives parsley and tliyme ; when nearly done, add some young white onions. Place the pièces of veal in a dish, remove the bouquet, thicken the sauce with yolks of egg, flavour with a few drops of either vinegar or lemon-juice, pass through a tammy, and pour over the veal. Purée of turnips. Cut up your turnips into small pièces, blanch, drain, and cook them over a slow fire in stock, season with sait, pepper, and butter. When done, pass through a wire sieve, and serve very hot. If the purée is not thick enough, add a little potato flour. Boiled eg'g's. Cook the eggs in boiling water for three minutes, when they tvill be ready for use. Another way of boiling eggs is to place them in a deep bowl, fill it up with boiling water, and serve in the bowl135 THE 366 BTLLS O F TARE. MAY 14. Potage aux pâtes d’Italie. Culotte de bœuf bouillie, sauce tomates. Vives au gratin. Canetons rôtis. Petits pois à la française. Œufs aux pistaches. Clear soup with Italian paste. Boiled rump-steak, tomato sauce. Baked weaver or sea-dragon. Roast duckling. Green peas à la française. Eggs with pistachio nuis. Baked weaver or sea-dragon. Clean eight fine weavers, eut off their fins (be careful not to prick your Angers with them, as they are most poisonous), line an oval tin or plated dish with fresh butter about half an inch thick, sprinkle with sait and pepper, and lay the fish on it. Chop equal quantifies of muslirooms, eschalots, and parsley very fine, warm with a little butter, a tumblerful of white wine, the same quantity of stock (if for fast day use water), and stir in a table-spoonful of flour; cook for twenty minutes, stir with a wooden spoon, and pour over the weavers ; sprinkle with grated bread-crust, put a few pièces of butter about the size of a Albert on the fish, and bake for twenty minutes. Stewed calf’s ears and mushrooms. Boil the calfis ears in sait and water, drain, and place on a dish. Cook some mushrooms in butter ; when brown moisten with stock, reduce, thicken the sauce with yolks of egg, and pour over the calfs ears.ï36 THE 356 BILL S OF F ARE. MAY 15. Brunoise aux croûtons. Brochet sauce aux anchois, Purée de lapereaux bordure de riz. Quartier d’agneau rôti. Asperges au beurre. Gelée au citron. Brunoise soup with bread-crusts. Pike, anchovy sauce. Purée of young rabbits with rice. Roast forequarter of lara b. Asparagus with butter. Lemon jelly. Purée of young: rabbits with rice. Roast your rabbits, eut off ail the méat, chop it up, and pound in a mortar with a quarter the quantity of butter, aod pass through a fine hair sieve. Boil the bones and trimmings of the rabbits in stock and a little brown thickening, stir in sufhcient of this liquid into the pounded méat to make a nice purée, and pour into a dish lined with either paste or boiled rice, garnish with soft-boiled eggs, and serve very hot. This purée must never be warmed after the stock has been added to it, as it quite spoils the flavour. Lemon jelly. Take one ounce of gélatine, half a pound of sugar, the juice of three fine lemons, and the peel of two of them, warm in two pints of water until the gélatine is dissolved, pass through a jelly-bag into a deep bowl, and when cold, whip on some ice until the jelly has thickened, pour into a mould, and leave in the refoigerator until set. Turn out of the mould before serving.THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. i37 MAY 16. Potage à l’oseille. Sole farcie aux fines herbes. Rissoles de crêtes de coq et de truffes. Filet de bœuf rôti. Chicorée au jus. Soufflé glacé aux fraises. Sorrel soup. Soles stuffed with mixed herbs. Rissoles of cockscombs and truffles. Roast fillet of beef. Stewed chicory. Iced strawberry soufflé. Soles stuffed with mixed herbs. Open your soles down the back, eut out a large piece of the back-bone and half boil in white wine ; when cold, staff them with chopped parsley, chives and mushrooms, seasoned with pepper and sait and mixed with fresh butter, simmer in stock until cooked, and serve with their own sauce flavoured with lemon-juice. Rissoles of cockscombs and trufîles. Scald and clean a dozen large cockscombs, boil in thin, white thickening (see iôth of April). When nearly cold eut into dice, and mix with chopped truffles which hâve been boiled in sherry, and moisten with reduced white thickening. Roll out some puff paste, eut into pièces about four inches in diameter, bake fora few minutes so as to brown one side, lay a spoonful of rissole méat in the centre of each piece of paste, moisten the edges with egg, fold them together, and press gently to make them stick ; dip each rissole into beaten eggs seasoned with sait and pepper, fry in boiling butter or lard, dish up in a pyramid, and garnish with fried parsley.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 138 MAY 17. Potage à la purée de pois verts. Maquereaux aux groseilles vertes. Poulet Marengo. Porc frais rôti. Salade de légumes. Croquantes. Purée of green peas. Mackerel stuffed with green goose- berries. Cliicken à la Marengo. Roast pork. Vegetable salad. Croquantes, or almond toffee. Mackerel stuffed with. green gooseberries. Pick and seed some half-ripe gooseberries, mix with a few pièces of fresh herring, chopped herbs, sait and cayenne pepper; stuff your mackerel with this, and boil in sait and water, season with sliced onions, carrots, and turnips ; when cooked, drain the fish, and serve with green gooseberry sauce. Green gooseberry sauce. Pick and seed two large handsful of green gooseberries, soak in boiling water and sait, drain and warm in melted butter seasoned with chopped parsley, sait, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; just before serving, stir in a little double-cream. The celebrated “ Mackerel Gooseberry ” took its name from this sauce, which is of very old origin. Croquantes, or almond toffee. Blanch and dry a pound of Jordan almonds, eut up each almond into five or six pièces, and bake in a slow oven until a golden colour. Boil three-quarters of a pound of sugar to the snap, add your almonds, take the saucepan olf the fire, stir the sugar and almonds well together, butter several small moulds, and line with the toffee as thin as possible. To avoid burning your Angers, use the slice of a lemon to smooth it round the mould. Some cooks pour the hot toffee into a buttered dish and eut it into squares. The sugar may be coloured with cochineal if preferred. Anchovy butter. Skin and scrape some well-soaked anchovies, pass through a hair sieve, and stir into the same quantity of butter as theie is paste.THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. 139 MAY 18. Épaule d’agneau glacée. Poulets rôtis. Pois au lard. Croquenbouche. Potage purée Crécy. Merlans grillés. Broiled whiting. Crécy soup. Glazed shoulder of mutton. Roast fowls. Peas and bacon. Croquenbouche. Broiled whiting'. Scale, clean out your whiting, eut two or three slits down the sides, dip into olive oil, sprinkle with sait and pepper, and broil over a slow fire, turn the fish several times, and dish up carefully, covered either with white caper sauce or tomato sauce. Cut up either some lean ham or bacon into dice, warm in butter, and when nearly done, moisten with stock, add your peas and a bouquet of herbs, chives, sait and pepper, cook over a slow fire, and take out the bouquet of herbs before serving. This name is given to ail large set pièces for suppers or dinners, such as nougats, cakes, oranges, or nun’s sighs, which hâve been covered with sugar, boiled to the snap, so as to give a brilliant appearance. The real meaning of croquen- bouche is “crackle in the mouth.” Préparé the same as croquantes (see i7th of May), only do not spread out so thin. Peas and bacon. Croquenbouche, Nougat.140 THE 356 B TELS O F FA EF. MAY 19. Potage au vermicelle. Barbue sauce hollandaise. Pigeons aux pointes d'asperges. Vermicelli soup. Brill, Hollandaise sauce. Stewed pigeons and asparagus heads. Roast leg of mutton. Baked cauliflower with bread- crumbs. Excellent pudding. Gigot rôti. Choux-fleurs au gratin. Pouding excellent. Stewed pigeons -with asparagus heads. Stew the same as pigeons and green peas (see below) ; but the asparagus taking a shorter time to cook must be added only a few minutes before taking off the fire. Split your pigeons open down the backs, stuff with their livers chopped up with bacon, bread-crumbs soaked in milk, chopped herbs, sait and pepper. Warm sorae butter in a saucepan ; when brown add a little chopped bacon and the pigeons, moisten with half a tumberful of water, season with two onions, a bouquet of herbs, sait and pepper; add a pound of green peas, and simmer over a slow fire for an hour. Remove the bouquet of herbs, and dish up the pigeons on the peas. The sauce must not be too thin. Take a pound of finely-chopped suet, one pound of stoned raisins, one pound of currants, eight yolks of egg, four whites of egg, half a pound of bread-crumb, one pound of flour, one pound of sugar, half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, a dessert-spoonful of powdered ginger, a pinch of sait, half a tumblerful of rum, some strips of mixed peel, and the grated peel of a lemon. Whip up the eggs, add a little milk, and stir into the remainder of the ingrédients, if too thick moisten with milk ; tie up in a pudding-cloth, and boil for five or six hours. Serve with either rum or Madeira sauce. Stewed pigeons and green peas. An excellent pudding.Mi THE 366 BTLIS OF FARE. MAY 20. MENU EN MAIGRE. Potage aux herbes. Morue à la béchamel. Œufs brouillés aux pointes d’as- perges. Pâté de saumon. Marinade de fonds d’artichauts. Flan de cerises. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Herb soup. Cod, béchamel sauce. Buttered eggs with asparagus heads. Salmon pie. Fried bottoms of artichokes. Open cherry tart. Herb soup. Take some white beet, lettuce, sorrel, and purslane-leaves, wash and dry them, warm in butter, stir in a little flour, moisten with water, thicken with yolks of egg, and pour on to toasted bread-crusts. Keep the largest pièces of vegetable to lay on the top. Cod, béchamel sauce. Take a large lump of butter, a dessert-spoonful of flour, sait, black pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, chopped parsley and chives, stir into a tumblerful of cream, and leave on the fire until it boils, if too thick add a little more cream. Boil your cod in sait and water, break into flakes, and dish up in a pyramid, covered with the sauce. Buttered egrgrs or omelet, with asparagus heads. Blanch some asparagus heads, eut them into small pièces, and warm in white thickening, seasoned with chopped parsley, chives, sait and pepper; when cooked add a little milk, and pour, quite hot, over your eggs, which hâve been beaten and stirred in a saucepan over the fire, until done. Préparé the asparagus in the same manner if required for an omelet.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 142 MAY ai. Potage de riz à la paysanne. Petits pâtés aux rognons. Lamproie au suprême. Bœuf à la mode. Poulets rôtis. Haricots verts au beurre. Soufflé à la vanille. French beans with butter. Vanilla soufflé. Peasant soup with rice. Kidney patties. Jugged lamprey. Bœuf à la mode. Roast fowls. Kidney patties. Remove the skin and fat from your kidneys, and eut up into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, warm in melted butter seasoned with sait, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, and stir well. Line some patty pans with puff paste, fill with the kidneys, and cover with a piece of paste large enough to go over the sides of the patty pans, and moisten the edges with water. Bake, and when done lift up the covers, fill the patties with velouté (see 23rd of August), replace the covers, and serve immediately. Cut up a lamprey into large pièces, and brown in butter ; add some truffles and morels ; when a good colour moisten with a tumblerful of red wine, season with sait, pepper, and a pinch of sugar. Serve with its own sauce, and garnish with sippets of fried bread. Melt half a pound of butter, add a little flour, sait, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; stir until quite thick, àdd a pint of cream and a little chopped parsley, leave on the fire for five minutes, and serve. Jugged lamprey. Cream sauce.r43 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. MAY 22. Pièce de bœuf à la sauce Robert, Potage au pain. Bread soup. Casserole de laitances. Quartier de veau rôti. Asperges en branches. Boiled beef, Robert sauce. Stewed roe. Roast chump of veal. Crème vierge. Asparagus. Virgin cream. Stewed roe. Blanch your roe in boiling vinegar and water, drain, and stew for a quarter of an hour in equal quantifies of stock and white wine, seasoned with a bouquet of herbs, a pinch of grated nutmeg, sait and pepper ; when cooked place the roe on a dish, reduce the sauce, thicken it with a little flour and butter, flavour with lemon-juice, and pour over the roe. Soak a chump of veal for two days in white wine, seasoned with sait, pepper, and mixed herbs. Lard and roast it. Serve covered with ravigote sauce (see 2ç)th of May). Take a little sugar, some lemon peel, and two or three laurel-leaves, boil, and pass through a tammy. Cut out the skins from the centre of four or five chicken gizzards, dry, pound them, and soak in lukewarm water until dissolved ; add to the sugar, pass through a tammy, flavour with orange-flower water, and pour into small china cups ; vvarm in a bain-marie, and serve very hot. Pound the shell and spawn of a lobster, stir well into some butter, and pass through a sieve. Roast chump of veal. Virgin cream. Lobster butter,THE 366 BTLLS OF FA RE. 144 MAY 23. Bar sauce aux câpres. Filet de mouton aux petits pois. Potage printanier. Spring soup. Bass, caper sauce. Fillet of mutton and green peas. Roast turkey poult. Asparagus à la Pompadour. Cherry tartlets. Dindonneau rôti. Asperges à la Pompadou Tartelettes aux ceri Breast of veal with green peas. Cut a breast of veal into pièces, blanch, and warm them in butter, add a little flour, a bouquet of mixed herbs, sait, pepper, and stock, stew over a slow tire \ add the peas in time to be done when the veal is cooked, and thickenthe sauce with yolks of egg. Boil your asparagus in boiling sait and water ; when done cut it up into pièces about the length of your little finger, and place in a hot cloth near the lire. Take a little fresh butter, some yolks of egg, sait, pepper, and a tablespoonful of vinegar; cook in a bain-marie until thick ; dish up the asparagus, and pour the sauce over it. Take eight ounces of beef marrow, the same quantity of bread-crumbs, a dessert-spoonful of flour, five yolks of egg, a whole egg, sait, and pepper, mix until a smooth paste ; take a spoonful at a time and poach in boiling sait and water ; drain, trim and serve. Asparagus à la Pompadour. Marrow quenelles.THE 366 B IL LS OL FARE. MAY 24. Culotte de bœuf garnie à la fla- Potage au tapioca. Tapioca soup Brisket of beef à la flamande. mande. Œufs pochés à la sauce tomate. Goujons frits Pâté de canards. Gelée de fraises à la vanille. Poached eggs with tomato sauce. Fried gudgeon. Duck pie. Strawberry and vanilla jelly. Brisket of beef à la Flamande. Bone, roll, and skewer your brisket, and simmer in stock for three hours, Place it in a stew-pan with a bottle of sherry or any dry white wine, and two tumblersful of stock, simmer untd cooked. Blanch some cabbages, drain, and leave until cold ; press them well between two plates, so as to squeeze ont ail water, sprinkle with sait and pepper, tie round with a string, and boil in a large stew-pan, with uncleared stock, a pièce of bacon, some sausages, German sausages, a bouquet' of nuxed herbs, sait and pepper ; cover with a buttered sheet of paper, and take out the bacon and sausages as soon as thev are cooked ; when cold skin the sausages, and eut into slices chop the bacon into dice, and warm in butter. Place thé beefm the centre ofa large dish, surround itwith the cabbages and P'arniQh unf-V» flio Kooa*, _ 1 . o > and garmsh with the bacon, sausages, and some glazed turnip: and rrnl"ç rnf 1 ntr\ Ko 11 a pi-.!.. i*. . 1 « . ^THE 366 BTLLS OF TARE. I4<5 MAY 25. Potage purée de pommes de terre. Tanches frites Poitrine de veau farcie. Cochon de lait au Père Douillet. Haricots verts à la maître d’hôtel. Bavarois vanillé. Purée of potatoes. Fried tench. Stuffed breast of veal. Sucking-pig au Père Douillet. French beans à la maître d’hôtel. Bavarian vanilla cream. Fried tench. Clean and scrape your tench very carefully, and soak for two hours in melted butter seasoned with chives, chopped parsley, sait, pepper, and vinegar. Flour, and fry them. Serve gar- nished with fried parsley. Cut off the pig’s head, divide the body into four pièces, and lay in a stew-pan lined with slices of bacon, season with cloves, a pinch of grated nutmeg, powdered ginger, cinnamon, laurel- leaves, sait, pepper, slices of lemon, onions, carrots, and pars- nips ; cover with slices of bacon and veal, moisten with white wine, and simmer over a slow fire until thoroughly cooked. Drain the pork, pass the sauce through a tammy, pour it over the méat, and serve when cold. Take two tablespoonsful of chopped mushrooms, one table- spoonful of chopped parsley, the saine quantity of chopped eschalots, a head of garlic, a little seraped bacon, laurel-leaves, thyme, a pinch of mixed spice, sait and pepper ; warm in fresh butter, moisten with white wine, reduce, pass through a tammy, stir into a little white thickening, and use for either chicken or game entrées. Suckingr-pig: au Père Douillet. Sauce à la Duxelle.147 THE 366 BTLLS OF FARE. MAY 26. Potage aux pâtes d’Italie. Vol-au-vent d’amourettes à la crème. Italian paste soup. Vol-au-vent of beef tendons. Selle de mouton garnie de rissoles. Pigeons rôtis au cresson. Asperges en branches. Meringues à la Chantilly. Saddle of mutton with rissoles. Roast pigeons and watercress. Asparagus. Meringues à la Chantilly. Vol-au-vent of beef tendons. Make a vol au-vent case of puff paste, and bake. Remove the nerves and skins from two pounds of beef tendons, soak in warm water until perfectly white, and boil for ten minutes in water, vinegar, and sait ; when firm, drain them and eut into pièces about two inches long ; pour some boiling water over them, leave for ten minutes, drain, and warm in veal stock. Warm the vol-au-vent case ; drain the tendons, pour some thick béchamel sauce (see iôth of August) over them, add twenty button mushrooms which hâve been boiled, fill the case with this, and serve very hot. It is a thousand pitiés that this delicious dish is not oftener given. Cover your pigeons with vine-leaves, wrap them up in bacon, and roast for half an hour. Serve with their own gravy, and garnish with watercresses. Préparé the same as bream with white wine sauce fsee 2 7th ofNovember). ' Roast pigeons. Soles with white wine sauce.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 148 MAY 27. Potage brunoise aux pois. Soles au vin blanc. Tourne-dos aux olives. Carré de porc frais rôti. Artichauts à l’essence de jambon. Flan meringué. Brunoise soup with green peas. Soles with white wine sauce. Fillets of beef and olives. Roast loin of pork. Stewed artichokes with essence of ham. Frangipane tart. Koast loin of porb. Bone your loin, and leave it for three hours in a pan covered with coarse sait ; rub in the sait front time to tinte. Roast_ and serve with its own gravy in a sauceboat. Stewed artichokes with essence of ham. Trim the artichokes, eut out the chokes, and stuff with chopped mushrooms, minced bacon, parsley, and eschalots, which hâve been cooked in butter. Line a stew-pan with slices of bacon, add the artichokes, season with sait, pepper, and a bouquet of mixed herbs ; moisten with stock, and cook over a slow fire, with hot coals on the lid ; when done, dish up, covered with essence of ham. Essence of ham. Mince up some ham very fine, pound it, and warm in melted lard j stir in a little flour. When a good colour moisten with either veal or common stock ; season with a bouquet of herbs, cloves, chopped mushrooms, and a teaspoonful of vinegar. Pass through a tammy, and pour over the artichokes.THE 366 B TELS O F FARE. 149 MAY 28. Potage à la julienne. Julienne soup. Bœuf braisé aux carottes nouvelles. Braised beef and young carrots. Poulets à l’estragon. Lapereaux rôtis. Chicken with tarragon. Roast young rabbits. Haricots verts à l’anglaise. Compote d’oranges. French beans à l’anglaise. Compote of oranges. Braise. Braising is one of the most important parts of culinary art, as méat vvhen cooked without allowing any évaporation retains ail its sweetness and strength. Line a braising-pan with slices of bacon and beef about half an inch thick ; season with mixed herbs, onions, carrots, thyme, laurel-leaves, pepper, sait, grated nutrneg, and mixed spice. Place the piece of méat you are going to cook in the braising- pan, and cover with the same seasoning until the pan is fui 1, fix on the lid as tight as possible, line the edges of the braising- pan with hot-water paste so that no air may get in, cover the lid with hot coals and simmer. When the méat is nearly cooked diminish the fire. This recipe is excellent for large joints of méat which require a good deal of flavouring. Pig’s tail with. a purée of peas. Cook the same as calfs ears (see i4th of May), and dish up on a purée of peas, lentils, or chestnuts.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE T5° MAY 29. Potage printanier. Bar bouilli sauce crevettes. Moëlle de bœuf à la Orly. Gigot de pré-salé rôti. Pommes sautées. Gâteau d’amande massif. Spring soup. Boiled bass, caper sauce. Beef marrow à la Orly. Roast leg of southdown mutton. Fried potatoes. Almond cake. Beef marrow à la Orly. Cut your marrow into pièces about four inches long and two inches thick, soak in cold water, drain, and leave for an hour. Dip into hot méat glaze, place each piece separately on a board and when cold smooth round the edges, and twenty minutes before required dip thern into batter and fry in boiling lard ; when a good colour, dry them in a cloth, dish up in a pyramid, sprinkle with sait, and garnish with fried parsley. Hand tomato sauce separately, and serve very hot. Ravigote sauce. Take equal quantities of white wine and stock, reduce to a brown thickening; season with chopped and blanched pim- pernel, tarragon, chervil and chive-leaves, lemon juice, sait and pepper ; stir the sauce until quite thick over a quick tire, but do not let it boil. Potatoes boiled in their skins. Eoil or bake some fine old potatoes without peeling them. Serve, wrapped up in a napkin. Hand butter sauce in a sauceboat.THE 366 B/LIS OF FARE. *5» MAY 30. MENU EN MAIGRE. Potage purée de pommes de terre, chiffonnade de cerfeuil. Lottes en matelote. Pâté chaud de légumes. Homard à la broche. Œufs à la crème. Glaces au four. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Purée of potatoes with chervil- leaves. Stewed eel pout. Hot vegetable pie. Roast lobster. Eggs with cream. Baked ices. Stewed eel pout. Clean out your eel pout and keep the livers ; warm them in butter, moisten with white wine, and season with young blanched onions, a bouquet of mixed herbs, sait and pepper ; when nearly done add the livers and some carp’s roe ; simmer over a slow fire until cooked. Dish up each eel pout on a slice of toast, and cover with their own sauce. Baked ices. During the visit of the Chinese Ambassadors to Paris their Excellencies’ chef exchanged civilities with the chef of the Grand Hôtel, and amongst other things taught him how to bake either ginger or vanilla ices; and the following recipe will show how this delicious svveet is prepared. Make your ice very firm, roll out some light paste thin, and eut it into small squares, place a spoonful of ice in the centre of each piece of paste, and fold it up carefully so that no air may get in, and bake. 1 lie paste will be cooked before the ice can melt. In this dish gourmands hâve the pleasure of eating hot light paste, whilst their palates are cooled by the refresliing ice.THE 366 B 7LL S O F FA RE. r52 MAY 31. Potage au petits pois. Pâté chaud de saumon, Green pea soup. Iiot salrr.on pie. Côtelettes de mouton jardinière. Jambon glacé. Mutton cutlets à la jardinière. Glazed ham. Salade de légumes. Beignets de pommes. Vegetable salad. Apple fritters. Green pea soup. Boil your peas in boiling sait and water ; when cooked, stir in a large lump of butter, and pour over fried crusts of bread ; sprinkle with sugar. Line a mould with hot-water paste. Warm some slices of salin on in butter, and season with sait, pepper, and finely- chopped heibs. Lard the salmon with fillets of anchovy and lay thern in the mould, cover with hot-water paste, egg over, and bake ; when done, take off the cover and fill up the mould with the following sauce. Take some court-bouillon (see i8th of April), season it with chopped eschalots and parsley, stir in a little flour and butter, warm, and pour over the fish. It is customary to serve hot pies without the cover of paste, and to garnish them with crayfish. Clean and bone your anchovies, cook in a tumblerful of stock, and stir in a little flour and butter as soon as the sauce boils. Serve it in a sauceboat. Hot salmon pie. Anchovy sauce.153 THE 366 B T LL S O F FA RE. JUNE 1. Potage Solférino. Barbillons grillés au beurre fondu. Noix de bœuf braisée. Pigeons rôtis. Fèves de marais à la crème. 'Partes aux cerises. Solférino soup. Broiled barbel with melted butter. Braised chump of beef. Roast pigeons. Broad beans with cream. Cherry tartlets. Solférino soup. Take equal quantifies of haricot beans, French beans, young potatoes, young carrots, green peas, three or four tablespoonsful of purée of tomato, chopped parsley, chives, and celery ; boil in stock, and pour over toasted bread-crusts. Braised chump of beef. Préparé a braising-pan (see 28Ü1 of May), and put in a chump of beef (be careful that it îs well covered, as it is a very dry joint), moisten with white wine and two wine-glasses of brandy, fix the lid on very tight, and cook over a slow tire. When done, place the beef on a dish, pass the sauce and vegetables through a tammy, clear of ail grease, reduce it to a thin glaze, and pour over the beef. Broad beans with cream. Pick out the youngest and smallest beans and blanch them. If the beans are old they rnust be peeled. Boil them in milk, with some butter, chopped parsley, and sait; thicken the saucé with two whipped yolks of egg, and stir in a little cream.*54 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. JUNE 2. Potage de riz à la purée de carottes. Surmulet à la sauce matelote. Escalopes de lapereaux aux pointes d’asperges. Pintade rôtie. Navets au jus. Beignets de fraises. Purée of carrots with rice. Red mullet, matelote sauce. Scalloped young rabbits with asparagus. Roast guinea-fowl. Stewed turnips. Strawberry fritters. Scalloped young rabbits with. asparagus. Scallop your rabbits and cook in fresh butter; boil the trimmings and bones in stock, reduce, pass through a tammy, add a little white thickening, a lump of butter, a pinch of grated nutmeg, sait and pepper; stew some asparagus heads which hâve been blanched in this sauce, dish up the scallops, and pour the asparagus over them. Stewed turnips. Peel and wash the turnips, boil in water, drain, and warm in butter with a little powdered sugar. When brown, remove the turnips, moisten the sauce with stock, season with a bou- quet of mixed herbs, sait and pepper ; reduce, skim off ail grease, and pour over the turnips. Stuffed anchovies. Split open your anchovies, wash them in white wine and bone them. Mix some chopped fish, bread-crumbs, and yolks of egg together, stuff the anchovies with this, dip into batter, fry, and serve, garnished with fried parsley.THE 366 HILLS O F FA RE. x55 JUNE 3. Vermicelle à la hollandaise. Éperlans frits. Poulet à la Marengo. Filet de bœuf rôti. Epinards à la crème. Compote d’abricots. White vermicelli soup. Fried smelts. Chicken à la Marengo. Roast fillet of beef. Spinach and cream. Compote of apricots. White vermicelli soup. Boil the vermicelli in either chicken or veal broth, pass through a tammy, add the necessary quantity of either cream or milk, stir in sortie yolks of egg, warm, and serve. For fast days boil the vermicelli in milk. Chicken à la Marengo. Cut up a chicken into joints, and cook in olive oil and a little sait, put in the legs before the other pièces, as they take longer to cook. When a good colour and nearly done, add a bouquet of mixed herbs, pepper, mushrooms, and some slices of truffles ; place the chicken on a dish, and add the oil drop by drop to some Italian sauce ; stir the whole time. When warm, pour over the chicken, and garnish with fried eggs and sippets of fried bread. If preferred, clarified butter may be used instead of oil. Compote of apricots à la minute. Cut your apricots into halves, remove the stones, and boil in melted sugar for three minutes ; skim, flavour with orange- juice, and serve when cold. Eggs with cream sauce. Warm some cream sauce, add your sliced hard-boiled eggs, and serve. Cream sauce. Mix a little llour into half a pound of butter, season with pepper and a pinch of grated nutmeg, stir over the lire until thick, add a pint of cream and some chopped parsley, and leave on the lire for five minutes.THE 366 BILL S O F FA RE. 156 JUNE 4. Potage de riz au consommé. Clear soup with rice. Baked plaice. Chickens à l’italienne. Roast forequarter of lamb. Ckopped asparagus with cream. Apricot tart. Carrelets au gratin. Poulets à l’italienne. Quartier d’agneau rôti. Asperges en petits pois. Tourte aux abricots. Chickens à l’Italienne. Chop up the livers of your chickens with some parsley, chives, mushrooms, scraped bacon, a lump of butter, mixed herbs, and spice ; stuff the chickens with this, brown for a few minutes in a little butter, cover with slices of bacon and buttered paper, and roast. Blanch some parsley, chive and tarragon-leaves, drain carefully, chop very fine, and place in a saucepan with a tumbler of white wine, half a tumbler of olive oil, two chopped anchovies, half a lemon eut up into dice, a pinch of coarse black pepper and sait; warm and thicken with gravy and four yolks of egg. When the chickens are roasted, dish up, and pour this sauce over them. Serve very hot. Cut up some pièces of cold roast chicken, soak for an hour in vinegar, sait and pepper, dip into batter, and fry in boiling lard. Dish up, garnished with fried parsley. Hand tomato sauce in a sauceboat. Chicken fritters.157 THE 366 BILL S O F FA RE. JUNE 5. Kosbif garni de pommes nouvelles. Langouste sauce au homard. Fèves à la sai'riette. Omelette aux cerises, Potage paysanne. Abatis de volaille. Peasant soup. Turkey or chicken gibîets. Roast beef and new potatoes. Sea crayfish, lobster sauce. Broad beans with cream. Cherry omelet. Turkey or chicken giblets. Take either some turkey or chicken giblets, gizzards, and livers, scald, clean, and eut them up into pièces, do not use the heads. Warm in a saucepan with butter ; when brown, add five ounces of bacon, eut into four pièces, brown them also ; remove the giblets and bacon, stir a little flour into the butter, and when thiclc add two tumblersful of water ; season with sait, pepper, thyme, laurel-leaves, and an onion stuck with cloves ; simmer the giblets in this sauce for two hours. Blanch a dozen turnips in boiling water for a quarter of an hour, drain and add to the stew, with some sliced carrots, potatoes, chopped celery, and two lumps of sugar ; when cooked, clear the sauce of ail grease and serve very hot. Scald the tongues and lard them, braise (see 28thof May), and when cooked, pass the sauce and vegetables through a tammy ; pour over the tongues and serve, garnished with either gherkins or capers. Cut up some green asparagus into small pièces, blanch in boiling water for three minutes, simmer in a saucepan for half an hour, with butter, a lump of sugar, an onion, and not more than three tablespoonsful of water ; remove the onion, and thicken the sauce with either yolks of egg or cream. Braised sheep’s tongues. Chopped asparagus with cream.153 TnE 366 BILLS OF FARE. JUNE 6. Potage à la purée de lentilles. Purée of lentils. Trout à l’espagnole. Stewed pigeons. Truite à l’espagnole. Pigeons en compote. Gigot de mouton rôti. Haricots verts sautés. Roast leg of mutton. French beans with butter. Flan de cerises. Open cherry tart. Purée of lentils. Piepare the same as pea soup (see 23rd of January). Clean and scale your trout, stuff them with fresh butter, mixed with chopped parsley, chives, eschalots, sait and pepper; soak for an hour in olive oil, seasoned with parsley, chives, thyme, laurel-leaves, sait, and whole black pepper. Dip sonie paper in the oil, cover with as much of the seasoning as possible, wrap round the trout and broil; when cooked, remove the paper and herbs, and serve, covered with anchovy sauce. Cook some dice of bacon in butter ; when a good colour remove them, and brown your pigeons in the same butter ; sprinkle them with flour, moisten with stock, add the pièces of bacon, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and some mushrooms ; when the pigeons are three quarters cooked, add some young onions, which hâve been browned in butter and slightly sprinkled with sugar ; when the pigeons are cooked, remove the bouquet of herbs, skim ali the grease off the sauce, and serve, garnished with fried sippets of bread. Trout à l’espag-nole. Stewed pig-eons.159 THE 366 HILLS OF FARE. JUNE 7. Potage aux œufs pochés. Pièce de bœuf sauce Robert. Carpe à la bière. Quartier d’agneau rôti. Pommes sautées. Plan de fraise. Clear soup with poached eggs. Boiled beef, sauce Robert. Carp boiled in beer. Roast forequarter of lamb. Fried potatoes. Open strawberry tart. Clear soup with. poached eg'g's. Poach sortie eggs, and add them to your stock in the soup tureen. Hand the vegetables which hâve flavoured the stock in a separate dish. Carp boiled in beer. This is a very old and good recipe. Line a fish-pan with slices of bacon, chopped onions, eschalots, carrots, and mixed herbs ; put in the carp, sprinkle with sait, and pour in sufficient beer to cover about three quarters of the fish ; lay a sheet of buttered paper over it, and place the fish-pan in a moderate oven, turn the fish in half an hour \ when cooked remove the carp ; pass the sauce through a tammy, clear of ail grease, and warm in a saucepan ; as soon as it boils, stir in sonie stale grated bread-crumbs ; take ofif the lire, continue stirring until quite thick ; pass through a hair sieve and pour over the carp, which must be previously garnished with stewed lettuces, young onions, mushrooms, and fish quenelles. ïf any sauce remains, hand it in a sauceboat.THE 366 B1LLS OF FARE. i6o JUNE 8. Potage au vermicelle. Perches grillées sauce à la moutarde. Noix de veau piquée à la flamande. Caneton rôti. Petits pois en cosses. Crème au thé. Vermicelli Soup. Boiled perch, mustard sauce. Larded chump of veal à la flamande. Roast duckling. Green peas boiled in their shells. Tea cream. Green peas boiled in their shells. There is a pea now cultivated which, when young, has such tender shells, that they are able to be eaten as well as the peas. Boil for half an hour in vvater, drain, and warm in butter ; stir in some cream, thicken with yolks of egg, and flavour with a fevv drops of vinegar. Sheeps’ trotters, Robert sauce. Boil the trotters in sait and water ; when done, drain, and siramer for three quarters of an hour in Robert sauce ; season with sait and pepper, and just before taking off the fixe stir in a teaspoonful of mustard. Roast beef with potatoes. Roast your joint of beef, and serve with its own gravy. Boil some potatoes, warm them in melted butter, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and hand in a separate dish. Tea cream. Warm a pint of cream until reduced to half the quantity ; add a small teacupful of strong téa, three yolks of egg, and a little sugar, stir well, pass through a fine cloth, and pouf into a large mould or several small ones ; cook in a bain-marie until set.i6r THE 3G6 BILLS OF FARE. JUNE 9. Potage purée de pois verts. Bœuf à la mode. Pâté chaud de godiveau. Pigeons rôtis. Épinards au velouté. Tartlettes aux cerises. Purée of green peas. Bœuf à la mode. Hot forcemeat pie. Roast pigeons. Spinach boiled in velouté sauce. Cherry tartlets. Bœuf à la mode. Lard a rump-steak with well-seasoned bacon ; if preferred, the steak can be eut into squares about the size of the palm of your hand; place in a deep dish or bowl, season with sait, Pepper, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and a head of garlic ; place the bowl in a large stew-pan half full of boiling water, and cook over a slow tire ; as soon as the gravy begins to corne out of . the méat, cover it with slices of bacon, make a larger tire, and keep it up until the steak is thoroughly done; just before taking off the tire add a tumblerful of red wine, pass the sauce through a tammy, reduce, and pour over the beef. If the “ bœuf à la mode ” is to be eaten cold, use equal quantités-of veal and bacon to cover it, substitute a liqueur-glassful of - brandy for tbe red wine, and eut the steak into squares, as the glaze will cover them better. Fried soles. . CIean and skin y°ur soles ; if preferred, they can be filleted ■ dip them into milk, sprinkle with flour, fry in boilino- lard • when a good colour, dry in a cloth, and serve, garnished with parsley. M162 THE 366 BILL S O F FARE. JUNE 10. MENU EN MAIGRE. Potage aux lazagnes. Raie au beurre noir. Lottes à la parisienne. Buisson d’ecrevisses. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DA¥. Italian paste soup. Skate, black butter sauce. Eel pout à la parisienne. Crayfish. Salade de légumes. Croquettes de riz. Œufs à l’oseille. Eggs with purée of sorrel. Vegetable salad. Rice croquettes. Eel pout à la Parisienne. Scrape and clean your eel pout, keep the livers, boil in mire- poix (see 4th of October), and serve, covered with oyster sauce, to which you hâve added the livers, chopped up into small pièces. Wash the rice, blanch it in boiling water, and soak in cold water until cool ; cook in boiling milk, with a little sugar and lemon peel, over a slow fire ; stir the rice occasionally, so that it may not burn ; when done spread it out about three inches thick on a wooden slab, leave until cold, eut it into squares, sprinkle with grated bread-crumb 3 roll into croquettes, dip into beaten yolks of egg, bread-crumb, and fry in boiling lard or butter. Serve very hot, sprinkled with powdered sugar. The rice may be flavoured with vanilla instead of lemon, ifpre- ferred. Préparé the same as baked brill (see 25th of Mardi). Make a purée of sorrel (see 23rd of December), use cream instead of stock for fast days, dish up, garnished with poached Rice croquettes. Baked barbel with Parmesan cheese.163 THE 366 B'ILLS OF FA RE. JUNE 11 Potage Crécy au riz. Crécy soup with rice. Broiled mackerel, ravigote sauce. Saddle of nrutton à la française. Pâté de foie gras. Purslane fVied in batter. Burnt cream. Maquereaux grillés sauce ravigote. Selle de mouton à la française. Terrine de foie gras. Pourpier en friture. Crème brûlée. Faté de foie gras. Hâve a foie gras weighing about a pound and a half. Make some forcemeat with one pound of turkey breast, one pound of fresh pork, mix'ed herbs, laurel leaves, thyme, sait, pepper, and two heads of cloves, and pound well. Peel one pound of truffles carefully, and stick some large pièces into the foie gras. Line the bottorn of a deep dish with some of the stuffing, lay the foie gras on this, surround it with the remainder of the truffles, fill up ail interstices with the stuffing, and cover the whole with slices of bacon and laurel leaves. Cook the pie in a bain-marie over a slow fire, keep the water at boiling point but be careful none gets into the pie. It generally takes *. about an hour and a half to cook a pie of this size. Stick a skewer into the centre, and if burning hot when taken out you will know that the pie is done. When cold, remove the slices of bacon and cover with a layer of lard. Some people prefer the pie baked in the oven, as they consider it has more flavour. If the pie is to be eaten immediately, calfs liver forcemeat (see next page) may be used, instead of turkey and pork. M 2164 THE 366 BILES OF FARE. JUNE 12. Potage printanier aux œufs pochés. Petits pâtés au jus. Côtelettes de mouton garnies de haricots verts. Jambon rôti. Épinards au velouté. Flan de fruits. Spring soup and poached eggs. Gravy patties. Mutton cutlets with French beans. Roast ham. Spinaçh boiled in velouté sauce. Open fruit tart. Gravy patties. Line some small moulds with light paste, and fill with what- ever forcemeat fancied (several different recipes are given in this book), cover the moulds with paste, egg over, and bake ; when done remove the covers, scoop out the forcemeat, turn the patties out of the moulds, and fill them with well-seasoned, reduced gravy. Open fruit tart. Line a plain mould, about three inches deep, with short paste. Take some stoned cherries, sliced peaches, apricots, nectarines, and gooseberries, stir well in a bowl with some powdered sugar, pour into the mould, and bake in a quick oven ; crack the apricot stones, blanch the kernels, and garnish the tart with them. If the fruit seems too dry, pour a little clarified sugar over it before taking out of the oven. Calfs liver forcemeat. Cut a pound and a quarter of calfs liver into dice, add them to three quarters of a pound of melted lard, season uith sait pepper, mixed spice, and laurel leaves ; stir over a quick fire with a wooden spoon for at least four minutes; leave until cold, pound, and pass through a tammy, when it will be ready for use.165 THE 366 É1LLS O F FA RE. JUNE 13. Potage à la julienne. Matelote de carpe et d’anguille. Queues de bœuf à la Sainte-Mene- hould. Volaille rôtie. Petits pois à la parisienne. Carottes au sucre. Julienne soup. Stewed carp and eel. Ox-tail soup à la Sainte-Menehould. Roast fowl. Green peas à la parisienne. Carrots stewed in sugar and cream. Ox-tail à la Sainte-lYtenehould. Cut the tail into joints, and cook in stock; when done, sprinkle with sait and pepper, dip into melted butter and bread-crumb, repeat this, and either bake or broil. Dish up on stewed red cabbage, or a pure'e of green peas, or with Italian or piquante sauce. Green peas à la Parisienne. Shell some small green peas, wash them, and boil over a moderate fire for half an hour in a little water, season with sait, butter, a pmch of powdered sugar, a bouquet of parsley, and some young onions ; when done remove the parsley and onions, stir in a lump of butter, mixed with a little flour, and, when melted, serve. Carrots stewed in sug-ar and cream. Boil some fine carrots in water, and leave on the fire until the water is nearly ail absorbed, mash the carrots, add a little milk, a tablespoonful of potato flour, a pinch of powdered sugar, and some dried orange flowers. Stir in sufficient eggs to thicken the sauce, but reserve a third of the whites, whip them up with some fresh butter, add to the carrots, place the saucepan m the oven, and, when done, pour into a deep dish sprinkle with sugar, and serve very hot.t66 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. JUNE 14. Potage à la Prisse. Rosbif sauce raifoit. Soup à la Brisse. Vol-au-vent à la financière. Brochet piqué à la broche. Roast beef, horseradish sauce. Vol-au-vent à la financière. Fondue au fromage. Bavarois au café. Roast larded pike. Fondue of cheese. Eavarian cofifee cream. Soup à la Brisse. This soup, which is composed of chicken stock with dice of vegetable cream, is a charming addition to the culinary art. Take some asparagus, for example, boil it, pass sufficient through a fine hair sieve to fill a wine-glass, beat up two eggs and a pinch of gratecl nutmeg in a bowl, add two wine-glasses- ful of chicken stock and the purée of vegetable, stir weîl and pass through a tammy. Butter a plain mould, pour in the purée, and cook in a bain-marie ; when done, take off the lire, and when set, turn the cream out of the mould and eut it up into dice, place them in your soup-tureen, and pour the necessary quantity of chicken stock over them. A variety of different coloured creams can be obtained by making them of carrots, turnips, beetroot, or peas ; of course, cooking them in separate moulds. Soak some branches of purslane for several hours in lemon- juice, with a little powdered sugar and a stick of cinnamon. Dip into batter, and fry in boiling lard over a moderate fire. Fried purslane à la Milanaise.167 THE 366 HILLS OF TARE. JUNE 15. Consommé au macaroni avec Par- mesan. Choucioûte garnie. Oreilles de veau à l’italienne. Lapereaux rôtis. Artichauts sauce au beurre. Compote de groseilles. Maccaroni soup with Parmesan cheese. Stewed pickled cabbage and oysters. Calf1 s ears à l’italienne. Roast young rabbits. Artichokes with butter sauce. Compote of gooseberries. Calf’s ears à l’Italienne. Scald, scrape and drain the ears, place them in a saucepan lined with bacon, cover with slices of bacon, moisten with equal quantifies of stock and white wine, add some peeled slices of îemon be careful there are no pips—a bouquet of mixed herbs, carrots, turnips, onions, sait and pepper ; cook over a slow tire. Make a stuffing with bread-crumbs, rnilk, and either grated Parmesan or Gruyère cheese ; warm until sufficiently thick, stir in four yolks of egg and a lump of butter, fill the calfs ears with this, dip into melted butter, spnnkle with bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, brotvn m the oven, and serve. Compote of red or white g-ooseberries. .Boil half a P°und of sugar to the snap, add a pound of picked gooseberries, let them boil over two or three times skim, and pour into a glass dish. Serve when cold.THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. i6S JUNE 16. Julienne de legumes nouveaux. Aigle de mer à la hollandaise. Canard aux navets. Carré de veau rôti aux fines herbes. Aubergines à la lyonnaise. Tartlettes de fraises à la crème. Julienne soup with fresh vegetablcs. Hornfish, Hollandaise sauce. Stewed duck and tumips. Roast fillet of veal with fine herbs. Egg plant à la lyonnaise. Strawberry tartlets and cream. Hornfisli, Hollandaise sauce. This is a species of blue sword-fish, even the bones being blue. Boil in sait and water, and serve with Hollandaise sauce in a sauceboat. Canliflower with cheese. Préparé the same as baked cauliflower (see 28th of January). Hoast fillet of vea.l with fine herbs. Lard the fillet, and soak for three hours in olive oil, season with finely-chopped parsley, chives, fennel, mushrooms, laureî leaves, thyme, eschalots, sait, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Before roasting, cover the fillet with the seasoning, wrap it up in thickly buttered sheets of paper, tie or skewer the paper on very firm, so that the herbs may not fall off, and roast ; when done, remove the paper, scrape off the herbs, and warm them in a saucepan with some gravy, a teaspoonful of vinegar, a little butter, sait and pepper. Stir the yolk of an egg into some melted butter, rub the fillet with this, bread- crumb, and brown in the oven. Hand the sauce separately.THE 366 BILES O F FARE. 169 JUNE 17. Potage à l’oseille, chiffonnade de cerfeuil. Petits pâtés aux écrevisses. Chou farci. Poularde rôtie. Épinards au jus. Meringues à la crème. Sorrel soup with chopped chervil. Crayfish patties. Stuffed cabbage. Roast fowl. Stewed spinach. Meringues with cream. Crayfish patties. Make two pints of brioche paste (see 24Ü1 of December), but use only a quarter of a pound of butter, equal quantities of egg and water, and some German yeast ; when the paste has risen to double its original size, put it in a cool place or on ice until quite firm. Roll it out very thin, and eut it into twenty-four small rounds about three inches in diameter, sprinkle a board with water, and lay the paste on it, place a small quenelle of fish on twelve of the rounds and two shelled crayfish ; cover with the remaining twelve pièces of paste, press together with a small round tin cutter, egg over, and bake. Serve very hot. These can be fried in boiling lard or butter, if there is no oven. Stewed spinach. Warm the spinach in fresh butter, season with sait, black pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, moisten with either veal stock or the dripping from a fricandeau of veal which has been reduced ; when done, stir in a little butter, and serve, garnished with fried sippets of bread.170 THE 366 BILL S O F FARE. JUNE 18. Potage purée de pois aux croûtons. Côte de bœuf braisée garnie de tomates farcies. Croquettes de poisson. Caneton de Rouen rôti. Artichauts à l’essence de jambon. Soufflé glacé, vanille et chocolat. Purée of green peas with toast. Braised ribs of beef and stuffed tomatoes. Croquettes of fish. Roast duckling. Artichokes with essence of ham. Iced coffee and vanilla soufflé. Stuffed tomatoes. Dip your tomatoes into boiling water for a minute, peel, make a hole near the stalk, scoop out the centre of the toma- toes with a small spoon, and place them on a buttered or oiled sheet of paper in a baking tin. Make a stuffing with sausage- meat and very thin tomato sauce, fill the tomatoes with this, sprinkle with grated bread-crust, and bake. Serve as soon as the stuffing is browned. Burnt cream. Warm four fine yolks of egg and a pinch of flour, stir well and add a pint of milk gradually, flavour with cinnamon and dried lemon peel ; if required to be very nice, flavour with pounded pistachio nuts, almonds, or macaroons, and a little orange-flower water. Continue stirring until cooked, be care- ful the cream does not burn. Put a silver or tin dish in the oven, sprinkle the bottom of it with powdered sugar, moisten with a little water, and when the sugar is browned, add the cream, and serve immediately.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 171 JUNE 19. Rosbif d’agneau à la broche. Pommes de terre nouvelles sautées. Potage à la parisienne. Matelote d’anguilles. Compote d’abricots. Poulet sauté. Parisian soup. Stewed eels. Brown fricassée of fowl. Roast larded hindquarter of lamb. New potatoes warmed in butter. Compote of apricots. Roast larded hindquarter of lamb. Scald the lamb, remove the skin from ail the fleshy parts, lard the méat which lias been skinned very fine, skewer the lamb so as to keep it a good shape, wrap in a buttered sheet of paper, and roast. When done, remove the paper and glaze the méat wherever larded with strong méat glaze, and serve with clear gravy. If very ripe, do not peel your apricots ; eut them into halves, remove the stones, boil in water until quite soft, drain and leave until cold ; stew them in clarifïed sugar, skim, and if, when the apricots are done, the syrup is not sufficiently thick, remove the fruit, and boil the sugar until a proper substance, pour over the apricots, garnish with the kernels, and serve when cold. Green g-ooseberry sauce. Boil your gooseberries in hot melted butter, a little sorrel- juice, and season with powdered ginger, sait, and pepper. Compote of ripe apricots.172 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. JUNE 20, MENU EN MAIGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Potage à la purée de pois verts. Carpe à la marinière. Vol-au-vent d’œufs. Homard à la broche. Macaroni à l’italienne. Purée of green peas. Carp à la marinière. Vol-au-vent of eggs. Flan d’abricots à la Metternich. Roast lobster. Maccaroni cheese. Open apricot tart à la Metternich. Carp à la marinière. Cook the same as mussels à la marinière (see 3ist of July). Boil your maccaroni in sait and water. Lay alternate layers of the boiled maccaroni and grated Parmesan cheese in a deep dish, moisten with gravy, and when the dish is quite full, pour some melted butter over it; allow half a pound of butter to every two pounds of maccaroni. Warm in the oven, and serve. Line a plain mould with short paste ; peel some fine apricots very carefully, remove the stones and lay the fruit in the mould, separate each apricot by four stoned cherries, sprinkle with sugar and bake. Pound half of the apricot kernels and ail those of the cherries, stir into a little cream until thick, sweeten with powdered sugar, pour over the apricots and serve, not too hot. This is a most delicious sweet. Maccaroni cheese. Open apricot tart à la Metternich.THE 366 B TL LS OF FARE. 173 JUNE 21. Consommé aux laitues. Melon. Raie au beurre noir. Clear soup with lettuce leaves. Melon. Skate with black butter. Croquettes of ox palates. Roast leg of mutton. Croquettes de palais de bœuf. Gigot rôti. Haricots panachés sautés. French beans and haricots with butter. Almond cake. Gâteau d’amandes. How to choose a melon. You can always tell if a melon has ripened on the plant, or if it has been ripened artificially, by examining the stalk, as if the latter, it will be quite shrivelled. If the melon is heavy it proves it is not spongy ; if the skin smells strong it in- dicates a well-flavoured melon ; and if on pressing the little round opposite the stalk you find it not quite hard you may feel sure that the fruit is ripe. Some good housewives bite the stalks of the melons before buying them, as they say that the more bitter the stalk the sweeter the melon. Melons are generally served after the soup. Some people eat sugar with their melon, which is a great mistake, as it makes it more difficult to digest ; sait and pepper, on the contrary, help the digestion immensely. Boil three ox palates in water ; trim, scrape, skin, and eut them into quarters; simmer for half an hour in stock; season with a head of garlic, two heads of cloves, thyrne, laurel leaves, sait and pepper ; drain, and leave until cold. Lay a small teaspoonful of beef forcemeat on each piece, roll up into the shape of a cork, dip into very thin paste, made with a table- spoonful of olive oil, a little flour, a tumblerful of white wine, and a pinch of sait, it rnust be almost liquid ; fry in boiling lard or butter, and serve very hot, garnished with fried parsley. Croquettes of ox palates.THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. r74 JUNE 22. Potage à la julienne. Soles au gratin. Timbales de semoule au chasseur. Lapereaux sautés. Tendrons de veau en mayonnaise. Macaroni à l’italienne. Macédoine de fruits. Julienne soup. Baked soles. Timbales of semolina au chasseur. Young rabbits fried. Mayonnaise of tendons of veal. Maccaroni cheese. Macédoine of fruit. Timbales of semolina au chasseur. Butter eighteen small ruoulds, and fill with semolina which has been boiled in stock ; when cold, turn out of the moulds, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and dip into beaten yolks of egg, which hâve been stirred into melted butter with sait and pepper; bread-crumb again, press a round tin cutter an inch smaller than the moulds into the top of the timbales, and fry ; when done, scoop out the centres and fill with a forcemeat of young rabbit (see forcemeat, 28th of August), mixed with a purée of mushrooms. Warm in the oven, and serve. Mayonnaise of tendons of veal. Cut up the tendons into pièces of equal size, blanch them, and boil in stock ; when done, warm them in either thin glaze or their own sauce reduced ; when cold, place round a dish, cover with Mayonnaise sauce, and garnish with cold onions, which hâve been boiled in stock, and gherkins.175 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. JUNE 23. Croquettes de volailles. Potage Crécy. Crécy soup. Chiclcen croquettes. Roast fillet of beef. Fried potatoes. Crayfish. Apricot fritters. Filet de bœuf rôti. Pommes de terre sautées. Buisson d’écrevisses. Beignets d’abricots. Ckicken croquettes. Mince and pound ail the flesh of a large chicken ; reduce tvvo large cupsful of stock, add the pounded chicken to it, stir well, and thicken with four yolks of eggs; when done, take lumps about the size of a walnut, roll in bread-crumbs with your hand until the shape of a large cork, dip into beaten yolks of egg, bread-crumb, and fry in boiling butter; when a good colour, dish up, and serve very hot. Cut the apricots into halves, they must not be too ripe, soak in brandy, with a little sugar and lemon peel for an hour; drain, dip in batter, and fry ; drain again, and serve, sprinkled with powdered sugar. Roast your joint of beef, and serve, garnished with forcemeat patties. Apricot fritters. Roast beef with forcemeat patties.THE 366 BILES OF FARE. 176 JUNE 24. Potage de mouton à l’oseille. Gigot bouilli sauce au câpres. Ganard aux olives. Langue de bœuf à l’écarlate. Petits pois à l’anglaise. Gelée de cerises. Mutton soup with sorrel. Boiled legof mutton, caper sauce. Duck and olives. Boiled pickled tongue. Green peas à l’anglaise. Cherry jelly. Pickled ox-tong-ue. Trim either a pig’s or ox-tongue, singe it over hot cinders for a few seconds, skin it, and rub some saltpetre and coarse black pepper thoroughly into it, place in an earthenware pan with a close-fitting lid, cover the tongue with coarse sait, season with cloves, thyme, laurel leaves and whole black pepper ; keep it in pickle for a fortnight, turn and rub it every day, and as the sait begins to melt, add a few handsful to it. When ready to use, soak the tongue for two hours, and boil in water with onions, cloves, thyme, and laurel leaves, take off the fire when cooked, and leave in the stew-pan until cold. Serve cold. Mayonnaise sauce. Take four yolks of egg, a pinch of sait and white pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, stir quickly in a bowl with a wooden spoon, add a bottle of olive oil drop by drop, and flavour with a few drops of vinegar. If the sauce becomes too thick, stir in a little water. A teaspoonful of mustard is some- limes added to the Mayonnaise. Before serving, stir in a few chcpped chervil or tarragon leaves.177 THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. JUNE 25. Potage printanier. Perches grillés sauce moutarde. Palais de bœuf à la lyonnaise. Poulet rôti, cresson. Haricots verts à l’anglaise. Tarte de groseilles à maquereau. Spring soup. Broiled perch, mustard sauce. Ox palates à la lyonnaise. Roast.fowls and watercress. French beans à l’anglaise. Green gooseberry tart. Ox palates à la lyonnaise. Blanch and trim the palates, place on the gridiron for a minute, skin them, and cook in white thickening (see i6th of April). When done, eut the palates into small pièces, stir them into a purée of onions (see nth of December), and serve. Eoast fowl. Cover your fowl with a buttered sheet of paper or with slices of bacon, roast, and a few minutes before taking ofif the spit, remove the paper or bacon. When a good colour, dish up the fowl, and garnish with watercress. Shrimp sauce. Boil a quart of shelled shrimps for five minutes in half a pound of melted butter and a tablespoonful of anchovy butter, flavour with the juice of a lemon, stir well, and serve in a sauceboat. Trout, Geneva sauce. Boil the trout in court-bouillon (see i8th of April), and hand Geneva sauce with them. Geneva sauce. Stir a lump of butter the size of an egg and a dessert- spoonful of flour in a saucepan over the lire until brown, moisten with a tumblerful of red wine and a tumbler and a half of the liquor in which the trout is boiling, flavour with three sliced onions, a bouquet of mixed herbs, sait, pepper, and a few chopped mushrooms; simmer for half an hour, and just before serving, add either a wine-glassful of Madeira or a teaspoonful of brandy; pass through a tammy, and serve. NTHE 366 BILLS OF FARE. i73 JUNE 26. Potage de concombre au consommé Cream soup with cucumber. lié. Selle de mouton en broche. Canard au Père Douillet. Roast saddle of mutton. Braised duck au Père Douillet. Fried gudgeon. Spinach à la maître d’hôtel. Macédoine of fruit. Epinards à la maître d’hôtel. Goujons frits. Macédoine de fruits. Roast saddle of mutton. Wrap up the saddle in buttered sheets of paper, fix it on to the spit with skewers so that it may not turn, and roast for two or three hours, according to the size of the joint, serve with its own gravy or a purée of haricot beans à la Bretonne. Truss your duck, cover with slices of bacon, and braise it (see 28th of May), moisten with equal quantifies of white wine and stock, and add some slices of lemon ; when cooked, re- move the duck, reduce the sauce, pass through a tammy, and pour over the bird. Boil your spinach in boiling water. When done, soak in cold water for two minutes, drain, and eut it up into large pièces, warm it in a saucepan, season with sait, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; when quite hot, add a lump of butter ; stir until quite melted, and serve. Stir a little stock into some brown thickening, add three tablespoonsful of vinegar, one tablespoonful of chopped escha- lots, a bouquet of parsley, black pepper, and a laurel leaf ; reduce, add a little sait, if necessary ; pass through a tammy, and serve. For fast days use water instead of stock. Braised duck au Père Douillet. Spinach. à la maître d’hôtel. Piquante sauce.THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. 179 JUNE 27. Potage Saint-Germain. Soles au vin blanc. Aloyau de bœuf à la provençale. Pigeons rôtis. Petites fèves à la sarriette. Beignets de fleurs de sureau. Soup à la Saint-Germain. Soles boiled in white wine. Sirloin of beef à la provençale. Roast pigeons. \ oung broad beans with cream. Elder-flower fritters. Sirloin of beef à la Provençale. This is an excellent old recipe, which I am sorry to say is seldom used. Lard the sirloin with fillets of ham \ chop up some marrow, scraped bacon, anchovies, rnixed herbs, and garlic ; stir well into butter, olive oil, sait and pepper ; spread this stuffing on to slices of bacon, lay them on the beef, skewer or tie them on, cover with buttered sheets of paper, and roast ; when nearly done, remove the paper and bacon so as to brown the méat. Add a little of the gravy cleared of ail grease, to some piquante sauce, and hand in a sauceboat ; squeeze a few drops of lemon over it just before serving. Elder-flower fritters. Break up some elder-flowers into small sprigs, and soak for two hours in either sherry or brandy, with a little sugar ; drain, dip into batter, to which you hâve added a little brandy and a few drops of orange-flower water ; fry until a golden colour, and dish up in a pyramid. Roast shovellers. This bird, which is a species of wild duck with red-webbed feet, is only found up rivers. Roast the same as wild duck. N 2THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. i8o JUNE 28. Potage au riz à la peluche de cerfeuil. Noix de veau piquée à la bour- geoise. Escalopes de lapereaux au fumet. Brochet au bleu. Œufs pochés à la purée de tomates. Beignets de pommes de terre. Rice soup with chervil leaves. Larded chump of veal à la bour- geoise. Scalloped young rabbits with white sauce. Pîckled pike. Poached eggs with tomato sauce, Potato fritters. Scalloped young: rabbits with white sauce. Scallop your rabbits and place round a buttered tin or plated dish with large slices of uncooked truffle between each scallop. Pound the trimmings of the rabbits, stir them into reduced Spanish sauce (see 3rd of November), pour over the scallops, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake j when done, take off the paper, and serve. Braised saddle of lamb gramished with rissoles. Braise the same as saddle of mutton (see 6th of February), and garnish with rissoles. Potato fritters. Stir three ounces of potato flour into a pint of milk, warm for a quarter of an bourj flavour with pounded macaroons, sugar, and a few drops of orange-flower water ; boil and add two yolks of egg, stir with a wooden spoon until a thick batter, pour into a dish, when cold, roll into small balls, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling lard. Sprinkle with powdered sugar, and serve.181 THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. JUNE 29. Potage consommé aux œufs pochés. Saumon à la hollandaise. Côte de bœuf garnie d’aubergines farcies. Pintade rôtie. Petits pois à l’anglaise. Compote d’abricots à la BreteuiL Clear soup with poached eggs. Salmon, Hollandaise sauce. Ribs of beef with stuffed egg plant Roast guinea-fowl. Green, peas à l’anglaise. Broiled apricots à la Breteuil. Clear soup. Take four pounds of gravy-meat, a fowl, and two knuckles of veal ; place them in a stockpot and fill it up with stock ; cook over a moderate fire, skim, and each time the soup boils up, pour in half a tumblerful of cold water ; flavour with sait, carrots, turnips, onions, and three heads of cloves. When the méat is quite done, pass the soup through a fine tammy or cloth, and serve very hot. Hand poached eggs in a separate dish. Billets of beef with. poivrade sauce. Cook your fillets in a saucepan with fresh butter; when cooked, dish up, cover with poivrade sauce, and serve. Broiled apricots à la Breteuil. Cut the apricots into halves, remove the stones, sprinkle with candied sugar, and broil them on the gridiron over hot cinders ; when done, place in a glass dish. Pound some apricots, raspberries, and sugar together, boil, and pour over the broiled fruit. Serve very hotTHE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 182 JUNE 30. MENU EN MATGRE. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Vegetable soup for fast day. Carp à la normande. Cauliflower fritters, Roast eel. Maccaroni cheese. Almond cake. Potage maigre au racines. Carpe à la normande. Mariande de choux-fleurs. Anguille à la broche. Macaroni au gratin. Gâteau d’amandes. Teg-etable soup for fast day, Take four ounces of carrots, half an ounce of tumîps, half an ounce of leeks, two ounces of onions, one ounce ôf celery, sait and pepper; eut up the vegetables into thin strips and warm in three quarters of a pound of butter ; when a good colour add four pints of liquor, in which haricot beans hâve been boiled, and the same quantity of lentil liquor ; simmer for four hours. Cut half a pound of bread-crust into small strips, put them in the soup-tureen, and pour the soup over them. Skin a large eel, lard it finely, and soak for three hours in equal quantities of vinegar and stock, season with sait, pepper, and chopped mixed herbs. Wrap up the eel in a sheet of buttered paper, and roast before a slow fire ; baste with hot white wine and boiling lard ; just before taking off the spit remove the paper so that the eel may brown. Dish up, cover with Italian sauce, and garnish with sippets of fried breacL Roast eel.THE 366 BILL S OF TARE. 183 JULY x. Pot-au-feu. Bœuf bouilli garni d’oignons glacés. Cervelles à la provençale. Poularde rôtie. Haricots verts à la maître d’hôtel. Œufs aux pistaches. Pot-au-feu, or uncleared stock. Boiled beef and glazed onions. Calf s brains à la provençale. Roast pullet. French beans à la maître d’hôtel. Eggs with pistachio nuts. Pot-au-feu, or uncleared stock. Préparé the same as stock (see 2Ôth of March), but serve with ail the vegetables ; do not skira the soup ; and two hours before serving add a white cabbage eut into quarters. Calf’s brains à la provençale. Wash and blanch the brains, boil in stock, add three table- spoonsful of olive oil, a tumblerful of white wine, sait, pepper, lemon-juice, chopped parsley, chervil leaves, and a head of garlic, the three latter must be previously blanched ; when done remove the brains, reduce the sauce, and pour over them. Another way of serving this dish is to sprinkle it with bread- crumbs, and brown in the oven, or to cover the brains with piquante sauce. Eg-g-s witli pistachio nuts. Take a little fine white flour, stir for a few minutes into cream, flavour with grated lemon peel, sugar, and pounded pistachio nuts ; add six fresh eggs, stir over the fire for five minutes, pour into aplated dish, and bakein a slow oven ; con- tinue stirring until the eggs are cooked, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and brown with the salamander. Roast lap-wing1. Truss and clean your birds, cover with slices of bacon and roast, when cooked, eut them in half, dish up in a pyramid, pour some strong méat glaze over them, and serve with strong clear gravy.THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. 184 JULY 2. Potage à la purée de haricots. Surmulet au beurre fondu. Côtelettes de veau à la Gingarat. Lapereaux rôtis. Purée de fèves aux croûtons. Œufs aux pistaches. Purée of haricot beans. Red mullet with melted butter. Veal cutlets à la Gingarat. Roast young rabbits. Purée of broad beans with sippets. Eggs with pistachio nuts. Purée of haricot beans. Allow four ounces of butter to each quart of haricot beans ; boil in water, and flavour with an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, a carrot, sait and pepper ; when thoroughly cooked remove the onion, celery, and carrot, pass the beans through a tammy—if the haricots are very hard it is better to pound them first. Stir in sufficient stock to make the purée a proper substance, stir over the lire until it boils, and pour over a quarter of a pound of rice, which has been cooked in butter, sait, and water ; add a quarter of a pound of butter, and con- tinue stirring until quite melted. Hand fried dice of bread separately. Green pea and pea-soup are made in the same manner. Braised pig-’s ears. Clean, singe, and scrape the ears ; line a braising-pan with bacon, add the ears, cover them with slices of bacon, and season with onions, carrots, and a bouquet of mixed herbs ; moisten with stock, and when done remove the ears, pass the sauce through a tammy, skim ofif ail grease, and pour over the pig’s ears ; dish up on a purée of spinach. Purée of green peas. Préparé the same as purée of haricot beans (see above).185 THE 366 B1LLS O F F ARE. JULY 3. Potage crème d’orge garnie de petits pois. Carpe grillée. Purée of barley with green peas. Concombres à la béchamel. Beignets de patates. Côtes de bœuf aux racines. Pigeons rôtis, cresson. Broiled carp. Stewed ribs of beef. Roast pigeons and watercress. Cucumber with béchamel sauce. Sweet pptato iritters. Broiled carp. Clean out and scale a fine carp, rub it over with oil, and broil; dish up on a purée cf sorrel, and cover with either white caper sauce, maître d’hôtel sauce, or with oil and vinegar. Lard some rolled ribs of beef, sprinkle with sait and pepper, and braise them (see2Sth ofMay) ; blanch some carrots, and simmer in stock until reduced to a glaze ; make a little brown thickening with butter and flour, moisten it with some of the liquor from the beef ; warm this sauce, skim off ail grease, and pass through a fine sieve on to the carrots ; when quite hot place round the beef and serve. Wash and peel the sweet potatoes, eut them up to about the length and thickness of salsifis, soak for half an hour in brandy and a little lemon peel ; drain, dip into batter, fry, and when a good colour, dish up, sprinkled with powdered sugar. Fill two halves of a round mould the shape of a bomb with the same cream as for iced soufflés (see 3ist of August), fit the two halves firmly together, and freeze ; dip into cold water before turning the ice out of the mould. Stewed ribs of beef. Sweet potato fritters. Iced bomb.t86 THE 366 BILES OF FARE. JULY 4. Potage à la julienne. Turbot sauce au raifort Julienne soup. Turbot with horseradish sauce. Brown fricassée of fowl. Roast calfs kidney. Cauliflower fritters. Whipped strawberries and cream. Poulets sautés. Rognon de veau rôti. Marinade de cboux-fleurs. Mousse aux fraises. Turbot with horseradish sauce. Clean out your turbot, wash it thoroughly inside and out, split it half-way down the back-bone from the middle of the body to the head, raise the sides with a knife, eut- out the bones at the opening, tie or sew up the head, rub over, with lemon-juice, and boil in sait and water with a little lemon peel over a quick tire ; as soon as the water boils over, make a sm aller lire, cover the turbot with a buttered sheet of paper, and leave to sirnmer ; a quarter of an hour before serving, drain the fish, and dish up on a napkin with a large bunch of parsley in the centre, so as to raise the fish, and surround with parsley. Hand both horseradish sauce and lobster butter with the turbot. Take a quarter of a pound of flour, make a well in the centre, stir half an ounce of German yeast, dissolved in hot water, into it, roll into a bail, and keep in a warm place, wrapped in a cloth until risen to twice its original size. Take three quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, three eggs, half an ounce of powdered sugar, and a pinch of sait, stir well together, add five eggs, one after another, then the bail of yeast, an ounce of chopped citron, an ounce of currants, and two ounces of stoned raisins ; knead the paste thoroughly, and put it in a large mould, capable of holding twice the quantity, leave until it lias risen to nearly the top of the mould, bake, and when done, turn out of the mould, and cover with the following sauce. Dissolve some apricot jam in two tumblersful of clarified sugar and two wine-glassesful of rum, and boil until a thick sauce. Baba, or rum cake.THE 366 BILLS O F FA FF. 187 JULY 5. Potage consommé au riz. Canard aux navets. Quenelles frites. Gigot d’agneau rôti. Haricots panachés. French beans and haricots à la Braised duck and turnips. Clear soup with rice. Fried quenelles. Roast leg of lamb. maître d’hôtel. Omelette aux cerises. Cherry omelet. Braised duck and turnips. Pluck, singe, and draw your duck; line a braising-pan with slices of bacon, add the duck, cover it with bacon, and season with a bouquet of parsley, carrots, slices of parsnip, thyme, laurel leaves, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; moisten with either stock or water, and the same quantity of white wine, fix the lid very tight on to the pan, and simmer over a slow fire, with hot coals on the lid ; eut up some turnips into balls, cook them in butter until brown, drain, and simmer in brown thickening, moistened with a little stock ; when the duck is cooked, dish up, and garnish with the turnips. Trim the cutlets, lard with lean bacon, and warm them in butter ; line a stew-pan with slices of ham and bacon, add the cutlets, and cover them with bacon ; season with carrots, onions, and a bouquet of mixed herbs ; moisten with stock, and simmer, with hot coals on the lid of the stew-pan. When the cutlets are done, remove them; pass the sauce through a tammy, add a little stock to it, reduce, and pour over the cut- lets, which can be served on a purée of mushrooms or toma- toes. Veal cutlets à la Gingarat or Saint-Garat.iS8 THE 366 BTLLS O F FA RE. JULY 6. Potage Crécy. Chapon au gros sel. Queues de mouton frites au Par» mesan. Jambon à la broche. Chicorée à la crème. Bombe panachée. Crécy soup. Boiled capon. Fried sheep’s tails. Roast ham. Purée of chicory with crearo. Iced bomh. Boiled capon. Pluck and singe a capon, draw it, and remove the'gall from the liver ; truss it for boiling, rub over with lemon-juice, cover with slices of bacon, and place in a stew-pan ; surround it with onions, carrots, the neck and gizzard of the capon, and some trimmings of veal ; moisten with stock, and simmer for two hours ; serve, sprinkled with coarse sait. Pass the sauce through a taramy, and hand in a sauceboat. Fried sheep’s tails. Braise the sheep’s tails, dip into beaten yolks of egg, and sprinkle with equal quantities of grated Parmesan cheese and bread-crumbs \ fry in lard. Dish up in a pyramid, and gamish with fried parsley.1S9 THE 366 El LL S OF FARE. JULY 7. Potage de pommes de terre, chiffon' nade de cerfeuil. Saumon sauté. Poulet à la Orly. Rosbif à l’anglaise. Purée de navets. Tarte aux cerises. Purée of potatoes with chervil leaves. Scalloped salmon with white sauce. Fried chicken à la Orly. Roast beef. Purée of turnips. Cherry tart. Scalloped salmon ■with. white sauce. Cut up a piece of fresh salmon into thin scallops, press with the blade of a knife, which has been dipped in cold water ; melt some butter in a saucepan, lay the scallops in it side by side, sprinkle with sait and pepper, and shake the saucepan over a quick fire. Warm some reduced stock, add the butter in which the fish was cooked, season with chopped blanched parsley, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and the juice of a lemon ; thicken with yolks of egg, dish up the salmon scallops, and pour the sauce over them. Cut up a chicken into joints, season with sait, pepper, pars- ley, laurel leaves, and lemon-juice, sprinkle with flour and fry in lard or butter ; dip some sliced onions into flour, and fry them also ; when done, dish up the chicken in a pyramid, garnish with the fried onions, and cover with tomato sauce. Trim your cutlets, broil, and serve, covered with poivrade sauce. Fried chicken à la Orly. Pork cutlets with poivrade sauce.T 90 THE 366 B T LIS O F FA RE. JULY 8. Potage printanier aux œufs pochés. Maquereaux à la flamande. Pigeons à la crapaudine. Rosbif à l’anglaise. Pommes de terre sautées. Meringues à la crème. Spring soup with poached eggs. Mackerel à la flamande. Broiled pigeons. Roast beef. Fried potatoes. Meringues with cream. Mackerel à la Flamande. Clean the mackerel, and stuff with butter mixed with chopped eschalots, chives, lemon-juice, sait and pepper; wrap in sheets of buttered paper, tie up the ends with string, and broil over a slow fire for twenty-five minutes ; remove the covers, and serve. Broiled pigeons. Pluck, draw, singe, and truss your pigeons ; beat them until flat, and warm in melted butter, seasoned with sait and pepper ; when nearly cooked, remove the pigeons, sprinkle them with bread-crumbs, and broil over a moderate fire until a good colour. Dish up, covered with piquante sauce. Forequarter of soutlidown mutton à la Bretonne. Roast the mutton, wrapped up in buttered sheets of paper, and serve on a pureé of haricot beans à la Bretonne. Croustade of rice.’ Fill a fancy mould with rice prepared in the same manner as for rice cake (see 3oth of March) ; bake, tum out of the mould, scoop out the centre, pour in a little unsifted cornflour, which has been cooked in milk, with sugar, and one or two yolks of egg, and fill up with hot rice croquettes.THE 366 BILES OF FARE. ï9ï JULY 9. Potage à la parisienne. Barbillon grillé. Toume-dos sauce poivrade. Dinde en daube. Champignons au gratin. Tarte aux cerises. Parisian soup. Broiled young barbel. Fillets of beef, poivrade sauce. Stewed turkey-hen. Baked mushrooms with bread- crumbs. Cherry tart. Stewed turkey-hen. Pluck, draw, and singe a fine turkey-hen ; lard it with thick fillets of highly-seasoned bacon, and place in a stew-pan with stock, half a wine-glassful of brandy, slices of bacon, half a calf’s foot, onions, carrots, a bouquet of mixed herbs, a head of garlic, thyme, laurel leaves, and two heads of cloves ; if a young turkey-hen, simmer for four hours, but if an old bird leave on the fire for six hours ; take the stew-pan off the fire and leave the turkey in it until nearly cold; drain, and place it on a dish ; pass the sauce through a silk tammy, clarify it, and when cold, pour over the turkey. If required for a hot dish, garnish the turkey with the vegetables in which it has been cooked ; reduce, the sauce and pour over it. Pennel sauce. Boil a bouquet of fennel and one of parsley, chop them up fine, and stir into melted butter. Fried quenelles. Make your quenelles, and dip into reduced béchamel sauce, roll them in bread-crumbs, egg and bread-crumb them a second time, fry, and serve, garnished with fried parsley.IÇ2 THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. JULY io. MENU EN MAIGRE. Potage à la purée de carottes. Croquettes de semoule au Parmesan. Anguille à la poulette. Pâté de saumon. Pommes de terre en purée, gra- tinées. Gâteau de riz sauce aux groseilles. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Purée of carrots. Semolina croquettes with Parmesan. Eel à la poulette. Salmon pie. Baked purée of potatoes with bread- crumbs. Rice cake with gooseberry sauce. Purée of carrots. Mince up two pounds of the best red parts off sorne carrots, warm in half a pound of butter, and add two pints of water ; season with onion, two heads of cloves, a head of celery, sait and pepper ; when the carrots are thoroughly boiled, pass thern through a tammy, add two quarts of water to the purée, and boil for three quarters of an hour either in the oven or over a slow tire ; put sorne boiled rice in the soup-tureen, and pour the soup over it. Eels à la poulette. Scrape and skin the eel, eut off the head and tail, eut up the body into pièces ; blanch, and drain them ; warm in butter and a little flour until brown ; moisten with white wine and stock, season with sait, a bouquet of mixed herbs and mushrooms ; skim ail grease off the sauce; reduce, thicken it with yolks of egg, flavour with lemon-juice, and serve.THE 366 BILLS O F F ARE. 193 JULY 11. Potage à la purée d’artichauts. Fraise de veau au naturel. Pommes de terre frites. Moules à la poulette. Filet de bœuf rôti. Purée of artichokes. Stewed neck of veal. Mussels à la poulette. Roast fillet of beef. Fried potato chips. Darioles duchesse. Duchess loaves. Stewed neck of veal, Soak a neck of veal in luke-warm water, blanch it in boil- ing water for ten minutes ; drain, skin, and boil in water ; season with a lump of butter rnixed with a little flour, sait, pepper, onions, carrots, parsnips, a bouquet of parsley, chives, a head of garlic, and two heads of cloves ; when cooked, remove the veal, reduce the sauce, pass through a tammy, add some chopped gherkins and a few drops of vinegar, and hand in a sauceboat, at the same time as the veal. Thoroughly wash and clean the shells, cook in white wine, and as soon as the mussels begin to open, remove either half or the whole of the shells ; place the mussels in another saucepan with some butter, coarse black pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, chopped chives and parsley, toss, stir in a little butter, and moisten with stock and some of the liquor in which the mussels were boiled, which pass through a tammy, boil for a few seconds, thicken the sauce with yolks of egg, and serve. Mussels à la poulette, O194 THE 366 B/ILS OF TARE. JULY 12. Potage à la purée de pommes de terre. Matelote marinière. Filets de pigeons à la Duxelles. Filet de porc rôti. Choux-fleurs au gratin. Abricots à la Condé. Purée of potatoes. Stewed carp, pike, perch, barbel, and eel. Fillets of pigeon à la Duxelle. Roast fillet of pork. Baked cauliflower and bread- crumbs. Apricots à la Condé. Fillets of pigeon à la Duxelle. Cut, trim, and beat a dozen fillets of pigeon, sprinkle with sait, and cook in a saucepan with some butter ; when done, drain, leave until cold, glaze with cold Duxelle sauce (see 25th of May) ; sprinkle with bread-crumbs, egg and bread-crumb a second time. Just before serving, brown the fillets in clarified butter, drain, place round an entrée dish, fill the centre with chopped mushrooms cooked in Provençale sauce (see 2Ôth of December), and hand thin Spanish sauce in a sauceboat. Apricots à la Condé. Stew your apricots in clarified sugar, place round a hot croustade of rice (see 8th of July), garnish with dried cherries and strips of angelica, and cover with a syrup made of apricot marmalade and Madeira. Serve very hot.T9S THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. o 2 JULY 13. Potage aux haricots verts. Raie au beurre noir. Oreilles de veau farcies. Gigot rôti. Haricots verts à la poulette. Meringues à la crème. Clear soup with French beans. Skate, black butter sauce. Stuffed calfs ears. Roast leg of mutton. French beans à la poulette. Meringues with cream. Stuffed calfs ears. Singe, blanch, and drain the ears, scrape thera thoroughly, and place in a stew-pan, covered with slices of bacon ; add some carrots, onions, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and slices of leraon ; moisten with equal quantities of stock and white wine, and simmer over a slow fire ; when done, drain the ears, and stuff them with forcemeat, egg and bread-crumb, fry, and serve with clear gravy. French beans à la poulette. Choose some young and tender French beans, remove ail fibres by breaking off the ends ; wash, and boil in boiling water ; when done, toss them in melted butter seasoned with chopped chives and parsley; stir in a little flour, a pinch of sait, and some stock, reduce the sauce, thicken with yolks of egg, flavour with a few drops of lemon-juice, and serve.196 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. JULY 14. Consommé au tapioca. Côte de bœuf braisée. Côtelettes de lapei'eaux à la sauce tomates. Dindonneau au cresson. Purée de fèves aux croûtons. Darioles à la pâtissière. Clear soup with tapioca. Braised ribs of beef. Young rabbit cutlets with tomato sauce. Turkey poult with watercress. Purée of broad beans with fried sippets of bread. Duchess cakes à la pâtissière. Young1 rabbit cutlets with tomato sauce. Divide the legs of your rabbits into two pièces, bone, and eut into the shape of cutlets, cover with forcemeat made of rabbit trimmings, bread-crumbs, and mixed herbs, stick some of the larger bones into them, so as to give the appearance of real cutlets ; warm in butter, flatten between two plates, and when cold, trim, egg over, and place in a saucepan with clarified butter ; when a good colour, drain, and serve, covered with thin tomato sauce. Duchess loaves a la pâtissière. Take an ounce of melted butter, three tablespoonsful of powdered sugar, two tablespoonsful of flour, half the peel of a lemon very finely minced, dried orange flowers, four yolks of egg, a pinch of sait, and a tumblerful of cream ;. stir well together, and pour into small moulds ; bake, and when done turn out of the moulds, and hand, sprinkled with powdered sugar. Capsicum butter. Pound some dried capsicums, and stir into butter; it is generally used for sandwiches.197 THE 366 BILES O F FARE. JULY 15. Purée de légumes au croûtons. Lottes à la prussienne. Côtelettes de mouton jardinière. Longe de veau rôtie. Aubergines à la provençale. Compote de pêches. Purée of vegetables with toast. Eel pout à la prussienne. Mutton cutlets à la jardinière. Roast loin of veal. Egg plants à la provençale. Compote of peaches. Eel pout à la prussienne. Warm a large slice of ham in a stew-pan, leave until the fat begins to melt; moisten with two tumblersful of champagne, a small cupful of brown thickening, the same quantity of strong gravy, a wine-glassful of olive oil, a bouquet of parsley, chives, laurel leaves, and a sliced onion ; boil for an hour, and pass through a tammy. Scrape and clean out your eel pout, leave the livers, sprinkle with sait and pepper, and cook in the sauce ; wlien done, remove the pout, reduce the sauce ; and pour over the fish. Eoast loin of veal. Choose a fine loin, trim it, and skewer on to the spit, cover with buttered sheets of paper; roast for three hours, and serve with its own gravy. Compote of peaches. Dry your peaches in a cloth, and place in a preserving-pan, either whole or eut in half ; pour some thick syrup over them, cover with a sheet of white paper, and boil for a few minutes ; pour into a glass dish, and serve when cold. This compote can be flavoured with a few drops of elder-flower water, if pre- ferred.198 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. JULY 16. Consommé aux croûtes grillées. Brème grillée à la maître d’hôtel. Langue de bœuf à l’italienne. Canard rôti. Concombres farcis. Tarte aux fraises. Clear Soup with toast. Broiled bream à la maître d’hôtel. Ox-tongue à l’italienne. Roast duck. Stuffed cucumbers. Strawberry tart. Stuffed cucumbers. Cut your cucumbers into slices about twô inches thick, do not use the ends ; peel, and remove ail the pips, scald for ten minutes, dip into cold water, and drain ; line a tin or plated dish with slices of bacon cut very thin ; stuff the cucumber-rings with forcemeat (see 24th of July), wrap up in slices of bacon, which tie round with a string ; moisten with two tumblersful of stock, and bake for twenty minutes in a slow oven ; when done, drain the cucumber, take off the slices of bacon, and dish up, covered with the following sauce :—Take a quarter of a pound of butter and an ounce of flour, brown and moisten with stock and two tablespoonsful of méat glaze, stir over the fire with a wooden spoon for twenty minutes, pass through a fine sieve, and flavour with a few drops of lemon-juice. Filbert butter. Pound twelve filberts and three ounces of butter thoroughly in a mortar, season with finely-chopped parsley, chives, and ta.rragon leaves, and use for sandwiches at supper, or as a small side-dish.THE 366 BILES OF TARE. 199 JULY 17. Pommes de terre à la Macaire. Brunoise aux pois. Bar sauce au fenouil. Gâteau d’amandes. Gigot braisé. Pigeons rôtis. Brunoise soup with peas. Bass, fenuel sauce. Braised leg of mutton. Roast pigeons. Fried potatoes à la Macaire. Almond cake. Fried potatoes à la Macaire. The following amusing anecdote will explain the origin of this dish. Louis Philippe and his family were breakfasting at the Tuileries one morning, and the Prince de Joinville was so absorbed giving an account of one of his voyages, that he refused a splendid dish of fried potatoes which was handed to him ; but his narrative finished, he turned round and asked for potatoes, but such justice had been done to the dish that not a crumb was left ; a footman ran to the kitchen for more, but there were none ready ; there was no time for hésitation ; the audacious chef threw the trimmings of the potatoes served at the royal table into a frying-pan with a large lump of butter, tossed the misshapen pièces until a golden colour, pleasing to the eye, and further adorned by a dash of finely-chopped parsley; the prince found the potatoes so good that he in- quired the name of the dish ; no one knows what answer he received, as being very deaf he repeated, “ Ah, fried potatoes à la Macaire; I find them excellent and hope they will often be served.” The king and princes laughed so heartily that the tears rolled down their cheeks ; but the deed had been done, and potato trimmings cooked in a frying-pan had received their baptism.THE 366 BILLS 0F FARE. 200 JULY 18. Potage julienne. Barbeau à l’étuvée. Julienne soup. Stewed barbel. Boudin de lapin à la Richelieu, Boudin of rabbit à la Richelieu. Roast forequarter of lamb. Glazed turnips. Compote of green apricots. Quartier d’agneau rôti. Navets à la demi-glace. Compote d’abricots verts. Stewed barbel. Scale, clean out a barbel, boil in red wine, and season with sait, black pepper, a large lump of butter, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and two heads of cloves ; when done, dish up the barbel, thicken the sauce with a little flour and butter, pass through a tammy, and pour over the fish. Cut ail the méat off a rabbit, pound, pass through a tammy, and stir into some baked potatoes, which hâve been mashed ; season with sait, pepper, and a little chopped fried onion, and pound well together. Make some forcemeat with breasts of chicken, pickled tongue, truffles, and thin German sauce ; roll into the shape of a pudding, cover with a thick layer of the pounded rabbit, and lay in a stew-pan on a buttered drainer, poach it in hot stock, be careful not to let it boil; when done, drain and leave until cold ; egg and bread-crumb, broil over hot cinders ; when a good colour, dish up, and cover with either brown or white Italian sauce, or better still with perigueux sauce. Boudin of rabbit à la Richelieu.201 THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. JULY 19. Pièce de bœuf bouilli, garnie à la Pot-au-feu. Pot-au-feu, or uncleared stock. Boiled beef à la flamande. flamande. Raie à la sauce blanche. Galantine de lapereaux. Macaroni au gratin. Mousse aux fraises. Skate with white sauce. Galantine of young rabbits. Maccaroni with bread-crumbs. Whipped strawberries and cream. Galantine of young- rabbits, Bone your rabbits, leave the heads, eut off some of the spare méat without spoiling the shape of the rabbits, mince it up with the same quantity of bacon ; season with sait, pepper, pounded herbs, and finely-chopped truffles ; lay the rabbits on a cloth, spread a layer of the forcemeat on thern, slices of ham, bacon, and truffles; then a second layer of forcemeat and slices of ham ; when the rabbits are full, sew them up to their original shape, and place in a stew-pan, lined with slices of bacon, surround them with carrots, onions, a bouquet of parsley, laurel leaves, thyme, sait, and coarse black pepper ; moisten with equal quantities of stock and white wine, cover the whole with slices of bacon and a buttered sheet of paper ; cook over a slow fire ; when done, take the stew-pan off the fire, and leave the rabbits in it for half an hour ; remove the paper and bacon, dish up the rabbits ; pass the sauce through a tammy, skim off ail grease, clarify it with whipped white of egg, reduce, and pour over the rabbits, and leave until a jelly, or pour into a dish, and when set, eut into squares, with which garnish the rabbits. Mince two pounds of fresh pork very fine, add some bread- crumb soaked in wine, a little grated lemon peel, sait and pepper ; roll into balls, flatten them, and fry in butter until a good colour. Kluskis or méat cakes,THE 366 BILLS 0F FARE. 202 JULY 20 MENU EN MAIGRE.' Potage à la Monaco. Colin frit. Casserole maigre de laitance. Homard en rémoulade. Concombres à la crème. Tarte aux cerises. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Soup à la Monaco. Fried whiting pollock. Stewed roe for fast day. Lobster, rémoulade sauce. Cucumbers with béchamel sauce. Cherry tart. Royal sticks. This name is given to a very finely-chopped forcemeat made of either fowl or game, with minced herbs, bread-crümbs, sait, pepper, and cream 3 roll into very thin round sticks, and fry in butter; they are either used to garnish a joint of beef, or to be served as a small side-dish, garnished with fried celery. Peel, and remove ail pips frorn your cucumbers, eut into slices, and blanch in sait and water, drain, dip into cold water, dry in a cloth, and warm in a little cream, flour, and butter, or in béchamel sauce for fast day ; do not let the sauce boil, and serve as soon as cooked. Peel and soak some green apricots in cold water for half an hour ; cook them in warm water with a fewsorrel leaves, place the lid on the saucepan, and leave on the tire until the fruit is a good green colour, drain, and when cold, cover them with sugar, cook in a preserving-pan, and just before taking off the lire add two tablespoonsful of essence of spinach. Cucumbers with béchamel sauce. Compote of green apricots.203 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. JULY 21. Potage aux pâtes d’Italie. Anguille aux montants de laitues. Croquettes de palais de bœuf. Poulets bardés rôtis. Epinards à la crème. Beignets d’abricots. Clear soup with Italian paste. Fricassée of eel with lettuces. Ox palate croquettes. Roast fowls. Spinach with cream. Apricot fritters. Fricassée of eel -with. lettuces. Cut up an eel into large pièces, and cook the same as fricassée of fowl (see 23rd of March). Boil some fine lettuces in sait and water, add a lump of butter, drain, and place in the stew-pan with the eel, flavour with lemon-juice and black pepper, thicken the sauce with yolks of egg, and serve garnished with fried sippets of bread. Boil the ox palates in sait and water, split them in half, and simmer for half an hour, over a slow fire, in strong stock, seasoned with a head of garlic, two cloves, thyme, laurel leaves, sait, and pepper ; drain, and when cold, spread a teaspoonful of forcemeat on each piece, and roll into the shape of a cork. Stir a tablespoonful of olive oil, a tumblerful of white wine, and a little sait into some batter until nearly liquid, dip the palates in it, fry, and serve, garnished with parsley. Ox palate croquettes.THE 366 B ILES 0E TARE. 204 JULY 22. Potage printanier aux quenelles. Spring soup with quenelles. Chicken and rice. Poule au riz. Paupiettes de merlans. Jambon au naturel. Salade de légumes. Baked fillets of whiting. Vegetable salad. Boiled ham. Plum pouding excellent. Excellent plum pudding.] Braised leg of mutton. Bone the leg, lard it with highly-seasoned bacon, tie it up to its original shape, and place in a braising-pan, cover it with slices of bacon, season with carrots and a bouquet of mix'ed herbs, moisten with water, and cook over a moderate fire for three hours ; when done, eut the string, and dish up the mutton, garnish it with the carrots, reduce the sauce, and pour over it. Take a pound of chopped suet, a pound of currants, a pound of stoned raisins, eight yolks of eggs, four whites, half a pound of bread-crumbs, a pound of flour, a pound of sugar, half a grated nutmeg, a dessert-spoonful of powdered ginger, a pinch of sait, half a tumblerful of rum or brandy, some thin slices of citron, mixed peel, and grated lemon peel. Beat the eggs, stir them into a tumblerful of milk, and add the flour and the other ingrédients to it ; iftoo dry, moisten with milk ; tie up in a pudding-bowl, and boil for five or six hours. Serve with either Madeira or rum sauce. Excellent plum pudding'.THE 366 J5TLLS OF FARE. 205 JULY 23. Riz à la crème lié. Purée of rice. Broiled weaver, rémoulade sauce. Pigeon cutlets with green peas. Vives grillées sauce rémoulade. Côtelettes de pigeons aux petits pois. Rosbif rôti. Pommes de terre au beurre. Gâteau fourré d’abricots. Roast beef. Potatoes with butter. Apricot pufifs. Pigeon cutlets with. green peas. Draw and singe six young pigeons, eut them in half, reniove ail bones except the legs, sprinkle with sait, and warm in butter, drain, and press between two plates until quite fiat and cold ; trim them to the shape of cutlets, stuff them with force- meat made of bread-crumbs, butter, and mixed herbs ; egg and bread-crumb, and broil over a moderate tire, moisten with melted butter when you turn the cutlets ; when done, place round an entrée dish, and fill the centre with green peas. Take equal quantities of water and vinegar, flavour with lemon-juice, chopped eschalots, sait and pepper ; do not let the sauce boil, but cook over a moderate fire. This is an excellent sauce in which to warm up a cold leg of mutton. Cook the same as apricots à la Condé (see i2th of July). Poor man's sauce. Peaches à la Condé,THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 200 JULY 24. Potage purée de pois verts. Épaule de mouton en ballon. Lapereaux sautés aux fines herbes. Tanches frites. Omelette à la jardinière. Pêches à la Condé. Purée of green peas. Pnaised shoulder of mutton. Stewed young rabbits with mixeC herbs. Fried tench. Omelet à la jardinière. Peaches à la Condé. Stewed young1 rabbits with mixed herbs. Warm some chopped parsley, eschalots, and mushrooms in butter; when done, add two young rabbits eut into joints; season with pepper, sait, grated nutmeg, and a bouquet of mixed herbs ; toss over a quick tire, moisten with a tumblerful of white wine, leave on the tire for twenty minutes with hot coals on the lid of the stew-pan ; sprinkle with flour, stir in a lump of méat glaze, the juice of a lemon, and some butter. Dish up in a pyramid. Omelet à la jardinière. Stew some chopped mushrooms, carrots, turnips, French beans, herbs, young green peas, and broad beans in stock ; when done, stir in a little brown thickening ; take half the vegetables, beat together with twelve eggs, and cook your omelet in the usual manner. Serve, covered with the remainder of the stewed vegetables. Forcemeat for cucumbers. Chop up a pound of fillet of veal, without gristle or fat, with a pound of fat from the calf s kidney ; season with sait, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; moisten with a wme-glassful of milk, and pound until quite smooth, when ît will be ready for use.207 THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. JULY 25. Potage à la reine. Soles bouillies sauce au persil. Filet de bœuf sauce madère. Galantine de volaille. Haricots verts sautés. Meringues aux fraises. Soup à la reine. Boiled soles with parsley. Fillet of beef, Madeira sauce. Galantine of fowl. French beans with butter. Strawberry meringues. Soup à la reine. There are two ways of preparing this soup. One is, to boil a fowl in stock with a bouquet of mixed herbs, onions, carrots, sait and pepper; when done, leave the fowl until cold, skin it, eut off ail méat, and pound with a lump of bread-crumb which has been soaked in the stock, pass through a tammy ; and warm in the liquor of the fowl, after squeezing it through a cloth ; do not let it boil. Pound sorne blanched almonds, stir them into a little cream, pass through a fine cloth, and add to the soup just before serving ; place some small chicken quenelles about the size of peas in the soup-tureen, and pour the soup over them. Anôther way of preparing this soup is to pound up the méat and bones of a cold roast chicken, after removing the skin and fat, simmer the pounded méat in either veal or chicken broth, stir in some bread-crumbs soaked in stock, pass through a tammy, if too thick add a little veal broth ; flavour with almond cream as above, and garnish with quenelles of chicken. Lemon sauce. Peel a lemon, remove ail the pips, and slice it ; chop up into dice, and warm in a saucepan with the minced liver of a chicken, which has been blanched, and some butter \ when done, serve in a sauceboat.THE 366 B TELS O F FA FF. 208 JULY 26. Purée d’artichauts aux croûtons. Esturgeon en fricandeau. Châteaubriand garni de pommes soufflées. Pâté de foie gras. Buisson d’écrevisses. Beignets aux confitures. Purée of artichokes with fried bread. Fricandeau of sturgeon Broiled fillets of beef à la Château- briand with fried potatoes. Pâté de foie gras. Crayfish.- Jam fritters. Fricandeau of sturgeon. Cut up a piece of sturgeon into slices about five inches thick, skin them, lard with fine fillets of bacon, sprinkle-with flour, and lay in a stew-pan on melted bacon, with the larded sides downwards ; when brown take off the fire. Chop up some mushrooms, and lay them m a tin dish, moisten with essence of ham, lay the fillets of sturgeon on this, with the larded sides upwards, cover the dish, and simmer in a very slow oven for an hour, Scalloped quenelles of carp, eel pout, cod, or whiting. Préparé the same as scalloped mussels (see 2 2nd of October), with the following exceptions With scalloped whiting use a little fresh herring ; with cod stir in some double cream ; and with carp add some chopped eel. A great improvement. to this dish is, if possible, to add some pounded truffies, which hâve been boiled in stock. Jam fritters. Cut some small sponge cakes in half, spread both halves with jam, moisten the edges with water, stick them firmly together , add three whipped whites of egg to some batter, made with white wine, dip the cakes into it, and fry ; when done, drain, place them on a board, sprinkle with icing sugar, and glaze in the oven, or with the salamander.THE 366 J5ILLS OF FARE. 209 JULY 27. Potage croûte au pot. Bœuf bouilli sauce à la bourgeoise. Lapins en gibelotte. Poularde rôtie. Friture de choux-fleurs. Bavarois aux framboises. Clear soup with gravy crusts. Boiled beef, sauce à la bourgeoise. Stewed rabbits and onions. Roast fowl. Cauliflower fritters. Bavadan strawberry cream. Sauce à la bourgeoise. Take a large tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, chervil, and tarragon leaves, stir into a teacupful of stock, add a dessert-spoonful of méat glaze, two teaspoonsful of French mustard, the same quantity of powdered sugar, and, just before serving, flavour with lemon-juice and a little white pepper, This sauce is generally handed with boiled beef or boiled fowl. Stewed rabbits and onions. Soak half a pound of bacon in water for two hours ; eut it up into dice, and brown in butter ; add two rabbits eut into joints ; at the end of five minutes stir in two tablespoonsful of flour, season with sait, pepper, grated nutmeg, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and an onion stuck with two cloves ; moisten with a bottle of white wine, and cook over a slow fire for three- quarters of an hour ; whilst the rabbit is cooking, brown about twenty small young onions, take a few spoonsful of the liquor in which the rabbits are cooking, warm the onions in it, and add a basket of button mushrooms, and a small lump of sugar. When the rabbits are cooked, dish them up, pass the sauce through a tammy, skim off ail grease, reduce, and pour over them. Place the onions and mushrooms round the dish. pTHE 366 B ILES O F FA RE. 210 JULY 28. Consommé aux pommes de terre. Saumon sauce crevettes. Poitrines d’agneau à la maréchale. Pintades rôties. Haricots blancs à la maître d’hôtel. Œufs à la neige. Lambs’ breasts à la Maréchale. Braise two breasts of lamb (see 2 8th of May) ; when cooked, drain, and press between two dishes until cold ; trim them into the shape of a heart, leave one bone, so as .to give the appearance of a large cutlet, dip into German sauce, bread- crumb, plunge into beaten yolks of egg mixed with melted butter, bread-crumb a second time, broil for a minute, and serve with clear gravy. Tendons of veal ■with white sauce. Line a stew-pan with slices of veal and bacon ; add the tendons, which hâve been blanched, drained, and trimmed ; season with a bouquet of mixed herbs, carrots, onions, and slices of lemon; moisten with either clear soup or stock, and cook over a moderate fire ; when done put the tendons in a clean stew-pan, pass the sauce through a tammy, thicken it with yolks of egg, pour over the tendons, and serve when hot. Clear soup with potatoes. Salmon, shrimp sauce. Lambs’ breasts à la maréchale. Roast guinea-fowl. Haricot beans à la maître d’hôtel. Poached whites of eggs. t Fried dabs. Scrape your fish, eut off the fins and backbones, split them down the back, sprinkle with sait and pepper, squeeze sorae lemon-juice over them, and fry in butter. Dish up on a napkm.211 THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. JULY 29. Sago soup with purée of carrots. Potage de sagou à la purée de carottes. Limandes frites. Poulets aux huîtres et aux truffes. Gigot de mouton rôti. Pommes de terre sautées. Flan de poires à la Madeleine. Fried dabs. Fovvls stuffed with oysters and truffles. Roast leg of mutton. Fried potatoes. Pear tart à la Madeleine. Fowls stuffed with oysters and truffles. Roast two fovvls, and wrap them up in buttered sheets of paper, sothat they may notbrown ; when done, stuffthem with chopped truffles, minced oysters, parsley, and chives, well mixed with butter. Line a stew-pan with butter, sliced truffles, chopped herbs, blanched and trimmed oysters, and a second layer of sliced truffles and mixed herbs; moisten with olive oil, add the fowls, and simmer over a very slow tire for ten minutes ; dish up the fowls with the truffles and oysters, add half a tumblerful of stock, and the same quantity of white wine to the sauce, boil it, skim off ail grease, flavour withlemon-juice, and pour over the fowls. Haricot beans à la maître d’hôtel» Soak your beans for twenty-four hours (if not fresh ones), blanch and boil in boiling sait and water ; drain, and when cold, warm them in a saucepan with butter seasoned with chopped parsley, chives, sait and pepper ; thicken the sauce with yolks of egg mixed with stock or some of the liquor in which the beans were boiled, and flavour with either a few drops of vinegar or lemon-juice. p 2THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 212 JULY 30. MENU EN MAIGRE. Bouillabaisse. Poisson. Croquettes de riz aux champignons. Choux farcis à la russe. Carpes frites. Kluskis au fromage à la crème. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Bouillabaisse. Boiled or fried fish. Croquettes of rice with mushrooms. Stuffed cabbage à la russe. Fried carp. Kluskis of cream cheese. Bouillabaise. Wash, clean, and eut up some whiting, gurnet, red mullet, and a small live crayfish. Warm a tumblerful of olive oil, two tablespoonsful of finely-chopped onions, a head of garlic, and a laurel leaf in a large, shallow fish-pan ; as soon as the onion begins to brown, add the pièces of fish, season with a little sait, slices of lemon, some fresh or preserved tomatoes, a pinch of powdered saffron, and a tumblerful of white wine ; pour in sufficient water to cover the fish, and cook over a very quick fire for fifteen minutes ; throw in a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, boil for one minute, and take the fish-pan off the fire ; remove the garlic, lemon, and laurel leaf; lay some slices of bread, half an inch thick, in a deep dish, pour the fish liquor ©ver them ; when thoroughly soaked, place the best pièces of fish in the dish, and serve.213 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. JULY 31. Potage aux pâtes d’Italie avec Parmesan. Moules à la marinière. Filet sauté madère. Dindonneau rôti. Carottes à la ménagère. Flan de prunes. Clear soup with Italian paste and Parmesan cheese. Mussels à la marinière. Fillet of beef with Madeira sauce. Roast turkey poult. Carrots à la ménagère. Plum tart. Mussels à la marinière. Take tke mussels out of their shells, and toss them in a saucepan with a large lump of butter and finely-chopped parsley, chives, and garlic ; stir in a little black pepper and bread-crumbs. Serve very hot. Calf’s ears fried in batter. Blanch the ears in boiling water, boil them in veal stock, leave in the saucepan until cold, drain, and eut up into long strips ; soak them in vinegar, seasoned with sait and black pepper ; dry in a cloth, dip into batter, and fry until a golden colour ; drain, and serve, garnished with fried parsley. Carrots à la ménagère. Slice your carrots, and boil in stock and white wine, seasoned with coarse black pepper, grated nutmeg, and a bouquet of mixed herbs; when done, dish up the carrots, thicken the sauce with butter and a little flour, and pour over the vege- table. Gascony butter. Boil a dozen fine heads of garlic in water, drain, and pound them in a mortar with half a pound of butter, season with sait, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a little cayenne pepper.214 THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. AUGUST i. Purée de pois verts. Poule aux riz. Escalopes de saumon sauce mous- quetaire. Bœuf à l’écarlate. Artichauts à la sauce blanche. Crêpes. Purée of green peas. Boiled fowl and rice. Scallops of salmon, mousquetaire sauce. Boiled sait beef. Artichokes with white sauce. Pancakes. Mousquetaire sauce. Pound a small eschalot, a few chervil, tarragon, and cress leaves in a mortar ; add a dessert-spoonful of méat glaze, sait, pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of mustard ; pass through a tammy, moisten with two tablespoons- ful of olive oil and a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and serve. Kluskis of cream ch.ee se. See ioth of April. Pancakes. Make a batter with flour, milk, yolks of egg, a pinch of sait, and a little brandy ; melt some butter in a frying-pan, pour in a large tablespoonful of the batter at a time ; when done on one side, turn, sprinkle with powdered sugar, fold up in the shape of a small omelet, and serve.THE 366 BILLS OF F A RE. 2*5 1 AUGUST 2. Pilau de riz au gras. Crouquettes de nouilles. Gio-ot de mouton a la polonaise. Canard sauvage rôti. Écrevisses à la bordelaise. Abricots à la Condé. Pilau of rice. Croquettes of German paste. Leg of mutton à la polonaise. Roast wild duck. Crayfish à la bordelaise. Apricots à la Condé. Pilau of rice. Wash a quart of rice, and cook in six pints of strong stock, fix on the lid of the saucepan very tight ; as soon as the rice begins to boil, add a teaspoonful of powdered saffron, mixed in a little stock ; replace the cover, and boil until the rice has absorbed ail the stock. It generally takes about an hour and a quarter to cook this dish. Leg of mutton à la Polonaise. Braise a very tender leg of mutton until three quarters cooked, drain it, and eut into thick slices without separating them from the bone. Spread a layer of the following stuffing between each slice ;—Take a large lump of butter, chopped parsley, chives, eschalots, powdered ginger, sait, pepper, and bread-crumbs, stir well together. Place the mutton in a stew-pan, moisten with some of the liquor in which it was braised, and a wine- glassful of champagne; simmer for halfan hour, with hot coals on the lid of the stew-pan ; when done, dish up the leg, clear the sauce of ail grease, flavour with orange-juice, and pour over the mutton. German paste croquettes. Roll'some German paste (see 28th of October) into small round balls, bread-crumb, and fry in melted butter.THE 366 BILLS OR TARE. 2 16 AUGUST 3. Potage crème de chicorée à la Colbert. Raie au beurre noir. Ris de veau en fricandeau. Poulets rôtis. Pommes de terre au lard. Plan d’amandes vertes à la d’Escars. White chicory soup à la Colbert. Skate with blaclc butter. Fricandeau of sweet-breads. Roast fowls. Potatoes and bacon. Green almond tart à la d’Escars. White chicory soup à la Colbert. Blanch the chicory, warm it in butter, moisten with veal stock and cream, thicken with yolks of egg, and pour into the soup-tureen on poached eggs. Potatoes and bacon. Brown some bacon eut into dice in butter, stir in a little flour, and moisten with either stock or water; when brown, season with sait, pepper, and a bouquet of mixed herbs ; boil for a few minutes, add some raw sliced potatoes ; when done, skim off ail grease, and serve. Green almond tart à la d’Escars. Pound half a pound of either green almonds or filberts in a mortar, with a tablespoonful of candied orange flowers, suffi- cient sugar to sweeten the nuts, and a pinch of sait ; boil a pint of cream ; when cold, add to the almonds, with four boiled yolks of egg ; stir until a thick cream, and pour into an open tart case of short paste, which has been baked, as the cream must not be cooked ; if the weather is hot, it is advisable to place the cream in a refrigerator for an hour.217 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. AUGUST 4- Potage consommé aux laitues. Brochet au bleu rémoulade à la cosaque. Poularde en croûte. Lapereaux rôtis. Petits pois à l’anglaise. Mousse aux framboises. Clear soup with lettuce. Piclcled pike, rémoulade sauce à la cosaque. Braised pullet with white sauce- Roast young rabbits. Green peas à l’anglaise. Whipped raspberries and cream. Rémoulade sauce à la cosaque. Take two hard-boiled yolks of egg, a blanched eschalot, and a handful of chopped chervil, tarragon, pimpernel, and chive leaves, pound in a mortar ; season with sait, pepper, grated nutmeg, a teaspoonful of mustard, and a pinch of cayenne pepper ; stir in two tablespoonstul of olive oil, and a teaspoon- ful of vinegar j pass through a tammy, and serve. Braised pullet with white sauce. Lard the pullet with bacon and ham, braise in milk with carrots and onions, and leave until cold. Take a lump of butter, a little flour, sait, pepper, two yolks of egg, and a tea- cupful of milk ; stir over the fire until thick, and add the pullet sprinkled with bread-crumbs ; place the stew-pan in the oven until the pullet is browned, and dish it up garnished with thick poivrade sauce. Green peas à l'Anglaise. Boil the green peas in boiling sait and water ; when cooked, drain and pour them into a vegetable dish over a large lump of fresh butter. Sprinkle the peas with a little finely-chopped parsley, and serve very hot. Hand powdered sugar separately.THE 366 B TL LS O F FA RE. 2l8 AUGUST 5. Potage julienne. Filets de grondins sauce tomates. Queues de mouton au riz. Albrans rôtis. Épinards à l’ancienne mode. Macédoine de fruits. Julienne soup. Fillet of gurnet with tomato sauce. Fried sheep’s tails and rice. Roast young wild duck. Old-fashioned stewed spinach. Macédoine of fruit. Fillets of gurnet with tomato sauce. Take some fillets of gurnet, eut them up into scallops half an inch thick, and trim them ail to the same size ; toss over a quick tire in a saucepan, with butter, sait, and white pepper ; when done, drain, and place round a dish ; fill the centre with tomato sauce, and serve. Fried sheep’s tails and rice. Scald and blanch the tails, eut off the ends, tie two or three together in a bunch and braise them (see 28th of May). Boil some rice in strong stock, and leave on the fire until it has absorbed ail the liquor ; when both tails and rice are cold, spread a thick layer of the latter over the tails ; dip into egg and bread-crumbs, fry in boiling lard, and serve, garnished with fried parsley.219 THE 366 B IL LS O F FA RE. AUGUST 6. Purée de potiron. Côte de bœuf braisée garnie d’oignons farcis. Lottes à l’italienne. Poularde rôtie. Haricots panachés sautes. Crème fouettée aux framboises. Purée of leeks. Braised ribs of beef and stuffed onions. Eel pout à l’italienne. Roast pullet. French beans and haricots à la maître d’hôtel. Whipped raspberries and cream. Purée of leeks. Peel your leeks, eut them up into small pièces, boil in boil- ing sait and water ; when done, pass through a tammy ; warm the purée in a saucepan with sonie butter, a tumblerful of cream, a little sugar, and a pinch of flour ; reduce, thicken with yolks of egg, and serve. Eel pout à l’italienne. Fry the eel pout and dish them up, covered with the following sauce Take a small parsnip, a young carrot, two sliced onions, half a head of garlic, a laurel leaf, and three heads of cloves ; warm in either olive oil or butter ; moisten with two tumblersful of champagne and a little stock ; simmer for an hour, pass through a tammy, skim off ail grease, and reduce the sauce if too thin ; season with a pounded anchovy, some chopped capers, sait, and coarse black pepper. Bain-marie. Whenever a dish is ordered to be cooked in a bain-marie, it means putting the ingrédients in a china pot and placing it on the fire in a large saucepan filled with boiling water.THE 366 BILLS 0F FARE. 220 AUGUST 7. Potage de riz au gras. Melon. Matelote d’anguille. Ramereaux marines et frits. Cuissot de veau rôti. Laitues à la crème. Croûte aux fruits. Brunoise soup with rice. Melon. Stewed eel. Broiled young ring-doves. Roast haunch of veal. Lettuces with cream. Fried slices of bread à la nor- mande. Melon. See 21 st of June. Broiled young ring-doves. Pluck, draw, and singe the doves, truss, and eut them in half, beat until flat, and soak for two hours in olive oil, seasoned with sait, mixed spice, and chopped parsley, chives, and mush- rooms ; dry in a cloth, bread-crumb, and broil them ; take some of the olive oil in which they were soaked, stir in a lump of butter, a little flour, chopped capers and eschalots, sait, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; warm in a saucepan until thick, flavour with vinegar or lemon-juice, and hand with the ring-doves. Old-fashioned stewed spinach. Cook the spinach in a saucepan with butter, sait, and grated nutmeg; add a little butter and flour, sugar, and cream ; when done, serve with hot strips of light paste.221 THE 366 BILES O F FA RE. AUGUST 8. Potage aux œufs pochés. Raie aux fines herbes. Poulets en fricassée. Filet de bœuf rôti. Salsifis frits. Tourte aux abricots. Clear soup with poached eggs. Skate with mixed herbs. Fricassée of fowl. Roast fillet of beef. Fried salsifis. Apricot tart. Skate with mixed herbs. Fillet and skin a fine skate, dry between two cloths, and cook in a saucepan with a pint of milk, a luntp of butter, a little flour, two slices of lemon, sait, pepper, and mixed herbs ; when three quarters done, remove the fillets, drain them, and bake in the oven until a good colour ; dish up with either piquante sauce or mixed herb sauce. Boil your salsifis in water, eut them up into pièces the length of your little finger, dip into boiling water, drain, and soak for an hour in vinegar, seasoned with sait and pepper ; dip into batter, fry in butter, and serve. Peel, stone, and eut your apricots in half, boil in sugar and water ; when done, leave until cold. Line a shallow tart mould with light paste, fill it with the apricots, garnish with dried cherries, cover with paste, egg it over with beaten yolks of egg, and bake. Fried salsifis. Apricot tart à la bonne femme.222 THE 366 EILLS O F F ARE. AUGUST 9. Consommé aux lazagnes. Goujons frits. Langue de bœuf à la sauce tomates. Galantine de dinde. Macédoine de légumes en salade. Pêches à la Richelieu. Clear soup with Italian paste. Fried gudgeon. Ox-tongue with tomato sauce. Galantine of turkey-hen. Mixed vegetable salad. Peaches à la Richelieu. Galantine of turkeyhen. Draw and singe the turkey, eut it open down the back, bone it, and remove the leg, wing bones, and neck by drawing them inwards, be careful not to eut any part of the skin ; eut ail the flesh of the turkey into fillets, and keep until required. Take three pounds of chump of veal, a pound and a half of bacon, chopped herbs, spice, sait and pepper, pound in a mortar until quite smooth. Spread a layer two inches thick of this forcemeat on the turkey skin, after which place alternate layers of turkey fillets, slices of ham, pickled pig’s tongue, gherkins, pistachio nuts, and truffles, until when sewn together the skin is quite full ; cover with slices of bacon, tie it up very tight in a cloth, so that the skin may not give way, and braise (see 28th of May) ; when done, leave in the cloth until cold ; pass the sauce in which it was braised through a fine sieve, clarify it with the white of an egg, and leave in a cool place until set to a jelly; eut into fancy shapes, and garnish the galantine with them.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 223 AUGUST 10. MENU EN MAIGRE. Pilau de riz au maigre. Mulet grillé à la maître d’hôtel. Haricot de macreuse. Carpes frites. Pommes de terre à la sauce blanche. Omelette soufflée. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Pilau of rice for fast day. Broiled mullet à la maître d’hôtel. Haricot of black diver. Fried carp. Potatoes with white sauce. Omelet soufflé. Pilau of rice for fast day. This is a daily dish amongst the Turks. Boil your rice in sait and water, fix on the lid of the saucepan very tight, and leave on the fire until the rice has absorbed ail the water ; when done, make a well in the centre of the rice with a wooden spoon, add a large lump of fresh butter, cover it over with rice, and, when dissolved, serve. Boil some comflour in milk; when nearly done, stir in a little butter, grated Parmesan cheese, pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a small lump of sugar; take a dessert- spoonful at a tirne of this paste, place on a wooden slab, garnish the centre of each ramequin with a small lump of Parmesan cheese, and cover over with a little of the corn- flour paste ; when cold, trim with a round tin cutter, dip into beaten yolks of egg, and fry. Dish up on a napkin. Comflour ramequins.224 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. AUGUST 11. Potage à la Conti. Anguille à la tartare, Soup à la Conti. Poulet à la hambourgeoise. Eel with tartare sauce. Roast chicken à la hambourgeoise. Gigot d’agneau rôti. Œufs au fromage. Tartes aux cerises. Roast leg of lamb. Baked eggs and cheese. Cherry tartlets. Koast chioken à la Hambourgeoise. Stuff a young chicken with a handful of coarsely-cho-pped parsley mixed with butter, sait and pepper ; roast it, without covering with slices of bacon, and dish up with its own gravy. It generally takes about twenty-five minutes to cook a young chicken in this manner. The stuffing is a great improvement, as young poultry often tastes of the food with which it has been fattened. Take twelve eggs, whip the whites of six of them, stir into a little flour, hot melted butter, sait and pepper, and pass through a fine sieve. Line the bottorn of a tin or plated dish with slices of Gruyère cheese, and thin slices of bread, spread with plenty of butter, pour the eggs over them, and bake \ brown with a salamander before serving. Boil your potatoes in sait and water ; when done, peel and slice them as quick as possible, cover with white sauce made with potato flour, and serve very hot. Baked eggs and cheese. Potatoes with white sauce.225 THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. AUGUST 12. Potage au pain. Pièce de bœuf sauce raifort. Filets de lapereaux aux con- combres. Canards rôtis. Épinards au jus. Compote de prunes reine-Claude. Bread soup. Boiled beef, horseradish sauce. Fillets of young rabbit witli cucumer. Roast ducks. Stewed spinach. Compote of greengages. Fillets of young: rabbit with cucumber. Take two large cucumbers, peel and eut them into very thin slices, soak in a deep dish, for two hours, in vinegar and sait, turn them occasionally ; press between two plates so as to squeeze out ail juice, and warm them in butter, seasoned with a bouquet of parsley, chives, thyme, and a laurel leaf ; stir over the lire until a golden colour ; add a little flour, moisten with two tumblersful of stock, simmer for half an hour, and see that the sauce thickens. Roast your rabbits ; when done, eut off the fillets, warm them with the cucumber, do not let the sauce boil, sprinkle with sait and pepper, and serve. Compote of greeng'ages. Prick the greengages with a fork, dip into cold water, drain, and boil in syrup; when done, pour into a glass dish, and serve when cold.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 2 2 6 AUGUST 13. Potage Crécy. Matelote de carpe et d’anguille. Poupiettes de veau. Pintade rôtie. Haricots verts au beurre noir. Biscuit de Savoie. Crécy soup. Stewed carp and eel. Stuffed fillets of veal. Roast guinea-fowl. French beans with black butter. Savoy cake. Stuffed fillets of veal. / Cut up a fillet of veal into slices an inch thick and six inches long, beat until quite fiat ; spread a layer of méat force- meat on them ; roll, and tie round with a string ; place in a stew-pan lined with slices of bacon, season with sait and pepper, moisten with half a tumblerful of white wine, and the same quantity of stock, and cook over a slow fire ; when done, dish up in a pyramid, pass the sauce through a tammy, clear off ail grease, and pour over the fillets. Savoy, or sponge cake. Break fifteen eggs, keep the yolks separate from the whites, stir a pound of powdered sugar into the yolks, and flavour with either grated lemon peel or vanilla, beat until frothy ; whip the whites to a thick cream, add to the yolks, and stir in a pound of flour ; pour into a buttered mould, or into small cases, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and bake ; when done, glaze the cake with whipped whites of egg, flavoured with lemon-juice and sugar, and serve when cold.THE 366 B TELS O F TARE. 227 AUGUST 14. Potage au tapioca. Gigot braisé. Laitues farcies. Langouste sauce mayonnaise. Pommes de terre sautées. Macédoine de fruits en gelée. Tapioca soup. Braised leg of mutton. Stuffed lettuces. Sea crayfish with mayonnaise sauce. Fried potatoes. Macédoine of fruit in jelly. Stuffed lettuces. Wash, trim, blanch, and drain your lettuces, remove the centre leaves very carefully, fill with forcemeat of fowl and truffles (see i8th of December), or with quenelle stuffing ; tie the lettuces round with string, and cook in a stew-pan lined with slices of veal and bacon ; season with carrots, onions, and a bouquet of mixed herbs, and moisten with stock. If the lettuces are preferred in white sauce, they must be warmed in béchamel sauce, thickened with yolks of egg, after being Take two ounces of gélatine, a pound of crushed sugar, three whipped whitcs of egg, the juice of a lemon, and a pint of water ; warm in a preServing-pan, stir until it boils, and pass through a jelly bag ; if necessary, pass it a second time, as the jelly must be perfectly clear ; when cold, add half a bottle of champagne to it. Stew sorne pièces of apple, pear, plums, cherries, and apricots in syrup, leave until cold. Fill a mould with alternate layers of the fruit and jelly, until within half an inch of the top, let the last layer be of jelly, place in the re- frigerator until set ; turn out of the mould, and serve. braised. Macédoine of fruit in jelly.228 THE 3 66 BTLLS O F FA RE. AUGU3T 15. Potage au macaroni avec parmesan. Saumon au bleu. Fritot de poulets. Rosbif rôti. Petits pois au lard. Flan de poires. Maccaroni soup with Parmesan cheese. Salmon boiled in court-bouillon. Chicken fritters. Roast beef. Green peas and bacon. Pear tart. Salmon boiled in court-bouillon. Clean, wash, and dry your salmon ; stuff it with butter, chopped onions, parsley, sait and pepper ; sew up the head, place in a fish-pan with court-bouillon (see i8th of May), made with red wine ; as soon as it boils, make a smaller fire, and simmer until donc, dram, and dish up on a napkin, garnished with fried parsley. Any sauce may be handed with this dish. Chicken fritters. Cut up the chicken into joints, and soak for an hour in olive oil, seasoned with slices of lemon, onions, parsley, sait and pepper ; drain, sprinkle them with flour, and fry until a good colour ; dish up in a pyramid, cover with tomato sauce, and garnish with fried parsley. Fish patties. Boil a carp with soft roe, a tench, and an eel, in stock ; when done, bone them, pound the flesh in a mortar, with a little white wine and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Half boil some fine oysters. Line the necessary quantity of patty pans with light paste fill with the pounded fish, garnish the centre of each one with an oyster and a lump of butter, cover with paste, brush over with yolk of egg, and bake.229 THE 366 BILL S O F FA EF. AUGUST 16. Potage à la savoyarde. Tête de veau à l'huile. Cold calf’s head with oil and Soup à la savoyarde. vinegar. Gigot de mouton à la russe. Bécassines rôties. Aubergines à la provençale. Chartreuse de fruits. Roast snipe. Egg-plant à la provençale. Chartreuse of fruit. Leg of mutton à la russe. Soup à la savoyarde. Soak some slices of bread for a fevv seconds in boiling stock, place them in a deep dish, sprinkle with grated cheese; brown in the oven, and pour some boiling vegetable soup lor fast day (see 3oth of J une) over them. Choose a tender leg of mutton, beat it, and roast ; when three quarters done, take it off the fire, place in a shallow pan, moisten with two large tumblersful of brandy, warm over a slow fire ; as soon as the brandy is hot, set fire to it, and keep turning the leg as long as the brandy burns ; add a little veal stock or gravy, simmer, and serve very hot; skim ail grease off the sauce. Stir some butter and flour in a saucepan ; when melted, add equal quantifies of cream and stock, season with chopped eschalots, parsley, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; reduce the sauce, pass through a hair sieve, and serve. Leg1 of mutton à la russe. Béchamel sauce -with stock.THE 366 BILLS 0F B ARE. 230 AUGUST 17. Potage à l’oseille à la crème. Matelote savante. Canard aux navets. Quartier d’agneau rôti. Concombres farcies. Pêches à la Bourdaloue. Sorrel soup with cream. Stewed carp, pike, perch, barbel, and eel. Stewed duclc and turnips. Roast forequarter of lamb. Stuffed cucumbers. Peaches à la Bourdaloue. Stewed carp, pike, perch, barbel, and eel. Cut up a carp, pike, barbel, perch, and eel into small pièces. Boil the heads and trimmings in equal quantities of white and red wine ; pass through a tammy, and cook the fish m this sauce, season with a bouquet of rnixed herbs, sait, whole black pepper, and cloves ; when done, rernove the fish, pass the sauce through a tammy, skirn off ail grease, reduce, add the same quantity of Spanish sauce to it, or a little thick gravy, a wine- glassful of Madeira, and reduce until quite thick, pass through a tammy into a saucepan, and warm ; stir in a lump of fresh butter, a few drops of anchovy sauce, two tablespoonstul of shrimp butter, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Dish up the fish, garnished with stewed carp’s roe, fish quenelles, glazed onions, and stewed mushrooms ; pour a little of the sauce over them, and hand the remainder in a sauceboat.231 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. AUGUST 18. Potage aux queues de bœuf. Turbot au four. Selle de mouton braisée. Pluviers rôtis. Œufs durs sauce à la béchamel. Tartelettes aux prunes. Ox-tail soup. Baked turbot. Braised saddle of mutton. Roast plover. Eggs with béchamel sauce. Plurn tartlets. Baked turbot. Soak the turbot for half an hour in melted butter, seasoned with parsley, mixed lierbs, sait, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; place it in a baking-dish, cover with the seasonmg and a little of the oil in which it was soaked ; bake, and seive with either Italian or piquante sauce. Béchamel sauce for fast day, or cream béchamel sauce. Take a lump of butter, some finely-chopped parsley, and chives ; add a teaspoonful of flour mixed in cream; season with sait, white pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; stir over the fire in a saucepan until quite thick, pass through a fine hair sieve, and serve. Vegetable pie. Cook some green peas, young broad beans, small carrots, and tender French beans, separately, in cream sauce (see above) ; place in a baked pie case, divided into compartments by thin pièces of paste, and serve. In winter preserved vege- tables may be used for the pie. We hâve to thank the cele- brated Grimod de la Reyni'ere for inventing this dish, which not only pleases the palate but the eye, and is a great addition to our fast-day dinners.THE 366 BILES OF FARE. 232 AUGUST 19. Potage de riz aux petits pois. Mulet grillé. Croquettes de volailles. Filet de bœuf rôti sauce madère. Omelette au thon. Marmelade de mirabelles. Rice soup with green peas. Broiled mullet. Chicken croquettes. Roast fillet of beef and Madeira sauce. Tunny omelet. Mirabelle plum marmalade. Tunny omelet. Blanch the soft roe of two carps for five minutes in boiling sait and water ; chop them up with a piece of tunny the size of a large egg, and an eschalot ; toss in a saucepan with a large lump of butter until it has melted, but do not let it boil or it will harden the roe. Melt a second lump of butter, season it with chopped parsley and chives and a little lemon-juice; pour into the dish in which you intend to serve the omelet, and keep it warm in the oven. Beat up twelve fresh eggs, stir in the chopped roe and fish, cook the omelet in the usual man- ner, but make it rather thick, place in the previously prepared dish, and serve very hot. Madeira sauce. Boil two wine-glassesful of Madeira, a quarter of a pound of méat glaze and a little coarse black pepper until reduced to a quarter the original quantity ; brown an ounce of flour in an ounce and a half of butter, add to the sauce ; simmer for ten minutes, skim, pass through a sieve, and serve. Mirabelle plum marmalade. Préparé the same as peach marmalade (see 3rd of October).THE 366 B TELS O F FA RE. 233 AUGUST 20. MENU EN MAIGRE. Potage à la Nîmoise. Thon grillé à la purée d’oseille. Timbale de nouilles au parmesan. Carpes frites. Pommes de terre à la crème. Pommes meringuées. bile of fare for fast day. Fish soup à la Nîmoise. Broiled tunny with purée of sorrel. Timbale of German paste and Par- mesan cheese. Fried carp. Potatoes and cream. Meringue of apples. Fish. sonp à la Nîmoise. Add some yolks of egg to the necessary quantity of fish stock (see 30* of August) ; stir over the fire until thick, with a wooden spoon. Dip some white crusts of bread in fish stock, place them in the soup-tureen, and add the soup. Broiled tunny -with purée of sorrel. Soak a thick slice of tunny for two hours in olive oil seasoned with lemon-juice, sliced onions, sait and pepper ; broil over a slow fire, and dish up on a puree of sorrel. Potatoes and cream. Bake your potatoes in the oven ; when done, peel, slice them and warm in béchamel sauce (see i8th of August). Bread panada made with. milk. Soak the bread-crumbs in milk, stir before the fire until dry ; add some yolks of egg, and keep in a covered jar until re- quired. This panada is usually used for forcemeat or quenelles.234 THE 366 BILES O F FA RE. AUGUST 21. Potage de riz au potiron. Rosbif à l’anglaise. Cervelles frites. Langouste à la broche. Tomates farcies. Tartelettes de groseilles rouges. Red gooseberry tartlets. Calf’s brain fritters. Roast sea crayfish. Stuffed tomatoes. Rice and leek soup. Roast beef. Rice and leek soup. Cut up your leeks, and cook in thick veal stock, with two onions stuck with cloves, celery leaves, sait and pepper ; when done, pass through a tammy with a lump of butter •; add some rice to the purée, which has been boiled, and also mixed with butter, and warm in a stew-pan. Serve when thoroughly done. Cook the brains the same as for stewed calfs head (see 24th of January) ; drain, slice them, dip into batter, and fry until a good colour ; dish up in a pyramid, covered with Italian sauce. Skewer the crayfish on to the spit, and roast before a large fire ; baste with melted butter mixed with champagne and seasoned with sait and pepper ; when done, which you can tell by the shell getting soft, dish up, pass the dripping through a sieve, and flavour it with lemon-juice, a wine-glassful of champagne, a pinch of sait, and a little mixed spice ; pour over the crayfish, and serve. Préparé the same as timbale of maccaroni (see ist of November) ; only use German paste instead of maccaroni. Calf’s brain fritters. Roast sea crayfish. Timbale of German paste.THE 366 BILES OF FA FF. 235 AUGUST 22. Haricots blancs à la moelle. Canards sauvages rôtis. Noix de veau braisée. Croûte aux abricots. Potage julienne. Raie frite. Julienne soup. Braised chump of veal. Fried skate. Roast wild duck. Haricot beans and marrow. Fried slices of brioche with apricots. Fried skate. Blanch a large piece of skate, eut it up into fillets, and soak for five hours in vinegar and melted butter, seasoned with chopped herbs, sait and pepper; dry them in a cloth, dip into milk, sprinkle with flour, fry over a quick fire, and serve, garnished with fried celery l^aves. Boil some fresh haricot beans in sait and water with an onion ; when done, drain, and warm them in beef marrow , season with sait, black pepper, and the juice of a lemon. People often think that this sauce is very expensive to make, but the following recipe will show how simple it is to préparé. Cut up some trimmings and giblets of fowl, a little veal, and a slice of ham ; warm in butter until brown, moisten with a tumblerful of white wine and the juice of a lemon, add a little stock, and simmer by the side of the fire for several hours ; pass through a tammy, clear off ail grease, and thicken with a little méat glaze. Haricot beans and marrow. Spanish. sauce.THE 366 B/LLS O F FA RE. 236 AUGUST 23. Potage bisque d'écrevisses. Crayfish soup. Marrow à la Orly. Stuffed pullet, turtle fashion. Roast larded fillet of beef. Stewed celery. Compote of peais. Moelle à la Orly. Poularde en tortue. Filet de bœuf piqué rôti. Céleri au jus. Compote de poires. Stuffed pullet, turtle fashion. This is a very pretty entrée, and easy to dress. Boneyotir pullet, stuff it with forcemeat (see 6th of April) and savory forcemeat (see 28th of August), sew it up, turnthe skin of the neck half over the head, and eut off part of the comb, which will give it the appearance of a turtle’s head ; blanch and singe four chicken’s feet, eut off the claws, and stick two where the wings ought to be, and two in the thighs, so as to look like turtle’s feet; stew the pullet (see 2Ôth of September) ; when done, eut the string with which it was sewn, lay it on its back in a dish, garnish the breast with sliced truffles, eut in the shape of shells, and place a crayfish tail to represent the turtle’s tail. Hand any sauce which may be fancied with this dish. Préparé the same as Spanish sauce, but do not brown the ingrédients; add a little flour, moisten with either stock or boiling water ; season with pepper, sait, and a bouquet of mixed herbs ; when cooked, pass through a tammy, and keep in a covered jar until required. Velouté sauce.237 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. AUGUST 24. Potage de riz à la purée de laitues. Éperlans à l’anglaise. Sarcelles aux olives. Porc frais rôti. Pommes de terre sautées. Tourte de cerises. Rice soup with purée of lettuce. Smelts à l’anglaise. Stewed teal and olives. Roast pork. Fried potatoes. Cherry tart. Smelts à l’anglaise. Clean, scale, wash, and dry the smelts ; boil them in equal quantifies of white wine and water, two tablespoonsful of olive oil, and season with sait, pepper, and half a lemon, peeled and sliced ; when done, dish up covered with the following sauce. Take two tumblersful of white wine, a lump of butter mixed with a little flour, sait, pepper, the juice of a lemon, a head of garlic blanched and pounded, and chopped parsley and chivesj warm in a saucepan, and pour over the fish. Stewed teal and olives. Pluck, draw, singe, and truss your teal, warm in their own fat, after which either roast or braise them. Soak some olives, stone them, and sirnmer in reduced stock, add a little Spanish sauce or gravy, and some of the liquor from the braise, and dish up the teal on the stewed olives. Virgin cream. Blanch and pound two ounces of Jordan almonds, moisten with a little water, place in a fine hair sieve, and pour a pint of boiled reduced cream over them, pass twice through the sieve, flavour with lemon or vanille, stir in a little powdered sugar, pour into small china moulds, and coolt in a bain- marie.238 THE 366 BILLS O F TARE. AUGUST 25. Potage napolitain. Esturgeon au four. Chapon à la régence, Cochon de lait rôti. Neapolitan soup. Baked sturgeon. Capon à la régence. Roast sucking-pig. Haricots verts à l’anglaise. French beans à l’anglaise. Macédoine de fruits. Macedoine of fruit. Neapolitan soup. Make sortie game quenelles, and poach them in stock ; soak some small round slices of bread-crumb in the sanie stock, place bread and quenelles in a soup-tureen, and .pour the necessary quantity of soup over them. Lay a fine slice of sturgeon in a tin dish, sprinkle with a little olive oil, the juice of a lemon, chopped mixed herbs, sait and pepper ; bake, and when done, place in another dish, pass the sauce through a tammy, pour over the fish, and hand rémoulade sauce separately. Truss your capon for boiling, brown it in butter, lard the breast with fine fillets of bacon, braise it (see 2 8th of May) with Madeira, and serve, garnis'ned à la financière (see i8th of Mardi). Cut oflf the best parts of the tendons, trim them ail to the same shape ; blanch, drain, and warm in butter, moisten with stock, season with a bouquet of mixed herbs, sait and pepper ; when done, stir in some green peas which hâve been stewed in stock, and serve. Choose a tender leg of mutton, beat it, fix on to the spit, and roast for an hour and a half ; serve with its own gravy. Baked slice of sturgeon. Capon à la régence, Tendons of veal with. green peas. Roast leg of mutton.239 THE 366 BILLS OF FA RE. AUGUST 26. Potage de riz à la turque. Meunier aux oignons glacés à l’alle- mande. Cervelles de veau en brochette. Aloyau à l’anglaise. Œufs farcis à la sauce tomates. Petites tartelettes de poires. Rice soup à la turque. Stewed chub with glazed onions. Broiled calf s brains. Sirloin of beef à l’anglaise. Stuffed eggs with tomato sauce. Pear tartlets. Rice soup à la turque. Boil your rice in stock, flavour with a little saffron, leave on the fire until ail' the stock is absorbed, and place in a buttered mould. Make some mutton broth in the same manner as un- cleared stock, do not skim off the grease, and pour into a soup- tureen. Turn the rice out of the mould, and serve with the broth. Cook the chub the same as stewed carp (see ist of March), and dish up, garnished with glazed onions, and covered with German sauce. Skim and blanch the brains, eut into round slices ; hâve some boiled calf s udder and truffles, slice to the same shape as the pièces of brain, and fix them alternately on to small skewers ; dip into velouté sauce, to which you hâve added a lump of butter, the juice of a lemon, and two or three yolks of egg ; when cold, dip into melted butter, and bread-crumb them ; repeat this, and broil until a golden colour. Cover with any highly-seasoned sauce. Stewed chub with glazed onions. Broiled calf’s brains.240 THE 366 BILLS OF FA RE. AUGUST 27. Potage aux pois chiches. Vives à la normande. Côtelettes de porc frais sauce ravigote. Poulets rôtis. Choux-fleurs au gratin avec par- mesan. Petits pots de crème. Chiclc pea Soup. Weavers à la normande. Pork cutlets, ravigote sauce. Roast chickens. Baked cauliflower with bread- crumbs. Virgin cream. Cbick pea soup. Soak the peas for twenty-four hours in water in which spinach has been boiled ; cook them in water, season with onions, a bouquet of mixed herbs and sait ; sprinkle some slices of bread with olive oil or melted butter, place in the soup-tureen, pour some of the boiling soup over them ; when swollen, add the remainder of the soup and peas, and serve. Weavers à la Normande. Clean and scrape the weavers, be careful not to prick your fingers with the fins, as they are poisonous ; eut off the heads and tails, lard them with fillets of eel and anchovy, and cook in white wine, seasoned with carrots, onions, butter, parsley, cloves, thyme, and laurel leaves ; when done, pass the sauce through a tammy, stir in a lump of butter mixed with flour, boil and pour over the weavers, dish up, and squeeze some lemon- juice over them. Weavers à la Bordelaise. Préparé in the same manner as above, only serve covered with Italian sauce. Pork cutlets. Trim your cutlets, leave a little fat, beat them until fiat, sprinkle with sait and bread-crumbs, grill over a slow fire, and serve with ravigote sauce.THE 366 BJLLS OF FARE. 241 AUGUST 28. Potage croûte au pot. Rougets sauce aux huîtres. Canards sauvages en salmis. Rognon de veau rôti. Artichauts à l’essence de jambon. Tartelettes à la vanille. Soup with fried gravy crusts. Red mullet, oyster sauce. Salmis of wild duck. Roast calfs kidney. Stewed artichokes with essence of ham. Vanilla tartlets. Salmis of wild duck. Wrap up two or three wild duck in buttered sheets of paper, roast until three quarters done, eut them up into joints, and keep warm in a saucepan by the fire-side, with their dripping. Boil the trimmings in two tumblersful of red wine, season with half an eschalot, cloves, and a pinch of vvhite pepper ; when reduced one half, pass through a tammy into a saucepan, stir in a lump of méat glaze, grated crust of bread, a tablespoonful of olive oil, and the juice of a lemon ; dish up the pièces of duck, pour the sauce over them, and garnish with sippets of fried bread. This salmis can also be made with scraps of cold wild duck remaining from the previous day’s dinner. Savory forcemeat. This forcemeat is composed of minced ham, onions, sweet- breads, truffles, and mushrooms. First warm the ham and onion in either melted butter or lard, add the other ingrédients ; moisten with stock, and boil ; stir in some yolks of egg and lemon-juice before taking off the fire. Chicken s breasts, foie gras, kidneys, or cockscombs can be added to this force- meat. RTHE 366 BILLS OF TARE. 242 AUGUST 29. Potage au riz. Filets de grondins sauce tomates. Ris de veau à la provençale. Filet de bœuf rôti. Quenelles de pommes de terre frites. Compote de pêches. Rice soup. Fillets of gurnet, tomato sauce. Sweet-breads à la provençale. Roast fillet of beef. Fried potato quenelles. Compote of peaches. Sweet-breads à la provençale. Blanch your sweet-breads, drain and cover them with slices of bacon, braise in stock seasoned with tarragon leaves, a head of garlic, sait and pepper ; when done, dish them up on a hot dish, pass the sauce through a tamrny, and pour over them. Scoop out the centre of some fine, mealy, baked potatoes, stir into three quarters their weight of butter, and a little chopped parsley; warm in a saucepan, add sufficient eggs to make the paste poach when dropped into boiling water ; season with sait and pepper, poach a dessert-spoonful at a time of the quenelle paste, drain, and when cold, fry in butter until a golden colour. Cut your peaches in half, stone them, and dip into boiling water, peel, and cook them in hot syrup, take off the fire when they hâve boiled over twice. Place the peaches in a glass dish, pass the syrup through a sieve, pour over the fruit, and serve when cold» Fried potato quenelles. Compote of peaches.243 THE 366 B IL LS OF FARE. AUGUST 30. Potage au consommé de poisson. Côtelettes de veau milanaise. Carpe à la Chambord. Perdreaux rôtis. Omelette aux anchois. Baba au rhum. Clear fish soup. Veal cutlets à la milanaise. Carp à la Chambord. Roast partridges. Anchovy omelet. Baba, or rum cake, Clear fish soup. Take some chopped onions, carrots, celery, eschalots, parsley, thyme, a head of garlic, sait and pepper ; brown in butter until a good colour, moisten with three parts water and one part white wine \ boil and skim, add sonie gurnet, whiting, the head of a turbot, and any fish trimmings you may hâve ; boil for two or three hours, and squeeze through a cloth. Warm in a stock-pot, and pour over quenelles of fish or slices of bread. Soak twelve anchovies for a quarter of an hour in water, scrape and clean them, eut into fillets, and lay thern on thin pièces of toast which hâve been dipped into boiling olive oil. Beat up twelve fresh eggs, season with sait, pepper, and chopped parsley ; pour half of them into a frying-pan with boiling oil, make a thin fiat omelet 5 when done, place on a dish, lay the anchovy toasts on it ; make a second omelet with the remainder of the eggs, cover the toast with it, and serve. Sprinkle with either strong gravy or some rich brown sauce. Anchovy omelet. R 22*14 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. AUGUST 31. Potage napolitain. Brèmes de mer au vin blanc. Pluviers braisés. Gigot de mouton rôti. Haricots panachés sautés. Soufflé glacé vanille et chocolat. Neapolitan soup. Sea bream boiled in white \vine. Braised plover. Roast leg of mutton. French beans and haricots à la maître d’hôtel. Iced vanilla and chocolaté soufflé. Braised plover. Braise the plover (see 28th of May). When done, clearthe sauce of ail grease, pass through a tammy, pour over the birds, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over them before serving. Iced vanilla and chocolaté soufflé. Stir sixteen yolks of egg, four wine-glassesful of clarified syrup, and a tumblerful of water together in a bowl, pass through a hair sieve, and warm in a saucepan with a stick of vanilla until a thick custard ; remove the vanilla, pour into a bowl which has been warmed in hot water, and whip until a thick paste ; add a pint of cream which has been whipped, and pour into a soufflé mould ; place a sheet of paper between the cover and the mould so that the soufflé may rise, leave in the freezing machine for two hours, add a layer of chocolaté melted in iced water, and leave for another two hours ; take ofï the paper, and serve in the mould.245 THE 366 BILES O F F ARE. SEPTEMBER 1. Consommé aux œufs pochés. Tête de veau farcie. Côtelettes de mouton à la financière. Cailles rôties. Écrevisses au court-bouillon. Macedoine de fruits au citron. Clear soup and poached eggs. Stuffed calf’s head. ^ Mutton cutlets à la financière. Roast quail. Crayfish boiled in court-bouillon. Macedoine of fruit flavoured with lemon. Stuffed calf’s bead. Trim, bone, blanch, and empty the calf’s head ; stuff ît with forcemeat (see 6th of April) and chopped truffles ; sew ît up to its original shape, tie a cloth very tight round ît, and place in a stew-pan, with slices of bacon, lemon, carrots, onions stuck with cloves, and a bouquet of mixed herbs, moisten with stock and water, and boil for three or four hours ; when done, leave in the stew-pan until time to serve it. Hand poivrade sauce (see ioth of April) separately. Almond butter. Pound fifteen Jordan almonds, and three bitter ones, with four ounces of sugar 3 moisten with a few drops of milk, pass through a fine sieve, stir into half a pound of fresh butter, and pass through a tammy into the dish or shell in which it will be served. The butter will hâve the appearance of coarse vermicelli. This pretty side dish is rarely seen on the dinner- table.246 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. SEPTEMBER 2. Potage bisque au riz. Lièvre à la mode. Crayfish soup with rice. Hare â la mode. Fried gudgeon. Goujons frits. Rosbif rôti. Roast beef. Pommes sautées. Beignets soufflés. Fried potatoes. Soufflé fritters. Crayfish soup with rice. Boil fifty crayfish in court-bouillon (see i8th of April), shell them, and pound in a mortar, with the same quantity of breast of chicken. Dry the shells and claws in the oven, pound them, boil in stock, and when done, pass through a tammy, stir in the pounded crayfish, and warm in a bain- marie. Just before serving, add a little rice, which has been boiled in stock. Skin the hare (reserve ail the blood for the gravy), eut it up into joints, and lard with fine fillets of bacon, place in an earthenware pot, with some slices of sait pork, chopped bacon, sait, mixed spice, carrots, a lump of lard, and a tum- blerful of red wine ; lay two sheets of buttered paper over it, fix on the lid quite tight, and simmer over a slow fire. When nearly done, stir in the blood, and serve. Hare à la mode.THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. 247 SEPTEMBER 3, Potage de consommé aux quenelles. Carpe à l’étuvée. Côtelettes de chevreuil sautées. Dinde rôtie. Oseille en purée garnie d’œufs. Pêches au riz. Clear soup with quenelles; Stewed carp. Stewed roebuck cutlets. Roast turkey-hen. Purée of sorrel with poached eggs. Peaches and rice. Quenelle forcement. This forcemeat is made of either fowl, fish, game, or veal. Dip sorae crumb of bread in either milk or stock, dry in a saucepan ; vvhen cold, stir in a lump of butter, or the fat from a calf’s kidney ; season with sait and mixed spice ; eut up whatever méat you wish to employ into small dice, add to the bread-crumb, pound, and stir in an egg at a time, until a thick paste. Shape your quenelles in a spoon, and poach, in either stock or sait and water, for about ten minutes, drain, and serve. Use equal quantities of bread-crumb, butter, and méat, for this forcemeat. Line the braising-pan with slices of bacon and veal ; season with carrots, onions, thyme, sait and pepper, and moisten whatever méat or poultry you wish to braise with white wine and veal stock ; cover with slices of bacon, fix on the lid of the braising-pan very tight, and simmer until done. Half braise or white braise,THE 366 BILLS OF FARF. 248 I SEPTEMBER 4. Potage purée de haricots. Purée of haricot beans. Anguille à la sauce verte. Eel with green sauce. Noix de veau braisée aux carottes. Braised chump of veal and carrots. Grives rôties. Roast thrushes. Champignons farcis. Stuffed mushrooms. Compote de poires. Compote of pears. Roast thrushes. Pluck and blanch the thrushes, but do not draw them ; wrap up in a vine leaf and a slice of bacon, fix on to the spit with a skewer, place some slices of toasted bread with a little butter in the dripping-pan ; when done, dish up the thrushes on the toast, and sprinkle with lemon-juice and a little white pepper. It takes about a quarter of an hour to roast them. Stuffed mushrooms. Wash the mushrooms quickly, dry, drain, and trim them ; chop up the stalks with a quarter their quantity of parsley, and some eschalots, squeeze in a cloth, and warm for five minutes in butter and a little brown thickening ; fill the mush- rooms with this stuffing, place them on a buttered baking-dish, sprinkle with grated bread-crust, and bake for ten minutes.THE 366 BILLS O F FARE. 249 SEPTEMBER 5. Potage aux herbes provençale. Côte de bœuf braisée à la flamande. Herb soup à la provençale. Braised ribs of beef à la flamande. Pieds de mouton frits. Gigot de chevreuil rôti. Croûte aux champignons. Fried sheep’s trotters. Roast leg of roebuck. Bi'oiled mushrooms on toast. Tartes aux prunes mirabelles. Mirabelle plum tart. Herb soup à la provençale. Take some spinach, white beet, celery, chervil and sorrel leaves, wash them carefully, and boil in water ; when nearly done, ’add a little garlic, or a sliced onion, a lump of butter, sait and pepper ; thicken with yolks of egg, and pour into the soup-tureen, on slices of bread. Boil the trotters, eut them up into small fillets, soak for half an hour, in vinegar and water, drain, dip into batter, and fry until a good colour. Dish up, garnished with fried parsley. Trim the leg, and lard it with fine fillets of bacon; soak for six hours in olive oil and sait ; roast for an hour, and baste with some of the olive oil. Serve with poivrade sauce in a sauceboat. Some people prefer roebuck more highly seasoned, in which case, soak the leg for two days in olive oil, with half a bottle of red wine, sait, mixed spice, sliced onions, and thyme. Fried sheep’s trotters. Eoast leg1 of roebuck,250 THE 366 BILLS O F FARE. SEPTEMBER &. Potage à la française. Pièce de bœuf bouillie sauce French soup. Boiled beef with tomato sauce. tomates. Barbottes en casserole. Lièvre rôti. Artichauts à la lyonnaise. Fondue au fromage. Stewed eel pout. Roast hare. Artichokes à la lyonnaise. Cheese fondu. Stewed eel pout. Clean and empty the eel pout ; warm the livers in a little browned butter and flour, add the fish, moisten with white wine, season with pepper, sait, chopped herbs, a bouquet of herbs, and mushrooms ; cook over a slow fire. When done, serve, garnished with the mushrooms ; pass the sauce through a tammy, and pour over them. Cut up the artichokes into quarters, remove the chokes, blanch, drain, and warm them in melted butter, flavoured with lemon-juice, simmer until done, take out the artichokes ; moisten the sauce with stock, and a little brown thickening, season with a sliced onion, stir in a lump of butter, and leave on the fire until brown ; pass through a tammy, season with sait, pepper, and chopped parsley. Warm the artichokes in this sauce, and serve. Weigh the eggs you are going to use, take a third their weight of grated Parmesan cheese, and a sixth part of butter, stir in a saucepan until the eggs are set, pour into a very hol dish, and serve. Artichokes à la lyonnaise. Cheese fondu.251 THE 366 BILL S O F FA RE. SEPTEMBER 7. l'otage aux pois verts. Vives à la maître d’hôtel. Gigot de mouton braisé. Faisan rôti à la Brillât-Savarin. Choux-fleurs au gratin. Bavarois au melon. Green pea soup._ Weavers à la maître d’hôtel. Braised leg of mutton. Roast pheasant à la Brillat-Savarin. Baked cauliflower with. bread- crumbs. Bavarian cream with melon syrup. Roast plieasant à la Brillat-Savarin. Brillat-Savarin gave the following orders for cooking a pheasant:—Hang until tender, pluck, draw, and lard it carefully. Bone and draw two woodcock—keep the trail separate, throw away the gizzards, chop up the méat with beef marrow which h as been cooked by steam, scraped bacon, pepper, sait, mixed herbs, and truffles ; fill the pheasant with this stuffing, which is rather difficult to keep in if the bird is at ail high, in which case fix it in with a piece of bread the shape of a cork, and tie it round with fine thread. Lay a thick slice of bread two or three inches broader than the pheasant in the drippmg-pan ; pound the trail of the woodcock in a mortar with truffles, an anchovy, a little scraped bacon, and a lump of fresh butter, spread a thick layer on the bread, roast the pheasant over it so as to catch ail the dripping, and dish up on it. Simple mortals roast their pheasants in the same manner as partndges, and hang them until they are so high that they are hardly eatable.252 THE 366 B ILES OE F ARE. SEPTEMBER 8. Potage à la purée de perdrix. Truite sauce diplomate. Filets de mouton minute. Oie rôti. Aubergines à la provençale. Beignets de pommes glacés. Purée of partridge. Trout, diplomatie sauce. Fillets of mutton à la minute. Roast goose. Egg-plant à la provençale. Glazed apple fritters. Purée of partridge. Roast fifty chestnuts, peel, and simmer them in strong stock. Roast a freshly-killed partridge, eut off ail the méat ; drain the chestnuts, and pound in a mortar with the partridge ; pass through a tamrny, stir in some crumb of bread, which has been soaked in the chestnut stock, and serve very hot. Fillets of mutton à la minute. Boil some strong stock in a saucepan ; when nearly reduced to a glaze, add a large slice of bacon and your fillets of mutton, cover with a buttered paper, and simmer over a slow fire for ten or twelve minutes, when the fillets will be cooked and glazed; be careful the bacon does not burn. Dish up the mutton, moisten the glaze remaining in the saucepan with a little stock, and pour over the fillets. A fillet of beef eut into slices can also be prepared in this manner. Roast goose. Stufif your goose with forcemeat, roast it, and baste frequently ; when done, serve with its own gravy. A fine goose takes about two hours to roast.THE 366 BILLS OF TA-RE. 253 SEPTEMBER 9. Potage au tapioca. Anguille à la tartare. Lapereaux grillés. Filet de bœuf rôti. Macédoine de légumes à la béchamel. Dumpling aux pommes. Tapioca soup. Eel à la tartare. Broiled rabbit. Roast fillet of beef. Vegetable pie à la béchamel. Apple pudding. Eel à la tartare. Brown sonie chopped carrots, onions, and a bouquet of mixed herbs in butter ; sprinkle with flour, and moisten with white wine ; cook for half an hour, and pass through a tammy. Skm your eel, roll it round into a spiral shape, and cook m the sauce ; when done, place it on a dish, and leave until cold, after which dip into beaten yolks of egg, bread-crumb it, and broil over a slow fire ; hold hot coals over the eel so as to save turning it ; serve on a round dish, with either anchovy butter or rémoulade sauce. Broiled rabbit. Split open your rabbit, beat until fiat, wrap it up in buttered sheets of paper, and broil ; when done, remove the paper, and serve with either anchovy butter, or butter mixed with chopped herbs. Apple pudding. Roll out some paste very thin, cover it with sliced apples, sprinkle with plenty of sugar, moisten the edges of the paste, and roll into the shape of a bail, tie up in a cloth, and boil in water for an hour ; when done, dish up the pudding, and sprinkle it with hot melted butter and powdered sugar. This pudding can be made with any kind of fruit, such as plurns, or raspberries and currants.THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. 254 SEPTEMBER 10. MENU EN MAIGRE. Potage purée d’oignons aux que- nelles de poisson. Matelote à la marinière. Salmis de macreuse. Turbot en mayonnaise. Petits pois au beurre. Gâteau d’amandes. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Purée of onions with fish quenelles. Stewed carp, pike, percli, barbel, and eel. Salmis of black diver. Mayonnaise of turbot. Green peas and butter. Alrnond cake. Salmis of black diver. Roast your birds about three quarters, eut intô joints, and simmer in the following sauce. Warm some truffle trimmings in butter, stir in a little flour, moisten with white wine, season with mixed herbs, laurel leaves, an onion stuck with cloves, and a head of garlic ; at the end of five minutes moisten with vege- table stock (see 3oth of June), add some blanched celery heads and stoned olives. When ready, add the pièces of bird, simmer until done, and dish up, gamished with the celery and olives ; pass the sauce through a tammy, and pour over the salmis. Mayonnaise of turbot. Skin some fillets of cold boiled turbot, eut thern either into small round, or heart-shaped slices, and soak in oil and vme- gar, seasoned with sait, coarse black pepper, and chopped eschalots, and tarragon leaves, until sufficiently flavoured ; dish up the pièces of fish in the shape of a crown, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs, fillets of gherkins and anchovies, sliced beet- root, capers, tarragon leaves, and small squares of méat jelly. Fin the centre of the dish with mayonnaise sauce, and serve.25'5 THE 366 BILES O F TARE. SEPTEMBER 11. Potage aux choux. Choux au lard. Selle de mouton à la purée de navets. , Pâté d’alouettes. Ecrevisses à la bordelaise. Beignets de poires. Cabbage soup. Boiled cabbage and bacon. Saddle of mutton with purée of turnips. Lark pie. Crayfish à la bordelaise. Pear fritters. Boiled cabbage and bacon. Blanch a fine white cabbage, divide it into several pièces, and boil in a saucepan, with either a piece of bacon or sait pork, water, sait, pepper, slices of German sausage, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; as soon as the water boils, make a smaller fire, and leave until thoroughly done. Dish up the pork or bacon on the pièces of cabbage, reduce the sauce, stir in a lump of butter, mixed with flour, and pour over the cabbage and bacon. Pluck, singe, and flatten the backs of two or three dozen larks, draw them, throw away the gizzards, and pound the trail in a mortar with scraped bacon and mixed herbs ; fill the larks with this, and wrap each one in a slice of bacon. Line a plain mould with paste, fill it with the larks, sprinkle them with sait and pepper, spread a thick layer of butter over them, add two or three laurel leaves, and a pinch of mixed spice ; cover with paste, and bake for two hours and a half. Turn out of the mould, and serve cold. Simmer five ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan, with two yolks of egg, a little lemon-juice, sait, and coarse black pepper ; stir until the sauce is quite hot, take it off the fire, and stir until it thickens. This sauce must be made just before serving. Lark pie. Portuguese sauce.256 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. SEPTEMBER 12. Potage julienne. Filets de soles à la cardinal. Salmis de bécasses. Filet de bœuf rôti. Purée de pommes de terre à la Maria. Plum-pouding anglais. Julienne soup. Filets of sole à la cardinal. Salmis of woodcock. Roast fillet of beef. Purée of potatoes à la Maria. Plum pudding. Salmis of -woodcock. Cut up some roast woodcock into joints, skin, and trim them, pound the carcases, and boil for half an hour in white wine seasoned with eschalots, half a Laurel leaf, a head of garlic, and parsley ; clear of ail grease, pass through a tammy, stir into some brown thickening, warm in a stew-pan, and as soon as it boils, add the pièces of woodcock, simmer over a slow fire for ten minutes, and dish up, covered with the sauce, and garnished with sippets of fried bread. Spread a thick layer of fresh butter in a tin or plated dish, sprinkle with sait, and break your eggs carefully on to it, one at a time ; pour a little cream over them, sprinkle with sait, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; place a few small lumps of butter between the eggs, bake in the oven or on hot cinders, and brown with a salamander. Peel and boil your potatoes in strong stock, pass them through a tammy, and stir into Spanish, velouté, or béchamel sauce. When a proper substance, pour into a dish, and brown in the oven, or with a salamander. Baked eg-g-s. Purée of potatoes à la Maria.257 THE 366 B1LLS OF FARE. SEPTEMBER 13. Potage à la purée de pois verts. Raie à l’italienne. Gigot de Mouton, à la Durand. Outarde canepetière rôtie. Chicorée au velouté. Beignets de pommes. Purée of green peas. Skate à l’italienne. Braised leg of mutton à la Durand. Roast bustard. Purée of chicory with cream. Apple fritters. Brai&ed leg of mntton à la Durand. It is absolutely necessary to hâve a tender leg of mutton for this dish. Remove the bone as far as the handle, lard the inside, and stuff it with chopped bam, gherkins, anchovies, truffles, and spiced sait ; sew the leg to its original form, and braise it (see 28th of May) over a slow tire ; when done, remove the string, and dish it up, garnished à la Durand (see i9th of September). Spiced sait. The great cook, Durand, of illustrious memory, advocated the use of spiced sait, which he said had often stood him in good stead. The following are the exact quantities he gave in his recipe. Take twenty ounces of sait, four heads of cloves, two nut- megs, six laurel leaves, a stick of cinnamon, four whole black peppers, half a quarter of an ounce of basil leaves, and the same quantity of coriander seeds \ pound in a mortar, pass through a tammy, pound any large pièces that remain over, pass through the tammy, and keep in tightly corked bottles. s258 THE 366 B1LLS OF FARE. SEPTEMBER 14. Garbure gratinée au gras. Brochet sauce raifort. Côtelettes de mouton à la Soubise. Perdreaux rôtis. Épinards à la crème. Éclairs au chocolat. Bread and cabbage soup for feast day. Pike, horseradish sauce. Mutton cutlets à la Soubise. Roast partridges. Spinach and cream. Chocolaté fingers with cream. Bread and cabbage soup for feast day. This soup is of Gascon origin, and must alvvays be browned in the oven before serving. Cut up your cabbages into quarters, blanch, and dry them carefully in a cloth, tie a string round each piece, and place in a stew-pan, lined with slices of bacon ; add a piece of sait pork, slices of ham, a knuckle of veal, onions, carrots, and a bouquet of mixed herbs, moisten with stock, and simmer over a slow fire when done, add some thick slices of bread-crumb, and as soon as they begin to thicken the soup, re- rnove the pièces of cabbage, place them on a cloth, cut off the string, and sqeeze them. Grate equal quantities of Gruyere and Parmesan cheese, and sprinkle some at the bottom of an earthenware pot or soup-tureen, fill it with alternate layers of cabbage and the soaked slices of bread-crumb, sprinkling each one with grated cheese—be careful that the last layer is of cabbage—cover it thickly with cheese, and brown in the oven or with a salamander.259 THE 366 BILLS O F F A RE. / SEPTEMBER 15. Potage fausse tortue. Coquilles aux huîtres. Côte de bœuf braisée garnie de tomates farcies. Cailles rôties. Chicorée au jus. Pommes au riz. Mock turtle soup. Scalloped oysters. Braised ribs of beef and stuffed tomatoes. Roast quail. Stewed chicory. Stevved apples with rice. Mock turtle soup. Make sonie white thickening with half a pound of butter, the same quantity of flour, two quarts of good stock, and a little reduced white veal stock ; as soon as it boils, take off the fire, and leave to simmer by the side ; add two tumblersful of Madeira, and season with thyme, savory, pounded eschalots, and laurel leaves \ when sufficiently done, skim oft ail grease, and pass through a tammy. Boil your calfs head in thin white thickening, press it between two dishes ; when cold, eut it up into dice, and warm in some of the liquor in which it was cooked, flavoured with Madeira ; add the pièces of calf s head to the soup, and boil for a few minutes, stir in a pinch of cayenne pepper, and pour into the soup-tureen, in which you hâve previously placed some small chicken quenelles. Roast quail. Pluck, draw, and singe the quails ; wrap them up in vine leaves and thin slices of bacon, only allow half of the legs to appear, skewer them on to the spit, and roast for twenty minutes. s 2THE 366 BILES OF FARE. 2 6o SEPTEMBER 16. Purée de pois verts aux croûtons. Barbue à la provençale. Côtelettes de veau braisées, garnies de haricots verts. Canards sauvages rôtis. Salsifis frits. Darioles à la vanille. Green pea soup and toast. Brill à la provençale. Braised veal cutlets with French beans. Roast wild duck. Fried salsifis. Duchess cakes. Garnish à la Durand. I give this recipe in Monsieur Durand s (the celebrated chef in the south of France) own words. Place a large slice of fat bacon in a saucepan ; when melted, remove any lean there may bej} and add a slice of ham, eut into small fillets, a lump of fresh butter, and either a calf’s or lamb’s sweet-bread eut into large dice, moisten with Spanish sauce, and the dripping from a roast leg of mutton, which has been carefully skimmed, and passed through a tammy ; add thick slices of truffles, mushrooms, chicken quenelles, olives stuffed with truffle forcemeat (see 2 2nd of September), boiled chicken combs, and ox palates, the latter eut into dice, and lastly, some cock’s livers, simmer by the side of the tire, and just before serving, add six hard-boiled yolks of egg, a few crayfish tails, and four dozen oysters, which hâve been blanched and warmed for a minute, in mutton gravy, seasoned with gherkins and mixed herbs; when done, clear off ail grease and pour over whatever hot joint you wish to garnish. “ The thought of this dish is sufficient to give new hunger to those who hâve already dined welL261 THE 366 BILLS O F FARE. SEPTEMBER 17. Potage au tapioca. Tapioca soup. Fricassée de poulets à la Dubarry. Fricassée of fowls à la Du Barry. Moules à la Villeroi. Mussels à la Villeroi. Filet de chevreuil rôti sauce poiv- Roast fillet of roebuck, poivrade rade. sauce. Croûte aux champignons. Mushrooms on toast. Tarte aux poires. Pear tart. Fricassée of fowls à la Du Barry. Cut up your fowls into joints, and soak for an hour in cold water, which change two or three times ; drain, and dry them carefully in a cloth, and cook in water ; as soon as it begins to boil, remove the pièces of fowl, and pass the liquor through a tamrny. Warm a lump of butter, some scraped bacon, and a slice of Bayonne ham over a slow fire; when quite hot, add the pièces of fowl, and as soon as they begin to stiffen, stir in a tablespoonful of nour ; take the saucepan off the fire, moisten the fricassée with equal quantities of stock, and the liquor in which the fowls were boiled -, season with a bouquet of mixed herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, and boil for three quarters of an hour, remove the onion, and herbs, and if the sauce is not sufficiently reduced, stir in some yolks of egg, and serve. Roast loin of pork à la Robert. Cover a fresh loin of pork for two days with coarse sait ; roast it, and serve with Robert sauce.THE 366 B1LLS O F FA RE. 2Ô2 SEPTEMBER 18. Potage aux pâtes d’Italie. Bouilli en matelote. Perdrix à l’estouffade. Brochet au bleu. Chicorée au velouté. Baba au rhum. Clear soup with Italian paste. Hashed boiled beef. Stewed partridges. Pickled pike. Purée of chicory with cream. Baba or rum cake. Hashed boiled beef. Brown some young onions in butter, sprinkle with flour, and moisten with a tumblerful of red wine, and half a tumblerful of stock ; add some mushrooms, laurel leaves, thyme, sait and pepper; when done, pour over some slices of cold boiled beef, which hâve been laid in a tin dish, simmer in the oven for half an hour, and serve. Stewed partridges. Pluck, draw, singe, and truss your partridges ; lard with highly-flavoured bacon, and place in a saucepan, with onions, carrots, slices of bacon, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and equal quantifies of stock and white wine, simmer over a slow fire ; when done, dish up the partridges, reduce the sauce, skim off ail grease, pass through a tammy; if necessary, add a little gravy, and pour over the birds. Boiled calf’s feet. Clean and blanch the feet, beat them, and remove the bones, boil in uncleared stock, and serve, covered with a sauce made with stock, pepper, sait, chopped mixed herbs, and a few drops of vinegar. Brill à la provençale. Soak a brill in oil for an hour, fry it, and when done, fillet it, and serve, garnished with stuffed olives and anchovy sauce.THE 366 BILES O F TARE. 263 serve. SEPTEMBER 19. Cuissot de sanglier à la royale. Brèmes de mer au vin blanc. Mauviettes en caisse. Petits pots de crème au café. Potage croûte au pôt. Céleri au jus. Soup witli fried gravy crusts. Bream with white wine sauce. Larks in cases. Haunch of boar à la royale. Stewed celery. Small pots of coffee cream. Larks in cases. Bone the larks, and stuff them with forcemeat, to which you hâve added their livers minced very fine. Oil as many small paper cases as there are larks, cover the bottoms with forcemeat, and add the larks wrapped up in slices of bacon and buttered paper, bake in the oven ; when done, rernove the bacon and paper from the larks, clear ail grease out of the cases, moisten with a little gravy, replace the birds, and serve. Lard the haunch, and soak it for four or five days in white wine ; after which, tie it up tight in a cloth, and place in a braising-pan, with six bottles of white wine, the same quantity of water, eight carrots, eight onions, three heads of cloves, grated nutmeg, a bouquet of parsley, chives, and bay sait ; simmer for six hours, after which, boil over a quick fire for an hour, when the haunch ought to be cooked; leave in the braising-pan for half an hour, remove the cloth, trim the haunch, and cover with its own sauce, passed through a tammy -, when cold, sprinkle with grated bread-crust, and Hatmch. of boar à la royale.264 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. SEPTEMBER 20. MENU EN MAIGRE. Brunoise à la purée de lentilles. Soles en matelote normande. Macreuse au chocolat. Goujons frits. Cardons à la poulette. Gâteau de riz. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Purée of lentils. Soles à la normande. Black diver with chocolaté sauce. Fried gudgeon. Cardoons with white sauce. Rice cake. Line a tin or plated dish with butter, sprinkle with finely- chopped onion and parsley ; lay the soles on this, covered with sait and pepper, moisten with either white wine or good cider, and place in the oven ; when the sole is done, make soine white thickening, stir in any juice there may be from the sole, a little of the water in which your mussels hâve been boiled, thicken with yolks of egg, and pour half of this sauce over the sole ; place some mussels, oysters, and mushrooms, which hâve been boiled separately, round the dish, cover with the re- mainder of the sauce, and warm in the oven for five minutes. Serve, garnished with boiled crayfish, fried smelts, and fried sippets of bread, which must not touch the sauce. Draw the bird, wash it in brandy, and brown over hot cinders ; place it in an earthenware jar, with white wine, sait, laurel leaves, and fine herbs, simmer over a slow fire, and when done, dish up, covered with chocolaté made in the usual manner. Préparé the same as on 7th December ; when done, toss the cardoons in a saucepan with a lump of butter rnixed with flour, moisten with cream, thicken the sauce with yolks of egg, and sprinkle with a few drops of lemon-juice and vinegar before Black diver with chocolaté sauce, Cardoons with white sauce, serving.THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. 265 SEPTEMBER 21. Potage julienne. Carré de veau piqué et braise. Carpes frites. Bécasses à l’esprit-de-vin. Salade de pommes de terre. Pêches au riz au marasquin. Julienne soup. Loin of veal, larded and braisecL Fried carp. Salmis of woodcock à l’esprit de vin. Potato salad. Peaches witk maraschino rice. Loin of veal, larded and braised. Bone the loin and lard it with thick fillets of bacon. Line a stew-pan with slices of bacon, chopped parsley, chives and a head of garlic ; add laurel leaves, thyme, sait, coarse black pepper, and the loin of veal, cover it with slices of onion, carrot, and parsnip, siramer over a slow fire for half an hour, moisten with stock ; when done, dish up the veal, reduce the sauce, pass it through a tammy, and pour over the méat. Potato salad. Either boil, or better still, bake your potatoes, peel, slice them and place in a salad bowl, with two or three onions eut into quarters and two wine-glassesful of red wine, stir until thoroughly mixed, season with sait, pepper, plenty of oil, and a little vinegar ; add some chervil leaves chopped very fine, and if not objected to, a few thin fillets of smoked herring, stir until thoroughly mixed, remove the pièces of onion, and serve. “ This is an excellent salad.”THE 366 BILES OF TARE. 266 SEPTEMBER 22. Potage aux profiteroles. Bifteck au beurre d’anchois. Cailles aux petits pois. Lièvre rôti. Artichauts frits. Macédoine de fruits au champagne. Clear soup with profit-rolls. Steak with anchovy butter. Quail and green peas. Roast hare. Fried artichokes. Macédoine of fruit flavoured with champagne. Clear soup witli profit-rolls. Scoop out the crumbs of sonie small milk rolls, fill them with game forcemeat, and bake on a buttered dish until quite firm, place them in a large soup-tureen, and add the necessary quantity of boiling clear stock. This soup must be served directly it is made, or the profit-rolls will dissolve. Préparé and truss your quails, cook them in a stew-pan lined with slices of veal and ham, season with carrots, onions, and a bouquet of mixed herbs, and cover with slices of bacon and a buttered sheet of paper ; place hot coals on the lid, and when done, dish up the quails, covered with green peas, which hâve been cooked separately, either in butter or veal stock. Peel your truffles, and warm them in butter; add some chopped mixed herbs, and about the same quantity of calfs udder or scraped bacon as there are truffles; pound in a mortar, season with sait and pepper, add some soaked bread- crumb, and the necessary quantity of yolks of egg. Quails and green peas. Truffle forcemeat.267 THE 366 B/LLS OF FARE. SEPTEMBER 23. Potage Faubonne. Moules au gras. Perdreaux en escalopes. Rosbif rôti. Pommes de terre sautées. Gâteau mille feuilles. Faubonne soup. Stewed mussels. Scalloped partridges, Roast beef. Fried potatoes. Light pastry. Stewed mussels. Wash your mussels carefully, but do not leave in the water, or they lose much of their flavour ; warm them in a saucepan ; as soon as they open, take out the mussels, and reserve their liquor. Warm some button mushrooms in melted bacon, stir in a little flour, moisten with reduced stock, season with a bouquet of mixed herbs and pepper ; when done, clear off ail grease, add the mussels and a little of their liquor, and serve when quite hot. Scallop the fillets of four partridges, toss them in a saucepan with some butter until firm ; drain the scallops, remove the butter, and replace it by three tablespoonsful of game stock and two tablespoonsful of German sauce ; when boiling, add the scallops, and either sliced truffles or peeled mushrooms, a little fresh butter, and the juice of a lemon. Dish up the scallops in a circle, and fill the centre with the sauce. Take an anchovy, a tumblerful of red wine, a little gravy, a chopped eschalot, and the juice of a lemon ; simmer until cooked, pass through a tammy, and add to the gravy of your roast. Scalloped partridges. Sauce for ail roasts.268 THE 366 BTLLS OF FA RE. SEPTEMBER 24. Potage au mouton. Gigot de mouton bouilli sauce aux câpres. Pâté chaud de godiveau. Poulets rôtis. Choux de Bruxelles au beurre. Brioche à la crème. Mutton soup. Boiled leg of mutton, caper sauce. Hot forcemeat pie. Roast fowls. Brussels sprouts with butter. Brioche. Mutton soup. Place a leg of mutton in a stock-pot,-cover it either with water or beef stock, add carrots, onions, turnips, leeks, celeiy, a head of clove, and a little powdered ginger ; simmer over a slow fire for five hours, skim ail grease oft the stock, pass through a tammy, and pour into a soup tureen, on to slices of stale bread, or crusts of bread, which hâve been diied in the oven. A few chopped sorrel leaves warmed in butter aie sometimes added to this soup. Hot forcemeat pie. Line a plain mould, about six or seven inches deep, with paste, cover the bottom with a layer of forcemeat of fowl, and truffles (see i8th of December), and fill the pie with mushrooms warmed in butter, sliced bottoms of artichokes, and quenelles made of the saine forcemeat, cover with paste, moisten the edues so as to close up the pie tightly, glazewith yolks of egg, and bake ; when done take off the cover, and add sorne strong gravy ; serve very hot. Stuffed duck. Chop up the liver of the duck with the same quantity of bacon, season with chopped mixed herbs, truffles eut into dice, and thicken with yolks of egg, stuff the duck with this, roast, and serve with Italian sauce.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 269 SEPTEMBER 25. Potage au vermicelle. Vermicelli soup. Brochet en dauphin. Pike dressed like a dolphin. Oreilles de porc à la Sainte-Mene- Pigs’ ears à la Sainte-Menehould. hould. Filet, de boeuf rôti. Roast fillet of beef. Tomates farcies. Stuffed tomatoes.. Pommes au riz. Stewed apples and îice. Pike dressed like a dolphin. Scale and clean out a fine pike, soak in olive oil with branches of mixed herbs, sait, and mixed herbs ; pass a skewer through its eyes and the centre of the body, to give it the appearance of a dolphin, having the head on one side and the tail on the other, place in a baking dish in the oven, and moisten with the oil in which it was soaked; when done, serve with either anchovy or caper sauce. Pig’s ears à la Sainte-Menehould. Blanch, singe, and scrape the ears; when cold, dip into melted butter, bread-crumb them twice, dip into beaten yolks of egg before bread-crumbing the second time ; bake in the oven ; when a good colour dish up, with rémoulade sauce. Pried calf’s feet. Boil the feet in water, eut up into small pièces, and soak for half an hour in vinegar, drain them, dip into batter, and fry ; serve, garnished with fried parsley. Fritters. This naine is given to ail sorts of vegetables, fruit, and méat, when dipped in batter, and fried in either hot lard, or olive oilTHE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 270 SEPTEMBER 26. Potage purée de navets aux croûtons. Purée of tumips with toast. Lobster scallops. Sweet-breads in cases. Roast leg of roebuck. Purée of chicory with cream. Vanilla tartlets. Escalopes de homard. Ris de veau en papillotes. Gigot de chevreuil rôti. Chicorée au velouté. Tartelettes à la vanille. Sweet-breads In cases. Blanch, trim, and braise your sweet-breads ; when done, drain, and place on a dish, cover them with Duxelle sauce as soon as cold, fold each sweet-bread in two very thin slices of ham, and wrap up very carefully in oiled sheets of paper, broil on the gridiron, and when a good colour, serve them. Pluck, draw, singe, and dress the bustard ; lard it with fine fillets of bacon, wrap up in a buttered sheet of paper, and roast. Cook the liver of the bird, and pound it, stir into a little of the dripping, season with sait, pepper, and the juice of a lemon, and hand in a sauceboat. This name is given to ail entrées cooked with the following ingrédients. Cut up some veal, which has been blanched in boiling water, into dice, do the sarae with some ham, onions, and carrots, toss in a saucepan with fresh butter over a quick lire, moisten with stock, and boil, skim occasionally, and when done, add whatever méat you wish to stew. Roast bustard. Stew.271 THE 366 HILLS OF FARE. SEPTEMBER 27. Potage brunoise. Rouelle de veau en thon. Sauté de bécasses à la provençale. Selle de mouton rôtie. Haricots panachés sautés. Petites pâtisseries. Brunoise soup. Pickled fillet of veal. Fillets of woodcock à la provençale. Roast saddle of rnutton. French beans and haricots à la maître d’hôtel. Light pastry. Pickled. fillet of veal. Cut a thick round slice off a nice white leg of veal, and lard it with fine fillets of anchovy, sprinkle with sait and pepper, and soak in vinegar for eight or ten hours ; remove the piece of bone froin the centre of the fillet, drain, and dry in a cloth, sprinkle with flour, and fry over a slow lire in a little olive oil ; when done on both sides, dish up, squeeze the juice of a leraon into the frying-pan, stir well, and pour over the veal. Fillets of woodcock à la provençale. Fillet your woodcock, and soak in olive oil seasoned with sait, coarse black pepper, mixed spice, and a pounded head of garlic. Place the carcases in a stew-pan with some olive oil, a few parsley leaves, a head of garlic, six eschalots, a laurel leaf, and two cloves ; when brown, add a dessert-spoonful of flour, a tumblerful of white wine, and three tumblersful of stock, reduce to half the quantity, and pass through a tammy. Toss the fillets of woodcock in warm oil ; when done, place round an entrée dish with a fried sippet of bread between each one ; stir a little lemon-juice, and a few strips of lemon peel, into the sauce, and pour over the fillets.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 2~j2 SEPTEMBER 28. Potage de riz à la purée de pois. Barbillon grillé. Alouettes en salmis. Rognon de veau rôti. Epinards au jus. Tartelettes à la vanille. Purée of peas and rice. Broiled barbel. Salmis of larks. Roast calf’s kidney. Stewed spinach. Vanilla tartlets. Salmis of larks. Roast your larks, eut off their heads, anddraw them; pound ail the trail (except the gizzards) in a mortar with two or three of the larks, stir in a little stock, pass through a tammy, season with sait, coarse black pepper, and lemon-juice; warm the larks in this sauce, but do not let them boil, and serve garmshed with sippets of fried bread. Buttered eggs. Line the sides and bottem of a saucepan withfresh butter, break your eggs into it, add sait, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, cook over a slow tire, stir the whole tiirie ; when done, sprinkle with lemon-juice, and serve. Do not let the eggs get too hard. Truffles, asparagus-heads, méat gravy, or jam, are often added to the eggs, in the latter case sugar must be used instead of sait and pepper.273 THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. SEPTEMBER 29, Potage à la purée de haricots. Cabillaud à la béchamel. Perdrix aux choux. Filet de bœuf rôti. Cardons au gratin. Choux à la crème. Purée of haricot beans. Codfish à la béchamel. Partridge and cabbage. Roast fillet of beef. Baked cardoons and bread-crumbs. Choux or light batter cakes. Partridges and cabbage. Truss two partridges, and brown them slightly in butter and flour; moisten with three tumblersful of stock, and season with a bouquet of mixed herbs, and a quarter of a pound of bacon. Boil sorne white cabbages and a pound of sait pork in water ; when the cabbages are nearly done, drain, and add them to the partridges, simmer for a few minutes, dish up the birds, eut the cabbages into quarters, place round the par- tridges, and garnish with saveloy and chipolata sausages eut into thin slices, and a little of the sait pork ; reduce the gravy, moisten with stock, and pour over the birds. A ram’s kidney is a most delicious morsel. Skin the kidneys, slice them, sprinkle with lemon-juice, cover with forcemeat, and fry until slightly crisp. Brown some chopped carrots, turnips, onions, and celery in butter, moisten with liquor, in which either peas or haricot beans hâve been boiled, season with sait and pepper, pass through a tammy, and keep until required. Fried ram’s kidneys. Vegetable gravy for fast day. T274 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. SEPTEMBER 30. MENU EN MAIGRE. Potage de consommé de poisson. Queues de morue à l’anglaise. Timbale de nouilles. Filets de saumon â la mayonnaise. Macédoine de légumes bordure d’épinards. Beignets de raisins de Corinthe à la Dauphine. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Clear fish soup. Sait cods’ tails à l’anglaise. Timbale of German paste. Mayonnaise of fillets of salmon. Macédoine of vegetables and spinach. Currant fritters à la Dauphine. Sait cods’ tails à l'Anglaise. Soak the tails for twenty-four hours, after wl-iich, boil in cold spring water ; as soon as the water boils over, skim, take the saucepan off the fire, and leave the fish in it for a qnarter of an hour, with the lid on. Cut up a peeled lemon into dice, chop up some anchovies, parsley, chives, eschalots, and a small head of garlic ; warm the whole in a quarter of a pound of butter and the same quantity of olive oil, sprinkle with black pepper, and stir until cooked ; pour half of this sauce into a dish, add the cods’ tails, garnish with fried sippets of bread, cover with the remainder of the sauce, sprinkle with grated crust of bread, and brown in the oven. Wash and trim some fine bunches of currants, simmer them in clarified syrup for two minutes ; when cold, dip into batter, and fry in boiling lard. Currant fritters à la Dauphine.THE 366 B IL LS O F FA FF. 275 OCTOBER 1. Potage au riz. Brochet à Peau de sel, sauce aux moules. Civet de lièvre. Poularde rôtie. Macaroni à l’italienne. Croûtes à l’abricot. Rice soup. Boiled pike with mussel sauce. Civet of hare. Roast pullet. Maccaroni à l’italienne. Apricots à la normande. Civet of hare. Cut up a hare into joints, and brown in a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and half a pound of sait pork, which has been soaked in water ; when a good colour, add two large tablespoonsful of flour, a bottle of red wine, pepper, mixed spice, a bouquet of herbs, thyme, laurel leaves, an onion stuck with cloves, and no sait. Simmer for an hour and a half, shake the stew-pan occasionally, so that the sauce may not burn. Brown sonie young onions in butter, moisten with stock, add a pinch of sugar, and simmer until the sauce is reduced to a glaze. Triin two punnets of mushrooms, and add them to the civet ; when nearly done, remove the onion stuck with cloves, and the herbs, taste the sauce, and if neces- sary, add a little sait, and dish up ; lcosen the glazed onions from the saucepan, with a little stock, and place them round the civet with the mushrooms. Some people thicken the sauce with the blood of the hare, and a little butter. T 2THE 36 6 B1LLS O F FA RE. 276 OCTOBER 2. Potage au pain. Pièce de bœuf bouillie garnie à la flamande. Filets de soles à la parisienne. Grives rôties. Haricots blancs en purée. Gâteau d’amandes massif. Bread soup. Boiled beef à la flamande. Fillets of sole à la parisienne. Roast thrushes. Purée of white haricot beans. Almond cake. Boiled beef à la Flamande. Boil a rumpsteak in uncleared stock for four hours, after which, drain it. and place in a stew-pan, with two pints of mirepoix (see 4th of October) and a bottle of white wine ; simmer for about two hours, dish up the beef, pass sorae of the sauce through a tammy, thicken with brown thickening, and pour over it. Garnish the steak “ à la Flamande ” (see 7th of Mardi). Almond cake. Blanch and pound two pounds of Jordan almonds, and half an ounce of bitter almonds, add some candied lemon peel, chopped angelica, dried orange flowers, a pinch of sait, two pounds of sugar, a quarter of a pound of potato-flour, twelve yolks of egg, and five whole eggs, stir thoroughly together, and pour into a mould lined with buttered blotting-paper, bake in a slow oven, and serve, covered with whipped yolks of egg, mixed with almond milk.THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. 277 OCTOBER 3. Aloyau rôti garni de pommes de terre. Potage Faubonne. Faubonne soup. Roast sirloin of beef and potatoes. Faisans à la bohémienne. Éperlans frits. Céleri au jus. Marmelade de pêches. Pheasants à la bohémienne. Fried smelts. Stewed celery. Peach marmelade. Pheasants à la Bohémienne. Truss the pheasants, and stuff them with a forcemeat com- posed of chopped truffles, foie gras, sait, pepper, and mixed herbs. . Stew the pheasants in mirepoix (see 4th of October), with a wine-glassful of Madeira ; when done, serve garnished with stewed truffles, foie gras, cockscombs, and cock s kidneys ; pass the sauce through a tamrny, and pour over the birds. Warm a sheep’s liver eut into dice, in butter, season with sait, pepper, and a laurel leaf ; when done, take out of the saucepan, and keep warm in the oven ; coolc some chopped onions in the remainder of the butter ; when brown, moisten with stock, and stir in a little flour ; as soon as it boils, add the pièces of liver, stir well, thicken with two or three yolks of egg, flavour with either lemon-juice or a few drops ot vinegar, and serve. Peel and stone some ripe autumn peaches, lay them in layers in a deep dish, thickly covered with powdered sugar, and leave in a cool place for twelve or fifteen hours. Boil them in a preserving-pan, allowing a pound of sugar for every pound of peaches ; when done, pass through a tamrny. Crack the stones, peel the kernels of a few of them, and boil in syrup; add to the marmalade, and serve when cold. Sheep’s liver à la ménagère. Peach marmalade.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 278 OCTOBER 4. Potage à la Gouffé. Filets de sole à la Joinville, Ailerons de dindon à la purée de marrons. Filet de bœuf rôti. Céleris au jus. Barioles au café. Tapioca soup à la Gouffé. Make some tapioca soup (see 14Ü1 of January), and pour into a soup-tureen on to fillets of truffle, chicken, and pickled tongue. Fillets of sole à la Joinville. Toss the fillets in a saucepan with butter; when done, place round a dish, and fill the centre with boiled shrimps and minced truffles, cover with German sauce, to which you hâve added a little shrimp butter. Tapioca soup à la Gouffé. Fillets of sole à la Joinville. Turkey pinions with purée of chestnuts. Roast fillet of beef. Stewed celery. Duchess cakes flavoured with coffee. Turkey pinions -with. purée of chestnuts. Rernove the large bones front the pinions, blanch them, and cook in mirepoix ; when done, place round an entrée dish, fill the centre with a purée of chestnuts, and serve. Clear the sauce of ail grease, pass through a tammy, reduce, and hand in a sauceboat. Mirepoix. This sauce can be tnade for either feast or fast days ; for the former, take some chopped veal, ham, bacon, carrots, and onions, season with sait, pepper, laurel leaves, and chopped eschalots ; sintmer over a slow tire for two hours, moisten with white wine and stock, pass through a tammy, season with sait and pepper, and keep in a jar until required. For fast days, leave out the stock, veal, ham, and bacon. Crayfish are de- licious when boiled in “mirepoix for fast day,” flavoured with either lemon-juice or vinegar.279 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. OCTOBER 5 Purée decarrottesaux nouilles. Escalopes de homard. Canards aux olives. Gigot rôti. Haricots panachés sautés. Purée of carrots with German paste. Lobster scallops à la parisienne. Stewed duclc and olives. Roast leg of mutton. Dumpling ferme. French beans and haricots à la maître d’hôtel. Currant dumplings. Stewed duck and olives. Warm your duck in a stew-pan with butter ; when a good colour, remove the duck, stir some flour and stock into the butter; as soon as it boils, pass through a tammy, and replace in the stew-pan with the duck ; season with a bouquet of mixed herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, sait and pepper ; simmer for an hour, add some olives which hâve been soaked and stoned, boil for a few minutes, and dish up the duck and olives ; clear ail grease off the sauce, and pour over them. Stewed ducks can also be garnished with celery cooked in stock. Scallop either the tail of a lobster or sea crayfish, which has been boiled in court-bouillon (see i8th of April), warm in melted butter, and place round an entrée dish, fill the centre with the following ingrédients :—Warm some eel quenelles (see fish quenelles), oysters, and mushrooms in Parisian sauce, and use to garnish the lobster scallops. Lobster scallops à la Parisienne.280 THE 366 BTLLS OF FARE. OCTOBER 6, Potage purée de navets aux croûtons. Grenadine de filet de bœuf à la financière. Rougets en caisse. Perdreaux rôtis. Aubergines farcies. Beignets de pommes. Purée of tumips and fried toast. Slices of fillet of beef à la Red mullet in cases. Roast partridges. Stuffed egg-plant. Apple fritters. financière. Slices of fillet of beef à la financière. Cut a fillet of beef into scallops, the shape of a dried pear, lard them with fine fillets of bacon, and cook in mirepoix (see 4th of October), flavoured with Madeira, when done, arrange round an entrée dish, and fill the centre with financière garnish (see 27th of December), reduce the sauce in which the beef was cooked, pass through a tammy, and add to the garnish. Truss your chickens, cover them with slices of bacon, and simmer over a slow fire in mirepoix ; when done, remove the bacon, and dish up the chickens, covered with ravigote sauce. Divide the egg-plants lengthways, make several lozenge- shaped incisions in the centre of the vegetable, but be careful not to cut the skin, sprinkle with sait, soak in water for half an hour, drain, squeeze out ail water, scoop out the centres, and lay them on a tin dish, which has been sprinkled with olive oil. Scoop out the centres of some egg-plants, which hâve been soaked and drained, chop them up with mixed herbs, sait and pepper, stir in a little thin brown thickening and olive oil, warm for a few minutes, fill the empty egg-plants with this stuffing, place them in the tin dish, sprinkle with grated bread-crust, brown in the oven or with a salamander, and serve. Chickens à la Chivry. Stuffed eg-g-plants,THE 366 BTLLS OF FARE. s8i OCTOBER 7. Potage consommé au tapioca. Cabillaud à la hollandaise. Côtelettes d’agneau sautées aux haricots verts. Râble de lièvre rôti. Artichauts farcis. Bavarois à la vanille. Tapioca soup. Sait cod à la hollandaise. Larnb cutlets and French beans. Roast baron of hare. Stuffed artichokes. Bavarian vanilla cream. Lamb cutlets and French beans. Trim your cutlets, toss them in a saucepan with fresh butter ; when done, place then round an entrée dish, and fill the centre with boiled French beans, to which you hâve added some béchamel sauce. Pluck, pick, truss the thrushes and pass a thin skewer through them, fix on to the spit, and roast. Wrap up a lump of fat bacon in a sheet of paper, set fire to it, and hold over the birds with a skewer or iron fork until ail the bacon is rnelted ; sprinkle the thrushes with sait and bread-crumbs. Spread some chopped eschalots on a dish, add sait, pepper, a little gravy or water, a lump of butter, the juice of a lemon and a few drops of vinegar} place the thrushes on this, and serve very hot. Trim and blanch your artichokes, eut out the chokes, and fill them with a stuffing composed of chopped beef, parsley, and chives ; cook in a stew-pan, lined with slices of bacon, moisten with olive oil, to which you hâve added some chopped mixed herbs, a little lemon-juice, and serve. Thrush.es à la paysanne. Stuffed artichokes.282 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. OCTOBER 8. Potage croûte au pot. Bar sauce aux crevettes. Soup with gravy crusts, Bass, shrimp sauce. Boned loin of mutton à la nivemaise. Roast leg of roebuck. Stewed cardoons. Peaches à la Richelieu. Carbonade de mouton à la nivemaise. Gigot de chevreuil rôti. Pêches à la Richelieu. Cardons au jus. Boned loin of mutton à la Nivemaise. Bone a loin of mutton, lard it, and stew' in mirepoix, mixed with either beef or veal stock ; when done, place on a dish ; pass through a tammy, reduce and pour over the mutton; garnish with either stewed carrots or a purée of sorrel, chicory, or artichoke. Cut the white ends of the cardoons into equal lengths, blanch them in boiling water, soak in cold water ; when cool, dry, scrape, and clean them thoroughly, drain and cook in a stew-pan, lined with slices of bacon, ham, carrots, two heads of cloves, and a bouquet of mixed herbs ; cover the cardoons with slices of lemon and bacon, moisten with water, sprinkle with sait, and as soon as the water boils, stir in a lump of butter mixed with flour; when done, drain the cardoons. Stir a little gravy and beef marrow, which hâve been melted in a bain-marie into some brown thickening, simmer the car- doons in this sauce for ten minutes, and serve. Stewed cardoons.283 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. OCTOBER 9. Pièce de bœuf garnie de petits Potage au pain. Bread soup. Boiled beef with méat patties. pâtés. Poulet sauté. Lièvre en daube. Salade de légumes. Pommes au beurre. Brown fricassée of fowl. Cold stewed hare. Vegetable salad. Stewed apples. Cold stewed hare. Bone your hare, pound the bones and head in a mortar, and simmer for an hour and a half in equal quantities of stock and white wine, with a knuckle of veal eut into dice, sliced onions and carrots, sait, pepper, and a bouquet of mixed herbs, and pass through a tamrny. Line an earthenware jar with slices of bacon, add the boned hare, sprinkle it with chopped sait pork and veal, season with sait, pepper and mixed spice, moisten with the stock made from the bones, cover with slices of bacon, bake in a slow oven ; when done, taste, in case it requires more seasoning, and serve when cold, in the jar in which it was baked. Cut up a fowl into joints, toss in a saucepan with butter, stir in a little flour, moisten with white wine and strong stock, season with sait, pepper, and chopped mushrooms and parsley, simmer until the sauce is reduced, skim off ail grease, and serve. Boil five or six finely-minced eschalots in a cupful of stock, and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, season with sait and pepper, and pour into a sauceboat when done. Brown fricassée of fowl. Eschalot sauce.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 2?4 OCTOBER 10. MENU EN MAIGRE. Potage au potiron. Carpe à la Chambord. Œufs farcis. Esturgeon rôti. Salsifis frits. Gâteau de riz. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Leek soup. Carp à la Chambord. Stuffed eggs. Roast sturgeon. Fried salsifis. Rice cake. Roast slice of sturgeon. Either butter or oil a large sheet of paper, cover it with slices of onions, carrots, sait, pepper, chopped laurel leaves, thyme, and parsley ; skin a slice of sturgeon, fold it up in this paper, cover it with a second sheet of paper, also oiled, and roast it on the spit before a slow tire ; when done, remove the paper and dish up, covered with piquante sauce for fast day. Fried salsifis. Scrape the salsifis, eut off the heads, and soak in vinegar and water. Stir a quarter of a pound of flour into three quarts of water, stir over the fire until it boils, add the salsifis, season with sait, pepper, and a wine-glassful of vinegar ; when done, leave until cold, after which eut up the salsifis into equal lengths, and lay them in a deep dish, with a tablespoonful of olive oil, the same quantity of vinegar, sait and pepper ; drain, and dry them with a cloth, dip into batter, and fry in boiling lard ; when a good colour, drain them, dry with a cloth, and dish up in a pyramid, garnished with fried parsley.2S5 THE 366 BILL S O F FA RE. OCTOBER 11. Potage aux œufs pochés. Côtes de bœuf braisées. Casserole au riz garnie de ris d’agneau. Ortolans rôtis. Friture mêlée à l’italienne. Meringues à la crème. Clear soup with poached eggs. Braised ribs of beef. Rice and lamb’s sweet-bread. Roast ortolans. Italian fry. Meringues and cream. Rice and lamb’s sweet-bread. Boil your rice, pound it, and pour into a well-buttered mould, brown in the oven ; scoop out a hole in the centre, and fill it with lamb’s sweet-breads, which hâve been cooked in German sauce, and cockscombs also cooked in the sanie sauce. This dish can also be made with scalloped rabbit, or any kind of purée, garnished with stewed mushrooms and truffl.es. Italian fry. This fry is an odd medley, and is composed of the following ingrédients, which must ail be dipped into batter, fried in lard, and served in the same disli. Ram’s kidneys, which hâve been soaked in sait water, pièces of bread, tendons of veal, calf’s brains, sweet-breads, rice croquettes, pièces of cauliflower, egg- plant, anchovies, and artichokes. Be very careful that they are ail quite fresh.286 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. OCTQBER 12. Potage à la semoule lié. Cabillaud sauce aux câpres, Chaufroix de perdreaux. Gigot d’agneau rôti. Cardons au gras. Semolina soup. Sait cod with caper sauce. Cold glazed fillets of partridges. Roast leg of lamb. Cardooons for feast day. Pomegranate jelly. Gelée au jus de grenades. Cold glazed fillets of partridge. Roast your partridges, fillet thera ; pound ail the méat off the carcases in a mortar with truffles and mushrooms ; simmer the bones in a tumblerful of white wine, season with truffle trimmings, eschalots, and a laurel leaf ; leave on the fire until reduced to about three quarters the quantity, squeeze through a cloth, add two tablespoonsful of clear stock to it, stir half of this sauce into the pounded méat, mix it thoroughly with a wooden spoon in a saucepan until it boils, pass through a tammy, and leave until cold. Place the fillets round an entrée dish with slices of truffle, eut the same shape, between each one, fill the centre with the purée, cover the whole with the remainder of the sauce, and garnish round with clear méat jelly. Préparé the same as cardoons for fast day (see 7th of December), with the exception of using rich white veal sauce instead of cream sauce. Cardoons for feast day.287 THE 366 BILL S OF FA RE. OCTOBER 13. Potage de riz à la purée de pois. Petits pâtés à la reine. Barbue aux fines herbes. Civet de chevreuil. Poularde rôtie. Chicorée à la crème. Timbale de poires. Purée of green peas and rice, Small patties à la reine. Brill with mixed herbs. Civet of roebuck. Roast puliet. Purée of chicory and cream. Timbale of pears. Small patties à la reine, Roll some light paste five times, keep it about half an inch thick, eut out some very small patties, glaze with yolk of egg, and bake; when done, scoop out the centres, and fill with finely-chopped breasts of chicken, which hâve been cooked in rich béchamel sauce ; replace the patty covers, and serve very hot. This is a very élégant side dish. Simmer a lump of butter as big as two eggs in a saucepan, with two tablespoonsful of chopped parsley, one tablespoonful ot chopped eschalots, and the same quantity of minced mush- rooms, add a bottle of white wine ; reduce the sauce, and moisten with a tumblerful of velouté sauce and half a tumbler- ful of stock ; boil over a quick fire, skim off ail grease, and as soon as the sauce is thick enough, take off the fire, and keep warm in a bain-marie. Italian sauce is one of the fundamental sauces of modem cookery. Italian Sauce288 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. OCTOBER 14, Potage à la française. Bœuf bouilli garni de nouilles. Boiled beef garnished with German French soup. Cailles aux laitues. Brochet au bleu. Omelette aux pointes d’asperges. Pommes glacées au four. paste. Stewed quails and lettuce. Piclded pike. Asparagus omelet. Baked apples. Boiled. beef garnished with German paste. Préparé the beef in the same manner as boiled beef à la Flamande (see 2nd of October). Préparé sorae quenelles ot German paste (see 28th of October), poach them in stock, drain, place them round the beef, and garnish with chopped boiled ham, grated Parmesan cheese, and méat glaze. Truss the quails and place them in a stewing-pan lined with slices of ham and bacon; add some chopped veal, a head ot clove, an onion, a laurel leaf, a carrot, and a bouquet of parsley, moisten with stock and a little white wine ; cover the birds with slices of bacon and a buttered sheet of paper ; when done, serve them garnished with lettuces which hâve been blanched in veal stock and warmed in the liquor in which the quails were cooked. Warm some butter in a frying-pan until a dark brown colour, pour into a bowl, and leave until cold, cook a little vinegar in the same frying-pan, reduce, and add to the cold brown butter ; warm in a saucepan, season with sait and pepper, and serve. Stewed quails and lettuce. Black butter sauce.289 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. OCTOBER 15. Potage aux œufs pochés. Esturgeon braisé. Côtelettes de sanglier à la Saint- Hubert. Mauviettes rôties. Croûte aux champignons. Compote de poires. Clear soup with poached eggs. Braised slice of sturgeon. Boar cutlets à la Saint-Hubert. Roast larks. Mushrooms on toast. Compote of pears. Braised slice of sturgeon. Lard a thick slice of sturgeon, and place in a braising-pan with scraped bacon, slices of onion, minced carrots, and par- snips, sait, pepper, mixed spice, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and some white wine 3 cook over a quick fire, and serve, covered with piquante sauce, to which you hâve added some of the liquor in which the sturgeon was cooked. Blanch your mushrooms in vinegar and water, drain them, and warm in hot melted butter over a quick fire, stir in a little flour and a few drops of stock, season with sait, pepper, and a chopped head of garlic, and, parsley ; let it boil over two or three times, thicken the sauce with yolks of egg, flavour with lemon juice, and dish up on baked buttered bread- crusts. Stew your pears in clarified syrup, flavour with strips of lemon peel, and colour the sugar with cochineal. Serve cold, in a glass dish. Compote of pears. UTHE 366 BILLS OF TARE. 2ÇO OCTOBER 16. Purée de pommes de terre à la chifïbiinade de cerfeuil. Jambon aux épinards. Timbale à la champenoise. Éperlans ou goujons frits. Artichauts à l’italienne. Talmouses sans fromage. Purée of potatoes with chervil leaves. Ham and spinach. Timbale à la champenoise. Fried smelts or gudgeon. Artichokes à l’italienne. Three-cornered custard puffs. Lamb cutlets -with a purée of cardoons. Trim and bread-crumb your cutlets, grill them, and place round an entrée disli, fill the centres with a purée of cardoons. Simmer a nice slice of ham in a saucepan until nearly done, eut it up into small dice, and replace in the saucepan with chopped mushrooms, two or three truffles, a boiled carrot, a lump of butter, and a little flour ; moisten with stock and white wine, reduce, clear off ail grease, add some chopped cold roast breasts of chickens, blanched gherkins, parsley, and anchovies, which hâve been soaked in water ; warm over a slow fire—be careful they do not boil—and when done, pour into a mould lined with light paste, bake, turn out of the mould and serve very hot. Stir some eggs into light batter paste (see 4th of May), without making it too thin, and add a little frangipane. Cut out some light paste into rounds about five inches in diameter, lay some of the liquid batter on each piece, fold up into three- cornered puffs, bake in a quick oven, and serve very hot. Timbale à la Champenoise. Three-cornered custard puffs.291 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. OCTOBER 17. Potage croûte au pot. Petit salé garni de légumes. Marinade de pieds de veau. Râbles de lièvre rôtis, sauce poivrade. Perdreaux en soufflé. Pouding de cabinet. Soup witb gravy crusts. Boiled sait porlc and vegetables. Fried calf’s feet. Roast baron of hare, poivrade sauce. Soufflé of partridges. Cabinet pudding. Soufflé of partridges. Skin several cold roast partridges, eut ail the méat off them, and pound in a mortar with the livers of the birds, warm in a saucepan with a little reduced stock, and pass through a tammy. Break up the carcases, warm them in brown thicken- ing and stock, reduce until nearly a glaze ; add the purée of partridge, with a lump of fresh butter, a pinch of grated nut- meg, four yolks of egg, and two whipped whites of egg, which stir in gradually ; pour into a souffle dish or large paper case, and bake, as soon as the soufflé has risen sufficiently, serve it or it will spoil. Roast fig-peckers. Do not draw the birds, only eut out the gizzards and place the heads in the hole you hâve eut ; cover them with slices of bacon, and roast before a quick fire for ten or twelve minutes ; sprinkle with sait and dish up on slices of fried bread. Pistachio nut blanc-mange. Préparé the same as alrnond blanc-mange (see açth of February), only use pistachio nuts instead of almonds. u 2292 THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. OCTOBER 18. Potage à la purée de gibier. Soles en matelote normande. Purée of game. Soles à la normande. Ribs of beef à la bordelaise. Small birds roasted à l’italienne. Stewed celery. Pistacliio nut blanc-mange. Entre-côtes de bœuf à la bordelaise. Petits oiseaux rôtis à l’italienne. Céleri au jus. Blanc-manger aux pistaches. Purée of game. Boil some partridges, rabbits, and a knuckle of veal in a stock-pot with stock ; as soon as it boils,' add some carrots, onions, and celery; when the game is thoroughly cooked, pull ail the méat off the bones, and pound in a mortar with some crumb of bread which has been soaked in the stock ; pass through a tammy, moisten the purée with some of the stock in which the game was boiled, and warm for a few minutes without letting it boil. Pour into a soup-tureen on to fried bread. Cut the ribs into slices about two inches thick, beat them, sprinkle with pepper and sait, dip into olive oil, and grill. Serve, covered with bordelaise sauce and garnished with pièces of beef marrow, which hâve been blanched and glazed in méat glaze. Wrap up the birds in slices of bacon, and fix them on to a skewer with a thin slice of fried bread and an equally thin slice of fried ham between each bird ; roast before a quick fire, baste with mçlted butter, and when they hâve been on the spit a few minutes, sprinkle them lightly with sait and bread-crumbs, moisten with melted butter, and dish up on the skewer. Ribs of beef à la bordelaise. Small birds roasted à l’Italienne.THE 366 BILLS OE FA RE. 293 OCTOBER 19. Potage aux queues de bœuf. Rougets aux fines herbes. Ox-tail soup. Red mullet stuffed with mixer] herbs. Côtelettes de pré-salé jardinière. Southdown mutton cutlets à la jardinière. Cut up two ox-tails into joints, blanch them for several minutes, drain, and simmer over a slow fire in a stew-pan lined with slices of ham, minced carrots and onions, a bouquet of mixed herbs, coarse black pepper and two heads of cloves ; moisten with a teacupful of stock, reduce to a glaze, add the necessary quantity of stock and a wine-glassful of Madeira ; when quite hot, pass through a tammy, clarify the soup with either minced raw beef or whites of egg ; skim off ail grease, and pour into a stew-pan, add some pearl barley, strips of carrot and celery, which hâve been boiled separately, warm over a quick fire, place the pièces of ox-tail in a dish, cover with méat glaze, and hand with the soup. Pluck, singe, and truss the guinea-fowls carefully, lard with fine fillets of bacon, roast before a good fire and baste fre- quently, serve garnished with watercress. Gelinottes rôties. Chicorée au velouté. Savarins à l’ananas. Roast guinea-fowl. Purée of chicory and cream. Savarin cake garnished with pine- apple. Ox-tail soup.294 THE 366 BTLLS OF FA RE. OCTOBER 20. MENU EN MAIGRE. Potage à la parisienne. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Parisian soup. Stewed eel. Maccaroni and tomatoes. Fried soles. Potato croquettes. Stewed apples and rice. Matelote d’anguille. Macaroni aux tomates. Soles frites. Croquettes de pommes de terre. Pommes au riz. Fried sait cod. Soak and boil a piece of sait cod, break it into small pièces, egg and bread-crumb them, repeat this, and fry until a good colour. Serve, garnished with fried parsley. Simmer a small carp eut into pièces, in a saucepan with a little butter and sliced onions—be careful it does not burn— moisten with vegetable gravy for fast day (see 2 9th of Septem- ber), add a lump of butter, a bouquet of mixed lierbs, a head of garlic, two heads of cloves, sait and pepper, leave on the fire for an hour ; pass the liquor through a tammy, cook the roe in it for a quarter of an hour, after which dish it up ; re- duce the sauce, thicken it with yolks of egg and cream, flavour with lemon juice, and pour over the roe. Boil some yellow potatoes in sait and water ; when three quarters done, place them in the oven or in hot cinders until cooked ; pass them through a tammy, and add some yolks ot egg and butter to them ; roll into small long-shaped croquettes, egg and bread-crumb them, fry in hot lard or batter and serve sprinkled with sait. Stewed roe for fast day. Potato croquettes.THE 366 B ILES O F FA FF. 295 OCTOBER 21. Potage au pain. Bœuf bouilli sauce tomates. Bouchées de purée de volaille. Gigot rôti. Œufs pochés à la purée de céleri. Blanc-manger à la vanille. Bread soup. Boiled beef with tomato sauce. Small chicken patties. Roast leg of mutton. Poached eggs with purée of celery- Vanilla blanc-mange. Small chicken patties. This 1S a very easy side-dish to préparé. Roll out some light paste until about an inch thick, leave for a few minutes ; after which, eut out your patties with a round bevelled tin- cutter about two and a half inches in diameter ; eut out tlie patty covers with a smaller cutter, and bake for twenty minutes ; scoop out the centre of the patties, fill them with either a purée of fowl, oysters, lobster, shrimps, or forcemeat ; warm in the oven for a few minutes, and serve very hot. Stewed duck and peas. Préparé the duck the same as stewed duck and olives (see 5th of October), add some green peas to the stew about a quarter of an hour before taking off the fixe, and serve. Purée of cardoons. Blanch your cardoons, and boil in béchamel sauce ; when thoroughly done, skim off ail grease, pass through a tammy, and add a little butter and cream to the purée.296 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. OCTOBER 22. Potage aux pâtes d’Italie. Coquilles de moules. Haricot de mouton aux navets. Mauviettes rôties. Artichauts à la barigoule. Parfait au café. Clear soup with Italian paste. Scalloped mussels. Haricot mutton with turnips. Roast larks. Stuffed artichokes à la barigoule. Bavarian coffee cream. Scalloped mussels. Wash the mussels, take them out of their shells, eut them in two, and warm in white thickening with a little of their liquor ; stir in two or three yolks of egg, a lump of fresh butter, and some chopped parsley ; when done, pour into scallop shells, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and brown in the oven or with a salamander. Kromeskys. Chop up some breast of chicken, fillets of partridge or pheasant, truffles, foie gras, pickled tongue, and mushrooms ; warm in thick reduced Spanish sauce, and leave until cold. Flatten out some calfs udders, lay a dessert-spoonful of the forcemeat on each one, fold them over, dip into batter and plunge into boiling lard ; when a good colour, drain the kromeskys, dish them up in a pyramid, and garnish with fried parsley. Roast larks. Pluck and singe the larks, but do not draw them, wrap each one in a slice of fresh bacon, fix them on to the spit with a skewer, and roast before a quick fire. Lay some slices of toast in the dripping-pan, and dish up the larks on them.297 THE 366 BILLS O F FARE. OCTOBER 23. Potage Faubonne. Vives à la maître d’hôtel. Côtelettes de veau au champignons. Lièvre rôti. Choux-fleurs au gratin. Tartes aux fraises. Faubonne soup. Weavers à la maître d’hôtel Veal cutlets with purée of mush- rooms. Roast hare. Baked cauliflower with bread- crumbs. Strawberry tartlets. Roast hare. Skin, draw, and trim your hare ; hold it over hot coals until the flesh is firm, lard it with fine fillets of bacon from the neck to the thighs, roast it for an hour and a half, and dish up, covered with poivrade sauce, to w'hich you hâve added the brains and liver of the hare, after pounding and passing them through a tammy. Hand red currant jelly separately. "Weavers à la maître d’hôtel. Cut some slits down the sides of the fish, soak in olive oil, with sait and parsley for an hour or two, after which, broil them, and dish up, covered with maître d’hôtel sauce. Rémoulade sauce. Chop up some parsley, chives, capers, anchoyies, and a head of garlic, add a little mustard and sait, stir into olive oil, and beat until the sauce is quite thick. Veal cutlets with a purée of mushrooms. Préparé the cutlets the same as veal cutlets “ à la Gingarat ” (see 5th of July), and dish up on a purée of mushrooms.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 298 OCTOBER 24. Potage à la purée d’oseille. Aloyau braisé. Barbillons frits. Coq de bruyère rôti. Champignons au gratin. Purée of sorrel. Braised sirloin of beef. Fried barbel. Roast black-cock. Baked mushrooms and bread- crumbs. Apple Charlotte. Charlotte de pommes. Roast black-cock. Choose some tender young birds, lard them with fine fillets of bacon, and roast. Serve, garnished with slices of lemon, and hand strong gravy in a sauceboat. Peel a dozen fine russet apples, scoop out the cores, eut them up into small pièces, and stew in a preserving-pan with plenty of sugar, a little water, strips of lemon peel, and a small piece of cinnamon ; cook over a quick fire, stir occa- sionally, add a lump of very fresh butter, and remove the lemon peel and cinnamon as soon as the apples are done. Line a mould with slices of bread-crumb, which hâve been dipped into melted butter ; let each piece overlap the other, fill the centre with the stewed apples, and if fancied, add a little apricot, cherry, or gooseberry jam, cover with a round slice of bread-crumb, also moistened in melted butter; place the mould in a saucepan until warm—be careful the bread does not burn—after which, bake in the oven, when a pretty golden colour, turn out of the mould, and serve very hot. Apple Charlotte.299 THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. OCTOBER 25. Potage à l’oseille. Gigot de sept heures. Filets de maquereaux, sauce tartare. Bécasses rôties. Choux-fleurs au beurre. Darioles. Sorrel soup. Boiled legof muttonwith vegetables. Fillets of mackerel, tartare sauce. Roast woodcock. Cauliflower and butter. Duchess cakes. Boiled leg of mutton and vegretables. Bone your leg of mutton, and brown it in a stew-pan with some butter ; when a good colour, moisten with a little water, add two or three heads of garlic, five onions, two carrots, and sait ; simmer over a slow lire for six or seven hours, after which, clear ail grease off the sauce, thicken with potato-flour, and pour over the mutton ; dish it up on a puree of chicory, haricot beans, or chestnuts. Fried sole. Soak your sole for half an hour in white wine, seasoned with sait, pepper, and chopped herbs ; eut a slit down its back, slightly raise the fillets from the bone ; soak in milk for a few minutes, sprinkle with flour, and fry in lard or butter ; serve, garnished with slices of lemon and fried parsley. Ortolans or fig-peckers in cases. Line some small cases with perigueux sauce, and place a bird in each one, after cutting out their gizzards and placing their heads in the hole which you hâve made ; cook in a quick oven or with a very hot salamander ; before serving, moisten with a few drops of perigueux sauce.THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. 300 0CT0BER 26. Potage aux Iazagnes. Filets de merlans à la Orly. Perdrix braisées. Rosbif rôti. Salsifis sautés au beurre. Gelée au kirsch. Clear soup with Italian paste. Fillets of whiting à la Orly. Braised partridges. Roast beef. Salsifis cooked in butter. Kirsch jelly. Fillets of whiting- à la Orly. Fillet the whiting and soak for an hour in either lemon juice or vinegar, with sait, parsley, and sliced onions ; when nearly time to serve them, either sprinkle with flour or dip into batter, plunge into boiling lard; when a good colour, dry them in a cloth, and dish up, covered with Italian or tomato sauce. Braised partridges. Pluck, draw, and singe the partridges ; truss them, lard with thick fillets of bacon, sprinkle with minced veal, and wrap up in slices of bacon, braise (see 28th of May) for an hour over a slow fire; when done, dish up the birds, pass the sauce through a tammy, skim ofï ail grease, fîavour with the juice of a lemon, and pour over the partridges.THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. 301 OCTOBER 27. Consommé au riz. Filets de dorade aux fines herbes. Grives à l’eau-de-vie. Rognon de veau rôti. Macaroni au gratin. Meringues à la crème. Clear soup and rice. Fillets of gold fish with mixed herbs. Thrushes cooked in brandy. Roast calf’s kidney. Baked maccaroni cheese with bread- crumbs. Meringues and cream. Thrushes cooked in brandy. Pluck, singe, and truss your thrushes; flatten them, and warm in a stew-pan, with a little melted bacon fat, a bouquet of mixed herbs, two onions, mushrooms, and truffles ; as soon as they begin to colour, add two tumblersful of brandy, and toss over a quick fire until the brandy is in fiâmes ; as soon as it goes out, moisten with gravy, and simmer over a slow fire ; when the birds are done, clear the sauce of ail grease, season it if necessary ; add the juice of a lemon, and serve on a hot plated dish. Perigrueux sauce. Chop up some lean ham, an onion and an eschalot, brown in butter ; when a good colour, moisten with white wine, and reduce ; add some brown thickening, a few strips of truffles, and the same quantity of reduced stock as there is sauce ; simmer until quite thick, pass through a tammy, and add some slices of boiled truffles before serving.302 THE 366 BILLS 0F FARE. 0CT0BER 28. Potage aux nouilles. Maquereaux bouillis sauce aux moules. Langue de bœuf en papillote. Poularde rôtie. Céleri-rave à la sauce blanche. Gelée au jus de grenades garnie. Clear soup with German paste. Boiled mackerel and mussel sauce. S lices of tongue in cases. Roast pullet. Celery roots with white sauce. Pomegranate jelly. German paste. Make a well in the centre of a pint of flour, and fill it with three or four eggs, a little sait, a lump of butter the size of a walnut, and some water; work the paste thoroughly, roll it out twice, divide it into four portions, eut them into pièces about two inches long, sprinkle with flour, eut into very fine strips of equal size, spread out on a sheet of paper for an hour, turn them occasionally so that they may get perfectly dry, poach in boiling sait and water for seven or eight minutes, drain, and place in a tammy until dry. This paste is generally served with clear soup. Slices of tongue in cases. Braise an ox-tongue, eut it up into thick slices, cover them with slices of bacon sprinkled with chopped herbs ; wrap up carefully in oiled sheets of paper so that no gravy may escape, broilforafew minutes on the gridiron, and serve.THE 366 B1LLS OF FARE. 3°3 OCTOBER 29. Potage de riz à la purée de pois verts. Cabillaud bouilli, sauce crevettes. Jambon à la maillot. Pâté de bécasses. Écrevisses en buisson. Bombes glacées. Purée of green peas and rice. Boiled cod, shrimp sauce. Boiled ham à la maillot. Woodcock pie. Crayfish. Iced bomb. Boiled ham à la Maillot. Soak your ham for twelve hours, wrap it up in a cloth, and boil it in water ; when done, place in a braising-pan with a bottle of Madeira or any kind of dry white wine, and simmer for half an hour ; serve, garnished with carrots, onions, lettuces, turnips, and French beans, which hâve been boiled in a separate saucepan. Cover the whole with Madeira sauce. "Woodcock pie. Bone and draw your birds, and fïll them with a stuffing made of their trail and equal quantities of veal and bacon, sait, pepper, and chopped herbs, ail well pounded together. Line a plain mould with paste, cover the bottom with a layer of the stuffing, and some slices of truffie ; add the woodcock, fill up ail interstices with forcemeat and chopped truffles ; cover over with a piece of paste, glaze with yolk of egg, and make a small hole in the centre ; bake, and when done, pour in a little reduced gravy through the hole in the paste, turn out of the mould, and serve either hot or cold.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 3°4 OCTOBER 30. MENU EN MAIGRE. Potage de riz à la purée de navets. Coquilles de laitances de carpes. Pâté de turbot. Mayonnaise de tanches. Tomates farcies. Crème au citron. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Purée of tumips with rice. Scalloped carp’s roe. Turbot pie. Tench Mayonnaise. StufTed tomatoes. Lemon cream. Scalloped carp’s roe. Trim and blanch the roe, boil in sait and water, with a little vinegar; when done, eut up into dice, and simmer for a fevv minutes in white thickening, moisten with a little water in which mushrooms hâve been boiled, and white wine ; season with sait, pepper, and a bouquet of mixed herbs ; as soon as the sauce thickens, add sonie sliced boiled mushrooms and cray- fish tails \ when done, remove the bouquet of herbs, stir in a lump of butter, and pour into scallop shells ; sprinkle with grated fried bread, brown in the oven, and serve. Trim the turbot, parboil it, and season the water with sait, pepper, cloves, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and some chopped herbs. Line a large pie dish with paste, add the turbot, garnish it with slices of hard-boiled eggs, a finely-chopped onion, and plenty of fresh butter ; cover over with paste, and bake. Serve either hot or cold. Moisten some brown thickening with equal quantities of st-ock and white wine, season with chopped eschalots, parsley, sait and pepper ; reduce for a few minutes, and serve. Turbot pie. Bordelaise sauce.THE 366 BILES O F F ARE. 3°5 OCTOBER 31. Potage au tapioca. Côte de bœuf braisée. Braised ribs of beef. Brown fricassée of fowl. Tapioca soup. Poulet sauté. Éperlans frits. Salade russe. Meringue of apples. Fried smelts. Russian salad. Pommes meringuées. Stuffed tomatoes. Dip your tomatoes into boiling water, and peel them, scoop out the centres with a small spoon, and place the tomatoes on a tin dish. Take a lump of butter mixed with flour, a little mushroom liquor, thick purée of tomato, olive oil, chopped parsley, and eschalots, sait and pepper, stir in a saucepan until quite hot, and thoroughly mixed ; fill each tomato with sonne of this stuffing, sprinkle them with grated bread-crust ; pour a few spoonsful of olive oil into the dish, and bake for ten or twelve minutes ; if not quite done, brown with a salamander. Chop up some cold fnllets of chicken and partridge, with carrots, turnips and asparagus, ail of which hâve been cooked ; take some cold boiled green peas, small French beans, beetroot eut into lozenges, crayfish tails, capers, stoned olives, and fillets of anchovy ; stir ail these ingrédients thoroughly together, and add a little caviare, a pinch of cayenne pepper, a chopped eschalot, black pepper, mustard, oil, and vinegar. If skilfully prepared, no particular flavour ought to predomi- nate in this highly seasoned salad. Russian salad. X3°6 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. NOVEMBER 1. Potage aux œufs pochés. Rosbif à l’anglaise. Timbale de macaroni. Cailles rôties. Tomates farcies. Omelette soufflée. Clear soup with poached eggs. Roast beef. Timbale of maccaroni. Roast quail. Stuffed tomatoes. Omelet soufflé. Timbale of maccaroni. Cook your maccaroni in boiling water, and season with an onion stuck with cloves, sait, and a few slices of carrot ; when done, drain, and warm in a saucepan, with strong gravy, equal quantities of grated Gruyère and Parmesan cheese, a very little grated household cheese, and some minced fricasse'e, or roast breast of chicken ; pour into a mould lined with light paste, cover with a round piece of the same paste, with a small hole in the centre ; when done, moisten with a little méat gravy, turn out of the mould, and serve. Break open five eggs, and keep the yolks separate from the whites^ Stir four ounces of powdered sugar, a few pounded maccaroons, candied orange flowers, and a pinch of sait, into the yolks ; whip the whites, add to the yolks, and pour into a deep dish lined with butter ; bake in a moderate oven, and serve directly it is cooked. Omelet soufflé.THE 366 BILLS O F TARE. 3°7 X 2 NOVEMBER 2, Potage Solférino. Solferino soup. Barbue sauce aux huîtres. Poitrine de veau farcie. Gigot de chevreuil rôti. Brill with oyster sauce. Stuffed calf’s breast. Roast leg of roebuck. Laitues au jus. Blanc-manger. Stewed lettuce. Blanc-mange. Blanc-mang'e. Wash, blanch, and pound a pound of Jordan almonds, and half a dozen bitter almonds, add some lemon peel, moisten occasionally with cold water, and continue to pound until a smooth, thick paste, squeeze through a cloth five or six times, adding a tumbler of cold water each time ; stir the milk of almonds into three quarters of a pound of lump sugar; as soon as the sugar is dissolved, pass through a silk tammy, add an ounce of gélatine, which has been melted in three wine-glasses- ful of boiling water, stir thoroughly together ; flavour with either orange-flower water, lemon, or vanilla ; pour into a mould, place in the refrigerator ; when set, tum out of the mould, and serve. Boil your chestnuts in water; if they colour it very much, change the water ; when done peel them, and add to some hot syrup boiled to the snap, leave on the fire for a few minutes, flavour with either orange-flower water or vanilla ; pour into a glass dish, and serve when cold. Compote of chestnuts.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 3°S NOVEMBER 3. Potage au pain. Pièce de bœuf bouilli, sauce raifort. Sauté de filets de volaille à la cardinal. Quartier de sanglier rôti à la sauce poivrade. Purée de mousserons. Pommes au beurre. Bread soup. Boiied beef with horse-radish sauce. Fillets of fowl à la cardinal. Roast forequarter of boar, poivrade sauce. Purée of mushrooms. Stewed apples. Fillets of fowl à la cardinal. Préparé in the same manner as “ Fillets of chicken cooked in butter ” (see 25th of December) ; when done, place round an entrée dish, with a slice of truffle between each fillet ; fill the centre with German sauce, to which you hâve added some crayfish butter to make it red, and garnish the fillets with cray- fàsh tails. Purée of muslirooms. Trim and wash your mushrooms, blanch, drain, and mince them up as fine as possible, warm in a saucepan, with a little butter, and the juice of a lemon ; when slightly browned, moisten with gravy, season with sait and pepper, and reduce until the usual substance of a purée. Spanish. sauce. « Warm two slices of ham, a few slices of veal, carrots, and onions, in a stew-pan, moisten with stock, and half a bottle of white wine ; season with a head of garlic, a bouquet of parsley, two heads of cloves, and a laurel leaf ; simmer for two or three h ours over a slow fire, add a little brown thickening to the sauce, reduce, and pass through a tammy ; pour into a jar when quite thick, and keep until required.THE 366 HILLS OF FARE. 3°9 NOVEMBER 4. Potage au riz à la purée de pois secs. Jambon braisé garniture de navets. Filets de levraut piqués. Ortolans rôtis. Céleri au jus et aux truffes. Macédoine de fruits. Pea soup with rice. Braised ham and tumips. Larded fillets of hare. Roast ortolans. Stewed celery and truffles. Macedoine of fruit. Larded fillets of Rare. Trim and lard some fillets of hare, and soak for an hour in olive oil seasoned with sait, and mixed spice, cook them the same as “ Fillets of mutton à la minute ” (see 8th of September), and serve garnished with poivrade sauce. Brown tbickening. Brown thickening is the foundation of nearly ail brown sauces. Place a lump of butter, well mixed with fine flour, in a saucepan, stir over a quick fire, until a good brown colour, moisten with stock ; stir the whole time, and as soon as ît boils take off the fire. Some brown thickenings hâve an acid taste, which is caused by the butter being browned over too quick a fire, which can be avoided by taking the saucepan oft the fire as soon as the butter melts, and placmg ît under the fire, so that hot cinders may fall on the lid; stir occasionally, and when brown, moisten with stock as above.THE 366 BILL S O F FARE. 3TO NOVEMBER 5. Potage de consommé au macaroni. Paupiettes de filets de merlans. Côtelettes de mouton à la jardinière. Cailles rôties. Purée de marrons. Croûte au madère. Clear soup with maecaront. Baked fillets of whiting. Mutton cutlets à la jardinière. Roast quail. Purée of chestnuts. Fried brioche with Madeira, Baked fillets of whiting:. Sprinkle the fillets with sait and pepper, cover one side of them with fish forcemeat, roll them, and fix oh to a skewer, wrap in a sheet of buttered paper, and either bake or broil them; when nearly done remove the paper, sprinkle the fillets n ith bread-crumbs, and dish up as soon as a pretty golden colour ; stir some crayfish butter into German sauce, and pour over them. Another way of cooking fillets of whiting is to place them in a baked pie-case (after rolling and stuffing as above) garnished with oysters and mushrooms ; moisten with German sauce flavoured with essence of mushroom, and bake in the oven. Peel some roast chestnuts, and warm in butter, moisten with stock and white wine, and simmer over a slow fire until quite soft ; pound in a mortar, pass through a tammy, and serve. Boil your beans in water, pass through a tammy, and moisten the purée with either game stock, essence of ham, reduced veal stock, melted goose fat, mutton gravy, or fresh butter ; serve garnished with sippets of fried bread. Purée of chestnuts. Purée of white haricot beans.3” THE 366 BILES OF TARE. NOVEMBER 6. Potage à la purée de navets. Brème grillée. Ris de veau en hâtelets. Perdreaux à la Cussy. Gigot de mouton rôti. Haricots blancs au jus. Gelée au rhum. Purée of turnips. Broiled sea bream. Calfs sweet-breads on skewers. Braised partridges à la Cussy. Roast leg of mutton. Stewed white haricot beans. Rum jelly. Braised partridges à la Cussy. Remove ail the bones from the partridges except the thigh bones and legs, stuff them with a forcemeat coraposed of chopped sweet-bread, mushrooms, truffles, and cockscombs which hâve been boiled ; sew up the birds to their original shape, and hold over hot cinders or coals until the breasts are quite firm. Line a braising-pan with a slice of ham, warm it, and season with onions, carrots, a bouquet of mixed herbs, chopped bacon, the partndge bones, which hâve been pounded, sait and pepper, moisten with stock and white wine. As soon as the vegetables get soft add the partridges, cover them with a buttered sheet of paper, and simmer over a slow fire, with hot coals on the lid of the braising-pan ; when done dish up the birds, pass the sauce through a tammy, skim off ail grease, reduce, add a few slices of truffles to it, and pour over the partridges. Roast ortolans. Do not draw the ortolans, but eut out their gizzards, and place the heads in the hole you hâve made, wrap them up in thin slices of bacon, roast before a quick fire for ten or twelve minutes, sprinkle with sait, and dish up on fried slices of bread.3 r 2 THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. NOVEMBER 7. Potage au tapioca. Noix de veau braisée. Cailles au truffes. Râble de lièvre à la gelée de groseilles. Haricots au beurre de piment. Bavarois au café. Tapioca soup. Braised chump of veal. Quails stuffed with trutiles. Baron of hare with red currant jelly. Haricot beans with capsicum butter. Bavarian coffee cream. Quails stuffed with. trufi0.es. Draw and singe your quails. Peel some truffles, and eut them up into large dice ; pound the quails’ livers and the trufïle trimmings in a mortar, season with sait and white pepper, stir in a lump of butter, warm in a saucepan, and when cold, stuff the birds with this forceraeat and the chopped truffles ; roast, and serve with Périgueux sauce. Haricot beans with capsicum butter. Boil the beans in sait and water; when done, drain them and toss in a saucepan with some capsicum butter (see i4th of July), and çerve. Calffs sweet-breads on skewers. Blanch, drain, and strain the sweet-breads, eut them up into square blocks, and cook in German sauce ; when done leave in the sauce until cold ; eut up some calf’s udders to the same shape as the pièces of sweet-bread, and cook in German sauce; when cold fix alternate pièces of sweet-bread and udder on to skewers, replace any sauce which may hâve been rubbed off, bread-crumb, and broil over a quick fire, dish up, and cover with Italian sauce.THE 366 BTLLS OF FARE. 3i3 NOVEMBER 8. Potage aux œufs pochés. Andouillettes de Troyes grillées. Côte de bœuf braisee. Moules à la Villeroi. Faisans rôtis. Tomates farcies. Œufs à la neige. Clear soup with poached eggs. Broiled veal sausages. Braised ribs of beef. Mussels à la Villeroi. Roast pheasants. Stuffed tomatoes. Poached whites of egg. Broiled veal sausages. Cut up part of a neck of veal and some calfs udders into very thin strips, and boil in water. Chop some mushrooms, truffles, parsley, and eschalots, very fine, warm in butter, moisten with chicken gravy and white wine, season with mixed spice, reduce to half the quantity, add the strips of veal and udder, six yolks of egg, sait and pepper, stir the whole time, and keep a small fire, so that it may not boil ; blanch some calfs guts, soak in vinegar and water, fill them with forcemeat, and divide into sausages ; boil them in stock and white wine, with a lump of sugar; when done, drain, and leave until cold. Broil the sausages over a slow fire, and serve, garnished with parsley. Warm the mussels in white wine ; as soon as they open take them out of their shells, and, when cold, dip one at a time into Villeroi sauce, place on a dish until cool, after which bread-crumb them very carefully, fry in butter; when a golden colour, dish up, garnished with fried parsley. Mussels à la Villeroi.THE 366 HILLS OF F ARE. 3r4 NOVEMBER 9. Purée de pois aux croûtons. Purée of peas with fried bread. Cabillaud à la hollandaise. Cod à la hollandaise. Ortolans à la périgourdine. Ortolans à la périgourdine. Gigot d’agneau rôti. Roast leg of lamb. Beetroot fritters. Currant dumplings. Betteraves à la chartreuse. Dumpling ferme. Ortolans a la Périgourdine. Dress the birds the same as “ Roast ortolans ” (see 6th of November), cover them with slices of bacon, and cook in a bain-marie moistened with stock and lemon juice.' Take as rnany truffles as there are ortolans, scoop out the centres, boil in champagne ; when done, pour a little purée of game into each truffle, add the ortolans, warm for a few seconds in the oven, and serve. Cut up some cold boiled yellow beetroot into slices, take two pièces at a time, place a slice of raw onion sprinkled with chopped chervil, pimpernel, sait, pepper, and grated nutmeg between them, dip into batter, and plunge into boiling lard ; when a good colour, dish up, and sprinkle with sait. Take some flour, a little water, a pinch of sait, and a few currants, make into a paste ; when thoroughly mixed roll into balls about the size of a turkey’s egg, sprinkle them with flour, tie up in a cloth, and cook for half an hour in boiling water ; when done, serve, covered with a sweet Madeira sauce. Beetroot fritters. Currant dumplings.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 3i5 NOVEMBER 10. MENU EN MAIGRE. Potage purée de lentilles aux croûtons. Brandade de morue. Œufs pochés sauce tomates. Sarcelles rôties. Macaroni au gratin. Blanc-manger à la vanille. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Purée of lentils with fried bread. Cream of sait cod. Poached eggs with tornato sauce. Roast teal Baked maccaroni and bread-crumbs. Vanilla blanc-mange. Cream of sait cod. Soak a piece of sait cod for forty-eight hours, change the water four or five times during that time. Cook in cold water, and, soon as there are signs of its boiling over, add a tumbler- ful of cold water, take the fish-pan off the lire, and leave with the lid on for a quarter of an hour ; after which take out the cod, drain, bone, and skin it very carefully, place in a sauce- pan, sprinkle with lemon juice, and stir over the tire, whilst a second person pours in some fine olive oil drop by drop, until the cod gets to such a thick paste that it clings to the bottom of the saucepan although it is being stirred ; add half a tum- blerful of milk, the same quantity of water, continue stirring, recommence dropping in olive oil, and when quite dissolved to a cream, season with slices of truffle, chopped parsley, and a small head of garlic, which hâve been warmed in olive oil ; sprinkle with sait and pepper, and serve very hot. This cream to be perfect must never be allowed to boil over.THE 366 BILES OF RARE. 3t6 NOVEMBER n. Potage à la purée de marrons. Oie à la chipolata. Toume-dos à la sauce poivrade. Goujons frits. Salade de pommes de terre. Croquenbouche. Purée of chestnuts. Braised goose à la chipolata, Fillets of beef with poivrade sauce Fried gudgeon. Potato salad. Croquenbouche. Braised goose à la chipolata. Choose a fine goose and truss it for boiling. Line a braising- pan with slices of bacon, slices of beef, two slices of ham, the goose’s giblets, three carrots, three onions, a bouquet of mixed herbs, two heads of cloves, sait, and pepper; add the goose, moisten with stock and Madeira, or any other white wine, cover over with a buttered sheet of paper, and cook over a moderate fire ; when done dish up the goose, and garnish with chipolata sausage. Fillets of beef with poivrade sauce. Cut up a fillet of beef into sraall slices an inch thick, lard them with fine strips of bacon, and soak for two hours in marinade sauce (see 3rd of December), after which drain, and toss in a saucepan, with butter, sait and pepper; when done, place them round an entrée dish, with a piece of fried bread between each fillet, and fill the centre with poivrade sauce. Boar cutlets à la Saint-Hubert. Trim the cutlets, and fry in butter, sait and pepper, over a quick fire, turn them so that both sides may be thoroughly done, and place round a dish. Stir some stock and white wine into a little brown thickening, boil for a few minutes, and pour over the cutlets.3i7 THE 366 BILES O F FARE. NOVEMBER 12. Consommé aux œufs pochés. Brochet au court-bouillon. Filet de mouton aux haricots. Dinde rôtie. Cardons au gratin. Pouding à la Cowlay. Clear soup with poached eggs. Pike boiled in court-bouillon. Fillet of mutton and haricot beans. Roast turkey-hen. Baked cardoons with bread-crumbs. Pudding à la Cowley. Baked cardoons •with. bread-crumbs. Line a tin dish with butter, sprinkle with grated crust of bread, add your cardoons, which hâve been blanched and boiled, cover with grated bread-crumbs, and moisten with melted butter, brown in the oven or with a salamander. Cardoons à l’italienne. Préparé the same as above, only add grated cheese to the bread-crumbs. Hard-boiled eggs with béchamel sauce. Take twelve or fifteen hard-boiled eggs, eut them in half lengthways, and warm in be'chamel sauce, for either fast or feast day \ do not let the sauce boil, add a little butter, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; when doue, pour into a dish, and gamish with sippets of fried bread. Pudding à la Cowley. Stir some yolks of egg and powdered sugar thoroughly together, add some pounded almonds and more yolks of egg, thicken with mashed baked potatoes, flavour with vanilla sugar, stir in some whipped whites of egg, boil, and serve, covered with whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla.3i8 THE 366 JBILLS OF FARE. NOVEMBER 13. Filets de bécasses en canapé. Potage à la parisienne. Tanches à la poulette. Parisian soup. Tench à la poulette. Fillets of woodcock on toast. Roast calf’s kidney. Brussels sprouts with butter. Cabinet pudding. Choux de Bruxelles au beurre. Rognon de veau rôti. Pouding de cabinet. Fillets of woodcock on toast. Fillet four woodcock, trim them, sprinkle with sait, pepper, and a little melted butter ; chop up the trail with a little scraped bacon, sait, pepper, eschalots, and parsley ; eut some slices of bread-crust a good bit bigger than the fillets, make several deep slits down the edges, warm them in butter, scoop out the crumb, and fill them with the stuffing ; either bake or broil them ; toss the fillets in a saucepan with butter until done, lay one on each baked crust, and moisten with a sauce made of the pounded carcases of the birds mixed with méat glaze. Put three-quarters of a pound of flour in a pudding-bowl, melt two ounces of butter in a little warm water, blow the butter off the water into the flour, stir well, add the water, and when the paste is perfectly smooth, moisten with sufficient warm water to make it a proper substance ; add a pinch of sait, and two whipped whites of egg, when the batter will be ready for use. If required for sweet fritters, employ milk instead of water. Batter.3i9 THE 3 66 BILLS O F FA RE. NOVEMBER 14. Potage à la purée de lentilles. Maquereaux à la maître d’hôtel. Filet de sanglier au chasseur. Bavarois tôt-fait au maizena. Poularde rôtie. Cardons au jus. Purée of lentils. Mackerel à la maître d’hôtel. Fillet of boar au chasseur. Roast pullet. Stewed cardoons. Maizena Bavarian cream. Fillet of boar au chasseur. Soak the fillet for at least two days in olive oil and sait, drain, and simmer in a stew-pan lined with slices of bacon, carrots, onions, a bouquet of mixed herbs, sait, pepper, and equal quantities of stock and white wine ; when sufficiently done, drain the fillet, glaze it, and serve with piquante sauce, to which you hâve added a little of the liquor in which it was cooked, after passing it through a tammy and reducing. Warm three ounces of sugar and a pinch of sait in a large tumblerful of milk; whilst this is cooking, stir three ounces of maizena and three yolks of egg into a wine-glassful of cold milk ; as soon as the sugar and milk boil, add this mixture, stir over the fire for a few minutes, flavour with lemon peel or vanilla, and pour into a mould through a fine sieve ; place in the refrigerator ; when set, turn out of the mould and dish up on a folded napkin. The Americans generally garnish this dish with strawberry or some other kind of fruit syrup. The advantages of this cream are that it is very nice to eat and cheap to préparé. Maizena Bavarian cream.320 THE 366 BILLS 0F FARE. NOVEMBER 15. Potage à la purée de marrons. Pièce de bœuf bouillie et panée. Filets de sarcelles aux anchois. Gigot de chevreuil rôti. Croquettes de pommes de terre. Pommes au riz. Purée of chestnuts. Boiled brisket of beef bread- crumbed. Fillets of teal with anchovies. Roast leg of roebuck. Potato croquettes. Stewed apples and rice. Boiled brisket of beef bread-crumbed. Boil your brisket. When cooked, cover it with a thick sauce made of reduced stock, four yoiks of egg, sait and pepper; sprinkle with bread-crumbs, brown in the oven, and serve with Spanish sauce. Potato croquettes. Either bake your potatoes or boil them in sait and water, peel, and pass through a tammy, add a lump of fresh butter, sait and pepper to them, roll into croquettes on a wooden slab sprinkled with flour, egg and bread-crumb, and fry in butter ; when a good colour, dish up, garnished with fried parsley. Bibs of beef à la Bordelaise. Cut and trim the ribs into nice shaped pièces, and sprinkle with olive oil, sait and pepper. Blanch some beef marrow, cut it into slices, and dip in warm méat glaze ; broil the ribs on the gridiron, and warm the slices of marrow with a sala- mander ) place the beef on an entrée dish, cover with the pièces of marrow, and pour some Bordelaise sauce over them.THE 366 BILL S OF FA RE. 3îf v « NOVEMBER 16. Potage de consommé à la brunoise. Merlans au gratin. Boudins de lièvre. Filet de bœuf rôti. Salsifis à la sauce blanche. Baba chaud au Madère. Brunoise soup. Baked whiting and bread-crumbs. Boudins of hare. Roast fillet of beef. Salsifis with white sauce. Hot baba with Madeira sauce. Baked ■whiting1 and bread-crumbs. Préparé the same as baked smelts (see 2Ôth of January). Boudins of hare. Fillet a hare, remove ail the nerves, pound in a mortar, and pass through a fine sieve ; take the same quantity of boiled calfs udders and bread-crumb which has been soaked in stock and dried in a cloth ; pound ail thoroughly together ; if by chance you cannot procure calfs udders, use double the quantity of butter instead ; season this forcemeat with mixed spice, sait, coarse black pepper, chopped eschalots and parsley, stir in some yolks of egg, and one or two whites, roll up the forcemeat into a large pudding or several small ones, and poach in boiling water ; when done, drain, place on a wooden slab sprinkled with flour, moisten the pudding with melted butter, bread-crumb, and brown in the oven or on a gridiron ; when a good colour, serve, without any sauce. Sole à la Colbert. Boil your sole, and warm it in Colbert soup (see 9U1 of January).THE 366 B TELS OF FARE. 322 NOVEMBER 17. Potage à la pureté de jambon. Esturgeon en fricandeau. Sauté de perdreaux aux truffes. Râble de lièvre rôti. üpinards au jus. Gâteau aux amandes. Purée of ham. Fricandeau of sturgeon. Fillets of partridge with truflles, Roast baron of hare. Stewed spinach. Almond cake. Purée of ham. Cut up a pound to a pound and a half of boiled ham into dice, pound in a mortar, moisten with stock, add a tablespoon- ful of Soubise sauce, and the same quantity of Spanish sauce, pass through a tammy, and stir into sufficient stock for seven or eight persons ; warm, and a quarter of an hour before serving, stir in a bottle of Madeira and a lump of fresh butter. Hand fried dice of bread separately. It is better to warm the purée in a bain-marie. Fillets of partridge with truflles. Cut the fillets off four partridges, trim them, and warm in a saucepan with butter ; as soon as they are firm, cut them up into round scallops. Pound the carcases and trimmings of the birds ; warm in a little stock, pass through a tammy, reduce, add three tablespoonsful of stock, and reduce to a half glaze ; warm the scallops in this sauce—be careful it does not boil— add half a pound of truflles which hâve been cooked in the same butter as the fillets, stir in a little butter, dish up in a pyramid, and garnish with fried sippets of bread.323 THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. NOVEMBER iS Potage purée Crécy. Barbue sauce aux huîtres. Poulet sauté. Gigot de chevreuil rôti. Navets au sucre. Pommes au beurre. Crécy soup. Brill and oyster sauce. Brown fricassée of fowl. Roast leg of roebuck. Stewed turnips with sugar. Stewed apples. Oyster sauce. Make some white thickening with an ounce of flour and two ounces of butter ; warm over a slow fire, add a tumblerful of stock, stir over a quick fire ; as soon as it boils, simmer in the saucepan by the side of the fire, with the lid on, for twelve hours. Bôil three dozen oysters in water ; when done, drain, trim them, and warm in part of the water in which they were coolced ; take three large tablespoonsful of the remainder of the water and add to the white sauce ; reduce, pass through a tammy 3 warm the oysters in it, and serve very hot. Peel and trim some small turnips to the same size ; brown in butter, and when a good colour, sprinkle with sugar, and a pinch of sait ; moisten with two or three tablespoonsful of stock, place the lid on the saucepan, and simmer over a slow fire until done. Horse-radish sauce. Stir four ounces of scraped horse-radish into a pint of cream, add a little sait, and serve. Stewed turnips and sugar. Y 2THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 3*4 NOVEMBER 19. Potage Baraquine. Baraquine soup. Pike à la Clermont. Leveret à la minute, Pâté de foie gras. Aspic of crayfish. Brochet à la Clermont. Levraut à la minute. Pâté de foie gras. Aspic d’écrevisses. Crème à la Chantilly. Cream à la Chantilly. Baraquine soup. Add a little tapioca to some rich clear soup; when done, pour into the soup-tureen on to finely-cut strips of boiled chicken and truffles. Cut up a pike into slices, and soak for half an hour in olive oil, seasoned with lemon-juice, chopped onions, and parsley; after which, cover the pièces with bread-crumbs, and boil over a slow lire, baste with olive oil, and when done, place thera in a dish ; try as much as possible to keep the original shape of the fish by replacing the head, which has been boiled separately ; garnish with stewed carp’s roe, and hand maître d’hôtel sauce in a sauceboat. Skin, draw, and cut a leveret into joints, toss in a saucepan, with butter, sait, pepper, and mixed spice ; when quite firm, add some chopped mushrooms, eschalots, parsley, and a table- spoonful of flour, stir well, moisten with white wine, and stock ; as soon as it boils, pour into a dish, and serve. Pike à la Clermont. Leveret à la minute.325 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. NOVEMBER 20. MENU EN MAIGRE. Garbure au maigre. Rougets en caissse. Vol-au-vent de quenelles d’estur- geon. Sarcelles rôties. Œufs brouillés aux pointes d’asperges. Gâteau au rhum. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Bread and cabbage soup for fast day. Red mullet in cases. Vol-au-vent of sturgeon quenelles. Roast teal. Buttered eggs with asparagus heads. Baba or rum cake. Bread and cabbage soup for fast day. Boil sortie dried peas, carrots, onions, and celery in sait and water; when a good flavour, pass the liquor through a cloth, and boil sorne carrots, onions, and celery in it; stir in a lump of butter, and if it gets too thick, moisten with vegetable gravy for fast day (see 2C)th of September) ; the flavour of the soup is- much improved by the addition of a few frogs’ legs or slices of carp or tench ; season with sait and pepper, pass through a tammy, and soak thick slices of bread in the stock. Finish preparing the soup, the sanie as bread and cabbage soup for feastday (see i4th of September), with the exception of using butter instead of bacon for cooking the cabbages, and moisten- ing with vegetable stock instead of méat stock. Quenelles of sturgeon. Pound up equal quantities of sturgeon and bread-crumb, moisten with butter, season with sait, mixed spice, and a table- spoonful of chopped mixed herbs which hâve been warmed in butter, stir in the necessary quantity of eggs, and poach the quenelles in boiling water. Diplomatie sauce. Stir a little of the liquor in which some crayfish hâve been boiled into créant béchamel sauce, and serve. Sauce à la Cardinal. This sauce is made by stirring crayfish butter into some German sauce.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 326 NOVEMBER 21 Purée de pois secs. Sole Colbert. Côtelettes de mouton Soubise. Coq de bruyère rôti. Céleri au jus avec truffes. Tourte à la crème au maizena. Mutton cutlets à la Soubise. Stewed celery and truffles. Maizena cream tart. Sole à la Colbert. Roast black-cock. Pea soup. Roast black-cock. We get two species of this wild bird from the northern forests of Alsace, Lorraine, and principally from the Vosges-; one is as big as a peacock, and the other about the size of a pheasant ; their flesh is dark, and their flavour very strong. If the birds hâve fed on juniper berries they will hâve a most disagreeable taste, and if on certain kinds of pine seeds you can at once detect it, as the smell will cling to your hand if you touch the bird. Préparé the same as pheasants, lard the breasts, and roast. The birds must not be too high. Warm a wine-glassful of milk in a saucepan ; as soon as it boils, stir in two ounces of powdered sugar, three ounces of butter, a pinch of sait, and take off the fire. Stir two ounces of maizena and two yolks of egg into a wine-glassful of cold milk, add to the hot milk, boil for five minutes, stir the whole time, pour into a bowl, whip until cold, and pour into a baked open tart case. Maizena cream tart.327 THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. NOVEMBER 22. Potage à la Bagration. Matelote à la marinière. Perdreaux à l’anglaise. Jambon rôti. Épinards au jus. Bavarois au marasquin. Bagration soup. Stewed carp and eel. Partridges à l’anglaise. Roast ham. Stewed spinach. Bavarian cream with marasclrino. Bagration soup. Stir some clear fish soup into a little reduced stock, simmer, skim off ail grease, flavour with curry powder, thicken with cream and yolks of egg, and pour into a soup-tureen on to chopped fillets of sole and vegetables which hâve been warmed in butter ; add some crayfish tails, and hand dice of fried bread separately. Partridges à l’anglaise. Draw your partridges, and stuff them with their îivers chopped up with butter, sait and pepper, cover them with buttered sheets of paper, and roast ; when about three quarters done, take off the spit, slightly raise each joint with a knife, and add a little forcemeat made of chopped bread-crumbs, butter, sait, coarse black pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, eschalots, parsley, and chives ; moisten the birds with equal quantities of stock and champagne, place them in a stew-pan, do not put on the lid, and simmer over a slow fire until the sauce is reduced j dish up with their own sauce, and sprinkle with lemon juice. Aspic of crayfish,. Fill a mould with boiled crayfish, prettily eut boiled vege- tables, and méat jelly, place in the refrigerator until set, turn out of the mould, and serve with mayonnaise sauce. Garnish the dish with bouquets of cold boiled asparagus heads and small pièces of cauliflower.3-S THE 366 BILL S O F FA RE. NOVEMBER 23. Potage brunoise au tapioca. Rosbif à la purée de haricots rouges. Foies gras à Ta Périgueux. Grousse rôtie. Petits pois aux laitues. Bavarois à la fleur d’oranger. Brunoise soup with tapioca. Roast beef and purée of red haricot beans. Foies gras à la Périgueux. Roast grouse. Stewed peas and lettuce. Bavarian cream with orange-flower water. Foies gras à la Périgueux. The illustrious Beauvilliers used to préparé this dish in the following manner :—Take seven fat fowls’ livers, eut off the gall, lard them with fine strips of trufïïes, lay in a stew-pan lined with slices of bacon, and moisten with either rich mire- poix, or equal quantities of white wine and stock ; season with a little sait, a peeled carrot, two small onions, one of them stuck with a head of clove, a bouquet of parsley, chives, half a laureî îeaf, and half a head of garlic ; cover over with slices of bacon and a sheet of buttered paper, and cook for a quarter of an hour with hot coals on the lid of the stew-pan ; drain, and dish up covered with truffle sauce. People will do wisely to follow the celebrated master’s instructions. Roast grouse. Pluck, singe, draw, and truss the birds ; cover with slices of bacon; roast for twenty minutes, sprinkle with sait before taking off the spit, and serve with their own gravy. In England grouse are sometimes served in the following fashion After roasting the birds, eut them up into joints, arrange in a pyramid on a dish, and cover with méat glaze. Hand rich gravy in a sauceboat.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 329 NOVEMBER 24. Potage au macaroni avec parmesan. Cabillaud farci. Ris de veau aux pointes d’asperges. Gigot de marcassin rôti. Chicorée à la crème. Gâteau au rhum. Maccaroni soup with Parmesan cheese. Stufifed cod. Sweet-breads with asparagus heads. Roast leg of young wild boar. Stewed chicory and cream. Baba or rum cake* Stuffed cod. Choose a thick white cod’s tail, boil it in court-bouillon (see i8th of April); when done, eut off the under fillets, and lay on a cloth. Make some fish forcemeat with either whiting or sweet-water fish ; eut ail the small bones off the centre bone of the tail with a pair of scissors, cover with a layer of forcemeat, lay the fillets in their original position, wrap up in a buttered sheet of paper, after sprinkling the cod with bread- crurnbs ; brown in the oven or on the gridiron, and dish up with stewed roe. Recipe for which see below. Stewed roe. Cook your roe in a saucepan with butter, crayfish tails, chopped parsley, chives, and some bottoms of artichokes ; when done, thicken the sauce with yolks of egg, flavour with a few drops of vinegar and serve. Glaze for cold partridg’es or woodcock. Reduce five parts of Spanish sauce with one part of game stock, pass through a tammy, stir into brown méat jelly, and keep until required.33° THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. NOVEMBER 25. Potage Soubise. Vives au gratin. Faisan à l’étouffade. Levrauts bardés rôtis sauce poiv- rade. Cardons au fromage. Crêpes au maizena. Purée of onion à la Soubise. Baked weaver and bread-crumbs. Stewed pheasant. Roast larded hare, poivrade sauce. Cardoons with cheese. Maizena pancakes. Purée of onions à la Soubise. Chop up about twenty onions, warm in butter, but do not let them brown, stir in two or three tablespoonsful of purée of white haricot beans, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, and pass through a tammy ; if the purée is too thick for soup, add a little stock, and serve with fried dice of bread. Stewed pheasant. Truss the pheasant for boiling, lard it with fine strips of bacon, sprinkle with sait, pepper, and mixed spice ; be careful to lard even the legs, cover with slices of bacon, and place in a stew-pan lined with bacon ; moisten with equal quantifies of white wine, and stock, and simmer for two hours ; when done, drain the pheasants, remove the slices of bacon, and dish up covered with game sauce. Maizena pancakes. Take three ounces of maizena, half a tumblerful of milk, a dessert-spoonful of olive oil, an egg, and a pinch of sait, stir thoroughly together, and make your pancakes in the usual manner.33i THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. NOVEMBER 26. Potage de semoule à la chiffonnade d’oseille. Oie en daube. Petits pâtés à la bourgeoise. Chateaubriand garni de pommes soufflées. Buisson d’écrevisses. Madeleines à la fleur d’oranger. Semolina soup witït chervil leaves. Cold braised goose. Small patties à la bourgeoise. Fillets of beef à la Chateaubriand. Crayfish. Madeleine cakes with orange-flower water. Small patties à la bourgeoise. Préparé some small patty cases the same as for patties à la reine (see 13Ü1 of October), fill them with quenelle stuffing either for fast or feast day, bake for a quarter of an hour, glaze with yolk of egg, and serve very hot. Fried potatoes. Cut up your potatoes into slices about half an inch thick, plunge them into boiling lard, and remove when about three quarters done ; replace them in the saucepan as soon as the lard boils over, and stir until the potatoes are quite swollen and soft, sprinkle with sait, drain, and serve very hot. Eoast baron of hare. Cut off the legs of your hare, trim and draw it, lard and préparé it in exactly the same manner as “ Roast hare (see 23rd of October).THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 332 NOVEMBER 27. Potage croûte au pot. Pièce de bœuf bouillie, sauce Soup with gravy crusts. Boiled beef, Robert sauce. Robert. Brème de mer au vin blanc. Paon rôti. Artichauts à la barigoule. Beignets soufflés. Bream with white wine sauce, Roast peacock. Stuffed artichokes à la barigoule Soufflé fritters. Bream 'with white wine sauce. Clean, scale, and eut up the bream into pièces ; place in & fish-pan large enough for them to lie side by side, cover with white wine, season with sait, coarse black pepper, a bouquet of parsley, thyme, a laurel leaf, four heads of garlic, and four ounces of onion, cook over a moderate tire; when done, remove the fish, thicken the liquor in which it was boiled with four ounces of butter and a little flour, stir with a wooden spoon over the fire for twenty minutes—be careful it does not burn—pass through a tammy, and pour over the fish which you hâve previously placed in a shallow stew-pan ; sprinkle with chopped parsley, boil for a few minutes, dish up with the heads of the fish raised in the centre of the dish, and cover with the sauce. Cook your onions in hot cinders, peel them, and simmer for twenty minutes in a saucepan, with essence of ham and veal stock, thicken the sauce with a little potato-flour, and if liked, add a pinch of mustard. Stewed onions. Stewed mushrooms. Préparé the same as stewed onions (see above),333 THE 366 BILES OF TARE. NOVEMBER 28. Potage à la purée de céleri. Turbot à la hollandaise. Selle de mouton à la purée de navets. Ortolans rôtis en casserole close. Pommes sautées. Nougat. Purée of celery. Turbot à la hollandaise. Saddle of mutton with purée of turnips. Ortolans roasted in a saucepan. Stewed apples. Nougat. Turbot à la hollandaise. A good turbot ought to be thick, and hâve a yellow tinge ; if it looks at ail blue, you may be sure it is not good. Préparé your turbot with care, soak in cold water for two hours, drain, place in a fïsh-pan, and cover it entirely with fine sait ; at the end of an hour, fill the fïsh-pan with boiling water and simmer from twenty to forty minutes, according to the size of your fish ; when done, drain and dish up on a napkin, garnish with parsley and boiled potatoes, and hand both hollandaise and shrimp sauce in sauceboats. Ortolans roasted in a saucepan. Préparé your ortolans the same as for roasting (see 6th of November), place them in a saucepan with a little butter, fix the lid on firmly, and shake over a quick fire ; a few minutes suffice to cook them. Serve very hot.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 334 NOVEMBER 29. Potage purée de marrons à la mancelle. Cabillaud sauce aux œufs. Ravioles au gratin. Gigot de mouton en chevreuil. Champignons à l’italienne. Œufs à la neige. Purée of chestnuts à la mancelle. Boiled cod and egg sauce. Baked raviolis. Leg of mutton à la roehnck. Mushrooms à l’italienne. Poached whites of egg. Purée of chestnuts à la Mancelle. Make a thick purée of chestnuts (see 5th of November), stir it into a thin purée of game, warm in a bain-marie, and serve with dice of fried bread. Baked raviolis. Take a quarter of a pound of veal, four ounces of caifs udder, three ounces of sausage méat, four ounces of either beef marrow or calfs kidney fat, and mixed herbs, mince ail up very fine, season with sait and pepper, and pound in a rnortar ; add a handful of spinach which has been blanched, boiled, drained, and warmed in butter, the same quantity of curd cheese, which you hâve squeezed in a cloth so as to extract ail milk, pound again, stir in two yolks of egg, whip up the whites, and add them to it. Make some short paste, the same as for rissoles, eut into small squares, fold them over a little of the forcemeat, and poach in boiling stock for five minutes, after which, drain and place on a tin dish, sprinkle with grated Parmesan and Gruyère cheese, moisten with stock and brown in the oven. Leg of mutton à la roebuck. Préparé the same as roast leg of roebuck (see 5th of Sep- tember).335 7HE 366 BILLS OF FARE. NOVEMBER 30. MENU EN MAIGRE. Brunoise à la purée de lentilles. Carpe à la russe. Croquettes de riz au parmesan. Bar sauce rémoulade. Petits pois au beurre (conserve). Salade de pommes de terre aux truffes. Gâteau Saint-Charles. BILT. OF FARE FOR FAST T>AY. Brunoise soup with purée of lentils. Carp à la russe. Rice croquettes with Parmesan cheese. Bass, rémoulade sauce. Preserved green peas with butter. Potato salad and truffles. Saint Charles cake. Carp à la Russe. Scale and clean out a fine carp, sprinkle with flour, and place in a saucepan thickly lined with butter ; moisten with two tumblersful of white wine, and cook in the oven with hot coals on the lid ; when done, lay on a foundation of pickled red cabbage warraed in butter, and garnish with glazed onions, mushrooms, sliced gherkins, and serve with horse-radish sauce. This is an excellent dish for fast days. Potato salad. Bake your potatoes, peel, and slice them. Cut up some trahies, which hâve been boiled in white wine, into very thin slices, and arrange them in alternate layers in a salad-bowî with the sliced potatoes; the last layer must be of truffles, garnish with cold boiled young onions, fillets of anchovy, and either stufifed or stoned olives, sprinkle with sait, pepper ; season with olive oil and a little vinegar, and serve. ITHE 366 BTLLS OF FARE. 336 DECEMBER 1. Potage en. gras aux pâtes d’Italie. Harengs fumés à la bruxelloise. Chevreuil en civet. Dinde truffée. Clear soup with Italian paste. Smoked herrings à la bruxelloise. Civet of roebuck. Turkey-hen stuffed with truffles. Purée of chicory and cream. Apples à la Condé. Chicorée à la crème. Pommes à la Condé. Turkey-hen stuffed with truffles ; either roasted or braised. Chop up some breasts of chicken, foies gras, bacon, and truffles, season with sait, pepper, and a laurel leaf, moisten with stock, add two or three dozen whole truffles, and simmer over a very slow fire for half an hour j when cold, place the forcemeat and truffles in a turkey-hen, trussed for roasting, sew up the pouch securely, and hang in a cool place for three or four days, after which, cover it with slices of bacon, and a buttered sheet of paper ; when nearly done, remove the bacon and paper, and dish up the bird as soon as a good brown colour ; add either some sliced or chopped truffles to the gravy, and hand in a sauceboat. If you braise your turkey, eut up the breasts of chicken, bacon and foie gras into large dice. Choose some herrings with soft roe, clean, and scale them, wash in cold water, and eut several slits down the sides, soak for half an hour in olive oil, sait and pepper ; broil over a quick fire, and serve. Stir a dessert-spoonful of mustard into some white sauce, and hand in a sauceboat. Fresh herrings with mustard sauce.337 THE 366 BILES OF FAEE. DECEMBER 2. Potage à la purée de pois secs. Soles Colbert. Lapereaux en salade. Rosbif en broche. Betteraves à la poitevine. Grugère au fromage. Pea soup. Soles à la Colbert. Young rabbit salad. Roast bçef. Beetroot à la poitevine. Baked cheese. Young’ rabbit salad. Fillet sortie cold roast rabbits, and soak for an hour in oil ■ and vinegar seasonedwith chopped tarragon leaves, pinipernel, chives, sait and pepper. Lay some nice pièces of lettuce in a salad-bowl ; add the fillets of rabbit interspersed with fillets of anchovy, capers, chopped beetroot, slices of hard boiled eggs, and minced chervil and pimpernel leaves ; garnish with lettuce hearts, and serve. Cut a cold boiled beetroot into slices, warm in brown thick- ening, season with chopped onions, and mixed spice, and stir in a teaspoonful of strong vinegar just before taking off the fire. Warm tour ounces of butter in half a tumblerful of water and a pinch of sait. As soon as it boils, stir in seven ounces *• of flouri after a few minutes, take the saucepan off the fire, and add four yolks of egg, the whites well whipped, and four ounces of grated Gruyère cheese ; pour into a tin dish, cover with very thin slices of cheese, glaze with yolks of egg, and bake for twenty-five minutes. This is a delicious dish. Beetroot à la Poitevine. Baked cheese. / 7,THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 33§ DECEMBER 3. Eperlans ou goujons frits. Côtelettes de veau en papillotes. Gigot de chevreuil rôti. Truffes au vin de Champagne. Pâtisserie. Potage à la grecque. Pea soup à la grecque. Fried smelts or gudgeon, Veal cutlets in cases. Roast leg of roebuck. Truffles boiled in champagne. Light pastry. Pea soup à la Grecque. Mix some brunoise and pea soup together. Cut up a braised fillet of mutton into scallops, pass the sauce in which it was braised through a tammy, and add both mutton and sauce to the soup ; skim off ail grease, and serve. Soak your cutlets in oil seasoned vvith chopped mixed herbs, mushrooms, sait, pepper, and a few drops of either vinegar 01 lemon juice ; after which, wrap each cutlet in a sheet of oiled paper, and simmer in a saucepan over a slow fire, with the olive oil in which they were soaked ; when done, drain, and dish up in the cases. Line a saucepan with slices of ham and veal, add some peeled truffles, season with a bouquet of mixed herbs, mushrooms, melted bacon fat, sait and pepper, cover with slices of bacon, moisten with champagne, simmer over a slow fire ; when done, pass the sauce through a tammy, skim off ail grease, reduce, and pour over the truffles. Melt a lump of butter in a saucepan, add some thin slices ol onion and carrot, a laurel leaf, a head of garlic, parslev, and pepper, moisten with either water or stock, and a third the quantity of vinegar or wine ; boil, pass through a tammy, and keep until required. Veal cutlets in cases. Truffles boiled in champagne. Marinade of wine or vinegar.THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. 339 DECEMBER 4. Potage brunoise- Anguille à la sauce verte. Selle de mouton à l’anglaise. Mauviettes grillées. Poulainte au parmesan. Flan de frangipane à la moëlle. Brunoise soup. Eel with green sauce. Roast saddle of mutton. Broiled larks. Polenta à l’italienne. Marrow frangipane tart Stir four eggs into six ounces of flour in a saucepan, when quite smooth add two tumblersful of milk and a pinch of sait ; as soon as it becomes a thick paste, take off the fire, stir thoroughly until perfectly smooth, after which warm over a moderate fire for twenty minutes, stir the whole time ; when done, add six ounces of powdered sugar, four ounces of beef marrow (which lias been minced and warmed in cream), thirty pounded Jordan almonds, and ten bitter ones ; moisten with a small wine-glassful of brandy, and pour into a mould lined with very light paste ; bake in a quick oven ; when done, turn ont of the mould, glaze with white sugar, and serve very hot. Take five parts of velouté sauce to one of chicken stock, reduce to a glaze, thicken with yolks of egg, pass through a tammy, and if too thick, stir in a little veal jelly. Préparé the same as “ Maccaroni à l’Italienne ” (see 2oth of June). Grlaze for cold chickens. Polenta à l’Italienne.THE 366 B IL LS O F FA RE. 34° DECEMBER 5. Potage aux nids d’hirondelles. Paupiettes de filets de merlans, Poularde à la Montmorency. Swallows’-nests soup. Baked fillets of whiting. Pullet à la Montmorency. Gigot rôti. Haricots blancs au jus. Croûte au madère. Stewed white haricot beans. Fried slices of brioche with Madeira. Roast leg of mutton. Swallows’-nests soup. A swallow’s-nest weighs about a quarter of an ounce, and generally costs from three to four shillings. Hâve a nest for each person, soak in cold water for twenty-four hours, dry with a cloth, open them carefully, and remove any feathers you may find, wash in several changes of water, and simmer for three quarters of an hour in boiling chic.ken stock ; just before taking off the fire, add a pinch of powdered capsicum, and the neces- sary quantity of chicken stock, which must hâve been specially made, as one of the chief merits of this soup is to hâve a very strong, clear stock, very slightly salted. Remove the bone from the centre of your slice of cod, fill the hole with a carrot wrapped in bacon, boil in sait and water ; when done, drain, and dish up covered with egg sauce, garnish with boiled potatoes, and hand butter sauce separately. Boiled slice of cod with egg sauce.34i THE 366 B TELS O F FARE. DECEMBER 6. Potage à l’oseille à la crème. Sorrel soup with cream. Bar sauce au beurre. Mauviettes au chasseur. Bass, butter sauce. Larks au chasseur. Rosbif à l’anglaise. Roast beef. Salade de choux rouges. Red cabbage salad. Bavarois au café. Bavarian coffee cream. Sorrel soup with cream. Cook some chopped sorrel in butter until a pulp, stir in a little flour, sait, pepper, and water ; as soon as it boils, thicken with yolks of egg and cream, and pour into your soup-tureen on to slices of bread. This is an excellent soup for fast days. Brown some small sausages and slices of lean bacon in a saucepan, add your larks and a few mushrooms, sprinkle with flour, moisten with red wine, season with sait and pepper, and serve, after clearing the sauce of ail grease. Larks à la chipolata are prepared in the same manner, with the exception that a few peeled roast chestnuts must be added to the stew. Boil two pounds of eel ; when done, bone, and boil the bones in the water in which the eel was cooked ; season with sait and pepper, reduce to about a tumblerful, and pass through a tammy. Chop up the eel, and mix it well into some grated bread, lemon peel, chopped parsley, an anchovy, sait, pepper, and an ounce of butter, spread this forcemeat at the bottom of a pie-dish lined with paste, fill up with fillets of sole, moisten with the reduced liquor, cover with paste, and bake. Larks au chasseur, Sole pie.342 THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. DECEMBER 7. Potage au riz au coulis d'écrevisses. Rougets grillés à la maître d’hôtel. Noix de veau à la Godard. Lièvre rôti. Champignons farcis. Gelée au rhum. Crayfish stock with rice. Broiled red mullet à la maître d’hôtel. Chump of veal à la Godard. Roast hare. Stufifed mushrooms. Rum jelly. Crayfish. stock. Choose thirty smalî crayfish, wash them thoroughly, boil in water, and when done, break off the tails, and pound the re- mainder of the bodies in a mortar withtwelve Jordan almonds. Take a quarter of a pound of veal, the same quantity of ham, sorne onions, carrots, and parsnips, slice them, and simmer for a few minutes, add a little melted bacon fat, and a teaspoonfu! of flour, stir well, and moisten with strong stock, season with sait, pepper, cloves, basil, parsley, chives, mushrooms, truffles, and crusts of bread, simmer until done, remove the veal, add the pounded crayfish, and pass through a tammy. This is a delicious soup, and is often served with boiled rice, Italian paste, or fried bread ; it is also used to moisten various stews and pies; or to boil such vegetables as cardoons or cauli- flowers. Cardoons for fast day. Clean, scrape, and wash your cardoons, eut up into pièces of equal length, and boil in sait and water ; stir in a tablespoon- ful of flour, and when the vegetables are done, drain, and serve, covered with white sauce.343 THE 366 BILLS O F FARE. DECEMBER 8. Puchero. Perches grillées. Quartier de venaison à l’anglaise. Champignons farcis. Beignets de pommes. Puchero or Spanish soup. Broiled perch. Roast forequarter of venison. Stuffed mushrooms. Apple fritters. Puchero or Spanish soup. Put two pounds of steak and four quarts of water into an earthenware pan, bury it about two-thirds in red hot cindeis, skim occasionally, and after simmering for an hour, add a large handful of dried chiclc peas, which hâve been soaked in water for twenty-four hours ; an hour after, add half a pound of well washed sait pork, carrots, a leek, a bouquet of parsley, chervtl leaves, and a head of garlic ; three quarters of an hour before serving, add a slice of ham, a piece of pumpkin, and, if neces- sary, alittle pepper and sait; pass the liquor through a tammy, and pour into a soup-tureen on to very thin slices of toast, leave for a few minutes so that the toast may swell. Place the méat and vegetables on a large dish, and hand at the same time as the soup. Eed cahhagre salad à la Eusse. Cut up a red cabbage into very fine, narrow strips, plunge for a minute into boiling sait and water, cool in cold water, drain, lay in a deep dish, and sprinkle with sait and tarragon vinegar. Stir some mashed hard-boiled yolks of egg into half a tumblerful of sour cream, season with sait, pepper, chopped chervil and tarragon leaves, pour over the cabbage, and garnish With a few slices of lack radish.344 THE 366 B IL LS OF FARE. I DECEMBER 9. Potage paysanne. Éperlans frits. Entre-côtes aux pommes soufflées. Outardes à la russe. Macaroni à l’italienne. Croquettes de semoule. Peasant soup. Fried smelts. Broiled ribs of beef and fried potatoes. Bustards à la russe. Maccaroni à l’italienne. Semolina croquettes. Stewed calf’s kidneys. Trim and mince the kidneys, toss in a sautapan with butter, sait, pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, chopped boiled mush- rooms, eschalots, and parsley ; add a little flour, an'd moisten with reduced Spanish sauce and white wine j wlien thoroughly done, stir in a little butter, the juice of a lemon, and serve. Chicken fritters. Cut up a cold roast chicken into joints, and soak for an hour in vinegar seasoned with sait, pepper, and chopped mixed herbs ; drain, dry in a cloth, and dip into batter, to which you hâve added some whipped whites of egg ; fry in rnelted lard or butter, and serve garnished with fried parsley. Bustards à la Russe. Pluck, draw, singe, and truss some young bustards, cut a deep slit down each breast, which fill with plenty of butter, sprinkle with sait and pepper, cover with thin slices of bacon, and very thin light paste, brush over with beaten yolks of egg, and bake in the oven. Stir a little brown thickening into some rich gravy, and hand in a sauceboat at the same time as the bustards.345 THE 366 BTLLS O F FA FF. DECEMBER 10. MENU EN MAIGRE. Potage aux oignons blancs. Saumon fumé. Esturgeon en matelote. Croquettes de pommes de terre à la béchamel. Pilets rôtis. Omelette russe au maizena. Madeleines à la fleur d’oranger. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Purée of onions à la Soubise. Smoked salmon. Stewed sturgeon. Potato croquettes with béchamel sauce. Roast pintail. Maizena omelet à la russe. Madeleine cakes. Stewed sturgeon. Fry some small round slices of bread ; when a good colour, drain, and keep warm in the oven. Cut up a piece of stur- geon into thin slices, place them in a tin dish, sprinkle with melted butter, sait and pepper ; bake for a quarter of an hour (be careful to turn the slices of fish) ; when done, remove them ; stir a little flour into the butter left in the dish, season with chopped parsley, chives, and eschalots, moisten with two tum- blersful of red wine, and boil for a quarter of an hour ; add the fish (do not let it boil), sprinkle with capers, and dish up gar- nished with the pièces of fried bread. Maizena omelet à la Russe. Stir two tablespoonsful of maizena into a pint of milk ov water, add eight yolks of egg, sprinkle with a little sait and pepper, beat well, and pour into a frying-pan in which there is some melted butter ; cook over a slow fire, and hold a salamander over the omelet so as to avoid turning it] when done, slide it out of the frying-pan on to a dish, sprinkle with a little melted butter, and serve.346 THE 366 BILES OF FARE. DECEMBER 11. Potage purée Crécy. Grondins sauce aux câpres. Perdreaux à la parisienne. Rosbif rôti. Salade de cresson de fontaine aux pommes. Charlotte de pommes à la vanille. Purée of carrots. Fillets of gurnet with caper sauce. Partridges à la parisienne. Roast beef. Watercress and potato salad. Apple Charlotte flavoured with vanilla. Partridges à la Parisienne. Brown your partridges in butter, moisten with stock, white wine, and reduced Spanish sauce, simmer for three quarters of an hour ; when done, remove the partridges, skim ail grease off the sauce, reduce it, stir in a lump of fresh butter, pass through a tammy, and pour over the birds. White onion sauce. Slice your onions, and boil in veal stock, season with sait and pepper, pass through a tammy, stir a little cream into the purée, and hand in a sauceboat. If a brown onion sauce is required, do not use any cream, and brown the onions in butter before boiling them. Eedbreasts. These little birds can be dressed in a variety of fashions ; if for roasting, wrap them up in calf’s udders ; they are very good in a salmis, or broiled in cases lined with quenelle forcemeat, or cooked in beef marrow, sprinkled with chopped mixed herbs, lemon juice, and grated crusts of bread. Watercress and potato salad. Wash, trim, and drain your watercresses, place in a salad- bowl with some very thin slices of cold boiled potato. Dress with salad sauce (see 3rd of February).347 TIIE 366 BILES OF FARE. DECEMBER 12. Potage au riz. Gigot de mouton braisé. Mauviettes en côtelettes. Homards à la bordelaise. Épinards au velouté. Glace à la vanille. Rice soup. Braised leg of mutton. Lark cutlets. Lobsters à la bordelaise. Spinach with veloute sauce. Vanilla ice. Lark cutlets. Bone your larks, flatten them out as much as possible to the shape of a cutlet, fill ail holes with forcemeat, sprinkle with sait and pepper, and cook in butter over a quick fire ; when done dish up, and cover with any sauce that may be fancied. Lobsters à la Bordelaise. Cut up each lobster into eight pièces, break the claws with- out spoiling their shape, and boil for twenty-five minutes in white wine, seasoned with a head of garlic, laurel leaves, thyme, parsley, sait and pepper ; place the cover on the sauccpan, and stir occasionally to prevent the sauce burning ; when done, dry each pièce in a cloth, and lay in a clean saucepan. Brou n some sliced onions and eschalots in butter, stir in a little flour, and when quite thick moisten with some of the liquor in which the lobsters were boiled, stir over a quick fire for ten minutes, add two wine-glasses full of tomato sauce, and a pinch of cayenne, as this dish must be highly flavoured; pour the sauce over the lobsters, and warm for a few minutes ; dish up the pièces so arranged as to give the appearance of the lobsters not having been cut, garnish with the claws, cover with the sauce, and serve.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 343 DECEMBER 13. Potage Livonien. Thon frit. Poulets en fricassée. Filet de cerf rôti. Champignons au gratin. Brioche à la crème. Livonian soup. Fried tunny. Fricassée of chicken. Roast fillet of venison. Baked mushrooms and bread- crumbs. Brioche. Iiivonian soup. Mince, blanch, and drain some carrots, turnips, celery, parsley, leeks, and onions, warm in butter, add two handsful of washed rice, moisten with the necessary quantity of stock, and boil ; when done pass through a tammy, stir in some boiled cream and yolks of egg, warm the soup, and pour into a soup-tureen on to sippets of fried bread. Fried tunny. Cut up a piece of tunny into slices about two inches thick, soak for three hours in olive oil, seasoned with sait, pepper, lemon juice, and chopped parsley ; fry over a slow fire in olive oil, and when a good colour dish up, and serve covered with rémoulade sauce. Roast fillet of venison. Trim and lard the fillet with fine strips of bacon, and soak for forty-eight hours in white wine and vinegar, seasoned with a large bouquet of mixed herbs, onions stuck with cloves, and coarse black pepper ; if a large fillet, leave it in soak for three or four days. Roast and baste with the liquor in which it was soaked ; when done, serve with poivrade sauce, to which you hâve added a little of the dripping of the fillet.349 THE 366 B TELS O F FA RE. DECEMBER 14. Potage à la Saint-Germain. Raie au beurre noir. Cuisses d’oie grillées à la lyonnaise. Filet de bœuf rôti. Céleri au jus. Madeleines. Pea soup à la Saint Germain. Skate with black butter sauce. Broiled goose thighs à la lyonnaise. Roast fillet ot beef. Stewed celery. Madeleine cakes. Pea soup à la Saint Germain. Make a purée of green peas, add some whole green peas, and a little chopped chervil, and serve. If in winter make the purée of dried peas, add some cream to it, and a few whole preserved green peas. Broiled goose thiglis à la Lyonnaise. Slice six big onions, and fry in lard ; when a good colour, take them off the fire, and keep hot. Warm three or four cold roast goose’s thighs in lard ; when done, dish them up, cover with the fried onions, and pour either poiorade or piquante sauce over them. Roast hare à la Finnoise. Warm some carrots, turnips, onions, laurel leaves, and a bouquet of mixed herbs, in butter, moisten with equal quantifies of stock and vinegar, and pour over a hare, which y ou hâve skinned, singed, larded, and placed in a deep pan, fix on the lid firmly, and leave for twelve or fifteen hours, after which roast the hare, baste with the liquor in which it was soaked, and serve. Stir two or three tablespoonsful of sour cream into the dripping, and pour over the hare.35° THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. DECEMBER 15. Potage à la Colbert. Coulibiac d’anguilles. Soup à la Colbert. Coulibiac of eel. Côtelettes de mouton financière, Mutton cutlets à la financière. Perdreaux rôtis. Roast partringes. Cardons à l’italienne. Beignets à la Chantilly. Cardoons à l’italienne. Fritters à la Chantilly. Coulibiac of eel (a Russian dish). Make some brioche paste (see 24th of December), but do not use any sugar, wrap it up in a cloth, and keep in a wann place for twelve or fifteen hours ; after which roll it out to about half an inch thick, take half of it and lay in a baking tin, on a buttered sheet of paper, cover with alternate layers of rice, which has been boiled in water or stock, chopped hard- boiled yolks of egg, and fillets of eel ; sprinkle with sait, pepper, spice, and chopped mixed herbs, cover with the remainder of the paste, make it as much the shape of a bail as possible, moisten the edges, so that they may adhéré firmly, and bake in a moderate oven. Take a pound of flour, three eggs, and a very fresh cream cheese ; stir thoroughly together, add a little white wine, an ounce of powdered sugar, and a pinch of sait ; plunge a dessert- spoonful at a time of the batter into boiling lard, drain, and serve, sprinkled with powdered sugar. Trim the tendons, eut them up into pièces about three inches long, and soak for an hour in vinegar and water ; after which drain them, sprinkle with flour, and fry in either butter or lard until a good colour. Fritters à la Chantilly. Fried tendons of veal.THE 366 HILLS O F LARE. 35> DECEMBER 16. Potage aux ravioles. Blanquette de veau. Merlans aux fines herbes. Râble de lièvre rôti. Purée de céleri-rave aux croûtons. Gâteau Saint-Louis. Clear soup with raviolis. Tendons of veal with white sauce. Baked whiting with fine herbs. Roast baron of hare. Purée of celery-root with fried bread. Saint Louis cake. Tendons of veal with. white sauce. Cut up a breast of veal or sortie tendons into small pièces ; blanch them, and cook in a saucepan with sait, pepper, a bouquet of mixed herbs, young white onions, a little flour, and moisten with water; when done, add a large lump of butter, a pinch of grated nutmeg, a few drops of vinegar, and thicken the sauce with yolks of egg. Egg forcemeat. Pound a well-cooked omelet in a mortar with a few hard- boiled yolks of egg, butter, and bread panada, made with milk (see 2oth of August), stir in some yolks of egg, and the whites, which must be well whipped. Saint Louis cake. Line the sides of a shallow tin mould with paste made with seven ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, a pinch of sait, and a few drops of water. Pound two ounces of almonds, and stir into two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, four ounces of sugar, and two whipped whites of egg, pour into the mould, sprinkle with chopped almonds, and bake in a moderate oven ; when done, turn out of the mould, sprinkle the almonds with powdered sugar, and serve, either hot or cold.THE 366 BILL S O F FA FF. 352 DECEMBER 17. Potage à la purée de lentilles. Rougets en caisse. Navarin de mouton. Canards sauvages rôtis. Croûte aux champignons. Crème à la vanille. Purée of lentils. Red mullet in cases. Haricot mutton. Roast wild duck. Mushrooms on toast. Vanilla cream. Vanilla cream. Boil a stick of vanilla for twenty minutes in a tumbler and a half of cream, keep the lid on the saucepan. Stir twelve yolks of egg and one whole egg into half a pound of powdered sugar, and a pinch of sait ; remove the vanilla, and add the cream drop by drop, pass through a fine silk sieve, and pour into a mould lined with melted butter j cook in a bain-marie, place hot coals on the lid ; when the cream is set, turn out of the mould, and cover with the following sauce. Stir eight yolks of egg into half a pound of sugar and a pinch of sait ; place on the fire in a saucepan, add a tumbler and a half of cream and a stick of vanilla ; stir the whole time, and when thick enough, pour over the cream. Navarin of mutton. This is a new name given to the celebrated old dish “ Hari- cot mutton.”353 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. DECEMBER 18. Consommé aux pâtes d’Italie. Vol-au-vent de quenelles et de godiveaux. Rouelles de cerf à la Saint-Hubert. Faisan rôti. Épinards à l’anglaise. Beignets soufflés. Clear soup with Italian paste. Vol-au-vent of fowl and truffle forcemeat. Sliced fillet of venison à la Saint- Hubert. Roast pheasant. Spinach à l’anglaise. Soufflé fritters. Forcemeat of fowl and truffles. Chop up and pound a pound of breast of fowl, half a pound of suet, one ounce of spiced sait, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and four eggs, place in a bowl, and leave in the refrigerator for an hour; after which, pound again with some pièces of méat glaze, which hâve been soaked in water, stir in four tablespoonsful of chopped truffles, and two tablespoonsful of velouté sauce, and poach in boiling water or stock. Sliced fillet of venison à la Saint-Hubert. Cut up a fillet of venison into thick slices, lard them with thick strips of bacon, warm in a saucepan with either melted bacon fat or butter ; moisten with equal quantities of stock and red wine, season with sait, pepper, and a bouquet of mixed herbs ; cook over a slow fire, stir in a little brown thicken- ing, a lump of sugar, and some sliced gherkins. Serve very hot. This stew ought to be eaten by ail true lovers of venison, the day after St. Hubert’s day, in which case, some fine preserved prunes must be cooked with the venison. A a354 THE 3 66 B IL LS OF FARE. DECEMBER 19. Potage aux pain grillé. Pièce de bœuf aux oignons glacés. Cervelles sauce matelote. Boiled beef and glazed onions. Calf’s brains stewed in matelote Clear soup wifh toast. Pain de perdreaux. Poisson frit. Macédoine de légumes. Beignets soufflés au maizena. sauce. Purée of partridge. Fried fïsh. Macédoine of vegetables. Soufflé maizena fritters. Calfs brains stewed in matelote sauce. Trïm, soak, and boil the brains, simmer in matelote sauce (see 24th of December), and serve. Make a purée of partridge the same as for soufflé of par- tridge (see i7th of October), pour it into a buttered mould, and cook in a bain-marie for half an hour ; when done, turn out of the mould, and cover with a sauce made of essence of game and Spanish sauce. Warm half a pound of butter, two large lumps of sugar, and half a wine-glassful of water in a saucepan; as soon as it boils add two ounces of maizena, which y ou hâve stirred into naïf a wine-glassful of water, and two ounces and a half of wheaten fîour ; take the saucepan off the fire, and leave for a quarter of an hour, so that the paste may dry, after which, stir in three eggs; if too stiff, add another egg, and plunge a table- spoonful of the paste at a time into boiling lard. Serve when a good colour. Purée of partridg-e. Soufflé maizena fritters.THE 306 BILES OF FARE. 355 DECEMBER 20. Potage de semoule au lait. Choux farcis à la russe. Pluviers aux truffes. MENU EN MATGRE. Pouding de navets. Gâteau d’amandes. Soles farcies. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. White semolina soup. Stuffed cabbages à la russe. Stewed plovers and truffles. Stuffed soles. Turnip pudding. Almond cake. Stuffed cabbages à la Eusse. Warra a finely-chopped onion in butter, do not let it brown, add some chopped mushrooms, parsley, sait, pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and two or three tablespoonsful of semolina, and when done, take the saucepan off the tire. Pluck the finest outside ieaves off your cabbages, and place them on one side ; eut the cabbages, into quarters, blanch, and drain them ; eut out the hard pièces from the centres, sprinkle with sait and pepper, andspread alittleof the stuffing between each leaf, tie up the pièces of cabbage to their original shape, with the large Ieaves placed round them, and boil in water seasoned with.onions, carrots, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and a lump of butter; when done, drain them, and serve. Hand some melted butter in a sauceboat. Pluck, draw and singe the plovers, and warm in butter with some carefully peeled truffles, a bouquet of mixed herbs, sait and pepper, moisten with brown thickening, and white wine ; when done, dish up the plovers and truffles, pass the sauce through a tammy, and pour over them ; if the sauce is too thin, reduce it. Stewed plovers and truffles. A a 2356 THE 366 BILLS OF TARE. DECEMBER 21. Potage de riz à la purée de pois. Petits truites bouillies sauce cre- Purée of peas wîth rice. Boiled trout, shrimp sauce. vettes. Filets de mouton braisés. Dinde truffée. Céleri au jus. Beignets de pommes. Braised fillets of mutton. Truffled turlcey-hen. Stewed celery. Apple fritters. Truffled turkey-hen. Peel your truffles, and warm them in a saucepan with scraped bacon ; when cold, roll them in minced bacon highly seasoned with chopped herbs, sait and pepper ; stuff a turkey- hen with the truffles and stuffing, cover it with slices of bacon, wrap up in a cloth, and hang it for eight days ; after which, cover it with fresh slices of bacon, a sheet of buttered paper, and roast. Peel some fine russet apples, scoop out the cores, and eut them into quarters, soak for an hour in brandy, flavoured with cinnamon and green lemon peel ; after which, drain them and dip into thin batter, fry in melted lard or butter; when a good colour, place on a baking dish, sprinkle with sugar, and glaze, either in the oven or with the salamander ; dish up in a pyramid, and serve very hot. Make some Robert sauce, and thicken it with yolks of egg, flavour with a few drops of vinegar and mustard ; warm the scraps in the Robert sauce before thickening it, and do not let it boil Apple fritters. A g’ood sauce for cold scraps of méat.THE 366 BILES O F FA RE. 357 DECEMBER 22. Potage au sagou. Chateaubriand au beurre d’anchois. Pieds de mouton frits. Mauviettes grillés. Pommes de terre Macaire. Gâteau Saint-Charles. Sago soup. Fillets of beef with anchovy butter. Fried sheep’s trotters. Broiled larks. Fried potatoes à la Macaire. Saint-Charles cake. Broiïed larks. This manner of cooking larks is expéditions, and ofterc stands a cook in good stead. Pluck and singe the larks, cover them with slices of bacon, place on the gridiron over a. quick fire, turn them, and remove before quite finished cook- Êng ; place on a buttered tin dish, and put in the oven until done, dish up the larks on slices of fried bread, pour the rnelted butter over them, and serve. Mutton cutlets à la financière» Lard your cutlets, braise them, and dish up garnished à îa financière (see 27A of December). Saint-Charles cake. Blanch and pound half a pound of Jordan aîmonds, moisten with the white of an egg, and two tablespoonsful of orange- flower water, fiavour with grated lemon peel; add four yolks of egg, half a pound of powdered sugar, stir for several minutes, after which, add the four whites of egg well whipped, pour into a shallow plain mould, the sides of which must be lined with very thin light paste, turn in the edges of the paste so that the aimond mixture shall not burn, and place in a slow oven ; as soon as the cake begins to brown, cover it with a sheet of paper, and wlien done, turn out of the mould, and serve.353 THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. DECEMBER 23. Potage paysanne. Noix de veau à la purée d’oseille. Carpe grillée. Quartier de venaison rôti. Epinards au jus. Gâteau Saint-Honoré. Peasant soup. Chump of veal with purée of sorrel. Broiled carp. Roast forequarter of venison. Stewed spinach. Saint-Honoré cake. Purée of sorrel. Pick, wash, drain, and thoroughly dry your sorrel leaves, soak them in boiling water for ten minutes, stir with a drainer the whole time ; after which, drain, and when cold, place in a saucepan with brown thickening, and some uncle'ared stock, which lias been passed tbrough a tammy ; as soon as it boils, put the saucepan by the fireside and simmer the sorrel until done ; clear ofif ail grease, pass through a tammy, and keep warm until time to serve with a roast chump of veal. Roast forequarter of venison. Bone, beat, and sprinkle the venison with sait. Make some paste with flour, eggs, a little water, and a pinch of sait, leave in a cool place for an hour, after which, roll it out very thin ; lay slices of bacon on the venison, sprinkle with sait and pepper. Wrap it up carefully in the paste, stick the edges firmly together by moistening them with a little water ; cover the whole with a buttered sheet of paper, and roast ; when nearly done, remove the paper, and brown the paste, take the joint off the spit very carefully, and serve. Hand poivrade sauce, and red currant jelly separately.THE 366 BILLS OF FARE. 359 DECEMBER 24, Oie rôtie farcie de marrons, Raie aux fines herbes, Brioche à la crème. Civet de lièvre. Riz à la Crécy. Salsifis frits. Crécy soup with rice. Skate with mixed herbs. Civet of hare. Goose stuffed with chestnuts. Fried salsifis. Brioche. Brioche, Take a pound of flour, a quarter of an ounce of sait, half an ounce of powdered sugar, six eggs, a pint of whipped créant, and three quarters of a pound of fresh butter ; take a quarter of the flour, make a well in the centre of it, add a little German yeast, and stir in sufflcient luke-warm rnilk to make a soft paste; place it in an earthenware pan with a lid, and leave in a warm place until risen to twice its original size. Make a well in the remainder of the flour, add the sait, sugar, butter, and the eggs, one at a time, when quite smooth, stir in the whipped cream and the paste made with yeast, and leave for three hours ; after which, stir the paste with a spoon, and place it in a but- tered mould, bake in a quick oven, and when done, turn out of the mould, and serve. Brown some young onions in butter; when done, remove them, moisten the butter with equal quantities of white or red wine and stock, season with sait, pepper, and a bouquet of mixed herbs ; boil the sauce, reduce it, add the onions, and some blanched mushrooms, and serve. Matelote sauce.THE 366 BILES OF FARE. 36° DECEMBER 25. Potage à la purée de poireaux. Matelote d’anguille. Sauté de filets de volaille. Filet de mouton rôti. Croûte aux champignons. Pommes en croustade. Purée of leelcs. Stevved eel. Fillels of fowl cooked in butter. Roast fillet of mutton. Mushrooms on toast. Apple tart. Fillets of fowl cooked in butter. Fillet one or two fowls, remove the skin and nerves, wet the corner of the kitchen table, take a fillet at a time, hold it down quite fiat and firmly with one hand, and pass a knife between it and the table, which will cause the second skin of the fillet to stick to the wet wood. Cook the fillets in a saucepan with melted butter; when done, drain them, and dish up in a circle with alternate pièces of fried bread, fill the centre with either German, Italian, or béchamel sauce, or with a purée of game. Golden tbickeningr. Melt a pound of butter in a saucepan. add sufficient wheaten flour to make it slightly thick, stir over the fire, and as soon as the sauce begins to colour, make a smaller fire, and sirnmer until done. Keep the thickening in a covered jar until required.THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. 361 DECEMBER 26. Potage de consommé aux quenelles. Harengs fumés à la bruxelloise. Poulet à la Marengo. Filet de porc rôti. Pommes sautées. Gelée au marasquin. Clear soup with quenelles. Smolced herrings à la bruxelloise. Chicken à la Marengo. Roast fillet of pork. Fried potatoes. Maraschino jelly. Smoked herrings à la Bruxelloise. Hold the herrings over hot steam or cinders, after which skin and fillet them, oil a large paper case, and place the fillets round it ; stir some chopped mushrooms, parsley, nnxed herbs, chives, eschalots, a little garlic, and white pepper into a large lump of butter, spread a layer of this stuffing between each fillet, sprinkle with olive oil and grated bread crust ; broil on the gridiron over a quick fire, and when done, dish up in the case, and hand pièces of lemon separately. Chicken à la Marengo. Cut up your chicken into joints, and warm in a saucepan, with butter, a little gravy, minced ham, slices of onion, sait and pepper, toss over a quick fire; as soon as the chicken and onions are cooked, and a good colour, sprinkle with lemon juice, and serve. Ravigote provençale sauce. Boil a teacupful of clear stock over a slow fire, season with two heads of garlic, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and a pinch of white pepper ; when reduced, remove the garlic and herbs, add a teacupful of tarragon vinegar and the same quantity of méat glaze ; reduce, pass through a tammy, stir in some chopped tarragon and chervil leaves, a lump of butter the size of a walnut, and serve.THE 366 BILLS O F FA RE. 3Ô2 DECEMBER 27. Potage Baraquine. Bouchées aux huîtres. Turbot sauce crevettes. Filet de bœuf rôti garni d’un ragoût financière. Paon rôti ou en daube. Croûte aux champignons. Bavarois glacé. Baraquine Soup. Oyster patties. Turbot, shrimp sauce. Roast fillet of beef garnished à la financière. Cold roast or braised peacock. Mushrooms on toast. Iced Bavaiian cream. Cold roast or braised peacock. Do not pluck your peacock, but skin it carefully, so as not to disturb the feathers, take care not to spoiî the head and neck, lard the breasts with fine strips of bacon, and roast ; when done, leave until cold, after which, place the feathers on the bird in their original position, raise the head and neck with a piece of wire, spread out the tail in a fan shape, and serve. As a peacock dressed with its feathers must be served cold, it is nicer braised than roasted, as the stuffing seasons it more highly ; in this case préparé it the same as cold braised goose (see 2 7th of February). This dish is a magnificent ornament on a dinner or supper table. Sauce à la financière. Boil three or four tablespoonsful of minced raw ham, sorae trufïïe trimmings, mushrooms, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and three whole black peppers in equal quantities of stock and white wine, reduce to half the original quantity, clear off ail grease, and pass through a tammy. Stir some stock into a little brown thickening in a separate saucepan, reduce, add the previously made sauce, and serve. Grarnish. à la financière. Cook some foie gras, cockscombs, and livers, chicken quenelles, mushrooms, and truffies in financière sauce, and use as a garnish.363 THE 366 B TELS O F FA RE. DECEMBER 28. Purée de navets aux croûtons. Moules à la Villeroi. Côtelettes de chevreuil sautées. Poularde rôtie. Truffes sous la cendre. Darioles au riz. Purée of tumips and fried toast. Mussels a la Villeroi. Stevved roebuck cutlets. Roast pullet Broiled truffles. Ducliess cakes. Villeroi sauce. Warm some fresh butter, stir in a little flour and white stock, add an onion stuck with cloves, chopped ham, musbroom trimmings, and a bouquet of mixed herbs ; boil for twenty-five minutes, pass through a tammy, thicken with yolks of egg and cream, and serve. Stewed roebuck cutlets. Sprinkle the cutlets with sait and pepper, cook them in a saucepan with melted butter ; when half done, turn them, add a little flour, moisten with equal quantities of white wine and stock, season with chopped eschalots, parsley, and blanched mushrooms; remove the cutlets when done, place them round an entrée dish ; reduce the sauce, pass it through a tammy, and pour over the cutlets. Broiled truffles. Wash and peel your truffles. wrap them up in slices of bacon, sprinkled with sait and pepper, cover each one with four pièces of paper, which hâve been dipped in cold water, bury the truffles in hot cinders, and leave for a quarter of an hour ; after which remove the first two pièces of paper, and serve.THE 366 B IL LS OF FARE. 364 DECEMBER 29. Potage au tapioca Crécy. Brèmes grillées à la mayonnaise. Crécy soup with tapioca. Broiled sea-bream, Mayonnaise sauce. Gigot de sept heures. Bécasses rôties en salmis de table. Pouding de navets. Macédoine de fruits au champagne. Macédoine of fruit with champagne. Stewed leg of mutton. Salmis of woodcock. Turnip pudding. Salmis of woodcock. This dish is often prepared at table. Cut up some roast woodcock into joints, place the dish over a spirit lamp, sprinkle the pièces of bird with sait, pepper, chopped eschalots, white wine, lemon juice, a little melted butter, and grated bread- crust; sim mer for ten minutes; take care to turn the joints when half done, and serve very hot. Wash, blanch, peel, and dry some fine large turnips, cut up into slices, and warm in a saucepan with melted butter, add sait, pepper, and a pinch of powdered sugar, stir in some reduced white béchamel sauce, boil for a minute, pass through a tammy, and add sufficient eggs to make the purée a good substance, pour into a well-buttered mould, which has a well in the centre, cook in a bain-marie, and when done, turn out of the mould, garnish the centre with prettily-cut vegetables, which hâve been cooked in béchamel sauce, and serve. A little double cream is a great improvement to this dish, which can also be made of pumpkin, spinach, or carrots. Turnip pudding1.THE 366 BILL S O F FA RE. 365 DECEMBER 30. MENU EN MAIGRE. Potage de poisson aux herbes. Croquettes de riz au parmesan. BILL OF FARE FOR FAST DAY. Fish soup with chopped herbs. Rice croquettes and Parmesan cheese. Filets de sarcelles aux anchois. Brochet sauce ravigote provençale. Purée de pommes de terre gratinée. Gelée d’oranges. Fillets of teal and anchovies. Pike, provençale ravigote sauce. Baked purée of potatoes. Orange jelly. Fish soup with chopped herbs. Cook some chopped lettuce, chervil, celery, and sorrel leavea in fish stock. Stir some yolks of egg into a little fish stock ; when thick, add to the boiling soup and vegetables, and as soon as done, pour into a soup-tureen on to slices of bread, which hâve been sprinkled with either olive oil or melted butter. Fillet your teal, which hâve been about three quarters roasted, lay them on a tin dish, which has been slightly buttered and sprinkled with grated parmesan cheese ; place a fillet of anchovy on each piece, moisten with fish stock, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, and bake in the oven, or on the gridiron ; in the latter case you must hold a salamander over the fillets so as to brown them. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over them before serving. Peel, wash, and chop up your potatoes, cook them in a saucepan with a little water, a lump of butter, sait, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, place hot coals on the lid of the saucepan ; when done, mash the pièces of potato with a wooden spoon if the purée is too thin, reduce it, stir in a lump of butter, pour into a tin dish, and brown in the oven. Fillets of teal and anchovies. Baked purée of potatoes.THE 3 66 BTLLS OF FA RE. 3 66 DECEMBER 31. Bisque d’écrevisses. Crayfish soup. Poule au riz. Filets de sole en turban. Boiled fowl and rice. Baked fillets of sole turban fashion. Hure de sanglier. Salade de légumes. Gâteau aux amandes. Boar’s head. Vegetable salad. Almond cake. Boar’s head. Boil some laurel leaves, mixed herbs, heads of cloves, and whole black peppers, in very strong sait and water, pass through a tarnrny, and leave until cold. Singe and scrape the boar’s head, be careful not to eut the skin, clean out the nostrils and ears with a hot iron, wash and bone the head, spread it out on a table, eut off ail the flesh, and divide it into narrow fillets. Put the empty head to soak in the brine. Soak the fillets and a few slices of the boar’s flesh in white wine, seasoned with onions carrots, herbs, sait, pepper, and mixed spice ; leave both head and fillets to soak for twenty-four hours, turn them occasionally, and when required for use, drain, dry, and spread them out on a table, with the inside of the head turned up- wards. Hâve some fillets of rabbit, breasts of chicken and partridge, two sliced pickled tongues, and sliced truffles ready prepared ; pound the carcases of the rabbits and birds in a mortar, with a few slices of veal and bacon ; spread a layer of this forcemeat on the head, and fill it up with the fillets of of boar, rabbit, chicken, partridge, tongue, and truffles ; if there are any interstices stop them up with forcemeat, sew up the head to its original shape, tie it up tightly in a cloth, and place in a braising-pan with mirepoix made with Madeira ; when cooked, drain it, tie a broad tape round the head, over the snout, leave for twenty-four hours, after which eut off the tape, cover the head with lard, and sprinkle with grated bread- crustTHE 366 B IL LS OF FARE. 367 Béarnaise sauce. Stir five or six yolks of egg in a saucepan over a slow fire ; when quite thick add the same quantity of melted méat glaze as there are eggs, do not let it boil, flavour with the juice of two lemons, a fevv drops of vinegar, and the essence of seven or eight eschalots, which make by pounding them and squeez- ing the juice through a cloth ; stir the sauce with a wooden spoon, and hand in a sauceboat. Curry sauce. Take three ounces of butter and a dessert-spoonful of curry powder, stir over the fire until the butter begins to brown, moisten with velouté sauce and stock; ifyou hâve no velouté, use strong gravy ; reduce, skim off ail grease, and warm in a bain-marie ; when ready to serve, stir in a lump of butter, and if not sufficiently highly seasoned add a pinch of cayenne pepper.INDEX. A. Allemande, or German sauce, 93. Almond butter, 245. Almond cake, 45, 276. Almond cream, 79. Almond toffee, 138. Almonds, green, à la d’Escars, 216. Anchovies, stuffed, 154. Anchovy butter, 96, 138. Anchovy omelet, 243. Anchovy sauce, 152. Apple Charlotte, 298. Apple fritters, 356. Apple fritters à la d’Orléans, 68. Apple open tart, ni. Apple pudding, 253. Apples, chartreuse or marmalade of, 62. Apples stewed with rice, 93, 130. Apples stewed, 5°- Apricots broiled à la Breteuil, 181. Apricots, compote of ripe, 171. Apricots à la Condé, 194. Apricots, green, in compote, 202. Apricot fritters with brandy, 94. Apricot fritters, 175. Apricot open tart à la Metternich, 172. Apricot tart à la bonne femme, 221. Artichokes à la bonne femme, 61. Artichokes, fried, 69. Artichokes with Italian sauce, 44. Artichokes à l’italienne, 51- Artichokes à la lyonnaise, 250. Artichokes, purée of, for soup, 47. Artichokes, purée of, 47. Artichokes stewed with essence of ham, 148. Artichokes stuffed à la barigoule, 1, 82. Artichokes stuffed, 281. Asparagus with butter sauce, 108. Asparagus chopped with cream, 157. Asparagus with cream, 90. Asparagus-heads stewed, 119. Asparagus with oil and vinegar, 74- Asparagus à la Pompadour, 144. Asparagus with white sauce, 66. Aspic of crayfish, 327. B. Baba, or rum cake, 186. Bacon omelet, 118. Bain-Marie, 219. Baked barbelwith Parmesan cheese, 162. Baked brill, 51, 85. Baked cardoons with bread-crumbs, 31:7. Baked cauliflower with bread- crumbs, 28. Baked cheese, 337. Baked eggs, 256. Baked eggs with cheese, 224. Baked fillets of sole with bread- crumbs, 94. Baked fillets of sole turban fashion, 113. Baked fillets of whiting with bread- crumbs, 44. Baked fillets of whiting, 310. Baked ices, 15t. Baked mushrooms, 84. Baked ox-tong,ue, 74.369 INDEX. [iaked purée of potatoes with bread-crumbs, 19. Raked purée of potatoes, 365. Baked raviolis, 334. Baked sait cod with bread-crumbs, 103. Baked slice of sturgeon, 238. Baked smelts, 26. Baked turbot, 95, 231. Baked weaver or sea-dragon, 135. Baked whiting with fine herbs, 4. Baked whiting and bread-crumbs, 321. Barbel baked with Parmesan cheese, 162. Barbel broiled, 121. Barbel stewed, 200. Barbel boiled in court-bouillon, 23. Barley, purée of, 54. Baron of hare roasted, 331. Bass with tartare sauce, il. Bass, boiled, 81. Bass, caper sauce, 36. Batter, 318. Bavarian maizena cream, 319. Beans, French, à l’anglaise, III. Beans, French, and haricot beans a la maître d'hôtel, 133- Beans, French, à la poulette, 195. Beans, French, with white sauce, 108. Beans, haricot, à la bretonne, 33. Beans, haricot, with capsicum butter, 312. Beans, haricot, à la maître d’hôtel, 211. Beans, haricot, and marrow, 235. Beans, purée of haricot, 184. Beans, purée of white haricot, 310- Beans, red haricot, à la bourgui- gnonne, 80 Beef, boiled, à la flamande, 276. Beef, boiled, and garnished with Gennan paste, 288. Beef, boiled, with cabbage, 27. Beef, braised brisket, à la flamande, 145. Beef,braised ribs,with maccaroni,6i. Beef, braised îibs, purée of toma- toes, 22. Beef, braised sirloin, à la royale, 57. Beef, broiled brisket. with bread- crumbs, 320. Beef, broiled fillets, à la Chateau- briand. 62. Beef, brhised chump, 153. Beef, fillet, roasted, 4. Beef, fillets, with poivrade sauce, 1S1, 316. Beef, hashed, boiled, 262. Beef, marrow, à la Orly, 150. Beef, ribs, stewed, 185. Beef, ribs, à la bordelaise, 292, 320. Beef, roast fillet, with Madeira sauce, 91. Beef, roast, with forcemeat patties, G5- Beef, roast, with potatoes, 100. Beef, sliced fillet à la finançiere, 280. Beef, sirloin, à la provençale, 179. Beef, vol-au-vent of tendons, 147. Beetroot with cream, 43. Beetroot fritters, 314. Beetroot à la poitevine, 337. Biscuits, butter, 113. Biscuits, cheese, à la Saint Denis, 131- Black-cock, roast, 298, 326. Black diver with chocolaté sauce,26 4. Black diver, salmis of, 254. Blanc-mange, 307. Blanc-mange of almonds, 60. Blanc-mange of coffee, 118. Blanc-mange of pistaehio nuts, 29T. Boar, cutlets, à la Saint Hubert, 316. Boar, fillet, au chasseur, 319. Boar, haunch, à la royale, 263. Boar’s head, 366. Bœuf à la mode, 47, 161. Boiled bass, 81. Boiled beef, hashed, 262. Boiled beef à la flamande, 276. Boiled beef garnished with Gennan paste, 288. Boiled brisket of beef. 320. Boiled carp in beer, 159. Boiled cabbage and bacon, 255. Boiled calf’s feet, 262. Boiled capon, 188. Boiled eggs, 134. Boiled fowl in stock, 71. Boiled fowl in pig’s bladder, 38. Boiled ham à la maillot, 303. Boiled leg of mutton and vegetables, 299. c b370 INDEX. Boiled mackerel, 120. Boiled shad à la hollandaise, 65. Boiled shad in court-bouillon, 90. Boiled slice of cod with egg sauce, 340. Boiled tongue, 176. Bomb, iced, 185. Boned loin of mutton à la Niver- naise, 282. Boudin of hare, 321. Boudin of young rabbit à la Riche- lieu, 200. Bouillabaisse, 212. Brace of eels roasted, 104. Brace of young rabbits roasted, 117. Brains, fritters of calf s, 91, 234. Brains, calf s, à la provençale, 183. Brains, calf’s, stewed in Matelote sauce, 354. Braise, 149. Braise, half, or white, 247. Braised breasts of lamb with aspa- ragus, 79. Braised breast of mutton, 133. Braised chump of beef, 153. Braised duck au père Douillet, 178. Braised duck and turnips, 187. Braised goose à la Chipolata, 316. Braised goose, cold, 58. Braised loin of veal, larded, 265. Braised leg of mutton, 204. Braised leg of mutton à la Durand, 257. Braised ox-tongue, 26. Braised partridges, 300. Braised partridges à la Cussy, 31 !• Braised peacock, cold, 362. Braised pig’s ears, 184. Braised plover, 244. Braised pullet with white sauce, 217. Braised ribs of beef, 22. Braised ribs of beef with maccaroni, 61. Braised rump-steak, 117. Braised saddle of mutton, 2, 37. Braised saddle of iamb garnished with rissoles, 180. Braised sheep’s tongue, 157. Braised sirloin of beef à la royale, 57- Braised slice of sturgeon, 289. Braised turkey-hen stuffed with truffles, 336. Bread panada, 96. Bread panada made with milk, 233. Bream with white wine sauce 332. Breast of lamb braised with aspara- gus, 79. Breast of mutton with piquante sauce, 8. Breast of mutton braised, 133. Breast and neck of veal with aspara- gus-heads, 96. Breast of veal à la poulette, 134 Breast of veal with green peas, 144. Brill, baked, 51, 85. Brill with béchamel sauce, 1, 64. Brill à la Conti, 50. Brill with diplomatie sauce, 13. Brill à la provençale, 262. Brill à la Sainte-Menehould, 15. Brill stewed with mixed herbs, 122. Brioche, 359. Brisket of beef à la flamande, 145. Brisket of beef with bread-crumbs, ■32°. Broad beans with'cream, 153. Broiled apricots à la Breteuil, 181. Broiled barbel, 121. Broiled bass with tartare sauce, 11. Broiled calf’s brains, 239. Broiled carp, 185. Broiled fillets of beef à la Chateau- briand, 62. Broiled grey mullet, 97. Broiled goose’s thighs à la Saint Germain, 349. Broiled larks, 337. Broiled mackerel à la maître d’hôtel, II. Broiled pigeons, 190. Broiled plaice, 76. Broiled rabbit, 253. Broiled salmon, 132. Broiled shad à la maître d’hôtel, 43- Broiled shad with sorrel, 53, 70. Broiled tench, 40, 92. Broiled tunny with purée of sorrel, 233. Broiled truffles, 363.INDEX. 37* Broiled veal sausages, 313. Broiled whiting, 139. Broiled young rabbits in cases, 77. Broiled young ring-doves, 220. Brown fricassée of fowl, 283. Brown thickening, 107, 309. Brussels sprouts with butter, 25. Burnt cream, 170. Bustards, roast, 270. Bustards à la russe, 344. Butter, almond, 245. Butter, anchovy, 96, 138. Butter biscuits, Il3. Butter, capsicum, 196. Butter, Albert, 198. Butter, garlic, 131. Butter, Gascony, 213. Butter, lobster, 50, 143. Butter, maître d’hôtel, 83. Buttered eggs, 272. C. Cabbage and bacon, boiled, 255. Cabbage, pickled, and oysters, 57. Cabbage, stuffed, 63. Cabbage, stuffed, à la russe, 355. Cake, almond, 45, 276. Cake, baba, or rum, 186. Cake, choux, or light batter, 125. Cake, cougloff, or German, 117. Cake, duchess, 85. Cake, duchess à la pâtissière, 196. Cake, lead, 107. Cake, Madeleine, 126. Cake, pistachio, 95. Cake, rice, 90, 100. Cake, Saint Charles, 357. Cake, Saint Louis, 351. Cake, Savoy, or sponge, 226. Calfs brain fritters, 91, 234. Calf’s brains à la provençale, 183. Calfs brains, broiled, 239. Calf’s brains, 354. CalPs ears stewed with mushrooms, 135- Calt’s ears, stuffed, 195. Calf’s ears à l’italienne, 167. Calfs ears fried in batter, 213. Calfs feet, boiled, 262. B b Calfs feet, fried, 269. Calf’s head à la Destilière, 42. Calf’s head, stewed, 24. Calfs head, stuffed, 245. Calfs kidney, roasted, 114. Calf’s kidney, stewed, 344. Calf’s liver à l’italienne, 88. Calfs liver, roasted, 115. Calfs liver forcemeat, 164. Calf’s sweet-breads onskewers, 312. Calf’s tongue with tomato sauce, 56. Caper sauce, 124. Capon, boiled, 188. Capon à la régence, 238. Capon, roast, with watercress, 12. Capsicum butter, 196. Cardoons, baked, with bread- crumbs, 317. Cardoons for feast day, 286. Cardoons for fast day, 342. Cardoons à l’italienne, 317. Cardoons, purée of, 295. Cardoons stewed with marrow, 40. Cardoons, stewed, 282. Cardoons with white sauce, 264. Carp boiled in beer, 159. Carp, broiled, 185. Carp à la Chambord, 18. Carp, fried, 8. Carp à la Marinière, 172. Carp, pickled, 10. Carp, roe, scalloped, 304. Carp à la russe, 335. Carp, stewed, 61. Carp with stewed roe, 37. Carrots, glazed, 97. Carrots à la ménagère, 213. Carrots, purée of, 192. Carrots stewed in sugar and cream, 165. Cauliflower baked with bread- crumbs, 28. Cauliflower with butter sauce, 27. Cauliflower with cheese, 168 Cauliflower fritters, 3. Celery roots with butter sauce, 22. Celery, stewed, 8. Chartreuse of apple, 62. Cheese, baked, 337. Cheese biscuits à la Saint Denis, 131. Cheese fondu, 230. 2372 INDEX. Chestnuts, compote of, 307. Chestnuts, purée of, 44, 310. Chestnuts, purée of, à la Mancelle, 334- Chicory, purée of, with cream, 56. Chicory. purée of, with fried bread, 48. Chicken à la bonne femme, 54. Chiclcen à la Chivry, 280. Chicken croquettes, 175. Chicken à la d’Escars, 114. Chicken fried à la Orly, 189. Chicken fritters, 228, 344. Chicken glaze, 87. Chicken grilled à la Chasseur, 73. Chicken à l’italienne, 156. Chicken à la Marengo, 155, 361. Chicken patties, 156. Chicken patties, small, 293. Chicken and rice, 19. Chicken, roast, à la hambourgeoise, 224. Chicken with tarragon, 9. Chocolaté cream, 71. Chocolaté Angers with cream, 71. Chopped asparagus with cream, 157. Choux or light batter cakes, 125. Chub stewed with glazed onions, 239. Chump of veal à la bourgeoise, 17. Chump of veal braised, 153. Chump of veal with chicory, 46. Chump of veal roasted, 143. Chump of veal with purée of sorrel, 6. Civet of hare, 275. Clear soup with chervil leaves, 88. Clear stock à la française, 86. Cod with béchamel sauce, 141. Cod, boiled, slice, with egg sauce, 340. Cod à la hollandaise, 72. Cod and potatoes, 52. Cod, slices, with cream sauce, 3. Cod, stuffed, 329. Cod, sait, with black butter, m. Cod, sait, baked, with bread-crumbs, 103. Cod, sait, cream of, 110, 315. Cod, sait, fried, 294. Cod, sait, à la maître d’hôtel, S7. Cod, sait, tails à l’anglaise, 274. Coffee blanc-mange, 118. Cold braised goose, 58. Cold glazed filletsof partridge, 286. Cold pies, and how to make them, ii9- Cold roast or braised peacock, 362. Cold stewed hare, 283. Compote of chestnuts, 307. Compote of green apricots, 202. Compote of greengages, 225. Compote of fruit à la Normande, 18. Compote of orange, 43. Compote of peaches, 197, 242. Compote of pear, 289. Compote of red or white goose- berries, 167. Compote of ripe apricots, 171. Cornflour ramequins, 223. Cougloff, or German cake, 117. Coulibiac of eel, 350. • Court-bouillon, or white wine sauce, 109. Crayfish, aspic of, 327. Crayfish, boiled, 34. Crayfish à la bordelaise, 7. Crayfish patties, 169. Crayfish, roast, sea, 234. Crayfish soup, 32. Crayfish, stock, 342. Cream, almond, 79. Cream, bumt, 170. Cream, Bavarian maizena, 319. Cream pastry, 113. Cream quenelles, 76. Cream of sait cod, 110, 315. Cream sauce, 142, 155. Cream, tea, 160. Cream, vanilla, 352. Cream, virgin, 143, 237. Cream, whipped strawberry and raspberry, 120. Crécy, or carrot soup, 18. Croquantes, or almond toffee, 138. Croquenbouche, 139. Croquettes, chicken, 175- Croquettes of German paste, 215. Croquettes, ox palate, 173, 203. Croquettes, potato, 294, 320. Croquettes, rice, 162. Croustade of rice, 190. Cucumbers with béchamel sauce, 202.373 INDEX. Cucumbers, stuffed, ig8. Currant dumplings, 314. Currant fritters à la Dauphine, 274. Curry soup with rice, 49. Curry sauce, 366. Custard, three cornered puffs, 290. Cutlets,boar, à la Saint Hubert, 316. Cutlets, lamb, with French beans, 281. Cutlets, lamb, with purée of car- doons, 290. Cutlets, lark, 347. Cutlets, mutton, with tomato sauce, 87. Cutlets, mutton, a la jardinière, 110. Cutlets, mutton, àla financière, 357. Cutlets,pigeon, with green peas,2c>5. Cutlets, pork, with poivrade sauce, 189. Cutlets, pork, 240. Cutlets, roebuck, stewed, 363. Cutlets, veal, à la milanaise, 106. Cutlets, veal, àlagingarat, 127, 1S7. Cutlets, veal, with purée of mush- rooms, 297. Cutlets, veal, in cases, 338. Cutlets, young rabbit, with tomato sauce, 196. D. Dabs, fried, 46, 2x0. Duchess cakes, 85. Duchess cakes à la pâtissière, 196. Duck,braised, au père Douillet, 178. Duck, braised, and turnips, 187. Duck and olives, stewed, 279. Duck and peas, stewed, 295. Duck, stuffed, 268. Duck, thighs, in salmis, 112. Duck and turnips, stewed, 49. Duckling, roast, 47. Dumpling, currant, 314. E. Eel, brace, roasted, 104. F.el, coulibiac of, 350. Eel, fried, 78. Eel and rabbit, stewed, 123. Eel, roast, 182. Eel à l’anglaise, 68. Eel à la bordelaise, 94. Eel à la minute, 2. Eel à la poulette, 192. Eel à la Suffren, 9. Eel à la tartare, 253. Eel pout, fricassée with lettuce, 203. Eel pout, stewed, 151, 250. Eel pout à l’italienne, 219. Eel pout à la parisienne, 162. Eel pout à la prussienne, 197. Eggs, baked with cheese, 224. EggSj'balced, 256. Eggs, boiled, 134. Eggs, buttered with asparagus lïeads, 141. Eggs, buttered, 272. Eggs with cream sauce, 155. Eggs, hard-boiled, with béchamd sauce, 317- Eggs and oysters, scolloped, 128. Eggs with pistachio nuts, 183. Eggs, poached,with white sauce, 10. Eggs, poached, whites of, 84. Eggs with purée of sorrel. 162. Eggs, stuffed, with cream sauce, 53. Eggs à la tripe, 121. Eggs, vol-au-vent, with béchamel sauce, 41. Egg-plant, stuffed, 280. Elder-flower fritters, 179. Essence of ham, 14S. F. Fast days, bills of fare for, 10, 20, 30, 41, 51, 60, 70, 80, 90, 101, ni, 121, 131, 141, 151, 162, 172, 182, 192, 202, 212, 223, 254, 264, 274, 284, 294, 315, 325, 335. 345, 355, 3^5- Fennel sauce, 191. Figpeckers in cases, 299. Filbert butter, 198. Fillet of beef roasted, Madeira sauce, 91, 105. Fillet of beef slieed à la financière, 280.374 INDEX. Fillet of boar au chasseur, 319. Fillet of pork, 148. billet of veal roasted with fine herbs, 168. Fillet of veal pickled, 271. Fillet of venison roasted, 348. Fillet of venison sliced à la Saint Hubert, 353. Fillets of beef à la Chateaubriand, 62. Fillets of beef with poivrade sauce, 181, 316. Fillets of fowl à la cardinal, 308. Fillets of fowl cooked in butter, 36a Fillets of gurnet turban fashion, 126. Fillets of gurnet with tomato sauce, 218. Fillets of hare larded, 309. Fillets of mutton à la minute, 252. Fillets of partridge cold and glazed, 286. Fillets of partridge with truffles, 322. Fillets of pigeon à la Duxelle, 194. Fillets of slcate, 128. Fillets of sole à la Orly, 28. Fillets of sole with Italian sauce, 75, Fillets of sole baked with bread- crumbs, 94. Fillets of sole larded and stuffed, 105. Fillets of sole baked turban fashion, II3- Fillets of sole a la Joinville, 278. Fillets of sturgeon roasted, 41. Fillets of tealand anchovies, 365. Fillets of veal stuffed, 226. Fillets of whiting à la Conti, 25. Fillets of whiting baked with bread- crumbs, 44. Fillets of whiting à la Orly, 300. Fillets of whiting baked, 310. Fillets of woodcock à la provençale, 271. Fillets of woodcock on toast, 318. Fillets of young rabbit with cucum- ber, 225. Fish forcemeat, 97. Fish glaze, 87, 133. Fish patties, 228. Flemish garnish, 67. Foie gras, pâté of, 163. Foie gras à la perigueux, 328. Fondu of cheese, 250. Forcemeat, 97. Forcemeat, calf’s liver, 164. Forcemeat for cucumbers, 206. Forcemeat, egg, 351. Forcemeat, fish, 97. Forcemeat of fowl and truffles, 353. Forcemeat, quenelle, 247. Forcemeat, savory, 241. Forcemeat, truffle, 266. Forequarter of lamb, stuffed, 88. Forequarter oflamb roasted, 104. Forequarter of venison, roast, 358. Forequarter of southdown mutton, 190. Fowl boiled in pig’s bladder, 38. Fowl boiled in stock, 71. Fowl braised with tomato sauce, 125. Fowl, brown fricassée of, 283. Fowl, fillets, à la cardinal, 308. Fowl, fillets, cooked in'butter, 360. Fowl, forcemeat, with truffles, 353. Fowl, fricassée of, 83. Fowl fricassée à la Du Barry, 261. Fowl à la Grimod Reynière, 84. Fowl, roast, à la sucking-pig, 1. Fowl à la Montmorency, 7. Fowl, roast, with tomato sauce, 64. Fowl, roast, 177. Fowl stuffed with oysters and truffles, 2JI. Frangipane, 128. Frangipane, rnarrow, tart, 58, 339. French beans à l’anglaise, 111. French beans and haricots à la maître d’hôtel, 133. French beans à la poulette, 195. French beans with white sauce, 108. Fresh herrings with mustard sauce, 336. Fricandeau of sturgeon, 208. Fricandeau of sweet-breads, 126 Fricandeau of veal, 52, 132. Fricassée of eel and lettuce, 203. Fricassée of fowl, 83. Fricassée of fowl à la Du Barry, 261. Fricassée of fowl, brown, 2S3. Fried artichokes, 69. Fried calf’s ears in batter, 213. Fried calf’s feet, 269. Fried carp, 8. Fried chicken à la Orly, 189.375 INDEX. Fried dabs, 46, 210. Fried eel, 78. Fried potatoes à la Macaire, 199. Fried potatoes, 331. Fried purslane in batter, 91. Fried purslane à la milanaise 166, Fried quenelles, 191. Fried quenelles of potato, 242. Fried ram’s lcidney, 273. Fried salsifis, 221, 284. Fried sait cod, 294. Fried skate, 235. Fried sheep’s tails, 188. Fried sheep’s tails and rice, 218. Fried sheep’s trotters, 249. Fried slices of bread-crumb or brioche, 24. Fried slices of bread-crumb à la Normande, 31. Fried soles, 161, 299. Fried sweet-breads, xoo. Fried tench, 146. Fried tendons of veal, 35°- Fried tunny, 348. Fried whiting pollock, 130. Fried young rabbit, 71- Fritters, 269. Fritters, apple, à la d’Orléans, 68. Fritters, apple, 356. Fritters, apricot, with brandy, 94. Fritters, apricot, 175. Fritters, beetroot, 314. Fritters, calfs brain, 91, 234. Fritters, cauliflower, 3. Fritters à la Chantilly, 350. Fritters, chicken, 228, 344. Fritters, currant, à la Dauphine, 274- Fritters, elder-flower, 179. Fritters, jam, 208. Fritters, maizena, soufflé, 354- Fritters, orange, 49. Fritters, potato, 180. Fritters, sweet potato, 185. Fry, Italian, 285. G. Galantine of turkey-hen, 222. Galantine of young rabbit, 201. Garlic butter, 131. Garnish à la Chipolata, 79. Garnish à la Durand, 260. Garnish à la finançière, 78, 362. Garnish à la flamande, 67. Garnish à la forêt de Sénart, 125. Garnish à la Godard, 72- Garnish à la Toulouse, 35- Gascony butter, 213. Geneva sauce, 177- German paste, 302. Germait paste croquettes, 215. German paste timbale, 234. Giblets, turlcey or chicken, 157. Giblets, stewed turkey with Chipo- lata sausage, 36. Glaze, chicken, 87. Glaze for cold chickens, 339. Glaze for cold partridges and wood • cock, 329. Glaze, fish, 87. Glazed carrots, 97. Glazed fillets of partridge, 286. Glazed onions, 14. Glazed shoulder of lamb, 109. Golden thickening, 360. Goose, braised, à la Chipolata, 316. Goose, cold, braised, 58. Goose, hashed, à la lyonnaise, 11. Qoose, roast, 252. Goose, roast, and stuffed with chest- nuts, 31. Goose thighs à la lyonnaise, 349. Gooseberry, green, sauce, 138, 171. Gooseberry, red or white, in com- pote, 167. Gravy patries, 164. Gravy, vegetable, for fast day, 273. Green almond tart à la d’Escars, 216. Green pea soup, 152. Green peas à l’anglaise, 217, 106. Green peas boiled in their shells, 160. Green peas à la parisienne, 165. Green sauce, 97. Greengages, compote of, 225. Grey mullet, boiled, 97. Grey mullet with melted butter, 45. Grilled chicken à la chasseur, 73. Grouse, roast, 328. Guinea-fowl, roast, 293. Gurnet, fillets, turban fashion, 126. Gurnet, fillets, with tomato sauce,376 INDEX. H. Half braise, 247. Ham, boiled, à la Maillot, 303. Ham, essence of, 148. Ham, purée of, 322. Ham, roast, 112. Ham, York à l’anglaise, 55. Hard-boiled eggs with béchamel sauce, 317. Hare, baron, roast, 331. Hare, boudins of, 321. Hare, civet of, 275. Hare, cold, stewed, 283. Hare, fillets, larded, 309. Hare à la mode, 246. Hare, roast, 297. Hare, roast, à la finnoise, 349. Haricot of mutlon, 23. Haricot beans à la Bretonne, 33. Haricot beans with capsicum butter, 312. Haricot beans â la maître d’hôtel, 211. Haricot beans and marrow, 235. Haricot beans, purée of, 184. Haricot beans, purée of, with cream, 38. Haricot beans, red, à la borgui- gnonne, 80. Haricot beans, white, in purée, 310. Hashed boiled beef, 262. Hashed goose à la lyonnaise, il. Haunch of boar à la royale, 263. Herrings, fresh, with mustard sauce, 336. Herrings, smoked, à la bruxelloise, 361. Homfish with hollandaise sauce, 168. Hot forcemeat pie, 268. Hot salmon pie, 152. L Iced bomb, 185. ïced soufflé of vanilla and chocolaté, 244. Ices, baked, 15J. Italian fry, 285. J. Jam fritters, 208. Jam puffs, 95. Jelly, lemon, 136. Jugged lamprey, 142 Jugged venison or roeDucl^ 19 Julienne soup, 2. K. Kidney patties, 142. Kidneys, fried ram’s, 273. Kidneys, calfs, stewed, 344. Kluskis of cream cheese, 101, 214, Kluskis or méat cakes, 201, Kromeskys, 296. L. Lamb, braised breast with asparagus, 79- Lamb, braised saddle gamished with rissoles, 2. Lamb, breasts, à la maréchale, 210. Lamb cutlets and French beans, 281. Lamb cutlets with purée of cardoons, 290. Lamb, forequarter, roast, 104. Lamb, forequarter, stuffed, 88. Lamb, hindquarter, roast and Iarded, 171. Lamb, saddle, roast, 77. Lamb, shoulder, glazed, 109. Lamb sweet-breads with rice, 285. Lampreys à l’italienne, 67. Lampreys, jugged, 142. Lapwing, roast, 68, 183. Larded fillets of sole, 105. Larded fillets of hare, 309. Larded hindquarter of lamb roasted, 171. Larded loin of veal braised, 265. Lark cutlets, 347. Lark pie, 25.5. Larks, broiled, 357. Larks in cases, 263. Larks au chasseur, 34 j. Larks, roast, 296.377 INDEX. Larks, salmis of, 14, 272. Lead cake, 107. Leeks, purée of, 2x9. Leg of mutton, boiled, with vege- tables, 299. Leg of mutton, braised, 204. Leg of mutton, braised, à la Durand, 257- Leg of mutton à la polonaise, 215. Leg of mutton à la provençale, 82. Leg of mutton, roast, 127. Leg of mutton, à la roebuck, 334. Leg of mutton à la russe, 229. Leg of mutton, stewed, 103. Lemonjelly, 136. Lemon sauce, 207. Lentils, pure'e of, 92, 158. Lettuce, stewed, 32. Lettuce, stuffed, 227. Leveret à la minute, 324. Ligbt pastry, 115. Liver, calf’s, à l’italienne, 88. Liver, calf’s, roasted, 115. Liver, sheep’s, à la ménagère, 277. Lobster butter, 50, 143. Lobster patties à la béchamel, 51. Lobster salad, 35. Lobster sauce, 116. Lobster scallops à la parisienne, 279. Lobsters boiled in court-bouillon, 116. Lobsters à la Bordelaise, 347. Loin of mutton boned à la nivemaise, 282. Loin of veal, larded and braised, 265. Loin of veal, roasted, 197. M. Macédoine of fruit in jelly, 227. Maccaroni cheese, 172. Maccaroni, timbale of, 80, 306. Maccaroni with tomato sauce, 93, M ackerel, broiled, à la maître d’hôtel, 11. Mackerel, boiled, 120. Mackerel à la flamande, 190. Mackerel stuffed with green goose- berries, 138. Madeleine cakes, 126. Maître d’hôtel butter, 83. Maizena Bavarian cream, 319. Maizena cream tart, 326. Maizena fritters soufflé, 354. Maizena omelet à la russe, 345. Maizena pancakes, 330. Marinade of wine or vinegar, 338. Marmalade, peach, 277. Marrow, beef, à la Orly, 150. Marrow frangipane tart, 339. Marrow quenelles, 144. Mayonnaise sauce, 176. Mayonnaise of tendons of veal, 174. Mayonnaise of turbot, 254. Méat cakes or kluskis, 201. Melon, how to choose one, 173. Meringue of apple, 33. Meringue with cream, 78. Mirabelle plum marmalade, 232. Mirepoix, 278. Morels à l’andalouse, 101. Morels à l’italienne, 98. Morels on toast, 129. Mullet, broiled grey, 97. Mushrooms, baked, 84. Mushrooms, purée of, 308. Mushrooms, stewed, 332. Mushrooms, stuffed, 248. Mushrooms on toast, 60, 289. Mussels à la marinière, 2x3. Mussels à la poulette, 193. Mussels à la Villeroi, 313. Mussels, scalloped, 296. Mussels, stewed, 267. Mutton, breast, with sauce piquante, 8. Mutton, breast, braised, 133. Mutton cutlets with onions, 15. Mutton cutlets à la jardinière, 59, 110. Mutton cutlets with tomato sauce, 87. Mutton cutlets à la financière, 357. Mutton fillets à la minute, 252. Mutton, forequarter of, southdown, à la Bretonne, 190. Mutton, haricot of, 23. Mutton, leg, boiled, with caper sauce, Si- Mutton, leg, braised, 55. Mutton, leg, à la provençale, 82. Mutton, leg, stewed, 103.INDEX. 373 Mutton, leg, roast, 127. Mutton, leg, à la polonaise, 215. Mutton, leg, à la russe, 229. Mutton, leg, braised, 204. Mutton, leg, à la Durand, 257. Mutton, leg, boiled with vegetables, 299. Mutton, leg, à la roebuck, 334. Mutton, loin, boned à la nivernaise, 282. Mutton, navarin of, 352. Mutton, saddle, roast, 12, 178. Mutton, braised saddle, 37. Mutton,saddle,roast,à l’anglaise, 29. Mutton, saddle, braised, 2. Mutton, shoulder, braised with glazed onions, 73. N. Navarin of mutton, 352. Nougat, 139. Nun’s sighs, 70. O. Omelet, 123. Ornelet with asparagus-heads, 141. Omelet, anchovy, 243. Omelet, bacon, 118. Omelet à la jardinière, 206. Omelet, maizena, à la russe, 345. Omelet soufflé, 306. Omelet, tunny, 232. Onion, brown, sauce, 346. Onion, white, sauce, 346. Onions, glazed, 14. Onions, purée of, à la Bretonne, 54. Onions, purée of, à la Soubise, 330. Onions, stewed, 332. Onions, stuffed, 118. Open tart, apple, 111. Open tart, apricot, à la Metternich, 172. Open tart, apricot, à la bonne femme, 221. Open tart, fruit, 164. Open tart, green almond, à la d’Escars, 216. Open tart of maizena cream, 326. Open tart of marrowfrangipane, 339. Orange fritters, 49. Orange salad, 43. Ortolans in cases, 299. Ortolans à la périgourdine, 314. Ortolans, roast, 311. Ortolans roasted in asaucepan, 333. Ox palates in croquettes, 173, 203. Ox palates à la lyonnaise, 177. Ox-tail à la Sainte-Menehould, 165. Ox-tongue, baked, 74. Ox-tongue, braised, 26. Ox-tongue, stewed, with Parmesan cheese, 92. Ox-tongue, slices of, in cases, 302. Oyster, patties, 30. Oysters, stewed, 99. P. Panada, bread, 96. Panada, bread made with mille, 233- Pancakes, 214. Pancakes of maizena, 330. Partridge à l’anglaise, 327. Partridge, braised, 300. Partridge, braised, à la Cussy, 311. Partridge and cabbage, 273. Partridge, fillets, cold, glazed, 286. Partridge, fillets, with truffles, 322. Partridge, à la parisienne, 346. Partridge, purée of, 252, 354. Partridge, roast, 7. Partridge, scalloped, 267. Partridge soufflé, 291. Partridge, stewed, 262. Paste, brioche, 359. Paste, German, 302. Pastry, cream, 113. Pastry, light, 115. Pâté offoie gras, 163. Patties, crayfish, 169. j Patties, fish, 228. | Patties, gravy, 164. 1 Patties, kidney, 142. Patties, oyster. 30. Patties, small, à la bourgeoise, 331. Patties, small, of chicken, 295.INDEX. 379 Patties, small, à la reine, 287. Peach marmalade, 277. Peaches, compote of, 197, 242. Peaches à la Coudé, 205. Pear, compote of, 289. Peas and bacon, 139. Peas, green, boiled in their sliells, 160. Peas, purée of green, 184. Peas, green, à l’anglaise, 106. Peas, purée of green, with rice, 57. Pheasant à la bohémienne, 277. Pheasant, roast, à la Brillât Savarin, 251. Pheasant, stewed, 330. Pickled cabbage and oysters, 57. Pickled carp, 10. Pickled fillet of veal, 271. Pickled ox-tongue, 176. Pickled pike, 20. Pie, cold, and how to make, XI9. Pie, hot, 122. Pie, hot, forcemeat, 268. Pie, hot, salmon, 152. Pie, lark, 255. Pie, salmon, 102. Pie, sole, 341. Pie, sucking-pig, 122. Pie, turbot, 304. Pie, vegetable, à la béchamel, 231. Pie, woodcock, 303. Pig, sucking, roast, 122. Pig’s ears à la lyonnaise, 108. Pig’s ears, braised, 184. Pig’s ears à la Sainte-Menehould, 269. Pig’s tail with purée of green peas, 149. Pigeons, broiled, 190. Pigeons, cutlets of, with green peas, 205. Pigeons, filleted à la Duxelle, 194. Pigeons, roast, 147. Pigeons, stewed, with asparagus, 140. Pigeons, stewed, with crayfish, 65. Pigeons, stewed, with green peas, 140. Pigeons, stewed, 158. Pike with anchovy sauce, 5. Pike à la Clermont, 324. Pike dressed like a dolphin, 269. Pike with horseradish sauce, 42. Pike, pickled, 20. Pike, stuffed and roast, 7°- Pilau of rice, 2x5. Pilau of rice for fast day, 223. Pintail, roast, 5t. Pistachio cake, 95. Pistachio nut blanc-mange, 291. Plaice, broiled, 76. Plover, braised, 244. Plover, roast, 56. Plover, roast, with stewed mush- rooms, 66. Plover, stewed, with truffles, 355- Plum-pudding, 48. Plum-pudding, an excellent, 204. Poached, whites of egg, 84. Poivrade sauce, 101. Polenta à l’italienne, 339. Poor man’s sauce, 205. Pork, sait, with cabbage, 56. Pork cutlets with poivrade sauce, 189. Pork cutlets, 240. Pork, loin of, 148. Pork, roast loin of, 261. Pot au feu, or uncleared stock, 183. Potato croquettes, 294, 32c. Potato fritters, 180. Potato salad, 265, 335. Potatoes à l’anglaise, 67. Potatoes and bacon, 216. Potatoes, baked, purée, with bread- crumbs, 19. Potatoes boiled in their skins, 150. Potatoes and cream, 233. Potatoes, fried, 52, 331. Potatoes, fried, à la Macaire, 199. Potatoes, fried, quenelles of, 242. Potatoes à la parisiénne, 125. Potatoes, puree of, 39. Potatoes, purée à la Maria, 256. Potatoes, purée, baked, 365. Potatoes, sweet, with butter, 115. Potatoes with white sauce, 224. Puchero or Spanish soup, 343. Pudding, apple, 253. Pudding à la Cowley, 317. Pudding, an excellent, 140. Pudding, an excellent plum, 204. Pudding, plum, 48.INDEX. 380 Pudding, turnip, 364. PufFs, jam, 95. PufFs, three-cornered custard, 290. Pullet, braised, with white sauce, 217. Pullet, stulFed, turtle Fashion, 236. Purée of bottoms oF artichokes, 47. Purée oF artichoke soup, 47. Purée oF barley, 54. Purée oF carrots, 5, 192. Purée of cardoons, 295. Purée of chestnuts, 44, 310. Purée of chestnuts à la raancelle, 334. Purée of chicory with fried bread, 48. Purée of chicory with cream, 56. Purée of game, 292. Purée of green peas and rice, 57. Purée of green peas, 184. Purée of ham, 322. Purée of haricot beans à la Condé, 1. Purée of haricot beans, 60, 184, 310. Purée of haricot beans with cream, 38. Purée ofleeks, 219. Purée oflentils, 5, 92, 158. Purée of mushrooms, 308. Purée of onions à la Bretonne, 54. Purée of onions à la Soubise, 330. Purée of partridge, 252, 354. Purée of potatoes, 39. Purée of potatoes, baked, 365. Purée of potatoes à la Maria, 256. Purée of rice, 58. Purée of rice with chervil, 82. Purée of sorrel, 114, 358. Purée of tumips, 30, 134. Purée of young rabbits with rice, I3Ô- . Purslane fried in batter, 91. Purslane, fried, à la milanaise, 166. Q. Quail with green peas, 266. Quail, roast, 259. Quail, stewed, with lettuce, 288, Quail stuffed with trahies, 312. Quenelles, cream, 76. Quenelles, forcemeat for, 247. Quenelles, fried, 191. Quenelles, fried, potato, 242. Quenelles, marrow, 144. Quenelles of scalloped carp, eel pout, cod, or whiting, 208. Quenelles, semolina, 80. Quenelles of sturgeon, 325. R. Rabbits, boudin à la Richelieu, 200. Rabbits, broiled, 253. Rabbits, stewed, with onions, 209. Rabbits à la vénitienne, 124. Rabbits, young, broiled in cases, 77. Rabbits, young, brace of, roast, 117. Rabbits, young, au chasseur, 129. Rabbits, young, cutlets of, with tomato sauce, 196. Rabbits, young,- filleted, with cu- cumber, 225. Rabbits, young, fried, 71.- Rabbits, young, galantine of, 201. Rabbits, young, purée of, with rice, 136. Rabbits, young, in salad, 337. Rabbits, young, scalloped, with asparagus, 154. Rabbits, young, scalloped, with white sauce, 180. Rabbits, young, stewed, 206. Ram’s kidney, fried, 273. Ramequins, cornflour, 223. Raviolis, baked, 334. Redbreasts, 346. Red cabbage salad à la russe, 343. Red haricot beans à la bourgui- gnonne, 80. Red mullet in cases, 20. Red mullet with oyster sauce, 91. Red mullet with tartare sauce, 106. Ribsof beef à la Bordelaise, 292,320. Ribs of beef, stewed, 185. Rice cake, 90, 100. Rice croquettes, 162. Rice, croustade of, 190. Rice and lamb’s sweet-breads, 285. Rice pilau for fast day, 223. Rice pilau, 215. Rice, purée of, 58. Rice, purée of, with chervil, S2. Rice soufflé, 66. Ring-doves, young, broiled, 220.INDEX. 3Si Rissoles of cockscombs and truffles, 137- Roast beef with potatoes, 160. Roast beef with iorcemeat patties, 175- Roast blackcock, 298, 326. Roast bustard, 270. Roast brace of eels, 104. Roast brace of young rabbits, 117. W oast calf’s kidney, 114. Roast calf’s liver, 115. Roast chicken à la hambourgeoise, 224. Roast duckling, 47. Roast eel, 182 Roast fillet of beef with Madeira sauce, 91, 105. Roast fillet of sturgeon, 41. Roast fillet of veal with fine herbs, 168. Roast fillet of venison, 348. Roast fowl with tomato sauce, 64. Roast fowl, 177. Roast forequarter of lamb, 104. Roast forequarter of venison, 358. Roast goose, 252. Roast grouse, 328. Roast guinea-fowl, 293. Roast liant, 112. Roast hare, 297. Roast hare à la finnoise, 349. Roast lapwing, 68, 183. Roast larded hindquarter of lamb, 171. Roast larks, 296. Roast leg of mutton, 127. Roast leg of roebuck, 249. Roast loin of pork, 261. Roast loin of veal, 197 Roast ortolans, 311. Roast ortolans in a saucepan, 333. Roast partridge, 7. Roast peacock, cold, 362. Roast pheasant à la Brillât Savarin, 251. Roast pigeons, 147. Roast pike, stuffed, 7a Roast pintail, 51. Roast plover, 56. Roast plover and stewed mushrooms, 66. Roast quail, 259. Roast saddle of lamb, 77. Roast saddle of mutton, 178. Roast sea crayfish, 234. Roast shad, 75. Roast shovellers, 179* Roast sltce of sturgeon, 284. Roast small birds à l’italienne, 292. Roast sucking-pig, 122. Roast thrushes, 248. Roast turkey-hen stuffed with truffles, 336- Roe, scalloped carp’s, 304. Roe, stewed, 143. Roe, stewed, for fast day, 294. Roe, stewed, 329. Roebuck, roast leg of, 249 Roebuck, stewed, cutlets, 363. Royal sticks, 202. Rump-steak, braised, 117. Russian salad, 305. S. Saddle of lamb, roasted, 77. Saddle of mutton, braised, 2, 37. Saddle of mutton, roasted, 178. Saint Charles cake, 357. Saint Louis cake, 351. Salad, lobster, 35. Salad, mixed vegetable, 40. Salad, orange, 43. Salad, potato, 265, 335. Salad, red cabbage, à la russe, 343. Salad, Russian, 305. Salad sauce, 34. Salad, vegetable, 34. Salad, vegetable, and srnoked sal- mon, 59. Salad of young rabbit, 337. Salad, watercress and potato, 340. Salmis of black diver, 254. Salmis of duck’s thighs, 112. Salmis of larks, 272. Salmis of wild duck, 241. Salmis of woodcock, 256, 364. Salmon boiled in court-bouillon, 228. Salmon, broiled, 132. Salmon pie, 102. Salmon pie, hot, 152.3§2 INDEX. Salmon, scalloped with white sauce, 189. Salsifis, fried, 221, 284. Sait cod, baked, witli bread-crumbs, 103. Sait cod with black butter, in. Sait cod, cream of, 110, 315. Sait cod, fried, 294. Sait cod tails à l’anglaise, 274. Sait cod à la maître d’hôtel, t>7 Sait pork and cabbage, 56. Sait, spiced, 257. Sauce, anchovy, 152. Sauce à la bourgeoise, 209. Sauce à la cardinal, 325. Sauce à la Duxelle, 146. Sauce à la finançière, 362. Sauce, béarnaise, 367. Sauce, béchamel, with stock, 229. Sauce, béchamel, for fast day, 231. Sauce, béchamel cream, 231. Sauce, black butter, 288. Sauce, Bordelaise, 304. Sauce, brown onion, 346. Sauce, caper, 124. Sauce, white, 31. Sauce, Chateaubriand, 81. Sauce, court-bouillon, 109. Sauce, cream, 142, 155. Sauce, cream, béchamel, 231. Sauce, curry, 367. Sauce, diplomatie, 325. Sauce, eschalot, 283. Sauce, fennel, 191. Sauce, fresh butter, 22. Sauce, Geneva, 177. Sauce, German, 93. Sauce good for ail roasts, 38. Sauce, green, 97. Sauce, green gooseberry, 138, 171. Sauce, hollandaise or Dutch, 21. Sauce, horseradish, 323. Sauce, Italian, 287. Sauce, lemon, 207. Sauce, lobster, 116. Sauce, Madeira, 232. Sauce, marinade of wine or vinegar, 33§- Sauce, matelote, 359- Sauce, mayonnaise, 176. Sauce, mint, 89. Sauce, mirepoix, 278. Sauce, mousquetaire, 214. Sauce, onion, brown, 346. Sauce, onion, white, 346. Sauce, oyster, 323. Sauce, perigueux, 301. Sauce, piquante, 178. Sauce, poivrade, 81, 101. Sauce, poor man’s, 205. Sauce. Portuguese, 255, Sauce, ravigote, 150. Sauce, ravigote, provençale,, 361. Sauce, rémoulade, 297. Sauce, rémoulade, à la cosaque, 217. Sauce, Robert, 64. Sauce, salad, 34. Sauce, shrimp, 177. Sauce, Spanish, 235, 308. Sauce, tartare, 75. Sauce, tomato, 6. Sauce, velouté, 236. Sauce, villeroi, 363. Sauce, white, 31. Sauce, white onion, 346. Sauce for ail roasts 267. Sauce, good, for cold scraps of méat, 356. Sausages, broiled veal, 313. Savory forcemeat, 241. Savoy cake, 226. Scallops, lobster, à la parisienne, 279. Scalloped partridges, 267. Scalloped salmon with white sauce, 189. Scalloped young rabbits with aspara- gus, 154. Scalloped young rabbits with white sauce, 180. Scalloped carp, cod, or whiting, 208. Scalloped carp’s roe, 304. Scalloped eggs and oysters, 128. Scalloped mussels, 296. Scalloped quenelles of eel pout, 208. Sea crayfish, roasted, 234. Semolina quenelles, 80. Semolina timbales au chasseur, 174. Shad, boiled, with hollandaise sauce, 65- Shad boiled in court-bouillon, 90. Shad boiled with maître d’hôte sauce, 43.INDEX. 3°3 Shad, broiled, and sorrel, 53, 70. Shad, roast, 75. Sheep’s livèr à la ménagère, 277. Sheep’s tails, 188. Sheep’s tails and rice, 2x8. Sheep’s tongue, braised, 157. Sheep’s trotters with Robert sauce, 160. Sheep’s trotters, fried, 249. Shoulder of mutton, braised, and glazed onions, 73. Shovellers, roasted, 179. S.irimp sauce, 177. Sirloin of beef à la provençale, 179. Skate, fillets of, 128. Skate, fried, 235. Skate à la Sainte Menehould, 99. Skate with mixed herbs, 221. Sliced fillet of beef à la financière, 280. Sliced fillet of venison à la Saint Hubert, 353. Slices of cod with cream sauce, 3. Slices of cod, boiled; egg sauce, 340. Slices of sturgeon, baked, 238. Slices of sturgeon, roasted, 2S4, Slices of sturgeon, braised, 289. Slices of tongue in cases, 302. Small birds roasted à l’italienne, 292. Small chicken patties, 295. Small patties à la bourgeoise, 331. Small patties à la reine, 287. Smelts à l’anglaise, 237. Smelts, baked, 26. Smoked herrings à la bruxelloise, 361. Soles à la Colbert, 321. Soles à la normande, 264. Soles à la parisienne, 131. Soles, fillets, baked, with bread- crumbs, 94. Soles, fillets, baked, turban fashion, Soles, fillets, with Italian sauce, 75. Soles, fillets, à la Joinville, 278. Soles, fillets, Iarded andstuffed, 105. Soles, fillets, à la Orly, 28. Soles, fried, 161, 299. Soles, pie of, 341. Soles, stuffed with mixed herbs, 137. Soles with white wine sauce, 147. Sorrel, purée of, 114, 358. Soufflé iced vanilla and chocolaté, 244-, Soufflé maizena fritters, 354. Soufflé, omelet, 306. Soufflé, partridge, 291. Soufflé, rice, 66. Soup, Bagration, 327. Soup, Baraquine, 324. Soup, bread, 6. Soup, bread and cabbage, à la Gas- conne, 89. Soup, bread and cabbage, for fast day, 325. Soup, bread and cabbage, for feast day, 258. Soup à la Brisse, 166. Soup, brunoise, with Italian paste, 3. Soup, brunoise, with rice, 16. Soup, cabbage, 56. Soup, chick pea, 240, Soup, clear, 181. Soup, clear, with chervil leaves, 88. Soup, clear fish, 243. Soup, clear, with poached eggs, 159. Soup, clear, with profit rolls, 266. Soup, clear, with quenelles, 29. Soup, clear, with quenelles of chicken, 100. Soup, clear stock, à la Française, 86. Soup, Colbert, 9. Soup, crayfish, 32. Soup, crayfish, with rice, 246. Soup, cream of rice, with chervil, 35. Soup, Crécy, or carrot, 18. Soup, Crécy, with crusts of bread, 4. Soup, curry, with rice, 49. Soup, Faubonne, à la, 12. Soup, fish, clear, 243. Soup, fish, with chopped herbs, 365. Soup, fish, à la nîmoise, 233. Soup, French, 21. Soup, fried gravy crusts with, 27. Soup, German paste, 17. Soup, green pea, 152. Soup, herb, 20, 141. Soup, herb, à la provençale, 249. Soup, Italian paste, 22. Soup, julienne, 2. Soup, julienne, for fast day, 41. Soup, leek, 19.384 INDEX. Soup, lettuce, 5g. Soup, Livonian, 348. Soup, maccaroni, 7. Soup, mock turtle, French fashion, 26. Soup, mock turtle, 259. Soup, mutton, 268. Soup, Neapolitan, 238. Soup, ox-tail, 293. Soup, Parisian, 8. Soup, pea, 23, 31. Soup, pea, à la grecque, 338. Soup, à la Saint Germain, 349. Soup, peasant, 13. Soup, puchero or Spanisli, 343. Soup, à la reine, 207. Soup, rice, 25. Soup, rice, with almonds, 10. Soup, rice and leek, 234. Soup, rice, à la turque, 239. Soup, sago, 38. Soup, à la Savoyarde, 229. Soup, Semolina, with sorrel, 37. Soup, Spanish or puchero, 343. Soup, Solferino, 153. Soup, sorrel, withcream, 341. Soup, spring, 86. Soup, spring cabbage, 129. Soup, swallow’s nests, 340. Soup, tapioca, 14. Soup, tapioca, à la Gouffé, 278. Soup, .vegetable, for fast day, 182. Soup, vermicelli, 33. Soup, white chicory, à la Colbert, 216. Soup, white, à la Monaco, 7°- Soup, white, à la reine, 207. Soup, white vermicelli, 155. Soup, with bread crusts, 93. Soup, young onion, 11 Spiced sait, 257. Spinach à la maître d’hôtel, 178. Spinach, stewed, 169. Spinach, stewed, old fashion, 220. Spinach, sweet, 57. S ponge cake, 226. Sponge cake glazed with chocolaté, 57- ■ , Steak, braised rump, 117. Steak and potatoes, 98. Stew, 270. Stewed apples, 50. Stewed apples with rice, 93. Stewed apples and rice, 130. Stewed artichokes with essence of ham, 148. Stewed asparagus heads, 119. Stewed barbel, 200. Stewed brillwith mixed herbs, 122. Stewed calfs brains in matelote sauce, 354. Stewed calf’s ears with mushrooms, I3S- Stewed calfs head, 24. Stewed calfs kidneys, 344. Stewed cardoons, 282. Stewed cardoons with marrow, 40. Stewed carrots in sugar and cream, 165. Stewed carp, 61. Stewed carp, pike, perch, barbel, and eel, 230. Stewed carp and eel, 12. Stewed celery, 8. Stewed chub with glazed onions, 239. Stewed duck and turnips, 49. Stewed duck and olives, 279. Stewed ducks and peas, 295. Stewed eel pout, 151, 250. Stewed eel and rabbit, 123. Stewed hare, 283. Stewed leg of mutton, 103. Stewed lettuce, 32. Stewed mushrooms, 332. Stewed mussels, 267. Stewed neck of veal, 193. Stewed onions, 332. Stewed ox-tongue with Parmesan cheese, 92. Stewed oysters, 99. Stewed partridge, 262. Stewed pheasant, 330. Stewed plovers andtruffles, 355. Stewed pigeons and asparagus, 140. Stewed pigeons and green peas, 140. 6tewed pigeons and crayfish, 65. Stewed pigeons, 158. Stewed quails and lettuce, 288. Stewed rabbits and onions, 209. Stewed ribs of beef, 185. Stewed roe, 143, 329. Stewed roe for fast day, 294. Stewed roebuck cutlets, 363. I Stewed spinach, 169.335 INDEX. c c Stewed spinach, old fashion, 220. Stewed sturgeon, 74, 345. Stewed teal and olives, 237. Stewed turkey-hen, 191. Stewed turkey giblets with Chipo- lata sausage, 36. Stewed tumips, 45, 154. Stewed turnips in white sauce, 121. Stewed turnips and sugar, 323. Stewed veal à la bourgeoise, 99. Stewed young rabbits, 206. Stock, clear, à la française, 86. Stock, crayfish, 342. Stock, pot au feu, oruncleared, 183, Strawberry and raspberry whipped cream, 120. Stuffed anchovies, 154. Stuffed artichokes à la barigoule, X, 82. Stuffed artichokes, 281. Stuffed cabbage, 63. Stuffed cabbage à la russe, 355. Stuffed calf’s ears, 195. Stuffed calf’s head, 245. Stuffed cod, 329. Stuffed cucumber, 198. Stuffed duck, 268. Stuffed eggs with cream, 53. Stuffed egg-plant, 280. Stuffed fillets of veal, 226. Stuffed forequarter of lamb, 88. Stuffed fowls with truffles and oysters, 2II. Stuffed lettuce, 227. Stuffed mackerel with green goose- berries, 138. Stuffed mushrooms, 248. Stuffed onions, 11S. Stuffed pike roasted, 70. Stuffed pullet, turtle fashion, 236. Stuffed quails with tr'uffles, 312. Stuffed soles with mixedherbs, 137, Stuffed tomatoes, 170, 303. Sturgeon, fillet, roast, 41. Sturgeon, fricandeau of, 208. Sturgeon, quenelles of, 325. Sturgeon, slice, baked, 238. Sturgeon, slice, braised, 289. Sturgeon, slice, roasted, 284. Sturgeon, stewed, 74, 345. Sucking-pig au père Douillet, 146. Sucking-pig pie, 122. Sucking-pig, roast, 122. Swallow’s nests soup, 340. Sweet-breads, calf’s, onskewers, 312. Sweet-breads in cases, 270. Sweet-breads, fried, 100. Sweet-breads à la provençale, 242. Sweet-breads, lamb’s, with rice, 285. Sweet-breads with Spanish sauce, 21. Sweet-breads à la Toulouse, 35. Sweet-breads with white sauce, 27. Sweet potatoes with butter, 115. Sweet potatoes, fritters of, 185. T. Tart, open apple, ni. Tart, open apricot, à la Metternich, 172. Tart, open apricot, à la bonne femme, 221, Tart, open fruit, 164. Tart, open green almond, à la d’Escars, 216. Tart, open, of maizena cream, 326. Tart, open, of marrow frangipane, 339- Tartlets, vanilla, 69. Tea, cream, 160. Teal, fillets, with anchovies, 365. Teal, stewed, with olives, 237. Tench boiled in court-bouillon, 79. Tench, broiled, 40, 92. Tench, fried, 146. Tendons of beef in vol-au-vent, 147. Tendons of veal, fried, 350. Tendons of veal, with green peas, 238. Tendons of veal, mayonnaise of, 174. Tendons of veal with white sauce, 45, 2I°> 351- Timbale à la champenoise, 290. Timbale of German paste, 234. Timbale of maccaroni, 80, 306. Timbale of semolina au chasseur, 174. Thickening, brown, 309, 107. Thickening, golden, 360. Thickening, white, 107. Three-comered custard puffs, 2QO. Thrushes cooked in brandy, 301. Thrushes, roast, 248.336 INDEX. Thrushes à la paysanne, 281. Tomatoes, stuffed, 170, 305, Tongue, calf’s, with tomato sauce, 56. Tongue, sheep’s, braised, 157. Tongue, ox, baked, 74. Tongue, ox, boiled, 176. Tongue, ox, braised, 26. Tongue, ox, slices in cases, 302. Tongue, ox, witb Parmesan cheese, stewed, 92. Topside of sirloin of beef à la Godard, 76. Trout and anchovy butter, 96. Trout boiled in court-bouillon, 55. Trout à la Chambord, 77. Trout à l’espagnole, 158. Trout with Geneva sauce, 177. Trout à la hussarde, 124. Truffle forcemeat, 266. Truffles boiled in champagne, 338. Truffles, broiled, 363. Truffled turkey-hen, 356. Tunny broiled with purée of sorrel, 233- Tunny, fried, 348. Tunny, omelet, 232. Turbot, baked, 95, 231. Turbot à la hollandaise, 333. Turbot with horse-radish sauce, 186. Turbot, mayonnaise of, 254. Turbot pie, 304. Turkey giblets, 157. Turkey giblets stewed with Chipo- lata sausage, 36. Turkeypinions with purée of chicory, 102. Turkey pinions à la Sainte Mene- hould, 116. Turkey pinions with purée of chest- nuts, 278. Turkey-hen, galantine of, 222. Turkey-hen, roast, 13. Turkey-hen, stewed, 191. Turkey-hen stuffed with truffles, roast or braised, 336. Turkey-hen, truffled, 356. Turnips, pudding of, 364. Turnips, purée of, 134. Turnips, stewed, 45, 154. Turnips stewed with sugar, 323. Turnips stewed in white sauce, 121. V. Vanilla cieam, 352. Van ilia tartlets, 69. Vanilla and chocolaté soufflé iced, 244. Veal, breast and neck, with aspara- gus heads, 96. Veal, breast, à la poulette, 134. Veal, breast, with green peas, 144. Veal, chump, with sorrel, 6. Veal, chump, à la bourgeoise, 17. Veal, chump, with chicory, 46. Veal, chump of, 143. Veal cutlets, à la milanaise, 106. Veal cutlets àlaGingarat, 127, 187, Veal cutlets with pur ce of mush- rooms, 297. ■ Veal cutlets in cases, 338. Veal, fillet, with fine herbs, roasted, 168. Veal, fillets, stuffed, 226. Veal, fricandeau, 52, 132. Veal, loin, roasted, 197. Veal, loin, braised and larded, 265. Veal, neck, stewed, 193. Veal, pickled fillet of, 271. Veal sausages, broiled, 313. Veal, stewed, à la bourgeoise, 99. Veal, tendons, fried, 350. Veal, tendons, with green peas, 238. Veal, tendons, in mayonnaise, 174. Veal, tendons, with white sauce, 45, 210, 351. Vegetable gravy for fast day, 273. Vegetable pie à la béchamel, 231. Vegetables, salad of mixed, 40. Venison, fillet, roast, 348, Vemson, fillet, sliced à la Saint- Hubert, 353, Virgin cream, 143, 237. Vol-au-vent of beef tendons, 147. Vol-au-vent of eggs with béchamel sauce, 41. W. Watercress and potato salad, 346. Weaver or sea-dragon, baked, 135.INDEX. C 2 3S7 Weaver à la Bordelaise, 240. Weaver à la maître d’hôtel, 297. Weaver à la Normande, 240. Whipped strawberry and raspberry cream, 120. White braise, 247. White haricot beans, purée of, 310. White thickening, 107. Whiting, baked, with bread-crumbs, 321. Whiting, broiled, 139. Whiting, fillets, baked with bread- crumbs, 44. Whiting, fillets, baked, 310. • Whiting, fillets, à la Orly, 300. Whiting pollock, fried, 130. Wild duck, roast, 5. Wild duck, salmis of, 241, Woodcock, fillets, on toast, 318. Woodcock pie, 303. Woodcock, salmis of, 256, 364. Y. YoRKhapi à l’anglaise, 55. Young rabbits broiled in cases, 77. Young rabbits, brace, roast, 117. Young rabbits au chasseur, 129. Young rabbits, cutletsof, with tomato sauce, 196. Young rabbits filleted with cucum- ber, 225. Young rabbits, fried, 71. Young rabbits, galantine of, 201. Young rabbits, purée of, with rice, 136. Young rabbits in salad, 337. Young rabbits scalloped with as- paragus, 154. Young rabbits scalloped with white sauce, 180. Young rabbits, stewed, 206. Young ring-doves, broiled, 220.TABLE ALPHABÉTIQUE DES MATIÈRES. A. Abatis de dinde à la chipolata, 36. Abatis de volaille, 157. Abricots à la Condé, 194. Accolade de lapereaux rôtis, 117. Accolade d’anguille à la broche, 104. Agneau (côtelettes d’) à la purée de cardons, 290. Agneau (quartier de devant d’) à la broche, 104. Agneau ! épigrammes d’) aux pointes d’asperges, 96. Agneau (tendrons d’) aux pointes d’asperges, 79. Agneau (côtelettes d’) sautées et gar- nies de haricots verts, 280. Aigle de mer, 168. Ailerons de dinde à la chicorée, 102. Ailerons de dindon à la purée de marrons, 278. Ailerons de dindon à la Sainte Menehould, 116. Allemande, 93. Alose à la hollandaise, 65. Alose au court-bouillon, 90. Aloses (darnes d’) grillées à la maître d’hôtel, 43. Alose grillée à l’oseille, 53, 70. Alose rôtie, 75. Alouettes en salmis, 272. Aloyau à la Godard, 76. Aloyau à la provençale, 179. Aloyau braisé à la royale, 57. Amourettes de bœuf en vol-au-vent, 147. Amourettes de veau frites, 350. Anchois farcis, 154. Andouillettes de Troyes, 313. Anguille à la broche, 182. Anguille à la minute, 2. Anguille à l’anglaise, 68. Anguille à la poulette, 192. Anguille à la Suffren, 9. Anguille à la tartare, 253. Anguille au soleil, 78. Anguilles à la bordelaise, 94. Anguilles aux montants de la!tues romaines, 203. • Animelles frites, 273. Artichauts à la barigoule, r, 82. . Artichauts à la bonne femme, 61. Artichauts à la lyonnaise, 250. Artichauts à l’essence de jambon, 148. Artichauts à l’italienne, 51. Artichauts farcis, 281. Artichauts frits, 69. Asperges à la crème, 90. Asperges en petits pois, 157. Asperges à l’huile, 74. Asperges à la sauce blanche, 66. Asperges à la Pompadour, 144. Asperges au beurre, 108. Asperges (pointes d’) au jus, 119. Aspic d’écrevisses, 327. Aubergines farcies, 280. B. Baba au rhum, 186. Bain-Marie, 219. Bar à l’eau de sel, 81. Bar grillé sauce tartare, II. Bar sauce aux câpres, 36. Barbeau à l’étuvee, 200. Barbeau au court-bouillon, 23. Barbeau grillé, 120. Barbottes en casserole, 250.TABLE ALPHABÉTIQUE. 389 Barbue à la béchamel, I, 64. Barbue à la Conti, 50. Barbue aux fines herbes, 122. Barbue à la parmesane, 50. Barbue à la provençale, 85. Barbue à la Sainte Menehould, 262. Barbue marinée, 51. Barbue sauce diplomate, 13. Bâtons royaux, 202. Bavarois tôt-fait au maizena, 319. Bavarois aux fruits, 319. Bécasses rôties, 16. Bécasses en salmis à la l’esprit de vin, 364. Bécasses (sauté de filets de) à la provençale, 271. Bec-figues rôtis, 291. Beignets, 269. Beignets (pâte à), 3x8. Beignets à la Chantilly, 350. Beignets aux confitures, 208. Beignets d’abricots, 175. Beignets de fleurs de sureau, 179. Beignets de fruits à l’eau de vie, 94. Beignets de patates, 185. Beignets de pommes, 356. Beignets de pommes à la d’Orléans, 68. Beignets de pommes de terre, 180. Beignets de raisin de Corinthe à la Dauphine, 274. Beignets d’oranges, 49. Beignets soufflés au maizena, 354. Betteraves à la Chartreuse, 314. Betteraves à la crème, 43. Betteraves poitevine, 337. Beurre de crevettes, 120. Beurre à la maître d’hôtel, 83. Beurre d’ail, 131. Beurre d’amandes, 245, Beurre d’anchois, 138. Beurre de gascogne, 213. Beurre de homard, 50. Beurre de noisettes, 198. Beurre de piment, 196. Bifteck, 98. Biscuits au beurre, 113. Biscuits glacés au chocolat, 57. Biscuits de Savoie, 226. Blanc, 107. Blanc-manger, 307. Blanc-manger au café, 118. Blanc-manger aux amandes, 60. Blanquette de veau, 351. Bœuf (entre côtes de) à la bordelaise, 292. Bœuf (culotte de) à la flamande, 145. Bœuf à la mode, 47. Bœufà la mode (bonne recette), 161. Bœuf bouilligarni à la flamande, 276. Bœuf bouilli garni de nouilles, 2S8. Bœuf (pièce de) bouilli et pané, 320. Bœuf (côtes de) braisées à la purée de tomates, 22. Bœuf (côte de) braisée au macaron^ 61. Bœuf garni de choux, 27. Bombe panachée, 185. Bouchées aux huîtres, 30. Bouchées de homard à la béchamel 5I- , Bouchées de purée de volaille, 295. Boudins de lapin à la Richelieu, 200 Boudins de lièvre, 321. Bouillabaisse, 212. Bouilli en matelote, 262. Bouillon à la française, 86. Braise, 149. Braise (demi), 247. Brandade de morue, 315. Brème de mer au vin blanc, 332. Brioche à la crème, 359. Brochet à la Clermont, 324. Brochet au bleu, 20. Brochet en dauphin, 269. Brochet farci et rôti à la broche, 70. Brochet sauce au beurre d’anchois, 5. Brochet sauce raifort, 42. a Cabillaud farci, 329. Cabillaud à la hollandaise, 72. Cabillaud (darne de) sauce aux œufs, 340. Cailles aux laitues, 288. Cailles aux petits pois, 266. Cailles aux truffes, 312, Cailles rôties, 259. Canard farci, 268. Canard sauvage rôti, 5.TABLE ALPHABÉTIQUE 39° Canard sauvage en salmis, 241. Canard au père Douillet, 178. Canard aux navets, 49, 187. Canard aux petits pois, 295. Canard aux olives, 279. Caneton rôti, 47. Carbonade de mouton à la Niver- naise, 282. Cardons à la moelle, 40. Cardons à la poulette, 264. Cardons au gras, 286. Cardons au gratin, 317. Cardons au jus, 282. Cardons au maigre, 342. Carottes à la ménagère, 213. Carottes au sucre, 165. Carottes glacées, 97. Carpe à la bière, 159. Carpe à la Chambord, 18. Carpe à l’étuvée, 61. Carpe au bleu, 10. Carpe frite, 8. Carpe garnie d’un ragoût de lai- tances, 37. Carpe grillée, 185. Carpe à la marinière, 172. Carpes à la russe, 335. Carré de porc frais rôti, 148. Carré de porc rôti à la Robert, 261. Carré de veau à la broche aux fines herbes, 168. Carré de veau piqué et braisé, 265. Carrelets grillets, 76. Casserole au riz garnie de ris d’agneau, 285. Casserole de laitances, 143. Casserole de laitances au blanc, 294. Céleri au jus, 8. Céleri-rave à la sauce au beurre, 22. Cervelles à la provençale, 183. Cervelles de veau ou mouton en brochette, 239. Cervelles irites, 234. Cervelles en marinade, 91. Cervelles sauce matelote, 354. Cerf (filet de) rôti, 348. Champignons à la bordelaise, 39. Champignons au gratin, 84. Champignons farcis, 248. Champignons en ragoût, 332. Chapon à la régence, 238. Chapon au gros sel, 188. Chapon rôti au cresson, 12. Charlotte de pommes, 298. Chartreuse de pommes, 62. Châteaubriand grillé, 62. Chaufroid de perdreaux, 286. Chicorée â la crème, 56. Chicorée en purée, 48. Chou au lard, 255. Choucroute aux huîtres, 57. Chou farcis à la russe, 355. Choux de Bruxelles sautés au beurre, 25. Choux de pâtisserie, 125. Choux fleurs au fromage, 168. Choux fleurs au gratin, 28. Choux fleurs sauce au beurre, 27. Civet de chevreuil, 19. Civet de lièvre, 275. Cochon dé lait au père Douillet, 146. • Cochon de lait rôti, 122. Colin frit, 130. Compote d’abricots à la minute, 155. Compote d’abricots grillés à la Breteuil, 181. Compote d’abricots mûrs, 171. Compote de fruit à la normande, 18. Compote d’abricots verts ou compote vert-pré, 202. Compote de groseilles, 93. Compote de groseilles rouges ou blanches, 167. Compote de marrons, 307. Compote de pêches, 197, 242. Compote de prunes reine-claude, 225. Compote de poires, 289. Compote d’oranges, 43. Concombres à la crème ou la bé- chamel maigre, 202 Concombres farcis, 198. Consommé à la chiffonade de cer- feuil, 88. Consommé aux lazagnes, Il3. Coq de bruyère, 326. Coq de bruyère rôti, 298. Coquilles de laitances de carpes, 304. Coquilles de moules, 296. Coquilles de quenelles de carps, lotte, morue, merlan, etc., 208. Coquilles d’œufs aux huîtres, 128.391 DES MATIÈRES. Côtelettes d’agneau à la purée de cardons, 290. Côtelettes d’agneau sautés et garnies de haricots verts, 271. Côtelettes de chevreuil sautées, 363. Côtelettes de lapereaux à la sauce tomates, 196. Côtelettes de mouton à la financière, 357- , , . Côtelettes de mouton a la jardinière, 59. ii°- Côtelettes de mouton aux oignons, Côtelettes de mouton sauce tomates, 8 7- Côtelettes de pigeons aux petits pois, 205. Côtelettes de porc frais, 240. Côtelettes de porc frais sauce poivrade, 189. Côtelettes de sanglier à la Saint Hubert, 316. Côtelettes de veau à la Gingarat, 127, 187. Côtelettes de veau à la milanaise, 106. Côtelettes de veau à la purée de champignons, 297. Côtelettes de veau en papillotes. 338. Côtes de bœuf aux racines, 185. Côtes de bœuf braisées à la purée de tomates, 22. Côtes de bœuf braisées au macaroni, 6t. Cougloff à l’allemande, 1 r7. Coulibiac d’anguilles (cuisine russe), 35°- , Coulis d’écrevisses, 242. Court-bouillon, 109. Crème à la vanille, 352. Crème au chocolat, 71. Crème au thé, 160. Crème brûlée, 170. Crème pâtissière au maizena, 326. Crème d’amandes, 79. Crème fouettée de fraises et fram- boises, 120. Crème vierge, 143, 237. Crêpes, 214. Crêpes au maizena, 330. Cromesquis, 296. Croquantes, 138. Croquenbouche, 139. Croquettes de nouilles, 215. Croquettes de palais de bœuf, 173, 203. Croquettes de pommes de terre, 294, 320. Croquettes de riz, 162. Croquettes de volaille, 175- Croustade de riz, 190. Croûte aux champignons, 60, 289. Croûtes à la Normande, 31. Croûtes au pot, 4. Cuisses d’oie à la lyonnaise, 349. Cuissot de sanglier, 263. Culotte de bœuf à la flamande, 145. Culotte de bœuf braisée, 117. D. DÀrioles à la duchesse, 85. Darioles à la pâtissière, 196. - Dame d’esturgeon au four, 238. Dame d’esturgeon à la broche, 284. Darne d’esturgeon rôtie, 41. Dinde en daube, 191. Dinde rôtie, 13. Dinde truffée, 356 Dindon (ailerons de) à la purée de marrons, 278. Dindon truffé rôtie ou en daube, 336- Dumpling aux pommes, 253. Dumpling ferme, 314. E. Éclairs au chocolat, 71. Écrevisses à la bordelaise, J. Écrevisses au court-bouillon, 34. Entre-côte de bœuf à la bordelaise, 292. Entre-côte à la bordelaise, 320. Épaule d’agneau glacée, 109. Épaule de mouton en ballon aux , oignons glacés, 73. Eperlans à l’anglaise, 237. Eperlans au gratin, 26. Epinards à la maître d’hôtel, 178.392 TABLE A L FILA B ÉTIQUE Épinards a l’ancienne mode, 220. Epinards au jus, 169. Épinards au sucre, 157. Escalopes de homard à la parisienne, 279. Escalopes de lapereaux au fumet, 1S0. Escalopes de lapereaux aux pointes d’aspèrges, 154. Espagnole des ménages, 235. Essense de jambon, 148. Esturgeon (darne d’) à la broche, 284. Esturgeon au court-bouillon, 74 Esturgeon (darne d’) au four, 238. Esturgeon braisé, 289. Esturgeon en fricandeau, 208, Esturgeon en matelote, 345. F. Faisan à l’étouffade, 330. Faisan rôti, 251. Faisans à la bohémienne, 277. Farce aux œufs, 351 Farce aux truffes, 266. Farce cuite, 97. Farce de foie de veau, 164. Farce pour les concombres, 206. Fèves de marais à la crème, 153. Fèves de marais à la sariette, 153. Filet de bœuf rôti, 4. Filet de bœuf rôti au madère, 91. Filet de bœuf rôti sauce madère, I05- Filets de bécasses en canapé, 318. Filets de grondins sauce tomates, 218. Filets de grondins en turban, 126. Filets de lapereaux aux concombres, 225. Filets de levraut piqués, 309. Filets de merlans à la Conti, 25 Filets de merlan à la Orly, 300. Filets de merlans au gratin, 44. Filets de mouton à la minute, 252. Filets de pigeons à la Duxelles, 194. Filet de sanglier au chasseur, 319. Filets de sarcelles aux anchois, 365. Filets de soles à la Joinville, 278. Filets de soles à la Orly, 28. Filets de soles à l’italienne, 75. ïilets de soles au gratin, 94. flan d abricots a la Metternich, 172, Flan d’amandes vertes à la d’Escarsi 216. Flan de creme à la frangipane, 58. Flan de frangipane à la moëlle, r 70. Flan de fruits, 164. Foie de mouton à la ménagère, 277. Foie de veau à l’italienne, 88. Foie de veau rôti, 115. Foie gras à la perigueux, 328. Fondue au fromage, 250. Fraise de veau au naturel, 193. Frangipane, 128. Fricassée de poulets, 83. Fricassée de poulets à la du Barry, 261. Fritot de poulets, 228. - Friture mêlée à l’italienne, 285. G. Galantine de dinde, 222. Galantine de lapereaux, 201. Garbure au gras, 258. Garbure au maigre, 325. Garbures gratinées, 89. Garniture à la chipolata, 79. Garniture à la Durand, 260. Garniture à la financière, 78. Garniture à la flamande, 67. Garniture à la forêt de Sénart, 125. Garniture à la Godard, 72. Garniture à la Toulouse, 35. Gâteau à la crème, 113. Gâteau d’amandes, 45. Gâteau d’amandes massif, 276. Gâteau de pistaches, 95. Gâteau de plomb, 107. Gâteau de riz, 90, 100. Gâteau feuilleté, 115. Gâteau Saint-Louis, 351. Gâteau Saint Charles, 357. Gâteaux fourrés aux confitures, 95. Gelée au citron, 136. Gelinottes rôties, 293.DES MATIÈRES. 393 Gigot à la polonaise, 215. Gigot à la provençale, 82. Gigot braisé, 204. Gigot de chevreuil rôti, 249. Gigot de mouton à la Durand, 257. Gigot de mouton à la russe, 229. Gigot de mouton bouilli sauce aux câpres, 31. Gigot de mouton braisé, 55. Gigot de mouton rôti, 238. Gigot de sept heures, 103. Gigot rôti, 127. Glace au chocolat ou café, 55. Glace de poisson, 87. Glace volaille, 87. Glaces au four, 151. Godiveau de blanc de volaille aux truffes, 353. Grenadine de filet de bœuf à la financière, 280. Grenadins de filets de soles, 105. Grives à la paysanne, 281. Grives à l’eau de vie, 301. Grives rôties, 248. Grousse rôtie, 328. Grugère au fromage, 337. H. Harengs frais sauce moutarde, 336. Harengs fumés à la bruxelloise, 361. Haricot de mouton, 23. Haricots à la bretonne, 33. Haricots au beurre de piment, 312. Haricots blancs à la maître d’hôtel, 211. Haricots blancs à la moelle, 235. Haricots blancs en purée, 310. Haricots panachés à la maître d’hôtel, 133. Haricots rouges à la bourguignonne, 80. Haricots verts à l’anglaise, ni. Haricots verts à la poulette, 108, 195. Homard au court-bouillon, 116. Homard à la broche, 234. Homards à la bordelaise, 347. Hure de sanglier, 366. J- Jambon à la broche, 112. Jambon à la maillot, 303. Jambon d’York à l’anglaise, 39. Julienne maîgre, 41. Jus de racine maîgre, 273. K. Kluskis au fromage à la crème, loi, 2x4. Kluskis de viande frite, 201. L. Laitances, 143, 304. Laitues au jus, 32. Laitues farcies, 227. Lamproie à l’italienne, 67. Lamproie au suprême, 142. Langouste à la broche, 234. Langue à l’écarlate, 176. Langue de bœuf au gratin, 74. Langue de bœuf au parmesan, 92. Langue de bœuf braisée, 26. Langue de bœuf en papillote, 301. Langues de mouton braisées, 157. Langue de veau à la sauce tomates, 56. Lapereau en papillote, 77. Lapereau grillé, 253. Lapereaux en salade, 337. Lapereaux sautés, 71. Lapereaux sautés au chasseur, 129. Lapereaux sautés aux fines herbes, 206. Lapin en gibelotte, 123. Lapins à la vénitienne, 124. Lapins en gibelotte, 209. Levraut à la minute ou sauté, 324- Lièvre à la mode, 246. Lièvre en daube, 283. Lièvre rôti, 297. Lièvre rôti à la finnoise, 349, Limandes frites, 46, 210. Longe de veau rôti, 197.TABLE ALPHABÉTIQUE 394 Lottes à la parisienne, 162, 197. Lottes à l’italienne, 219. Lottes en matelote, 151. M. Macaroni à la sauce tomates, 93. Macaroni à l’italienne, 172. Macaroni en timbale, 80. Macédoine de fruits en gelée, 227. Macédoine de légumes en salade, 40. Macreuse au chocolat, 264. Madeleines, 126. Manière de faire des pâtés froids, 119. Maquereaux à la flamande, 190. Maquereaux aux groseilles vertes, 138. Maquereaux bouillis ou à l’eau de sel, 121. Maquereaux grillés à la maître d’hôtel, 11. Marinade de cervelles, 91. Marinade cuite, 338. Marinade de choux fleurs, 3. Marinade de volaille, 156. Marmelade de mirabelles, 232. Marmelade de pêches, 277. Matelote de carpe et anguille, 12. Matelote savante, 230. Mauviettes au chasseur, 341. Mauviettes en caisses, 263. Mauviettes en côtelettes, 347. Mauviettes grillées, 357. Mauviettes en salmis, 14. Mauviettes rôties, 296. Melons (connaissance de), 173. Meringues à la crème, 78. Merlans au gratin, 321. Merlans aux fines herbes, 4. Merlans frits, 16. Merlans grillés, 139, Meunier aux oignons glacés à l’alle- mande, 239. Mirepoix, 278. Mittonage à l’eau, 96. Mittonage au lait, 233. Moëlle de bœuf à la Orly, 150. Morilles à l’andalouse, 101. Morilles à l’italienne, 98. Morilles aux croûtons, 129. Morue à la béchamel, 141. Morue à la crème, 3. Morue à la maître d’hôtel, 87. Morue au beurre noir, 111. Morue au gratin, 103. Morue aux pommes de terre, 53. Morue frite, 294. Morue en brandade, 110. Moules à la marinière, 213. Moules à la poulette, 193. Moules à la Villeroi, 313. Moules au gras, 267. Mousse de fraises et framboises, 120. Mouton (selle de) braisée, 37. Mulet grillé, 97. . N. Navarin de mouton, 352. Navets à la poulette, 120. Navets au jus, 154. Navets au sucre, 323. Navets en purée, 134. Navets glacés au jus, 45. Noix de bœuf braisée, 153. Noix de veau à l’oseille, 6. Noix de veau à la bourgeoise, 17. Noix de veau à la chicorée, 46. Noix de veau en fricandeau, 53. Nougat, 139. O. Oie à la chipolata, 316. Oie en daube, 58. Oie rôtie, 252. Oie rôtie farcie de marrons, 31. Oignons à la purée soubise, 330. Oignons en ragoût, 332. Oignons farcis, 118. Oignons glacés, 14. Oiseaux (petits) rôtis à l’italienne, 292, Omelette à la jardinière, 206. Omelette au lard, 118. Omelette russe au maizena, 345. Omelette au naturel, 123. Omelette au thon, 232. Omelette aux anchois, 243.DES MATIÈRES. 395 Omelette et œufs brouilles aux pointes d’asperges, 141. Omelette soufflée, 326. Oreilles de porc à la lyonnaise, 108. Oreilles de porc à la Sainte Mene- hould, 269. Oreilles de porc braisées, 184. Oreilles de veau à l’italienne, 167- Oreilles de veau aux champignons, 135. Oreilles de veau en marinade, 213. Oreilles de veau farcies, 195. OrtoJans à la périgourdine, 314. Ortolans ou bec-figues en caisse, 299. Ortolans rôtis, 311. Ortolans rôtis en casserole close, Outarde canepetière rôtie, 270. Outardes à la russe, 344. Œ. Œufs à la béchamel, 317. Œufs à la coque, 134. Œufs à la crème, 155. Œufs à la neige, 84. Œufs à la tripe, 120. Œufs au fromage, 224. Œufs au miroir ou sur le plat, 256. Œufs aux pistaches, 183. Œufs brouillés, 272. Œufs brouillés aux pointes d'as- perges, 141. Œufs farcis, 53. Œufs pochés, 10. Œufs à la purée d’oseille, 162. P. Pain de perdreaux, 334- Palais de bœuf à la lyonnaise, 177. Paon rôti, 362. Patates au beurre, 115. Pâte feuilleté, 115* Pâte à frire, 318. Pâte aux nouilles, 302. Pâté chaud de godiveau, 268. Pâté chaud de saumon, 152. Pâté d’alouettes, 255. Pâté de bécasses, 303. Pâté de cochon de lait, 122, Pâté de saumon, 102. Pâté de légumes, 231. Pâté de sole, 341. Pâte de turbot, 304. Pâtés (petits) à la bourgeoise, 331 Pâtés (petits) à la reine, 287. Pâtés chauds, 122. Pâtés froids, 119. Pâtés (manière de faire des) froids, 119- Paupiettes de filets de merlans, 310. Pêches à la Condé, 205. Perdreaux à la Cussy, 311. Perdreaux à l’anglaise, 327. Perdreaux à la parisienne, 346. Perdreaux en escalopes, 267. Perdreaux en soufflé, 291. Perdreaux rôtis, 7- Perdrix aux choux, 273. Perdrix à l’estouffade, 262. Perdrix braisées, 300. Petits oiseaux rôtis à l’italienne, 292. Petits pâtés au jus, 164. Petits pâtés aux écrevisses, 169. Petits pâtés aux rognons, 142. Petits pâtés de poisson, 228. Petits pois à l’anglaise, 106. Petits pois à la parisienne, 165. Petits pois en cosses, 160. Petit salé au choux, 56. Pieds de mouton à la sauce Robert, 160. Pieds de mouton frits, 249. Pieds de veau au naturel, 262. Pieds de veau frits, 269. Pigeons à la crapandine, 190. Pigeons aux petits pois, 140. Pigeons aux pointes d’asperges, 140. Pigeons compote, 158. Pigeons en ragoût d’écrevisses, 65, Pigeons rôtis, 147. Pilau au gras, 215. Pilau de riz au maigre, 223. Pilets rôtis, 51. Plum pouding excellent, 204. Pluviers aux truffes (maigre), 355. Pluviers braisés, 244TABLE ALPHABÉTIQUE 396 Pluviers rôtis, 56. Pluviers rôtis pour entrée de broche, 66. Poêle, 270. Pointes d’asperges au jus, 119. Pois au lard ou au jambon, 139. Poitrines d’agneau à la maréchale, 210. Poitrines de mouton à la sauce piquante, 8. Poitrine de mouton braisée, 133. Poitrine de veau aux petits pois, 144- Pommes au beurre, 50. Pommes au riz, 93, 130. Pommes de terre (croquettes de), 294. Pommes de terre à la crème, 117, 233- Pommes de terre à la Macaire, 199. Pommes de terre à l’anglaise, 67. Pommes de terre à la parisienne, 125. Pommes de terre à la sauce blanche, 224. Pommes de terre sautées, 52. Pommes de terre au gratin, 19. Pommes de terre au lard, 216. Pommes de terre en chemise, 150. Pommes de terre soufflées, 331. Pommes en croustade, m. Pommes meringuées, 33. Porc (carré de) frais rôti, 148. Porc (carré de) rôti à la Robert, 261. Pot au feu, 183. Potage à la Bagration, 327. Potage à la Brisse, 166. Potage à la Condé, 1. Potage à la Crécy, 18. Potage à la Faubonne, 12. Potage à la française, 21. Potage à la Gouffé, 278. Potage à la grecque, 338. Potage à la julienne, 2. Potage à la julienne maigre, 182. Potage à la Monaco, 70. Potage à la nîmoise, 233. Potage à la parisienne, 8. Potage à la purée de carottes,' 5, 192. Potage a la purée de fonds d’arti- chauts, 47. Potage à la purée de gibier, 292. Potage à la purée de haricots, 60, 184. Potage à la purée de jambon, 322. Potage à la purée de lentilles, 158. Potage à la purée de marrons, 44. Potage à la purée de navets, 30. Potage à la purée de perdrix, 252. Potage à la purée de pois, 23. Potage à la purée de pommes de terre, 39. Potage à la reine, 207. Potage à la Saint Germain, 349. Potage â la Savoyarde, 229. Potage à l’oseille à la crème, 341. Potage au consommé de poisson, 243- Potage au mouton, 268. • Potage aux herbes provençal, 249. Potage aux nids d’hirondelles, 340. Potage aux pois chiches, 240. Potage aux profiteroles, 266. Potage aux queues de bœuf, 293. Potage avec semoule et chiffonade d’oseille, 37. Potage au macaroni, 7. Potage au pain, 6. Potage au riz, 25. Potage au sagou, 38. Potage au tapioca, 14. Potage au vermicelle, 33. Potage aux choux, 56. Potage aux choux verts, 129. Potage aux croûtes grillées, 93. Potage aux herbes, 20, 141. Potage aux laitues, 59. Potage aux lazagnes, 28. Potage aux nouilles, 17. Potage aux œufs pochés, 159. Potage aux pâtes d’Italie, 22. Potage aux petits oignons, 11. Potage aux petits pois, 152. Potage aux poireaux, 19. Potage aux quenelles de volaille, 100. Potage Baraquine, 324. Potage bisque au riz, 246. Potage bisque d’écrevisses, 32. Potage brunoise au riz, 16.DES MATIÈRES. 397 Potage brunoise aux pâtes d’Italie, 3. Potage Colbert, 9. Potage consommé, 1S1. Potage crème de chicorée à la Col- bert, 216. Potage crème de riz, 58. Potage crème de riz à la peluche de cerfeuil, 35. Potage crème de vermicelle, 155- Potage croûte au pot, 27. Potage de consommé aux quenelles, 29 Potage de riz à la turque, 239. Potage de riz au kari, 49. Potage de riz au potiron, 234. Potage de poisson aux herbes, 365. Potage fausse tortue, 259. Potage en fausse tortue à la fran- çaise, 26. Potage livonien, 348. Potage maigre aux racines, 182. Potage napolitain, 238. Potage paysanne, 13. Potage printanier, 86. Potage purée aux croûtons, 31. Potage purée de marrons à la Man- celle, 334. Potage purée de pois verts au riz, 57- Potage Solferino, 153. Pouding, 48. Pouding à la Cowlay, 317. Pouding de navets, 364. Pouding excellent, 140. Poulainte au parmesan, 339. Poularde à la Grirnod de la Reynière, 84. Poularde à la Montmorency, 7. Poularde au gros sel, 38. Poularde au riz, 19. Poularde en croûte, 217. Poularde en entrée de broche, 64. Poularde en tortue, 236, Poule au pot, 71. Poulet à la d’F.scars, 114. Poulet à la hambourgeoise, 224. Poulet à la marengo, 153, 361. Poulet à la Orly, 189. Poulet à l’estragon, 9. Poulet rôti à la peau de goret, 1. Poulet rôti, 177. Poulet en marinade, 344. Poulet sauté, 283. Poulets à la bonne femme, 54. Poulets à la chasseur, 73. Poulets à la chivry, 280. Poulets à la sauce tomates, 125. Poulets à la l’italienne, 156. Poulets aux huîtres et aux truffes, 211. Poupiettes de veau, 226. Pourpier en friture, 91. Pourpier en friture à la milanaise, 166. P’ichero, 343. Purée de cardons, 295» Purée de chicorée, 48. Purée de fonds d’artichauts, 47. Purée de haricots à la crème, 38. Purée de lapereaux, 136. Purée de lentilles, 5, 92. Purée de marrons, 310. Purée de mousserons, 308. Purée d’oiseille, 358. Purée de' pommes de terre gratinée, 365- Purée de pommes de terre à la Maria, 256. Purée de potiron, 219. Purée d’oignons bretonne, 54. Purée de petits pois, 184. Q- Quartier d’agneau farci, 88. Quartier de devant d’agneau à la broche, 104. Quartiers d’oie à la lyonnaise, 11. Quartier de pré salé à la bretonne, 190. Quartier de veau rôti, 143. Quenelles, 247. Quenelles à la crème, 76. Quenelles à la moelle, 144. Quenelles à semoule, 80. Quenelles de pommes de terre, 24 3^ Quenelles d’esturgeon, 325. Quenelles frites, 191. Queues de bœuf à la Sainte Mene- hould, 165. Queues de morue à l’anglaise, 274.39§ TABLE ALPHABÉTIQUE Queues de mouton au riz, 218. Queues de mouton frites au parme- san, 1S8. Queues de porc à la purée de pois verts, 149. R. Râble de lièvre rôti, 331. Ragoût aux huîtres, 99. Ragoût à la financière, 362. Ragoût de veau à la bourgeoise, 99- Raie à la noisette, 128. Raie à la Sainte Menehould, 99. Raie au beurre noir, 68 Raie aux fines herbes, 221. Raie frite, 235. Ramequins de poulainte, 223. Ramereaux marines, 220. Ravioles au gratin, 334. Rémoulade à la cosaque, 217. Ris de veau à la provençale, 242. Ris de veau à la Toulouse, 35. Ris de veau à la poulette, 27. Ris de veau à l’espagnole, 21 Ris de veau en fricandeau, 126. Ris de veau en hâtelets, 3x2. Ris de veau en papillotes, 270. Ris de veau frits, loi. Rissoles, 25. Rissoles de crêtes de coq et de truffes, 137. Riz au lait d’amandes, 10. Rognon de veau rôti, r 14. Rognons de veau sautés, 344. Rosbif aux pommes, 160. Rosbif garni de petits pâtés, 175. Rosbif d’agneau, 171. Rouelle de cerf à la Saint-Hubert, 353- Rouelle de veau en thon, 271, Rouges de rivière rôtis, 179. Rouges-gorges, 346. Rougets barbets sauce tartare, 106. Rougets en caisse, 20. Rougets sauce aux huîtres, 91. Roux, 309. Roux blanc, 107. Roux blond, 107, 360. S. Salade de choux rouges à la russe 343- Salade de cresson de fontaine aux pommes, 346. Salade de homard, 35. Salade de legumes garnie de saumon fumé, 59^ Salade de légumes, 34. Salade de pommes de terre, 265. Salade de pommes de terre aux truffes, 335. Salade russe, 305. Salmis de bécasses, 256. Salmis de cuisses de canetons, 112. -Salmis de macreuses, 254. Salpicon, 241. Salsifis frits, 221, 284. Sanglier (cuissot de), 263. Sarcelles aux olives, 237.- Sarcelles rôties, 39. Sauce allemande, 93. Sauce à la béchamel grasse, 229. Sauce à la béchamel maigre, 231. Sauce à la bourgeoise, 209. Sauce à la cardinal, 325. Sauce à la Duxelle, 146. Sauce à la menthe, 89. Sauce à la purée d’oignons blancs, 346. Sauce à tous rôtis, 267. Sauce au beurre, 22. Sauce au beurre d’anchois, 96. Sauce au beurre noir, 28S. Sauce au citron, 207. Sauce au homard, 116. Sauce au pauvre homme, 205. Sauce aux anchois, 152, Sauce aux câpres, 124. Sauce à la crème, 142. Sauce aux eschalotes, 283. Sauce au fenouil, 191. Sauce aux groseilles vertes, 13s, 171. Sauce aux huîtres, 323. Sauce au kari, 367. Sauce aux tomates, 6. Sauce béarnaise, 367. Sauce blanche, 31. Sauce bordelaise, 304-DES MATIÈRES. 399 Sauce Chateaubriand, Si. Sauce chaud-froid de perdreaux ou de bécasses, 329. Sauce chaud-froid de volaille, 339. Sauce crevettes, 121. Sauce diplomate, 325. Sauce espagnole, 308. Sauce à la financière, 362. Sauce genevoise, 177. Sauce hollandaise, 21. Sauce italienne, 2S7. Sauce madère, 232. Sauce maître d’hôtel, 83. Sauce matelote, 359. Sauce aux crevettes, 177. Sauce mayonnaise, 176 Sauce mousquetaire, 214. Sauce perigueux, 301. Sauce piquante, 178. Sauce poivrade, 81, loi. Sauce pour toutes sortes de viandes rôties de desserte, 356. Sauce portugaise, 255. Sauce propre à tous rôtis, 38. Sauce raifort, 323. Sauce ravigote, 150. Sauce ravigote provençale, 361. Sauce rémoulade, 297. Sauce Robert, 64. Sauce tartare, 75. Sauce verte, 97. Sauce Villeroi, 363. Saumon au bleu, 228. Saumon grillé, 132. Saumon sauté, 1S9. Sauté de filets de bécasses à la pro- vençale, 271. Sauté de filets de volaille, 360. Sauté de filets de volaille à la car- dinal, 308. Sauté de perdreaux aux truffes, 322. Sel épice, 257. Selle d’agneau braisée garnie de ris- soles, 180. Selle d’agneau rôtie, 77. Selle de mouton à la broche, 178. Selle de mouton à l’anglaise, 12, 29. Selle de mouton braisée, 37. Selle de mouton garnie de ris- soles, 2. Sole à la Colbert, 321. Sole en matelote normande, 264. Sole farcie aux fines herbes, 137. Sole frite, 299. Soles (filets de) à la Orly, 28. Soles à la parisienne, 131. Soles au vin blanc, 147. Soles en turban, 113. Soles frites, 161. Soufflé de riz, 66. Soufflé glacé, vanille et chocolat, 244. Soupirs de nonne, 70. Surmulet au beurre fondu, 45. T. Talmouses à la Saint Denis, 131. Talmouses sans fromage, 290. Tanches au court-bouillon, 79. Tanches grilleés, 40. Tanches sur le gril, 92. Tanches à la poulette, 34. Tanches frites, 146, 210. Tartelettes à la vanille, 69. Tendrons d’agneau aux pointes d’as* perges, 79. Tendrons de veau à la mayonnaise, 174. Tendrons de veau à la poulette, 134. Tendrons de veau au blanc, 45, 210. Tendrons de veau aux petits pois, 238. Terrine de foie gras, 163. Tête de veau à la Destilière, 42. Tête de veau farcie, 245. Tête de veau nature, 24. Thon frit, 348. Thon grillé à la purée d’oseille, 233- Timbale à la champenoise, 290. Timbale de macaroni, 306. Timbale de nouilles, 235. Timbales de semoule au chasseur, 174. Tomates farcies, 170, 305. Tourne-dos sauce poivrade, 181, 316. Tourte ou gateau fourré d’abricots à la bonne femme, 221.TABLE ALPHABÉTIQUE. 400 Truffes au vin de champagne, 338. Truffes sous la cendre, 363. Truite au beurre d’anchois, 96. Truite au court-bouillon, 55. Truite sauce genevoise, 177. Truites à la chambord, 77. Truites à la hussarde, 124. Truites à la Saint Florentin, 28. Truites à l’espagnole, 158. Turbot à la hollandaise, 233. Turbot au four, 231. Turbot au gratin, 95. Turbot en mayonnaise, 254. Turbot sauce au raifort, 186. V. Vanneau rôti, 68. Vanneaux bardés rôtis, 183. Veau en blanquette, 351. Veau en fricandeau, 132, Veau (rouelle de) en thon, 271. Veau (amourettes de) frites, 350. Veau (tête de) nature, 24. Veau (carré de) piqué et braisé, 265. Veau (rouelle de) en thon, 271. Velouté de ménages, 236. Venaison (quartier de à l’anglaise, .358. Vives à la maître d’hotel, 297. Vives à la normande, 240. Vives au gratin, 135. Vol-au-ventd’amourettes à la crème, 147. Vol-au-vent d’œufs à la béchamel, 41. V: / THE END. GILBERT AND RIVINGTON, LD., ST. JOHN S HOUSE, CLERKENWELL ROAD, LONDON.I I * »kJHi " ’Lr1 {i Jî, ' ¥ j ;■ M [g*Jh ï'&t W JÊrtZ jfSjj Hqigga @ygR%S k2a aft V J Df < W^‘i r si1 ffQn iti |P,j . "''|%V li^^l 1 .