»*: -NxWW^j ' \xN\\\\'l ?sv^y ix. i:;-^;?5Ppmm% l(j)^|(UI,m)Mi>»)>W>llWlii^MIWj|Wi)»iii)<WjW>M^ WITH SOO AND ORIGINAL COLOURED (S) Illustrations tmmmmmrnmmmmtmSWINBORNE’S PATENT REFBNED ISINGLASS, EXTRA QUALITY, / In 1/- Pack^s—and Patent Isinglass in Sd. Packets—is specially recommended . for INVALIDS and INFANTS. A little should he taken in Tea, IMillc, or iJroth. SWINBORNE’S PATENT CALVES’ FEET GELATINE, In 6d. and 1/- Packets, is the cheapest and best for making Jellies, Blanc Manges; &c. LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY | Special Collections j Cookery CamdenFor Puddings, Blanc-] jeJ 550 885789 _J London Borough of Camden Swiss Cottage ' ' ^ 88 Avenuet LOND'" NW'’> Tel_m_278 4444 ■ ~ o i • CORN FLOUR HAS A WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION, AND IS DISTINGUISHED FOR UNIFOBMLY SUPEBIOH QUALITY. Note.—'Purchasers should insist on being supplied with BROWN AND POLSON’S CORN FLOUR. Inferior qualities, asserting fictitious claims, are being offered. A LUXURY UNKOWN IN ENGLAND. “ It cannot justly be said that French Coffee is 'A Luxury unknown in England.’ " —Vide John Bull, October yd, 1885. BARBER & COMPANY’S (See that you have none other) FRENCH Per lOd. lb. COFFEE. In its Highest Perfection, Tenpence per Pound. This is the Choicest and most carefully selected Coffee “ Roasted on the French principle,” and mixed with the Finest Bruges Chicory. Two lbs., In Tins, sent free for 2s. 4d., by Parcel Post, to any Post Town in the United. Kingdom and Channel Islands, and Five lbs., in Tins, for 6s. 6d,; Eight lbs., 8s, lOd. BARB E R Sc C O IVIB A N Y, 274-, Regent Circus, Oxford Street, W. 61 Blshopsgato St,. City; 11, Boro’ High St.. S.E. ; 102, Wosthourne Grove, W.; 42, Great Ticbfield St.. W.; King's Cross, N. Manchester, Birmingham, Brighton, Bristol, Preston, Hastings, Llvetpool. Postal Orders from is. 6rf. to los. 6d. can now be obtained from all Post Offices for id. Bankers — Bank of England, London and County, London and Westmiuslcr, and National and Provincial Bank of England,1 (Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b215379513. Fricandeau of Ftal. 6 Ham 1. Sirloin of Beef. 4. Villet of P’eal 7. Roaot Pig. 2. Aitchbone of Beef. 5. Calf's Head. 8. Chine of Pork.WARNE’S MODEL COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING BOOK, CONTAINING COMPLETE INSTRUCTIONS IN HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. COMPILED AND EDITED BY MARY JEWRY. XiHitb Original 5lUi0trations, printed in dolours bg Ikronfjeim, NEW EDITION. LONDON AND NEW YORK: FREDERICK WARNE AND CO. [Ail rights reservcd.'\(s^\- 7,t4930883448PREFACE. This Edition of the Model Cookery Book for the People has been carefully adapted to the use of housekeepers of moderate means. The receipts are, therefore, as inexpensive as possible, though care and atten- tion should be given to their preparation (as indeed to all cooking) if they are to prove a success. Good Cookery h in itself economical, as it makes the best of its materials and creates no waste; and the careful preparation of ordinary dishes will soon give sufficient skill for the execution of more difficult branches of the art. Indeed, omelets and soufflds, which are often thought beyond the skill of ordinary cooks, may be admirably achieved by a little care and practice; and it is to be wished that the omelet, especially, oftener found a place upon our table. ' Receipts for a few more expensive dishes have been added for home entertainments, and as occasional practice for those 'who desire to progress in the art. The book has also been revised, some now old-fashioned suggestions have been removed, and a fresh receipt has occasionally replaced the old ones. The Publishers hope that this New Edition may receive the same favour from the public that its predecessors obtained.CONTENTS, PAGE HINTS TO HOUSEKEEPERS ... I HOW TO MARKET 3 FOOD IN SEASON FOR EACH MONTH OF THE YEAR II KITCHEN UTENSILS 12 CARVING 23 THE BREAKFAST-TABLE , . . . 3^ FISH 38 SOUPS SAUCES AND GRAVIES . . . .58 FORCEMEATS OR STUFFING . . .62 BEEF 64 MUTTON 68 LAMB 72 74 PORK 76 VENISON 81 POULTRY 81 MADE DISHES 89 CURRIES AND INDIAN DISHES . . . Q2 MEAT PIES AND PUDDINGS, VOLS-AU- VENT, ETC 94 PACE VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE PUREES, SA- LADS, AND SALAD MIXTURE . CURING BACON, HAMS, ETC.—POTT ING, COLLARING, ETC TO MAKE PASTES AND PASTRY MINCE MEAT BAKED AND BOILED PUDDINGS PANCAKES AND FRITTERS FLUMMERY, BLANCMANGE, SYLLABUBS, ETC SOUFFLES AND OMELETS . . . , CREAMS JELLIES AND SWEET DISHES . SECOND COURSE DISHES, RELISHES, ETC. BAKING BISCUITS AND CAKES PRESERVES AND PICKLES , WINES AND SYRUPS COOKERY FOR THE SICK .... USEFUL RECEIPTS FOR HOUSEKEEPERS AND SERVANTS MODES OF FOLDING TABLE NAPKINS . 100 106 Z08 III III 123 125 126 127 128 132 136 141 142 145 147 INDEX 148 COLOURED ILLUSTRATIONS. Aitchbone of beef . , front. Partridges . 82 Blancmange . 112 Pears and rice . . XX2 Boiled rabbit . 82 Plum-pudding . , II2 „ turkey . . 82 Prawns . 38 ,, fowl . 82 Queen Mab's pudding 112 Calf’s head frotit. Roast duck . 82 Chantilly basket . 112 „ fowl . 82 Chine of pork . front. „ goose . . 82 Cod’s bead • 38 ,, pheasant . 82 Crab . • 38 pig • front. Crimped skate . • 38 „ pigeon . . 82 Fillet of veal front. „ rabbit . 82 Fricandeau of veal front. „ turkey . . 82 Haddock . • 38 Salmon • 38 Ham . front. Scalloped oysters . 38 Hare . . 82 Sirloin of beef , front. Jelly of two colour- . 112 Trine . 112 Lobster • • 38 Turbot . 38 Mackerel . Oranges and jelly t • 38 . 112 Whiting . • 38II WARNE’S MODEL COOKERY, PEOPLE’S EDITION, HINTS TO HOUSEKEEPERS. On the Lady of the tiouse devolves the task of providing food for her household ; it should be her care that no waste or ignorant misuse shall squander the property of her husband—most frequently the bread- winner for the family—and that nothing is lost by carelessness or bad cookery. She is to take care that there is no lack through fault of hers, nor any drawback to domestic comfort through injudicious rule ; no neglect caused by the love of idle pleasure. A lady will find it best to give her servants orders for the day, before breakfast, if con- venient, and, to do this well, she must visit the larder herself early that she may judge of what is required. Her cook should have a book-slate and pencil, and enter the orders for dinner on one leaf of it that there may be no mistakes made in them. On the other leaf she should be ordered to enter daily the amount of milk, bread, &c., bought on the previous i!ay, which the mistress should then transfer to her commonplace book, to be entered in the account-book at the end of the week. Pay all your bills, if possible, every week. If some few remain to be paid quarterly, do not on that account delay to examine them weekly, and to make up the week's . accounts. You will then be sure of your expenditure. Take care that the butcher always brings a ticket of weight with the meat ; and have those weight tickets brought to you weekly in order that you may compare them with ' the entries in your book. All meat brought into the hou.se should be weighed to see if ' the ticket is correct, and for this purpose a pair of scales should be kept in the kitchen ; I groceries, &x., should also be tested as to weight on receipt of them. Ascertain the price of every article of food in your neighbourhood ; as prices differ ■ with localities, and that which might be I economical food in one place is frequently the reverse in another. In order to learn prices, do not disdain to market for your- self, if you are j'our own housekeeper. You will thus be able by personal observation to learn which are the best shops for different articles, and what are the fair rates of pay- ment for them. It is also essential that a housekeeper should know the average weekly consumption of food for each person in an ordinary family, that she may be able to check waste and provide provisions for any period she may desire. For this pur- pose we subjoin a list of the usual allow- ances, which will of course vary very much from differing circumstances ; but it will give a general idea on the subject, which personal experience will modify :— Food for one Person 'Weekly, Tea, two ounces. Coffee, a quarter of a pound (if for break- fast only). Cocoa paste, a quarter of a pound, for breakfasts. Sugar, half a pound. Cheese, half a pound. Butter, half a pound. Milk, one quart; varying with the taste of the family. Bread, eight pounds for a woman, six teen pounds for a man or boy. Meat, six pounds. Beer, one gallon for a woman, seven quarts for a man. Potatoes, three and half pounds. Of course this estimate of quantities must be modified greatly by the habits and tastes of the family, and by the fact of resi- dence cither in the town or country. A large stipply of vegetables, fish, or puddings will greatly reduce the .scale of meat ; and making tea and coffee for num- bers will reduce the amount of those articles. We merely give this general ideaoi quantity to guide, in a measure, the inexperiencedHints to Hojcsckccpcrs. s or Head. 14. Brisket. housewife. We should have been thankful for such knowledge ourselves, as without it one invariably buys more than is actually needed for the consumption of the house- hold. With regard to meat, an allowance must be made for its waste in cooking, and also for the weight of bone found in every joint, except buttock of beef. Having advanced thus far in oui know- ledge of housekeeping, the next step is how to choose meat, and in order to do this well we must know the names of the different joints, An ox is divided by tlie butcher into the following joints :—London style. 1. Sirloin. 2. Top, or aitch-bone. 3. Rump. 4. Buttock, or round. $. Mouse buttoch. 6. Veiny piece. 7. Thick flank. 8. Thin flank. 9. Leg. 10. Fore rib (5 ribs). IT. lUiddle rib (4 ribs). 12. Chuck rib (3 ribs). 13. Shoulder, or leg-of- mutton piece. '15. Clod. 16. Sticking. 17. Shin. 18. CheeksHints to Housekeepers. 3 11. Head. 7. Neck, scrag end. HOW TO MARKET. We advise our lady housekeepers to market for themselves ; but as some skill is required in a purchaser (if this duty is to be performed to advantage), we will endeavour to give directions by which inexperienced housewives may be enabled to select good articles. First in the list comes butcher’s meat; of which beef is considered the best by the generality of English people. An ox should be kept five or six years before it is killed ; it is then in its prime. Ox-beef is the best. It is a fine grained meat; the lean of a A C.\LF is cut into the following joints ;— 1. I.oin, best end. 2. Loin, chump end, 3. Fillet. 4. Hind knuckle. 5. Fore knuckle. 6. Neck, best end. 8. Blade bone. 9. Breast, best end. 10. Breast, brisket end,4 Hints to Housekeepers. bright-red colour, intermingled with grains of fat, when it is well fed and good. The fat should be white, not yellow, and the suet also white and firm. Beef should never be lean ; it is tough and bad unless there is a good quantity of fat. Heifer- beef is paler than ox-beef, and closer grained ; the fat whiter, and the bones, of course, smaller. Bull-beef is only described to be avoided. It is dark coloured and coarse grained ; has very little fat, and a strong meaty smell about it. Of these joints choose the rib or sirloin, for roasting. If you purchase ribs of beef, let them be the middle ribs. You may have one, two, three, or four ribs, as you will; but one rib is too thin to be economical, as it dries up in cooking. If, however, your family be small, a single rib, with the bones taken out, rolled, and stuffed, will make a nice little roast. If you buy a sirloin, take care to have it cut from the chump end, which has a good under cut or fiEet, as then, in addition to a roast joint, you wiE have A SHEEP is thus divided t. Leg. 2. Chump end of loin. A Best end of loin. 4. Neck, best end. 5. Neck, scrag end. 6. Shoulder. 7. Breast. A saddle is the two loins undivided. A chine is the two sides of the neck undivided.Hints to Honschecpcrs. r 3i 4. S' together. Fore-quarter. [mother dish, i.e., fillets-de-ixuf, one of the ^best dishes ever served. The rump is preferred to the sirloin by tepicures ; but it is too large to serve whole. 'A. sufficiently large joint is cut from the t chump end to roast. For the servants' hall, or as a dinner for a Jarge family where economy is essential, the bbuttock of beef is excellent, and very profi- i.table. It is cheaperthan the other roasting pportions of the ox, has no bones, and .'.affords quantities of rich gravy. But it jshould be hung for some time until quite titender. The round, aitchbone, and silver- rSide are usually salted and boiled. The meek is used for making soup or gravy—ask i.for it as “ gravy beefthe thin flank is the part to be collared. A " rumpsteak "is to be ordered for frying, &c. A “beefsteak" does for stewing, puddings, pies, &c. The inferior and cheaper parts of beef make excellent bouilli—a dish for which you will find directions in the body of the book. Veal should be small and white, and the kidney well covered with fat. The calf should not be older than eight or ten weeks when it is killed, or the flesli will be coarse. If veal is large it should be cheaper, as it is less delicate. The flesh should be dry, closely grained, and white ; if it is moist and clammy it is stale, and not fit for cook- ing. The fillet, loin, shoulder, and best end of the neck are the roasting joints. The A L.\mb is divided thus :— I. Leg. I 2. Loin. | 3. Sho.ilder. | 4. Breast. | 5. Ribs.6 Hinis to Housekeepers. breast is sometimes roasted in very small families, but it is usually stewed, as is also the knuckle ; or the knuckle may be boiled, and served with parsley and butter. A calf's head is a delicacy. Calf’s feet are also valuable boiled, stewed, or used for jelly. Veal makes the best stock for rich soups and gravies. It is a most useful meat for made dishes of all kinds, on account of its delicate flavour. Mutton.—Wether mutton is the best. It may be known by its having a knob of fat on the upper part of the leg. It should be dark coloured and have plenty of fat. The colour is important, as it is a proof of age, and the older mutton is the better it is. It should, properly, be the flesh of a sheep four or five years old, to be in perfection, but such meat is rarely to be bought at a butcher’s ; one tastes it only at the houses ol country gentlemen who kill their own animals. All the joints of a sheep may be roasted. The saddle is the best. The haunch is next best to the saddle ; it is the leg and loin undivided. The leg and neck are fre- quently boiled. The leg and loin, sepa- rated, are the best joints after the haunch. Chops are cut from the loin ; cutlets from the thick end of the loin, best end of the neck, or middle of the leg. The leg is sometimes cured and smoked as a ham. The breast of mutton is often salted and A DEER is cut up in four portions. I. Haunch, 8. Neck. L 3. Shoulder. 4. Breast.Hints to Housekeepers. 7 boiled. Tlie scrag end of mutton is very good stewed with rice. Lamb should be small; of a pale eoloured red, and fat. Lamb is generally roasted. The leg of “house lamb" (which is in season just before Cliristmas), is sometimes boiled and served with white sauce. Venison.—Venison is not very often bought, but when it is you can tell as to its being “high” or not, by running a skewer I into the shoulder, and observing the scent | on it when withdrawn. The fat should be thick and clean. If the cleft of the haunch is smooth and close, the animal is young. Pork. — Buy pork of a respectable butcher ; or get it from some place where you know it has been carefully fed ; from a dairy farm is the best place, or from a miller’s, or even from some country neigh- bour, as diseased or bad pork is very dan- gerous food. The fat of pork should be firm, and the lean white, and finely grained. The rind or skin thin and smooth. If the flesh feels clammy to the touch the pork is bad. If the fat has kernels in it the pig has . been measly, and the meat should not be eaten. Pork should be perfectly sweet to I be good, therefore do not hang it long. The PIG is divided thus :— 1. Spare rib. 2. liand. I' 3- P'elly- 1 4. Fore 'oin, 5. Hind loin. 6. Leg.Hints to Housekeepers. 8 Dacon.—If bacon is good the rind is thin, the fat firm and pinkish, the lean tender and adhering to the bone. Rusty bacon has yello\v streaks in it. Mams are tried by sticking a knife or skewer into them up to the knuckle ; if when drawn out it has a nice smell, the ham is good. A bad scent will be perceived if it is tainted. The roasting joints of pork are the spare rib, loin, and leg ; the other joints are salted ; the leg may also be cured and boiled. The sides or flitches are made into bacon. The leg makes a ham. Meat should be wiped with a dry, clean cloth as soon as it comes from the butcher's ; flyblows should be cut out, and in loins, the long pipe that runs by the bone should be taken out, as it soon taints ; the kernels also should be removed from beef. Never re- ceive bruised joints. If you wish to keep your meat hanging longer than ordinary, dredge it well with pepper. Powdered charcoal dusted over it will also prevent its tainting, nay, will absolutely remove the taint from meat already gone. We have seen a pair of fowls quite green from un- avoidably long keeping made fresh and sweet as ever by being sprinkled with powdered charcoal for an hour before 'Iressing. In hot summers it is very ad- visable to keep a lump of charcoal in the larder. Meat becomes more digestible and tender by hanging, but lamb and veal can- not be kept so well as beef and mutton. Remember that the best, and therefore the dearest joints are the most economical in the end, because they contain more solid meat than the others ; but very large joints are not economical for a small family ; nor are they as wholesome as our old fashioned English prejudices once deemed them. Poultry and Game, to Choose, Turkey.—The cock bird, when young, has a smooth bkek leg with a short spur. The eyes are briglit and full, and the feet supple, when fresh ; the absence of these s'gns denotes age and staleness ; the hen may be judged by the same rules. Fowls.—The young cock has a smoo;h leg and a short spur ; when fresh, the vent is close and dark. Hens, when young, have smooth legs and combs ; when old, these will be rough ; a good capon has a thick belly and large rump, a pod comb, and a swelling breast. Geese.—In young geese the feet and bills will be yellow and free from hair. When fresh, the feet are pliable ; they are stiff when stale. Ducks may be selected by the same rules. Pigeons, when fresh, have supple feet, and the vent will be firm ; if discoloured they are stale. Plovers, when fat, have hard vents ; but like almost all other birds, may be chosen by the above rules. Hares.—When a hare is young and fresh, the cleft in the lip is narrow, the body stiff, and the claws are smooth and sharp ; old and stale hares will be the opposite of this. Rabbits the same. In order to ascer- tain whether a hare is young or old, turn the claws sideways ; if they crack it is young. The ears also should be tender, and capable of bending easily. Partridges.—Yellow legs and dark bill are signs by which a young bird may be known ; a rigid vent when fresh. When this part is green the bird is stale. Pheasants may be chosen as above; the young birds are known by the short or round spur, which in the old is long and pointed. Moor Game. — Grouse, Woodcocks, Snipes, Quails, Ortolans, &c., may be chosen by tile rules above given. Choose white legged fowls for boiling, and dark for roasting. To Choose Fish. The eyes of fish, if fresh, are bright, the gills of a fine clear red, the body stiff, and the smell not unpleasant. Chloride of soda will restore fish that is not e.\tremely fresh, but it is never so good as when it has not been kept. A turbot should be thick ; the under side of a pale yellowish white, the colour of rich cream. The salmon and the cod should have a small head, very thick shoulders, and a small tail. The flesh of the salmon should be of a bright red colour, the scales very bright. Do not buy herrings, mackerel, or whit- ings unless quite fresh, and do not attempt to keep them even till the ne.\t day. Cod may be kept twenty-four hours. Soles the same. Eels should be bought alive. Crabs and lobsters should be heavy and very stiff; if they feel limp they are stale. They are often bought alive. Oysters, if fresh, will close forcibly on the knife when opened. If the shell gapes in the least degree, the oyster is losing its freshness. When the fish is dead the shell remains open. Small “natives” are the best oysters for eating ; for sauces or other culinary purposes the larger kinds are good enough. To Choose Eggs. Shake the eggs ; if they are bad they will rattle. But we think the best plan is to putHints to Housekeepers. 9 diem in a basin of water, and see if they lie on their side, down in it. If the egg turns upon its end it is bad ; if it lies obliquely, it is only not quite fresh, but may do for pud- dings, &c. M. Soycr tells us that the "safest way is to hold them up to the light, forming afocus with your hand ; should the shell be coi'ered with small dark spots they are very doubt- ful.” . . . " If, however, in looking at them you see no transparency in the shells, you may be sure they are rotten and only fit to be thrown away. The most precise way is to look at them by the light of a candle ; if quite fresh there are no spots upon the shells, and they have a brilliant light yellow tint.” Eggs to be preserved for use should be quite fresh from the nest. To Choose Vegetables. Take care that they are fresh looking and crisp. Potatoes.— We think the best are the walnut-leaf kidney for summer and the re- gents for winter use. But tastes differ so much with regard to potatoes that we can only advise buying them of the best and most respectable dealers. To Choose Apples. In choosing apples, be guided by the weight; the heaviest are the best, and those should always be selected which, on being pressed by the thumb, yield to it with a slight crackling noise. Prefer large apples to small, for waste is saved in peeling and coring them. ' Apples should be kept on dry straw in a dty place, and pears hung up by the stalk. The Store-Koom. Every lady should have a small closet for her stores if she has not a regular store- room. Groceries should always be bought in quantities, if possible ; thus the turn of the scale and the weight of paper, &c., is saved. At certain seasons of the year some articles may be bought cheaper than at others. Advantage should be taken of any fall in the market. A book should be kept in the store-room to enter the date when each store is bought, and at what price. The store-room should be very dry, and furnished with drawers, shelves, and nails with a few little nets suspended from them for hanging lemons in. It should contain also earthenware jars for sugars, and tins for keeping tea, coffee, and biscuits. The large or small tins in which biscuits are sold should be retained for the.se uses. Jams, pickles, and preserves should be kept in the coolest part of the room or closet. Coffee should not be bought in large quantities, be- cause it soon loses its flavour; unless, indeed, it is roasted at home, which is a very economi- cal plan foiTarge families. It can be bought very cheaply unroasted ; if purchased by the twenty-eight pounds it can be had at one shilling per pound ; and there is a roaster (peculiar to Ireland) which is turned over the fire like a mop, that any one can use with ease, to prepare it whenever required. Loaf sugar should be very white, close, heavy, and glittering; it is economy to buy the best, as the more refined the sugar is, the less the quantity required for sweetening. Moist or brown sugar should have a crystalline, sparkling look, and should not be too powdery or sandlike. Tallow candles should be bought in large quantities if possible, and purchased in the winter, as they keep best when made in cold weather. They should be kept several months in a cool place before they are used. Soap should be bought by the hundred weight for cheapness, and kept long before it is used. It should be cut in pieces fit for use, and then put in a drawer to dry and harden slowly, without being exposed to the air ; for if it were to dry quickly it would be likely to break when used. Mottled soap is the most economical; the best yellow soap melts much more rapidly in water. Soft soap for washing linen is a saving of half the quantity; therefore it is economical, though dearer in price than hard soap. Soda, by softening the water, saves soap. Starch should be left in a warm, dry place. Sugar, sweetmeats, and salt must all be kept very dry. Rice, tapioca, sago, &c., should be kept close oovered, or they will get insects in them ; it is better not to have large supplies of these articles. Buy lemons in June or July when they are freshly imported, and hang them in separate nets, for if they touch they will spoil. Onions, shallots, and garlic should be hung in ropes from a ceiling in an out-house [not in the store-room) ; and parsley, basil, savory, knotted marjoram, and thyme should be dried and hung up in paper bags, each bag containing only one description of herb. They should be dried in the wind and not in the sun, and when ordered in a receipt sliould be cautiously used, as a prepon- derance of one flavour in any seasoning spoils it. When oranges or lemons are squeezed for juice, chop down the peel, put it in small pots and tic it down for use. Vegetables will keep best on a stoix: floor, out of the air.lO Hints to Housekeepers. Eggs may be preserved by brushing them all over the shell with a thin solution of gum and laying them in bran. Some persons brush them over with oil ; in fact anything which will render the shell impervious to the air suffices for the purpose of preserving them. Suet may be kept for a twelvemonth, thus: choose the firmest and most free from skin or veins, remove all trace of these, put the suet in a saucepan at some distance from the fire, and let it melt gradually ; when melted pour it into a pan of cold spring water; when hard, wipe it dry, fold it in white paper, put it into a linen bag, and keep it in a dry cool place : when used it must be scraped ; it will make an e.xcellent pie-crust, either with or without butter. The trouble of housekeeping is much diminished by having a fi.xed day for giving out to the cook the tea, sugar, coffee, plums, &c., which are likely to be required during the coming week ; weighing out the quantities in proportion to the number of the family. Every week she should account for these quantities, bringing back whatever may chance to remain over and above her use. The spice-bo.x in the kitchen should be occasionally replenished from the store- room. Keeping Accounts. So many good Housekeeper's-books are now published that much need not be said as to the mode of entry. But we think daily e.xpenses are too minute in small families to be entered under all the various headings in most of the books with printed lists. The housewife is advised to keep a tiny MS. book and pencil in her pocket, and enter at the moment everything she buys or receives in the course of the day. This little reeord may be e.xamined once a week, and its con- tents (so far as they relate to housekeeping) entered in the family account-book. The cook should produce her slate to check the lady's accounts, and the amount should be carefully added up. We prefer ourselves a plain ruled account- book without printed items. Then on one side, the left, we enter whatever money we receive during the week ; on the opposite page the outlay we have made, which, when added up, can be subtracted at the bottom of the left page from the money re- ceived ; a weekly check is tlius placed on the e.xpenditure, which is continually compared with the means of payment. It is well to have a fixed sum for house- keeping which may not be exceeded. If any amount may be left, it is a good reserve fund for extra expenses, or for charity. Ready reckoners* will be found of great use both to save time and also to help those who arc slow at figures. One of them should always be kept lying next to or on the housekeeper’s-book. Butcher’s bills require careful weekly supervision, even when not paid till the quarter has elapsed, as errors in weight, even of ounces, or of price, as of farthings,! come to a considerable item in the course of the year. The memoranda of weight should be also compared with the book. One morning every week will suffice for these accounts, and, if faithfully carried out, the practice will be attended with a constant improvement in economy and good house- keeping. Dripping is most useful in a moderate family. It is an excellent medium for frying ; it will make good family pie-crust, and sup- ply the place of suet in a dumpling. Bones are absolutely necessary for making gravies and stock for soup. Take care that butter is kept in a coc place and covered from tlie air. In summe get some saltpetre, dissolve it in cold water and stand the butter crock in it, so that tin saltpetre water may reach well up the sides. Cover it over with a wet cloth, the ends of which resting in the saltpetre water will keep it constantly moist. This is nearly as good as icing the butter. Milk should be kept in scrupulously clean vessels, and stale and fresh milk should never be mixed, or the good will be spoiled. Set apart from your income yearly a small sum to be invested in replacing worn house- hold linen. Buy occasionally a tablecloth, a pair of sheets, &c., &x. You will feel these purchases much less than having to supply a whole stock of linen at once. House linen should be looked over every six weeks or quarter, and carefully repaired. We like lavender-bags among the linen, to give it a fresh agreeable smell; but some persons assert that they bring moth. If you observe iron-moulds on the linen, speak at once to the laundress on the sub- ject. It is possible she throws the washing cloths on a brick floor, which will causa iron-mould as soon as rusty iron does. • See Wnrne’8 “ Model Ready Reckoner.” f “ My Market Table.”Food in Season. II FOOD IN SEASON FOR EACH MONTH OF THE YEAR. January. Meats.—Beef, mutton, veal, pork, house- iamb. Poultry.—Pheasants, partridges, hares, rabbits, woodcocks, snipes, turkeys, pullets, capons, fowls, and pigeons. Fish.—Oysters, prawns, crabs, lobsters, crayfish, whitings, smelts, sturgeon, skate, turbot plaice, thornback, flounders, perch, tench, and carp. Vegetables.—Cabbage and sprouts, sorrel, endive, spinach, beet-root, celery, potatoes, parsnips, turnips, brocoli, shallots, lettuces, cresses, salsify, cucumbers, and asparagus ; mushrooms all the year. Fruits.—Pears, apples, nuts, grapes, medlars, and walnuts. February and March. All meats and game as in the former month, with the addition of chickens and ducklings. Fish.—Exactly as last month, excepting cod, which is not supposed to be quite so good up to July'. Vigetables.—Just the same as the previous month, only now you have kidney beans. Fruits.—Apples and pears, and forced strawberries. April, May, and June, —One Quarter. .'l/m/j.—Beef, mutton, veal, lamb, and in June venison. Poultry.—Pullets, fowls, chickens, duck- lings, pigeons, rabbits, and leverets. Vegetables as before, only in May early potatoes, peas, radishes, French beans, early cabbages, carrots and turnips, cauliflowers, asparagus, artichokes, and all kinds of salad, but this is forced. Fruits.—In June, strawberries, cherries, melons, green apricots, currants, and goose- berries for tarts only. Fish.—Cz.xx>, soles, tench, smelts, cels, trout, turbot, lobsters, chub, salmon, her- rings, crayfish, mackerel, crabs, prawns, and shrimps. luly, August, and September.—Second Quarter. Meats.—These arc not different from the former months, except pork, which com- mences in September. Poultry.—Pullets, fowls, chickens and rabbits, pigeons and green geese, leverets, turkeys, poults, the two former months ; wheatears and geese in September. Fish.—Cod, haddocks, flounders, skate, thornback, mullet, pike, and carp, eels and shell fish, but no oysters ; mackerel in July, it is not so good in August. Vegetables.—All as the previous months ; peas and beans. Fruits.—July, strawberries, gooseberries, pineapples, plums of all kinds, cherries apricots, raspberries, melons, damsons, white and red currants, pears, apples, grapes, nectarines, and peaches. In August and September peaches, plums, filberts, figs, mulberries, cheriies, apples, and pears, nectarines, grapes, pines and melons, strawberries. October. Meats do not differ ; this is the season for good doe venison. Poultry and Game.—Fowls of all kinds as the former quarter, pheasants from the ist October, partridges, larks, hares, wild ducks late in the month, teal, snipe, widgeon, and grouse. Fish.—Dories, smelts, pike, perch, hali- but, brills, carp, salmon, trout, barbel, gudgeon, tench, all shell fish. Vegetables are now as in January month. Fruits.—Peaches, pears, figs, bullaces, grapes, apples, medlars, damsons, filberts, walnuts, nuts, quinces. November. Meats.—Beef, mutton, veal, pork, house- lamb, doe vension. Poultry, game, fish, vegetables, and fruits. —As the last month. December. Meats.—As the former month. Poultry.—Geese, turkeys, pullets, pigeons, capons, fowls, rabbits, hares, snipes, wood- cocks, larks, pheasants, sea-lowls, Guinea fowls, wild ducks, teal, widgeon, grousq and dunbirds. Vegetables.—As in the last month. Fish.—Turbot, gurnet, soles, sturgeon, carp, gudgeon, eels, codlings, dories, and shell fish of all kinds.Kitchen Utensils. 12 KITCHEN UTENSILS. The young and inexperienced house- keeper will, we believe, be glad of some guidance in the selection of the utensils needed in her kitchen, so that she may not be at the mercy of those who desire more than is really required, or who are ignorant of the necessity and use of many articles of the first importance in the art. With a view to helping our readers to decide in this mat- ter for themselves, we offer them here three lists of the articles absolutely essential in the kitchen. The first list is for a first-rate kitchen, the second for a medium one, the third for a cottage home. Of course any one of the three lists may be added to, as required ; but they will be a guide in the matter as they now stand. Kitchen Utensils absolutely lequired Set of 6 wrought-iron sauce- pans. I wrought-iron stock-pot. I Bain-marie pan. I wrought-iron teakettle. I oval boiler. I digester, i saucepan di- gester, I stewpan di- gester. 6 enamelled stewpans. 1 Sautd pan, i French do. I potato steamer. I salamander and stand. I oval frying-pan. I round do. I fluted gridiron. I bachelor's frying-pan. I omelet pan. I omelet souffle pan. X braising pan. I preserving pan and spoon. I flour dredger. I sugar do. I brass bottle-jack. I dripping pan and stand. I basting ladle. I wooden meat screen. I coffee mill. I meat chopper. Meat saw. 1 colander. Pestle and mortar. 2 gravy strainers. 1 bread grater. 2 sets of skewers. I fish slice. I egg slice and ladle. I pair of steak tongs. I egg whisk. I beef fork. I French cook's knife. I steak beater. Fish kettle. Mackerel saucepan. Turbot kettle. Salmon and jack kettle. I pair of fish scissors. Double hanging gridiron. Sliding toaster and trivet. Toasting fork. Carson's patent salting ap- paratus. Kent's patent soup strainer. Mincing machine. Weighing machine. Spice box. Herb stand. by a good Cook. Box of paste cutters. 12 patty pans. 3 tart pans. 3 Dariol moulds. Marble slab for making paste. Rolling pin—American, with revolving handle. I Paste jigger. " Piston ” Freezing Ma- . chine. 1 cheese toaster. 3 larding pins. 2 cook's knives. I mushroom mould. I star fritter mould. I scroll fritter mould. 1 vegetable cutter, or “ the French Vegetable cutter." 1 vegetable mould. 3 pudding moulds. 6 jelly moulds. 3 cake moulds. 2 wooden spoons and mashed potato fork. Ice closet. Sugar spinners. Sugar moulds. The cost of the above •would be 38/. lor. I teakettle. i I toasting fork. 1 I bread grater. 2 1 wooden meat screen and i bottle-jack. 1 dripping pan and stand. I meat chopper. I colander. 3 block-tin saucepans. 5 iron saucepans. I do. and steamer. I large boiling pot. 4. enamelled stewpans. I butter saucepan. Medium Set. stock pot. fish and egg slice. fish kettles. flour dredge, and pepper and salt do. frying-pans, omelet pan. double hanging grid- iron. salamander, sets of skewers, pair of steak tongs, box of larding pins. ]5udding moulds. 2 jelly do. I rolling pin. I paste board. 1 paste jigger. 12 patty pans. 2 tart pans. X pan for Yorkshire pud- ding. Warren's Everybody’s Cook- ing pot. Warren’s Everybody’s cuny pot. I spice box. 15^- 2 I 1 1 2 1 1 2 The cost of the above would be sol.Kitchen Utensils. ^3 Slack's patent digester. 1 teakettle. I toasting fork. I bread grater. I tin meat screen and bottle jack. I set of skewers. I meat chopper. I block-tin butter sauce- pan. Small Cottage Set. 1 colander. 2 iron saucepans. 2 iron stewpans. I enamelled saucepan. I iron boiling pot. I fish slice. I fish kettle. 1 flour dredge. 2 frying-pans. I gridiron (hanging). Salt and pepper dredgers. I rolling pin. I paste board. 12 patty pans. I pan for Yorkshire pud- ding. I pair of scales. 1 spice bo.\'. The cost of the above would be 4/. 5J. Saucepans of several sizes are required for every kitchen. The cook should be careful to keep them always clean and fresh. The moment she has ceased using one she should pour boiling water into it to wash it, and she should never one away dirty. Preserving Pan, for making Bain-marie Pan and Pots, for jams, jellies, marmalades, &x. keeping sauces and entrees hot, &c. Stock-pot. Braising Pan.—The food to be braised is put into the lower part of the pan. The lid is covered well with red-hot ashes or charcoal. Full directions for braising are given farther on. The stew-pdVi is a valu- able utensil; it will in case of need serve as a braising pan, if the lid be made to go a little into the edge of the pan as some are made. Stock Pot.—The stock pot receives in it bones, trimmings of meat, remains of cold game, &c. &c., in short everything available for ordinary or good soup. It is to be wished that every English artizan’s wife possessed one ; it is the pot-aufeu of the French workman, who thus obtains nourish- ing soup and well-dressed meat at the same time.Kitchen UtensiCs. 14 Digester. The Patent "Digester" cannot be too warmly recommended to those who have need to practise economy. The mode of using it is simple and easy. Care must be taken in filling a digester to leave room enough for the steam to pass off through the valve at the top of the cover. This may be done by filling the digester only three-parts full of water and bruised bones or meat, which it is to be noticed are all to be put in together. It must then be placed near a slow fire, so as only to simmer (more heat injures the quality), and this it must do for the space of eight or ten hours. After this has been done, the soup is to be strained through a hair sieve or colander, in order to separate any bits of bones. The soup is then to be put into the digester again, and afterwards whatever vegetables, spices, &c., are thought necessary are added, the whole is to be well boiled together for an hour or two, and it will be then fit for immediate use. In putting on the lid of the digester, take care that a mark, thus (X) on the lid, is opposite to a similar one on the digester. The digester may also be obtained to con- tain from four quarts to ten gallons. The saucepan and stewpan digesters hold from one to eight quarts. Salmon or Jack Kettle. Saucepan, with loose Earthen Lining, for boiling milk, cus- tards, &c., without burning. Turbot Kettle. Fish Kettle. Bottle Jack and Screen, for roasting without a spit and wooden screen.Kitchen Utensils. 1.3 Dripping-pan and Ladle. Toaster and Trivet. Double Hanging Gridiron. Gravy Strainer. Wire Basket, for frying Meat Chopper, for chopping vegetables. and disjointing bones. There is a new and better Gravy Strainer I perforated at the sides, which is more con- recently invented, in the form of a jelly bag, 1 venient, we think, than the ordinary one. Frying-pan, FFish Scissors. Saute-pan. Beefsteak Tongs, for handling steaks, &c., during the gril< ling process.Kitchen Utensils. 1Q Captain Warren's Bachelor’s Frying-pan, closed. This frying-pan, invented by Captain Warren, is, we think, preferable to the or- dinary frying-pan. It retains the heat better from being fluted instead of plain, and renders it unnecessary to touch the steak with the beef tongs. It shuts (at shown in the engraving) over the steak or chop, and can be turned over from one side to the other, as the cook pleases, till the meat is dressed. Trussing Needle, for tnissing poultry. Paste Jigger. Meat Saw, for sawing bones in parts of meat where the chopper cannot be used. I-arding Needle, made with split ends, like a cleft stick, to receive strips of fat bacon, which by its means are grafted into the flesh of turkeys, poultry, &c.Kitchen Utensils. Pestle and Mortar. Beef Fork, for lifting- large joints in the pot or saucepan. Salamander, for browning puddings, &c. Patent Mincing Machine. CCarson’s Patent Salting Ap- paratus, for salting joints of meat in a few minutes. Kent’s Patent Soup Strainer. Kent's Patent Strainer will be found most The Patent Mincing Machine will greatly ■useful for procuring the transparency so economize the cook's time, nmuch required by fashion in modem soups. Improved Revolving Toaster, also available as a hanging Trivet, for Kettle, Saucepan, or Plate. ligg Poacher, with a loose inside frame, and ladles to hold the eggs. ci8 Kitchen Utensils. Scales.—As one of the great elements of success in cooking is preciseness in the proportions of ingredients, the cook should never be without a good pair of scales, and she should keep them in thorough order. In delicate dishes an unequal proportion of an article inserted only to impart a certain flavour, will ruin the dish. The necessity as well as use of scales is therefore obvious. Scales and Weights. French Vegetable Cntter, for cutting carrots and turnips in various shapes, for soups, haricots, garnishing, &c. Mflien you use this machine, lay the disc or plate you have selected in the place jjreparcd for it in the machine, witli the sharp or cutting side upwards. Cut the vegetables into thin slices ; lay a slice on the disc and press down the handle of the machine, wliich will force the vegetable on the disc. Then lay a second slice on the disc, pressing down the handle as before, and the slice first laid on will be forced through, cut into small pieces of the required shape. This may be repeated as often as necessary till the quantity is sufficient ; the pieces remaining in the disc should be pushed out with a fork. “The Cottager’s Stove,” WHICH REQUIRES NO BRICKWORK TO FIX IT. A a Tin Kettle, holding seven quarts. B an Iron Cover, which forms an additional oven on the top of the hot plate. C Toaster. D Saucepan Directions.—When coal is used, the front and bottom gratings will be required. When wood is used these may be removed. To improve the Draught if ncr^ssary.— to fit the top. Carry the flue-pipe a few feet up the chim. ney, or enclose the fireplace with an iron plate, in which cut outrv round hole for the pipe to pass through.Kitchen Utensils. '9 To use the Stove in the open air, it will be I necessary to liave about ten feet of peqaen- I dicular pipe, to ensure a proper drauglit. Economy in the use of fuel is not to be •neglected by the housekeeper. Cinders . should be carefully sifted. The grate (if the . ordinary one alone be possessed) sliould be .-screwed in as soon as tlie fire for cooking is no longer required. The fire at the back of the open range may then be made of small coals, wetted and left to cake. Cinders may be used for ironing stoves, and for heating ovens. The Cottager’s Stove will be found an economical assistant to the common open range in small kitchens. Ordin.ary Jelly Moulds. Plain Directions for Eoasting, &c. How to Roast.—Roasting meat, though cone of the commonest modes of dressing it, ^ is by no means an easy task. Roast meat is : too often sent to table nearly raw, or dried up : till there is scarcely any gravy in it. Now fgoorf roasting consists in dressing the joint thcr jughly, and yet retaining its juices in it. The cook should prepare her fire some little time before she puts the meat down. The grate should be let out sufficiently wide ; to take in the whole size of the joint, with a : margin to spare on each side, and the fire should be so good as not to require making up during the time the joint is roasting ; it =should be sufficiently large to be of an equal ! strength all the time the meat is dressing, aided by a large coal put on the top of it (occasionally. A great deal of the success in : roasting will depend on the heat and good- • ness of the fire. Begin roasting by placing : the meat at some distance from the fire (about eighteen inches), and baste it from the first. When it is half done, move it .gradually nearer to the fire for it to be well browned. If the meat were to be put close to the fire at first, it would dry up, and the outside would be dressed before the heat had penetrated the mass ; the juices being thus ■shut in, the joint would be under-dressed. Some persons prefer meat roasted very slowly. That method is expensive, because it requires a large fire to be kept up for a length of time ; and also, unless done by a cook who understands her business well, and who makes afire fit for it, the meat is apt to get sodden. We need scarcely say that the meat screen should be plaeccl behind it from the first of its being put down. Cover the fat of veal or lamb with apiece of paper tied on with twine. Baste the meat very frecjuently, for the Jelly Bag, used for Straining Jelly. more it is basted the better it will eat. When it is nearly done, the paper over the fat maybe removed, and the joint lightly dredged with flour, in order to give it a savoury brown appearanee called frothing. Sprinkle a very little salt on it also ; but not till it is just ready to dish up, as salt draws out the gravy. The usual time allowed for roasting is a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes for each pound of meat. But this rule does not always answer. Meat fresh killed takes longer to roast than when it has been kept long ; and in warm weather it takes less time than in eold. Brown meats require less time than white meats do. In frosty weather, it is better to lay the joint before the fire to thaw before it is put on the spit, as, if frozen, it will be impossible to calculate the time required for dressing it, and in fact it will never be dressed through. The eook should always be eareful that the spit, and also the hook used in the bottle-jaek, be wiped before they are used. She should also be eareful how she hangs the meat, so as to avoid disfiguring it by running the spit through the prime parts. Cradle spits are much the best for large kitehens ; for small families, the bottle-jack in a tinned screen docs very well, or, belter still, the improved spring-jack and roaster. Let the butcher chop the joints of ncckf and loins of mutton and Iamb before they arc dressed, or they cannot be well sepa- rated by the carver when they are sent Co table. When the roast meat has been Jaken up), the fat which has dripped from it into the pan should be poured intp ti basin pre-ao Hozv to Boil and Broil. viouily dipped in cold water. It must be left till the ne.\t day, when beneath the fat at the top will be found a fine meat jelly fit for j^ravies, &c. The cake of dripping should be melted and strained into cold water, from which it can be removed in cakes for future use. Veal, pork, and lambshouldbe/Zior-wf/t/v done, not retaining any red gravy ; at the same time, care should be taken not to drv Miem up, or roast them till the flesh part's Irom the bones. Mutton does not take quite the length of time to roast that beef does. A very economical way of making gravy is to skim the fat from the dripping in the pan und r the meat, and pour two or three spoonfuls of hot water into it ; stir it, and pour it over the meat through a sieve. How to Boil. Joints to be boiled should be washed ex- tremely clean and skewered into good shape ; then they should be put in the saucepan and covered well with cold water. They must be set over a moderate Are and let boil slowly. Just before the water reaches boiling-point the scum will rise to the top, and must be carefully skimmed off; if not done at the moment of ebullition it will fall back on the joint boiling and disfigure it. Tlie pot will require skimming every rime the scum rises ; the saucepan must be kept covered all the time, however, the lid being only removed for the cook to skim the pot. Gentle simmering, not fast boiling, is most desirable for meat, as by quick boil- ing the outside is hardened before the joint is done, and the meat becomes hard and lough. Salted meat requires longer boiling than fresh meat; when smoked and dried, it takes longer still. Pickled or salted meat should be soaked before boiling in cold water, for a longer or shorter time as its saltness and size may require. Take care that the joint, if large, does not adhere to the bottom of the pot ; to prevent this pos- sibility cooks semetimes put a few wooden skewers at the bottom under it. The time allowed for boiling is from a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes for each pound, supposing of course that the fire is kept up to an equal temperature all the time. Quick boiling is very much to be avoided; but the pot should never be al- lowed to stop simmering. First-rate cooks preserve the whiteness of their boiled meats, and save them from in- sipidity, by not boiling them in water, but using instead a sort of broth called poele, or another called btinc. But these prepara- tions are very expensive, and are not required for ordinary use. For people who cannot af- ford expensive cooking, a well-floured cloth wrapped round the meat to be boiled will make it white; but the cloth must be kept very clean, and should be boiled in pure water after e.ach time it is used ; moreover, it must not be suffered to get damp, or it will give a musty flavour to the meat. How to Broil. Many kinds of fish, steaks, chops, and cutlets are far better broiled than fried ; but much care, niceness, and skill are required to broil properly. First, the fire should be perfectly free from smoke, though brisk, and giving out a good heat; secondly, the gridiron should be scrupulously clean, well heated, and rubbed over with mutton suet before the meat is put on it. If the fire be too fierce, the meat will be hardened and scorched ; if it be too dead, the gravy will escape and the meat will be flabby. The gridiron sliould be held slopingly over the fire in order that the fat may run off to the back of the grate, for if it dropped on the coals it would create a blaze, and blacken and smoke the meat. If by chance a blaze should spring up during the time the steak, &c., is broiling, the gridiron must be caught off the fire and held on one side till the blaze is gone ; a little salt thrown on the fire will make it clear again. Fish should be wrapped in a piece of well-buttered letter- paper before they are placed on the grid- iron, to preserve them from smoke, and prevent their becoming too dry ; the gridiron may be rubbed with a little chalk first. Cutlets which are covered with egg and bread crumbs, must be dipped in a little clarified butter before they are put on the gridiron. The best way, however, is to season the cutlet with pepper, and brush it over with a little butter before it is broiled. Steaks and chops should be turned often in order that they may be done in every part, but the fork used for this purpose should never be stuck into the lean of the steak, as it would let the gravy escape; it must be put into the outer skin or fat. All kitchens ought to be provided with steak-tongs for this purpose. Birds when cut asunder and broiled, must be laid with the Inside first to the fire. Most people prefer broiled mutton chops or beefsteaks rather lightly dressed, but lamb and pork chops should be thoroughly cooked. Everything broiled should be served the moment it is done, very hot. The dish should be kept rsady to receive it in front of the fire.27 Hoiv io Stew and Fry. When fish are broiled without paper, great care should be taken to have the grid- iron very hot before they are put on it, and to rub the bars with butter. To preserve the skin of the fish entire when broiled, it should (after being washed and cleansed) be nibbed well with vinegar, dried in a cloth, and floured. The flour will keep it from adhering to the bars. A cinder or charcoal fire is best for broiling fish. Wliile you are broiling sliees of cold meat, put into a hot dish a piece of butter the size of a walnut and a teaspoonful of ketchup— melt them together, and lay the meat from the gridiron on the gravy made by these ingredients as soon as it is done. How to Stew. Stewing is a wholesome, exxellent, and economical mode of cooking. Very little fuel is used for it, and meat so prepared is both digestible and delicious. But boiling is not stewing; and we warn our readers that all we have said in praise of it may be reversed if they let the stewing-pan do more than simmer very gently. Stewing is best done over a regular stove ; but when a cook can command only an old-fashioned kitchen- range she must place her stew-pan on trivets high above the fire, and constantly watch it, and move it nearer to, or further from the fire. Stewing must of course always be done over a slow fire, and tiie steiv-pan lid should shut quite closely. It should be kept at a gentle simmer, without letting it boil, and it must stew for several hours, according to the weight of the meat, which is not to be considered done until it is quite tender. Sometimes the cook stews the meat in ajar, placed in a stew-pan full of water, and thus extracts the pure gravy unmixed with water. We have, also, a recipe for stewing meat and vegetables to- gether, without water being put in the jar with them, thus making an excellent soup from the union of the pieces of the meat and the water contained in the vegetables. How to Fry, Cooks should always have two frying-pans, and a third, not much bigger than a large plate, for omelets, fritters, &c., if they have no saute-pan. The pan must be kept deli- cately clean and nice ; the butter, dripping, lard, or oil in whicli the fish, meat, &c., is fried must always be boiling hot before the meat is put into tlie pan. The rule is that a sufficient quantity of fat must be heated thus in the pan, io cover the steak, chop, or whatever is to be fried—frying being ac- tually boiling in fat instead of water. Mutton cliops do not require any fat in the pan with them ; they have enough in them- selves, but they must be often turned and moved about to prevent them from burning. Of course we speak only of chops cooked quite plain—i.e., without being egged and bread-crumbed. Cut and skin the chop nicely, and season it with a little pepper before putting it in the pan. Lamb cutlets, and lamb chops, must be egged and bread-enimbed twice, in order to look well. Steaks should be cut three-quarters of an inch thick for frying, and should be pep- pered, but not have salt put on them before they are dressed, as it makes them hard. When done, a little salt is sprinkled lightlj' over them. Cutlets, a la maintenon, and mullet arf fried in buttered paper covers. The first process in frying is to put enough dripping or butter in your pan to cover the chop or steak when the butter is melted. Then the fat must be made to boil in the pan, and when at its greatest heat the sub- stance to be fried must be plunged into it. The pan must then be lifted from the fire for a minute or two, to prevent the outside from getting black before the inside is dressed. Fish must be well dried before frj'ing, in a cloth well sprinkled with flour; or first they may be wiped well, thoroughly dried and dredged with flour. Then an egg is well bmshed over them, and finely-grated bread, or biscuit, is sprinkled over them. The fat should be gjiite at boiling-point (when it will no longer hiss or bubble) before the fish is put in, and it should be well covered by the liquid butter, or oil, which, by-the-bye, is much the best for fry- ing fish in, but of course it is expensive. Hog's lard, and dripping are also used in economical kitchens. The frying-pan should never be left for a moment till the fish is done. In kitchens where strict economy is de- manded, it is usual when liver and bacon are to be dressed to fry the bacon yrsl, which will leave enough fat in the pan for the liver to be put in without either butter or dripping, but this mode, though econo- mical, is veiy coarse, and we do not recom- mend it. The liver will be more delicate if it be fried before the bacon. To GIaz3. Glazing is done by boiling down good rich beef slock till it is reduced to Iho con- sistence of a thin, bright brown paste. Of course all fat and sediment must first be removed from the stock before it is boiled down for glaze. It should be done over a quick fire, boiled fast till well reduced, then changed into a smallcv stew-pan, and shouldBoning, Braising^ and Larding. 22 continue boiling till it is made. It must be kept in a jar well covered, and when re- quired for use should be put into a stew- pan and let stand in boiling water till the jelly is melted. It must be brushed over tlie tongue, chicken, or beef with a glazing brush once or twice till the operation is finished. Boning, larding, and Braising. Tlie three most difficult operations to achieve well in cookery are boning, larding, and braising. Boning is so little^understood by inferior cooks that it is best, if your servant is not first-rate, to have it done by the poulterer with whom you deal. Never- theless, it is an art which tends so much to economy, that it would quite repay the mistress of a family to pay for a few lessons for her domestic from a good poulterer or cook. The bones of poultry and hares are most useful for making gravies, and hares are more easily carved, and look better when boned. Any butcher will bone joints when required. Although we cannot hope that our readers will be able to achieve the boning of a fowl, &x., from any verbal description, we, nevertheless, give a few directions on the subject, from an excellent recipe of. Miss Acton's for the performance of the operation. Turkeys, fowls, hares, &c., are boned, as well as joints. To Bone a Turkey or Fowl.—Miss Acton’s. "Cut through the skin down the centre of the back, and raise the flesh carefully on either side with the point of a sharp knife until the sockets of the wings and thighs are reached. Till a little practice has been gained, it will, perhaps, be better to bone these joints before proceeding further ; but after they are once detached from it the whole of the body may easily be separated from the flesh, and taken out entire. Only the neckbones and merrythought will then remain to be removed. The bii d thus pre- pared may either be restored to its original form, by filling the legs and wings with forcemeat, and the body with the livers of two or three fowls, mixed with alternate layers of parboiled tongue, freed from the lind, fine sausage meat, or veal forcemeat, or thin sliees of the nieest bacon, or aught else of good flavour which will give a marbled appearance to the fowl when it is tarved, and then be sewn up and tnissed as usual ; or the legs and wings may be drawn inside the body, and the bird being first flattened on a table may be covered with sausage meat and the various other in- gredients we have named, so placed that it shall be of equal thickness in every part, then tightly rolled, bound firmly together with a fillet of broad tape, wrapped in a thin pudding cloth closely tied at both ends, and dressed.” Larding. Tlie cook should be provided with larding needles of various sizes. Cut small smooth strips of the length required, off the firmest part of a piece of bacon fat. Put these bits of bacon fat into a larding needle; they are called lardoons. Pierce the skin, and a very little of the flesh of the meat, fowl, sweet- bread, &c., you may wish to lard with it, leaving the bacon in, and the two ends of equal length outwards. These punctures for lardoons are made in rows at any dis- tance from each other the cook pleases. The flavour of larding may be obtained by raising the skin of the meat and laying a slice of fat bacon beneath it ; this mode is not ornamental, but gives an excellent flavour to the flesh, even better than when larded with the needles. It requires a little practice to lard neatly, but as it is really an easy operation, any cook may learn to do it with care. Cut the bacon in slices, lay them one on the other, and cut strips through them the size you require, in order that they may be all of the same size. Lardoons (as these pieces of bacon are called) should be two inches in length and one-eighth of an inch in width, for larding poultr}', game, and fricandeaux ; for fillets of beef and loin of veal they should be rather thicker. We owe, besides many another invaluable lesson, the following admirable description of larding to Soyer:—“Have the fricandeau trimmed ; lay it lengthwise upon a clean napkin across your hand, forming a kind of bridge with your thumb at the part you are about to commence at. Then with the point of the larding needle make three distinct lines across, half an inch apart ; run the needle into the third line at the further side of the fricandeau, and bring it out at the first, placing one of the lardoons in it ; draw the needle through, leaving out a quarter of an inch of the bacon at each line ; proceed thus to the end of the row. Then malce another line half an inch dis- tant ; stick in another row of lardoons, bringing them out at the second line, leaving the ends of the bacon out all the same length. Make the next row again at the same distance, bringing the ends out be- tween the lardoons of the first row, proceed- ing in this manner until the whole surface is larded in chequered rows. Everything else is larded in a similar way, and in theCarving. 23 tdse of poultry, hold the breast over a char- roal fire for one minute, or dip it into boiling Kater, in order to make the flesh firm." Braising. Braising is a mode of cooking fcy the action of lieat above, as v.-ell as below, the article cooked. A braising pan has a deep cover (see engraving at Kitchen Utensils) on which live charcoal is placed. The pan is air-tight, and as all evaporation is thus precluded, the food braised imbibes what- ever flavour the cook may wish to give it ; in order to effect which, she must place in the pan with it whatever vegetables, &c., her recipe may direct. The ingredients should be very well proportioned, and the stewing should go on very slowly. We will give here one recipe for a braise, as an e.xample of what is meant. A Fowl braised.—Peel and wash a large Portugal onion, and one large turnip ; cut them in thin slices, with a little celery, a few sprigs of parsley, and a bay leaf. Lay a few slices of fat bacon at the bottom of the pan, place the bird trussed for boiling on it, cover the breast with slices of fat bacon. Lay the vegetables round it, with a few bones or trimmings of fresh meat. Add a pint and a half of stock, and seasoning to your taste. Cover the pot closely, set it over a slow stove, put live charcoal at the top, and let it cook slowl)'. When it is done, keep the meat hot while you strain the gra\y and take off the fat, which you can do quicker by plunging the basin partly into cold water ; this will make the fat coagulate. Boil it up very quickly again till it thickens. Some cooks let the gravy adhere to the meat ; this is done by boiling it down till it is reduced just to the quantity required for the purpose. Saute-ing. To " Saut4" anything means to dress it quickly, in a small pan, with a very little butter, oil, lard, or dripping, doing one side at a time. Two spoonfuls of oil will be enough to sanU a small chicken in. The art of saut^-ingwell consists in doing it quickly, to keep the gravy and succulence in the meat. It is an economical mode of dressing small things of every kind of food. It is, you see, very different from frying, which is really boiling in hot fat, and requires a far greater quantity of the butter, oil, &c., for its performance. CARVING. One of the most important acquisitions in the routine of daily life is the ability to carve, not only well, but elegantly. It is true that the present fashion of Russian dinners is fast banishing the necessity for promiscuous car\‘ing from the richly-ser\-ed boards of the wealthy; but inthecirclesof middle life, where it is not adopted, the necessity of skill in the use of a carving-knife is sufficiently obvious. The dish upon which the article to be carved is placed should be conveniently near to the carver, so that he may have full con- trol over it; for if it is placed far off, nothing can prevent an ungracefulness of appearance, and a difficulty in performing | Ribs of Bef.f.—There arc two modes of carving this joint; the first, which is now becoming common, and is easy to an ama- teur carver, is to cut across the bone, com- mencing in the centre, and helping fat from A, as marked in the engraving of the sirloin, or it should be carved in slices from A to n, tommencing either in the centre of the joint or at the sides. Occasionally the bones arc removed, and the meat formed into a fillet ; it should then be carved as a round of beef. An Aitch-Bone of Beef.—This is a simple joint to carve, but the slices from it must be cut cpiite evenly, and of a very that which if it were in its proper place could be achieved with ease. In helping fish, nicety and care must be exercised ; lightness of hand and dexterity of management are necessary, and can only be acquired by practice. The flakes which, in fish like salmon and cod are large, should not be broken in helping, for the beauty of the fish is then destroyed, and it becomes less inviting to the appetite. In the following directions, accompanied by diagrams, we have endeavoured to be as explicit as possible ; but practice alone will enable any person to carve with skill and facility. Aitch-Bone.Carving. 24 moderate thickness. Wlien the joint is boiled, before cutting it, remove a slice from the whole of the upper part, of sufficient thickness (say a quartet of an inch), to arrive at the juicy part of the meat at once. Carve from A to B ; let the slices be moderately thin —not too thin—help fat with the lean in one piece, and give a little addi- tional fat which you will find below C ; the solid fat is at A, and must be cut in slices horizontally. The round of beef is carved in the same manner. Sirloin of Beef. The Sirloin of Beef.—The under part should be first carved, as indicated in the engraving, across tlie bone. In carving the upper part the same directions should be followed as for the ribs, carving either side, or in the centre, from A to B, and helping the fat from D. Fillet of Veal.—Cut a slice off the whole of the upper part, in the same way as from a round of beef, this being, if well roasted, of a nice brown, should be helped in small pieces iEl_ with the slices you cut for each person. The stuffing is skewered in the flap, and where the bone comes out there is some placed ; help this with the meat, with a piece of the fat. Fillet of Veal. Necic of Veal.—Were you to attempt to carve each chop, and seire it, you would not only place a gigantic piece upon the plate of the person you intended to help, but you would waste much time, and should the ver- tebras have not been jointed by the butcher, you would find yourself in the position of the ungraceful car\’er, being compelled to e.xercise a degree of strength which should never be suffered to appear ; very possibly, too, helping Neck of Veal. gravy in a manner not contemplated by the person unfortunately near enough to receive it. Cut diago- nally from B to A, and help in slices of moderate thickness ; you can cut from c to D in order to separate the small bones, divide and serve them, having first inquired if they are de- sired. The Breast of Veal.— Sepa- rate the ribs from the brisket, cutting from A to B ; these small bones are the sweetest and mostly chosen ; you will cut them as at D D D, and serve. Breast of Veal. The long ribs are divided as at C C C ; and having ascertained the prefe- tables the scrag is not seiA'ed, but is rence of the person, help accordingly; at good found, when properly cooked, a very good stew. Loin of Veal.—This joint is sent to table served as a sirloin of beef. Having turned it over, cut oxt the kidney and the fat, return it to its proper position, and carve it, as in the neck of veal, from B to A ; help with it a slice of kidney and fat. The kidney is usually placed upon a dry toast when removed Irom the joint.25 Carving. Shoulder of Veal is sent to table with I as a shoulder of mutton, beginning at the the underpart placed uppermost. Help it | knuckle end. Calf's He.\d.—There is much more meat to be obtained from a calf’s head by carving it one way than another. Carve from A to B, cutting quite down to the bone. At the fleshy part of the neck end you will find the throat sweetbread, which you can help a slice of with the other part; you will remove the eye with the point of the knife and divide it in half, helping those to it who profess a preference for it ; there are some nice gelatinous pieces around it, which are palatable. Remove the jawbone, and then you will meet with some fine flavoured lean ; the palate, which is under the head, is by some thought a dainty, and should be offered when carving. A Shoulder of Mutton.—This is a joint upon which a great diversity of opinion exists, many professing a species of hoiror at its insipidity ; others finding much deli- cacy of flavour in certain parts. In good mutton there is no doubt that, if properly managed, it is an excellent joint, and if ju- diciously carved, will give satisfaction to all who partake of it. It should be served and eaten very hot. It is sent to table lying on the dish as shown in the annexed en- graving. Commence carving from A to b, taking out moderately thin shces in the shape of a wedge ; some nice pieces may then be helped from the bladebone, from c to B, cutting on both sides of the bone. Cut the fat from D, carving it in thin slices. Some of the most delicate parts, however, lie on the under part of the shoulder ; take off thin pieces horizontally from B to C, and from A ; some tender slices are to be met with at D, but they must be cut through as indicated. The shoulder of mutton is essentially a joint of titbits, and therefore, when carving it, the tastes of those at table should be con- sulted. It is a very insipid joint when cold, and should therefore be hashed if sent to table a second time. A Shoulder of Mutton. I.EG OF Mutton.— The under or thickest part of the leg should be placed uppermost, and carved in slices mode- rately thin, from B to C. Many persons prefer the knuckle, and this question should be asked, and, if liked, it should be sent to the guest. When cold, the back of the leg should be placed upper- most, and thus carved ; if the cramp bone is requested (some persons regard it as a dainty), insert your knife at D, passing it round to E, and you will remove it, * * Leg of Mutton.Carving. 26 Saddle of Mutton. A neat way is to nm the knife along the chine bone and under the meat along the ribs ; it may then be cut in slices as shown in the engraving of the saddle of mutton ; by this process fat and lean are served together ; your knife should be very sharp, and it should be done cleverly. Neck of Mutton, if the scrag and Saddle of Mutton. — The tail end is divided in theengra\ing, and the kidneys skewered under each division ; this is a matter of taste, and is not always done Carve from A to B in thin slices help fat from c to d. You may help from the vertebrae on both sides of the loin, and then carve crosswise as marked in the en- graving, which gives you both fat and lean ; help a slice of kidney - to those who desire it. The Loin of Mutton, ifsmall, should be can’ed in chops, be- ginning with the outer chop ; if large, carve slices the whole length, chine bone are removed, is carved in the direction of the bones. The Scrag of Mutton should be separated from the ribs of the neck, and when roasted the bones sent with the meat. Haunch of Mutton is cars'ed as haunch of venison. Fore Quarter of Lamb.—Place your fork near the knuckle, and cut from A to C, to B, and on to D; pass your knife under, lifting with the fork at the same time. The juice of half a lemon or Seville orange which has been sprin- kled with salt and pepper, is then squeezed under the shoul- der, and a slice of fresh butter placed there also, the parts are reunited until the butter is melted, and the shoulder is then placed upon a separate dish ; separate the neck from the ribs from E to D, arid then help the breast, G, or the neck, f, according to the palate of your guest. Haunch of Venison.—Have the dish placed before you so that the loin is nearest to you, and the knuckle farthest; then cut from A to B, sufficiently near the knuckle to prevent the escape of any gravy ; then make your first cut from A to C, with a slanting cut, and then let each succeeding slice be sloping, so that all the gravy may be retained in the hollow thus formed ; the fat will be found at the left side, and must be served with the meat. ciently roasted, this maybe done with ease ; the meat should be cut in thin slices across the leg, the crackling being served with it, or not, according to taste ; the loins arc cut into the pieces scored by tlie butcher. Ham is served as placed in the engraving, and should come to table ornamented. Carve from A to B, cutting thin slices slant- ingly,logivca'vedge-likeappearance. Those Fore Quarter of Lamb. Haunch of Venison. Kid, if kept until the age at which lambs are killed, is served and carved in the same manner ; if killed at a month or five weeks, it is roasted whole, and carved in the kitchen. Pork.—The leg when sent to table should be placed with the back uppermost, and the crackling be removed ; if suffi-Carving. rho prefer the hoek carve at d, in the same (iirection as from A to B, then carve from d to c, in thin slices, as indicated in the diagram. Boiled Tongue. — Carve across the tongue, but do not cut through ; keep the slices rather thin, and help the fat and kernels from underneath. Sucking Pig.—The cook should send a roast pig to table as displayed here, gar- nished with head and ears ; carve the joints in the direction shown by the lines in the diagram, then divide the ribs, serve with plenty of sauce ; should one of the joints be too much, it may be separated: bread sauce and stuffing should accompany it. An ear and the jaw are favourite parts with many people. Hare.—Cut slices from b to A of moderate thickness. When the hare is young, you can, after removing the shoulders and legs, cut across the back and divide it into several pieces ; this is not practicable with a full grown hare, unless it is boned ; the shoulders and legs are easily removed by placing the knife between them, and turning them b.ick, the joint will disclose itself and can then be separated. The head should not be removed until the last, divide it from the neck, remove the lower jaw, then cut through the divi- sion which appears from the nose to the top of the skull, and lay it open. The stuffing should be given with whatever portion may be helped. Roast Rabbits are carved in the same manner. Boiled Rabbit.—Remove the legs and shoulders, they very easily separate, divide the back into two parts, and by holding the fork firmly in the back, and passing the knife underneath, near the middle, and bending it back, this is accomplished readily. The most tender part is on the loins, the meat there is of a very delicate flavour ; liver should be helped with it. Poultry.— Poultry requires skilful carv- ing ; the requisites are grace of manner, ease in tlic performance, a perfect knowledge of the posi- tion of ihe joints, and the most complete mode of dissect- ing, so as to obtain the largest quantity of meat. In no case is this ability more demanded than in carving a roast turkey. Unless this is done well, there is not only much waste, but the appearance of the turkey is spoiled. You will commence by carving slices from each side of the breast, in the same directions as the lines marked in the engraving, cutting from A to b. Then remove the legs, dividing the thighs from the drumsticks, and here an instrument termed a disjointcr will be found scr\-iccablc, for unless the turkey be very young, and the union of the joints very accurately taken, carving becomes difficult: Ham. Roast Pig. Hare. Boiled Rabbit. Roast Turkey. the disjointcr effects the separation at once, and it possesses also the advantage of ena- bling the carver to divide a thigh into two,28 Carving. thus permitting n less bulky portion to be served. The pinions and that portion of tlie body removed with it, are always a delicacy, and care should be taken to carve them nicely : the joint of the pinion will be found at b. The stuffing, if it be of truffles, you will obtain by making an opening at C. Ordinary forcemeat is found in helping the breast. Boiled Turkey. Roast Fowl. lower part firmly yet gently, it will off the side bones, and the fowl is Boiled Turkey is trussed in a different fashion to the roast, but the same direction given for the first ap- plies to the second. The legs in the boiled turkey being drawn into the body may cause some little diffi- culty at first in their separation, but a little practice will soon surmount it. Roast Fowl.—This operation is a nice and skilful one to perform ; it requires both observation and prac- tice. Insert the knife between the legs and the side, press back the leg with the blade of the knife, and th<* joint will come apart; if judiciously managed, it will re- quire but a nick where the joints unite. Remove the wing from D to B, cut through and lay it back as with the leg, separating the joint with the edge of the knife, remove the merrythought and neck bones next ; this you will accomplish by inserting the knife and forcing it under the bones ; raise it and it will readily separate from the breast. You will divide the breast from the body by cutting through the small ribs down to the vent, turn the back uppermost, now put the knife into about the centre between the neck and rump, raise the easily separate, turn the neck or rump from you, take carved. In separating the thigh from the drum- stick, you must insert the knife exactly at the joint, as we have indicated in the en- experienced A getting the parts asunder. There is no difference in carving roast and boiled fowls, if full grown ; but in a very young fowl when roasted, the breast is served whole. The wings and breast are preferred, but the leg of a young fowl is an excellent part. Capons when very fine and roasted, should have slices carved from the breast, like a turkey. Geese.—Follow with your knife the lines marked in the engra- ving, A to B, and cut slices, then remove the wing, and if the party be large, the legs must also be removed, and here the dis- jointcr will again prove serviceable. The stuffing will be obtained by making an insertion at the apron, c. gp'aving; this, however, will be found to require practice, for the joint must be ac- curately hit, or else much difficulty will be Roast Goose. Pheasant.29 Carving Pheasant.—Clear the leg by inserting tlie edge of the knife between it and the body, then take off the wings, b to A, but. do not remove mueh of the breast with them, you are thus enabled to obtain some nice slices ; the pheasant is then carved as a fowl. The breast is first in estimation, then the wings, and after these the merrythought; lovers of game prefer a leg. Partridge.—Separate the legs, and then divide the bird into three parts, leaving each leg and wing together. The breast is then divided from the back, and helped whole, the latter being helped with any of the other parts. When the party consists of gentlemen only, the bird is divided in halves by cutting lengthwise right through from the centre. Quails, Landrail,Wheatears, Larks, and all small birds are served whole. Wild Ducks and Widgeon.—The breast of these fowls being the best portion, is can-ed in slices, which are removed, and a glass of old port wine is poured in ; the half of a lemon seasoned with Cayenne and salt should then be squeezed in, the slices relaid in their places, and then served, the joints being removed the same as in other fowls. Pigeon (breast). Pigeon. — Like woodcock, these birds are cut in halves, through the breast and back, and the half is sent to the person helped. Partridge. Pigeon (back). FISH. Fish should never be touched with a steel knife, and fork, are used for carving it. It requires more care than knowledge to help fish—the prin- cipal thing is to avoid breaking the flakes. In carving a piece of salmon as here engraved, cut thin slices, as from A to B, and help with it pieces of the belly in the direction marked from c to D; the best flavoured is the upper or thick part. Fish slices, or a silver fish knife Cut of Salmon. Turbot.—Cut flat pieces as marked in the engraving without moving the bone; the fin, which is esteemed a delicacy, is always served with it. All flat-fish, such as plaice, brill, Johndory, &c., are carved in the same manner; soles are cut either into halves, or, if very large, are divided into three, cutting them across right through. Flounders are served whole. Cod’s Head and Shoulders.—Carry the knife from A to B, and then along the line to c, help slices accompanied by some of the sound, which is to be found lining the back, and which you may obtain by passing the knife under the backbone at C ; serve also a piece of liver. Cod’s Head.3° The Breakfast Table. A Dish of Mackerel. Pike are served in many ways. Mackerel should always be sent to table head to tail. Divide the meat from the bone by cutting down the back lengthwise ; the upper part is the best. All small fish, such as pilchards, herrings, smelts, &c., are served whole. Whitings when fried have the tail curled as in the en- graving. They are sent whole. Fried Whiting. When baked, the back and belly should be slit up, and each slice gently drawn downwards ; by this means fewer bones will be given. Remember that constant practice is re- quired to make a good carver. With it and a little care and observation, it will become easy and even pleasant to you to carve ; and will greatly add to the comfort and nicety cA the home dinner-table. THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. A lady’s taste and nicety are very per- ceptible at the breakfast-table. She should never allow a soiled table-cloth to appear on It. The linen should be fresh and sno^vy white, the silver brightly cleaned, the tea, coffee, or cocoa nicely made, and, if pos- sible, fresh flowers and fruit should adorn the table. A nicely-laid, pretty, appetizing breakfast is a great promoter of good temper and harmony through the ensuing day. A soiled table-cloth, tough cold toast, weak tea, bitter coffee, &c., are enough to jierange both the temper and digestion of those who have to submit to such domestic Snflictions. Let our homes ever be bright, sunny, and charming ; and that such may be the case open the day with a cheery and well-arranged breakfast-table. At the head of the table place the break- fast cups and saucers, the tea cups at the left hand side, the coffee cups at the right hand side. The teapot and coffee-pot stand in front of the urn. The slop-basin and milk-jug should be placed on the left. The cream and hot milk to the right. Put hot plates by the broiled bacon, chops, cStc., and a smaller plate, knife, and fork to eacli person. Bread should be put on a wooden patter. Salt-cellars occupy the four corners. Hot rolls should bebrought in covered with a table-napkin. Dry toast should never stand longer than five minutes before serving. Buttered toast becomes soppy and greasy if too long kept before it is served. Large joints, as cold ham, cold beef, &c., should be put on the sideboard or a side table. And now to proceed to the especial pro- vince of our book—Lf., the proper prepa- ration of our breakfast food. We will begin with the tea and coffee. Tea contains in its leaves as soluble substances—caseine, an essential oil to which it owes its taste and odour ; a small amount of tannin ; more or less colouring matter according to the species of the plant, and a little gluten. Now to ex- tract the due proportions of these substances quite boiling water is needed, and the tea should not stand too long. Never boil the tea leaves ; the excessive heat would cause the essential oil, which is the flavouring matter, to fly off, and the boiling would e.x- tract too much of the tannin, which is dis- agreeable and astringent. Long standing also extracts too much of the tannin, and gives a dead, senna-like taste to the tea. To Roast Coffee. I. Have either a Patent Roaster, or the Irish mop roaster. To every three pounds of coffee you put in the roaster add a piece of good fresh butter, a little larger than a marble, and two teaspoonfuls of powdered sugar; then roast the berries. This little addition develops the aroma of the berry. Many people prefer having chicory added to their coffee—the proportion is .about a quarter of a pound of chicory to a pound of. coffee. Excellent Coffee for three Breakfast Cups. s. Four tablespoonfiils of ro.astcd coffee berries ; three teacupfuls of boiling water. Take four tablespoonfuls of roasted coffee berries and put them in the oven till well warmed through ; then ^ind them. Put the coffee in the pot, which should have apiece of tin over the middle strainer to pre- vent the coffee from filling up the holes ; pour in three teacupfuls of boiling water. The breakfast-cup should be filled up with boiling milk. Chocolate. Time, ten or twelve minutes. 3. Four ounces of the cake ; two gills of water ; one pint of milk. Scrape up about a quarter of a pound of the chocolate cake into a saucepan with two gills of water; set it on the fire ; stir it con- stantly with a wooden spoon until it is rather thick, then work it very quickly with the spoon. Stir in a pint of boiling milk by degi'ces, and serve it. Cocoa Nibs. (Dr. Todd.) Time, five hours. 4. A quarter of a pound of cocoa nibs ; three quarts of water. A quarter of a pound of cocoa nibs to three quarts of water, to be boiled down to ■ two quarts and a half. The nibs to be : strained after five hours' boiling. If they ; are allowed to remain in the cocoa, it be- I comes bitter and unpalatable. Oatmeal Porridge. Time, half an hour. S- Two ounces of oatmeal ; one pint of ' water ; half a pint of cold milk. Put a pint of warm water into a stew- ;pan over the fire, and as it boils dredge in : the oatmeal with your left hand, and stir with the right. When it is made, turn it ; into a soup-plate, adding a little salt or a ; little sugar, according to taste. Send it to table with a jug of hot milk, which should :be added to it by degrees for eating. Toast. This simple addition to the breakfast- • table is seldom supplied in perfection. If the cook were aware of tlie principle and aim of toasting, it is quite possible that we should be spared the daily infliction of tough ' toast, burnt toast, greasy toast, &x. Now the aim of toasting bread is to get ■out of it the remainder of water contained in it, which renders it less digestible than well-made toast. But if, as is generally done, the slice of bread be hurriedly exposed to a hot fire, and the exterior of the bread be toasted mearly black, this intention is defeated, as I the heat will then produce no effect on the interior of the slice, which remains as moist *is ever. Charcoal is a bad conductor of Laeat; the over-toasted surface is nothing more or less than a thin layer of charcoal, which prevents the heat from penetrating through the bread. Neither will butter pass through the hard surface ; it will re- main on it, and if exposed to heat to melt it in, it will dissolve and run over it in the form of rancid oil. This is why buttered toast is so often unwholesome. Now if you would have an eatable slice of toast do not allow one spot of the exterior to be burned or chaiTcd. Chest- nut-brown is too dark for good toast—s.pale golden colour is-all that is required. The method to toast bread perfectly is this :— Warm the slice for one minute on each side by the fire without attempting to toast it. Then turn the first warmed side to the fire, and, holding it at a little distance, move it gently about till it is all over of a pale golden brown. By this means the whole of the water may be drawn out of it, and it will be changed from dough, which has always a tendency to acetous fermenta- tion in the stomach, to the pure farina of wheat, which is. far easier of digestion, especially for invalids. As it is turned to pure farina, the dough and gluey nature will be gone, every part will be equally warm, and no part so hotly dry as to turn the butter to oil on the surface. The dried farina will allow the butter to penetrate every part of it. There is greater advantage in this than may at first sight appear. Butter, in masses, however good, is too heavy for the stomach ; but butter divided with sufficient minuteness, and not suffered to oil, makes a valuable addition to our nourishment. The properly toasted bread absorbs the butter, and both butter and farina are in a state of very minute divi- sion, the one serving to expose the other to the free action of the gastric fluid in the stomach, and "that this fluid shall pene- trate the whole mass of the food, and act upon it in small portions, is the grand secret of healthful digestion." When a slice of toast is sucll made, it is impossible to find anything lighter of diges- tion. Take care that the fire for toasting be clear and hot, and the bars clean from blacks. As bad toast is generally made from the cook not having sufficient time to bestow on the making, we advise all persons who can afford it to buy the Toaster and Trivet, shown in our Kitchen Utensils, by which four rounds of toast may be done at the same time, while other duties occupy tlie attention of the servant.Toast—Bread. 32 Do not cut thick slices of bread for toast; they should be thin, and cut off a stale loaf. Cut oft the crust edging. Do not keep tlie toast for breakfast ; serve it as soon as possible after it is done, or it will beeome tough. Never let it lie flat. Place it at once in the toast-rack, or lean two slices against each other on a plate, like the gable of a house. If a slice lies, the steam from it will prevent it from being crisp ; cut off the crusts quickly on this ac- count. Bread too stale to be eaten buttered will make good toast ; if very dry, it may be dipped into warm water before toasting it. Buttered Toast. 6. Cut thin slices the whole way round a stale loaf (it should be at least a day old), warm both sides before the fire, and toast it carefully ; have a hot plate ready to place it on when done. Put some butter cut into dice on it, first warm it before the fire and spread the butter lightly over it ; if well made, it will easily penetrate the bread. Some persons like to have a little butter put on each side of the toast. Toast a second round and lay it on the first; cut off the crusts and divide it into four quarters ; serve very hot. To Toast Muffins. 7. Pull open the sides of the muffin exactly in the centre, about half an inch in ; put the toasting-fork in it and toast it carefully. When it is done, and it should only be lightly toasted, pull it apart, lay a little butter inside, and close the muffin. Put it on a hot plate and cut it in four. If more than one is required, lay them on the first done, but do not send in a great pile of muffins, as they are better served hot. A hot-water plate with a cover,—a regular muffin plate,—should be used, and two at the most only be sent in at a time. Crumpets. 8. Do not open crumpets ; toast them oarefully and very quickly ; butter them on both sides, and serve them separately on a hot-water plate, if you have one ; if not, send them in hot and hot, as they are not nice lukewarm. Never put one crumpet on the top of the other, as the under one would become heavy. Bread. Everybody is, I believe, of opinion that home-made bread is cheaper, sweeter, and more wholesome than that bought at the baker's, utiless it is badly made. Heavy, close, bitter bread is only too well known in many households where it is home-made ; this is not economical, as it cannot nouri.'-^ the eaters as good bread docs, and it is generally speaking, wasted. Let us sec it it is not possible to teach how to make bread of all kinds, which shall be good, light, sweet, and appetizing. The oven plays an important part in this manufac- ture. A brick oven heated with wood is the right one for eeonomy. It is possible to bake bread in the iron oven attached to a range, but the author, from personal expe- rience, can assure her readers that home- made bread thus baked is more expensive than bakers’, on account of the quantity of fuel it takes to lieat the oven for bread- baking, and the necessity of making it up in small loaves, which are not economical. The brick oven is heated by faggot wood ; after it is cleared out, the door should be shut very closely for half an hour before you put in your loaves. The oven will then be thoroughly heated, and the heat will last for some time. A brick oven for baking bread should be as hot as you can bear to liold your hand in (without touching the bricks of course) whilst counting twenty ; this is an estab- lished rule in most farmhouses. Bread is longer baking in an iron oven than in a brick one. Next to the oven in importance comes the yeast. We have used, and like, both German and patent yeast ; but as many persons prefer their own, and it is always well for the house to be independent of external helps in this matter, we give a receipt for making yeast, for the goodness of which we can answer. Flour should be purchased of a miller ; it will be less likely to be adulterated than if it passed through a second hand. The best flour is generally used in gentlemen's kitchens; nevertheless, we know several county families (and one nobleman’s family) famous for excellent household bread, in which the “best seconds'’ are always used. There is no doubt that more nutrition is contained in brown bread than in white, and that the whiter the bread the less is the nourishment derived from it. Brown bread is excellent for weak digestions, and for many other reasons should be eaten alter- nately with white bread in all families; moreover, it is less adulterated than the very white bread when purchased from the baker’s. The flour of ‘' hard wheat, ” as it is called, is the most nutritious ; it is not so white as that procured from soft wheat, but has more gluten in if. Flour when kept in store should be placed in a warm dry room, as, if at all damp, it33 Rcccipi for Ycasi—To Majic Bread. will make the bread or cakes for which, it is ! used heavy. It is safest to put the quantity of Hour you are about to make into bread before the fire in a large dish or ]ian for an hour or two. in order to have it warm and dry.for use. Great cleanliness is required for mailing bread—a clean trough or brown earthenware pan : very clean hands and arms, and nice fresh yeast. The fresher the yeast the less you will require of it. Never leave the dough half made, nor allow it to get cold before it is finished ; if you do, it will be heavy. Too small a pro- portion of yeast will make the dough heavy. If the sponge or the dough be permitted to overwork itself it will become sour in warm weather. Do not put it too near the fire, but keep it warm at a gentle and equal degree of heat. Bread baked in tins will be lighter than when made into ordinary loaves, and is best for toast or sandwiches. Too little water will spoil the bread ; too much will make it too slack. If by acci- • dent the latter fault is perceptible, make the bread up in tins, and it will not much matter. The proportions given in the receipts ' contained in this book may of course be modified according to the quantity of bread : required. The Ingleby Receipt for Yeast. ’ Time, twenty minutes to boil; twelve hours to ferment. 9. Two ounces of hops ; four quarts of • water; two and a half or three pounds of I flour ; sixorseven boiled potatoes ; one pint ' of ale yeast. Boil the hops in four quarts of water for ■ twenty minutes ; strain the water tl rough a ! hair sieve upon two and a half or three pounds of flour—it will seem lumpy, but i that is of no consequence; .stir it occasionally, and bruise it with a wooden spoon ; let it • stand till cool, and then keep it in the air of the fire all night. The next day fill a glass bottle with it ; then add six or seven ; boiled potatoes, bruised, and a pint of ale : yeast to it ; stir it well up, and let it stand : till next day ; then bottle it for use, rcniem- . bering to take a pint out before you put the ; potatoes and the harming in. To Knead Bread. 10. After the dough is mixed flour the ' hands, and, folding the fingers over the ■ thumb, make what is called a fist, and beat and pummoi the dough first with one hand and then the other on every side ; work it ithus till it ceases to stick to^our hands. ! Much kneading makes bread whiter and finer; bread can, indeed, scarcely be kneaded too much. To Make Bread. Time, one hour to bake loaves of two pounds weight each. 11. Seven pounds of flour ; two quarts of warm water ; a large tablespoonful of salt; half a gill of yeast. Put the flour into a deep pan, heap it round the sides, leaving a hollow in the centre ; put into it a quart of warm water, a large spoonful of salt, and half a gill of yeast ; have ready three pints more of warm water, and with as much of it as may ba necessary make the whole into a rather soft dough, kneading it well with both hands. When it is smooth and shining, strew a little flour on it ; lay a thickly folded cloth over it, and set it in a warm place by the fire for four or five hours ; then knead it again for a quarter of an hour ; cover it over, and set it to rise again ; divide it into two or four loaves, and bake in a quick oven. It will take one hour to bake it if divided into loaves weighing two pounds each, and two hours if the loaves weigh four pounds each. This bread need only rise once, and if made of the best superfine flour will be beautifully white and light. In cold weather bread should be mixed in a warm room, and not allowed to become cold while rising. If there is any difficulty as to its rising, set the bowl or pan over boiling water. It is best to mix the bread at night, and cover it close, in a warm room should the weather be cold, till the morning. Of course, if the family be large, the quantities may be increased or doubled in proportion. Another Mode, with Milk. Time, one and a half to two hours. 12. One quartern of flour ; two teas{>oon' fuls of salt ; four tablespoonfuls of yeast, one pint and a half of milk. Put a quartern of flour into a large basin with two teaspoonfuls of salt ; make a hole in the middle, and then put in a basin four tablespoonfuls of yeast; stir in it a pint ot milk lukewarm ; put it in the hole ol the flour : stir it to make it just a thin batlei. then strew a little flour over the top ; set it on one side of the fire, and cover it over. Let it stand till next morning, then make it into dough ; add h.alf a pint more of warm milk, knead it for ten minutes, and set it in a warm place for one hour and a half; then knead it again, and it is ready either for loaves or bricks. Bake them from one hour nHow to Make Bread and Rolls. 34 and a half to two hours, according to the size. German Yeast Bread. Time, one and a half to two liours. 13. Two quarterns of flour ; one table- spoonful of salt ; two ounces of dried Ger- man yeast; a cupful of water ; a pint and a half of warm water. Dissolve the yeast in a small cupful of cold water, and then add it to a pint and a lialf of warm water. Put the flour well mixed with the salt into a dgpp bread pan ; make a hole in the middle of the flour, and pour in the water and yeast; knead it up quickly, and let it stand near the fire covered over with a thick cloth for one hour ; then divide it into loaves, and bake them accord- ing to their size. You may make up a much larger quantity of flour, and bake the loaves two or three at a time, if care is taken not to keep the dough too warm. How to put Potatoes in Bread. Time, three hours. 14. Two pounds of potatoes ; half a pint of yeast; one ounce of sugar to one bushel of flour. Take two pounds of potatoes, boil them well, mash them, and, if dry, add a little water ; when so cold as not to scald the hand put in half a pint of yeast and one ounce of sugar. In three hours the mixture will be ready, and will suffice for a bushel of flour. Bread with Potatoes. 15. Half a gallon of potatoes ; five gallons of flour; some yeast ; and a little warm water. The evening previous to baking in the morning the dough must be set as follows :— The half gallon of potatoes must be rubbed through a sieve to five gallons of flour, the same quantity of yeast added as you would for common bread, and a little warm water. Cover it up to rise, knead it, and proceed as usual. To Make Brown Bread. Time, one or two hours, according to weight. 16. Three parts of second flour ; the fourth part of rye ; a little milk ; and the right pro- portion of water. Take three parts of second flour, and the fourth of rye, lay it one night in a cool place, and the next morning work it up with a little milk added to the water. Set it at a proper distance from the fire to rise, and then make into loaves and bake. Eico Bread. Time, to bake, one and a half to two hours. 17. One and a half pound of wliole Caro- lina or Patna rice ; fourteen pounds of flour; half a pint of yeast ; three ounces of salt; three quarts of water. Put the whole rice into a large stew-pan with three quarts of water ; boil it slowly for quite five hours, and then beat it to a smooth paste. Mix it while warm with the flour, adding the salt and the yeast, and proceed in the same manner as in making other bread, setting it to rise by the fire, &c. Tea Cakes or Loaves. Time, half or three-quarters of an hour. 18. One egg ; two ounces of butter ; half a pound of flour; two or three knobs of sugar. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar pounded, and mix it with one beaten egg. It will make two small loaves for tea or breaMast. Breakfast or Tea Rolls. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. 19. One pound of flour ; a quarter of a pound of butter ; one tablespoonful of good yeast; one egg ; a little warm milk. Rub the butter into the flour, then add the yeast, breaking in one egg, both yolk and white. Mix it with a little warm milk poured into the middle of the flour ; stir all well together, and set it by the fire to rise, then make it into light dough, and again set it by the fire. Make up the rolls, lay them on a tin, and set them in front of the fire for ten minutes before you put them into the oven, brushing them over with egg. This paste may be used for fancy bread. Breakfast or Tea Cakes Hot. Time, half an hour. 20. Six handfuls of flour ; hair' a pint of milk ; a small piece of butter ; two ounces cd German yeast ; one egg. Put the flour in a basin, with half a pint of milk, and a small piece of butter ; warm the milk ; in the winter increase its tempera- ture. Mix two ounces of German yeast in a little cold water ; add it to the milk and batter; make a hole in the flour, and pour the mixed milk and yeast Ttito it, stirring it round until it is a thick batter; add to it one beaten egg ; cover it over, and set it before the fire, keeping it warm. When it has risen a little, mix it into a dough, knead it well, put it again in the warm, and when it has risen a great deal form your rolls. They will take nearly half an hour to bake, or.35 ^ggs for Breakfast. according to tlie size you make them. Rub (liem once while hot with a paste brush dipped in milk. Fadge. Time, one hour. 21. Four ounces of brown meal (half rye, half brown flour); two ounces of butter ; a saltspoonful of salt; a quarter of a pint of milk. Take four ounces of brown meal, mixed of half rye, half brown flour, two ounces of butter, and a little salt; make it into a stiff paste with milk, and bake it for one hour on a gridle over the fire, turning it often. It will not do to b.ake it in the oven. If baked too long it gets like pie-crust. Sir Tatton Sykes’ Water Cakes. Time, fifteen minutes. 22. One pound of flour ; a piece of butter the size of a nut; a quarter of a pint of cold water ; one pinch of salt. To Boil Eggs for Breakfast. Time, three minutes, or very soft, two minutes and a half. 23. Fill a pint saucepan with water, set it over the fire and let it boil. Then, as it boils, put in with a spoon two or three fresh eggs. Take care not to crack the shells, or to boil them too fast. Serve them in egg- cups on a stand. N.B.^—Do not use a fresh egg till it has been laid ten hours. Tlie albumen, or white, will not be set before that time has elapsed. Poached Eggs. Time, two minutes. 24. One pint of water ; one tablespoonful of vinegar; one saltspoonful of salt ; as many eggs as required. Put the vinegar and salt into the water, let it boil, then break the eggs carefully into it, let them boil gently three minutes. Take them out with a slice, let them drain, and put them on a slice or round of thin but- tered toast. If the yolk separates from the white, the egg is not fresh. The egg may also be done in a regular egg-poacher. Eggs and Bacon. Time, three to four minutes. 25. Six eggs ; a quarter of a pound of dripping or butter ; some slices of ham or bacon. Break five or six fresh eggs into cups, and slip them into a delicately clean fiwing-pan of boiling dripping or butter. When the whites are set, take them up with a slice, trim off the rough edges, and drain them from the grease. Then pl.acc them in the I centre of the dish, and the slices of fried bacon round the edge, or the eggs may be served on the bacon, whicltever you prefer. Eggs a la Bonne Femme. Time, ten minutes. 26. Three eggs; two or three slices of beetroot; a slice or two of cold chicken, or any cold meat ; three heads of coss lettuce. Boil three fresh eggs for ten minutes, roll them to break their shells on the table; shell them, cut them in halves, and just cut off the point of the -white so that they may stand well. Take out the yolks and fill the white cups thus ; two with beetroot (already boiled) cut into tiny dice ; two with cold chicken or meat cut into dice ; two with tiny dice of the yolks, piled up in them. Cut up some coss lettuce very nicely ; lay it on the dish, and place the eggs on it. Brawn. Oxford brawn is considered the best to purchase. The following recipe will be found excellent for family use. Brawn. Time, three nights ; six hours to boil, three hours to get cold. 27. Pickled porker’s head ; two tongues; two feet, and two extra ears ; four dried sausages; some slices of boiled ox tongue ; dried sage, pepper and salt, one teaspoonful of each for seasoning ; three tablespoonfuls of salt to cover the head. Cut the porker's head in half, and soak one night; cover it with salt for one night, boil slowly six hours. Let it get cold. Take out the bones. Boil the two tongues, feet, and ears one hour and a half; remove the bones and gristle. Cut all the meat into small pieces ; season with sage, pepper, and salt, well mixed. Cut the s.ausages into slices. Place slices of ox tongue, whicli should be of a nice red colour, in a pattern round the mould or tin ; put in the meat, and press it firmly down with a weight on the top. Let it stand one night. The tongues may be put in whole, if preferred, about the middle of the mould. Birds’ Nests. Time, fifteen minutes, ten minutes to boil the eggs. 28. Four eggs ; half a pint of rich brown gravy ; a quarter of a pound of forcemeat —for which you will require .about one ounce of beef suet, chopped vay Jine; one ounce of bread-crumbs ; half an ounce oi chopped parsley; powdered thyme and m.arjoram ; a little grated rind of a lemon and half its juice ; one egg to bind it.^6 Breakfast Dishes. Make your forcemeat by chopping up the Aeef suet very fine ; grating the bread, chopping the parsley, and mixing the whole ; grate in a little lemon peel, season it with pepper and salt. (Soyer was wont to say that seasoning could not be suffi- ciently accurate unless it was sprinkled in by the cook’s fingers.) Beat the yolk of an egg and bind (he. forcemeat with it. While making it, let four eggs boil for ten minutes. Warm half a pint of rich brown gravy. When the eggs are boiled hard take them from their sliells, and brush them over thickly with the forcemeat. Put a little butter in a stewpan ; fry them a light brown, dish them up, cut them in halves (first cut off also the top of the white that they may stand), and serve them hot with rich brown gravy poured over them. Angels on Horseback. Time, ten minutes. 29. Eight oysters ; four thin slices of fat bacon ; a round of toasted bread. Take two oysters from their sliells and roll them in a thin broad slice of fat bacon ; fasten them with a small silver skewer (or steel one), and toast the tiny roll before the fire in a Dutch oven. Make four of these rolls, roast them at the same time, and serve them hot on a round of nicely toasted bread. Buttered Eggs, or Egg Toast. 30. Four eggs ; three ounces of butter; pepper and salt. Beat four eggs, yolks and whites toge- ther ; put three ounces of butter into a basin, and stand it in boiling water, stirring it until it is melted ; then pour the butter and the eggs into a saucepan ; keep a basin in your hand, just hold the .saucepan in the ctlier over a slow part of the fire, shaking it one way ; as it begins to warm, pour it into the basin, and back again ; tlien hold it again over the fire, stirring it constantly in a saucepan, and pouring it into the basin, to mix the egg and butter more perfectly until they shall be hot without boiling. They may then be .sent to table on a flat dish with some .slices of hard boiled eggs on the top, or .spread very thickly on buttered toast. In either way they must be served up very hot. Omelet. Time, eleven minutes. 31. Four eggs ; two dessertspoonfuls of milk : two ounces of butter ; a sprig of parsley, and a few chives. Beat four whole eggs with two dessert- spoonfuls of milk, a sprig of parsley, and chives, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Put the butter into an omelet-pan, and set it over the fire for five or six minutes, beat- ing the herbs and eggs all the time ; then pour them into the pan, and let them stand for a few minutes over the fire, but taking care to separate the omelet gently from the bottom of the pan, and shaking it to prevent its burning ; fry it for about five minutes on one side, and serve it doubled over. Bacon Broiled. Time, five minutes. 32. A few slices as required by the number of the family. Cut the slices very thin ; take off thi rind ; put them to broil on a gridiron ovei a very clear fire ; turn them three or four times. Five minutes will suffice to dress them well. Some persons prefer the bacon thin enough to roll; but this is better perhaps for garnishing dishes than for breakfast. Ham is broiled in the same time. Pigs’ Kidneys. Time, fifteen minutes. 33. Pigs’ kidneys are prepared exactly as sheep’s kidneys are ; they are nearly divided, fastened flat open with a tiny skewer, and broiled over a dear fire. Tliey are served quite plain, or with maitre d’hdtel sauce, if preferred. Pigs’ Feet and Ears. Time, to boil, four hours ; to fry, twelve minutes. 34. One teacupful of vinegar ; a salt- spoonful of salt; three ounces of butter ; one spoonful of made mustard ; one spoon • ful of vinegar. Clean the feet and ears carefully, and soak them for some hours ; and boil them tender. Then take them up. Boil some vinegar and a little salt in water, and when they are cold pour it over them. When they are to be dressed, dry them split the feet in two, lengthwise, and slice tlie ears. Fry them, and serve them with butter, mustard, and vinegar ; or they may be fried in butter simply, and served. Pigs’ feet may be simply boiled after being pickled. Pigs’ Ears. Time, to stew, half an hour. 35. Two cars ; one ancliovy ; one tea- spoonful of sage and parsley ; a quarter oV a pound of suet, chopped fine ; five ounces of bread-crumbs ; a little salt ; pepper to taste ; two eggs ; two ounces of butter ; half a pint of rich gravy; one glass of37 Anc/iovy and Shrimp Toast. sherry; tliree teaspoonfuls of made mustard ; a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; a teaspoonful of flour ; one small onion ; a pinch of Cayenne. ParboH the ears. Make a forcemeat of an anchovy, sage, parsley, a quarter of a pound of finely chopped suet, bread-crumbs, pepper, and salt. Mi.x and bind it with the beaten yolks of two eggs. Raise the skin of the upper side of the ears, and stuff them with it. Fry the ears in fresh butter to a nice brown. Pour away the fat, and drain them. Make the following gravy ; add to half a pint of rich stock, or gravy, a glass of sherry, three tablespoon fuls of mademustard, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, rolled in flour, one small onion whole, and half a saltspoonful of white pepper. Put this gravy with the ears into a stewpan, and cover it closely ; stew it gently for half an hour, shaking it often. I'hen take out the onion, place the ears carefully in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. If you require more than two ears, the same quantity of sauce will do for four. Pigs’ Feet Soused. Time, one hour and a half. 36. Two feet; one teaspoonful of salt; three quarters of a pint of vinegar ; a quarter of a pint of the water in which they are boiled ; si.x pepper corns ; a little all- spice ; four cloves ; a little mace. Scald the feet and scrape them clean ; if the covering of the toes will not come off without, singe them in hot embers, until they are loose ; then take them off. Some persons put the feet in weak lime-water to whiten them. Having scraped them clean and white, wash them and put them into a pot of warm, but not boiling water, with a little salt. Let them boil gently till by turning a fork in the flesh it will e.asily break, and the bones are all loosened. Take off the scum as it rises. When they are done take them out of the water and lay them in vinegar enough to cover them, adding to it a quarter of a pint of the water in which they were boiled. Add whole y..epper and spice with cloves and mace. Put them in a jar and cover them closely. Soused feet may be eaten cold from the vinegar, split in two from top to toe ; or they may be split in two, dipped in flour, and fried in hot lard; or they may be broiled and buttered. But in the latter case they should be nicely browned. Anchovy Toast. 37. Six or eight anchovies ; one and a half ounce of butter slices of toast. Bone and skin six or seven anchovies. .\fter washing them very clean, pound them in a mortar with an ounce and a half ol butter, and then rub them through a sieve ; lake some thin slices of bread, and cut them out with a tin cutter, into squares or rounds; fry them brown in a little butter, and spread over them (when cold) the anchovy mixture. Wash some anchovies, cut them in four, and put a piece on the top of each slice of toast: serve on a napkin garnished with crisped parsley. Shrimp Toast. Time, half an hour. 38. One quart of shrimps ; three quarters of a pint of water ; one ounce and a half of butter ; ha'f a teaspoonful of flour ; a pinch of Cayenr e, more or less, according to taste ; a squeeze of lemon ; two eggs. Shell the shrimps, bruise their heads, and boil them in three quarters of a pint of ■ water for half an hour. Strain this liquor off from them through a fine sieve. Melt an ounce and a half of butter as directed before. Add to it, as soon as it begins to simmer, a little Cayenne to your taste. Shake the whole together till the colour of the butter and flour darkens, then pourintff it gradually and carefully the liquor in which the heads were stewed. Boil this sauce, and just as it reaches boil- ing point put in the shrimps, and let them get hot quite through. Have ready a toast cut from the bottom crust of a loaf more than an inch thick, a little hollowed out and fried in fresh butter. Make a liaison, or thickening, of the yolks of two eggs ; stir this in just as you are about to take up the shrimps, and spread the shrimps on the toast. Add a squeeze of lemon, if you like it, to the mixture. Another and simple way is to use nearly the same quantities thus :—omitting the water in which the heads are boiled. Two ounces of butter; a teaspoonful ol flour. Melt the butter, warm the shrimps in it, throw in a little Cayenne, and five drops of anchovy essence, and serve on the toast. Broiled Mushrooms. Time, eight minutes. 39. Sufficient flap mushrooms for a dish ; : pepper and salt ; a piece of butter. Wipe your mushrooms very clean with a piece of flannel, and salt; peel the tops, and cut the stalks partly off. Put them over a very clear fire, and broil them lightly on both sides. When done, arrange them on a dish ; dust a little pepper and salt over them, and put a pieeu of butter on eachFish. 38 ynushroom. Place them before the fire for f./cw minutes to melt the butter, and serve tliem up quickl/. To Cook Kippered Salmon for Breakfast. Time, about five minutes to broil the salmon. 40. Half to tliree quarters of a pound of kippered salmon ; a little pepper. Have ready a well heated gridiron (the bars of which should be greased), and a nice clear fire. Cut the salmon into narrow bars of convenient size, wrap them in buttered writing paper, and broil, turning them once or twice. Serve on a very hot dish, laying the pieces across each other. Finnon Haddocks. Time, about ten minutes. 41. These fish, which arc much esteemed, are dressed open on account of one side being thicker than the other. They are generally bought prepared for cooking, and only require a little soaking before they are put on the gridiron. When done lay the fish on a hot dish, and put a little cold fresh butter on it. To Cook Bed Herrings and Bloaters. Time, five minutes. 42. Scrape them and wipe them nicely ; cut them from head to tail ; lay them open ; broil them on a greased gridiron for about ii.v minutes, turning them as required. ''iVlien they are done, lay them open on a /lot dish, and put a little butter on them. To Broil Black Puddings. Time, five minutes. 43. Make little diagonal cuts in the skin of the black pudding with a knife. Broil it over a brisk fire, turning it often. Serve it very hot. Sausages. Time, twenty minutes. 44. Prick the sausages with a large needle or fine skewer all over, this will prevent the .skin from cracking, broil them over a gentle fire for about twenty minutes. Serve very hot on toast. We prefer putting them into hot water for one minute before dressing, to e.xtract the oil from the skin. Directions for making sausage meat will be found under Ihc head of Pokk. FISH. Fi.siiisa delicious adjunct to the dinner table, and in some families may suffice for a good dinner by itself; but it requires nice id careful dressing. What can be more unappetizing than a fish brought to table broken all to pieces, as we liave seen it, or not half done—salmon red with blood—cod nearly raw—or mackerel not properly cleaned? It is a wicked waste of the pro- vision God has made for his creatures to thus spoil it, when a little attention and study may preserve it for us. And first, let great care be taken to well clean the fish before it is dressed. It is better to let the fishmonger clean it for you ; but if you are compelled to do it for your- self, take care that you slit it enough, so as not to leave any blood, &c., on the back- bone. We have been obliged to send fish from our own table untasted inconsequence of a careless cook neglecting this part of her duty. In almost all kinds of fisli the portions to be removed .are the gills, the alimentary or- gans, and the settlement of slime and other Impurities inside and outside the fish. Dex- terity must be used to cleanse the inside thoroughly without making too large an in- cision, which disfigures the fish when it comes to table, and may make it, if it is for boiling, water)'. The sound, which adheres to the bone, must be left undisturbed, but cleansed ; the hard and soft roe must also be left in their places ; and care must be taken not to injure the liver, but, with most fish, to replace it. Especial care must be taken not to break the gall, as that renders the fish very bitter. As a medium in which to fr)', there is nothing better than pure oil, but it is ex- pensive, because the fish must have abun- dance in the pan or it will not turn out well, and wear the bright gold hue that should characterize fried fish. If it be found inconvenient to use oil, plenty of good dripping or lard will do as well. Butter is apt to turn fish black and make them soft. It is utterly useless, however, to provide fine oil or clear fat for frying, if the pan be soiled or smoked, for that will spoil the colour and the flavour too of the fish, be it dressed as carefully as it can be in other respects. Fish-kettles, with plates of con- venient sizes, and kept scrupulously clean, are likewise necessary : also a gridiron for broiling. These utensils are requisite for the methods of dressing fish which are generally most popular. Supposing you chance not to have a fish- kettle and yet wish to dress fish by boiling, you may manage thus : put the fish in a circle on a dinner plate, and tie a napkin over it; then put it in a l.arge s.axicepan. When it has boiled long enough, t.ake it up carefully fy ih( cloth, drain ofif all thewatejTurbot. 4 Crab. 7. bVhmng. 10 Scalloped Oysters Cod’s Head. 5. lyjbster. 8. Haddock. i i Crimped Skate. Salmon. 6 Mackerel. 9. Pranuns.39 Tg Boil Turhet. and slide the fish on a white napkin neatly folded on a dish. Garnish and serve. Fresh-water fish have often a muddy taste and smell, which may be got rid of by soaking them in strong salt and water before they are cooked. Saltfish should be soaked in water before boiling according to the time it has been in salt. When it is hard and dry, it will require thirty-si.\ hours soaking before it is dressed, and the water must be changed three or four times. When fish is not very salt, twenty-four hours, or even one night will suffice. Crimped fish must be put into boiling water, and when it has been placed on the fire and re-boils, pour in a teacupful of cold water to check it, and let it simmer a few minutes. Salmon is put into warm water to be dressed. Cod, whiting, and haddock are better if kept a day before boiling ; just putting a little salt on them the night before dressing. But some great cooks have advocated dressing cod quite fresh ; from our own e.\- perience we prefer it kept for twelve hours. To Fry Fish. 45. Cleanse them thoroughly, dry them on a folded cloth, dredge fio ir lightly over them, brush them with a well-beaten egg, then dip them in fine bread-crumbs. Have ready enough fine oil, or melted ■ lard or beef dripping (clarified), to entirely cover the fish. Place the frying-pan over a clear fire. Let the lard reach boiling-point, and then immerse the fish in it. You may try whether the fat is hot enough by letting a drop of cold water fall into it from the end of your spoon. If the hot fat spits it is ready for use. Then fry, turning the fish (when one side is browned) to the other. When it is done lay it on a cloth, or on white blotting-paper, to drain off all the fat ; or put it on a reversed sieve for a little while. Ser\'e it extremely dry on a white cloth or embossed fish paper. Ta Broil Fish. 46. A clear fire is required. Rub the bars of your gridiron with dripping or a piece of beef suet, to prevent the fish from sticking to it. Put a good piece of butter into a dish, work into it enough salt and pepper to season the fish. Lay the fish on it when it is broiled, and tvith a knife blade put the butter over every part. Serve very hot. To Boil Turbot. Time, one hour, for ten pounds, more or less according to weight. 47. Empty the fish, wash the inside, rub a little salt over the outside to help remove the slime. Put it in water to cleanse it, change the water several times. Pour plenty of cold spring water into a fish-kettle, add to each a gallon of water, four ounces of salt, and a quarter of an ounce, or less, of salt- petre. Let this dissolve while you prepare your turbot. Make an incision in the skin of the back nearly to the bone, to prc\’cnt the skin of the white side from cracking. Do not cut off the fins, these are considered a delicacy. Place the turbot on the fish- plate, and put it into the water, which should quite cover it. Let it boil slowly and skim the water very carefully. Then let it simmer gently for about half an hour, if it is of great size, according to the propor- tionate weight. When it is done lift up the fish plate and let it drain ; keep it very hot while you garnish it with lobster coral (which must be rubbed through a fine hair sieve) ; then slide it gently on a hot dish, on which a folded damask napkin or an ornamental fish paper has been placed previously. It is usual to serve the under or white part of the turbot uppermost, and certainly tlie contrast of the pure white skin with the lobster coral ornamentation on it, makes it the most inviting-looking fish ser\’ed. But epicures have lately preferred it served with the dark side or back upwards, on account of some supposed superiority of the flesh of the fish on that side. It is given in our engraving in the newest mode of serving it ; but not being an epicure ourselves, we pre- fer the old and more picturesque fashion. Garnish with sprigs of curled parsley and slices of lemon alternately. Sauce.—Lobster, shrimp, or ancho\'y, in a tureen. Twice-laid Turbot. Time, twenty minutes. 48. The remains of a turbot boiled the day previously ; two tablcspoonfuls of flour ; one quart of milk ; a small bunch of par- sley ; a bay-leaf and a little thyme ; a spoon- ful of salt, and a saltspoon (not quite full) of pepper; a quarter of a pound of fresh butter. Pick the fish from its bones and warm it gently in salt and water. While it is doing make a sauce of the ingredients given above by mixing the flour and milk very smoothly, adding the herbs and seasoning, and stirring it over the fire till it is tolerably thick. Then lift it to the side of the fire, stir in a quarter of a pound of butter, and pa.ss it through a sieve. Cover the bottom of the dish with, this simple white sauce, lay on it some of your fish, sprinkling it with white peoper and40 Brill—John Dory—Salmon. salt, tacn put more sauce, then more fish, till the whole is used up. Sprinkle bread- crumbs over it, and bake it in a hot oven /or twenty minutes. Brown it, and serve it in the same dish. Other flat fish, which are no less popular in their way than the king of fiat fish, the turbot, are the brill, the plaice, the flounder, the dab, the sole and the marble sole. The brill is said by some to be almost equal to the turbot, and is dressed in the same way. Tlie plaice, however, when large and fine, is little if at all inferior to this more popular fish. A large plaice boiled, or a small one fried, are not to be despised ; but they are less firm in the flesh than the turbot and the sole, on wh^ch account they are less gene- rally liked. The flounder, the fluke or mayock fluke of Edinburgh, the butt of Yarmouth fishermen, the carrclct of the French, is a sea-fish, but ascends rivers and lives in salt, brackish, or fresh water. The Thames flounders are especial favourites. Flounders which are brought to market are generally small, but specimens have been known weighing as much as four pounds. The dab, the saltieof the Scotch, la limande of the French, is a nice little fish, which is brought to the London market in great abundance : it is usually about eight or ten inches long. All flat fish are very tenacious of life. They should be thick, and very firm and stiff, and the eyes should be bright. THE BRILL. A large brill is with difficulty to be dis- tinguished from a small turbot when very ivell cooked. It is longer and not so round. In season from August to April. Brill. Time, ten to twenty minutes. 49. One brill; four ounces of salt to each gallon of water ; a tablespoonful of vinegar. Thoroughly clean and remove the scales from a fine fresh brill; do not cut oft the fins, but rub it over with the juice of a lemon and a little salt ; set it in a fish- kettle with sufficient cold water, a handful of salt, and a tablespoonful of vinegar to cover it ; bring it gradually to boil, and then simmer for ten or twenty minutes, according to the size of the fish. Skim it well, as great care is required to preserve the beauty of its colour. Serve it on a napkin, and garnish with lemon, curled parsley, and horscradi.sh ; sprinkle some lobster coral over the fish, and send it to table with lobster sauce in a tureen. To Boil the John Dory. Time, three-quarters of .an hour. 50. Four ounces of salt; one gallon of water. Prepare the fish as you do a turbot. Put it into a fish-kettle with sufficient water to cover it, with the salt in proportion to the quantity of water ; bring it to the boil, and let it simmer gradually for about three- quarters of an hour—more or less according to the size of your fish. Serve it in a neatly folded napkin, and garnish with curled parsley and slices of lemon alternately. Lobster-sauce, shrimp-sauce, or plain melted butter can be sent up with it in a tureen. Boiled Salmon. Time, according to weight. 51. One salmon ; four ounces of salt to one gallon of water. Salmon is put into warm water instead of cold, in order to preserve its colour and set the curd. It should be thoroughly well dressed to be wholesome. Scale it; empty and w.ash it with the greatest care. Do not leave any blood in the inside that you can remove. Boil the salt rapidly in the fish-kettle for a minute or two, taking off the .scum as it rises ; put in the salmon, first trussing it in the shape of the letter S, and let it boil gently till it is thoroughly done. Take it from the water on the fish-plate, let it drain, put it on a hot folded fish napkin, and garnish with slices of lemon. Sauce: shrimp or lobster. Send up dressed cucumber with salmon. Middle Slice of Salmon. Time, ten minutes to the pound. 52. Middle piece or slice. Boil slowly in salt and water. Salmon should be put into warm water, which makes it eat firmer. Boil gently. Serve on a napkin. Sauce : lobster, shrimp, or plain melted butter and parsley. Broiled Salmon. Time, ten to fifteen minutes. 53. Slices from the middle of a salmon ; one tablespoonful of flour ; a sheet or tw' of oiled letter-paper; a little Cayenne pepper. Cut slices of an inch or an inch and a half thick from the middle of a large salmon ; dust a little Cayenne pepper over them ; wrap them in oiled or buttered p.aper, and broil them over a clear fire, first rubbing the bars of the gridiron with suet. Broiled salmon is extremely rich, and really requires no sauce. The slices may also be simply dried in a cloth, floured and broiled over a clear fire ; but they require the greatest care then to prevent them from burning. The gridiron is always rubbed with suet first.Cod—Salt-fish. 41 T« Pickle Salmon. Time, twelve or fourteen hours. 54. One ounce of whole black pepper; one ounce of whole allspice ; four bay- ’ leaves ; some salt ; with equal quantities of vinegar and the liquor in which the fish was boiled. Remove the bone from a boiled salmon, or part of one that has been boiled, and lay it in a dish ; boil a sufficient quantity of the liquor the fish was boiled in, with the same quantity of vinegar ; one ounce of black pepper ; one ounce of allspice ; four bay leaves ; and some salt. When cold pour it over the fish ; and in twelve or fourteen hours it will be fit for use. Cod’s Head and Shoulders. Time, half an hour or more. 55. Cod’s head and shoulders ; four ounces of salt to each gallon of water ; a little horseradish. Rub a little salt down the bone and the thick part of the fish, and tie a fold or two • of wide tape round it to prevent its brealc- i ing. Lay it in a fish-kettle with sufficient I cold water to cover it, with salt in the above proportion ; add three spoonfuls of vinegar ,ind a little horseradish. Let the water be brought just to the verge of boiling ; then liraw the fish-kettle to the side of the fire, ■ to simmer gently till the fish is done ; which > can be ascertained by trying it with a fish : slice, to see if the meat can be separated . easily from the bone ; skim it well aiid care- : fully. When done, drain it and slip it off t the fish strainer on a napkin neatly folded in a dish. Garnish with double parsley, ; .'emon, and the roe and liver of the col. If the cod be crimped, it will require a •shorter time to dress it. Picked Cod. Time, fifteen minutes. 56. About one pound and a half of dressed cod ; a little oyster and egg sauce ; two hard '■ boiled eggs ; and four parsnips, or some • mashed potatoes. Rick about a pound and a half of dressed ■ cod-fish into flakes, and put it in layers, with a little oyster and egg sauce alternately, in a ■stewpan. Make it thoroughly hot. When it is done, pile it in the centre of a dish, and ■serve with mashed potatoes in a wall round it, browned with a salamander ; or garnish it with .slices of hard-boiled eggs, and par- -snips cut into shapes. Salt Cod. Time, one hour. 57. Put the cod in water the night before it is wanted, and let it soak all night ; boil it: lay it in a dish ; and send it up hot, with egg sauce. If it be preferred, instead of the egg sauce, boil parsnips quite tender, mash them with butter, cream or milk, and spread them round the salt fish. If the cod be very dry, soak it for several hours, lay it out to dry in a cold place, and then soak it again for a number of hours. This double soaking is said to soften the driest fish. Salt Fish the Second Day. Time, twenty minutes. 58. The remains of salt fish previously dressed ; same quantity of mashed potatoes and parsnips ; a quarter of a pound of butter ; a little Cayenne ; one egg. Pick the remains of the fish into small flakes ; butter the bottom of a pie-dish, place it in alternate layers with the mashed parsnips and potatoes; sprinkle a little Cayenne in the dish. Bake for about twenty minutes in the oven ; turn it out on a dish ; garnish with a hard-boiled egg cut in slices, and pour over it a little melted butter, or in- stead of the sliced egg, use egg sauce. Cod Sounds Boiled. Time to boil, half an hour. 59. Cod sounds ; half a pint of milk. Soak the cod sounds in warm water half an hour, then scrape and clean them ; boil them in milk and water until tender ; when done, serve them on a napkin with egg sauce. The salt must not be soaked out of the sounds unless for fricassee. Broiled Cod Sounds. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 60. Lay the cod sounds for a few minutes in hot water, rub them with a little salt, clean them until they look white, and give them a gentle boil. Take them up, dry them, flour them, sprinkle salt .and pepper over them, and broil them. Serve them with melted butter and mitstard, or whatever sauce may be preferred. Baked Hake. Time, varying with size. 6r. Be very careful in cleaning your hake, then stuff it with veal stuffing, sew it up with packthread, egg and bread-crumb it over, set it in a b.aking dish, and put it into a hot oven. Let it bake till the fish parts easily from the bones. It is impossible to fix a time unless the size of the fish were Stated.Whiting—Mnllcis—Trout— Carp. 42 Fried Whiting. Time to fry, ten minutes. 6;:. Egg; bread-crumbs; and a little dour. Clean the whitings, take off the skin, turn them round, and fasten the tail into the mouth ; dry them in flour. Bmsh tliem over with an egg well beaten, roll them in bread ci umbs, and fry them in liot lard, and serve them on a napkin, garnished with fried parsley, and shrimp or anchovy sauce, separately. To Boil Whiting. Time, ten minutes for large fish. 63. Four or six whitings ; some anchovy SEiuce, or plain melted butter ; and three ounces of salt to each gallon of water. Tlioroughly cleanse the fish, and lay them in the fish-kettle, with sufficient water to cover them. Bring them slowly to a boil, and simmer for five or six minutes, or for a longer time should your fish be large. Dish them on a folded napkin, and garnish with bunches of double parsley. Serve with an- chovy sauce, or plain melted butter. Red Mullets in Papers. Time, twenty-five minutes. 64. Two mullets ; one ounce of butter ; one teaspoonful of Harvey's sauce ; one glass of wine ; four truffles ; six mush- rooms ; a little parsley ; a little shallot ; one teaspoonful of lemon juice ; a little flour ; three eggs ; one spoonful of cream ; a little nutmeg. Place the mullets in a sautd-pan with the butter, sauce, and wine. Balte them in the oven slowly for ten minutes. Take the fish out of the pan ; strain off their liquor ; add to it the truffles, mushrooms, oacslev. sJiallot, nutmeg, lemon juice, and flour ;' stir all together over the fire for six or eight minutes, then add a liaison pf three well beaten yolks of eggs and a spoonful of cream. 'lake two sheets of letter paper, oil them well, lay the mullets on them and spread an equal proportion of sauce over each. Then fold the papers over them and roll the edges together to fasten them. Broil the mullets over a slow fire, suffi- ciently to brown them on both sides, and warm them through, but be careful not to burn the paper. When done serve them on a napkin. To Dress Mullets. Time, twenty-five minutes. 65. Three red mullets ; four spoonfuls 01 anchovy sauce: a bttle pepper and salt; one tablespoonful of chopped shallot; one of chopped parsley ; one spoonful of chopped mushrooms ; four tablespoonfuls of claret; a piece of glaze the size of a walnut. Take three red mullets, place them in a tin in the oven with four spoonfuls of an- chovy sauce, a little pepper and salt. Put into a deep saul^-pan a tablespoon- ful of chopped shallot, the same of parsley, the same of chopped mushrooms, four table- spoonfuls of claret, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut. Stew them well together. J When the fish is baked, pour this sauce over ] them. I Red Mullet Baked. i Time, twenty-five minutes. < 66. Two mullets ; some essence of an- cho^’ies ; a piece of butter ; a little flour; and the juice of half a lemon. Fold each mullet in oiled or well buttered paper, tie the ends, pass the string over them, and bake in a small dishin a moderate oven. Make a sauce of the hquor that comes from the fish, with a piece of butter, j a little flour, a teaspoonful of essence of <( anchovies, and the juice of half a lemon. Boil it and serve it in a sauceboat, and the fish in their paper cases. I Trout Boiled. Time, twenty to thirty minutes. 67. The fish; one winegl.assful of vinegar; water, salt, and a piece of horseradish Rub and wipe the fish very dry them, put 1 into a fish-kettle of boiling water with a ; wineglassful of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls 1 of salt, and a piece of horseradish. Boil I them slowly for twenty minutes or half an hour, taking care that the skin is not broken, and serve them on a napkin with anchovy (, sauce, or plain melted butter. j| Baked Carp. ^ Time, one hour and a quarter. In season from March to October. j 68. One large carp ; forcemeat; egg j bread-crumbs ; a little butter ; one pint o\ i stock : half a pint of port wine ; two onions j two bay-leaves ; a bunch of herbs ; six an- | diovies ; one teaspoonful of mustard ; one of soy ; a little salt ; Cayenne ; and apiece of butter. Clean and scale a large carp ; put a stuffing as for soles dressed in the Portu- guese way, and sew it up ; brush it over witli tlie yolk of an egg, and cover it with bread- crumbs, then drop some oiled butter ever it. I’lace the carp in a deep earthen dish, witit a pint of stock, two onions sliced, twD bay-leaves, a bunch of hcibs, half i. pint of port wine, and si.x anchovies;43 Tench—Plaice—Flounders— S melts— Sprats. cover the pan, and bake it one hour. Put a good sized piece of butter into a stewpan witli a dust of flour; when melted, pour in the strained liquor from the carp, with a teaspoonful of mustard, one of soy, and a little salt and Cayenne ; boil it up agam, and serve the fisli on a dish, garnislied with slices of lemon and bunches of parsley, and the sauce in a boat. Fried Carp. Time, twenty minutes or longer, according to size. 69. Carp ; slices of bread ; a lemon. Clean and dry the fish, flour them well, put them in the pan, and fry them of a light brown ; lay them on a cloth to drain, and fry some three-cornered pieces of bread and the roes. Serve the carp with the roes on each side of the dish ; garnish it with the fried bread and lemon in slices, and make anchovy sauce, with the juice of a lemon added, to eat with it. Fried Tench. Time, varjdng with size—about twenty minutes. 70. Two tench ; a little salt; lemon juice ; blitter ; and flour. Clean two fine tench by throwing them into boiling water just long enough to enable you to raise the skin. Remove the gills and fins, gut them, and clean them thoroughly. Cut them down the back, and take out the bones, sprinkle a little salt over them, flour them, squeeze some lemon juice over them ; fry them in butter, and serve them upon a napkin. To Fillet Plaice. Time, about twelve minutes. 71. Skin them, lay them flat on the table, and cut right down the backbone, then raise the fillet from head to tail. Having quite removed the fillets from the bones, cut them nicely in pieces, and fry them in two ounces of dripping or lard, with a little pepper and salt, and the juice of half a lemon. Drain them on a cloth to absorb the grease, and serve them upon a hot white t.’.blc-napkin. To Boil Plaice or Flounders. Time, si.v to seven minutes. Flounders are in season from September to November. 72. A quarter of a pound of salt to a gallon of water, and a very little saltpetre. Well clean and empty your fish, draw a sharp knife down the thickest part of the middle of the back, nearly through to tl'.e bona; lay them in a fish-kettle of cold water, with salt in the above proportion, with a small piece of saltpetre ; let them simmer for six or seven minutes after the water begins to boil, or longer should your fish be very large, taking great care they are not broken. Serve them (with plain melted butter) on a folded napkin. To Fry Plaice or Flounders. Time, five minutes. 73. Two tablespoonfuls of vinegar; an egg; bread-crumbs ; fried parsley ; and some anchovy sauce. Sprinkle the plaice or flounders with salt, and let them lie for twenty-four hours, then wash them and wipe them dry ; brush them over with egg, and cover them with bread- emmbs ; make some lard or dripping mixed with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar boiling hot in a frying-pan ; lay the fish in, and fry tliem a nice brown colour, dram them from the fat on a cloth, and serve them on a folded napkin, garnished with fried parsley. Anchovy sauce. To Fry Smelts. Time, three or four minutes. 74. Seven smelts; two eggs; bread- crumbs ; a little flour; and a piece of butter. Smelts should not be washed more than is necessary to just clean them ; cut off the fins, dry them in a cloth, and dredge a little flour over them, melt half an ounce of butter and beat into it the yolks of two eggs. Dip the smelts into it, then into bread- cnimbs finely grated, and plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat; let them fry gently, and a few minutes will make them of a bright yellow brown. Be careful not to take off the light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty will be lost. When done, dish them up on a napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve anchovy or shrimp sauce with them separately. Fried Smelts, French Way. Time, three or four minutes. 75. Smelts ; a little flour; milk ; crisped parsley. After the smelts are prepared and dried dip them into milk, dredge them with flour, and fry them until they arc of a fine colour, and serve them with crisped parsley. Sprats. Time, two or three minutes. 76. Well clean a number of sprats, fasten them in rows by a skewer run through their gills, place them on a close-barrcd gridiron, broil them a nice brown, and serve them •hot and hot.44 Soles and Eels. Filleted Soles. Time, ten minutes. 77. Two soles; one egg; and bread- vrumbs. Take two soles, divide them from the backbone, and remove the head, fins, and tail. Sprinkle the inside with salt, roll them up from the tail end upwards, and fasten then with very small skewers. If small or middling-sized soles, put half a fish in each roll. Dip them into the yolk of a well beaten egg, and then into bread-crumbs ; then into the egg a second time, and again sprinkle them with crumbs ; fry them in hot lard, or in clarified butter. Instead of rolling the fish they may be cut into pieces, and arranged in the form of a pyramid in the centre of a dish, and gar- nished with parsley and slices of lemon. Boiled Soles. Time, eight to ten minutes. 78. Two soles ; a large handful of salt in one gallon of water. Well wash and clean the soles, cut off the fins, and put them into a fish-kettle with salt and water. Let them boil slowly, and then simmer until done, which must be ac- cording to the weight of the fish, a large one requiring about ten minutes, a medium size eight. When done,, serve them on a napkin, with the white side uppermost. Garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. Anchovy or shrimp sauce are usually sent to table with boiled soles, but may be varied at pleasure. Fried Soles. Time, eight minutes. 79. Two soles ; one egg ; a few bread- crumbs. Remove the skin from the dark side of the soles, clean them, and wipe them dry, and dredge a little flour over them ; brush them over with the yolk of a well-beaten egg, dip them into bread-crumbs, and fry them of a light brown, in sufficient boiling fat for tliem to swim in. When done, lay them on a cloth to absorb the grease ; dish them on a napkin neatly folded, and garnish with fried parsley. Plain melted butter or shrimp sauce may be sent to table with them. Eels Spitchcocked. Time, half an hour, or till the skin turns up. 80. Two or three eels ; some chopped parsley ; pepper ; salt ; a little sage ; juice of half a lemon ; eggs, and bread-cnimbs ; a little mace ; and a little warmed butter. Skin two or three large cels, open them on the belly side, and dean them thoroughly; remove the backbone, and cut them into pieces three or four inches long; strew over them, on both sides, some chopped parsley, a very little sage, pepper, salt, a little mace pounded fine, a little warmed butter, and the juice of nearly half a lemon ; dip each piece carefully in egg and bread- crumbs ; fry them in a pan of boiling fat, and serve them on a hot dish, in a circular form, with piquante sauce (or any other you like) in the centre. Baked Eels. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 81. Four large eels ; some veal stock ; a bunch of savoury herbs ; a sprig of parsley ; two glasses of port wine ; juice of a small lemon ; salt and Cayenne ; one tea- spoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Skin, empty, and thoroughly wash the eels, cut off the heads, and divide them into rather short pieces, wipe them very dry, dip each piece into a seasoning of Cayenne, salt, minced parsley, and a little powdered savoury herbs ; put them into a deep dish, cover them with veal stock, put a thick paper or cover over the dish, and set it in the oven until the eels are tender. Skim off the fat, take the pieces of fish carefully out on a hot dish to keep warm, and stir into the gravy the wine, strained lemon juice, and sauce ; make it just boil up, and pour it over the fish. Garnish with sliced lemon. Boiled Eels. Time, half an hour. 82. Some small eels, and a little parsley and butter. The small eels are the best; do them in sufficient water to cover them, add a bunch of parsley; when tender, they are done. Serve them up in a shallow tureen, with parsley and butter sauce poured over them. Fried Eels. Time, eighteen or twenty minutes. 83. One large cel, or two small ones; one egg, and a few bread-crumbs. Pri'p.ire and wash the eels, wipe them thoroughly dry, and dredge over them a very little flour; if large, cut them into pieces of about four inches long, brush them over with egg, dip them into bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat. If small, they should be curled round and fried, being first dipped into egg and brcad-cnimbs. Serve them up garnished with fried parsley. Boiled Conger. Time, half an hour. 84. White conger eel; bread-crumbs;Conger and Perch. 45 peel of half a lemon ; a sprig of parsley ; lemon thyme; winter savory ; sweet mar- joram ; a piece of butter or dripping ; pepper ; salt ; nutmeg, and a spoonful of suet. Cut a piece about a foot long from the head end of a fine conger, make a stuffing of the bread-crumbs, minced parsley, lemon thyme, winter savory, and sweet marjoram minced fine ; a little chopped suet, grated lemon peel, and butter or dripping ; season it with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; stuff the fish, and sew it up. Put it into warm water, let it simmer until it is ccoked enough, and serve it with any sauce usually eaten with boiled fish. A tliick piece will take half an hour after it simmers. It may be boiled without the stuffing, if it be preferred. Stewed Conger. Time, according to size. 85. A conger eel; a bunch of sweet herbs ; one onion ; pepper ; salt, and mace ; water or broth ; a little flour. Cut the conger into pieces as for frying, dry and flour the pieces, and brown them in a frying-pan. Put them into a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion cut in quarters, seasoning of pepper and salt, and of spice, if it be liked, and enough water, or broth, nearly to cover the fish. Let it stew gently until it is cooked enough, thicken the gravy with flour just enough to take off the richness that may have risen to the top, and serve the conger with the gravy round it. Tile gravy may be flavoured with toma- toes, chutney, or any other sauce. The stewed conger is nice with oysters ; open them, and save the liquor, mix it with a little flour, use it to thicken the gravy, as much as necessary, let it just boil up, and put in the oysters long enougli for them to get hot. Baked Congev. Time, one hour ; less in a quick oven. 86. Take such a piece of fine conger as would be chosen for boiling ; make a stuff- ing, and stuff it as mentioned for boiled conger Put it into a pie dish or a baking dish, with a pint of water, lay pieces of butter over the fish, flour it well, and put it into a moderate oven ; baste it often with ■ the liquor while it is cooking, and when it; is almost done thicken the liquor with flour, just enough to correct any little richness! that may float on the top of it; not more. Baked conger may be varied in many ways. It is very nice with potatoes baked under it; but as there must be liquor in the dish with which to baste the fish, to prevent the skin getting dry and hard, they will not brown on the outside. I'he gravy may be thickened with tomatoes, or with tomato sauce, and this is particularly nice. It may be taken from the liquor, and eaten with dressed cucumber and early potatoes. It may bo flavoured with or eaten with any sauce that is nice, and it will be e.xcellent any way. A good flavouring for a change, is a tablespoonful of lemon pickle, the same of walnut ketchup, and a dessertspoonful of soy. Fried Conger. Time, twenty to twenty-five minutes, or longer. 87. Conger ; egg ; bread-crumbs. Cut the conger into slices an inch and a half or two inches thick, or a little thicker, according to the size of the fish. This is the best way to cut conger for frying, and most other purposes for which it may re • quire similar subdivision ; because by it the solid back of the fish and the richer under part go together, which they do not when collops are cut longitudinally. Cover the fish with egg and bread-crumbs, and fry it in plenty of fat, made to boil before the fish is put in. Take care that the frying-pan is perfectly clean, and that the fish is fried to I a briglit colour. Serve it with lemon to I squeeze over it, plain melted butter, oyster sauce, shrimp sauce, or any sauce preferred. PEECH. It is so difficult to scale perch that some people have them boiled with the scales on, as they come off easily afterwards. To Boil Perch. Time, half an hour, if large. 88. Cut off the spines from the back, scrape off the scales w^ith an oyster knife, and thoroughly clean and wash them. Then boil them in cold water very carefully, as they are a most delicate fish. To Fry Perch Plain. Time, twelve minutes. 89. When the perch are scaled, gutted, and washed, dry them well with a cloth, and lay them out singly before the fire for a few minutes. Flour them well, and fry them a fine brown in plenty of good drip ping. Serve them with molted butter and crisped parsley. To Boil Pike. Time, half an hour to one hour. 90. Pike: twelve oysters ; half of aPike—Mackerel—Haddocks—Skate. 46 French roll; two eggs ; lemon ; sweet herbs ; pepper ; salt ; nutmeg ; a lump of butter ; a wineglass of vinegar. When you have taken out the gills, cleaned and thoroughly washed the fish, make a forcemeat of a dozen chopped oysters, the crumb of half, or a whole French roll, a little lemon peel shred fine, a lump of butter, a few sweet herbs, the yolks of tvvo well beaten eggs, seasoned to your taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Mix all together and stuff the fish ; sew it up, and fasten it with the tail in the mouth with a small skewer. Put it into a fish-kettle of boiling water with a wineglassful of vinegar and a tablespoonful of salt. If it is of a middling size, it will be done in about half an hour ; or, if large, one hour. Serve it up with melted butter and a lemon, or with anchovy sauce. Garnish with pickled bar- berries. To Bake Pike. Time, one hour. 91. A large pike ; some forcemeat; two or three anchovies ; half the peel of a lemon ; one glass of wine ; one tablespoonful of sauce : a spoonful of capers. Scale and wash a large pike, fill it well with stuffing made as for veal, skewer the tail in the mouth, and place it in a deep dish. Season it with salt. Put a good- sized piece of butter over it, and bake it for an hour. When done, add to it about half a pint or more of the gravy, two or three small anchovies chopped very fine, the rind of half a lemon, grated, a spoonful of capers, a large spoonful of sauce, either Worcester or Reading, a glass of wine, and a little butter rolled in flour to thicken it. Serve the fish on a dish and the sauce in a boat. Mackirel Boiled. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. 92. Cut the fish open sufficiently to empty the inside, remove the roes, and thoroughly wash them and the mackerel. Put the fish into a fish-kettle of cold water with a large tablespoonful of salt, bring them gradually to a boil, and simmer for about twenty minutes if the fish is large ; if small, fifteen minutes will be sufficient, or even less time ; but theymust be taken carefully out when the eyes are starting. Remove the scum as it rises, and when done, serve them on a napkin, and send fennel sauce, plain melted butter, or gooseberry sauce to table with them. To Boil Haddocks. Time, a quarter to half an hour, according to size. 93. Two haddocks; enough water to cover them; a quarter of a pound of salt to each gallon of water. Clean the fish, andw.ish them thoroughly, they will require scraping first, then pul them in the fish-kettle ; simmer them gently. Serve with a garnish of sliced lemon and parsley. Sauce : melted butter or anchovy. Baked Haddock. Time, from half an hour to an hour. 94. One haddock ; some veal stuffing, bread-crumbs, and one egg. Thoroughly clean and dry the haddock, fill the inside with veal stuffing, sew it up, and curl the tail into its mouth. Brush it over with egg, and strew bread-crumbs over it. Set it in a warm oven to bake for about half an hour, but if a Dublin Bay haddock, it will require double that time. Serv'e it on a dish without a napkin, with any sauce you please, anchovy, melted butter, &c. To Broil Haddock. Time, half an hour. 95. Clean and dry the haddock, and put it into a Dutch oven before a very quick fire ; as soon as the skin rises take it from the fire, brush it over with the yolk of a well-beaten egg. Strew bread-crumbs thickly over it, and dredge it with flour. Rub some butter over a gridiron, lay the fish carefully on it, and each time turned, lay a small slice of butter over it. Serve with shrimp sauce or melted butter. To Crimp Skate. Time to soak, one hour. 96. Have the skate alive ; skin, and wash it very clean, cut it in long slips the whole length of the fish, about an inch broad, roll it over your finger, and throw it into spring water; cut the middle part of the fish ii. any form you like, wash it well, and put it into spring water for one hour, then wash it very clean, and put it to drain for use. To Boil Crimped Skate. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. 97. Clean, skin, and cut the fish into slices, roll them over your finger, and fasten them round with a thin string. Put them into a stewpan with a large quantity of salt in the water ; boil them for about fifteen or twenty minutes, and hold them over the stewpan to drain ; remove the string, and serve them on a folded :>apkin placed in a hot dish. Shrimp or lob. 'at sauce may be served with it. To Fry Skate. 98. Brush it over with the yolk of a well- beaten egg, and cover it witli bread-crumbs,Lobsters—Crabs— Oysters. 47 I fry it a nice browTi, and sen’e it on a hot ; tabfe-napWn, with anchovy or shrimp sauce. SHELL-FISH—LOBSTEK. To Choose Lobsters. 99. The heaviest are the best, and very often a good small-sized lobster will weigh heavier than a large one. The male is the best for boiling, the flesh is firmer, the shell of a brighter red. You may easily distinguish the l.eri lobster by its broader tail, and the two uppermost fins within the tail being less stiff and hard than those of the male lobster. lien lobsters are best for sauce or salad, on account of their coral. To Boil a Lobster. Time, half an hour. 100. Boiling a lobster may be made a horrible operation if the advice we are about to give is not attended to ; and its cries in dying are said to be most painful. Happily it is possible to kill it immediately. It is done thus :— Put into a large kettle water enough to cover the lobster, with a quarter of a pound of salt to every gallon of water. When it boils fast put in the lobster, head p.rst;en\.s is a little difficult to achieve, as the lobster is not easy to hold thus over the hot steam, but we are sure any humane cook will do it. If the head goes in first it is killed instantly. Boil it briskly for half an hour, then take it from tlie hot water with the tongs, and lay it to drain. Wipe off all the scum from it ; tie a little piece of butter in a cloth and rub it over with it. A lobster weighing a pound takes one hour to boil, others in like proportion, more or less. To Dress Lobsters. 101. When sent to table, separate the body from the fail, remove the large claws, and crack them at each joint carefully, and split the tail down the middle with a sh.arp knife ; place the body upright in the centre of a dish on a napkin, and arrange the tail and claws on each side. Garnish it with double parsley. To Choose Crabs. 102. The heaviest crabs are usually con- sidered the best, although those of a mid- dling size are the sweetest, when perfectly fresh, and in perfection. The shell, whether alive or dead, should be of a bright red colour, and the joints of the legs stiff. Crabs are stale when the eyes look dull. They are boiled in the same manner as lobsters, but require a much longer time, and are usually eaten cold. To Dress Boiled Crabs. 103. Empty the large shell; mi.x the flesh with a very little oil, vinegar, salt, white pepper, and Cayenne to your taste, replace the meat in the large shell, and place it in the dish with the claws as represented in the engraving. Scalloped Oysters. Time, a quarter of an hour. 104. Three dozen oysters ; grated bread- crumbs about a large teacupful; two ounces of fresh butter ; pepper. Butter some tin scallop shells, or if you have not any, a small tart dish. Strew in a layer of grated bread, then put some thin slices of butter, then oysters enough to fill your shells or dish. Cover them thickly with bread-crumbs, again add slices of butter. Pepper the whole well, add a little of the liquor kept from the oysters. Put butter over the whole surface, and bake in a quick oven. Serve them in their shells or in the dish. Brown them with a salamander. If you have not one, make the kitchen shovel red- hot and hold it over closely enough to brown your scallops. To Stew Oysters Plain. Time, three or four minutes. 105. Three dozen oysters ; thin melted butter ; a blade of mace ; twenty pepper corns. Open the oysters, cut off the beards and wash them in their own liquor to remove the grit. Strain it into a small stewpan, add a little thin melted butter to thicken it, a blade of mace, and twenty pepper corns tied up in muslin. Let the oysters simmer in this sauce for about three or four minutes, taking care they do not boil. Serve with sippets of bread. Oyster Fritters. Time, five or six minutes. 106. Some good-sized oysters ; four whole eggs ; a tablespoonful of milk ; salt and pepper ; crumbs. Beard some good-sized oysters, make a thick omelet batter with four eggs and a tablespoonful of milk, dip each oyster into the batter, and then into grated bread, fry them a nice colour, and use them to garnish fried fish. Scallop Fish, or St. James’s Cockle. Time, half an hour. 107. Scallops ; bread crumbs ; pepper ; salt ; a .sprig of minced parsley; flour ; a spoonful oflemon pickle. Open the scallops with a knife, and UikePrazvns—Cockles—Mtissels—Herrings. 48 them out as you would oysters ; cover them with beaten egg and bread-crumbs, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and minced parsley, and fry them nicely. Put them to keep hot, dredge flour into the frying-pan to take up the grease, mix in water enough for gravy, season with pepper and salt, thicken it if required, make the scallops hot in it, and serve them with the gravy together. Lemon pickle may be added. They may also be floured and fried ; and then stewed. Tj Boil and Serve Prawns. Time, ten minutes. 108. Prawns ; strong salt and water; one large China orange ; sprigs of double parsley. Boil your prawns for ten minutes in a stewpan of boiling salt and water, and then drain them dry. Put a large China orange into the centre of a dish, and stick the prawns thickly over it, commencing at the bottom, with their backs upwards. At the top place three with the backs down, and a sprig of double parsley arranged between them and at the edge of your dish. To Boil Cockles and Periwinkles. 109. Put them in a stewpan, with only a small quantity of water, to prevent the pan from burning ; when the shells open, the fish will be done. To Pickle Cockles. no. Equal quantities of vinegar ; with Aie liquor from the cockles ; one blade of mace ; and some salt. Wash your cockles clean, and put them in a stewpan, cover them close; set them over the fire, and shake them till the shells open, then take them out ; let the liquor settle till it is clear ; then add an equal quantity of wine and vinegar, a little salt, and a blade of mace. Boil this pickle and pour it over your cockles ; put them in jars or bottles, and cover them close. To Stew Mussels. Time, ten minutes. III. One pint of mussels ; half a pint of liquor ; one blade of mace; a small piece of butter rolled in flour. Clean the,'Shells thoroughly with repeated washings, and cook them until they open, as mentioned above. Pick them out of the shells, and as you do so save the liquor that runs from them, and pick out from each one the little hairy appendage to be found at the root of the little member shaped like a tongue. To the mussels, thus prepared, put half a pint of the liquor saved, and if there is not enough of it, eke out the quantity with a little of the liquor in which they were boiled, poured off clear. Put in a blade of mace, thicken it w ith a piece of butter rolled in flour, let them stew gently for a few minutes, and serve them on toast. To Boil Herrings. Time, twenty minutes. In season from May to October. 112. Some scraped horseradish ; vinegar, and salt. Clean and wash the fish ; dry them in .1 cloth, and rub over them a little vinegar and salt. Skewer them with their tails in their mouths, lay them on a strainer in a stewpan, and when the water boils put them in, and let them continue simmering slowly for about twenty minutes. When they are done, drain and place them in the dish with the heads turned into the centre, garnish with scraped horseradish, and serve with parsley and butter sauce. To Bake Herrings. Time, one hour. 113. Two herrings ; a large spoonful of pepper ; twelve cloves ; a teaspoonful of salt ; two bay-leaves, and some vinegar. Clean and wash the herrings, lay them on a dish or board, and rub well over and into them a spoonful of pepper, one of salt, and twelve cloves pounded. Lay them in an earthen pan, cover them with vinegar, add two or three bay-leaves, and tie them over with a thick paper. Put them into a moderate oven, and bake them for an hour. To be eaten cold. To Dress Eed Herrings, or “Yarmouth Bloaters.” 114. Choose those that are large and moist, split them open without any soaking, and either place them on a gridiron over a slow cinder fire, or hang them on the hooks of a cheese-toaster to brown. If they have hard roes, open them and put pieces of butter into the fish, closing them up to melt the butter. Fried Herrings. Time, six or eight minutes. 115. Clean and scale the fish, and dry them thoroughly in a cloth. When they arc quite dry, fry them to a bright colour. The herring, being so rich a fish, should be fried with less butter than fish of most kinds, and well drained, and dried after\vards. A nice sauce to eat with herrings is sugar, mustard, and a little salt and vinegar. Some serve melted butter, but herrings are too rich to eat with a rich sauce. Crisp parsley may be used as a garnish. Fry sprats in49 Soups. the same way : they require no sauce, unless it may be a little lemon pickle or ketchup. Baked Gurnets. Time, thirty or forty minutes. 116. Two gpjrnets ; two or three slices of bacon ; one onion ; half a pint of melted butter ; two tablespoonfuls of Harvey sauce. Stuff the gurnets with veal stuffing, sew lliem up with packthread, and put the tail found the fish's mouth, as you do the whit- ing or haddock. Put them in a baking dish, cover them with thin slices of bacon, and bake in a hot oven for about half an hour, or longer if they are large fish. When done, put them on a dish, and serve with sauce over them, made of the onion, melted butter, and Harvey sauce. Fish Cake of Cold Fish. Time, two hours. 117. The remains ofanycoldfish; as cod ; soles : turbot, &c. ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; bread-crumbs ; cold potatoes; a sprig of parsley ; one or two eggs ; pepper and salt; quite half a pint of water. Pick the meat from the fish with two forks, and mince it very fine ; mix it well %vith equal quantities of bread-crumbs and cold mashed potatoes, and season it highly with pepper and salt. Rit the bones, heads, and trimmings of the fish into a stewpan, with the sweet herbs, parsley, and a little pepper and salt; pour over it about a pint of water, and let it simmer slowly for an hour and three-quarters, or longer if not done enough. Make the minced fish, bread, and potatoes into a cake, binding it with the white of a beaten egg ; brush it over with the yolk, strew it well with bread- crumbs, and fry it lightly. Pour over it the strained gravy, and set it over a gentle fire to stew slowly for nearly twenty minutes, stirring it occasionally. Garnish it with slices oflemon. SOUPS. The cook who would succeed in sending good soup to table must take care that she has strong and excellent stock ready for it, and the economical housewife will soon find that stock does not a/wry/r require meat to be bought for its production. The water in which mutton has been boiled, the liquor left from dressing a calf’s head, the bones taken from rplled ribs of beef, or from any boned joint, hare or poultry, will make excellent stock for a family soup. Fish bones will also produce a good jelly for it. The trimmings of large joints or cutlets, the shanks of mutton, tlij shank of a ham, the large bone of the sirloin of beef, will all add to the stock-pot, and supply a good foundation for her soup. O.x. cheek carefully managed, and sheep's head and trotters, also make excellent stock with a flavouring of ham or anchovy for the soup. Soup should never be made with hard water, unless it is of green peas, in which case the water must be hard to preserve their colour. The rule as to quantity is : a quart of water to a pound of meat without bone ; but whenever this quantity of water is diminished the soup is increased in strength and rich- ness. Meat should be put into the soup-kettle with vay little water at first, and with a piece of butter to keep it from burning. It should be let stew very slowly till the es- sence of the meat is extracted. "Very long, very slow stewing, is the certain way to pro- cure good soup. " I'he more haste the worst speed " is the proverb of the soup-kettle. Skim the soup frequently also, and do not let it cool until it is quite made. Let the. meat of which your soup is made be freshly killed, and very lean, every particle of fat should be removed from it. Onions should be put in the soup soon after it is begun to be made ; herbs, carrots, and celery, three hours afterwards ; turnips, or any delicate vegetable, just before the soup is finished. When celery is out of season, the seeds of the plant, tied up in a piece of clean muslin, will give the flavour equally well. To Colour Soups. A piece of bread toasted very brown may be simmered in the soup for a short time before it is done, and will give it a brown colour. The ordinary colouring, however, is done by putting a little burnt brown sugar into it. The sugar should be put into a saucepan with a piece of butter tlie size of a walnut, and a glass of ketchup ; it should be melted together, and then put into the soup-kettle. For those who do not dislike them, burnt onions arc an improvement, both as to colour and flavour. Colouring to be kept for use is made thus ; a gill of water, a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, and half an ounce of roll butter, should be set over the fire in the smallest frying-pan and stirred till it is of a bright brown colour ; add to it half a pint of water, boil and skim it, let it get cold, and then bottle and cork it down for future use. The flavouring of soups must in a great measure depend on the cook ; her taste, therefore, should be discriminating and 'i50 Clear Stock for Soups. delicate. She should be careful in the use of ketchups and sauces, though they are both useful and important. Cow-heel, | calf's-feet, and ox-tail soups, all require flavouring, and will bear a little sauce or ketchup, but it should never be over-done. I Clear soups have been the fashion of late years ; pun’es, such as pea-soup, &c., being not so often seen, except at old fashioned people’s tables. Soup is clarified by means of the white and shell of eggs, one eggj being .allowed to each quart of soup. The eggs must be broken over a basin, and care | must be taken not to let a particle of the' yolk fall in. The stock, which has been| previously made, must then have the fat removed from it, and the jelly underneath must be put into a clean stewpan and melted. Meantime, the white of egg must be beaten to a stiff froth, and white and shell must be then gradually poured into the stock, which must be well stirred or whisked till it boils. Then it is to be taken off the fire, covered close and let stand fora quarter of an hour ; then strained through a sieve. Take care that the soup-kettle or stewpan is perfectly clean and free from any grease or sand. An iron soup-pot should be washed the moment you have finished using it, witli apiece of soda the size of a small nut- meg, dissolved in hot w'ater, to remove all gre.asiness or taste of onion. A teaspoonful of potash will answer the same purpose. Do not uncover the soup-kettle more fre- quently than necessary for skimming it clean; but if your soup is too weak, do not cover the pot in boiling, as the water will evaporate in steam and leave your liquor stronger. Skim frequently ; it is important that every portion of scum should be removed from the soup. Pour in occasionally a little cold water, which will cause the albumen to rise in abundant scum, or if you put in the re- quired quantity of salt with the meat it will cause the scum to rise ; but the cup of fresh water is much the better mode of helping the Soup to clear itself. Always stir your soup with a wooden Spoon. Let the soup be quite free from scum be- fore the vegetables are put in. It will take six or eight hours to extract the essence from a few pounds of beef. It is better to make your soup the day before it is required, because then the fat Ivill cake at the top of it and can be easily laken off, and you can judge of the goodness of your soup by the consistency and firm- ness of the jelly. The water in which meat or fowls have been boiled will make good broth, but for »<iup add a little gravy beef to it. Vegetables to be added to soup should hif well cleaned, washed, and picked. It is very difficult to give a perfect mea- surement of seasoning, as the taste of people differs considerably with regard to it. and the cook must conform to that which suits the palates of her employers ; but in a rough way, it is usual to add about a tea- spoonful of salt to a pound of meat, and pepper according to taste, some naturally insipid broths and soups requiring more ; very savoury soups less. It is better to season too little than too highly. Put fresh meat into cold water to stew for soup. If you make soup of already cooked meat, pour hot, but not boiling water over it. Time and attention are required to achieve a good soup. Clear Stock for Soups. Time, six hours and a half. 118. Six or seven pounds of knuckle of veal or beef; half a pound of lean ham or bacon ; a quarter of a pound of butter ; salt : two onions ; one carrot ; one turnip ; half of a head of celery; two gallons of water. Cut fresh meat and ham into very small pieces, and put them into a stewpan, which has been rubbed over with a quarter of a pound of butter; add half a pint of water, the salt, onions, turnip, carrot, and celery cut into slices ; cover the stew- pan, and place it over a very quick fire, until the bottom of the pan is glazed, but stirring it round frequently to prevent its burning. Then pour in the two gallons of water, and when on the point of boiling, draw it to the side of the fire to simmer for six hours and a half, or seven hours if the stock is made of beef ; skim it thoroughly, and when done pass it through a very fine sieve for use. A little browning or gravy must be used to colour it. General Stock-Pot. 119. Stock, in its composition, is not con- fined to the above proportions, any meat or bones are useful; pieces of beef, from any part from which gravy can be extracted ; bones, skin, brisket, or tops of ribs, ox- cheek, pieces of mutton, bacon, ham, and trimmings of turkeys, fowls, veal, &c. ;and also of hare, pheasant, if they are old and fit for no other purpose ; in fact, anything that will become a jelly, will assist in mak- ing stock ; to this medley of ingredients add carrots cut into slices, herbs, onions, pepper, salt, spice, &c. ; and when all have stewed until the stock is of a rich consistency, take it from the fire and pour it out to cool.Stocks for Soups. 51 When cold, all the fat must be taken off, and it must be poured clear from the sedi- ment. When the soup is required to be very rich, the jelly from a cow-heel, or a lump of butter rolled in flour, must be added to the stock. The stock-pot should never be suffered to be empty, as almost any meats, (save salt meats) or fowls make stock ; the remnants should never be thrown anywhere but into the stock-pot, and should too much stock be already in your possession, boil it down to a glaze ; waste is thus avoided. Medium Stock. Time, five hours and a half. 120. Four pounds of shin or gravy beef ; two pounds of bones ; five ounces of lean bacon or ham bone ; two ounces of butter ; one large onion ; five cloves | one turnip ; two carrots ; a bunch of savoury herbs ; one head of celery ; pepper and salt; five pints of water. Put about two ounces of butter into a stewpan, then add the beef and bacon cut into very small pieces, the bones, and any trimmings of meat, &:c., that you may have ; one onion stuck with fine cloves, a turnip, carrots, herbs, seasoning of pepper and salt, and a head of celery cut into pieces about three inches long; pour in about three- quarters of a pint of water ; cover the pan, and place it over a quick fire until the bottom of it is covered with a glaze ; taking care to stir it frequently. Then pour in the re- mainder of the water, and let it simmer slowly for about five hours ; skim it very clean whilst boiling, and when done, strain’ it through a very fine sieve, and it will be fit for use. Cheap Stock. Time, six hours. 121. Three or four quarts of the liquor in which mutton or beef has been boiled ; any bones of dressed meat; trimmings of poul- try, meat, &c. ; two large onions ; five cloves ; pepper and salt to taste ; one tur- nip ; two carrots ; a head of celery; a bunch of savoury herbs ; a sprig of parsley; two blades of mace. Put any bones of roast beef, trimmings of meat, and poultry into a stewpan ; add a head of celery cut into pieces, two onions stuck with cloves, a turnip, carrot, savoury herbs, with a sprig of parsley, two blades of mace, a few pepper corns, and a little pepper and salt ; pour in four quarts of the liquor m which any meat has been boiled ; set it over a slow fire, and let it simmer gently for quite six hours. Remove all the scum the moment it rises, and continue to do so until the stock is clear; then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and it will be fit for use. Bone Stock for Soup. Time, two to three hours. 122. Bones of any meat which has been dressed, as sirloin bone, leg of mutton bone, &c. &e. ; two scraped carrots ; one stick of celery; enough cold water to cover the bones, or enough of the liquor left from braising meat to cover them ; one spoonful of salt. Break the bones into very small pieces, put them into a stewpan with the carrots and celery ; cover them with cold water, or cold braise liquor ; and let it boil quickly till the scum rises ; skim it off and throw in some cold water, when the scum will rise again. This must be done two or tliree times, till the stock is quite clear ; then draw the pan from the fire and let it stew for two hours, till all the goodness is extracted from the bones. Strain it off and let it stand alt night. The next day take off the grease very carefully, not leaving the least atom on it, and lift it from the sediment at the bottom of the pan. It will then be fit for use. To Clarify Stock or Soups. 123. The whites of two eggs to about four quarts of stock or soup ; two pints and a half of cold water. Whisk the whites of two very fresh eggs with half a pint of water for ten minutes ; then pour in very gently the four quarts of boiling stock or soup ; whisking it all the time. Place the stewpan over the fire; skim it clear ; and when on the point of boiling whisk it all well together ; then draw it to the side, and let it settle till the whites of the eggs become separated. Strain it through a fine cloth placed over a sieve, and it will be clear and good. Plain Beef Soup. Time, four hours and a half. 134. Five pounds of the leg or shin of beef ; one gallon of water ; a teaspoonful of salt ; two heads of celery; five carrots; three onions ; four turnips ; two tomatoes, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Cut about five pounds of a leg or shin of beef into two or three pieces, and put them into a stewpan with a gallon of water and a tcaspoonful of salt. Let them boil slowly, and when the scum has risen, skim it well ; place it at the corner of the stove, and let it simmer steadily, so as to continue a regular heat for about four hours, then add tw^ heads of celery, and five carrots cut small, two tomatoes, three onions sliced and fried, E aVarious Soups. <52 and the sweet herbs tied up in muslin. The turnips should be added half an hour before serving. If any portion of the meat is required for the table, take it from the soup about a couple of hours before dinner. Let the remainder be left in the soup, which must be strained through a hair sieve before it is served. Soupe et Bouilli. Time, eight hours. 125. Two pounds and a half of brisket of beef; two pounds of the leg of mutton ; piece of beef; one gallon of water ; one onion ; two carrots ; two turnips ; one leek ; one head of celery ; three cloves ; a little whole pepper • one French roll; one head of endive. Take about two pounds and a half of brisket of beef, roll it up tight, and fasten it with a piece of tape. Put it into a stewpan with two pounds of the leg of mutton, piece of beef, and a gallon of water ; let it boil slowly, skim it well, and put in an onion stuck with cloves, two carrots, two turnips, a leek, a head of celery cut into slices, with some whole pepper.;,- Cover the stewpan close, and stew the whole very slmoly for seven hours. About an hour before it is served, strain the soup quite clear from the meat. Have ready a few boiled carrots cut into wheels, some turnips cut into balls, the endive, and a little celery cut into pieces. Put these into a tureen with a roll, dried after removing the crumb. Pour the soup over these boiling hot, add a little salt and Cayenne, remove the tape from the beef, and serve it on a separate dish. A very Cheap Soup. Time, four hours. 126. One pound and a half of lean beef; six quarts of water ; three onions ; six tur- nips ; thyme ; parsley ; pepper and salt ; a half pound of rice ; one pound of potatoes; one handful of oattneal. Cut the beef into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with the water, onions, and the turnips ; add a bunch of thyme and parsley, a seasoning of pepper and salt, half a pound of Patna rice, a pound of potatoes peeled and cut in quarters, and a handful of oatmeal. Let all stew for four hours, and serve. Cottage Soup Baked. Time, three or four hours. 127. A pound of meat; two onions ; two carrots ; two ounces of rice ; a pint of whole peas ; pepper and salt ; a gallon of water. Cut the meat into slices, put one or two at the bottom of an earthen jar or pan, lay on it the onions sliced, then put meat again, then the carrots sliced. Soak the pint of peas all the previous night, put them in with one gallon of water. Tie the jar down, and put it in a hot oven for three or four hours. Poor Man’s Soup. Time, one hour and ten minutes. 128. Two quarts of water ; four spoonfuls of beef dripping ; an ounce and a half of butter : a pint basinful of raw potatoes ; a young cabbage ; a little salt. Put two quarts of water in a stewpan, and when boiling throw in four spoonfuls of beef dripping and an ounce and a half of butter, a pint basinful of raw potatoes sliced, and let them boil one hour. Pick a young cab- bage, leaf by leaf, or the heart of a white cabbage, but do not chop it small, throw it in and let it boil ten minutes, or till the cab- bage be done to taste, though when boiled fast and green it eats much better. Season it with a little -salt, and pour it over thin slices of bread in a tureen. A Frencli Receipt. Pot-au-Feu. Time, three hours. 129. Three quarts of water; four pounds of meat; two teaspoonfuls of salt; three small carrots ; three middling-sized onions (one being stuck with two cloves) ; a head of celery ; a bunch of thyme ; a bay-leaf, and a little parsley, tied together ; two tur- nips ; a burnt onion, or a little browning. Put the meat into a stock-pot full of water, set it over a slow fire, and let it gently boil, carefully taking oft" the scum that will rise to the top. Pour in a tea- cupful of cold water to help the scum to rise. When no more scum rises, it is time to put in the vegetables, which you should have ready washed and prepared. Cut the carrots in slices, stick the onions with cloves, cut the turnips each in four pieces. Put them into the pot, and let them boil gently for two hours. If the water boils away too much, add a little hot water in addition. A few bones improve tlie soup very much. It is not necessary to keep the pot veiy closely covered. It is better to raise the lid a little ; it facilitates the operation. Gravy Soup. Time, seven hours. 130. Seven pounds and a half of gravy beef; two pounds and a half of veal; two ounces of butter ; six quarts of water ; one large carrot: one small turnip ; three onions stuck with twelve cloves; half a head ofStvips and Broths. 53 celery ; two blades of mace ; half an ounce of salt; a small bunch of thyme and parsley ; three lumps of sugar. Put the gravy beef and the veal into a well-tinned copper stock-pot, with two ounces of butter ; set it over a hot plate, and cover it tightly over to keep in the steam until it is properly drawn down. You will know when it is sufficiently drawn by the smell, which resembles a delicately-roasted joint, the butter frying the meat; then add the water made very hot, the carrots cut small, the onions, turnips, celery, bunch of thyme and parsley, with two blades of mace, the salt, and lumps of sugar. Half cover the stock-pot with the lid, but by no means cover it wholly, as all the steam must be allowed to evaporate, or the stock will imbibe a coarse flavour, and become thick ; let it simmer gently for seven hours, then strain it off carefully through a sieve into a pan, and heat it when required for use, adding a little salt and loaf sugar. Cock-a-Leekie. Time, three or four hours. 131. One fowl; three bunches of winter leel« : pepper and salt ; and five quarts of medium stock. Well wash the leeks, take off part of the heads and the roots, scald them in boiling water for five or si.t minutes, and then cut them into small pieces. Put a fowl trussed as for boiling into a stewpan, with the pieces of leek, a little pepper and salt, and nearly five quarts of stock ; let the whole simmer very slowly at the comer of the fire for three or four hours, keeping it well skimmed. When ready to serve, take out the fowl, cut it into neat pieces, place them in a tureen, and pour the leeks and the broth over them (the leeks being made into a purde), as the soup should be very thick of leeks. This soup is greatly improved bywamiing it up a second time. It will keep for some little time good. Hotch-Potch. Time, after it is made, a quarter of an hour. 132. One pint of peas ; three pounds of the lean end of a loin of mutton ; one g.allon of water ; four carrots ; four turnips pepper and salt ; one onion ; one head of celery. Put a pint of peas into a stewpan with a quart of water, and boil them until they will pulp through a sieve. Then take the lean end of a loin of mutton, cut it into chops, put it into a stewpan with a gallon of water, the carrots and turnips cut into small pieces, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Boil it until all the vegetables are quite tender, put in the pulped peas and a head of celery, and an onion sliced ; let it boil fifteen minutes, and serve. Kidney Soup. Time, si.x hours. 133. One bullock’s kidney ; three sticks of celery | three or four turnips ; three or four carrots ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; pepper and salt ; a spoonful of mushroom ketchup ; the liquor in which a leg of mutton has been boiled. Add to the liquor from a boiled leg of mutton a bullock's kidney, put it over the fire, and vvhen half done, take out the kidney, and cut it into pieces the size of dice. Add three sticks of celery, three of four turnips, and the same of carrots, all cut small, and a bunch of sweet herbs tied together. Season to your taste with pepper and salt. Let it boil slowly for five or six hours, adding the ketchup. When done take out the herbs, and serve the vegetables in the soup. It is always better (as all soups are) made the day before it is wanted. Scotch Mutton Broth in Summer. Time, three hours. 134. Nine or ten pints of water; half a pound of barley; a quarter of a peck of green peas ; one small turnip ; two carrots ; a little parsley ; one onion ; four pounds of mutton ; one teaspoonful of salt; one of pepper. Cut into small pieces the turnip, carrot, and onion (after well washing them), and put the meat in first. Skim the pot till no more scum rises, then add the vegetables. Any one of the vegetables may be omitted, except the green peas. Scotch Barley Broth. Time, two hours. 135. Six pounds of flank of beef; six quarts of water ; a quarter of a pound of barley ,• three heads of celery ; a bunch of swed herbs ; a small onion ; two carrots ; twc turnips ; and a little chopped parsley. Take six pounds of the thick flank of beef, and cover it with six quarts of water, and a quarter of a pound of barley ; boil it gently for an hour, skimming it frequentl3 Then add three heads of celery, two carroty two turnips cut into pieces, one onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little parsley ; boil all together till you find the broth very good. Season it with salt. Then take out the beef, the onion, and sweet herbs ; pour the broth into the tureen, and put the beef in a dish garnished with carrots and turnips.Scotch Mutton Broth—Ox-hcad and Ox-tail Soups. -54 Scotch Mutton Broth. Time, three hours and a half. 136. Six pounds of neck of mutton ; three quarts of water ; five carrots ; five turnips ; hvo onions ; four tablespoonfuls of Scotch tarley ; and a little salt. Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour, cut off the scrag, and put it into a ftewpan^wth three quarts of water. As soon as it boils skim it well, and then simmer it for an hour and a half. Cut the best end of the mutton into cutlets, dividing it with two bones in each. Take off nearly all the fat before you put it into the broth ; skim it the moment the meat boils, and every ten minutes afterwards ; add five carrots, five turnips, and two onions, all cut into two or three pieces ; and put them into the soup soon enough to be thoroughly done ; stir in four tablespoonfuls of Scotch barley well washed in cold water; add salt to your taste ; and let all stew together for three hours ; about half an hour before sending to table put in a little chopped parsley, and serve all together. Ox-Head Soup. Time, four or five hours. 137. One ox-head ; one head of celery; two carrots ; two onions ; one turnip ; thirty black pepper corns ; twenty-five of allspice ; a teaspoonful of salt; a bunch of sweet herbs ; a bay-leaf; a little browning ; a glass of white wine; and five quarts of water. After the head has been soaked for two or three hours, the bones must be broken, and the whole well washed in warm water ; then put it into a stewpan with five quarts of cold water, cover it closely over, and as it boils, which should be slowly, skim it well. Put in a head of celery cut into pieces, two carrots, two onions, one turnip, the pepper corns, and allspice, with a bunch of sweet herbs. Cover it over, and set the pan over a slow fire, taking care to remove the scum, and let it stew gently for three hours, or until reduced to four quarts. Take out the head and put it on a dish. Strain the soup through a fine sieve, and set it by to cool. Tlie next day cut the meat from the head into small pieees, drain off the liquor, and after removing the fat, put it with the meat into a stewpan, and let it simmer gently for half an hour, when it will be ready to serve. The oftener this soup is warmed the richer it becomes. Before sending it to table add a glass of white wine. Ox-Tail Soup. Time, four hours and a half. 138. Two ox-tails ; a quarter of a pound of lean ham ; a head and a half of celery ; two carrots ; two turnips ; two onions; a bunch of savoury herbs ; five cloves ; a tea- spoonful of pepper corns ; one bay-leaf ; a wineglass of ketekup, and one of port wine, with three quarts of water. Cut up two ox-tails, separating them at the joints; put them into a stewpan with about an ounce and a half of butter, a heai of celery, two onions, two turnips, and two carrots cut into slices, and a quarter of a pound of lean ham cut very thin ; the pepper corns and savoury herbs, and about half a pint of cold water. Stir it over a quick fire for a short time to extract the flavour of the herbs, or until the pan is covered with a glaze. Then pour in three quarts of water, skim it well, and simmer slowly for four hours, or until the tails are tender. Take them out, strain the soup, stir in a little flour to thicken it, add a glass of port wine, the ketchup, and half a head of celery (previously boiled and cut into small pieces). Put the pieces of tail into the stewpan with the strained soup. Boil it up for a few minutes, and serve. This soup can be served clear, by omit- ting the flour and adding to it carrots and turnips cut into fancy shapes, with a head of celery in slices. These may be boiled in a little of the soup, and put into the tureen before sending it to table. Cheap White Soup. Time, one hour. 139. Remains of cold veal, game, poultry, or rabbit; one quart of stock made of bones. Chop up any remains you may have of cold veal, chicken, game, or rabbit roasted dry. Grate them, beat them in a mortar, and rub them through a tammy or sieve. Tlien add to the panada a quart of stock, put it into a stewpan, and pay great atten- tion to skimming it. An Economical White Soup. Time, fourteen hours and a half. 140. A knuckle of veal; one slice of lean ham ; two onions ; a buncli of thyme ; a few cloves ; half a blade of mace ; four ounces of pounded almonds ; half a pint of cream or milk ; one egg; water in pro- portion to the meat. Take a knuckle of veal, separate it into several pieces, and put it into a stewpan with a slice of lean ham, two onions, a bunch of thyme, a few cloves, and half a blade of mace. Pour in sufficient water for the quantity of soup required, and let it stew for twelve or fourteen hours, until the stock is as rich as the ingredients can bake55 Soups. it. When sufficiently stewed, set it to cool, and carefully remove the fat ; add to it four ounces of almonds blanched and pounded ; let it boil slowly again, and thicken it with half a pint of cream or milk and a well- beaten egg. It should boil slowly for half an hour ; then serve it. Wrexham Soup. Time, si.\ or seven hours. 141. One pound of lean beef, and every description of vegetables in season ; no water. Cut a pound of gravy beef into very small pieces ; put them into a half gallon jar ; fill it up with every description of vegetables, even lettuces. Tie the jar over with a bladder, and put it over the fire in a deep saucepan of boiling water, or in the oven, which is far better, for at least si.v hours. This generally makes sufficient soup for four persons. A little pepper and salt must be added. Macaroni Soup. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 142. Four ounces of macaroni ; one large onion ; five cloves ; one ounce of butter ; and two quarts of clear gravy soup. Put into a stewpan of boiling water four ounces of macaroni, one ounce of butter, and an onion stuck with five cloves. When the macaroni has become quite tender, drain it very dry, and pour on it two quarts of clear gravy soup. Let it simmer for ten j minutes, taking care that the macaroni does not burst or become a pulp ; it will then be I ready to serve. It should iDe sent to table with grated Parmesan cheese. Macaroni is a great improvement to white soup, or to clear gravy soup, but it must be previously boiled for twenty minutes \n water. Tapioca Soup. Time, twenty minutes. ' 143. One quart of stock ; two table- spoonfuls of tapioca. Boil one quart of stock ; when it is at boiling-point add the tapioca ; boil twenty minutes and it is done. You can use sago and semolina in the same manner. Soup (Liebig). Time, ten minutes. 144. One pound of gravy beef; one pint of water ; one carrot ; one turnip ; one onion ; one clove. Taka a pound of gravy beef without bone, mince it very fine, and pour on it a pint of water in which a turnip, rSTot, onion, and a clove have been boiled, .jet it simmer by the side of the fire ten minutes, and it is fit for use. When strained off, it will make two small basins of soup. Stir before using. Pepperpot. Time, three hours and a half. 145. Four pounds of gravy beef; six quarts of water; a bouquet of savoury herbs ; two small crabs or lobsters ; a large bunch of spinach ; half a pound of cold bacon ; a few suet dumplings (made o( flour, beef-suet, and yolk of one egg) ; one pound of asparagus tops ; Cayenne pepper ; pepper and salt to taste ; juice of a lemon. Put four pounds of gravy beef into six quarts of water, with the bouquet of savoury herbs ; let it simmer well till all the good- ness is extracted, skimming it well. Let it stand till cold, that all the fat may be taken off it. Put it into a stewpan and heat it. When hot, add the flesh of two middling- sized crabs or lobsters, nicely cut up, spinach well boiled and chopped fine, half a pound of cold bacon or pickled porlf dressed previously and cut into small pieces^ a few small dumplings, made very light with flour, beef-suet, yolk of egg, and a little water. Add one pound of asparagus tops, season to your taste with Cayenne, salt, pepper, and juice of a lemon ; stew for about half an hour, stirring it con- stantly. Hare Soup. Time, eight hours. 146. One hare ; a pound and a half of gravy beef ; one pound of bones ; a slice of lean bacon ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; one onion ; a spoonful of soy ; a little Cayenne, salt ; and two quarts of water. Cut an old hare into pieces, and put it into a large jar with a pound and a half of gravy beef, a pound of bones well cleaned, a slice of lean bacon, one onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour over it two quarts of water, and cover the jar well over with bladder and paper ; set it in a kettle of boiling water, and let it simmer till the hare is stewed to rags. Strain off the gravy, add an anchovy cut into small pieces, a spoonful of soy, with a little Cayenne and salt. Serve a few forcemeat balls in the tureen. VEGETABLE SOUPS. The vegetables should be nicely prepared for these soups. Cut carrots in thin rounds with the edges notched ; grated, they give an amber colour to soup. Wash parsley carefully and cut it small. Cut turnips into thin slices, and then divide.5^ Vegetable Soups. the round in four. Cut leeks in slices. Cut celery in half-inch lengths, the delicate green leaves impart a fine flavour to the soup. Take the skins from tomatoes and squeeze out some of the seeds. Add a lump of sugar to soups of vegetables or roots, to :often them and improve the flavour. Green-Pea Soup for Lent. Time, two hours. 147. One quart of old green peas; one pint of young peas ; two quarts of water ; two lettuces ; one onion ; a sprig of mint; three ounces of butter; a liandful of spinach ; and a little pepper and salt. Boil in two quarts of water one quart of old green peas, and a large sprig of green mint, until they will pulp through a sieve. Put to the liquor that stewed them a pint of young peas, the hearts of two lettuces, a handful of spinach cut small, one onion, and three ounces of butter, melted with just enough flour to keep it from boiling, then add all together, and boil the soup for half an hour. Serve with fried bread. Pea Soup. Time, three hours. 148. One pint of split peas ; three quarts of spring water ; si.x large onions ; outside sticks of two heads of celery ; one bunch of sweet herbs ; two carrots ; a little dried mint; a handful of spinach ; a few bones, or tiny pieces of bacon ; pepper and salt to your taste. Boil all these vegetables together till they are quite soft and tender ; strain them I through a hair sieve, pressing the carrot pulp through it. Then boil the soup well for an hour with the best part of the celery, and a teaspoonful of pepper, add a little dried mint and fried bre.ad, with a little spinach. A few roast-beef bones, or a slice of bacon will be an improvement. Green Pea Soup. Time, two hours and a half. 149. Three cos lettuces ; three cucumbers ; one pint of green peas ; a sprig of mint ; one onion ; a little parsley ; four ounces of fresh buttw ; half a pint of thin gravy. Cut up three cos lettuces, pare and slice three cucumbers, add a pint of young green peas, a sprig of mint, one onion, and a little parsley. But all into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and let it stew half an hour, then pour in half a pint of thin gravy, stew it for two hours, thicken it with a little lump of butter rolled in flour, and serve. Winter Pea Soup—Plain for Family use. Time, four hours and three-quarters. 150. One pint of split peas ; three quarts of water ; a pound and a half of beef ; one handful of spinach ; one slice of ham or bacon ; a few cloves ; a little mace ; half a bunch of mint ; one lump of sugar ; one saltspoonful of pepper ; same of salt, or to your taste. Boil one pint of split peas in three quarts of water till quite soft. Then stew in the soup a pound and a half of beef and a slice of bacon, with the handful of spinach, the cloves and mace. Let it stew for two hours, rub it through a sieve, then stew in it half a bunch of mint and a little spinach cut in shreds, with pepper and salt to your taste, and a lump of sugar. Serve with fried bread cut into dice, on a separate dish. Common Carrot Soup. Time, four hours and a half. 151. Thirteen ounces of scraped carrot to a quart of gravy. Boil as many red carrots in water as you require until tender ; then cut up the red part and pound it very fine. Weigh it, and to every twelve or thirteen ounces of pounded carrot add a quart of gravy soup, or rich stock, mixed gradually with it; season with a little salt and Cayenne ; strain it through a sieve, and serve it very hot with fried bread cut into dice in a separate dish. Brown Onion Soup. Time, three hours. 152. Six large Spanish onions ; five quarts of water ; a little pepper and salt; a penny roll; yolks of two eggs ; two spoonfuls of vinegar. Skin and cut in thin rings six large Spanish onions, fry them in a little butter till they are of a nice brown colour and very tender ; then lay them on a hair sieve to drain from the butter. Put them into a stewpan witli five quarts of water, boil them for one hour, and stir them often ; then add pepper and salt to your taste. Rub the crumb of a penny roll through a colander, put it to the soup, stirring it well to keep it smooth as you do so. Boil it two hours more. Ten minutes before you ser\’e it, beat the yolks of two eggs with two spoonfuls of vinegar and a little of the soup ; pour it in by de- grees, and keep stirring it all the time one way. It will then be ready to ser\'e. This soup will keep three or four days. Potato Soup Time, three hours. 153. One pound and a quarter of shin ofVegetable Soups. .57 beef; one pound and a quarter of mealy potatoes : three-quarters of a pint of peas ; pepper and salt; a large cupful of rice ; two lieads of celery. Take a pound and a quarter from a shin, or any other part of gravy beef, and make cuts in it witli a knife so that the gravy may be extracted easily; then put it into the stew- pan with about three quarts of water. Chop a pound and a quarter of potatoes up fine, and add them with the green peas and the rice to the liquor. Let it all simmer for two hours and a half ; tlien take out the meat, strain off the liquor, and rub the peas, potatoes, and rice through a sieve. Cut two heads of celery into thin pieces about an inch and a half long, and put them into the soup ; add the pulped vegetables, pepper and salt to your taste, and stew it for another half hour, or until the celery is quite tender. When done, serve it with toasted bread cut into small pieces, and put into the tureen. Palestine Soup. Time, one hour and a half. 154. Six pounds of Jerusalem artichokes ; three turnips ; one head of celery; one onion ; half a pint of cream or milk ; a lump of sugar; salt and Cayenne to taste : sufficient white stock to cover the artichokes. Pare and cut into pieces six pounds of Jerusalem artichokes, three turnips, one onion, and a head of celery ; put them into a ste\vpan with sufficient white stock to cover them, and let them boil gently for an hour until they are quite tender ; then rub them through a sieve ; if the purde be too thick, thin it with a little fresh milk ; boil all together again ; add half a pint of good cream, or milk, and season it with a spoonful of sugar, pepper, salt, and Cayenne to your taste. Send it up very hot with some fried bread served separately, cut into very small dice. Jardiniere Soup—a Summer Soup. Time, one hour and a half. 155. Two quarts of clear stock seasoned to taste ; four small carrots ; four small tur- nips ; equal quantity of button onions ; a head of celery ; eight lettuce leaves ; a little tarragon and chervil ; one lump of sugar. < Cut the vegetables in the French vegetable cutter of any pattern you please, or shape them with the ordinary vegetable scoop as you like best in the form of peas, olives, &c.; add the leaves and onions, put them in a soup-kettle, fill it up with two quarts (or more as required) of clear stock, let it boil gently till the vegetables are done, add a lump of sugar, as is best in all vegetable soups, and servo this soup very hot. Julienne Soup. Time, one hour and a half. 156. Three quarters of a pound of carrots, turnips, celery, onions, and leeks ; one large cabbage-lettuce ; a little sorrel and chervil ; two ounces of butter ; two lumps of sugar ; five pints of clear soup, or medium stock. Weigh three-quarters of a pound of the above-named vegetables, and cut them into strips of about an inch and a half long, taking care they are all the same size ; wash them in cold water, and drain them very dry ; then put them into a stewpan with the butter, and the sugar pounded. Set it ovel a quick fire for a few minutes, tossing them over frequently until they are covered with a thin glaze, but on no account allow the vegetables to burn ; then add five pints of clear soup, or medium stock, cut the lettuce, sorrel, and chervil into pieces, and put them into the soup, and let it all stew gently for an hour or more. Conger-Eel Soup. Time, two hours and three-quarters, or more. 157. Head and tail of a large conger-eel; three quarts of water ; a quarter of a pound of butter ; one leek ; the blossoms of four or five marigolds, and a few leaves ; half a pint of green peas, or the white heart of a cab- bage ; half a teacup of parsley ; a bunch of thyme ; two tablespoonfuls of flour ; a pint of milk and a little salt. Put the head and tail of a large conger- eel in a stewpan with three quarts of water, and let it simmer two hours and a half, or rather more, till it breaks to pieces when tried with a fork. Strain through a sieve, and pour back the liquor into the stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter. When boiling, throw in a small leek, a few mari- gold leaves cut up, half a pint of green peas (or asparagus cut up small when green peas cannot be procured), or, what is by many preferred, the white heart of a cabbage cut up, about a pintbasinful, or rather more ; half a teacupful of parsley chopped small, and a bunch of thyme. Mix two heaped table- spoonfuls of flour in a pint of milk, the blossoms of four or five marigolds plucked, and when the peas or asparagus are done, throw it into the stewpan, stirring all the time till it comes to a boil; then let it boil ten minutes to take off tlie rawness of the flour, with the lid off the stewpan, or it would boil over. Some, who prefer the parsley green, do not put it in till after the milk boils. Before dishing up, season with a little salt, as the salt is apt to curdle the milk if added before. Have ready thin58 Sauces and Gravies. slices of bread in your tureen, and pour the soup over. The Young Fisherman’s Soup. Time, two hours. 158. One pound (each) of any fresh-water fish, of different kinds ; one tomato ; two carrots ; one leek ; two onions ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; one teaspoonful of Chili vine- gar ; one teaspoonful of soy ; enough water to cover the fish ; two turnips ; one head of celery ; pepper and salt to taste. Take a pound (each) of all the fish you may have caught in your day's fishing, such as carp, dace, roach, perch, pike, and tench, wash them in salt and water ; then put them in a stewpan with a tomato, two carrots, one leek, two fried onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; put as much water to them as will cover them, and let them stew till the whole is reduced to a pulp, which will be in about three-quarters of an hour. Strain off the liquor, and let it boil for another hour. Have ready two turnips and a head of celery, cut into small pieces and previously boiled ; ■add them to the fish soup, with the Chili vinegar and soy, pepper and salt to taste. SAUCES AND GRAVIES. The thickest saucepans should be used for this operation, and only wooden spoons should be used for stirring. Remember, also, that your saucepan must be exquisitely clean and fresh if you would have your sauce a success, especially when it is melted butter. Let your fire be clear and not too fierce. RECEIPT FOR MELTING BUTTER. The Author’s Way. Time, two or three minutes. 159. Two ounces of butter ; a little flour; and about two tablespoonfuls of water. Put about two ounces or two ounces and a half of butter into a very clean saucepan, with two tablespoonfuls of water, dredge in a little flour, and shake it over a clear fire, one way, until it boils. Then pour it into your tureen, and serve as directed. Common Egg Sauce. Time, twenty minutes. 160. Two eggs; a quarter of a pint of melted butter. Boil the eggs for twenty minutes, then take them out of the egg saucepan and put them in cold water to get cool, shell them, and cut them into very small dice, put the I minced eggs into a very hot sauce tureen, and pour over them a quarter of a pint ol boiling melted butter. Stir the sauce round to mi.x the eggs with it. Fennel Sauce. Time, ten minutes. 161. Half a pint of melted butter ; a small bunch of fennel leaves ; a little salt. Strip the leaves of the fennel from their stems, wash it very carefully, and boil it quickly (with a little salt in the water) till it is quite tender ; squeeze it till all the watei is expressed from it; mince it very fine, and mix it with hot melted butter. Parsley Sauce. Time, six or seven minutes. 162. Half a pint of melted butter ; a bunch of parsley (about a small handful). Wash the parsley thoroughly, boil it for six or seven minutes till tender, then press the water well out of it ; chop it very fine ; make half or a quarter of a pint of melted butter as required (the less butter the less parsley, of course), mix it gradually with the hot melted butter. Imitation Parsley Sauce. When parsley is not to be procured. Time, ten minutes. 163. Half a pint of melted butter; one small teaspoonful of parsley seed ; a little salt. Tie a little parsley seed up in a clean piece of muslin, and boil it ten minutes in water ; use the water it has been boiled in, and which it will strongly flavour, for melting your butter instead of the pure water. You had better taste the parsley water before using it, to try whether the flavour is strong enough or too strong. When the butter is made thus, chop a little boiled spinach very fine, and add it to the butter to look like parsley. We may add here that the seeds of celery used in the like manner will give a perfect flavour of that vegetable to any gravy, soup, sauce, &'c., and may be used when the root cannot be procured. An Excellent Lobster Sauce. Time, ten minutes. 164. One hen lobster with coral; two- thirds of its weight of good cream ; one< third of fresh butter. Cut the lobster into small pieces, mix it with the coral, and put it into half a pint o\ good cream, and a quarter of a pint o( melted butter.Sauces— G/asc— Gravies. 59 Oyster Sauce. Time, five minutes. 165. One dozen of oysters ; half a tea- ftupful of good gravy ; half a pint of melted toutter. Stew the beards of the oysters in their rown juice with half a teacupful of good clear ^jravy ; strain it off, add it to the melted t Dutter—which should be ready—put in the coysters, and let them simmer gently for tj;hree minutes. Shrimp Sauce. Time, five minutes. 166. One pint of shrirrfps ; half a pint of melted butter; essence of anchovies, one i/.easpoonful; Cayenne, just a pinch. Mi.v the essence of anchovies and Cayenne v.,vith half a pint of melted butter ; add the point of shrimps (picked) to the melted but- t;er when boiling ; then set it on one side of 1' he fire till the tiny fish are heated through, lout do not let it boil again. A very little pbiece of lemon improves this sauce. Sauce Blonde for any Fish. Time, thirty-si.x minutes. 167. A cupful of melted butter ; three tvablespoonfuls of good stock ; two mush- .”ooms ; a sprig of parsley ; one onion ; one i-.-emon ; one glass of wine ; yolks of three I rggs ; pepper ; salt; and mace. Put a cupful of melted butter and three I-ablespoonfuls of stock into a stervpan with :.i sprig of parsley, an onion cut into slices ; t 'WO mushrooms minced very fine, a lemon c ;ut into thin slices, and a glass of white '• vine. Set this sauce over a slow fire, and let i: t stew for half an hour ; then add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and stir the pan over the fire for five or si.x minutes ; strain I he sauce through a sieve, and serve it with liny fish. Anchovy Sauce for Fish. Time, four minutes. 168. Three dessertspoonfuls of anchovy essence ; half a pint of melted butter ; sea- ■ ;oning to your taste. Stir three dessertspoonfuls of anchovy es- ; ;ence into half a pint of good melted but- 1 er, add a seasoning to your taste, and boil i t up for a minute or two. Use plenty of 'Cayenne and a little mace in this sauce. Mayonnaise Sauce. 169. Yolks of two eggs; one lemon; ' lalad oil; one spoonful of pepper ; one : ipoonful of salt; same of moist sugar. A Mayonnaise is simply a French dressing : or salad. Mix the yolks of two or three eggs with the pepper and salt ; then work together with them the salad oil; mix it so thoroughly that it may appear a perfect cream. Keep by your side a lemon cut in two. As soon as the oil and eggs begin to mix, squeeze in the lemon juice, add more oil, drop by drop, then more lemon juice, till the mixture is finished. Add the oil by degrees, not all at once. Let it be a per- fect cream before you use it. Use a wooden spoon, and mix in a cool place. Glaze. Time, till it becomes a jelly. 170. Boil some very strong clear gra-vy or jelly over a quick fire to the thickness of cream, stirring it constantly until it will adhere like jelly to the spoon. It must then be immediately poured out of the stewpan : the greatest care is required during the time of thickening to prevent it from burning. When required for use, dissolve it by plac- ing the jar (or whatever it may be kept in) in boiling water, and brushing it over the meat two or three times, when it will form a clear varnish. Any kind of very rich stock can be boiled down to a glaze. To be used for hams, tongues, &c. To Brown Flour. Time, five minutes. ■ 171. Put some flour in a pan or dish, and set it in the oven or over the Are. Stir it about that it may not burn ; but let it brown well. Keep it in a dredging box for brown- ing ordinary gravies. A Cheap Brown Gravy. Time, two hours. 172. One pound of gravy beef; one sheep’s melt; pepper and salt ; one small onion ; a little celery, and a tablespoonful of ketchup. Take a pound of gravy beef and a sheep's melt, cut it into slices, dredge them with flour, and fry them lightly in butter ; then pour in hot quite a pint of water. Add a seasoning of pepper and salt, a small onion, and a piece of celery cut into slices. Set the stewpan over the fire, and let it stew slowly for two hours. Skim it well; strain it; add a spoonful of ketchup, and set it by for use. Kidney Gravy. Time, one hour and three-quarters. 173. Four kidneys ; two ounces and a half of butter ; a few sweet herbs ; a little salt and Cayenne ; one tablespoonful of ketchup; half an onion ; one pint of water. Slice four kidneys, cut them into pieces and dredge them with flour ; put them into6o Gravies and Sauces. (Stewpan with two ounces and a half of flutter, a few sweet herbs and lialf an onion. Sliakc these over tlie fire for six or eight minutes, and tlien add about a pint of water. Let it simmer for an hour and three- quarters, skimming it carefully ; strain the gravy, and set it by for use. This gravy can be made from one beef kidney instead of four sheep’s kidneys. Gravy for Hashes, &c. rime, two hours and a quarter. 174. The bones and cuttings from any cooked joint ; a little salt and pepper ; twelve whole allspice ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; a piece of butter ; one small onion ; half a head of celery; water; and two tablespoonfuls of ketchup. Break the bones, and put them into a stewpan, with any spare cuttings of meat pou may have ; add a little pepper, salt, and twelve allspice, half a head of celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and simmer it for about two hours, with sufficient water to cover it. Cut a small onion into slices, fry it in a piece of butter, and boil it up with the gravy for fifteen or twenty minutes. Strain it into another stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of walnut ketchup, and a piece of butter rolled in flour, boil it up, and it will be ready for your meat. Gravy for Minced Veal. Time, one hour and a quarter. 175. Any cold dressed veal, and bones ; a pint and a half of w'ater ; peel of half a lemon and the juice ; a little mace ; salt ; one small onion ; and a tablespoonful of ketchup. Put into a stewpan the bones of some dressed veal, and any cuttings of the veal you have ; pour in a pint and a half of water, add the peel of half a lemon cut very thin, a little mace pounded, some nutmeg, salt, and one onion. Let it all simmer slowly for an hour and a quarter, or until it is a good gravy. Strain it through a sieve ; then stir in a spoonful of ketchup, the juice of half a lemon, and thicken it with a piece of butter and a little flour. Boil it up, and it will be fit for use. Jugged Gravy. Time, eight hours. 176. Two pounds of shin of beef ; three , slices of lean ham ; two shallots ; half a head of celery; one blade of mace; a bunch of sweet herbs ; one carrot; a little salt and whole pepper; one quart of water; one tablespoonful of ketchup ; one of soy. Cut two pounds of shin of beef, and three slices of ham or bacon, into small pieces ; I put them into a stone jar, with alternate I layers of shallot, celery, and carrot, cut into slices ; seasoning of salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, chopped up. Pour ■ in a quart of water, tie the jar closely down to prevent the steam from escaping, and set it in a moderate oven for eight hours ; then strain the gra\y. Stir in a table- spoonful of ketchup, and one of soy, or a glass of port wine, and when cold take off the fat carefully from the top. Gravy for a Goose or Ducks. Time, three hours. 177. One set of giblets ; half a pound of beef ; three sage leaves ; one onion ; some whole pepper and salt ; a glass of port wine ; three pints of water. Put one set of giblets and half a pound of lean beef into a stewpan, with three sage leaves, one onion, some whole pepper, salt, and three pints of water, and boil it for three hours ; then add a glass of port wine, with a .spoonful of flour mixed smooth to thicken it, and boil it again for two or three minutes. Bread Sauce for Rcast Turkey, or Game. Time, one hour and a half. 178. One pint of milk ; breakfastcupful of stale bread ; one onion ; a little mace, Cayenne, and salt; one ounce of butter. Peel and slice an onion, and simmer it in a pint of new milk until tender, break the bread into pieces and put it into a small stewpan. Strain the hot milk over it, cover it close, and let it soak for an hour. Then beat it up smooth with a fork, add the pounded mace, Cayenne, salt, and an ounce of butter ; boil it up, and ser%'e it in a tureen. The onion must be talven out before the milk is poured over the bread. Apple Sauce. Time, twenty minutes. 179. Eight apples; a small piece of butter, and sugar. Pare, core, and cut into slices eight good boiling apples ; put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to moisten and prevent them from burning, boil them until suffi- ciently tender to pulp. Then beat them up smoothly with a piece of butter, and put sugar to your taste. Chestnut Sauce for Turkey or Fowls. Time, one hour and thirty-five minutes. 180. Half a pint of veal stock ; half a pound of chestnuts ; peel of half a lemo»fSauces. a cupful of cream or milk ; a very little Cayenne, and salt. Remove the dark shell of the chestnuts, and scald them until the inner skin can be easily taken off. Then put them into a stewpan with the stock, the lemon peel cut very thin, and a very little Cayenne pepper and salt. Let it simmer until the chestnuts are quite soft. Rub or press it througii a sieve, add the seasoning and cream, and let it simmer for a few minutes, stirring it constantly, but taking care it does not boil. Common Onion Sauce. , rime, nearly half an hour. 181. Four or si.v nice white onions, ac- cording to size ; half a pint of hot millc ; one ounce of butter ; saltspoonful of salt, and pepper to your taste. Peel the onions and boil them till they are tender, press the water from them, and chop them very fine. Make half a pint of milk hot, pulp the onions into it, add a little piece of butter, a saltspoonful of salt, and pepper to your taste. Maitre-d’Hotel Sauce. Time, one minute to simmer. 182. Half a pint of melted butter; one teaspoonful of chopped parsley; one lemon ; Cayenne and salt to taste. Melt the butter, add to it the strained juice of a lemon, the parsley and seasoning, and let it just boil. Horseradish Sauce for Boiled Mutton or Koast Beef, rime, two or three minutes. 183. A wineglass of good cream ; a tea- spoonful of mustard ; a stick of horse- radish ; half a tumbler of vinegar ; a little salt. Mix a stick of grated horseradish with a wineglass of cream, a teaspoonful of mustard, and a pinch of salt, then stir in half a lumbler of the best vinegar, and a pinch of salt. Bruise them with a spoon, and when thoroughly mixed together, serve in a tureen. Mint Sauce for Boast Lamb. 184. Two tablespoonfuls of chopped green mint ; one tablespoonful of pounded sugar : and a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Pick and wash the green mint very clean, chop it fine, mix the sugar and vinegar in a sauce tureen, put in the mint, and let it stand. Tomato Sauce. Time, one hour and five minutes. 185. Six tomatoes; half an ounce of celery ; one ounce of butter; one ounce of 61 bacon ; half an onion ; a bay-leaf; a bunch of thyme ; a little salt, pepper, Cayenne ; half a pint of broth ; and a little flour. Take out the seeds and remove the stalks from six tom.atoes, put them into a stewpan with half an ounce of celery, one ounce of butter, one ounce of bacon, half an onion cut into slices, a bay- leaf, a bunch of thyme, pepper, salt, and Cayenne ; stew it gently until tender, then stir in the flour, moisten with half a pint of broth, boil it up for flve or six minutes, strain it through a sieve, and then put it back into the stewpan to simmer until rather thick. Serve it with meat or poultry. Arrowroot Sauce for Plum Puddings. Time, fifteen minutes. 186. One dessertspoonful of arrowroot; two of sifted sugar ; a glass of white wine ; juice of half a lemon ; half a pint of water. Rub very smoothly a dessertspoonful of arrowroot in a little water, or in a glass of white wine, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, add the pounded sugar, and pour gradually in half a pint of water. Stir it very quickly over a clear fire until it boils. Serve it with plum pudding. This sauce may be flavoured with any- thing you prefer. White Wine Sauce. Time, five minutes. 187. Half a pint of melted butter ; four teaspoonfuls of white wine ; the peel of half a lemon ; sugar to your taste. Add to half a pint of good melted butter four spoonfuls of white wine, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the sugar pounded and sifted. Let it boil, and serve with plum, bread, or boiled batter pudding, &c. Sauce for Polka Pudding. Time, five minutes. 188. Three ounces of fresh butter; one cupful of powdered sugar ; three glasses of sherry. Beat the three ounces of butter with the sugar to a cream ; add to it three glasses of sherry ; mix it well. Boil it, stirring it in- cessantly in one direction till it is done. Serve it boiling hot. The pudding is served quite cold with hot plates. To Mix Mustard. 189. Two ounces of mustard ; boiling water ; half a teaspoonful of sugar. Mix the mustard and sugar with boiling water till it is thick and smooth, .add the water slowly to the powder. The sugar may be omitted, but we prefer it, as it softens the mustard.62 Forcemeats or Stuffing. To Dry Mushrooms. 190. Wipe them clean and peel off the skin. Lay them on paper to dry in a cool oven, and keep them in paper bags with your dried herbs in a dry plaee. Ticket all your herb-bags with their several names. To Use Dried Mushrooms. Time, ten minutes to a quarter of an hour. 191. Simmer them in gravy ; they will swell to nearly their original size. FORCEMEATS OR STUFFING. A common Forcemeat for Veal or Hare. 192. Si.\ ounces of bread-crumbs ; the rind of half a lemon ; one tablespoon fill of minced savoury herbs ; three ounces of suet, or butter ; two eggs ; pepper and salt; and nutmeg. Mix with the bread-crumbs the peel of the lemon minced very fine ; a tablespoonful of chopped savoury herbs, or dried ones if not able to procure them green ; three ounces of finely-chopped beef suet, or of butter broken into small pieces ; season it with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and bind it with two well-beaten eggs. Sage and Onion Stuffing for Geese, Ducks, or Pork. 193. Three onions; five ounces of bread- crambs ; eight sage leaves ; one ounce of butter ; pepper ; salt; one egg. Wash, peel, and boil the onions in two waters to extract the strong flavour, and scald the sage leaves for a tew minutes. Chop the onions and leaves very fine, mix them with the bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, a piece of butter broken into pieces, and the yolk of one egg. Oyster Forcemeat. ■194. Half a pint of oysters ; five ounces of bread-crumbs ; one ounce of butter ; the peel of half a lemon ; a sprig of parsley ; salt: nutmeg; a very little Cayenne ; and one egg. Take off the beards from half a pint of oysters, wash them well in their own liquor, and mince them very fine ; mix with them die peel of half a lemon chopped small, a sprig of parsley, a seasoning of salt, nutmeg, and a very little Cayenne, and about an ounce of butter in small pieces. Stir into these ingredients five ounces of bread- crumbs, and when thoroughly mixed to- gether, bind it with the yolk of an egg and |iart of the oyster liquor. Egg Balls for Made Dishes or Soup. Time, twenty minutes to boil the eggs. 195. Twelve eggs ; a little flour and salt. Pound the hard-boiled yolks of eight eggs in a mortar until very smooth ; then mix with them the yolks of four raw eggs, a little j salt, and a dust or so of flour to make them bind. Roll them into small balls, boil them ' in water, and then add them to ariy made dishes or soups for which they may be required. Fried Parsley. Time, two minutes. 196. Fried parsley is the cheapest and (j commonest of garnishings, but it requires to be very nicely done. Wash and pick the parsley, and dry it thoroughly in a cloth. Then put it in a wire basket, and hold it in boiling dripping for two minutes. Take it out of the basket and dry it well before tlic fire that it may become very crisp. The dripping in which it is fried should be quite boiling. If tlie cook possess no wire basket, she must fry the parsley as quickly as possible, and dry it before the fire when it is done. Season for Drying Herbs for Flavouring. Basil is fit for drying about the middle of August. Chervil, in May, June, and July. Elder-flowers, in May, June, and July. Fennel, May, June, and July. Knotted marjoram, July. Lemon thyme, July and August. Mint, the end of June and July. Orange thyme, June and July. Parsley, May, June, July. Sage, August and September. Summer savory, end of July and August. Tarragon, June, July, and August. Thyme, end of July and August. Winter savory, end of July and August. They must be gathered on a dry day, and cleaned and dried immediately by the heat of a stove or Dutch oven, the leaves picked off, sifted, and bottled. STORE SAUCES. Walnut Ketchup. Time, to boil, half an hour. 197. One hundred walnuts ; six ounces of shallots : one head of garlic ; half a pound of salt; two quarts of vinegar ; two ounces of anchovies ; two ounces of pepper; a quarter of an ounce of mace ; half an ounce of cloves. Beat in a large mortar a hundred green walnuts until they are thoroughly broken, then put them into a jar with six ounces osMushroom Ketchup—Hot Sauce—Lemon Vinegar. 63 ^lallots cut into pieces, a head of garlic, hvo quarts of vinegar, and the lialf pound of salt; let them stand for a fortnight, stirring them twice a day. Strain off the liquor, put it into <a stewpan with the anchovies, whole pepper, half an ounce of cloves, and a quarter of an ounce of mace ; boil it, skimming it well. Strain it off, and when cold pour it clear from any sediment into small bottles, cork it down closely, and store it in a dry place. The sediment can be used for flavouring sauces. To Make Mushroom Ketchup. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 198. One peck of mushrooms; half a pound of salt; half an ounce ofblack pepper ; a quarter of an ounce of all-spicc ; half an ounce of ginger and two blades of mace to every quart of liquor. Break the mushrooms into a large earthen pan, strew over them half a pound of salt; place them in a cool oven all night. The ne.\t day strain off the liquor, measure and boil it for a quarter of an hour. To each quart of liquor add one ounce of pepper, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, half an ounce of ginger, and two blades of mace, and let it boil quickly for nearly half an hour. When cold put it into bottles, cork them down, and dip the necks into resin. Mixed with equal proportions of soy and lemon pickle, it is a delicious flavouring for any gravy. Hot Sauce, resembling "Worcesterahire Sauce. ' Time, ten days. 199. Three-quarters of an ounce of Cay- enne pepper; one quart of vinegar; two tablespoonfuls of soy ; three cloves of garlic ; five anchovies ; three cloves of shallots. Mix well and rub through a sieve three- quarters of an ounce of Cayenne pepper, two tablespoonfuls of soy, three cloves of garlic pounded, five anchovies bruised fine, and three cloves of shallots pounded, add one quart of vinegar. Strain, and keep it corked up for ten days, then bottle it up for use. It can be strained or not, as preferred. Lemon Vinegar. Time, nine weeks. 200. Two dozen and a half of lemons ; four ounces of garlic ; one handful of horse- radish ; one gallon of vinegar ; one ounce of mace ; half an ounce of cloves ; one ounce of nutmeg ; half an ounce of Cayenne ; half a pint of mustard seed. Grate off the outer rinds of the lemons with a piece of glass, cut them across but do not quite separate them; work in as much salt as you can with the fingers; spread them on a large pewter dish, and cover them quite over with salt ; then put them into a cool oven three or four times until the juiee is dried into the peels ; they must be hard but not burned. Then put to them the garlic peeled, the horseradish sliced, and again place them in the oven till there is no moisture left. As the salt dis- solves work in more. Put the vinegar into a stewpan with the cloves pounded, the mace beaten fine, the nutmeg cut into slices, and the Cayenne and mustard slightly bruised, and tied in a muslin bag. Boil all these ingredients with the vinegar, and pout it boiling hot on the lemons. The jar must be w'ell closed, and let stand by the fire for six days, shaking it well every day. Then tie it down and let it stand for thres months to take off the bitterness. When it is bottled, the pickle must be put into a hair or lawn sieve two or three times, till it is as fine as possible. After the lemon pickle is cleared off, add about one quart of boiled vinegar to the remaining ingredients, and after ii; has stood for some time it is excellent for hashes, &c. &c. This pickle may be put into white sauce, one spoonful being sufficient; two spoon- fuls for brown sauce. It is also good for fish, fowls, or any made dish, care always being taken to put it in before the sauce is mixed with cream, or the acid may curdle it. Nasturtiums used as Capers. 201. Besides being great ornaments to our flower-gardens, nasturtiums supply us with a useful adjunct to frugal tables. They save the expense of capers. Gather the seeds ("cheeses” country children call them) of the nasturtiums, and keep them a few days on a paper tray ; then put them into empty pickle bottles, pour boiling vinegar over them, and leave them to cool. When cold, cover them closely down. They will be fit to eat the next summer in lieu of capers, with boiled mutton. To Make Vinegar. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil. 202. To one pound of ebarse sugar one gallon of water; a piece of toasted breoid ; two tablespoonfuls of yeast. Mix the sugar and water well together and boil it for a quarter of an hour, skim- ming it well all the time. Then put the liquor in a cup. When it is about new milk warm, toast a piece of bread, wet it well with yeast, and put it in the liquor. Next day pour it into a clean cask and set it inBeef. 64 ft warm place. Lay a paper over the bung- hole to keep out the dust, but do not stop it up. It will be ready for use before the end of the year, when it may be tried, and if found not quite acid enough it must stand longer. When it is settled and can be bottled off make the same quantity again, as a seasoned barrel is a great help. Ketchup for Fish, or Elderberry Soy. 203. One quart of elderberries ; one quart of vinegar ; a quarter of a pound of ancho- vies : a blade of mace ; a little ginger, salt, and whole peppers. Pour a quart of boiling vinegar over a quart of elderberries picked from the stalks, and set it in a cool oven all night; then strain the liquor from the berries, and boil it up with the mace, ginger, salt, whole peppers, and the anchovies, until they are dissolved. When cold, put it into bottles after it has been strained, and cork it down. Some prefer the spice put into the bottles ; but either way it is a good and not expensive BEEF. To Make Tough Meat Tender. 204. Soak it in vinegar and water; if a very large piece, for about twelve hours. For ten pounds of beef use three quarts of water to three-quarters of a pint of vine- gar, and soak it for six or seven hours. Sirloin of Beef. Time, a quarter of an hour to each pound of meat. 205. Make up a good fire ; spit or hang the joint evenly, at about eighteen inches from it. Put a little clarified dripping in the dripping-pan, and baste the Joint well ns soon as it is put down to dress ; baste again every quarter of an hour till about twenty minutes before it is done ; then stir the fire and make it clear ; sprinkle a little salt, and dredge a little flour over the meat, turn it again till it is brown and frothed. Take it from the spit, put it on a hot dish, and pour over it some good made gravy, or mix the gravy left at the bottom of the dripping-pan with a little hot water and pour it over it. Garnish with fine scrapings of horseradish in little heaps, as in engrav- ing. Serve Yorkshire pudding with it on a separate dish. Sauce: horseradish. Bibs of Beef Boiled. Time, twenty minutes to the pound, or fif- teen minutes, and half an hour over. 206. Order the butcher to take out the bones of the .joint; roll it into a round, and fasten it with skewers and a broad piece of tape in the shape of a round. Place it at the distance of eighteen inches before a large fire till it is partly dressed ; then move it gradually forward towards the fire. Put some clarified dripping in the pan ; baste it the moment the dripping melts, and do the same every quarter of an hour. Just before it is done—i.e., about twenty minutes before you remove it from the spit, dredge it with flour, and baste it with a little butter. Re- move the tape and skewer, and fasten it with a silver skewer instead. Serve with good gravy over it. Horseradish sauce. To Boil Beef. Reckor the time from the water coming to a boil. 207. Keep the pot boiling, but let it boil very slowly. If you let the pot cease boilings you will be deceived in your time ; therefore watch that it does not stop, and keep up a sufficiently good fire. Just before the pot boils the scum rises. Be sure to skim it off carefully, or it will fall back and adhere to the meat, and disfigure it sadly. When you have well skimmed the pot, put in a little cold water, which will cause the scum to rise again. The more carefully you skim, the cleaner and nicer the meat boiled will look. Put your meat into cold water. Liebig, the great German chemist, advises us to plunge the joint into boiling water, but the great cook Francatelli, and others of the same high standing, recommend cold ; and our own experience and practice are in accordance with the cook rather than the chemist. Put a quart of cold water to every pound of meat. Allow twenty minutes to the pound from the time the pot boils and the scum rises. It is more profitable to boil than to roast meat. Aitchbone of Beef. Time, twenty minutes to the pound. 208. Three-quarters of a pound of salt; one ounce of moist sugar; aitchbone weighing ten pounds ; two gallons and a half of water. Dry the salt and rub it with the sugar in a mortar, then rub it well into the aitchbone of beef. Turn the joint and rub in some pickle every day for four or five days. Wash it well before you boil it. Put it into a large boiling pot, so as to let it be well surrounded and covered with cold water in the above proportion, set the pot on one side of the fire to boil gently ; if it boils fast at first nothing can prevent the meatBeef Boiled and Stciued—Beef Olives. 65 from becoming bard and tough. The slower it boils the tenderer it will be and the better it will cook. The soft fat which lies on the back of an aitchbone of beef is delicious when hot; the hard fat is best cold. Save the liquor in which this joint is boiled for pea-soup. Garnish with slices of turnip and carrot, as in engraving. Silverside of Beef Boiled. Time, a quarter of an hour to each pound. 209. Ten or twelve pounds of the silver- side of beef; three gallons of water. After the beef has been in the pickle for about nine or ten days, take it out and wash it in water, skewer it up in a round form, and bind it with a piece of tape. Put it into a large stewpan of water, and when it boils remove the scum very carefully, or it will sink and spoil the appearance of the meat. Then draw the saucepan to one side of the fire, and let it simmer slowly until done. When ready to serve, draw out the skewers and replace them with a silver one. Pour over it a little of the liquor in which it has been boiled, and garnish with boiled carrots and parsnips. When taken from the water, trim off any soiled parts from the beef before sending it to table. A Beef Stew. Time, two hours and twenty minutes. 310. Two or three pounds of the rump of beef; one quart of broth ; pepper and salt; the peel of one large lemon, and the juice ; two tablespoonfuls of Harvey sauce ; one spoonful of flour ; a little ketchup. Cut away all the skin and fat from two or three pounds of the rump of beef, and divide it into pieces about two or three inches square ; put it into a stewpan, and pour on it a quart of broth ; then let it boil, and sprinkle in pepper and salt to taste. When it has boiled very gently, or simmered two hours, shred finely the peel of a large lemon, and add it to the gravy. In twenty minutes pour in a flavouring, composed of two spoonfuls of Harvey sauce, the juice of the lemon, the flour, and a little ketchup. Add at pleasure a glass of sherry, a quarter of an hour after flavouring it, and serve. Stewed Shin of Beef—A Family Dish. Time, four hours and a quarter. 211. A shin of beef; one bunch of sweet herbs ; one large onion ; one head of celery; twelve black pepper corns ; twelve allspice ; three carrots ; two turnips ; twelve small button onions. Saw the bone into three or four pieces ; put them into a stewpan, and just cover them with cold water. When the pot simmers, skim it clean ; and then add the sweet herbs, onion, celery, peppers and allspice. Stew it very gently over a slow fire till the meat is tender. Then peel the carrots and turnips and cut them into shapes ; boil them with the button onions till tender. The turnips and onions will take a quarter of an hour to boil, the carrots half an hour. Drain them carefully. Put the meat when done on a dish, and keep it warm while you prepare some gravy thus : (i.e.) Take a teacupful of the liquor in which the meat has been stewed, and mix with it three tablespoonfuls of flour; add more liquor till you have a pint and a half of gravy. Season with pepper, salt, and a. wineglass of mushroom ketchup. Boil it up, skim off the fat, and strain it through a sieve. Pour it over the meat, and lay the vegetables round it. Beef Olives. Time to stew, one hour and a half. 212. A pound and a half of rumpsteak ; three yolks of eggs ; a little beaten mace ; pepper and salt; a teacupful of bread- crumbs ; two ounces of marrow or suet; a sprig of parsley ; the rind of half a lemon ; one pint of brown gravy ; a tablespoonful of ketchup ; one of browning ; a teaspoonful of lemon vinegar ; a piece of butter rolled in flour ; eight fortemeat balls. Cut the steak into slices of about half an inch thick and six or seven inches long, rub them over with the yolk of a beaten egg, and strew thickly over them some bread- crumbs, the marrow or suet chopped fine, then the parsley minced, the grated rind of half a large lemon, a little beaten mace, and some pepper and salt, all mixed well together. Roll each olive round, fasten it with a small skewer, and brown them lightly before the fire in a Dutch oven. Then put them into a stewpan with the gravy, ketchup, browning, and lemon vinegar, thicken it with a pieee of butter rolled in flour, and serve the olives in the gravy. Garnish with force- meat balls. Fillets de Boeuf. Time, to fry, eight minutes. 213. The under-cut of a large sirloin of beef; two ounces of butter; a tcacupful of rich gravy ; one tablespoonful of Espag- nole sauce ; pepper and salt; one squeeze of lemon juice to taste. Take every morsel of skin and sinews from a large piece of under-cut of sirloin of beef, cut it into small slices of about a F66 Ox-check and Ox-Tongue. quarter of an inch thick each, flatten them and give them a round form. Melt some butter in a saut^-pan, lay the fillets in it, and season them with pepper and salt. Just before you send them to table, ]3ut the pan ovoi a good fire and dress them quickly. Turn them the moment you see a little gravy bubble up, on their surface. They are done when, on pressing them, you find they resist the fork. Place them in a small pile on a dish, or round a little heap of mashed potatoes. Pour a little gravy into the saute-pan to detach the glaze formed at the bottom of it, add a table- spoonful of Espagnole or any other sauce, reduce this gravy a little over the fire, and serve with a squeeze of lemon juice. Or instead of lemon juice, add to the sauce a few fried mushrooms. Or beat into the Espagnole sauce and gravy a piece of anchovy butter about the size of a walnut. Or the centre may be filled with tomato sauce. We must beg our lady readers who are obliged to keep house economically, not to be frightened at the idea of having fillets de bcEuf (which are seldom seen in middle- class houses), at their table. A little ordi- nary care, attention, and practice will enable a tolerable .cook to do them well, and they are especially nice dishes. Moreover, they give two fresh dishes from one joint. Use the under-cut of the sirloin, we will say, for example, on the Saturday for fillets de boeuf, and you have your sirloin still ready for the spit on Sunday. It is true that for them you must have a tolerably large joint, but in a large family a good-sized joint is economical, because it wastes less by drying up in cooking. For small families a small dish of fillets de boeuf may be made from a joint weighing ten pounds or even less. Ox-cheek Stewed. Time, seven hours altogether. 214. Plalf an ox-head ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; one head of eelery ; some pepper and salt; one small onion ; one glass of port wine ; four cloves ; three pints and a half of water. Well wash part of an ox-head, and let it soak in cold water for several hours ; then put it into a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, a little pepper and salt, one small onion, a head of celery cut into slices, and four cloves ; pour in about three pints and a half of water—or rather more, and set it over a gentle fire to simmer slowly. When tender, take out the head, and cut the meat from it in rather small pieces ; strain the |;ravy and put about the third part of it into a stewpan with a glass of port wine, some forcemeat balls, and the pieces of head. Make all very hot and serve it up quickly. To Dress a Bullock’s Heart. Time, two hours. 215. One heart; veal stuffing ; half a pint of rich gravy. Soak a bullock’s heart for three hours in warm water; remove the lobes, and stuff the inside with veal forcemeat; sew it securely in ; fasten some white paper over the heart, and roast it for two hours before a strong fire, keeping it basted frequently. Just before serving, remove the paper, baste and froth it up, and serve with a rich gravy poured round it, and currant jelly sepa- rately. Ox-Tongue. Time, one hour to warm; two hours and a half, if large, to simmer. 216. Choose a plump tongue with a smooth skin, which denotes the youth of the animal. If it has been salted and dried, soak it before you boil dt for twenty hours in plenty of water. If it is a green one fresh from the pickle, soak it only three or four hours. Put it into cold water, let it gradually for one hour ; then let it slowly simmer for two hours and a half. Plunge it into cold water in order to remove the furred skin. Bend it into a nice shape with a strong fork ; then trim and glaze it if it is to be sert'ed as a cold tongue, and ornament the root with a frill of cut paper or vegetable flowers ; when hot garnish with aspic jelly. If it is to be served hot, as an enirie, it must be wrapped in a gjeased paper and warmed again in hot water, after removing the coating ; serve, when thus garnished, with macaroni or tomato sauce. Ox-Cheek Cheese—A homely American Keceipt. Time, four hours. 217. Half an ox-head ; one teaspoonful of fine salt; half a teaspoonful of pepper ; one tablespoonful of powdered thyme; enough water to cover the head. Split an ox-head in two, take out the eyes, crack the side bones, and lay it in water for one whole night. Then put it in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it. Let it boil very gently, skimming it care- fully. Wdien the meat loosens from the bones take it from the water w'ith a skimmer, and put it into a bowl. Take out every particle of bone, chop the meat very fine, and season it with a teaspootiful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper ; add a table- spoonful of powdered thyme. Tie it in a6; Spiced Beef—Broiled and Steived Steak. tloth and press it with a weight. When fold, it may be cut in slices for dinner or supper. The gravy remaining will make a rich broth if a few vegetables be stewed Vi it. Spiced Beef. Time, according to weight. 218. The thin part of the ribs of beef; half an ounce of cloves ; half an ounce of mace ; half an ounce of black pepper ; half an ounce of Jamaica pepper ; and some chopped parsley. Take the thin part of a piece of beef, after the rib piece (called the flap) has been cut off, if any of the ends of the bones are left take them out. Rub it Well wth salt, and let it lay in pickle two days ; then tak§ the above quantities of spice and a little chopped parsley, and spread the whole equally over the beef; roll it up neatly and tie it very tight. Set it in a stevvpan over a moderate fire, and let it stew slowly till quite tender. Then press it well, and when cold it wll be fit to sen'e. The spices are to be laid on whole. Beef Liver for Gravy. Time, twenty-four hours. 219. The liver must be first hung up to drain; after that salt it well and leave it twenty-four hours in a dish. Then hang it up to drain, and when it has ceased drip- ping hang it in a dry place for use. It is e.\cellent for gravy to cutlets and all made dishes. Broiled Steak. Time, eight to ten minutes. 220. Rumpsteak; one ounce of butter ; one tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup ; pepper and salt. Rumpsteak is best for broiling and frying ; beefsteak for stewing. Take care that the butcher cuts the steak the right thickness—i.e., about three- quarters or half an inch. Divide it in halves. Place the gridiron over a clear fire, and rub the bars with suet to prevent the meat from adhering to them. Place the two steaks on it and broil them, turning them freqently with the steak-tongs, or if with a fork, carefully pricking it tlirough the fat. If the keak itself is pricked, the gr.ivy will run out, and it will harden. Have ready a hot dish on which you have placed a lump of butter the size of a large walnut, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a little salt and pepper. Lay the steaks (rubbing them lightly over with butter) on the dish, and serve as quickly as possible. Kumpsteak Fried. Time, twenty minutes. 221. Broiling is tlie best mode of cooking stealcs and chops ; if, however, you prefer a steak fried, do not cut it quite as thick as for broiling, and leave a little fat on it. Put some clarified dripping in tlie par? and let it boil ; then lay the steak in th( boiling fat and fry it, moving the pan about to prevent it from burning ; when one side is well done, turn it on the other with you; meat tongs—if you do not possess a pair; turn it with a fork, but take care not tQ stick the fork into the juicy part of the steak ; put it in the fat or in the edge of the meat. When the steak is done, lay it on a hot dish, with a little made gravy, ora lump of butter and a tablespoonful of ketchup. Season with pepper and salt. Tomato sauce is sometimes eaten with beefsteak. Steak Stewed in a Plain Way. Time, forty minutes altogether. 222. Half a pint of water ; one onion , a spoonful of walnut ketchup ; a little caper liquor ; a piece of butter rolled in flour, and some pepper and salt. Fry the stealcs in butter a good brown, then put in a stesvpan half a pint of water, one onion sliced, a tablespoonful of walnut ketchup, a little caper liquor, pepper and salt. Cover the pan close, and let them stew slowly. Thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and serve them on a hot dish. Beefsteak and Oysters Stewed. Time, one hour and twenty minutqs. 223. A pound and a half o? beefsteak ; two ounces of butter ; half a pint of water. a dozen and a half of oysters ; five dessert- spoonfuls of port wine ; pepper and salt. Put into a ste\vpan a pound and a half of beefsteak, with two ounces of butter and a little water ; when the meat is a nice brown, pour fn half a pint of water, a little pepper and salt, and the liquor strained from the oysters. Set the pan over a mode- rate fire, and let the meat stow gently ; tlien add five dessertspoonfuls of port wine, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and the oysters. Stew it all together till the oysters are done, and serve it up very hot. Bubble and Squeak. Time, twenty minutes. 224. About one pound of slices of cold boiled beef ; one pound of chopped potato; one pound of chopped-up cabbage—both previously bviled ; pepper, s.nlt, and a little butter, F a68 To Fry Beef Kidney—Stewed Beef Kidney—Tripe. Chop up and fry the cold potatoes and iabbage vvitli a little pepper, salt, and a good large piece of butter. Set it,aside to keep hot. Lightly fry some slices of cold boiled beef ; put them in a hot dish, with alternate layers of vegetable, piling it higher in the middle. To Fry Beef Kidney. Time, ten or twelve minutes. 225. One kidney ; three ounces of butter ; half a pint of gravy; one tablespoonful of Harvey sauce ; one lump of sugar. Take a beef kidney, cut it into slices not too thick, and let them soak in warm water for two hours and a half, changing the water twice to thoroughly cleanse the kid- ney. Dredge a ve^ little flour over these slices, and fry them a nice brown, in about '.hree ounces of butter, seasoning them pre- viously with pepper and salt. Arrange them in a circle, slightly leaning over each tither round the dish, fcitir a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce into half a pint (or rather kss) of good gravy, with one lump of sugar in it, and pour it into the centre of the dish. Stewed Beef Kidney. Time, half an hour. 226. A beef kidney; pepper and salt. Cut the kidney into slices, and season it highly with pepper and salt, and fry it a light brown ; then pour a little warm water into the pan, dredge in some flour, put in the slices of kidney, and let it stew very gently. Minced Beef. Time, twenty rninutes. 227. One pound and a half of beef; six ounces of bacon ; two small onions ; a little pepper and nutmeg ; one ounce and a half of butter rolled in flour ; a spoonful of browning ; a few poached or hard-boiled eggs. Mince about a pound and a half of beef with the bacon and onions, seasoning it highly with pepper and nutmeg. Take a sufficient quantity of stock made from bones, and any trimmings, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little browning ; make it hot and strain it over the mince ; put the whole into a stewpan, let it simmer for a few minutes, and serve it on a hot dish with sippets of toasted bread, and a poached or hard-boiled egg divided and placed on each sippet arranged round the edge of the disn. It is also served surrounded by a wall of mashed potatpes, with two poached eggs lying on the top of it. Hashed Beef—Plain. Time, twenty-five minutes. 223. .Some slices of cold roast beef; two tablespoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce; ona of mushroom ketchup ; and the gravy from the meat or from the bones boiled down; pepper and salt. Put the gravy saved from the meat (with a little water if not sufficient), or the bones of the cold joint boiled down to a gravy, into a stewpan with two tablespoonfuls of Wor- cestershire sauce, one of mushroom ketchup, some pepper, salt, and a little butter rolled in flour to thicken it; let it simmer gently for about a quarter of an hour; take it from the fire, and when cold remove the fat. Cut the meat into slices, dredge them with flour, and lay them in the stewpan \vith the gravy, let it simmer slowly for ten minutes until hot, taking care it does not boil, or the meat will be hard. Garnish with sippets of toasted bread. Tripe. Time, half an hour. 229. Two pounds of tripe; equal parts of milk and water ; four large onions. Take two pounds of fresh tripe, cleaned and dressed by the tripe-dresser, cut away the coarsest fat, and boil it from twenty minutes to half an hour in equal parts of milk and water. Boil in the same water which boils the tripe four large onions ; the onions should be put on the fire at least half an hour before the tripe is put into the stewpan, and then made into a rich onion sauce, to serve with the tripe. Tripe may also be cleaned, dried, cut into pieces, fried in batter, and served with melted butter. Tripe Roasted. Time, ten minutes. 230. Some pieces of tripe ; some force- meat; a little flour; some butter. Cut the tripe into good-sized pieces, and spread some forcemeat over them, roll them up securely, and tie them upon a small spit, or roast them in a cradle spit ; flour and baste them with butter, and sen’e them up garnished with lemon in slices, and melted butter. MUTTON. Roast Haunch of Mutton. Time, a quarter of an hour to each pound of meat. 23X. Take a fine haunch of Southdown, Welsh, or Devonshire mutton, hang it upTo Roast Mutton. 6g for fen days or a fortnight, trim off the skin which covers the fat, remove the shank bone, and cover it with two or tlirec sheets of buttered paper, place it on a spit, or in a cradle spit ; set it at about fifteen inches from tlie fire, and roast it for two hours very slowly to warm it through, basting it whth dripping every five minutes. Draw it gra- dually nearer and nearer to the fire to brown, but take care it does not burn. Sprinkle it with a little fine salt, dredge it over with flour and baste with a little butter, which will give it a fine frothy appearance. Pour good brown gravy over it. Serve it with red currant jelly sauce. Saddle of Mutton. Time, a quarter of an hour to a pound. 232. Take off the skin, cover the fat with a sheet of well greased paper, and roast it as directed for a haunch ; just before it is finished cooking remove the paper, sprinkle the joint with salt, dredge it well over with flour, and drop warmed butter over it. Ser\'e it with good gravy, or empty the con- tents of the dripping-pan into a basin, from which remove the fat, add a little warm water, and use this natural gravy. Red currant jelly as sauce. Leg of Mutton Roasted. Time, half an hour to the pound, slow method ; a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, ordinary time. 233. A leg of mutton intended for roast- ing can be kept much longerthan for boiling, but it must be wiped very dry, and dusted with flour and pepper. Cut off the knuckle, remove the thick skin, and trim off the piece of flank. Put a little salt and water into the dripping-pan, and baste the joint for a short time with it, then use the gravy from the meat itself, basting it every ten minutes. Serve it with gravy poured round it, and cuiTant jelly, separately. The wether leg of mutton is the best for roasting. A leg of mutton, if too large, can be divided, and the knuckle boiled ; or by placing a paste of flour and water over the part cut to keep in the gravy, it can be roasted, by which means two roast dinners can be had from the one joint. Boned Leg of Mutton. Time, a quarter of an hour to the pound. 234. A small leg of mutton, weighing about seven pounds ; some veal stuffing ; and some good gravy. Procure a nice small leg of mutton, and remove tlie bone carefully ; make a good veal forcemeat (to which about three ounces of ham or bacon must be added), and fill up the hole from whence the bone has been taken with it ; cover the skin over, and sew it neatly up to secure the forcemeat. Tie it round, and roast it for about three hours before a bright, clear fire. When it is done, remove the string, place it on a hot dish, and place round it some good brown gravy. Roast Shoulder of Mutton. Time, a quarter of an hour to each pound. 233. A shoulder of mutton should not be basted in roasting, but simply rubbed with a little butter. Put the spit in close to the shank bone, and run it along the blade bone. Roast this joint at a sharp, brisk fire. It should be well hung ; and served with onion sauce. Roast Loin of Mutton. Time, a quarter of an hour to the pound. 236. This joint is not economical on ac- count of the weight of fat attached to it ; but it is very useful in small families, as it is a joint that can be cut so as not to leave too much cold meat. London butchers gene- rally remove the fat, ready for dressing. Roast it at a bright fire, and baste carefully about every quarter of an hour. Brown and froth it as before directed, for leg, &c. To Roll a Loin of Mutton. Time, a quarter of an hour to each pound. 237. A loin of mutton ; veal forcemeat; and a tablespoonful of ketchup. Hang a loin of mutton till tender, take out the bone, and lay over the meat a stuffing made as for veal; roll it up tightly, fasten it with small skewers to keep it in shape, and tie it round with a string. Roast it before a brisk fire, allowing a quarter of an hour, or twenty minutes, for each pound of meat. Make a gravy of the bones, adding to it a tablespoonful of ketchup, and a little salt. When the meat is done, pour the gravy made from the bones) mixed with the gravy from the meat, over it, and serve with currant jelly, separately. A Mode of DresEing Fillet of Mutton, Time, two hours. 238. Take off the chump end of a loin of mutton, and cover it with two sheets of buttered paper as for venison ; roast it for two hours, but do not allow it to become the least brown. Have ready some French beans, boiled tender, and well drained from the water on a sieve ; while the mutton is being glazed, warm them up in the gravy, put them on a dish, and serve the meat on them.70 To Boil and Stew Mutton, To Roast a Neck of Kutton. Time, one hour. 239. Take four pounds of the middle or the best end of a neck of mutton, trim off part of the fat, cut the bones short, and see that it is Ihorovghly jointed. Place it at some distance from a nice brisk fire, dredge it with flour, and baste it frequently. Just before it is done, set it nearer to the fire, and dust a little salt over it. Pour off the drip- ping, and put a little boiling water into the pan. Dish up the joint, and strain the gravy over it. Seia'e it with currant jelly, separately. Mutton Kebohbed. rime, according to the weight. 240. Loin of mutton ; a small nutmeg, pepper, and salt; some bread-crumbs ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; yolks of three eggs ; half a pint of gravy ; two spoonfuls of ketchup ; a teaspoonful of flour ; two ounces of butter. Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton,' and off the outside also if too fat, and re- move the skin. Joint it at every bone. Mi.'f half a small nutmeg grated with a little pepper and salt, bread-crumbs, and minced herbs. Dip the steaks into the yolks of ' three eggs, and sprinkle the above mi.vture all over them. Then place the steaks to- gether as they were before they were cut Iisunder, tie them, and fasten them on a small spft. Roast them at a quick fire, set a dish under, and baste them with a good piece of butter and the liquor that comes from the meat; and throw some more of the seasoning over. When done enough, take it up, and lay it in a dish ; have half a pint of good gravy ready besides that in the dish, and put into it two spoonfuls of ketchup, and rub down a teaspoonful of flour with it. Let this boil, and pour it over the mutton, but first skim off the fat well. Mind to keep the meat hot till tfie gravy is quite ready. Boiled Leg of Mutton. Time, a quarter of an hour to the pound. 241. Cut off the shank bone, trim the knuckle, and wash and wipe it very clean. Then put it into a saucepan with enough cold water for it to swim in, set it over a good fire. As the scum rises, skim it off care- fully. Boil the joint for two hours and a half, or according to its weight. When tlic joint is taken up, put a frill of cut paper round the shank bone. Mash some turnips with a little piece of butter and cream, and form them into the shape of eggs, and gar- nish the edge of the dish alternately with the turnip balls and with cairots cut into circular forms. Serve caper sauce in a tureen. To Stew a Neck of Mutton. Time, two and a half to three hours. 242. Four or five pounds of neck of mut- ton ; rather more than a pint of water ; a little Cayenne ; pepper and salt; two sprigs of parsley. Trim the fat from a neck of mutton, and put the latter into a stewpan with a little pepper and salt, and rather more than a pint of water ; let it simmer very gently. About twenty minutes before it is served, take nearly all the broth from the meat, and when , it is cold skim off the fat, add a little Cay- enne pepper, and two sprigs of chopped parsley to the broth, let it boil for twenty iminutes, thicken the gravy with a little but- ter rolled in flour, and pour it over the meat when sent to table. The exact quantities of water and season- 'ing must be regulated by the size of the joint, as some necks of mutton weigh sLx or seven pounds, in which case an extra half hour must be allowed for it to simmer. Breast of Mutton and Green Peas. Time, two hours and a half. 243. A breast of mutton ; one quart of green peas | a bunch of sweet herbs ; pep- per and salt to taste ; one shallot or onion. Select a breast of mutton not too fat, and cut it into small square pieces , dredge it with flour, and fry it a fine brown in butter ; then add the herbs and shallot or onion cut into thin slices ; just cover the whole with water, and set it over a slow fire to stew until the meat is perfectly tender. Take out the meat, skim off all the fat from the gravy, and strain it over the meat into the stewpan, and make the whole very hot. Just before serving add a quart of young green peas, previously boiled, or add them with the strained gravy, and let the whole boil gently until the peas are done. Mutton Cutlets with Tomato Sauce. Time, twelve minutes. 244. Some cutlets from the neck of mut- ton ; two ounces of butter ; a little pepper and salt. Trim the neck of mutton before you cut off the cutlets [i.e., cut off from the joint the scrag and three inches of the rib bone); then take off the cutlets, shape them by chopping off the thick part of the chine- bone, beat them flat to about a quarter of an inch in thickness with a chopper, cut oft an inch of fat from the top of the rib bone. Season them with pepper and salt. BeatMutton Cutlets—Haricot of Mutton. V jp the yolk of an egg, dip a brush in it and pass it lightly over the cutlet, and then dip it in bread-crumbs. Melt two ounces of butter in an omelet-pan and put the cutlets in it ; set it over a gentle clear fire for five ;ninutes, turn them, do them for five minutes longer, lay them on a clean cloth, then put them in a dish in a circle, one lean- ing over the other, with some good tomato sauce in the centre. Mutton Cutlets. Time, to stew, seven minutes ; to broil, ten minutes. 245. One pound and a half of chops from the loin ; a sprig of thyme and parsley ; yolk of one or two eggs ; bread-crumbs ; salt and Cayenne pepper to taste ; two ounces of butter ; juice of a small lemon. Cut about a pound and a half of cutlets from a loin of mutton, take off about an inch from the top of each bone, and from the thickest end ; melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan, season the cutlets, put them in, and let them stew for a short time without allowing them to gain any colour. Mince a little thyme and parsley fine, and bind it with the yolk of one or two eggs. When the cutlets are nearly cold spread the minced herbs over them, and sprinkle each cutlet thickly with grated bread, and a very little Cayenne pepper. Put them carefully on a gridiron over a clear brisk fire, and broil them a fine brown. Serve them on a hot dish, and squeeze over them the juice of a small lemon. Mutton Cutlets a la Maintenon. Time, fifteen minutes. 246. Some cutlets from the neck or loin ; a bunch of thyme and pansley ; some bread- crumbs ; pepper and salt. Cut about a pound and a half of the neck or loin of mutton into delicate cutlets, and chop each bone short ; trim them neatly, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and a little thyme and parsley chopped fine ; season with pepper and salt; /•y them lightly and then take them out to cool, after which take some fresh chopped parsley and some bread-crumbs ; spread them evenly over the cutlets with a knife, wrap them in buttered papers, and broil them over a clear fire. Serve them up in the papers with gravy in a tureen. These cutlets are said to have been invented by Madame de Maintenon in order to tempt the waning appetite of Louis XIV. The fat of the dressed meat is absorbed in the papillotes. They may also be served with- out ^avy. Mutton Chops Broiled. Time, ten minutes. 247. Cut some chops from the best end of the loin or neck, but the loin is preferable, trim them neatly, removing the skin and fat, leaving only enough of the latter to make them palatable ; let the fire be very clear before placing the chops on the gridiron, turn them frequently, taking care that the fork is not put into the lean part of the chops ; season them with pepper and salt. When just finished cooking, put a piece of fresh butter over each chop, and send them to table on a hot dish, or sen'e with any sauce you like over them ; but in that case the chops become an cnMc. Haricot of Mutton. Time, nearly one hour. 348. Two pounds of loin of mutton ; two onions ; half a pint of gravy ; one glass of port wine; two dessertspoonfuls of mushroom ketchup ; two turnips ; two carrots ; half a head of celery ; a large piece of butter ; a little flour ; pepper and salt. Divide the chops of a loin of mutton, and take off the superfluous fat, cut two onions into rings, and fry them with the meat a nice brown in a good sized piece of butter ; thicken a half pint of gravy with a little flour, and pour it over the chops. Set them at the side of the fire to stew slowly for three- quarters of an hour, or rather more. Par- boil two carrots, two turnips, and half a head of celery, cut the former into shapes and the celery into slices, and add them to tlie meat about twenty minutes before serving. Pour in a glass of port wine, two spoonfuls of ketchup, and, after boiling it once up, serve it hot. Irish Stew. Time, about two hours. 249. Two pounds and a half of chops; eight potatoes ; four small onions ; nearly a quart of water. Take about two pounds and a half of chops from a loin of mutton, place them in a stewpan with alternate layers of sliced potatoes and layers of chops, and four small onions, and pour in nearly a quart of cold water ; cover the stewpan closely, and let it stew gently until the potatoes are ready to mash, and the greater part of the gravy is absorbed ; then place it in a dish, apd senc it up very hot. Hashed Mutton. Time, one hour and twenty minutes. 250. Some cold mutton ; one pint and a half of water ; fourteen pepper corns ; font72 Haggis—Sheepss Head and Trotters—Lamb. allspice ; a bunch of savoury herbs ; half a head of celery ; a large piece of butter ; a spoonful of browning. Take some cold leg or shoulder of mut- ton, or any cold mutton that you chance to have, and with a sharp knife cut it into thin slices. Put the bones into a stewpan with half ahead of celery cut into slices, a bunch of savoury lierbs, a few pepper corns, four allspice, and a pint and a half of water ; set it over the fire, and let it simmer gently' for about an hour. Cut the onion into rings, fry them a nice brown, and put them into the stewpan with the bones and herbs. Let all simmer together for ten or twelve minutes, then strain it through a hair sieve, and when cold take off the fat. Put the slices of meat dredged with flour into the stewpan, add the gravy with a spoonful of browning, and two of walnut ketchup ; make it very hot, but do not let it boil. Serve it with sippets of toasted bread round the dish. Haggis. Time, two hours. 251. The heart, tongue, and part of the liver of a sheep ; rather more than half the weight in bacon ; one French roll; rind of a lemon ; two eggs ; a glass of wine ; two anchovies ; pepper and salt. Mince the heart, tongue, and part of the liver of a sheep with rather more than half the weight in fat bacon, add to it the cramb of a French roll, grated, two anchovies chopped very fine, the rind of a lemon, grated, a little pepper and salt, a glass of wine, and two eggs well beaten ; stir it thoroughly together, put it into a well but- tered mould, boil it for two hours, place it on a dish, and serve. Sheep’s Head. Time, two hours. 252. One head; two onions ; two carrots ; two turnips ; a piece of celery ; five cloves ; a sprig or two of thyme ; one bay-leaf; one ounce of salt ; a quarter of an ounce’ of pepper ; three quarts of water. Put the head into a gallon of water, and let it soak for two hours or more ; wash it thoroughly, saw it in two from the top. Take out the brain, cut away part of the uncovered part of the skull and the ends of the jaws ; wash it well. Put in a stewpan two onions, two.carrots, a stick of celery, or a little celery-seed tied up in muSlin, five cloves, a bouquet of thyme with a bay-leaf, one ounce of salt, a quarter of an ounce of pepper, and three quarts of water. Let the head simmer in it very gently. Take out the vegetables and bunch of herbs, Skim off the fat. Dish it up. Have the brain .ready boiled (it will take ten minutes to do), chop it up fine. Warm it in parsley and butter, put it under the head and serve. Sheep’s Trotters—very simple; Time, three hours. 253. Four trotters ; one tablespoonful of flour ; a saltspoonful of salt. Perfectly cleanse and blanch the trotters, taking care to remove the little tuft of hair which is found in the fourche of the foot. Beat up a spoonful of flour and a little salt in the water you use for cooking them in, and let them stew till the bones come out easily. LAMB. Boast Fore-Quarter of Lamb. Time, for ten pounds, two hours and a half. 254. Cut off the scrag from the shouldei; saw off the shank bone, and also the chine bone along the fillet of the leg, and joint it thoroughly ; partially saw the rib bones, and break the bone of the shoulder, twist it round, and fasten it with a skewer from be- neath the breast. Cover the lamb with but- tered paper, and spit it evenly ; roast it before a quick fire according to the weight. Just before removing it from the spit, dredge it with flour and a little salt, and baste it with butter to make it froth up. Twist a cut paper round the shank bone, place it on a hot dish, and pour round it a little gra\y made in the dripping-pan. Serve it with mint sauce in a tureen. A cut lemon, some Cayenne, and a piece of fresh butter should always be ready for use when the shoulder is separated from the ribs, to be laid be- tween it and them. Boned Quarter of Lamb. Time, a quarter of an hour to each pound. 235. One pound of forcemeat; melted butter. Bone a quarter of lamb, fill it with force- meat, roll it round, and tie it with a piece of string, cover it with a buttered paper, and roast it. Serv’c it with melted butter. Boast Target of Lamb. Time, one hour and a quarter, or according to weight. 256. A little butter, flour, and salt. A target is only the breast and neck joints not separated. Tlie flap bones must be taken from the neck, the chine bone sawed off, and the ribs well chopped. Cover it with buttered paper, place it in an even73 Roast and Boiled Lamb. position on the spit, and roast it before a bright fire for an iiour and a quarter. Just before it is taken up, dredge it with a little salt and flour, and baste it well with butter to make it lookbrown,and froth it up. Then d'sh it up, and place the gfavy made in the dripping-pan round it. Serve it with mint sauce in a tureen. Koast Leg of Lamb. Time, one hour and three-quarters for si.>: pounds. 257. Procure a fine fresh leg of lamb, and place it some distance from the fire, basting it frequently ; a short time before it is done, move it nearer to the fire, dredge it with flour and a little salt, and baste it with dissolved butter, to give it a nice frothy appearance. Then empty the'dripping-pan of its contents, pour in a cupful of hot water, stir it well round, and pour the gravy over the meat, through a fine sieve. Serve tvith mint sauce and a salad. Koast Shoulder of Lamb. Time, one hour and a quarter. 258. Place the joint at a moderate distance from a nice clear fire, and keep it constantly basted, to prevent the skin from becoming burnt. When done, di.sh it up ; and seiwe it with gravy made in the dripping-pan and poured round it. Send up mint sauce in a tureen. Roast Loin of Lamb. Time, a quarter of an hour to each pound. 259. The loin is seldom roasted on ac- count of its small weight, but for families of two ladies or a single person it will be found very delicate. Care must be taken that it does not burn in roasting. It is best to cover it with a buttered paper, which should be removed a few minutes before serving, to baste and froth it. Mint sauce. Saddle of Lamb. Time, a quarter of an hour to the pound ; one hour and a half to two hours. 260. Cover the joint with buttered paper to prevent the fat catching, and roast it at a brisk fire ; constantly basting it at first with a very little butter, then with its own drip- ping. Mint sauce. Boiled Leg of Lamb. Time, one hour and a quarter after the water simmers. 261. Select a fine fresh leg of lamb, weigh- ing about five pounds ; soak it in warm water for rather more than two hours, then wrap it in a cloth and boil it slowly for an hour and a quarter. When done, dish it up and garnish with a border of carrots, turnips, o r cauliflower around it. Wind a cut paper round the shank bone, and serve it with plain parsley and butter sauce poured over it. To Prepare tho Brains of a Lamb’s Head for Serving under it. Time, ten minutes. 262. One cupful of vinegar; half a pint of water; one tablespoonful of chopped parsley ; salt ; and half a lemon. Boil the brains for ten minutes in a little vinegar and water, with a little salt, cut them into mince, add to them the yolk of an egg, mi.v them with a little milk, two dessertspoonfuls of chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. The liver may I)e blanched and minced up in the same manner if it is liked. Pluck may be prepared by first scalding it, then letting it get cold, and stewing it in gravy seasoned with an onion, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg. Lamb’s Head and Pluck. Time, one hour and a quarter to boil. 263. A lamb’s head ; egg ; bread-crumbs ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; a little stock ; a piece of lemon peel; pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Soak the head in water for two hours, then boil it until nearly done, take it out, and brush it over with the yolk of a well- beaten egg, cover it thickly with bread- crumbs : again add the egg, and repeat the bread-crumbs, season it with pepper and salt, and put it into a moderate oven till sufficiently brown. In the meantime, after scalding the pluck and setting it to cool, mince it up fine, mix in the brains and season them with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg ; put them into a stewpan with a piece of lemon peel cut thin, a bunch of sweet herbs minced up, and a little stock. When done, add the yolk of an egg beaten up with a tablespoonful of cream, put the mince into the dish, and serve the lamb's head on it. Lamb’s Fry. Time, altogether twenty minutes. 264. One pound of lamb’s fry; one egg ; one ounce of bread-crumbs ; a sprig of parsley ; pepper and salt. Take a pound of lamb’s fry, and boil it for about a quarter of an hour ; tlicn drain it dry. Brush it over willi the yolk of a beaten egg, and then cover it with bread crumbs, seasoned with minced parsley, pepper, and salt. Fry it till it is a nice colour—/.r., for about five minutes--and74 Lamb Cutcets and Chops— Veal. serve it on a folded napkin with fried parsley. Cold lamb is so excellent that it is often preferred to hot-dressed joints. It is quite a mistake to prepare it by any of the modes of dressing up cold meat. It should be eaten cold with mint sauce and a nicely- made salad. Lamb Cutlets and Green Peas. Time, eight or ten minutes. 265. Two, or two and a half pounds of the. best end of a neck of lamb ; bread- crumbs ; two eggs ; pepper and salt; two ounces of butter ; half a peck of green peas. Take the cutlets from the best end of tire neck ; chop off the thick part of the chine bone, and trim the cutlets neatly by taking off the sldn and the greater part of the fat, scraping the upper part of the bones per- fectly clean. Brush each cutlet over with well-beaten yolk of egg, and then sprinkle them with fine bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt. After this dip them separately into a little clarified butter. Sprinkle more crumbs over them and fry them, turning them occasionally. Have ready half a peck of green peas, nicely boiled, and arranged in a pyramid or raised form in the centre of a hot dish. Lay the cutlets before the fire to drain, and then place them round the green peas. Lamb Chops. Time, eight to ten minutes. 266. Chops from the loin ; pepper and salt ; a mould of mashed potatoes. Cut the chops from a loin of lamb ; let them be about three-quarters of an inch tliick. Broil them over a clear fire. When they are done, season them with pepper and salt. Ilave ready a mould of nicely mashed potatoes in a hot dish ; place tlie chops leaning against them, and serve very hot. Or they may be served garnished only with fried parsley. VEAL. To Roast a Fillet of Veal. Time, four hours for twelve pounds. 267. Veal; half a pint of melted butter ; a lemon ; half a pound of forcemeat. Take out the bone of the joint, and with a sharp knife make a deep incision between the fillet and the udder. Fill it with the forcemeat or veal stuffing. Bind the veal up in a round form, and fasten it securely with skewers and twine. Run the spit as nearly through the middle as you can ; cover tlie veal with buttered paper, and put it at some distance from the fire at first, advancing it as it becomes dressed. Baste it well, and just before it is done, take off the paper, dredge a little flour over it, and baste it well with butter to give it a fine frothy appearance. Remove the skewers, and replace them with a silver one ; pour over the fillet some melted butter, with the juice of half a lemon and a little of the brown gravy from the meat. Garnish with slices of cut lemon, and serve with either boiled ham, baeon, or pickled pork. Or garnish with croquettes of potato in the form of pears with parsley stems, as in engraving. Fricandeau of Veal. Time, two hours and a half or three hours. 268. Three or four pounds of the fillet of veal ; a few slices of bacon ; a bunch of savoury herbs ; two blades of mace ; twa bay-leaves; five allspice ; one head of celery ; one carrot ; one turnip ; lardoons •, pepper to taste ; one pint of gravy or stock. Cut a thick handsome slice from a fillet of veal, trim it neatly round, and lard it thickly with fat bacon, as shown in the en- graving. Cut the carrot, turni;^, and celery into slices, and put them into a stew- pan with a bunch of savoury herbs, two blades of mace, five allspice, and two bay- leaves, with some slices of bacon at the top. Lay the fricandeau over the bacon with the larded side uppermost, dust a little salt over it, and pour round it a pint of good gravy or broth. Place it over the fire, and let it boil, then let it simmer voy gently for two hours and a half or three hours over a slow fire, basting it frequently udth the gravy. Take out the fricandeau when done ; skim off the fat, strain the gra\’}', and boil it quickly to a strong glaze, cover the fricandeau with it, and serve it up very hot, upon a puree of green peas. Be careful that the gravy does not touch the fricandeau, but that it only covers the bacon and other ingredients at the bottom of the dish. CALF’S HEAD. A calf's head may be bought ready »or cooking from the butcher's, but as it isas well to give directions for the cook under all pos- sible circumstances, we will say here that if she has a calf 's head to prepare ivith the hair on it, she must have ready a pan of scalding water to remove it. She will find the liai. easier to get off if she powders it with resit after letting it soak a little while in warn water. She must then plunge it into tltt scalding water, holding it by the ear, ano75 Calf's Head—Roast Vear. (.\refully scrape off all the hair. Many tooks use scalding water only, but M. Soyer (whose name is a perfect authority) recommends the resin, and it certainly facilitates the operation, though it is not indispensable. Then take out the eyes, saw (Jie head in halves lengthways through the skull. Take the brain and tongue out. Half a calf's head is generally enough to ser\'e at one time, but a whole head is a very handsome dish. Break the jawbone, re- move the gums containing the teeth, and then lay the head in a large panful of warm water to disgorge. Calf’s Head Boiled. Time, to soak, one hour and a half; to simmer, one hour and a half. 269. Half a calf's head | half a pint of melted butter with -parsley ; one lemon ; a pinch of pepper and salt. Soak the half calf's head in cold water for an hour and a half, then for ten minutes in hot water before it is dressed. Put it into a saucepan with plenty of cold water (enough for the head to swim), and let it boil gently. When the scum rises skim it very carefully. After the head boils, let it simmer gently an hour and a half. Serve it wth melted butter and parsley over it, and garnish with slices of lemon and tiny heaps of fried parsley (see engrav- ing). Ham shoula be served with calf's head, or slices of bacon. Calf’s Brains and Tongue. Time, to boil ten or fifteen minutes. 270. A little parsley and thyme; one bay-leaf; a little pepper and salt; two tablespoonfuls of melted butter or cream ; juice of a quarter of a lemon ; a pinch of Cayenne. Separate the two lobes of the brain with H knife, soak them in cold water with a little salt in it for an hour ; then pour away the cold water and cover them with hot water; clean and skin them. Boil them then very gently in half a pint of water, take off the scum carefully as it rises. Take them up, drain and chop them, and put them to warm in a stewpan with the herbs chopped, the melted butter or cream, and the seasoning. Squeeze a little lemon vuice over them ; stir them well together. Boil the tongue ; skin it ; take off the roots ; lay it in the middle of the dish, and serve the brains round it. Hashed Calf’s Head. Time, one hour and a half. 271. Cold calf’s head; a bunch of savoury herbs ; two blades of mace ; a little Cayenne ; pepper and salt ; one lemon ; a gill and a half of slicrry, or any wliitc wine; two dessertspoonfuls of mushroom ketchup ; one onion ; one carrot; one quart of broth, or the liquor in which it was boiled. Cut the meat from the remains of a boiled calf's head, into small round pieces of about two inches across. Put a quart of broth or the liquor in which the head was boiled into a stewpan with a carrot, one small onion, two blades of mace, and a bunch of savoury herbs, and boil it until reduced to nearly half the quantity ; then strain it through a hair sieve, and add a glass and a half of white wine, the juice of a lemon, two des- sertspoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Lay in the slices of head, and when gradually well heated, let it just boil up. Then serve it on a hot dish, with rolled bacon and forcemeat balls as a garnish. Boast Loin of Veal—Plain. Time, three hours. 272. Take about seven pounds of the kidney end of a loin of veal, fasten the flap over the kidney with a small skewer, run the spit through the thick end lengthways, cover the veal with buttered paper, and place it before a good fire to roast. Just before serving, remove the paper, and froth it up by dredging it with a little flour, and basting it with butter. Pour melted butter over it when placed on the dish, and serve. The kidney and fat may be sent to table separately on a toast if preferred, but it is not very usual to do so. To Boast a Breast of Veal. Time, one hour and a quarter. 273. Take off the tendons from a breast of veal, skewer the sweetbread to the joint, and cover it with buttered paper, place it to roast for an hour and a quarter, or accord- ing to its weight. Serve it with melted butter and gravy, and sliced lemon. It can be roasted without the sweetbread, whicli as well as fTie tendons will serve for an entree. Boast Shoulder of Veal. Time, twenty minutes for each pound. 274. A shoulder of veal; some oyster or mushroom sauce. Remove the knuckle from a shoulder ot veal for boiling, and roast what remains as the fillet, either stuffed or not witli veal stuffing. If not stuffed, serve it with oyster or mushroom sauce, and garnish witli sliced lemon.;6 Stewed and Boiled Veal—Calf's Liver and Bacon. Stewed Knuckle of Veal and Rice. Time, three hours. 275. Six pounds of knuckle of veal; two blades of mace; half a pound of rice ; a little salt ; one onion. Take off some cutlets or collops before you dress the meat, so as to have the knuckle small ; break the shank bone, wash it well, and put it into a stewpan with suffi- cient water to cover it, bring it gradually to a boil, put in a little salt, and slum it well; let it simmer gently for nearly three-quarters of an hour, then add half a pound of rice, the onion, and the blades of mace, and stew all together for more than two hours. Take up the meat, and pour over it the rice, &c. Serve it with parsley and butter sauce, and boiled bacon in a separate dish. Garnish with vegetables. Knuckle of Veal Boiled. Time, twenty minutes to each pound. 276. A knuckle of veal ; a dessertspoonful of salt; parsley and butter. Put a knuckle of veal into a stewpan, and pour over it sufficient water to cover it ; let it simmer slowly, and when it reaches the boiling point throw in a dessertspoonful of salt ; keep it well skimmed, and let it boil until tender, then serve it with parsley and butter, and a salted pig’s cheek. Three-quarters of a pound of rice may also be boiled with it. Serve with green peas or stewed cucumber. Veal Stewed with Vegetables. Time, nearly one hour. 277. Three pounds of veal; one dessert- spoonful of salt; one teaspoonful of pepper ; two small carrots ; two sprigs of parsley ; one leek ; six small potatoes ; a quarter of a pound of butter ; a tablespoonful of flour. Wash three pounds of veal in cold water, then cut it up rather small, and put it into a stewpan with just sufficient water to cover it; add a dessertspoonful of salt, and a tea- spoonful of pepper; cover the pan close, and let it simmer for twenty-five minutes, then skim it clean. Whilst tlie meat is stewing, scrape two small carrots, cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick, stamp the edges with a cutter, and boil them until they are tender. Dip two sprigs of parsley into boiling water, and mince it fine ; cut a leek into small slices; pare and cut six small potatoes in halves or quarters ; take the carrots from the water with a skirhmer ; put a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to the meat ; dredge over it a tablespoonful of browned flour and add the vegetables. Cover the pan, and let it stew geutly for half an hour ; then take out the meat on a dish, put the vegetables round the edgq and pour the gravy over it. Veal Cutlets. Time, twelve to fifteen minutes. 278. A veal cutlet; one bunch of sweet herbs ; bread-crumbs ; nutmeg ; peel of half a lemon; yolks of two eggs; one ounce of butler ; it little flour and water. Let the cutlet be about half an inch thick, and cut it into pieces the size and shape of a crown piece. Chop the herbs very fine ; mix them well with the bread- crumbs. Brush the cutlets over with yolk of egg, then cover them with the bread- crumbs and chopped herbs ; fry them lightly in butter, turning them when required. Take them out when done. Mix about an ounce of fresh butter with the grated peel of half a lemon, a little nut- meg, and flour ; pour a little water into the frying-pan, and stir the butter, flour, and grated lemon peel into it ; then put the cutlets into this gravy to heat. Serve them piled in the centre of the dish with thin rolls of bacon as a garnish. Calf’s Liver and Bacon. Time, quarter of an hour. 279. Two pounds and a half of calfs liver ; one pound of bacon ; Juice of one lemon ; two ounces of butter ; a little flour ; pepper and salt. Soak the liver in cold water for half an hour, then dry it in a cloth, and cut it into thin narrow slices ; take about a pound of bacon, or as much as you may require, and cut an equal number of thin slices as you have of liver; fry the bacon lightly, take it out and keep it hot ; then fry the liver in the same pan, seasoning it with pepper and salt, and dredging over it a little flour. When it is a nice brown, arrange it round the dish with a roll of bacon between each slice. Pour off the fat from the pan, put in about two ounces of butter well rubbed in flour to thicken the gravy; squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and add a cupful of hot water ; boil it, and pour it into the centre of the dish. Serve it garnished with forcemeat balls or slices of lemon. PORK. Sacking Pig—to Scald it. 280. A sucking pig should be dressed the day after it is killed, if possible, and should not be more than three weeks or a month old. The pig is generally sent from thfTo Roast, Bake, and Boil Pork. 77 butcher's prepared for tlie spit ; but in case our readers should ever have occasion to scald and clean it for themselves, we will give a few directions Make ready a large pan of scalding water. While the water is boiling, put the pig into cold water for ten minutes; plunge it into the boiling water (holding it by the head), and shake it about till the hairs begin to loosen in the water. Take it out, dry it, and with a coarse cloth rub the hairs backwards till they are all removed. When it is clean, cut it open ; take out the entrails, and wash it thoroughly in a large pan of cold w'ater. Dry it in a cloth ; remove the feet at the first joint, leaving a little skin to pull over the bone. Fold it in a very wet cloth until you are ready to put it on the spit To Roast the Pig. Time, one hour and a half to two hours. 281. Half a pint of melted butter ; two ounces of fresh butter ; three-quarters of a pint or one pint of sage and onion force- meat. When the pig is well cleaned, make a forcemeat according to previous directions, or a veal stuffing forcemeat if preferred. Sew it up with a strong thread; truss it as a hare is trussed, with its fore-legs skewered back and its hind-legs fprward. Dry it well and rub it with a little flour. Set it before a clear brisk fire, arrange under it a dripping- pan and basins to catch the gravy. Bas’.e it with a little pure olive oil, or with its own gravy, rubbing it occasionally (when you do not use oil) with butter. When it is done, cut off the head, split it in halves, divide the pig with a very sharp knife down the centre, lay the backs together, put the ears on each side, and the halves of head at each end of the dish. Pour a very little thin melted butter and a squeeze of lemon juice over it. Send some of the same gravy and melted butter (seasoned with a little Cayenne) to table in a sauce tureen. Sauces to be eaten with it—bread sauc?, or tomato sauce, or apple sauce, as preferred. To Bake a Pig, Time, two hours. 282. Wash the pig very nicely, rub it with butter, and flour it all over. Well butter the dish in which you intend to bake it, and put it into the oven. When sufficiently done, take it out, rub it well over with a buttered cloth, and put it in again to dry. When it is finished, cut off the head and split it open ; divide the pig down the btick in halves. Lay it in the dish back to back, with one half of tho head at each end, and one of the ears on each side. Take off tTio fat from the dish it was baked in, and yon will find some good gravy remaining at the bottom : add to this a little veal gravy, with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and boil It up. Send it up in a tureen. A stuffing of bread-emmbs, chopped sage leaves, pepper and salt, should be put into the inside before it is baked, as is done for roast pig. Chine Roasted. Time, twenty minutes to the pound. 283. Half a pint of pork stuffing ; half a pint of apple sauce. Score the skin deeply, stuff the chine with pork stuffing, and roast it gently by a clear fire. To Boil a Chine. Time, a quarter of an hour to the pound, and twenty minutes over. 284. Lay it in brine for nine or ten days, turning it every day. When it is ready, put it into a saucepan, and more than cover it with water. Let it boil slowly, skimming it well. Send it to table when done, garnished with small well-trimmed cauliflowers or greens. To Roast a Leg of Pork. Time, twenty minutes to one pound. 285. The leg to be roasted should not weigh more than six or seven pounds. Score the rind or skin with a sharp knife all round the joint, place it at some distance from the fire, turn it constantly and baste it well. It will yield sufficient dripping to baste itself without butter. If the crackling and fat are not kept on, the joint will not require so long a time to roast it. Sauce : brown gravy, or tomato. To Roast a Leg of Pork the Old Fashioned Way with Stuffing. Time, twenty minutes for each pound. 286. Sage and onion stuffing ; a piece of butter. Select a fine small leg of pork, keep the skin on, and score it in regular stripes of a quarter of an inch wide with the point of a sharp knife ; cut a slit in the knuckle, raise the skin, put under it some nice sage a-nd onion stuffing, and fasten it in with a small skewer; put it at some distance from this fire, and baste it frequently. Just before it is done, moisten the skin all over with a ,.little butter, dredge it with flour, and place it near the fire to brown and crisp. When done, put it on a hot dish, pour a little gravy made in the dripping-pan round it, and serve with apple sauce.78 To Roast Pork—To Steam, Boil, and Bake Ham. To Eoast a Loin of Pork. Time, two hours and a half. 287. Take a loin of pork of about five pounds, and score it with a very sharp knife at equal distances, place it at a good distance from the fire, to prevent the skin from becoming hard, and baste it very frequently all the time. When done, make a little gravy in the dripping-pan, pour it round the meat, and serve with apple sauce in a tureen. A loin ,of pork may be stuffed with sage and oniori, or the stuffing baked and served separately, if the flavour be not objected to by the family. To Soast a Sparerib of Pork. Time, one hour and three-quarters for si.x pounds. 288. Score the skin, put the joint down to a bright fire to roast, rub a little flour over it. If the rind is kept on, roast it without a buttered paper over it ; but if the skin and fat are removed, cover it with a buttered paper. Keep it frequently basted. About ten minutes before taking it up, strew over it some powdered sage ; froth it with a little/ butter, and serve with gravy strained over it, and apple sauce in a tureen. Pork Griskin. Time, a quarter of an hour to each pound. 289. A griskin is usually very hard. It is well before you roast it to put it into as much cold water as will cover it, and let it just boil, take it off the moment it boils ; rub a piece of butter over it and flour it, then set it in a Dutch oven before the fire to roast a nice brown. To Steam a Ham. Time, twenty minutes to each pound. 290. If the ham has been hung for some time, put it into cold water, and let it soak all night, or let it lie on a damp stone sprinkled with water for two days to mellow. Wash it well, put it into a steamer—there are proper ones made for the purpose— over a pot of boiling water. Steam it for as long a time as the weight requires, the pro- portion of time given above. This is by far the-best way of cooking a ham. It prevents waste and retains the flavour. When it is done, skin it and strew bread-raspings over it as usual. If you preserve the skin as whqje as possible and cover the ham when cold with it, it will prevent its becoming dry. To Boil a Ham. Time, four or five hours. 291. A blade of mace ; a few cloves ; a sprig of thyme ; and tw’o bay leaves. Well soak the ham in a large quantity ol water for twenty-four hours, then trim and scrape it very clean, put it into a large stew- pan with more than sufficient water to cover it ; put in a blade of mace, a few cloves, a sprig of thyme, and two bay leaves. Boil it for four or five hours, according to its weight ; and when done, let it become cold in the liquor in which it was boiled. Then remove the rind carefully without injuring the fat, press a cloth over it to absorb as much of the grease as possible, and shake some bread-raspings over the fat, or brush it thickly over with glaze. Serve it cold, garnished with parsley, or aspic jelly in the dish. Ornament the knuckle with a paper frill and vegetable flowers. Or to Serve Hot. Time, four hours for ten pounds. 292. Before placing your ham in soak, run a small sharp knife into it close to the bone, and if when withdrawn it has a plea- sant smell, the ham is good. Lay it in cold water to soak for twenty-four hours ff it has bung long, changing the water twice ; but twelve hours is the usual time for a York- shire ham. Before boiling, wash it thoroughly, and trim it neatly, removing any rusty parts. Cover it well with water, bring it gradually to a boil, taking care that it continues to do so (t^it not too fast), and as the scum rises skim the pot carefully, or it will fall and spoil the appearance of the ham. When it is done draw off the skin, and sift bread- raspings over the ham. Place a frill of paper round the knuckle, and serve. To Bake a Ham. Time, four hours. 293. Take a medium-sized ham, and place it to soak for ten or twelve hours. Then cut away the rusty part from underneath, wipe it dry, and cover it rather thickly ovej with a paste of flour and water. Put it into an earthen dish, and set it in a moderately- heated oven for four hours. When done, fake off the crust carefully and peel off the skin, put a frill of cut paper round the knuckle, and raspings of bread over the fat of the ham, or serve it glazed, and garnished with cut vegetables. Some persons infinitely prefer a baked ham to a boiled one, but w'e think it bettei boiled or steamed. To Boil a Leg of Pork. Time, a quarter of an hour for each pound, and half an hour over. 294. Procure a nice small compact leg ol pork, rub it well with salt, and let it remainTo McH Lard—To PicJdc Pork. for a week in pickle, turning and nibbing the pickle into it once each day. Let it lie for half an hour in cold water before it is dressed to improve tlie colour ; then put it into a large pot, or stewpan, and well cover it with water. Let it boil gradually, and skim frequently as the scum rises. Cn no account let it boil fast, or the meat wdl be hardened, and the knuckle end will be done before the thick part. When done, serve it on a hot dish with a garnish of turnips, or p.arsnips. A peas-pudding must be served with boiled leg of pork, and greens as vege- tables. It may be boiled in a cloth dredged over with flour, which gives it a very deli- tate appearance, but in that case the water in which it was boiled cannot be used as a stock for pea-soup, and is thus wasted. To Boil Bacon. Time, one hour and a half for two or three pounds. 295. If very salt, soak it in soft water two hours before cooking. Put it into a saucepan with plenty of water and let it boil gently. If a fine piece of the gammon of bacon, it may, when done, have the skin, as in hams, stripped off, and have finely-pow- dered bread-raspings strewed over it. To Steam Bacon, Time, twenty minutes to the pound. 296. It is a mistake to boil bacon. It should be steamed. No waste then takes place as to quantity, and the flavour is quite preserved, while the bacon is much more tender, as it cannot well be spoiled by too quick boiling. Scrape the outer rind or skin well, wash the bacon, put it in a steamer over a pot of boiling water, and steam it for as long as required by the weight. Serve it with veal ■ or fowls, or (in the kitchen) by itself with ; greens. To Melt Lard. 297. Strip off all the skin from the inner part of a pig, put it into a jar, and place it in a large saucepan of boiling water. Let It simmer gently over a bright fire, and as it melts, take it gently from the sediment. Put it into nicely cleaned bladders for use ■ • ^ place. Thesmaller the bladders are. the better the lard keeps. If the air reaches it, it becomes rank. This is ■ most useful for frying fish (it is used instead of oil). Mixed with butter it makes fine ; pie crust. Pickled Pork. lime, three-quarters of an hour to four pounds. 2?^ The belly part is considered delicate. 79 It should be nicely streaked. Boil it gently. Serve it with greens as a garnish round it. A Hand of Pork. Time, one hour. 299. If the pork should be very salt, it will require to be soaked for nearly two hours before boiling. Boil it and serve with greens and peas-pudding in a separate dish. Bladebone of Pork. Time, ten minutes. 300. One teaspoonful of pepper and a little salt; a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; one teaspoonful of mustard. A bladebone of pork is taken from the bacon hog. The less meat left on it in moderation the better. It must be boiled, and when just done, season it with pepper and salt. Lay a piece of butter on it and a teaspoonful of made mustard. Serve it quickly as hot as possible. The fore-quarter of a young pig of four or five months old, cut for roasting as you do lamb with the shank trussed close, should be roasted as lamb, and will eat something like it. Pigs’ Tongues. 301. Partially boil the tongue in order to remove the skin. Pickle them as you would pickle a ham ; lay them one on the top of each other under a heavy weight. Cover the pan in which you place them, and let them remain for a week, then dry them, and put them into sausage skins. Fasten them up at the ends, and smoke them. Pigs’ Pettitoes. Time, forty minutes. 302. Feet, heart, and hver of a pig; a small piece of butter (size of a walnut); half a teaspoonful of pepper ; a little salt: one round of toasted bread. Put them in just sufficient water to cover them, add the heart and liver, boil them ten minutes, then take out the liver and heart, and mince them small, return them to the feet, and stew until quite tender ; thicken with flour and butter, season with pepper and salt, and serve up with sippets of plain or toasted bread ; make a pyramid of the minced heart and liver, and lay the feet round them. When pettitoes are fried they shouU be first boiled, then dipped in butter, and fried a light brown. To Boast a Pig’s Head. Time, to roast, half an hour. 303. Half an ounce of sage ; one table- pepper^ ^dessertspoonful ofSausages— Saveloys—Blaek Puddings. 8o Hoil it till tender enough to take the bones out. Then cliop .some sage fine, mix it with the pepper and .salt, and rub it over the head. Hang it on the spit, and roast it at a good fire. Baste it well. Make a good gravy and pour over it. Apple sauce is eaten with it. Pig’s Head Boiled. Time, one hour and a half. 304. This is the more profitable dish, though not so pleasant to the palate ; it should first be salted, which is usually, done by the pork buteher; it should be boiled gently ; serve with vegetables. Pig’s Cheek. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 305. Pig’s eheek; one ounce of bread- crumbs. Boil and trim in the shape of ham, and, if very fat, earve it as a eoekle-shell; glaze it well, or put over it bread-crumbs and brown them. Oxford Sausages. 306. One pound of lean veal; one pound of young pork ; one pound of beef suet ; half a pound of grated bread ; peel of half a lemon ; one nutmeg grated ; six sage leaves ; one teaspoonful of pepper; two of salt; a sprig of thyme, savory, and mar- joram. Take a pound of lean veal, and the same quantity of young pork, fat and lean to- gether, free from skin and gristle, and a pound of beef suet; ehop all separately as fine as possible, and then mix together ; add the grated bread, the peel of half a lemon shred fine, a nutmeg grated, a teaspoonful of pepper, two of salt, and the sage leaves, thyme, savory, and marjoram, all chopped as fine as you can ; mix all thoroughly to- gether, and press it down into a prepared skin. When you use them, fry them in fresh butter a fine brown. Serve as hot as possible. The Cambridge Sausage. Time, nearly one hour. 307. Quarter of a pound of beef; quarter of a pound of veal; half a pound of pork ; half a pound of bacon ; half a pound of suet ; pepper and salt; a few sage leaves ; sweet herbs. Chop the meat into small pieces, and the suet as fine as possible ; season it highly with pepper and salt, a few minced sage leaves and sweet herbs. Take a delieately- clean skin, fill it with the sausage meat, and tie the ends securely. Prick it lightly in several parts, and put it in boiling water to boil for nearly an hour when required. Bologua Sausages. 308. Three pounds of lean beef; tfirge pounds of lean pork ; two pounds of fat bacon ; one pound and a half of beef suet; pepper ; salt; a sprig of thyme ; and ground maee. Take thrqe pounds of lean beef, the same of lean pork, two pounds of fat bacon, and a pound and a half of beef suet; put the lean meat into a stewpan of hot water, and set it over the fire for half an hour, then cut it small, each sort by itself, shred the suet, and bacon or ham, each by itself. Season with pepper, thyme cTiopped fine, and ground mace ; fill ox skins with it, tie them in lengths, and put them in a beet brine for ten days ; then smoke them the same as ham or tongue. Rub ground ginger or pepper over the outside after they are smoked, and keep them in a cool, dry place. Saveloys. Time, half an hour to bake. 309. Six pounds of pork ; one pound of common salt; one ounce of saltpetre ; three teaspoonfuls of pepper ; twelve sage leaves; one pound of bread-crumbs. Remove the skin and bone from six pounds of young pork, and salt it with the saltpetre and common salt ; let it stand in the pickle for three days, then mince it up very fine, and season it with pepper, and twelve sage leaves chopped as small as pos- sible ; add to it the grated bread, and mix it all well together, fill the skins, and bake them in a slow oven for half an hour. They may be eaten hot or cold. Black Puddings. Time, to soak, one night; to boil, half an hour. 310. Rather more than one quart of blood ; one quart of whole groats ; crumb of a quartern loaf; two quarts of new milk; a small bunch of winter savory and thyme, about half a teaspoonful of each ; two teaspoonfuls of salt ; one teaspoonful of pepper ; six cloves ; half a teaspoonful of allspice ; half a nutmeg ; a little grated ginger ; three pounds of beef suet ; six eggs ; three ounces of pork fat. Stir the hot blood with salt till it is quite cold, put a quart of it or rather more to a quart of whole groats, to soak one night. Soak the crumb of a quartern loaf in rather more than two quarts of new milk made hot. Chop fine a little winter savory and thyme ; beat up and strain six eggs; chop three pounds of beef suet; mix the suet, the herbs, and the seasoning of pepper, salt, allspice, cloves, ginger and nutmegVenison and Pouliiy. 81 together with the eggs. Then add to it and beat up with it the groats and soaked bread, &c. Wlien well ini.xed, liave ready sonic skin-bags, as for sausages, but much larger (we suppose, of course, that they have been well cleaned and soaked), put the mixture into these bags ; but as you do so, add at regular distances pork fat cut into large dice. Tie the skins in links only half-filled, and boil the puddings in a large kettle, pricking them as they swell, or they will burst. When boiled, dry them in clean cloths, and hang them up. To cook them for eating, scald them for a few minutes in water, and cook them in a Dutch oven. VENISO]Sr. Haunch of Venison. Time, three to four hours. 311. Haunch from twenty to twenty-five pounds. This joint is trimmed by cutting off part of the knuckle and sawing off the chine bone, then tlie flap is folded over, and it is covered with a paste made of flour and water. This paste should be about an inch thick. Tie it up in strong and very thick paper, and place it in a cradle spit very close to the fire till the paste is well hardened or crusted, pouring a few ladlefuls of hot drip- ping over it occasionally to prevent the paper from catching fire. Then move it further from the fire, take care that your fire is a very good one, clear and strong. When the venison has roasted for about four hours take it up, remove the paper and paste, and run a thin skewer in to see if it is done enough. If the skewer goes in easily it is dressed, if not put it down again, as it depends greatly on the strength of the fire for so large a joint. When it is dressed, glaze the top and .salamander it. Put a frill round the knuckle, and ser\'e very hot with strong gravy. Red currant jelly in a glass dish or a tureen. Vegetables: French beans. Neck of Venison. Time, a quarter of an hour for a pound. 312. Cover it with paste and paper as for /he haunch, fix it on a spit and roast. To Hash Venison. Time, one hour and a half. 313. Some cold roast venison ; three ta- blespoonfuls of port wine ; a little mutton broth ; half of a shallot ; a pinch of Cay- enne : one ounce and a half of butter ; a spoonful of flour ; and salt to taste. Cut some cold roast venison into nice slices, and season them lightly with salt ; put the bones, trimmings, any cold gravy from the venison, and as much broth as you may require into a stewpan, and let it simmer slowly for quite an hour, then strain it off; stir the butter and flour over the fire until sufficiently brown to colour the gravy, taking care it does not burn. Pour the gravy from the bones, add the port wine, and let it simmer until it boils. Then draw the stewpan to the side of the fire, put in the slices of venison, and when thoroughly hot serve it up, with red currant jelly in a glass dish. Garnisli with forcemeat balls about the size of a marble. POULTRY. Eoast Turkey. In season from December to February. Time, according to size, from one hour and fifteen minutes to two hours, or two hours and a half. 314. Half a pint of forcemeat for veal, or sausage meat ; a little butter. To truss the bird : pick the bird carefully, and singe off the down with a piece of lighted white paper ; break the leg bones close to the feet; hang it on a hook, and draw out the strings from the thigh ; cut the neck off close to the back, but leave the crop skin long enough to turn over the back ; remove the crop, and with the middle finger loosen the liver and the gut at the throat end. Cut off the vent, remove the gut, take a crooked wire and pull out the gizzard, and the liver will easily follow. But be very careful not to break the gall bladder ; if you do it will spoil the flavour of the bird entirely, by giving it a bitter taste, which no after efforts of wash- ing, &c., can remove. Du not break the gut joining the gizzard either, lest the inside should become gritty. Wipe the inside perfectly clean with a wet cloth, then cut the breast-bone through on each side close to the back, and draw the legs close to the crop. Put a cloth on the breast and beat the breast-bone down with a rolling-pin till jt lies flat. Scald the feet, peel off the outer skin, and cut away the claws ; leave the legs on. Fill the inside with veal stuffing or sausage meat {see Forcemeats), and cither sew the skin of the neck over the back with .a trussing needle, or fasten it with a very small skewer. Then run a long skewer into the pinion and thigh through the body, G82 Boiled and Hashed Turkey—To Truss a Goose. passing it through the opposite pinion and lliigh. On the otlicr side put a skewer in die small part of the leg, close on the out- side of the sidesman, and push it tlirough. Idlean the liver and gizzard, and tuck them between the pinions, and turn the point of the pinions on the back. Pass a string over the points of the skewers, and tie it securely at tlie back to keep the bird neat and firmly trussed. Cover the breast with a sheet of nicely buttered white paper. Place the bird on the spit or roasting jack, and set it at some distance from the fire, which should be a very good and bright one. Keep the heat well to the breast. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in the dripping-pan, and baste it frequently to ]irevent it from drying too much. Just before it is finished dressing, remove the paper, dredge it lightly with flour, and baste it with the butter, so as to brown and froUi it. Serve it with good brown gravy poured over it, and garnish with small fried sausages or forcemeat balls. Sauce : bread sauce. Boiled Turkey. Hen turkeys are best for boiling; they should hang quite four days before they are dressed. Time, large turkey, one hour and three- quarters ; smaller, one hour and a half. 315. To truss a boiled turkey. Cut the first joint of the legs off, pass the middle finger into the inside, raise the skin of the legs, and put them under the apron of the birff. Put a skewer into the joint of the wing and the middle joint of the leg, and run it through the body and the other leg and wing. The liver and gizzard must be put in the pinions. Then turn the small end of the pinion on the back, and tie a pack- thread over the ends of the legs to keep Jhem in their places. Having trussed the turkey for boiling, put it, wrapped in a clean cloth, into sufficient hot water to more than cover it. Bring it gradually to a boil, and carefully remove the scum as it rises, or it will spoil the appearance of the bird. Let it simmer very gently for an hour and a half, or for a longer time if of a large size. When done, serve it on a hot dish with a little celery sauce, oyster sauce, or with parsley and butter; put a small quan- tity of either over it, and send the other up in a tureen separately. Turkey Hashed. Time, one hour for the gravy. 316. Cbld roast turkey; pepper ; salt; half £i pint of gravy; a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; a little flour ; a spoonful of ketchup ; peel of half a lemon. Cut the breast of a cold turkey, or any of the white meat, into thin slices. Cut off the legs, score them, dredge them with pepper and salt, and broil them over a clear fire a nice brown. Put half a pint of gravy into a stewpan with a little piece of buttei rolled in flour, a spoonful of ketchup, some pepper and salt, and the peel of half a lemon shred very fine. Put in the white meat, and shake it over a clear fire till it is tho- roughly hot, place it in a dish with the broiled legs on the top, and sippets of fried bread round it. To Broil the Legs of a Turkey. Time, a quarter of an hour. 317. The legs of a turkey; a little pepper; salt ; Cayenne ; and a squeeze of a lemon. Take the legs from a cold roast turkey, make some incisions across them with a sharp knife, and season them with a little pepper, salt, and a pinch of Cayenne. Squeeze over them a little lemon juice, and place them on a gridiron well buttered, over a clear fire. Mdien done a nice brown, put them on a hot dish with a piece of butter on the top of each, and serve them up very hot. To Truss a Goose for Roasting. 318. Pick and stub it clean. Cut the feet off at the joint, and the pinion off at the first joint. Cut off the neck close to the back, lea\nng the skin of the neck long enough to turn over the back. Pull out the throat and tie a knot at the end. Loosen the liver, &c., at the breast end with the middle finger, and cut it open betw'een the vent and nimp. Draw out all the entrails e.vcept the soal or soul, wipe out the inside wdth a clean cloth. Beat the breastbone flat w'ith a rolling-pin, put a skewer into the wing, and draw the legs up close, put a skewer through the middle of the legs and through the body, do the same on the other side. Put anothci skewer in the small of the leg, tuck it close down to the sidesman, run it through, and do the same on the other side. Cut off the end of the vent, and make a hole large enough for the passage of the nimp, as by that means you will better secure the seasoning in its place. To Roast a Goose. Time, a large goose, two hours ; a smaller one, one hour and a half. 319. Sage and onion stuffing; some good gravy. After the goose is prepared for roasting,1 1. Roau Turkey. 2. Boiled Turkey. 3. Roast Goose. 4. Hare. 5. Boiled Fo'wl. 6. Roast Fo'ivl. 7. Roast Duck, 8. Roast Pigeon. 9. Boiled Rabbit. 10. Roast Rabbit. 11. Roast Pheasant. 12. Partridges.K j \ ‘ > ' ’ ' . >■' ■- t tf83 Roast Duck and Poivl, fill it with sage and onion stuffing, and fasten it in securely at both ends by passing the rump througli a slit made in the shin, and tying the skin of the neck into the back of the bird. Roast it before a nice brisk fire for an hour and a half if small; one hour and three-quarters or two hours if large. Keep it frequently b.isted, and when done remove the skewers, place it on a hot dish, and pour a little good gravy round it. Send up some in a tureen. Serve with apple sauce To Stew Giblets. Time, one hour and a half. 320. One set of giblets ; a buneh of par- sley and thyme ; a few sage leaves ; pepper and salt; one onion ; a quart of gravy; a wineglass of wliite wine. Thoroughly clean and wash the giblets, cut them into pieces, and stew them for an hour and a half in a quart of gravy, adding a bunch of thyme and parsley, an onion, a few sage leaves, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. When done, put them into water, and trim tliem ready for sen'ing. Strain tlie gravy through a fine hair sieve, add a glass of white wine, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut rolled in flour. Boil the giblets up in the gravy, and serve thetn quickly. To Truss andEoast a Duck. 321. Ducks are trussed in the same manner as geese, except that the feet must be left on and turned close to the legs. To Eoast a Duck. Time, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. 322. A couple of ducks ; sage and onion stufsng. Ducks should always hang for one day, and even longer if the weather be sufficiently cold to allow it. Stuff one with sage and onion stuffing, season the inside of the other with pepper and salt. Put them to roast at a clear bright fire, and keep them con- stantly basted until done. A short time before serving, dredge over them a little flour, and baste them with butter to make them froth and brown. Serve them very hot, and pour round (not over them) a little good brown gravy. Serve a little of the same separately in a tureen. Green peas should always be sent up with roast ducks, if in season. Stewed Duck. Time, two hours and a half. 323. A couple of ducks or one duck ; forcemeat ; three sage leaves ; two onions ; one lemon ; a glass of port wine. Take a duck, pick, draw, and stuff it with forcemeat, adding three sage leaves chopped fine. Clean and wash the giblets, and put them into sufficient water to cover them. Make from them a gravy for the duck, add two onions chopped very fine, and a season- ing of pepper and salt. Let the grav^ simmer until it is strong enough, then put the duck into a stewpan, pour the gravy and onions over it, and stew it slowly for about two hours, adding a glass of Dort wine just before it is done. Dish it up and squeeze the juice of a lemon over it; pour the gravy round, and serve it with 5'ried bread. To Truss a Eoast Fowl. 324. The fowl must be picked and singed ; the neek cut off close to the back. Take out the crop, and with the middle finger loosen the liver and other parts at the breast end ; cut off the vent; draw the fowl clean ; wash out and wipe the inside quite dry; beat the breastbone flat with a rolling-pin. Put a skewer in the first joint of the pinion and bring the middle of the leg close to it. Put the skewer through the middle of the leg and through the body, and do the same on the otlier side. Put another skewer in the small of the leg, and through the sidesman. Do the same on the other side, and then put another through the skin of the feet, which should have the nails cut off. Clean out and wash the gizzard, remove the gall bag from the liver, and put both liver and gizzard in the pinions. To Eoast a Fowl or Chicken. Time, one hour for a largo one ; three- quarters of an hour for a small one ; twenty-five minutes for a chicken. 325. One large fowl or two small ones; some brown gravy ; butter, and flour. When the fowls ai'e trussed for roasting, singe them carefully, and wipe them clean ; put a piece of buttered paper over the breasts, and roast them at a clear fire, keeping them frequently basted. Just before they are done remove the paper, dredge them with flour, and baste them with butter warmed in the basting-ladle until they arc nicely browned and have a frothy appearance. Then place them on a hot dish, pour a little brown gravy ovet them, and serve the remainder in a tureer, with another of bread sauce. To Eoast a Fowl—Family Eeoeipt. Time, one hour. 326. A large fowl ; two or three table- spoonfuls of bread-crumbs ; half a pound of butter ; pepper and salt. -- G284 Boiled and Stewed Fowls. Draw and truss a fowl for roasting, put into the inside two or three tablespoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs, seasoned witli pepper and salt, and a piece of butter the size of a large walnut, but the fowl down before a clear fire to roast, basting it well with butter ; and just before it is done dredge over it a little flour, and baste it with butter to give it a frotliy appearance. When done, add a little warm water to the butter in the dripping-pan, or add a little very Ihui melted butter, and strain it over the fowl. Serve with bread sauce in a tureen, or a little made gravy if preferred. To Truss Boiled Fowls. 327. For boiling, choose fowls that are not black legged. Pick and singe the fowl; cut off the neck close to the back ; take out the crop, and with the middle finger loosen the liver and other parts ; cut off the vent, draw it clean, and beat the breastbone flat with a rolling- pin. Cut off the nails of the feet and tuck them down close to the legs. Put your finger into the inside and raise the skin of the fowl, then cut a hole in the top of the skin, and put tlie legs under. Put a skewer in the first joint of the pinion and bring the middle of the leg close to it; put the skewer through the middle of the leg and through the body ; do the same on the other side ; open the gizzard, remove the contents, and wash well, remove the gall bladder from the liver. Pat the gizzard and liver in the pinions, '.urn the points of the pinions on the back, and tie a string over the tops of the legs to keep them in their proper places. To Boil Fowls or Chickens. 'lime, one hour for a large fowl ; three- quarters of an hour for a medium size ; ii.alf an hour for a chicken. 328. After the fowls or chickens are trussed for boiling, fold them in a nice white floured cloth and put them into a stewpan ; cover them well with hot water, bring it gradually to a boil, and skim it very carefully as the scum rises ; then let them simmer as slowly as possible, which will improve their appearance more than fast boiling, causing them to be whiter and plumper. When done, put them on a hot disli, remove the skewers, and pour over them a little parsley and butter, oyster, lemon, celery, or white sauce, serving the sauce also separately in a tureen. Boiled tongue, ham, or bacon is usually served to cat with then’ • To Stew a Fowl with Bice. Time, one hour and a half. 329. A fowl ; about a quart of mutton broth ; pepper ; salt ; mace ; a large cupful of rice. Truss the fowl for boiling, and stew it in about a quart of mutton broth, seasoned with a little pepper, salt, and half a blade of mace, for an hour and a half, skimming it often. About half an hour before the fowl is ready to serve, add a large cupful of rice, and when tender, strain the broth from it, and place the rice on a sieve to dry and swell before the fire, keeping the fowl hot ; then place it in the centre of a hot dish with the rice arranged in rather a high border round it. Serve parsley and butter sauce in a tureen. Grilled Fowl. Time, a quarter of an hour to broil. 330. The remains of cold fowls ; juice of half a lemon ; pepper and salt ; bread- crumbs ; clarified butter; grated lemon peel. Cut the remains of cold fowl into pieces, season them with pepper and salt, squeeze over them the juice of half a lemon, and let them stand for three-quarters of an hour ; wipe them dry, dip them into clarified butter, and then into bread-crumbs with a little lemon peel grated. Put them on a gridiron and broil them over a clear fire. When fried instead of broiled, use the yolk of egg well beaten instead of the clarified butter. To Truss Pigeons. 33t. A pigeon requires a great deal of care in cleaning. Wash it thoroughly and wipe it veiy dry before putting it to the fire. Pigeons should not be kept, or they will lose their flavour. Draw them directly they are killed ; cut off the head and neck ; truss the wings over the back, and cut off the toes at the first joint. To Roast Pigeons. Time, twenty minutes to half an hour. 332. Some pigeons; half a pound of butter ; pepper and salt. Well wash and thoroughly clean the pigeons ; wipe them dry, season them inside with pepper and salt, and put a good- sized piece of butter into the body of each bird. Roast them before a clear bright fire, basting them well the whole of the time. Serve them with gravy, and bread sauce. Or send up a tureen of p.arsley and butter, in which case the birds must be garnished with fried parsley ; but for very plain cook- ing, they can have a little water added to85 Pigeons—Partridges—Pheasants. fne butter in the dripping-pan, and poured round them, adding a spoonful or two of gravy. Jugged Pigeons. Time, three hours. 333. Some pigeons ; two hard-boiled eggs; a sprig of parsley ; the peel of half a lemon ; the weight of the livers in beef suet ; the same of bread-crumbs ; pepper ; salt; and nutmeg ; one egg ; one ounce and a half of butter; one head of celery ; a glass of white wine ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; four cloves. Pick and draw four or six pigeons, wipe them very dry, boil the livers a minute or two, then mince them fine, and bruise them with a spoon, or beat them in a mortar ; mix them with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, a sprig of parsley, and the peel of h.alf a lemon all shred fine ; the weight of the livers in beef suet chopped as fine as pos- sible, the same weight of bread-crumbs, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg ; mix it well together with a well-beaten egg, and a little fresh butter. Stuff the pigeons and the crops with this forcemeat, sew up the vents, and dip the pigeons into warm water ; dredge over them some pepper and salt, and put them into a jar with the celery, sweet herbs, cloves, and beaten mace, with a glass of white wine. Cover the jar closely, and set it in a stewpan of boiling water for three hours, taking care the water does not get to the top of the jar. When done, strain the gravy into a stewpan, stir in a little butter rolled in flour, boil it up till it is thick, and pour it over the pigeons. Garnish with lemon. To Fricassee Pigeons Brown. Time, one hour. 334. Five or six pigeons ; half a blade of beaten mace ; pepper and salt ; one pint of gravy or broth ; a glass of port wine ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; peel of half a lemon; three shallots ; two ounces of butter; a spoonful of flour; juice of half a lemon ; and at/ew pickled mushrooms. Cut’ the pigeons into quarters, season them with half a blade of beaten mace, pepper, and salt. Fry them a light brown in butter, and l.ay them on a sieve to drain, then put them into a stewpan with a pint of gravy or broth, a glass of port wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, the peel of half a lemon, and three shallots chopped fine. Cover them closely and stew them half an hour, then stir in a piece of butter rolled in flour, season with pepper and salt, add a few ; pickled mushrooms, squeeze in the juice of 1 a lemon, and add a lew forcemeat balls I . boiled. Let all stew together for ten minutes, skim the gravy, put the fricassee on a hot dish, and garnish with lemon. To Truss a Partridge. 335. Partridges should hang a few days. Pluck, draw, and wipe the partridge in- side and out, cut off the head, leaving suffi- cient skin on the neck to skewer back, bring the legs close to the breast—between it and the side bones, and pass a skewer through the pinions and the thick part of the thighs. If the head is left on, it should be brought round and fixed on the point of the skewer, but it is generally removed from the bird. To Roast a Partridge. Time, twenty-five to thirty-five minutes. 336. Partridges ; butter ; gravy. When the partridges are plumply trussed, roast them before a clear fire, basting them very frequently, and frothing them up with a little flour and butter just before serving them. Pour a little gravy over the birds, and serve them with bread sauce and gravy in tureens. Broiled Partridges. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. 337. Partridges ; gravy ; butter ; pepper ; salt ; Cayenne. Thoroughly pick and draw the partridges, divide each through the back and breast, and wipe the insides. Season them highly with pepper, salt, and a very little Cayenne, and place them over a clear bright fire to broil. When done, rub a piece of fresh butter over them, and serve them up hot with brown gravy. To Truss a Pheasant. 338. After the pheasant is picked and drawn, wipe it inside with a damp cloth, and truss it in the same way as a partridge. If the head is left on, as it ought to be, bring it round under the wing, and fix it on the point of the skewer. To Roast a Pheasant. Time, from half an hour to one hour, according to size. 339. A pheasant ; butter ; flour ; brown gravy, and salt. After the pheasant is trussed, spit it, and roast it before a clear quick fire ; baste it frequently with butter, sprinkle over it a little salt, and dredge it lightly with flour to froth it nicely. When done (which will be in about half an hour, or longer if a large bird), serve it up with a litlie good brown gravy poured round the pheasant, and the remainder in a tureen, with another of broad saucQ.85 To Roast Hares and Rabbits. To Truss a Hare. 340. When wanted for dressing, cut off the fore legs at the first joint, raise the skin of the back and draw it over the hind legs. Leave the tail whole, and draw the skin over the back, and slip out the fore legs. Cut the skin from the neck and head, .skin the ears and leave them on. Clean the vent, cut the sinews under the legs, bring them forward, run a skewer through one hind leg, through the body and the other hind leg. Do the same with the fore legs, lay the head rather back, put a skewer in the mouth, through the back of the head, and between the shoulders. Rinse the in- side, wipe it dry, rub it with a little pepper and salt, and fill it with the proper stuffing. Sew up the body and pass a string over it to secure the legs on the skewers. To Eoast Hare. Time, one hour and a quarter to one hour and a half or two hours. 341. A fine hare ; some well-seasoned veal stuffing; milk; butter, and brown gravy. After the hare is skinned and prepared, wipe it dry with a clean clolli, fill the belly with well-seasoned veal stuffing, and sew it up. Draw the fore and hind legs close to the body, and pass a long skewer through each. Tie a string round tlie body, from one skewer to the other, and secure it above the back. Fi.\ the head between the shoul- ders with another skewer, and be cai-eful to leave the ears on. Place it at some distance from the fire when first it is put down, and baste it well with milk forn .short time, and afterwards with butter. Just before it is done, dredge over it a little tlour, and baste it well with butter to make a fine froth. W'lien done, take it up on a hot disli, re- move tlie skewers, and pour a little good gravy into the dish. Serve gravy in a tureen. Jugged Hare. Time, four hours. 342. A hare ; a small onion ; a lemon ; two glasses of port wine; a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup ; one pound and a half of gravy beef; five cloves ; pepper ; salt, and a Kitle Cayenne ; butter and flour. Skin tlie hare, and cut it in pieces, but do not wash it ; dredge it with flour, and fiy it a nice brown in butter, seasoning it with a little pepper, salt, and Cayenne. Make .about a iiint and a half of gravy from the beef. Put the pieces of hare into a jar, add the onion stuck with four or five cloves, the lemon peeled and cut, and pour in the gravy. Cover the jar closely to keep in the steam, put it into a deep stewpan of cold water, and let it boil four hours, but if a young hare three hours will be sufficient. Whcii done, take it out of the jar, and shake it over the fire for a few minutes, adding a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, two glasses of port wine, and a piece of butter rolled in flour, with some fried forcemeat balls. Serve with red currant jelly. Hashed Hare. Time, rather more than an hour. 343. Cold roast hare ; three dessert- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup ; four des- sertspoonfuls of port wine; a bunch of savoury herbs; a little pepper, salt, and mace ; butter and flour. Take the remains of a cold roast hare, and cut the best parts into slices. Put the trimmings, head, and bones into a stewpan to make the gravy, pour in a pint of water, add the herbs and spice, with pepper and salt to your taste. Stew it gently for an hour, and then strain it througli a sieve. Add a piece of butter rolled in flour, the ketchup, and wine, with a few forcemeat balls, or any stuffing left from the previous day. Put in the slices of hare, and set it over the fire until very hot. Serve it up with toasted sippets and currant jelly. To Roast a Leveret. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 344. Leveret; half a pound of butter. Clean and truss a leveret in the same manner as a hare, but roast it plain without any stuffing. Place it before a clear bright fire for about three-quarters of an hour, and baste it often with butler. About ten minutes before serving, dredge it lightly with flour to froth it nicely. Serve with gravy poured round it, and red currant jelly with it. To Tiuss Eoast Rabbits. 345. Empty, skin, wash, and soak the rabbit ; stuff it with veal forcemeat ; skewer back the head between the shoulders ; cut off the fore joints of the legs and shoulders, draw them close to the body, and pass a skewer through them. Eoast Rabbit. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 346. One large rabbit ; pepper ; salt; nutmeg ; half a pound of butter ; four des- sertspoonfuls of milk; one tablespoonful of flour: yolks of two eggs ; brown gr.avy ; the peel of half a lemon grated. Procure a fine large rabbit, and truss it in the same manner as a hare ; fill the p.aunch with veal stuffing, and ro.ost it before a bright cloar fire for three-quarters pfTo Dress Rabbits. 87' hour, if a large one, basting it well with butter. Before serving mix a spoonful of flour with four of milk ; stir into it the yolks of two well beaten eggs, and season with a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt ; baste the rabbit thickly with this, to form a light coating over it. When dry, baste it with butter to froth it up, and when done place it carefully in a dish, and pour round it some brown gravy, boiled up with the liver minced, and a little graied nut- meg. Serve with gravy in a tureen, and red jelly. A rabbit can be baked instead of roasted, and will require the same time in a good oven. To Truss Boiled Babbits. 347. After w'ell cleaning and skinning a rabbit, wash it in cold water, and then put it into warm water for about tw'enty minutes to soak out the blood. Draw the head round to the side, and secure it with a thin skewer run through that and the body. To Blanch Babbits, Fowls, &c. 348. To blanch or whiten a rabbit or fowl it must be placed on the fire in a small quantity of water, and let boil. As soon as it boils it must be taken out, and plunged into cold water for a few minutes. Boiled Babbit. Time, a very small rabbit, half an hour; medium size, three-quarters of an hour ; a large rabbit, one hour. 349. A rabbit; six onions ; liver sauce, or parsley and butter. When the rabbit is trussed for boiling, put it into a stewpan, and cover it with hot water, and let it boil very gently until tender. When done, place it on a dish, and smother it with onions, or with parsley and butter, or liver sauce, should the flavour of onion not be liked. If liver sauce is to be served, the liver must be boiled for ten minutes, minced very fine, and added to the butter sauce. An old rabbit will require quite an hour to boil it thoroughly. To Fricassee Babbits Brown. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 350. Two young rabbits ; jjcppcr ; salt; flour and butter ; a pint of gravy ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; half a pint of fresh mush- rooms if you have them ; three shallots ; a spoonful of ketchup ; a lemon. 'lake two young rabbits, cut them in small pieces, slit the head in two, season them with pepper and salt, dredge them with flour, and fry them a nice brown in fresh butter. Pour out the fat from the stewpan, and put in a pint of gravy, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a pint of fresh mushrooms, if you have them, and three shallots chopped fine, season with pepper and salt, cover them close, and let them stew for half an hour. '1‘hen skim the gravy clean, add a spoonful of ketchup, and the juice of half a lemon. Take out the herbs, and stir in a piece of butter rolled in flour, boil it up till thick and smooth, skim off the fat, and serve the rabbits garnished with lemon. An Economical Way to Dress a Babbit. Time, one hour. 351. A rabbit; half a pound of pickled pork ; an onion ; an ounce and a half of butter ; a little flour ; and some forcemeat balls. Divide and cut the rabbit and pork into slices, shred the onion fine, and fry the whole a nice brown. Then put them into a stewpan with just sufficient water to cover them. Season it highly with pepper and salt, and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. Then thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour. Add a few forcemeat balls, and let it again simmer until the gravy is the consistency of thick cream. To Truss Woodcocks, Snipes, and Wheatears. 352. Pluck and wipe them very clean outside ; truss them with the legs close to the body, and the feet pressing upon the thighs ; skin the head and neck, and bring the beak round under the wing. Woodcocks and Snipes. Time, twenty to twenty-five minutes. 353. Some woodcocks, or snipes ; butter ; bread toasted ; two slices of bacon. After the birds are picked and trussed, put a thin layer of bacon over them, and tie it on, run a bird-spit through them, and tie it on to a common one. 'Poast and butter a slice of bread, and put it under them for the trail to drop on. Baste them continually with butter, and roast them, if large, for twenty-five minutes, if small, five minutes less. Froth them up, take up the toast, cut it in quarters, put it in the dish, and pour some gravy and butter over it. 'Fake up the woodcocks and put them on it, with the bills outwards. Serve with plain butter sauce in a tureen. Snipes arc dressed the same as woodcocks, only roast the large ones twenty minutes, small ones a quarter of an hour. Wheatears. Time, about a quarter of an hour. 3S4- A slice of toasted bread ; one lemon; half a pint of good brown gravy.88 To Dress Game. Do not draw tliem. Spit them on a small bird spit, flour them, and baste them well witli butter. Have ready a slice of toasted bread (cut the crusts off), lay it in a dish, and set it on the dripping pan, under the birds, while cooking. When done, take them up, lay them on the toast, pour .some good brown gravj' round them, and garnish with slices of lemon. To Tru's Wild Duck. 355. Pick thebird very clean, and twist each leg at the knuckle ; rest the claws on each side of the breast, and secure them by passing a skewer through the thighs and pinions of the wings. To Eoast Wild Ducks. Time, twenty-five to thirty-five minutes. 356. Wild ducks ; butter ; flour ; Cayenne pepper ; one lemon ; one glass of port wine. When the ducks are trussed spit them, and put them down to roast before a brisk fire, keeping the spit in rapid motion. Baste them plentifully with butter, dredge them lightly with flour, and send them up nicely frothed and browned, with a good gravy in the di.sh. Before carving it the breast should have a few incisions made across it with a knife, and a piece of fresh butter put on it ; then cut a lemon across, on one half put a little salt, on the other a very small quantity of Cayenne pepper ; put the lemon together and squeeze the juice over the ducks, then add a glass of warmed port wine, and your ducks will be ready to carve. ' To Eoist Grouse. Time, half an hour. 357. Grouse ; slices of fat bacon ; vine leaves ; melted butter. Hang the grouse for some time ; pick and truss them hke a fowl for roasting, laying over them thin slices of bacon and vine leaves, which tie on with a thin thread. Roast them for half or three-quarters of an hour, and when done, serve them on a slice of toasted bread, and pour some good Tielted butter over them. Golden Plovers. Time, ten minutes to a quarterof an hour. 358. Plovers ; butter ; salt ; slice of bread basted. Truss them like woodcocks, put them on H bird spit, tie them on another, and put tliem before a clear fire to roast ; place a round of toast under tliem, sprinkle a little salt over them, and baste them well with butter. When done, cut the toast into four pieces, put it into a hot dish with a little gravy and butter over it, place the birds on the toast, and serve them up hot. Grey plovers must be drawn, and either roasted or stewed with gravy, herbs, &c. To Truss a Quail. 359. A quail must be plucked, singed, and drawn ; then cut off the wings at the first pinion, leaving the feet, and pass a skewer through the pinions and the wings. To Eoast a Quail. Time, about twenty minutes. 360. Quails ; a little gravy ; vine leaves; and bacon. Pick, draw, and truss the birds. Covet the breasts with a slice of fat bacon and vine leaves, secured with a skewer, which can be tied to the spit. Roast them for twelve or fifteen minutes before a very brisk fire ; serve them up hot with a little good gravy poured round them. To Truss Blackcock. 361. Pluck and draw them, wipe them inside and out, cut off the heads and truss them the same as a roast fowl, scalding and picking the feet and cutting off the toes. Blackcock may also be trussed with the head on, if preferred, in which case it must be passed under the wing. To Eoast Blackcock. Time, fifty minutes. 362. Blackcocks; butter; three slices of bacon ; three vine leaves. Hang the birds for three or four da)'S, and when thoroughly plucked and wiped, truss them neatly, and cover the breast with two or three very thin slices of bacon, over which place three vine leaves. Roast them at a quick clear fire, basting them frequently with butter. Wlien done, serve them on a slice of buttered toast and bread sauce and gravy, in separate tureens. These birds may be plainly roasted without the addition of the bacon and leaves ; well basting and frothing them up. To Truss Landrail. 363. Draw the birds, wipe them clean with a wet cloth, and truss them with their heads under their wings, and the thighs close to their sides, and run a small skewer through the body that the legs may be per- fectly straight. To Ejast Landrail. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. 364. Five landrails ; a quarter of a pound of butter ; fried bread-crumbs ; and a little good gravy.89 Made Dishes. After the birds are plucked and trussed, place them before a brisk fire, and baste them eonstantly with butter. They will take about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes to roast, and when done, place them on a layer of fried bread-crumbs on a very hot dish. Serve with a tureen of bread sauce, and one of good gravy. To Koast Larks. Time, a quarter of an hour. 365. Two dozen larks ; pepper; salt : nut- meg, and a sprig of parsley ; egg ; bread- cnimbs ; and melted butter. Pick and clean the birds, and cut off the heads and legs, pick out the gizzards, and put a seasoning inside them of pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little ehopped parsley ; brush them over with the yolks of some well-beaten eggs, dip them into bread- crumbs, covering them very thickly, run a small bird spit through them, and fasten it on a larger one, and put them to roast be- fore a bright fire, basting them constantly with butter, or they will burn. When done, arrange them in a cirele round a dish, and fill the eentre with a pile of crumbs of bread, fried crisp and brown in a little butter. Serve them with melted butter, with the juice of half a lemon squeezed into it. Eoast Guinea Fowl—Larded. Time, one hour and a quarter. 366. A guinea fowl; some lardoons ; sLx • ounces of butter. When the guinea fowl is properly pre- pared, lard the breast with shreds of bacon, : and truss it the same as a pheasant. Put it I down to a clear brisk fire to roast, keeping ; it well basted ; and about ten minutes be- 1 fore it is done dredge it with flour to make I it froth nicely. Serve it with a little gravy I poured round it, send up some also in a ' tureen, and the same of bread sauce. If ■ the guinea fowl is not larded, but plainly ; roasted, truss it like a turkey. A guinea fowl may be roasted plain, as a •pheasant. It will then take one hour to : roast at a good fire. Baste it well with butter. TEAL. To Truss Teal. 367. Pick the bird carefully; twist each leg at the knuckle ; rest the claws on each ■side of the breast, and secure them by :passing a skewer through the thighs and ; pinions of the wings. To Roast Teal. Time, ten to fifteen minutes. 368. Teal should not bo eaten till after the first frost, and should be plump and fat. Roast them before a bright hot fire, and baste them very frequently with butter. Serve with orange sauce. Garnish with watercresses. Send up a cut lemon on a plate with them, and a tureen of sauce or brown gravy. MADE DISHES. Oyster Fritters. Time, five or six minutes. 369. One quart of oysters ; half a pint of milk ; two eggs ; a little flour; a little dripping, or butter. Open a quart of oysters, strain the liquor into a basin, and add to it half a pint of milk, and two well-beaten eggs; stir iti by degrees flour enougli to make a smooth but rather thin batter ; when perfectly free from lumps put the oysters into it. Have some beef dripping or butter made hot in a very clean frying-pan, and season with a little salt, and when it is boiling drop in the batter with a large spoon, putting one or more oysters in each spoonful. • Hold the pan over a gentle fire until one side of the baiter is a delicate brown, turn each fritter separately, and when both sides are done place them on a hot dish, and serve. Fricassee of Cold Roast Beef. Time, twenty minutes to simmer. 370. Some slices of cold beef ; one onion ; a bunch of parsley ; three-quarters of a pint of broth ; yolks of four eggs ; one spoonful of vinegar; three dessertspoonfuls of port wine ; a little pepper and salt. Cut the beef into very thin slices, season it with a little pepper and salt, shred a a bunch of parsley very small, cut an onion into pieces, and put all together into a stew- pan with a piece of butter and three- quarters of a pint of good broth. Let it all simmer slowly ; then stir in the yolks of two well-beaten eggs, a teaspoonful of vinegar, or the juice of half a lemon, and a wine- glass of port wine ; stir it briskly over tlie fire, and turn the fricassee into a hot dish. If the flavour of shallot is liked, the dish can be previously rubbed with one. Ox-tails Stewed. Time, two and a half to three hours. 371. Three tails; half a teaspoonful of pepper; a little Cayenne ; eight or ten cloves : two small onions ; two large carrots ; a large bunch of parsley ; a little butter and flour ; salt to taste. Divide three ox-tails in pieces, put themgo Made Dishes. into a stewpan, and cover them with water ; skim it clean as the scum rises, and when it boils put in a little salt, the pepper, Cay- enne, two carrots, a bunch of parsley, and two onions stuck with eight or ten cloves. Let the pan boil gently until the tails are tender, wliich will take about from two and a half to three hours ; then strain the gravy from the meat, thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and serve it up with the tails in a tureen, or the tails may be placed on a hot dish, and the gravy poured over them. Rechauffe of Salt Beef. 372. A bottle of piccalilli ; slices of cold beef ; a little flour ; a gill of water ; pota- toes ; a little cream, or butter. Cut large and thin slices of cold silver side of beef. Pour out on a dish some of the sauce or vinegar of the piccalilli ; drop a little vinegar into it to make it thinner. Dip the slices of beef into it ; flour them ; lay them on a dish. Pour the water over them ; warm them in an oven, or before the fire. Mash some potatoes with a little cream, or butter. Lay the punfe on a dish ; place the slices, when hot, on it, and serve. Lambs’ Sweetbreads—An Entree. Time, thirty-five minutes. 373. Some lambs’ sweetbreads; rather more than half a pint of good gravy ; bread- crumbs ; egg ; one glass of sherry. Thoroughly clean the sweetbreads and soak them in water for nearly an hour, then throw them into a basin of boiling water, which will blanch them and make them firm. Put them into a stewpan with some water and let them stew slowly for fifteen minutes, then dry them well on a clean cloth. Cover them with the yolk of an egg or two, pass them through bread-crumbs, and brown them in the oven. When done, put them on a liot dish and pour over tliem rather more than half a pint of good gravy boiled up with a glass of sherry. Sheeps’ Kidneys. Time, si.x to eight minutes. 374. Five or six kidneys ; pepper and salt; bread-crumbs and butter. Cut eacli kidney through without dividing it, take off the skins, and season highly with pepper and salt ; dip each kidney into melted butter, and strew bread-crumbs over them ; pass a small skewer through the white part to keep them flat, and broil them over a clear fire. Serve them witli the hollow part uppermost, filling each hollow with a piece of butter. Toad in a Hole. Time, one hour and a quarter. 375. h. chicken; some veal stuffing; three eggs ; one pint of milk ; some flour. Draw, bone, and truss a cliicken, fill it with a veal stuffing. Make a batter with a pint of milk, three eggs, and sufficient flour to make it thick ; pour it into a deep buttered dish. Place the fowl in the centre of the batter, and bake it in the oven. Serve in the same dish. Or—Of Cold Meat. Time, one hour and a quarter. 376. Some slices of cold roast mutton ; three or four sheeps' kidneys ; one pint of milk ; a large cupful of flour ; two eggs. Cut some nice slices of cold roast mutton, season them well with pepper and salt, and divide the kidneys into four. Mix with the milk sufficient flour to make a smooth batter, adding to it two well-beaten eggs. Butter a pie dish, pour in a little of the batter, then lay in the slices of meat and kidney ; pour over them the remainder of the batter, and place the dish in the oven to bake, for an hour and a quarter. When done, serve it quickly, fii the dish in which it was baked. Beef Rissoles. Time, ten minutes. 377. Some slices of cold roast beef; rather more than half their weight in grated bread ; a bunch of savoury herbs ; two or three eggs ; rind of a lemon grated ; half a pint of good brown gravy. Take some slices of rather lean cold roast beef, and mince it very fine; season it highly with pepper and salt ; and add a few savoury herbs chopped fine, and the peel of half a lemon, with rather more than half the weight of the beef in bread-cnmibs. Mix all well together, and bind it with two eggs well beaten into a very thick paste. Form it into balls, egg and bread-crumb them, fry them a nice brown, and serve them with good brown gravy poured round them. More frequently they are sent up dry^ on a cloth garnished with fried parsley. Minced Veal. Time, one hour and a quarter altogether. 378. The remains of cold fillet, or loin of veal ; a pint and a quarter of water ; half a teaspoonful of ininced lemon peel ; a tea- spoonful of lemon juice ; a little mace if the flavour is liked ; white pepper and salt to taste; three tablespoonfuls of milk; a bunchMade Dishes. 91 of herbs ; a small onion ; one ounce of butter rolled in flour. Put the bones of the eold veal, or any other bones you may have, into a stewpan with the skin and trimmings of the meat. Dredge in a little flour, pour in more than a pint of wafer, the onion sliced, the lemon peel, the herbs and seasoning. Simmer these ingredients for more than an hour ; then strain the gravy, thicken it with the butter rolled in flour, boil it again, and skim it well. While the gra\'y is making, mince the veal finely, but do not chop it up ioo fine. W'lien the gravy is ready, put it in and ivarm it gradually ; add the lemon juice, then put in the milk, or a httle cream if you can afford it. Do not let it quite boil, but as it is on the point of doing so, take it off the fire. Cut some thin slices of bread, toast them, and cut them into sippets ; garnish the dish the whole way round the edge with them. Pile the mince in the centre of the dish, garnish with tiny rolls of fried bacon, and quarter-slices of lemon. Place three nicely poached eggs on the top. and you will have a very pretty as well as a nice dish for the table. Calf’s Heart Eoasted. Time, from half an hour to an hour, depending on the size. 379. Put the lieart to disgorge in luke- warm water for an hour nearly ; then wipe it dry, stuff it with a nice and highly seasoned veal stuffing or forcemeat. Cover it with buttered paper, and set it down to roast at a good fire. Serve it with good gravy, or any sharp sauce. Send it up as hot as possible to table. Stewed Sweetbreads. Time, thirty-five minutes. 380. One or two sweetbreads ; one pint of veal broth ; .some marjoram ; mace ; pep- per ; salt; flour ; yolks of two eggs. Soak the sweetbreads in warm water, and then put them into a stewpan with the veal broth, pepper, salt, and mace, with a little .narjoram, and let them stew for rather more than half an hour. When done, place them on a hot dish ; thicken the gravy with a little flour, and the beaten yolks of two eggs, pour the sauce over the sweetbreads, and serve. Roast Sweetbreads. Time, half an hour. 38r. Two sweetbreads ; one egg; bread- crumbs ; clarified butter ; butter'; juice of a lemon ; a little Caycnrii* Trim off the tough part of the sweetbreads, and blanch them for nearly two hours in a stewpan of boiling wafer with a little salt. Then lake them out, and put them into cold water until they are cool. Run a skewer through the sweetbreads, and fasten them on a spit, bmsh them over with the yolk of a well-beaten egg, shake bread-crumbs over them, sprinkle them with clarified butter, and again with bread-crumbs ; roast them for a quarter of an hour. When done, take them from the skewers, and make a sauce of a little butter, a little lemon juice, afid a pinch of Cayenne, make it hot, and serve it in the dish under the sweet- breads. Garnish with slices of lemon. Calf’s Liver a la Mode. Time, two hours and a quarter. 382. A calfs liver; seven ounces of bacon ; two ounces and a half of butter ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; two onions ; six cloves ; one clove of garlic ; three carrots ; two turnips ; one wineglass of brandy ; one of wine ; one tablespoonful of Harvey sauce. After well washing the calfs liver, soak it for a short time in cold water, then wipe it dry, and insert lardoons of bacon at equal distances in the interior part of the liver ; put it into a stewpan with about two ounces and a half of butter, a small bunch of sweet herbs tied together, half a blade of mace, and a small onion stuck with six cloves, and fry it a nice brown ; then add three carrots, tw'o turnips, an onion cut into wheels, and a wineglass of brandy with sufficient water to just cover the whole ; baste it frequently with its own gravy, and let it simmer slow'ly for two hours. When done, take out the liver and put it on a dish garnished witli the cut vegetables, strain and skim the gravy, add the sauce and glass of wine, boil it to the quantity required, pour it over the liver, and serve it up hot. Boiled Calf’s Feet. Time, nearly three hours to stew. 383. Two calf's feet ; parsley and butter. Rone two or three calfs feet as far as the first joint, and soak them in warm water for two hours, then put tliem into a stewpan with .sufficient water to cover them, and let them stew gently ; take them out on a hot dish, and pour over them some good parsley and butter sauce. ■Veal Olives. Time, twenty minutes. 384. Some slices of veal; a slice or two of fat bacon ; some forcemeat ; a shallot Cayenne pepper ; egg ; some brown gravy. Cut some thin slices of veal rather wide,Made Dishes—Cv,rries and Indian Dishes. 92 but not more than three or four inches long, lay a voy thin slice of fat bacon on each, then a layer of forcemeat, a little shallot sliced as thin and fine as possible, with pepper, salt, and Cayenne ; roll them round, and fasten each securely with a small skewer, brush them over with egg^ and fry them a nice brown. Boil a few mushrooms, pickled or fresh, with half a pint, or as much as your olives will require, of brown gravy, pour it round them, and garnish with egg-balls. Pig’s Fry. Time, two hours and a quarter. 385. A pound and a half of fry ; one onion ; one teaspoonful of chopped sage leaves ; two pounds and a half of potatoes ; one saltspoonful of pepper ; two saltspoon- fuls of salt. Boil a large Lisbon onion, then chop it up fine with a few sage leaves. Lay half the fry at the bottom of a pie dish, cover it with a thin layer of sage and onions, sprinkle it well with pepper and salt, cover it with a layer of sliced potatoes ; then put in the other half of the fry, and again sprinkle it with pepper and salt, add another very thin layer of sage and onion, cover it with sliced potatoes, fill the dish with water, and put it in the oven. When it is done, brown it with a salamander, and serve. Spatchcock—English Fashion, Time, twelve minutes. 386. One fowl; three ounces of butter ; a piece of puff paste. Make about a pound or half a pound, as required, of good puff paste. Roll it out about the thickness of two fingers. Cut tlie edge in Vandykes. Rub together the pieces of paste left ; cut them into the shape of crescent moons ; wet one of the corners of each and the side of the vandyked paste, and stick crescents between each Vandyke. Bake this crust a delicate golden colour. Cut up a freshly-killed fowl in joints, pepper and salt them and rub with butter ; broil them, then pile them on the crust. Spatchcock—Indian Mode and Sea Fashion. Time, half an hour. 387. One fowl; pepper and salt; two or three ounces of butter. A fowl freshly killed, picked, and pre- pared. Split the fowl in halves through the middle of the breast and back ; pepper and salt it ; mb it over with butter ; grease a gridiron ; and broil it over a bright clear fire. Put a lump of fresh butter in a hot dish before the fire ; let it dissolve ; Lay the fowl on it (or on a round of toasted bread), and serve very hot. CUmilES AND INDIAN DISHES. The author has the pleasure of offering in the next few pages original receipts direct from the East, presented to her by Anglo- Indian friends. Some of the dishes ar? quite unknown in England, as Ballychony, Bobotie, &c. Madras Curry Powder. 388. Two ounces of cumin seed; two ounces of coriander seed; three-quarters of an ounce of caraway seed ; three-quarters of an ounce of cardamom seeds ; three-quarters of an ounce of Cayenne pepper ; half an ounce of black pepper ; half an ounce of fenugreek seed ; a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon; half an ounce of cloves; a quarter of an ounce of mace ; ten ounces of turmeric. Let each of the above seeds be powdered fine and set before the fire to dry, shaking and mixing the whole thoroughly together. When cool, put the powder into small glass bottles. Cork them down tightly. To boil the Rice for the Curry. Time, fifteen to twenty-five minutes to boil. 389. Patna rice. Put in the rice (which should be Patna, not Carolina rice) into plenty of cold water, and let it boil up, then strain it off and add the same quantity of cold water again. Let it boil up a second time, and then strain it off again, and set the rice on the hob or hot plate in the colander, and keep it constantly stirred with two forks until the rice is quite tender. You will then have every grain separate. Curry of Cold Roast Beef or Mutton. Time, ten or twelve minutes. 390. Some slices of cold beef; two ounces and a half of butter ; one talilespoonful of curry powder ; half a Spanish onion ; a quarter of a pint of gravy. Cut some slices of cold roast beef into rather small square pieces, and dredge tliem with flour. Slice the onion, and fry it a nice brown in about two ounces and a half of butter in a stewpan ; then pour in a quarter of a pint, or as much as you may require of tlie gravy from the meat, or gravy made from tlie bones and any trimmings of meat. Add the curry powder and the slicesCurries and Indian Dishes. 93 , of meat. Set it over a brisk fire, and stir it well together for ten or twelve minutes. 'When done, serve it with a border of boiled :rice round the dish, or rice in a separate I dish. Veal Curry. Time, one hour and a half. 391. One pound and three-quarters or ttwo pounds of lean veal ; one Spanish .onion, or two small common ones ; one l.largc sour apple ; a piece of butter the size .of a large walnut ; two dessertspoonfuls of ccurry powder ; one teaspoonful of flour ; 'ijuice of half a lemon ; a pint of water. Cut a Spanish onion, or two small ones, ianto very small pieces, and a large sour .-.apple into thin slices ; put them into a stew- rpan with the butter, and stir it about until nightly browned. Then mi.v in the curry ppowder, the flour, and a pint of water ; add tihe veal cut into very small square pieces, .reasoned with salt, and stir it round several titimes, that it may be well covered with the ccurry mixture. Put it over the fire to stew sfelowly for an hour and a half, or until the weal is tender. Squeeze in the juice of half aa lemon strained, stir it round, and serve vvvith rice in a separate dish. Hindostanee Curry. Time, nearly two hours. 392. Two pounds of meat (beef, veal, or aany other you prefer) ; one pint and a half cDf water; four tablespoonfuls of curry foowder ; two onions ; one root of garlic ; ihhree ounces of butter ; two tablespoonfuls CDf cocoa-nut milk—or good cream ; ten iklmonds ; six cloves ; a blade of mace, a snmall piece of cinnamon, and a few car- ddamom seeds ; juice of one lemon. Boil the meat in a pint and a half of uvater, till about half done, then take it out, r.ind skim the broth ; and put to it the t;loves, mace, cinnamon, and cardamom weeds. Cut the meat into small square pieces, roll them well in the curry powder, rind fry them a nice brown in some butter. 1 ilut up the onions and the root of garlic, '.and fry them also until brown, but separate i rom the meat. Then add the whole to the Mroth, with the cocoa-?iut milk or a little :pod cream, and the almonds blanched and oounded. Cover the pan closely over, and ■ et it stew gently over a slow fire until well nixed and very hot; and just before serving iqueeze in the juice of a lemon. A Babbit Curry. I Time, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. 393. One rabbit ; one large spoonful of : :urry powder ; half a dessertspoonful of curry paste ; one large onion, or two small ones ; one ounce and a half of butter ; a rasher of bacon ; one large sour apple ; a very little flour ; one pint of good broth or stock. Cut one large onion, or two small ones, with a large sour apple into slices, and fry them a nice brown in about an ounce and a half or two ounces of butter ; then stir in the curry powder and paste, and pour in a pint of good broth or stock. Divide the rabbit, and cut the joints into rather small pieces, split the head, dredge it with flour, and add it to the other ingredients, with a large slice of bacon cut into little square bits. Cover the stewpan, set it over the fire, and let it stew gently for about three- quarters of an hour, or until the meat will leave the bones easily, and the sauce is thick. Pour off any fat, and sen-e it with boiled rice in a separate dish. Ballacbony, 394. One hundred prawns ; a little vine- gar ; two ounces of green ginger ; half an ounce of Chili; peel of four lemons ; two ounces of salt; juice of two lemons ; four onions ; two or three ounces of butter. Boil a hundred prawns, take off the shells and clean them, then grind them in a curry stone with sufficient vinegar to keep the stone wet. Take one ounce of green ginger, half an ounce of Chili, and the peel of four lemons, pound them separately ; then take two ounces of salt and the juice of two lemons, and mix all the ingredients with the prawns. Cut four onions in rings, and fry them with about two or three ounces of butter to keep them from burning. When the onions become soft and the ballachony dry, take it out and let it cool. To keep it any length of time, it must be put in jars with oravge leaves on the top, and closed up with bladder. Bobotee—A Delicate Kind of Indian Curry. Time, half an hour. 395. One onion ; one ounce of butter ; one cupful of milk ; one slice of bread ; six or eight sweet almonds ; two eggs ; half a pound of minced cold meat or undressed meat ; one tablespoonful of curry powder. Slice an onion and fry it in butter, soak in milk a small slice of bread, and grate six or eight sweet almonds, beat two eggs into half a cupful of milk, and mix the whole zudl together, with half a pound of minced meat, a small lump of butter, and one table- .spoonful of curry powder. Rub a pie disli with butter and the juice of a lemon, qnd bake the curry thus made in not too hot anCurries—Meat Pies and Puddings. 94 oven. Serve it witli boiled rice in a separate disli. This curry is very little, if at all known in England, and it is remarkably delicate and nice. Sansartees—Cape cf Good Hope, Time, ten minutes to boil. 396. The fillet end of a leg of mutton ; a little salt ; a very small bit of garlic; a spoonful of curry powder; juice of one lemon. Take the fillet end of a leg of mutton, cut it into small square pieces, lay them in an earthen pan, add salt to your taste, a small portion of garlic, and a spoonful of curry powder, squeeze a lemon over all, and let it stand (covered over) during the night. Put fat and lean pieces alternately on a skewer, then broil them directly and serve on rice, boiled as for curry. Lobster Curry. Time, half an hour. 397. One large lobster ; one large onion ; a piece of butter ; three dessertspoonfuls of curry paste ; juice of half a lemon ; a pint of broth, or more if required. Hoil a nice large lobster, or procure one ready boiled, break tlie slid), cut it down the back, pick out all the flesh, and cut it into small pieces. Cut a large onion into slices, and fry it brown ; then stir in the curry paste mi.xed smooth, pour in the broth, or stock, and boil it up until rather thick. Put in the pieces of lobster, stir all well together, cover it close, and stew it for rather more than half an hour if required, taking care that it is sufficiently moist ; adding a few spoonfuls,of broth if too dry. When ready to serve, add the juice of half a lemon, and serve it up hot with a dish of boiled rice. To Curry Eggs. Time, twenty minutes. 398. Ten eggs ; one onion ; two dessert- spoonfuls of curry powder ; a quarter of a pint of cream ; some arrowroot ; nearly a pint of medium stock or good broth. Fry one large onion or two,small ones a nice brown in butter, then add the curry powder and stock or good broth, and set it over the fire to stew slowly until the onions are tender. Thicken the cream with a little arrowroot, stir it in, and let all simmer for a few minutes. Then add ten or twelve hard-boiled eggs cut in halves. Make them hot without allowing them to boil, and arrange them on the flat ends on a hot dish with the sauce over them. MEAT PIES AND PUD- DINGS, VOLS-AU-VENT, &c We believe that it is utterly impossible to teach verbally how to make good paste or pie-crust; a lesson from a good cook would be worth whole volumes on this subject. Some general directions, however, may be given on this important art. First, the cook should have smooth cold hands—very clean —for making paste or crust. She should wash them well, and plunge them in cold water for a minute or two in hot weather, drying them well afterwards before beginning her paste. The pastiy .slab, if possible, should be made of marble ; if it is a wooden paste- board it should be kept scrupulously clean. The crust used for homely pies need not be as delicate as that used for company ; it may be made of clarified beef dripping or lard instead of butter. Be very careful about the proper heat of the oven for baking pies, as if it be too cold the paste will be heavy, and have a dull look ; if too hot, the crust will burn before the pie is done. Try if the oven is hot enough by holding your hand inside it for a few seconds; if you can do so without snatching it out again quickly, it is too cold ; it is best, however, to try it by baking a little piece of the crust in it first. Always make a small hole with a knife at the top of the pie to allow the gases gene- rated in it by the cooking to escape. This aperture is also useful for pouring gra\'y into the pie when it is done, if more is required. The hand of ,a pastrycook should be light, and the paste should not be worked more than is absolutely required for mixing it. We give first three plain receipts for pie crust, such as people of small means can use, and will find good, and also instruc- tions for clarifying dripping, so as to render it fit for making pie-crusts. To Clarify Beef Dripping. 399. Put the dripping into a basin, pour over it some boiling water, and stir it round with a silver spoon ; set it to cool, and then remove the dripping from the sediment, and put it into basins or j.irs for use in a cool place. Clarified dripping may be used for frying and basting eveiything except game or poultry, as well as for pies, &c. To Make a Short Crust with Dripping. 400. One pound of flour; three-quarters of a pound of clarified beef dripping; oneHoiv to Make Crust for Pies and Puddings. 95 ■wlncglassful of very cold water ; a pinch of salt. Take care tliat the water you use is cold, especially in summer. Put tlie flour, well dried, into a large basin (which should be kept for the purpose) with a pinch of salt; break up the clarified beef dripping into pieces, and mi.\- them ■well with the flour, rubbing both together till you have a fine powder. Then make a hole in the middle of tlie flour, and pour in water enough to make a smooth and flexible paste. Sprinkle the pasteboard with flour, and your hands also, take out the lump of paste, roll i: out, fold it together again, and roll it out; fold it again, and roll it out—i.c., roll it three limes : the last time it should be o; the thickness required for your crust, that is, about a quarter of an inch, or even thinner. It is then ready for use. Or, a still Plainer Crust for Children. 401. One pound of flour; five or six ounces of clarified beef dripping ; and a cupful of water. Put the flour into a bowl, and work it into a smooth paste with about a cupful of water. Divide the clarified dripping into three parts, roll out the paste, and put over it, in rows, one portion of the dripping broken into pieces the size of a bean ; flour it, fold over the edges, and again roll it ; repeat this folding, spreading, and rolling tliree times, dredging a very little flour over the paste and rolling-pin each time. It will be fit for any common purpose, or for children. Common Puff Paste. 402. One pound of sifted flour ; a quarter of a pound of lard ; half a teaspoonful of salt; half a pound of butter. Put one pound of sifted flour on the slab, or in an earthen basin, make a hollow in the centre, work into it a quarter of a pound of lard and half a teaspoonful of salt. ^Vhen it is mixed through the flour, add as much cold water as will bind it together, then strew a little flour over the pasteboard- or table ; flour the rolling-pin, and roll out tlie paste to half an inch in thickness; divide half a pound of butter in three parts ; spread one evenly over the paste, fold it up, dredge a little flour over it and the paste- slab or table; roll it out again, spread another portion of the butter over, and fold and roll again ; so continue until all the butter is used ; roll it out to a quarter of an inch in thickness for use. Suet Crust for Puddings. 403. One pound of flour ; six ounces of kcef suet; a cupful of cold water. Strip the skin from the suet, chop it as fine .as possible, rub it well into the flour, mix it with a knife, work it to a very smooth ]3astc with a cupful of water, and roll it out for use. Conger-Eel Pie. Time, to bake, rather more than one hour. 404. A piece of conger-eel ; a quart of water ; a quarter of an onion ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; pepper, salt, and spice ; a sprig of parsley ; four sage-leaves ; fifteen oysters ; half a pound of puff p.aste. Cut a piece of a moderate-sized conger into pieces of convenient .size, take out the bone, and put it on the fire with any odd bits of the fish there may be to spare, with a quart of water, a quarter of an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a little spice, and let it simmer to make the gravy. Season the pieces of conger with pepper and salt, and roll them in parsley and sage minced fine. Arrange them in a pie-dish, pour in the gravy (which should be strong enough to jelly when cold), put the oysters on the top, and pour in their liquor, cover the pie with a good puff paste, and bake it in a moderate oven. Potato Pasty. Time, nearly two hours. 405. One pound and a half of rumpsteak ; a large cupful of stock or gravy ; a piece of butter the size of an egg ; pepper and salt to taste ; a few spoonfuls of milk ; some mashed potatoes. Cut about a pound and a half of rump- steak into thin slices, season it with pepper and salt to taste, lay it at the bottom of a Pedro-pan, and put small pieces of butter on the top, pour in a large cupful of stock or gravy, and put on tlie perforated plate. Mash some fine mealy potatoes w'ith a few spoonfuls of milk, and fill up tlie whole space to the top of tlie tube of the pan, press the potato down, and mark it with a knife in any form you please. Bake it in a moderate oven a delicate colour. Send it to table with a folded napkin round it, and when served lift up the plate of potatoes. Plain Beefsteak Pie. Time, one hour and a half. 406. Two pounds and a half of beefsteak ; a little pepper, salt, and Cayenne ; a little water, or gravy if you have it ; one table- spoonful of Worcestershire sauce ; the yolk of one egg ; half a pound of paste. Cut the steak into small pieces with .a very little fat, dip each piece into flour, place them in a pic-dish, sc.asoning eachMutton^ Veal, Pork, and Rabbit Pics. o6 layer with pepper, salt, and a very little Cayenne pepper, fill the dish sufficiently with slices of steak to raise the crust in the middle, half fill the dish with water or any gravy left from roast beef, and a spoonful of Worcestershire sauce ; put a border of paste round the wet edge of the pie-dish, moisten it and lay the crust over it. Cut the paste even with the edge of the pie-dish allround, ornament it with leaves of paste, and brush it over with the beaten yolk of an egg. Make a hole with a knife in the top, and bake it in a hot oven. Mutton Pie. Time, to bake, one hour and a half or two hours. 407. Two pounds of a loin of mutton ; pepper and salt ; a little forcemeat ; three mutton kidneys ; and gravy made from the bones ; paste. Strip off the meat from the bones of a loin of mutton without dividing it, and cut it into nice thin slices, and season them with pepper and salt ; put a pie-crust round the edge of a pie-dish, place in it a layer of mutton, then one of forcemeat, and again the slices of mutton with three or four halves of kidneys at equal distances; then pour in a gravy made from the bones seasoned and well cleared from fat. Moisten the edge with water. Cover with a paste half an inch thick, press it round with your thumbs, make a hole in the centre, and cut the edges close to the dish, ornament the top and border according to your taste, and bake it. Veal and Oyster Pie. Time, to bake, one hour and a half. 408. One pound and a half of veal cut- lets ; three-quarters of a pound of ham ; half a hundred of oysters ; a cupful of weak gravy or broth ; peel of half a lemon ; pepper and salt; puff paste. Cut a pound and a half of veal into small neat cutlets, and spread over each a thin layer of minced or pounded ham, season them with pepper, salt, and grated lemon peel, and roll each cutlet round. Line the edge of a pie-dish with a good paste, put a layer of rolled veal at the bot- tom, over the veal a layer of oysters, then of veal, and the oysters on the top ; make a gravy with a cupful of weak gravy or broth, the peel of half a lemon, the oyster liquor strained, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; cover a crust over the top, ornament it in any way approved, egg it over, and bake it in a moderate oven. When done, more gravy may be added by pouring it through the hole on the top through a funnel. and replacing an ornament on it after the gravy is added. Cheshire Pork Pie. Time, one hour and a half. 409. Two pounds of pork ; three ounces of butter ; si.v or eight pippins ; two ounces of sugar : pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; half a pint of white wine ; enough puff paste. Take the skin and fat from a loin of pork, and cut it into thin steaks ; season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; line a pie- dish with puff paste, put in a layer of pork, then of pippins pared and cored, and about two ounces of sugar ; then place in another layer of pork, and half a pint of white wine, and lay some butter on the top ; cover it over with puff paste, pass a knife through the top to leave an opening, cut the paste even with the dish, egg it once, and bake it. Chicken Pie. Time, to bake, one hour and a quarter. 410. Two small chickens ; some force- meat ; a sweetbread ; a few fresh mush- rooms ; a cupful of good gravy ; a little flour and butter; four eggs; some puff paste. Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with a puff paste, upon that round the side, lay a thin layer of forcemeat; cut two small chickens into pieces, season them highly with pepper and salt ; put some of tke pieces into the dish, then some sweetbread cut into pieces and well seasoned, a few fresh mushrooms, and the yolks of four or five hard-boiled eggs cut into four pieces, and strewed over the tops. Put in a little water, and cover the pie with a piece of puff paste, glaze it, ornament the edge, and bake it. When done, pour in through the hole in the top a cupful of good gravy, thickened with a little flour and butter. A Plain Eabbit Pie. Time, to bake, one hour and a quarter. 411. A large rabbit; three-quarters of a pound of rather fat bacon; a sprig of parsley ; pepper, salt, and one shallot; puff paste. Skin and wash a fine large rabbit; cut a into joints, and divide the head. Then place it in warm water to soak until tho- roughly clean ; drain it on a sieve, or wipe it with a clean cloth Season it with p>epper and salt, a sprig of parsley chopped fine, and one shallot if the flavour is lik^ (but it is equally good w'ithout it). Cut theTjacon into small pieces, dredge the rabbit with flour, and place it w'ith the bacon in a pie- dish, commencing with the inferior parts of the rabbit. Pour in a small cupful of water,Venison Pasty—Lark^ Sparroiv^ Pigeon, and Rook Pic. 97 or stock if you have it ; put a paste border round the edges of the dish, and cover it with puff paste about half an inch thick. Omament and glaze the top, make a hole in the centre, and bake it. Venison Pasty. Time, to stew, three hours and a half ; three hours to bake. 412. A neck, or shoulder of venison ; a quarter of a pint of port wine ; three shal- lots ; three blades of mace ; pepper and salt ; nine allspice ; a little veal stoclc or broth : raised pie crust. For the gravy.—A glass of port wine ; juice of a small lemon ; a piece of butter, and flour; some stock from the stewed venison. Take either of the above parts of venison, remove the bones and skin, and cut it into small square pieces. Put them into a stew- pan with three shallots, pepper, salt, mace, and allspice. Add a quarter of a pint of port wine, and sufficient veal broth, or stock to cover it; put it on a gentle fire, and let it stew until three-parts done. Then take out the neatest pieces of venison for the pasty, and put them into a deep dish, in a ' cold place, with a little of the gravy poured ' over them. Pour the remainder of the ; gp"avy over the bones, &c., and boil it for a ■ quarter of an hour. Cover the pasty with : some raised pie crust, ornament the top i in any way you please, and bake it in a : slow oven. Wlien done, have ready the 1 gravy left from the bones, strain and skim it I clean, add a glass of port wine, the juice of . a small lemon, and a piece of butter rolled i in flour. Pour it into the pasty, and serve. Pie of Larks or Sparrows. Time, to bake, one hour and a half. 413. A dozen small birds ; a mmpsteak ; a small bunch of savoury herbs ; the peel of : half a lemon ; a slice of stale bread ; half . a cupful of milk ; six eggs ; pepper and • salt; two ounces of butter ; puff paste. Make a forcemeat with the slice of bread = soaked in milk, and beaten up, a small bunch of savoury herbs chopped fine, and • the peel of half a lemon minced, a season- ing of pepper and salt, a piece of butter, and the yolks of six eggs ; mix all together, : put it into a stewpan and stir it over the fire ■ for a few minutes until it becomes very stiff, ■ then fill the inside of each bird. Line a : pie-dish with the mmpsteak, seasoned with •piepper and salt and fried lightly ; place the thirds on it, cover them with the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, and pour in a sufficient quantity of gr.avy. Put a ; paste round the edge of the dish and cover it over with the same, glaze it with the yolk of an egg brushed over it, make a hole in the top, and bake it. A Plain Pigeon Pie. Time, to bake, one hour and a quarter. 414. Two or three pigeons ; a rumpsteak ; pepper and salt; a little gravy ; two ounces of butter ; puff paste. Lay a rim of paste round the sides and edge of a pie-dish, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over the bottom, and put in a thin beefsteak ; pick and draw the pigeons, wasb them clean, cut off the feet, and press the legs into the sides ; put a bit of butter, and a seasoning of pepper and salt in the inside of each, and lay them in the dish with their breasts upwards, and the necks and gizzards between them ; sprinkle some pepper and salt over them, and put in a wineglass of water; lay a thin sheet of paste over the top, and with a brush wet it all over ; then put a puff paste half an inch thick over that, cut it close to the dish, brush it over with egg, ornament the top, and stick four of the feet out of it, and bake it. When done, pour in a little good gravy. You may put in the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, or leave out the beefsteak, if you think proper. Book Pie. Rooks must be skinned and stewed in milk and water before being put into the pie-dish; they may then be treated as pigeons. Epicures assert that only the breast must be used, but if when the rook is drawii and skinned it is laid on its breast and an incision made on each side of the spine of about a finger width, and that piece removed, the whole of the bird is wholesome food, that being the really bitter part. 415. Four rooks ; half a pound of puff paste; pepper ; salt ; three hard-boiled eggs : about two ounces of butter ; a sma)' piece of mmpsteak. Lay the mmpsteak in the pie-dish, cut the rooks as directed, and lay them in the dish well seasoned, add the butter in knobs and some hard-boiled eggs. Bake as you would a pigeon pie. Oyster Patties. Time, twenty minutes in all. 416. Light puff paste ; two dozen large oysters ; one ounce of butter rolled in flour; half a gill of good cream ; a little grated lemon peel; a little Cayenne pepper ; salt; one teaspoonful of lemon juice. Roll out puff paste less than a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into squares with a knife, n9^ Lobster Patties—Beefsteak Pudding. cover wiili it eight or ten patty-pans, and put upon each a bit of bread the size of a walnut; roll out another layer of paste of the same thickness, cut it as above, wet the edge of the bottom paste and put on the top, pare them round and notch them about a dozen times with the back of the knife, mb them lightly with yolk of egg, and bake them in a hot oven about a quarter of an hour. When done, take a thin slice off the top, and with a small knife or spoon t;;kc out the bread and the inside paste, leaving the outside quite entire. Parboil two dozen large oysters, strain them from their liquor, wash, beard, and cut them into four, put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter rolled in flour, half a gill of good cream, a little grated lemon peel, the oyster liquor strained and reduced by boil- ing to one half, a little Cayenne pepper and salt, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice ; stir it over the fire five minutes, fill the patties, put the cover on the top, and serve. lobster Patties. Time, twenty minutes. 417. Some puff paste ; a hen lobster; one ounce of butter ; half a tablespoonful of cream ; half a tablespoonful of veal gravy ; one teaspoonful of essence of an- chovy ; the same of lemon juice ; one table- spoonful of flour and water ; a little Cay- enne pepper and salt. Roll out the puff paste about a quarter of an inch thick, and prepare the patty-pans as for oyster patties ; take a hen lobster already boiled, pick the meat from the tail and claws, and chop it fine, put it into a stew- pan with a little of the inside spawn pounded in a mortar until quite smooth, with an ounce of butter, the halfspoonful of cream, the same of veal gravy, essence of anchovy, lemon juice, Cayenne pepper, and salt, and a tablespoonful of flour and water. Let it stew five minutes, fill the patties, and serve. Veal and Ham Patties. Time, a quarter of an hour. 418. Six ounces of ready dressed lean veal ; three ounces of ham ; one ounce of butter rolled in flour ; one tablespoanful of cream ; one of veal stock ; a little grated nutmeg and lemon peel ; some Cayenne pepper and salt; a spoonful of essence of ham : one of lemon juice ; puff paste. Chop about six ounces of ready dressed lean veal, and three ounces of ham, very small, put it into a stewpan with an ounce of butter rolled in flour, a tablespoonful of cream, the same of veal stock, a little grated nutmeg and lemon peel, some Cayenne pepper and salt, a spoonful of essence of ham and lemon juice. Mix all well together and stir it over the fire until quite hot, taking care it does not burn. Prepare the patty-pans as for oyster patties, and bake theiq in a hot oven for a quarter of an hour; fill with the mixture and serve. Moulded Veal, or Veal Cake. Time, half an hour to bake. 419. Slices of cold roast veal; slices of ham ; three eggs ; some gravy ; two sprigs of parsley ; pepper and salt. Cut a few slices of ham and veal very thin, taking off the skin from the veal, chop two sprigs of parsley fine, and cut the eggs hard-boiled into slices. Take any nice shaped mould, butter it, and put the veal, ham, eggs, and parsley in layers until the mould is full, seasoning each layer with a little pepper and salt, placing a few slices of egg at the bottom of the mould at equal distances, fill up with good stock and bake it. When cold turn it out, and serve on a folded napkin, garnished with flowers cut out of carrots, turnips, and a little parsley Beefsteak Pudding. Time, to boil, two hours, or a little longer. 420. One pound and a quarter of flour ; half a pound of chopped suet; one tea- spoonful of salt; two pounds of steak ; salt and black pepper to taste ; one gill of water. Put a pound, or a little more, of flour in a basin, and mix it thoroughly with some very finely-chopped suet ; put in a good heaped saltspoonful of salt. Mix it to a paste with water ; flour the pasteboard, the roller, and your hands. Take out the lump of paste, and roll it out about half an inch thick. Butter a round-bottomed pudding-basii), line it with paste, turning a little over the edge. Cut up the steak into small pieces, with a little fat, flour them slightly, season highly with pepper and salt, then lay them in the basin, pour over them a gill of water. Roll out the rest of the paste, cover it over the top of the basin, pressing it down with the thumb. Tie the basin in a floured pudding-cloth, and put it into a saucepan in a gallon of boiling water, keep it continually boiling for nearly tw'o liours, occasionally adding a little more water. Take it up, untie the cloth, turn the pudding over on the dish, and take the basin carefully from it. Ser\'e- Some persons, of delicate digestion, like this pudding boiled without a basin, on account of the superior lightness the crustMeat Puddings. 99 thusSvquires, but it docs not look nearly as well when served. Beefsteak and Kidney Pudding-. Time, to boil, two hours. 421. One pound of rumpsteak; one beef kidney ; pepper and salt; and a little flour ; suet paste. Take a pound of nice tender beef, or rumpsteak and beef kidney, cut them into pieces about a quarter of an inch thick, season them well with pepper and sal:, and dredge a little flour over them. Lightly butter a round-bottomed pudding-basin, roll out the paste to about half an inch in thickness, and line the basin, then put in the beef and kidney, pour in three or four tablespoonfuls of water, cover a piece of paste over the top, press it firmly together with your thumb, then tie the pudding- basin in a floured cloth, and put it into a saucepan with about four quarts of water ; keep it constantly boiling, adding more boihng water if required. Mutton Pudding. Time, to boil, rather more than two hours. 422. One pound and a half to two pounds of chump-end of the loin of mutton ; one dessertspoonful of chopped parsley and onion; a teaspoonful of salt and black pepper, mixed; six potatoes, raw; suet paste. Make a paste as for beefsteak pudding. Cut the meat in slices, season it with the herbs, pepper, and salt. Put a layer of meat in the basin, then one of slices of raw potatoes, till the basin is full. Cover it with the crust, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil it in sufficient water. Veal Pudding. Time, one hour, to boil. 423. One pound and a half of veal; three slices of bacon ; a piece of butter the size of an egg ; pepper and salt; a small bunch of thyme ; two or three spoonfuls of water ; suet paste. Cut about two pounds of lean veal into small collops a quarter of an inch in thick- ness, put a piece of butter the size of an egg into ft very clean frying-pan to melt, then lay in the veal and a few slices of bacon, a small sprig of thyme, and a sea- soning of pepper and salt, place the pan over a slow fire for about ten minutes, then add two or three spoonfuls of warm water. Just boil it up, and then let it stand to cool. Line a pudding-basin with a good suet crust, lay in the veal and bacon, pour the gravy over it, roll out a piece of paste to form a lid, place it over, press it close with the thumb, tie the basin in a pudding-cloth, and put it into a saucepan of boiling water, keeping it continually boiling until done. Pork Pudding. Time, to boil, two hours and a half. 424. One pound and a half of pork ; three- quarters of a pound of sausage-meat ; a few leaves of sage ; one onion ; pepper and salt; suet crust. Line the pudding basin as before directed, and lay in the slices of pork, add the sausage- meat or slices of a raw sausage, season highly, cover with the crust, and boil in a floured cloth. Puddings may also be made in a similar manner from ox-kidney shced, and mutton kidneys. Rabbit Pudding. Time, two hours to boil. 425. A small rabbit; a few slices of bacon, or ham ; pepper and salt ; suet paste. Cut a small rabbit into small neat pieces, and have ready a few slices of bacon, or ham. Line a basin with a good suet emst. Lay in the pieces of rabbit with the bacon, or ham intermixed, season to your taste with pepper and salt, and pour in a cupful of water. Cover the crust over the top, press it securely with the thumb and finger, and boil it. Suet Pudding. Time, to boil, one hour and .a quarter. 426. One pound of flour ; half a pound of beef suet; one egg ; a pinch of salt ; a gill of water. Mi.x the flour very dry with finely chopped suet; add the eggs and a pinch of salt; make it into a paste with the water, beating it all rapidly together with a wooden spoon. Flour a pudding cloth, put the paste into it, tie the cloth tightly, and plunge it into boil ing water. The shape may be either a roll or a round ball. When it is done,untiethc cloth, turn the pudding out, and serve very hot.100 VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE PUREES, SALALS, AND SALAD MIXTURE. To Steam Potatoes. Time, twenty to forty minutes. 427. Pare the potatoes thin, and throw them into cold water for about five minutes; put them in the strainer over tlie saucepan filled with boiling water, and let them steam from twenty to forty minutes, or until a fork goes through them easily. Take them up, And serve them quickly, or they will lose their colour. To Boil Potatoes. Time, eighteen to twenty minutes after the water boils ; large ones, half an hour. 428. Pare some potatoes as near the same size as possible, and throw them into cold water. Then put them into a saucepan, cover them with cold water and a pinch of salt. When the water boils, check it several times by throwing cold water in, as the slower they are boiled the better. When done, throw away the water, and sprinkle a little salt over them. Put them at the side of the fire to dry, with the lid of the sauce- pan off, and then serve them quickly on a napkin uncovered, or with the lid of the vegetable dish raised. To Boil Potatoes witli their Skins on. Time, twenty to twenty-five minutes after the water boils ; three-quarters of an hour, or longer, if very large. 429. Choose the potatoes as nearly the same size as possible. Wash and scrub them thoroughly clean, put them into a saucepan, just cover them with water and a little salt. Bring them to boil, and then draw the saucepan to the side, and let them simmer slowly until tender and sufficiently done, which may be ascertained by trying them with a fork. Then drain the water from them, raise the lid, and let them dry by the side of the fire. Peel them carefully and quickly, and serve them in a very hot vegetable dish, with or without a napkin. To Mask Potatoes Time, half an hour, or three-quarters ot an hour if large. 430. Potatoes ; a piece of butter ; a little milk and salt. Old potatoes, when unfit for boiling, may be served mashed. Cut out all imperfections, take off all the skin, and lay them in cold water for a hour; then put them into an iron saucepan with a teaspoonful of salt, eovor them with water, and let them boil for half an hour, unless they are large, when three-quarters of an hour will be required. When done, drain the water thoroughly from them, put them into a wooden bowl or mortar, and mash them fine with a potato pestle. Melt a piece of butter the size of a large egg with a little milk ; mix it with the mashed potatoes until it is thoroughly in- corporated, and they are become a smooth mash, taking care the potatoes are not too wet. Then put the mash into a dish, smooth it neatly with a knife, and serve. Or it may be greatly improved by browning it in the oven, or in a dutch oven before the fire. Or you may rub them through a coarse sieve, and brown them with a salamander, with- out smoothing them over. To Boil New Potatoes. 'I'ime, a quarter to half an hour. 431. Rub the skins from new potatoes and lay them in cold water for an hour or two, then put them into an iron saucepan and cover them with water ; cover them ovef and let them boil for half an hour. Try one ; if not quite done, cover them for a few minutes longer. Then drain the water off, let them stand for a couple of minutes over the fire to dry, and send them to table plain; or you may pour a little melted butter over them. Baked Potatoes. Time, one hour. 432. Take as many large and equally sized potatoes as you wish, wash them per- fectly clean in two or three changes of water, then wipe them dry, and put them in a quick oven for one hour. Ser\'e them on a napkin with cold butter, and pepper and salt separately. Fried Potatoes. Time, to fry, ten minutes. 433. Boil some potatoes in their skins; when cold, peel them and cut them in slices a quarter of an inch thick, and fry them in butter, or beef dripping, a nice delicate brown. When done, take them out witli a slice to drain any grease from them, and serve piled high on a dish ; or they may be chopped up small, seasoned with a little pepper and salt, and fried lightly in butter, turning them several times that they may be nicely browned. Sen’e in a covered dish.lor To Boil Vcgciahlcs. Dressed Potatoes—A Nice Supper Dish. Time, to roast, one hour. 434. Some of the largest potatoes ; one tablespoonful of cheese ; pepper and salt; a little flour ; two ounces of fresh butter. Take some of the largest potatoes, roast them well, cut off the tops, and scoop out the inside completely. Rub this qu.te fine through a sieve, and add a tablespoonful of grated cheese, pepper, and salt. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the potato flour, and make it hot, fill the skins of the potatoes with it, put them into the oven, and serve them up quite hot. To Brown Potatoes under Meat. 435. Boil some fine large mealy potatoes, take off the skins carefully, and” about an hour before the meat is cooked put them into the dripping-pan, having well dredged them with flour. Before serving, drain them from any grease, and serve them up hot. To Boil Green Peas, Time, twelve to fifteen minutes if young ; twenty to twenty-five minutes if large. 436. Half a peck of peas ; a knob of butter ; a sprig or two of mint ; and a tea- spoonful of white sugar, if you like. Shell half a peck of green peas, and put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a teaspoonful of salt, and a sprig or two of mint, let them boil about half an hour with the pan closely covered. When tender, drain them through a colander, and put them in a dish with a bit of butter stirred into them, a very little pepper, and the sprigs of mint on the top. Serve them up very hot. To Boil Carrots. Time, twenty minutes; if large, onehourand a half to one hour and three-quarters. 437. When young and small, carrots need only be washed without scraping, and the skin wiped off if necessary after tliey are boiled. Put them into a stewpan with hot water to cover them and half a spoonful of salt. Let them boil fast for twenty minutes, then take them out, witli a clean cloth rub off the skins, and put them whole into the dish. If old carrots, scrape the skins very clean, and wash them ; if large, cut them in slices, and boil them in plenty of soft water till they are tender. Put them in a dish and serve. Mashed Carrots (American). Time, to boil the carrots, one hour and a half to one hour and three-quarters. 438. Some carrots ; butter; pepper, and salt. Scrape off all the skin, wash them well. and boil them tender in a stewpan of boiling water. Then take them up with askimmei; mash them smooth, add a piece of butter, and season with pepper and salt. Place them in the centre of a dish, piled up, and marked over with a knife. Serve with boiled or roast meat. To Boil Artichokes. Time, half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. 439. Tw'O tablespoonfuls of salt, and a piece of soda the size of a sixpeaice to every gallon of water. Gather the artichokes two or three days before they are required for use. Cut off the stems, pull out the strings, and wash them in two or three waters that no insects may be in them. Have a large saucepan of boiling water with the above quantities of salt and soda. Put the artichokes with the tops downwards, and let them boil quickly until tender. About half an hour or three- quarters will boil them, but that can be ascertained by pulling out one of the leaves ; (if it comes out easily they are done) or by trying them with a fork. Take them out, and lay them upside down to drain. Serve them on a napkin, with a tureen of melted butter, allowing a teacupful to each arti- choke. They may also be served without a napkin on a hot dish, with white sauce poured over them. To Boil Jerusalem Artichokes. Time, twenty minutes. 440. To each gallon of water, two table- spoonfuls of salt. Wasli the artichokes very clean, peel and cut them into a round, or oval form, and put them into a large saucepan of cold water, with the salt and water in tlie above proportions. They will take about twenty minutes from the time the water boils to be- come tender. When done, drain them, and serve them with a little wliite sauce, or melted butter poured over them. Or on a napkin, with melted butter in a separate tureen. To Boil Asparagus. Time, fifteen to eighteen minutes after the water boils. 441. One tablespoonful of salt to half a gallon of water. Scrape very clean all the white part of the stalks from the asparagus, and throw them into cold spring water, tie them up in bundles, cut the root ends even, .and put them in a piece of muslin to preserve the tops. Have a wide stewpan of .springTo Boil Vegetables. 102 water, with the above proportion of salt; and when it boils, lay in the asparagus, and boil it quickly for fifteen minutes, or until it is tender. Have a thin slice from a loaf nicely toasted, cut it in square pieces, dip Miem in the asparagus water, and put them in the dish. Take up the asparagus, lay it on the toast with the white ends outwards, and the points meeting in the centre. Serve f'ith melted butter in a tureen. To Boil Cauliflowers. Time, twelve to fifteen minutes, longer if very large. 442. A tablespoonful of salt to each gal- lon of water. Make choice of some cauliflowers that are close and white, pick off all the decayed leaves, and cut the stalk off flat at the bot- tom ; then put them with the heads down- wards in strong salt and water for an hour, to draw out all the insects. Drain them in a colander, and put them into a saucepan with plenty of fast boiling water, keep the pan uncovered, and boil them quickly until tender, which will be from twelve to fifteen minutes, or longer if they are very large. Skim the water clean, and when done, take them up with a slice, and serve, with sauce in a separate tureen. To Boil Brocoli. Time, ten to fifteen minutes if small; twenty to twenty-five minutes if large. 443. Two or three heads of brocoli; two quarts of water ; and a little salt. Strip off all the dead outside leaves, and cut the inside ones even with the flower; cut off the stalk close, and put them into cold salt and water for an hour before they are dressed to cleanse them from all insects ; put them into a large saucepan of boiling salt and water, and boil them quickly for about twelve or fifteen minutes with the pan uncovered. When tender, take them care- fully out, drain them dry, and serve them with a little melted butter poured over them, and some in a separate tureen. To Boil large Cabbages. Time, half an hour to three-quarters. 444. A tablespoonful of salt to half a gallon of watcT. Pick off all the dead leaves, and cut the stalk as close as possible from the cabbages ; rut them across at the stalk end, or if very large divide them into quarters. Soak them /I cold water to get out any insects, and ilrain them dry ; then put them into plenty t)f fast boiling water, with the salt and a very rmall piece of soda ; press them down in vvater once or twice, keep them un- covered, and let them boil quickly until tender. When done, lake them up into a colander to drain, covering them over, and, when dry, sen.'e them neatly arranged on a hot dish. To Boil Brussels Sprouts. Time, ten to twelve minutes after the water boils. 445. Some sprouts ; a tablespoonful of salt; half a gallon of water. Pick carefully off all the dead leaves from a pint of Brussels sprouts, and wash them clean ; then put them into a saucepan of boiling salt and water, with a very small piece of soda. Boil them very quickly, with the pan uncovered, until tender; then drain them through a colander, and serve them arranged in a light pile in the centre of the dish, with a tureen of melted butter. Cabbage with Forcemeat—a la Francaise. 446. A large cabbage ; a slice of bacon ; a sprig of thyme ; two carrots ; one bay- leaf : some gravy ; pepper and salt; minced meat or forcemeat. Take off the outer leaves, and cut off the stalk from a fine cabbage ; scald it in hot water for ten minutes, make a hole in the middle, by the side of the stalk, and fill it and between each leaf\'i\'d\ minced beef, or mutton highly seasoned, or with some sau- sage forcemeat, bind it round neatly, and stand it in a stewpan with some gravy, a slice of bacon, a sprig of thyme, the ba}'- leaf, and two carrots ; let all stew gently, and when done place the cabbage on a dish, untie the string, and pour the strained gra\-y round it. Garnish with carrots and turnips, and serve it up very hot. To Boil Spinach. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to boil the spi- nach ; four or five minutes to warm. 447. Two large basketfuls of spinach ; a piece of butter the size of an egg ; pepper and salt. Pick the spinach very clean, and put it into several waters until not a particle of grit is remaining; then put it into a irn'large saucepan, with just sufficient water to pre- vent its buiTiing, sprinkling in a large spoon- ful of salt. Press it down with a wooden spoon several times, and when it is quite tender, drain it in a colander, and chop it up very fine ; then put it into a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of an egg, and a little pepper. Stir it over the fire until very hot, put it into a dish, and garnish with sippets of bread, or press it into a hot mould and turn it carefully out. Lay poached eggs at the top.To Boil Vegetables. JO3 Boiled Turnips. Time, one hour to one hour und a quarter ; young ones, twenty minutes. 448. Turnips ; a spoonful of salt to every half gallon of water. Pare the turnips, and cut them into quar- ters, put them into a stewpan of boiling water, and salt in the above proportion, and boil them until quite tender; then drain them dry, and rub them through a colander with a wooden spoon (add a tablespoonful or two of cream, or milk), and put them into another stewpan with a large piece of butter and a little white pepper ; stir them over the fire until thoroughly mixed and very hot. Dish them up, and serve them with boiled mutton, &c. Turnips may be served whole, plainly boiled, if very young. To Boil French Beans. Time, moderate size, fifteen to twenty minutes. 449. French beans ; a little salt; and water. Take as many French beans as you may require, cut off the tops and bottoms, and rem.ove the strings from each side ; then divide each bean into three or four pieces, cutting them lengthways, and as they are cut put them into cold water with a little salt. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, drain the beans from the cold water, and put them in. Boil them quickly with the saucepan uncovered, and as soon as they are done drain them in a colander. Di.sh and serve them with a small piece of butter stirred into them. To Boil Broad Be'.ns. Time, a quarter of an hour if young ; twenty to twenty-five minutes if of a moderate size. 450. One peck of beans ; one tablespoon- ful of salt; and half a gallon of water. After shelling the beans put them into a saucepan of boiling salt and water, and boil them quickly for a quarter of an hour if young, or longer if of a moderate size. When done, drain them on a colander, and serve them with parsley and butter in a separate tureen. Boiled bacon should always be served with broad beans. To Boil Haricot Beans. Time, two hours to two hours and a half. 451. One quart of beans ; a piece of butter the size of a walnut; half a gallon of water; a spoonful of salt. Shell a quart of haricot beans, and soak them in cold water for three or four hours; then put them into a large pan of cold water and salt in the above proportions, and when boiling, draw them to the side to simmer for two hours, or longer, if necessary. When done, drain the water from them, and let them stand uncovered until dry; then add a seasoning of pepper and salt, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; shake them over the fire for a few minutes until hot; then turn them carefully out without breaking the haricots, and serve them quickly. To Boil Beetroot. Time, one hour, one hour and a half, or two hours. 452. Beetroot; vinegar; salt; and pepper. Winter beets should be soaked over night, and before boiling washed very clean ; then put them into a stewpan of boiling water, and boil them quickly. If not very large, one hour will be sufficient for them, but if large, a longer time must be allowed. When done, put them into cold water, and rub off the sldns with your hands ; then cut them into thin slices, put them into a dish, and pour over them some cold vinegar; add a little salt and pepper. If served with cold or boiled meat, mix a large tablespoonful of butter with a cupful of vinegar ; season with pepper and salt, make it very hot, and pour it over the beet- roots. If beetroot is in the least cut or broken be- fore dressed, the colour will be gone entirely. Boiled Vegetable Marrow. Time, ten to twenty minutes. 453. Some marrows ; one tablespoonful of salt to half a gallon of water. Peel the marrows and put them into a saucepan of boiling water and salt. When tender, take them out, cut them into quarters if large, if not, halve them. Seiwe them in a vegetable-dish on toast, with a tureen of melted butter sent to table with them. Vegetable Marrows—Another Way. Time, ten or twenty minutes ; if large, half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. 454. Some vegetable marrows; two ounces of butter ; a little salt ; and some melted butter. Cut the marrows into four or six pieces ; peel them neatly, and boil them in a stew- pan of water with a little salt, and about two ounces of fresh butter. When done, drain them on a sieve, and serve them on a hot dish with some melted butter iiourcd over them ; or the marrows may be cut in halves, and shaped at the top in a point, aj for Jcru.salem artiehnkes. When done, ap104 To Boil and Stczv Vegetables. \ange on a dish, with white sauce poured over them. Vegetable Marrow Eissoles. Time, about half an hour. 455- One or two large vegetable marrows ; some well-seasoned minced beef; and a little good gravy. Pare the marrows very thin, cut them across, take out the seeds, and fill the centre with well-seasoned minced beef or veal ; if the latter, add a little minced lemon peel, tie them securely together, and stew them in a little good gravy made from the beef bones. Serve on a hot dish with the gravy poured round them. Parsnips Boiled. Time, one hour to one hour and a half; if small, half an liour to one hour. 456. A tablespoonful of salt to half a gallon of water. If the parsnips are young they require only to be scraped before boiling ; old ones must be pared thin and cut into quarters. Put them into a stewpan of boiling salt and water, boil them quickly until tender, take them up, drain them, and serve in a vege- table dish. They are generally sent to table with boiled beef, pork, or salt cod, and also added as a garnish with boiled carrots. Parsnip Fritters. Time, one hour and a half to boil, if large ; if small, half an hour to one hour. 457. Four or five parsnips ; a teaspoonful of flour ; one egg ; some butter or beef dripping. Boil four or five parsnips until tender, take off the skins and mash them very fine, add to them a teaspoonful of flour, one egg well beaten, and a seasoning of salt. Make the mixture into small cakes with a spoon, and fry them on botli sides a delicate brown in boiling butter or beef dripping. When both sides are done, serve them up very hot on a napkin, or hot dish, according to your taste. These resemble very much the salsify or oyster plant, and will generally be liked. Parsnips Boiled and Browned under Boast Beef. Time, half an hour to one hour; one hour to one hour and a half, according to size. 458. Parsnips ; one large spoonful of salt to five pints of water ; pepper and salt. Wash and scrape the j^arsnips, and if very (arge cut them across. Put them into boil- ng salt and water, and boil them very quickly antil tender. Take them up, drain them dry, and place them in the dripping j3an under roast beef, dust over them a little pepper and salt, and let them brown nicely. Serve them in a separate dish, with a few as garnish round the meat. To Stew Onions Brown. Time, two hours. 459. Some Portugal onions; good beef gravy. Strip off the skin and trim the ends neatly, taking care not to cut the onions ; place them in a stewpan that will just hold them in one layer, cover them with some very good beef gravy, and let them stew very slowly for two hours, or until they arc perfectly tender without breaking. The onions may be dredged lightly with flour, and fried a light colour before they are stewed, if preferred. To Serve Celeiy. 460. Wash the roots free from dirt, and cut off all the decayed leaves ; preser\’e as much of the stalk as you can, removing any specks, or discoloured parts. Divide it lengthwise into quarters, curl the top leaves, and place it witii the roots downwards in a celery glass nearly filled with cold water. Stewed Celery. Time, one hour and twenty minutes. 461. Four heads of celery; half a pint of veal gravy ; half a pint of water ; three or four tablespoonfuls of milk. Wash four heads of celery very clean, take off the dead leaves, and cut away any spots, or discoloured parts. Cut them into pieces about two or three inches long, and stew them for nearly half an hour. Then take them out with a slice, strain the water they were stewed in, and add it to half a pint of veal gravy, mixed with three or four tablespoonfuls of cream. Put in the pieces of celery, and let tliem stew for nearly an hour longer. Serve with the sauce poured over. To Dress Cucumbers. 462. Five tablespoonfuls of vinegar; three of salad oil ; pepper and salt. Pare the cucumbers, and commence cutting them at the thick end with a sharp knife, or a cucumber cutter. Shred tliem as thin as possible on a dish, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and pour over them the above jiroportion of oil and vinegar. To Che0 36 Mu;brooms. 463. The greatest care is requisite in the choice of mushrooms, as the death of many persons has been occasioned by carelessly using the poisonous kinds of fungi. Tim eatable ones first appear very smallTo Stctv Vegetables—Salads. 105 and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and the upper part and stalk are white. As the size increrises, the under part gradually opens, and shows a fringy fur of a very fine salmon-colour, which continues more or less till the mush- room has gained some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edges and middle. Those that have luhite or yellow fur should be carefully avoided, though many of them have the same smell (but not so strong) as the right sort. Stewed Mushrooms. Time, twenty-one minutes. 464. Button mushrooms ; salt to taste ; a little butter rolled in flour; two table- spoonfuls of cream, or the yolk of one egg. Choose buttons of uniform size. Wipe them clean and white with a wet flannel, put them in a stewpan with a little water, and let them stew very gently for a quarter of an hour. Add salt to taste, work in a little flour and butter, to make the liquor about as thick as- cream, and let it boil for five minutes. When you are ready to dish it up, stir in two tablespoonfuls of cream, or the yolk of an egg, stir it over the fire for a minute, but do not let it boil, and serve. Stewed button mushrooms are very nice, either in fish stews or ragouts, or served apart to eat wth fish. Another way of doing them is to stew them in milk and water (after they are rubbed white), add to them a little veal gravy, mace, and salt, and thicken the gravy with cream or the yolks of eggs. Mushrooms with Artic^ okes. Time, about twenty minutes. 465. Six large mushrooms ; six button mushrooms ; six artichoke bottoms ; salt, butter, and flour. Clean and peel the mushrooms and cut the stalks off. Put one on each artichoke- bottom, and a button mushroom on it. Set them in a stewpan with a little water, and let them stew gently. Add salt to taste. Thicken the liquor with butter rolled in flour, and let it just boil for two or three minutes. A couple of lablespoonfuls of cream improves the liquor. Seakale. 'J'ime, twenty minutes. 466. Some toasted bread ; and melted butter. Tie the seakale up in bundles, and put it into a stewpan of boiling water with a tea- tpoonful of salt; let it boil for about twenty minutes, or until tender. Drain and serve it up on a slice of toast, with a tureen of melted butter. Salsify, or Vegetable Oyster. Time, to boil, thirty to forty minutes. 467. Six ounces of butter ; two dessert- spoonfuls of white sauce ; a little pepper and salt ; some vinegar or lemon juice. After you have washed and scraped the salsify very white, throw it into very weak vinegar and water, or lemon juice and water, for a few minutes ; then put it into a pan of boiling water with two ounces of butter, a little salt, and a tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon. When it is quite tender, put it to drain on a sieve ; then cut it into short pieces, and again put it into a stewpan with the white sauce, the remainder of the butter, and a little lemon juice. Sh.ake it over the fire for a few minutes until it is well mixed and very hot, and serve it piled high in the centre of a dish, garnished with crofltons arranged round it. Horseradish. 468. Wash the horseradish very clean, and lay it in cold water for nearly an hour ; then scrape it into very fine shreds with a sharp knife. Place some of it in a glass dish, and arrange the remainder as a gar- nish for roast beef, or many kinds of boiled fish. Salad. 469. Yolk of one or two raw eggs ; one or two young onions, or leeks ; three table- spoonfuls of salad oil; one of vinegar; some lettuce ; and slices of beetroot ; salt, and mustard. Take the yolk of one or two raw eggs, according to the size of the salad you require, beat them up well, add a little salt and mustard, and chop up one or two young onions, or leeks, about the size of grass, then add the salad oil and the vinegar, and beat the whole up into a thick sauce. Cut in the salad, and put thin slices of beetroot at the top. Sprinkle a little salt over it, and do not stir it up till the moment you use it. For a small salad three dessert- spoonfuls of oil, and one of vinegar, will do. Summer Salad. 470. Three lettuces ; a good quantity of mustard and cress ; some young radishes ; boiled beetroot; hard-boiled eggs. Wash and carefully remove the decayed leaves from the lettuces and mustard and cress, drain them well from the water, and cut tliem and the radishes into small pieces ; arrange them on a dish lightly with the mustard and cress mixed with them, andio6 Curing Bacon, Hams, &c. any of the salad mixtures you prefer poured j under, not over them. Garnish with boiled beetroot, cucumbers, and hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, and some vegetable flowers. .Slices of cold poultry, or fl.akcd fish, may be added to a summer salad, and are ex- tremely good. Lobster Salad, One hen lobster; lettuces ; endive ; mustard and cress ; radishes | beetroot; cucumber ; some hard-boiled eggs. Pour the salad mixture into the bowl,, w'ash and dry the lettuces and endive, and cut them fine ; add them to the dressing with the pickings from the body of tic lobster, and part of the meat from the shell cut into small pieces. Rub the yolks of two or three hard-boiled eggs through a sieve, and afterwards the coral of the lobster, then place the salad very lightly in the bowl, and garnish it with the coral, yolks of the hard-boiled eggs, sliced beet- root, cucumber, radishes, and the pieces of lobster. Place as a border hard-boiled eggs cut across, with the delicate leaves of the celery and endive between them. CURING BACON, HAMS, &C.-POTTING, COLLARING, &c. The important art of pickling or salting meat calls for the housekeeper’s best atten- tion. There are many modes of doing it, both in England and America. In England, North and South make bacon in a different manner. In Hampshire, Wiltshire, and Berk- shire, they singe the hog. In Yorkshire, Lin- colnshire, &'c., they scald the hog. Great care must be taken in preparing the meat for salt- ing. It must be carefully examined to see that it is fresh and good, then wiped, sprinkled with salt, and afterwards left to drain a few hours before it is rubbed with the salt. The meat will thus be thoroughly cleansed from the blood ; which wilt prevent it from turn- ing and tasting strong. It should then be placed in the pickling pan and turned every morning, r.lso it should be rubbed with the pickle. The cover of the pickling-pan should fit very closely and have a weight on it to keep it down. If a large quantity of salt meat is frequently required, the pickle may be boiled up, skimmed well, and when cold poured over any meat that has been sprinkled and well drained as above directed. To Cure Bacon. Time, three weeks. 472. One pound of saltpetre ; one pound of bay salt; one gallon of coarse salt; one pound of salprunella ; one pound of moist sugar. Pound the salprunella and bay salt very fine, mix the coarse salt and the sugar w'cll together, and rub it into your bacon, hams, and cheeks, putting all in the same brine. Turn and rub the bacon for a week every day : afterwards every other day. Let it temain in the brine three weeks, and then Send it to be smoked or dried. Large sides V)f bacon take a month to dry, small ones llirec wecKs. To Cure Hams. 473. For two large hams one pound ol common salt; three ounces of bay salt; tw'o ounces of saltpetre; one pound of coarse brown sugar; one quart of stale strong beer or ale. Boil all the above ingredients in the quart of beer or ale, and when cold pour it on the hams and turn them every d.ay for a fortnight ; then smoke them well. To Pot Beef. Time, three hours and a half. 474. Two pounds and a half of lean beef ; five ounces of butter ; pepper ; salt ; mace. Take a piece of lean beef and free it from the skin and gristle, put it intoacoveied stone jar with three dessertspoonfuls*of hot water, and stand it in a deep stewpan of boiling water to boil slowly for nearly four hours, taking care that the water does not reach to the top of the jar. When done, take it out, mince it fine, and pound it in a mortar with a seasoning of pepper, salt, and pounded mace. When smooth and like a thick paste, mix in some clarified butter and a very little of the gravy from the jar, press it into pots, pour butter over the tops, and tie down for use. To Pickle Pork. 475. One-third of saltiJctre ; two-thirds of white salt. Some people prefer pork pickled with salt alone (legs especially), others in the following manner:—Put a layer of salt at the bottom of a tub ; then mix the salt and saltpetre beaten ; cut the pork in pieces, rub it well with the salt, and lay it close in the tub, with a layer of salt between everj layer of pork till the tub is full. Have a cover, just large enough to fit the inside of I the tub, put it on, and lay a great weightPol ting. J07 at the top, and as the salt melts it will keep it close. When you want to use it take a piece out, cover the tub over again, and it will keep good a long time. To Core Neats’ Tongues. Time, ten to fourteen days. 476. Three tongues ; one ounce and a half of salpranella ; one ounce and a half of saltpetre ; one pound and a half of common salt. Take three neats’ tongues, cut off the roots without removing the fat that is under the tongue, wash them very clean, and dry them in a cloth ; then rub them well over with the saltpetre and salpnmella, and repeat this for three or four days. Cover them with a pound and a half of common salt, and let them remain for three weeks, turning them every morning. Wipe them dry, rub some dry bran over them, and hang them to smoke for a fortnight, or dress them out of the pickle. Potted Ox-tongue. 477. One pound and a half of boiled tongue; six ounces of butter; a little Cayenne; a small spoonful of pounded mace ; nutmeg and cloves. Cut about a pound and a half from an unsmoked boiled tongue, remove the rind. Pound it in a mortar as fine as possible with the butter, and the spices beaten fine. WTen perfectly pounded, and the spice well blended with the meat, press it into small potting-pans, and pour clarified Initter over the top. A little roast veal added to the potted tongue is an improvement. Hams, Tongues, and Beef, Yorkshire Fashion. 478. One pound and a half of ham sugar ; two ounces of saltpetre ; one pound of common salt; half a pound of bay salt ; two ouncas of pepper. The meat should be well rubbed over night with common salt, and well rubbed in the morning with the above ingredients. If hams, they should be rubbed before the fire every day and turned. Potted Fowl and Ham. 479. Some cold roast fowl; a quarter of a pound of lean ham ; six ounces of butter ; pepper; salt; nutmeg, and a pinch of Cayenne. Cut all the meat from a cold fowl, and Tcmove the bones, skin, &c., then cut it into shreds, with a quarter of a pound of lean ham and six ounces of butter, the pepper, salt, nutmeg, and Cayenne, and pound it all in a mortar until reduced to a smootli paste. Then mi.x it thoroughly together, fill the potting-pots, pour over them a thick layer of clarified butter, and tie them down with a bladder. Set them in a dry place, and it will keep good for some time. A little grated lemon peel is an improvement to the fowl. Potted Head. Time, five or six hours. 480. Half an ox head ; two cowhecls ; pepper, salt, and mace. Take half a head, and soak in salt and water. When well cleansed from the blood, put it with two cow-heels into a large stew- pan, and sover them with cold water. Set it over the fire, and let it boil till tender. Strain the meat from the liquor, and when cold, cut the meat and gristle into very small pieces. Take all the fat from the cold liquor in which the meat, &c., was first boiled, put the mince with it, and boil the whole slowly till perfectly tender and thick enough to jelly ; give it a quick boil, and put it in shapes. Before boiling the second time, add pepper and salt to your taste, and a little pounded mace if ap- proved. Potted Herrings. Time, two hours. 481. Herrings; white wine vinegar; a few bay-leaves. Cut off the heads and tails of the fish, clean, wash, and dry them well, sprinkle them with pepper and salt within and witliout, lay them in an earthen pan, and cover them with white wine vinegar. Set them in an oven not too hot (the roes at the top, but they are not to be eaten), till the bones are quite soft, which will be in about two hours. Some cut the fish down by the bone so as to open them, and then roll them up from the tail to the head. The bay-leaves are an improvement, and a little water may be added to the vinegar if pre- ferred. Cover them with paper. To Pot Lobsters. Time, three-quarters of an hour to one hour to boil the lobster. 482. One lobster; two ounces of butter ; Cayenne pepper ; mace and white pepper ; clarified butter. Take from a hen lobster the spawn, coral, flesh, and pickings of the head and claws, pound well and season with Cay- enne, white pepper, and mace, according to taste. Mix it to a firm paste with good melted butter. Pound and season the flesh from the tail and put it into a pot, and then fill with the other paste. Covet the top of each pot with clarified butter, and keep it in a cool place.io8 To Makc Pastes and Pastry. Potted Shrimps. 483. Shrimps ; pepper ; salt, and cloves. Shell the shrimps, season them with pepper, salt, and just a taste of pounded cloves, and put them down tight in pots, the closer the better, as it is not well for the butter to run in between them too much ; put a little butter over them, set them for a few minutes into a moderate oven, and when cold just cover them over svith clarified butter. To Collar Beef. Time, six hours and a half. 484. Eight pounds of beef ;• a bunch of savoury herbs ; a large sprig of parsley ; pepper ; salt ; allspice, and nutmeg. For the pickle.-—One ounce of saltpetre; two ounces of brown sugar; seven ounces of salt. Take about eight pounds from a thin flank of beef, and rub it well with the above proportions of salt, saltpetre, and coarse sugar; turn and rub it every morning for ten or twelve days. Tlien take out the bones and gristle, chop very fine a large sprig of parsley, and a bunch of savoury herbs, pound a dozen allspice, and add it to the herbs with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Mix it all well together, and lay it over the beef. Roll the meat up as tightly as you can in a round form. Cover it with a cloth, bind it with a wide tape, and boil it in a large quantity of water for six hours and a quarter. When done, put it between two boards, under a weight, and let it remain until cold. Then remove the tape and cloth, put a silver skewer through it, and it will be fit to ser\'e for luncheon, or breakfast. Sprats Preserved like Anchovies. 485. To half a peck of sprats allow one pound of common salt ; two ounces of bay salt; two ounces of saltpetre, one ounce of salprunella ; a pinch of cochineal. For half a peck of sprats, prepare the above seasoning pounded together in a mor- tar. If possible, the sprats should be fresh from the sea, not even wiped, unless brought from market. Arrange them in a pan, with seasoning between each layer of fish, press them tightly down, and cover them close, and in about four or six months they will be fit for use. For anchovy toast, or to make anchoNy paste, fry them in butter, turning them carefully, not to break them. Take off the heads, tails, and remove the bones, beat them to a paste, put them into pots, and pour clarified butter over them. TO MAKE PASTES AND PASTRY. German Paste. 486. Three-quarters of a pound of flour ; half a pound of butter ; half a pound of sugar ; peel of a lemon ; two eggs ; half an eggshell of water. 'Fake three-quarters of a pound of fine flour, put into it half a pound of butter, the same of powdered sugar, and the peel of a lemon gr.ated ; make a hole in the middle of he flour, break in the yolks of two eggs, re- .erving the whites, which are to be well beaten; then mix all well together. If the eggs do not sufficiently moisten the paste, add half an eggshell of water. Mix all thoroughly, but do not handle it too much. Roll it out thin, and you may use it for all sorts of pastry. Before putting it into the oven, wash over the pastry with the white of the beaten eggs, and shake over a little powdered sugar. A Light Puff Paste—American. 487. One pound of sifted flour; one pound of fresh butter; two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar; one teaspoonful of soda ; a Itttle water. Work one-fourth of the butter into the flour until it is like sand ; measure the cream of tartar and the soda, rub it through a sieve, put it to the flour, .add enough cold water to bind it, and work it smooth ; dredge flour over the pasteslab or board, nib a little flour over the rolling pin, and roll the paste to about half an inch thickness; spread over the whole surface one-third of the remaining butter, then fold it up; dredge flour over the pasteslab and rolling pin, and roll it out again ; then put another portion of the butter, and fold and roll again, and spread on the remaining butter, and fold and roll for the last lime. Very Ricli Short Crust. 488. Ten ounces of butter ; one pound of flour ; a pinch of salt; two ounces of loaf sugar ; and .a little milk. Break ten ounces of butter into a pound of flour dried and sifted, add a pinch of salt, and two ounces of loaf sugar rolled fine. Make it into a very smooth paste as lightly as possible, with two well-beaten eggs, and sufficient milk to moisten the paste.i09 To Make Tarts. Paste for Custards. 489. Six ounces of butter ; half a pound of flour; yolks of two eggs ; three table- spoonfuls of cream. Rub six ounces of butter into half a pound of flour. Mix it well together with two beaten eggs and three tablespoonfuls of cream. Let it stand a quarter of an hour ; then work it up, and roll it out very thin for use. To Ice or Glaze Pastry, or Sweet Dishes. 490. \Vhites of two eggs to three ounces of loaf sugar. To ice pastry, or any sweet dishes, break the whites of some new-laid eggs into a large soup plate, and beat them with the blade of a knife to a firm froth. When the pastry is nearly done, take it from the oven, brush it well over with the beaten egg, and sift the pounded sugar over it in the above pro- portion. Put it again into the oven to dry or set, taking care it is not discoloured. Or beat the yolks of eggs and a little warm butter well together, brush the pastry over with it when nearly baked, sift pounded sugar thickly over it, and put it into the oven to dry. For raised, or meat pies, theyo/ks of eggs must be used. Ked Currant and Raspberry Tart, rime, to bake, three-quarters of an hour. 491. A pint and a half of picked red cur- rants ; three-quarters of a pint of raspber- ries ; a quarter of a pound of moist sugar ; half a pound of puff paste. Pick the currants and raspberries from their stalks, mix them together in a pie-dish with the moist sugar. Wet the edge of the dish, place a band of puff paste round it ; wet that also. Cover the top with puff paste, pressing it round the edge with your thumbs. Cut the overhanging edge ‘ off evenly. Then scallop the edge by first chopping it in lines all round, and then giv- ing them a litt/ twist at regular intervals with the knife. Take the edges you have cut off, flour them, roll them out, and cut them into leaves to ornament the top. Egg it over and bake it. When done, dredge it with white sugar, and salamander it. Cherry Tart. Time, to bake, thirty-five to forty minutes. 492. About one pound and a half of cherries ; half a pound of short crust; moist sugar to taste. Pick the stalks from the cherries, put a tiny cup upside down in the middle of a deep pie-dish, fill round it with the fruit, and add moist sugar to taste. Lay some short crust round the edge of the dish, put on the cover as directed before, ornament the edges, and bake it in a quick oven. When ready to serve, sift some loaf sugar over the top. Gooseberry Tart. Time, to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. 493. One quart of gooseberries ; rather more tlian half a pound of short crust ; five or six ounces of moist sugar. Cut off the tops and tails from a quart of gooseberries, put them into a deep pie-dish with five or six ounces of good moist sugar, line the edge of the dish with short crust, put on the cover, ornament the edges and top in the usual manner, and bake in a brisk oven. Serve with boiled custard or a jug of good cream. Cranberry Tart. Time, to bake, three-quarters of an hour 01 one hour. 494. One quart of cranberries ; one pint of water; one pound of moist sugar ; puff paste. Pick a quart of cranberries free from all imperfections, put a pint of water to them, and put them into a stewpan, add a pound of fine brown sugar to them, and set them over the fire to stew gently until they aiu soft, then mash them with a silver spoon, and turn them into a pie-dish to become cold. Put a puff past round the edge of the dish, and cover it over with a crust; or make an open tart in a flat dish with paste all over the bottom of it and round the edge ; put in the cranberries ; lay cross bars of paste over the top, and bake. Rhubarb Tart. Time, to bake, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. 495. Some stalks of rhubarb ; one large teacupful of sugar ; some puff paste. Cut the large stalks from the leaves, strip off the outside skin, and cut the sticks into pieces half an inch long. Line a pie-dish with paste rolled rather thicker than a crown- piece, put in a layer of rhubarb, strew the sugar over it, then fill it up witli the other pieces of stalks, cover it with a rich puff paste, cut a slit in the centre, trim off the edge with a knife, and bake it in a quick oven. Glaze the top or strew sugar over it. Plain Apple Tart. Time, to bake, one hour, or, if small, half an hour. 496. Apples ; a teacupful of sugar ; peel of half a lemon or three or four cloves ; hall a pound of puff paste. Rub a pie-disli over with butter, line it110 Fruit Tarts—Mince Pies. with short pie-crust rolled thin, pare some cooking apples, cut them in small pieces, fill the pie-dish with them, strew over them a cupful of fine moist sugar, three or four cloves, or a little grated lemon peel, and add a few spoonfuls of water ; then cover with puff paste crust, trim off the edges with a sharp knife, and cut a small slit at each end, pass a gigling iron around the pie half an inch inside the edge, and bake, in a quick oven. Open Apple Tart. Time, to bake in a quick oven ; until the paste loosens from the dish. 497. One quart of sliced apples ; one tea- cupful of water ; one of fine moist sugar ; half a nutmeg ; yolk of one egg ; a little loaf sugar and milk ; puff paste. Peel and slice some cooking apples and stew them, putting a small cupful of water and the same of moist sugar to a quart of sliced apples, add half a nutmeg and the peel of a lemon grated, when they are tender set them to cool. Line a shallow tin pie-dish with rich pie paste or light puff paste, put in tlie stewed apples half an inch deep, roll out some of the paste, wet it slightly over with the yolk of an egg beaten with a little milk, and a tablespoonful of powdered sugar, cut it in very narrow strips and lay them in crossbars or diamonds across the tart, lay another strip round the edge, trim off the outside neatly with a sharp knife, and bake in a quick oven until the paste loosens from the dish. Damson Tart. Time, to bake, three-quarters of an hour. 498. One pint and a half of damsons ; five or si.K ounces of moist sugar ; half a pound of puff paste. Pick any stalks from the damsons and pile them high in the dish, strew the sugar well amongst the fruit, and pour in two or three spoonfuls of water. Line the edge of the pie-dish with a good puff paste, cover it W'ith paste, and bake it in a well-heated Dven. A short time before the tart is done, orush it over with the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, sift pounded sugar over it, and return it to the oven for about ten minutes. Meringue Tart. 499. An open tart of any preserves, jams, or stewed fruit; whites of two eggs; a quarter of a pound of lo."if sugar ; flavour- ing of vanilla or lemons. Make any nice rich tart of preserve, jams, or stewed fruit ; whisk the whites of two eggs with a quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar and a flavouring of vanilla or lemon until it can be moulded with a knife, lay it over the tart nearly an inch thick, and put it into the oven for a few minutes until it is slightly coloured. Serve it hot or cold. Mince Pies. Time, twenty-five to thirty minutes. 500. Puff paste : mincemeat. Roll out the puff paste to the thickness of a quarter of an inch ; line some good-sized patty-pans with it, fill them with mincemeat, cover with the paste, and cut it close round the edge of the patty-pan. Put them in a brisk oven. Beat the white of an egg to a stiff froth ; brush it over them when they are baked ; sift a little powdered sugar ovei them; replace them in the oven for a minute or two to dry the egg. Serve them on a table napkin very hot. Cold mince pies will re-warm and be as good as fresh. German Pastry. Time, fifteen minutes. 501. The weight of two eggs in butter, flour, and sugar ; any preser\'e you like. T.ake two eggs well beaten, and mi.x them with their weight in flour and sugar. Beat well together with a fork, lay half the paste on a tin, and put it into a brisk oven. When a little set, spread over it preserve of .aprieot, or strawberry jam. Then add the remainder of the paste, and bake it again till quite set. When cold, sift a little sugar over it, and cut it into narrow strips. Tartlets. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. 502. Some rich puff paste ; any preserve you please, or marmalade. Cut as many rounds of rich puff paste with a tin cutter as you require. Then cut an equal number, and press a smaller cutter inside them to remove the centre and letive a ring. Moisten the rounds with water, and place the rings on them. Put them into a moderate oven for ten or twelve minutes, and when done, fill the centre with any preserve of apricot, strawberry, or orange marmalade. Stamp out a little of the paste rolled very thin, into stars, &c. Bake them lightly, .and place one on the top of each tartlet. Serve them hot or cold. Orange Tartlets. Time, to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. 503. Two Seville oranges ; a piece ol butter the size of a walnut; twice the weight of the oranges in pounded sugar; puff paste. Take out the pulp from two Seville oranges, boil the peels until quite tender,IIT Pastry and Mince Meat. and then beat them to a paste with twice their weight in pounded loaf sugar ; then add the pulp and the juice of the oranges with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, beat all these ingredients well together, line some patty-pans with rich puff paste, lay the orange mixture in them, and bake them. Lemon Puffs. Time, six or eight minutes to bake. ( 504. One pound and a quarter of loaf sugar ; peel of two lemons ; w hites of three eggs. Beat and sift a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar, and mix with it the peel of two lemons grated, whisk the whites of three eggs to a firm froth, add it gradually to the sugar and lemon, and beat it all together for one hour. Make it up into any shape you please, place the puffs on oiled paper on a tin, put them in a moderate oven, and bake. Jersey Wonders. 505. A quarter of a pound of sugar ; ten ounces of butter; one pound of flour; three large or four small eggs ; a little nutmeg. Work the sugar and butter together till quite soft, throw in the eggs tliat have been previously well beaten, and then add the flour and a little nutmeg, knead twenty minutes and let it rise ; then roll it between your hands into round balls the size of a small potato, but do not add any more flour ; flour your pasteboard lightly and roll out each ball into a thin eval the size of the hand, cut with a knife three slits like bars in the centre of the oval, cross the two centre ones with your fingers, and draw up the two sides between, put your finger Ihrough and drop into it boiling lard, which must be ready in a small stewpan. Turn them as they rise, and when a nice brown, take them up with a fork, and lay them on a (ray with paper underneath them. The lard must be boiling before putting them in ; a stewpan wide enough to put three in at once answers best, and when the lard would froth too much add a little fresh before putting in any more. When all ars done, save the lard in a basin, as it wil', answer, by adding a little more fresh, to use again. MINCE MEAT. Apple Mince Meat, 506. One pound of currants ; one pound of peeled and chopped apples ; one pound of suet chopped fine ; one pound of moist sugar ; quarter of a pound of raisins stoned and cut in two ; the juice of four oranges and two lemons, with the chopped peel of one ; add of ground mace and allspice each a spoonful, and a wineglass of brandy. Mix all well together and keep it closely covered in a cool place. Egg Miuee Meat. 507. Six hard-boiled eggs shred very fine ; double the quantity of beef-suet chopped very small ; one pound of currants washed and dried ; the peel of one large, or two small lemons minced up ; six table- spoonfuls of sweet wine; a little mace, nutmeg, and salt, with sugar to your taste ; add a quarter of a pound of candied orange and citron cut into thin slices. Mix all well together, and press it into a jar for use. Lemon Mince Meat. 508. One large lemon; three large apples ; four ounces of beef-suet; half a pound of currants ; four ounces of white sugar ; one ounce of candied orange and citron. Chop up the apples and beef-suet; mix them with the currants and sugar; then squeeze tlie juice from a large lemon into a cup. Boil the lemon thus squeezed till lender enough to beat to a mash ; add it to the mince meat. Pour over it the juice of the lemon, and add the citron chopped fine. BAKED AND BOILED PUDDINGS. For boiled puddings you will require either a mould, a basin, or a pudding- cloth : the former should have a close- fitting cover, and be rubbed over the inside with butter before putting the pudding in ft, that it may not stick to the side; the cloth should be dipped in boiling water, and then well floured on the inside. A pudding-cloth mu.st be kept very clean, and in a dry place. Bread-puddings should be tied very loosely, as they swell very much in boiling. The water must be boiling when the pudding is put in, and continue to boil until it is done. If a pudding is boiled in a cloth it must bo moved frequently whilst boiling, otherwise it will stick to the saucepan. Tliere must always be enough water to cover the pudding if it is boiled in a cloth ;II2 Fruit Puddings. iut if boiled in a tin mould, do not let the water quite reach the top. To boil a pudding in a basin, dip a cloth in hot water, dredge it with flour, and tie it closely over the basin. When the pudding is done, take it from the water, plunge whatever it is boiling in, whetlier cloth or basin, suddenly into cold water, then turn it out immediately; this will prevent its sticking. If there is any delay in serving the pudding, cover it with a napkin, or the cloth in which it was boiled ; but it is better to serve it as soon as removed from the cloth, basin, or mould. Always leave a little space in the pudding basin for the pudding to swell; or tie the pudding cloth loosely for the same reason. Baked Puddings. Bread or rice puddings require a mode- rate heat for baking; batter or custard requ;>'e a quick oven. The time needed for baking each particular pudding is given with the receipt. Eggs for puddings are beaten enough when a spoonful can be taken up clear from strings. Souffles require a quick oven. These should be made so as to be done the moment for serving, otherwise they will fall in and flatten. Apple, Gooseberry, Currant, or other Fruit Puddings. Time, one hour and a half. 509. One pound of flour ; si.v ounces of suet ; water ; fruit. Make a paste as for beefsteak pudding, roll it out thin, and line a well-buttered basin with part of it, fill it with the apples pared and cored, a slice or two of lemon peel cut very thin, or a few cloves. Moisten the edges of the paste, cut out a piece and put it over the top, press it well together, and cut it neatly round that it may be of an equal thickness. Put the mould or basin into a floured cloth and tie it closely over. Then put it into a saucepan of boiling water and boil it. When done, turn it carefully from the basin on a hot dish. If boiled in a cloth, without a basin, the cloth must be dipped into hot water, dredged with flour, and laid into an empty basin, that the crust may be formed in it. All fruit puddings are made in the same manner, whether of gooseberries, currants, damson, greengages, &c. Baked Apple Pudding. 510. Half a pound grated apples ; half a pound of butter ; half a pound of sugar ; yolks of si.\ eggs ; whites of three ; juice of half a lemon ; peel of one ; a little puff paste. Grate half a pound of apples and add them to the butter beaten to a cream, ti-e sugar pounded, the yolks of si.v wliole eggs, and the whites of tliree beaten separately, the peel of one lemon grated, and the juice of half a one. Mi.\ all thoroughly together, and j)ut it into a dish with puff paste round the edge. Boiled Apple Dumplings. Time, to boil, one hour. 511. Eight apples and some suet crust. Pare and core eight fine apples, and cut them into quarters. Roll a nice suet crust half an inch thick, cut it into round pieces, and lay in the centre of each piece as manj pieces of apple as it will contain. Gathel the edges up, and pinch them together ovel the apple. When all the dumplings are made, drop them into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them boil gently for nearly or quite an hour, then take each one care- fully out with a skimmer, place them all on a dish, and ser\'e them quickly with butter, sugar, and nutmeg. To be eaten cut open, and the butter and sugar put into them. Baked Apple Dumplings. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 512. Some baking apples ; white of eggs ; some pounded sugar ; puff paste. Make some puff paste, roll it thin, and cut it into square pieces, roll one apple into each piece, put them into a baking dish, brush them with the white of an egg beaten stiff, and sift pounded sugar over them. Put them in a gentle oven to bake. Apple and Crumb Pudding. Time, to bake, half an hour. 513. Bread-crumbs ; apples ; butter ; sugar ; and cinnamon powder. Put a layer of bread-crumbs over the bottom of a well buttered and rather deep dish, on the crumbs small pieces of butter, then a layer of apples pared, cored, and cut into slices, then sugar and the powdered cinnamon ; repeat this, beginning with the bread-crumbs, until your dish is full, and bake it in a moderate oven. When done, turn it out of the dish, and serve it with fresh cream poured over it, or the cream in a jug separately. Agnew Pudding. Time, half an hour. 514. Eight russets ; peel of half a lemon*, yolks of three eggs ; three ounces of butter; sugar ; puff paste. Pare and core the apples, and boil them to a pulp with the lemon peel ; well beat the eggs, and add tl>em to the butterI. Ptars and Rice. 4. Trifle. 7. Chantilly Basket. 1. Hiueen Mah Pudding. 5. Jelly of tivo colours. 8. Oranges and Jelly. 3. Plum Pudding. 6. Blanc Mange.113 Baked and Boiled Puddings. warmed, sweeten it to your taste, and beat all well together. Lay a puff paste round a dish, pour in the mi.xture, and bake it a light brown. Amber Pudding. Time, three hours to boil. 515. Three eggs ; their weight in sugar, butter and flour ; juice of one or two lemons ; peel of one grated. Work the butter with your hand till like cream, then add the flour, sugar, and beaten eggs by degrees, then the juice of one or two lemons, with the peel grated. Butter a mould thickly, and when the ingredients are well mixed, pour it in, taking care that the mould is quite full. Butter a piece of white paper, cover it over the top, tie it well over with a cloth, and put it into a saucepan of fast boiling water. The Alexandra Pudding. Time, half an hour. 516. Three eggs ; three ounces of sugar ; three ounces of bread-crumbs ; half a lemon ; a teacupful of milk ; a little jam ; puff paste. Line a pie-dish with puff paste, and cover the bottom with apricot or strawberry jam, mix the bread-crumbs, pounded sugar, juice of the lemon, and the peel grated with the milk and the eggs well beaten ; beat all thoroughly together, pour it into the dish over the jam, and bake it. Anna’s Pudding. Time, one hour and a half to steam. 517. A quarter of a pound of suet; a quarter of a pound of bread-cnimbs; one tablespoonful of ground rice ; three ounces of loaf sugar; two eggs ; peel of a lemon. Chop the suet very fine, and add to it the stale bread-crumbs, the ground rice, and the peel of the lemon grated. Mix it well together with the yolks of two eggs well beaten. Butter a basin, and place the in- gredients in it. Steam it. When served, pour over it a little melted butter and sugar, with half a glass of white wine, or serve the sauce in a tureen. Baked Arrowroot Pudding, Time, one hour to one hour and a quarter. 518. Three dessertspoonfuls of arrowroot ; a pint and a half of new m-ilk ; peel of half a lemon; a piece of butter the size of a walnut; moist or loaf sugar to taste ; three eggs, and a little nutmeg ; puff paste. Mix into a rather thick smooth batter three spoonfuls of arrowroot with a little cold milk. Put the remainder of the milk into a clean saucepan with the peel of half a lemon, and sugar to taste. When it boils, strain it gradually into the batter, stirring it all the time, adding a piece of butter the size of a walnut. When nearly cold, stir in three well-beaten eggs, and pour the whole into a pie-dish, round wdiich has been placed a border of puff paste. Grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake it in a moderate oven. If boiled, it will take the same time. Bread Pudding. Time, one hour or more. 519. A pint of bread-crumbs ; some new milk ; peel of a lemon ; a little nutmeg ; a piece of cinnamon ; sugar to your taste ; four eggs. Take a pint of bread-crumbs ; put theni into a stewpan with as much milk as will cover them ; add the peel of a lemon grated, and a little nutmeg and cinnamon. Boil it for ten minutes, and then sweeten it tb your taste. Take out the cinnamon, and stir in the four well-beaten eggs. Beat all well together, and bake it for one hout. If boiled, it will require rather more than an hour. Bread and Butter Pudding. Time, to bake, one hour. 520. Slices of bread and butter; eigftv teaspoonfuls of white sugar ; a laurel leaf; a pint and a half of mik ; three eggs. Put into a deep dish that will hold a quart very thin slices of bread and butter, only half filling it. Stir into a pint and a half of cold milk eight teaspoonfuls of wliite pounded sugar, a laurel leaf, and three eggs well beaten. When all are well mixed, pour it into the dish over the bread and butter, and bake it in a quick oven. An Economical Bread Pudding. Time, to bake, one hour and a half. 521. Any pieces of bread, crumb an( crust ; half a pound of raisins or currants peel of a small lemon grated ; a little nut meg ; two eggs ; sufficient hot water 01 milk to soak the bread. Take any pieces of bread that may be left from making stuffing or from other dishes, cut it into very small pieces, and pour over it sufficient boiling water or milk to soak it; then beat it smooth with a fork, and stir into it three ounces of fine moist sugar, a little nutmeg, the peel of a lemon grated, and half a pound of raisins or cur- rants. Mix all well together with two or three beaten eggs, and bake it in a buttered pie-dish. Bakewell Pudding. 522. Some puff paste ; raspberry or any other preserve; yolks of eight and whit'-i' l114 Baked and Boiled Puddings. i)f two eggs ; a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar ; a little almond flavour, or the peel and juice of two lemons. Line a dish with puff paste, and put in it raspberry or any other preserve, about half an inch thick. Mi.'c with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar the grated peel and juice of two lemons ; then stir in the yolks of eight and the wliites of two eggs well beaten, and lastly tire butter, which only re- quires melting and pouring off clear. Stir all together until it is thoroughly mi.xed, then pour it over the preserve, and bake in a quick oven. Half the quantity will make five or si.x puddings, baked in buttered saucers lined with puff paste. Boiled Batter Pudding. Time, to boil, one hour and a quarter. 523. One pint of milk; one ounce of butter; three eggs; two tablespoonfuls of flour. Mix two spoonfuls of flour to a smooth batter with a little cold milk, then add the remainder of the milk, and stir in the butter, which should be previously dis- solved ; add three well-beaten eggs, and when the batter is perfectly smooth, stir in a pinch of salt; pour it into a buttered basin, tie it over very lightly with a cloth dredged with flour, and plunge the basin into a saucepan of boiling water. Move the basin about for two or three minutes to prevent the flour settling in any part, and boil it. When done, turn it out of the basin, and serve it with wine or sweet sauce. Cheap Batter Pudding. Time, to bake, one hour ; to boil, two hours. 524. Three eggs ; sis dessertspoonfuls of flour: one quart of milk ; two tablespoon- fuls of sugar ; one of butter; half a nut- meg ; a little salt and essence of lemon or peach water. Beat the eggs with the flour until very light, then stir into it very gradually a quart of new milk, add the butter dissolved and the sugar, flavour it with a teaspoonful of essence of lemon or peach watef, and half a nutmeg grated. Beat it all well together, and bake it in a buttered basin or mould for one hour. Wlien done, turn it out and serv’c, or it may be boiled for two hours and served with white sauce. Wyvern Puddings. Time, to bake, twenty minutes. 525. Three-quarters of a pint of milk ; .ihree eggs; enough flour to make a thick batter ; raspberry jam. Make a nice batter of the milk, flour, and eggs. Butter some patty-pans. Pour the batter into them till they are three parts full. Bake them. When done, place them on a folded napkin, and put jam on the top of them. Beaulieu Puddings. Time, half an hour. 526. Six ounces of fresh butter; eight dessertspoonfuls of flour; three ounces of pounded sugar; peel of half a lemon grated; six bitter almonds ; ten sweet; two ounces of candied citron or orange peel; one spoonful of brandy. Mix eight dessertspoonfuls of flour wuh six ounces of fresh butter beaten to a cream ; add the sugar pounded, the peel of half a lemon grated, the bitter and sweet almonds blanched and cut into long shreds, and the citron or orange peel cut into slices ; mix all thoroughly together, adding a spoonful of brandy, put it into patty-pans or small moulds, and bake lightlj'. A Plain Cabinet Pudding. Time, one hour. 527. Three ounces of stoned raisins; four eggs ; peel of a lemon grated; one pint of milk ; slices of bread and butter; sugar to taste. Stone three ounces of jar raisins, and arrange them over the inside of a buttered pudding basin, then nearly fill the basin with slices of bread and butter with the crust cut off, and sprinkle the grated lemon peel over each slice. Add the eggs well beaten to the milk, sweeten to taste, and pour it over the bread and butter, let it stand for a quarter of an hour, then tie a floured cloth over it, boil for an hour, and serve with cabinet pudding or sweet sauce. Cabiuet Puddle g. Time, to steam, one hour. 528. Seven or eight small spongecakes; a large cupful of white wine ; three ounces of loaf sugar; seven eggs ; one quart of new milk. Pour a large cupful of white wine over seven or eight small spongecakes to soak them through. Sweeten a quart of new milk with about Ihree ounces of loaf sugar, stir into it seven well-beaten eggs, and mix it well together, pour k over the soaked spongecakes, and then carefully turn the whole into a buttered mould, tie it securely over and steam it. Serv'e it with the cabinet pudding sauce given below. Cabinet Pudding Sauce. 529. Yolks of two eggs ; two tablespoon- fuls of pounded sugar; four or five spoonfuls of white wine.Baked and Boiled Puddings. Well beat the yolks of two eggs, and mix fhem with the pounded sugar and the wliite wine. Simmer it over a slow fire for a few minutes, stirring it constantly, and pour it round the pudding. College Puddings. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. 530. A quarter of a pound of bread- crumbs ; a quarter of a pound of Naples biscuits ; a quarter of a pound of beef-suet ; two ounees of candied orange or lemon peel; a quarter of a iiound of currants ; two ounces of loaf sugar ; yolks of four eggs. Mix the bread-crumbs, Naples biscuits pounded, beef-suet chopped very fine, the candied orange peel cut into shreds, the sugar pounded, and the currants washed and dried. Mix the above with the yolks of four beaten eggs till all becomes a paste, then cut them in pieces of a flat shape, fry them in lard over a gentle fire till brown, and put them on a napkin. Sauee in a tureen. Cherry Pudding. Time, to boil, two hours. 531. One pint of milk ; three tablespoon- fuls of flour ; one ounce of butter; three eggs ; one pound of cherries. Mix the flour to a smooth paste with a little milk, then add the remainder, warm the butter and stir it in, stirring the mixture well, then add the eggs well beaten, and a pinch of salt. Take the stones from a pound of cherries, stir them into the batter, tie it in a pudding cloth, and boil it. Serve with butter sauce. Grated Cocoa ITut—American. 532. One cocoa-nut; a clear strawberry or currant jelly. Take a large cocoa-nut, break it in pieces, pare off the dark outside ; throw the pieces into cold water ; grate the white meat of the cocoa-nut on a very coarse grater, and with a broad fork heap it on a flat dish, and serve it with any preserve. Or arrange it round a jelly flavoured with raspberry, strawberry, or any other fruit. Apple Custard Pudding. Time, to bake, thirty to thirty-five minutes. 533. Ten or twelve good sized boiling apples ; a quarter of a pint of water ; sugar to taste : the grated peel of one lemon ; four eggs : two ounces of loaf sugar ; one pint of milk. Peel and core ten or twelve apples, and boil them as for apple sauce, in a very clean saucepan, with a quarter of a pint of w.atcr, the peel of a large lemon grated, and moist sugar to taste, beat them to a pulp and set them to cool. Make a custard with a pint of milk, two ounces of sugar, and four eggs well beatca Put the apple at the bottom of a pic-dish, pour the custard over it, and bake it in a moderate oven. Boiled Custard Pudding. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 534. Plalf a pint of milk ; half a pint of cream ; four eggs ; three ounces of sugar ; a little cinnamon. Boil a little cinnamon with the sugal pounded, and the milk and cream. When cold, add the eggs well beaten, and stir it over the fire until it thickens, then set it to get quite cold. Butter and flour a cloth, and tie the custard in it, put it into a sauce- pan and boil it three-quarters of an hour. When done, put it in a basin to cool, then untie the cloth, put a dish over it, and turn the pudding carefully out. Serve it with sifted sugar over it and with wine sauce in a tureen. Custard for Puddings. 535. One pint of milk ; two or three eggs ; three ounces of loaf sugar ; one bay-leaf ; a little nutmeg ; a saltspoonful of powdered cinnamon. To a pint of milk stir in tlie yolks of two or three beaten eggs, a little nutmeg and cinnamon (should the flavour be liked), one bay-leaf, and the sugar pounded. Stir all well together, and boil it to the thickness you require. When done, take out the bay- leaf. Cassel Pudding. Time, twenty or thirty minutes. 536. The weight of two eggs in butter, sugar, and flour; peel of half a lemon grated. Take the weight of two eggs, in the shell, in butter, sugar, and flour ; half melt the butter, beat the yolks and the whites of the eggs separately, mix the butter and sugar together, then the eggs with the grated lemon peel, then stir in the flour. Butter your tins, and fill them rather more than half full. Bake them in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes or half an hour. Duke of Cambridge Pudding. Time, to bake, three-quarters of an hour. 537. One ounce of lemon peel ; one ounce of orange peel ; one ounce of citron ; six ounces of butter ; six ounces of pounded sug.nr ; yolks of four eggs ; puff paste. Line a pic-dish with a rich puff-paste, and lay over the bottom the candied orange, lemon, and citron cut into thin slices ; warm1 1 Ci Baked and Boiled Puddings. tlie butter and the sugar, add the yolks of Ihe eggs well beaten, and stir it over the fire until it boils, then pour it into the dish Dver the sweetmeats, and bake it in a slow oven. Cup Puddings. Time, to bake, twenty minutes. 538. Three ounces of flour ; three ounces of butter ; two ounces of sugar ; half a pint of milk. Beat the butter to a cream, add to it the sugar pounded, stir in the flour, and mix it with a pint of milk. Put the mixture into buttered cups, and bake them. Currant Dumplings. Time, half an hour. 539. One pound of currants; three- quarters of a pound of suet; nine dessert- spoonfuls of flour; three teaspoonfuls of powdered ginger ; four eggs ; one pint of milk. Wash, pick, and dry a pound of currants, and lay them on a plate before the fire ; mix nine dessertspoonfuls of flour with the powdered ginger, a pinch of salt, and the beef-suet chopped very fine, add the cur- rants, and mix all thoroughly together ; make the whole into a light paste with four well-beaten eggs and a pint of milk, roll it into large balls and put them into a sauce- pan of boiling water ; move them frequently that they may not stick ; and when done, serve them hot. Or make the pudding in the shape of a bolster, rolled in a cloth (previously dipped into hot water and floured) tied tightly at each end, and put into a saucepan of boil- ing water. It will take an hour and a half to boil in this form. Date Pudding. Time, four hours. 540. Half a pound of dates ; half a pound of bread-crumbs ; five ounces of suet ; six ounces of white sugar ; two eggs ; a pinch of salt : and a little nutmeg. Chop the dates and the suet very fine ; add five ounces of sugar, half a pound of bread-crumbs, a pinch of salt, and a little nutmeg; mix all together with the eggs well beaten, and boil it in a basin or a pud- ding shape for four hours. Fig Pudding. Time, to boil, four hours. 541. Half a pound of bread-crumbs; half a pound of figs ; six ounces of brown sugar ; two eggs ; a little nutmeg ; a quarter of a pound of suet; and a little milk ; two ounces of flour. The figs and suet to be chopped very fine, and well mixed with the bread-crumbs, flour, sugar, and nutmeg ; then stir all the ingredients well together, and add two eggs well beaten, and a little milk ; press the whole into a buttered mould, tie it ovei with a thick cloth, and boil it. Serve it with wine sauce or without, as you please. Fun Pudding. Time, twenty minutes. 542. Some apples ; a little sugar and butter ; apricot jam ; two spoonfuls of arrow- root ; one pint of milk. Fill a large dish three-parts full with apples sliced very thin. Sprinkle some finely powdered sugar over them, and a very thin layer of butter, and over the butter put a layer of apricot jam. Then take a stewpan with two spoonfuls of arrowroot, a little loaf sugar, and a pint of milk. Stir it over the fire till it boils, pour it over the apples, and bake it in a moderate oven until brown. General Satisfaction. Time, about half an hour. 543. Some preserve ; finger spongecakes; a gill of milk ; an ounce of butter ; a spoon- ful of flour: the peel of a lemon ; yolk of an egg ; a little nutmeg, and sugar to taste; whites of three eggs ; puff paste. Line a pie-dish with rich puff paste. Put a layer of raspberry or strawberry preserve at the bottom, then a layer of the finger spongecakes, then a layer of the following mixture :—Take a gill of milk, one ounce of butter, a spoonful of flour, and the peel of a lemon grated, and boil it until it thickens. When cold, add the yolk of a beaten egg, a little nutmeg, and sugar to your taste. Cover the edge of the paste to prevent its burning, and bake it in a moderate oven. Wfliisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, lay it on the pudding when baked, and put it again into the oven for a few minutes before serv- ing. Gingerbiead Pudding. Time, to boil, two hours. 544. Six ounces of bread-crumbs ; six ounces of suet ; two ounces of flour ; half a pound of treacle ; a tcaspoonful of ground ginger. Grate six ounces of stale bread, and mix it with the suet chopped very fine, and two ounces of flour. .'\dd the ground ginger, and mix all well together with half a pound of treacle. Put it into a mould, and boil it, German Pudding. Time, three hours to boil. 545. Half a pound of treacle; half a pound of flour ; a quarter of a pound of suet; a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda;11" Baked and Boiled Puddings. a quarter of a pint of milk; one ounce or more of candied peel. Mi.x the milk and treacle first ; put the soda witli the suet, flour, and peel; rub all these together dry. Pour the milk and treacle in, and boil it in a basin. Ginger Pudding. Time, three hours. 546. A quarter of a pound of suet ; .tialf a pound of flour ; a quarter of a pound of moist sugar; one good teaspoonful of ground ginger. Chop a quarter of a pound of beef-suet very fine ; mi.x it with the flour, sugar, and ginger. Mix all dry. and put it into aw'ell- buttered basin. Boil it three hours, and, when done, turn it out, and serve with white wine sauce. Golden Pudding. Time, two hours and a half. 547. Quarter of a pound of flour ; quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs ; quarter of a pound of suet; quarter of a pound of sugar ; quarter of a pound of marmalade ; one egg. Mix these ingredients well together, put them in a buttered basin, and boil for the specified time. To Make Hasty Puddings. Time, twenty minutes. 548. Half a pint of milk ; one egg ; one heaped tablespoonful of flour, and a little salt ; half a teacupful of cold milk. Put half a pint of fresh milk into a sauce- pan to boil : beat an egg, yolk and white together well, add to it a good tablespoon- ful of flour and a little salt, beat the egg and flour together with a little eold milk to make a batter. Pour it to the boiling milk, and keep stirring it until it is well boiled togetlier. Oatmeal Hasty Pudding. Time, twenty minutes. 549. Half a pint of boiling milk ; half a teacupful of cold milk ; one dessertspoonful of flour : one of oatmeal; a little salt. Boil half a pint of milk, beat the flour and oatmeal into a paste with cold milk, add to it the boiling milk, and keep stirring it always in the same direction till it is done. Jam Eoly-poly Pudding. Time, two liours. 550. Half a pound of suet crust; half a pound of jam. Make a light suet crust and roll it out rather thin, spread any jam over it, leaving a small margin of paste where the pudding joins. Roll it round and tic it in a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and in two hours it will be ready to serve. Josephine Puddings. Time, half an hour. 551. The weight of three eggs with their shells on in flour, sugar, and butter ; two small lemons. Beat the butter to a cream, then add gradually the sugar pounded, .and the grated lemon peel ; stir in the eggs well beaten, and then the flour dried before the fire. Beat all well together, lialf fill some well buttered cups or moulds, with the mixture, and put them into the oven the moment the flour is added. Bake them in a quick oven for half an hour, or longer should it be a slow one. Serve them quickly with wine sauce poured over them. Plain Boiled Lemon Suet Pudding. Time, to boil, three hours and a half. 55ii. Three-quarters of a pound of bread- crumbs ; six ounces of beef-suet; four ounces of flour; a quarter of a pound of fine moist sugar ; one large or two small lemons ; three eggs ; and milk. Add to three-quarters of a pound of bread-crumbs, six ounces of suet finely chopped, the sugar, and the peel of the lemon minced or grated, with the juice strained ; mix all thoroughly together, and then stir into it three well-beaten eggs, and sufficient milk to m.ike the whole into a thick batter, pour it into a buttered mould, and boil it for three hours and a half. Serve with sifted sugar over it, wine sauce in a tureen. Aunt Louisa’s Pudding. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 553. One pint of grated bread ; a quart of milk ; six ounces of loaf sugar ; two ounces of fresh butter ; peel and juice of one lemon ; five eggs. Pour over a pint of grated bread a piaC and a half of warm milk, stir it well toge- ther, and then add the remainder of the milk, the peel of a lemon grated, the pounded sug.ar, the butter, and the yolks of five or six eggs well beaten ; mix .all thoroughly together, pour it into a dish, and bake it c.arefully. Put the juice of the lemon into a basin, add three ounces of sifted sugar, beat it well, and stir it into the whites of the eggs whisked to a very stiff froth. Pul a layer of apricot ])reserve over the top of the pudding, pile the whisked whites of eggs over it, and place it in the oven to bake lightly.ii8 Baked and Boiled Puddings. Queen Mab’s Pudding. Time, half an hour. 554. One pint and a half of cream, or a pint of milk and half a pint of cream ; peel of one lemon ; si.\' bitter almonds; one ounce of isinglass ; five ounces of sugar ; yolks of si.x eggs ; two ounces and a half of dried cherries ; three ounces of preserved ginger ; two ounces of candied orange peel ; one ounce of pistachio-nuts. Blanch and bruise about si.v bitter 'almonds, cut the peel of a lemon very thin, and put both into a clean stewpanwitha pint of milk; stir it at the side ofthe fire until it is at the point of boiling, and the flavour of the lemon and almonds is well drawn out. Then add an ounce of isinglass, and a very little salt. When the isinglass is dissolved, strain the milk through muslin into anotlier stewpan, and add the sugar broken, and the cream ; just allow it to boil, then stir quickly in the yolks of the eggs well- beaten, and stir it constantly and carefully .0 prevent its curdling, until it becomes of the thickness of a good custard ; then pour it out, and again stir it until nearly cold ; then mix with it the dried cherries, and the citron cut into shreds. Rub a drop of oil over a mould, pour in the mixture, and set it in a cold place or on ice, for some time before it is turned out. Preserved ginger maybe substituted forthe dried cherries, and pistachio-nuts blanched and cut for the candied citron, with the syiup of the ginger poured round it ; currants may also take the place of the cherries, but they must be steamed for a quarter of an hour before they are used ; and a sauce of sweetened raspberry, strawberry, or any other juice of fresh fruit may be served as sauce instead of the ginger syrup (see coloured plate). Muffin Pudding with Dried Cherries. Time, one hour 555. Four muffins ; one pint and a half of milk ; a piece of lemon peel, and sugar to taste : half a pound of dried cherries ; a wineglass of brandy; six eggs; two ounces and a half of sweet almonds ; a little nutmeg; puff paste. Boil a pint and a half of milk for ten or twelve minutes with a piece of lemon peel, and loaf sugar to your taste, pour it over four muffins. When cold, add half a pound of dried cherries, a glass of brandy, the almonds blanched and pounded, and the eggs well beaten. Mix all these well together, and either boil it in a basin or bake it in a dish lined with puff paste. Malvern Pudding, Time, ten or twelve minutes. 556. Some slices of stale bread ; one pint and a half of currants ; half a pint of rasp, berries ; four ounces of sugar; some whipped cream. Dip a pudding-basin into cold water, and line it with rounds of rather stale bread; stew the currants and raspberries with the sugar for ten or twelve minutes after they are hot, fill the basin with the fruit, and cover it over with rounds of bread, put a plate on it with a weight, and set it in a cold place until the next day. Then turn it very carefully out, cover it with whipped cream, and pour round it a little of the currant and raspberry juice. Orange Marmalade Pudding. Time, an hour and three-quarters. 557. Five ounces of bread-emmbs; a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar ; three eggs ; half a cupful of new milk or cream ; and some orange marmalade ; three ounces of beef-suet. Chop three ounces of beef-suet as fine as possible, and stir it into the bread-crumbs ; add a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar pounded, the eggs well beaten, and a little milk or cream, and beat all w'ell together for a quarter of an hour. When ready to put into the oven, stir it up quiekly, and put a layer in a well-buttered tin or china mould, then a layer of orange marmalade, then of the mixture, and so on until the mould is full, letting the bread be at the top ; place it in a moderate oven for an hour and three- quarters, and then turn it out of the mould and serve. Montreal Pudding. Time, three hours. 558. Three eggs ; a wineglass of milk ; two ounces of brown sugar ; a quarter of a pound of flour; seven ounces of bread- crumbs, and a little nutmeg. Beat and strain tlie eggs through a sieve, and mix with them the milk, sugar, and nutmeg. Add the flour gradually, and mix it well together. Then stir in the bread- emmbs, and beat all together for at least hat/ an hour before putting it into the saucepan. M'ell butter an earthen mould, or basin, put in the mixture, tie it tightly over, and let it boil three hours without stopping. Half a pound of stoned raisins may be added for a change. Marrow Pudding. Time, two hours. 559. One pint of grated bread ; one pint119 Baked and Boiled Puddings. of milk, or cream ; one pound of beef marrow ; four eggs ; a wineglass of brandy ; sugar and nutmeg to taste ; two ounces of citron. Grate sufficient stale bread to fill a pint basin, pour over it a pint of boiling milk, or cream. When cold, slice into it a pound of beef marrow very thin ; add four well- beaten eggs, sugar and nutmeg to taste, and a wineglass of brandy. Mix all well together, and boil it in a buttered mould two hours. Cut the citron into very thin shreds, and when the pudding is served, stick the citron over it. Nottingham Padding. Time, to bake, one hour. 560. Six large apples; two ounces of sugar ; one pint of batter for pudding. Peel the apples, and take out all the core ; fill them up with sugar, and place them in a pie-dish. Cover them with a light batter, and bake. Norfolk Dumplings. Time, to boil, a quarter of an hour. 561. Take about a pound of dough from a baking of light bread, and divide it into small pieces, mould them into dumplings, drop them into a saucepan of fast boiling water, and boil them quickly. Send them to table the instant they are dished up with wine sauce, or melted butter sweet- ened. Orange Pudding. Time, twenty minutes. • 562. A piece of butter the size of a walnut: five yolks of eggs ; rind and juice of two oranges ; two teaspoonfuls of pow- dered white sugar, or to your taste ; puff paste. Put a small piece of butter into a stew- pan ; break into it the yolks of five eggs, then grate the rind of the two oranges into it, and squeeze the juice in through a sieve to catch the seeds and pulp. Add as much lump sugar as will make it pleasant, the quantity depending on the .acidity of tlic oranges, and stir it over the fire till it becomes as thick as custard. Line a tart- dish with puff paste, put in the orange custard and bake it. Polka Pudding. 563. Four tablespoon fills of arrowroot ; one quart of new milk ; four eggs ; three ounces of butter or three large spoonfuls of rich cream ; three ounces of bitter almonds ; two tablespoonfuls of orange or rose water. Mix four spoonfuls of arrowroot in a pint of cold milk. When quite smooth add four eggs well beaten, and either three ounces of butter cut into small pieces or three large spoonfuls of rich cream. Pound three ounces of bitter almonds in two tablespoon- fuls of orange or rose water to prevent their oiling. Boil the remaining pint of milk, and when quite boiling add it to the mixture, stir it till quite smooth and thick, and put it into a mould. Ice it if con- venient, otherwise keep it in a very cold f place till wanted. Turn it out, and serve it with the polka pudding sauee. Christmas Pudding. Time, to boil, six hours. 564. One pound of raisins ; one pound of currants ; a quarter of a pound of sul- tanas ; one pound of suet ; three-quarters of a pound of bread-crambs ; one pint of milk ; ten eggs ; three-quarters of a pound of citron and orange peel mixed ; one small nutmeg ; one glass of brandy. Stone the raisins and divnde them, wash and dry the currants and sultanas, and cut the peel into slices. Mix all these with the bread-ci-umbs, flour, and suet chopped very fine, add the grated nutmeg, and then stir in the eggs well beaten, the brandy, and the milk. When the ingredients are well blended, put the pudding into a mould, tie a floured cloth over it, and boil it. When done, turn it out, and serve it with burning brandy over it, or arrowroot sauce. Plum Pudding. Time, three hours. 565. Six ounces of raisins ; six ounces of currants ; six ounces of bread-crumbs ; six ounces of suet ; half a nutmeg ; a little lemon peel; five eggs ; half a wineglass of brandy. Mix these ingredients together, and put the pudding into a mould, and boil it. A Good Plum Pudding without Eggs. Time, to boil, four hours. 566. One pound of raisins ; half a pound of suet; one pound df flour ; four ounces of bread-crumbs ; two tablespoonfuls of treacle ; one pint of milk ; nutmeg, and grated ginger. Chop the suet very fine, and mix it witl the flour. Add the bread-crumbs, ginger and nutmeg, and the raisins stoned, and mix it all well together with the milk and treacle. Put it into a basin, ot floured cloth, and boil it. Pease Pudding. Time, three hours and a half, 567. A pint and a half of split peas' quarter of a pound of butter; pepper, and salt; three yolks, and one whole egg.120 Baked and Boiled Puddings. Soak a pint and a half of split peas for several liours. Then tie them loosely in a cloth, and put them into a saucepan of cold rain water to boil, allowing about two hours and a half after the water has simmered. When the peas are tender, drain them from tlie water, and rub them through a colander .vith a wooden spoon. Stir in the butter, .ind a little pepper and salt, and mi.x with eggs. Then tie it tightly in a cloth, boil it another hour, turn it out on a dish, and serve it very hot with boiled leg of pork. Porcupine Pudding. Time, one hour and a half. 568. Half a pint of Patna rice ; half a pint of milk ; six eggs ; peel of one lemon ; a spoonful of ratafia flavouring ; sugar to your taste, and some sweet almonds. Boil the rice in the milk until very tender ; then add the eggs well beaten, the pounded sugar, the peel of a lemon grated, and a flavouring of ratafia, or essence of lemon. Mix all the ingredients well together, and boil them in a mould for an hour and a half. When done, turn it out, cut the almonds (after they have been blanched) into long shreds, and stick them all over the pudding. Serve it with a very rich custard poured over it. Potato Pudding. Time, to bake, half an hour. 569. Half a pound of potatoes ; half a pound of sugar ; half a pound of butter ; five eggs ; peel and juice of a lemon. Boil some mealy potatoes, and press them through a sieve. Then add to them the pounded sugar, the butter beaten toa cream, the peel of the lemon grated, and the Juice, with five eggs well beaten. Mix all thoroughly together ; put the pudding into a dish, and bake it in a quick oven. Plain Eice Pudding. Time, one hour. 570. Three eggs ; one quart of milk ; a little salt ; a wineglass of rice ; two table- spoonfuls of sugar; one of butter ; half a nutmeg. Beat three eggs light, and stir them into a quart of milk, with a little salt, and a wine- glass of riec well washed ; put to it two tablespoonfuls of sugar, half a nutmeg grated, and a tablespoonful of butter. Bake one hour in a quick oven. Eice and Tapioca Pudding. Time, four hours. 571. One teacupful of rice and tapioca ; half the quantity of loaf sugar; a little ground cinnamon. Put into a deep dish a teacupful of rice and tapioca mixed—rather more of the rice than the tapioca (do not wash or crack it), half the quantity of loaf sugar, and three pints of cold milk ; sprinkle a little ground cinnamon over the top, and bake it in a slow oven. Eice and Apple Pudding. Time, ten minutes for rice ; pudding one hour. 572. One cupful of rice; six apples ; two cloves : a little lemon peel; two teaspoon- fuls of sugar. Boil the rice for ten minutes, drain it through a hair sieve until it is perfectly dry. Put a cloth into a pudding basin, lay the rice all round it like a crust. Quarter some apples as you would do for a tart, and laj them in the middle of the rice, add a little chopped lemon peel and two cloves, and two teaspoonfuls (or to your taste) of sugar, cover the apples with rice. Boil the pudding for an hour. Serve it with melted butter poured over it. Plain Boiled Eice for Children. Time, two hours. 573. Three-quarters of a pound of rice ; jam, or melted butter and sugar. Wash the rice in water, tie it in a cloth rather loosely, to give it room to swell, and put it into a saucepan of cold water. W'hen done, turn it out on a dish, and serve with sweet sauce or jam. Ground Eice Pudding. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 574. Half a pound of ground rice ; two quarts of milk ; three ounces of sugar ; seven eggs ; a little nutmeg ; a glass of brandy ; and a small piece of butter. Mix the rice in a little milk quite smooth, add it to the remainder of themilk,andsetit over the fire to boil till it becomes thick, stir- ring it all the time, or it will be in lumps; then add the butter, sugar, and yolks of seven well- beaten eggs, with the whites of four ; grate in a little nutmeg, and pour in the glass of brandy. Mix all well together, and bake it in a quick oven for three-quarters of an hour. Eice Pudding without Eggs. Time, two hours. 575. A small cupful of rice ; one quart of milk; a cupful of sugar ; a teaspoonful of salt ; half a nutmeg. Wash the rice in two waters, and add it to the sweetened milk, the salt, and grated nutmeg. Put it into a pie-dish, and bake if in a moderate oven for two hours.Baked and Boiled Pjiddinas. 121 Lemon Eice. Time, half an hour to boil the rice ; two hours to stew the peel. 576. Half a pound of rice ; one quart of new milk ; one lemon ; sugar to tasie. Boil the rice in a quart of new milk and some white sugar till it is very soft; put it into a mould, and set it in a cold place. Peel a large lemon very thickly, cut the peel into shreds about three-quarters of an inch long, put them into a little water, boil them Up, and drain them from the water. Then pour a teacupful of fresh water over the lemon shreds, squeeze and strain the juice of the lemon, add it with some white sugar to the water and shreds, and let it stew gently for two hours. When cold, it will be a .syrup. Having turned out the jellied rice from the mould on a dish, pour the syrup gradually over it, taking care that the shreds of lemon peel are equally distributed over the whole. Plain Eatafia Pudding. Time, to bake, twenty minutes. 577. A little sherry or raisin wine ; one spongecake; yolks of five, whites of two eggs ; one pint of milk ; two ounces of sugar; a little nutmeg; four ounces of ratafias ; any preserve you like. Put into the bottom of a buttered dish a si.xpenny spongecake cut across, and sprinkle over it four ounces of ratafias ; then pour over them the wine, and when soaked, add a layer of preserve. Whisk the yolks and whites of the eggs, mix them with the sweetened milk and a little flavouring if you like, pour it over the soaked cake, put the ratafias on the top, and bake it. Boiled Eaisin Pudding. Time, to boil, four hours and a half. 578. Half a pound of flour ; half a pound of bread-crumbs ; half a pound of beef- suet ; half a pound of raisins ; three ounces of sugar : two ounces of citron ; four eggs ; half a teacupful of milk ; a little nutmeg ; and ground ginger; one tablespoonful of brandy. Chop half fi pound of kidney-suet very fine ; add it to the bread-crumbs with a little grated ginger and nutmeg, the raisins stoned, the sugar pounded, and the citron cut into slices. Mix it all together, and then stir with it the well-beaten eggs, the milk, and a tablespoonful of brandy. Beat the mixture well together, and boil it in a floured cloth. Economical Eaisin Padding. Time, to boil, four hours. 579. One pound of flour; half a pound of suet I ten ounces of raisins, and some milk ; two ounces of sugar. Chop half a pound of suet very fine, and mix it with the flour dried ; stone the raisins, and stir them into the flour and suet with two ounces of fine brown sugar. Mix all well together, and pour in sufficient milk to make it into a rather stiff paste, tie it in a floured cloth, and put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it. When done, serve it with sifted white sugar over it. Boiled Ehubarb Pudding. Time, two hours to two hours and a half. 580. Four sticks of rhubarb ; four ounces of moist sugar ; rather more than half a pound of suet crust. Line a buttered basin with a good suet crust, wasli and wipe a few sticks of rhubarb, and pare off the outside skin, cut it into small pieces, fill the basin with it, strewing in the moist sugar, and cover it with the crust. Pinch the edges together, tie over it a floured cloth, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil from two hours to two hours and a half. When done, turn it out of the basin and serve. Snow Ball—for Children. Time, one hour. 581. Half a pound of rice ; one quart of water, or milk. Pick all imperfections from half a pound of rice, put it in water, and rub it between the hands ; then pour that water off, put more in, stir it about, let the rice settle, and then drain it from the water. Put the rice in a two-quart stewpan with a quart of water or milk, cover the pan, and let it boil gently for one hour, or until the water or milk is all absorbed. Dip some teacups into cold water, fill them with the boiled rice, and press it to their shape ; then turn them out on a dish, and serve with butter and sugar, or wine sauce. Boiled Sago Pudding. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 582. Two ounces of sago ; one pint of milk ; five eggs ; two Naples biscuits ; one glass of brandy ; sugar to taste. Boil the sago in the milk until it is quite tender. When cold, add five well-beaten eggs, the biscuits, brandy and sugar, beat all together, and put it into a buttered basin. Boil it three-quarters of an hour, and serve it with wine sauce poured over it. Baked Sago Pudding. Time, one hour. 583. One quart of milk ; four tablespooir fills of sago ; peel of one lemon ; five eggs1 22 Baked and Boiled Puddings. two ounces of butter ; two ounces and a half of sugar ; puff paste. Boil in a quart of new milk tlie peel of a large lemon cut as thin as possible, then strain it tlirough muslin, and stir in the sugar and sago. Set it over a slow fire, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Tlien put it into a basin to cool. Add the butter and the eggs well beaten. Put it into a pie- lish with some rich puff paste round the dge, and bake it for an hour in a moderate 3ven. Semolina Pudding, Time, ten minutes. 584. A pint and a half of new milk ; half a teacupful of semolina ; orange mar- malade. Put a pint and a half of milk over the fire, and when boiling stir in half a cupful of semolina, and continue to stir it over the fire for ten minutes ; then put it into a mould to cool; turn it out, and serve with jam or marmalade round it. It is delicious iced. Strawberry and Crumb Pudding. Time, to bake, half an hour. 585. A quart of new milk ; four eggs ; a little nutmeg ; two ounces of sugar ; one small pot of strawberry jam ; half a pound of bread-crumbs. Batter a pie-dish, and put a small pot of strawberry jam at the bottom, then a good layer of bread-crumbs. Well beat four eggs, stir into them two ounces of powdered sugar, and a little grated nutmeg ; add a quart of new milk, and stir it over the fire until it is sufficiently thick, pour it over the preserve very gradually, and bake the pudding in a very moderate oven. A Plain Swiss Pudding. Time, to boil, four hours. 586. Eight ounces of bread-crumbs ; six ounces of beef-suet; half a pound of apples ; six ounces of sugar ; juice and peel of one lemon ; and a pinch of salt. Chop very fine six ounces of beef-suet, and mix it well with eight ounces of bread- crumbs, half a pound of apples, pared, cored, and minced fine ; add eight ounces of powdered white sugar, the juice of one lemon, and the peel grated, with a pinch of salt. Well mix all the above ingredients, and put it into a buttered mould, boil it, and when done, turn it out and serve. Cheap Spongecake Pudding. Time, to bake, half an hour. 587. Three penny spongecakes ; peel and juice of half a lemon; one egg; a small piece of butter; a very little sugar and milk. Soak the cakes in a little milk, and mix them with the juice and graetd peel of h.alf a lemon, a piece of butter, a very little loaf sugar, and one egg. Beat all together, and bake it in a quick oven. Spongecake Pudding. Time, one hour. 588. Cherries; almonds, or raisins ; some small spongecakes soaked in wine ; and some rich custard. Butter a mould thickly, stick it all over with dried cherries, almonds, or raisins. Fill the mould three parts w'ith small spongecakes soaked in wine, and fill up the mould with a rich custard. Then butter a piece of paper, put it on the mould, tie it securely over, and boil it. Plain Souffle Pudding. Time, half an hour. 589. Three-quarters of a pint of new milk : two ounces of butter ; two spoonfuls of flour ; three eggs. Put three-quarters of a pint of new milk into a stewpan, and when it boils add two spoonfuls of flour mi.xed smooth with a little milk ; boil it up again, and set it to cool. Then take the yolks of three eggs well beaten, stir them in, and the white! whipped to a very stiff froth. When all are thoroughly well mixed together, butter a baking dish, put it in, and bake it in a quick oven. Plain Suet Pudding. Time, two hours and a half to three hours. 590. One pound of flour ; four ounces of beef-suet ; a pinch or two of salt; half a pint of water. Chop the suet very fine, and mix it with the flour, and a pinch or two of salt, and work the whole into a smooth paste with about half a pint of water. Tie the pudding in a cloth, the shape of a bolster, and when done, cut it in slices and put butter between each slice. Or boil it in a buttered basin, turn it out when done, and serve it whole and without butter. One or two beaten eggs added to the above, with a less quantity of water, may be used. Plain Tapioca Pudding. Time, one hour. 591. One ounce and a half of tapioca ; a pint of milk ; three eggs ; sugar to taste; grated lemon peel. Soak an ounce and a half of tapioca in cold water until soft, stirring it now and then; well-beat three eggs with sugar toPancakes and Fritters. taste, and mix them with a pint of cold milk ; stir the tapioca into it, and pour the whole into a buttered pie-dish. Grate the peel of a lemon on the top, and bake it in a moderate oven. Welsh Pudding. 592. Half a pound of butler; yolks of eight, ^v•hites of four eggs ; six ounces of sugar ; peel of one lemon ; puff paste. Melt half a pound of butter gently, beat with it the yolks of eight, and the whites of four eggs, six ounces of loaf sugar, and the peel of a grated lemon. Put a puff paste into a dish for turning out, pour in the above, and nicely balce it. Sir Watkin’s Pudding. Time, eight hours ; two hours for a small one. 593. One pound of marrow; one pound of sugar ; one pound of bread-crumbs ; four lemons ; and eight eggs. Mix the marrow ^vith the sugar, bread- crumbs, peel of the lemons grated, and the juice strained. Beat the yolks and the whites of the eggs separately, and add them to the other ingredients, and boil it in a basin or mould for eight hours. A small one can be made with a quarter of the quantity and boiled for two hours. Yeast Dumplings. Time, twenty minutes. 594. Some dough ; butter ; and sugar. Take some dough from the baker’s, and set it to rise before tlie fire, covered closely over, for ten or twelve minutes. Divide it into as many pieces as you may require, roll them into balls, and drop them into a large saucepan of boiling water. Twenty mi- nutes will be long enough to boil them. They must be sent to table the moment they are done, or they will become heavy, and when eaten they should be divided with forks, and not with a knife. If made at home, the dough may be mixed with milk instead of water. They may be served with sweet sauce or eaten with gravy. 1 2J Or— Time, half an hour. 593. One pound and a half of flour ; one tablespoonful of baker's yeast; one teaspoon- ful of salt ; one of warm milk. Make a dough of a pound and a half of flour, the spoonfulof yeast, the salt, and the spoonful of warm milk. Set it in a warm place to rise for hvo hours. When light, flour your hands, knead it down, and make it into balls the size of a small teacup Have a large saucepan of boiling water, take off any scum that may have, risen in boiling, drop' the dumplings in, and boil them fast for half an hour, take them up with a skimmer, and serve with boiled meat or with a sweet sauce of butter and sugar. They must be served as quickly as possible after they are taken out of the water. Hard Dumplings. Time, half an hour. 596. Half a pound of flour ; a little milk or water ; a pinch of salt. Mix half a pound of flour into a stiff paste with a little milk or water and a pinch of salt. Roll it into balls, and throw them into boiling water ; or make it into a roll, boil it in a cloth, and when done, cut it in slices with butter between. Yorkshire Pudding. Time, one hour and a half. 597. One pint and a half of milk ; seven tablcspoonfuls of flour ; three eggs ; and a little salt. Put the flour into a basin with a little salt and sufficient milk to make it into a stiff, smooth batter, add the remainder of tlie milk and the eggs well beaten. Beat all well together, and pour it into a shallow tin which has been previously rubbed with but- ter. Bake it for an hour, then place it under the meat for half an hour to catch a little of the gravy that flows from it ; cut the pud- ding into small square pieces, and serve them on a hot folded napkin with hot roast beef. PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. Pancakes should be eaten hot. They should be light enough to toss over in the pan. Sno'M will serve instead of eggs for pancakes. It should be taken when just fallen, and quite clean. Two tablespoonfuls of snow will supply the place of one egg. Time to fry a pancake, five minutes. When- ever the time differs on account of the in- gredients it will be specified. Common Pancakes. Time, five minutes. _ S98. Three eggs ; one pint of milk ; suffi- cient flour to make a batter; a pinch of salt; and a little nutmeg. Beat three eggs, and stir them into a pint of milk ; add a pinch of salt, and sufficient flour to make it into a thick, smootli batter;124 Fitters. fry them in boiling fat, roll them over on each side, drain and serve them very hot, with lemon and sugar. Snow Pancakes. 599. Four ounces of flour ; a quarter of a pint of milk ; a little grated nutmeg ; a pinch of salt ; sufficient flour to make a thick batter; and three large spoonfuls of snow to each pancake. Make a stiff batter with four ounces of flour, a quarter of a pint of milk, or more if required, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Divide the batter into any number of pancakes, and add three large spoonfuls of snow to each. Fry them lightly, in very good butter, and serve quickly. Batter for Fritters, 600. Eight ounces of flour; half a pint of water ; two ounces of butter ; whites of two eggs. Mi.x eight ounces of fine flour with about half a pint of water into a smooth batter, dissolve the butter over a slow fire, and then stir it by degrees into the flour. Then add the whites of two eggs whisked to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in. Arrowroot Fritters. Time, about half an hour. 6or. Two pints of new milk ; ten ounces of arrowroot ; a little vanilla ; yolks of eight eggs ; sugar to taste ; bread-crumbs ; greengage or apricot jam. Put the milk in a good-sized stewpan over the fire until it boils ; have the arrow- root ready mi.xed, and stir it into the milk as quickly as possible, add the vanilla and yolks of eggs, the sugar the last. Stir it for about twenty minutes over a quick fire ; then put it into a deep cutlet-pan, and bake it about ten minutes in a quick oven. When it is quite cold, cut out the fritters with a round cutter, and egg and bread-cmmb them, glaze and send them up quite hot, with greengage or apricot sauce in the dish. Apple Fritters. Time, si.\ minutes. 602. Yolks of seven eggs; whites of three ; one pint of new milk ; a little grated nutmeg ; a glass of brandy ; and sufficient flour for the batter; six apples. Beat and strain tire yolk’s of seven eggs, and the whites of three ; mix into them a pint of new milk, a little grated nutmeg. a pinch of salt, and a glass of brandy. Well beat the mixture, and then add gra- dually sufficient flour to make a thick batten Pare and core six large apples, cut them in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, sprinkle pounded sugar over them, and set them by for an hour or more ; dip each piece of apple in the batter, and fry them in hot lard about six minutes ; the lard should not be made too hot at first, bii must become hotter as they are fr)’ing. Serve on a napkin with sifted sugar ovei them. Apricots are extremely good done in the : same way. Cake Fritters. 603. A stale pound-cake ; strawberry ot any other preserve ; a few spoonfuls of' cream. Cut a stale cake into slices an inch and a . half in thickness, pour over them a little: good cream, and fry them lightly in fresh , butter; and when done, place over each 1 slice of cake a layer of strawberry or any other preserve. Bread Fritters. 604. A quart basinful of bread ; one: quart of milk ; two eggs ; half a nutmeg ; one tablespoonful of brandy; one of butter ; a little salt. To a quart basinful of stale bread broken small, put a quart of boiling milk, cover it for ten or fifteen minutes. When quite soft, beat it with a spoon until it is smooth, add two well-beaten eggs, half a nutmeg: grated, a tablespoonful of brandy, one of butter, and a little salt. Beat it light ; make an omelet-pan hot, put in a small piece of butter, and when dissolved pour in sufficient batter to run over the pan ; let it fry gently. When one side is a fine brown turn the other, put butter and sugar with a little grated nutmeg over, lay one on the other, cut them through in quarters, and seire them hot. Orange Fritters. 605. Three oranges; batter; pounded sugar. Take the peel and white skin from three large oranges ; then cut them across into; slices, pick out the seeds, and dip each slice of orange into a thick batter. Fry them nicely, and ser\’c them with sugar sifted over each.12.5 FLUMMERY, BLANCMANGE, SYLLABUB, &C. Rice Flummery. 606. Four ounces and a half of ground rice; si.x tablespoonfuls of milk; three ounces of loaf sugar ; twelve drops of almond flavouring. Boil four ounces and a half of ground rice in six tablespoonfuls of milk, stirring it all the time. When tolerably thick, add three ounces of powdered loaf sugar, and twelve drops of almond flavouring. Then pour it into an oiled mould, set it in a cold place, and the next day turn it out, and serve with baked pears round it, or with cream and preserve. Lemon Custard. 607. Half a pound of loaf sugar; juice and peel of two lemons ; yolks of four eggs ; the whites of two ; pint of white wine. Take half a pound of loaf sugar, the juice of two lemons, the peel of one pared very thin, boiled tender and rubbed through a sieve, and a pint of white wine. Let all boil for a quarter of an hour, then take out the peel and a little of the liquor, and set them to cool. Pour the rest into the dish you intend for it. Beat the yolks of the eggs and the whites, and mix them with the cool liquor. Strain them into your dish, stir them well up together, and set them on a slow fire in boiling water. When done, grate the peel of a lemon on the top, and brown it over with a salamander. This custard may be eaten hot or cold. Plain Boiled Custard. Time, about twenty minutes to infuse the peel; ten or fifteen minutes to stir the custard. 608. One quart of milk ; ten eggs ; peel of one lemon ; three laurel leaves; a quarter of a pound of sugar. Pour a quart of milk into a delicately- clean saucepan with three laurel leaves and the peel of a lemon, set it by the side of the fire for about twenty minutes, and when on the point of boiling strain it into a basin to cool. Then stir in a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and the ten eggs well beaten, again strain it into a jug, which place in a deep nucepan of boiling water, and stir it one way until it thickens ; then pour it into a glass dish, or into custard cups. You may put a knob of coloured jelly on the top of each custard cup if you please. Blancmange. Time, fifteen minutes. 609. One ounce of isinglass or gelatine ; two ounces of blanched and pounded al- monds ; one ounce of bitter ones ; one pint and a half of milk ; one pint of cream ; one lemon ; a spoonful of rosewater ; and two ounces of loaf sugar. Put into a delicately-clean stewpan the isinglass or gelatine, the sweet and bitter almonds blanched and pounded, the new milk and cream, the lemon juice and the peel grated, with loaf sugar to taste. Set the stewpan over a clear fire, and stir it till the isinglass is dissolved, then take it off and continue stirring it till nearly cold before putting it into the mould. This quantity will fill a quart mould, but if you wish to make it in a smaller shape, you must not put more than a pint of milk and half a pint of cream. Colour the top ornament with cochineal, and let it get cold before you add the rest of the blancmange. Arrowroot Blancmange, Time, about half an hour. 610. Two ounces of arrowroot ; one pint and a half of milk ; three laurel leaves ; sugar to taste • one tablespoonful of brandy or noyeau. Mix the two ounces of arrowroot with a large cupful of the milk into a smooth thick batter ; boil the remainder of the milk with three laurel leaves until sufficiently flavoured; then strain the milk into a jug and pour it over the arrowroot, stirring it constantly ; add sugar to taste, and stir it over a clear fire until very thick, add a tablespoonful of brandy or of noyeau, and pour it into an oiled mould. Set it in a cold place or in ice if you have it. When firm, turn it care- fully out on a dish, and garnish it with fruit or flowers. Cheap Blancmange. Time, fifteen minutes altogether. 6ir. One quart of new milk ; one ounce of isinglass ; two tablespoonfuls of boiling water ; a quarter of a pound of sugar ; one large lemon ; a stick of cinnamon ; half a teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Pour two spoonfuls of boiling water over an ounce of i.singlass, rub part of the sugar on the lemon, and when the flavour and colour are well extracted, put it with the re- mainder of the sugar into a stewpan with q [quart of milk and a stick of cinnamon.126 Souffics and Omelets. Z.et it all simmer until the sugar and isin- glass are dissolved. Then strain it through muslin into a jug, add the vanilla flavour- ing, strain it again, and then pour it into a china mould, and let it stand all night in a very cold place. Ground Sice Blancmange. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the rice. 612. Four ounces of ground rice or four full-sized tablespoonfuls of the very best British Com Flour, and one quart of milk, sweetened to the taste, a pinch of salt. Mix a portion of the miUc (cold) with the flour into a thin paste; then add the remainder hot, with a piece of lemon-pcd or cinnamon. Boil gently from eight W ten minutes, well stirring it all the timq moisten a mould with salad oil, and (after taking out the peel) pour the blancmange in to cool. Serve with preserved fruit, jelly, &c. London Syllabub. 613. A pint and a half of sherry; two ounces of sugar; grated nutmeg; two quarts of milk. Sweeten a pint and a half of sherry with the loaf sugar in a bowl, and add nutmeg. Milk into it from the cow about two quarts of milk. SOUFFLES AND OMELETS. Milan Souffle. 614. Four lemons ; six eggs ; half a pint of whipped cream ; two ounces of sugar ; one ounce of isinglass. Take four lemons, rub the peel on the sugar, put to it the yolks of six eggs made into a custard, and the juice of the lemons. Let it stand till cold, then add nearly half a pint of whipped cream and an ounce of isinglass. The whites of the eggs to be well whipped to a strong froth, and put round it with the whipped cream when cold. Omelet Souffle—A First-rate Eeceipt. 615. Twelve eggs ; two ounces of pow- dered sugar ; one dessertspoonful of orange- flower water ; one ounce of fresh butter. Separate the whites from the yolks of twelve eggs. Put the whites into a basin and beat them extremely fast till they form a very thick snow. Then beat six yolks separately, with two ounces of sugar, and a dessertspoonful of orange-flower water, or just enough to flavour it to your taste. Before beating the eggs have ready a round tin, well greased all over the inside with fresh butter. When you have fini.shed beating the six yolks, mix them very quickly with the whites, lest the snow should turn—that is, melt into water. Put it then into the buttered tin, and place it in the oven. It will be so thick, if it is well and skilfully mi.xed, that there will be no fear of its running over. Watch it well; glancing at it from time to time through a little opening of the oven door, to see how it is going on ; as soon as it has risen very high, and is of a golden colour, take it out of the oven. Do not suffer the omelet souffld to remain long in the oven. If it is not watched it will fall in and become a mere galeite. Let the oven be of a very gentle heat, or the bottom of the omelet will be burnt before the top is done. Before putting the tin in the oven, 3'ou may powder the snow with fine sugar; it crystallizes and producesa very pretty effect. As soon as the omelet is done it must be sent to table. If it waits for longer than ten minutes it falls in. The eggs should be beaten with a fork or a little whisk. If this souffle is liked a little more solid, add to the yolks of the eggs when beaten two dessertspoonfuls of rice boiled in milk, and flavoured with vanilla. In this case do not put in the orange-flower flavouring. The rice must be very well cooked, and I well sweetened before it is added to the; eggs. Friar’s Omelet. 616. Eight or nine large apples ; two ounces of fresh butter; sugar to taste ; bread- crumbs. Boil eight or nine large apples to a pulp, stir in two ounces of butter, and add pounded sugar to taste. Wlien cold, add an egg well- beaten up. Then butter the bottom of a deep baking-dish, and the sides also. Thickly strew crumbs of bread, so as to stick all over the bottom and sides. Put in the mixture, and strew bread-crumbs plenti- fully over the top. Put it into a moderate oven, and when baked turn it out, and put powdered sugar over it.127 CREAMS. Stone Cream. Time, to boil, one minute ; to stand, one night. 617. One pot of preserved apricots or plums ; half an ounce of isinglass ; one pint of cream ; one lemon ; two teaspoonfuls of crushed wliite sugar (more or less, to taste). Take a glass dish and line it at the bottom about an inch thick with preserved apricots or plums, dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in a little water, strain it, add to it a pint of thick cream, the peel of the lemon grated, enough sugar to make it pleasant to your taste. Let it boil one minute ; then put it into a jug that has a spout. When it is nearly cold, but not quite set, squeeze into it the juice of the lemon (or rather, squeeze the lemon in a cup and add it to the cream, lest a pip should fall into the jug). Pour it into the dish (from a jug with a spout) over the sweetmeat, and let it stand all night. Place on the top a few ratafias. Any very nice jam may be substituted for the apricot, but the latter is best of all. Wine sours are parhaps the best substitutes for apricots. Velvet Cream. Time, until the isinglass is dissolved. 618. One ounce of isinglass ; a breakfast- cup of white wine ; juice of one large lemon ; the peel rubbed with sugar; one pint of cream. Put the ounce of isinglass into a stewpan with a large cupful of white wine, the juice of a large lemon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten it rubbed on the peel to extract the colour and flavour. Stir it over the fire until the isingla.ss is dissolved, and then strain it to get cold. Then mix with it the cream, and pour it into a mould. Coffee Cream. 6ig. One large cupful of made coffee ; four ounces of sugar; three-quarters of a pint of milk ; yolks of eight eggs; two ounces of gelatine. Put three-quarters of a pint of boiled milk into a stewpan with a large cupful of made coffee, and add the yolks of eight well- beaten eggs and four ounces of pounded loaf sugar. Stir the whole briskly over a clear fire until it begins to thicken, take it off the fire, stir it for a minute or two longer, and strain it through a sieve on the two ounces of gelatine. Mix it thoroughly together, and when the gelatine is dissolved, pour the cream into a mould previously dipped into cold water, and set the mould on rough ice to set. Lemon Cream. 620. One pint of water ; peel of three large lemons ; juice of four lemons ; six ounces of fine loaf sugar ; whites of six eggs. Pare into a pint of water the peel of three large lemons ; let it stand four or five hours ; then take them out, and put to the water the juice of four lemons and six ounces of fine loaf sugar. Beat the whites of six eggs and mix it all together, strain it through a lawn sieve, set it over a slow fire, stir it one way until as thick as good cream, then take it off the fire and stir it until cold, and put it into a glass dish. Orange cream may be made in the same way, adding the yolks of three eggs. Lemon Cream withont Cream. Time, five or six minutes. 621. Two ounces of gelatine or isinglass ; three-quarters of an ounce of bitter almonds ; three lemons ; one quart of new milk ; yolks of seven eggs ; ten ounces of loaf sugar. Put a quart of new milk into a stewpan with the peel of three small lemons cut thin, ten ounces of loaf sugar pounded, three- quarters of an ounce of Isitter almonds, blanched and pounded to a paste, and about two ounces of gelatine or isinglass. Boil the whole over a moderate fire for eight or nine minutes, until the gelatine or isinglass is thoroughly dissolved. Then strain it through a fine sieve into a jug with a lip to it; stir in the yolks of seven well- beaten eggs, and pour the mixture from one jug to another until barely cold ; then add the strained juice of three small lemons, stir it quickly together, and pour it into an oiled mould. Raspberry Cream without Cream. Time, one hour. 622. A quarter of a pound of raspberry jam or jelly ; a quarter of a pound of sugar beaten fine ; whites of four eggs. Pound and sift the sugar, mix it with the jam or jelly, and the whites of four eggs. All to be beaten together for one hour, and then put in lumps in a glass dish. Chantilly Basket, with Whipped Straw- berry Cream and Fruit. 623. Sixty-two macaroons ; some melted barley-sugar; strawberry cream ; and twenty- four strawberries.Jellies and Stveet Dishes. 12S’ Take any tin mould that will serve to form a basket, and rub it over with fresh butter to prevent the eandy sticking to it. Dip the cakes in the barley-sugar, which must be kept hot, and fasten them together with it, each row of cakes being cold and firm before the next is put on ; then take it from the mould and keep it in a dry place until wanted. Fill it with a whipped straw- berry cream which has been drained on a sieve the preceding day, and put into the whip ripe strawberries. JELLIES AND SWEET DISHES. The Foundation of all Jelly. 634. One shilling packet of Nelson’s gelatine ; half a pint of cold water; one pint of hot water ; the peel of five lemons ; one small stick of cinnamon; six cloves ; juice of six lemons ; half a pint of sherry ; a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar ; whites of five eggs. Take a packet of gelatine, dissolve it in half a pint of cold water, and then add a pint of hot water, the peel of five lemons without the pith, a small stick of cinnamon, the cloves, the juice of the lemons, the sherry, and the loaf sugar. When done, clarify it with the shells and whites of five eggs. If you wish to make any other kind of jelly omit the sherry, and add for instance orange juice for orange jelly, or the juice of strawberries, cherries, pineapple, or any other fruit. The jelly takes its name from its flavouring. No jelly of several colours should be set warm, as the different colours run and weaken it extremely. Calf’s Feet Jelly. Time, to boil the feet, until reduced to one quart; to reboil the jelly, a quarter of an hour. 625. Two calf’s feet ; two quarts of water; half a pound of loaf sugar ; one pint of white wine ; a wineglass of brandy ; four lemons ; whites of four eggs. Cut two feet in small pieces after they have been well cleaned and the hair taken off. Stew them very gently in two quarts of water till it is reduced to one quart. When cold, take off the fat and remove the jelly from the sediment. Put it into a saucepan with half a pound of loaf .sugar, a pint of white wine, a wineglass of brandy in it, four lemons with the peel rubbed on the sugar, the whites of four eggs well beaten and their shells broken. Put the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the jelly after it begins to warm. Let it boil a quarter of an hour after it rises to a head ; then cover it close, and let it stand .about half an hour; after which, pour it through a jelly-bag, first dipping the bag in hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite dry. Pour] the jelly through and through until clear, then put it into the mould. Jelly from Cowheels. Time, to boil the cowheels, seven hours, or until reduced to three pints; boil five minutes after the wine is added. 626. Two cowheels ; one gallon of water; one pint of white wine; half a pound of loaf sugar; juice of five, peel of four lemons ; whites of si.x eggs. Put two thoroughly clean cowheels into a stewpan with a gallon of spring water, and let it boil until reduced to three pints. When cold, skim off the cake of fat, and take the jelly carefully from the sediment at the bottom ; put the jelly into a stewpan with the white wine, loaf sugar, and the juice of the lemons. Beat up the whites of six eggs ; throw them into the jelly ; stir it all together, and let it boil five minutes. Then pour it into a jelly-bag, and let it ran on the peels of four lemons placed in the basin the jelly runs into, as the peel will give a fine flavour and colour. If not perfectly clear, run it through again. Pour it into a mould, and turn it out the next day. Orange Jelly. Time, until it almost candies. 627. Peel of two Seville, two China oranges, and two lemons ; juice of three of each ; a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar ; a quarter of a pint of water ; two ounces of isinglass. Grate the rinds of the Seville and China oranges, and lemons ; squeeze the juice of three of each ; strain it, and add the juice to the sugar and the water, .and boil it until it almost candies. Have ready a quart of isinglass jelly made with two ounces of isinglass ; put to it the syrup, and boil it once up. Strain off the jelly, and let it stand to settle before it is put into the mould. Clear Apple Jelly. Time, one hour and a half to boil the apples ; a quarter of an hour the jelly. 628. Two dozen and a half of pippins; one quart of spring water to every pint ofi29 Siucc^ Dishes. juice ; three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar ; ten ounces of isinglass ; the peel of one small lemon. Pare, core, and boil two dozen and a half of pwppins in a pint and a half of water with the peel of a small lemon. When they arc tender, pour the juice from the pippins, and strain it through a jelly bag; then put to the strained juice the sugar pounded, and the isinglass, boiled till dissolved in half a pint of water. Boil the whole in a very clean stewpan for about fifteen minutes, and then pour it into moulds. Riband Jelly—or Jelly of Two Colours. Time, three-quarters of an hour to make the jelly. 629. One quart of calf’s feet jelly ; a few drops of prepared cochineal. Have ready a quart of calfs feet jelly, flavoured in any way that may be preferred, leaving one pint of a pale colour, and adding a few drops of prepared cochineal to colour the remainder a bright red. Pour a small quantity of the red into a mould previously soaked in cold water. Let this set: then pour in a small quantity of the pale jelly, and repeat this until the mould is full, taking care that each layer is perfectly firm before pouring it on the other. Put it in a cold place, and the next day turn it out; or the mould may be partly filled with the yellow jelly, and when thoroughly set, filled up with the pink. Riband jelly and jelly of two colours can be made in any pretty fancy mould ; there are many to be had for the purpose. Of course one colour must be always firm before the other is put in. In order to hasten the operation it is best to ice the jelly each time, by placing the mould in an ice-pail. Oranges Filled with Jelly. 630. Some large China oranges, and some jelly of two colours. With the point of a small knife cut out from the top of each orange a round about the size of a shilling ; then, with the small end of a teaspoon, empty the pulp from them, taking care not to break the rinds. Throw them into cold water. Make jelly of the juice pressed from the pulp, and strained quite clear. Colour one half a bright rose colour with prepared cochineal, leaving the other very pale. When the jelly is nearly cold, drain and wipe the oranges, and fill them with alternate stripes of the different coloured jelly. Each colour being allowed to get quite cold before the other is poured in. When they are perfectly cold, cut them into quarters with a very sharp knife, and arrange them tastefully on a dish, with sprigs of myrtle between them. Gateau de Pommes. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 631. One pound of sugar ; one pint of water ; two pounds of apples ; juice and peel of one large lemon ; some rich custard. Boil one pound of sugar in a pint of water until the water has evaporated, then add two pounds of apples pared and cored, the juice of a large lemon, and the peel grated. Boil all together till quite stiff, then put it into a mould, and when cold turn it out, and serve it with rich custard round it. Gooseberry Fool. 632. Two quarts of gooseberries; one quart of water ; sugar to taste ; two quarts of new milk ; yollcs of four eggs ; a little grated nutmeg. Put two quarts of gooseberries into a stewpan with a quart of water ; when they begin to turn yellow and swell, drain the water from them and press them with the back of a spoon through a colander, sweeten them to your taste, and set them to cool. Put two quarts of milk over the fire beaten up with the yolks of four eggs, and a little grated nutmeg ; stir it over the fire until it begins to simmer, then take it off, and stir it gradually into the cold goose- berries, let it stand until cold, and serve it. The eggs may be left out and milk only may be used. Half this quantity makes a good dishful. Rice Snow Balls. Time, twenty minutes to boil the rice. 633. A quarter of a pound of Carolin rice ; one pint and a half of new milk ; two ounces of loaf sugar ; two ounces of sweet almonds ; and some preserve or marmalade. Put a quarter of a pound of rice into a stewpan with a pint and a half of new milk, two ounces of pounded sugar and two ounces of sweet almonds blanched and minced fine, and boil it until the rice is tender. Dip some small cups into cold water, fill them with the rice, and set them to become cold ; turn them out on a dish, arrange a border of preserve or marmalade all round them, and pour a little rich cream into the centre, if jou have it. Frosted Pippins. Time, half an hour. 634. Twelve large pippins ; whites of three eggs ; lemon peel ; pounded sugar. Divide twelve pippins, take out the cores, and place them close togetlieron a tin, with KF30 Sweet Dishes. Ilie flat side downwards. Whisk the white Df egg quite firm, spread it over them, then Strew some lemon peel cut very thin and in shreds, and sift double-refined sugar over the whole. Bake them half an hour, and then place them on a hot dish, and serve them quickly. Rice and Pears. Time, one hour and a half. 635. One breakfast cup and a half of rice ; one pint of milk ; a large tablespoon- ful of sugar ; three eggs ; a little cinnamon and nutmeg ; baked pears. Boil the rice till tender in the milk, then put in the cinnamon, sugar, and nutmeg. Take it up, let it get nearly cold, beat the eggs well, and mix them with the rice. Butter a mould, put the rice in, tie it down tightly in a floured cloth, and let it boil for an hour. Turn it out ; lay round it baked pears. Garnish it with slices of lemon stuck into the rice. A Charlotte de Pommes. Time, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. 636. The crumb of a stale loaf; apple marmalade ; apricot jam. Butter a plain mould, and line it with thin slices of the crumb of a stale loaf dipped into clarified butter, joining each slice neatly to prevent the syrup from escaping, which would spoil the appearance of the Charlotte when done. Then fill the mould with apple marmalade and apricot jam ; cover the top with slices of bread dipped into butter, and on the top of the bread put a plate with a weight on it. Set the mould in a quick oven from three-quarters of an hour to one hour, according to the size. Turn it out with care, having drained any butter from it before it is taken from the mould. Sift loaf sugar over it, or cover it with clear jelly, and serve it hot. A Cake Trifle. 637. A Savoy cake, or a Naples cake ; a pint of milk ; yolks of four eggs ; whites of two ; two ounces of sugar ; one teaspoonful of peach water ; any jam you please. Take a Savoy, or Naples cake; cut out the inside about an inch from the edge and bottom, leaving a shell; fill the inside with a custard made of the yolks of four eggs beaten with a pint of boiling milk, sweetened with two ounces of powdered sugar, and flavoured witlr a teaspoonful of peach water. Lay on it some strawberry, or any other jam you may prefer ; beat the whites of two eggs, with a little sifted sugar, until they will stand in a heap. Pile it up on the cake ever the preserve, and serve. To Make a Eich Trifle. 638. Eight spongecakes ; four ounces of macaroons ; four ounces of ratafias ; three ounces of sweet almonds ; the grated peel of one large lemon; a pot of raspberry jam ; half a pint of sherry, or raisin wine; three wineglasses of brandy; one pint of rich custard. For (he Whip.—One pint of cream ; whites of two eggs ; one glass of white wine : three ounces of loaf sugar. Put the cream, pounded sugar, glass of white wine, and the whites of two new-laid eggs into a bowl, and whisk them to a stiff froth. As the froth rises take it off with a skimmer, and put it on the reversed side of a sieve to drain, and when the whole is finished, set it in a cool place until the next day. Then put the spongecakes at the bottom of the glass trifle-dish ; then the macaroons and the ratafias, and pour over them the wine and brandy. Wlien well soaked, grate over them the peel of a large lemon, then add the almonds blanched and cut into thin shreds, and the raspberry jam. Pour over the whole a pint of rich custard, and pile the whip lightly over the top. Or- nament it with flowers or with crystallized fruits of any bright colour. Tipsy Cake. Time, one hour and three-quarters or two hours, to soak the cake. 639. One large round stale spongecake ; one glass and a half of brandy ; sufficient sherry or raisin wine to soak it; juice of half a lemon; three ounces of sweet almonds ; one pint of rich custard. Place a large spongecake in the glass dish in which it is to be served ; make a small hole in the centre, and pour in over the cake a sufficient quantity of sherry or raisin wine (mixed with a glass and a half of brandy and the juice of half a lemon), to soak it thoroughly. Then blanch two or three ounces of sweet almonds; cut them into long spikes, stick them all over the cake, and pour round it a pint of very rich custard. Meringues. 640. Whites of four small eggs; half a pound of finely-powdered sugar ; lemon or vanilla flavouring. Whisk the whites of four small eggs to a high froth, then stir into it half a pound of finely-powdered sugar; flavour it with vanilla or lemon essence, and repeat the whisking until it will lie in a heap; then lay the mixture in lumps on letter paper, in the shape of half an egg, moulding it with a spoon, laying each about half an inch apart. Then placeSecond Course Dishes. ifie paper containing the meringues on a piece of hard wood, and put tliem into a quick oven ; do not close it. Watch, them ; and when they begin to have a yellow appearance take them out; remove the paper carefully from the wood, and 1st them cool for two or three minutes ; then slip a thin-bladcd knife very carefully under one, turn it into your left hand, take another from the paper in the same way, and join the two sides which were next the paper to- gether. The soft inside may be taken out with the handle of a small spoon, the shells filled with jam, jelly, or cream, and then joined together as above, cementing them together with some of the mixture. Eice Meringue. Time, twenty minutes. 641. One teacupful of rice ; half a pint of milk ; three eggs; one teaspoonful of moist sugar ; apricot or any other jam ; two teaspoonfuls of loaf sugar. Put a teacupful of rice into half a pint of milk, and stand it at the side of the fire to simmer until quite soft. Then add the yolks of three beaten eggs to the rice in the ste\vpan, and beat the whole up wth a tea- spoonful of fine moist sugar. Then turn it out into the tin that it is to be baked in, piling it up high in the centre, and spread a thick layer of apricot or any other jam over it. Whisk the whites of the three eggs to a firm froth -with a teaspoonful of powdered loaf sugar, spread it all over the jam, and sprinkle loaf sugar on the top of it, then drop a little of the froth about it in different shapes. Put it into the oven for about twenty minutes, taking care to leave the oven door open. Raspberry, strawberry, or currant jam may be used. 13 r Curd for Cheesecakes—Yorksliire Eeceipt. Time, till it curds. 642. One quart of water ; two eggs ; on quart of new milk ; two spoonfuls of lemo. juice or good vinegar. Boil the water in a stewpan. Beat twt eggs and mix them with a quart of new milk; add them to the water with two spoonfuls of lemon juice or good vinegar. When the curd rises lay it on a sieve to drain. Cheesecakes. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. 643. Half a pint of good curd; four eggs ; three spoonfuls of rich cream ; a quarter of a nutmeg; one spoonful of ratafia ; a quarter of a pound of currants ; puff paste. Beat half a pint of good curd with four eggs, three spoonfuls of rich cream, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, a spoonful of ratafia, and a quarter of a pound of currants washed and dried. Mix all well together, and bake in patty-pans lined with a good puff paste. Lemon Cheesecakes. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. 644. A quarter of a pound of warmed butter ; peel of two lemons, juice of one ; quarter of a pound of loaf sugar; a fev almonds ; puff paste. Just warm the butter ; stir into it the sugar pounded fine, and when dissolved, mix with it the peel of two lemons grated, and the juice of one strained. Mix all well together, and pour it into patty-pans lined with puff paste. Put a few blanched almonds on the top of each. SECOND COURSE DISHES, RELISHES, &c. Macaroni as usually served. Time, to boil the macaroni, an hour; to brown it, six or seven minutes. 643. Half a pound of pipe macaroni ; seven ounces of Parmesan or Cheshire cheese ; four ounces of butter ; one pint of new milk ; one quart of water and some bread-crumbs ; a pinch of salt. flavour the milk and water with a pinch of salt, set it over the fire, and when boiling, drop in the macaroni. When tender, drain it from the milk and water, put it into a deep dish, sprinkle some of the grated cheese amongst it, with part of the butter broken into small pieces, place a layer of grated cheese over the top, and cover tht whole with fine bread-enunbs, pouring tlij remainder of the butter lightly warmed over the crumbs. Brown the top of the macat roni with a salamander, or before the fire, turning it several times that it may be nicely browned. Serve it quickly, and as hot as possible. Admiral Boss's Indian Devil Mixture. 646. Four tablespoonfuls of cold gravy ; one of Chutney paste ; one of ketchup ; one of vinegar; two teaspoonfuls of inadt- K 2132 Baking Biscuits and Cakes. mustard ; two of salt; two tablespoonfuls of butter. Mi.x all the above ingredients as smooth as possible in a soup plate, put with it the cold meat, or whatever you wish to devil. Stew it gently until thoroughly warmed, and then you will have a good devil. Eamakins. Time, to bake, a quarter of an hour. 647. Two eggs ; one teaspoon ful of flour ; two ounces of melted butter ; two ounces of grated cheese ; two tablespoonfuls of cream. Mix a teaspoonful of flour with two ounces of grated cheese, two ounces of melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream, and two well-beaten eggs. Stir all together, and bake it in small tins. You may add a little Cayenne pepper if you please. A Fondue. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 648. A quarter of a pound of butter ; three tablespoonfuls of flour ; three gills of cream ; one ounce of Parmesan cheese ; four eggs. Mix a quarter of a pound of butter with three tablespoonfuls of flour; add to it three gills of cream, and stir it over the fire till thoroughly cooked. Add sufficient grated Parmesan cheese to flavour it. Break four eggs, separating the yolks from the whites ; add the yolks well-beaten to the above mixture. Whisk the whites very firm ; put them on the mixture, and bake in a moderately-quick oven. Toasted Cheese. Time, ten minutes. 649. Cut equal quantities of Gloucester cheese, and having pared it into extremely small pieces, place it in a pan with a little Oiilk, and a small slice of butter. Stir it over a slow fire until melted and quite smooth. Take it off the fire quickly, mix the yolk of an egg with it, and brown it in a toaster before the fire. Welsh Eabbit. Time, ten minutes. 650. Half a pound of cheese ; three table- spoonfuls of ale ; a thin slice of toast. Grate the cheese fine, put to it the ale, and work it in a small saucepan over a slow fire till it is melted. Spread it on toast, and send it up boiling hot. Mock Crab—Sailor Fashion. 651. A large slice of Gloucester cheese; a teaspoonful of mustard; the same of vinegar ; pepper and salt to taste. Cut a slice of Gloucester cheese rather thin ; but of good size round. Mash it up with a fork to a paste, mix it with vinegar, mustard, and pepper. It has a great flavour of crab. BAKING BISCUITS AND CAKES. An oven to bake well should have a re- gular heat throughout, but particularly at the bottom, without which bread or cakes will not rise, or bake well. An earthen basin is best for beating eggs, or cake mixture. Cake should be beaten with a wooden spoon, or spatula ; butter may be beaten with -the same. Eggs should be beaten with rods, or a broad fork ; a silver fork, or one made of iron wire, is best, as it is broadest ; eggs should be clear and fresh for a cake. It is well, as a general rule in cake mak- ing, to beat the butter and sugar (which must be made fine) to a light cream ; indeed, in the making of pound cake, the lightness of the cake depends as much upon this as upon the eggs being well beaten ; then beat tire eggs and put them to the butter, and gradually add the flour and other ingre- dients, beating it all the time. In common cakes, where only a few eggs .arc used, beat them until you can take a spoonful up clear from strings. In receipts in which milk is used as one ingredient, either sweet or sour may be used, but not a mixture of both. Sour milk makes a spongy light cake ; sweet milk makes a cake which cuts like pound cake. To blanch almonds, pour boiling water on them, and let them remain in it until the skins may be taken off; then throw the almonds into cold water to whiten them, drain them from the water, but do not wipe them ; the moisture will prevent their oiling. In making cakes, if you wish them to be pleasing to the palate, use double-refined sugar, although light brown sugar m.akes .a very good cake. For icing cakes, the sugar must be rolled and sifted, or pounded in a mortar. To ascertain whether a cake is baked enough, if a small one, take a very fine splint of wood and run it through the thickest part ; if not done enough, some of the doughj or unbaked cake will be found stickingto it; if done, it will come out clean.133 Cakes. If the cake is large, pass a small knife-blade through it instead of the splint. Cakes to be kept fresh should be placed ifi a tin-bo.x tightly covered, in a cool dark place. Icing for Cakes. 652. Whites of three eggs ; one pound of lugar ; flavouring of vanilla or lemon. Beat the whites of the eggs to a high froth, then add to them a quarter of a pound of W'hite sugar pounded and sifted, flavour it with vanilla or lemon, and beat it until it is light and very white, but not quite so stiff as meringue mi.Kture. The longer it is beaten the more firm it will become. Beat it until it may be spread smoothly on the cake. Spongecake, Time, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. 653. Five eggs ; half a pound of sifted loaf sugar ; the weight of two eggs and a half (in their shells) of flour ; one lemon. Take half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, break five eggs over it, and beat all together for full half an hour with a steel fork. Pre- viously take the weight of two eggs and a half (in their shells) in flour. After you have beaten the eggs and sugar together for the time specified, grate into them the peel of a lemon, and add the juice if approved. Stir the flour into this mi.xture and pour it into a tin. Put it instantly into a cool oven. Eice Cake. Time, one hour. 654. A quarter of a pound of ground rice : a quarter of a pound of flour ; half a pound ofsifted sugar ; six ounces of butter ; four eggs ; and a few seeds. Mix the sugar, rice, butter, and flour to- gether, then add the whites of the eggs, having been previously beaten to a stiff froth. When it begins to look white add the yolks. Stir all well together. Line a tin with buttered paper, and bake it. Josephine Cakes. Time, one hour. 655. Half a pound of butter ; half a pound of brown sugar ; five eggs ; one pound of flour ; half a pound of currants ; one glass of white wine. Beat half a pound ofbtitter to a cream, then beat in the sugar, and the five eggs well beaten. Mix it gradually into a pound of flour, add half a pound of currants w^hed and dried, and a glass of wliite wine, and bake it, when well beaten to- gether, in a buttered tin. Common Seed Cake. Time, two hours. 6s6. Two pounds and a half of flour ; half a pound of loaf sugar ; one tablcspoonful of thick yeast; half a pitit of warm milk ; half a pound of butter; one ounce of caraway seeds. Mix half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, or good moist, with two pounds and a half of dried flour ; mix a .spoonful of yeast and half a pint of warm milk with a sufficient quantity of flour to make it the thickness of cream, and pour it into the middle of the flour and sugar, and set it by in a warm place for one hour. Melt the butter to an oil, and stir it into the sponge, with the caraway §eeds, and sufficient milk to make the dough of a middling stiffness ; line a tin, or hoop, with buttered paper, put in the mixture, and again set it before the fire to rise, bake it for one hour in rather a hot oven. When done, brush the top over with milk. A Light Cake. Time, one hour. 657. One pound of flour ; half a pound of butter ; half a pound of sugar ; three tea- spoonfuls of German yeast ; a little milk, and nutmeg. Put the flour, sugar, and nutmeg into a bowl, and mix it thoroughly with three tea- spoonfuls of German yeast. Set it to rise, and just before setting it in the oven mix it up with the butter, warmed in a little milk, as stiff as you can, and bake it one hour. Add a few caraway seeds or citron, if you please. Lemon Cake. Time, one hour. 658. Six eggs ; half a pound of pounded sugar ; seven ounces of flour ; peel of one large, or two small lemons. Beat the pounded sugar with the yolks of the eggs until it is smooth ; whisk the whites to a froth stiff enough to bear the weight of an egg, and add it to the beaten yolks ; then stir in gradually seven ounces of flour, and the grated peel of one large, or two small lemons. Line a tin with buttered paper, pour in the cake mixture and bake it. Soda Cake. Time, one hour and a half to two hours. 659. One pound of flour ; a quarter of a pound of sugar ; six ounces of butter ; Iialf a pound of currants ; fifty grains or a small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda ; half a pint of milk ; and two eggs. Rub the quarter of a pound of butter into the flour and sugar. Mix the soda thorou^i’hlv with tlie milk, which must be cold. Mix all the ingredients well together ; put the mixture into a tin, and bake directly.J34 Cakes, Plain Cake. Time, one hour, or one hour and a half. 660. One pound of flour ; a quarter of a pound of beef dripping ; a quarter of a pound of moist sugar ; two eggs ; two spoonfuls of yeast; two ounces of caraway seeds. Rub the flour, beef dripping, and moist sugar well together ; beat up the eggs ; add the yeast and caraway seeds, and beat up all well together. Bake in a tin. Plain Short Bread. Time, twenty-five to thirty minutes for three cakes. 661. One pound of flour; half a pound of butter ; three ounces of brown sugar. Mix these ingredients and roll them out thick, and bake. Plain Plum Cake. Time, two hours and a half. 662. Two pounds of flour ; three spoonfuls of yeast; four eggs ; three-quarters of a pound of sugar ; one glass of sweet wine ; one teaspoonful of ginger ; peel of one lemon ; one pound of currants, or a few caraways. Rub eight ounces of butter into two pounds of dried flour ; mix it with three spoonfuls of yeast—not bitter—to a paste, and let it rise an hour and a half; then mix in the yolks and whites of four eggs beaten se- parately, one pound of sugar, some milk to make it a proper thickness, a glass of sweet wine, peel of a lemon grated, and a tea- spoonful of ginger. Add at the last a pound of currants washed and dried, or a few caraway seeds. A Eich Plum Cake. Time, two hours or more. 663. One pound of fresh butter; twelve eggs ; one quart of flour; one pound of moist sugar ; half a pound of mixed spice ; three pounds of currants ; one pound of raisins ; half a pound of almonds ; half a pound of candied peel. Beat the butter to a cream with your hand, and stir into it the yolks of the twelve eggs well beaten with the sugar ; then add the spice and the almonds chopped very fine. Stir in the flour ; add the currants washed and dried, the rasins chopped up, and the candied peel cut into pieces. As each in- gredient is added, tlie mixture must be beaten by the hand ; then butter a paper, place it round a tin, put in the cake, and bake it for two hours, or more, if re- quired. Eaisin Cake. Time, one hour and a quarter. 664. One pound of flour ; one pound ol sugar ; one pound of butter ; six eggs ; one wineglass of brandy in which rose-leaves have been steeped ; one small nutmeg; one small teaspoonful of soda or saleratus ; one pound of raisins. Beat a pound of butter to a cream, and add it to the same weight of flour, and of sugar pounded fine and stirred into the yolks of six eggs ; then beat in the whites whipped to a stiff froth, a glass of brandy, a small nutmeg grated, and a stjiall tea- spoonful of soda or saleratus dissolved in a tablespoonful of hot water. Beat the whole together until it is light and creamy ; then add a pound of raisins stoned and chopped. Strew a cupful of flour over them l^fore putting them into the cake ; line a tin with buttered paper ; put in the cake mixture, and bake it in a quick oven. Canadian Cakes. Time, fifteen minutes to bake. 665. A pound and a half of sifted flour ; one pound of loaf sugar ; one pound of fresh butter ; ten eggs ; two tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water; two tablespoon- fuls of wine or brandy ; half a pound of currants ; peel of half a grated lemon. Mix a pound and a half of sifted flour with a pound of powdered sugar ; rub into it a pound of fresh butter, then add ten well beaten eggs, two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and two tablespoonfuls of wine or brandy, with half a pound of well cleansed and dried currants. Beat the mixture untl it is light and creamy, have some square tins lined with buttered paper, put the mix- ture into them half an inch deep, and bake in a quick oven. When served, cut it in squares or diamonds. This cake may be iced, but it must be marked as it is to be cut, before the icing is done. Sledmere Gingerbread. Time, three-quarters to one hour. 666. Half a pound of butter; half a pound of sugar ; half a pound of treacle: one pound of flour ; half an ounce of ginger ; one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda: four eggs. Put the butter, sugar, and treacle into a saucepan together, and place it over the fire to melt. Then beat four eggs, and stir the melted butter, sugar, and treacle into the eggs, add the powdered ginger anf' carbonate of soda. Stir all together into the flour, and bake.135 Cakes, Gingerbread Loaf. Time, three-quarters of an hour lo one hour. 667. One pound of flour ; one pound of treacle ; si.x ounces of butter ; four ounces of moist sugar ; half an ounce of coriander seeds ; half an ounce of caraway seeds ; half a tablespoonful of pearlash mint ; a quarter of a teacupful of cream ; four eggs. Melt the treacle and the butter together, add the moist sugar, the coriander and caraway seeds ground together, and ginger to your taste ; mix with the flour. Bruise fine half a tablespoonful of pearlash mint with a very little cream. Mix all together. Beat four eggs and add them to the ginger- bread the very last thing. Line a tin with paper, butter it, and put the mixture in it. BaJte in a slow oven. Gingerbread Nuts. Time, twenty minutes to half an hour. 668. One pound of Lisbon sugar ; two pounds of treacle ; three-quarters of a pound of butter ; four pounds of flour ; four ounces of ginger ; one ounce of allspice ; two spoon- fuls of coriander seed ; some candied orange peel; two spoonfuls of brandy ; yolks of four eggs. Mix the sugar, treacle, and butter, and melt all together; then stir in the flour, ground ginger, allspice, coriander seed, and the orange peel cut very small. Mix all into a paste with the eggs well beaten, and the brandy, and make them into nuts or cakes. Ginger Snaps. Time, twenty minutes to bake. 669. Half a pound of treacle ; quarter of a pound of brown sugar; one pound of flour ; one tablespoonful of ground ginger ; one of caraway seeds. Work a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of fine flour, then mix it with the treacle, brown sugar, ginger, and caraway seeds. Work it ah well together, and form it into cakes not larger than a crown piece, place them on a baking tin in a moderate oven, when they wil. be dry and crisp. Sydenham Cake. Time, one hour to bake. 670. Half a pound of flour ; a quarter of a pound of butter ; three ounces of pounded sugar ; one teaspoonful of caraway seeds ; a little ginger and nutmeg ; half a teaspoon- ful of pounded salts of ammonia. Rub the butter into the flour, and then mix in the seeds, and he ginger and grated nutmeg ; add the yolks of two well-beaten «ggs, and the whites whisked .separately to a stiff froth. Then mix all together with thi salts, by putting them into a spoon, holding them over the cake, and pouring from a kettle sufficient water to make all into a paste. Then put it into a tin lined with a buttered paper, and bake it. To ascertain when it is done, plunge a knife into the centre, and if it comes out clean the cake is ready. Bock Cakes. Time, half an hour. 671. Half a pound of butter ; one pound of flour ; half a pound of moist sugar ; forty drops of essence of lemon ; two eggs ; half a glass of brandy or white wine. Rub half a pound of butter into a pound of dried flour and half a pound of fine moist sugar. Mix the whole with two beaten eggs and half a glass of brandy or white wine. Drop them on a baking sheet, and bake them half an hour. To Make Buns. Time, to bake, twenty minutes. 672. Half an ounce of caraway seeds ; half a pound of currants ; a little nutmeg ,• a little lemon peel; two eggs ; one quart of new milk ; one ounce of butter ; two pounds of flour; a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar ; one or two spoonfuls of yeast ; one egg. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, and pour the milk in, with one or two spoon- fuls of yeast. Stir the dough, cover it over, and let it stand before the fire to rise for one hour. Then mix the caraway seeds, lemon peel, and nutmeg with one half, and the currants with the other, and cover all up together till the oven is ready. Make up the buns to a proper size, and put them on a tin baking sheet buttered. Beat up an egg, and bnisli them over with it. Cover them over again, and put them before the fire for another half hour. Then balce them. Do not make them too large. Sally Lunn Cakes, Time, twenty minutes. 673. One pint of boiling milk; half a tumbler of yeast ; sufficient flour to form ti stiff batter ; two eggs ; two ounces of pow- dered sugar ; a quarter of a pound of butter. Put a pint of boiling milk into a pan, and when it has become lukewarm pour half a tumbler of yeast upon it, stir it well, and add as much flour as will form a stiff batter. Cover the pan with a cloth, and place it before the fire for two hours ; beat up the eggs with tlie powdered sugar. After the dough has stood to rise tiie time .specified, mix tlic butterwith the sugar and eggs, add it to the dough, knead it, and let it remain136 Preserves and Piekles. <n the pan for half an hour, then divide it into cakes, put them on a baking tin, and bake them in a well-heated oven. Brown Bread Biscuits. Time; si.x or seven minutes. 674. One pound of coarse brown flour ; two ounces of butter ; and a little water. Make the butter and water boiling hot, add it to the flour, keeping it very firm. Roll the biscuits out, not too thin, and bake them in rather a quick oven. Lemon Biscuits. Time, fifteen minutes. 675. One pound and a half of flour ; a quarter of a pound of butter ; one pound and a half of loaf sugar ; three lemons ; two eggs. Dry well before the fire a pound and a half of flour, rub into it a quarter of a pound of butter as fine as possible, mix with it a pound and a half of loaf sugar pounded, and the peel of tliree lemons chopped very fine. Well beat two eggs ; add to them the juice of two lemons, and stir thoroughly. Put the mixture into the flour, and mix all well together till you have a stiff paste ; roll it out to the thickness of a penny piece. and divide it into biscuits with a paste cutter. Bake them on a tin. Tliese biscuits should be kept in a tin box near the fire till wanted, as they are apt to give. Ginger Biscuits. Time, seventeen or eighteen minutes. 676. Eight ounces of flour ; four ounces of butter; four ounces of loaf sugar; yolks of three eggs, and some ground ginger. Beat the butter to a cream before the fire; add the flour by degrees, then the sugar pounded and sifted, and a flavouring to taste of ground ginger, and mix the whole with tlie yolks of three well-beaten eggs. When thoroughly mixed, drop the biscuit mixture on buttered paper, a suffi- cient distance from each other to allow the biscuits to spread, and bake them a light colour, in a rather slow oven. Plain Biscuits. Time, ten minutes to bake. 677. One pound of flour ; half a pint of milk ; two ounces and a half of fresh butter. Dissolve the butter in the milk made warm but not hot, and stir it into the flour to make a firm paste, roll it out thin, and cut it with a plain tin shape or a tumbler ; prick each biscuit and bake. PRESERVES AND PICKLES. To Preserve Damsons. Time, to boil and simmer, one hour. 678. Ten ounces of loaf sugar to every quart of fruit. Pick the stalks from the damsons, and put them into a stone jar with the loaf sugar pounded fine and sprinkled between each layer of damsons very thickly. Tie the jar over securely, and set it in a deep st'ewpan of cold water. Bring it slowly to a boil, and then let it simmer until the damsons are soft without being broken ; pour oflf the juice, and boil it for about a quarter of an Wur. Put the damsons carefully into pots. Strain the juice through very thick double muslin, or through a jelly-bag, and pour it over the damsons which have been pre- viously set to cool. When the jam is cold, cover the pots over with brandy papers, and the tops with paper moistened with the white of an egg. Damson Chees3. Time, one hour and a half, to boil. 679. To every quart of damsons allow a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar ; and to every pound of pulp add half a pound of sugar. Gather the damsons when full ripe, put them into a jar, and to every quart of damsons put a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar pounded. Bake them in a moderate oven until they are soft ; then rub them through a hair sieve. To every pound of pulp add half a pound of loaf sugar beaten fine. Boil it over a slow fire, and stir it all the time. Pour it into shapes; tie brandy paper over them, and keep them in a dry place. They will not be fit to use for three or four months. All cheese may be made by this receipt except greengage, which does not require so much sugar. Bed Goosebe' ry Jam. Time, one hour and a quarter. 680. Three pounds )f loaf sugar; six pounds of rough red gooseberries. Pick off the stalks and buds from the gooseberries, and boi them carefully but quickly for rather mor . than half an hour, stirring continually; then add the sugar pounded fine, and boil the jam quickly for half an hour, stirring it all the‘time toStraivberry and Raspberry Jam. ^37 prevent its sticking to the preserving-pan. Wlien done, put it into pots, cover it with brandy paper, and secure it closely down with paper moistened with the white of an egg. To Preserve Green Gooseberries Whole. 68r. To one pound of gooseberries allow one pound and a half of double-refined sugar, and one pint and a half of water. Pick off the black eye, but not the stalk, from the largest green gooseberries you can procure, and set them over the fire to scald, taking care they do not boil. When they are tender, take them out, and put them into cold water. Then clarify a pound and a half of sugar in a pint and a half of water, and when the symp is cold, put the goose- berries singly into your preserving-pan, add the syrup, and set them over a gentle fire. Let them boil slowly, but not quick enough to break them. When you perceive the sugar has entered them, take them off, cover them with white paper, and let them stand all night. The next day take out the fruit and boil the syrup until it begins to be ropy. Skim it well, add it to the goose- berries, and set them over a slow fire to simmer till the syrup is thick. Then take them out. Set them to cool, and put them with the syrup into pots. Cover them over, and keep them in a dry place. Strawberry Jam. Time, one hour. 682. To six pounds of strawberries allow three pounds of sugar. Procure some fine searlet strawberries, strip off the stalks, and put them into a preserving-pan over a moderate fire ; boil them for half an hour, keeping them con- stantly stirred. Break the sugar into small pieces, and mix them with the strawberries after they have been removed from the fire. Then place it again over the fire, and boil it for another half hour \&xy quickly. Put it into pots, and when cold, cover it over with brandy papers and a piece of paper moistened with the white of an egg over the tops. Raspberry Jam. Time, forty minutes. 683. One pound of fruit; one pound of sugar. To every pound of raspberries use the same weight of sugar, but always boil the fruit well before you add the sugar to it, as that will make it a better colour. Put the fruit in a preserving-pan, mashing it well with a long wooden spoon. After boiling it a few minutes, add the same quantity of sugar as fruit, boiling it half an hour, keep- ing it well stirred. When done, and suffi- ciently reduced, fill the jars, and when cold, cover them over with white paper moistened with white of eggs. To Preserve Greengages. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 684. To three pounds of greengages allow three pounds of sugar. Prick the plums with a fine needle, to prevent their breaking, put them into a preserving-pan with only sufficient water to cover them, and set them over a gentle fire until the water simmers ; then take them out and set them on a sieve to drain ; add to the water in which the plums were boiled the above quantity of pounded sugar, boil it quickly, skimming it as the scum rises, until the syrup sticks to the spoon. Then put in the greengages, and let them boil until the sugar bubbles, then pour the whole into a basin, and let it stand until the next day. Drain the syrup from the fruit, boil it up quickly, and pour il over the plums—repeat this for four days, then boil the fruit in it for five or si.x minutes, put them into jars, pour the syrup over them, and cover them over with brandy papers. The kernels must be blanched and boiled with the fruit. Rhubarb Marmalade. Time, three-quarters of an hour, if young rhubarb ; an hour and a half if old. 685. To one pound of loaf sugar one pound and a half of rhubarb stalks ; peel of half a large lemon ; a quarter of an ounce of bitter almonds. Cut the rhubarb stalks into pieces about two inches long, and put them into a pre- serving-pan with the loaf sugar broken small, the peel of the lemon cut thin, and the almonds blanched and divided. Boil the whole well together, put it into pots, and cover it as directed for other preserves. To Preserve Plums. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 686. To every pound of fruit allow three- quarters of a pound of sugar. Divide the plums, take out the stones, and put the fruit on a dish with pounded sugar strewed over ; the next day put them into a preserving-pan, and let them simmer gently by the side of the fire for about thirty minutes, then boil them quickly, re- moving the scum as it rises, and keep them constantly stirred, or the jam will stick to the bottom of the pan. Crack the stones, and add the kernels to the preserve when it boils.Jains CMid Jellies. 138 To Preserve Lettuce Stalks. Time, thirty-five minutes the first time. 687. The stalks of large lettuces; one pound and a half of sugar to six pints of water; three dessertspoonfuls of ground ginger ; three ounces of whole ginger. Cut into pieces of about three inches in length some stalks of large lettuces, and soak them in cold water for ten minutes, washing them very clean. Put a pound and a half of sugar into a preserving-pan with six pints of water and three large dessert- spoonfuls of ground ginger. Set it over a clear fire and boil it for twenty-five minutes, then pour it into a deep dish to remain all night. The next day repeat the boiling for half an hour ; do this for five or six days, and then drain them free from moisture on a sieve reversed. Make a rich syrup with sugar, water, and three ounces of whole ginger, just bruised, put the lettuces again into a preserving-pan, pour the syrup over them, and boil them several times until the stalks become clear, taking care the syrup is sufficiently strong of the ginger. Blackberry Jam. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 688. To every quart of blackberries, allow a pound of loaf sugar and a wineglass of brandy. Crush a quart of fully ripe blackberries with a pound of the best loaf sugar pounded very fine, put it into a preserving-pan, and set it over a gentle fire until thiek, add a glass of brandy, and stir it again over the fire for about a quarter of an hour ; then put it into pots, and when cold tie them over. Barberry Jam. Time, three-quarters of an hour the first day. 689. Three pounds of sugar to three pounds of barberries. Pick the fruit from the stalks, and put )iem into a jar with their weight of pounded jjaf sugar, set the jar in a deep saueepan of 3)oiling water until the sugar is dissolved (ind the barberries quite soft ; then let them stand all night. The next day put them into a preserving-pan and boil them for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes ; then put them into pots, tie them over, and set them in a dry place. Black Currant Jam. Time, three-quarters of an hour to an hour. 690. To every pound of currants allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Gather the currants when they are thoroughly ripe and dry, and pick them from the stalks. Bruise them lightly in a large bowl, and to every pound of fruit put three-quarters of a pound of finely-beaten loaf sugar ; put sugar and fruit into a pre- serving-pan, and boil them from three- quarters to one hour, skimming as the scum rises, and stirring constantly ; then put the jam into pots, cover them with brandy paper, and tie them closely over. Black Currant Jelly. Time, two hours. 691. To every five quarts of currants allow rather more than half a pint of water ; to every pint of juice one pound of loaf sugar. Gather the currants when ripe on a dry day, strip them from the stalks, and put them into an earthen pan, or jar, and to every five quarts allow the above proportion of water ; tie the pan over, and set it in the oven for an hour and a quarter; then squeeze out the juice through a coarse cloth, and to every pint of juice put a pound of loaf sugar, broken into pieces, boil it for three-quarters of an hour, skimming it well ; then pour it into small pots, and when cold, put brandy papers over them, and tie them closely over. Bed Currant Jelly. Time, forty minutes. 692. To one quart of currant juice one pound of powdered lump sugar. Pick the currants from the stalks into a broad earthenware pan. To about one gallon of the picked currants put half a pound of sifted lump sugar. Put the sugar over the picked currants the day before you make the jelly. Set the currants over a slow fire to simmer gently for about twent) minutes ; the slower they simmer the greater quantity of juice they will discharge. There should be an equal quantity of red and white currants. When all the juice is discharged, strain it through a hair sieve, and then through a jelly bag while quite hot. Now to each quart of juice put one pound of powdered loaf sugar. Put it into a pre- serving pan, and set it over a quick stove to boil for twenty minutes. If any scum rises, skim it off. When done, put it into small white pots or little glasses, and cover it witli brandied paper. I'ie down. Orange Marmalade. Time, two hours and ten minutes. 693. Six pounds of Seville oranges ; eight pounds of loaf sugar. 'Take six pounds of Seville oranges ; cut the peel so as to make it peel off in fouT pieces. Put all the peels on the fire in 3Preserving and Pickling. 139 preser\'ing-pan, with a large quantity of water, and boil them for two hours, then cut them in very thin slices. While they are boiling press the inside of the oranges through a splinter sieve, narrow enough to prevent the seeds and skin from going through. When this is done, and the peels cut into the thinnest shreds, put the whole on the fire in a copper or brass pan, with eight pounds of loaf sugar broken small. Boil it all together for ten minutes, it may then be taken off the fire and put into preserving jars. To Preserve Cherries. 694. One pound of sugar to every pound of cherries ; and three tablespoonfuls of red currant juice. Lay some pounded sugar at the bottom of the preserving-pan, and place some cherries on it, then another layer of sugar, then of cherries, repeating this until all are in, leaving out a little of the sugar to strew in as they boil; add three spoonfuls of currant juice to each pound of fruit, and set it over a clear fire. Boil them quickly, shaking them round frequently to prevent their burning, but do not stir them. Take off the scum as it rises, and when the syrup is thick and they look clear, put them into pots, and when cold, cover them over. To Bottle Cherries. 695. Cherries ; three ounces of sugar to each bottle. Have ready some wide-mouthed bottles quite clean and dry ; cut each cherry from the stalk into the bottle, be sure not to ‘pull them off. To every bottle of cherries put three ounces of powdered sugar, then tie them tightly over with bladder. After drawing the bread leave the oven door open. About nine o'clock at night put in the bottles and close the oven door. Talce them out the first thing in the morning, and put them in a dry place for use. Apple Marmalade. Time, half an hour and ten minutes. 696. One peck of apples; one gallon of water to every quart of pulp ; one pound of loaf sugar. Take a peck of apples full grown but not the least ripe, of all or any sort ; quarter them and take out the cores, but do not pare them ; put them into a preserving-pan with one gallon of water, and let them boil moderately until you think the pulp will run, or suffer itself to be squeezed through a cheese cloth, only leaving the peels behind. Then to each quart of pulp add one pound, good weight, of loaf sugar, either broken in small pieces or pounded, and boil it all together for half an hour and ten minutes, keeping it stirwid ; then put it into pots, the larger the better, as it keeps longer in a large body. Eules to be observed in Pickling. 697. Procure always the best white wine vinegar. Orleans vinegar, although the dearest, is the best. The success of your pickles depends on the goodness of your vinegar. Use glass bottles for your pickles ; if earthen jars they must be unglazed, as the vinegar acting upon the glaze produces a mineral poison. Use saucepans lined with earthenware, or stone pipkins to boil your vinegar in. If you are compelled to use tin, do not let your vinegar remain in it one moment longer than actually necessary. Employ also wooden knives and forks in the preparation of your pickles. Fill the jars three-parts full with the articles to be pickled, and then fill the bottle, or jar with vinegar. When greening, keep the pickles covered down, as the evaporation of the steam will injure the colour. A little nut of alum may be added to crisp pickles, but it should be ve7-y S77iall in proportion to the quantity, or it will give a disagreeable flavour. A List of Vegetables, and tbeir Season for Pickling. 698. Cauliflowers, for pickling.—July and August. Capsicums, yellow, red, and green.—The end of July and August. Cucumbers.—The middle of July and August. Chilies.—End of July and August. Gherkins. —The middle of July and August. Onions.—The middle of July and August. Shallots.—Midsummer to Michaelmas. Garlic.—The same time. Melons as mangoes.—Middle of July and August. Tomatoes.—End of July and August. Nasturtiums.—Middle of July. Walnuts.-—About the 14th of July. Radish pods.—July. French Beans.—July. Red Cabbage.—August. White Cabbage.—September and Octo- ber. Mushrooms, for pickling and ketchups.— September. Artichokes.—July and .August, pickling. Jerusalem Artichokes.—July toNovember. pickling. Samphire.—August. Horseradish.—November and Decembet140 Pickles. Piccalilly. Time, ten weeks altogether. 699. One pound of ginger; one pound of garlic ; one pound of black pepper ; one pound of mustard seed ; three-quarters of an ounce of turmeric ; a little Cayenne pepper ; one quart of vinegar. Take a pound of ginger, let it lie in salt and water one night, then cut it in thin slices; take one pound of garlic, peel, divide, and salt it three days, then wash and dry it in the sun on a sieve ; take the pound of black pepper, the mustard seed, and the turmeric bruised very fine, and a little Cayenne pepper, put all these ingredients into a quart jar, with the vinegar boiled and poured over them, and when cold fill the jar three parts full, and let it stand for a fort- night. Everything you wish to pickle must be salted and dried in the sun for three days. The jar must be full of liquor, and after it is finished for use, stop it down for six weeks or two months before fit for use. The vinegar must be thrown over when the spices and garlic are hot. Walnuts Pickled Black. 700. Walnuts ; vinegar. For the Pickle.—To every two quarts of vinegar—half an ounce of mace ; half an ounce of cloves ; the same of black pepper, Jamaica pepper, ginger, and long pepper ; two ounces of salt. Gather the walnuts when the sun is on them and before the shell is hard, which may be known by running a pin into them. Put them into strong salt and water for nine days, stir them twice a day, and change the water every three days ; then place them on a hair sieve, and let them remain in the air until they turn black ; put them into stone jars and let them stand until cold, then boil the vinegar three times, let it become cold between each boiling, and pour it over the walnuts ; tie them down with a bladder and let them stand three months. Then make a pickle with the above proportions of spice, vinegar, and common salt, boil it ten minutes, pour it hot on the walnuts, and tie them over with paper and a bladder. To Pickle Mushrooms. 701. Some button mushrooms ; pepper and salt ; two or three cloves, and a very little mace ; some vinegar. Gather some mushroom buttons, wipe them very clean with a piece of flannel dipped in vinegar, then put them into an iron saucepan with pepper, salt, two or three cloves, and a very little mace pounded ; let them stew over the fire, and after they have produced a great deal of liquor, let them stand by tjie fire till they have con- sumed all that liquor up again ; but the saucepan must be shaken now and then to prevent their sticking to the bottom. Put them into large-nosed bottles, and pour cold vinegar that has been boiled over them, and then cork them up. They will keep for seven years. If the vinegar should dry away, add a little more. Should they be wanted to put over a broiled fowl or veal cutlets, take a few out of the bottle and pour some boiling water over them to take off the sourness, then put them immediately over the cutlets. To Pickle French Beans. 702. French beans ; vinegar ; a blade of mace; whole pepper and ginger; two ounces of each. Gather the beans when they are young, and put them into strong salt and water until they become yellow ; drain the salt and water from them, and wipe them quite dry. Then put them into a stone jar with a small piece of alum, boil the vinegar with the mace, ginger, and whole pepper, and pour it boiling on the beans every twenty- four hours, preventing the escape of steam. Continue this for a few days until they become green. Put them by in bottles for use. To Pickle Onions. 703. Onions ; vinegar ; ginger ; and whole pepper. Take some nice onions ; peel and throw them into a stewpan of boiling water, set them over the fire, and let them remain until quite clear, then take them out quickly, and lay them between two cloths to dry. Boil some vinegar with the ginger and whole pepper, and when cold, pour it over the onions in glass jars, and tie them closely over. To Pickle Gherkins. 704. Twm quarts of water; one pound of salt ; two quarts of white wine vine- gar ; a quarter of an ounce of cloves ; a quarter of an ounce of mace ; half an ounce of allspice ; half an ounce of mustard seed : half a stick of horseradish ; three bay leaves ; two ounces of ginger ; half a nutmeg ; and a little salt. Put the salt and w'ater into an earthen jar, and throw in the gherkins ; let them remain for two hours, and then drain them on a sieve, and when thoroughly dry put them into jars. Boil the vinegar with the cloves, mace, allspice, ginger, mustard seed,Wines and Syrnps. horsei-adisli. bay leaves, nutmeg, and salt, and pour it over the gherkins, cover them closely over and let them stand twenty-four hours, then put them in a stew- pan, and set them over the fire to simmer until they are green, taking care they do not boil, for that would spoil their colour ; then put them into jars or wide-mouthed bottles, and cover them over until they are cold. Tie the corks over with leather, and set them in a dry place. ^ 1 ) To Pickle Eed Cabbage. 705. To one quart of vinegar, one ounee of whole pepper. Remove the coarse leaves from some red cabbages, and wipe them very clean ; cut them in long thin slices or shreds, and put them on a large sieve, well covering them with salt, and let them drain all night; then put them into stone jars, and pour over them some boiling vinegar and whole peppers ; cover them over, and set them by for use. WINES AND SYEUPS. Very Superior Elder Wine. Time, thirty-five minutes to boil. 706. Five gallons of ripe elderberries ; ten gallons of water ; three pounds and a half of moist sugar to every gallon of water and juice ; whites of five or six eggs ; half a pound of ginger ; six lemons. Boil the five gallons of ripe elderberries in ten quarts of water for a quarter of an hour ; then strain them through a hair sieve, not pressing the berries. Measure the liquor into the boiler, and to every gallon add three pounds and a half of moist sugar with the peels of five or six lemons and the strained juice, and let it boil twenty minutes. When scalding hot, add the whites of five or six eggs well beaten, stirring the liquor well; fill the cask. When the whole is sufficiently cooled, put some yeast on the top of the cask, or a piece of toasted bread with yeast spread on it. When ready to be bunged up, hang half a pound of bruised ginger tied in a muslin bag in the middle of the cask. Let it remain for two months, and then it will be fit to bottle. Cowslip Wine. Time, half an hour to boil ; thirty-six hours to ferment ; to remain in the casks six weeks. 707. To every gallon of water allow three pounds of loaf sugar, the juice of one lemon, the peel of two, and one Seville orange, one gallon of cowslip flowers, or pips : to every five gallons of wine, a bottle of brandy, and a crust of toasted bread with three large spoonfuls of yeast. Put the peel of the lemons and the oranges, with the strained juice, into a large pan. Boil the sugar and the water together for half an hour, and pour it over the juice and peel. When lukewarm, add the cow- slip flowers, or pips picked from the stalks, and to every five gallons of wine put about three large spoonfuls of thick >cast spread on a crust of toasted bread. Let it ferment thirty-six hours ; then put all together into a cask with the brandy, let the cask be close stopped, and stand six weeks before you bottle it off for use. Mock Champagne. Time, to work, three weeks ; to stand, six months. 708. To every quart of grapes, one quart of water ; to every gallon of juice, allow three pounds of loaf sugar ; half an ounce of isinglass to every ten gallons of wine, and a quart of brandy to every five gallons. Pick the grapes when full grown and just beginniag to change colour, bruise them in a tub, pour in the water, and let them stand for three days, stirring once each day ; then press the fruit through a cloth, let the juice stand for three or four hours, pour it carefully from any sediment, and add to it the sugar. Barrel it, and put the bung slightly in ; at the end of three weeks, or when it has done working, put in the isinglass, previously dissolved in some of the liquor. Stir it for three days once a day, and at the last stir- ring add the brandy. In three or four days, bung it down close, and in six months it should be bottled, and the corks tied down, or wired. Ginger Beer. Time, one hour to boil. 709. Five pounds of loaf sugar ; three ounces of powdered ginger ; three gallons of water : five lemons ; a quarter of a tca- cupful of yeast; slice of toasted bread. Boil the sugar and ginger in three gal- lons of water for one hour. When it is cold, add the juice and peels of five lemons, and a quarter of a teacupful of yeast on a .slice of toasted bread, l.et it stand in a tub covered with a thick cloth for two or three days. Then strain it through a thick cloth, and bottle it. It will be rc.'idy to drink in four or five days after it is bottled. If it is wished In i)c very strong of ginger, 1 more may be added.Cookery for the Siek. 14? Lemonade. Time, two hours. 710. Six lemons ; one quart of boiling water ; one or two ounces of clarified sugar. Grate the peel of six lemons, pour a quart of boiling water on it ; let it stand some time; then add the juice of the lemons (take care not to let the lemon pips fall into the liquid), sweeten it with clarified sugar, and run it through a jelly bag. Wine Whey. Time, five minutes. 711. Half a pint of milk ; sugar to taste ; one wineglass of white wine. Put half a pint of milk over the fire, sweeten it to taste, and when boiling throw in a wineglass of sherry. As soon as the curd forms, strain the whey through muslin into a tumbler. Egg Flip. 712. Three eggs ; a quarter of a pound of good moist sugar ; a pint and a half of beer. Beat three whole eggs with a quarter of a pound of good moist sugar ; make a pint and a half of beer very hot, but do not let it boil, then mix it gradually with the beaten eggs and sugar, toss it to and fro from the saucepan into a jug two or three times, grate a little nutmeg on the top, and serve it. A wineglass of spirits may be added if liked. Directions for Brewing in Cottages. (A Receipt of the late Duchess of Buck- ingham's.) Time, three or four days. 713. One peck of malt; two ounces of hops; six gallons of water ; a few birch twigs, or a little wheat straw ; one teacupful of yeast. Boil three gallons of water ; take it off as soon as it boils, and let it stand till you can see your face in it. While the water is heating get ready a clean rinsing-tub with a small hole bored in the bottom, and stopped with a peg or cork. Cover it with a few birch twigs or some clean wheat straw ; put a coarse bit of cloth over the bottom of the tub ; then put in the malt. Pour the water on it, and stir it well for a few minutes. Cover it close with a sack, and let it stand for three days to keep warm near the fire ; then pull out the peg or cork, and let the whole run into a bucket. Put the peg in again immediately, and having prepared another three gallons of water just as you did before, pour it on the malt and set it by the fire as before, covered close, for two hours. As soon as you have emptied he second three gallons of water out of the boiler put into it the first run from the malt, and boil it a quarter of an hour with the hops. Strain it through a sieve into a shallow vessel to cool as quickly as possible. Run off the second three gallons, and boil them with the same hops for half an hour ; then strain and cool as for the first run. Mix both runs from the malt together ; add a small teacupful of yeast, and let it ferment for two or three days, during which time it must be frequently skimmed. Three pints of nice yeast will thus be obtained. When the fermentation is over, put the beer in a small cask, where it will probably ferment a little, after which stop it down close. COOKERY FOR THE SICK. Arrowroot. 714. Half a pint of milk ; one dessert- spoonful of arrowroot; sugar to taste ; lemon peel. Take care to get the very best arrowroot, as many imitations are sold. Mix a des- sertspoonful with a little cold water till it is quite smooth. Boil half a pint of milk ; pour it on the arrowroot, while boiling, stirring it .all the time. Add a lump or two of sugar, and a little lemon peel. Water Arrowroot. 715. One dessertspoonful of arrowroot ; one gill of water ; sugar ; one tablespoonful of brandy, or one wineglass of wine. Mix a dessertspoonful of arrowroot with a little water very smooth. Have ready water in a kettle quite boiling. Pour it on the arrowroot tiU it becomes clear, stirring it all the time. A few lumps of sugar and the wine or brandy can be mixed with it before pouring the boiling water on it, using the wine or brandy to mix the arrowroot with instead of the water. Bread Jelly. yr6. One roll; one lemon ; one quart of water ; sugar to taste. Take the crumb of a joenny roll; cut it into thin slices, and toast them of a pale brown on both sides. Put them into a quart of spring water. Let it simmer over the fire till it has become a jelly. Strain it through a thin cloth, and flavour it imme- diately with a little lemon juice and sugar. Broth—Chicken. 717. Take an old fowl; stew it to pieces with a couple of onions. Season ^lightly with pepper and salt; skim and strain it.Cookery for ike Sick. Port Wine Jelly, Time, fifteen or twenty minutes. 718. One pint of port wine ; one ounce of isinglass ; one ounce of sugar ; a quarter of a pint of water. Put the isinglass and sugar into a quarter of a pint of water. Set it over the fire till the isinglass is dissolved ; then add the wine. Strain it through a jelly bag or a clean piece of muslin into a jar or mould, and let it set. It is best to put it into a jar, to cover it till cold, and give a piece about the size of a walnut two or three times a day to the patient. This jelly may be made to drink hot thus :— Put a teaspoonful of melted isinglass to one wineglass of port wine, adding one clove and a lump of sugar. Make it hot Over an etna. A Strong Broth. Time, nearly four hours. 719. One pound of veal; one pound of beef ; one pound of the scrag end of a neck of mutton; a little salt; three quarts of water. Put the above quantities into three quarts of water, with a little salt, and a few whole peppers. Boil it until reduced to one quart. Calf s Feet. Time, four hours. 720. Two calf's feet; two pints of water ; one pint of new milk; a little lemon peel or mace. Put the ingredients into a jar, cover it down, and keep it in the oven for four hours. When cold, remove the fat. Flavour it with lemon peel or mace, as preferred. This is very strengthening if taken the first thing in the morning and the last at night. Isinglass. 721. Isinglass should be put into the invalid's tea, morning and evening, a good pinchful for a teacup. It should be intro- duced as much as possible into the food of the weak, as it is most strengthening. Ordinary Beef Tea. Time, three or four hours. 722. Two pounds of gravy beef; two pints and a half of water ; a little salt. Cut two pounds of gravy beef into slices, and put it into a jar with two pints and a half of water, and a pinch of salt. Cover it over. Set it in a warm oven for three or four hours. When done, strain it through a fine sieve, and set it in a cold place, warming a small portion when required. ■Very Strong Beef Tea. Time, four hours. 723. Cut two pounds of lean beef into small square dice, put it into a jar or a basin without water, cover it over, stand it in the oven for three or four hours, till every drop of gravy is out of the meat. Then mix this rieh stock with boiling water to the strength required. NonrisMng Sonp for Invalids. Time, two hours. 724. Two pounds of lean veal or beef ; a quarter of a pound of pearl barley ; a little fresh celery, or celery seed ; a little salt. Boil two pounds of lean veal, or beef, with a quarter of a pound of pearl barley in a quart of water very slowly, until it becomes the consistency of good cream ; flavour it with a little fresh celery, or celery seed, and salt. Strain it when done through a fine hair sieve, and serve. This soup will only keep until the next day, therefore not more than the quantity required must be made. Gloucester Jelly. Time, two hours. 725. One ounce of powdered rice; one ounce of sago ; one ounce of pearl barley; one ounce of isinglass ; one ounce of eringo root; one ounce of hartshorn shavings. Simmer these ingredients in three pints oi water till reduced to one pint; strain it. Pieces may be cut from this jelly and taken in tea or broth, or in a cup of new milk, as preferred, every morning. Gruel of Patent Groats. Time, ten minutes. 726. Two dessertspoonfuls of patent groats : one pint of water ; a wineglass of brandy or any other spirit, or of white wine. Mix two dessertspoonfuls of patent groats in a basin with only sufficient water to work it into a cream ; then pour over it a pint of boiling water, stirring it all the time ; stir it over the fire until sufficiently thick. 'VSnien done, sweeten it to taste, and add either a glass of_ white wine, brandy, or any other spirit, with a little grated ginger or nutmeg. Gruel. Time, a quarter of an hour. 727. Two tablespoonfuls of oatmeal; half a blade of mace ; a piece of lemon peel; three-quarters of a pint of water or milk ; a little sugar. Mix two spoonfuls of oatmeal very smooth in a little water, and put it gradually to three-quarters of a pint ; add a little lemon pircl, and half a blade of mace ; set it over^4 Cookery for the Siek. the fire for a quarter of an hour, stirring it constantly. Then strain it, and add sugar to taste. Silver Jelly. Time, to boil the feet five hours and a half; to boil the jelly twenty minutes. 728. One set of calf’s feet ; one ounce of isinglass ; one pint of the best gin ; one pound of loaf sugar ; juice of six lemons ; peel of two ; whites of six eggs. Boil the calf's feet in four quarts of water with the isinglass until the feet are done to rags, and the water wasted to half the quantity; strain it, and when cold remove the feet, and the jelly from the sediment very carefully. Put the jelly into a stew- pan with the sugar, the juice of the lemons, and the peel of two ; add the gin. When the flavour is thoroughly drawn from the lemon peel, put in the whites of the eggs well beaten, and their shells broken up, place the stewpan over the fire, and let it boil for twenty minutes ; but do not stir it after the egg has been added. Dip a jelly bag into hot water and squeeze it dry ; run the jelly through it several times until quite clear, and then pour it into the mould. If calfs feet cannot be obtained, two ounces of gelatine and one ounce of isinglass will do as well. Barley Gruel. Time, twenty minutes. 729. Two ounces of pearl barley ; half a pint of water ; then three pints and a half of boiling water. Boil two ounces of pearl barley in half a pint of water to extract the colouring matter, throw this away, and put the barley into three pints and a half of boiling water, and let it boil till it is one half the quantity, then strain it for use. Barley Water. Time, twenty minutes. 730. Two ounces of pearl barley; one lemon ; sugar to taste. First boil the barley in some water to ex- tract the colouring, throw that water away, and put the barley into a jug ; pour some boiling water over it, and let it stand for a short time. Peel a lemon very thin, pour some boiling water over it, with a little sugar, and mix it with the barley water, adding the lemon juice. Artificial Ass’s Milk. Time, two hours or more, according to the strength of the fire. 731. Two ounces of pearl barley; two quarts of water ; half an ounce of harts- horn shavings ; one ounce of candied eringo root. Boil two ounces of pearl barley in two pints of water for a few minutes; strain it from this first water, and put the same quantity to it again ; add half an ounce of hartshorn shavings, arid one ounce of candied eringo root. Boil it gently until half the liquor is consumed or boiled away. Then strain it for use. Equal parts of this decoction and cow's milk to be used together, and taken in the same quantities, and at the same time that the real ass's milk would be drunk. Tonic Drink. Time, twenty-four hours. 732. A quarter of an ounce of camomile flowers ; a quarter of an ounce of sliced gentian root ; a quarter of an ounce of bruised columba ; a quarter of an ounce of dried orange peel; fifty cloves bruised; a pint and a quarter of cold spring water. Put these ingredients into a jug, and pour on them rather more than a pint of cold spring water ; let it stand twenty-four hours, then pour off the clear liquor. Take three tablespoonfuls for a dose, fasting every morn- ing. Beaten Egg. 733. One egg ; one wineglass of sherry or one cup of tea ; sugar to taste. An egg beaten up in tea or w ine will be found very strengthening for invalids. It is better to take the yolk only, as it is lighter. Egg Wine. 734. One egg ; one glass of white wine ; a little cold water, with sugar to taste. Well beat a nice new-laid egg w ith a little water, and then pour over it a glass of white wine made very hot with half a tumbler of water and a little pounded sugar. Stir it all the time until well mixed together. Then set it over the fire until it thickens and is very hot without coming to a boil. It must be stirred one way all the time, and when done, poured into a glass and served with a slice of toasted bread cut into long thin slices, and placed on a plate crossed over each other. A little grated nutmeg may be added if the flavour is liked. Sago Gruel. Time, two hours and a quarter. 735. One ounce of sago ; one pint of water; one glass of sherry; sugar and ginger ; lemon juice or nutmeg to taste. Stand the sago in a pint of water on the hob to soften for two hours. Boil it for a quarter of an hour, keeping it well stirred.Useful Receipts. 143 Sweeten and flavour as preferred, then add the wine. Suet and Milk. Time, ten to fifteen minutes. 736. One tablespoonful of shredded beef- suet : half a pint of fresh milk. Mix these ingredients and warm them sufficiently to melt the suet completely. Skim it. Warm the cup into which you pour it, and give it to the invalid to drink before it gets cool. Milk and Kum. 737. One tablespoonful of ,rum ; half a pint of new milk. Mix the rum uie/l with the milk. Pour it from one cup into another twice before drinking it. It should be taken before breakfast. USEFUL RECEIPTS FOE, HOUSEKEEPERS AND SERVANTS. To Clean Marble Chimney Pieces. Time, ten minutes. 738. Equal quantities of soft soap and pearl-ash. Put the soap and pearl-ash on the chim- ney piece with a soft flannel, let it lay on the marble for a few minutes. Wash it off with warm water not too hot; wash it over a second time with cold spring water. For Bright Polished Grates. 739. Oil the bright part of the grate with good salad oil, dust over it some unslacked lime from a muslin bag. Let it remain one month, then rub it off with a fine rag. Polish it with a leather and a very little putty powder. If the grate is not in use put on the oil again. To Take Stains out of Marble. 740. Mix unslacked lime in finest powder with the stronger soap-lye pretty thick, and instantly with a painter's brush lay it on the whole of the marble. In two months' time wash it off perfectly clean. Then have ready a fine thick lather of soft soap, boiled in soft water, dip a brush in it, and scour the marble with powder not as com- mon cleaning. This will, by very good rubbing, give a beautiful polish. Clear off the soap, and finish with a smooth hard brush till the end be effected. To Take Rust out of Steel. 741. Cover the steel with sweet oil well rubbed in, and in forty-eight hours use un- slacked lime finely powdered, and rub until all the rust disappears. To Cement Broken China. 742. Beat lime to a ve/y fine almost in- visible dust, sift it through book muslin. Then tie it up in a piece of thin muslin as powdered starch is sometimes used. Brush some white of egg over the edges of the china, dust the lime rapidly over them, put the edges together, and tie a string round the cup &c., till it is firm. Isinglass dissolved in spirits of wine, in the proportion of one ounce to two wine- glassfuls of the spirit, is also a good cement. For Removing Paint from "Wood. 743. One pound of washing soda ; two pounds of unslacked lime. Mix one pound of washing soda with two pounds of unslacked lime, and if the paint is very strong on the wood add half a found of potash. Mix these ingredients together, and dilute with water until the mixture be- comes rather thicker than whitewash, and then rub it on the paint with a piece of wood folded up in rag. The person who uses this preparation must be careful not to touch it with the hands. To Clean Paper-hangings. 744. First blow the dust off with the bel- lows. Divide a white loaf of eight days old into eight parts. Take the crust into your hand and, beginning at the top of the paper, wipe it downwards in the lightest manner with the crumb. Do not cross or go upwards. The dirt of the paper and the crumbs will fall together. Observe— you must not wipe above half a yard at a stroke, and after doing all the upper part go round again, beginning a little above where you left off. If you do not clean it very lightly you will make the dirt adhere to the paper. To Clean Glazed Chintz Furniture when taken down for the Summer. 745. Shake off the loose dust, then lightly brush with a small long-haired furniture brush: after which wipe it closely with clean flannels, and mb it with dry bread. If properly done, the curtains will look nearly as well as at first, and if the colour be not light they will not require washing for years. Fold in large parcels and put carefully by. While the furniture remains up it should be preserved from the sun and air as much as possible, which injure delicate colours i LUseful Receipts. 146 and the dust may be blown off by bellows. By the above method, curtains may be kept sufficiently clean to make up again with new linings. To Bemove Faint Stains from Glass "Windows. 746. It frequently happens that painters splash the plate or other glass windows when they are painting the sills. "When this is the case, melt some soda in very hot water and wash them with it, using a soft flannel. It will entirely remove the paint. Table Polish. 747. Half a pint of spirits of wine ; an ounce and a half of gum shellac; half an ounce of gum benzoin ; half an ounce of gum sandrac. Put the whole in a bottle for a day or two, and shake it a few times. When the gums are dissolved it is fit for use. When the polish is laid on thick enough, take a clean wad -and cloth ; put a little clean spirits of wine on the wad, the same as you did with the polish, rub it the same way, but very lightly, and until quite dry. You must then put a little oil on the cloth, and rub as in laying on the polish. To Wash Coloured Prints and Washing Silks. 748. Put a little bran into lukewarm water, wash quickly through ; rinse in cold water also, quickly. Hang to dry in a room without fire or sunshine. Iron on wrong side with a coolish iron. No soap to be used. To Clean an Old Silk Dress. 749. Unpick the dress, and brush it with a velvet brush. Then grate two large potatoes into a quart of water ; let it stand to settle; strain it off quite clear, and sponge the dress with it. Iron it on the wrong side, as the ironed side will be shiny. Wash for the Hair. 750. Half an ounce of glycerine ; half an ounce of spirit of rosemary ; five ounces of water. To be well mi.xed together and shaken, and used night and morning Castor Oil Pomade for the Hair. 751. Four ounces of castor oil; two ounces of prepared lard ; two drachms of white wa.K ; essence of jessamine, or otto of rose. Melt the fa’t together, and when well mixed, and becoming cool, add whatever scent you prefer, and stir ft constantly until cold; then put it into pots or bottles for usa- ‘ Cold Cream. 752. Half a pint of rosewater; four ounces of oil of almonds ; three drachms of white wax ; three drachms of spermaceti. Melt the white wax and spermaceti together with the oil of almonds. Then beat them all up, adding the rosewater slowly until it is cold. Put it in a pot, and pour some rosewater on the top. A Winter Soap for Chapped or Bough Hands. 753. Three pounds of common yellow soap : one ounce of camphor dissolved in one ounce of rose and one ounce of lavender water. •Beat three pounds of common yellow soap, and one ounce of camphor dissolved in one ounce of rose and one ounce of lavender water in a mortar until it becomes a paste. Make it into balls to dry, and set it in a cool place for the winter. The best time to make it is in the spring. Tooth Powder. 754. A quarter of an ounce of bole ariTXjniac ; a quarter of an ounce of bark ; a quarter of an ounce of powdered cam- phor ; a quarter of an ounce of powdered myrrh. Mix the ingredients very thoroughly together. Tooth powders should be kept closely covered in wooden boxes. Tlie prescription is for equal quantities of the above ingredients, but one ounce of the whole mixed is enough at a time, imless a chemist is not of easy access. Lavender Water. 755. Half a pint of spirits of wine; a quarter of an ounce of oil of lavender ; one drachm and a half of essence of bergamot; one drachm of essence of ambergris. All to be well mixed together. Odor Delectabilis—For the Toilet. 756. Two ounces of rosewater; two ounces of orange-flower ; half a drachm of oil of lavender; half a drashm of oil of cloves ; one grain of musk ; one drachm of bergamot; lialf a drachm of essence of musk ; half a pint of rectified spirits of wine. Mix all together, excepting the essence of musk, which must be added after the mixture has stood for week closely stopped.Mode of Folding Table-napkins. 147 To Fold the Mitre.—The napkin must be folded in three, thus :—Fold one third over, turn it backwards, and thus make the three folds. Fold both ends to meet in the middle. Take the left-hand comer, a, and fold it across in a right angle. Take the opposite corner, b, on the left hand at the top, and fold it in the same manner ; you will thus form figure r. Turn over and fold in halves lengthwise ; open the points, and you will have figure 2. Bend the point, a, towards the right, and tuck it in the gropve, c ; turn the point, b, backwards towards the right hand, and tuck it m as at ; yoii will then have figure 3—The Mitre. I The Water Lily.—Have a square napkin and fold it like a half handkerchief., Then take the two opposite points and make them meet on the centre one, which forms a square. Take the bottom comer, opposite the points, and roll it up as at figure 4. Turn the napkin over, and roll point a to about the centre. Take point b, and tuck it in the groove ; raise it, and you have figure 5—the Water Lily. Turn the corners over, and tuck them in at c and d. Turn back the second fold at the top—fig. 6. Napkin Folded for small Tarts at the side a7id a Cake in the middle.—Have a perfectly square napkin; turn the corners over so that they meet at the centre. Turn the four corners back to the edge, and you will have figure 7 ; carefully turn the napkin without unfolding it; turn it over from two opposite sides into the centre at figure 8 ; turn it over again and make the other two ends meet in the middle, you have then figure 9.ANALYTICAL INDEX ’•s:-' modern figures refer to the number of the Page—the old-style figures to the number of the Paragraph. \ CCOUNT KEEPING, 10 (X Agnew pudding, 112—^14 Aitchbone of beef, 64—208 ; to carve, 23 A la bonne femme eggs, 35—26 A la maintenon cutlets, 21 Alexandra pudding, 113—J16 Almonds, to blanch, 132 Amber pudding, 113—jij Anchovy sauce, 69—168 AnchovieSjSprats preserved like, 108—48s Anchovy toast, 37—37 Anna’s pudding, 113—31J Angels on Horseback, 36—29 Apple dumplings,baked,l 12—512 boiled, 112—311 fritters, 142—602 jelly, 128—628 marmalade, 139—696 preserve, 139—696 pudding, 112—309 baked,112—510 and crumb, 112—313 sauce, 60—179 tart, 109—496 ArtiOcial ass’s milk, 144—73 Artichokes, to boil, 101—439 Jerusalem, 101—440 Arrowroot blancmange, 125— 610 fritters, 124—6or pudding, 113—318 to make, 142—714 sauce, 61—186 water, 142—713 Asparagus, to boil, 101—441 A strong broth, 143—719 Aunt Louisa’s pudding, 117— 553 Author’s way of melting butter, 68-139 Bacon, 79 to boil, 79—293 broiled, 36—^32 to steam, 79—296 to choose, 8 curing, 106 to cure, 106—472 and eggs, 36—23 BoUachony, 93—394 Baking biscuits, 132 cakes, 132 Baked carp, 42 —68 conger, 45—85 eels, 44—81 gurnets, 49—116 haddocks, 46—94 hake, 41—61 ham, 78—293 mullets, 42—66 herrings, 48—113 pig, 77—282 pike, 46—91 potatoes, 100—432 puddings, 112 Bakewell pudding, 113—322 Barberry jam, 138—689 Barley broth (Scotch), 53—133 gruel, 144—729 water, 144—730 Basket, Chantilly, 127—623 Basting, 19 Batter pudding, 114—323 cheap. 111—524 for pancakes, 124^6oo Beans, French, 103—^4^9 haricot, 103—4 j Beating cakes, 132 eggs, 132 Beaten egg, 144—733 Beaulieu pudding, 114—326 Beef, 64 aitchbone, 64—208 to boil, 64—207 to collar, 108—484 dripping, to clarify, 94—^399 kidney fried, 68—223 stewed, 68—226 hashed, 68—228 liver, 67—219 minced, 68—227 olives, 66—212 potted, 107—478 ribs, rolled, 64—206 rissoles, 90—377 rumpsteak, fried, 67—221 pie, 96—406 stewed in a plain way, 67— 222 and oysters stewed, 67— 223 sirloin, 61—203 silversidc, boiled, 65—209 steak, broiled, 67—220 steak pudding, 98—420 and kidney, 99—421 Beef-stew, 65—210 stewed shin, 65—21; spiced, 67—218 soup, plain, 51—124 tea, ordinary, 143—722 very strong, 143—723 Beer, ginger, 141—709 Beetroot, to boil, 103—432 Best fire for broiling fish, 21 Brown bread, 136—674 ginger, 136—676 lemon, 136—673 plain, 136—677 to bake, 132 Blackberry jam, 138—688 Blackcock, to roast, 88—362 to truss, 88—361 Black currant jam, 133—690 jelly, 139—691 Black puddings, 80—310 to broil, 38—43 Bladebone of pork, 79—300 Blanching almonds, 132 Blancmange, 126— arroivroot, 125—6io cheap, 125—611 ground rice, 125—612 Blonde sauce, 59—167 Bloaters, 38—42 Boeuf, fillets de, 65—213 Bobotee, 93—^393 Boiled batter pudding. 111—3^4 beef, 64—207 chine, 77—284 cockles, 48—109 crabs, 47—103 custards, 125—618 eels, 44—82 eggs, 35—23 haddocks, 46—93 herrings, 48—112 John Dory, 40—50 lobsters, 47—100' mackerel, 46—92 mutton, 70—241 parsnips, 104—436 perch, 45—88 periwinkles, 43—109 pike, 46—90 plaice, 43—72 potatoes, 100—428 prawns, 48—108 skate, 46—97 soles, 44—78A nalytical Index. M9 Boiled spinach, 102— whiting, 42—63 Bologna sausages, 80—308 Boning, 22 Boned leg of mutton, 09—234 Bono stock, 51—122 Boning a turkey, 22 Bouilb, 62—laj Braising, 23 I pan, 13 Brawn, 35—27 Bread, 32 brown, 34—16 Crilters, 124—604 jelly, 142—716 to knead, 33—10 to make, 33—it to make with milk, 33—12 German yeast, 34—13 how to put potatoes in, 34 —14 with potatoes, 34—15 and butter pudding, 113— 520 pudding, 113—Jig cheap, 113—521 rice, 34—17 sauce, 60—1178 Breakfast cakes, 34—20 rolls, 3 4—19 table, how to lay the, 30 Breast of mutton, 70—243 Teal, to roast, 75—273 Brewing in cottages, 142—713 Bright polished grates, to clean, 145—739 Brill, in season, 40 to boil, 40—49 Broad beans, 103—4S0 Brocoli, to boil, 102—443 Broiled mushrooms, 37—39 Broken china, to cement, 143— 742 Broth, chicken, 142—717 mutton, 54—136 strong, 143—719 Brown bread biscuits, 136—674 Browned potatoes, 101—435 onion soup, 26—152 Brussels sprouts, to boil, 102— 445 Bubble and squeak, 67—224 Bnns, 135—672 Buteber’s weights, 73 Butter, to keep, 10 to melt, 58—ijg CABBAGES, to boil, IO2-444 with forcemeat, 102—446 Cabinet pudding, 11-4—528 plain, 114—527 sauce, 114—529 Cake, tipsy, 130—639 trifle, 130—637 Cakes, Canadian, 134—665 icing for, 133—652 Josephine, 133—655 lemon, 133—658 light, 133-659 plain, 134—660 plum, 134—662 plain shortbread, 134—661 rich plum, 134—663 Cakes, rr_oi.t, 134—664 rice, i33—654 rock,136—671 Sally lunn, 136—673 seed, 133—656 soda, 133—659 sponge, 133—653 Sydenham, 135—670 Cake of cold fish, 49—117 Cake, veal, 98—419 CalTs feet, 143—720 jelly, 128—625 heart, 91—379 liver and bacon, 76—279 Canadian cakes, 134—665 Carp, baked, 42—68 fried, 43—69 Carrots, to boil, 101—437 mashed, 101—438 soup, 66—151 Cranberry tart, 109—494 Carving fish— cod’s head, 29 mackerel, 30 middle cut of salmon, 29 pike, 30 salmon, 29 turbot, 29 whiting, 30 Carving meat— beef, aitchbone of, 23 ribs of, 23 sirloin of, 24 mutton, haunch of, 26 leg of, 25 loin of, 26 neck of, 26 saddle of, 26 scrag of, 26 shoulder of, 25 fore-quarter of lamb, 26 breast of veal, 24 fillet of veal, 24 loin of veal, 24 neck of veal, 24 shoulder of veal, 25 haunch of venison, 26 kid, 26 pork, ham, 27 P’K. 27 tongue, 27 Carving poultry— fowls, boiled and roast, 28 goose, 28 larks, 29 landrail, 29 hare, 29 partridges, 29 pheasants, 29 pigeons, 29 quads, 29 rabbit, boded and roast, 27 turkey, boiled, 28 roast, 27 Cassel pudding, 116—536 Castor oil pomade, 146—751 Cauliflowers, 102—442 Celery, to dress, 104—462 to servo, 104—460 stewed, 104—461 Champagne, mock, 141—708 ' Chan tidy basket, 127—623 Chroped hards, soap for, 146— 753 Charlotte de pommes, 130 — 636 Charcoal, use of, 8 Cheesecakes, 131—O43 curd for, 131—642 lemon, 131—644 Cheshire pie, 96—409 Cheese, damson, 136—679 toasted, 132—649 Cherries, to bottle, 139—6g5 to preserve, 139—694 Cherry pudding, 116—53’' tart, 109—492 Chestnut sauce, 60—180 Chicken broth, 142—717 pie, 9O—410 to boil, 84—328 to roast, 83—325 China, to cement, 145—742 Chine, to boil, 77—284 to roast, 77—283 Chimney pieces, to clean, 146— 738 Chintz, to clean, 145—745 Chocolate, 31—3 Chloride of soda, to restore fish, 8 Christmas pudding, 119—564 Cinders, 19 Cocoa-nut pudding, 115—532 nibs, 31—4 Cockles, 48—109 Cock aleekie, 63—131 Cod’s head, &c., 41—55 sounds, boiled, 41—59 broiled, 41—60 pickled, 41—56 salt, 41—57 Cofi'ee, 9 exceUent, 30 to roast, 30 Cold cream, 146—752 Collaring, 106 Collared beef, 108—484 College pudding, 115—530 Coloured prints, to wash, 146— 748 Common seed cake, 133—656 Conger, baked, 45—86 boiled, 44—84 fried, 45—87 stewed, 46—85 eel pie, 95—405 eel soup, 67—157 Cookery for the sick, 142 Cottage soup, 62—127 Cow-beel jelly, 128—626 Cowslip wine, 141—707 Crabs, to boil, 47—103 to choose, 47—102 to dress, 47—103 mock, 132 Creams, coffee, 127—619 lemon, 127—620 without cream, 127—621 raspberry, 127—622 stone, 127—617 velvet, 127—618 Crimped skate, 46—96 Crumpets, 32—8 Crust, plain, 95—401A nalytical Index. JJO Crust, puff, 95—402 short, 95—400 suet, 95—403 rich short, 108—488 Cucumbers, to dress, 101—462 Currant tart, 109—491 Curries and Indian dishes— ballachony, 93—394 bobotee, 93—393 curry of beef, 93—390 eggs, 91-398 Hindostanee, 93—392 lobster, 91—397 mutton, 92—390 powder, 92—388 rice for, 92—389 veal, 93—391 sansastees, 91—396 Custards, boiled, 125—608 lemon, 125—607 Ciustard puddings— apple, 115-333 boiled, 115—334 for puddings, 115—333 Cutlets ii la Maintenon, 21 lamb, 74—263 Damson cheese, i36— 679 tart, 110—498 Date pudding, 116—340 Devil miiture, 131—646 Digester, 14 Directions for brewing in cot- tages, 142—713 Dress, silk, to clean, 146—749 Dripping, 10 to clarify, 94—399 Drink, tonic, 144—732 Duck, to roast, 83—322 to stew, 83—323 to truss, 83—321 wild, to roast, 83—336 to truss, 88—333 Dumplings, apple, baked, 112— 312 boiled, 112—311 hard, 123—396 JlAES, PIGS’, 36-35 Economy of fuel, 19 Economical way of making gravy, 20 Eels, to choose, 8 baked, 44—81 boiled, 44—82 conger, soup, 57—137 fried, 44—83 spitchcocked, 44—80 Eggs a la bonne femme, 35— 26 and baeon, 35-23 balls, 62—193 to beat, 132 to boil, 35—23 buttered, 36—30 to choose, 8 flip, 142—71S to preserve, 10 to poach, 35—24 Eggs, toast, 36-30 wine, 141—734 sauce, 53—160 Elderberry soy, 64—203 wine, 141—706 English spatchcock, 92—386 Escape of gases from meat pics, 94 I7ADGE, 35—21 Fennel sauce, 58—161 Fricandeau of veal, 74—268 Fillet of mutton, 69—238 of veal, 74—267 Fig pudding, 116—341 Finnon haddocks, 38—41 Fish, 38 to broil, 39—46 crimped, 39 to choose, 8 to dress, without a kettle, 38 to fry, 39—43 brill, 40—49 cake, 49—117 carp, baked, 42—68 fried, 43—69 cockles, 48—109 to pickle, 48—no cod’s head and shoulders, 41-55 pieked, 41—36 salt, 41—3^ Bounds boiled, 41—39 broiled, 41—60 conger, baked, 45—86 fried, 45—87 stewed, 45—83 crabs, to boil, 47—103 to choose, 47—102 Dory, John, 40—30 eels, baked, 44—81 - boiled, 44—83 fried, 44—83 spitchcocked, 44—80 flounders, 43—72 to fry, 43—73 gurnets, baked, 49—116 haddocks, baked, 45—94 boiled, 45—93 broiled, 45—93 hake, baked, 41—61 herrings, to bake, 48—113 to boil, 48—112 fried, 4S—113 red, 48—114 lobsters, to boil, 47—100 to choose, 47—99 to dress, 47—loi mackerel, boiled, 45—92 mullet, red, baked, 42—66 in paper, 42—64 to dress, 42—63 mussels, 48—in oyster fritters, 47—106 oysters, to scallop, 47—104 to stew, 47—103 perch, to boil, 45—88 to fry, 45—89 periwinkles, 48—log pike, to bake, 46—91 to boil, 45—90 plaice, to boil, 43—72 to lUlet, 43—71 Fish, to fry, 43—73 prawns, 49—108 salmon, boiled, 40—31 broiled, 40—33 middle slice, 40—32 pickled, 41—34 scallop flsh, 47—107 shrimps, 43—108 skate, to boil, 40—97 to crimp, 46—96 smelts, 43—74 soles, fried, 43—73 boiled, 44—78 fllleted, 41—77 fried, 44—79 tench, 43—70 trout, 42—67 turbot, boiled, 39—47 twice laid, 39—48 whiting, boiled, 42—63 fried, 42—62 Fisherman’s soup, 58—138 Fbh pies, 95—404 sauces, 69 anchovy,59—168 sauce blonde, 59—167 lobster, 58—164 oyster, 59—163 Flip, 142—712 Flounders, 43—72 Flour, 32 to brown, 69—171 Flummery, rice, 125—606 Folding table napkins, 147 Fondue, 132—648 Food of one person weekly, 1 in season, 11 price of, 1 Fool, gooseberry, 129—632 Forcemeats, 62 oyster, 62—194 for veal or hare, 62—192 For removingpaint from wood, 145—743 Fowls, to blanch, 87—348 to boil, 84—328 to roast, 83—323 to truss, for boiling, 8-4—327 for roasting, 88—334 Fowl and ham, potted, 107—479 Foundation of all jelly, 128— 624 French beans, boiled, 103—449 . pickled, 140—703 Friar’s omelet, 126—616 Fricassee of cold meat, 89—370 Fritters, 123 apple, 124—603 arrowroot, 12-4-6or bread, 124—604 cake, 124—603 orange, 124—603 parsnip, 104—457 Frosted pippins, 129—634 Frying pan, 15, 16 Fun pudding, 116—542 Game, blackcock, to roast, 33-36J to truss, 88—361 grouse, to roast, 88—337 hare, hashed, 86—343 jugged, 88-34»Analytical Index. 151 Qame, hare, roast, 88—341 to truss, 86—340 leveret, 88—344 partridge, to broil, 85—335 to roast, 85—336 to dress, 85—333 pheasant, to roast, 85—339 to truss, 85—338 pigeons, fricasseed, 85—334 jugged, 85—333 roast, 81—333 to truss, 81—331 quail, to roast, 88—360 to truss, 88—359 rabbits, to blanch, 87—348 boil, 87—349 economical way to dress, 87-351 fricassee, 87—350 roast, 86—346 to truss boiled, 87—347 to truss roast, 56—345 snipes, roast, 87—353 to truss, 87—353 teal, to roast, 89—368 to truss, 89—367 wheatears, 87—354 wild duck, to roast, 88—356 to truss, 88—355 wooJcocks,to roast, 87—3;3 to truss, 87—352 Gateau de pommes, 129—631 Geese, to choose, 8 German pastes, for custards, 108—486 pastry, 110—501 pudding, 116—545 yeast bread, 31—13 General stock-pot, 50—119 Gherkins, pickled, 110—704 Ginger beer. 111—709 biscuits, 130—676 pnddin" 117—546 Gingerbread, loaf, 135—667 nuts, 135—668 pudding, 116—544 Slodmere, 131—666 snaps, 135—669 Glac6, 69-—170 Gloucester jelly, 143—735 Golden pudding, 117—547 Goose, to carve, 23 to roast, 82—319 to truss, 82—318 Gooseberry fool, 129—633 tart, 109—493 jam, 136—680 Grates, to clean, 113—739 Gravies, 53 Gravy, beef liver for, 67—21 cheap brown, 69—173 for dishes, 60—177 for goose, 60—177 for hashes, 60—174 jugged, 60—176 kidney, 69—173 for minced veal, 60—175 Ktjp, 62—130 Breen peas, to boil, 101—436 pea soup, 56—147, 149 greengages, preserved, 137— 64 Green gooseberries, preserved whole, 137—631 Grouse, to roast, 88—375 to truss, 88—374 Ground rice pudding, 120—574 Gruel, 113—737 or patent groats, 113—736 barley, 1‘14—729 sago, 141—735 Guinea fowl, roasted, 89—366 larded, 89—366 Qurnets,baked, 49 —116 Haddocks, baked, 10—94 boiled, 46—93 broiled, 46—95 Hake, baked, 41—61 Haggis, 72—351 Ham, to bake, 78—393 to boil, 78—391 to choose, 8 to serve hot, 78—393 to steam, 76t—290 to cure, 1.06—473 and veal patties, 93—418 Hard dumplings, 123—596 Hares, to choose, 8 to hash, 86—343 jugged, 86—342 roast, 86—341 to truss, 86—340 Haricot beans, 103—457 of mutton, 71—248 Hashed beef, 68—228 mutton, 71—250 Hasty pudding, 117—548 oatmeal, 117—549; Haunch of mutton, 68—231 of venison, 81—511 Head, calf's, bo-iled, 75—269 lamb’s, 73—263 ox-soup, 64—137 potted, 107—480 sheep’s, 72—252 Herbs, season for drying, 62 Herrings, to bake, 48—113 to boil, 48—113 to broil, 48—114 to fry, 43—115 potted, 107—481 red, 38—42 Hindostanee curry, 93—393 Hints to housekeepers, 1 Horseradish, 105—468 sauce, 01—183 Hot sauce, 68—199 Hotch-potch, 53-132 House linen, 10 IIow to boil, 20 to broil birds, 20 to broil, 20 to choose beef, 8 to choose fish, 8 to fry, 21 to glaze, 21 to market, 3 to serve pancakes, 123 to stew, 21 ICE, to, or glaze, 100—490 Icing for cakes, 133—652 Inglcby receipt for ycasi, 33 -9 Irish stew, 71—249 Iron moulds, to take out, 10 Isinglass, 143—721 JAM roUy-poUy pudding, 117 —55° Jams, barberry, 188—689 blackberry, 138—688 black currant, 138—690 gooseberry, red, 136—O80 raspberry, 137—683 strawberry, 137—683 JardiniOre soup, 57—155 Jelly, apple, 128—628 calf’s feet, 128—625 cow-heel, 128—626 black currant, 138—691 foundation of all, 128—624 Gloucester, 142—725 orange, 128—637 oranges filled with, 129— 630 port wine, 143—718 ribbon, 129—639 silver, 14-4—728 Jersey wonders, 110—505 John Dory, to boil, 40—^50 Joints of the calf, 3 of a deer, 6 of lamb, 6 of a pig, 7 of the ox, 2 of a sheep, 3 Josephine cakes, 133—655 Julienne soup, 57—156 Keeping accounts, lo meat, 8 Kebobbed mutton, 70—240 Ketchup, mushroom, 63—198 walnut, 62—197 for fish, 64—203 Kidney beef fried, 08—225 stewed, 68—226 gravy, 69—173 soup, 53—133 Kippered salmon, 33—40 Kitchen utensils, 12 braizing jsan, use of, 12 digester, 14 frying-pan, new, 16 gravy strainer, new one, 16 larding needle, 16 meat saw, 16 paste jigger, 10 saucepans, to clean, 13 stockpot, 13 toaster trivet, 18 Knead, to, bread, 33—10 Knuckle of veal boiled, 76—276 Stewed, 76—375 r AMD, 72 Jj boned, quarter of, 72—355 brains, &e., 73—262 chops, 71—662 cutlets 71—365 fore-quarter, roast, 72— 254 fry, 73—264 head, 73—*63t^2 A nalytical Index. Lamb, leg of, boiled, 73—261 Icpof, roast, 73—257 loin of, roast, 73—259 pluck, 73—263 quarter, boned, 72—255 sadclld of, 73—260 shoulder, 73—258 target of, 78—256 Lark pie, 97—413 Larding, 22 Lard, to melt, 79—297 Lavender bags, 10 water, 146—755 Leg of mutton, to boil, 70—241 boned, 69—234 roasted, 69—233 of pork, to boil, 78—294 to roast, 117—285 old fashioned way ,79—286 Loin of mutton, roasted, 69—236 rolled, 69—237 of pork,78—287 Lemon biscuits, 136—675 cake, 133—658 puffs, 110—504 suet pudding, 117—552 to keep—see Storeroom Lemonade, 142—710 Lettuce stalks, to preserve, 138 —687 Liebig soup, 65—144 Light cake, 133—657 Liver a la mode, 91—382 calf's, and bacon, 76—279 List of vegetables and their sea- son for pickling, 139—698 Loaf sugar, 9 Lobsters, to choose, 47 patties, 98—417 potted, 107—483 to dress, 47—loi salad, 106—471 sauce, 68—164 London syllabub, 126—613 Louisa’s, Aunt, pudding, 117— SS3 MAB’8 (QUEEN) PUD- DING, 117-554 Macaroni, 131—645 soup, 65—143 Mackerel, boiled, 46—93 carving, 30 Made dishes, 89 beef rissoles, 90—377 boiled calf s feet, 91—383 calf’s heart, 91—379 feet, 91—383 liver a la mode, 91—382 fricassee of cold meat, 89— 370 fritters, oyster, 80-369, 47 106 lamb’s sweetbreads,90—373 minced veal, 90—378 olives, veal, 91—384 oyster fritters, 89—369, 47 —106 ox-tftils, stewed, 89—371 pig's fry, 92—385 i6chaufl'eofsaltbeef,00—373 rissoles, beef, 90—377 anatchcock, English,92—386 Made dishes: 8patchcock,Indian mode & sea fashion, 92—387 sweetbreads, roast, 01—381 stewed, 91—380 toad in a hole, 90—375 Malvern pudding, 117—556 Maitre d hotel sauce, 61—183 Marble, to take stains out of,145 —740 Marmalades— apple, 139—696 orange, 138—693 rhubarb, 137—685 pudding, 117—557 Marrow pudding, 118—559 Mashed potatoes, 100—430 Mayonnaise sauce, 69—169 Meat, how to keep, 8 Meat pies— beef steak, 95—406 Cheshire, 96—409 chicken, 95—404 larks, 97—413 mutton, 96—407 pigeon,97—414 rabbit, 90—411 veal and oyster, 96—448 Meat puddings— beefsteak, 98—420 and kidney, 99—421 mutton, 99—423 suet, 99—426 Melted butter, 68—159 Meringues, 130—640 rice, 131—641 tart, 110—499 Middle slice of salmon, 40—52 Mdk, to keep, 10 and rum, 145—737 Milan souffle, 126—614 Minced beef, 68—227 Mince meat. 111 egg, 111—507 lemon. 111—508 pies, 110—500 Mint sauce, 61—184 Mixture, devil, 131—646 Mock champagne. 111—708 crab, 132—651 Modes of folding table napkins, 147 Montreal pudding, 117—558 Moor game, to choose, 8 Moulded veal, 98—419 Muffin pudding, 118—55S to toast, 32—7 Mullets, 42—66 dressed, 42—65 in paper, 42—64 Mushrooms- broiled, 37—39 to choose, 104—463 to dry, 62—190 dried, to use, 62—igi stewed, 105—464 ketchup, 63—198 Mushrooms with Artichokes, 105 -46s Mustard to, mix, 61—189 Mussels, IS —111 Mutton, 68 breast and green psas, / 6 broth, 51—I ;o 2;3 Mutton, to choose, 6 chons, broiled, 71—247 cutlets, 71—245 a la Maintenon, 71—246 tomato sauce, 70—244 fillet, mode of dressing, 6£ —238 haricot, 71—248 hashed,71—350 haunch, 68—231 kebobbed,70—240 leg, boiled, 70—241 boned, 69—234 roasted, 69—233 loin, roasted, 69—236 rolled, 69—237 neck, roasted, 70—239 stewed 70—242 saddle, roast, 69—232 shoulder, roast, 69—235 Nasturtiums as ca- pers, 63- 201 Neats’ tongues, to cure, 106— 476 Neck of mutton, roasted, 70— 239 stewed, 70—242 of venison, 81—313 Norfolk pudding, 119—561 Nottingham pudding, 119—560 Nourishing soup for invalids, 123-724 QATMEiL PORRIDGE, 31 Odor delectabilis, 143—756 Olives, veal, 91—384 Omelet, 36—31 friar’s, 126—616 soufDd, 126—615 Onions, pickled, 140—603 sauce, 61—181 stewed, 104—459 Oranges filled with jelly, 129— 630 marmalade, 139—693 pudding, 119—562 marmalade pudding, 118— 557 Ovens, 32 for baking pies, 94 Ox cheek, 66—214 head soup, 54—137 tail sonp, 64—138 tails stewed, 89—371 tongue, potted, 107—477 Oyster fritters, 47—106, 89—369 patties, 97—416 plain stewed, 47—105 sauce, 59—165 scalloped, 47—104 PAINT STAINS FROM GLASS, to remove, 146—746 to remove from wood, 145— 743 Pancakes and fritters, 123 batter for, 124—600 common, 123—598 snow, 124—599 Paper hangings, to clean, 115— 744Analytical Index ‘53 Parsley, fried, 62—196 Parsnips, boiled, 10-1—4J6 and browned under meat, 104-458 fritters, 104—457 Cartridges, to choose, 8 to roast, 85—330 to truss, 85—335 Pastes, for custards, 109—4S9 German, 103—486 light puff, 103—487 Pastry, 108 German, 110—501 Patties, ham and veal, 98—418 lobster, 98—417 oyster, 97—416 Pepperpot, 65—145 Perch, to boil, 45—88 to fry, 45—89 to scale, 45 Pheasants, to choose, 8 to roast, 85—339 to truss, 85—338 Piccalilly, 140—699 Pickling, rules to be observed in, 139—697 Pickles, 136 French beans, 140—70a gherkins, 140—704 mushrooms, 140—701 onions, 140—603 piccalilly, 140—699 red cabbage, 141—605 walnuts, 141—700 Pies, beefsteak, 95—406 Cheshire, 96—409 chicken, 96—410 conger eel, 95—404 of larks or sparrows, 97— 413 mutton, 96—^407 pigeon,97—414 potato pasty, 95—40^ rabbit, 96—411 rook, 97—414 veal and oyster, 96—448 Pickled pork, 76—298 Pig, to bake, 77—282 to roast, 77—281 to scald, 76—280 sucking, 76—280 Pigs’ cheek, 80—305 ears, 36—35 feet, soused, 37—36 and ears, 36—34 head, to boil, 80—304 to roast, 79—303 kidneys, 86—33 pettiloes, 79—302 tongues, 79—301 Pigeons, to choose, 8 fricassee, 85—334 jugged, 85—333 roast, 81—332 soup, 81—331 Pike, baa^d, 46—91 boiled, 45—90 Pippins, frosted, 129—634 Plaice, boiled, 48—73 iilleted, 48-71 to fry, ^-73 Flam biscuits, 136—677 cako, ao1t“06o Plain directions for roasting, 19 plumoake, 184—663 shortbread, 181—66i Plovers, to choose, 8 Pluck, lamb’s, 73—203 Plums, preserved, 137—686 Polish for tables, 146—747 Pork, 76 bladebone, 79—300 to choose, 7 griskin, 78—289 hand of, 79—399 leg, to boil, 78—394 to roast, 77—285 old-fashioned way,77—2S6 loin, to roast, 78—2S7 pickled, 79—298 sparerib, to roast, 78—288 to pickle, 106—475 pudding, 99—424 Port wine jelly, 143—718 Potatoes, to bake, 100—433 to boil, 100—428 with theirskinson,100—429 to brown imder meat, 101— ■435 dressed, 101—434 fried, 100—433 to mash, 100—430 to steam, 100—427 Pot au feu, 62—139 Potting, 106 Pot ted beef, 107—478 fowl and ham, 107—479 head,107—480 herrings, 107—481 lobsters, 107—482 ox tongues, 107—477 Poultry, 81 chicken, to boil, 84—328 to roast, 83—325 duck, roast, 83—322 to stew, 83—323 to truss, 83—321 fowls, to blanch, 87—348 to boil, 84—328 to truss, for boiling, 84— 3^7 to gnll, 84—330 to roast, 83—325 to trus3,for roasting, 83— 324 to roast, 83—326 giblets, to stew, 83—320 golden plovers, 88—358 goose, to roast, 82—319 to truss, 82—318 guineafowl,roastand larded, 89—366 larks, 89—365 turkey, to boil, 82—315 to roast, 81—314 to truss, 81—314 Preserves, 136 apple, 139—6g6 cherries, 139—694 bottled, 139—695 damsons, 136—678 greengages, 137—684 green gooscberries,137—681 Price of food, 1 Puddings, 111 required for. 111 Pudding, Alexandra, 113—516 amber, 113—515 Anna’s, 113—517 apple, 112—509 baked,112—510 and crumb, 112—513 arrowi'oot, 113—518 Aunt Louisa’s, li7—553 baked, 112 Ilakewell, 113—522 batter, boiled, 114—523 cheap, 11-4—524 Beaulieu, 114—526 beefsteak, 93—420 ai d kidney, 99—41 black, 80—310 bread,113—519 and butter, 113—520 economical, 113—522 cabinet, 114—528 plain, 114—527 sauce, 114—529 Cassel, 116—536 cherry, 115—531 Christmas, 119—564 college, 116—530 cocoa-nut, 116—532 cup, 116—538 currant, lid—539 custard, apple, 115—J33 boiled, 115—534 for puddings, 116—535 date, 116—540 Duke of Cambridge, 115— 537 dumplings, hard, 123—596 fig, 116—541 fun, 116—542 general satisfaction, 116— ^ ^43 German, 116—545 gingerbread, 116—544 ginger, 117—546 golden, 117—547 hasty, 117—548 oatmeal, 117—549 jam roUy-poUy, 117—550 Josephine, 117—551 lemon suet, 117—552 Louisa’s, Aunt, 117—553 Mab’s, Queen, 117—554 Malvern, 117—556 marmalade, 117—557 marrow, 118—559 ' Montreal, 117—558 muffin, 118—555 mutton, 99—422 Norfolk, 119—561 Nottingham, 119—560 orange, 119—562 orange marmalade, 118— 557 peas, 119—567 plum, 119—565 without eggs, 119—566 Christmas, 119—5O4 polka, 119—563 porcupine, 120—568 potato, 120—5O9 Queen Mab, 118—554 rabbit, 99-425 raisin, 121—578 economical, 121—579^54 A nalytical Index y Pudding', ratafla, 1 >1—557 rhubarb, 121—580 rice and apple, 120—573 boiled plain, 120—573 ground, I2O-574 lemon, 121—576 plain, 120—570 ■without eggs, 120—575 and tapioca, 120—571 snowball, 121—581 sago, baked, 121—583 boiled, 121—582 semolina, 122—584 soulll^, 122—589 spongecake, 122—588 cheap, 122—^587 strawberry and crumb, 122 —585 suet, 99—426,122—590 Swiss, 122—586 tapioca, 122—591 veal, 99—423 Watldn’s, Sir, 123—593 Welsh, 123—592 Wyvern, 114—525 yeast, 123—594, 595 Yorkshire, 123—597 Quails, to roast, 88—360 to truss, 88—359 Quarter of lamb, boned, 72—255 Queen Mab’s pudding, 118 ~SS4 EABBITS, to blanch, 87—348 to boil, 87—349 economical way of dressing, 87-351 fricassee, 87—35 roast, 86—346 to truss boiled, 87—347 do. roast, 86—345 Eaisin cake, 131—664 pudding, 121—578, 579 Ramakins, 132—647 Raspberry jam, 137—683 Ratafia pudding, 121—577 Red currant jam, 139—691 jelly, 139—692 gooseberry jam, 136—680 herrings, 38—43 Rechaufi'6 of salt beef, 90—373 Rhubarb marmalade, 137—685 tart, 110—495 Kiljbon jelly, 129—629 Rice cake, 133—654 and pears, 130—635 snow balls, 129—633 puddings, 8 and apple, 120—572 boiled, 120—573 ground, 120—574 lemon, 121—576 plain, 120—570 without eggs, 120—575 and tapioca, 120—571 Rich plum cake, 134—663 Rissoles 90—377 Roast meat, beef, ribs, 61—st. sirloin, 64—205 lamb, forequarter, 72 -255 Roast leg of lamb, 73—257 saddle, 73—260 shoulder, 73—258 target, 73—256 mutton, 70—243 fillet, 69—338 haunch, 68—231 leg, 69—233 loin, 69—236, 237 neck, 70—239 saddle, 69—232 shoulder, 69—235 pork, griskin, 78—289 leg, 77—285, 286 loin, 78—287 spare rib, 78—288 veal, breast, 75—273 fillet, 74—267 loin, 75—272 shoulder, 75—274 Roast poultry and game- chicken, 83—325 duck,83—323 fowls, 83—325, 326 golden plover, 88—358 goose, 82—319 guinea fowl, 89—366 Blackcock, 88—^363 grouse, 88—357 partridge, 85—336 pheasant, 85—339 pigeons, 84—333 quail, 88—360 rabbit, 86—346 snipes, 87—353 teal, 89—368 turkey, 81—314 wheatears, 87—354 wild duck, 88—356 woodcocks, 89—353 Rook pie, 97—415 Rules to be observed in pickling, 139—697 Rust, to remove, 145—741 QADDLE OF LAMB, 73— ij 260 of mutton, 69—232 Salad, 105—469 lobster, 106—471 summer, 105—470 Salmon, boiled, 40—51 broiled, 40—53 kippered, 38—40 middle slice, 40—52 pickled, 41—54 Sago gruel, 144—735 pudding, baked, 121—583 boiled, 121—582 Salt fish, second day, 41—58 to boil, 41 Salsify, 106—467 Sauce, apple, 60—179 anchovy, 69—168 arrowroot, 61—186 blonde, 69—167 bread, 60—178 chestnut, 60—180 egg, 68—160 fennel, 68—161 elderberry soy, 64—203 Sauces,for polka pudding,61-i8f horseradish, 61—183 hot, 63—199 lemon vinegar, 63—200 lobster, 6S—164 maltre d’holel, 61—182 mayonaisc, 59—169 mint, 61—284 mushroom ketchup, 63—198 nasturtiums, 63—201 onion, 61—181 oyster, 59—165 parsley, 68—162 parsley, imitation, 58—163 shrimp, 69—166 store, 62 tomato, 61—185 vinegar, to make, 63—202 walnut ketchup, 63—197 white wine, 61—187 Sauces and gravies, 58 Sausages, 20 Sausages, 44—38 Sausages, Cambridge, 80—307 Oxford, 80—306 Bologna, 80—^308 Saute-ing, 23 Saveloys, 80—309 Scallops, 47—107 Scotch barley broth, 68—35 mutton broth in summer, 63—134 Semolina pudding, 122—584 Sheep, to cut up, 72 Sheep’s head, 72—252 Sea kale, 106—466 Season for drying herbs, 62 SheU fish, 47 cockles, to boil, 48—109 to pickle, 48—110 crabs, to boil, 47—103 to choose, 47—loa to dress, 47—103 lobsters, to boil, 47—loo to choose,47—99 to dress, 47—loi mussels, to stew, 48— 111 periwinkles, to boil, 43 — 109 prawns, to boU and serve, 48—108 oyster fritters, 47—io5 plain stewed, 47—105 scaUoped, 47—104 scallops, 47—107 Shoulder of lamb, 73—258 of mutton, 69—235 of veal, 75—274 Shrimps, potted, 108—403 toast, 37—38 S I't dress, to clean, 146—749 Silver jelly, 144—728 Sir Tatton Sykes' water cakes, 35—22 Slab for pastry, 94 Sledmere gingerbread, 131—666 Skate, to boil, 46—97 crimp, 46—96 fry, 46—98 Smelts, to fry, 43—74 French way, 43-^5 Snipes, to roast, 87—353A jialytical Index. 15,5 Snipes, to truss, 87—353 Snowballs, rice, 129—633 Snow for pancakes, 123 Soap for chapped hands, HG— 7S3 Soda cake, 133—659 Boles, boiled, 44—78 filleted, 41—77 fried, 44—79 Soullle, Milan, 126—614 omelet, 126—615 pudding, 122—589 Soupe et bouilli, 62—laj carrot, 66—151 a rery cheap, 62—126 clear stock for, 60—118 to colour, 49 common carrot, 66—151 conger eel, 67—157 cottage, baked, 62—127 economical white, 64—140 fravy, 62-130 are, 66—146 Jardiniere, 67—155 Julienne, 67—156 Liebig, 65—144 macaroni, 66—142 to make, 49 nourishing, 143—724 onion, brown, 66—152 ox head, 54—137 01 tail, 64—138 Palestine, 57—154 pea, 66—148 green pea, 66—147 green pea, 66—149 winter pea, 56—150 poor man’s, 62—128 potato, 56—153 tapioca, 65—143 cheap white, 54—139 Wrexham, 55—141 young fisherman’s, 68—158 Sour milk for cakes, 133 Sparrow pie, 97—413 Spatchcock, 92—386, 387 Spinach, to boil, 102—447 Spongecake pudding, 122—588 cheap, 122—587 Sprats, 43—76 preserved like anchovies, 100—485 Spongecake, 133—653 Steel, to take rust out of, 145— 74 ‘ Stockpot, genera], 60—119 Stock, bone, 51—122 cheap, 61—121 medium, 61—120 to clarify, 61— 123 Store-room, the, 9 Store sauces, 63 Strawberry jam, 137-682 and currant pudding, 122— 583 Stuffings, 62 sage and onion, 62-~i93 fluet, to keep, 10 and milk, 145—736 pudding, 122—590 Superior elder wine, 141—700 Sweetbreads, roast, 91-381 stowed, 91—380 Swiss pudding, 122—586 Syllabub, 128—613 Syrups, 141 Sydenham cake, 136—670 Table polish, 140-747 Tallow caudles, 9 Tapioca, 122—591 soup, 56—143 Tarts— aiiple, plain, 109—496 clierry, 109—493 cranberry, 109—494 currant, 109—491 damson, 110—498 gooseberry, 109—493 Jersey wonders, 110—505 lemon puffs, 110—504 meringue, 110—499 mince pies, 110—500 red currant, 110—491 i-hubarb, 110—495 Tartlets, 110—503 orange, 110—503 Target oi lamb, 72—256 Tea, to make, 30 cakes or loaves, 34—18 Teal, 89—368 Tench, fried, 43—70 Tipsy cake, 130—639 Toad in a hole, 90—375 Toast, 31 buttered 6—32 Toasted cheese, 132—649 muffins, 32—7 To bake biscuits, 132 cakes, 132 To beat cakes, 132 eggs, 132 To know when eggs are enough beaten, 133 To blanch almonds, 132 To bone a turkey, 22 To cement broken china, 145— 742 To clean chimney pieces, 145— 738 To clean glazed chintz, 145—745 To clean paper hangings, 145— 744 To clean polished grates, 145— 739 To clean a silk dress, 146—749 To make buns, 135—672 To make tough meat tender, 64 —204 To pickle French beans,140—702 gherkins, 140—704 onions, 140—703 mushrooms, 140—701 red cabbage, 141—705 To remove paint stains from ^lass, 146—746 Totake rust out of steel,145—741 To take stains out of marble, 145 —740 'fo wash coloured prints, 140— 748 J.O wash silks, 146—748 'Tomato sauce, mutton cutlets with, 70—244 Tonic drink, Ivt—733 Tongues, pig’s, 79—301 Tongues, ox, 107—477 Yorkshire fashion,107—47S Tooth powder, 146—754 Trifle cake, 130—637 rich, 130—638 Tripe, 68-229 roasted, 68—230 Trotters, 72—253 To try if a cake is done enough, 132 Trout, boiied, 42—67 Turbot, to boii, 39—47 twioe-iaid, 39—48 to choose, 8 Turkey, to boii, 82—315 to choose, 8 to truss and roast, 81—314 Turnips, boiled, 103—448 TTSEFUL EECEIPTS, 145 U castor oil pomade, 146—751 chimney pieces, to clean, 146 —738 china, to cement, 145—742 chintz, to clean, 146—746 coloured prints, to wash, 146—748 cold cream, 146—753 grates, steel, to clean, 145— 739 lavender water, 146—755 marble, to clean, 145—740 odor delectabilis, 146—756 paint, to remove from glass, 146—746 from wood, 145—743 paper, to clean, 145—744 rust, to remove, 146—741 silk dress,to clean, 146—749 to wash, 146—748 soap for chapped hands, 146—753 table polish, 146—747 tooth powder, 146—754 wash for hair, 146—750 winter soap, 146—753 VEAL, breast, to roast, 75— 273 calf’s brains and tongue, 75 —370 head, boiled, 75—269 hashed,75—271 veal, 74 calf’s head, 74 to choose, 3 cutlets, 76—278 to roast a fillet of, 74—367 fricandeau of, 74—268 knuckle, boiled, 76—376 stewed, 76—273 loin of, roast, 76—273 moulded, 98—419 patties, 98—418 shoulder, roast, 75—274 stewed, with vegetables, 76 —377 Vegetables, 100 artichokes, to boil, 101—439 Jerusalem, 101—440 asparagus, to boil, 101—441156 A Italytical Index. Vegetables, beans, 103—450 French, 103—449 beetroot, 103—452 brocoli, 102—443 Brussels sprouts, 102—445 cabbage, 102—444, 446 red. 111—703 carrots, to boil, 101—437 mashed, 101—438 cauliflowers, 102—442 celery, to serve, 101—460 stewed, 101—461 cucumbers, todress,101—462 onions, pickled, 110—403 stewed, 101—439 parsnips, 101—456 browned, 101—438 potatoes, to bake, 100—432 to boil, 100—428 with their skiua,100—429 to brown, 101—433 dressed, 101—434 fried, 100—433 mashed, 100—430 steamed, 100—427 turnips, 103—448 Vegetables, to choose, 9 list for pickling, 139—69R to keep, 9 Vegetable marrow, 103—433 Vegetable marrow,another way, • I in. 103—454 rissoles, 101—433 Vegetable soups, 65 brown onion, 60—132 common carrot, 60—131 green pea, 66—147, M9 jardiniere, 57—155 Julienne, 67—136 Palestine, 67—134 pea, 66—148 potato, 66—133 winter pea, 56—130 Venison, to hash, 81—313 haunch of, 81—311 neck of, 81—312 pasty, 97—412 Vinegar, lemon, 63—200 to make, 63—202 Very superior elder wine, 141—■ 706 Vols-au-vent, 91 ALNUT KETCHUP, 62— 197 pickled, 140—700 Water cakes, 35—122 Wash for hair, 146—730 Washing silks, to clean,146—748 Watkin’s, Sir,pudding, 123—393 Welsh pudding, 123—392 rabbit, 13'2—630 Wheatears, 87—354 White soup, 64—139 Whiting, boiled, 42-^3 fried, 42—62 Wild duck, to roast, 88—336 to truss, 88—333 Wine, egg 144-734 Wmes and syrups, 141 cowslip, 141—707 elder, 141—706 mock champagne, 141—7:8 whey, 142—711 Winter soap, 146—733 soup, 66-130 Wonders, Jersey, 111—303 Woodcocks, to roast, 87—333 to truss, 87—332 Worcestershire sauce, 63—199 AVrexham soup, 65—141 Wyvern puddings, 114—323 ■VARMOUTH BLOATERS, 1 48—114 Yeast, 33—9 dumplings, 123—394, 393 Yorkshire pudding, 123—397 Young fisherman’s soup, 63— 158 Notice.—The Original Work, of which this is a condensation, is entitled WAKNE’S MODEL COOKERY: Containing Complete Instructions in Household Management, AND KECEIPTS FOB Breakfast Dishes. Bread, Biscuits, &o. Fish and Soup. Sauces and Gravies. Beep, Mutton. Lamb, Venison. Veal, Pork. Poultry and Game. Made Dishes, and Entrees. Meat and Fish Pies, kc. Vegetables. Potting and Collaring. Pastry and Puddings. Creams and .Tellies. Custards, Ices, and Cakes. Preserves and Pickles. Souffles and Omelets. Wines, Drinks, and Ale. Desserts. Butter and Cheese. Relishes. Cookery for the Sick. Bills op Fare. Duties op Servants. Compiled and Edited by MARY JEWRY. Containing 3,000 Receipts, numerous Woodcuts, and 12 pages of Original Illustrations, printed in Colours by Krohheim, embodying nearly Two Hundred distinct Subjects. Price 5s., half-hound, 760 pages.3 BROWN & GREEN’S ATENT SMOKE 0ONSUMINO KITCHENERS This Kitchener is constructed for burning Ordinary Coal, the smoke being consumed in its passage through the fire. Will roast in front of the fire. Unsurpassed for Economy, General Convenience, Heating Baths, Thorough Ventilation, and the Pre- vention of Smoky Chimneys. Fitted with Patent Self-acting Damper, which prevents waste of fuel. The GOLD MEDAL and a SILVER MEDAL for Grates and Kitcheners at the Smoke Abatement Exhibition, South Kensington. BROWN & GREEN’S O E IVI ” PORTABLE COOKING STOVES, THREE GOLD MEDALS, Sam a surprisingly small quantity of fuel. They are recommended for Small Families, and as an auxiliary to larger Establishments. Most highly approved. Bake well. Require no Setting. Easily managed. Cure Smoky Chimneys. Prospectuses post free on application to EROWN & GEREEN, Limited., 69 & 71, Finsbury Pavement, London. MANUFACTORY, LUTON4 REVOLUTION! ej- IN THE PRICE OF TEA. -® BARBER & COMPANY ARE NOW ENABLED TO OFFER TO THE PUBLIC A GOOD, PURE, PDUGENT LEAF CONGO NAMED PACKOO For Pound. 1/4 Per Pound. SUPERSEDIIIG EVERYTHING HITHERTO OFFERED AT THE PRICE. 2j lb. Samples sent Free, per Parcels Post, for 3'10 ; 4| lbs., 6 9; 6^ lbs., 9,8; Si lbs., 12/6; lo lbs., 14/10; to any Post Town in the United Kingdom and Channel Islands. NO CHARGE FOR CARRIAGE OF LARGER PARCELS. Chequet to he crossed London and Westminster Banlt, Postal Orders from Is, Gd. to 10s. Cd. may now he had for One Penny from all Post Offices, BARBER & COMPANY, 274, Regent Circus, Oxford Street, W., Cl, Bishopsgate St., London, E.C., AND 102, We.slbonrnc Grove, W, 42. Great Titchfield Street, W. King’s Gross, N. The Borough, London Bridge. Brighton—147, North Street, Birmingham—Qua^Irant. I.IVERPOOL—1, Church Street. Manchkster—93, Market Street, Bristol—38, Com Street. Preston—Fishergate. Uasti.ngs—Havelock Road and Robertson Street.