Saint Pancras Public Libraries. The Leading Library is open from 10 a.m. until 9 p,m. every weekday, except Wednesday, when it closes at 1 p.m. The time allowed for reading each work issued, whether one volume or more, is fourteen days. For any book not returned within that period, a fine of one penny for the first week or portion of a week, and twopence for each succeeding week or portion of a week, is charged. In cases of infectious disease, books must NOT be returned to the Library, but must be delivered either to the Sanitary Authorities at the time of their call, or to the Disinfecting Station, Public Health Annex, 67-71 Prospect Terrace, Gray’s Inn Road, W.C.l. Ter. 8567—open from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m., Monday to Friday; Saturday, 9 a.m. until 12 noon. 'No book can be issued unless the reader’s ticket is presented or a book returned. No book can be exchanged on the day on which it was issued. Changes of address of readers or of their sponsors must be notified within one week oi such change. Readers leaving the Borough or ceasing to use the Libraries are required to return their tickets to the Librarian, otherwise they will be held responsible for all liabilities incurred. Readers are required to keep the books clean, to refrain from turning down the leaves, or making pencil or other marks upon them. They must take the earhest opportunity of reporting any damage or injury done to the books they receive, otherwise they will be held accountable for the same. In wet weather they must protect the books in their transit to and from the Libraries. (8812) H & S Ltd.LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Camden ^ /at 30106023323883L LAVEIJS ^ Rave received Special Approbation Gold Medals and Awards AT ALL THE PRINCIPAL EXHIBITIONS Including the Great Exhibitions of 1851 &I862- ALLOW USTOSEND YOUaUSTof \ITCHEN pCES, LATEST PATTERNS IN USE. IN FUEL. IN PRICE. SIDNEY . . FUAVEL . . & CO., , . . LEAMINGTON.BV the SAME AIJTHOR Crown 8vo, cloth, Illustrated, price 2s. 6d. net, or by post 2s. 9d. SUCCESSFUL JAM MAKING AND FRUIT BOTTLING BY LUCY H. YATES AUTHOR OF “modern HOUSECRAFT" “ THE PROFESSION OF COOKERY" “the management of money" etc. Y'HE demand for choice fruit preserves both for the home market and for export is enormous and steadily on the increase, which affords a splendid opening for the enterprise of fruit growers and country dwellers. It is the aim of this book to show how success in the art of jam and jelly making, and fruit bottling, may be attained and turned to profitable account. SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS. Chap. I. General Considerations.—II. The Apparatus. III. The Selection of Fruits.—IV. The Treatment of Fruit.—V. Sugar.—VI. Recipes for Different Fruits. —VII. Some Specialities.—VIII. Storing and Packing. —IX. Marketing of Stock. A FEW EXTRACTS FROM REVIEWS. The Globe.—“. . . The subject is treated so sensibly and practically that the housewife, as well as those who are concerned with jam making and fruit bottling on commercial lines, will do well to consult its pages . . ." Country Gentleman afid Land and IVater Illustrated.—“ It is exceedingly practical, and any reader who thinks about turning a considerable supply of fruit —his own or his districts—to profitable account should consult Miss Yates on the mysteries of the various methods of preservation from pulping up- wards. . . ." Pall Mall Gazette.—“. . . Conveys excellent and practical hints on both subjects. . . . The directions given in this useful little book cannot be too care- fully followed, and we have found it full of new suggestions and time and labour- saving devices. ..." TIu People.—“. . . It is the kind of book the small holder wants, for it tells us how jam might be made in a kitchen as well as in the miniature jam factory ; moreover, it gives clear instructions as to bottling fruit.” The British Bee Journal.—“ . . . We can recommend this book, as it will appeal both to careful housewives and to those who wish to add to their incomes, at a very small cost, by embarking on an interesting and profitable industry." Fruit, Flower, and Vegetable Trades Journal.—“. . .This is a work which should be in the hands of every fruit grower wishing to safeguard against loss of his surplus crop, while it appeals with equal force to all retailers alive to the advantage of buying in the che.apest market to hold stock in sound condition for sale when prices rule high.” London: REBMAN LTD., 129 Shaftesbury Avenue, W.C.THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOKI li . ?! ! '> OTHER VOLUMES IN Messrs. REBMAN’S “SUCCESSFUL” SERIES Crown 8vo, Illustrated, cloth. Price 2/6 net each. Post free 2/9 each. CONCISE, PRACTICAL, and AUTHORITATIVE. SUCCESSFUL POULTRY PRODUCTION By J. W. HURST Standard:—“ Mr. Hurst has conferred a benefit on the whole poultry interest in the production of his present volume." SUCCESSFUL JAM MAKING AND FRUIT BOTTLING By LUCY H. YATES The Globe.—“ . . . The subject is treated so sensibly and practically that the housewife, as well as those who are concerned with jam making and fruit bottling on commercial lines, will do well to consult its pages. . . .” SUCCESSFUL DAIRY WORK By A. T. MATTHEWS Farmers' Gazette.—“ ... A useful, up-to-date work for those engaged in the milk business. ... A readable work which all interested in the milk trade will find to be the source of considerable information. ..." SMALL ESTATE MANAGEMENT By ALBERT C. FREEMAN, M.S.A. Daily Mail.—“. . . An admirable little vade mecum for any one concerned with the development of the smaller farm. . . .”THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK BY LUCY H. YATES AUTHOR OF LONDON REBMAN LIMITED 129 SHAFTESBURY AVENUE, W.C. {All Rights Reserved)/ * 4 n / i I i IN PRAISE OF FRUGALITY A LATIN POEM BY POPE PIUS IX. Translated by ANDREW LANG {and reproduced by permissio7i) What Diet lends the strength to life, and frees The flower of Health from each malign disease? Neatness comes first: Be thy spare table bright With shining dishes and with napkins white; Be thy Chianti unadulterate, To cheer the heart and raise the spirit’s weight. Yet trust not much the rosy god,—in fine Be sure that you put water to your wine. Picked be thy grain, and pure thy home-made bread. Thy meats be delicate and dairy-fed; Tender, nor highly-spiced thy food, nor tease Thy taste with sauces from ^gean seas. resh be thine eggs, hard-boiled or nearly raw. Or deftly poached, or simply served au plat. “There’s wit in poaching eggs” the proverb says. And you may do them in a hundred ways. Nor shun the bowl of foaming milk that feeds The infant’s, and may serve the senior’s needs. Next on the board be Heaven’s gift, honey, placed And, sparing, of Hyblean nectar taste; Pulses and salads on thy guests bestow— Even in suburban gardens salads grow— And chosen fruits, whate’er the times afford. Let rose-red apples crown the rustic board. Last comes the beverage of the Orient shore. Mocha, far-off, the fragrant berries bore. Taste the dark fluid with a dainty lip. Digestion waits on pleasure as you sip. 1 wlETROPOLlTAH JOliL nESERVE (qt. ^blio Libharles) 1 Book NurTTW*. I 0 ! OV PREFACE This book is written specially for home cooks whose means are limited, with the hope of helping them to make the most of their limitations. It is also written in the hope of making it clear to all that successful cooking—by which is meant perfect cooking—is just as possible in the cottage as in the mansion; and to show that, however simple and economical the table may necessarily be, it may yet bear criticism from the culinary expert. The difficulties of home cooks are rarely if ever met by paying others to deal with them. They call for patience and study, for considerable power of invention and resource. But because they are big with importance on account of their bearing on the health of the family, and through the family upon national life, it behoves every home cook to deal with them intelligently and seriously. It is with this conception in mind that we have dealt with principles and reasons before giving directions and recipes, believing that, when prin- ciples are understood, any home cook may com- pile her own recipes. July 1910.1I I TfIS TATS librai^y s.w, I CONTENTS PART I CHAP. Preface ...... I A Small Kitchen . . . . Appliances best suited to small kitchens— How to make the most of limited space— The value of corners and labour-saving con- trivances—A modern kitchen equipment. II. The Larder . . . . . Stores and supplies—A few hints on market- ing and the keeping of cookery materials— Condiments, etc. II. The Menu . . . . . What nutrition means—The value of thought in selection of food, and of brains in house- keeping. IV. Methods of Cooking . . . . Roasting — Boiling — Grilling — Frying— Braising, etc.—The values of each method and reason therefor. PART II I. Breakfasts, Luncheons, and Little Dinners . . . . . II. Soups, Sauces, and Salads . PAGE V I 19 33 45 57 69vni CONTENTS CHAP. PACK III. Treatment of Fish and Poultry. . 87 IV. The Treatment of Meat . . -97 Beef, mutton, veal, and pork—Roast, boiled, baked, and stewed meats—Savoury made-up dishes. V. Vegetables and Fruit . . .115 VI. Puddings and Sweet Desserts . . 129 VII. Bread, Cakes, and Pastries . . 151 VIII. Home-made Beverages . . .177 Tea and coffee—Fruits and sherbets—Herb brews, etc. IX. Additional Recipes and Kitchen Hints 189 The Blank-Leaf Notebook . . 233 Index ....... 241PART I CHAPTER I A SMALL KITCHEN Appliances best suited to small kitchens—How to make the most of limited space—The value of corners and labour- saving contrivances—A modern kitchen equipment ICHAPTER I A SMALL KITCHEN It is one thing to work out a sum in Reduction on paper or slate—it is quite another thing to do it with tools and appliances, with money and materials. The young bride wha- comes to her new small home from a big family house, has first of all to • bring her ideas into keeping with her more limited surroundings, and to banish from her mind any idea of modelling her own household arrangements on the same lines as those followed in the bigger home with its greater possibilities. And what is not easy for the young bride, who starts with everything new and fresh, and with ambitions as bright as her pots and pans, is tenfold more difficult for the one who, as so constantly happens in this world, has to work out that sum in Reduc- tion through change of circumstances and loss of income. In each case, however, the start has to be made by bringing the mind into keeping with its surround- ings—looking at possibilities with a wise regard for impossibilities. Much can be achieved in spite of limitations, if set about in the right and sensible way.4 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK In the small kitchen there is no room for the heavy iron or copper utensils that might be suitable enough in the great family kitchen — although perhaps not really much used there—nor for several other things. All these large and heavy utensils entail much labour in cleaning, and for them we must substitute what is not only more easily handled, but more appropriate. The small kitchen holds a much smaller range, and the home cook may even disregard the range and depend upon a gas cooker for all her requirements. If gas can possibly be used at all, she will be wise to make inquiry about the many types of gas cookers, and select the one that most appeals to her and which suits best the kitchen she is fitting up. From the charming little Portable Gas Stove (patented by George Scott), which takes up only a matter of three feet of space, and which will cook everything needed for a full course dinner for three-farthings cost in gas per hour, to the more elaborate enamelled stoves with hot- plates and grills, there is plenty of choice to be had in size and style. The gas companies who fit up new cooking stoves send out an instructor to explain their capacities, and it is well to avail oneself of this gratuitous teaching, for even one who is well accustomed to the use of gas may receive hints and suggestions that greatly help to make her cooking successful. Enamelled saucepans and fireproof china dishes are the best ware to select for using on a gas cooker ; then there is glazed earthenware for stewing andA SMALL KITCHEN 5 soup-making purposes, made like the china in such delightful shapes and colours that it is a pleasure to use; at least, one is sure that what is cooked in these will not turn out either “ a burnt-offering or a bloody sacrifice,” as a certain Scottish parson described the dishes which his untutored wife prepared for him ! As we shall presently return to a more detailed consideration of our cooking utensils, we must now give thought to the larger and more important fitments of the kitchen itself. Even the smallest kitchen has usually some sort of permanent fitted dresser, and sometimes this is a quite commodious affair. If there are several upper shelves, it is worth while going to the expense of having the three top ones closed in with glass doors, and to store there such portions of the dinner-service and spare china not frequently used. This will obviate any necessity for frequent dusting down and cleaning of shelves. The open space underneath the dresser, usually allotted to heavy pans, boots, or other unsightly objects, can likewise be enclosed with doors of plain wood and give storage for dry goods and cleaning materials. The drawers in this dresser will hold kitchen cloths, dusters, rubbers, etc., but should not be allowed to become, the repository of all the oddments for which no other place can be found. On the top of the dresser will stand the dishes that are too large for the shelves, and anything that is decorative, and this can be covered with a thin washable oilcloth.THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK 6 Where the kitchen is large enough, and where the usual fixed dresser is in sufficiently com- modious, or where other cupboard room is short, a Hoosier Kitchen Cabinet would prove a delightful possession to a housewifely soul. These cabinets are made by Tickle, Bell, & Co. of Liverpool, and they serve much the same purpose in the kitchen as the business man’s filing cabinet serves in his office. In the Hoosier cabinet—which is quite an ornamental piece of furniture — every article is arranged in order, the things which are most frequently wanted being in the handiest positions, and everything of a kind grouped to- gether. The cabinet opens out so as to serve as both pantry and kitchen table ; it is dust-proof and mouse-proof; it saves steps, time, and thought; and it helps the housewife to remember exactly what she has in store. To a modern woman, in fact, the Hoosier renders the same service as his Shannon file or Card Index system does to the modern busy man. In most small houses the sink and water taps are fixed in a separate scullery, but where they are in the kitchen itself, or where the scullery opens into the kitchen without a door between, the sink ought, for more than one reason, to be enclosed. The upper part can be shut in so as to cover the plate-rack and any shelves there may be, and the lower part when enclosed will give cupboard space for pails and scrubbing brushes, etc. There is no occasion for the working apparatus to be always in view!7 A SMALL KITCHEN The advantage of a copper in a small scullery is questionable; where there is laundry work done at home it is of course required, but unless needed for this the space occupied by the copper might be utilised to a better purpose. But if the copper must remain, because brought into occasional service, it can at other times be made into an extra table by having a separate flat top to cover it, as sometimes there is not room for any other table in the scullery. The ideal arrangement for a sink is for the glazed stoneware trough to be in the centre with water taps over it, the sloped shelf for draining plates, etc., at the left-hand side, and another broad shelf on the right-hand side, the spaces below each being made into cupboards, and the walls lined with glazed tiles. Thus in washing and drying crockery there is no occasion to take needless steps, and the whole space can be closed in with doors to resemble a wardrobe or closet when not in use. If the sink is placed immedi- ately in front of a window, as not infrequently is the case, the upper halves of these doors could be of ground glass to let the light through. In the small kitchen we cannot afford to lose our corner spaces. These can be filled in with cupboards which any home carpenter could make . out of plain deal, and then be painted to be in keeping with the rest of the woodwork of the kitchen. One such cupboard could have small shelves from floor to ceiling, and hold a current store of jams, marmalade, pickles, etc. AnotherTHE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK 8 corner can be adapted with racks for hanging brooms, a space for irons, and receptacle for soap, and so on. A shirt-board and skirt-board, only required out on ironing days, can be hung in a similar shallow cupboard in the scullery, and here can be fixed a rack for drying towels, so made that the widest part of the supporting side brackets is at the top, allowing the top rod to project over the two lower ones, so that three towels can be hung to dry at once. The handy carpenter, it will be seen, may do as much to make the home kitchen an ideal place as any housewife; indeed, such a kitchen will really be the outgrowth of two minds rather than of one, as a true home must always be. With what shall we cover the walls of the small kitchen? We may have either a sanitary paper, resembling tiling, or we may have washable dis- temper—the latter for preference, if practicable. The shade we choose must depend upon whether the kitchen is naturally warm and sunny or cold and inclined to be dull. If the latter, a warm terra-cotta is pleasing; if the former, a soft green or blue-grey. Then we have the question of the floor-covering. Most new kitchens have boarded floors, and where this is the case the best covering is a light-patterned linoleum, especially if it be “inlaid” linol^iun which has the pattern going right through; this costs more than the ordinary kind to start with, but it never wears shabby and lasts as long as there is any of the fabric left. Never choose aA SMALL KITCHEN 9 plain self-colour for a kitchen floor, as it shows every footmark and magnifies every fleck of dust. Neither choose a large pattern to put in a small room. Something neat, clean looking, and cheerful is all that is required, and if possible have a nice little rug to lay down before the hearth when cooking is done. Kitchens in old-fashioned houses often have stone floors, which need frequent scrubbing and are apt to be both cold and damp. The best covering for these is a thick woven rush mat that covers the whole centre—such mats as one meets with in country cottages abroad, but, failing these, good dyed cocoa-matting is excellent, if it be kept clean. Where the floor is composed of red bricks, the same matting would still be the best and pleasantest covering to put down. But do not put cocoa-matting over a boarded floor, as it harbours dust and soon wears shabby when this is done. A wire fire-guard, standing nearly the same height as the stove and about a foot’s space away from it, is better in the small kitchen than a fender against which one is always hitting one’s toes. If the wire guard has a bright brass rail at the top and is firmly fixed at each end, it is safe without being heavy or cumbersome. It can also be used for airing linen and drying cloths when the fire is low. 1 he window of the small kitchen should be prettily, even daintily, curtained. Short muslin curtains, stretched on rods at top and bottom.lo THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK should cover the lower sash, while, especially if the window be a bay, it is very pretty to have a “ cottage ” frill or box-pleating of chintz fastened on the inside of the cornice, with two or four straight hanging curtains, reaching only to just below the sills, of the same chintz. If there are broad window ledges outside, it is nice to set growing plants thereupon and draw back the muslin curtains so that these may be seen from within. If the chintz curtains would be too much, a box-pleated valance of the same muslin as the short curtains could be put up. But whatever is chosen, be assured it is well worth while making the kitchen window pretty and attractive, even though it look only into your own backyard. At the same time, a cast-off pair of long lace curtains with looped-up ends will not make it either comely or neat. As to the kitchen table—perhaps the most indispensable piece of furniture here—where space is very limited, a round one with leaves to let down is more suitable and adaptable than the usual square or oblong. It should have at least one good drawer. The legs of the table can be stained and fitted with castors, although without castors it will be firmer and steadier for ironing purposes. Do not stain the top, but scrub occa- sionally with a little sand. Two plain Windsor or ru.sh-seated chairs may be all the kitchen has room for, but a folding camp-chair with carpet seat and back is very desirable: it can be closed and put out of theA SMALL KITCHEN 11 way when work is about, but when the housewife sits to pick fruit or shell peas, or when the maid has leisure to sit and read, then this comfortable chair proves itself a boon. A good clock is also an indispensable item in kitchen furniture, likewise a nice calendar and little bracket bookshelf to hold a few volumes, especially the book of recipes by which the successful cook’s path is guided; these are also almost, if not quite, as necessary as the timepiece. And now we come to the consideration of the pots and pans and other cooking utensils which will be required for daily use, to our tools for work, in fact. Young people who are setting up house are very apt to leave too little margin for outlay upon these, and to think that one or two things of a kind can be made to suffice. This is a mistake, because it leads to using the same vessel for all sorts of purposes, to its own speedy wearing out and to the detriment of the cooking done by its help. On the other hand, we do not need to fill our limited space with anything that we cannot put into use more or less regularly. Kettles, of which we should have two, a larger one and a small one, should be of the best block-tin with copper bottoms; these heat quickly either over the fire or gas, and can be used for both. ( If preserving is going to be done at home, a j medium-sized pan of cast-iron, enamelled white , inside, will be needed, and this will cost about five shillings, or less than half the price of a copper pan of the same size. One or two large saucepans12 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK of cast-iron, also enamelled white, for boiling fruit or pieces of bacon or meat are likewise a useful possession. Cheap tin saucepans are not worth buying, they wear out so quickly and become rusted, but two large saucepans in block-tin are indispensable for boiling greens and boiled puddings, and one of these may with advantage be oblong in shape, so that it may be used for a roll pudding or for boiling fish. When these saucepans are scoured with Vim after using, and are well dried, they last a very long time. The cook’s character may be judged by her saucepans. If she be a dainty cook, she will keep each one rigidly to its proper use; if her sensibilities are blunted, she will use them all indiscriminately. The smaller-sized enamelled ones should be kept for milk, sauces, rice, etc., and a small one of block-tin for brown gravies; one large enamelled pan should be devoted to potatoes and root vegetables, and another one for the use of vegetables that are liable to tarnish the pan, such as beans and onions. Thus a set of six or seven enamelled saucepans will be needed, ranging from one holding three or four quarts of water down to a half-pint. Two or, at most, three pans in block-tin will suffice. A wire frying basket is a necessity also, but this does not need a special pan to fit it, as a large enamel saucepan will answer the purpose equally well, only, if setting up with new utensils, it is just as well to have a proper frying saucepan if you can. The basket is a wonderful help when13 A SMALL KITCHEN frying small fish, fish-cakes, rissoles, and so forth. The ordinary shallow frying-pan should be of black iron with convenient handle; enamel ware burns too readily, and great heat is necessary for successful frying. The omelet pan, on the other hand, may be of the daintiest enamel we can find, and must be kept strictly to its purpose and never by any chance be used for any other. Aluminium ware will serve every purpose equally well, but it is rather expensive to start with. Of French fireproof earthenware, the kind that is rough outside and glazed within, we ought to possess two casseroles, a large and small one, a marmite for soup-making, and a shallow dish for baked eggs. The marmite should be capable of holding six pints, and will cost about two shillings ; one casserole, holding, say, four pints, would cost about the same, and the small one eighteenpence. But the casseroles are for stewing meat and vege- tables, for making economical savouries, and for vegetable cookery, not for soup-making. In addi- tion to this rougher and cheaper ware, our small kitchen ought, if possible, to possess one or two prettily shaped shallow gratin dishes in fireproof china — green or brown outside and white within. Whatever is cooked in these comes to table in the same dish, hence the desirability of having a pretty shape and colour. A casserole is often brought to the table too, wrapped round with a serviette. Some little ramakin cases in this fire- proof china are good to possess, if the cook intends to make cheese savouries at any timeTHE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK 14 Without going into every detail as to what the small kitchen should possess in the way of common crockery, it may be remarked that a set of kitchen cups and saucers and a few odd plates are neces- sary, as it is very thriftless management that allows portions of the best dinner- or tea-services to be used for kitchen meals; in the same way there should be kitchen knives and forks and tablecloths, even when the kitchen is used by the family for breakfast and occasional meals. Cooking knives and spoons are essential, but these may be cheap and strong, the spoons being of wood or enamel. A basting spoon and a wire fork are other requisites, like a lemon-squeezer, a gravy strainer, an egg-beater, bread-grater, and skewers. Among other minor tools, not perhaps exactly necessary, yet very helpful in kitchen work, are an apple- corer, a can-opener, pepper mill, coffee mill and tin cafetiere^ a sink tidy, housemaid’s gloves, a wooden bowl and pestle, rolling-pin and pastry- board, and a small mincing machine. A saucepan brush, dish-mop, and sink brush are all necessities, and some form of holder for domestic refuse intended for the dust-bin should be devised. The above equipment, if bought new, could all be obtained for the sum of five or six pounds, exclusive, of course, of the larger furniture and the floor-covering; the kitchen completely furnished, with every item mentioned here, including floor- covering, curtains, table, and chairs—but not, of course, including the Hoosier cabinet!—could be comfortably fitted out for ten pounds.A SMALL KITCHEN 15 Where washing is done at home, a little money will have to be spent upon fitting out the scullery with suitable tubs, a big boiling-pan and water scoop, a clothes-horse, scrubbing-board, and pails. Irons and an ironing-board will also be needed, and a receptacle made for soap, starch, etc. A stout clothes-line for outdoor use and clothes-pins will be needed, and for drying indoors the handy home carpenter can make a wooden bar to let down with cord and pulley. This is much neater than stretching a cord across the scullery, and is quite easy to compass.-■ <' f, '■/' ».■' ■ ►•, ," ^ '■ ••i--^' '. •,„ ' I k > jt--‘^ fc » . -^-L . , * A , , • V** ^ jik i Vs hiVil ■V ;j '^‘. V- ^1. • ■ j .‘-’1 *»v ■'03' :■■S6^. sr\ /V '‘r: ••»•■ ' >v 4 ' >-:JTv I 1^7 * ^ ’• ■'.vf-i:rp¥f^- X i5LiV“ * '■ '— ^3 w r*i •X'. Ik: A^»Jr \yyni vV- «.*’ V. > Vj '■j# K* ■5us' • /.' ■■ .»tj Jk ■\N4,I A ft: ~i CENTRA L*LI3RAHV KSJJXTON, S.W. CHAPTER II THE LARDER Stores and supplies—A few hints on marketing and the keeping of cookery materials—Condiments, etc. 2CHAPTER II THE LARDER In the small house and the small flat the larder is often sacrificed to give space to other places, and remains little more than a mere closet, often dark and ill-ventilated at that. Where this is the case, it is a better plan to make this so-called larder really a store closet for groceries, dry goods, and china, and to create a larder for food in some other way. With a little ingenious planning it will generally be found possible to erect a small larder outside the kitchen or scullery door, in some corner where the sun does not shine. If this is built of brick, it can have slate or concrete shelves put in; but if built by the home carpenter of wooden planks, the shelves also will be of boards and the roof probably of corrugated iron. The main thing is the ventilation, and for this large squares should be cut out and filled in with perforated zinc, the squares being set facing each other in opposite sides of the tiny larder, if possible. If there is much dust about or smoke grime to fear, as in among the chimneypots of London, this can be kept out by covering the *920 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK perforated zinc inside with cheap muslin, tacking this lightly so that it can be taken down periodically and washed. A small larder, some- thing like a magnified safe, can sometimes be built out from a spare window, by making a strong wooden frame and filling in the three sides with sheets of perforated zinc. There should be a bar of wood a few inches from the roof or ceiling of the larder into which hooks can be fixed, so that meat or poultry may hang therefrom in a line with the air draught. The shelves of the larder should be so divided that milk and butter and other foods should each have their own special place and not be mixed indiscriminately. A box can stand on the floor and hold potatoes, but other vegetables are better to be stored in a wire rack. Wooden or cardboard boxes lined with a strip of flannel make good receptacles for eggs, as these, if left exposed to the air, grow stale quickly. The earthenware bread-pan, with cover, should stand somewhere out of the draught. A few squares of thin muslin to throw over dishes of cooked food or basins of milk are very handy, and keep out dust and germs better than anything else. A weekly washing of the larder shelves and thorough overhauling of all its contents is needful if it is to be kept in sweet and orderly condition. Let all remains of milk or cream be put into one receptacle as they are left each day, and once a week a plain lunch cake or tea scones can be made with what has accumulated, even if this21 THE LARDER milk has become quite sour. Avoid, too, having dripping in odd jars and basins; let each kind of fat have its own special jar, and reclarify the contents of each one once a week by heating the fat and pouring it into a clean jar with a spoonful of boiling water at the bottom. Never put burnt fat with that which is sweet, or soup skimmings with that which runs from fresh meat. Keep the papers in which butter is wrapped for covering cheese, and throw a piece of muslin over this in addition. Never let cheese and butter stand near to one another—even though you see the grocer commit this error constantly. Milk and butter have the faculty of absorbing the flavours of whatever stands near to them, to their own disadvantage. So much for the outside larder, or for that portion of an inside one which is devoted to fresh food. Let us now consider how to arrange the section that will partake more of the character of a storeroom. If it is one larder and we have divided it after this fashion, the food part will be nearest to the window and the ventilators, and may or may not be partitioned off from the rest. Darkness is no detriment to a storeroom, but it must be cool and dry. Where perfect order reigns and everything is allotted its own special place, it should be possible for any one to lay their hands on what is wanted even when the light is dim and mysterious. While no one questions the economy of buying22 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK things in large quantities, the lack of space for storage—not to mention the want of sufficient ready-money to purchase large supplies—prevents the small housekeeper from doing much in this way. Nevertheless, she need not go to the other extreme and be constantly sending out for half- pounds and quarter-pounds, and always be found “out” of just the very things most wanted for making up her dishes. It is more economical to keep the jars or tins holding stock goods filled up, rather than to let them go down to the bottom before ordering more. This is the case certainly with tea, sugar, rice, oatmeal, and several other things of the same kind; it certainly is the case with soaps, soda, polish, and other things which, as before advised, we store in the cupboards built into the scullery. Flour should be bought by the quartern or half- quartern bag and be kept in its own special tin with its own special wooden spoon or scoop left with it, and the tin, it goes without saying, should never be left open or uncovered. In setting up housekeeping, a set of enamelled tins, labelled flour, rice, sago, coffee, etc., should be bought and ranged in the most convenient position, and when once these have been filled the supplies can be regularly made up. It is not wise to buy large quantities of sugar, but tins holding about two pounds of each kind—loaf, castor, and brown for cooking purposes—are a'good medium. Of course, when preserving is in question it is another matter, and larger quantities are bought to gain an23 THE LARDER advantage in price; but in the ordinary way a weekly purchase is best for the housekeeper, as all sugars are affected by the atmosphere and deteriorate by exposure. Keep a stone jar of common salt handy for kitchen use, but keep table salt in a closely covered tin. If bought by the packet, it is a good plan to crush and powder it finely and mix with it, when perfectly dry, a small proportion of cornflour, then to fill the tin and put away. This admixture does no harm to its flavour and effectively prevents the salt growing lumpy. There is again no advantage in buying large quantities of dried fruits, except when Christmas preparations are in hand, as they also deteriorate by keeping. But it is a decided advantage to wash currants and stone raisins and pick over sultanas before putting them into their re- ceptacles; if this is done at once, and they are well dried, it means a great saving of time when preparing the pudding or cake of which they form part. There are some charming little contrivances for holding spices ; some of these take the form of a tiny chest of drawers, others have an arrangement of stoppered bottles or jars. Something, however cheap, that is handy and air-tight should be chosen and duly stocked with the different spices for which it is labelled, and once this has been done it is an easy matter to keep up the supply. A few shillings laid out at the beginning in spices, herbs, condiments like pepper, mustard, curry-24 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK powder (Halford’s Indian Curry, by preference), cake flavourings, and so on, ensures a supply for years which a few pence per year after- wards will keep up. The same may be said with regard to sauces or bought pickles; make a limited selection of two or three of the most useful of these at the beginning, and you will never be without the wherewithal to prepare a dainty dish. For, by the way, the difference between one dish and another depends far more than is usually believed upon the seasoning given to it. To use the working man’s explanation, “ it’s the seasoning wot does it.” The discriminate, but not the indiscriminate, use of seasoning, spices, flavours, or sauces reveals the cook’s education or want of education, as the state of her saucepans reveals her cleanliness or want of it. Vinegar and oil are things which the store- room shelves should never be without, but which should never be stored in large quantities. Buy the best make of pure malt vinegar, and buy olive oil, if you possibly can, from a chemist, for he is bound to have the pure article, but that which is put up by warehousemen, of however good a reputation, is very apt to have been adulterated with cotton-seed or other oils. Of pure olive oil, by the way, we ought to make much more use than we do; it is one of the finest natural fats, is digested and absorbed into the system much more readily than other fats, even than butter, and enriches the blood, while it keeps the joints and skin supplied with the lubricant25 THE LARDER they specially need. It can be used with great advantage for superior frying, such as fish or pancakes, for basting poultry or fish, as well as for salad dressings. Those who eat of aromatic spices and use olive oil freely are rarely troubled with stings of insects, not even of mosquitoes. While on the subject of stores and supplies, it will be in place to offer a few hints regarding the way in which to choose and buy those articles of food which come under the head of marketing. Of these MEAT will be a chief item, perhaps, ranking first in importance according to English tastes. But one who has lived long abroad is inclined to think that meat is not deserving of this prominent place in our bill of fare. How- ever, as it is the most costly of our food materials, it behoves us to buy with care and discretion when we buy at all, and whether we buy much or little. In the small family there is a temptation to “do up” cooked meat, thinking thereby to gain more variety; but this is not economy, for meat twice cooked is not nourishing. It is a cheaper and altogether better plan to buy a smaller joint and eat it right through, making variety by changing the accompanying vegetables and salads. When meat is cooked so that its juices are not lost in the process nor its flavour, it is equally palatable cold as hot, to some tastes even more so. Beef that is properly fed and grown is a light, bright red with a fat slightly yellow and plentiful26 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK in quantity. The finest qualities of beef waste the least in cooking; the best-grown English and Scotch beef wastes less than does the Colonial or foreign meat. Hence, in buying for small eaters, it is really an economy to choose the best, even though that is the highest in price, for the gain is found after it is cooked, and assuredly so when it comes to be eaten. But as the meat bill in a large family is a very serious consideration, there is nothing to be said against buying Colonial or foreign in that case, since the animals are both well grown and well fed, and in big joints the waste is less in proportion and the flavour greatly better in comparison. Mutton should also be bright red in colour and with clear white fat. The thicker and plumper the meat, the more likely is it to be tender, unless the sheep is altogether very small, like the hardy mountain flocks of Wales, whose flesh is tenderest and sweetest of any. Mutton is more easily <j digested than beef, though it is very nearly as ^ . nutritious, but it is a meat which is less well j adapted for eating cold. It should also be cooked j rather more quickly. In mutton about one-half of its weight will be fat, and a considerable pro- portion of this will dissolve during the process of ' cooking; but clarified mutton dripping makes one of the best of frying fats, so that it is not really lost. It will also make good pastry crusts for meat pies intended for eating hot, but the pastry will be hard when cold. In buying mutton the most expensive cuts are gTHE LARDER 27 from the loin, “best end” of the neck, and the leg. On the other hand, the bones in these cuts are smaller and weigh less than in other joints, so that advantage is gained in this way. In the shoulder, which is considerably cheaper in price, the bones count for nearly half the total weight. Veal and lamb, being young and not fully grown meats, are less digestible than beef or mutton, but when well cooked they are nourishing, veal particularly so because of the amount of natural gelatinous matter it contains. Veal wastes less than any other meat in the process of cooking. Being naturally lean, it combines well with bacon and ham, and it is an advantage to cook the two together, one helping to make out the cost of the other. The bones of veal should always be well broken up, as they contain so much gelatine and in a stew or in broth add greatly to its enrichment, or when merely roasted the gravy becomes very much improved. Pork, though the cheaper meat to buy, is less nourishing and more difficult to digest, because it contains so large a proportion of fat—over-rich fat. Fat and water account for eighty-seven out of every hundred parts in the weight of pork, therefore it cannot be said to be economical, since both these constituents waste very much by ex- posure to heat in cooking. Pork meat is at its best when cured and smoked and sold as bacon; it is more profitable according to weight, wastes less, digests better, and is altogether more nutritious. Bacon goes further and is more easily digested28 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK vvlien boiled and eaten cold, although the rasher at breakfast-time is an institution that is beneficial to all with whom it agrees. In choosing pork for roasting, select the loin, spare-rib, or breast chops taken from the small, dairy-fed animal. Abjure the large and fat joints. Bacon is somewhat a matter of taste, but it is more economical to choose the best cuts of back and the thicker cuts of the flap or streaky than the cheaper portions, unless the piece is intended for boiling. It is an economy to have the rashers cut by machinery or by a skilled hand rather than to buy the piece and cut them as required, as no scraps will then be wasted. As to the so-called “ dainty ” portions of meat— the kidneys, sweetbreads, liver, etc.—the inexperi- enced and economical cook is well advised to leave these alone. All require very special cooking, taking much time and yielding little in return for it either in satisfaction or in gain as nourish- ment. An invalid’s appetite, however, may some- times be tempted by a broiled kidney with strips of bacon or a little bit of sweetbread, and one or two dishes of this type are given in another place; but none of these things are a suitable investment for people who have to get the utmost value for whatever they lay out, and whose diges- tions need no coaxing. Now, a few words as to the selection of FISH. Of this food we ought to eat more than we usually do, and to make it a chief item on the bill of fare and not an extra. For the fact that high pricesTHE LARDER 29 are kept up, simply because there is such a loss on this kind of food, the modern housewife, who esteems fish so little and has such limited notions as to its variety, is really largely accountable. Many people who would really like to have fish more frequently than they do, are debarred from doing so because it is so monotonously cooked, while the poor will declare it is “ nothing to make a meal of” But abroad, anywhere, fish is a dainty and appetising dish, and much sought after both by rich and poor. The kinds of fish that yield the most nourish- ment are those which most resemble meat—such as salmon, mackerel, turbot, and halibut. Salmon is almost always dear, but mackerel is always cheap; turbot is dear, but halibut, which has rightly been called the poor man’s turbot, gives much solid flesh with little bone. Of light white fish lemon soles are cheaper and heavier in pro- portion than ordinary soles, haddock goes further than whiting, and plaice is a most useful and profitable fish. In winter-time cod is most reliable and substantial, and makes a good meal if boiled in a large piece or baked. Oystei^, which are the best of all shell-fish, combine great nourishment with easy digestion, which is the reason they are ordered for the invalid; but, like all shell-fish, “ what is one man’s meat is another man’s poison,” so that where they, or any other shell-fish, are found to disagree, they should be avoided. Lobsters rank as least harmful next to oysters, while the flesh of a fresh crab is delicate and delicious, and30 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK shrimps are well favoured when we are at the sea- side. Smoked fish is both good and digestible, but is not the kind of food to be eaten with great frequency. Its place is among the “relishes.” Cheese as a food we do not value half as much as we should do. We eat it raw, as a “ finish ” to a meal, when it should really be a highly esteemed part of the meal. Perhaps the only familiar form of cooked cheese is the Welsh rarebit—often an indigestible dish enough. But ripe cheese and bread, with celery, a spring onion, or an apple or tomato, form a perfectly constituted meal, and - should be eaten as such. A little dish in which cheese makes a chief ingredient is again an ideal form of nourishment, and can be digested by those who turn away from ordinary ^ cheese. Or grated cheese served with soup, or macaroni, or some vegetables, adds tenfold to the value of that dish. Moreover, the use of cheese grated or cooked opens up so many ways in which the cook may vary and make attractive the bill ^ of fare, that instead of regarding it as an extra, we ought to look upon it as one of the regular items of our marketing purchases. Not a scrap of cheese need ever be wasted, as it is the driest corners and crumbs that we want for our cooking purposes. If buying cheese for eating with bread, buy the best quality and the ripest. New cheese and that which is tough or moist weighs heavy in the scales, but it weighs far heavier on the digestion that is unfortunate enough to be burdened with it 11 1 I I UP II II JiTHE LARDER 31 As to VEGETABLES and FRUIT, the freshness of these is a sine qua non in the matter of their selection. Do not be deceived into thinking that limp salads and greens will revive after soaking in water; they will not—not to make them good for food, that is. Carriage is now so rapid that no one need have any compunction in insisting on everything being fresh cut and “morning gathered,” although the greengrocer may try to sell off staler stuff. It is quite possible to meet with really fresher and cheaper goods on a costermonger’s stall than in a smart greengrocer’s—certainly more likely than from the cart which the said greengrocer sends round to get custom. The reason is that the costermonger gets into the market when the late consignments arrive from the country and makes a good bargain for himself, the shopkeepers being already supplied. He secures good stuff and is eager to sell it out at once—as he has no means of keeping it over. Therefore, the small and economical buyer has no need to look down upon the street vendor, but rather to welcome him. It is the vendor who calls or sends round for orders at whom she must look askance, bearing in mind that such a vendor will charge something on every purchase for the upkeep of his horse and cart and for wages. As a last word on this section of a big subject, let me emphasise this one undoubted truth, namely, that to have “ books ” or to run a credit account, and to allow calling for orders at the door, is the worst of all proceedings for theTHE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK 32 small housekeeper. She is tempted to buy more things and things other than she really meant to buy; she pays dearer for them and always pays something for accommodation and convenience; she is often the recipient of stale goods and short weights; she is often charged with things she never had. The only cheap way of marketing is to go and choose for oneself, to pay ready-money, to see the weight, and insist upon knowing all about the purchase. This is the way the Con- tinental woman goes about her marketing; it is done early in the morning, and done as regularly as she makes her bed, without any fuss or dressing- up, and it is done with a basket on her own arm and without any idea of loss of dignity. Abroad very little household shopping is done after eleven o’clock in the morning, and markets as a rule close at noon.CHAPTER III THE MENU What nutrition means—The value of thought in selection of food, and of brains in housekeeping 3CHAPTER III 35 THE MENU Let not the word Menu frighten our home cook. It is not a word which belongs exclusively to the chef, since any one who composes a meal compiles a menu, whether it be set down in writing or not. The popular idea of a menu is, of course, a kind of programme arranged and selected with ceremony between the head of the house in council with the chef or cook, and made imposing by elaborate P'rench names and phrases, so that the simplest item set down shall be glorified beyond recog- nition. If such were the meaning, it would be out of all place to consider a menu here— but it is not. The fact is, when we sit down to plan out a meal, we bring into play the spirit of asceticism, which is the direct opposite to indulgence. Asceticism is the ability to select and reject— the power to deny oneself of one good for the sake of a better good. The athlete has to be an ascetic of the strictest kind. I believe it is Coventry Patmore who says that it is impossible to have a good dinner without thinking. The thoughtless flesh, he says, may cry out for a rich,36 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK thick soup, creamy, satisfying, delicious. But the higher thought of the diner points out to him that the bowl of “ bisque ” would take off the edge of appetite for the fish, spoil the flavour of the entree, make the vegetables a weariness, and the roast and salad an impossibility. Consequently, the rich soup is refused and a few spoonfuls of clear consomm^ takes its place. And this is asceticism — the re- jection of the good for the sake of the better. But the advantage of planning a menu for the home cook lies in the fact that then she sees whether each dish has been chosen in right relation to others, and this is just as needful in the simplest home as it is for the fashionable table. The composition of a menu—or, for the matter of that, of a week’s menus, since it is quite possible to plan out a whole series in advance, and to do so saves a great deal of perplexity—should prove a most interesting part of the home cook’s work. It is just here that “ brains ” show to advantage, and where the arts and sciences studied at school all come in and make themselves useful. And to compile pleasing menus when means are small calls for a great deal more skill—yes, and more brains!—than when means are ample and the skill of others can be had by paying for. The day’s food, in any household, stands for the day’s work and the day’s happiness, too, to a con- siderable extent. Thus the cook wields a power far greater than she is aware of, namely, the power to build or to destroy the health and happiness of those whom she feeds. The object of having mealsTHE MENU 37 is to secure a suitable type of nutrition as well as a suitable amount of it, and this not merely as far as our means allow, but often in spite of our limitations ! It stands, indeed, for something more than this, for each day’s meals are part of the whole life’s health and effectiveness, and it is when this great fact is realised that we see how vitally important is the work done by the little home cook. If she shirks it or does it in a half-hearted manner, the comfort and peace of the whole household will suffer grievously. Let us understand clearly what our daily menu has to provide for us. We live on food, water, and air. The full-grown man or woman, it has been found, takes in daily through the mouth and lungs (air being in this sense as much a food as solid matter and water) as much as eight and a half pounds weight daily. Corresponding waste is per- petually occurring through the different channels formed by the skin, breath, kidneys, and intestines. The menu, then, must provide us with food both solid and liquid. The former is composed of fat, sugar, starch, blood-making material, salts, acids, and minerals ; the latter we take as drink and in the form of watery fruits and vegetables. Fat we find in butter, oil, dripping, or lard, in milk, cream, cheese, nuts, cocoa, and chocolate. Sugar is present in all the ripe fruits, in wheat and starch grains, and some vegetables. Starch, which in the mouth turns to grape sugar, is found in farinaceous foods, flour, potatoes, and cereals. The blood-making foods are meat, fish, eggs, and milk.38 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK Salts, acids, and minerals are present to some extent in all the animal and vegetable foods, but sometimes a little supplementing becomes neces- sary, as when the taste indicates that more salt should be added to potatoes, and so on. We find sulphur in eggs, phosphates in fish, and minerals in most vegetables and some fruits. Thus it is easy to see why a mixed diet is the most rational one, provided that it be mixed with understanding. The visible results of right feed- ing are seen in firm muscle, pure blood, and that sufficiency of fat to make “the layer of wadding beneath the skin which rounds off the muscles and keeps the body warm,” as some one has described it; but there are other hardly less visible indications too, which are bright spirits, alertness and activity of mind, and equability of temper. Let us never forget, however, that the best food will not suffice to bring about these good results unless there is also given abundance of air for the lungs to feed upon, and this must be given by night as well as by day. Better stint in food than in air, although both are requisite for perfect nutrition. Bad ventilation in living rooms, insuffi- cient air in sleeping rooms, will bring on diseases of the internal organs, causing them to be unequal to their work of digesting any food, however good. It would be quite possible to enlarge on this subject until this little book became a text-book of physiology, but to do so would only weary the young home cook. On the other hand, we cannot ignore the fact that in daily practice even the most39 THE MENU ignorant of us is carrying out, or is violating, the laws of physiology, whether we are aware of it or not; therefore, we cannot be economists unless we begin by trying to understand what lies at the very foundation of our work, even in the matter of daily meals. Some people have tried to lay down rules as to the amount that should be allowed per head for the cost of food, with reference to the rest of the income. Obviously this is a difficult thing to do with any accuracy. It is always more costly to feed one or two persons than to feed a family—in proportion, that is. Then so much depends upon the character of the work that is being done by those who are fed. Where the man of the family, for example, has an occupation that keeps him confined to an office desk most of the day, his food will need to be of a more expensive kind, and more delicately prepared, than would be the case for one whose occupation was an outdoor one and whose physique was more robust. The same way if there are big children going to school, or youths and girls going out to business, the meals will need to be quite different in character from what would be the case where the children were all in the nursery ; while the woman who works at home and is subject to a good deal of strain and fatigue, and who, as a rule, gets less fresh air and outdoor exercise, needs a light but varied and nourishing diet. Many a city man of business is very far from being properly fed, as his thin frame and pale face shows; and many a wife and mother at home is the prey of nerves and ill-health for40 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK want of common-sense feeding. What we need most of all to battle against in our everyday exist- ence is the tendency to pinch in food and other necessaries for the sake of getting more amusement and pleasure into life, on the plea that the grind and routine of daily toil would be insupportable unless we gave ourselves such “breaks.” Good and wise living, it is true, is many-sided, and the mind has its needs no less than the body; but no amusement has been rightly afforded that has involved cutting down some necessary to make room for it, and it should be questioned whether the “ break ” or uplift has been worth its cost if it is no more than a passing pleasure. But the main thing that we should be ashamed of is ill-health and lack of vitality, when we realise how much the happiness of others depends upon our, own fitness, upon our filling well the place that is ours in the great scheme. Petite sante is as disgraceful to a woman as it is ill-becoming to a man. Our modern life is full of strain, it ^ is true, but it is also full of comforts, even of luxuries; work need no longer be laborious as it used to be, for tools are invented that make it easy; travelling facilities are quicker and safer than ever before, so that workers may live further out and in more open spaces than was possible at one time; many of the industries that it was formerly imperative to carry on at home are done better and more economically outside, and we have a great choice of food materials, cheap and abundant, brought from the Colonies and other41 THE MENU countries, so that our tables can be supplied with variety all the year round. This should mean that living is not only on a higher level of comfort at the same rate of income than was the case with our parents and grandparents, but that it is easier for us to be healthier and happier than they were, and to enjoy many cheap pleasures and changes which they knew nothing of. Before we leave the subject of the planning of the menu and selection of food, in order to turn to the practical work of cooking, let us take a few examples for consideration. For instance, potatoes and rice are not needed on the same bill of fare, for they are both starch foods; a boiled meat pudding should not have either potatoes or haricot beans setved with it, nor should it be followed by a fiffnaceous pudding or pastry, but it should be accompanied by a green vegetable and followed by fruit with cream or custard. Green vegetables are more nutritious and more appetising when served with a nice sauce or with good gravy; root vegetables like turnips, parsnips, carrots, artichokes, etc., also need sauce or gravy; cereals like peas and beans, lentils, etc., also macaroni, rice, and potatoes, all need fat added to them, either as butter or as bacon. With cooked porridge we find cream more palatable than milk, and with meat we prefer green vegetables or salads, and the reason is not merely a matter of taste; it is the fitness of opposites. Fish alone, though easy digested and nourishing, is not sufficient to make a complete meal without42 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK potatoes or rice, and butter or its equivalent in sauce, and a little piquant condiment to give flavour. Bread and cheese are both highly- nourishing eaten together, but they are not perfect food without the addition of an onion, an apple, or a tomato. Perhaps the most nearly perfect of simple foods is bread and butter with new milk to drink, and for children, indeed, no better food exists, and it is a grevious mistake to substitute jam or treacle on the children’s bread. The only substitute for butter is good beef or bacon dripping. Meat is always the most proportionately ex- pensive item on the bill of fare, and therefore it should be remembered that fish and eggs, like- wise bacon, can effectively take the place of meat when combined with other things like potatoes and rice, sauces, etc. Dried beans and certain of the root vegetables are substantial and nourishing enough' to do without meat or with but a very little, and a good fresh egg is always equal to its weight in meat. It is bad economy to save on the milk bill when there are young children to consider, and it is equally bad economy to pinch in butter or in fresh vegetables and fruits where grown-ups are concerned. As a rule, one rarely goes far wrong when following the rules laid down by those who plan the bills of fare in circles where dining is an art. What is considered “ correct ” there will generally be found to be really so considered scientifically; and though it is impossible for theTHE MENU 43 little home cook to follow their elaborations, she may glean many a useful hint by an occasional reading over of a fashionable menu, or from par- taking of an occasional meal in a good class restaurant—for which, of course, some one else pays the bill!CHAPTER IV METHODS OF COOKING Roasting—Boiling—Grilling—Ftying—Braising, etc. The values of each method and reason thereforeCHAPTER IV ‘ 47 METHODS OF COOKING There is always a Principle at the foundation of a Process, and when any one has fully understood the Principle, he or she is master of their work and able to control it. Success is sure because there is nothing of chance or hazard about the doing of it. It is this understanding which makes the difference between the skilled chef and the ordinary cook. The cook who has never under- stood the reason why of what she does, will fry, but think nothing of the temperature at which she does it, and will guess at her measures, trusting to her judgment of eye—or to a happy chance of coming out right! But the chef follows rule and precept with the closest care, hence he is both an artist and a scientist. In the same way an educated girl, who has studied mathematics and chemistry, should be able to make a success of domestic work from the start, because she will understand the reason for a principle and trust nothing to chance. Now, in Roasting meat the principle is to gradually approach the joint to fire-heat so as to cause it to exude sufficient of its fat and juices48 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK to moisten the surface, then to bring it near to a greater heat so that a crust shall form on the surface that will keep in the gravy of the meat while it is being cooked through. And as the heat should be applied on all sides evenly, a roasting jack or spit is made to revolve round and keep the joint continually moving. In Baking—too often confounded with roasting —the principle is that the oven shall be sufficiently hot at the beginning to subject the meat to the same shock of surprise which articles that are fried receive when they are immersed in boiling fat. An oven that is too “ slow,” that it is but poorly heated, dries the surface without bringing any crust upon it, and leaves the whole joint the same pale colour right through, or it will keep the bread or pastry from rising, and not allow it to become brown. While Roasting is a process of cooking by radiated heat, baking is a combination of radiated and air-conducted heat—where the oven is venti- lated. Properly-built bakers’ ovens are always ventilated, and hence whatever goes into them retains a pure taste; but the oven of the small range that is without ventilation will impart a flavour of iron, and often of stale fat, to whatever is put into it. An oven used for baking needs to be kept scrupulously clean, whereas a careless cook will too often allow it to become encrusted with fat, or the burnt juice of fruit pies, or stale crumbs. Washing out with hot water and soda (using a mop with a handle, or a brush) should be done at least once aMETHODS OF COOKING 49 week, whether the oven be one belonging the range or that of a gas stove. In Boiling meat we have to consider whether our object is to cook the meat for eating, or to extract the juices from it for the sake of the liquor or soup we may make with it. If we are cooking the meat for its own sake, we use water in the same way as we use fire or oven heat; but if we want to extract the values of the meat, we require the water to act as a chemical agent or solvent. Thus, in practice, two degrees of boiling are considered: one that is real boiling, and the other that is only sim- mering. Boiling-point is 212° Fahrenheit or 100° Centigrade, and can be ascertained by the thermometer, although in common practice we know when water boils by its violent bubbling up and throwing off steam. As a piece of meat, or fish, intended to be eaten boiled is often bulky, to keep it at the boiling-point all the time would render it tough; but it is plunged into the water at this high temperature to begin with, in order that a crust may form on the outer surface to retain the juices, then it is withdrawn after a few minutes so that the ebullition shall be gentle, although still not much below the boiling degree. It needs to be kept thus, at what we may call just under boiling-point, for a considerable time, hence in reckoning the time to be allowed for cooking a joint by the boiling pro- cess, we allow twenty minutes to the pound, whereas a quarter of an hour is the rule for roasting. When, however, we wish to extract the goodness 450 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK from meat for the sake of obtaining a broth, we plunge it into water that is only just warm, and very gradually bring it up nearly, but not quite, to the boil, withdrawing it directly it shows signs of ebullition, and let it have several hours of quite gentle simmering after this. In the end all the goodness will have been withdrawn and yet the broth will be cooked, whereas in the making of beef- tea the juice should be extracted still more slowly, and the simmering temperature maintained all the time. There is always a certain amount of scum to be removed from boiling meat or soup, as this arises both from the meat and the water, and this should be removed while the pot is gradually coming to boiling-point. Meat that has come out of cold storage should be kept in a warm place for several hours before it is cooked in order to bring it to the normal temperature, and for boiling purposes it is better to put a joint of Colonial meat into water that is nearly cold, bringing it gradually to the boil, then treat as before mentioned. Grilling, qr Broiling, is a process similar to roast- ing, only it is used for smaller pieces of meat, such as steaks and chops. These are placed on a grill and held over the clear embers of a hot fire or under the grill of a gas stove, and are constantly turned over and over during the few minutes of their rapid cooking. Stewing is allied to boiling in the sense that the pot which holds the stew must be subjected to its greatest heat just at first, then withdrawn to cookMETHODS OF COOKING 51 slowly and gradually — much more slowly and gradually than the boiling-pan, however. We add very little water to a stew, because it is desired to cook the meat as much as possible in its own steam and natural moisture. Hence a stewpan must have a closely fitting lid, and it must be given plenty of time to perform its cooking. Frying is one of the quickest modes of cooking, and it is one whereby a very savoury flavour can be given to food. But it is also a mode of cooking that may render food quite unfit to eat and very unpalatable, if the cook is careless and does not understand how to fry. The secret of pro- ducing a successful “ fry ” is in giving the object fried what cooks call a surprise^ that is to say, it should be suddenly plunged into fat so hot that its outside becomes a crisp brown case which encloses the interior so securely that even if that interior be quite soft and juicy, like a ripe fruit or a spoonful of soft mince, it cannot escape. Anything very delicate we coat first with egg and breadcrumbs, or with a batter, so as to help the formation of that brown casing and make it still more effective. Fried dishes make a very pleasant variety among other dishes in a menu, and the lighter and more delicate types of frying will make anything tempting to an invalid who would not touch the same food prepared in more ordinary ways. There are several frying mediums. Oil is most largely used by these people who fry a great deal of their food, like the Italians, but with them oil is cheap and other fats are dear. With us it is the52 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK reverse, and we should use oil only for frying small fish and not always then. We find our best frying fat to be home-rendered lard or pure beef suet, both entirely free from water, and next to these some of the preparations of vegetable butter or cocoanut fats. But common lard and dripping that is badly clarified will neither of them make good frying material; for one reason, they are too much mixed with water, and for another thing, they will not attain sufficient heat. But an economical cook will so carefully clarify her good fat that she can use it many times over without its becoming spoiled, and a good French housewife prefers rendered beef suet to every other kind of fat for her purpose. The one drawback to a fried dish is that this method of cooking produces no sauce or gravy. This has to be made separately, or the lack is made up by adding butter or other ready-made sauces and condiments to the plate. Frying is a method of cooking particularly well adapted to fish, but less ^ suited to meat; it is admirable for many sweets, i especially trifles composed with batter or enclosed ■ in pastry, and it is an excellent way of reheating and making savoury any remains of cold cooked ' meat, fish, or vegetables. ’ Braising is another excellent mode of cooking, and particularly well suited for the cooking of meat that it is intended to eat cold, or for portions , that are unlikely to be tender if subjected to either ^ boiling or roasting. Braising is really a combina- tion of radiated heat and steam-cooking. As the • 4METHODS OF COOKING 53 pan is a close-fitting one with cover intended for holding live coals, the heat is obtained from above as well as from beneath, but inside a steam is generated which prevents any drying either of the surface or of the natural juices. Braising makes anything much more succulent than roasting or baking; but as the process of cooking is a slower one than either of these, a finer cut of meat would become soft and be apt to fall to pieces. But a cheaper cut of an inferior kind, or an old bird among poultry, become tender and juicy and eminently eatable by this process, when by any other they would have been tough. It is not necessary to possess the correct type of braising- pan, however, especially when we cook by gas. The earthenware casserole makes an excellent substitute, providing its cover fit tightly; this we place in the oven, subjecting it to a slow steady heat for a somewhat longer time than if we were considering a stew. When the cooking is finished, a piece of braised meat can be left to get cold without removing the cover of the pan, or better yet is to take off this cover, invert a plate over the meat sufficiently small to fit inside the pan or casserole, put a heavy weight on that, then leave to get cold. To do this makes the meat cut more firmly and causes the gravy to form a jelly round the sides. A very lean piece of meat, especially veal, should be larded through with strips of fat before putting into the braising pan or the casserole. This is a great improvement to its flavour, besides supplying moisture.54 the successful HOME COOK Now we will sum up the foregoing reasons and principles for the convenience of the home cook who is tentatively putting them into practice. Roasting that is done before the fire will need that the fire shall have been built up level with the top of the range and left to burn till clear, so that all smoke and flame shall have passed off. The meat should be kept a little distance from this at first, but when the fat begins to run, bring it quite close and turn and baste constantly. Roasting in a gas oven will require the gas to have been lit for fully five minutes previously, then it can be lowered for about ten minutes while the joint heats through, and then raised to a sufficient height, but not so as to scorch or burn the meat. Boiling of fresh meat that is to be eaten requires that the water shall have reached boiling-point, and when the meat is put into it the pan is withdrawn from the heat to check boiling and is gradually brought up to the boil again, then kept cooking just below this point. Fish is put into boiling water, but not allowed to more than simmer after- * • wards. As fat or oil never really boils in the same way that water does, its heat can be tested by dropping into it a piece of the soft crumb of bread ; if this begins to brown directly, the fat is hot enough. Fat is boiling when a faint blue smoke arises from it. If kept occupied, that is, as long as there is some- thing in the pan, fat will not burn; but if given nothing to do, it will soon become scorched.METHODS OF COOKING 55 Stnving requires the greatest heat to be applied just at first, then to be checked by putting back into a corner of the stove or oven and given a long time for gentle simmering. The same for braising. The time to be allowed for roasting meat is fifteen minutes per pound, and fifteen minutes to admit of its getting hot through. To boil, allow twenty minutes per pound and twenty minutes for it to reach boiling-point. In baking, the same as for roasting, or rather less. In braising allow thirty minutes per pound, the same for getting hot through, and the same for stewing. When frying one must judge by appearances; a crisp and brown outside is not always an indication that the interior is cooked. Allow a chop to cook more slowly than fish, for example, as also anything that is coated with egg and crumbs or with batter. As a rule, the first sign of anything being cooked through is when a steam begins to rise from it. Only experience will give a cook the judgment that can tell at a glance whether anything is cooked to the right point or not; but after a few trials and observations, one who brings intelligence to bear on the subject need not fear further failures, and a sort of intuitive sense soon becomes developed which enables the cook to judge and arrange and decide almost without consulting her rules.57 PART II CHAPTER I BREAKFASTS, LUNCPIEONS, AND LITTLE DINNERS%■. Cl ■ > > ». V-*' T / I >f •rj ‘{ /■ H \ ‘ f * ^ - ' % * * s rl^K •-Aw \ -r, ' •/f.* 5-*./(59 CHAPTER I BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND LITTLE DINNERS In our modern busy life a good many of us adopt the Continental fashion of taking only a very light breakfast of tea or coffee and toast, or bread and butter the first thing in the morning, and this is all very well and quite wholesome and sufficient if lunch is going to be substantial and, like the Continental lunch, an early meal, not later, at any rate, than midday. But where lunch is not par- taken of till one o’clock and after, a very light breakfast of this nature is not a sufficient meal for anyone to go to work upon, and invariably leads to another “ breaking of the fast ” in between, which with men means a drink and something with it, taken at a public bar, and with women an in- dulgence in something very similar at the con- fectioner’s. Such a plan does not tend either to simplify home work or to economise the income. Much wiser is it to keep to the old-fashioned and more substantial English home breakfast, suiting this to the time and needs of those who have to go out, ensuring that they shall leave home well and comfortably fortified for the day’s work. In many households to do this entails having breakfast on6o THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK the table by eight o’clock in the morning at the latest, and to have a hot meal at this hour means that some one must get up early to prepare it. Still, if it saves others from temptation, and the day begins the better for it, and health is improved by it, the effort is more than repaid. It will be the little cook’s contribution to the universal law of self-sacrifice. In advocating the provision of a good and sub- stantial English breakfast, let it be understood, however, that this does not necessarily imply a number of dishes“and a “heavy” meal. Nothing of the kind. One dish here is quite sufficient, but that need not always be eggs and bacon. The one dish may one day be fish, another day a cold meat pie, another day a dish of baked eggs, while in summer-time nothing is more wholesome than a piece of cold boiled bacon or ham, and in winter sausages make a pleasant change once a week. The great point will be to know beforehand what the next day’s breakfast shall consist of, and to prepare overnight the principal dish; and if porridge or any preparation of oats is required, that also can be made in readiness for reheating in the morning. When previous preparation is made, the substantial breakfast becomes the work of but a few minutes the next morning. Without this thinking and preparing, however, it degenerates into a scrambled meal, half cooked and unsatis- factory to all concerned. Let the home cook plan her breakfasts, then, with the same care and forethought as she plansBREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, DINNERS 6i her dinners. If at the previous day’s dinner there has been a bit of fish, boiled or baked, and there are a few nice flakes left over with a little sauce, she will that evening collect these flakes, boil a few spoonfuls of whole rice until it is soft, add the fish to it, with a small piece of butter, salt and pepper, and any remains of sauce there may be, mix this well in the saucepan, then leave for the next morn- ing ; it then will require holding over the gas long enough to make it quite hot through, stirring all the time, and turning out into a warm dish in a light flaky pile as Kedgej'ee^ “ to be eaten daintily with a fork and be thankful for,” as an American author has it — but whether eaten daintily and thankfully or not, it is one of those things which are nourishing and appetising when prepared beforehand, but quite impossible to scramble together in a hurry! Needless to say, the few flakes of fish from dinner would make also fish cakes, especially if there was a little mashed potato to mix with them and sauce to make them moist. It would not take long overnight to make these and fry them (coating them first with egg and crumb of bread, of course), and in the morning they can be put on a tin and set in the oven to become hot while the kettle boils for coffee. Baked eggs have been suggested, and for these no previous prepara- tion could be made; but a shallow enamelled pie- dish—or, better still, one of fireproof china—would be warmed and a piece of butter melted in it, the eggs, one at least per person, carefully broken into62 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK this, salt and pepper and a few breadcrumbs sprinkled over, one or two spoonfuls of milk added, and then the dish set in a hot oven or under the gas grill just long enough to set them and make the surface slightly brown—altogether the work of about twenty minutes. Many people prefer to cook bacon in the gas oven instead of in a frying-pan, and it is sure to be tender done in this manner, though not so crisp as when fried. Cold boiled potatoes left over from the previous dinner may be sliced and tossed in the frying-pan, sprinkled with pepper and salt and dried parsley, and served with the bacon; while almost everybody likes to find a few pieces of fresh tomato among bacon slices. Eggs, of course, can be fried, or poached, or boiled to make variety. With a few spoonfuls of porridge or flaked oats to begin the meal, a portion of any one of these dishes mentioned, some toast or bread and butter and a taste of marmalade to finish, and, of course, coffee or tea to drink, the working members of the family start their day well and comfortably pre- pared for any demand that may be made upon them. And a breakfast of this kind is needed just as much by the young boy or girl attending school, while the little ones at home could have the same, minus, of course, the meat dish. There is one way in which our English breakfast, as outlined here, might be made better still, and that is by adding to the table a plate of fresh ripe fruit in summer, or a little stewed or baked fruit in winter. We do not eat enough fruit as a rule.BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, DINNERS 63 i and a baked apple or a fresh orange, or a few f ripe currants at breakfast, would be excellent for 1 health. Among stewed fruits, prunes, figs, and pears are all greatly to be recommended. These are all better for us than jam or marmalade, and, personally, I should like to see the foreign practice of eating honey with bread and butter gain favour here, for honey is an extremely nourishing food and a laxative. And now having, I hope, made the home break- fast tempting and attractive and worth while, let me show what the luncheon should be that serves for dinner where there are young children. Let us rid ourselves of the notion that a dish of meat is necessary, because even where there are school children to consider they do not need meat more than three times a week if its place is taken by fish or vegetable dishes. A vegetable soup, thick and creamy, and a substantial pudding make an ex- cellent midday meal for young people, and older ones too, for the matter of that. Fish, baked, boiled, or fried, with potatoes and sauce, and a fruit or milk pudding are likewise a substantial meal. A savoury stew of mixed vegetables, flavoured with some strips of bacon and gravy, and a boiled pudding or pancakes to follow, is another good combination; and a dish of macaroni, boiled and made savoury with the addition of gravy and tomato sauce and grated cheese, makes another substantial first dish. In fact, we ought to use macaroni and rice much more than we do, in place 6f potatoes, for example, and in combination with64 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK eggs and cheese. Its wholesomeness as a staple food is seen in the Italians, who are far better fed and better looking as a people than we are, with hair and teeth and complexions which we may justly envy. Butter beans, haricot beans, and flageolets, cooked and eaten with melted butter, are excellent substitutes for meat. For this midday meal, then, let us habitually keep to two courses, and two quite simple courses at that, but always contrasting thqm as much as possible, supplying in one what is deficient in the other. But avoid making this a burdensome meal which takes all the morning to prepare. The morning should suffice for all the cooking that has to be done—with the exception, perhaps, of an occasional “ extra bit ” just after dinner, in prepara- tion for the morrow’s breakfast—because the even- ing meal, which is the most important one of the day, will naturally require some time for its pre- paration, and we do not want our little home cook to be drudging all the day through. Rather we want her to show that she is able to “ spin her own free hours ” by her own excellent management. Let me remind the home cook once again of the desirability of having a menu for her dinner— even if no one sees it but herself—and she will likewise keep and date those she has used, mark- ing specially any one which has met with particular appreciation. We pay a little more attention to appearances and the little niceties of the table at this meal. It is the meal of all others that we have sufficient time to enjoy leisurely for oneBREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, DINNERS 65 thing, and it is often tired minds and bodies that are seeking refreshment, as well as hungry appetites. Therefore, however nicely cooked the meal may be, , do not let it be set out carelessly or spoiled by omissions in the matter of bread, salt and condi- ments, knives and forks, and so on. I am not advocating the imitation of foreign . customs and practices, because it is the English of the English, the simple middle class, for whom I am writing, but there is something to admire in the Frenchman’s appreciation of his evening dinner. He is naturally and by temperament a domestic ; and social animal, and is therefore fully alive to the : amount of trouble involved in the preparation of a i nice dinner, and is ready to give discriminating [ praise and show his pleasure in what is put before ( him. He is, in fact, a decidedly encouraging person I to work for. Englishmen, please take the hint! While a little fresh roast, or anything boiled, ) cannot be cooked beforehand and reheated when 'I wanted, there are many other things such as stews, I fried dishes, soups, ragouts, puddings, etc., which j can quite well be cooked in the morning hours. 1 Sauces, too, can invariably be partly or wholly 1 made ready in advance. Vegetables can always be } prepared and left ready for cooking, salads ready 1 for dressing, and sweets almost if not quite finished. I In fact, the menu should be so arranged with regard 1 to trouble that if one course will require watching ^ and attendance the next or following ones shall i have been finished out of hand. If the reverse is I the case, that is, if the meat is cold and the soup or 566 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK fish only require reheating, we may give attention to a hot sweet, like fritters or a souffld. As a rule never introduce two fried or two boiled dishes in the same menu. Here are some suggestive menus for dainty little evening dinners, in each one of which there are some dishes which can be prepared beforehand, as well as one or two which cannot. Those which can be put in readiness are written in italics— I. Julienne soup (clear with minced vegetables). Roast loin of mutton. Baked potatoes. Boiled turnips or artichokes. Parsley sauce. Queen pudding. 2. Steamed fillets of fish. Lemon sauce. Braised beef. Salad {potato., tomato, or lettuce). Cheese fondue. 3- Tomato soup. Veal, stuffed and baked. Spinach. Potatoes sauU. Fruit tart a?id custard. 4- Baked or fried sole, cod, or halibut. Steak. Melted butter. Cold 7neat. Vegetable salad. Steamed souffle, with jelly sauce. 5- Vemnicelli soup. Stewed steak. Mashed potatoes. Cheese omelet.BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, DINNERS 67 6. Potato soup, with grated cheese. Roast fowl or game bird. Browned potatoes. Bread sauce. Apple or banana fritters. In the last menu, while the oven has to be watched in which the fowl is roasting or baking, the top of the stove can be used for frying the fritters. When browned potatoes are mentioned, they are boiled first, then browned in the oven with a little dripping. Where they are baked, they are done at the same time as the meat; where sautd, they are first boiled, then sliced and tossed in a hot frying-pan with chopped parsley sprinked over. The stuffing for the veal is, of course, made before- hand and the meat put ready for baking. The spinach is washed and put ready for boiling. A vegetable salad is prepared all but the dressing— which is always a mayonnaise and not a plain dressing. The “ Queen ” pudding can be eaten either hot or cold; if hot, the meringue is not added until the foundation has had time to be heated through.>‘iai £.«*-"• T ■*“' . * ^' *! 'rf-V'’j3f ■''*'• » J A- ' •• • ‘ I f 'J .>«r • 'i ■» .^’3r>gj^ > fcu y^..»-’. _ ,_•. v-.cv v/’fflHk . :jv- i-,; L'■ crt,e . -^.- - V^,.. „ *W '.S'- S-, ‘ *‘'W A 'rfi--; ^ ‘»Mi&*: _*£•■ .’‘V. '?j ''■' -»^- SS^xS;-CHAPTER II SOUPS, SAUCES, AND SALADSCHAPTER II SOUPS, SAUCES, AND SALADS These are not the three S’s of Cookery, although, from their association here, it might seem as if they were. The orthodox “ three S’s,” as a great chef once decided them, are Skim, Simmer, and Scour. No one will deny that these are elemental parts in all good cooking, even if not exactly rudimentary elements. Soups, sauces, and salads, however, belong to the superior, and not the elemental, division of cookery; and this being so, it might seem as though we were starting at the wrong end in putting them first among our chapters. But soup, at least, forms the commencement of a meal, and the two other adjuncts are well considered in this place, for the ground is then cleared and we have not to go over it again. It is very common for even quite good cooks to “ buy a few pennyworth of bones for stock ” and to stew these until they think all the goodness has come out, and then to use this stock as the founda- tion for soups and sauces. If there was any gelatinous substance or meat upon the bones, they have obtained a stock that has some degree of72 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK strength in it certainly ; but the ordinary bones cut out of a joint of uncooked meat, such as beef or mutton, have absolutely no nutritive value in them. When these are taken from cooked joints, however, they are capable of imparting a savoury flavour and a brown colouring to the stock; but the only bones that are of real worth are those of veal, with any of beef that contain soft marrow. Therefore, where a meat stock is wanted, it must be made from broth in which a joint of meat has been boiled, or by purchasing specially for the purpose a little beef or veal, preferably taken from the leg, where there will be muscle and gelatine as well as flesh. A small amount of this, put to stew very slowly, with cold water enough to well cover it and with a few bones from cooked meat, these being well broken and freed from burnt parts, with any trimmings left of the joint, if cooked for some hours, then strained off and carefully skimmed, yields an excellent foundation for clear meat soup, which can be flavoured by adding cooked vegetables, vermicelli, or anything else that may be liked. Soup which is intended to be served at the com- mencement of a meal does not need to be highly nourishing; what is wanted is a light, hot, and savoury appetiser, which acts as a stimulant to the digestive organs. It is different where soup has to form a staple part of the repast, however, as where it is recommended for the children’s table and for the midday meal. For that purpose a meat soup is less suitable than one composedSOUPS, SAUCES, AND SALADS 73 entirely of vegetables or rice, made fairly thick and enriched with milk or cream and possibly an egg yolk. Meat soups, such as would be made with a foundation of clear stock, should be reserved for the evening dinner, and vegetable soups kept for the midday meal. A brown stone or earthen- ware jar, with narrow bottom, makes an excellent stock-pot, into which the cooked bones and scraps of meat from joints may be put, and to which a little fresh meat can be added as required. The liquor should be strained off when the stock has cooked long enough—say, after six or eight hours slow stewing in the oven—and the jar emptied of its contents and scoured out ready for use again. In this connection let me remind the little cook that the bones of cooked poultry or game yield a stock that is much richer, both in quality and appearance, than any from bones of beef or mutton, and the drumsticks of fowl or turkey are quite a valuable “ find ” for the stock-pot. Now, although the thin broth obtained after boiling a joint of meat with vegetables has very little real nourishment in it, it is more valuable as an appetiser and a refresher than any stronger decoction obtained by stewing bones and meat, because it contains, when properly cooked, the peculiar sapient quality technically termed osnia- zome—a quality which makes its appeal to the nose by its fragrance, as much as it does to the palate by its taste. Hence we speak of “ delicious broth,” but we cannot speak of highly74 the successful HOME COOK “nourishing” broth; yet even for an invalid such broth is valuable, simply because it stimulates appetite and causes the gastric juices to flow. If that broth had boiled hard, however, instead of simmering for hours just below boiling-point, all the osmazome would have disappeared, and the flavour would have been flat and insipid. This quality of osmazome it is which constitutes the savour in cooked meat, and it is found in the brown encrustation which forms on the outside and collects round the edges of the baking-pan, all of which we should endeavour to dissolve when making gravy. Osmazome is the delicate aroma in properly brewed tea and coffee, and the fragrance of fruit when it is at the perfection of ripeness, but dissipated when tea or coffee is allowed to stand too long or when fruit becomes overripe. A good cook is careful to preserve this essential quality in everything she does, but the careless cook lets it become dissipated, so that everything she makes has no flavoui: of its own, while she tries to cover up the defect by adding strong flavours and condiments from outside. The art of cookery is to bring' out the flavour of the thing cooked, not to add to it the flavour of something else. From stock or broth to soup-making is a step forward, for broth, even when fully flavoured with vegetable, is not yet a clear soup, and stock is but 9 a foundation. There are two or three varieties of clear soup which we may make with very little trouble, using75 SOUPS, SAUCES, AND SALADS either broth or stock as a foundation. Supposing we have the former at hand, and it is the clear broth from boiled unsalted beef or veal, already flavoured with onion and other vegetables, after carefully skimming and reheating it, We should deepen the colour by adding a little gravy salt, enrich it with a spoonful of meat extract, and add, just before serving, some croutons of fried bread, broken not too small. Instead of bread or crusts, again, some of the cooked vegetables should be minced small and< added to the liquor, with a few freshly boiled green peas or cut beans; or a small quantity of boiled vermicelli or other Italian paste can be added instead. Careful seasoning and colouring, with sufficient of one of these three additions, will make a successful and appetising soup. Or, if the broth be from mutton, there can be no nicer addition than that of pearl barley or rice, previously boiled, while the vegetables, chiefly turnip, are minced small, and chopped parsley is stirred in with the requisite seasonings. Keep such a broth its natural colour, that is, do not attempt to give it a brown tinge. Stock that is already brown may become the foundation of a carrot or tomato soup, of lentil or onion soup, or be used for gravy and mulli- gatawny soups, and for the foundation of a number of sauces. One cannot make a clear consomme from bone stock, however ; but when this is wanted, a little fresh beef and veal must be specially purchased for it and cooked with due care, one or two vegetables and onions left whole being put76 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK into the pot, and the soup when cooked is duly strained, cleared, and seasoned. After clear or partially clear soups we have a number that are characterised by particular vege- tables, and these may be made with bone stock or broth as a foundation, or with water, milk, etc. Then there are soups made with fish and fish liquor, and some from beans and dried peas, lentils, haricots, and so forth, which have water and milk together for liquid and are enriched with cream or egg-yolk. Ox-tail, hare, or rabbit soup, or any other made from one special ingredient, are distinct, since they are but slightly flavoured with vegetable, save onion, but the first named is often made thick and eaten with portions of the meat left in, while hare soup and rabbit soup are clear. The correct way to make Julienne soup, which is one of the very nicest of clear vegetable soups, is to take a fair-sized carrot, a turnip, a heart of celery, a leek, and an onion, and after paring cut them in rounds the thickness of half a crown, then again in strips and across, so that dice result. The vegetables are then lightly fried in butter or clarified dripping till they just begin to brown, and after rinsing them by passing boiling water over them in a colander, they are covered with the clear well-seasoned stock, and left to simmer gently for an hour or two. Just at the last it is usual to add a handful of finely shred cabbage or some boiled and split Brussels sprouts, but these are not necessary; what is very nice is aSOUPS, SAUCES, AND SALADS 77 spoonful of frosh green peas or shred Prench beans. When these are tender the soup is ready to serve. Those who possess fancy vegetable cutters can shape the carrots and turnips with them, and some people like to grate them with a coarse grater; but it is the previous frying that gives savour and flavour to the soup. It is a very great improvement to all savoury soups to fry some at least of the vegetables, and the onion always. If the soup is going to be thickened afterwards, it would not be necessary to rinse the vegetable after frying, and where skimming is carefully done, it is not needful to rinse at all. In using onions, by the way, one should choose them according to the kind of soup it is intended to produce. For clear soups, the small round onion or the young spring onion are best; but for onion soup made with potato or haricot beans and with milk, the large Spanish onion is the best. You may fry an onion so gently as to keep it white until it becomes quite soft, or you may do it quickly and make it crisp and brown—this again according to the kind of soup it is required for. In France they recognise both white and brown onion soups, likewise white and brown onion sauces. An excellent combination is to boil together an equal number of potatoes, Jerusalem artichokes (or turnips), and white Spanish onions, then to rub them all through a colander, add half its quantity of hot milk to the pur^e that results, and a little78 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK more finely shred onion that has been stewed tender in butter, with a spoonful of cornflour ,• stirred into this butter to absorb it, some salt and pepper, and bring all to the boiling-point, then pour over some dice of fried bread. This is an easily made but most savoury white soup for winter days. White haricot beans, previously soaked, boiled, and rubbed through a sieve, might form the base of the purde instead of the potato or turnip, while lentils boiled and mashed and treated the same way could be flavoured with grated carrot and fried onion, and be thickened and served after the same manner. A puree of turnips and tomatoes together makes a pretty pink- coloured soup, while tomatoes, carrots, and red } beans make another richer combination. Chestnuts, boiled, peeled, and mashed, combine well with brown stock and well-fried onions. A good thickening agent for a clear soup is tapioca boiled in the stock, or a spoonful of fecule, that is, potato-flour, which, while it thickens, remains trans- parent. For purees and other thick soups that are not clear, cornflour previously made into a ! smooth paste with cold water, or worked into the butter with fried onion, is the best thickening, and French people often use the white crumb of a slice of bread cut small, especially for leek soup or such as sorrel or spinach soups. Grated cheese is an improvement to the flavour of several of the vegetable soups, and also adds to their nourishing value; it is handed round in a separate dish. Milk when added to soups mustSOUPS, SAUCES, AND SALADS 79 be first made hot, while before cream is put in the liquid must have cooled down somewhat; likewise it must be well off the boil before egg- yolk is stirred in. The broad classification of Sauces is into white or brown, savoury or sweet; the consistency should almost invariably be that of thick cream; the essentials are that a sauce should be smooth to the palate and well, but not too strongly, flavoured, and that the flavour should either contrast with that of the dish the sauce accompanies, or be subordinate to it. Most sauces are required to give piquancy to whatever they are served with. In the case of fish, we know it is very often true that “c’est la sauce qui fait manger le poisson,” while they undoubtedly “ help down ” the vege- table dish or the sweet which would be consider- ably less palatable without them. While soups should never boil fast, sauces are often improved by rapid boiling, provided they be continually stirred, except in cases where wine, or lemon-juice, or egg-yolk enters into the com- position, as none of these will bear boiling. All sauces require a thickening agent, and this may be ordinary flour — improved by previous baking in the oven—or cornflour, riceflour, potato- flour, or brown or white roux. The chef makes his roux in good supply and keeps it always on hand ; it is made by cooking together butter and ordinary flour, stirring this in a saucepan until it is a stiff but perfectly smooth and well-cooked paste; white8o THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK roux is made more gradually and slowly, and removed before it turns colour ; brown roux is pur- posely browned by more rapid cooking. A spoonful of this suffices to thicken and enrich a quarter of a pint of either white or brown stock. For savoury brown sauces to serve with meat dishes and some vegetables, the foundation of the sauce would be bone stock and the additions some roux^ or potato-flour, stirred in and boiled till the right consistency is obtained, and the flavour added last, whether this be with made sauces such as Worcester, tomato, ketchup, chutney, mushrooms, or wine. For fish the sauce is made with either clear water or fish stock or milk, the thickening is butter and flour worked together, and the flavouring (added after the sauce is made) either ready-made anchovy sauce, anchovy or shrimp paste, or lemon juice, egg-yolk, minced parsley or fennel, button mushrooms or picked shrimps, and the necessary salt and pepper. For plain “melted butter,” as a plain white sauce is commonly called, the butter and flour should first be mixed together until perfectly smooth, the proportions being a piece of butter the size of a pigeon’s egg to a dessertspoonful of flour; a little cold water is added to keep the paste smooth, then by degrees a large teacupful of boiling water or boiling milk is stirred in, and the whole is boiled together until quite smooth and clear. Some people add a little more butter at this stage, or a little cream, and, of course, salt.SOUPS, SAUCES, AND SALADS 8i As several special sauces are given among the recipes further on, we may leave the general subject of sauces here, since, when the principles are under- stood, their adaptation is a matter for the cook’s own judgment to decide. Salad dressings might almost be considered as a branch of sauce-making, for a salad is served with what may properly enough be called a cold sauce, whether that be an elaborate mayonnaise or merely a simple French dressing. There are few things in the vegetable world which do not lend themselves to salad-making when subjected to skilful dressing, and in hot weather a dish of this nature is not only more acceptable to the taste than a hot savoury, but is much more wholesome. An old Spanish proverb has it that it takes four persons to make a successful salad: a spendthrift to throw in the oil, a miser to drop in the vinegar, a lawyer to administer the seasoning, and a mad- man to stir the whole together. Although really quite an easy thing to prepare, a salad, and particularly a salad dressing, is just as easy to spoil. When using lettuces and vege- tables it is necessary to have them as dry as possible after washing, and no salad should be dressed until the moment before bringing it to the table; indeed, a plain dressing is usually added when the salad is on the table. Cold vegetables used for a salad should be well cooked and really quite cold before they are dressed; they must be well drained and dry, and 682 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK they require the addition of a liberal sprinkling of minced parsley or other herbs, also a little chopped onion, to be put with them. A cold potato salad, with these additions, is a real delicacy. Of the vegetables most used for salad-making purposes are, in addition to cold boiled and sliced potatoes, tomato, and cucumber, such cooked vegetables as haricot beans, French and kidney beans, cold peas, artichokes, beetroot, celeriac, picked cauliflower, chicory, carrots and turnfps, and asparagus. Of green things there are a variety of lettuces, water- cress, blanched dandelion, endive and corn salad, harbe chicory, and very young spinach and sorrel. Mustard and cress, chives, and other herbs are more suitable for flavouring other things than for making a salad by themselves. Nasturtium leaves chopped resemble capers in flavour and add a piquancy to other greens. Of meat and fish salads chicken and salmon mayonnaise are the two most generally seen, but any poultry or game lends itself to this form of serving, while lobster and crab, sole, turbot, or halibut are all sufficiently solid fish to serve in such portions as are required for a salad. A plain lettuce salad, by the way, goes exceedingly well with almost any dish of cold fish that is served with sauce. A very appetising way of treating a small quantity of cold roast beef is to cut it into dice, excluding all fat and gristle, and to add to it a large tablespoon ful of chopped parsley and onion, *and to dress it as if it were lettuce, with pepperSOUPS, SAUCES, AND SALADS 83 and salt, vinegar, and oil. This is called a “ Persillade.” Lettuce or watercress salads should be served with dishes made with eggs, such as omelettes, and they go excellently well with anything like a stew where the gravy is rich, or with broiled steak; indeed, it is hard to say where a salad does not accord, and of course it very frequently appears on the menu all by itself, as a finish to the first half of a luncheon or dinner—a Frenchman would hardly think his meal had been properly concluded without it. Although a salad should not be dressed until it is going to be eaten, any dressing but the perfectly plain one of vinegar and oil may be made hours beforehand and just stirred up again at the last. If you would have a truly good salad, make yotir own dressing; do not be deluded into purchasing a compound ready made, such being fit only for use as furniture polish ! And if you would appreciate salads as they should be appreciated, do conquer once and for all any‘foolish prejudice you may have about salad oil. You cannot have any salad dressing worthy of the name without it, although some people think cream can replace it, but cream will curdle even if you substitute lemon juice for vinegar. There is no objection to a slight sprinkling of castor sugar in a lettuce salad, since this corrects the sharpness of the vinegar and, in the opinion of some gourmets, it brings out the flavours, but personally I do not recommend it. Objections to salad oil arise from a want of under-84 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK standing, and from the use of cheap and “ fat ” oils. Pure olive oil is not greasy, and is thin and of a slightly greenish hue ; the surest way of obtaining it is to buy it by the pint or half-pint from a chemist, for the oils that are put up by large firms are often adulterated with cotton-seed and other admixtures to make them cheaper. It is better to pay more and get the pure article, re- membering that it is one of the finest foods we can possibly consume, enriching the blood and beautifying the skin of those who consume it freely. Pure olive oil is one of the best preventatives of that form of fermentation in the stomach which causes indigestion and “ heartburn ” or acidity, and those who are troubled with gastric disorders should indulge in oil very often. It is one of the best substitutes for cod-liver oil, and far more palatable. A plain salad dressing, as we know, is com- pounded by mixing together a saltspoonful of salt, half one of pepper, and one of made mustard, with a small dessertspoonful of vinegar, and when this has been poured into the bowl, two, and sometimes three, spoonfuls of oil are added and the whole tossed together to thoroughly incorporate the mass. The next most popular dressing is a simple mayonnaise, and this is made by beating one or two yolks of egg, with the salt, pepper, and mustard, then adding by slow degrees as much oil as the eggs will take up without becoming liquid; one egg yolk will usually take up quite half a tea-SOUPS, SAUCES, AND SALADS 85 cupful of oil, and the result will be a smooth, thick cream, to which the vinegar is added last of all, drop by drop. Continuous beating is needful when making mayonnaise, but once made it may be bottled, or stand in a cold place for hours, re- quiring only a good stirring before it is used. A mayonnaise may be varied by adding to it onion juice, the smooth paste of a mashed potato, a little tomato puree, or minced herbs, at discretion. Pounded egg yolks are sometimes put in as well as raw egg, but none of these things are necessary, and the simpler form is quite as effective and quite as pleasant for all but very special occa- sions. A better way of ringing the changes in flavours is to use flavoured vinegars—chili, tarragon, capsicum, spiced or sweet, as may be preferred. Lemon juice, especially for a fish salad, is an excellent substitute for vinegar, and accords better with the delicate taste of cold fish. A sprinkling of ground nuts over a lettuce salad adds to its flavour and nourishment, and is a favourite fashion in America. It is specially nice if the salad is eaten alone.87 CHAPTER III TREATMENT OF FISH AND POULTRYCHAPTER III I 89 TREATMENT OF FISH AND POULTRY Both fish and poultry are such valuable additions to our range of food materials that, whether we have a large or small table to provide for, they should make their appearance upon it more or less frequently—more, rather than less, frequently when the family is small, since the nourish- ‘ ment contained in both, considered as food, is greater in proportion to their weight than it is in ; ordinary meat. But, when rightly treated, neither , fish nor poultry are really dear; it is only when we i limit ourselves to the most expensive kinds that we find this to be the case. In fish, for example, we have not only the fresh ' but the dried and salted varieties to choose from, not to mention those preserved in oil. Fish ought to be eaten instead of meat and as regularly, and then it would not increase our food bills, while it would considerably benefit our health. People who make it a regular part of their diet are better fed and free from many complaints to which meat eaters are subject, and wherever a light evening 1 dinner has to be prepared daily, it should be re- I garded as a great standby and be brought into thego THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK menu as often as possible, in as many different ways as possible. For instance, where fish is not forming one of the chief dishes at the midday meal, it is usual to find it introduced as a hors- d’oeuvre, in the form of sardines, salted herrings, or anchovies, and the home cook might also introduce a modest tin of sardines in the same way. We cook fish by boiling, broiling, baking, or frying, and considering the choice in method and the variety in kind there is to treat, it is astounding that a dish of fish is so generally considered monot- onous faring! For boiling, choose thick fish, or pieces such as the middle or head and shoulders when a whole fish is too much. The Dutch invariably choose to boil fish in sea water, but the addition of salt to fresh water suits the English idea better and gives us a fish stock which can make the foundation of our sauce, if we will. As regards quantity of water, only just sufficient to cover the fish should be used, and in addition to salt, for white fish, a little lemon juice or vinegar is an improvement. Small fish, or slices of fish, should be put into water that is nearly boiling, but large thick pieces or whole fish should be put into water that is merely hot and be brought gradually up to the boiling-point, then allowed to simmer until a skewer pierces the thickest part with ease. In cooking slices of fish, or fillets, they may be poached in water, much as one would poach an egg, watching all the time so that they cook just enough, but not too much. This is a delicate wayI drain well, and serve hot, and if parsley is used as ! TREATMENT OF FISH AND POULTRY 91 ) of cooking rolled fillets of sole, lemon sole or j plaice, and thin slices of salmon. The pan in which fish is boiled should have a < strainer which permits of the fish being lifted out I without breaking it, and in addition it is well to / wrap the piece in coarse white muslin. Boiled fish, > served plain, is generally brought to table laid on j a folded serviette, as this further absorbs any I moisture there may be. In baking fish it is well to choose a dish for the { purpose that can be brought to table, and on this account fish is generally baked in a fireproof china 3 or metal gratin disk^ and a true gratin has butter, i breadcrumbs, seasoning, and sometimes wine put I in with the fish, which when baked gains a crisp J brown surface and is rich in flavour. In fact, for s an evening dinner, a small fish baked au gratin is » an ideal dish, and of course the wine and the ! mushrooms and other things which make the t rich man’s gratin an expense are by no means I necessary, but breadcrumbs, butter, and a squeeze J of lemon juice will be all-sufficient. When frying fish it makes a change to dip it i into a batter instead of in egg and crumb of bread, s and the batter can be specially flavoured if liked; i but for a delicate digestion or for an invalid, the i batter makes the fish more digestible, though it V will not attain the same crisp brown that the egg G and crumb coating will take on. Let the fat in / which fish is fried be very tasteless and very hot, 8 smoking hot, in fact; fry quickly, without burning,92 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK a garnish, fry that also a second or two. Slices of fish fry well, and so do fillets and the smaller kinds of whole fish like whiting and flounders, sprats and whitebait. When drained these should be sprinkled with salt and pepper. Whitebait, after drying well, are rolled in a well-floured cloth to become coated, then dropped into a deep pan of fat into which the wire frying-basket fits. They require gentle shaking from time to time while they cook to keep them from sticking together, then drying in a hot oven before bringing to table. Smelts are another delicious small fish for serving fried, but they are big enough to dip in beaten egg and roll separately in crumb of bread. They are served on paper d’oyleys, with thin slices of cut lemon, and eaten with brown bread and butter. For broiling, only such fish are suitable as can be split open down the back and the bone removed ; they are then oiled on both sides and laid on a grid and held over a clear fire till done. A few minutes suffices to broil fish over a clear fire. This method of cooking suits well the smaller mackerel, river trout, and herrings. Fish which boil well are salmon, turbot, halibut, cod, hake, brill, bream, and mackerel. Baking fish are halibut, gurnet, mackerel, cod, haddock, trout, sole, and mullet. For frying, all fish that will fillet, with soles, plaice, lemon sole, smelts, and sprats, whitebait, whiting, and flounders. For broiling we have fresh trout, mackerel, herrings, and, in some cases, soles.I, • ! riifi 1A j e I ??RNT«AL LIBRARY TREATMENT OF FISH AND PO Smoked and dried fish should be rinsed in hot water before baking or frying them, while smoked II haddock may be cooked in milk instead of in 1/ water and be much improved thereby. Let || kippers and bloaters steam through by covering ! the pan with a plate after baking or frying them. I 'g ^ I The flakes of a cooked haddock (smoked) make V delicious fish cakes combined with boiled rice. ^ In choosing a fowl for roasting purposes it is no > economy to buy a small cheap bird, as the pro- ; portion of meat to bone will be small and there will be no fat to keep it moist while cooking. But i the small cheap fowls which come from abroad I may be made very palatable by braising or stewing them in a casserole with certain vegetable additions and a little ham or bacon. A large- boned and older fowl answers excellently well for ; boiling purposes, a process of cooking which will ! make the flesh tender, while it becomes appetising ! by the sauce served with it. But for eating roast, ) either hot or cold, only the well-fed plump fowl is any good, and that is improved by having a thin slice of fat tied down over the breast. When i braised in a covered vessel a fowl should first be [ larded, and the process is an easy one, only t requiring a few strips of fat bacon or pork, which, f being inserted in the end of a larding needle, are drawn through the skin of the breast by raising j this between the thumb and finger of the left hand, ! putting the needle through with the right. The 1 fat strip is left with two ends standing up at each i insertion.94 the successful HOME COOK A delicious way of cooking a large fowl of doubtful age is to steam or braise it until tender, and when cool, but not quite cold, to remove the skin, divide into joints and fillets, lay these in a flavoured sauce, white or brown, adding peeled mushrooms and seasoning, a little wine if liked, and to stew the whole gently for at least an hour. This may become a curry by adding curry paste or powder to the sauce, more pepper, and a little vinegar, and serving it with boiled rice for an accompaniment. When serving a boiled fowl cold, for a supper dish, it should be boiled in clear broth first, and when cool the skin should be removed, then the white sauce is gently poured over all while that is still hot. Pour it over more than once if a thick coating is desired, and when the sauce is quite cold sprinkle the surface with chopped parsley and garnish with cut lemon. A turkey is generally roasted when intended for eating hot, or boiled when required for eating cold, but the ideal way of cooking turkey for either purpose is to braise it, remembering the old adage ; “Turkey boiled is turkey spoiled, turkey roast is turkey lost, but for turkey braised, the Lord be praised ! ” But the braising pan for this purpose should be of block-tin, and set in a very hot oven, since it is not slow cooking that is needed, but the object of braising in this case is to retain all the juices of the bird. There is no need for basting a turkey with fat when braising it, as it bastes itself; but when roasting the breast will needTREATMENT OF FISH AND POULTRY 95 protecting while the rest of the bird cooks through, and frequent basting will be required. When boiling put only one or two onions into the pan and only white vegetables, nothing at all stronglv flavoured ; but celery accords well with turkey, and celery sauce is its natural accompaniment. Ducks and ducklings are always roasted in the oven, whether intended for eating hot or cold, and it is well to protect the breasts with thick white paper, as they are apt to scorch before the rest of the bird is cooked through. Ducks are much improved by stuffing, and while many people also stuff a fowl that is intended for roasting, this is not an improvement to the flavour of the more delicate bird. A fowl needs quick roasting; a duck requires slower cooking. Goose is only wholesome when young, and needs very thorough roasting, while the apple sauce which is its orthodox accompaniment is the natural contrast of flavour required by this rather rich meat. Like ducks, a goose is improved by being stuffed. Small game birds want quick roasting, or they may be split down the back and broiled over a clear fire, then steamed through with a morsel of butter to give moisture. But for roasting or baking the breasts are always covered with a thin slice of fat. Pheasants require free basting with fat or butter and rather quick roasting, and very often they are dredged with flour just before cooking is finished in order to make a crisp brown crust form over the breast, while the bird is served on a bed of [bakedq6 the successful HOME COOK or fried crumbs. A little game bird that is gener- ally very cheap in price is the ptarmigan, and when nicely cooked is most delicious, lieing of dry flesh it needs wrapping in a sheet of fat or tying in a roll of fat bacon, then laying in a small pan for roasting, or better still it is if braised in a covered casserole that is only just large enough to hold it comfortably. The ptarmigan makes an ideal dish for the small dinner table of two, served with nice brown gravy and some bread sauce. In the winter season blackcock and prairie hen are also cheap birds and very tasty when cooked after a similar manner, while the fat Bordeaux pigeons are not dear for the very small family. There is a large amount of real nourishment in the flesh of these birds, in proportion to their weight, and the bones which are left over should always be added to the stock- pot. All birds of the grouse family should be roasted, and roasted quickly, but without scorching; the larger feathers are plucked and the smaller ones singed off. After drawing them they are wiped out with a soft cloth, but never rinsed. From thirty minutes to an hour, according to size, is sufficient time to allow for roasting any young bird, whether game bird or poultry, if the oven is brisk, as it should be. Slow cooking spoils anything of this kind. Braising will take just twice as long.CHAPTER IV 7 THE TREATMENT OF MEAT Beef, mutton, veal, and pork—Roast, boiled, baked, and stewed meats—Savoury made-up dishesCHAPTER IV 99 THE TREATMENT OF MEAT There are a few general principles that apply to meat of all kinds, in its choosing as well as in its cooking, which should be kept in mind. In a previous chapter it has been suggested that meat is probably the most expensive item we shall have in the food-bill. This becomes increasingly a fact; indeed, it is even hinted that the time will come when for most families it must rank as a luxury, and not as a daily article of diet. One of the most certain aids to economy, where i meat is concerned, is forethought. To buy in time : is to buy prudently. It matters a great deal 1 whether the meat we choose has been freshly killed or whether it is well hung, and meat that has been in cold storage should hang in a temperate place for some time before it sees the oven. On < the other hand, chilled or frozen meat is not a thing to buy long in advance, because it is too moist; ! whereas fresh meat grows drier the longer it is hung and positively improves in flavour by keeping, in cold weather. In doubtful or hot weather it is .1 better to let the butcher do the keeping. ^ Apart from the fact that meat improves inloo THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK flavour by being kept some days before using, it pays in other ways to use forethought in the matter of its purchase. If the buying is done hastily, just as a meal is wanted, only such portions as can be cooked quickly will be chosen. A steak or chops or cutlets will seem the only possible selection, whereas a really better meal would be made out of a much cheaper cut had there been time to cook that properly. Then again, when the amount which it is possible to allow for meat is expended in one or two sums instead of just so much per day, it naturally goes much further. Forethought likewise gives plenty of time for slower methods of cooking, and it is these slow methods which are the most economical. It is impossible, for example, to achieve a succulent beefsteak-pudding or a savoury stew at short notice, yet both are infinitely better suited to the home table than a grilled steak or cutlets. It is using forethought, also, that ensures variety in the menu. Haste and hurry are the worst hindrances a cook can have. The first essential to successful roasting or baking is a clear red fire or an oven already thoroughly hot. It is no use hanging a joint before a black fire and saying, “ It will soon burn up ” ; for while the fire is burning or the oven is heating, the meat is slowly being warmed through and losing its juices and fat, whereas it wanted to be submitted first to a shock of surprise through heat great enough to form a crust on the outside, and then to cook through more gradually. SolOI THE TREATMENT OF MEAT forethought tells us to build up the fire in good time, or to light up the gas in the oven some ten minutes before putting in the meat, and afterwards to reduce the heat. Frequent basting is another essential to suc- cessful roasting, though in gas ovens, which are described as “ self-basting,” this part of the cook’s labour is saved. In the ordinary range oven, and when roasting before the open fire, constant atten- tion pays for itself in this respect. So great is known to be the need for basting well all dry meats, that it is usual to wrap a piece of leaf-fat round the body of lean fowls or small game birds to ensure that the flesh shall be kept as moist as possible. Young meat like lamb and veal require most basting, as the natural supply of fat is small, while pork needs perhaps the least attention in this way. The fat which runs from the joint is, of course, the best for basting purposes; but where it is not sufficient, it must be supplemented by melting a little dripping in the baking tin, and in the case of small birds it pays to use butter for basting them. ^The fat of salt bacon may be used with advantage for veal, but it will spoil the flavour of game or poultiy. It is said that there is no better test of a cook’s capacity than the way she grills a steak or boils a potato. It is quite true too, for the principles of cooking are all included, and all are required to ensure success. Grilling follows the same principle as roasting, the point being to submit the meat to great heat to begin with, to help102 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK the formation of a crust on the surface with all speed, to keep in the gravy, and by frequent turning to keep it from drying. One does not baste a grill, but instead it is an advantage to lay the meat in a marinade of oil before putting it on the grid. Grilled chops usually have suffi- cient fat about them to provide their own surface moisture. The principles involved in boiling a potato are mentioned elsewhere, but it may be mentioned here that to put them into water that is nearly boiling, as one would put meat, to bring to boiling-point, and then to cook gently, just below that, is the way to keep in the flavour of a potato as it keeps in the flavour of meat. The most economical of all methods of cooking meat of any kind is stewing—though braising, which is another form of slow cooking, is very nearly as profitable. Nothing is lost in a stew; all the vapour is utilised, and though the meat may shrink in size, its goodness remains in the gravy that is formed. Moreover, as vegetables or rice are generally added to a stew and absorb some of its savouriness, a little meat goes much farther when stewed than when submitted to any other process of cooking. The brown stew-jar or earthenware casserole is the best to use for stewing in ovens, particularly in gas ovens; enamelled stewpans heat too quickly and cook too rapidly to be successful for this purpose. It is quite usual to speak of meat that is baked in the oven as roasted meat; and now that roasting before the open fire is rarely practised, people areTHE TREATMENT OF MEAT 103 forgetting what constitutes the difference between the two methods. The difference between the two flavours is patent enough to any one who has tasted both, and the reason is simple. When meat is roasted most of the vapours pass off up the chimney, or, if roasted by suspension in a gas oven, they pass out in vapour like smoke through the flue. In a closed oven these vapours are shut in and consequently come back upon the meat To be properly roasted in the oven, there must be a current of air admitted by ventilators and pro- vision made for the escape of vapours and steam. But there are parts of meat that are better suited for baking than for roasting, such as the top ribs of beef, a shoulder of mutton, or stuffed fillet of veal. So that each method is useful and necessary, and the point is to choose the method to suit the meat or the meat to suit the method—as one would choose an actor to suit a part. A sirloin, wing rib, or rib of beef should be roasted either before the open fire or by suspension from the hook in a gas oven, being submitted to full heat at first, then as soon as a brown crust has formed the heat should be reduced ; the time allowed for cooking is fifteen minutes per pound weight, with fifteen minutes for getting hot through. These joints are much improved by frequent basting with hot fat. Top ribs, or a piece of brisket, will boil well, or will be equally good baked. It should be cooked rather slowly and long enough to admit of the bones being slipped out with ease. If for eating104 the successful HOME COOK cold, it should be put under a weight after re- moving the bones. The aitchbone is more tender when baked in a dripping tin than when roasted; buttock-steak should be braised or stewed ; skirting makes a tenderer and somewhat richer stew, and is better than steak for a beef pudding; rump-steak or underfillet should be chosen for grilling; silver- side, fresh or salt, is the best for boiling; blade- bone steak is delicious when braised, and so is a piece of ribs boned and rolled round. Shin of beef cooked very slowly in a deep stone jar yields strong soup and makes excellent potted beef, while an ox-tail cut up and slowly stewed is most nourishing and delicious. Lean gravy-beef, cut small and put into a jar which stands in a pan of boiling water, yields the extract from which beef- tea should be made. Beef kidney is too strong flavoured to be used alone, but a few small pieces added to a steak pudding greatly enrich it (as also it is improved by the addition of oysters or mushrooms). When making an entree of, say, fillets of beef served in thick gravy, the part to choose for the purpose is the under-cut of the sirloin—the most expensive part there is! But tenderness and juiciness are essential for this dish. For a mince or collops, especially when the meat passes through a mincing machine, any lean part of beef that will be fairly tender will do; it would be a folly to buy the finer cuts for such a purpose. Beef Olives are an especially nice dish, and for making them long thin strips of uncooked beef areTHE TREATMENT OF MEAT * 105 required, which can be cut from bladebone*^teak, they should be about two inches in width and four in length. Beat them on a flat board, then lay on each strip a thin coating of minced mushrooms and spring onion, seasoning, and chopped herbs. Roll up carefully and tie with tape, then fry the rolls first, afterwards laying them in the casserole with some gravy, letting them simmer for an hour. Another excellent mode of treating beef—one well suited to the children’s table—is to pass through the mincer a pound of moderately fat bacon or ham and a pound of lean uncooked beef, and to add to the meat a few spoonfuls of crumb of bread, of minced parsley, and other herbs, and seasoning, then to moisten with gravy and shape into a firm roll. Wrap this in buttered paper and bake it in the oven for a full hour. Remove the paper and pour gravy round the roll, garnishing it with potato balls. Beef and carrots go excellently well together in a savoury stew, while beef cut very fine and sprinkled Between layers of sliced potato in a deep pie-dish, with seasoning and water added, makes an exceeding good pie, with a pastry crust put on after the interior is cooked. The thin flank of beef, which is usually fairly fat, is an excellent piece for boiling fresh ; it should be boned, rolled round, and pressed after cooking, and then it cuts into thin slices and is sure to be tender. If anything, mutton wastes rather more in cooking than beef does; but, on the other hand.io6 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK the bones of mutton are less heavy in proportion. The primest mutton is Welsh, which is small sized and delicious in flavour, but it is high priced. The next primest is Southdown, which is larger and of richer quality and also high priced. As a rule, large mutton is more tender and more nourishing than that which is medium sized or small—Welsh mutton excepted. Much cheaper than English mutton is Canterbury lamb or New Zealand mutton. This is also very good and sweet, especially for eating hot; it is apt to seem some- what flavourless when cold. But for the small family requiring small joints it is highly to be recommended, and, while it loses more in cook- ing than English mutton does, it wastes less than -frozen mutton, is more juicy and better flavoured. It is better to buy Canterbury lamb by the whole joint and cook it without dividing —a whole shoulder, a whole loin or leg, and so on—thus keeping in the full flavour of the meat. The best parts of mutton or lamb for roasting are the loin, shoulder, “ best end ” df the neck, and leg. The leg is also the primest cut for boiling, though the shank half of a shoulder is hardly less good. Breast of mutton is best stewed, or it may be boiled and left for eating cold, when it is very sweet. The neck chops and scrag are used for stews, while cutlets are usually taken from the best part of the neck and trimmed to shape. In another chapter recipes for a more economical method of taking cutlets from the loin are given, which need not be repeated here, save to emphasiseTHE TREATMENT OF MEAT 107 the fact that it is quite the cheapest mode of procuring what is always an expensive dish. When a good chop is wanted for broiling or grilling, let it be cut either from the loin or the chump, for it must be thick and juicy. A very delicious little joint, and not un- economical for the small family, is a roast of the “best end” of the neck, of about two pounds’ weight. The bones should be well chopped at the end, so that in carving each bone divides easily. If roasted by hanging from the hook in the gas oven, or, what is quite as well, by laying it on the grid shelf in the oven, this joint is but little, if at all, inferior to roast saddle of mutton. A very inexpensive but savoury imitation of cutlets of mutton results from taking the breast and boiling it till tender enough for the bones to slip out easily, to remove these and press the meat under a weight till quite cold, then to cut it into strips about an inch and a half thick and three or four long, to dip in egg and roll in crumbs, and fry to a rich brown. Served with green peas or spinach and a nice gravy, this is a capital dish. The shank end of a leg or shoulder of mutton does equally well for the making of Scotch broth, into the liquor of which, after the meat has first boiled for a short time, are put the vegetables, cut into dice, and pearl barley at discretion. Fresh uncooked bones well broken across, with but very little meat upon them, will make very good broth. Broth is flavoured with mutton; itio8 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK does not depend upon meat for its value. For the full flavour of both meat and vegetables to be extracted, it must simmer slowly and for a long time, never boil hard, and the scum should be removed as it forms. A very favourite mode of dressing mutton is to have it curried. In plain family cookery curried mutton generally means cold leg or shoulder rMiauffd. Not so the curry of the good restaurant. For a savoury curry fresh meat must be used, and each piece is lightly fried brown before it goes into the prepared curry sauce to finish cooking by slow simmering in a closely covered vessel. The breast and neck portions are the best for the purpose, each piece neatly trimmed and made as much as possible of even size. These are rolled in flour and fried brown in clarified dripping or butter, then laid in the casserole while in the fat is fried a minced white onion, a sliced apple, or peeled and sliced tomatoes. To these add a spoonful of Halford’s Indian Curry Powder and a spoonful of baked flour to absorb the butter, then seasoning, a few drops of pickle vinegar, and a cupful of brown gravy or stock. Boil gently for five minutes and strain over the mutton, cover the casserole and set it in the oven, and allow to simmer for an hour or longer. If the apple and the onions have been finely minced, it is not necessary even to strain the curry sauce. Halford & Co., the great Curry People, sell a Curry Sauce which has every necessary ingredient all ready mixed, even to broth, and this saves much time and perhaps failure.THE TREATMENT OF MEAT 109 For Haricot Mutton, another favourite and economical family dish, the neck and scrag of mutton is taken, divided into moderate pieces, rolled in flour, and fried brown in dripping fat. A fair quantity of carrot and turnip cut into dice is fried after the meat and added to it, with a sliced onion and pepper and salt. Water enough just to cover all is put into the dish, and this, when closely covered, is set in the oven to simmer for a couple of hours. When reheating cooked mutton a good gravy should first be prepared, the meat is sliced and laid in it and left to simmer gently for a short time, until it has become thoroughly hot and tender, but it should never be allowed to recook. Very nice slices taken from a cold roast or boiled leg are admirable for dipping in egg and crumb of bread and frying, to be served with gravy and fresh-cooked vegetables. The cold shoulder, served this way, becomes quite a delicacy. A word here as to frozen sheep’s kidneys. They are not a good purchase, for the cold storage has robbed them of their flavour and they are tough when cooked; they are, in fact, only fit for adding to stews, and not of much value then. If kidneys are wanted, let them be the freshest and the best procurable, and cook them carefully. The same may be said of sheep’s or lamb’s sweetbreads. These things are either delicacies—or they are very much the reverse. In veal we have a meat that lends itself less well to roasting and boiling than either of thoseno THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK just mentioned. Of course, roast fillet or loin of veal is very excellent; but, to be paradoxical, it should not be roasted, but baked, and that only under protection of fat or greased paper or other shield, for veal is a very dry meat and needs much care to keep it from becoming drier. The round of veal is nearly always stuffed, the bone being removed and its place taken by a savoury stuffing, and the whole well covered with greased paper while it bakes through. When the round of veal is cooked in a piece in the casserole, it is improved by having a good-sized piece of fat bacon or salted pork put with it; a cut from the shoulder of veal so cooked is excellent. For boiling with rice the shank of veal gives the best results; for stewing the breast is most suitable. The latter, indeed, makes a delicious stew when cut into three-inch lengths and about one-inch width, these being laid in the casserole with pepper and salt and sufficient water to well cover, cooked gently for an hour and a half, adding half a bottle of capers to the gravy and filling up the casserole with new potatoes boiled, returning to the oven to cook another half-hour before serving. Veal braised in the casserole has for ideal accompaniment either spinach or sorrel cooked like spinach. With the veal should be put fat bacon or pork, very little fat being taken off the gravy, since spinach requires a rich gravy. A piece of veal cooked in this way would eat well cold if pressed down in the casserole under a weight, when the gravy would form a jelly round it.111 THE TREATMENT OF MEAT Fillet of veal is most frequently served as small pieces egged and crumbed and fried—improved by gentle stewing afterwards—with rolls of fat bacon and rich gravy withal. This is not such a costly dish, since a pound of the fillet makes a dish suffi- cient for four people when so treated. Mushrooms may be added to the gravy when liked, and the potatoes should be fried likewise, preferably after being made into balls, dudiesse fashion. Green peas or spinach, in summer, braised celery or arti- chokes in winter, are the ideal vegetable accompani- ment to these fillets. Germans would add preserved cucumbers or gherkins as a garnish, and the French would deem.a flavour of garlic an improvement. Both are a matter of taste. To richauffer cooked veal it is best of all to make it into rissoles or croquettes by mincing it finely with savoury herbs and a flavouring of onion, add seasoning and a few breadcrumbs or mashed potato, making thoroughly moist with good gravy, then to roll in egg and bread raspings and fry in hot fat. The meat must be very finely minced and the gravy must be good, when these are a dainty dish ; but if dry, lacking in flavour, and clumsily made, they are by no means attractive. Veal kidney cut into slices and fried crisply brown, after coating with egg and crumb of bread, makes a rich savoury dish, requiring a sharp sauce like tomato for its accompaniment, and it accords well with cooked macaroni. So, too, does braised veal kidney. When buying pork choose only that which is112 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK dairy fed, which will be small in size and of a deli- cate pink colour and fine texture. Large fat pork is not digestible, and it loses much in cooking. Pork is in season from November to March, earlier than this it is apt to be too young and immature, and later it is coarse; in hot weather it should never be touched. It is hardly possible to cook pork too thoroughly, and for this reason the oven should not be too hot. Pork should be roasted or baked ; it is not suitable for boiling unless it has been salted, nor for stewing. The best parts for roasting are the loin and spare-ribs. If a leg of pork is roasted, it must be a small one and cooked very thoroughly, being well .protected on the outside. Pork chops are very savoury, but if fried they must be cooked well; it is better to lay them in a baking tin and cook in the oven. They should never be grilled. The savoury flavour of pork, whether roasted, fried,' treated as sausages, or in a pie, makes it a welcome addition to the table, and in cold weather it is, if properly cooked, really wholesome and nourishing. It is when it is insufficiently cooked and eaten out of season that it is indigestible. Digestion is helped by putting suitable condiments with pork, as mustard, apple sauce, chutney and tomato, seasoning and curry. All these excite digestion and increase the flow of the gastric juices. As pork can hardly be too well cooked, it is an exception to the general rule that twice- cooked meat is not nourishing, and it lends itself admirably to a Hchaiiffe made hot with curry.THE TREATMENT OF MEAT 1^3 sharp with tomato, or piquant with chutney and pickles. Salt pork boiled and eaten cold is very nourish- ing and digestible, quite as much so as bacon, and considerably cheaper.CHAPTER V VEGETABLES AND FRUIT.aTiCHAPTER V 117 VEGETABLES AND FRUIT The home cook who is modern and up-to-date in all her work cannot show her skill and wisdom in any surer way than in the manner in which she brings forward vegetables and fruit in her menus. As a people we English are considerable eaters of fruit, but small eaters of vegetables, except of greens and potatoes. We do not really appreciate vege- tables, that is the truth. A glimpse of a Continental market tells a very different story; the cleanliness and attractiveness of the vegetable displays make us marvel when we see them, and we notice, too, how much more variety there is to be seen. There are vegetables there of which we know not even the names, and even the old familiar sorts have a superior look about them. It is because the grower has known that his efforts would not be wasted if he did his best, and he does it. Now that we are reaping the result of the introduction of French gardening in England, it is high time that the everyday customer showed ability to appreciate what is done, by buying carefully yet freely, and by at least trying to cook well what is produced.ii8 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK A nicely prepared dish of vegetables, set out with regard to contrast of colour and served with an appetising sauce, is something to be proud of; it gives distinction to the plainest menu. Fresh vegetables are health-giving, but it is not needful that in our zeal we should become vege- tarians and live entirely upon them. But a right and plentiful use of them with less meat would be true economy. Only we must have them fresh. It is no use imagining that stale vegetables will revive and regain their goodness by soaking them in water. They will not. A chemical change takes place after they have been gathered a few hours, which causes them to deteriorate more quickly than any other form of food. The unfortunate ones who possess no garden ground wherein to grow their own vegetables must perforce put up with the best they can get, but even they need not oblige the greengrocer by taking off his hands the stale stock he is naturally anxious to be rid of. If they cannot get perfectly fresh stuff, at least get the freshest possible. But the small family requiring a fairly regular supply of vegetables cannot do better for themselves than to treat with a market gardener for a weekly or bi-weekly basket of what- ever is in season. There are many ladies who are now trying to make a living out of small properties who would be delighted to supply baskets in this way; a glance at the advertisements in a daily or trade paper will give addresses, and the inter- change of benefits, which the encouragement of^S5?NTRAU i. VEGETABLES AND FRUIli such a system would mean, is something which in the modern home should be seized upon with ready appreciation. To buy in shops or of costers is not cheap, and there is always the certainty that whatever is bought has suffered considerable handling before it reaches the purchaser. Here is a suggestion for keeping vegetables after they are bought. On the floor of the larder have two boxes placed; in one put a little damp soil, in the other sand. Such things as leeks and celery keep best in damp earth ; carrots, turnips, and parsnips in sand. Potatoes should be kept* dry and by themselves; onions should be put in a string net and hung up. In nearly all our dishes of vegetables and in soups herbs play an important part, and while we can obtain these in a fresh state we do so; but we must provide for the winter by drying and bottling a few for store. The secret of having dried herbs a good colour is to dry quickly —near the kitchen range, if possible—then to rub them through a fine sieve and bottle before the aroma has had time to evaporate. When cooking green vegetables we want to keep them a good colour, as well as to preserve their fresh flavour; when boiling them they are thrown into salted water when this is at full gallop, and as much carbonate of soda as will lie on a sixpence should be put with all greens of the cabbage kind, and the lid of the pan must be tilted so as to let the steam escape. When half-boiled, the water should be drained off and fresh boiling water poured over, the pan being120 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK drawn aside so that the greens cook less fast until they are tender; if this is always done they will not disagree with the most delicate digestion, but that first water will carry off all poisonous chemicals. A still further improvement is to drain the cabbage—or spinach—when tender, to press it dry, and return it to the pan with a piece of butter, some pepper and salt, and to let it steam through, this time closely covered, for about ten minutes. When greens have been boiled hard for a long time to make them tender, without the aid of any soda and without any change of water, the result is a colourless, flavourless mess, with nothing to recommend it but that it supplies work for the digestion to do until got rid of. Properly boiled cabbage, on the other hand, can prove a positively delicious dish. When boiling white vegetables, besides salt a little vinegar is often added to the water, in order to keep their whiteness, and some, like Jerusalem artichokes and very young turnips, are often boiled in milk. Vegetables cooked beyond their proper time soon become sodden; they should be drained the moment they are done. Green peas and French beans, like spinach, are vastly improved by being put back into the saucepan after draining, with butter and seasoning, and perhaps a few herbs, and left thus to simmer through for some minutes, even half an hour. In the arrangement of a dish of mixed vegetable?I2I VEGETABLES AND FRUIT there is scope for a very considerable amount of artistic taste. Take, for instance, what the French call a “plat de carrottes”—a dish of cooked carrots ; this, if made with young and small carrots, scraped and boiled and afterwards tossed in butter, shows a liberal sprinkling of green parsley and glistens with the buttery sauce. If it is one of sliced boiled carrots, to serve with boiled beef, its sauce shows white by contrast, and the red and white are surrounded with a fringe of green. Then take the creamy whiteness seen in a dish of cauliflowers a la creme^ with or without a crown of frothing grated cheese; or the same cauliflower beaten up to snow with its sauce, piled high with cheese and set in a brisk oven until it has caught a tinge of rich brown over the white; or the very pretty effect gained by setting the white and yellow of eggs on a bed of deep green spinach; or the red of tomatoes filled with green peas and placed round a heap of the same—all these please the eye as well as the taste. Chopped parsley, seasoning, and a little butter or gravy added to almost any dish of hot vegetables will make it savoury, just as a salad dressing will alter their character when served cold. Many vegetables, after being partially boiled, greatly improve a stew, while turnips, potatoes, and onions, together with a few scraps of meat trimmings or bacon strips, will make a nourishing and savoury stew of themselves. And the ways in which we may serve potatoes are almost legion, like thq uses to which any remnants122 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK of mashed potato may be put. A mixed vegetable pie, made moist with plenty of gravy and season- ing, and covered with a crust of mashed potato (bound together with an egg), baked in a quick oven, makes a splendid dish for a midday lunch or children’s dinner. Mashed potatoes are better for adding to rissoles and croquettes than bread- crumbs, and quite as good as boiled rice for fish cakes. Turnips add a sweetness and richness to most stews into which mutton enters, and parsnips are excellent where there is beef in the compound, or with boiled beef—with which turnips should nevc7' be put—while parsnip fritters, made by boiling and mashing parsnips to a smooth paste, adding a spoonful of flour, some seasoning, and frying this by spoonfuls in hot fat, are a delicious accompaniment to hot roast beef and a change from the usual Yorkshire pudding. There are a few little-known vegetables which make very rare appearances on English tables, but which are not dear to buy and very desirable as food. Among them is celeriac—the turnip- rooted celery—of which only the root is eaten. When pared and boiled, either whole or in slices, and served with white sauce or gravy, this is invariably welcomed as a treat by every one who tries it. A large root can be bought for three- pence or fourpence, and as the vegetable comes in the winter-time when other things are scarce, it is really a great and valuable addition to the table. Having the flavour of celery, it accords with almost any meat—boiled, stewed, or roast.123 VEGETABLES AND FRUIT Jerusalem artichokes, too, are exceedingly nourish- ing and are equally good as a vegetable dish with sauce, or as the foundation of a soup. Among beans there is a greater variety to be obtained than we are commonly aware of. Better than the ordinary white haricot is the butter bean; then there is the little green flageolet, the red bean, and the black bean. The little black bean requires one to get accustomed to its colour, otherwise its flavour is excellent, but the red bean with a gravy sauce is excellent. These make splendid food in winter-time, and need but to be soaked overnight and boiled with a little salt, drained, and served with a butter sauce. Grated cheese may be added if liked. Chestnuts, again, can be served as a vegetable with a brown sauce or gravy from meat, as a soup, of which they form the foundation, or as a sweet, for which last they are boiled, peeled, and served with hot cream and castor sugar. And let us not forget that we have horse-radish to give piquancy to other things, the onion to give zest to all, and, finally, that nearly all the vegetables mentioned, save greens, will curry well; and that a dish of curried vegetables, spiced with horse-radish, made sharp with apples, and tinctured with onion, is a thing which, though we meet with it but rarely, we fall in love with at first taste. While we eat a good deal of fruit in a ripe state, and almost as much in the form of fruit pies, we do not use it freely in other ways. But we might with advantage combine cooked and un-124 the successful home cook cooked fruits in the form of salad. A high-class salad of this description is one of ripe mixed fruits, dressed with wine and sugar with a glass of liqueur to give aroma. But this combination is rather for the rich man’s table, who can afford to mix peaches and melons and pines and other hothouse rarities, and dress them with his cellar’s choicest brands. Still, the homelier salad of straw- berries dressed with sugar and currant juice or claret (as a change from cream), or of picked raspberries and currants treated the same, or of peeled apricots, bananas, and sliced oranges, with home-made raisin wine, is not a thing to despise. When daintily set forth in a glass bowl, such a salad is a very pleasant conclusion to a meal. Unlike a lettuce or vegetable salad, a fruit salad improves by being “ dressed ” for some time before it is wanted. Some people go so far as to make a fruit salad of tinned or bottle fruits, but the result is a travesty and not the real thing. Pastry is treated elsewhere, so that we do not mention fruit pies and tarts here; but a good substitute for pastry is bread, and fruit charlottes are things highly to be commended, especially for the summer table. The shape is made by first buttering a plain pudding mould and then lining it with closely fitted strips or slices, not more than an eighth of an inch thick, of white bread freed from all crust. Fit as neatly as possible, leaving no crevices, then fill the shape with hot cooked and sweetened fruit; cover closely with more strips of bread and tie aVEGETABLES AND FRUIT 125 buttered paper over all, setting the mould in a brisk oven for half an hour, or in a pan of water to steam. Then untie the paper and leave the charlotte to get cold before turning out, and serve with custard or cream. Some people do not bake or steam it at all, but the result is never so good. An apple charlotte should be baked until the bread becomes quite crisp and brown, and to help it to do so a little sugar is sprinkled round the mould after buttering, and butter is used more liberally. Such a charlotte is delicious served hot. Apple may receive a few blackberries or plums or damsons to give it flavour, and all these fruits gain by having apple pulp put with them. For an “ extra special ” charlotte stale sponge or madeira cake’ may be used instead of bread, and in that case the fruit is well cooked and skins and stones taken out, and a little gelatine is dissolved in the juice—which, of course, is liberally sweetened —before it is poured into the mould, and this is set aside at once to become cold without more cooking. Instead of the gelatine some crumbs of cake can be mixed with the fruit, but it will not turn out so firm afterwards. The strained juice from cooked fruit may be mixed and boiled with a few tablespoonfuls of ground rice and the same of sugar, cooking till quite thick, and then pouring into a mould and leaving till cold, to eat with cream. This makes a very pleasant change from the ordinary rice mould, the juice taking the place of milk. Sago or tapioca and strained fruit juice boiled together and126 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK sweetened make nice little fruit jellies of a nourish- f ing kind for the invalid. Then we have fruit syllabubs, for which we crush the juice from fresh uncooked fruit and mix it with perfectly new milk, about half and half, and sufficient sugar to sweeten nicely, then whisk the two well together. Tall narrow glasses are * three-parts filled with this, and on the top the whisked white of egg stirred into a little fresh ^ cream is piled, and the glasses are set on ice | for an hour, then handed round with sweet 4 biscuits. I And, finally, a word as to fruit compotes, which ; is the form all stewed fruit should take. For a 1 compote the sugar is first dissolved in sufficient ^ water to cover it and brought to the boil, then the ^ fruit, whatever it is, is dropped into the thin syrup so made and cooked just long enough to make it thoroughly tender, but not more. The result is that the fruit has kept in all its own flavour and retained its shape. In ordinary stewed fruit the flavour is in the juice, and the fruit is nothing but a dull pulp. It is possible to colour the juice of a compote so as to make it contrast with that of the fruit. One of apples or pears, for instance, where the fruit itself is white or nearly so, can be coloured a bright pink with cochineal. A little saffron will tinge the syrup when oranges or J bananas are the fruit. All the plums make delicious compotes, whereas they are utterly spoiled by prolonged stewing. Fruit that has tough skins, however, need slower and more gentle cooking, ,127 VEGETABLliS AND FRUIT and sometimes it is well to remove the skin before pouring into the dish. A pretty way of serving fresh ripe currants, when the bunches are large and fine, is to wash them, and when dry to dip them in white of egg and roll in powered sugar until well coated, then dry again in the sun. In thinking of fruits, let us not forget how greatly our range is added to in winter-time by the variety of dried fruits we have to use, and that cooked prunes and figs, raisins and dates, all are most nourishing and beneficial for health.rfW A ■ '►/■r. 7 '■ */' r -1 '*•■ '. ' ''-'* '■ ^''‘^V'--- ^ ’ ""‘f * ' .'• ' ,J 5;f. *;j fk >*V/' , V' l-r.>L J ■m >- N. "f^ .'-■•r S*--V 11_‘. m:: V- iv',: .1^ ... ■'-*■■ -id l~'S ■ • :.■•'* •*;-c ^3^'ii v^'-'^*' Vv • ’<>>5 ,'*•CHAPTER VI PUDDINGS AND SWEET DESSERTS 9CHAPTER VI PUDDINGS AND SWEET DESSERTS BOILED PUDDINGS We will take first the most substantial varieties of puddings—those which have breadcrumbs or flour for their chief ingredient, which are boiled, steamed, or baked, and served with sauces, and which make a« great addition to the family menu, especially in winter-time. There is a goodly choice among these; but of nearly all it may be said that they are much improved by being made some time in advance, even the day before wanted, except in the case oDthose puddings into which self-raising flour enters, or baking-powder. BARONESS PUDDING Weigh out equal quantities of stoned and chopped raisins, flour, or breadcrumbs, say, a quarter of a pound of each; add a quarter of a pound of finely minced suet, and mix the whole with milk to a stiff paste. Put into a buttered pudding-mould and tie down with greased paper; the mixture should only three-parts fill the mould. Place this in a pan of boiling water, and let it boil or steam four hours. Serve with plain white sauce.132 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK This is very light and nourishing and almost as good as a plum pudding. PLUM PUDDING (PLAIN) Half a pound of stale crumbed bread, half one of chopped raisins, same of currants and of minced suet. Shred finely an ounce each of citron and orange peel and add to the other ingredients with a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, a mixed tea- spoonful of spice, and saltspoonful of salt. Mix all together with three beaten eggs, but no other moisture; let it stand for some hours, or make thp day before wanted, then stir again and put into a buttered mould, and boil or steam for four hours. Serve with custard sauce. COTTAGE PUDDING Beat together a teacupful of sugar and a piece of salt butter the size of an egg, stir in two whisked eggs, and then work in two cupfuls of self-raising flour and a few drops of almond flavouring essence. Steam in a buttered fancy mould for an hour and a half or two hours. Eat with custard or jelly sauce. This is a plain, but very light, pudding. A variation of the above may be made by adding sultana raisins to the same mixture with a sprinkling of chopped candied peel, or other candied fruits. BATTER PUDDING Beat two eggs, white and yolks separately, and mix in, till perfectly smooth, two large table-PUDDINGS AND SWEET DESSERTS 133 spoonfuls of flour, adding gradually a half-pint of milk. Add salt. Pour into a buttered mould and steam for an hour and a half; or pour into a buttered pie-dish and bake for three-quarters of an hour in hot oven. In either case serve with wine, or raspberry sauce, or with jelly. BOILED FRUIT PUDDING A light suet crust is always the most satisfactory for a boiled fruit pudding, although it is possible to make delicious dumplings with ordinary short crust—using it to line a mould, of course. In either case, if the mould is an enamelled one, it produces a better pudding than will the ordinary white stoneware mould. Grease the mould well, roll the crust not too thin, line it evenly, fill with fruit (uncooked) and put in a very little water, roll a round of the paste to fit the top, moisten the edges and cover carefully, then tie down with a greased paper, and boil the pudding never less than two hours. The filling may be sliced apples, blackberry and apple, plums, apple and plum, gooseberries, currants, currants and raspberries, or any other garden fruit. Foreign or dried fruits are not suitable for these puddings. Pass a knife round between the crust and mould before turning out. The proportions of suet and flour are half of the former to one part of the latter, or of dripping or lard in the same proportions for the short crust. It should be mixed rather stiff and dry. A perfectly plain suet dumpling, for eating with134 the successful HOME COOK meat or with treacle, is best boiled in a cloth ; but the water must never be allowed to stop boiling, and sufficient space must be left in tying up the cloth to admit of the pudding’s swelling. Two hours is not too long to boil a small suet pudding. Let the suet be grated or very finely minced and thoroughly mixed with the flour, and forget not the indispensable pinch of salt—a good pinch ! The same paste is, of course, the foundation of the boiled Jam roll, and the proportions are the same. But, if anything, make the paste stiffer and roll out slightly thicker. Spread with jam, tie up securely, but not too tightly, and plunge into fast-boiling water. Boil quite two hours. MARMALADE PUDDING Half a pound of breadcrumbs, half a pound of suet finely minced, and two ounces of self-raising flour, with a little salt, mixed well together, then add half a pound jar of orange marmalade, two whole eggs well beaten, and the juice of a lemon. Mix very thoroughly and put into a buttered mould, tie down, and steam for four hours. Serve with sweet sauce. TREACLE PUDDING Butter a mould and pour into the bottom two or three spoonfuls of golden syrup. Make a mixture of equal quantities of breadcrumbs, flour, • and suet; mix with an egg and sufficient golden syrup to make a rather soft paste. Three-parts fill the mould and tie down, steaming the puddingPUDDINGS AND SWEET DESSERTS 135 for two hours. When it is turned out, the syiup will have given it a rich colour. CHELSEA PUDDING Four ounces of flour, three of finely minced suet, two of sugar, a little salt; mix with one egg and a very little milk. Put into a mould and steam for an hour and a half. Turn out and pour over the pudding a sauce made by boiling two or three tablespoonfuls of jam with water and a little sugar, straining it clear. BANANA PUDDING Half a pound of dried bananas should be shred finely and mixed with four ounces of fine bread- crumbs, suet and sugar (two ounces each), two eggs, and a quarter of a pint of milk. Boil or steam the pudding for two hours, and serve with whipped cream well sweetened. SOUFFLE: PUDDING This is a difficult pudding to make, but is an achievement worth acquiring. It requires great care and exactitude. The secret of success is to have the paste stiff enough before the eggs are added to it, as, if this is thin, the pudding when cooked will resemble a boiled batter with a froth on the top. Before commencing anything prepare the mould —a plain round tin one—by well buttering this inside and lining it as well with a round of buttered paper, which can be fastened on the outside with tape, the object being to have a band about two136 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK inches higher than the tin to prevent the pudding running over when it rises. Next, melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan, add one ounce of fine castor sugar, and stir into this an ounce and a half of light Vienna flour ; mix all well and smoothly add a gill of milk, and stir this with a spoon until it boils and is thick. Take the saucepan off the fire, beat up the yolks of three eggs with a few drops of vanilla flavouring, and stir these into the paste by degrees, but so that both get well mixed together. Whisk the whites of the eggs stiff with a pinch of salt, then stir these lightly and quickly into the pudding mix- ture, and pour at once into the prepared mould. Have ready a saucepan holding enough water to reach about half-way up the tin, but not far enough to touch the paper band. Cover the saucepan and allow the pudding to steam for thirty minut :.s, when it will be set and can be turned out of the mould. Serve with it a sauce made by dissolving a few spoonfuls of currant jelly and a little sugar in another saucepan, with a small glass of wine. The souffle may be baked in a brisk oven instead of being steamed, and served with castor sugar and fruit jelly only. Or the sugar and flavouring may be left out of the mixture, more salt added, and grated cheese put in sufficient to make it savoury. EXETER PUDDING This is an especially nice pudding. Prepare a light mixture of breadcrumbs, say, four ounces, and two ounces of white sugar, a little salt, and twoPUDDINGS AND SWEET DESSERTS 137 beaten eggs, then stir in a ounce of dissolved butter. Butter a mould and split into two several penny sponge cakes; put at the bottom of the mould a layer of the pudding mixture and then a layer of sponge cake spread with raspberry jam, another layer of mixture and another of cake, until the mould is filled, having the mixture at the top. Cover with a buttered paper and steam the pudding for two hours. Turn out and serve with a sauce made by dissolving a few spoonfuls of jam with water, and straining it clear. ALMA PUDDING Mix together^ half a pound of breadcrumbs, four ounces of minced suet, four of sugar, and four of sultana raisins, with two tablespoonfuls of sago, a pinch of .dt, two large spoonfuls of plum jam without stones, and three eggs, also a small wine- glassful of red wine. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould, and steam or boil for three hours at least. Serve with sweet wine sauce. FIG PUDDING Shred finely half a pound of good figs, half a pound of suet, and grate the same quantity of crumb of bread; add four ounces of brown sugar, a tea- spoonful of mixed spices and ginger, and half- saltspoonful of salt. Mix to a stiff paste with two eggs and a little milk. Make overnight, then fill a mould and cover with buttered paper, and steam four hours. Serve with wine sauce. All the above are excellent winter puddings.138 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK Baked Buddings QUEEN OF PUDDINGS This is equally good for eating hot or cold. Make a light mixture of two beaten yolks of eggs, a teacupful of fine white breadcrumbs, a teaspoonful of grated lemon rind, three teaspoonfuls of white sugar, and a pinch of salt, adding a large breakfast- cupful of warm milk to the whole. Pour into a well-buttered pie-dish, putting a morsel of butter on the top of the mixture, which should not more than half-fill the dish, and bake in gentle oven till set firm, but only slightly browned. Withdraw and spread a layer of nice jam—apricot or greengage— over the top, then beat the whites of egg to a stiff froth; add sugar and a few drops of the juice of lemon. Return the pudding to the oven to just set the meringue, and the pudding is ready to serve. LEMON MERINGUE PUDDING This is made with the same mixture as the above, but instead of a layer of jam between the pudding and meringue, a little lemon curd is spread, and the pudding is finished off as just directed. A Cocoanut Pudding would be made the same way, substituting dessicated cocoanut for the lemon rind and flavouring the meringue with a drop or two of almond essence. Two tablespoonfuls of desiccated cocoanut are not too much in proportion to the other ingredients, and a little thick cream greatly enriches the meringue.I PUDDINGS AND SWEET DESSERTS 139 friar’s omelet Pare, slice, and stew to a pulp three or four tart i apples, sweeten the pulp with brown sugar; add f spice and one beaten egg. Butter a shallow tin, . strew thickly with breadcrumbs, pour in the apple, : cover again thickly with crumbs and a few bits of ,1 butter, and bake in hot oven to a crisp brown. PEMBLETON PUDDING Mix together equal quantities of breadcrumbs ) (say, a teacupful), suet, saltanas, and other fruits j chopped finely; add a pinch of salt and lialf- 3 teacupful of brown sugar, with two whole eggs f; and a very little milk. Bake in a buttered pie- j dish, which the mixture should only three-parts 1 fill; when baked through pour on the top a custard ! made with two more eggs and half - pint of ? sweetened milk, and bake again till this is set. > Or a custard made with Bird’s custard powder : answers the purpose equally well. NESSELRODE PUDDING Break up some stale sponge cakes with I macaroons or ratafia biscuits, and pour over them a / wineglassful of sweet wine; add two ounces of ^ saltanas, a few chopped almonds, and two eggs. I Butter a mould and ornament it inside with ) chopped candied fruits and shred almonds. Fill ' with the pudding mixture, and then cover with buttered paper. Set this mould inside a dish con- taining water, and stand it in the oven to bake very slowly for about a hour. Let it cool before140 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK turning out of the mould, and serve with custard sauce. BAKED MILK PUDDINGS It is no improvement to a plain milk pudding to add eggs to its composition, for to do so causes the milk to set before the rice or other grain is cooked through. When eggs are added, it is better to cook the rice, tapioca, sago, or whatever it may be, separately with the milk till it boils and thickens, then to add eggs, sugar, and flavouring, and bake again in buttered dish. CUSTARD PUDDINGS When making puddings with eggs and milk that are intended to consist of custard only, it is essential that the milk should first be boiled and poured on to the eggs hot, though not exactly when at boiling-point. Custards must be very slowly baked or they will be watery. It is also a mistake to use too many eggs: the proportion of two whole eggs to a pint of milk is about right. The newer and richer the quality of the milk, the better will be the pudding. Add the sugax to the milk, also a pinch of salt, before pouring on to the eggs, and do not beat yolks and whites separately. Bake a plain custard pudding in a shallow buttered dish, and if in a gas oven set this dish inside another one containing water, to ensure sufficiently slow cooking. Variations of the plain custard pudding may be made by putting at the bottom of the dish a layer of bread or cake crumbs or crushed biscuits, cover-PUDDINGS AND SWEET DESSERTS 141 ing these with a little jam, or chopped candied fruits may be mixed with the custard, sultana raisins, or split figs, and so on. Another change is to keep back one or two of the whites and whip these into a meringue to pile on the custard when this is set. Slices of Swiss roll make a pretty lining to a plain buttered mould, the centre of which may be filled with custard, adding a little dissolved gelatine thereto and leaving it to become cold before turning out the pudding. The nicest way of making a bread and butter pudding is to half-fill the mould with small pieces of buttered bread, to sprinkle a little shred lemon peel between, and fill up with boiled custard, allowing the pudding to soak for quite two hours before putting it into the oven to bake. Half an hour to an hour is quite long enough to bake it. CHOCOLATE MOULD Take two tablespoonfuls of fine chocolate powder, one of rice-flour and one of cornflour, two of castor sugar, and mix to a paste with a little milk ; then add the rest of a pint and boil well, stirring con- stantly. Stir in a bit of butter the size of an egg just at the last, and pour the mixture into a wetted mould of pretty shape. Stand aside in cold place for several hours, and then turn out and cover with cream. PRUNE MOULD Soak overnight a pound of good prunes, then cook them till they are very soft and most of the142 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK water absorbed. Rub them to a pulp through a sieve to exclude the skins and stones. Return the pulp to a saucepan, adding to it a good handful of lump sugar, a squeeze of lemon juice, and half an ounce of gelatine previously soaked in a cup of cold water. Stir well till all the gelatine is perfectly dissolved, then pour into a shape and leave to set firm. When it is turned out, it can be decorated with split almonds and served with cream. RED GRITS Cook red currants and raspberries together, with plenty of sugar, and then strain the juice from the fruit by passing through a sieve. Put this into a saucepan, and to a pint add four tablespoonfuls of rather coarse ground rice, and boil it well till quite stiff. When it is off the fire stir in a little thick cream, turn into a mould, and leave to get cold. Junket is easily and quickly made by warming new milk and stirring into it a spoonful of essence of rennet and leaving to set. Sweeten the milk first, and grate a little nutmeg on the top. A reliable junket powder is also to be bought. Some Choice Creams CREAM FOR FILLING APRICOTS OR PEACHES Boil in a saucepan half a pint of new milk with six lumps of sugar; stir in carefully thePUDDINGS AND SWEET DESSERTS 143 beaten yolks of three eggs. Stir till the mixtuic is thick, then draw aside to cool. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and when the custard is cool beat into this froth with a light, lifting motion, adding at same time a few drops of nut or almond flavouring. Set the cream on ice or in a very cold place, and when wanted fill up the hollows of canned or cooked peaches or apricots. SOLID OR JELLIED CREAM Boil in a pint of new milk one or two sheets of leaf gelatine till dissolved, sweeten the milk and flavour it according to taste, and pour it over two whole beaten eggs. Pour the custard into a prettily shaped mould previously wetted with cold water, cover with a plate, and stand the mould in a saucepan of boiling water in a corner of the stove for half an hour. Remove the plate and leave the mould in a cold place twelve hours, after which it will turn out firm and is served with fresh cream poured over. Or the mould can be lined with a caramel, this being sugar boiled till it has turned a brown colour, the mould being coated with it inside; then set in cold water long enough to fix the caramel, afterwards being filled up with custard. To turn out, it is needful to dip the mould in hot water for a minute to dislodge the caramel. An improvement to a solid custard shape is to add grated nuts or chopped almonds to the144 the successful HOME COOK mixture; sometimes chopped candied fruits are used instead. Never whip whites of eggs with cream; but whip first the eggs, then the cream, and stir the two together afterwards. It is impossible to get a stiff meringue if this rule is not followed. Stir in sugar and flavouring when mixing. A teacupful of thick cream whipped stiff and three whites of egg also whipped, an ounce of castor sugar, and a teacupful of ground nuts, all lightly mixed together and put into a shape, then frozen stiff, make a delicious bonibe. MACAROON TRIFLE Make a little pile of macaroons in a round glass dish, cover with sweet wine, then drain off any liquid. Whip till quite stiff half a pint of cream, and stir in two ounces of castor sugar and, lastly, the whisked whites of three eggs. Pile the snow on the biscuits. CRfiME SAMBAYONNE Separate yolks and whites of six eggs ; place the yolks in a lined saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of sugar and a wineglassful of good brandy, stir briskly over gentle heat till the mixture begins to thicken, when withdraw at once. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and add gradually to the other mixture when that has cooled, stirring until all is clear and creamy. Pour into glass cups, and serve with finger rusks.! CRNTRAL Ll5ik>A* PUDDINGS AND SWEET DESSERXS TAPIOCA CREAMS Boil together half a pint of milk and two spoon- fuls of French tapioca; sweeten well and add also a pinch of salt. When cool add the yolks of two eggs and a little butter. Serve in cups or glasses, with sweet biscuits. CHARLOTTE RUSSE Line the bottom and sides of a plain mould with finger biscuits and ratafias. Fill up with cream whipped stiff and into which is stirred a meringue of whipped white of egg and sugar. Flavour this cream with liqueur. Set the mould on ice or in a very cold place for some hours, and turn out before bringing to table. The whites and the cream must each be beaten stiff before mixing them with the sugar. TRIFLE Make a small mound of crushed macaroons and ratafia biscuits and sponge cakes; saturate with L sweet wine, then pour over all a little clear currant *; jelly. Cover this with a thick custard, and when cold pile high with a whip of cream and white of egg, flavoured as liked and slightly sweetened. Garnish with crystallised cherries. A Few Savouries CHEESE FONDUE Grate four ounces of dry cheddar ; add to it one well-beaten egg and an ounce of breadcrumbs, andm6 the successful home cook sufficient cold milk to make a custard mixture, with pepper and salt to taste. Pour into a shallow buttered dish, and bake till risen and set. CHEESE AIGRETTES Boil together an ounce of fine flour mixed smooth with butter and a quarter of a pint of milk; when a paste is formed, add to it three ounces of grated cheese, a little salt and pepper, and yolks of two eggs. Shape into a ball and break off pieces with a fork, and drop them into boiling lard. Fry to a golden brown, and serve hot rolled in dry grated cheese. CHEESE CANAPEfeS Prepare some thin three-cornered shapes of white bread without crust by frying them crisp in hot lard, frying on one side only. On the soft side spread a mixture of grated cheese, egg-yolk, tomato sauce, and salt and pepper. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley on the top. Set in the oven or under the gas grill for just one minute to raise the mixture and make it hot. Serve at once. OMELETS There is great art in making an omelet, yet it is really very easily acquired. A special pan is required, which may be a shallow frying-pan in enamelled ware, not too large. Heat in this a good piece of butter till it begins to brown ; beat the eggs, which must be of the freshest, on a flatPUDDINGS AND SWEET DESSERTS 147 plate with the blade of a knife, and mix about one tablespoonful of milk to every two eggs. Add salt and pepper. Pour into the pan when the butter is on the point of turning colour. Slip a knife under and around the edges once or twice, and when the omelet shows signs of being “ set,” take the pan off the top of the stove and put it under the gas grill, or in the oven for just a minute, to raise up the surface. To do this has the effect not only of making the omelet lighter, but of enabling it to slip out of the pan more easily. When done pass the blade of the knife underneath and fold the omelet over double, like an envelope, and turn it on to a hot dish or plate. It should be lightly browned on the surface and like a firm light custard inside. It is a mistake to whisk the eggs for a plain or savoury omelet; but for a sweet one that is more in the nature of a light pancake, both whites and yolks may be whisked (separately), then mixed together with a few drops of milk or cream and cooked as just directed. Two eggs and a tablespoonful of milk makes a very nice omelet for one or two persons; four eggs for three persons. ' Omelets may be varied by adding to the egg mixture grated cheese, and sprinkling a little more over after cooking ; by adding minced parsley and herbs, or watercress, or finely chopped mushrooms ; by folding in between the cooked omelet a few cooked mushrooms or minced and cooked liver and bacon, kidney, etc.; by mixing a few sliced148 the successful home cook flesh tomatoes with the egg or minced onion etc. A sweet omelet usually has jelly folded in after cooking, or sweet wine or rum and sugar, made hot, and poured over the last thing. SCOTCH WOODCOCK Melt a small piece of butter in a flat saucepan and break into it two eggs, with a spoonful of made sauce; add pepper and salt, and stir briskly till the egg thickens. When set pour on to triangles of buttered toast spread with a little anchovy paste. BUTTERED EGGS Beat with a fork the whole of two fresh eggs, add salt and pepper, and pour into a saucepan con- taining as much butter as a pigeon’s egg ; continue beating with the fork while the egg is setting, so as to keep the mixture light and flaky. Meantime, fry in butter some strips of white bread freed from all crust; when crisp on one side, spread the upper side with the egg and then coat thickly with grated cheese and sprinkle with red pepper. Or spread the bread first with anchovy paste before piling on the egg. SARDINES ON TOAST Cut a thin slice of white bread into finger-length strips and either fry or toast to a crisp brown —frying is the preferable mode. Split open some nice sardines. Lay one or more on each strip,PUDDINGS AND SWEET DESSERTS 149 sprinkle with red pepper, and set in a hot oven or under the gas grill for a few moments. Sardines drained from their oil and dipped in stiff batter and fried crisp and brown, being piled together in a hot dish, make another tempting savoury. Little rounds of fried bread capped with curls of crisp fried bacon, inside of which curl is a strip of anchovy, make another delicacy. Still another is made by spreading very thin slices of bread with some nice fish paste, closing two together as for a sandwich, cutting this again into small squares, then dipping each square in batter, to fry to a crisp brown on both sides, and serve very hot.151 CHAPTER VII BREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRIESTT'i '■ ' ,,t ' “•- ^ ^C- . •^-.. '•v . ,'X-Jt □ • •» -* • 3^..'. A- - ‘ ■ * . . ■'•tA - ■ J-* r r» ^ *1 5-f. "•! s,.-^ -'.^ A ■»■ Cv- ''fkm r * J !M; SA*i W'-^' ■' •• •-■*■'1 l/:i -W i; tf iW r jV - Si'f'. ;• vTr.* W A -I*, ^ j^- m -i^ w. ^ ■ A "l >>A AV., . -V m' I ’. 1 ir-., A-.-'\ *v«: ./■ 7CHAPTER VII BREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRIES While for some reasons it may be regretted that the practice of making bread at home has almost died out, still where there is so much else to be done in a small kitchen, and where gas supplies the heat used for cooking, it is far wiser to buy our bread from a proper bakery, where machinery is used in its mixing and the right kind of oven for its baking. Strict inspection of bakehouses has abolished the evils that formerly made baker’s bread a somewhat doubtful article. Very few modern cooks are able to make a good loaf of home-made bread. Another reason why the art of bread-making has almost passed away from the home is due to the difficulty we have in procuring flour of the best type for the purpose—roller milled and not too finely sifted. Where such is procurable the home cook certainly should try to make some, if not all, of her bread at home, for she will gain much in economy by so doing; where she can only get the very ordinary type of household flour or the much-refined “ pastry whites,” it is useless for her154 the successful HOME COOK to expend her strength in the effort. Pure flour, not too white, is the first essential. On the other hand, in the country district, where the baker’s man is not a dependable person at all, and where flour that has been ground on the spot and yeast fresh from the brewery is to be had, the ability to make a good loaf of bread puts the home cook into the first rank at once. Therefore, we will study the first principles of bread-making here. The early and simple forms of bread were unleavened; these still survive in the oatcake and barley bannock of Scotland, the damper of the Australian bushman, the chuppattee of the Indian, and other peculiar cakes of peasant cookery. Leavened bread was first made by the Chinese, although it was also made by the Egyptians and came to the Greeks and Romans probably by way of Egypt. All bread was leavened until about the beginning of the nineteenth century, when leaven was superseded by the introduction of brewer’s yeast as a ferment—in its earlier form known as barm—then later mixed with other ingredients capable of producing the same effect of fermenta- tion and of making the liquid barm solid and portable, so forming what is still called “ German” yeast—a manufacture, however, carried on in our own country. There are additions, like the diastase of malt, added to bread by bakers to make the sponge rise in the shortest time possible and to increase the bulk of the dough, so that bread-making mayBREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRIES 155 be more profitable ; and though these are not harmful, it is the use of pure flour and pure yeast alone which gives the home-made lo^f a flavour which a baker cannot impart to his products, call them by what name he will. VVe test flour in three ways: by its appearance, by its odour, and by the touch. The best house- hold flour is of a slight creamy tinge, not dark or even brown, but yet not perfectly white. For fine pastry and biscuits, however, it must be sifted further, and the light flour which pastry and cakes demand is perfectly white and dry. Pure flour has also a certain fragrant odour of its own, and must be free from the faintest suspicion of mouldi- ness. When pressed together in the hand it should retain for a while the shape of the hollow of the hand without immediately collapsing, as this shows whether it contains gluten or not. The more gluten the flour contains, the better it is for bread-making purposes. The actual process of bread-making is in itself the foundation of all culinary processes. It is the basis of the finer arts of pastes, crusts, and cakes, and of all that leads up to the very highest products of skilled mixtures of all materials what- soever ; and thus we see how valuable it is to have a right understanding of its principles. A baker who was dealing with a large quantity of flour when making a batch of bread, would first concern himself with the production of the fer- ment^ which he makes by boiling some ripe mealy potatoes, mashing them and mixing with water156 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK to form a thin paste; and having this at the temperature of about 85°, he mixes with it first a small quantity of wheat flour, and then the right amount of liquid brewer’s yeast. This mixture is kept warm and allowed to undergo its gradual process of panification, whereby the soluble starch becomes transformed into sugar and is fermented by the yeast, which thus grows and becomes more active, the process taking about eight hours to complete itself. The next process is the mixing of the sponge^ which is made by incorporating this ferment with about a third of the whole amount of the flour which is going to be used, together with water used at the same temperature, in quantity about half what will eventually be used, and salt. When thoroughly stirred together, this sponge—which is made in the centre of the trough containing the flour—is left to rise, always in the same temperature of about 85°. The time it takes to rise will be about five hours, and then it begins to break and to let the carbonic acid gas escape, when the remaining flour and water can be stirred into it, and kneading begins. This is done either by the hand or by machinery. More often in large bakeries this is now done, like the mixing, entirely by machinery, the hand never touching the bread from beginning to end. After being thoroughly well kneaded the dough is left to rise again, standing in a warm place, and when sufficiently risen it is weighed, portioned out, and shaped into loaves, and baked. German yeast, so-called though of British manu-BREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRIES 157 facture, acts more quickly than home-made ferments, and it is always used where several batches of bread have to be made in one day, and is much to be preferred for fancy bread and rolls: the addition of the diastase of malt still further serving to quicken the action. For home-baking the manufactured yeast saves much trouble, and is much handier to use than barm or brewer’s yeast. But whichever is used, the result should be a loaf with a flinty crisp brown crust, a crumb that is white or rather creamy in colour, fine and even in texture, with an agreeable smell and a nutty taste. Aerated or baking-powder breads are not quite suitable for regular use; they make a pleasant and even wholesome variety, but are apt to pall on the taste and are not so satisfying as yeast bread. Even when all the bread put upon the table is obtained from the bakery, it still may be varied in kind, and it is well to have occasionally a brown loaf, sometimes a roll, sometimes a hearth-baked or tin-baked loaf, rather than the eternal cottage loaf which, by the way, is perhaps the last kind to be recommended because of the utter absurdity of its shape and its unwieldiness. Cake might be defined as a form of rich, sweet, and ornamented bread. The mixing of a cake embodies a good deal of ingenuity and a consider- able amount of science and art; it is, in fact, as some one has expressed it, “ an intellectual achieve- ment betokening a high state of culture.” All nations possess types of cakes peculiarly their own, and many districts have their specialities which158 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK have been handed down from generation to genera- tion. Some of these inventions have quite long histories behind them—witness the Brioche, the Baba, the “ Savoy ” cake, and the “ 13ath ” bun. The Brioche is a compound of fermented dough with a butter and egg dough, doubled over many times so as to produce the greatest possible amount of sponginess. The Baba is Polish in its origin, and was originally made with rye-flour, made moist with sweet Hungarian wine; but it is now made with the finest white flour, and flavoured with any sweet wine. Savoy cake is light, rich, and golden in colour, something like the Pate d'Oro of the Portuguese; it originated in the refined tastes of an age when gold-mining domin- ated the imagination of the people who invented it. There is little doubt but that Bath buns date back to the Roman occupation of the city of Bath, and in shape and composition they much resemble the Italian Placenta of that period. As to English plum cake, it is the evolution of tentative experiments with dough and fruit, developed until the floury basis became unrecog- nisable under the preponderance of other materials, as in wedding-cake. Caraway-seed cake is also another British invention, while Scotch bread, or shortbread, is peculiar to Scotland alone. In addition to combinations of ingredients by various methods of mixing them, different kinds of cake are produced according to the way the mixtures are subjected to heat—whether quick baking, slow baking, top heat, bottom heat, radi-BREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRIES 159 ated heat, or other method be chosen. A special shape in a baking-tin has led to the invention of a special kind of cake. Nevertheless, the whole history of cakes might be described as comprised in the attempt to conserve old types and to intro- duce new ones. It would make a fascinating study for any one inclined to go deeply into it, for it is anything but a haphazard bringing together of unrelated materials when rightly considered. Cake- making, like marriage, should not “ be taken in hand lightly, wantonly, or unadvisedly.” It is an undertaking deserving of ceremony, and certainly of respect! Having seen how the main differences in types of cakes have arisen, let us take a few reliable, practical recipes suited to the average English home and consider them. We will take first some cakes without fruit. Gold Cake and Silver Cake are two forms of fruitless cake which should be made together, and when cut are laid in alternate slices in the cake dish. These are exceedingly nice cakes for a birthday or wedding festival. They should be baked in brick-shaped tins of exactly the same size. GOLD CAKE Beat to a cream a quarter of a pound of butter with half a pound of fine sugar, and stir in the whisked yolks only of five eggs; add a small tea- cupful of warm milk in which a little saffron has been steeped (removing that first) and also a few drops of essence of lemon. Beat in last of all halfi6o THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK a pound of the finest self-raising flour, and when quite smooth pour the mixture into the buttered tin, baking from three-quarters to a full hour in a good oven, but shielding the cake from burning. It should not brown too deeply outside, and should be a clear gold colour within. SILVER CAKE A couple of ounces of very sweet white lard are beaten with half a pound of sugar and two table- spoonfuls of thick cream; add a few drops of essence of bitter almonds, then the stiffly beaten whites of the five eggs, and, finally, half a pound of the same flour as before. Pour into the other tin, also buttered, with sugar sifted inside, and bake in a good oven, but keep the cake well shielded. Bake about the same length of time. The cake will, of course, be browned outside, but it should be like snow inside. For a special occasion it is nice to ice the cakes —the silver one with white icing flavoured with vanilla; the gold one with golden icing made by straining the juice of a lemon, mixed with two tablespoonfuls of water, and boiling this in a sauce- pan with a pound of sifted sugar and a good pinch of turmeric powder. Beat well after it has boiled till perfectly clear, and when cool spread over the cake. MADEIRA CAKE s/ Beat together a quarter of a pound of sugar and the same of butter; add two beaten eggs and half a pound of sifted flour into which a teaspoohful ofBREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRIES i6i cream of tartar has been rubbed. Mix in last of all half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in cold milk. Beat well and bake in round tin for an hour. SEED CAKE v/ Rub together with the fingers a quarter of a pound of butter and half a pound of self-raising flour, also a pinch of salt and half an ounce of bruised caraway seeds. Beat two eggs and add a very little fresh milk to them, then mix with the dry ingredients to a rather soft dough, beating well, and place in buttered tin in a good oven, but let it not bake too fast. A loaf shape is the best for this cake. A plainer seed cake, to spread with butter and cut in thin slices, is made with milk or cream that has gone solid. No butter should be put with this, but enough sugar to sweeten the cake slightly and a pinch of salt are both rubbed into self-raising flour. A little carbonate of soda is stirred into the milk till it froths, then it is mixed with the flour— into which also caraway seeds were rubbed—and the whole should make a quite stiff dough (sour- milk cakes must always be made very stiff, otherwise they will not be light) and baked in a greased tin in an oven not too hot. RICE CAKE Mix together four ounces of rice-flour or ground rice and four ounces of ordinary fine flour, with a teaspoonful of baking-powder or egg powder. Cream together four ounces of butter and the same.162 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK weight of fine sugar, add three beaten eggs, and beat in the flour last of all. Make stiff and bake rather slowly, well shielded from the fire, in a moderate oven. AUSTRIAN TEA CAKE Take half a pound of light bread dough and work into it two beaten eggs, two ounces of sugar, a little spice, and a large spoonful of fine lard melted. Work with the hands till thoroughly mixed, shape into a round cake, and lay on a floured baking sheet. When half-baked withdraw from the oven and brush over the top with beaten egg, and set back again to finish baking. Split open and butter well, and eat hot. Or it will cut into nice slices, when a day old, for spreading with butter. CHOCOLATE CAKE Beat the yolks of three eggs and work into them four ounces of fine chocolate powder; beat to a cream four ounces of butter and the same of sifted sugar; stir together the two mixtures and add two ounces of ground almonds, then, last of all, eight ounces of finest self-raising flour. Bake in a rather shallow shape, in an oven not too hot. When baked brush over the top with clear syrup, and dust rather thickly with powdered sugar. SPONGE (or savoy) CAKE Whisk separately the yolks and whites of four eggs; the whites must be quite firm. Beat into the yolks half a pound of sifted sugar and a few dropsBREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRIES 163 of flavouring essence, and a small cupful of hot water j then beat in the whisked whites, and, finally, sift in the flour very lightly. Pour at once into a tin lined with greased paper, and allow the paper to stand well above the mixture to shield it from the fire. Bake in very hot oven, but keep it from colouring too quickly. If a gas oven, lower the gas for five minutes when the cake is half-baked, then increase the heat a little for the finish. Once the cake has risen well it should not fall again, but the oven door should not be opened for the first ten minutes while it is baking. Fruit Cakes RICH PLUM CAKE Beat together to a cream, half a pound of butter and the same weight of sugar; work in half a pound of plumped currants, a quarter-pound of picked sultanas, three ounces of finely shred candied peel, two ounces of ground almonds, the yolks of four eggs, and sufficient self-raising flour to make a soft dough. Beat well and bake in a buttered tin in moderate oven for an hour and a half, keeping protected. LUNCH CAKE Take a pound of baker’s dough and work into it with the hands four ounces of softened butter, four of sugar, and six of picked sultanas or stoned raisins and currants mixed. Shape into two loaves, and bake in buttered tins for nearly an hour.i64 the successful HOME COOK RAISIN CAKE Beat together the yolks of three eggs, four ounces of butter, and six ounces of sugar, and work in a half-wineglassful of brandy. Mix with twelve ounces of flour a large teaspoonful of baking-powder and half a pound of stoned raisins chopped small, and two ounces of shred candied peel with a little spice. Add a little milk to the other mixture, then work in the dry ingredients till a fairly stiff dough is formed, mixing very thoroughly; then bake in a deep buttered tin for nearly two hours, in a quite moderate oven. Keep this cake several days before cutting. Indeed, all fruit cakes are better for being kept in a covered tin for some time before cutting, as they grow, more mellow in flavour by this means. Among fruit cakes a pleasant variety is made by using chopped figs or a mixture of chopped crystallised fruits in place of currants, raisins, or sultanas. CHERRY CAKE Beat four ounces of butter and the same of sugar together to a cream, and add three whole eggs well whisked, with half a pound of candied cherries and a very little chopped angelica, also a few drops of almond flavouring. Work in six ounces of self- raising flour, and when thoroughly mixed pour into a buttered tin and bake fully an hour. LAYER CAKES This mixture is for the lighter varieties of sandwich or layer cakes the filling of which mayBREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRIES 165 be jelly, lemon curd, chocolate or French cream, coffee or walnut cream, etc. Whisk first the whites of three eggs till per- fectly stiff, beat the yolks, and stir both lightly together; next stir in three ounces of castor sugar, and, last of all, three ounces of very best self- raising flour. Stir as lightly as possible and only just sufficiently to mix the ingredients. Divide in two portions and, pouring into two shallow buttered tins, bake them in quick oven till very slightly browned. Turn out to cool and split each one, spreading a layer of the filling between, close, and then spread another layer between the two cakes when bringing them together, thus making three layers of cream or jelly, then cover the whole with icing. The icing should be boiled, and, if the filling of the layer cake is chocolate cream, the icing will be chocolate fondant icing; if coffee cream is chosen, it will be a coffee fondant; if lemon, or French cream, or walnut, then a white icing. The same cake mixture baked in a shallow tin, can, when cool, be cut into fancy shapes and dipped into various icings, then decorated with fancy fruits and ground nuts, as fancy cakes. CREAM FOR FILLING LAYER CAKES Beat to a cream two ounces of fresh butter, then work in four ounces of sugar with a small cupful of strong coffee for a coffee flavouring, or of cooked chocolate for chocolate cake, or of thick cream for nut cakes. Lemon curd, as used for cheesecakes, does excellently well for the fillinsf of a lemoni66 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK layer cake, and for French cream take the yolks of two eggs, an ounce of butter, a small tcacupful of milk, a few lumps of sugar, and a teaspoonful of cornflour. Wet the latter with the cold milk, add to the dissolved butter in a saucepan, then stir in the eggs and the sugar and boil very gently till smooth. BOILED SUGAR ICING Take a pound of loaf or granulated sugar and a small wineglassful of water with a few drops of citric acid. Dissolve sugar and water together very slowly at first, using a metal saucepan for the purpose, keeping on the lid. When quite clear increase the heat, skim, and stir, skimming again constantly, then boil fast for about ten minutes. Instead of pouring out the syrup on to a cold wet slab of marble and working it up to a ball of fondant (which is the correct way in confectionery), an easier method for the home is to pour it into a glazed stoneware bowl previously wetted, and to take a spatula and beat it continually till it becomes stiff enough to spread evenly over a cake. It must not get cold before doing this, or it will not spread well. Use a broad-bladed knife dipped in cold water to smooth over the surface last of all. For white icing that is not boiled, beat on a plate the white of one or two eggs and work into it as much icing sugar as the white will take up with a few drops of citric acid. DECORATED FANCY CAKES For a dozen small cakes, cream two ounces ofBREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRIES 167 butter, with two ounces castor sugar, stir in next, three eggs—whites and yolks beaten separately—a few drops of lemon flavouring, and half-pound self- raising flour. Beat well and pour into shallow tins about an inch and a half deep. This should bake fifteen minutes in fairly hot oven, but not browned. Slip out of the tin, and when cool cut into shapes and again in half across to spread jelly or icing between, cover with liquid jelly or icing, and roll some in pistachio nut (ground) or ground almonds, some in cocoanut, and some in icing. The mixture can be baked in tiny individual shapes, and then be iced or decorated according to fancy. ROCK BUNS Rub into half a pound of ordinary flour a little cream of tartar, then add a pinch of salt, three ounces of sugar, three of currants, and three of butter. Rub till well mixed, and make into a stiff paste with one whole egg and a very little milk in which .a pinch of carbonate of soda has been dissolved. Break off small portions with a fork and bake on a sheet of buttered paper or flat tin, in hot oven. PLAIN TEA CAKE Rub one ounce of butter into half a pound of self-raising flour with a pinch of salt and two ounces of sugar, also a teaspoonful of grated lemon rind. When well mixed make to a stiff paste with one egg and a very little milk. Turn on to a floured board, shape into a round flat cake.i68 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK and bake on a greased tin. When done split open, butter inside, and serve hot. SHORTBREAD Weigh equal quantities of butter, flour, and sugar. Warm and cream the butter till very soft; mix the sugar and flour (ordinary pastry flour, not self- raising) together, and work them into the butter, first with a wooden spoon, then knead with the hand. Turn out on a sugared board, and press out with the hand until a cake of about half an inch thick results; crimp the edges and prick all over with a skewer. Slip on to a sugared tin, and bake in slow oven very gently for from one to two hours. It should be pale in colour, but thoroughly baked through. grandmother’s biscuits The same mixture of dry ingredients, that is to say, equal quantities of butter, sugar, and flour, is required, but they are mixed together with two lightly beaten eggs and rolled out with the rolling- pin to a sheet, then stamped out into small rounds and baked on a sugared tin to a very pale brown, sugar being liberally sifted over them. Let them cool before handling. WHITE GINGERBREAD Whisk to a stiff froth the whites of two eggs; ’ stir in a quarter of a pound of flour and the same of sugar mixed together, with a teaspoonful of powdered ginger. Drop upon a sheet of sugared paper and bake in hot oven till quite firm.BREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRIES i6g BROWN GINGERBREAD Mix together three ounces of golden syrup and an ounce of butter, half an ounce of powdered ginger and spice, and enough flour to make a stiff paste. Roll out thin and stamp into rounds, and bake in hot oven. PASTRY As with Cakes, the art of pastry-making has been developed by evolution, though principles remain the same. Good pastry can never result from a more or less lucky chance in dealing with certain elements. It has sharply defined charac- teristics, according to the principles followed. After English methods we obtain Short, Flaky, or Puff Pastry; after French or German methods we get Pate Bris^e, Pate Feuillet^e, Pate SabUe^ / and so on, with Eclair and other Batter Pastes. The kind of oven in which pastry is baked has much to do with the character of the production ; the baker’s oven will turn out a quite different result from the ordinary kitchen or gas oven. Much foreign pastry is fried in oil, and not baked at all. Again, good pastry cannot result unless good materials are used. The flour must be fine, thoroughly sifted, and very dry ; the butter, lard, or other fat used must be sweet and free from water; the pastry-board and all utensils must be spotlessly clean, like the hands of the cook; and a cool place must be chosen in which to work. All the materials and utensils required should be brought together before beginning to make170 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK pastry, and sufficient time should be allowed to do the work well. Perhaps the most common use of a pastry crust according to English practice is that of a covering to fruit, or a case in which to place meat, that is, to produce a Pie. We sometimes hear a PTuit Pie spoken of as a Tart; this is erroneous, for the pie and the tart are essentially different things. Any arrangement which puts the fruit at the bottom of a dish and the pastry over it as a crust is a pie; that which makes an edging round a compote of fruit or custard, or forms a flat base on which fruit or other com- positions rest, is a tart. The pie is originally and essentially British; the tart form is foreign, and is most favoured abroad. The covered tart, with both upper and lower crust, is also English, but is also exceedingly common in America; it might be called a development of the Pasty. The Mince- pie takes this form. In the ordinary household the choice for all practical purposes lies between Puff, Short, or Flaky paste. The three methods are all different, so that a deliberate choice of one should be made. When making Short Paste, the “ shortening ” may be butter, lard, or clarified dripping—the latter giving a result quite as good as either of the former two. The whole of the fat is rubbed with the fingers into the flour until in the hand it feels like fine crumbs of bread; it is then mixed with water to form it into a dough, which should err on the side of being stiff and dry rather thanBREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRIES 171 soft. Short pastry should not be too much rolled, only sufficient to make an even crust. Baking- powder is added to short pastry to make it light, as only half the weight of shortening to flour is used. A good self-raising flour is really better for the purpose than baking-powder, as it is more even and reliable. Use very cold water for mixing, and forget not to work in a pinch of salt. Short crusts should be thick rather than thin. For Flaky Paste a little more weight of shortening is allowed, say, three-quarters to a pound of flour, but only a part of this is rubbed into the latter. And when the dough has been formed, with a beaten egg added to the water used, it is rolled out on a floured board into one thick sheet, and the rest of the shortening is spread over in thin flakes, the paste folded over again and rolled out once more, again folded and rolled quite thin. Lard makes the best flaky pastry. Puff Paste, on the other hand, requires equal, or very nearly equal, proportions of flour and shortening—the latter being either all butter or a mixture of butter and lard. A well is made in the centre of the flour, and a very little of the butter is finely chopped and mixed in this well with sufficient of the flour and water to form a “ sponge.” This is left in a cool place for twenty minutes. After this the rest of the flour and sufficient ice- water are used to work the whole into a ball of dough, which is kneaded like bread. This172 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK dough is lifted on to a well-floured board and rolled out quite thin, half the remaining shortening is spread very evenly over this, and the sheet folded up and left again twenty minutes. It is rolled out once more, if possible even thinner than before, and the rest of the shortening spread over the surface, again folded and set by for another twenty minutes. A final rolling and then the paste is ready for dividing into portions, and it may be rolled out as often as required, using up every scrap left after each stamping out. Or the ball of puff paste can be set aside in a cold place under a cloth and left for hours until a convenient time for baking arrives. Pufif paste may, in fact, be made a day or days in advance. Pufif pastry is most suitable for small fancy tarts and tartlets, mince-pies, and rich puddings which require an edging of pastry. It is too rich for a fruit pie. Short Paste is the most suitable for the ordinary family table, and Flaky pastry for tarts with a cream or custard filling, and for jam turnovers. Where it is necessary to cook the fruit for a pie let it become cold before putting on the crust. The surface of pastry should not be glazed until the crust has risen, as the glaze, browning too quickly, is apt to keep it from rising. It is usual to glaze a meat pie in order to make it brown all over alike, but the average fruit pie that is nicely baked needs no glazing; a sifting of powdered sugar over is quite sufficient. Jam puffs are brushed over withBREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRIES 173 white of egg and liberally sprinkled with sugar when they are half-baked; egg-yolk or dissolved butter is brushed over pies for a brown glaze. Ornamentations usually consist of stamped-out leaves and flowers, made with fancy cutters. The edges of pies and tarts are crimped with the fingers, with the dull edge of a knife, or with the points of scissors. It is not good taste to give anything the appearance of having been much handled, therefore the cook should be rather sparing of decoration. A light hand, however, very easily gives the touch requisite for a dainty finish; the main point is to secure perfectly cut edges and absolute neatness. The edges of a pie-dish should be wetted before putting on the crust, as, unless this is done, it will sag when heat is applied and be apt to fall in at the sides. When cutting the edges level, incline the knife so that the top projects slightly over the edge of the dish. Press the edges of the paste well on to the brim of the dish before cutting. It is often necessary to put an inverted egg-cup or something like it in the middle of a large fruit pie to prevent the crust dropping in the middle. In smaller pies this should not be necessary, as the secret of making a crust rise quickly—and stay risen—is to put it into the hottest part of the oven first and not to open the oven door until it has had time to rise well; it can then be drawn aside and allowed to cook through more slowly. A gas oven usually possesses a sheet of iron174 the successful HOME COOK called a deflector; this throws down the heat on to the surface of whatever is near to it, and causes it to brown quickly. Pies, and especially small pastries, should be placed rather close up to this deflector at first, then afterwards removed to the lower shelf to finish cooking. If the crust is browned before you have reason to think it is cooked through, lower-the gas to reduce the heat. When making small open jam or cream tartlets it does not improve jam to cook it again, and when puff pastry forms the shell it is better to put a bit of soft bread into the centre of the tartlet, removing this and filling with jam after it is baked. A meringue of white of egg and sugar can be dropped on the top of the jam and the tartlets returned to the oven just long enough to set this, if especially nice tartlets are wanted. Lemon Cheesecakes are rounds of puff paste filled with lemon curd before baking; the curd can be made and kept in jars ready for use. One fresh lemon—the strained juice and grated rind—is allowed to three eggs and a quarter of a pound of butter, the whole being cooked together to a rich curd. For a Lemon Meringue Tart, if this curd was freshly made for the purpose, the whites of the eggs would be kept back and whisked stiff with sugar and piled on the top when the tart had finished baking, setting it back in the oven for just a moment or two. Such a tart should be made in one of large size, rather than in several small ones.I TKe ta re CHNTRaL Uf?RA«y LjLRfXTHN. s.W J CHAPTER VIII HOME-MADE BEVERAGES Tea and coffee—Fruit cups and sherbets— Herb brews, etc. 12179 CHAPTER VIII HOME-MADE BEVERAGES Water, a great culinary authority tells us, is the universal beverage of organised beings; through its liquefying action a process of solution is carried on by which other nutritive materials become transformed into power and energy for the main- tenance of life. All other fluids and drinks have water for their foundation, used hot or cold, so that the making of drinks becomes quite as much a regular part of a cook’s work as the preparation of more solid fare. In the small home, where entertainment on a large scale is out of the question, the ability to make good tea and coffee, and in a lesser degree other beverages, becomes somewhat important, therefore the home cook is well advised to make a study of the principles and processes connected with these operations. Water varies a great deal in different districts, and a very hard water is distinctly injurious to many processes of cookery and to the food prepared with it; it hardens leguminous seeds like haricot beans, while green vegetables lose their colour and are made tough, and soups and jellies become turbid. In boiling greens softi8o THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK water gives the best success, and that is obtained by adding carbonate of soda, and the addition of this will greatly facilitate the cooking of beans and such-like things. Soda cannot, how- ever, be added to water intended for making tea' and coffee, without running the risk of spoiling the flavour thereof. Where the purity of water is doubtful a piece of alum should be dissolved in it, and where soda cannot be used to soften it a little borax is sometimes admissible. Hard water, however, will make good tea and coffee, provided the blend chosen be selected for it, and some firms make a speciality of suiting their blends to the water of different districts. Soft water for drinking or culinary purposes should always be filtered before using, while it may be further purified by boiling. The first requisite for the making of good tea and coffee is water absolutely at boiling-point— and it is strange how few people really know when water does boil! The boiling-point is, as every one should remember, 212° Fahrenheit, and when it reaches this violent bubbling ceases, while a volume of steam is thrown off. When the kettle “ sings,” or when the water gallops hard, it should not be mistaken for boiling—and yet there are quite clever people who will make tea as soon as these stages are reached! The un- lettered cook, on the other hand, will come and say, “ Shall I fill the pot, ma’am, the kettle has been boiling a long time?” What she has to learn is that water overboiled has lost its naturali8i HOME-MADE BEVERAGES gas and becomes stale and insipid, so that it is impossible to make with it a cup of tea that will be either fragrant or refreshing. To make tea in perfection the kettle ought to ^be freshly filled (by preference at the spring, of course!) and then allowed to just reach the boiling point, when the pot should immediately be filled, covered, and set aside to “ draw ” for about three minutes. Some people still follow the fashion of “ mashing ” tea, and, provided they do not “ mash ” it for more than five minutes, the result will be good ; only when tea is mashed all the goodness seems to come out in the first potful, and a fresh mashing is necessary for a second supply. Whereas, if the pot is filled up, stands awhile, is poured off, and then refilled, there is sufficient real “good- ness ” left for two brewings. But given boiling water (not water that is over- boiled), a hot teapot, a few minutes of “ repose,” and last, but not least, a good blend of tea, one can hardly fail to produce a good result. Similarly with coffee; boiling water is the first requisite, but a good blend of coffee is hardly less imperative. It must not only be a well-flavoured bean, but a properly roasted bean. To ensure this, buy it from a good warehouse, see that it is properly roasted and freshly ground, and^ if chicory is added to it, let it be mixed on the spot. A slight admixture of chicory is no detriment to good coffee, and economises it in the using. Roast- ing is a very important point, requiring skill and proper machinery to do it well, although somei82 the successful HOME COOK people attempt it at home with a frying-pan. The bean must be cooked as well as coloured, and the deeper the colour the richer the coffee, provided that it be not scorched or burnt. Any beans that get burnt must be promptly discarded. Proper machinery keeps the beans revolving all the time. To rebake the beans in the oven is a good way of reviving stale coffee, likewise to reheat that which is already ground. Having everything hot is another essential in good coffee-making. There are several kinds of patent infusers and coffee-making machines, but none that supersede the common French block-tin cafetiere^ which can be bought at any ironmongery warehouse. Similar shapes in fireproof china are really better, though dearer, because they do not stain or corrode if left with coffee standing in them; but a plain tin cafetiere will last good for years if it be washed out after every time of using, and thoroughly dried. Having the water absolutely boiling, and the coffee all ready in a hot and clean cafetiere, pour over the water by slow degrees, by not more than a teacupful at a time. Let it percolate slowly into the receiving pot below and keep it very hot, but do not let the infused coffee boil, once it is made. Good coffee should be rather strong, therefore the allowance is usually a dessertspoonful to each person; for drinking without milk more water in proportion should be added, but for mixing with milk the coffee is better to be left strong and the reduction made by adding more milk. A great French chef recommended a coffee essence orHOME-MADE BEVERAGES 183 extract—that is, a very strong infusion—when required for drinking au laity the diffusion to be made by adding more boiling milk, and the milk itself to be very good, not watered down. This is worth remembering by the home cook, who may go on brewing thin coffee and adding to it hot milk, and still fail of attaining a fragrant result. One may make a good coffee essence for oneself by passing very slowly a small quantity of cold water through freshly ground coffee, using twice the amount of coffee as when making it with hot water; pass the water through several times, taking hours to the process if necessary, and then cork down the essence, which will keep for several days. Add boiling water or boiling milk to a spoonful of this essence when a cup of coffee is demanded. Never reheat the coffee itself. Before going on to home-made fruit drinks, cordials, sherbets, and so on, let a word of recom- mendation be said in favour of chocolate, of chocolate rather than cocoa, good as cocoa un- doubtedly is. But there is no question about the nutritive value of chocolate, and Italian and Spanish ladies may with truth be said to owe much of their rich colouring to their habit of drinking chocolate in the morning and their abstention from tea. Tea suits the English con- stitution better, no doubt, especially when taken with plenty of milk or cream; but we are very apt to drink too much tea, and once in a way we might substitute chocolate with great benefiti84 the successful HOME COOK to general health. If going on a journey or in preparation for a long spell of *work, a cup of chocolate is more sustaining than either tea or coffee, and for children it would be found more nourishing than cocoa and be better liked. It is not difficult to make good chocolate, even where we omit the whip of cream that gives it such a delicate finish, as .served in Vienna. But it cannot be made well with chocolate powder. A bar of a good make of unsweetened chocolate should be taken and scraped to powder, mixed smooth with cold water, and then a large cupful of boiling water added, the whole put into a sauce- pan and boiled for a full minute, stirring all the time; sweeten it then, and when pouring out place a little cream at the bottom of the cup and fill up with the chocolate. A spoonful of whipped cream or mixed white of egg and cream is lightly stirred in at the last, where an extra luxury is desired. Cocoa is made either with boiling water or with boiling milk, according to the make used, but in the latter case a further boiling improves it, return- ing it to the saucepan and the fire for a matter of five minutes or so; and a little cold cream greatly improves the flavour. Quite the readiest way of making a summer fruit drink is to take fresh fruit and press out the juice, strain it clear, put it into a glass jug, add sugar, and All up with soda water or even plain cold water. If this is kept in a cold place, it is a very refreshing beverage for hot weather. The185 HOME-MADE BEVERAGES juice of currants and raspberries, of blackberries and apples, of ripe gooseberries, even, all make delicious drinks. But, of course, it is imperative that this juice should be freshly made. Fruit syrups for bottling and keeping are made from all kinds of currants and ripe gooseberries, raspberries, blackberries, and oranges, the juice being obtained from gentle stewing of the fruit first, then straining it and adding about half its quantity of sugar in the form of syrup to it, boiling it just a moment, then bottling at once. A cordial would be obtained in a different way, namely, by covering the ripe picked fruit with crystallised or soft sugar, leaving this to dissolve naturally and thereby to draw out the flavour and juice of the fruit, then to strain it off and boil until it is perfectly clear and slightly thick, when a little pure spirit is added to make it keep well and it is bottled for use In France, where cheap alcohol is obtainable, the fruit itself is covered with this and steeped in it for some days, then boiled with sugar and bottled, making a much stronger cordial. Black currant or blackberry cordial is a most valuable restorative drink, and excellent in throat affections. Red currant and gooseberry cordials make a delicious light beverage when a spoonful is placed at the bottom of a tumbler and the glass is filled up with soda water. Raspberry vinegar has been an old English favourite for genera- tions, and is made by steeping the ripe fruit in sufficient vinegar to cover it; and when all the colour and flav^our has been extracted, the vinegari86 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK is boiled with sugar and the liqueur bottled for use. Blackberry vinegar is made the same way. For cooking purposes we make several flavouring cordials or, rather, essences by filling wide-mouthed bottles with petals of the May-blossom, and filling up with inexpensive brandy, or by steeping lemon and orange peel in brandy the same way. Cherries will flavour wine or brandy most delicately, like- wise a few crushed kernels of apricot and peach ; but these being, like almonds, largely impregnated with prussic acid, should only be very sparingly used. In the East they make fruit sherbets from many varieties of fruit, both fresh and preserved; in England sherbet is usually a form of lemon or orangeade, or sometimes a mixture of lemonade and milk, or lemonade and cordials. Common sherbet is, indeed, often made with confectioner’s acid drops, which are dissolved in boiling water, and drunk cold. But the easily made sherbet that is both refreshing and harmless, is com- pounded with any fruit syrup and lemonade, a few lumps of ice, and a few fragrant leaves to give it aroma. Mint or fennel are the herbs most frequently used to flavour lemon or fruit drinks. There are a variety of medicinal teas to be made from dried herbs, such as the flowers of the lime tree, wild raspberry, blackberry, broom, gentian, camomile, and others. These are good for the head, the throat, or the stomach, and are many of Them Nature’s own remedies and far more wholesome than drugs. A good housewife willHOME-MADE BEVERAGES 187 keep a few of these in store and infuse them with boiling water, much as she would infuse ordinary- tea, only somewhat longer, and give this to her family when she sees occasion to do'so, and so save many pence being wasted over pills and powders. If she cannot gather these herbs and dry them for herself, they are to be bought in the dried state from any stores. Home-made wines and beers hardly come into the limited range of the home cook who lives in a city or suburb. They are often attempted by the country housewife, however, with more or less success, and are not difficult to compass. There must, however, be a sufficient quantity of material to hand, and another requisite is an empty sherry or brandy cask in which to cork up the wine as soon as it has fermented in the open. The juice is crushed from the fruit, of whatever kind that is, and it is sweetened sufficiently by having dissolved sugar added in the form of syrup. It is left to ferment in open earthenware pans, not too deep. When the froth has worked off, the wine is put into the cask and bunged up, this not being opened for months. Fermentation is frequently assisted by adding a little brewer’s yeast to the liquor, spread over a piece of crust of bread and laid on the top. In the case of elder- berry juice this is really required, as there is not sufficient acidity in the fruit to make it work without. In the case of red currant or rhubarb juice it would not be needful. The liquor obtained by boiling down a quantityi88 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK of nettles or dandelions for making beer has no fermenting quality in it, so the addition of sugar and yeast are required to make it work, and the beer is bottled as soon as the first effervescence has passed off. Another excellent and refreshing summer drink is barley water, for making which mix one dessert- spoonful of Robinson’s “ Patent ” Barley with a wine-glassful of cold water into a smooth paste. Pour this into a stewpan containing one quart of boiling water, and stir over the fire for five minutes. Flavour with lemon and sugar, either or both according to taste, allow the mixture to cool, and strain off the barley sediment. For invalids requiring nutriment, a larger quantity of barley should be used and the straining of sedi- ment omitted, or not, as directed by the doctor. Gruel.—Take of Robinson’s “Patent” Groats, one tablespoonful, mix with a wine-glassful of cold water, gradually added, into a smooth paste, pour this into a stewpan containing nearly a pint of boil- ing water, or milk, stir the gruel on the fire (while it boils) for ten minutes ; pour it into a basin, add a pinch of salt and a little butter, or if more agree- able, some sugar. Note.—When gruel is made for an invalid, butter had best be omitted.CHAPTER IX 189 ADDITIONAL RECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTSCHAPTER IX 191 ADDITIONAL RECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS The object of the foregoing chapters has been to make Principles so plain that the home cook might become her own successful compiler of recipes, and it is hoped that the Blank-Leaf Note- book at the end of this volume may become filled with them. But a few tried and tested recipes of the writer s own may not be superfluous, hence a small selection is offered, and these are grouped in the order in which they would naturally come were we composing a menu. Hence, after a brief glance at those little preliminaries of the meal called Hors-d’oeuvres, we pass on to consider soups, fish, hot and cold entries, meat dishes, poultry and game, dishes of vegetables and salads; but as sweets and pastries have been fully dealt with in an earlier chapter, it is unnecessary to add more in this place, but we close with a few suggestions that may be helpful in the kitchen. Hors-d'oeuvres are usually divided into two classes—hot and cold. Among the latter we find fresh radishes and cress, cucumber and tomatoes, sardines of different brands, filletted anchovies, marinaded tunny, olives plain and stuffed, pickled192 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK vegetables, vegetable macedoines, and foreign delicatesseii. Hors-d’oeuvres are daintily set out, accompanied with little rolls and fresh butter, all as neat as possible, and served in small dishes, usually an assortment of them at once, to which the diners help themselves as they will. Some people like to eat oysters as hors-d’oeuvre, but they are apt to spoil the tablecloth, therefore they are neither convenient nor suitable as a beginning to a dinner. It is better to reserve oysters for luncheon, and make them a principal part of the repast. A very wholesome fashion which we have borrowed from America, is that of beginning the meal with fruit, especially with halves of grape- fruit, properly prepared, or of melon or ripe orange. These are served on small plates, with spoons, the cores removed and the hollows filled with sugar or left unsweetened. Some like to eat grape-fruit without sugar, some like pepper and salt with melon; but, however it may be with individual tastes, there is no question but that a portion of ripe and juicy fruit makes a delicious beginning, seeming to clear the way and sharpen the palate for what is coming after. Of hot hors-d’oeuvres the most frequently seen are little path or houchees of pastry—puff pastry— filled with a mince or preparation of rich sauce and fish, or mince of foie gras, or something equally choice and tempting. These are very small, of course. Other hot hors-d’oeuvres are composed ofRECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS 193 fried or grilled kidneys, strips of fried liver and giblets, or tiny egg cutlets, all served very crisp and dry. But these are only seen at fashionable restaurants. For the home table nothing more is necessary than a dainty hot paU^ served to each diner on a plate covered with a paper d’oyley, or a small choice of cold appetisers, as before men- tioned, with butter and rolls. Some Choice Soups With clear stock made from bones and trimmings of cooked joints, or from lean beef or veal bought for the purpose, after long stewing and careful straining, we have the foundation for any soup that is intended for serving clear with vegetables, or for making a brown thickened soup. VERMICELLI SOUP Pour boiling water through a cupful of broken vermicelli, drain and throw it into a sufficient quantity of clear brown stock. Cook until tender in a saucepan a minced carrot, some sliced leeks, and a little celery ; when done add to the stock in which the vermicelli has been slowly simmering to make it tender, stir well and season with salt and pepper, and serve. If maccaroni or other Italian paste be used instead of vermicelli, boil it separately until it is quite tender, as otherwise it will spoil the colour of the broth. To make this soup richer fry the vegetables ^3• 191 the successful home cook instead of boiling them, then drain before adding to the stock; let them simmer in that with the vermicelli, and skim the soup before serving. CLEAR CARROT SOUP Grate a couple of large carrots and add to the requisite quantity of clear stock; chop very finely a large onion and fry this thoroughly, drain and add to the stock with the pulp only of a large ripe tomato. Allow to simmer for an hour, skim well, season freely, and pour when nearly boiling over a small heap of fried croutons in the tureen. gamekeeper’s broth From stock made by stewing bones of poultry and game, or that in which rabbit has been boiled and which has been further enriched by the ad- dition of brown scraps and remnants from roast birds of any kind, a savoury soup is made for which are required a few small scraps of meat from the breasts or legs, these cut into neat portions and rolled in flour, then fried in hot fat. When fried add these portions to the strained stock, and fry in the same fat an onion; when brown dredge a little baked flour over this to absorb the fat, add pepper and salt and a pinch of sage with a few drops of mushroom ketchup, also a little caramel or browning to deepen the colour. Stir into the stock and let it simmer for an hour, then serve. WHITE STOCK SOUP From stock that is made from knuckle of vealRECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS 195 and chicken bones, a nourishing white broth may be made by adding to it a minced onion and turnip, and mixing with it a cupful of milk into which has been stirred a tablespoonful of potato-flour, some salt, and pepper. Stir the soup till it boils and is slightly thickened, then draw aside and add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley with a small pat of fresh or salt butter. Some pearl barley may be cooked in this stock, and it may be enriched with a little cream to make a variation. The making of Julienne Soup has been described before; but with clear stock, either white or brown, when that is of sufficient quality to serve as it is, it is only necessary to add such vegetables as taste indicates or as are procurable, to produce celery, carrot, onion, tomato, spring soup, or Julienne, as required, while clear consomm^ or a gravy soup is a richer stock strengthened and flavoured, but served without vegetables. Very good vegetable soups can be made with- out stock. TOMATO SOUP Use either fresh or tinned tomatoes. Melt two ounces of salt butter or clarified beef dripping, and fry in that some chopped onion or shallots. Pulp some tomatoes, about «a pound in weight, through a sieve, and add to the pur^e the onions and butter, and stew all together well before adding about a pint of boiling water; when the soup boils again throw into it the white part of a thick slice of bread cut into dice. Let it simmer for half anig6 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK hour, then season well and stir in the beaten yolk only of a fresh egg ; strain through a colander, and serve with fried croutons. WATERCRESS SOUP Boil a pound of white haricot beans, after previously soaking them overnight; boil until they begin to mash, then rub carefully through a sieve, and add a pint of water to the pur^e thus obtained. Chop finely a bunch of watercress picked from the stalk, and with it some spring onions, a little parsley or sorrel, or other green herbs. Put this chopped green-stuff into a shallow frying-pan and let it stew gently with butter, then stir in sufficient potato-flour to absorb this butter ; add all to the boiling puree, season well, and just before serving pour in a cupful of boiling milk. POTATO SOUP Boil three or four large-sized potatoes and mash them very finely, then put into the stewpan with a pint of boiling water. Stew a minced white onion in butter until it is perfectly tender, but do not let it brown. Dredge a little potato-flour over to absorb the butter with pepper and salt, and stir this into the boiling liquid. Just before serving beat up the yolks of one or two eggs and stir these with a cupful of hot milk into the pur^e, with a little more butter, then pour into the tureen. Serve grated cheese with this puree.RECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS 197 pur^;e of lentils Soak a pint of lentils overnight, then boil soft and rub through a sieve, return to the stewpan, and crumble into this a little white bread ; add about a pint of hot water. In a separate pan cook in a little butter one or two leeks cut finely, or chopped spring onions, and grate into this the red part of a whole carrot. When this has cooked stir into the pur^e; thicken to the consistency of cream by adding a spoonful of potato-flour previously wetted with cold milk. Season well, and serve over crisp fried croutons. LEEK SOUP Large white leeks are sliced across into rounds and first tossed in butter to give flavour, then simmered in sufficient water to cover them well. When quite tender a slice of white bread is cut into dice—without crust—and added to the liquor, the whole being seasoned with pepper and salt. Before serving as much more boiling milk is added, and, if not thick enough, a little cornflour mixed with a little cold milk is stirred in and the whole brought to boiling-point. A spoonful of cream enriches this. Leek soup is often made with the liquor in which bacon has been boiled, being thickened sufficiently with white crumb of bread, and no milk at all is added. VEGETABLE MARROW SOUP Pare and take out the seeds from a large marrow and slice it so that it can boil in sufficient water to198 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK cover well, and when tender rub through a colander. Add to the purde a lump of butter, some salt and pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, with half a pint of boiling milk. Boil once, and just before serving stir in an egg-yolk. Select Dishes of Fish BAKED HADDOCK OR MACKEREL Take a whole fish, wash and draw it, cut off the head, and dry well, then rub over with flour. Butter a baking-dish and lay the fish in it; put more pats of butter on the top, and sprinkle with salt and pepper, and squeeze a little lemon juice over. Cover with a paper until it has steamed through, then remove the paper and allow to slightly brown on the surface. When cooked, serve with a sauce made by thickening the butter remaining in the dish, to which add a tablespoonful of vinegar, some chopped parsely and other sweet herbs, with more pepper and salt. Tomato sauce is also excellent with baked fish, while a sauce made from mashed and strained stewed green goose- berries is much liked as an accompaniment to mackerel. BOILED MACKEREL OR HERRINGS Flave the water just off the boil, and after clean- ing the fish drop them into it with a good spoonful of salt and a little vinegar. Allow them to come to boiling-point, but withdraw the pan so that the fish only simmer after this. About ten minutes toRECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS 199 a quarter of an hour suffices to cook them. Drain and serve on a serviette garnished with tufts of parsley, and with mackerel serve in a separate dish parsley sauce j with herrings serve the same sauce with a tablespoonful of made mustard in place of the parsley. FRIED HERRINGS OR WHITING Wash, Split, and remove the bones, then dry them and dip into a mixture of egg-yolk and chopped herbs and seasoning; roll into rounds beginning with the head—the head itselt having been cut off—and tie, then roll in fine crumbs mixed with flour, and drop the rolls into boiling fat. Fry crisp, remove the threads, and serve the rolls on paper, with melted butter and a little vinegar in the sauce tureen. SALMON STEAK, BAKED A fairly thick slice of salmon is taken and en- closed in a sheet of notepaper, the inner side of which has been liberally buttered ; this is fastened together at the top and set on a dish in a hot oven, to cook for about twenty minutes. If the paper case is not burnt the fish is brought to table in that, merely slipped on to a clean dish or plate; in any case, it is served with the butter all round it. The proper accompaniment to this is a dish of boiled fresh green peas. A similar slice of salmon may be poached in salted water, lifted out and served surrounded with an egg and lemon sauce, this being slightly thick.200 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK It may be served thus either hot or cold, with new potatoes boiled, or a lettuce salad for accompani- ment. TAIL PIECE OF SALMON Ihis is generally boiled or baked whole, and the skin removed before bringing it to table, the fish being masked in sauce, the latter composed of white sauce into which egg yolks, butter, lemon juice, and a very little chopped gherkin enters. The garnish is slices of cucumber and lemon. The tail piece of salmon may also be cooked and served au gratin, that is, in a baking dish covered with crumbs, butter, and seasoning, and made brown on the surface. The flakes of cooked salmon may be tossed in butter, with a few crumbs and chopped parsley, peppered and salted and served in cases of fried bread. SEA BREAM, BROILED This is an excellent fish, yet but rarely seen on the table. Being small, it i^ just a suitable fish for the table of two or three, and, as it resembles salmon in flavour, it is a real delicacy; moreover, it is usually quite cheap. It must not, however, be confounded with freshwater bream, which is taste- less. Yarrell, in his History of British Fishes, gives perhaps the best of all recipes for its cooking. He says, when split open and thoroughly cleaned the fish is wiped dry, but the scales are not rubbed off. It is then broiled (over a clear fire or under the gas), with a little oil or butter spread over to keepRECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS 201 from burning. When brought to table the skin and scales peel off together, and the flesh beneath will be found full of flavour and juice. Another way is to bake the fish whole in a buttered dish, skin it before bringing to table, and then cover with a good parsely sauce or one of egg and lemon, with chopped parsley sprinkled over. BAKED MULLET These are delicious little fish, extremely delicate. Two per person is the usual allowance, and they are wrapped in buttered notepaper and baked in a quick oven, then brought to table still in the paper case, with little balls of butter rolled in chopped parsley to eat with them. BAKED GURNET Still another fish too little known. But this is one that is quite cheap, and often despised because of its ugly head ; but the body has some excellent eating, giving firm and white slices. The head may be removed before cooking, and the fish laid whole in a buttered dish, covered with breadcrumbs, pepper and salt, and the juice of a lemon, then brought to table just as it is when cooked. Brill is a fish that may be cooked in any way in which turbot is cooked, which fish it closely resembles except that it is smaller. Thick brill should be chosen, and perhaps it is never nicer than when boiled gently in salted water. It can then be brought to the table whole with an accompany-202 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK ing sauce—lemon, parsley, or anchovy—or it can be cut into small squares and laid in a dish with the sauce poured round, the two being served together. A whole brill can also be baked ciu gvcitin^ with breadcrumbs and butter, and when browned on the surface come to table in the same dish, Turhot is generally somewhat too expensive for the small table, yet a little square piece, or a three-cornered piece from the tail end, or a slice can often be got quite cheaply; and as there is very little bone in proportion and the flesh is firm, it is substantial eating. Boiled or baked, and served with tomato, parsley, or anchovy sauce, this is ever a delicious dish. Soles if small should be wiped dry, egged and crumbed, and fried whole, laid on a paper d’oyley, and served crisp and hot. Large soles can be baked, with butter and a little lemon juice and a few crumbs of bread scattered over—and, of course, there is a possibility of varying and enriching this so that, with the addition of white sauce and mush- rooms and white wine, it becomes Sole h la Colbert— but the simple baked sole is almost as nice, while fried sole (either whole or filletted) will tempt any one. If fried crisp and dry, served hot with fried parsley and cut lemon, nothing better could be wished for, while a very large sole boiled, and served with shrimp sauce, is a great delicacy and most nourishing for an invalid. Lemon Soles are cheaper than real soles, and for filleting they answer equally well, having aRECIPES AND KITCHEN I-irNTS' " 203 pfc, I, »,* L j ‘ ,.,t .yffN, very nice flavour, while they are firmer in flesh. The fillets can be rolled round and tied with thread and cooked between two plates with butter to give moisture, then laid in a nice sauce, or they can be left unrolled, dipped in egg and bread- crumbs and fried crisp and brown, serving with cut lemon. Plaice are generally filleted and fried after the same manner as soles, or small plaice are fried whole. The fillets of large plaice may also be rolled and cooked between two plates as just directed, or a large whole fish may be baked; but this fish is one that is best adapted to filleting, as otherwise the bones are troublesome. For the children’s table it should always be filleted. It is a cheap, good, and nourishing fish, and eminently a breakfast dish. Cod and Hake are both good fish boiled or baked, but perhaps both are more tasty when the flakes are used, after this first cooking, for the making of fish cakes, fish curry, or kedgeree. For such purposes these fish are admirably adapted. For fish cakes mix a little boiled rice with the flakes of fish, about half in amount, add a little melted butter, pepper and salt, and a beaten egg to bind the mixture together, then shape into small cutlet shapes and coat with more egg and crumb of bread, and fry in boiling fat—lard for preference —to a light golden brown. Serve cut lemon with these cutlets. For a curry the sauce is made first by melting a small pat of butter and frying lightly in this one minced shallot or spring onion, then204 the successful HOME COOK stirring into this a heaped teaspoonful of good curry powder, with one of cornflour or potato- flour, and diluting with a little white stock or milk, adding pepper and salt and the juice of half a lemon, and boiling this to make a smooth sauce. The cooked fish in large flakes is put into the sauce and simmered for a short time, then hard- boiled eggs are cut into quarters and put into the curry at the finish. For kedgeree the flakes of fish are broken small and mixed with an equal quantity of boiled rice, butter added freely, hard- boiled egg in sections, pepper and salt, and the whole tossed in a saucepan and served light and dry in a hot dish. The egg can be kept out and used as a garnish, if preferred, powdering the yolk and sprinkling that over the top of the pile, the white being cut into fine rings and arranged round the base. Smoked Haddock makes excellent kedgeree, also fish cakes, as the flavour of the fish is not too strong when mixed with the rice. The haddock should be well washed, and then baked or steamed and the flesh taken from the bones. Simply baked in the oven with butter, smoked haddocks are a breakfast relish nearly always approved of; but this dish is much improved by having little rolls of grilled bacon served with the fish. Bacon and smoked fish accord excellently well together. Halibut.—As this is a large fish, it is usually cut across into steaks, and these are simply baked, or egged and crumbed and fried. A tail piece ofRECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS 205 halibut will boil well and make a delicious dish, with tomato, mushroom, or lemon sauce and boiled potatoes for accompaniment, and the remains of cooked halibut make capital fish cakes. It is an economical fish on the whole, for there is so little bone in proportion, and a broiled or fried halibut steak would make an excellent first course for dinner. It is also a nice fish for the children’s table. Fish Salad, for which cooked lobster or crab is perhaps best suited, requires the broken leaves of a firm white lettuce to be arranged in the bottom of a dish, the flakes of fish freed from all skin and bone disposed among the leaves, and a mayonnaise dressing poured over all. The mayonnaise is, of course, made by beating the yolk only of a fresh egg with as much salad oil as it it will take up, adding a small spoonful of vinegar last, with pepper and salt. It needs very thorough mixing. Cold cooked salmon makes a delicious salad, also cold cooked turbot. In case a present of fresh trout should ever find its way into the hands of the home cook, it is desirable to mention that broiling or baking will be found the best modes of dealing with this most dainty fish. Empty the trout and dry them, then rub over with dissolved butter, and put them under the gas grill for broiling, with not too much heat on, or place in a buttered dish in the oven, covering with paper, and cook for about half an hour. Serve without other sauce than the butter which is in the dish.2o6 the successful home cook Meat f:ntri>.es and Small Joints MUTTON CUTLETS To order mutton cutlets all ready prepared from the butcher is a most costly way of proceeding, and to cut and trim them oneself from the “ best end of the neck”—the part usually chosen for cutlets—is also apt to be a wasteful method; but if a piece of the loin of mutton be bought it will yield three distinct dishes, or, at any rate, two, that is, one of cutlets and another of savoury stew. Say the loin is one of two pounds’ weight; first take out the under fillet in one piece, and then cut off the fat flap end. Then remove the bones from the upper part of the loin, leaving that also in one piece, from which it is now possible to cut the cutlets in even thicknesses right along. About half an inch is the right thickness. Coat these in egg and crumb of bread and fry to a nice brown, then lay in a dish with cover and let them steam through without further cooking. From the under fillet trim off fat and skin and cut into slices the short way across, and dip these also in egg and crumb of bread and fry the same way, serving them with the former if required; or if these are kept for another occasion they may be placed round a mound of spinach, or served with creamed potatoes or seakale. These little cutlets from the under fillet are most tender and delicious for an invalid, and they may be lightly broiled instead of fried.RECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS 207 With the flap and the bones and other trimmings, a very savoury stew for luncheon results when the meat is first fried brown and then divided into strips, covered with a mince of mixed vegetables, and stewed in a brown jar in the oven for a couple of hours, the gravy being skimmed, seasoned, and thickened afterwards. MUTTON WITH CUCUMBERS Take the blade half of a shoulder of mutton, trim it neatly, and roast or bake it in the ordinary way. While it is cooking prepare three or four small cucumbers, by first paring off the rind, steep- ing them in vinegar, and then cutting them into short finger-lengths. Put a little butter in a deep saucepan and a little chopped fat of ham; put in the cucumber and let this cook closely covered until tender through, then dredge salt and pepper over and a little chopped parsley, set the roast of mutton in the centre of a dish and arrange the cucumber around it, adding the liquor that is tn the stewpan to the gravy from the meat and pouring this over the vegetable. STEWED BREAST OF MUTTON Take one or two pounds of breast of mutton, which is cut into finger-length strips. Brown these slightly by frying them in a pan with a very little fat, then place in a stewpan with a few shallots, some slices of turnip—or cut the turnip into strips and to the fat in the frying-pan add a spoonful of flour, salt and pepper, and minced2o8 the successful HOME COOK herbs, and mix well; then thin down with half a pint of bone stock, and when it has boiled once pour over the contents of the stewpan. Cover and leave to stew, gently for a couple of hours, when serve with boiled potatoes or haricot beans. IRISH STEW The neck is the best part to use for this purpose, as, when the “ best end ” is cut off, it is not too fat. Have it chopped into even-sized pieces, then roll each in seasoned flour and fry lightly in hot fat, drain and lay in a stewpan, with peeled small onions and whole potatoes, and pepper and salt. Pour in a small teacupful of water, not more. Put a plate over the top, then the cover of the stewpan, and set in a corner of the oven to cook for two or three hours. It should then be tender and juicy without being thin and watery, sufficient moisture having exuded from the meat itself. The mistake commonly made is to add too much water to Irish stew, and to pay too little attention to keeping in the steam, also to let it cook too fast. LOIN OF MUTTON, ROLLED All the bones should be removed from a loin of mutton and the piece laid flat; upon it place a mixture of minced herbs and shallots, with bread- crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt. Roll the piece carefully and tie round securely with string. Place the roll in a baking-tin with a fair amount of dripping. Let it cook briskly for an hour or more, according to size. Then lift the roll on toRECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS 209 a hot dish, pour off the fat from the gravy; add to this a small cupful of stock, a teaspoonful of flavoured vinegar, and a spoonful of potato-flour wet with cold water. Stir well and boil once, then pour round the roll and serve at once. calves’ liver, a la bourgeoise Keep the liver in one piece, but place alongside it a piece of fat bacon, and lay the two together in a stewpan which they will just fit. Rub flour over the surface; add a little dripping, some herbs, and seasoning. Let it bake fully two hours, then pour off the fat and pour in a glassful of red wine, or a cupful of brown stock. The liver is served in thin slices with a strip of the bacon. The Italian way of cooking liver is to cut it into small lengths half an inch thick, to roll the pieces in flour and fry them brown, then lay in a stewpan with minced herbs and mushrooms and shallots, pouring in a little red wine. This is stewed gently for one or two hours, when the gravy is thickened a little further before serving. A WIENER SCHNITZEL This is a very favourite foreign dish, for which a slice of veal, from the fillet or shoulder, is taken, which is egged and crumbed and gently fried in a little fat on both sides, then is laid in a dish and simmered with the juice of a fresh lemon, or a glass of white wine, and when tender through is served under a garnish of hot pickled gherkins and broiled tomatoes, and with potatoes of jar- 14210 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK dinicre vegetables round. It is not difficult to manage, and is a most appetising way of serving a small slice of veal ROULADES OF VEAL Take a rather thick slice of lean veal, about a pound in weight, and cut this into shapes of even size, but so as to leave no waste. Coat with egg and crumb of bread, and fry to a nice brown on both sides. Lay them in a stewpan and pour in a little seasoned gravy. Let them simmer gently for about half an hour, then serve sur- rounded with crisp rolls of fried bacon, fried mushrooms, and tomatoes, and thicken the gravy, flavouring it with tomato sauce, before pouring that into the dish. GRENADINES OF VEAL A piece of the breast of veal is cooked whole by stewing it in the oven in a covered pie-dish; the bones are slipped out, and the meat is pressed down under a weight. When cold this is cut across into strips about half an inch thick, and these are lightly fried after coating them with batter. They are delicious if served with grilled ham or bacon and with a puree of spinach or tomatoes. BREAST OF VEAL A delicious stew is made with the bjeast of veal cut into strips and again across to make pieces about three inches long by one and a halfRECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS 211 inches broad. These are floured and laid close together in an enamelled stewpan, with pepper and salt sprinkled over and a few minced sweet herbs, and water enough to just cover well. Stew in the oven for about two hours, then just before serving pour in about half a bottle of capers and the same amount of vinegar, and serve. Chopped sorrel, if it can be procured, is used by many in preference to capers. FILLETS OF BEEF, BROWNED The fillet of beef is best for this dish, but a slice taken from the shoulder answers almost as well, or any part that is streaked with fat. Cut the fillets about two inches long by one and a half across and somewhat less than an inch thick. Roll in flour and fry gently in fat on both sides to a good brown, then lay in a stewpan and fry in the same fat a small minced onion and a tomato, and stir into this a spoonful of flour, a little meat extract, and a glass of red wine; add a little water or brown stock and boil for a moment, then rub through a sieve and pour into the stewpan, allowing the fillets to simmer in this gravy for nearly an hour before serving them in a hot dish—a silver entree dish, if you can !—with an accompaniment of boiled French or kidney beans. FILLETS OF BEEF, STEWED Cut the fillets as before, using shoulder of beef or stewing steak this time, and brown them; then add to them in the stewpan some rounds of carrot.212 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK slices of onion, or, better still, small whole shallots, a few peeled mushrooms, some minced herbs and pepper and salt, and sufficient gravy or stock to cover all well. Leave to stew in the oven for fully an hour, or longer, and serve altogether. A GOULACHE For this rump steak should be taken, freed from all fat; about a pound will make enough for four persons. Cut the steak into small squares, rather less than an inch every way. Roll well in seasoned flour and pack into a stewpan with water enough to barely cover, and put in at the top a few rounds of carrot and one or two onions. Cover tightly and stew for well over an hour, then remove the carrot and onion and add to the gravy a little sharp sauce or mushroom ketchup. Serve from a deep dish, with boiled spaghetti or mashed potato in a separate dish. Boiled spaghetti—a fine maccaroni—is an ex- cellent accompaniment to stewed beef of any kind. It wants breaking into short lengths, dropping into boiling salted water, and cooking fully twenty minutes. BEEF MOULD {to be eaten cold) Mince finely, if possible using a mincing machine for the purpose, a slice of lean beef of fully a pound’s weight, then mix with this some rather fat ham also minced, a little chopped parsley and a few mushrooms, shallots and savoury herbs, with a teaspoonful of salt and half one of pepper. LineRECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS 213 a glass or tin mould with thin strips of bacon from which the rind has been cut—streaky bacon by preference. Bind the mince together with the yolks of one or two eggs and a little gravy, then press into the mould and cover the top of this with a crust of flour and water only, and set in the oven to bake gently for quite two hours. When cooked remove this crust and pour over the meat a little dissolved butter, then set the mould in a cold place and leave for several hours, after which it can be turned out and cut into thin slices. This is a most useful supper dish, and will keep for days if the mould is not opened. OX-TAIL, STEWED An ox-tail, well cooked, makes a most nourishing and economical family dish. Wash well and cut into short lengths at the joints, roll each piece in seasoned flour, lay in a stewpan with rounds of carrot and some small onions, some pepper and salt, and sufficient water to cover. Stew for two or three hours in moderate oven. RABBIT EN CASSEROLE Cut the rabbit into joints and roll in flour, then fry brown in hot fat. Arrange in the casserole, adding one or two whole carrots and onions. Mix a spoonful of flour with the fat in the frying-pan; brown this, add pepper and salt and spoonful of mushroom ketchup, then a glassful of red wine or a cupful of brown stock. Boil till thick and pour over the rabbit; cook gently for a full hour or214 the successful home cook more, and serve from the casserole, wrapping a serviette round this before bringing to table. Or the rabbit can be left whole, rubbed with flour and baked in the oven in a covered pan, with strips of bacon laid over. The gravy can be made with tomato or mushroom sauce, a little thickening, and stock. Or a rabbit can be boiled, like a fowl, with bacon, and served with white onion sauce poured over. It is then most delicate. KIDNEYS, SAUTLS Kidneys should never be cooked slowly, and they should be eaten somewhat under- rather than over- done. One kidney cooked after the following manner will go as far as two done after the ordinary way. Choose a fine large kidney, skin it and cut into rounds in slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Have ready a tablespoonful of flour mixed with seasoning; dip each piece of kidney into it. Cut some strips of streaky bacon and fry these first very slowly in a pan, and keep them hot as a ring round the dish while in the same fat the slices of kidney are gently saut^ first on one side and then on the other, turning them as fast as the gravy begins to exude and giving them not more than three minutes cooking. Lift the slices into the middle of the circle of bacon, stir a spoonful of cornflour into the fat in the frying-pan, add a little water and a few drops of tomato sauce, boil up once and pour over the kidney, then serve immediately.RECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS 215 LAMB OR VEAL SWEETBREADS Wash the sweetbreads and put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to well cover, also a small white onion. Boil gently for fifteen or twenty minutes. Take up, drain on a cloth, and, if a veal sweetbread, cut into slices half an inch thick ; or, if lamb sweetbreads, leave whole and dip into beaten egg, cover with breadcrumbs, and fry to a delicate brown. Keep the sweetbreads hot while some strips of bacon are also fried lightly. For a break- fast dish the sweetbreads and bacon are served without gravy; but for an entree, or supper dish, a little thick gravy is made and poured over them. ITALIAN MEAT CAKES Any kind of cold meat or fowl will make these if freed from all skin and gristle and minced very finely, preferably through a mincing machine ; add to the meat half its quantity of breadcrumbs, some parsley and seasoning, and sufficient gravy or tomato sauce to moisten the whole. Flour the hands and roll the mince into small cutlet shapes, flattening them with the back of a spoon, then coat with egg and fine bread raspings, and fry to a light brown on both sides. Arrange them round a mound of boiled maccaroni or spaghetti, and pour into the dish some hot gravy. IMITATION MEAT CAKES Boil some spaghetti or other Italian paste till soft, drain well, and mix with it a good lump of butter, two or three tablespoonfuls of grated cheese.2i6 the successful HOME COOK a few crumbs, some salt and pepper, and a beaten egg. Shape into small cutlets, coat again in egg and crumbs, and fry as before to a golden brown. Insert a piece of maccaroni at the narrow end to represent a bone, and serve these cutlets with lemon, shrimp, or anchovy sauce. MEAT PATTIES Make some puff paste and stamp into rounds after rolling out to a thin sheet; on each round place a heaped spoonful of any nice mince bound together with rather rich sauce, cover with another round of paste, moistening the edges with egg and fastening them tightly together. Then drop each patty into a saucepan of boiling lard, and fry quickly to a golden brown. Drain and serve hot on a paper d’oyley. BEEF EN TERRINE {for eatmg cold) Take a boned round of beef, or piece cut from the top ribs, and put into a braising pan with a whole carrot, some onions, and sweet herbs. Pour in a spoonful of vinegar and one of water, and add some whole peppercorns. Cover closely and allows to cook in the oven for tw^o or three hours. Remove all bones and the vegetables and as much surface fat as possible, then put on the top a small plate and weight it down, leaving the meat to become cold thus, when it can be turned out. VEAL EN TERRINE {for eating cold) A piece of the shoulder or leg of veal shouldRECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS 217 be taken, sufficient to rather more than half fill one side of the casserole, the other side being filled with a piece of streaky bacon, the two together completing the round. Add seasoning and lemon juice, and cook well covered over for quite two hours. Then press down as before, and turn out when cold. Poultry or Game ROAST DUCK Ducks are almost always roasted for eating hot or cold, or, if old birds, they may be braised. They are usually stuffed with a mixture of boiled onions and breadcrumbs, or onions and mashed potatoes, pounded smooth and mixed with a liberal flavour- ing of dried sage, pepper, and salt, the breast being filled with this and the wings tied down. Lay a piece of paper over the breast while roasting, only re- moving long enough to brown this just before bring- ing to table. Cook a duck for from three-quarters to an hour in a hot oven, but do not let it scorch. WILD DUCK These birds are cheap in the autumn, and often prove a great resource. Their roasting is done without any stuffing, and must be given less time than for tame duck, as wild ducks are better to be somewhat underdone. Wild duck can be cooked in the casserole if preferred, and then some red wine would be added to the gravy. If roasted an orange salad is generally served with it, while an2i8 the successful HOME COOK apple salad or apple sauce accompanies the tame duck. ROAST PIGEONS Tie a thin sheet of fat over the breasts of pigeons, and roast in a quick oven or under th'' grill of a gas stove for about twenty minutes. Serve with a little good gravy. Or the pigeons may be stewed in a casserole with a little stock to give moisture, and served with the same thickened and seasoned and with fresh boiled peas. ROAST PTARMIGAN This is a capital bird for a party of two, as it is very plump for its size. But, as the flesh is somewhat dry, the bird should always be wrapped in a sheet of fat or in a slice of bacon, and it is better to braise it or cook in the casserole, rather than to roast it. When cooked—it takes about three-quarters of an hour—lift out on to a slice of crisp buttered toast and thicken the gravy, adding seasoning, and serve this in a tureen. ROAST PHEASANT A pheasant for roasting should be young and plump, and the breast should be protected with oiled paper, which is removed after it has cooked for half an hour, and a little flour is dredged over the breast to make a crisp crust which, when well browned, in its turn, is the sign that the bird is sufficiently cooked. Serve a pheasant on a bed bf fried crumbs of bread, with a little good gravy in aRECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS 219 separate tureen, some creamy bread sauce in another tureen, and a dish of potato chips. PHEASANT EN CASSEROLE The pheasant is lightly roasted, then jointed and laid in the casserole, and a rich sauce made with brown stock, roux, and some red wine poured over, and the whole is simmered for fully half an hour. Or the roast pheasant may be jointed and served from a casserole, after being merely warmed up in a thin gravy made with bones and giblets stewed, strained, and seasoned, but left thin. A plain salad usually accompanies such a dish. The simmering in the casserole ensures that an old and doubtful bird shall be tender and succulent. PARTRIDGE AND SNIPE These birds are roast, stewed, or braised, but the sportsman will say that no method is right but that of broiling. But both birds are all the better for being enclosed in paper cases with butter and cooked in a quick oven. Liberal basting with butter should be given a partridge that is roasted without such cover. Snipe and woodcock, it is said, should just fly through the kitchen, while partridge should walk gently through, intimating that quick cooking is best for all. Some cooks will not draw these small birds; but it is much better to do so, and they are likewise much nicer for being wrapped in thin slices of fat before roasting or broiling. Of Grouse there are in this country three kinds :220 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK the black, red, and white. The male black grouse of the North is sometimes called blackcock, and the female is the grey hen. Red grouse is some- times called moorcock or moor-game, while the true white grouse is the ptarmigan mentioned before. There is also a large kind of grouse called wood-grouse or capercailzie, a bird of passage in the spring and autumn. All birds of the grouse family are best roasted, and a little red wine is an improvement to the gravy. A salad of lettuce or endive almost always accompanies the game course, although served on separate plates, the two forming the finish of the more solid part of the dinner, the salad serving to mark the dividing line between savoury and sweet. SOME LITTLE-USED VEGETABLES Among the least commonly used vegetables we may class Spinach and Sorrel and Mercury, Leeks, CeleryandCeleriac, Chicory, Aubergines, Artichokes, Asparagus, Seakale, and Sweet Potatoes, with Water- cress and Lettuce as cooked vegetables. Yet all these are easily procurable, and they will greatly help to vary the menu and make it choice. Spinach, unlike sorrel, is plentifully grown, yet it is only in a few houses.that one meets with the dainty dishes for which it forms such an excellent foundation ; but, as it is one of our most wholesome green vegetables, containing a great deal of iron, it ought to be eaten freely. It is a deceptive vegetable, as after cooking a bulky quantity shrinks down to almost nothing;RECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS 221 still, it is cheap in price. It is also apt to contain a good deal of grit and dust, therefore should be liberally washed in several waters; let it drain thoroughly, and take out all the big stalks and yellow leaves. Throw the washed leaves into a deep pan, and add a good spoonful of salt to them : the water that drains from them will be enough to supply moisture and steam. Let it cook fast, with the lid on the pan, for about ten minutes, then turn out into a colander and press out all the water. It is then ready to be “ dressed.” Spinach en Croustades is a pretty way of serving spinach as an entree or entremet. (An entree precedes a dish of meat or the joint, and entremet follows it.) The croustade is a thick slice of stale white bread without crust, hollowed in the centre and shaped like a dish with a rim. This shape is fried in boiling lard or dripping until it is a light brown. The spinach is mashed finely and a large lump of butter is beaten into it, with pepper and salt. It is tossed over the fire in a stewpan, and if there is a little gravy to spare, it is added to it, or, failing gravy, a little cream. When hot through the croustades are filled and served at once. Poached eggs, or eggs hard boiled and sliced, are often served on a bed of dressed spinach; but it is an improvement to make a foundation by filling individual croustades, or little fancy china dishes, with a purde of spinach, laying the eggs on the top. When spinach is served as a dish by itself, eggs, butter, and cream are all necessary to make it222 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK substantial; if it accompanies meat, the fat from a roast is mixed with it and the gravy supplies the necessary sauce. Sori'el is often used in the same way as spinach, or in combination with it, being rather too acid to use alone, but its best use is as the foundation of a soup. For this, measure out a sufficient quantity of water, say, a pint, and set this on to boil; when boiling cut up a slice of white bread into dice and throw into the water. While this simmers melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, add to it some chopped spring onions, then about two large handfuls of picked and washed sorrel leaves, first chopping these somewhat finely. Cover and let the onions and sorrel cook for some minutes, then toss with a fork, season well with pepper and salt and a teaspoonful of castor sugar, and stir into the bread and water. Let all cook gently for half an hour, then withdraw from the fire; and when the heat has somewhat cooled, stir in slowly the beaten yolks of two eggs and a spoonful of cream. This is a most delicious soup. As sorrel is so wholesome and easy to cultivate, any one possessing a small garden should sow a row therein and it will come up year after year afterwards. Mercury^ or “ Good King Henry,” is not often cultivated, but is an excellent spring vegetable, hardier than spinach, and generally comes in before spinach is ready; and being somewhat more substantial in nature, akin rather to turnip tops, it makes a very useful vegetable, apart from its /f ^ > I RECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS -323-li valuable blood-purifying qualities. It is boiled like spinach, drained and chopped, and returned to the pan with butter and seasoning, then pressed into a mould and turned out in the vegetable dish, and served with meat and gravy. Although Leeks are related to onions and some- what similar in medicinal value, they are not the same. They are more prized in Wales and Scotland than in England, and highly esteemed on the Continent, and the French call them Poor Man’s Asparagus. They are very often served alone as a vegetable course and never omitted from any soup, while they form the foundation of at least one distinctive potage. Leeks have a beneficial action upon the liver, and in cases of liver complaints, or for dropsical patients, they are often recommended by doctors to be eaten boiled, and sometimes to be used outside in the form of a poultice. The liquor from boiled leeks may be made a pleasanter drink for an invalid by mixing a teaspoonful of Liebig’s extract of meat in a teacupful. To serve as a vegetable alone, tie the leeks in a bundle after cleaning and cutting off most of the green part. Boil in slightly salted water till quite tender, then drain and serve with them some good melted butter sauce or gravy from meat. For leek soup prepare the same foundation of water and white bread as for sorrel soup, and stew the leeks after slicing them across in butter, using quite a good quantity of them, and when tender stir in a little potato-flour to absorb the butter.224 tme successful home cook add pepper and salt, and stir all into the water and bread. Just before serving add a little cream. Many people who boil Cclevy as a vegetable would find that Celej'iac was much better suited to their purpose. This is the turnip-rooted celery, and is now becoming quite well known since French gardening introduced it here. It is a delicious vegetable, with all the solidity of a turnip and all the flavour of stalk celery, without the stringiness that makes that sometimes objectionable when cooked. It only needs to be pared and boiled in salted water till tender, leaving it whole if liked, or cutting it into slices as seems best, then to be served with white sauce or gravy. Celeriac can also be added to savoury stews of meat, and goes excellently well with boiled beef, enriching the bouillo7t by its flavour. When boiling ordinary celery cut the stalks into convenient lengths and drop into a pan of boiling salted water, then cook for about half an hour or till quite tender, drain, and serve like asparagus. Chicory, which comes to us in the early spring from the sunny South, is much liked because of its rather bitter flavour, which stimulates appetite. It is boiled exactly like asparagus, only it must be well covered with water, then it is drained and is improved by being returned to the pan and simmered a few moments with butter and seasoning. It usually accompanies lamb or mutton, or veal. The Aubergine, commonly called the Egg Plant, is known to many by sight because of its purple colour and peculiar shape. It makes a delicious VRECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS 225 vegetable if properly treated, but is nothing at all when plainly boiled. The aubergines should be pared and split down lengthwise, the soft interior being removed (exactly like a vegetable marrow). Melt a little butter in a shallow frying-pan, and place the split aubergines in this to brown and become tender; when so cooked, remove them to a hot dish and stir into the butter a teaspoonful of flour and a little gravy, add a good spoonful of chopped parsley with pepper and salt, and when this has cooked fill up the hollows of the aubergines with the sauce and serve at once. Aubergines may also be simply fried and served with any roast meat. The edible part of the green artichoke is con- fined to the base of the calyx, from which the centre, consisting of flowers and silky threads, has to be removed. There is a fair amount of root, which is often cut in slices and added to savoury stews, but the artichoke itself supplies nothing but an epicure’s morsel. The French set great store by it and esteem it a delicacy, nibbling the bases of the green leaves after dipping them in a butter sauce with gusto; but as green artichokes are costly to buy, they do not come into the category of household vegetables among English people. Jerusalem Artichokes, which in name are a corruption of girasol artichokes, are a very different thing, very nourishing and cheap. They are tubers and the whole part is eaten, just like a potato. These artichokes are improved in colour by boiling them in milk and water instead of water only, with 15 I226 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK salt, and they are eaten either with or without a white sauce, to which grated cheese may or may not be added, according to taste. They are also served exactly like potatoes with the gravy of meat, and they make an excellent foundation for a white soup, and can be added to a stew of mutton. Asparagus in its season is justly esteemed a delicacy, and is valuable for its medicinal qualities. It should stand upright in a deep saucepan, as otherwise the heads cook before the rest is tender and are apt to drop off. Boil well, then drain and serve with pure butter dissolved, but not made into sauce, or serve cold with mayonnaise. Asparagus, when fully cooked, should yet preserve a certain crispness, therefore it must not be boiled too long. Many people spoil it by overboiling. It should be quite easy to handle when taken in the fingers, and should be served on a folded serviette so as to be thoroughly drained. Seakale is boiled and served exactly like aspara- gus, save that it can lie flat in the pan, the tops not being more tender than the rest of the stalk. It is usual to mask seakale with white sauce, but only salt should be added to this, as the delicate flavour of the vegetable must not be hidden. Sweet Potatoes or Yams are not very satisfactory as a vegetable, being rather pulpy and pasty, instead of dry and mealy like the ordinary potatoes. They are perhaps best to be baked or roasted in their skins and eaten with a spoon.RECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS 227 Saisify, or the Oyster Plant, is a vegetable which, though troublesome to prepare, is yet worthy of the cook’s pains, for it makes an excellent supper dish, accords well as part of a savoury stew, or is good just plainly boiled and served as an accompaniment to meat. For a supper dish, after scraping and throwing the salsifies into water to keep them white, drain them and wipe dry, then dip in batter and fry to a golden brown. They may be rolled in crumbs of bread after dipping in batter to give them a still better appearance. It is an improvement to par-boil the salsifies first, and let them cool before frying, as this ensures them being quite tender. They require no sauce, and make a very tasty dish. Mushroonts may be dressed in many ways, but for a dish alone large ones may be stuffed with a mixture of the chopped stalks, parsley, and butter, sprinkled over with crumbs, and set in a buttered dish and baked in the oven. For stewing it is an improvement to lightly flour the mushrooms, then arrange them in a stewpan with some bits of butter, add pepper and salt and just a teacupful of water, then cover and stew for a good half hour. A small peeled onion is an improvement to the flavour. Mushrooms should be very fresh, very dry, and very carefully peeled,.so that all danger of using unwholesome ones may be avoided. Frame-grown mushrooms are more reliable than those which come from out of doors.228 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK Watercress is commonly served as a garnish to roast chickens and as a filling for sandwiches and as a relish for the tea-table, but if chopped and stewed with a little butter it makes a delicious sauce for eating with fish, or is excellent as a soup, the foundation of which is a smooth pur^e of white haricot beans. The watercress is chopped finely, cooked in butter, and added to this pur^e with seasoning and a little cream. Cabbage Lettuces are not commonly served as a cooked vegetable, but they are very delicate when lightly boiled in salted water, drained, and served with melted butter. Kitchen Wrinkles and Hints TO BOIL RICE Rice is so often badly cooked that to do it well will give any home cook a first place in the estimation of her friends. The black man’s celebrated recipe is as follows: “ Wash him well, much wash in cold water, rice- flour make him stick. Water boil all ready, very fast. Shove him in; rice not burn, water shake him too much. Boil twenty minutes. Rub one rice in thumb and finger, if all rub away him quite done. Put rice in colander, hot water run away through. Pour cup cold water over him, put back in pan, and keep covered with cloth near fire, then rice all ready. Eat him up.” Although the black man does not say so, we think he does put salt in the boiling water; atRECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS 229 any rate, we should do so. It is the fast boiling in plenty of water, the draining and separating by passing first hot and then cold water through the rice when in the colander, and the subsequent drying over the fire that makes rice soft, tender, and flaky, as it ought to be. TO CLEAN WHITE ENAMELLED SAUCEPANS After scouring them with warm water and Vim, if the colour is still stained, procure a little lime and put a pinch into each saucepan, fill up to the brim with hot water, and allow to stand on the stove for some hours, after which the colour will be fully restored. Vim is the most suitable cleanser for all kinds of saucepans, for stained steel knives, and for scouring wooden spoons; but it will not, of course, polish anything. A cloth or piece of black stocking saturated with paraffin will remove grease stains from stoves or other metal, will clean varnished paint and stained floors, taking off dust and stains much better than water. Two or three cloves laid on a hot stove will make a pleasant deodoriser for the kitchen after cooking. Set a jar of cold water in the gas oven if fat is spurting and scorching; it will prevent any dis- agreeable smell. Vegetable butter and melted beef suet make the best frying fats, as there is no water in them to cause spluttering. Have a shield of tin placed round the gas stove230 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK of a sufficient height to keep the walls from getting spotted or stained. Wash the tin over with warm water and a little soap to keep that from being unsightly in its turn. Have kitchen aprons made with a frill at the bottom so that the edge of the dress does not run any risk of getting spots from droppings. If the apron is not a pinafore with long sleeves, have deep cuffs or over-sleeves, made to slip on over the dress or blouse, and keep these close at hand. Beaten up white of egg mixed with sugar and lemon juice will cure hoarseness. The yolks of eggs eaten raw clear and strengthen the voice—a useful hint to singers ! In spare moments a good cook may do many things which greatly facilitate her work when she has cake- or pastry-making on hand. For instance :— Almonds can be blanched by dropping the kernels into a basin of hot water, leaving them to soak awhile, when the skins will easily rub off; they are then chopped and dried, or even browned in the oven. Cocoanut can be browned also when it will be wanted for decorating the edges of cakes. Pistachio nuts are dropped into boiling water that contains a good pinch of carbonate of soda, which preserves their green colour. When the skin is rubbed off they are chopped finely, dried, and stored. Lemon rind or orange rind can be grated and then mixed with powdered sugar, dried, and kept in a tin for flavouring cakes.RECIPES AND KITCHEN HINTS 231 Candied fruits and peel can be kept ready chopped. iCeep a supply of kitchen paper in a drawer or place that is handy. Never set away cake tins without washing and drying them thoroughly. When greasing them use a brush dipped in oil or dissolved butter. Clean egg whisks and pastry brushes in hot soapy water, drying them very thoroughly before putting away. A good way of treating pantry or kitchen shelves that otherwise would require frequent scrubbing, is to paint them twice over with enamel, as, when this is hard, wiping with a damp cloth is always enough to keep them clean. Soup that has been too heavily salted can be corrected by putting into it some slices of raw potato and letting it boil up once. The potato absorbs the surplus salt. The onion is a valuable nerve tonic, and also an excellent disinfectant. A sliced onion placed in a sick-room will absorb any infection there and will not smell disagreeably; it should be changed every day and the infected one burnt at once. Eating a piece of raw onion will often cure an incipient cold in the head, or, if this is found too drastic a remedy, the onion can be cooked and a gruel made with it. All people troubled in any way with “nerves” should eat onions freely in every possible way in which they can take them. If the root part be cut away first, there is nothing to make an onion disagree.232 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOK Saucers of unslaked lime placed in damp closets or pantries will absorb the moisture out of the walls. A lump of alum will sweeten water that is doubtful, and should always be put into rain water barrels.I THE BLANK-LEAF NOTEBOOK FOR THE HOME COOK’S OWN SUCCESS- FUL RECIPES 833234 the successful HOME COOK235 THE BLANK-LEAF NOTEBOOK238 THE SUCCESSFUL HOME COOKTHE BLANK-LEAF NOTEBOOK 239240, the SUCCESSFUL'home COOK ‘ f-»■» '^' ’■-■ jWM- PSib P • .. i*>>r ' ‘3yy’i*'7<' , ‘ ^y.v;s:^- • ... " ■' ■'1J!L'' ^sS ? >1^ [», 4.' - frt-' •-. -::, g -,...■, -V ■■ ■ • *Bv.^M(«jr . r-*Mi . ^ c^:aS.r'VW'?SS2^.^,JL .:•>'INDEX Additional recipes, 191. Aerated bread, 157- Aitchbone of beef, 104. Artichokes, girasol, Jerusalem, 77, 225. Aubergines, 224. Baking, 48, 103. Basting, loi. Beef, carrots and, 105. Beef, fillets of, 104. Beef, minced, 105. Beef olives, 104. Beef, treatment of, 103, 211, 212, 216. Beer, nettle or dandelion, 188. Beverages, home-made, 179. Blank-leaf notebook, 191, 233. Boiling, principles of, 49, 54. Bordeaux pigeons, 96, 218. Bouchies, 192. Braising, principles of, 52. Bread, cakes, and pastries, 153. Bread, leavened, 153. Bread-making, 155. Breakfasts, etc., 59. Broiling, principles of, 50. Broth, 73, 75. Broth, gamekeeper’s, 194. Broth, Scotch, 107. Buns, cream, 176. Buns, rock, 167. CafetUre, the, 182. Cake-making, principles of, 157, 159. Cakes, fruit, etc., 158, 163. Cakes, layer, etc., 165. Cakes, small fancy, 166. l6 Canterbury lamb, 106. Celeriac, celery, etc., 122, 224. Cheese, 30, 78. Cheese savouries, 145, 146. Chestnuts, 123. Chicory, 224. Chocolate, 183, 184. Cocoa, 184. Coffee, 181, 183. Cream buns, 176. Creams, some choice, 142. Curry, 108. Duck, roast, 217. Duck, wild, 217. Ducks and ducklings, 95. Eggs, buttered, 148. Enamelled saucepans, 12. Enamelled saucepans, to clean, 229. Fat, frying, 51. Fictile^ 78. Fish cakes, 61. Fish, choosing, 28. Fish recipes, 198. Fish salads, 205. Fish, smoked and dried, 93. Fish, treatment of, 89. Flour, to test, 155. Fowl, choosing a, 93. Fowl, to cook an old, 94. French fireproof ware, 13. French gardening, 117. French salad dressing, 84. Fruit charlottes, 124. Fniit compotes, 126. Fruit drinks, 184.INDEX 242 Fruit pies and puddings, 133, 170. Fruit salads, 124. Fruit syllabubs, 126. Fruit syrups, 185. Frying fat, 51. Frying, principles of, 51. Game birds, small, 95. German yeast, 156. Gingerbread, 168, 169. Goulache, a, 212. Gratin dish, 13, 91. Grilling, principles of, 50, loi. Grouse, 96. Haricot mutton, 108, Hors-d’oeuvres, 191, 192, 193. Icing, boiled, 166. Icing, white, 166. Imitation meat cakes, 215. Italian meat cakes, 215. Jerusalem artichokes, 77, 225. Julienne soup, 76. Kedgeree, 61. Kidneys, etc., 28. Kidneys, frozen, 109. Kidneys, sautds, 214. Kitchen cabinet, Floosier, 6. Kitchen hints, 191, 228. Kitchen, the small, 3. Lamb, Canterbury, 106. Larder, the, 19. Lemon cheesecakes, 174- Lemon curd, 174- Liver, Italian way, 209. Luncheons, dinners, etc., 59, 63- Malt, diastase of, 154- Mayonnaise, 84. Meat, buying of, 25. Meat entrees, 206. Meat, treatment of, 99. Melted butter, 80. Menu, the, 35, 66. Meringue shells, 176. Methods of cooking, 47. Mutton, buying of, 26, 106. Mutton cutlets, 107, 206. button, haricot, 108. Oil, frying in, 51. Oil, salad, 83. Omelets, 146. Osmazome, 73, 74. Partridge and snipe, 219. Paste, eclair, 175. Paste, puff, 170, 171. Pastry, 124, 169, 172. “ Persillade,” a, 83. Pheasants, 95, 218. Pies and tarts, 170. Pigeons, Bordeaux, 96, 218. Pork, buying of, 27, iii. Pork, salt, 113. Pork, treatment of, 112. Potatoes, 119. Poultry and game, 217. Principle and process, 47. Ptarmigan, 218. Puddings, baked, 138. Puddings, boiled, 131. Puddings, custard, 140. Rabbit, casserole, 213. Rice, to boil, 228. Roasting, principles of, 47, 54, 100, 104. Roux, 79. Salad dressings, 83, 84, 85. Salads, meat and fish, etc., 82, 83, 84. Sardines on toast, 148. Sauces, 79. Savouries, a few, 145- Shortbread, Scotch, 158, 168. Soup-making, 72. ■ Soups, some choice, 193. S’s, three, of cookery, 71. Stew, Irish, 208. Stewing, 55, 102. Stock, 73.INDEX 243 Storeroom, the, 148. Sweetbreads, etc., 28, 215. Tea, to make, 181. Teas, medicinal, 186. Tickle, Bell, & Co., 6. Turkey, treatment of, 94. Veal, buying of, 27. Veal, fillet of, in. Veal kidney, no. Veal, treatment of, 109, 110, 209, 210. Vegetable salads, 81. Vegetables, 31, 117, 119. Vegetables, some little-used, 220. Vegetables, treatment of green, 119. Vegetables, treatment of white, 120. Water, boiling, 180. IVieutT schnitzel, a, 209. Wines, home-made, 187. Woodcock, Scotch, 148. Printed by Mokrison & Gibb Limited, EdinburghI /V ‘ . v» ^' * . ♦ / V . '/. _ L-rf "F ^ X .A ^ 4«rr, ,^C ^ 'v-./ h- - - .'*.V ■ j«: • P'- I-**! * . r ' 6 • *• ♦ * V ,.Vv ,. .f / * f' / t'l ' -.-;jto ' ■■ ■-"■_■ ’ '■i >: •^;' V jfl 9. **<<• VW , ^ . V ; :" • itsr