w j I I X-Vc ■ . 122101424124Med K8512<\THE PRACTICAL HOUSEWIFE SERIES VOLUME II The Book of Plain CookingTHE BOOK OF PLAIN COOKING BY ETHEL ARCHER LONDON A. TREHERNE & CO. LTD. 3 AGAR STREET, CHARING CROSS, W.C. I9°419- ?63 WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. qz : 1904- XbJ hPREFACE Let me at the outset declare that I am not a “ professed ” cook. For twenty years it has been my business to direct, and on occasion to do, with little or no aid, the cookery of a modest establishment. The ensuing recipes are the notes of this experience. Here you will find no scientific dissertations, no mag- nificent menus, no elaborate dishes. I have sought to give a girl, possibly ignorant of cookery, such directions for the preparation of simple food as will enable her to make a notable contribution to comfort and even the highest happiness of a home not operated with a large, or even a middle-sized, income. Nowadays there is no need to apologise for the use of a gas cooker. The prejudice which I well remember in my younger days has died away. The economy, the effectiveness, the minute dependability of a good gasPREFACE Vlll cooker, are beyond the need of enconium; watch it carefully for waste, and keep it spotlessly clean. For years I have exclusively used Fletcher, Russell & Co.’s cooker, and I will say that every dish hereafter enumerated has been concocted by me personally on one of their stoves. For the Jewish recipes I am indebted to Mr. Bernard Marks. E. A.PLAIN COOKING. 1. The Stock Pot Of course the stock pot is the base of all soups, and of much else in cookery; but unless the establishment be large, I advise that stock be made from time to time in a capacious saucepan. I have known the stock pot to degenerate into an unwholesome stodge of refuse. To make a good, jellied stock, take a pound and a half of knuckle of veal, well chopped, and a pound of shin of beef. Add any bacon or meat trimmings convenient, but no game bones—their flavour is pervasive. Put from three to four quarts of water to the meat indicated, celery, carrots, a little turnip, onions, parsley, and mixed herbs, pepper and salt. Boil, then simmer four or five hours. Then boil up quickly and strain. BPLAIN COOKING 10 SOUPS 2. Mutton Broth Disjoint, and thoroughly cleanse in water the scrag end of a neck of mutton. Place the meat in a saucepan, allowing one pint of water (or a little more) to each pound. Onions, carrots, and a turnip are required for flavour- ing, not forgetting a bunch of sweet herbs, some celery, and pearl barley. Let the in- gredients stew gently for two or three hours. Just before serving sprinkle over the soup a little parsley chopped to extreme fine- ness. 3. Scotch Broth This is most acceptable in cold weather, but seasonable at any time. It should be prepared overnight, so that the fat may be skimmed before the completing ingredients are added. The middle of the neck of mutton is best. Cut it into chops, place in a stewpan with onions and turnips, and stew till quite tender. Remove the chops from the stock; add some pearl barley, and when nearly cooked replace the chops. Serve with a sprinkling of pars- ley. It is most essential to skim the stock.PLAIN COOKING ii 4. Sheep’s Head Broth Well wash and clean the sheep’s head. Place in a saucepan, and just cover with water. Let this get hot, then add more water—one pint and a half. Cook until the meat will leave the bones. Cut the meat into pieces and replace in the broth, adding some finely-chopped onion, salt, pepper, a bunch of mixed herbs, and a little pearl barley. Simmer for another hour. 5. Ox Tail Soup Cut the ox tails into shoes, then thoroughly wash them and wipe them dry. Fry brown in butter, then add stock, fresh vegetables, (more especially celery), a bunch of savoury herbs and a sprig of parsley. Let all stew gently from four to five hours, then remove the meat from the soup, and strain it, making a thickening of cornflour, a little Worcestershire sauce, and a couple of glasses of port or sherry. Replace the meat, and stir till it comes to the boil. 6. Beef Tea Take from a pound to a pound and a half of shin of beef, cut it into tiny pieces andPLAIN COOKING place in a stew jar, in the oven, with a little pepper and salt, a flavouring of celery, and a pint to a pint and a half of water. Simmer in a slow oven until reduced to about half a pint. 7. Chicken Soup Have a chicken disjointed, and place in stewpan with sufficient water to keep it covered ; a flavouring of pepper, salt, a sprig of parsley, some finely-chopped celery, carrot, and onion. Make a thickening of cornflour and milk, not forgetting a little powdered mace. Stir well until the mixture boils; then simmer for half or three-quarters of an hour. 8. Glblet Soup Thoroughly cleanse the giblets and place them in a stewpan with some shin of beef and a few bones, some onion, celery, carrot, sweet herbs, and a sprig of parsley. Add water according to the quantity of soup you require. When you find the giblets are cooked, take them out, strain the stock, restoring the choicer morsels of the giblets. Make a thickening of mushroom ketchup, port wine, and flour. This soup should take from three to four hours.PLAIN COOKING 13 9. Hare Soup This soup is better prepared the day before it is needed, for it takes six hours to cook. In cutting up the hare save as much of the blood as possible, also the liver. Place in a stewpan with lean gravy beef and a piece of ham or lean bacon, some carrots, a bunch of mixed herbs, a little flour, some peppercorns, cayenne, salt, and some crumbled bread, three quarts of water, and two glasses of port. When cooked, strain through a sieve, restoring the better parts of the hare to the soup. 10. G-ravy Soup Lean gravy beef and veal, and a few lean bones are the best foundation for this soup. Add celery, onion, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. Boil, then simmer. When ready for straining, boil rapidly for about ten minutes. Should this not have sufficiently cleared the soup, a little isinglass will do so. Grated cheese is acceptably served with this soup. 11. Mulligatawny Soup Remnants of geese or ducks make the best foundation for this soup ; but a rabbit answersPLAIN COOKING 14 the purpose. Should you have sufficient duck or goose which has already been cooked, put in the stewpan with stock or gravy beef, lemon peel, a little bacon, pepper, salt, and herbs. Thoroughly well stew. Then strain, and make a thickening of flour, cayenne, and the juice of half a lemon, and boil up. Should you make the soup from rabbit, disjoint, scald, dry, and fry to a nice brown. Then proceed to cook as directed. 12. Mock Turtle Soup Place half a calf’s head in a stewpan, and well cover it with water. Add a little stock, if you have it; if not, more water; onions, celery, parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of lean bacon, and salt and pepper. Let these all stew for about four hours. Take out the head, and cut the flesh into small dice. Strain the liquor through a sieve. Make a thickening of flour or cornflour, milk, cayenne pepper, and about a quarter of a pint of white wine. Return to the stew- pan, and boil up with the pieces of meat. When thoroughly heated, throw in some hot forcemeat balls, and serve. The bones from the head should be again stewed for stock.15 PLAIN COOKING 13. Oyster Soup For every dozen oysters you need about a pint of good fish stock. Beard the oysters and scald them in their own liquor, which strain and add to the stock. Then thicken with cornflour, butter, pepper, salt, and a pinch of mace, and simmer from fifteen to twenty minutes. Return the oysters, and stir well until they are thoroughly heated, but do not let them boil. Before serving add some lemon juice. 14. White Soup When you have had either boiled veal or boiled poultry it is very easy to make a white soup. Add to the liquor some onion, celery, lemon peel, a good - sized blade of mace, savoury herbs, and parsley. When well- flavoured, strain and thicken with cornflour and milk—about as much milk as there is stock. The addition of a little cream is a great improvement. 15. Julienne Soup Carrots, turnips, onions, and celery finely shredded form the base of this soup, but ini6 PLAIN COOKING their season you may add green peas, asparagus tops, and French beans. Be very careful that the strips are uniform in size, so that they cook equally. Boil gently, then add a good clear stock, such as you would use for gravy soup. The vegetables may be obtained in bottles all ready to add to the soup. 16. Pea Soup Liquor in which beef has been boiled makes the best base for pea soup. One should always take the precaution of well soaking the meat before cooking, if it have an over- salted appearance. The peas (split) need thoroughly well washing. Then leave them to soak all night, putting a very small piece of washing soda with them. Add to the liquor some bones and gravy beef, some bacon rinds, and any cold vegetables con- venient, with plenty of fresh carrots, celery, a turnip, and a pinch of savoury herbs, not forgetting a sprig of parsley. Let this cook, at the same time boiling the peas in a separate saucepan, for they are apt to “ catch ” and spoil all the soup. Bemove the bones to make room for the peas, and boil all up to-17 PLAIN COOKING gether. Rub through a wire sieve and cool; then skim off the fat. Boil up the soup, and serve with dried mint and fried bread cut in dice. 17. Green Pea Soup In reckoning the quantity of peas for the soup required, save a few and boil to throw in just before serving. Put into the stock the peas and shells, a piece of butter, some shredded lettuce, and a small onion, and simmer from a half to three-quarters of an hour. Boil a small quantity of spinach, which squeeze very dry, and add to the soup to colour it. Rub through a sieve, and replace in the saucepan. When just on the boil, put in the pea3 you have boiled. 18. Artichoke Soup Jerusalem artichokes are needed for this soup. Pare and wash them, and place in a sufficient quantity of white stock, adding an onion (or onions), pepper, salt, and a slice of finely-pared lemon peel. When sufficiently cooked to pass through a sieve, subject the vegetables to this process, and return to the liquor in which they were cooked. If thatPLAIN COOKING i8 should prove insufficient, add milk and a thickening of cornflour, Mace and cream will be found a great improvement. 19. Tomato Soup This soup is seasonable all the year round, for, when the fresh fruit is not to be obtained, tinned tomatoes may be used. Melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, slice the quantity of tomatoes you require, and let them simmer gently until soft. Cover with stock, adding an onion, a bunch of herbs, pepper and salt. Cook until the tomatoes are capable of being rubbed through a hair sieve. Boil up, adding a little crushed tapioca, and serve when the tapioca has become transparent. 20. Onion Soup Put the onions into boiling milk and water, with pepper and salt, and let them cook until they can be rubbed through a sieve. Boil up, witffia little thickening. 21. Celery Soup This soup is easy to make, and most bene- ficial to health. Well wash some heads of celery, and put them into a saucepan or stew-PLAIN COOKING *9 pan of boiling milk and water, with an onion, and simmer until all can be rubbed through a sieve. Replace in cold milk, and when about to boil, pour upon the following thickening, and boil up :—cornflour, butter, pepper, salt, a very little grated lemon peel, and a pinch of mace. 22. Lentil Soup Let the lentils soak for an hour or two before putting them into the saucepan with a thin stock. (This soup can be made with water.) Add a bunch of herbs, onions, celery and carrots, pepper and salt, with a good seasoning of pepper, and when cooked to a pulp, rub through a sieve. If you are making this soup with water, add a piece of butter. 23. Vermicelli Soup For this soup you need a good thick clear stock, such as you make for gravy beef, of beef and veal. When the stock is about to boil, throw in the vermicelli, and let all boil well, stirring all the time. The vermicelli should cook no more than five minutes, or it will become a paste, and the soup will be ruined.20 PLAIN COOKING 24. Potato Soup Potatoes make a delectable soup. It may- be made with water, but milk and water is preferable. Pare the potatoes, carrots, onions, and celery. Have the water, or milk and water, boiling, then add salt and pepper. Boil all together until it can be rubbed through a sieve. If you make this soup with water, add a piece of butter when reheating. 25. Barley Soup About a quarter of a pound of pearl barley makes a good soup with the accompaniment of a piece of gravy beef. Cut into small pieces, with onions, potatoes, half a turnip, pepper, salt, and about three pints of water. Boil, then simmer for about three hours. Serve as it is, not taking out the meat. 26. Cabbage Soup Put into a stewpan or saucepan about as much clear stock as you would employ to boil a cabbage in the ordinary way. Let it boil. Have ready a nice, firm cabbage shredded. Throw this into the stock with an onion,PLAIN COOKING 21 pepper and salt, and a teaspoonful of Demerara sugar. Boil for about three-quarters of an hour, till the cabbage is thoroughly soft. FISH 27. Salmon Before putting the salmon into the kettle, wash the fish well, and lightly scrape off the scales. A little vinegar is required to keep the fish firm—but not too much, or you will spoil the colour—and a good-sized piece of salt. Place in warm water and boil, then simmer gently until cooked, which you can tell by the flesh readily leaving the bone. Serve on a serviette garnished with parsley and lemon, and slices of cucumber on the top. Cucumber salad is served with this dish. 28. Salmon Cutlets Do not cut the slices too thick, or they will take too long to cook. Well butter some white paper, in which place the cutlets after lightly sprinkling them with pepper and salt. Place on a dish, and cook in the oven. 29. Croquettes of Salmon Sometimes there is “ just a little piece ” of salmon left of which you^ cook will tell youPLAIN COOKING 22 that no use can be made ; but croquettes of salmon use up all the remnants of salmon, and to make them is easy. Kemove the flesh from the bones, which is always much easier when the fish is warm as it comes from the table. Mix with the remainder of whatever sauce you have had served with it, a little seasoning of mace, pepper, salt, and, if required, a little bread-crumb or very finely-mashed potato, but it must be very little. Roll into balls. Pre- pare some egg and bread-crumb. Place the croquettes in a frying-pan of boiling fat, well drain when browned on a serviette or dish- paper. Serve garnished with parsley. 30. Spiced Salmon For a cold luncheon or supper spiced salmon is more pleasant than pickled. Place the fish in an earthenware dish, covering it with vinegar and water, to which has been added cloves, peppercorns, a small piece of ginger, and one or two bay leaves. Cover with a plate or dish, place in the oven, and cook gently. Let it remain in the liquor all night. You can tell when the fish is done by the ease with which it leaves the bone, but do not over- cook it, for it will continue to cook in thePLAIN COOKING 23 liquor. Prepared in this manner, it keeps for some days. 31. Fried Sole For frying, a sole should be skinned both sides. Dust it very lightly with flour, then roll in egg and bread-crumbs, and place in a pan of boiling fat. Fry a light brown, drain on a clean paper, and serve on a napkin or dish- paper, garnished with shoes of lemon and parsley. 32. Grilled Sole Well rub the gridiron with butter, then place the sole upon it. Dust it lightly with pepper and salt. Smear a good-sized piece of butter on the sole, and place under the gas grill. When nicely browned, turn, and apply another piece of butter, sprinkling pepper and salt. Serve on a very hot dish. A sprinkling of parsley improves the appearance. 33. Boiled Sole In choosing soles for boiling, select large ones weighing at least three pounds. The skin may be left on or removed according to taste. Place in a fish-kettle with enoughPLAIN COOKING 24 water to well cover the sole, adding a little piece of salt, and a few drops of vinegar. Let the fish boil, and then simmer gently until cooked—it will not take more than ten or fifteen minutes after it has once boiled, unless the sole is very large. White sauce, or parsley butter, or any sauce preferred, may be served with this fish. 34. Filleted Sole When a sole is rather large for frying, and not large enough for boiling, it is pleasant filleted. The fillets may be cut in half and rolled. Dust with flour. Boll in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in boiling fat. Serve on a dish-paper, with a garnishing of parsley and lemon. 35. Boiled Cod Fish The middle cut of the fish is more economical than the head and shoulders. Let it soak in salt and water before placing in the fish-kettle, with cold water, a little salt, a slice or two of lemon, or a few drops of vinegar. When the fish will leave the bone, it is cooked. If over- cooked, it becomes discoloured and breaks. The remnants of cod fish may be used up inPLAIN COOKING 25 many ways. Oyster sauce should be served with boiled cod, but any good white sauce serves the purpose. 36. Boiled Cod’s Head and Shoulders Let the fish be thoroughly cleaned, then soaked in salt and water for about three- quarters of an hour; bind firmly together with tape, then place in the fish-kettle in cold water, with a little salt and a few drops of vinegar, or slices of lemon. When it boils, continue to simmer gently. Drain very care- fully, remove the tape, place the fish on a napkin, and garnish with parsley and lemon. Serve with oyster sauce. 37. Fried Cod Steaks Wash the steaks and place them in a clean cloth to dry. Lightly dust with flour, roll in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in boiling fat. The fish must be quite dry, or it will not fry nicely. 38. Grilled Cod Steaks Wash and dry the steaks, dust them very lightly with flour. Well butter the grid before placing them upon it, or they will stick. 0PLAIN COOKING 26 39. Scallops of Cod au Gratin Well butter the scallop shells, and scatter a few bread-crumbs in each; then some flakes of fish. Make a white sauce, adding to it ground mace, cayenne pepper, and a little grated lemon peel. Put a little over the fish ; then add more bread-crumbs and some finely grated cheese. Superadd little dabs of butter, bake a nice brown, and serve very hot. 40. Cod’s Roe Fried Boil the roe in water with a little vinegar and salt for fifteen or twenty minutes. Let it get cold, then cut in slices and roll in egg and bread-crumbs, or batter, and fry. 41. Boiled Turbot Soak the fish in salt and water for some hours before cooking. Then rub it with lemon, and place in hot water. Gradually boil, removing all scum as it arises. Let the fish simmer very gently, and never let it boil until cooked. This you can test by the flesh readily leaving the bone. Drain well and serve on a napkin, garnished with lemon and parsley. Lobster or shrimp sauce should accompany this dish.2 7 PLAIN COOKING 42. Boiled Fresh Haddock Put the fish in cold water with a little salt, and a few drops of vinegar or a slice of lemon. When it boils, continue to simmer gently for fifteen minutes or more, according to the size of the fish. Should the haddocks be small, place the tail in the mouth; put in boiling water; simmer for about twenty minutes. Parsley butter, or egg sauces should be served with this fish. 43. Filleted Haddock Cut each fillet in halves, and roll. Should it be a very large haddock, cut each fillet into four. Dust lightly with flour, roll in egg and bread-crumb, and fry in boiling fat a golden colour. Serve on a dish-paper, garnished with lemon and parsley. 44. To Bake Fresh Haddock Thoroughly cleanse, scale, and dry the fish, taking out the eyes. Make some forcemeat as for veal or poultry, and fill the fish with it. Sew up the opening, and pass the trussing- needle through the tail, centre, and eyes of the fish. Superadd plenty of dripping orPLAIN COOKING 28 butter, baste frequently, cook in a brisk oven from thirty to forty-five minutes, and serve on a very hot dish. Either brown gravy or white sauce can be served with this dish. Codling may be dressed in the same fashion, 45. Dried Haddock and Poached Eggs A pleasant breakfast dish is made by serving poached eggs on a dried haddock. Should you have a little stale milk you will find its addition to the water in which you boil the fish greatly improves the flavour. When the haddock is nearly cooked, take it out of the water (or milk and water), and place it on a well-heated dish while you poach the eggs, which place on the top of the haddock. Grilled bacon is a pleas- ant addition; but do not serve on the same dish. 46. Boiled Mackerel Mackerel do not need to cook long, for they are very delicately - skinned, and liable to crack. Place them in a fish-kettle with water enough to cover them, a little salt and vinegar. When the bone loosens from the skin, the fish is cooked. Serve on a napkin, placing heads and29 PLAIN COOKING tails alternately, garnishing with parsley. Parsley butter or gooseberry sauce usually accompanies this dish. ■ i 47i Soused Mackerel Be sure the fish are thoroughly well cleaned, then place them in a pie-dish with vinegar and water, mixed spice, a bay leaf, pepper, and a little salt, and cook gently until done. Some people like slices of onion added ; but that is, of course, a matter of taste. Let the mackerel cool in the liquor in which they were cooked, then take out and serve cold. Remove the heads before placing the fish in the pie-dish. 48. Grilled Mackerel Split the fish down the back, and put inside a little chopped parsley, butter, pepper, and salt. Close up and place on the grid, which should be previously well rubbed with butter ; or the fish can be placed flat on the grill, in which case, add the parsley at the last minute. 49. Boiled Skate Select the best pieces, and put them in a fish-kettle with a little salt, vinegar, and enough cold water to cover. Boil, then continue toPLAIN COOKING 30 simmer until cooked. Drain, and serve with parsley butter—some over the fish, and also some in a tureen. 50. Fried Skate In buying skate select the crimped pieces, even though they cost a little more; they make so much prettier a dish. After washing and drying the fish, cut into pieces as nearly of a size as possible, though not too small. Roll in egg and bread-crumbs, fry, and strain; serve on a dish-paper with white sauce. 51. Fried Plaice The fish is cut in slices, leaving the bone in, for frying. Well wash, and dry in a clean cloth. Rub with flour, then roll in egg and bread- crumbs, and fry, well draining and serving on a dish-paper garnished with parsley. White sauce may be served with fried plaice, or it can be served plain. 52. Filleted Plaice Well wash the fillets, and place them in a clean cloth to remove the water. When tho- roughly dry, dust the fillets in flour, then roll in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry brown inPLAIN COOKING 3i boiling fat. Drain on a paper until thoroughly dry, then serve on a dish-paper garnished with parsley. Filleted plaice may be served with or without white sauce. 53. Boiled Plaice Well wash the fish in salt and water, and place in the water in which you boil a piece of salt, and a little vinegar, or some slices of lemon. Let it boil, then simmer gently. Drain well before serving, on a napkin, garnishing with parsley and lemon. White sauce, shrimp sauce, or parsley butter may be served with boiled plaice. 54. Fried Whiting Whiting is a very delicate fish, and requires careful treatment in cooking. Have the tail secured in the mouth, and wrap in a dry cloth. Dust lightly with flour, and roll in egg and bread-crumbs, place in boiling fat, and fry a nice brown. Then serve on a dish-paper, garnished with parsley and slices of lemon. 55. Boiled Whiting Do not have the fish skinned for boiling, or the tails turned into the mouths. Place themPLAIN COOKING 32 in cold water sufficient to cover them, with a little salt and a piece of lemon, and gradually boil. Then, unless the fish are very large, they should be cooked. Strain well and serve on a napkin, garnished with parsley and lemon. Egg sauce, white sauce, or parsley butter should be served in a tureen. 56. Whitebait Wash the fish and dry in a cloth, keeping them as separate as possible, for their appear- ance is spoiled should they be matted. Flour them well, place them carefully in a basket, and plunge into boiling fat. Should you not have a basket, fry the fish, keeping it as separate as possible, and remove with a slice, and drain. Whitebait take hardly any time to cook. They should be served on a dish- paper, garnished with lemon and parsley. Serve thin brown bread and butter, and lemon cut in quarters, with them. 57. Sham Whitebait Take any fish that will fillet well—for instance, soles, lemon soles, or a firm plaice. Have the fillets carefully skinned, and then, with a very sharp knife, cut them into pieces33 PLAIN COOKING about an inch and a half long and half an inch wide. Great care must be taken not to break the flakes or leave jagged edges to the little pieces, which may be fried in a whitebait basket, egged, and rolled in very fine bread- crumbs, or fried in the ordinary way. Serve very hot, with fried parsley round, lemon, brown bread and butter. This is a very nice way of serving fish to invalids. 58. Salt Fish Before cooking, soak for two or three hours in cold water, occasionally changing it. Put in cold water, and serve with egg sauce. Boiled parsnips generally accompany this dish. 59. Fresh Herrings Soused Place the herrings (after they are cleansed and the heads removed), in vinegar and water, with peppercorns, spice, and a bay leaf. Cook in the oven. Let the fish cool in the liquor in which they have been cooked. 60. Fresh Herrings Grilled Well cleanse, but do not have the fish cut open, as it is very delicate and liable to break.34 PLAIN COOKING Rub the grid well with a buttered paper, and let it get thoroughly hot before placing the fish upon it. A little mustard placed upon the fish is a great improvement, as they are very rich. 61. Smelts These fish are very delicate, and require care in the preparing. After they are cleaned, rub them carefully in a clean dry cloth, then dust them lightly with flour, and put them in egg and finely-grated bread-crumbs, and fry a nice light brown. Well drain, and serve very hot, neatly arranged on the dish. 62. Sprats These little fish should be eaten very hot. They are very easy to cook. After cleansing, rub in a dry cloth, and then well dust with flour, and place in a frying pan of boiling fat. Well drain before the fire so that they do not cool before serving. 63. Baked Pike After the fish is cleansed and prepared, fill it with veal stuffing. Then set it up, and fasten the tail in the mouth with a skewer. Flour it35 PLAIN COOKING well, and put in the oven with plenty of drip- ping. Once the fish begins to brown, keep on basting until cooked. A large pike will take an hour, as it needs gradual cooking. Serve with a brown gravy, containing a few capers—some over the fish and some in a sauce boat. 64. Eels with Parsley Sauce Small eels are the better for this dish. Soak them well in salt and water. Place them in a stewpan with milk, water, and chopped parsley; let them boil, and then simmer till tender. Utilise the liquor in which they have been cooked as the base of parsley butter. Then arrange them on a dish, and pour some of the parsley butter over them, and serve some in a sauce boat. 65. Gudgeon These fresh-water fish much resemble smelts, and should be cooked in the same way—rolled in egg and bread-crumbs, and fried. 66. Timbale of Fish Cook the fish, and pick it free from skin and bone. Cut it into fine dice, and mix about half a pound of fish with rather more than a gill of white sauce. Season with salt, pepper, and a little chopped parsley and lemon juice.PLAIN COOKING 36 Mix with two whole eggs and place in a plain, well-greased timbale mould. Twist a buttered paper over it, and steam three-quarters of an hour. Turn out, and send a good fish sauce to table with it. 67. Scallop Pie You cannot be too particular in cleansing scallops, for they retain sand. They need well soaking in salt and water, and rinsing. They may be made into a pie, and should be prepared overnight. The nicest way of preparing them is to gently simmer in a little milk and water, adding thereto a flavouring of sweet herbs and parsley. Have ready a pie-dish, well buttered and lined with bread-crumbs, in which place the scallops (after having, of course, strained them). Cover with a little white sauce, into which you have introduced some ground mace and just a suspicion of nutmeg, and a little finely-grated lemon-peel. Then cover again with more bread-crumbs, and cover with small pieces of butter, so that the pie may brown. The pepper and salt may either be added to the scallops or to the white sauce. 68. Scallops in their Shells Completely cleanse the scallops, dry them, and cut each into three pieces. Have ready aPLAIN COOKING 37 well-buttered shell, and sprinkle thereon a few bread-crumbs. Add the pieces of scallop, placing upon each a small piece of butter, some cayenne pepper, and a squeeze of lemon ; then cover again with bread-crumbs, put more butter on, and bake until nicely browned. 69. Stewed Scallops Put the scallops in a saucepan of milk and water, to which introduce an onion pierced with a clove, and a little parsley and lemon peel. Let them boil in this liquor, and remain in it till cold. Then strain off, and add milk sufficient for the number of scallops you are cooking, and let them simmer till tho- roughly tender. Make a thickening of flour, butter, pepper, salt, and a little ground mace. Well stir all the time, as milk is very liable to burn, and serve on a very hot dish. 70. Fish Cakes Boiled cod or fresh haddock are most useful. Take the fish from the bones while the fish is still warm, for it comes away much quicker and cleaner. Then put it in a basin with cold potatoes and whatever is left of the sauce you have had with the fish. Pound all well together as fine as possible; then add some38 PLAIN COOKING chopped parsley and an onion, or a little ground mace and pepper and salt, a little bread-crumb, and mix well together with an egg, or eggs, according to the quantity. Boll into balls, and egg and bread-crumb them. Put into boiling fat, and fry a light brown. Well drain, and serve on a dish-paper garnished with parsley. The fat from bacon, mixed with the dripping, is an excellent thing for frying fish. 71. Baked Crab To make a nice dish of baked crab, it is better to get two crabs; for when the edible portion is separated, there will only be enough to fill one shell nicely. Well cleanse the larger shell, and thoroughly butter it, then place within it the following ingredients :—well shred the crabs, and mix them with butter, pepper, salt, and a very slight grating of lemon-peel and a little mace. Well mix these together, then place in the shell, putting a nice-sized piece of butter on the outside to brown it, and serve in the shell. 72. Fish Pie The simplest way of using up cold boiled fish is to make it into a pie. Take the fish from the bones whilst they are still warm. Well butter39 PLAIN COOKING a pie-dish, and line it lightly with mashed potatoes. Then place the fish, which must have previously been pulled into flakes with two forks (not steel); add to it the remaining sauce from the fish, and spice to taste. Then cover with a layer of bread-crumbs, and super- add little pieces of butter to brown it. Serve with a frilled dish-cover round, or else on a dish-paper, garnished with parsley. 73. Fish Pie au Gratin Take a nice-sized lemon sole, and fillet it yourself, or see that your fishmonger sends the bones with it—you need them for stock. Well butter the dish, and line the sides with a little mashed potato. Cut your fillets in halves and roll them, stand them upright in the dish. Add your stock, which should be made thus : Simmer the bones very gently in milk, to which has been added a small onion pierced with a clove, a little mace, nutmeg, and a thin shred of lemon-peel. When the stock is ready, strain it into the dish; cover with grated bread-crumbs. Then grate the cheese on to the bread-crumbs. Put little pieces of butter on the top, and bake a nice brown. When cooked this way, you cannot tell the lemon soles from the Dover soles.40 PLAIN COOKING 74. Scollops of Lobster Carefully dissect the remnants of the fish, and have ready some well-buttered scollop shells, into which you have placed a few finely- grated bread-crumbs, to which add the lobster, some butter, pepper, salt, and a little ground mace, not forgetting a little grated lemon- peel. Cover well over with more grated bread- crumbs, and a liberal allowance of butter, and bake in a brisk oven, and serve in the shells. 75. Mayonnaise of Lobster Be sure the salad is thoroughly well dried. Rub the bowl lightly with garlic. Then place in the salad and the lobster cut in pieces. Pour over the Mayonnaise sauce and mix. Garnish with some more salad, hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, beetroot, capers or olives. 76. Scolloped Oysters Be sure the liquor is preserved when the oysters are opened, and that the beard is removed. Well butter the scollop shells, and place in them some bread-crumbs, then the oysters and a little of the liquor, which should be strained. To each shell add a squeeze of lemon and a little cayenne pepper. Cover well with bread-crumbs and small nobs of butter ; bake in the oven, and serve very hot.4i PLAIN COOKING 77. Oyster Patties Remove the beards; strain the liquor, and pour into a saucepan, and simmer the oysters for about five minutes, but do not let them boil, as that would harden them. Take them out and cut into small pieces, and replace in the stew- pan with their liquor ; add a small quantity of anchovy essence, a squeeze of lemon, pepper and salt, and a piece of butter mixed with flour. Let the whole boil for about ten minutes to a quarter of an hour, stirring all the while. Then squeeze in a half lemon, and add a little powdered mace, then fill the patty cases, and serve very hot. Patty cases may be obtained from a good confectioner. 78. Devilled Oysters Oysters cooked in this way do not take long to cook. Be careful not to lose any of their juice whilst opening and removing the beard, as they have to be cooked in the shell with the juice. Place under the oyster in each shell a small piece of butter, cayenne, and a squeeze of lemon, and on the top a small piece of butter to each shell, then cook quickly either in the oven or under a gas grid. Serve very hot, accompanied by brown bread and butter and lemon. D42 PLAIN COOKING 79. Concerning Suet Science has done much for the modern cook, in providing material ready to her hand, that once needed careful, troublesome preparation. But for few things should she be more grate- ful than for Hugon’s Atoza Suet. Use it once —and you will be angry indeed if accident ever deprives of it. MEAT 80. Roast Beet Should you wish the beef underdone, it is better to cook it quickly at first, so as to retain the gravy. Well baste during the process of cooking, which must be timed according to the size of the j oint. Beef cooked to be served as a cold joint should not be cut while hot; then served with horse-radish sauce, garnished with parsley, horse-radish, and slices of beet- root. 81. Boiled Beef Should the beef look at all over-salted, soak it well before cooking, otherwise it spoils the stock, and is unpalatable. Put the meat into cold water, with an onion pierced with a clove, and let it boil. Then add the vegetables— carrots, turnips, and a parsnip if liked. LetPLAIN COOKING 43 all simmer very gently until cooked. The vegetables are usually served round the joint. A dish of cabbage or green vegetable is a pleasant addition. 82. Roast Leg of Mutton It is always well to let your butcher hang this joint—it becomes so much more tender. If roasting, place in front of a good clear fire and well baste. If baking, put a little dripping in the tin, melt, and baste the joint well. A leg of mutton of average size will take from two and a half to three hours to cook slowly. If well hung, red currant jelly is usually served with leg of mutton. Stewed onions or mashed turnips make a pleasant vegetable accompaniment. 83. Boiled Leg of Mutton In boiling mutton, an onion pierced with a clove is a great improvement. Put the joint into cold water, and let it boil. Remove the scum as it rises. Carrots and mashed turnips are the usual accompaniments of this dish, and are better boiled with the joint. A leg of mutton of average size takes quite four hours to cook, or, if liked well done, longer; so the vegetables should not be put in too soon ; but44 PLAIN COOKING allowance must be made for simmering instead of boiling. Do not try the meat with a fork while cooking, for it releases the gravy. Serve some of the liquor in which the joint has been cooked ; also the carrots. Make some caper sauce, and serve in a tureen. A little veal added to the liquor makes a nice white stock. 84. To Boil Half a Leg of Mutton When you do not require a large joint, the leg may be cut in halves. To retain the gravy, make a paste of flour and water, and cover the cut end; or a suet crust may be used and served with the joint. Tie in a cloth so as to secure the crust. Put in cold water, with a little salt and an onion pierced with a clove. The carrots and turnips may be cooked separately, ac- cording to taste. Be careful not to boil, but simmer gently for about three hours. v 85. Shoulder of Mutton H; The favourite way of cooking a shoulder of mutton is to bake it with surrounding potatoes. Put some dripping over the joint, and a dust- ing of flour. When the dripping has melted, introduce the potatoes—if they are very large cut them in halves,—and cook in a moderate oven. Onion sauce should always be servedPLAIN COOKING 45 with this joint, and mashed turnips make an agreeable accompaniment. 86. Breast of Mutton Breast of mutton may be treated in many ways. For instance, it may be boned and stuffed with sage and onion. Use old onions, not Spanish, and do not cook them first, but chop them raw, for they retain so much more flavour. The sage must be scalded before chopping—always avoid too much sage, for it tends to make stuffing bitter. A little bread- crumb, pepper, and salt is needed, also an egg to mix it. Place the stuffing in the joint, then well secure with string, and bake gently till well cooked. Carve in slices as you would a roly-poly pudding. 87. Boned Loin of Mutton This dish will be found a change from the ordinary baked or roasted loin of mutton. You must get your butcher to bone the joint for you. Then place in it some thoroughly good forcemeat. The bones will make a good gravy to serve around the dish. 88. Roast Leg of Lamb Let the joint cook very slowly at first, as46 PLAIN COOKING lamb needs more cooking. Well baste, and when nearly done, put nearer the fire and brown up. Allow at least half an hour to the pound, and serve with mint sauce. A salad of lettuce or cucumber is a great acquisition. 89. Roast Pore Quarter of Lamb Cook very slowly until the meat is tho- roughly well done, basting the while, and well brown before serving. A piece of butter, lemon, and cayenne pepper should be taken to table with this dish to place between the shoulder and the ribs when the shoulder is cut off. Should you not be a very expert carver, it is better to have the shoulder cut off before it reaches table. Serve with mint sauce. 90. Roast Veal Fillet of veal is usually selected for roasting, but the breast and shoulder make a very delicious dish. Introduce some forcemeat; and also make some forcemeat balls to serve round. Well baste, and cook very gently until nearly done; then brown up. Veal should be well cooked, or it is unwholesome. Boiled or grilled bacon or pickled pork should always accompany this dish. Garnish with lemon.PLAIN COOKING 47 91. Gravy for Veal Make a white sauce, and after the dripping is poured off the pan, boil it up with the gravy, dusting in some pepper and salt. 92. Boiled Knuckle of Veal The knuckle makes the nicest dish of boiled veal. Well wash, and place in cold water; boil, then place with it either pickled pork or bacon, and cook very gently until the meat will come away from the bone. Skim off all scum as it arises. Serve with parsley butter, some round the joint and some in a tureen. The liquor in which this joint is boiled makes fine white stock. 93. Roast Loin of Pork Sage and onion stuffing should be served with pork. Raise the crackling gently, and place thereunder the stuffing, or some of it, to give the pork a flavour. The rest may be cooked separately. Rub the crackling with a little salad oil—not much or it will taste—and cook slowly until nearly done. Then cook quickly to crisp the crackling. Apple sauce is served with pork. 94. Roast Leg of Pork Make an incision near the knuckle, and insertPLAIN COOKING 48 some sage and onion stuffing. Rub the crack- ling of the pork very lightly with good salad oil. Cook very slowly at first, and when nearly cooked, finish quickly to crisp up the crack- ling. Should you have more stuffing, cook it in a tin or pie dish. If pork be not well cooked it is not wholesome. 95. Boiled Hand of Pork Thoroughly well soak the pork before cook- ing. Place it in cold water and let it boil. Then add some parsnips and cook very gently. Pease pudding is much liked with this dish. 96. Pease Pudding Thoroughly rinse the peas through a colander, and remove any that float. Place the re- mainder in a basin of water with a small piece of washing soda, and let them soak all night. Tie them in a cloth loosely, so as to allow for swelling. Place in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for three or four hours. Put an old saucer or plate in the bottom of the saucepan to prevent the cloth sticking to the bottom. The pudding may either be served whole or mashed with a little pepper and butter. 97. Pork Pudding Get a lean piece of pork, which cut from thePLAIN COOKING 49 bones into well shaped pieces. Put the bones on to stew with an onion or two, and a leaf of sage which has been previously scalded, or a very fine sprinkling of dried sage. Have a well-greased basin ready lined with a light suet crust, into which place the pieces of pork, adding an onion finely chopped, and another very slight sprinkling of sage, pepper, and salt. Strain the liquor from the bones, and pour over; they put a dusting of flour. Put the top crust on, and cover with a pudding cloth firmly tied down. Then plunge into boiling water, and boil for five or six hours. Do not remove the lid of the saucepan more frequently than you are obliged. Have a kettle of boiling water ready to hand to keep the pudding always covered—this applies to any pudding with a suet crust; also always dip the pudding cloth into boiling water, and well flour it before putting on. Should you make a larger pudding than you require, serve in the basin wrapped in a serviette, for whatever remains can be heated up so much better by putting the basin in a steamer. 98. Rolled Salt Pork Take a good-sized piece of thin salted pork, and soak it. Tie it firmly with string into aPLAIN COOKING 50 roll, and put it to cook in cold water. Boil, then allow to simmer gently till cooked. Then take it up and let it go cold before removing the string. This makes a nice breakfast or supper dish. 99. Roast Fowls Fowls may either be stuffed with forcemeat, or with parsley finely chopped, a little bread- crumb and savoury herbs well mixed with a piece of butter ; or they may be cooked with- out. They need well basting and gentle cooking, averaging about an hour. Rolled or boiled bacon, bread sauce, and a good gravy, either with or without wine, should be served with them. 100. Boiled Fowl and Pickled Pork Well soak the pork and put it on in cold water. When it boils introduce the fowl, and continue to simmer gently. Unless the fowl is old or very large it should be well cooked in three- quarters of an hour or an hour. Serve with either lemon sauce or parsley butter, some of which pour over the fowl, and the remainder serve in a sauce boat.PLAIN COOKING 5i 101. Stewed Chicken and Peas Disjoint the fowl, flour the joints, and place them in a stewpan with some thinly-sliced onion and a piece of butter. Sprinkle there- on some mixed herbs, pepper and salt. When browned, cover with stock, and simmer gently until quite tender. Make a thickening of flour and butter, with ketchup or Worces- tershire sauce. Cook the peas separately, so as to preserve their colour. Place them in the middle of the dish, surrounding with the fowl, pouring the gravy over all. Fried potatoes, cut with a potato cutter, may be served round. 102. Grilled Chicken Well butter the grill before placing the chicken thereon, otherwise it is likely to ad- here. Add thereto a piece of butter, a dusting of flour, a little pepper and salt, not forgetting a squeeze of lemon juice. A few grilled rashers of bacon may be served ; and a sprinkling of very finely chopped parsley and mixed herbs placed on the fowl while still on the grill give it a very delicious flavour. 103. Roast Duck Ducks need stuffing with sage and onions and well cooking. Underdone, they are un-52 PLAIN COOKING wholesome. Baste carefully, and serve with a good gravy, made either with or without wine. Apple sauce lessens the richness of the duck. Green peas should always accompany this dish. Tinned peas carefully chosen and cooked are by no means to be despised. 104. To Stew a Duck whole Place the duck in a stewpan or jar with a piece of butter, some cut-up onions and a little finely-chopped sage. Scald the sage be- fore chopping, and use very little. Dust with flour, and nicely brown. Cover with stock, and stew gently. When sufficiently cooked make a thickening of flour, and what sauce you may prefer. Serve the gravy round the duck ; and either peas or French beans. 105. Roast G-oose Stuff the goose with sage and onion stuffing, and well baste while cooking. Serve with apple sauce and a good brown gravy. 106. Roast Turkey- Add some sausage meat to the forcemeat in stuffing the turkey, and when ready, put a buttered paper over the breast, and cook slowly at first, keeping it well basted. WhenPLAIN COOKING 53 nearly cooked, remove the paper, and dredge lightly with flour. Keep on basting, and when cooked, serve with good brown gravy and bread sauce ; garnish with sausages, and serve ham or bacon with it. A small turkey will take two hours to cook. 107. Stuffing for Turkey A little sausage meat added to the ordinary stuffing makes a great improvement. Chop finely half a pound of suet and a good two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, the rind of a lemon also grated as fine as possible, and just one squeeze of the juice, mixed herbs, pepper, salt, and half a pound of sausage meat. Mix all well together with a couple of eggs. This quantity will be found sufficient for a turkey of from ten to twelve pounds in weight. 108. Boiled Turkey Stuff the bird with veal stuffing to which a little cold ham or bacon has been added, put it into hot water and let it boil, carefully removing all scum as it arises. Then let it simmer gently from an hour and a half to two hours, or more according to the size of the bird. To make sure of the whiteness of the turkey, tie it in a floured cloth. Boiled ham, bacon,54 PLAIN COOKING tongue or pickled pork should always accom- pany this dish. Serve with parsley butter, celery sauce, or any white sauce. 109. Stuffing for Boiled Turkey For boiled turkey you do not use the same stuffing as for roast — less suet; adding cold chopped ham or bacon and the usual force- meat—that is to say, finely-chopped parsley, mixed herbs, lemon peel, and bread-crumbs, to be mixed with an egg or eggs, according to the quantity required, and the size of the bird. 110. Partridges These birds may either be eaten fresh or allowed to get “ high.” Put them in the oven, covered with bacon rind and dripping, and dusted lightly with flour. Baste well while cooking, and serve with rolled bacon, bread sauce, and a good gravy. A pleasant variety is to serve the partridges on well drained cabbage or greens. If roasted, allow about thirty minutes before a good fire. 111. Pheasant Make a seasoning of parsley, mixed herbs, and bread-crumbs ; mix with a large piece of butter, and place inside the pheasant. Place55 PLAIN COOKING the bird in a casserole if you have one ; a baking-dish will do as well if yon watch it carefully. The bird should be basted with cream, but milk will answer the same purpose if you place a little more butter inside the bird. But do not neglect the basting. 112. G-rouse These birds should be kept as long as possible. Most lovers of game prefer them “ high.” If roasted they need about half an hour, being thoroughly well basted the while. If baked, it should be according to the heat of the oven. They should not be overdone. A good rich gravy and bread sauce is the accom- paniment of this dish. 113. Wild Duck To retain the gravy, put the birds before the fire or in the oven for some minutes. Then baste well with butter, and when nearly cooked, dredge with flour to brown. Serve very hot, with a good wine gravy. 114. Roast or Baked Hare Soak the hare in warm water, and stuff with forcemeat, which sew in. Well rub the hare over with butter and a sprinkling of flour, and56 PLAIN COOKING baste with milk until cooked. Do not neglect the basting. 115. Jugged Hare Disjoint the hare and flour each joint, and fry in butter with an onion or two, according to size. Place in a stew jar, covering with stock. Put in a muslin bag some peppercorns, allspice and herbs, so that they can be re- moved before serving. Put the jar in the oven, and let it remain for quite four hours, then add a tumbler of port wine; and when quite heated again place the hare upon a dish. Make a thickening of flour and a little ketchup, and boil up and pour over the hare. Garnish with forcemeat balls, and serve with red cur- rant jelly. 116. Jugged Rabbit Having jointed your rabbit, put it in a frying pan with a little butter and some slices of onion and mixed herbs. When the rabbit is sufficiently browned, place it in an earthen- ware fire-proof jar in the oven, just covering it with water to prevent burning. When nearly cooked, add about a pint of claret, and make a thickening in the usual way of flour sauce, etc.PLAIN COOKING 57 Serve on a very hot dish. If a few forcemeat balls are served round the dish, and a few pieces of toasted bacon, this will quite take the place of jugged hare, and is much more economical. 117. Baked Rabbits Take away the liver, heart, etc., which reserve for gravy. With a little gravy beef, or any stock you may have, make an ordinary forcemeat stuffing, with which fill the rabbits, sewing up the opening. In placing them in the tin to bake, be sure and put in a little cold water, so that they shall not become dry. Well flour them, add plenty of dripping, and keep well basting. The time of cooking de- pends of course on the heat of the oven and the size of the rabbits. Before serving take out the liver, and chop not too finely, and place over the rabbit, which must be disjointed before sending to table. Then cover with the sauce that has been made from the stock, adding a glass of port or sherry to the thicken- ing. There need be no wine used in the gravy, but with the wine-gravy and bread sauce the dish can very well pass for hare. 118. Boiled Rabbit A rabbit looks better disjointed for serving E58 PLAIN COOKING at table; but that, of course, is a matter of taste. Before boiling, soak in warm water, to which a little salt has been added. You need pickled pork with rabbit, and that will take longer to cook. Having soaked it in cold water, put it in the saucepan with an onion pierced with a clove. Let the rabbit go into boiling water with the pork, then pull to the side and simmer gently until cooked. In serving, smother in onion sauce ; of course, serving the pork on another dish. Mashed turnips make a very agreeable accompani- ment to this dish. 119. Plain Stewed Rabbit Have the rabbit disjointed, and well soak in warm salt and water. Thoroughly rinse it, and then place in a stewpan or saucepan with a few slices of pickled pork. If you should have any white stock, well cover with it; if not, use water. Put in a small bunch of herbs, onions, carrot, and one small turnip. Let all simmer for about an hour, then make a thickening of flour, pepper, salt, and a pinch of mace, with the addition of a little finely-chopped parsley and a small piece of butter. Then boil up and serve.59 PLAIN COOKING 120. Baked Pigeons i Stuff with veal stuffing, to which a little sausage meat has been added, and stew in stock. When cooked, take the pigeons up and place upon a hot dish. Thicken the stock in which they have been cooked with flour, ketchup, and a little wine, and pour over them. Rolled bacon should be served as a garnish. 121. Stewed Knuckle of Veal with Rice When buying the veal get the butcher to chop through the bone. After having well washed it, place it in a saucepan or stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, a slice of lemon peel, and a blade of mace, covering well with water. Let it boil, then throw in about a quarter of a pound of rice, and simmer gently for two hours. Occasionally stir, to prevent the rice from burning. About five minutes before serving, put in a teaspoonful of salt, and let it boil up. Place the rice around the veal with a sprinkling of parsley over it, and cover the veal with parsley butter. This dish should be accompanied by a piece of boiled pickled pork or bacon.6o PLAIN COOKING 122. Stewed Veal and Peas The best part of veal for stewing is either the breast or the middle of the neck. Fry the veal a light brown—after you have cut it into nice pieces — with some onions. When browned, place in a saucepan or stewpan and cover with stock or water, adding thereto some nice young carrots. Make a thickening of flour, Worcestershire sauce, and then add the peas, which are much better cooked by themselves, for they keep their colour. If fresh peas are not to be obtained, there are several brands of tinned peas, which, with careful cooking, cannot be distinguished from the fresh, and, indeed, in some cases are infinitely better. 123. Cookery en Casserole Put into the casserole about a half pint of good stock, and, if the stock be white, add to it a little colouring. Stone half a dozen olives, and throw in also a handful of spaghetti, some button mushrooms, half-cooked carrots and small onions. Let this stand by the side of the stove and simmer while preparing the bird, rabbit, or whatsoever you may be going to cook in the casserole, which is done in the61 PLAIN COOKING following manner :—Place in a slow oven, and baste well with either stock or butter for twenty minutes. Then place in the casserole, adding the stock that has been used in basting, and a bunch of herbs. Place the casserole in a deep dish of hot water, and either let simmer by the side of the stove or in the stew—but do not let the water boil, and take care that the stock does not cook dry—for a couple of hours. Just before serving up, peel and halve some tomatoes, which place in the casserole. Serve in the casserole with a napkin pinned round. 124. Lamb Cutlets Well trim the cutlets, and roll them in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry brown, taking care that they do not fry too fast, as they require well cooking. When done, drain them thor- oughly, and have either peas or beans ready, which place in the centre of the dish heaped up, and arrange the cutlets round. Mint sauce is usually served with them. 125. Veal Cutlets Cut the veal—which should be from the fillet—into small pieces, and roll in egg and bread-crumbs. Fry some fat bacon, and place62 PLAIN COOKING on the dish in the oven, to keep warm while the cutlets are frying. Put some more fat into the pan, so that the cutlets are covered. Fry them brown. Then place them on a paper to drain while you make the gravy. Place in the centre of the dish, the bacon round. Pour over the gravy, and sprinkle a little fluid parsley over. Should you have more cutlets than you require, serve the gravy in a tureen, for it spoils them for further use. 126. To Stew a Steak Put the steak into a frying-pan with a small piece of butter or dripping, and fry lightly. Then fry in the fat from the steak, onions and carrots. When it is obtainable, celery is a great improvement. Then proceed to stew your steak, but do not let it boil, only simmer gently. When the steak is sufficiently stewed, make a thickening of flour and Worcestershire sauce, adding a small quantity of vinegar. The vinegar detracts from the richness of the gravy. A very great improvement is secured by the addition, just before serving, of a few pieces of pickled gherkin, or any kind of mixed pickle. The time necessary to stew the steak depends, of course, on the quantity, but always63 PLAIN COOKING allow an liour to tlie pound. The slower tLe process of cooking the better. When young carrots can be obtained, there is no need to fry them first. A little celery seed or salt is a good substitute for celery. 127. Jugged Steak Place a well-trimmed steak in a jar in the oven, with an onion pierced with a clove, and sufficient stock to cover it, and a sprinkling of herbs. When quite tender, make a thickening of flour and ketchup and a little wine. 128. A Carpet-Bag Steak Select a lean and tender piece of rump steak of not less than four inches in thickness. Slit it through to within one inch of the back. Place inside salt, pepper, and lemon juice, and as many bearded oysters as the steak will hold. Sew down the flap, and grill over a good clear fire, well basting with butter the while. In serving, cut straight through. 129. Steak and Kidney Pudding In making a steak and kidney pudding you need to select a lean piece of steak, for the richness of the crust boils into the pudding.64 PLAIN COOKING In making the crust chop the suet very fine, adding a little salt. Well grease the basin, and then line with the crust, reserving enough for a top crust. Cut the steak and kidney into small pieces—not too small—and place them in the basin with a sprig of parsley, salt, and pepper. Fill up with water, and well dust with flour. Cover with a cloth which has been steeped in boiling water. Plunge the pudding into boiling water. The skirt of beef maybe used instead of steak, and of course is more economical. There are several things to note in making a steak pudding. Have a large enough basin to allow for plenty of gravy. Do not cook in too small a saucepan, for it is much better boiled in the same water without being refilled. Do not remove the lid unnecessarily during the cooking. See that the pudding- cloth is well secured, so that no water can get in. The pudding, if served in the basin with a serviette pinned round, can be easily steamed up, and is almost equal to the first day. Always allow three to four hours to boil a pudding. 130. A Richer Pudding For the gourmet there is another method of making a truly delicious steak and kidneyPLAIN COOKING 65 pudding. Make a rich suet crust, with which line a large-sized basin, so as to allow for plenty of gravy, as this pudding requires a good many ingredients. First a little rump steak and kidney with a clove and garlic, then some oysters in their liquor, and a few mushrooms. Then sprinkle with salt and pepper and a dust- ing of sweet herbs and flour. Add one or two small birds, then the remainder of the steak and kidney. Fill up with water and again dust with flour. Firmly tie on the pudding- cloth. After having well covered with the top crust, plunge into the saucepan of boiling water, and boil for at least five hours. 131. Fillet of Beef en Casserole To cook a nice thick piece of the fillet of beef in a casserole preserves all its goodness. Place it in the casserole with a good-sized piece of butter, a dusting of flour, pepper, and salt, and about a teacupful of clear stock and serve as an entree. 132. Stewed Kidneys When you cannot obtain sheep’s kidneys, ox kidney, if carefully stewed, serves the same purpose. Cut into small pieces, and place in66 PLAIN COOKING a saucepan with a good-sized piece of butter, a dusting of flour, and pepper and salt. Well shake the saucepan till the kidneys have browned, then add a little water, and let them simmer for about twenty minutes, and you will find them deliciously tender, a nice rich gravy coming from them. Then place round the dish some shoes of bacon which have been previously grilled. Tomatoes baked and served with the bacon and kidneys make a very effective dish. 133. Stewed Pigeons and Kidneys Cut the pigeons in halves, and put them in a saucepan or stewpan. Just cover them with water or stock, pepper, salt, etc., to keep them simmering. When nearly cooked, add to them some sheep’s kidneys, cut in halves, or some ox kidney, cut into small pieces. When making the thickening, the addition of a few mushrooms gives a nice flavour, or a few tomatoes, previously cooked and served round the dish, have the double effect of making the dish look nicer, and also go much farther. If you cannot obtain fresh mushrooms, there are some very excellent bottled.67 PLAIN COOKING 134. Haricot Ox-tail Have the ox-tail jointed, then fry with a little butter and onions, cut in slices, till it is sufficiently brown to colour the gravy. Then place in a saucepan or stewpan, and cover with good stock, to which add carrots, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, etc. To make this thoroughly palatable, it requires three to four hours’ gentle simmering. Before serving, make a thickening of flour, sauce, etc. The addition of a very small quantity of finely-chopped pickle will be found an improvement. When- ever procurable, a little celery should be introduced. 135. To Hash Mutton To hash mutton, well stew the bones with pepper and salt, onions, sweet herbs, and a little parsley. Then strain off the liquor, and let it stand till perfectly cold. To this intro- duce the mutton, and let it simmer gently till it boils. Make a thickening of flour, ketchup or Worcestershire sauce, and add a little pickled walnut. Stir till it is well thickened. Have a hot dish ready to serve, garnished with sippets of toast. Do not, in making any kindPLAIN COOKING 68 of hash or stew, make too much gravy. It detracts from the goodness, and is no economy, for, once thickened, gravy is of no use. It is very liable to burn, and also to burn your saucepan. Should you not care for highly- seasoned stews, you may dispense with the pickled walnuts ; but they are really a great improvement, and also give a good colouring without the use of artificial matter. The great thing with all kinds of hashes or stews is to serve them very hot, and to have your very hot plates and dishes ready; if they are served on a cold dish or plate, stews are ruined. When you have strained off your stock, let it cool before putting in your meat. Skim off all the fat. This will apply to every kind of hash or mince. 136. Irish Stew Irish stew is always much nicer if you have the stock of boiled mutton in which to cook it. The middle of the neck is the best for this dish, for it is not fat, and is also cheaper than the best end of the neck or loin. You require plenty of potatoes and onions, or the stew is flavourless. When you have cut the piece of meat in pieces ready for stewing, put them to69 PLAIN COOKING soak for a short time in salt and water, and then place in the saucepan, in which you have previously put the amount of stock adequate to the stew required, a layer of potatoes and onions, and a sprinkling of sweet herbs and parsley, then the meat with pepper and salt, and cover again with another layer of potatoes and onions, and simmer for an hour or two according to the quantity of meat. Do not let the stew boil, and do not frequently remove the lid, for by so doing you let out the steam and harden the meat. 137. Lancashire Hot-Pot You need an earthenware stew jar to make the hot-pot in the oven. Well line the jar with potatoes, onions, and a small quantity of chopped parsley, and add to it the meat which has been well trimmed, a few mixed herbs, and some water. Place another layer of potatoes on the top of the meat, not forgetting a few slices of onion. Put into the oven, and let it stew gently for two or three hours. Do not remove the lid of the jar while cooking. The lean part of the neck of mutton is most service- able for this dish, though the shin of beef may be used, in which case add a few carrots.PLAIN COOKING 70 138. Ragout of Rabbit Have the rabbit nicely jointed, and fry in butter until light brown. Place in a stewpan with some strong stock and some onions, parsley, mixed herbs, a few allspice, and some lemon peel. Cover closely, and simmer for about an hour and a half, or until the meat is tender. Strain off most of the gravy, leaving enough in the pan to keep the rabbit hot. Melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, and stir in enough flour to make a thick paste, then gradually add the gravy, with salt and pepper, and let it boil for about ten minutes. Be sure and remove any scum as it arises. Then add some ketchup and lemon juice and a wineglass- ful of white wine, and let it boil up. Arrange the rabbit on a dish, and strain the gravy over it through a sieve. Garnish with some force- meat balls and fried or grilled bacon. 139. Rabbit Pudding Rabbits make a very palatable pudding, simple and economical. It needs a suet crust. The basin can either be lined therewith, or it may be placed on the top according to taste. You require, besides the rabbit, some fatPLAIN COOKING 7* pickled pork. Place the rabbit and pork in the basin in layers, adding thereto some mixed herbs, pepper, and salt. The addition of a little onion is a matter of taste. 140. Ragout of Mutton Take the middle of the neck of mutton, cut it into small pieces, and place in a stewpan with a piece of butter and a little parsley and sweet herbs. Continually shake the stewpan till the meat is of a nice brown colour; then add sliced onions, which will cook in the liquor from the mutton. When they are sufficiently brown, put in potatoes, adding a sufficient quantity of stock or water. Let the whole simmer till the potatoes are thoroughly cooked. The salt and pepper are better left till the potatoes are added, as the salt helps to brown the meat and endangers your stewpan. 141. Ragout of Beef A very nice ragout may be made from beef as well as from mutton, and cold under-done beef may be used up as acceptably as fresh meat. Cut into suitable pieces, and place in a stewpan, with butter, pepper, salt, and onion. When well browned, add water and potatoes. Do72 PLAIN COOKING not forget to shake the stewpan continually, whether the meat be raw or cooked—it burns so easily, and then the dish is spoiled. Never let the ragout boil; only simmer. Careless cooking is the secret of most tough and tasteless stews. 142. Ragout of Rabbit Disjoint the rabbit, and fry with onions; then place in a stewpan, covering with stock or water; a carrot finely sliced, celery, pep- per, salt, and a sprinkling of herbs. When partially cooked, add some slices of either pickled pork or bacon. When cooked, arrange on a dish, garnishing with the rabbit or pork. Make a thickening of flour sauce and a squeeze of lemon. Boil up and pour over the rabbit. 143. Italian Cutlets Cut fillet of beef into small pieces, and have ready some finely-grated bread-crumbs, to which has been added a shalot and some minced parsley and a little pepper and salt. Place them into a pan of boiling fat, and fry until they are a nice brown. They may be served either with or without gravy. Cold under-done beef will serve the purpose equally.73 PLAIN COOKING 144. Chicken Pie Chicken pie may be served either hot or cold at any meal. Have the chicken or chickens disjointed, and place in a stewpan or saucepan with water, a bunch of sweet herbs in a muslin bag (so that they may be removed), a little ground mace, a piece of lemon peel, pepper, and salt. When stewed tender place them in a pie-dish with some streaky bacon cut in pieces and some hard boiled eggs cut in halves or quarters. Cover with a nice light paste, and bake in a moderate oven. 145. Devonshire Potato Pie To make this dish really well you need either to beat your steak, or have it cut very thin. Chop some onions and parsley very fine, mixing with them some mixed herbs, pepper, and salt. Cut the steak into pieces, and roll within each piece some of the stuffing. Well cover with either water or stock, then place upon the whole some potatoes cut in halves. Add a good-sized piece of butter, and cook slowly. The steak will prove hard unless it has been properly cooked. If the steak be right, the dish will be nicely cooked within an hour, or an hour and a half. Do not try to74 PLAIN COOKING cook this dish quicker ; it ruins it. Put plenty of water or stock, as the steam from them is a great aid in cooking the potatoes. 146. Veal and Ham Pie The fillet of veal is the best part from which to make a pie. There is no waste. It is much better to partially cook the veal before adding the crust. Cut the veal into pieces as you would for cutlets, and put them in the pie- dish with water or stock to cover them well. Simmer gently in the oven, covering with a dish or plate to prevent the meat browning. Sprinkle some flour, mixed herbs, pepper, and salt; add forcemeat balls, which should be placed in at the same time as some rolled bacon or pieces of ham and hard-boiled eggs cut in pieces, and a sprinkling of flour to thicken the gravy. When cold, put the crust on and bake gently. 147. Pigeon Pie Halve the pigeons and cut off the feet. Place them in a pie-dish with some nicely cut pieces of rump steak, covering with a good stock, and dust in a few savoury herbs, pepper, and salt, Place in the oven, and partially cook.PLAIN COOKING 75 Add some rolled bacon or slices of bam and hard-boiled eggs. Scald the feet, and make an opening in the crust, into which place them. 148. Giblet Pie Giblet pie makes a very palatable dish, whether served hot or cold. The giblets need thoroughly cleansing and soaking in salt and water. After the giblets are thoroughly cleansed, place them in a saucepan with some savoury herbs, pepper, etc., and let them gently simmer for a couple of hours, adding either some skirt of beef or beef steak. Let them get thoroughly cold, then place in a pie- dish, add some pieces of bacon and one or two hard-boiled eggs, and then place the crust upon the pie. The time necessary to cook the pie will be sufficient to cook the bacon. If eaten hot, a dripping crust will be found quite sufficient. 149. Giblet Pudding A very economical and tasty dish can be made by using giblets in a pudding. After the giblets have been well washed and cleansed, place them in a pudding basin, adding to them water, sweet herbs, onions, pepper, salt, etc.76 PLAIN COOKING Make a nice light suet paste, and cover with it. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, into which plunge the pudding, having pre- viously dipped the cloth in boiling water. On no account refill a saucepan with any other than boiling water, as it will harden the crust. Avoid taking the lid off the saucepan as much as possible. 150. Rabbit Pie Disjoint the rabbit, and soak in warm water to whiten the meat. Arrange the joints care- fully in a pie-dish with slices of fat pickled pork, and cook for a little while. Then add some forcemeat balls, a little ground mace, pepper, salt, and hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. Let this get cold, then place the crust in position, and bake gently. 151. Brown Sweetbreads Cut the sweetbreads into slices, and simmer them gently in milk and water, with a flavour- ing of lemon-peel, mace, pepper, and salt. When quite tender, strain them off and fry in egg and bread-crumbs until a nice brown. Peas make a pleasant addition served round the dish. Brown gravy should be poured over.77 PLAIN COOKING 152. Baked Sweetbreads Do not slice the sweetbreads for this dish, but soak them well in boiling water before simmering them in the milk and water. Then place them in a fire-proof dish with a sprink- ling of sweet herbs, pepper and salt, and a good piece of butter. Have ready a good brown gravy to serve over them ; and peas or mushrooms round. 153. White Sweetbreads Cut the sweetbreads into slices, and stew them in milk and water to which pepper and salt has been added, not forgetting a little lemon peel. While the sweetbreads are cook- ing, simmer some milk, in which place a few button mushrooms (truffles are a pleasant accompaniment, but not essential) and thicken with flour, butter, and a little mace. Strain off the sweetbreads, and pour the sauce over them. 154. Curried Pork Cold pork makes a most delectable curry. Cut the meat from the bones ; stew them with pepper, salt, onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Well boil this stock, and strain; andPLAIN COOKING 78 when cold, skim off the fat, and replace in the stewpan with the pork (which must have been well trimmed). Let this gently boil. Have ready a thickening of curry - powder, flour, a little lemon juice, or a finely-chopped apple may be added to the stock. Serve with rice. 155. Curried Rabbit Disjoint the rabbit or rabbits, and place in a stewpan with some finely-sliced onions. Let this come to a nice brown, then pour over them sufficient stock to cover, adding a sprinkling of curry powder and mixed herbs. When nearly cooked, add a thickening of curry powder. Boil up, and serve with rice. 156. Avery Economical Curry Many people think that shin of beef has but one use—the making of beef-tea, gravy, or stock. In fact, it makes a very delicious curry. Cut it into well-shaped pieces ; then place it in a stewpan with a piece of butter and an onion or two, according to taste, curry powder, pepper, and salt. When browned, add water according to the quantity of meat. Let it boil; then simmer gently for two or three79 PLAIN COOKING hours. Make a thickening of flour and a little more curry powder, and serve on a very hot dish, garnished with rice. 157. Fried Liver and Bacon Be careful that the bacon is not too lean— the fat should flavour the liver. Fry the bacon, and arrange on the dish. Cut the liver in thin slices, and flour them, and place in the frying-pan. If there be not enough fat from the bacon, more should have been added, and allowed to get hot. When the liver is cooked, place it on the dish with the bacon, pour the fat out of the frying-pan, and have ready some gravy, which boil up in the pan, and strain over. Liver should not be over- cooked, or it will become tough. 158. Toad in the Hole Make a batter, and place it in a well-greased tin or dish. Take some chops, so small that they shall not require longer cooking than the batter; cut slightly through the fat of the chops to let the dripping out, and place them in the batter, with a dusting of pepper and salt.8o PLAIN COOKING 159. Toad in the Hole of Beef Cut some steak into small pieces, and if liked, add some kidney. Well sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a dusting of mixed herbs. Make a batter, and well grease the dish or tin, and after placing the batter in the dish, throw in lightly the pieces of steak, and bake in a moderate oven. 160. Toad in the Hole of Cold Meat Make a richer batter than you would for using uncooked meat, as it will not yield so much gravy. Cut the meat into convenient pieces; sprinkle a little pepper, salt, and mixed herbs over; be sure the dish is well greased, and bake until the batter is thoroughly well cooked. 161. Stewed Tripe and Onions In buying tripe, carefully go to the best deal- ers. From a thoroughly good tripe-dressers you will get only the better portions, which will all be fit to cook, and therefore there is no waste. Place the tripe in boiling water, and let it remain there for twenty minutes by the side of the stove. Strain off this water, and cover the tripe with onions cut in slices. You cannotPLAIN COOKING 81 have too many, as they boil away in the cooking. Be sure in cooking tripe never to use a saucepan or stewpan that has ever burned in the boiling, for it is bound to do the same thing again with milk cooking. Well cover the tripe with milk, and carefully watch. As the milk boils away, replenish, and stir gently as you put in the fresh milk. Pepper and salt should, of course, be added to the tripe when the onions are put in. Let them stew for at least three hours, if not for longer ; and just before serving make a thickening of flour, butter, pepper, salt, and milk, and then boil carefully, stirring the while. Do not on any account thicken until ready to serve. 162. Pried Tripe Tripe can be used as a breakfast dish when fried. Scald it for twenty minutes, and let it get cold; then cut in slices, and dip in egg and bread-crumb, or a stiff batter, and drop into boiling fat, and fry a crisp brown. Well drain, and place on a dish-paper with some fried parsley and rolled bacon. Cooked tomatoes also make a pleasant addition to this dish. 163. Mutton Pie with Cold Meat Either an earthenware mould or a cake-tinPLAIN COOKING 82 will serve, but it must be well buttered, then sprinkled with crumbs of bread that has been dried and rubbed through a sieve. Line the mould with potatoes—mashed very fine, and placed in the mould while hot. Cut the meat into thin slices. Chop some parsley fine, and grate some lemon rind, nutmeg, mace, and savoury herbs. Place this in the dish with alternate layers of tomatoes cut into thin pieces, and fill up with a good rich stock. When quite full, cover with another layer of potatoes, and a few pieces of butter. Cook in a moderately hot oven. Turn out on to a very hot dish, and put some of the stock round the pie. A little chopped onion may be added. 164. Fricasse of Chicken The remains of cold fowl can be made into a very pleasant dish. Should it be boiled fowl, the liquor in which it has been boiled is a great improvement. Put the remainder of the fowl in a saucepan, with an onion pierced with a clove, just covered with stock or water. In another saucepan prepare some milk, a small piece of lemon-peel, and a flavouring of mace, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Thicken with flour. When the fowl is thoroughly well heated,83 PLAIN COOKING strain it. Then pour over the thickening, adding a little of the stock; boil altogether, and serve on a nice hot dish. 165. Mutton Pie of Cold Mutton Cut all the meat off the bone. Stew this with an onion. Arrange the pieces of meat in a pie-dish with slices of raw potatoes, and sprinkle over chopped onion, parsley, and pepper and salt. Pour over the stock from the bone, and cover with pie crust, and bake for about thirty minutes. 166. Minced Beef When your joint is cut in such a manner that you can get no more slices from it, the best thing to do with it is to make it into mince. Stew the bones well, adding to them onions, herbs, carrots, and celery (if obtainable), and pepper and salt. Strain off, and let it get quite cold, then skim off all fat. Chop the beef as fine as possible, mixing with it parsley, grated lemon-peel, a very small quantity of ground mace, not forgetting just a little nut- meg. Place all together in a saucepan, and let it come gently to a boil. Have ready a thickening of flour and Worcestershire sauce, and boil together, stirring the while, and alwaysPLAIN COOKING 84 to the right. Serve on a very hot dish gar- nished with sippets of toast. Poached eggs are also a great acquisition to this dish. 167. Half a Calf’s Head, and Brain Sauce Well cleanse the head, and remove the brains. Soak the head in warm water ; the brains also. Place the head in a stewpan with sufficient water to cover it. Throw in a little salt, and let it boil. Then simmer very gently, remov- ing the scum as it arises. Half a good-sized head will take quite two hours to cook. About thirty minutes before it is cooked, introduce the brains tied in a muslin bag. Take them out and chop not too finely, and mix with either egg sauce or parsley butter, and thoroughly cover the head with it, serving some in a tureen as well. Should you have the tongue in the half-head, take it out. Skin, and serve on a small dish, with some of the sauce round. Bacon or pickled pork is always served with this dish. 168. Rissoles Many odds and ends of meat may be used up in rissoles, which make a tasty dish, convenient for service at any meal—for breakfast, lunch, or as an entree for dinner. Mince your meat asPLAIN COOKING 85 fine as possible; then add parsley, mixed herbs, and an onion (chopped very fine), a little powdered mace, a suspicion of lemon-peel, and also of nutmeg. Grate some stale bread, and mix all with eggs. Then make into balls, roll in egg and bread-crumb, and fry in boiling fat. Strain the rissoles on a clean paper before serv- ing. It is more economical if boiled rice takes the place of the bread. Gravy may be served round the rissoles, but they look much nicer served on a dish-paper garnished with parsley. Should there be any left they make a very pleasant dish cold, if gravy has not been served with them—this tends to sodden them. The number of eggs used in the mixing depends entirely on the quantity of meat and bread, but be careful not to use too much—about one egg to the pound. Be sure your fat is boiling ere you introduce your rissoles; otherwise they do not come out crisp. 169. Potato Pie A very useful way of using up any odds and ends of meat is to make them into a potato pie. While one can obtain old potatoes, they are always much better for use in cookery—they mash so much better. Well chop the meat,PLAIN COOKING 86 adding to it a little pepper, salt, and mace. Have the pie-dish ready, well buttered, and place your mashed potato round it; then put in your chopped meat. If you should not have any stock, a little water may take the place. Then place a layer of the mashed potatoes and several small pieces of butter on the top of the potatoes. When nicely browned, serve with a frill round the dish. Should you like it more highly seasoned, in mincing the meat you may put onion, mace, parsley and sweet herbs. If you are making your pie from beef, a little grated lemon-peel is always an improvement. 170. Croquettes of Fowl Take all the flesh off the bones, and mince it very finely, adding to it a little bacon, some bread-crumbs, a slight sprinkling of mixed herbs, and a good-sized piece of butter. Mix all well together with a well-beaten egg or eggs, according to the quantity of fowl. Roll in egg and vermicelli, and fry brown; well drain, and serve on a dish-paper garnished with parsley. A few baked tomatoes make a pleasant relief to the dish. Croquettes should be fried in a basket. Should you not have one, you must watch most carefullyPLAIN COOKING 87 whilst they are frying, and see that they are covered in boiling fat. The bones can be stewed down, and made into a sauce. 171. Turkey Scallops Mince very finely the meat that is left on the bones, and put with them some finely- chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a sprinkling of sweet herbs. Make enough white sauce, in which there is mace, to moisten, but not more. Well butter a scallop shell, and place a layer of bread-crumbs in it, then the turkey mixture. Cover with bread-crumbs and grated cheese, and put small pieces of butter over, and place in the oven to brown, or under a gas grill (pro- vided they are warmed through first), and serve in the shell. 172. Fricasse of Mutton In boiling a leg of mutton for a small family, the usual question is to know what to do with the cold meat. Keserve the stock in which the joint has been boiled, and skim off all the fat. Cut slices from the joint, and put into a saucepan with some of the stock. Let it gently boil. Place in another saucepan some milk, an onion, a piece of lemon-peel, a blade of88 PLAIN COOKING mace, and a little grated nutmeg. Make a thickening of flour, butter, and milk, and when the slices of meat are thoroughly warmed, pour a little of the stock on the thickening, and let it gently boil. Then serve over the slices of mutton. You have still the bone and the remainder of the stock, of which to make another dish—either hash or Irish stew. 173. Minced Veal A simple and economical way of using up cold veal is to mince it. The addition of poached eggs serve two purposes—to make it go further, and also to embellish the dish. Mince the veal minutely, and in mincing, add on a little lemon-peel, finely grated, some mace, and nutmeg. Should you be making your mince from the remains of boiled veal, you will have your stock ready, with the exception of a little onion, which may be chopped with the veal; if from roast veal, you must put the bones on to stew, with just enough water to cover them, adding onion, sweet herbs, mace, etc. After it is well boiled up, strain off, and put it to cool. Make a thickening, in the ordinary way, of flour, pepper, salt; and serve with sippets of toast and bacon.89 PLAIN COOKING 174. Devilled Bones A devilled bone is a very acceptable addition to the breakfast or supper-table. A beef bone requires mustard, pepper, and salt, all to be well mixed together with butter. Cut the bone, adding the mixture, and put it in the oven, or on a grill. The bladebone of a shoulder of mutton or lamb makes a delicious grill, only in this case you must omit the mustard. Cooked tomatoes or mushrooms should accom- pany either of these dishes. 175. Hashed Goose Goose does not require a rich stock. Place the bones in some thin stock, and let them boil up, and then simmer till done, when strain off and let get cold, so as to skim off the fat. Then put in the pieces of goose, and let come to the boil, when make a thickening of mushroom ketchup, flour, and a little wine. Have ready some tinned peas to place round the dish. The peas are much better cooked separately, as they then retain their colour. 176, Cold Meat Cutlets Cut thickly, as nearly aspossiblein the form of cutlets, portions of either cold beef, mutton, or G9o PLAIN COOKING lamb. Place these in a pie-dish, pouring over them a little oil and vinegar, some finely - chopped parsley and tarragon. These slices must remain in soak for quite an hour. Boil some potatoes, and mash them through a sieve, adding a very slight sprinkling of pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and let them get cold. Flour a board, and roll the cold potatoes upon it. Cover smoothly the slices of meat separ- ately, brush over with beaten egg, and roll in bread-crumbs, and fry in a deep pan in plenty of boiling fat. Well drain, and serve on a dish- paper. 177. To Cook up Cold Mutton Quickly Many people have an utter aversion to cold mutton, especially the leg, and that more particularly when underdone. A few slices cut thick should be placed in a pie-dish with a dusting of flour, pepper and salt, and a good- sized piece of butter. When thoroughly warmed through, add some Worcestershire sauce and a little stock or water. 178. Bubble and Squeak Fry cold cooked greens and potatoes, which have been chopped very fine, and well seasonedPLAIN COOKING 91 , witli pepper and salt, and place them upon a dish. Cut some shoes from a joint of cold boiled beef, and fry them in butter, and arrange on the top of the vegetables. 179. Potato Rissoles Potatoes may be used up in many ways. One of the best and simplest is to make them into rissoles. Mash the potatoes as finely as possible, adding to them pepper, salt, and a few mixed herbs, and mix them well together with an egg. Roll them into balls, and put into boiling fat, and fry to a nice brownness, then strain them on paper, and serve on a dish- paper garnished with parsley. 180. Asparagus and Cheese Surplus asparagus cooks up very pleasantly with cheese, and, indeed, serves as an entree. Put it on a fire-proof dish, which should be buttered, and scatter some grated cheese over it. Put it in layers, neatly arranged, sprink- ling grated cheese amongst it, and a dusting of salt and pepper. When you come to the top layer, make some white sauce, in which their is mace, a flavouring of lemon-peel, and cayenne. Put this over it, and then grate some bread-PLAIN COOKING 92 crumbs and put over, with grated cheese, and cover with small pieces of butter. Cook a nice brown. It is as well to warm through in the oven, and then finish under the gas grill. Serve in the dish in which it is cooked. 181. Cauliflower and Cheese Should you have some cauliflower remaining, a very pleasant way of using it up is to cook it with cheese. It is very simple, and an agreeable variety from macaroni and cheese. When the cauliflower is cooked, place it in a dish which has previously been buttered, then add white sauce, with a seasoning of mace, pepper, and salt. Grate some cheese and bread-crumbs, and put some pieces of butter on to brown it. Place in the oven, and when cooked, serve in the dish in which you have cooked it. A frilled paper round the dish is always an improvement to the appearance of a dish. 182. Stewed Sausages There are many ways of cooking sausages. Stewed they make a particularly nice supper dish. Cut some Spanish onions into rings, and place them in a stewpan with tomatoes, pepper,PLAIN COOKING 93 salt, and a little water with the sausages, and let them simmer until cooked. Spanish onions are the best for this dish, as liquor comes freely from them. Be sure and cut the onions fine, so that they do not take longer than the sausages to cook. 183. Sausages Baked in Batter Sausages are also very palatable baked in batter. This is a very simple and quick way of cooking them. Make a nice light batter, place in a well-greased tin, add the sausages, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. 184. Sausage Rolls Sausage rolls are most useful; they are acceptable at the breakfast-table, for supper, or for an early lunch. The mistake that is generally made is in making them too large. The sausages should be taken out of their skins and two sausages made into three rolls. Do not make too rich a crust, for the sausage meat is already rich enough. 185. A Mixed Grill To make a really nice mixed grill you need mutton cutlets, sausages split in half, and aPLAIN COOKING 94 rasher or two of bacon. These will easily cook on the griller of a gas stove, and take only about ten minutes, as the splitting of the sausages equalises the time required for the cooking of the cutlets. The bacon takes even less time. A few tomatoes will cook in the oven while the other things are on the grill, and served round the dish make a very nice garnishing, as well as adding a great relish to the dish. 186. Another Grill A piece of the fillet of steak also makes an excellent breakfast dish, served with sausages and kidneys. The kidneys can either be grilled with the steak, or stewed according to one’s fancy, and a few mushrooms give a great piquancy to the dish. Should you stew the kidneys the mushrooms may stew in the same jar or saucepan, and be either served on the same dish as the steak, or in a tureen as a sauce. 187. A Supper Dish A very charming and appetising supper dish can be made in the following manner : Out some thick slices of stale bread into rings with a pastry cutter, and scoop out the middle. Fry them in fat a light brown, and well drain them.PLAIN COOKING 95 Have ready some mince of any kind of meat well seasoned, and in a nice rich gravy. Fill the rings, while still hot, with the mince, and garnish with fried parsley. When frying the rings, fry some small pieces of bread to place on the top of the mince as covers. 188. To Poach Eggs For poaching eggs it is always better to reserve a pan exclusively; and a steel pan will be found preferable to an enamelled pan. You must first break your eggs separately into a cup, and should there be one among them which has spread, reserve it for cooking purposes ; one spoiled egg ruins an entire dish. Have ready a pan of boiling water, then place in it a small piece of salt; a few drops of vinegar may be added, but it is far preferable to cook them without. Then place the eggs in the pan, and skim off the scum as it arises. The eggs ought to come out thoroughly covered with white, showing no yoke at all. 189. Oeufs sur le plat A welcome addition to the breakfast-table is made by serving eggs on the dish on which they have been cooked. It is also very simple.PLAIN COOKING 96 You require a fire-proof dish, which place in the oven, having previously well buttered it. Then break your eggs into a cup, and place in the dish, covering them with a dusting of pepper and salt, and a piece of butter to brown them. They do not require more than three or four minutes’ cooking, as they do not need to be hardened. In breaking your eggs take great care that no particle of the shell remains. 190. Scrambled Eggs If you care for garlic at all, a suspicion of it makes a very nice addition to scrambled eggs, or a little shalot is pleasant. It should be, if you care for it, grated and placed in the sauce- pan when putting in the butter. First prepare the buttered toast. Have the saucepan ready with butter, pepper, salt, etc. Then put in the eggs, and keep on stirring to the right till they are of a proper thickness. Then place upon the buttered toast (which you will have previously cut into squares), and serve on a very hot dish. Do not use a steel fork or spoon in stirring the eggs. 191. Mayonnaise of Eggs Boil hard as many eggs as you require. Cut them in halves, and flatten the round ends soPLAIN COOKING 97 that they will stand upright in a glass dish. Garnish with chopped parsley or capers, and ponr over mayonnaise sauce, to which a little finely-minced eschalot has been added. 192. A Plain Omelet Allow two to three eggs to each person, carefully beating the whites and yokes separ- ately. Then beat them gradually together, adding small pieces of butter, well beating to a cream. Heat the omelet or frying-pan, add a good-sized piece of butter. When dis- solved pour in the batter, and stir gently with a wooden spoon until it begins to set. Well cook, fold over, and serve very hot. Have everything ready, but do not make the omelet until required. Standing hardens the omelet. 193. Savoury Omelet Prepare the batter exactly as you would for a plain omelet. Mix with it sweet herbs, parsley, and a little finely-minced shalot, if liked, and some ham or bacon finely shredded. Well heat the pan, put in a good-sized piece of butter, and stir the omelet gently with a wooden spoon until it becomes set. When cooked roll over and serve.PLAIN COOKING 98 194. Sweet Herb Omelet To each person allow two eggs, beating the yolks and whites separately. When they come to a good froth, mix them well together, very gently beating in at the same time some pieces of butter. When all is beaten to a cream, sprinkle in some finely-chopped parsley and shalot, pepper, and salt. Have the frying (or omelet) pan well heated, and place therein a large piece of butter. Let this dissolve, pour the mixture in, and stir gently with a wooden spoon until it begins to settle. When firm roll over and serve on a dish-paper garnished with parsley. 195. A Cheese Omelet Make the batter as you would for a plain omelet, but it will not require so much egg, for the cheese gives it richness. After mixing the batter, throw in lightly some very finely grated cheese and cayenne, and fry the same as a plain omelet. Serve on a very hot dish with grated cheese. 196. Cheese Custard Butter a fancy fire-proof dish, and lay in six very small thin slices of bread and butter,99 PLAIN COOKING laying between each piece some very thin slices of rather dry cheese, and season with pepper. Make a custard of two eggs and half a pint of milk, which pour over, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes, and serve very hot. 197. Souffle of Cheese Take the crumbs of a French roll, and pour over it half a pint of boiling milk. Grate four ounces of cheese, and add also the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and beat all well together. Whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, which stir in quickly before placing in the oven, which must be very hot, and bake for twenty minutes, and serve immediately. 198. Savoury Eggs Savoury eggs are always a useful dish, for they can be prepared the day before, and can be served for either luncheon, dinner, or sup- per, and they are also very simple to pre- pare. Boil the eggs hard (the quantity, of course, depends on the number of people), then cut from each end a small piece so that they will stand upright on the dish. Then100 PLAIN COOKING halve the eggs, and remove the yolks, which run through a hair-sieve, adding thereto a little butter, cayenne pepper, and a suspicion of anchovy sauce. When this is rubbed to a smooth paste, replace in the whites of the eggs, and serve on a dish-paper, or serviette, gar- nished with parsley. 199. Tomato Savoury- Take some sardines or anchovies, strip them from the bone, and mix with a little Worcestershire sauce, a squeeze of lemon, and plenty of cayenne pepper. Remove enough of the tomato to allow of the insertion of a portion of the above ingredients, and place the tomatoes in paper cases. Serve on a dish- paper, and garnish with parsley. 200. Stuffed Vegetable Marrow Mince very finely what cold meat you may have in the house, adding a little chopped onion, parsley, sweet herbs, a little mace, pepper, and salt, mixing all well together. Well wipe the marrow, but do not peel it. Carefully remove the end, for it has to be replaced. Take the handle of a long spoon and scoop out all the seeds, which replace with the minced meat, and replace the end coverPLAIN COOKING IOI with pieces of butter or dripping, and place in the oven and bake. Prepared in exactly the same manner, it may be boiled, only it requires tying in a cloth. 201. Stuffed Tomatoes Remove the core of the tomato. Then take the pulp and mix with a little very finely-minced meat—cold ham or bacon for choice—parsley and mixed herbs, pepper and salt. Replace in the skin, put on pieces of butter, and bake. It is better to select tomatoes with thick skins for stuffing. 202. A Plain Salad Long lettuce makes the best salad, for they do not retain the water as the round ones do. Strip off the outside leaves, and pull the hearts of the lettuce away with your fingers. Do not cut with a knife. Place them in a bowl of fresh cold water, throwing in a large piece of salt. Let them remain in this water till the lettuce is nice and crisp. Then thoroughly rinse, and place in a colander to drain. Care- fully wipe with a clean cloth. The dressing is far better made in the salad-bowl before the salad is put in—for it mixes better than whenPLAIN COOKING 102 poured over—about a teaspoonful of salt, some pepper, and a very slight pinch of mustard, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and between two and three of salad oil. Beat all well together till the ingredients are thoroughly well mixed, then gradually put the leaves in, breaking them as you do so. Thoroughly well stir, and serve at once, for a salad should be eaten as soon as made, though it does not matter how long the dressing is prepared. Chopped onion is a great improvement, also a little fresh tarragon when it can be obtained, or a few drops of tarragon vinegar. Always keep the oil in the dark and cool, and it is better not to remove the paper from the bottle. 203. Potato Salad Cold potatoes may be used up by making them into a salad—a delicious one. You mix the same ingredients as for a plain salad, with the exception that you require a little more vinegar, for the potatoes absorb more than the lettuce. Also you should add some finely- minced parsley to the dressing. Cut the potatoes into slices (not too thick), and then thoroughly mix. Potato salad needs more onion than plain salad.103 PLAIN COOKING 204. Celery Salad It is strange how rarely one finds celery made into a salad; it makes a most delicious one. After having well washed and dried the celery, cut it into pieces, and place in a glass dish. Make a dressing of mustard, pepper, salt, and vinegar, mix all together, and pour over the celery. 205. Cucumber Salad Be careful to cut the cucumber from the right end—the end on which the flower is. Cut off the top and rub upon the cucumber until a white froth arises, which takes away any bitterness there may be. Then cut very finely, and mix with two or three tablespoonsful of vinegar, pepper, and salt, and, if obtainable, a little chopped tarragon. 206. Watercress Salad Watercress used by itself makes a very nice salad, and is cheap when other salads are dear. Great care must be taken in the cleansing and the picking of them. When thoroughly cleansed, drain in a colander or salad basket, after which thoroughly dry in a clean dry104 PLAIN COOKING cloth. Prepare the dressing in the salad-bowl in the following manner: About half a tea- spoonful of salt, a very little mustard, and some pepper, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and three of salad oil. Beat them well together, and when required for table put in the water- cress, and mix well in the dressing. A few pieces of beetroot laid lightly on the top makes a more attractive-looking dish, also a hard- boiled egg cut in slices may be added, then a very little more vinegar will be required. 207. Tomato Salad Tomatoes have their use in nearly every kind of dish, and a salad made from them is not to be despised—it has the advantage of being very quickly made, and requiring no prepara- tion. Cut the tomatoes into slices and place them in a dish or salad-bowl. Chop finely some parsley and onion, which spread over the tomatoes, and mix about a teaspoonful of salt and a good dusting of pepper, with about two tablespoonsful of vinegar and one of oil. Pour over the salad, and mix well. 208. Tomato Chutney This is an easily made and delicious chutney. To every pound of tomatoes put a half-pound105 PLAIN COOKING of sugar, a quarter of a pound of raisins stoned and chopped, a couple of good-sized Spanish onions, a little garlic, half a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, two teaspoonsful of ground ginger, and salt. Put these ingredients into a pint of vinegar, and let them come to the boil. Then draw to one side, and simmer for two hours, when it will then be ready to bottle off. 209. Tomato Ketchup The tomatoes need to be thoroughly ripe, but sound. Wipe them carefully in a clean cloth, then place them in the oven, and bake until quite tender; then take them out, and skin them, and rub through a coarse sieve. Allow to every pound of pulp one pint of vinegar (white vinegar for choice), one ounce of shalots, also of garlic sliced, salt, and pepper. Boil all up together until the garlic and shalot are soft. Rub again through the sieve, and add the juice of half a lemon to the average pound of pulp. Then boil again until it becomes of the consistency of cream, then bottle off, and keep airtight. 210. To Pickle Walnuts In pickling walnuts there must be great care 11106 PLAIN COOKING taken to prick them with, a fork or skewer so as to ascertain that there be no shell; as should there be, the walnut is unedible. Soak them in salt and water for five or six days, frequently stirring them with a wooden spoon; then place them upon an old sieve or tray to dry. Be sure they are thoroughly dry, or else they will become mouldy. In the case of walnuts, the vinegar and spice should be placed upon them hot; though it may be allowed to go cold should the pickle not be required for immediate eating. 211. To Pickle Onions In pickling onions a little Demerara sugar makes an immense difference. Peel the onions or eschalots; rub them well in a dry clean cloth, and place them in the bottle or jar, sprinkling each layer with salt and a little sugar. Boil the vinegar and spice, and let it remain until cold; then pour over the onions. Cover with brown paper, and tie firmly down. In about a fortnight they will be fit for use, though they will retain their crispness any length of time if they are kept air- tight, and the vinegar is allowed to get entirely cold before its introduction to the onions.107 PLAIN COOKING 212< To Pickle Red Cabbage Get a good-sized red cabbage, cut off all the outside leaves, and well wipe the remainder of the cabbage with a clean cloth. Then cut the cabbage into slices, not too thin or they lose their crispness, and place upon a dish, adding a good sprinkling of salt. Let it remain for two days, straining off the liquor as it comes from the cabbage. Tho- roughly dry, and place in jars. Boil the vinegar, allowing about one quart to two ounces of pickling spice, and let it get thoroughly cold before adding it to the cabbage, for if the vinegar be at all warm it will make the pickle soft. Should you not care for the spice loose in the pickle, it may be boiled in muslin bags, and so many bags allowed to each jar of pickle; but the spice is better left in the vinegar. 213. Forcemeat. A really well-made forcemeat serves many purposes. For instance, the stuffing of veal and chickens. Finely chop some suet, adding to it parsley, a little grated lemon-peel, and a sprinkling of mixed herbs, not forgetting pepper and salt. Then add a small quantityPLAIN COOKING 108 iw* of well-grated bread-crumbs, mixing all to- gether with a well-beaten egg or eggs, according to the quantity required. 214. Beef Olives To make beef olives you need a thinly-cut and tender steak. Cut into pieces about two inches square, then chop very fine the trim- mings with parsley, mixed herbs, pepper, and salt. Place a portion of this seasoning into each piece of steak, and roll it. Put them on a skewer, and place in a frying pan and fry. Have ready a stewpan with some stock or gravy, in which place them, and there let them remain till required. 215. To use Bread Leavings Soak leavings of bread in warm water, and then squeeze them free from the liquor. Place in a tin, and thoroughly bake until dry enough for rolling. When cold, roll on a paste board, and pass through a strainer until quite fine. This makes excellent crumbs for cutlets or fish, and saves much time. Keep in a tin. 216. Bread Rusks A very nice and economical substitute for pulled bread may be made in the following109 PLAIN COOKING manner :—Pull tlie remains of rolls or bread into pieces, and let them soak a while in warm milk and water. Carefully squeeze them so that the pieces do not lose their shape, which should be as rocky as possible. Place in a tin, and bake in a moderate oven until a nice brown. 217. Macaroni Cheese Boil a quarter of a pound of macaroni in half a pint of milk until quite tender, seasoning with pepper, salt, and cayenne; sprinkle it with a piece of butter, some grated cheese, and a few bread-crumbs. Take up and put into a fire-proof dish, adding more cheese, bread- crumbs, and butter, and either brown in front of a fire or under a gas grill. 218. Sage and Onion Stuffing Do not boil the onions. Let them scald in boiling water for ten or fifteen minutes. Then grate them finely, adding a little sage (which must be scalded if fresh), pepper and salt, and a little bread-crumb. Be sparing with the sage, for it tends to make the stuffing bitter and unpalatable. For ducks or geese the stuffing may be mixed with eggs.PLAIN COOKING no 219. White Sauce Mix a small tablespoonful of cornflour with a little milk and salt; put about half a pint of milk to boil with a piece of butter in it. Pour over the mixture, and boil up, stirring the same way the whole time. 220. Mint Sauce Carefully remove the leaves from the stalks, well wash and drain them. Chop very finely, and mix with moist sugar and vinegar. The sauce should be quite thick and well sweetened. 221. Mayonnaise Sauce Beat well together the yolks of three raw eggs, mixing with them a teaspoonful of raw mustard, and two or three saltspoonsful of rough salt. Mix separately six tablespoonsful of the best Lucca oil with one tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar. When they are well mixed, stir all together very carefully to prevent the eggs curdling. Salt and mustard can be increased to taste. Bub over the boat with garlic before putting in the sauce. 222. Bread Sauce The longer bread sauce is in the way of pre- paration the better. Should you require ithi PLAIN COOKING for an evening meal, it is well to prepare the dish in the morning. Crumble some stale bread into a basin, adding thereto a fairly large piece of butter, a very little ground mace, and just a suspicion of nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Put the milk on to boil, according to the quantity of sauce you require, not forgetting an onion pierced with a clove. When the milk has boiled, pour it over the bread, etc., cover with a plate, and then boil up when required for use, not forgetting to stir. 223. Onion Sauce Though so very popular, and required with so many dishes, onion sauce is seldom well made. People seem to think that water is as good as milk, and send to table a paste with just a flavouring of onion. Old onions should always be used; Spanish are too watery. Place the onions in a saucepan of cold water with a little salt, and parboil. Then strain off the water and add milk, in w'hich let the onions finish cooking. Strain the onions, reserving the milk in which they have been cooked, as it retains a great deal of the flavour of the onion. Chop finely, mixing with it butter, pepper, flour, and a little more salt, and making allPLAIN COOKING 112 into a paste with milk. Then boil up the milk, strained from the saucepan, which pour on the thickening, and well stir to the right till it is cooked. Do not make your onion sauce pre- maturely, for it quickly loses its colour and looks most unappetising. 224. Caper Sauce Mix a tablespoonful of cornflour with milk and a pinch of salt. Take about half a pint of milk and a piece of butter, boil and pour over the mixture; then add the capers, well stirring the while. If the capers and vinegar are put in before the sauce boils, it will curdle. 225. Apple Sauce Pare the apples, and place them in a sauce- pan with sufficient water to cover them, a piece of finely-pared lemon-peel, and just a squeeze of the juice, and a little sugar. Let them boil, and then simmer till they are reduced to a pulp. Then add a piece of butter, and stir till the butter is dissolved, and put straight into a well-heated sauce boat. Do not let it remain in the saucepan. 226. Horseradish Sauce Grate the horseradish as fine as possible, and113 PLAIN COOKING mix with it a little salt, pepper, and mustard, and about a teaspoonful of castor sugar, also vinegar according to the amount of horse- radish, and a good quantity of cream. Stir them well together so that they are about the consistency of double cream. Do not put too much vinegar. If preferred, the sauce can be warmed to serve with the hot joint by placing it in a jar in a saucepan of warm water, gently stirring until it is well heated; but on no account let it boil. 227. Chestnut Sauce Split the chestnuts, and throw into boiling water, in which there is a little salt; when sufficiently cooked remove the husks. Then boil in milk until tender enough to rub through a sieve ; season with salt, pepper, and mace, and warm up again with either milk or cream. It takes very little cream, which is far pre- ferable. 228. Celery Sauce This sauce is very nice with boiled turkey or fowls. It can be prepared beforehand, so that there is nothing to do but to warm it up. After the celery is washed, cut it into pieces.PLAIN COOKING 114 and put on a saucepan of milk and water, into which throw the pieces of celery. Let them simmer until tender enough to rub through a sieve; when required for use, return to the saucepan and thicken. 229. Gooseberry Sauce Top and tail some green gooseberries, and put them in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and cook till tender. Then mash them with a small piece of butter and a squeeze of lemon juice. 230. Mushroom Sauce With chops or steaks, or even for breakfast with bacon, this sauce will be found a delicious accompaniment. Peel the mushrooms, and place them in a saucepan with a large piece of butter, pepper and salt, a dusting of flour, and a little water, and let them simmer very gently until quite soft. Then mash with a fork, add a little more water, and boil up. 231. Lobster Sauce Make an ordinary white sauce, allowing a larger piece of butter, cut the lobster into pieces, and add a little cayenne pepper. Boilii5 PLAIN COOKING all together, well stirring the while. Should the lobster have coral, it can be pounded and pressed through a hair sieve as colouring if liked. 232. Oyster Sauce Strain the liquor from the oysters, and mix it with the cornflour and milk, as for white sauce. Make the white sauce, pour over and stir thoroughly well together, putting in the . oysters, which must not be let to boil, or they will harden. 233. Shrimp Sauce Pick the shrimps—they may be obtained already picked—mix some flour with milk and butter, and a little pepper and salt. Boil some milk, and pour over; and boil up, stirring all the while, again adding the shrimps. If liked, a little anchovy sauce may be mixed with the sauce. 234. Lemon Sauce for Boiled Poultry Pare a lemon very finely and place in milk, which put into a saucepan, and simmer for a few minutes, so as to obtain the flavour of the lemon. Let this stand for about an hour. Make a thickening as for white sauce, strain thePLAIN COOKING n6 milk on to it, and when just upon the boil, add the yolk of an egg and the juice of half a lemon. Stir well, and when just upon the boil put into a tureen. A FEW JEWISH RECIPES 235. Peas and Beans Soup The old-fashioned recipe for peas and beans soup includes a list of ingredients containing items many of which are not really essentials, but if the following instructions are carried out, the result will prove equally satisfactory to modern cooks. Take an ordinary red bread pan and cover, which will stand comfortably in your oven, and put in a calf’s foot, two pounds of boned brisket of beef, one pound of worsht (Kosher sausage), one pint of whole white peas, one pint of giant haricot beans (the peas and beans must be soaked in cold water for twelve hours before cooking), one large onion sliced, pepper, salt, two pieces of white ginger, and a penny packet of dried saffron, and well cover the contents of the pan with water. Put the pan (with the cover on) in a hot oven about 6 p.m. on the evening before the soup is re- quired for use, and let it boil slowly, leaving itii 7 PLAIN COOKING in the oven throughout the night, having built up the fire before going to bed. It should boil for a further six hours on the following day before use. Remove the foot, worsht, and beef, and superfluous fat before turning the soup into a tureen. The foot and worsht should be served on a separate dish, and ordinary mustard pickles will be found a capital adjunct to be eaten therewith. Care should be taken to add more water as required during the process of cooking, but it must be remembered that peas and beans is eaten as a thick and not a thin soup. 236. Calves’ Feet Stew Take three calves’ feet, which should have been split down the centre by the butcher, and cut each into three pieces. Put them in a stew- pan with a quart of water, and bring quickly to a boil. Then skim the liquor carefully. Add one pound steak, two pounds knuckle of veal, the rind of a lemon pared very thinly, the juice of the lemon, pepper, salt, two pieces of white ginger, a penny packet of dried saffron, one dessertspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and a tablespoonful of carefully picked mar- joram. Boil slowly for two hours, then addn8 PLAIN COOKING some forcemeat balls, and boil for another hour. The forcemeat balls should be made as follows : —Chop half a pound of rump steak, the lean of one large veal chop, half a small onion, the rind of half a lemon, and a little parsley, as though for sausage meat; add some salt, pepper, a little grated ginger, a well-beaten egg, and mix thoroughly. Divide into small balls, and let them stand for an hour on a clean dish before putting them into the stew. Remove the steak and veal before serving. 237. Stewed Beef with Beans Sweet and Sour Take three to four pounds of the best top ribs of beef, and put in a stewpan with one quart of water, pepper, salt, two pieces of whole ginger, and three sliced onions, and boil slowly for one hour and three quarters, then add two pounds of fresh beans sliced evenly. Put in a basin two tablespoonsful of vinegar, one tablespoonful of brown sugar, and one tablespoonful of flour, add a little of the liquor, and stir until thoroughly smooth. Add the mixture to the stew, which will be ready to serve when the beans are quite tender. 238. To Fry Fish in Jewish Fashion Cut the fish in conveniently sized pieces, washPLAIN COOKING 119 it well, lay it in salt for half an hour, wash it again, and dry thoroughly with a clean cloth. Put sufficient of the very best frying oil to cover the pieces of fish in a frying-pan, and let it boil up. Beat up some eggs in a soup plate and have another ready full of flour. Draw each piece of fish through the flour so that it becomes lightly covered, then dip it in the eggs, and place carefully in the pan of oil. When fried nicely on one side, turn it over, and when done, place it on a fish drainer in order to strain off the superflous oil, especially if, as is usual, the fish is to be eaten cold. 239. To Stew Fish White Any fish, the flesh of which is not too solid, can be stewed white, though salmon and plaice are the best varieties to cook in this fashion. The white sauce is prepared as follows :—Beat the yolks of two eggs in a basin with a desert- spoonful of flour well rubbed in, a little salt, white pepper, grated nutmeg, and dried saffron. Take the juice of one large lemon and stir it into the mixture until it is quite smooth, add some of the liquor in which the fish has been120 PLAIN COOKING previously boiled to this, and heat the whole in an enamelled saucepan until it thickens, being careful to stir it continuously. Drain the remaining liquor from the boiled fish, and pour the sauce over the latter. Keep it close to boiling point for a few minutes, and then allow it to grow cold. This dish is always eaten cold, and though called White Stewed Fish should in reality be of a bright yellow colour. 240. Shteffun or Baked Apple Pudding Peel, core, and cut into small pieces, six large apples, put them in a stewpan with four ounces of brown sugar, two ounces of currants, two ounces of sultanas, two ounces of best almonds finely chopped, three ounces of chopped candied lemon and orange peel, three-quarters of a tea- spoonful of ground cinnamon and cloves mixed. Let them stew till the apples are quite soft. Well grease a pudding basin, and place at the bottom some brown sugar and cinnamon. Line the basin with a good suet crust, pour in the stewed fruit, and close the pudding with a top layer of crust. Bake in a quick oven, and turn out of basin before serving.PLAIN COOKING 121 241. Jewish Soda Cake Mix thoroughly one pound of flour, half a pound currants, half a pound sultanas, half a pound brown sugar, six ounces of mixed peel, quarter of an ounce mixed spice, three eggs, one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Warm half a pound of butter in a cup of milk, and add a pinch of salt. Pour this into the other ingre- dients, and beat thoroughly for a quarter of an hour. Butter a tin, and bake in a quick oven. 242. Almond Puddings These are somewhat expensive, and a little troublesome to make properly. Take the yolks of twelve eggs and the whites of six, three-quar- ters of a pound of ground sweet almonds, two ounces of ground bitter almonds, one pound of sifted white sugar, twopennyworth of orange- flower water. Beat up the eggs with the orange- flower water, gradually add the sugar and almonds, and beat the mixture thoroughly for one hour. Grease shallow pie dishes with almond oil, and bake in a moderate oven. 243. Broad Bean Salad Slice an onion, and brown it thoroughly in a sufficient quantity of the best frying oil. Put a peck of brown beans into a saucepan, I122 PLAIN COOKING and well cover them with cold water ; add salt, pepper, and the onion, together with the oil in which it has been browned. Boil steadily for three hours, and allow to grow quite cold. Giant haricot beans can be cooked in the same manner, but must be soaked in cold water for twelve hours before boiling. VEGETABLES 244. Potatoes Do not prepare the potatoes longer ere cooking than is necessary. It does them no good to stand in water, and if they are peeled and not put into water they become black. Potatoes may be either cooked in cold or boiling water, or in a steamer. The time depends entirely on the size of the potato. Ordinary - sized potatoes should take about twenty minutes. 245. New Potatoes Scrape the potatoes when wanted for cooking, and put a sprig of mint as well as the salt into the water. When fresh in season new potatoes cook very quickly. Directly they are done, strain them, and take away the mint, as it dis-PLAIN COOKING 123 colours the potatoes. Put them into a hot vegetable dish with a piece of butter. 246. Cauliflower Cut some of the green away, and trim the remainder level round the flower. Cut the stalk across lightly in four, and well soak in salt and water. Have the water quite boiling, with salt and a very small piece of washing soda, and boil until tender, with the lid off the saucepan. Do not overcook the cauli- flower, or it will break. Take it up with a shoe, and let strain in the colander, and serve with white sauce over. In cooking cauliflower it is advisable to cook more than required, it comes in so nicely for cauliflower and cheese. 247. Cabbage Savoy cabbage and cabbage require the same amount of cooking. Use plenty of salt in cleansing them, so that there be no cater- pillars or slugs left. Have plenty of water for boiling. Cut the vegetable in quarters, and throw into the boiling water, with salt and a small piece of soda, and boil very quickly without the lid being on the pan. WhenPLAIN COOKING 124 cooked strain into a colander, and squeeze all the water away with a plate or saucer. After the vegetable is in the dish cut across lightly into divisions. 248. French Beans These beans are very much like the scarlet runner beans, but not so large, and with less flavour. Trim them, and cut into slices, and place in boiling water with a little salt, and boil without the lid being on the saucepan for about fifteen minutes, Serve with a piece butter superadded. 249. Scarlet Runners Trim the beans so as to prevent any stringy matter remaining. Cut them into thin slices, and cook in boiling water and salt. Remove the fid of the saucepan and boil quickly. When young and fresh they do not require more than a quarter of an hour’s boiling. Place in a hot vegetable dish with a good-sized piece of butter on the top of them. 250. Broad Beans If the beans are old they should be skinned, but if young they do not require it. TheyPLAIN COOKING 125 should be put into boiling water with salt, but should they be at all old, put a little soda with them. They should not require more than about twenty minutes to boil, and should be served with parsley butter over them. To any dish that is accompanied by bacon this vegetable is a great acquisition. 251. Haricot Beans When a change of vegetable is desired, haricot beans come in very serviceable. Get the large white ones that are called butter beans, and let them soak overnight in cold water. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, and put into it some salt and a very small piece of washing soda, then put in the beans, and boil quickly for about twenty minutes, and serve with parsley butter. 252. Spinach You need much spinach to make a good dish, for it cooks away. It it also very trouble- some to wash, for it holds grit. It is better to wash in warm water for the first wash, and then keep on washing in salt and water. Pull the leaves away from the stem., then place them in a saucepan with a large piece of butter126 PLAIN COOKING and about a cupful of water, and they will cook in their own liquor, but they must be watched. Spinach requires a great deal of straining and pressing as it should be very dry. Cut across in divisions and superadd a piece of butter. Served with poached eggs, spinach makes a pleasant supper or breakfast dish. 253. Asparagus Asparagus and seakale should be cooked in an asparagus kettle or a boiler, so that the stems do not break. Before scraping, cut all the ends as nearly as possible of one length. Tie in bundles, and soak in salt and water. Let the water be boiling fast, and put into it a piece of salt and a very small piece of washing soda. Then put in the asparagus, and boil fast until tender. Do not overcook the asparagus lest it break and its appearance be ruined. If it be young, twenty minutes will be found quite sufficient. Well drain before serving, and serve on toast with either white sauce or oiled butter. 254. Seakale This vegetable holds the dirt, and so needs a great deal of cleansing. Let it soak well inPLAIN COOKING 127 strong salt and water before preparing for cooking. Trim it in the same way as you would celery, and boil in an asparagus kettle. Seakale takes longer to cook than asparagus. Be sure to drain well before serving, for sea- kale holds the water very much. It should be served with either oiled butter or white sauce. 255. Artichokes Cut off the stalk, but not too close to the leaves, or they will come to pieces in the cook- ing. Trim the leaves, and thoroughly well wash. Put them into boiling water with salt and a very tiny piece of washing soda, and boil without the lid on the saucepan until quite tender. Oiled butter or white sauce should be served with artichokes. Let them go cold. They are delicious eaten with oil and vinegar, or salad dressing of oil, vinegar, mustard, pepper, salt, and a little Worcester- shire sauce well beaten together. 256. Jerusalem Artichokes Pare and well wash the artichokes, which should be cooked in water to which some milkPLAIN COOKING 128 has been added, also a pinch of salt. Let the water be boiling, and cook from twenty to thirty minutes. Strain and serve with white sauce. 257. Turnips Peel the turnips very thickly, for the outside is inclined to be rough. Should there be any that are woody in the centre, discard them (unless for flavouring purposes). If you mash them, one woody turnip will spoil the whole dish. Cut the turnips in halves or quarters, and put them into boiling water with a little salt, and boil from thirty to forty minutes. 258. Mashed Turnips In mashing turnips, the great thing is to have ready a hot basin. First strain off the turnips, and let them drain in the colander. When thoroughly well drained, place them in the basin and well beat them with a rolling- pin until they are quite smooth, adding to them butter, pepper, and salt. A little milk may also be used, but they are preferable mashed without, if possible.PLAIN COOKING 129 259. Carrots Carrots need, when old or frost-bitten, much cooking. When they are tender enough, scrape them ; otherwise peel them ; and divide into halves or quarters, and put into boiling water in which you have put a little salt. Young carrots make a pretty dish served with a little white sauce over them, and some chopped parsley. 260. Parsnips Parsnips make a pleasing addition to most boiled meats. Peel the parsnips, half or quarter them according to their size, and place in boding water with a little salt, and boil quickly until done. Parsnips are a great acquisition to the stock of any boiled meat. They should be put in when the meat boils, as then they will have to simmer. 261. Green Peas Shell the peas, and put them in a colander. Turn the tap on them. Be careful in shelling them that no maggotty ones get in—they will float on the top of the water. Add a good heaped-up tablespoonful of Demerara sugar,PLAIN COOKING 130 serve with white sauce. and a good-sized piece of salt, and boil quickly in boiling water, with the lid off the sauce- pan. Strain in a colander, and serve with a piece of butter. If the peas be very young they will not take more than fifteen minutes to cook, if so much. 262. To Cook Tinned Peas Some brands of peas in tins are really better than fresh ones are apt to be. Open the tin, and put the peas in a colander, and thoroughly well rinse them. Have ready a saucepan with as much boiling water as will cover them, adding to it salt, some Demerara sugar, and a small piece of soda and mint. Throw the peas in, and let boil very quickly for five or six minutes, then strain them off and put them in a very hot tureen with a good- sized piece of butter. When fresh mint is not obtainable use dried, but tie it in a muslin bag. 263. Leeks Leeks require a great deal of cleaning. Skin the outside, and trim the leaves. Boil them in an asparagus kettle with salt in the water, or better still in milk and water. Strain, andPLAIN COOKING 131 264. Vegetable Marrow Peel the marrow, and cut in halves, and then divide again according to the size of the marrow, but not in too small pieces, as it holds the water very much. Remove the pips, and throw the marrow into boiling water in which there is a little salt. Boil until tender. Strain, and serve on toast with white sauce. 265. Spanish Onions To cook Spanish onions let them stew in their own juice instead of boiling them. Allow a good-sized piece of butter to each onion, and dust with pepper and salt; put into a stewpan, and simmer on the hob for four or five hours, occasionally shaking the pan, but do not remove the lid more frequently than necessary, for it lets the steam out. The stewpan must be perfectly sound. Should it once have caught, the onions will do so, and be ruined. 266. Stewed Celery The celery requires very careful washing, and only the better parts should be reserved for stewing. The outer leaves come in for flavouring soups, etc. Place the celery in aPLAIN COOKING 132 stewpan or saucepan with sufficient milk and water to simmer it. When nearly cooked strain this liquor off, and replace with milk, and let it finish cooking. Have ready a thickening of flour, butter, pepper, and salt, mixed with cold milk. Strain the liquor from the celery into it, boil up, and serve in a hot vegetable dish. Do not thicken until wanted, as the celery loses its colour standing. 267. To Braise Celery After thoroughly cleansing the celery, place the heart or better part of the vegetable in a stewpan or saucepan with a good-sized piece of butter, and let it brown gently. Then cover with stock, and simmer gently until cooked. Unless the celery is frost-bitten it should only require about twenty to thirty minutes to stew. A little onion is always a welcome addition — not enough to taste distinctly. 268. Stewed Mushrooms When you have skinned the mushrooms, wipe them gently with a clean cloth, as they are apt to be gritty, but cannot stand hard usage. Should they be large ones, it is prefer- able to break them. A large piece of butterPLAIN COOKING 133 should be placed in the saucepan, and gently melted before the mushrooms are put in ; add a sprinkling of pepper and salt. Shake the saucepan until the mushrooms are well warmed through, and then gently add enough water to cover, and let them stew quietly until cooked, which ought not to take more than about twenty minutes. A rich gravy should come from them, and they can be served in a sauce boat as an accompaniment to a great many dishes. But never forget to allow a liberal quantity of butter, as without that the dish is ruined. 269. Braised Onions Onions are almost essential to many dishes. They are most wholesome. Braised, they may be served with almost any dish, more particu- larly with all joints of mutton. It is far better to brown the onions in an old baking-dish in the oven. They are apt to spoil a saucepan. Put them in quite whole, placing upon each onion a piece of butter or dripping, and let them remain until they are nicely browned. Then place them in a saucepan, covering with just enough stock to keep them simmering, until cooked. You may make a thickening, but thePLAIN COOKING 134 onions should not require it unless too much stock has been added. Should you not have any stock, a little condensed meat answers the same purpose, and also adds to the colouring. 270. Baked Tomatoes There are various modes of cooking tomatoes. A very simple way is just to put them in the oven with a piece of butter on each, and a sprinkling of pepper and salt, and they will quietly cook while you prepare whatever you are serving with them, be it bacon, cutlets, or steak. Serve them round the dish, or served in a tureen, they make a pleasant vegetable. 271. Spanish Onions Boiled Peel the onions, removing the outer skin, as it will be found tough. Put them into a sauce- pan of boiling water with a little salt, and simmer until quite tender. They will take two to three hours according to their size. When cooked, drain well in the colander, and serve covered with white sauce.135 PLAIN COOKING PUDDINGS 272. A Good Plum Pudding “ A pound of everything,” with the exception of the raisins and Valencia almonds, makes a really good, though not extravagant, pudding. Chop one pound of suet very finely ; add a pound of bread-crumbs, a pound of very finely chopped candied peel, a pound of currants, a pound and a half of raisins (which must, of course, be stoned), half a pound of Valencia almonds, which should be pounded in a pestle and mortar ; then add the juice of an orange, a good wineglassful of rum and brandy, a grated nutmeg, and some allspice. Stir all thoroughly, and mix with eight well-beaten eggs ; the flour that has been used for chopping the suet will be found sufficient. Boil for seven or eight hours, and should you be boiling it before required, do not boil for less than five hours. 273. A Very Economical Plum Pudding One pound of suet, one pound of flour, one pound each of raisins, currants, and sultanas, one pound of bread-crumbs, half a pound ofPLAIN COOKING 136 candied peel well chopped, and a pound of Demerara sugar. Add to these ingredients, egg powder, baking powder, allspice, and a pinch of carbonate of soda. Mix with two well-beaten eggs and a little milk, and boil for five or six hours. 274. Plain Plum Pudding Mix well together one pound of bread-crumbs, two tablespoonsful of flour, a pinch of salt, and a teaspoonful of baking powder, half a pound of moist sugar, and a teaspoonful of mixed spice. When well mixed, add half a pound of finely-chopped suet, three-quarters of a pound of stoned raisins, half a pound of currants, and two ounces of candied peel. Slightly moisten the whole with a little milk, taking care not to make it too wet, or the pudding will be heavy. Boil in a basin for six hours; or it may be boiled for four hours, and two hours when required for use. 275. Half-Pay Pudding Chop a quarter of a pound of suet, and mix with it a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of currants, a quarter of a pound of stoned raisins, a quarter of a pound of137 PLAIN COOKING flour, and two tablespoonsful of treacle, and mix with a quarter of a pint of milk. Beat well together, and boil for four hours. 276. Baked Plum Pudding Make a light batter, and add to it some raisins, which has been stoned, sugar-grated lemon-peel, and spice to taste. Add to this some very finely chopped suet, and then place in a well-greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven. 277. Vegetable Plum Pudding Grate very finely a quarter of a pound of carrot, and the same quantity of potato. Chop a quarter of a pound of suet, and mix with a quarter of a pound of sultanas, and the same quantity of currants, moist sugar and flour, and two ounces of finely-chopped candied peel, and a little allspice. Mix with an egg, and steam for four hours or longer, and serve with wine sauce. 278. Plum Duff Chop the suet fine, and mix with it bread- crumbs and flour and a few currants, some raisins, moist sugar and some allspice and a K138 PLAIN COOKING little grated lemon-peel. Stir all well together, and mix with a little milk; tie in a cloth, and well boil. 279. Bread and Butter Pudding Cut the bread into thin shoes, butter them, and place in a pie-dish. Add a little marma- lade or jam. Mix one or two eggs with milk and a little vanilla or lemon flavouring and sugar. Pour this on the bread and butter, etc. Then add another layer of bread and butter, placing on it a few sultanas or currants, a little grated nutmeg, and some small pieces of butter, and then bake gently. This is also very nice cold, and should turn out easily if the dish be buttered before the first layer is put in. 280. Harvest Pudding This is a very useful and economical pudding, and seasonable any time. It consists of half a pound of flour, and the same quantity of finely- chopped suet, three quarters of an ounce of ground ginger, three tablespoonsful of treacle, half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and half a teacup of oatmeal. Mix all well together with a teacup of milk, and boil from three to four hours.PLAIN COOKING 139 281. Berkshire Pudding Make a batter, and introduce to it a little rhubarb, cut fine, and some green gooseberries, also a small quantity of raspberry jam and sugar. Beat all well together, then put in a well-greased tin, and bake. If it would be preferable, a little finely-chopped suet may be added, and found to be a great improvement. 282. Suffolk Dumplings Suffolk dumplings are simply flour and water, and a little salt mixed lightly together, rolled into balls, and dropped into boiling water, and boiled for twenty minutes. 283. Baked Treacle Pudding Make a good dripping or lard crust, and place a layer in a well-greased tin, to which add some golden syrup. Fill the tin with alternate layers of crust and syrup, then cover with crust, and bake slowly. A little powdered ginger may be added. 284. Boiled Treacle Pudding Well grease a mould or pudding-basin, and fine it with a good suet crust. Pour in a little golden syrup, and then place another layer of140 PLAIN COOKING crust, pouring on some more syrup, and so on until the basin is quite full. Wrap over with the crust, and tie down with a pudding-cloth; put into boiling water, and boil fast for four or five hours. 285. Fig Pudding Chop finely six ounces of figs and a quarter of a pound of suet, and add a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, and well mix all together with two eggs, and boil for three hours. 286. Sultana Pudding Take six ounces of flour, three ounces of sultanas, three ounces of chopped suet, an ounce of sugar, and a teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix with an egg and a little milk into a stiff dough, and place in a well-greased mould or basin, and boil for three hours. 287. Ginger Pudding Shred very finely a quarter of a pound of suet, and add to it half a pound of flour, a quar- ter of a pound of moist sugar, and a tablespoon- ful of ground ginger. Stir these ingredients well together, and place them dry in a well buttered mould or basin, and boil for three hours.PLAIN COOKING 141 288. Boiled Lemon Pudding Mix well together a quarter of a pound of flour, the same quantity of sugar, bread-crumbs, sultanas, finely-chopped suet, and a half tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda. Add to these ingredients the finely-grated rind of two lemons and their juice, thoroughly strained, and an egg, and enough milk to make it moist enough. Beat all well together, and put in a greased mould, and cover with buttered paper, and steam for two hours. 289. Manchester Pudding Infuse a strip of lemon peel in half a pint of milk for half an hour, then add three ounces of bread-crumbs, and boil for a few minutes. Add the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, sugar to taste, and two or three table- spoonsful of brandy, and about two ounces of butter, and stir all well together. Put a good thick layer of any kind of preserve at the bottom of a pie-dish, pour the mixture over, and place in the oven to bake until set, let get cold before serving. m 290. Helena Pudding Grate very finely two ounces of bread-crumbs,142 PLAIN COOKING over which pour three-quarters of a pint of boiling milk, and soak for half an hour. Then beat with a fork, adding one tablespoonful of powdered sugar, a piece of butter the size of a large egg, two ounces of finely-chopped candied lemon-peel, and the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Spread a little apricot or other j am at the bottom of a pie-dish, and add the well-whisked whites of two of the eggs, and pour in the mixtures; place immediately in a moderate oven and bake for half an hour. 291. Baked Custard Pudding Allow six eggs to each pint of milk. Beat the yolks and whites separately. Then beat together, adding a slight dusting of flour or cornflour, and any flavouring liked. Line the pie-dish with a nice fight crust. Introduce the custard, and grate thereon some nutmeg. Cover with small pieces of butter. Place in the oven, and cook very slowly, and serve cold. 292. Bread Pudding An excellent method of using up bread is to make a pudding—rich or very simple. Tho-143 PLAIN COOKING roughly soak the bread in hot water, squeeze all the moisture away, place in a basin, and add sultanas, well-cleansed currants, sugar, grated lemon-peel, and powdered allspice. Mix all well together, then add some finely-chopped suet, and mix with well-beaten eggs. To make a more economical pudding, dripping may be substituted for the suet, and milk for the eggs, but in any case, well grease the pie-dish. 293. Boiled Bread and Butter Pudding Well butter a pudding-basin or mould, and line with thin slices of bread and butter. Sprinkle in some currants, and nearly fill the basin with layers of bread and butter, and currants or sultanas. Make a custard of two or three eggs and milk, in which beat up some sugar, grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, and pour over the bread and butter. Let it stand twenty minutes or half an hour, and then, if the bread has swollen enough to quite fill the basin, tie tightly with a pudding-cloth, plunge into boiling water, and boil quickly for an hour. Wine sauce may be served with it. 294. Rice Pudding Milk puddings may be made with eggs or without. It is a matter of taste. Rice needsPLAIN COOKING 144 much soaking, and is better simmered in milk before baking, with a small piece of lemon- peel. Place in the pie-dish, and add sugar and a morsel of any flavouring—vanilla is very nice —beat up the eggs, and add enough milk to fill the dish; grate nutmeg over, and cover with small pieces of butter. Do not on any account put too much rice, or the pudding becomes stodgy. 295. Ground Rice Pudding To every pint of milk allow a tablespoonful of ground rice. Mix the rice into a smooth paste with part of the milk. Boil the re- mainder with sugar and lemon-peel, and pour over, removing the peel. Stir all together and replace in the saucepan, and stir till it nearly comes to the boil. Then remove, and place in a basin until nearly cold. Beat in some eggs (previously beaten), and any flavouring that is liked. Line the sides of a pie-dish with a little pie-crust, and introduce the pudding. Grate some nutmeg, and place little pieces of butter over. Bake in a moderate oven until of a nice brown. 296. Tapioca Pudding Soak the tapioca, add sugar and flavour- ing — eggs if desired; fill up with milk,PLAIN COOKING 145 and grate a little nutmeg over; place small pieces of blitter on the top, and bake gently. 297. Bullet Tapioca Unless this tapioca is thoroughly soaked or simmered, it will make a most unpalatable pudding. This pudding is certainly nicer without eggs. After sweetening and flavour- ing, put the butter and nutmeg over, and cook very gently. 298. Macaroni Pudding Boil the macaroni in milk, to which a pinch of salt has been added, and let it simmer until quite tender. Place in a pie-dish with some castor sugar and whatever flavouring is pre- ferred. Beat up some eggs, and fill the dish with milk. Grate some nutmeg, cover with small pieces of butter, and bake gently. 299. Queen of Puddings This is a sweet meant to be served cold, and so may always be prepared beforehand. Finely grate a tumblerful of bread-crumbs, and add to them a teacupful of castor sugar, and pour over them a pint of boiling milk. Let this prepara- tion get slightly cooled before adding to it the146 PLAIN COOKING juice of a lemon and the rind finely grated, and a small piece of butter. Stir all together, and bake in a well-buttered dish until done (it should not be watery), and let it get quite cold before turning out; then spread some apricot jam over it. 300. Lemon Pudding This is an American way of making a lemon pudding. Mix together the juice of a lemon and the rind of one, the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, five tablespoonsful of castor sugar, and half a pint of new milk. Have a dish ready covered with puff paste. Then pour the mixture over and bake for twenty minutes. Whisk the whites of the eggs with three table- spoonsful of castor sugar, and place lightly on the top ; return to the oven for about five minutes. 301. Lemon Mould Place the rind of two lemons to simmer with about three-quarters of a pint of water and six ounces of castor sugar. Mix together two ounces of cornflour with a little water and the yolks of two eggs, also the juice of the lemons. Strain the water, rind, etc., etc., on to the corn-PLAIN COOKING 147 flour, well stirring, and put on to boil, and when it boils, stir for five or six minutes and pour into a mould that has been dipped into cold water. 302. Lemon Sponge Soak overnight an ounce of gelatine in a pint of water. Then dissolve over the fire; adding the finely-pared rind of two lemons, and the juices of three, and three-quarters of a pound of sugar; stir all well together, and boil. Then strain off, and allow it to stand till nearly cold, when add the well-beaten whites of two eggs, and whisk until it becomes of the con- sistency of sponge. 303. Cold Lemon Pudding Grate the rinds of three lemons, and place them in a saucepan with a pint and a half of water and six ounces of loaf sugar. Mix the juice of the lemons into a smooth paste with three tablespoonsful of cornflour, and place in the saucepan with the rinds, etc. When quite thick, stir in a piece of butter about the size of a walnut. Let it get a little cool, when stir in the yolks of three eggs, and then place in a pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Beat the whites of the eggs to aPLAIN COOKING 148 stiff froth, adding to it between two and three tablespoonsful of castor sugar. Place this on the top of the pudding, put back in the oven, and bake a pale brown. 304. Baked Apple Pudding Make a light suet crust as you would for boiling. Place in the bottom of the basin some sugar and a large piece of butter. Let it cook in the oven until thoroughly done, then turn out on to a hot dish. 305. Apple Charlotte Pare the fruit, cut in slices and remove the core and pips; then place in a saucepan with a little lemon-peel, a clove or two, or a little ginger, according to taste, sugar, and a little water, and let it boil to a pulp ; then stir in a piece of butter. Have ready some bread- crumbs and a well-buttered pie-dish, into which put some bread-crumbs; then add the fruit; cover with another layer of bread - crumbs, place small knobs of butter over, and bake to a nice brown. 306. Apple Fritters Select good-sized apples for fritters, as they make such a much prettier dish. Pare them,149 PLAIN COOKING and then core them with an apple corer, and cut into rings. Dip them into batter, which should not be too thin, and requires a little sugar in the mixing; then fry the fritters and well drain them. Then dish up on a dish- paper, and sprinkle castor sugar over. 307. Stewed Apples and Rice Pare the apples, and place them either in the oven or over the fire, putting with them a slice of lemon-peel and sugar to taste, and enough water to cover them. Have ready the boiled rice, make a wall of it round the dish, and place the apples in the centre. A little nutmeg may be grated over if liked. 308. Stewed Normandy Pippins When there is a scarcity of fresh fruit, one is glad to turn to tin or dried for a sweet. Nor- mandy pippins make either a sweet or a dessert dish. They need soaking over night, and putting into a stewpan with enough water to cover them, sugar, and a slice of lemon-peel. Let them stew gently until quite tender, then take them out of the stewpan and place in a glass dish. Add to the syrup in which they were stewed a wineglassful of sherry, and boil150 PLAIN COOKING up, which, when cool enough, pour over the pippins. Some blanched sweet almonds cut in strips and stuck in the pippins make a great embellishment to the dish. A few drops of cochineal put in with the pippins when first put on to stew, lends a nice colouring to the dish. 309. Stewed Apples Pare and core some good-sized apples, and place them in the oven in a stewing jar with enough water to cover them, and about their weight in loaf sugar. When the apples are cooked, boil up the syrup with a little sherry. 310. Apple Jelly Well butter a pie-dish, and place some slices of peeled apples; add about one pint of water and one teacupful of sago, a little sugar, and a slice of lemon rind. Cover with another pie-dish, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. 311. Stewed Rhubarb Strip and wash the rhubarb, and cut into slices about an inch or an inch and a half long, and place in a stew jar with sufficient water to cover, some moist sugar, and either grated151 PLAIN COOKING ginger or a strip of lemon-peel, and let stew till quite tender, but not broken. 312. Gooseberry Fool If green gooseberries cannot be obtained, bottled fruit serves the purpose. Stew the gooseberries, whether fresh or preserved, with sugar until soft enough to rub through a sieve. Then mix with cream or milk, and grate a little nutmeg over. 313. Gooseberry Holey Poley Chop some suet very fine, then add the flour according to the size of the pudding required. Mix with this some green gooseberries, adding a little grated nutmeg and sugar; tie in a cloth, and place in a saucepan of boiling water. Should you have a little stale milk, it is prefer- able to water in mixing the paste. Do not hurry the boiling, as the longer the pudding boils, the lighter it gets ; and always remem- ber to keep well covered with water. Should the saucepan require replenishing, always add boiling water. 314. Cold Souffle a la Milanaise Put the yolks of three eggs into a saucepan with six ounces of castor sugar, the grated152 PLAIN COOKING rind and juice of two and a half lemons, and a wineglassful of water. Whisk it until it nearly boils, and becomes quite thick over a clear fire. Let get cold, then stir in three ounces of dissolved gelatine, half a pint of whipped cream, and the whipped whites of the eggs; stir all very lightly, and place in a souffle tin, and let set; cover over with ratafias crumbs or castor sugar. Place a white paper round the tin. 315. To Make a Boiled Custard Should you not have a proper custard sauce- pan, a jug serves the purpose equally well. You require at least six eggs to the pint of milk, and eight are not too many. Be sure and break the eggs into a cup before putting them into the basin, as one tainted egg will ruin all the others. Thoroughly well beat them, and add the milk, which may have been previously heated, but not to let boil; the sugar and flavouring can also be put in the milk ; a piece of lemon-peel and a little vanilla make a very nice combination. Stir well, and then place in a jug, which plunge at once into a saucepan of boiling water. Keep stirring one way until it is just upon the boil, but on no153 PLAIN COOKING account let it come to the boil, as if you do, it will curdle. Take it out of the saucepan, and still stir for several minutes, and add to it some brandy according to taste, and well stir that in. 316. Whipped Cream Cream needs preparing over night, and keep- ing in a cool place. To a pint of cream add three to four ounces of pounded sugar and the whites of two eggs. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth before adding them to the cream. Put the cream into a large basin, and add to it some very finely grated lemon-peel, the sugar, a glass of sherry, and the well-beaten eggs. Whip these all together, and as the froth arises take it off and place on a hair-sieve. 317. Tipsy Cake Buy a stale sponge or savoy cake that is made in a mould. Place it in a deep glass dish after having cut off the bottom to make sure of its being level, so that it will stand firmly in the dish ; also cut a hole in the top so that the wine can soak through. Soak well with sherry and brandy—and French cooks add a little rum. Blanch and cut into strips some sweet LPLAIN COOKING *54 almonds, with which thoroughly stick the cake when it is sufficiently soaked. Have ready a good custard to place round the cake—not pouring any over it—and put a few ratafias or crystallised cherries on the custard. 318. Tipsy Cake with Jam For this cake you require small sponge cakes, which must also be stale. Cut them in halves, and place jam between each half. Pour over some sherry and brandy, and let soak. Make a custard and pour over them, and grate a little nutmeg lightly on the top. 319. Trifle Line a trifle or deep glass dish with sponge cakes, macaroons, savoy fingers, and ratafias. Spread over this a cover of jam or jams, as several kinds, such as apricot and strawberry, blend well together. Then thoroughly soak with wine and brandy, or any kind of spirit you fancy. Cover with boiled custard, and then put the whipped cream—which must be prepared over night—lightly on the top, garnishing with strips of angelica, blanched almonds, and a few crystallised cherries or other fruit cut small.PLAIN COOKING 155 320. A Quickly-made Trifle Get some sponge cakes, cut them in halves and fill with jam; then cover with sherry and a little brandy. Get half a pint, or three- quarters of a pint of cream, add the whites of two eggs and some castor sugar. Beat well until it comes to a froth, then place over the cakes. 321. A Fruit Trifle Place some assorted fruits in the bottom of a trifle-dish, and sweeten with castor sugar. Then put a layer of sponge cakes and press down, so that they get the juice. Pour over a little wine or brandy, and then cover with cus- tard and whipped cream. 322. Orange Trifles A pleasant and welcome change in the way of trifles is to make it of oranges. Soak some macaroons and ratafias for about an hour to an hour and a half with sherry, brandy, and a little orange juice in a trifle-dish. Then pare some seedless oranges, carefully removing all pith, and divide them in their natural divisions, and place upon the macaroons. Cover with a rich cnstardjUpon which place some whipped cream,PLAIN COOKING 156 and garnish with glace cherries and a little angelica cut in thin pieces. 323. Yorkshire Pudding Make a batter of two eggs to the pint of milk and four tablespoonsful of flour. Well grease a tin, and put in the oven to set for fifteen minutes, when place under the joint. Should you cook it the whole while in the oven, it requires a great deal of dripping. 324. Pancakes Make a batter of two eggs to two tablespoons- ful of flour and half a pint of milk. Put the fat in the pan, and let it come to the boil; then place some of the batter in, let it run over the pan, and when cooked on one side, turn over and let cook on the other. This quantity should be enough for four pancakes, and can be made richer if desired. Serve on a dish- paper with castor sugar over, and garnished with lemon. 325. A Plain Batter Beat together three eggs with a little salt and pepper; when quite frothy dredge in four tablespoonsful of flour, very slowly beating allPLAIN COOKING 157 the time. Then beat in a pint of milk, and keep beating until it is a smooth paste. 326. Currant Dumplings Chop a quarter of a pound of suet, and add two tablespoonsful of flour, a pinch -of salt, some currants, and a little spice; beat an egg up in a little milk, add gradually to the other in- gredients ; roll into balls and place in boiling water, and boil for about twenty minutes. Stir during the boiling as they are apt to stick. 327. Cocoanut Marmalade Cocoanut marmalade makes a nice sweet for either the dinner or supper table, and is very simple to make. Make a syrup of one pint of water and half a pound of loaf sugar. Grate a cocoanut, and put it in the syrup. Let it boil until quite transparent, then add the yolks of three eggs well beaten. Then let it simmer for a few minutes, and it is then ready for use. Serve in custard glasses. 328. Sponge Pudding This pudding can be eaten either cold or hot. Well beat together the yolks of two eggs and a quarter of a pound of butter until they have become a cream; then add a quarter of a pound158 PLAIN COOKING of flour, a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, and thoroughly well beat until all becomes of the same consistency. Butter some small cups, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes ; then turn them out, and garnish with some glace cherries and angelica cut in thin pieces. Serve with white or wine sauce. 329. Cream Pudding Beat to a cream two ounces of butter and the same quantity of castor sugar, with two eggs and two tablespoonsful of flour; then add half a pint of milk, again well beating. Place in a well-buttered dish or tin for half an hour. 330. Orange Delight Dissolve an ounce of gelatine. Carefully pare three oranges, removing all pith, and get pipless oranges if possible. Cut evenly in slices, and line a pudding-basin with them, sprinkling over with castor sugar. Make a custard of a packet of Bird’s custard powder, or two eggs, to a pint of milk, adding any juice that may have come from the oranges. Mix in the gelatine, and let the custard get nearly cool. Then pour into the basin. Let this get quite cold before turning out of the basin and serving.159 PLAIN COOKING 331. Dough Nuts Put six ounces of flour in a basin, and well mix with it a teaspoonful of baking powder; then rub in very thoroughly and finely two ounces of butter, and two tablespoonsful of castor sugar. Beat two eggs together with two tablespoonsful of milk. Pour them into the centre of the other ingredients, making all into a paste. Turn it out on to a floured board, knead very lightly, and form into small balls about the size of an egg. Make a hole in the centre of each, put in a teaspoonful of jam and close up the hole again, and drop the nuts into boiling fat for five minutes. Put them out on kitchen paper, and roll in sifted or crystallised sugar. 332. Cocoanut Buns Rub two ounces of butter into half a pound of flour, add one teaspoonful of baking powder, a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, and a quarter of a pound of dessicated cocoanut. Make into a paste with a beaten egg and a quarter of a pint of milk. Bake in patty tins which have been well greased. 333. Queen Cakes Beat half a pound of butter to a cream, andPLAIN COOKING i6o dredge in a pound of flour ; add half a pound of castor sugar and half a pound of currants, and mix them with a teacupful of cream and flavouring to taste, and one teaspoonful of car- bonate of soda, and beat the paste well for ten minutes. Place them on a flat tin, and bake from twenty minutes to half an hour. 334. Gingerbread Nuts Put half a pound of treacle in a small basin with an ounce and a half of butter in the oven to melt. Mix together six ounces of flour and half a pound of moist sugar, pour in the melted treacle and butter. Form into a stiff paste with your hands, knead well, and roll into little balls like marbles, and place on a buttered paper on a tin, and bake in a moderate oven. 335. Cocoanut Pyramids Mix three ounces of dessicated cocoanut with a dessertspoonful of cornflour and an ounce and a half of castor sugar. Mix the sugar, cornflour and cocoanut together. Whip the white of one egg very stiffly, and mix the other ingredients. Form into small pyramids on buttered paper on a tin, and bake for a few minutes until the outsides are set.PLAIN COOKING 161 336. A Quickly-made Sally Lunn Make a stiff batter of flour, three teaspoons- ful of baking powder, one pint of milk, two eggs, and half a teacupful of butter. Bake in a quick oven until well cooked. 337. Rock Cakes Rub well together half a pound of flour and a quarter of a pound of butter, and when tho- roughly well mixed, crush a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and add also some spice and grated lemon-peel, three tablespoonsful of currants, and a little finely-chopped candied peel. Mix all together with one egg, and bake in little rough cakes. 338. Rice Cakes Mix together one pound of ground rice, half a pound of butter, and half a pound of powdered loaf sugar; add fourteen drops of essence of lemon, and bake in a moderate oven. 339. Soda Cake Rub a quarter of a pound of butter or drip- ping into a pound of flour, add half a pound of moist sugar, half a pound of currants. Dis- solve a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda in a teacupful of milk, and pour in, mix with three eggs, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour.i62 PLAIN COOKING 340. Rock Buns Rub six ounces of dripping into one pound of flour, add three ounces of sugar, and six ounces of currants. Mix with an egg and a little milk. Break into small pieces, and bake on a flat tin in a moderate oven. 341. Curd for Cheesecakes Beat two ounces of butter to a cream, add one well-beaten egg, two ounces of pounded sugar, a stale penny sponge cake, and a few drops of essence of lemon. 342. Curd for Lemon Cheesecakes Dissolve one pound of powdered sugar, then add to it half a pound of butter, the well-beaten yolks of six eggs and the whites of four, the juice of four lemons, and the grated rind of three. Put them on to simmer until they become of the consistency of honey. 343. Calves’ Foot Jelly- Put two calf’s feet on to boil in six pints of water, and cook until the feet completely come to pieces. Then strain through a fine sieve, and let it strain until next day. Then remove all scum, and carefully wipe the top with a clean cloth. Place in a saucepan orPLAIN COOKING 163 stewpan, with the finely-pared rind of a lemon, a small piece of whole cinnamon, a pinch of salt, and a couple of cloves, also a little dried saffron, and half a pound of loaf sugar. Beat well together the whites of two eggs and their shells, which add and boil up, stirring all the while, until the whites of the eggs set thickly on the top. Then put in what flavouring you prefer, sherry, rum, or brandy, and stir, but do not boil again. Have the jelly bags ready near the fire, and let drip into a basin; then pour into moulds previously rinsed in cold water. One bullock’s foot prepared in the same way will answer the purpose. 344. Mince Meat A very simple way of making mincemeat is to finely chop one pound of suet, one pound of muscatel raisins (which are better stoned at home than bought ready done), one pound of currants, one pound of apples, one pound of sultanas, and a pound of Demerara sugar. Grate the rinds of two lemons and an orange, and add the juice of both the lemons and the orange grated; nutmeg and allspice. Stir thoroughly, adding to it rum and brandy until of a sufficient moisture, then place in jars, and tie down tightly until required for use. ThisPLAIN COOKING 164 recipe will make a good quantity, but it can very easily be added to or reduced, but the longer you may require to keep it, the more spirit will be required. 345. Shortbread Take half a pound of fresh butter and the same quantity of salt butter, one pound and three-quarters of flour, a quarter of a pound of ground rice, and half a pound of sifted sugar. Work all these ingredients well together, roll out, cut into pieces, and bake in a moderate oven. 346. A Sweet Omelet Make a batter as for a plain omelet, and have ready a very hot dish. Turn out the omelet and place in the jam, which should be slightly warmed. Dust over with sifted sugar. 347. Damson Cheese Place the damsons in a stew-jar in the oven, with sufficient water to cover them, and cook until the fruit will break; then cook sufficiently to squeeze through a fine cloth, when place in a stewpan, allowing one pound and a quarter of loaf sugar to every pint of juice, and simmer gently for a couple of hours; then boil quickly165 PLAIN COOKING for half an hour, removing all scum as it arises. Place in small moulds or jars, and when cold, tie down. 348. Sauces for Puddings A very simple way of making wine sauce is to boil together for a few minutes a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar in a quarter of a pint of water until slightly thickened; then add three tablespoonsful of sherry, brandy, or rum, and one tablespoonful of very finely grated lemon- peel. Take either arrowroot or cornflour, and mix with milk and a little grated lemon-peel. Boil some milk and pour over, well stirring. Put altogether in the saucepan, and boil up, stirring the same way the whole while, adding a little brandy or sherry, and castor sugar. Beat to a cream equal quantities of fresh butter and brown sugar, adding thereto a few drops of lemon juice and a little grated nut- meg, flavouring with either wine, rum, or brandy. THE ENDIND Apple Charlotte 305 Apple Fritters 306 Apple Jelly 310 Apple Pudding (Baked) 304 Apple Sauce 225 Apples (Stewed) - i 307-9 Artichokes - 255 Artichokes (Jerusalem) 256 Artichoke Soup - 18 Asparagus - 253 Asparagus and Cheese - 180 Barley Soup 25 Batter (a plain) - 325 Beans (French) - 248 Beef (to boil) 81 Beef (to roast) 80 Beef (Filleted) 131 Beef (Minced) 166 Beef Olives 214 Beef (Ragout of) - 141 Beef Tea 6 Berkshire Pudding 281 Bread Leavings (to utilise) 215 Bread Pudding - 292 Bread Rusks 216 Bread Sauce 222 Bread and Butter Pud- ding 279 Bread aud Butter Pud- ding (Boiled) - 293 Broad Beans 250 Bubble and Squeak 178 EX Cabbage - - . 247 Cabbage Soup - - 26 Calves’ Foot Jelly - 343 Calves’ Head - - 167 Caper Sauce - - 224 Casserole (Cookery en) - 123 Carrots - - - 259 Cauliflower - - 246 Cauliflower and Cheese 181 Celery (Braised) - - 267 Celery Sauce - - 228 Celery Soup - - 21 Celery (Stewed) - - 266 Cheesecakes - - 341 Cheesecakes (Curd l'ox) 342 Cheese Custard - - 196 Cheese Souffle - - 197 Chesnut Sauce - - 227 Chicken Fritters - - 164 Chicken (Grilled) - 102 Chicken and Peas - 101 Chicken Pie - - 144 Chicken Soup - - 7 Cocoanut Buns - - 332 Cocoanut Marmalade - 327 Cocoanut Pyramids - 335 Cod (Boiled) - - 35 Cod’s Head & Shoulders 36 Cod’s Roe (Fried) - 40 Cod Scallops au Gratin 39 Cod Steaks (Fried) - 37 Cod Steaks (Grilled) - 38 Crab (Baked) - - 71 Cream Pudding - - 329-INDEX 167 ICream (Whipped) 316 Grouse - 112 Currant Dumpling - 326 Gudgeon - 65 Curry (an economical) - 156 Haddock (Baked) 44 Custard (Boiled) - - 315 - Custard Pudding - 291 Haddock (Boiled) - 42 Cutlets (Cold Meat) - 176 Haddock (Dried) - 45 Cutlets (Italian) - - 143 Haddock (Filleted) - 43 Half-Pay Pudding - 275 Damson Cheese - - 347 Hare (Jugged) - 115 Devilled Bones - - 174 Hare (Roast) - 114 Dough Nuts - 331 Hare Soup - - 9 Duck (Roast) - 103 Haricot Beans - 251 Duck (Stewed) - - 104 Harvest Pudding - 280 Duck (Wild) - 113 Helena Pudding - - 290 Herrings (Grilled) - 60 Eels - - 64 Herrings (Soused) - 59 Eggs (to Poach) - - 188 Horseradish Sauce - 226 Eggs (Mayonnaise) - 191 Hot-Pot - 137 Eggs(Savoury) - - 198 136 Eggs (Scrambled) - 190 Irish Stew - - Eggs (Sur le Plat) “ 189 Julienne Soup 15 Eig Pudding Fish Cakes - - 285 70 Jewish Cookery Fish Pie - 72 Peas and Beans Soup - 235 Fish Pie au Gratin - 73 Calves5 Feet Stew - 236 Forcemeat - - 213 Stewed Beef and Beans 237 Fowls (Boiled) - 100 Fish (to Fry) - 238 Fowls (Roast) - 99 Fish (to Stew) - 239 Fowls (Croquetted) - 170 Baked Apple Pudding 240 Soda Cake - - 241 Giblet Pie - - 148 Almond Pudding - 242 Giblet Soup - 8 Broad Bean Salad - 243 Ginger Pudding - - 287 Gingerbread Nuts - 334 Ketchup (Tomato) - 209 Goose (Hashed) - - 175 Kidneys (Stewed) - 132 Goose (Roast) - 105 Gooseberry Fool - - 312 Lamb (to Roast) - - 88 Gooseberry Roley Poley 313 Lamb (Roast Fore- Gooseberry Sauce - 229 Quarter - - 89 Gravy Soup - 10 Lamb Cutlets - 124 Grill (a Mixed) - - 185 Leeks - - 263 — - 186 Lemon Mould - 301i68 INDEX Lemon Pudding - Lemon Pudding (Boiled) Lemon Pudding (Cold) Lemon Sauce Lemon Sponge - Lentil Soup Liver and Bacon - Lobster (Mayonnaise) - Lobster Sauce Lobster Scallops - Macaroni Cheese - Macaroni Pudding Mackerel (Boiled) Mackerel (Grilled) Mackerel (Soused) Manchester Pudding - Mayonnaise Sauce Mince Meat Mint Sauce Mock Turtle Soup Mulligatawny Soup Mushroom Sauce Mushroom Stew - Mutton (Boiled) - Mutton (Boned Loin) - Mutton (Roast Leg) Mutton (Shouldered) - Mutton Broth Mutton (Fricasse) Mutton (Hashed) Mutton Cold (Hashed) Mutton Pie with Cold Meat - Mutton Pie of Cold Mutton - Mutton (Ragout of) Omelet (Cheese) - Omelet (Plain) - Omelet (Savoury) Omelet (Sweet) - Omelet (Sweet Herb) - 194 Onions (Braised) - - 269 Onions (Pickled) - - 211 Onion Sauce . 223 Onion Soup - 20 Onions (Spanish) - 265 Onions (Spanish Boiled) 271 Orange Delight - - 330 Oxtail (Haricot) - - 134 Oxtail Soup - 5 Oysters (Devilled) - 78 Oyster Pate - 77 Oysters (Scalloped) - 76 Oyster Sauce - 232 Oyster Soup - 13 Pancakes 324 Parsnips - 260 Partridges - - 110 Peas (Green) - 261 Peas (Tinned Green) - 262 Pease Pudding - 96 Pea Soup - 16 Pea Soup (Green) - 17 Pheasant - 111 Pigeons (Baked) - - 120 Pigeons and Kidneys - 133 Pigeon Pie - - 147 Pike (Baked) - 63 Plaice (Boiled) - 53 Plaice (Filletted) - 52 Plaice (Fried) - 51 Plum Duff - - 278 Plum Pudding - 272 — - 273 — - 274 Plum Pudding (Baked) 276 Plum Pudding (Veg< table) - 277 Pork (Curried) - 154 Pork (Hand of) - - 95 Pork (Leg of) - 94 Pork (Loin) - 93 300 288 303 234 302 22 157 75 231 74 217 298 46 48 47 289 221 344 220 12 11 230 268 83 84 87 82 85 2 172 135 177 163 165 140 195 192 193 346169 INDEX Pork Pudding 97 Sausage Rolls 184 Pork (Rolled Salt) - 9S Sausage (Stewed) - 182 Potatoes - 244 Scallops - 68 Potatoes (New) - • 245 Scallop Pie - - 67 Potato Pie - - 169 Scallops (Stewed) - 69 Potato Pie (Devonshire) 145 Scarlet Runners - - 249 Potato Rissoles - - 179 Scotch Broth - 3 Potato Soup - 24 Seakale - 254 Sheep’s Head Broth - 4 Queen of Puddings - 299 Shortbread - - 345 Queen Cakes - 333 Shrimp Sauce - 233 Skate (Boiled) - 49 Rabbit (Boiled) - - 118 Skate (Fried) - 50 Rabbit (Jugged) - - 116 Smelts - 61 Rabbit Pie - - 150 Soda Cake - - 339 Rabbit Pudding - - 139 Sole (Boiled) - 33 Rabbit (Ragout of) - 142 Sole (Filletted) - - 34 - 138 Sole (Fried) - 31 Rabbit (Stewed) - - 119 Sole (Grilled) - 32 Red Cabbage (to Pickle) 212 Souffle (Cold, a la Rhubarb (Stewed) - 311 Milan aise - 314 Rice Cakes - - 338 Spinach - 252 Rice Pudding - 294 Sponge Pudding - - 328 Rice Pudding (Ground) 295 Sprats - 62 Rissoles - 168 Steak (Carpet Bag) - 128 Rock Buns * - 340 Steak (Jugged) - - 127 Rock Cakes - - 337 Steak and Kidney Pudding - - 129 Sage and Onions - - 218 - 130 Salad (Celery) - 204 Steak (Stewed) - 126 Salad (Cucumber) - 205 Stock Pot - - 1 Salad (Plain) - 202 Suet - - 79 Salad (Potato) - 203 Suffolk Dumpling - 282 Salad (Tomato) - - 207 Sultana Pudding - - 286 Salad (Watercress) - 206 Supper Dish (A) - 187 Sally Lunn - - 336 Sweetbreads (Baked) - 152 Salt Fish - 58 Sweetbreads (Brown) - 151 Salmon (Boiled) - - 27 Sweetbreads (White) - 153 Salmon Croquettes - 29 Salmon Cutlets - - 28 Tapioca Pudding - 296 Salmon (Spiced) - - 30 Tapioca (Bullet) - - 297 Sauce for Puddings - 348 Timbale of Fish - - 66 Sausage (in Batter) - 183 Tipsy Cake - 317 M170 INDEX Tipsy Cake (with Jam) 318 Toad in the Hole - 158 Toad in the Hole (with Cold Meat) - - 159 Tomatoes (Baked) - 270 Tomato Savoury - - 199 Tomato Soup - - 19 Tomatoes (Stuffed) - 201 Treacle Pudding (Baked) 283 Treacle Pudding (Boiled) 284 Tripe - - - 319-322 Tripe (Fried) - - 162 Tripe and Onions - 161 Turbot (Boiled) - - 41 Turkey (Boiled) - - 108 Turkey (Roast) - - 106 Turkey Scallops - - 171 Turkey (Stuffing for) - 107 - - 109 Turnips - - - 257 Turnips (Mashed) - 258 Veal (Boiled) - 92 Veal Cutlets - 125 Veal (Roast) - 90 Veal (Gravy for) - - 91 Veal and Ham Pie - 146 Veal (Minced) - 173 Veal (Stewed) - 121-122 Vegetable Marrow - 264 Vegetable Marrow (Stuffed) - - 200 Vermicelli Soup - - 23 Walnuts (to Pickle) - 210 Whitebait - 56-57 White Sauce - 219 Whiting (Boiled) - - 55 Whiting (Fried) - - 54 White Soup - 14 Yorkshire Pudding - 323 Printed by M‘Laren fc Co., Limited, Edinburgh.TIME AND MONEY SAVED DY USING or Provision Dealer for. your Grocer HUGON'S refined beef suet. “Atora Brand. Bn»fn4KT)r.S RAW 8UET, LARD RDd I SUPERSEDES RAW SUIT, LARD BUTTER- ror MINCEMEAT, PUDDINGS, OAK.E3, PIE CRUST and FRYING. HUGON’S “ATORA” BEFINED BEEF SUET Indispensable In every Household all the year round Specially recommended for Summer Use and for Hot Climatee. It supersedes Raw Suet, Lard, and Oooking Butter for Puddings, Cakes, Mince Meat, Pie Crust, Frying and Cooking. Prepared from best English Beef Suet only! Saves trouble of chopping! Always ready for use 1 No waste ! One pound goes as far as two pounds of Raw Suet I Digestible and Wholesome. Absolutely Pure. It is put up in cne pound boxes and sold by most Grocers and Dealers. Sole Manufacturers— HUGOM & CO., Ltd., PENDLETON, MANCHESTER.FLETCHER, RUSSELL & CO. LIMITED . . MANUFACTURERS OF . . WITH PATENT REMOVABLE ENAMELLED LININGS 9 COOKING UTENSILS GRILLERS, HOTPLATES WATER HEATERS SMOOTHING IRONS COFFEE ROASTERS BOILING BURNERS WASH BOILERS GAS COOKING RANGES « GAS FIRES * HEATING STOVES . . . GREENHOUSE BOILERS FOOT STOVES &c. &c. 134 QUEEN VICTORIA ST., LONDON, E.C. Showrooms:— ^ and J32 DEANGATE, MANCHESTER. WARRINGTON, MANCHESTER & LONDON.“What