Saint Pancras Public Libraries. The Leading Library is open from 10 a.m. until 9 p.m. every weekday, except Wednesday, when it closes at 1 p.m. The time allowed for reading each work issued, whether one volume or more, is fourteen days. For any book not returned within that period, a fine of one penny for the first week or portion of a week, and twopence for each succeeding week or portion of a week, is charged. In cases of infectious disease, books must NOT be returned to the Library, but must be delivered either to the Sanitary Authorities at the time of their call, or to the Disinfecting Station, Public Health Annex, 67-71 Prospect Terrace, Gray’s Inn Road, W.C.l. Ter. 8567—open from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m., Monday to Friday; Saturday, 9 a.m. until 12 noon. No book can be issued unless the reader’s ticket is presented or a book returned. No book can be exchanged on the day on which it was issued. Changes of address of readers or of their sponsors must be notified within one week oi such change. Readers leaving the Borough or ceasing to use the Libraries are required to return their tickets to the Librarian, otherwise they will be held responsible for all liabilities incurred. Readers are required to keep the books clean, to refrain from turning down the leaves, or making pencil or other marks upon them. They must take the earliest opportunity of reporting any damage or injury done to the books they receive, otherwise they will be held accountable for the same. In wet weather they must protect the ' ' LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Camden / 30106023331282London Borough of Camden Swiss Cottage Library 88 Avenue Road, London NW3 3HA 01-278 4444 ext 3012 This book is due for return on or before the date stamped below. If not required by another reader it may be renewed by returning it to the library for re-issue. v- - - f>7V ^ If?: ' -j Fines are charged on overdue books Please bring your ticket with you LA 210Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21538153THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY AND RECHERCHE COOKERYmetropolitan joust reserve (St. Panoras Publ ic s i Le ar ies) Book Number ••• V , *"77- WiTi;I ‘ WN FROM CAMDEN...! Aik'Akl^.. T361552AUTHOR’S PREFACE I have devoted a great portion of my life to the study and practice of Cookery in its various branches, gaining practical experience in some of the leading culinary establishments on the Continent and in England. The knowledge thus obtained convinces me that many things both new and useful need to be added to the numerous Cookery manuals already before the public. I therefore venture to offer the following pages, in the hope that they may prove interesting and helpful to all, but especially to those who are engaged in the catering business. The majority of the books on Cookery which have been recently given to the public—many excellent in their way—lack one essential point: a translation of the langue de cuisine for numerous French phrases and technical terms now in constant use, which, ;are seldom properly understood. It is chiefly to enable those engaged in the practice or in the superintendence of high-class Cookery to compose a menu, and to give each dish its correct name—whether in English or French—that this book was first written. I have always held the opinion that in cases where it is thought necessary to give French names to the dishes, this should be done as concisely as possible, by the use of that peculiar French which is the language of cookery. I have therefore given comprehensive descriptions of the French dishes named in this book. The headings to each list of the various kinds of comestibles have been given in French and English, which will assist the inexperienced6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK to compile a bill of fare correctly, and enable them to supersede the French names (often ridiculously spelt) by intelligible English ones, where such a course is preferred. The vocabulary of terms used in Cookery contains over three thousand words and phrases used hi the art. These are translated and explained, and details of the origin and history of the more interesting are also given. With a view to rendering this work as complete as possible, a series of some two hundred Specimen Menus has been inserted in English, French, and other languages. These include examples of fixed price luncheons, dinners, &c., such as are served in London Clubs, Hotels, and Restaurants. A few classical Menus which will interest students of history, have also been added to this collection. A list of quotations from the works of standard authors useful in the compilation of menus for special occasions brings this section to a close. In brief, the object of this book is to present to the reader an Oracle of Gastronomy, a culinary guide for every-day reference ; a vocabulary of English and foreign terms used in cookery, as wrell as a collection of epigrams and quotations bearing on the art; and a few historical sketches relating to it. I therefore trust that it will prove a help to advocates of the School of French Cookery, a gastronomic treat to the gourmet, a valuable book of reference for hotel proprietors, managers, and chefs, as well as for' ladies who manage their own establishments. Chateau, Vevey : February 1892.AUTHOR’S INTRODUCTION TO THE NEW EDITION Scientific research and constant practical observation have proved that cookery and gastronomy are progressive arts : there is continually something to be added to our knowledge therein ; indeed, scarcely a week passes which does not bring some improvement to the notice of the careful observer. Therefore, with the view of increasing its general utility, this work has been entirely rewritten, and brought up to the present requirements of the art, a labour justifying the present title, ‘ The New Century Cookery Book.’ The selection of food materials, their preparation for cookery to produce agreeable and wholesome diet, the application of heat needed, and the improvements in appliances are now far more widely under- stood and appreciated than they were ten years ago, when the first edition of my book, ‘ Practical Gastronomy,’ was issued. In the present work I have endeavoured to describe the complete art of cooking, from the elemeptary principles underlying the art of cookery to the classification of the various branches. Every novelty in dishes and improvements in cooking that have come under my notice during my career as a practical cook have been incorporated in this edition. I take this opportunity of tendering my best thanks to all those who have shown their kind appreciation of my previous efforts; I also desire to make my grateful acknowledgment, to several confreres and friends who from time to time have afforded me most valuableTHE NEW CENTUEY COOKERY BOOK information which has .been of great assistance in the execution of the present work. Among these I would specially mention the late Monsieur A. Thevenot (for many years chef to Lord Clarendon), the late Monsieur Chas. Banhofer (for thirty years chef of Delmonico’s, New York), Monsieur Louis Chevriot (chef to Her late Majesty Queen Victoria), to Monsieur Juste Menager (chef to His Majesty King Edward VII.), to Monsieur E. Gnoepff (late chef to H.I.M. the Emperor of Austria), to Monsieur Urbain Dubois (for many years chef to the late Emperor William I.), to Monsieur C. J. Corblet (chef to Madame Bischoffsheim), to Monsieur A. Escoffier (chef Carlton Hotel, London), to Monsieur A. Coste (chef Hotel Cecil, London), to Monsieur Leon Griinenfelder (chef Grand Hotel, London), to Monsieur A. Eberle (chef Junior Constitutional Club, London), to Monsieur C. Meyer (chef Union Club, New7 York), to Mr. J. C. Buckmaster, M.A., J.P., to Monsieur A. Suzanne (for many years chef to the Duke of Bedford), and to Dr. Arthur Edmunds, M.D. (who kindly contributed the article on the Science of Cookery). My thanks are also due to Messrs. C. Arthur Pearson, Ltd., for their permission to reprint two articles on the methods of cooking, &c., which were specially written by me and published in 4 Home Cookery.’ No pains or expense have been spared to render this work as complete and accurate and ‘ up to date ’ as possible ; but as new dishes and new ideas in regard to culinary preparations are coming to light almost (daily, I I cannot claim that my -book is a complete and exhaustive treatise, although I have endeavoured as far as possible to make it so. London : April 1901.CONTENTS Preface . 5 Author’s Introduction to the New Edition 7 Introductory.—The Art of Cookery : Its Present Aims and Objects f. 13 I. The Science of Cookery: Food Elements and their Combina- tions 16 II. Marketing: The Choice of Food—Buying—The Mode of Cut- ting up Meat—Guide for Ordering Meats—Poultry— Game-Fish and Vegetables and Provisions . . « 21 III. Calendar of Food in Season : Alphabetically Arranged . . 36 > IV. The Kitchen : The Construction and Management of Kitchens—The Ventilation of Kitchens—Scullery Work—Storeroom and Larder—Kitchen Economics, &c. 38 V. Cooking Fuels and Cooking Stoves: Solid Fuels—Gaseous Fuels—Electricity — Liquid Fuels—Cooking Stoves— The Management and Care of Stoves .... 47 VI. On Cooking Temperatures 58 VII. Culinary Requisites : Cooking Utensils, &c. .... 60 VIII. Cooking Processes and their Effects : Boiling—Steaming— Roasting — Baking — Stewing — Braising — Grilling — Frying—‘ Twice Cooking ’—Smoking, &c. &c. . . 6810 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK IX. Stocks and Soups : Elementary Principle in Stock-making— Soups in General—Garnishings—Consommes—Creams and Purees 82 X. Sauces and their Composition : Roux and Liaisons—Auxi- liaries of Sauces—Foundation Sauces and their Ad- juncts—Synoptical Classification of Sauces, Ac. . . 91 XI. Seasoning and Flavouring: The Principal Uses of all Condiments and Flavouring Ingredients .... 101 XII. Elementary Methods : Weights and Measures—Bouquet Garni — Parsley — Panade — Mirepoix — Salpicon, &c.— Trussing Poultry and Game, &c.—Table for Cooking Meat, Poultry, and Game—Marinades, Pickling, &c. &c. 110 XIII. Hors-d’ceuvre : Introduction and Recipes for Appetisers . 123 XIV. Soups: Recipes for Stocks—Creams, Consommes, Purees, &c. &c. 186 XY. Sauces : Recipes for Plain, Compound, Rich, Salad, and . « Ghaud-froid an-d Sweet Sauces 169 XVI. Flavouring Butters and Force-meats 197 XVII. Garnishings and Garnitures for Removes and Entrees . 202 XVIII. Dressed Fish and Fish Entrees : Hot and Cold Service . 212 XIX. Entrees of Meat, &c., Hot 264 XX. Entrees of Poultry, &c., Hot 326 XXI. Entrees of Game, Hot 360 XXII. Cold Entrees of Meat, Poultry, and Game .... 384 XXIII. Removes and Roasts, with Hints on Carving . . . 411 XXIV. Vegetables, Plain and Dressed, including Farinaceous Dishes 436 XXV. Salads, comprising Raw and Cooked Salads, Fruit Salads, Ac. . . 485 XXVI. Sweet Entremets, Hot : Hot Puddings—Fritters, &c. . . 50011 contents' CHAPTER PAGE XXVII. Sweet Entremets, Cold, including Ices, Mousses, Parfaits, &c. . 533 XXVIII. After-dinner Savouries and Breakfast Dishes . . . 571 XXIX. Patisserie—Continental Gateaux and Pastry: Cakes, Tart- lets, and Biscuits 603 XXX. The Construction of Menus, with Specimen Menus for all Seasons and for every Occasion 624 XXXI. Table Service : How to Wait at Table, the Service o? Wines, &c.—Glossary of Terms used in Cookery . . 702 General Index 715 PRINCIPAL ILLUSTRATIONS Side of Beef, showing the Joints in French and English ... 24 Diagram of the Ox, English and Scotch Cuts 25 Diagram of the Sheep, English and Scotch Cuts 26 Chart of Beef, showing the Continental Way of Cuts ... 27 Side of a Sheep, giving the Joints in English and French ... 28 Diagram of Lamb, showing Principal Joints 29 Chart showing Continental Way of Cutting up Veal . , . . 30 Side of Veal, showing Manner of Cuts ....... 31 Side of Pork, showing the Various Cuts and Joints .... 32 Side of Bacon : a Guide for Ordering 33 A French Hotel Kitchen . 39 A Broche Spit, Turned by a ‘ Turnspit Dog ’ 50 Sectional View of an English Kitchener 51 A French Cottage Stove, showing Internal Construction . 52 A French Central Cooking Range, with Underground Flues . . 53 A Gas Cooking Stove 55 An Oil Cooking Stove 56 A Kitchen Fitted with Electric Cooking Stoves 57 rTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 12 PAGE Saccharometee for Sugar-boiling 58 Cooking Utensils, &c. : Various 68-67 The Mayfair Steamer 71 A Modern Hotel Cooking Stove (English) . . . . . . 90 A Bain-Marie .91 Seasoning and Spice Box . . . 101 Poultry Trussing 115 Specimens of Art Sugar Work 122 & 533 Hatelet Skewers for Garnishing 203 View of an English Hotel Kitchen 410 Joints' of Veal, Pork, and Mutton, to Carve 430-432' Poultry and Game, to Carve 433-435 How to Knead Paste 603 Making a Well for Paste 604 Facsimile of a Dinner Menu of Her Late Majesty Queen Victoria . 633 Facsimile of a German Menu in the Egyptian Style .... 665 Facsimile of an Original American Menu 690 Errata for Cross Reference P. 135, 1 . 18, for • 211 read 277 P. 173, 1 ■ 13, „ 242 „ 202 P. 204, 1 • 4, „ 239 „ 237 P. 205, 1 . 45, „ 244 „ 245 P. 206, 1 • 16, „ 244 „ 245 P. 206, 1 , 31, „ 271 „ 278 P. 207, 1 • 21, „ 291 „ 391 P. 209, 1 . 31, „ 7 „ 37 P. 269, 1 ■ 32, „ 239 „ 237 P. 285, 1 . 35, „ 324 „ 394 P. 287, 1 • 9, „ 3 „ 2ITS PRESENT AIMS AND OBJECTS Cookery is an art, a science, a handicraft, as well as a profession. It is a manipulative art which cannot be acquired by mere theoretical teaching, for it requires years of assiduous and constant practice before experience brings efficiency. The sole legitimate objects of cooking are to make food more palatable and easier to digest and assimilate. Thus the essential quality of any and all culinary preparations, whether simple or elaborately treated, is that the food cooked may be capable of furnishing nourishment to the body and supply new vital force to replace that which is constantly being used up by the processes inseparable from life. Good cooking is a process which preserves all the essential flavours and the nutritive values in foods. Therefore to cook well must be regarded as one of the grandest accomplishments, for it means making the best of nature’s own gifts. Bad cooking, on the other hand, is nothing less than an insult to nature, and an outrage against our own bodies, for it is the cause of innumerable evils. It is astonishing, nay deplorable, that in spite of the numerous efforts made to teach the proper methods of cooking, and the many op- portunities given, much of the precious food products are wasted or ruined in cooking through lack of better knowledge. The most scientific physiological deductions clearly prove that perfect cookery is the greatest economy, and that no cookery is rational which does not attain the utmost theoretically possible effect, viz. the production of the highest physiological force. Good cookery and varied cookery are alike economical. The more perfectly food is cooked the better it is assimilated, and the more satisfactory will be the digestion; whilst, on the other hand, the more varied it is, the more successfully does it provide for the requirements of our complex bodies. Food that is cooked badly, or food which is unsuitable, too heavy or too rich of its kind, is a sure provocation of that dreaded enemy, dyspepsia. All that appertains to the delicate and valuable science of cookery,THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 14 in its highest and most artistic form, is the result of study of the masters of that craft, who, we are bound to admit, have of late produced marvellous improvements by providing what ‘ is pleasant to the eye and good for food.’ Those cooks known as chefs are at once artists, architects, and physicians : they appeal to our senses of colour, of fragrance, of form, and of taste. Recognising that the condition of our souls is largely dependent on the state of our stomachs, their inventive genius is displayed in multifarious methods for what we may call the artistic presentation of nutriment. They can build castles and cathedrals out of cooked meats, flour, rice, and sugar; they can fashion all the flowers that bloom in the spring out of deftly moulded stearine crystals or carved vegetable roots ; they can form all the delicate pieces of a table decoration, and the judicious composition of a well-balanced bill of fare ; they work like dramatists and think like doctors ; for, after all, the ‘ secret ’ of a dinner means good dialogue on the part of the company ; hence the culinary artist may justly be termed the real physician of modern life. So much for the artists and the ‘ haute cuisine ’ ; but it is also most necessary that the importance of good cooking be likewise recognised in ‘ everyday life.’ It is here that cookery in many cases is, owing to lack of better knowledge, often shamefully mismanaged; and as the extravagances and discomforts resulting from bad cooking- are too well known, the importance of good cooking becomes at once apparent. Cookery is eminently experimental; our knowledge is increased through our daily experience and practice in the art. As the widest definition of the objects of cookery, Dr. Thudichum gives ‘ the preparation of food in such a manner that man shall derive the greatest nutrition and cesthetical advantage from its consumption.’ ‘ In all latitudes,’ he says, ‘ cookery has to accommodate itself in an infinite variety of ways to the ages, conditions, and fortunes of men; it has to consider not only the mere nutritive value of its products, but their aesthetic value, which may be defined as value arising from the liking or disliking that various persons with certain natural or acquired tastes manifest toward certain products and preparations.’ The difficulties are only increased when we consider the nature and composition of the several kinds of food, the proper combinations to produce desired effects—how different articles need different methods of treatment, and exposure to heat and moisture, in different ways and at varying degrees of temperature. The action of heat, chemical action, the processes of fermentation, disintegration, and concentration—all are of concern in the preparation of food. Small wonder, then, that failure marks so often our crude attempts to provide suitable nutriment for delicate organisms § for cooking, in its higher significance, has become a fine art. A cook’s business does not merely consist of preparing dishes, nourishing and15 THE ART OF COOKERY digestible, it also requires a high,degree of skill in blending colours and condiments. A certain amount of theory from the scientific side is good. We might, however, be able to get along without the latter, but we would get on very badly without the former, the practical part. I am sorely afraid that some of. the students of cookery attach too much import- ance to the science philosophy of cookery at the expense of the practice, for it is that most assuredly which makes the master of the art of cooking. We have just now enough philosophy in cookery and gastronomy to carry on the world’s cookery for the next twenty years, and only enough real practical science to carry on the world’s work from day to day, as it were. Cookery being an exact science, results of which can only be obtained by methodical operation or work, results, good, bad, and indifferent, are sometimes produced by accident. Such results are not, however, satisfactory, and cannot therefore be called uniform, because a knowledge based on mere chance, which produces result without substantial ground or reason, must be regarded as extremely dis- appointing and unsatisfactory, to say the least. It is of course essential that a student of cookery should be well versed in the knowledge of the composition of the different foods and food materials in order to understand the changes produced by cooking. The subject is thus closely allied to the chemistry of food, and it becomes necessary that the physiological action of the products of the digestive system of the human body be als© studied. Cookery as a subject is broad and deep enough for several volumes ; indeed, the methods of cooking, and their effects, would alone fill a handsome volume. I can, however, here only allude briefly to the most important principles that govern its application. Turning to the practical side, the art of cooking consists of the knowledge of the various substances, food materials, and ingredients used as food, and of the best and most economical method of treating them, so as to make them nourishing, palatable, and wholesome. This knowledge consists of three distinct parts : 1. The selection of food and food materials. 2. The preparation and treatment of food. 3. The application of heat for its chemical conversion. The last part is best expressed in the word ‘ Cooking.’ There never was a time when fine skill in cooking was more valued among educated persons than it is now. This is not because the world thinks more of good living than formerly, but because the art of catering is better understood, and, therefore, good cooking is appreciated as it deserves to be.THE NEW CENTUBY COOKERY BOOK CHAPTER I THE SCIENCE OF COOKERY FOOD ELEMENTS AND THE IE COMBINATIONS In such a consideration of foods as we must now undertake, in reference to their preparation for the table, we have certain pre- liminary facts to consider. Man differs from a stone in that, in the case of the stone, the same particles which composed it yesterday will compose it to-morrow, while in the living man this is not so. The very essence of life is intimately connected with change, and particles which are one day part of his food are another day part of the man himself. The food we eat has to perform several functions:— 1. It has to be to the body what the fuel is to the steam engine ; that is to say, it has to provide the energy for the perform- ance of the work of that body, both internal work (the beating of the heart, &c.) and external work (walking, &c.). 2. It has to provide material for replacing those portions of the body which are exhausted by the wear and tear necessitated by the performance of such work. 3. It has to provide the material for new tissues, especially in the • young. 4. It has to maintain by its combustion the bodily temperature. Food, after it has become assimilated as part of the body, undergoes slow combustion, and produces the same amount of heat as if it were burning rapidly in a fireplace. Formerly it was held that these various functions were performed by different kinds of food stuffs, that starches and fats were essentially heat-producing, while albuminous substances were essentially flesh- forming. As a matter of fact all these functions are interdependent, and no classification of food stuffs on this basis is possible. Since, therefore, the main purpose of our food is to build up and repair our bodies, we must evidently first consider of what substances they are composed. We find thn,t they consist of a number of elements, the chief of which are: — Potassium Iron Carbon- Oxygen Chlorine Hydrogen Phosphorus Calcium Nitrogen Sulphur SodiumTHE SCIENCE OF COOKERY 17 But it is evident that a meal consisting of those substances in their raw condition—a lump of coke, a stick of phosphorus, with a few bottles of gases and chips of iron—would hardly be appetising. The elements must be presented to the body in the form of suitable chemical, compounds, usually known as ‘ Proximate Principles.’ Let us briefly consider the main headings under which we may classify these:— A. Proteids or Albuminous Substances and allied bodies.—In this group we have contained the element, nitrogen, which is of special importance to living creatures ; in fact, we can only obtain the nitrogen we require in this form. Although the atmosphere is composed very largely of nitrogen, only a few fungi can make use of it in this form, while man has to obtain his nitrogen in the most expensive articles of his diet. Proteids form a large group of very complex chemical substances, containing, besides nitrogen, carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and they form the main constituents of milk, eggs, and meat. The vegetable kingdom also supplies us with proteids, but these vegetable proteids are not so digestible as the animal proteids. Many proteids are crystallisable when pure, and can be distinguished by certain chemical tests. Their most familiar property is, however, that of becoming coagulated by heat, a process seen in the setting of the white of an egg when it is boiled. B. The next group is that of the Fats, such as occur in suet, lard, butter, cream, dec.:—Fats are chemical compounds of glycerine with stearic, oleic, and palmitic acids, and the varied proportions of these constituents explain the differ- ences in consistency between the fats of various animals—e.g, lard is especially rich in olein, the compound of oleic acid, while suet is rich in stearin, the fat formed from stearic acid. C. The Carbohydrates.—This group contains the various forms of starches, gums and sugars. This is a very large and important group, and one for our supply of which we are mainly dependent upon the vegetable kingdom. Carbohydrates occur, however, in the animal kingdom: for example, there is an interesting animal carbohydrate called glycogen, which occurs in the liver and muscles, • especially those of young animals ; this is sometimes called animal starch. Of the sugars we have two main forms in common use as foods, i.e. the ordinary ‘ lump,’ or cane sugar, arid fruit sugars, or glucoses, which occur in fruits. Although not so highly prized by the public, these are of more importance than cane sugar ; indeed, the latter has to be converted into glucose in the course of digestion before it can be absorbed by flilfe body. Water, Salts and Extractives.—The constant loss of water in c18 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK the breath and excreta necessitates, of course, the consumption of a considerable quantity of water to replace the loss. Salts are of extreme importance, e.g. salts of lime are necessary for the formation of bones and teeth. They also have other more obscure functions which have not as yet been accurately determined. Extractives.—This is the term given to the group of chemical substances which we can dissolve out of any substance by water or other solvent. Soups, extracts of meat, glaze and similar pre- parations mainly consist of these substances. Finally there is a large group of more or less desirable accessories to food, such as spices and condiments, wines, tea, coffee, and cocoa, and so on. Having thus considered very briefly these ‘ proximate principles,’ let us see how a few of the more ordinary articles of diet supply us with them. 1. Milk.--This naturally comes first, inasmuch as it is the most complete of any of the natural food stuffs. It contains : — A. Proteids, mainly a proteid called caseinogen.—This is dissolved in the milk, but unlike most proteids does not coagulate in boiling. When, however, a little rennet is added to the milk, it becomes converted into casein, and entangling with it the fatty globules of the milk, forms the well-known curd. This forms the principal constituent of cheese. If milk be allowed to boil for some time, certain changes occur, the exact nature of which has not been discovered. They are of great practical importance from the fact that children fed upon milk prepared in this way frequently do not thrive. Milk should therefore be removed from the fire immediately it begins to boil, especially if it is to be used for feeding very young children. B. Fats.— If a drop of milk be examined under the microscope, it is seen to consist of numerous globules of fat which, when shaken together, form butter, one of the most valuable of all the fats from a physiological standpoint. C. Carbohydrates.—Milk contains a special form of sugar lactose, or milk sugar. D. Water, Salts and Extractives. Human milk differs from cow’s milk in that it contains more sugar and less proteid matter. In round numbers the relative quantities are : — ^ — Human Milk Cow’S-Milk Proteid (per cent.) . • • ' . .! 2 4 Fat (per cent.) . . i 4 4 Carbohydrate (per cent.) . ' 419 THE SCIENCE OF COOKERY 2. Meat.-—Here we have to consider two distinct structures. In the first place, we have the actual fibres of the meat, consisting, besides water, almost entirely of proteid, or albuminous material of several varieties. Some of these after death undergo coagulation, causing the carcase of the animal to become stiff and rigid. The other constituents of the meat are sinews and material uniting the fibres together. These contain fat and a substance which yields gelatin on boiling with water. Gelatin, the chief constituent of jellies and clear soups, is a sub- stance allied to proteid, and is of value in that it can replace part, though not all, of the proteid part of the diet. It has hence been called a ‘ proteid sparing ’ food. 3. Eggs.—These form the nearest approach to a pure proteid that we have in nature, their other constituents being comparatively unimportant. 4. Bread and Flour.—These in various forms constitute the main sources of carbohydrates. Bread contains a large amount of starch, some sugar formed from it in the process of baking, as well as about 8 per cent, of the vegetable proteid called gluten. Bread is made ‘ light ’ by the action of yeast, a small plant which, as it grows, forms carbonic acid gas from the sugar. This gas bubbling through the dough renders it porous. 5. Vegetables. —Some such, as potatoes, consist almost entirely -of starch ; others, such as green vegetables, consist mainly of a highly insoluble substance called cellulose, with small quantities of starches, proteids, &c. But they are especially valuable in'that they contain various mineral salts of vital importance. The importance of fresh vegetables and fruits was not for a long time realised, and hence there were fearful outbreaks of scurvy amongst sailors ; at the present day this disease is practically unknown in well-ordered ships. What the actual substance is that prevents scurvy has not as yet been discovered. Recent Arctic expe- ditions have also shown the value of fresh meat in preventing scurvy. Now, as we saw above, proteid contains practically all the elements which we require, and yet it is found, as a matter of practical •experience, that we can live much better on a mixed diet consisting also of carbohydrates, fats, &c., and furthermore that these should be in proper proportion. A typical physiological diet, i.e. one on which an average man would neither gain nor lose weight, is the following, known as ‘ Ranke’s ’ diet: — Proteid . . 100 grammes I Carbohydrates . 250 grammes Fat . . 100 „ I Water, salts, &c. Again, given such a diet, we must have it properly prepared for consumption and digestion. Before the body can absorb any of these they must undergo complicated chemical changes in the stomach and intestines under the influence of the various digestive juices ; for20 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK example, proteids must be converted into ‘ peptones,’ substances which are more soluble and pass more readily through the wall of the alimentary canal: starch must be converted into sugar. In order that this may be done easily the food must be broken up into small pieces by mastication, that the digestive juice may have access to its particles, and it must be rendered palatable. This is of importance because the secretion of the digestive juices is under the control of the nervous system, and the more a dish pleases the appetite—within certain limits—the more readily is it digested. Cookery has thus for its objects :— 1. The rendering of raw material agreeable to the sight, smell and taste. 2. The conversion of the sinews &c. of meat into gelatin so that the fibres can be easily separated. 3. The bursting of the little envelopes in which starch is found in the tissues of various plants, and so allowing the digestive juices to act upon it. 4. The destruction of the eggs of any undesirable parasites that may happen to be present in raw food, or, especially in the case of milk, the destruction of the germs of disease or putrefaction which are liable to occur. In flavouring &c. we are largely dependent upon extractives. Meats contain, as we have seen, a great many, notably one called creatine, and these are the main constituents of the various meat extracts on the market. They have practically no value as actual food. In many of these meat extracts a certain amount of proteid matter is added, but it is generally very insoluble and always in such small quantity as to be practically useless as food. Meat extracts and clear soups must then be considered, from the point of view of food proper, as practically useless ; but, inasmuch as they are stimulant and refreshing, besides being palatable, they are valuable adjuncts to food.21 CHAPTER II MARKETING THE CHOICE OP POOD. Dr. Kitchener in his work, ‘ The Cook’s Oracle,’ truly said ‘ that all the skill of the most accomplished cook will avail nothing, unless the cook be furnished with prime provisions.’ A sound knowledge of marketing and the selection of food, therefore, becomes the first necessity, because nothing can be of more importance in cookery than the choice of the proper food materials. So it is necessary to give a few brief instructions for marketing, and explain certain general principles which will be helpful in the selection of food. Rule I. Look over your larder and storeroom, and make a list of what is needed in fresh or perishable food, as well as dry or preserved goods, studying at the same time the bill of fare of that day, and in- clude such articles as will be needed to carry out the plan for the meals of the day. Rule II. Acquire as much knowledge as you can, by personal observation, and by asking questions of shopkeepers. Pretend to be ignorant, and when you know do not make a display of your know- ledge, but use it for your own benefit. Rule III. Buy only in the best markets : the more trade done at a place the more likely you are to get fresh goods. Remember also that the cheapest goods are not always the most economical to use. Rule IY. Study the markets from books and papers, make a few notes, and take them with you when you go marketing: this will aid you greatly. Rule V. Learn to understand how fish, meat, poultry and game should look and feel; how to judge a joint of meat, and how to tell a young bird from an old one : how to judge fish when fresh or stale, sound fruit, fresh vegetables, &c. Rule YI. Be prepared to buy your experience at first. After a little time you will by careful observation become acquainted with those points which denote good quality, and you will soon become proficient in marketing.22 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK PRACTICAL HINTS IN CHOOSING FISH, MEAT, POULTRY, GAME, VEGETABLES, ETC. The following points and hints are given to assist the inexperi- enced ones in the art of buying, but to become perfect in this branch one needs a great deal of practical experience. How to choose Fish.—In choosing fish the following rules should be observed : —The eyes should be bright, the flesh or body firm, the gills a bright red, and the smell should be swe'et and,pleasant. Fish should never be eaten when out of season, because it often disagrees- with the system. The flesh of white fish should always be firm to the touch; when it is flabby arid has a blueish tinge it is a sign of its inferiority and staleness. Cod, when fresh and sound, should be judged by the redness of the gills, the whiteness, stiffness and firmness of the flesh, and the clear freshness of the eyes. All these are infallible proofs of its being good and fit for use. Salmon, when good, should have a small head, thick shoulders, and a small tail. The flesh should be of a bright red colour, and the scales should be very bright. Mackerel should not be bought unless quite fresh ; the fish will not keep, and should be cooked the day it is bought. Cod may be kept twenty-four hours, and soles the same. Eels should be bought alive. Soles, when fresh, are of a cream-like colour on the under-part, and when stale their appearance is blueish and flabby. Lobsters are at their best when oysters are out of season, in the summer ; in winter male lobsters only are in good condition. The hen lobster is known by her coral spawn, which is used for garnishing white fish, turbot, cod, &c. The quality of the lobster is judged by its weight; a light lobster is not a good one. If a lobster is stale, the tail hangs limp, while if fresh it is drawn under the fish, and if pulled out will spring back again when let go. Crabs, also, are to be judged by their weight and stiffness. If light and limp, they are bad. Oysters, if fresh, will close forcibly on the knife when opened. If the shell gapes the least bit, the oyster is losing its freshness. When dead the shell remains open, and the oyster should not be consumed. Meat.—The most pepular kinds of meat are beef, mutton, veal and pork. Of these, beef is considered to be the most nutritious,, mutton the most digestible, whilst veal and pork, though nourishing, are not nearly so digestible as either beef or mutton. Meat that has an excessive amount of fat is not economical to buy. Joints with undue proportion of bones are very unprofitable. In buying meat always remember the kind best suited for your purpose, whether for23 MARKETING boiling, roasting, braising or stewing : as many advantages and dis- advantages are thereby gained or lost. The following characteristics must be looked for in good beef and mutton:— A. It is neither of a pale pink colour, nor of a deep purple tint; for the former is generally considered as a sign of disease, whilst the latter indicates that the animal has not been slaughtered, but has died with the blood in it, or has suffered from acute fever. B. It has a marbled appearance from the ramifications of the little veins of fat among the muscles. C. It should be firm and elastic to the touch, and scarcely moisten the fingers — bad meat being wet and soddened and flabby, with the fat looking like jelly or wet parchment. D. It should have little or no odour, and the odour should not be disagreeable ; diseased meat has a sickly cadaverous smell, and sometimes a smell of physic. Good meat will neither shrink nor waste much in- cooking. Beef (that is ox-beef), when young and tender, should have a fine open grain, and be of a deep red. It should be- elastic to the touch ; that is, if pressed with the fingers, the flesh should rise again and leave no mark. When the meat is clammy or flabby, and has a faint smell, it is a sign that it is stale and unfit for use. The fat must .fie white, and firm to the touch, and in some parts' as .if it were matted in the flesh. An ox, when killed and skinned, is generally divided into about twenty parts or joints. The manner of cutting up beef and other meat varies. The diagram given shows the most profitable method. The fore-rib, mid-rib and sirloin are best adapted for roasting whole; when cut into slices they are very good for grilling or broiling. Entrecotes (sirloin steaks), contre-filets (rib-steaks) and Porterhouse steaks are cut from the sirloin and mid-rib (see Figs. 1 and 2 in diagram). Sirloin and rib of beef, when boned, are frequently braised and served as Beleve (remove). These, together with the fillet and the rump, are the most expensive joints of an ox. Sirloins and ribs of beef are the best, but rather expensive joints, owing to the weight of bone. The roasting side of the round part of the buttock, and the part called the ‘ topside,’ are the most profitable. The mouse buttock is used for stewing ; shin is used for soup or stewing. The rump and fillet are the tenderest and most succulent parts; they are usually braised, or else cut into steaks and grilled. In some parts of England (particularly in Devonshire and Cornwall) the rump is cut larger than in other parts, and, when salted and boiled, forms one of the standard joints ; but as much of the albumen and nourishment of this part of meat is lost in the brine, salting is not recommended in this case. When the fat of beef appears hard and skinny, and a kind of horny texture runs through the rib part of the meat, it is old and ofTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 24 inferior quality. Beef-fat is one of the best fats for frying and other cooking purposes. Suet is the hard fat which protects the kidneys. BEEF (BCEUF)25 MARKETING MODE OF CUTTING UP BEEF An ox, cow, or heifer is divided (jointed) as follows (see plate) 1. Fore Eibs, suitable for roasting. 2. The Sirloin, suitable for roasting. 8. The Rump, suitable for roasting, braising, grilling, &e. (best part for steaks). 4. The Aitchbone, sometimes called the round; it is below the rump at the hind part, suitable for roasting and boiling, or, when salted, boiled or stewed. 5. The Mouse (buttock), which includes part of the thigh bone, suitable for braising, boiling, grilling, and stewing. This piece is also salted at times. THE OX (LE BCEUE) 6. The Leg, also called the veiny piece, suitable for stewing. Used for stock for soup. 7. Thick Flank, generally boiled or stewed. 8. Thin Flank, generally boiled or stewed. 9. .Nine Holes, includes part of the brisket, chiefly salted or pickled, when it is boiled ; also used plain for boiling and stewing purposes. This part is less fat than the brisket proper. 10. Runners, cut close to shoulder and head, used for boiling and stewing, also for pies. The thin end is sometimes salted and boiled. 11. First Runner, used for boiling or stewing. 12. Spare Ribs, generally roasted or baked, and sometimes stewed. 13. Shoulder, sometimes called mutton piece or leg piece, suitable for roasting, baking, or stewing.26 TEE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 14. Brisket, generally salted and boiled. It is not suitable for either roasting or baking. 15. Neck, or sticking piece (including part of the head), used for soups, stews, and for mincing. 17. The Clod, suitable for stewing, or for soup and stock. 18. The Head, including cheek, for stewing and boiling. The latter is often used for salads. 19. The Hough or Shin (leg), generally used for soup and stock. The fleshy end is sometimes used for stews. Mutton, when in prime condition, is richer in fat than beef. It is of short fibre; but it is less digestible than beef. The meat of a sheep should not be eaten till it is at least three years old. The best English Southdown mutton is obtained from sheep six years old. The flesh of mutton should be rather firmer than that of beef, and of a deep red colour. The fat should be white and firm. Mutton fat contains a large percentage of stearic acid ; it is on this account much firmer than beef fat, and also less digestible. For the same reason fat mutton eaten by persons of feeble digestion often disagrees, and should, therefore, be avoided. Mutton ought to hang for some time to ripen before it is cooked ; but the flesh of lamb can be cooked almost immediately after it is killed. Both mutton and beef should be hung as long as possible without becoming tainted. The flesh of an old animal when pinched remains wrinkled.MARKETING 27THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK MODE OF CUTTING UP MUTTON A sheep is divided into the following pieces (see plate):— 1. The Leg, suitable for roasting, baking or boiling. The leg of a wether is best for roasting or baking and the leg of ewes is considered best for boiling. MUTTON (MOUTON) 2. The Loin, best end, suitable for roasting or baking, also for grilling or broiling and stewing, when cut into chops. 3. TheLoin,ehumpend,treated the same as best end of loin, but more often stewed. Two loins undivided con- stitute a saddle. 4. The Neck, best end, suitable for roasting, baking, boil- ing or braising, but gene- rally made into cutlets, when they are grilled or fried. 5. The Neck, scrag end, useful for stews and soups, also boiled. 6. The Shoulder, generally baked or roasted whole ; the blade bone is fre- quently removed, when the shoulder is stuffed and roasted or braised. This joint is not suitable for boiling. 7. The Breast, suitable for baking or stewing. 8. The Head, including part of the neck (scrag end), suitable for boiling ; use- ful for broth. 9. The Shank, used for soup and broth, sometimes stewed. 10. The Trotters, made into broth with or without the head. They are also boiled, and sometimes stewed. Lamb.—The flesh of lamb, like that of mutton, should be firm, and the fat of a white colour. This meat, being immature, is not considered quite so nourishing as mutton. Lamb is in season from29 MARKETING January to July. It will not keep good so long after being killed as mutton. When stale, the veins of the neck end in the forequarter will be found of a greenish tint, and when fresh of a bluish tint. Similar signs may be discovered in the hind-quarter by examining the kidney and the knuckle. The former has, when stale or killed too long, a slight tainted smell, and the knuckle is soft and flabby. BUYING Quite half of the success in cooking depends on the buyer. What Mr. John Tellman says about the method of buying for an hotel or other catering here in England. He says : ‘ When a house engages a man to buy who is not pos- sessed of the required know- ledge it will pay school money, which in some in- stances amounts to quite a sum, until he has learned. ‘ A steward in buying- should always ask the price of the goods wanted before taking them, no matter how regularly he gets the same article, or reliable the firm. Prices change on all goods; they may have advanced to a figure too high, in which case it would require the selection of another brand. A good firm appreciates the strict business methods in a buyer, and will take better care of his orders than if he comes in, reads off his list of articles wanted in a careless way, with an ‘ I don’t ask prices : my house can pay for them ’ air. The steward should buy just like the mer- chant, who first figures on the probable profit. The steward on his tour of marketing often meets with what are called bargains, which he should take advantage of if they are staple and non-perishable goods, but, if perishable, should consider well before buying. The goods may be all right if used at once; but if it is necessary to carry them for several days, and in the meantime they become unfit for use, business in America is only too true30 THE NEW CENTTJBY COOKERY BOOK31 MARKETING the bargain becomes a total loss. Among the staple articles which cannot be found at bargains are coffee and flour. When a house has a blend of coffee which pleases, it should be continued right along, and so with flour : to ensure good bread, there should be kept a brand that runs even the year around.’ Veal.—In choosing veal the flesh should be very pale in colour. It is preferred when very pale, but is more juicy when of a slightly deeper colour (a bright red). The loin affords the best means of judging the su- perior quality and freshness of veal. If the kidney, found on the underside of one end of the loin, is enwrapped in white and firm- looking fat, it is a sign of good quality and fresh- ness. On the other hand, if the fat around the kidney is soft, the flesh flabby and spotted, the meat is. not fresh or the quality is poor. This meat is rather indi- gestible, and, if very young, does not contain much nourishment. For buying veal, or indeed any other kind of meat for roasting, one must calcu- Gristle (Tendron) Shoulder (Epaule) VEiL (veatj).—Side of Veal, showing manner of cuts. late about half a pound to every guest. Veal has always been much esteemed for its delicate pale pink colour, which in some cases is almost white ; this is due to the animal being killed when very young. The best season for veal is from March to the end of July. It is, however, obtainable and consumed throughout the year. Veal is more32 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK highly esteemed and of superior flavour on the Continent that* in this country. The head and breast are the most favourite parts, and the fricandeau also forms a variety of delicate dishes. In Switzer- land and Germany a dish of veal is fre- quently recommended to convalescents. Calves’ feet possess a large amount of gela- tinous substance, and are used for jelly, aspic, etc., on this account. Pork.—Good pork should have a smooth thin rind, and when fresh the flesh is smooth and firm to the touch. Pork meat which has the rind already pared off should not be bought, as this is often done when the meat is of inferior quality. If, as with other meats, it looks flabby, and is clammy to the touch, it is not good ; and pork above all meats is dis- agreeable and often dangerous when con- sumed in such a state. Should there be any sign of enlarged glands or kernels in the fat of pork, it may be taken as a sure sign that the meat is unfit for use, as it cannot be wholesome. Pork, like oysters, should only be eaten when there is an ‘ E ’ in the month. Fresh pork is usually roasted ; the skin (called a golden colour, and forms a favourite (poec).—Side of Pork showing the various cuts, joints, &c. crackling) then acquires morsel. When salted or pickled the meat is boiled, and is frequently served as an accompaniment with other drier kinds of meats.MARKETING 33 When pork is salted and cured, it is called bacon. The head of pork, called pig’s cheek, is one of the cheapest parts ; it is sometimes roasted, but is mostly salted and boiled. Collared head and brawn are made from pig’s cheek. GUIDE FOE OEDEEING BACON a. Fore hock (fore end), weight about 9 lb. b. Thick streaky (prime piece), weight about 6 1b. c. Thin streaky, weight about 4 lb. d. Flank, weight about 3 lb. e. Cushion (gammon), weight about 9 lb. p. Corner of gammon, weight about 4 lb. g. Loin, weight about 8 lb. h. Back and ribs (prime cut), weight about 9 lb. i. Collar (prime part and end) weight about 7 lb. Bacon.—Like pork, good bacon should have a thin rind ; the fat must be firm and of a good colour. The best bacon, if mild cured, is of a pale colour, and the meat adheres firmly to the bones. There should be no so-called yellow streaks in it. To ascertain the good quality of a ham or gammon of bacon, insert a. steel skewer or a knife ; if it comes out clean, and no disagreeable smell is detected, it is a sign of good quality; but if some particles of meat cling to the skewer or knife when withdrawn, and the smell is unpleasant, it is certain that the curing is at fault, or the article is of inferior quality. A short and thick ham is always accepted as the best. POULTEY OE GAME Fresh Poultry is known by the following signs : the feet are soft or moist, the eyes are clear, and there is no bluish or greenish tint round the veins. Fowls, when young, should have smooth legs and combs ; when old the reverse will be observed. Surrey fowls and Surrey chickens are acknowledged to be the best. The cock bird is young when it has a smooth leg and short spurs ; hens when young have smooth legs ; the breast bone should be soft and pliable. Black-legged fowls are best used for roasting, whilst white-legged fowls are best for boiling. DTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 84 Turkeys, when young, have smooth black legs : when they are- rough and reddish they are old and not likely to cook tender. When freshly killed the eyes of turkeys will be found bright, full and fresh. Norfolk turkeys are reckoned the best. The cock bird is best suited for roasting, and the hen for boiling. Geese, when young, have yellow feet and bills: when old they are of a reddish colour. The feet of freshly killed geese are pliable and soft, but if the bird has been killed some time, the feet are dry and stiff. Green Geese.—Geese are called green until they are from two to- three months old. Ducks.—The rules for choosing geese also apply to ducks; they are known by their feet, which should be supple ; the breast should be firm and plump. Tame ducks have yellow feet, whilst those of wild ducks are red. Venison, when young, is usually judged by the fat, which should be clear and bright in colour. It must be well hung before it is in fit condition for cooking. When it is not wanted very high (ripe), a knife or skewer should be inserted into the meat to ascertain its state, as by so doing one is able to judge by the smell if the venison is the desired freshness or maturity. Grouse.—This group of birds comprises the grouse proper and partridge. Grouse are in season in August, and are then very expensive birds. They are found chiefly in the north of England and Scotland, amongst the heather and morasses. Young grouse are known by a short round spur. Yellow legs and dark bill are signs by which a young partridge may be known ; a rigid vent shows they are fresh. Old game or partridges are very indifferent for eating. The Pheasant, when young, may be known by a short or round spur ; in old birds it is long and pointless. Snipe, Quails, and Ortolans may be known as young birds by the short or round spurs. Ptarmigan, or white grouse, mostly come from Scotland, but are also imported in great quantities from Norway, preserved in ice.. They ought to be hung as long as possible. Woodcocks are in season in November. Young birds are known by a round or short spur; when old the spur is pointed, and the feet are hard and thick. If their bills become moist and their throats are muddy, it is a sign that they have been kept too long. Wild Ducks, Widgeon and Teal are seasonable and often cheap in winter ; but teal are not profitable even then, as they are very lean. Quails, Landrails, Plovers and Larks are delicate food. Hares and Rabbits.—When the ears are dry and tough, the haunch thick, and the claws blunt and rugged, it is a sign that they are old. If the ears are soft and thin, and the claws sharp and smooth, they are young and tender. A hare for roasting should be very young; a leveret is best. Other signs of youth in a hare or35 MARKETING rabbit are these; the cleft in the lip is narrow, the body stiff, and the claws smooth and sharp. All game should be hung undrawn and in their feathers for a few days before cooking. The exact time must depend upon the taste of the diners. When, however, the feathers on the lower breast of a bird come out easily, it is considered ready and fit for cooking. Pheasants can be hung longer than partridges. Water-fowls should not hang more than a day at the most. Vegetables, &c. In choosing vegetables and fruit every care should be taken to ensure perfect freshness and ripeness. Stale vegetables, as well as fruit, are quite as unwholesome and dangerous to- eat as bad and putrid meat; but because the smell of stale vegetables- is not so bad as that of bad meat and fish, people are not so particular.. All vegetables should be as fresh as possible, the fresher green vege- tables are the better ; they should be crisp and green, not soft and withery. They must be well washed and cleaned before being cooked. Fruit in addition to being fresh must be perfectly ripe and sound before it is fit for table. Lard. -The best lard is made from the kidney fat of the pig, melted and poured into bladders. When pure, lard has scarcely any taste or smell; it should be of a pure white, not too opaque ; firm, but not hard. If, when it is melted, it splutters, it is a sign that water has been added to it when prepared. Cheese.—The richness of cheese depends on the quantity of cream left in the milk used for it. Skim milk forms the poor and salt cheeses (as Dutch cheese, &c.). They contain casein and little else, but are nourishing. Eggs.—Hold up to the light; if fresh they will look clear : or mix two tablespoonfuls of salt in half a pint of water, and put in an egg ; if stale it will float, if fresh it will sink. A bad egg will float in fresh water. Tea.—This article requires the most careful attention on the part of the buyer, because in most cases the dealer (purveyor) must be relied upon. There are several varieties of tea, but two kinds should be ample for any first-class house, viz : Ceylon and Indian,, or Oolong and Young Hyson; the latter two mixed in . different proportions make excellent blends. Coffee.—Much of the success in making coffee depends on the material from which it is brewed. It is best to buy coffee freshly roasted each day and grind it as required from day to day. Java and Mocha, mixed in the following proportions, three-fourths of the former and one-fourth of the latter, make a very satisfactory be\ jrage. Coffee for breakfast should be made a little stronger than for after lunch or after dinner. It is desirable to obtain both tea and coffee from a reliable firm, and to avoid changes, if the blends supplied give satisfaction.36 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK CHAPTER III / -'CALENDAR OF FOOD IN SEASON ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED The following is a table showing the period when the principal foods are in prime condition, and obtainable in the markets. When marketing it is well to remember that the food most seasonable is usually that which is most plentiful, most wholesome, and usually the most reasonable to buy. Apples . September to May Crawfish Apricots August to September Crayfish Artichokes Cucumbers . (Globe) January to April 1 Currants, Artichokes English (Jerusalem) October to February (red, white, Asparagus and black). (Giant) February to July Currants, Asparagus French (Sprue) January to July Damsons Barberries . September to Novem- Dawsons ber Ducks, Wild . Bass May to September Ducklings Blackberries. September to October Eels Black Cock . October to December Endive . Broad Beans July to August Fieldfare Broccoli Figs, Green . Sprouts October to March Filberts Brussels Flageolets Sprouts September to February Flounders Bullaces September to Novem- Fowl, Wild . ber French Beans Capsicums . September to October Geese . Carp July to February „ Wild . Carrots, New May to June Gooseberries. Cauliflowers . March to November Green Celeriac October to March Gooseberries, Celery . Cherries „ Montreal Chestnuts Chickens, Spring Cignets (Nor- folk) . Cobnuts Codfish. Cranberries . September to February June to September May to August November to January April to June May to July September to February September to February November to January Ripe . Goslings Grapes, Almeria Grapes, French Greengages . Grouse . * . Halibut j . Hares ." *. „ Grey . May to July July to February May to September June to September May to July September to October September to October August to March March to September September to May November to March November to February August to September August to October May to August August to April August to March July to October September to February September to March April to May June to July March to September October to April September to October July to September August to December May to January August to March October to DecemberCALENDAR OF FOOD IN SEASON Herrings, Fresh July to February Indian Corn . August to December ■John Dories . July to April Kale . December to March Lamb . January to July Landrails October to February Larks . August to February Lettuces, English April to September Lettuces, French December to March Leverets August to March Lobsters July to September Mackerel April to December Maize (See Indian Corn) Medlars September to October Melons (Hot- house) August to September Melons, Rock August to September „ Spanish Water October to March Mulberries . August to September Mullet, Grey and Red . July to October Mushrooms . March to October Mussels August to March Nectarines . August to October Oranges November to June „ Seville February to March Ortolans June to August Oysters. September to April Parsnips September to April Partridges September to February Partri dges, Foreign February to June Peaches August to October Pears . August to December „ Califor- nian . . November to April Peas, English green August to September Perch . July to February Pheasants October to February Pigeons, Bordeaux August to April Pike . July to February Pines, St. Michael’s October to April Pintail . September to March Plaice . May to January. Plovers’ Eggs April to May Plovers, Gol- den and Grey. August to March Plums, Eng- lish . August to September Plums, French July to August Pomegranates October to November Pork September to April Potatoes, New Kidney March to May Ptarmigans . December to May Prairie Hens February to April Prawns. April to August Pumpkins September to October Quinces October to November Raspberries . June to September Red Cabbage September to January Reeves . August to September Rhubarb, Forced December to May Rhubarb, Natural April to July Ruffs August to September Shrimps April to September Salmon. February to October Salsify . December to March Savoys. October to March Scarlet Run- ners . July to October Scallops October to April Skate . October to May Snipe . August to March Spinach March to December Sprats . November to April Strawberries. June to September Sturgeon, Royal September toiMarch Tangerin e Oranges November to February Teal . September to March Tench . July to February Tomatoes March to December Trout . February to September Turkeys September to February Vegetable Marrow August to October Venison May to October Walnuts September to December Whitebait February to August Whiting May to January Widgeons August to March Woodcocks . August to MarchTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 38 CHAPTER IV THE KITCHEN ITS CONSTRUCTION AND MANAGEMENT The etymology of the word ‘ kitchen ’ is somewhat involved. It is derived from the Latin ‘ coquina,’ in French it is ‘ cuisine.’ The homely word ‘ kitchen ’ is very similar in sound in various languages. Thus we find it to be ‘cycene’ in Saxon, ‘ kiiche ’ in German, ‘ kiokken ’ in Danish, ‘ coquin ’ in Welsh, ‘ kyshen ’ in Scotch, and ‘ cucina ’ in Italian. The kitchen is the place where food is prepared and cooked for the table, and should be looked upon as the most important part of a house. This is far from generally being the case, for many people about to plan houses think that any room, however small and un- pleasantly situated, is good enough for a kitchen. No greater mistake could be made. A kitchen should be located in one of the brightest and most convenient rooms of a house, it should be well lighted and well ventilated, for the health and comfort of a family, or the success of a commercial establishment, depend greatly upon the results or the productions of this department. The success in cooking is greatly impaired if it has to be done in a badly lighted and badly ventilated kitchen. The character of a person’s work is more or less dependent upon his or her surroundings; hence it can hardly be wondered at that some cooks, shut up in a small, close, and dimly lighted room, whose only outlook is perhaps a back alley, or an underground cellar wall, produce work which falls short of the standard of excellence in cooking. A well-ventilated kitchen is a pleasure to the cook and conducive to the health of all concerned in or about it. Open windows are the best form of ventilators. When the windows are opened, they should be pulled down from the top ; but as some kitchen windows open from pantries, or entries, or passages, some form of independent ventilation should be adopted. It is desirable that the kitchen of an establishment, whether private or otherwise, should be large enough for the purpose of cooking, and adapted to the number of people to be provided for at one time. This is too often disregarded by architects, who sacrifice the kitchen for two or three large reception rooms. Ample space should be provided for the range or stoves, tables,39 THE KITCHEN -chairs, sink, cupboards, &c. and yet the room should not be so large as to necessitate much running to and fro. It must here be remembered that service rendered with care and despatch has always a happy influence towards success in cooking and serving food. From a sanitary point of view, the drainage should be as perfect as it is possible. There should be windows on two sides of the room, to allow the sun free access, and to allow frequent change of air, which is most essential in a kitchen. An excellent plan has been adopted'by a number of business firms, who have placed the kitchens at the top of the house, where there is usually ample ventilation to take away all odours with which boiling, roasting, and other cooking processes invest the kitchen and other parts of the house. KITCHEN OF THE HOTEL REGINA, PARIS (ERECTED BY THE MAISON BRIFFAULT OF PARIS) Persons about to build houses should direct the attention of the architect to these matters; it would save much annoyance and disappointment. In many houses and hotels the first thing that goes wrong is something in the kitchen, and the cook is often blamed for the fault of others. In planning the kitchen of a good house an expert cook should always be consulted. Kitchen Floors and Walls. The floor of a kitchen should be of concrete coated with cement, or laid with tiles, so as to make it impervious to moisture. If the floor is made of wood, birch makes the best flooring, though liable to shrink. Maple is also considered a suitable wood. A plain brown linoleum makes an excellent covering for a kitchen floor.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 40 Wooden floors are best if saturated with hot linseed oil, which must be well rubbed in, so as to give polish to the surface. The boards must, of course, be closely joined together, before oil is applied. The walls of a kitchen should be either entirely lined with white- glazed tiles or else have a high tiled dado. They can be kept much cleaner than distempered walls, which show every mark—a great disadvantage to any kitchen. Kitchen Furniture.—The furniture of a kitchen should be plain, neat and well made, yet not cumbersome ; it must be so constructed as to be easily cleaned. The stoves, ranges, grills and ovens, being the all-important fittings upon which so much, of the success of a kitchen depends, should be of the very best quality. The fixing of these ought to be done by the respective makers of the apparatus, for they will better understand the work, and it is to their interest to see that everything is carefully done. This applies especially to coal ranges, where the flues must, as everyone knows, be correctly fixed ; if the flues do not work properly, the most expensive stove is useless. Next to the stove the most important piece of furniture is the kitchen table. There are many dresser boards, shelves and flaps, but they are useless to the.cook as compared with a good kitchen table. It should be made of stout deal, as large as the size of the kitchen will permit, fitted with a convenient drawer for holding knives, forks, spoons, clean kitchen cloths, and other necessaries. Not only should the table be the most prominent of the furniture in the kitchen, to which ^11 other fittings must play a subordinate part, but it should be kept at all times ready for immediate use, uncovered and scrupulously clean. The practice of using the table for a chopping-board, trimming-board, pot-board, or for making paste, cannot be too care- fully avoided. In such cases the surface soon becomes scratched and unsightly. Besides the tables, a sufficiency of cupboards and a dresser, with shelves according to requirements, should be provided. For the sake of order, cupboards with sliding doors are preferable to those with hanging doors ; they should be so fixed or placed as to admit thorough cleanliness, light, and ventilation. A good timepiece is also necessary in a well-furnished kitchen, being an aid to punctuality and economy of time. It should be placed in the most conspicuous place. A well-constructed sink is another indispensable article in a kitchen. Stone-ware or iron-work is very serviceable ; iron sinks, however, soon corrode unless painted or enamelled. When wooden sinks are used they should be lined with zinc or copper. Talc sinks last for a long time if properly used. All sinks should be so fixed as to allow free access to all sides for the purpose of cleaning. Frequent flushing with hot water is recommended for sinks and sink pipes; a solution of soda or potash poured down the pipes once41 THE KITCHEN a day will remove the grease and other particles adhering to the pipes. There are many good rules for perfect management of a kitchen, but the most essential are the following: 1. Maintain scrupulous cleanliness. 2. Methodical order and exactitude. 3. Wise economy and discipline. 4. Sobriety and honesty. It is needless to say that upon the strict observance of these rules much of the success of a culinary establishment depends. Some cooks never seem to have finished their work ; they are always in a muddle and have scarcely room enough to work, a state of affairs which is merely the result of untidiness. With proper management a cook hardly knows what a muddle is. An untidy kitchen is a disgrace to the culinary profession. The kitchen ought to be the very last place of an establishment where dirt and untidyness prevail. If we aim at being successful in our cooking, we must remember the importance of keeping everything connected with a kitchen, and especially the utensils, perfectly clean. It is simply wonderful how much labour and trouble can be saved by method. Order and Forethought in a Kitchen.—The great secret of success in this direction is unquestionably cleanliness. Clean and clear up as you go. Keep everything in its proper place. Never put off to the last what can be done beforehand. Do everything at its proper time. These are maxims which every cook should carefully adhere to; for by so doing they study their own as well as their masters’ interest. BADLY VENTILATED KITCHENS The steam and heat from a badly ventilated kitchen disseminates a disagreeable, unhealthy odour throughout the house. The ventilation of the kitchen should, therefore, be so perfect as to thoroughly remove all gases, smells and odours caused by the various cooking processes. When the kitchen is built on the top of the house this evil is to a large extent overcome. A ventilator placed just above the cooking stove lessens greatly the discomfort from heat, for it carries off much of the superfluous heat, and helps to remove the smoke, steam, and smell from cooking. Where a so-called ventilating shaft is provided, ventilation is all the more effective, for a much stronger draught is then obtained. The odour which arises when boiling green vegetables, such as cabbages, &c., and cauliflowers, is most unpleasant—in fact, bad enough at times to take away one’s appetite for the meal of which such vegetable is to form a part. A simple and effective remedy forTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 42 this is, in addition to having the kitchen thoroughly ventilated, to add a little charcoal to the water in which the vegetables are cooked, or fail- ing this, a piece of toasted bread will be found of use. Cabbage water should not be poured down the sink, but should be emptied straight into the drain. To avoid the horrible smell caused from boiling- onions, place a vessel of vinegar on the stove. To prevent objection- able smell from boiling fish add a little vinegar to the water. To remove the smell from burnt milk, sauces, &c., sprinkle some vinegar over the hot stove. Burnt fat causes the worst and most disagreeable smell of all. A good plan to partially remove it is to put a handful of raw potato or slices of onion, or a slice of bread, into the fat, and to sprinkle vinegar on the top of the stove. The windows of a kitchen should be opened as much as possible every day, and especially after the day’s work is done, in order to dispel all unpleasant smells. The first thing to do in the morning is to open both the kitchen door and windows to admit a thorough airing. THE SCULLERY WORK Every kitchen should be provided with a properly equipped scullery. It should be efficiently ventilated and lighted; the floor should be level, smooth and watertight, and in its construction precautions should be taken to ensure proper sanitation. The tanks for washing up should be made of either zinc or teak (iron tanks are not recommended), and they should be provided with a plentiful supply of both hot and cold water. There should be a conveniently placed receptacle into which waste scraps, &c. can be thrown. How to wash Dishes, &c.—The washing and cleaning does not fall to the cook’s lot as a rule, but it should nevertheless be under- stood by all cooks, so as to enable them to direct those under their charge whose duty it is to do the scullery work. Scullery work is by no means, a pleasant occupation, but it has to be done. It need not be dirty, sloppy work, unless it be made so by the carelessness and untidiness of the women or men in charge of this department. The following rules for washing up will be found useful. Have a good supply of boiling water with some soda in it. Remove all scraps from the plates and dishes and pack them neatly together. Wash the spoons, forks, and knives first, placing them ready for cleaning, after the washing up is done. Have a tray or basin on the table so that the things, as they are washed, may be placed on it to drain. As the things are dried they should be put away. The stewpans and saucepans should be washed in a separate tank. Use boiling water with some soda dissolved in it ; thoroughly wash the saucepans inside and out. Have a saucer with a small quantity of silver sand by your side, and after washing the saucepan, soap the dishcloth, dip it inTHE KITCHEN 43 the sand, and scour the inside of the saucepan to remove all stains ; rinse it well in warm water, and thoroughly dry it before placing it away. Note— If a saucepan has been burnt, put some cold water in it and a lump of soda; let it stand on the stove to boil for an hour, and then scrub it out with a saucepan brush. To clean Copper Moulds, &c.—The following is a simple yet satisfactory method of cleaning copper moulds, copper stewpans, &c. Wash, scour, and scrub them inside and outside with strong soda water (hot), then rinse in cold water. To brighten the copper, put some silver sand into a soup plate or large saucer, mix it with a handful of salt and a little flour, and moisten with vinegar. Dip a dishcloth in the sand and rub the outside of the pans and moulds with this, or dip half of a used lemon into the sand : the latter is better than using a cloth. Clean every part of the outside of copper utensils in this way, and as each utensil is cleaned rinse it in cold water and allow it to drain. Eub thoroughly with a clean dry cloth and put them in their usual place. To keep copper articles bright for several weeks an immersion in boiling ale is recommended. Steep the outside of the copper into hot ale and put them near the fire to dry. Utensils thus treated must not be wiped after being immersed in ale. STOBE-EOOM AND LAEDEB It is hardly necessary to state that both the store-room and larder must be kept scrupulously clean ; if this be neglected, they are apt to harbour disease germs. Both places should be large and airy, especially the latter. The store-room is intended for keeping dry goods, preserved provisions, &c., whilst the larder is used for storing perishable or fresh goods, such as meat, fish, and vegetables. Stores or dry goods bought in large quantities are usually cheaper, and it is advisable to provide ample room for proper storage of such articles. Groceries should, where possible, be bought in quantity, and it is well to remember that at certain times of the year some goods are cheaper than at others. All these details should be carefully noted, and a book kept to enter dates of purchase, quantities, and prices paid. A dry room should be chosen for keeping stores, and this should be amply fitted with drawers, shelves and nails or hooks. There should be earthenware jars for sugar, tins for tea, coffee, biscuits, &c., and a net for lemons and oranges. Jams, pickles, and preserves should be kept in the coolest part of the room. Soap should be bought by the bar and be cut up and stood with spaces between the pieces, being turned at frequent intervals. Starch must be kept very dry. Eice, tapioca and sago must be kept in covered vessels, orTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 44 insects will get into them. Bread is best kept in earthenware pans, (bread pans) fitted with a lid that has holes to admit air. If no pan is used, bread should be covered with paper or a clean cloth. Onions, shallots, leeks, &c., are best kept in the larder. Dried herbs in separate bags may be conveniently suspended from the ceiling or walls. Flour should be kept in an air-tight tin or flour bin ; it must be raised from the ground to prevent any damp causing rust. Butter should never be closely covered, or it will soon become rancid. It may be kept in an earthenware jar and covered, but the lid must be perforated. Milk absorbs germs of disease more quickly than any other food. Vessels, basins or jugs in which milk is to be kept, must be first •washed and scalded in boiling water. The vessels containing milk should be covered with a clean muslin cloth, or a piece of perforated paper. The floor and shelves of a larder must be kept scrupulously clean, no stray bits of food should be permitted to remain in the larder, or anything stale which might cause a bad smell, and which would be likely to contaminate other food. Meat should be hung up on proper hooks provided for that purpose. The time meat should hang depends on the heat and the humidity of the air ; if it is not kept long enough, it will be hard and tough—if too long, it loses its flavour. It should always be hung where it will have a thorough draught, and be dried every morning to keep it from damp and mustiness. The cook and butcher often lose their credit by meat being cooked too fresh ; as the fishmonger does by fish which he has kept too long. The ice-box or refrigerator must be kept clean and tidy. It should not be left open longer than is absolutely necessary. When meat or fish is placed upon linen direct on the ice, the linen- should be changed every day. Sauces, soups and other liquid food should be kept in earthenware pans or basins. These must be kept clean, the sides wiped with a damp cloth, and should be boiled up every day. They should not be stood in the larder until quite cold. The dust should be carefully removed from the shelves on each day by means of a damp cloth, and then scrubbed or washed as may be necessary (carbolic soap is an excellent thing for washing larder shelves). No brushing should be done in a larder where uncovered food is stored, for the less dust raised the better. After cleaning the larder, leave the door and windows open to dry it thoroughly, as damp, dirt and dust are most detrimental to any room where food is stored.THE KITCHEN 45 KITCHEN ECONOMICS It is scarcely possible that economy in the kitchen can be successfully carried out unless the cook has a fair idea of the relative value of .the various ordinary (inexpensive) foods and the cost of the same. To go to market and buy foods at a low price can hardly be termed economy, because if they lack nutritive qualities they are dear at any price. True economy means no waste. The French are often referred to as being the most economical cooks and excellent managers. Well, they certainly understand lespetites economies better than any other nation, and it cannot be disputed, that thrift does prevail in their country. May not their careful ways of economising partly account for the culinary accomplishments of the French ? France is not, however, the only country where economy is studied. Indeed every well- governed kitchen in this or any other country is ruled by the practice of wise economy. It is a subject that may be studied with advantage by every cook and manager. To be economical means saving money, and saving money means earning money. There are few kitchens in England where waste is not common in some way or another. This is freely admitted by us, and other nations record the fact in sayings which have become proverbial, yet how few take the hint ! This is solely due to want of better know- ledge and lack of thought. Mistakes nearly always arise from ignorance, from not thinking, and from not taking care. Cooks who are wasteful are generally those who are ignorant and thoughtless. They never get on in their profession. No scrap of food is too small to be used up in some way, so long as it is fresh and wholesome; but before dealing with food let me draw attention to the waste of heat and its result. Many cooks are of opinion that the water for cooking a ham, a leg of mutton, or other joint of meat, must be kept at boiling point until done. This is quite an error, because actual boiling, after the first preliminary stage, is possibly detrimental to the success of a boiled joint of meat. Fast boiling in most cases destroys the delicious flavour of meat, it fills the kitchen with unpleasant steam and vapour, and a certain amount of fuel is thereby wasted. It is a well-known fact that much of the heat given off from the fuel in cooking stoves is wasted; only a comparatively small proportion is used for actual cooking, the remainder goes up the chimney or escapes into the kitchen. Since one cannot help some waste of fuel, economy as well as comfort demands that such waste be as small as possible. The average cook, as a matter of course, prefers to work with fresh materials, rather than use up stale or left-over food ; but those who study the masters’ interests will make good use of so-called ‘ scraps,’ and instead of wasting them, they will use them up and work them into suitable dishes. For instance, every cook will, with a little care, be able to use upTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK stale bread to advantage. All crusts and small pieces of bread should be collected each day and be dried slowly in a warm oven. When they are perfectly dry, but not actually brown, they should be pounded in a mortar or crushed on a board with a rolling pin, sifted and put into jars. Bread crumbs thus made will keep good for a long time, and can be used for crumbing or breading, moulding cutlets, fish, rissoles, croquettes, &c. Another way of using stale bread is to tear the soft part of the loaf into bits, and bake the pieces a golden hue in an oven; these are served with cheese, &c., and when baked crisp and of nice colour are exceedingly good. Stale bread can also be cut into thin slices and baked in the oven till crisp and brown: these small slices are served with soup, used as sippets, or served with coffee. Sweet and savoury fritters can be made with stale bread ; slices are cut and spread with jam or cheese and sandwiched together, after which they are dipped in batter and fried in hot fat. There are also a good many puddings (baked or boiled), tartlets, &c., in which breadcrumbs form part of the ingredients. Gold potatoes can be used in numerous ways. They can be fried, tossed, or sauted, though boiled potatoes will never do to be re- heated and served again as boiled ; for in that guise they have a very peculiar warmed-up flavour, which would tell the tale at once. Cold potatoes when rubbed through a sieve are useful for making fish cakes, meat croquettes, cold meat pies. Sliced they make an excellent salad, if properly and liberally seasoned with salad dressing. A delicious pie is made with minced meat, moistened with a nicely flavoured sauce and put in a pie dish, covered with a good layer of mashed potatoes and baked in the oven. Mashed up with left- over cold fish, moistened with the remainder of the white sauce and a little butter, a good material for a pie or croquette is available. Potato-balls and croquettes are also made from cold potatoes. Cold vegetables are used for salads, either separately or mixed with cold meat and dressing. Cold green vegetables, such as green peas, French beans, globe artichokes, asparagus, &c., make very good salads if seasoned with an ordinary vinaigrette sauce : this latter is a mixture of three parts of salad oil and one part of vinegar, salt, pppper, and chopped parsley. Igain, many vegetables, especially peas, beans, sprigs of cauliflower, and artichokes, come in handy as garnitures for meat dishes and certain soups. Bones and scraps of meat, if insufficient for a special dish, and gravy left over from roast meat, should be put into the stock-pot. In order to assist the cook in exercising economy, I have in- troduced a number of recipes for dishes in the preparation of which cold meat, &c., may be employed.47 CHAPTER Y COOKING FUELS AND COOKING STOVES In this chapter I will endeavour to deal with the relative values of fuels used for the purpose of cooking, and the apparatus in which fuel is used with that object. SOLID FUELS Coal.—By far the greater amount of cooking is done by means of coal fires. The so-called mineral coal is the most concentrated of all solid fuels, and gives more heat than any other solid fuel materials. There are two kinds of coals, the hard and soft. The best example of hard coal is that known as anthracite ; it is more expensive than any other kind, but is acknowledged to be the most convenient, the cleanest, and therefore the best kind of coal to use, because it has greater heating power than any other kind. Hard and soft coals are very similar in appearance ; but the latter differ from the fact that they fuse and melt when burning, which the hard coal does not. Their heating power is about equal. Coke and Charcoal.—These are mainly used for slow cooking processes, such as braising, and sometimes for grilling. Coke mixed with ordinary coal is recommended, because it forms a more economical fuel, though the heating power becomes somewhat reduced when coke is used. Charcoal is excellent for many culinary purposes, but is rather expensive to use in this country. Wood.—As an exclusive fuel, wood is but seldom used for cooking purposes in England, though in many parts abroad it is still widely used as household fuel. Man’s first fires were unquestionably made of wood, and it is still an essential ingredient throughout the world, as scarcely a coal fire can be lit without the aid of wood. Hard wood is the best for cooking purposes, such as oak, maple, and hickory. Soft wood is good on account of its kindling properties; the resin which most soft woods contain causes them to burn more freely, the principal kinds being pine, fir, spruce and cedar. GASEOUS FUELS Gas.—Gas ip now largely, and in some establishments exclusively, used for cooking purposes. This is mainly due to the great strides that have of late years been made in the manufacture of gas cooking-THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 48 stoves. The modem stoves are vastly superior to the old patterns, and the ventilation of the ovens is now so perfect that roasting and baking can be done quite as well in gas ovens as in coal-heated ovens. Coal gas was originally the only gas used for fuel. Now, however,, air gas and water gas, as well as natural gas, are so utilised. The most perfect fuel is obtained from coal containing a due proportion of hydrogen. This is known as coal gas, and is the most efficient of all gaseous fuels, being a pure hydrocarbon fuel, and eminently suitable for both heating and lighting purposes. Acetelyne, or water gas, is a mixture of carbon-monoxide and hydrogen. Air gas is a mixture of air and vapour of gasoline. Natural gas is obtained from the earth by boring very deep. The latter gas is similar in composition to coal gas/and equally as good. The water and air gases are both very deficient for heating purposes, and cannot therefore be recommended. There are two kinds of systems of burners adopted in gas cooking- apparatus, those which provide luminous flames, similar to those used for lighting purposes (the burner inserted brings forth a white flame), and those fitted with burners producing atmospheric flames. In the latter case the gas is diluted with air before being burnt. The products of combustion from the luminous burners are chiefly steam and carbonic acid, whilst the products of combustion from the atmo- spheric burners are steam, carbonic acid and carbon-monoxide. The latter produce a blue flame and the former a white flame. Luminous gas flames are preferable where a radiant heat is required ; but atmospheric gas is more generally used for all kinds of cooking purposes, because it is found to be more powerful and more effective. ELECTRICITY The same electric current which serves for lighting streets and houses can be utilised for cooking. Domestic machines, such as knife-cleaners, coffee-grinders, boot-cleaners, &c., are also worked by means of the electric current. There being no combustion at all in the use of electricity, it is claimed that cooking done by its aid can be performed with much less heat than is the case with coal or gas, the reason being that no fireplace is needed, thus no loss of heat takes place. Electricity will in course of time revolutionise our kitchen arrangements. At present it is but little used, no doubt owing to the comparatively heavy cost ' of electric currents. LIQUID FUELS Oils.—There are two kinds of liquid fuels used for cooking, viz. oils and alcohols. Coal oil and petroleum are obtained from theCOOKING-STOVES 49 earth and refined (purified); they have the same fuel value, and are both hydrocarbons. The names of the various kinds of oil used as fuel are :—Kerosene, Naphtha and Gasoline. Of the three, kerosene is known as the most satisfactory, being more powerful, reliable, and safer to use than the others. Alcohol.—Common alcohol and methylated spirits are the only kinds of alcohol used for fuel. They burn with a strong flame (clear), are colourless, give no smoke, very little light, but a fairly high temperature. Both these alcohols, being very volatile, must be kept in stoppered bottles, and away from heat. Alcohol as a fuel is used mainly for the sick-room, for keeping food warm, and for so- called chafing-dishes. Pure wood alcohol is poisonous, and though equally as suitable as methylated spirits, cannot for this reason be recommended as cooking fuel. COOKING-STOVES When considering the choice of stoves, the economy of fuel forms an item of great importance. There are numerous cooking appli- ances on the market, more especially coal ranges, many of which, although capable of fulfilling the duties of what may be expected of an average cooking range, are so constructed as to consume far more fuel than is necessary. Cooking performed on such stoves must necessarily be extravagant. Economy in cooking, as well as in other branches of household management, should ever be considered by all classes: one would think that economy in fuel for cooking was too apparent to need any special comment, but it is often overlooked. Good as well as economical cooking depends, next to culinary skill, almost entirely on the way in which the selected materials used are treated, mixed, or blended, and on the apparatus by whose means they are cooked. Faultiness in any one of these particulars can utterly spoil an entire meal, even if the other features should be perfect. There are some persons in the cookery world still living who can remember the time when they had to bend over a cooking fire, consisting of burning logs laid in the rear of a wide-mouthed fire- place ; when bread and cakes were cooked in a common skillet; and who had to fry or broil over a heap of burning coals, and at the same time watch the coffee-pot or tea-kettle to see that it did not fall over. This primitive mode of cooking dates back to the earliest period on record, when boiling and baking had to be performed in vessels suspended over a fire, and roasting on a spit was effected in a similar rudimentary manner. The earliest records of cooking fires show that they were usually made on a hearth of stones, with other suitable stones built up, as a support to the cooking vessels. The fuel then used was wood and charcoal.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 50 The Egyptians and other ancient races used the still interesting and historical kail pot for cooking their food. A similar metal pot was also used for baking bread and pies. It was closed up and buried bodily in burning peat or hot ashes. In the ordinary way the £ kail pot ’ consisted of a large caldron of brass or other metal. The tripod and the caldron are the earliest cooking apparatus mentioned. The former consisted of three rods of iron or hard wood, which were fastened together at the top with an iron hook, serving at the same time to hold the handle of the kettle or caldron. In con- nection with these a kind of frying-pan was also used, which, according to tradition, served for cooking certain delicate cakes and fish. In the days when there were no cooking ranges, and consequently no boilers, caldrons were used for heating water, and also for boiling fine articles of linen or muslin, such as the kerchiefs of the mistress and the babies’ caps and robes. In royal households these caldrons were sometimes of gold or silver, and pompously adorned the great carved dressers of the day, flanked by tall chased silver candlesticks. Frying-pans were gradually evolved from small caldrons or marmites, and the long handles were at first called tails. Boasting before a radiant heat has been known for many centuries. Boasting spits were in general use in England during the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. Spits were then, as now, used for supporting joints and birds before the fire. These spits were at first turned by hand ; but for a long time after in large kitchens dogs, known as ‘ turnspits,’ were specially trained to do the duty of turning the spit. The breed of these useful dogs has long since become extinct. The smoke-jacks, which are still found in the kitchens of some old mansions, were next introduced. These were turned by means of the smoke A BROCHE SPIT, TURNED BY A ‘ TURNSPIT DOG 9COOKING-STOVES 51 from the old-fashioned open coal range. They were the prototypes of the clock-work bottle-jacks. The next part with which I wish to deal is that of cooking apparatus, stoves or ranges that are heated by means of coal. The success of cooking has a great deal to do with the kind of cooking apparatus used. That success depends largely on the following points:— (a) Perfect construction. (b) Perfect draughts and flues. (c) Perfect working. Success depends, further, upon the management of the fire, dampers and flues used, and the skill of the cook as a stoker. Coal cooking-stoves and ranges are constructed of malleable iron, steel, cast iron, and wrought iron. Cast-iron stoves are the cheapest made, but they often crack soon after being used, and are not suitable for hard wear. Such cheap stoves cannot be recommended with confidence, because they usually waste fuel, frequently smoke, and are constantly out of order ; whilst well-constructed stoves from reliable makers, which are air-tight, made from malleable iron, wrought iron, and steel, not only give more evenly and easily regulated heat, but are better in many other respects. Good stoves should not allow gases and fumes to escape from the fire-box into the oven; they should be so constructed as not to allow cinders and soot to get into the oven, and should protect the fire-box and.oven from undue draughts, which make the heat uneven and unreliable both in the oven and on top of the stoves.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 52 FRENCH COTTAGE STOVE (SYSTEM DROUET, PARIS), WITH FRONT REMOVED TO SHOW CONSTRUCTION The above is an ‘ Eagle range,’ with the front plate removed to' exhibit the arrangement of the fines by which the ovens are heated. The right-hand or roasting oven has the fire working first over and then down the side, and lastly underneath the bottom ; this is the best arrangement for meat roasting cooking. The left-hand or pastry oven has the fire passing down the side first- and then underneath the bottom, and up the far side ; this gives the neces- sary bottom heat for baking pastry, bread, pies, &c. By simply pushing in or pulling out a knob, this oven can be heated from the top or bottom as may be required. A really good and reliable pastry oven should have a reversing damper by which the heat may be directed to top or bottom at will, so that, when needed, it can be converted into a roaster. The illustrations of stoves given are of various makes and have been selected from the most reliable sources, as being the best of their kinds, economical to use, and in every other respect fully trustworthy as to the requirements for up-to-date cooking and baking. The so-called open range is an ideal coal- devouring cooking range, and as it is being rapidly discarded we need not devote much attention to it. There are, of course, hundreds of open ranges of the old-fashioned type still in daily use, and it will be some years yet before they become quite ex- tinct. The open range, however, has one strong point in its favour: it will roast in front of the fire. This is, with the exception of very small kitcheners, also possible with the COAL RANGE53 COOKING-STOVES modern cooking stoves, which are so constructed that a closed range stove can be converted by a simple movement to give out enough radiant heat admirably suitable for front roasting, the result of which is invariably better than that obtained by means of an open range. CENTRAL RANGES WITH UNDERGROUND FLUES All these ranges are built on one principle. Nowadays, the boilers a and b, shown in the sketch, are generally done away with, as the hot water is supplied by some other means. The hot-plate closets, x and y, are also left out very often, as they are of little use in an hotel and restaurant range, and the ovens can be made higher if there is nothing underneath. The flames travel over the roof of the ovens in f and e, down the sides and between the ovens and boilers, and thence under the ovens in t and n, and down the underground A FRENCH CENTRAL COOKING-RANGE WITH UNDERGROUND FLUES (SYSTEM DROUET, PARIS) flues. i and l and p and k are iron slides left in the floor of the oven and the roof of the hot-plate closet respectively, to allow an easy cleaning of the flues.' 5 and 6 are the regulating dampers, which are worked by means of the handles of 1 and 2. z is the ash-pan, and w a slide to regulate the inlet of air into the furnace. RANGES TO STAND AGAINST A WALL These ranges are built on the same principle as the central range, the only difference being that the smoke, instead of being forced down the underground flues, runs into a flue inside the range at its back,THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 54 wherefrom it is diverted into an upright flue on top of the range, or into a flue which comes out on the side and is connected with the flues of the building. In either case a circulating boiler can be placed at the back or at the side of the fireplace, ready for connection with a circulating tank which will supply hot water all over the house. It may be a high- pressure or a low-pressure boiler. The former are generally used as being cheaper, because the length of water piping required is not so great (this is the chief expense in hot-water fitting), but the latter are much safer, especially in cold countries, where the water is liable to get frozen in the pipes. A few years ago ranges were built so as to get two or more ovens heated by the same fireplace, for economy’s sake. But it is a mistake where first-ciass cuisine is required, and our motto is :—One fireplace for each oven. THE MANAGEMENT AND CAEE OF STOVES Every method of cooking depends solely upon the manner and facility with which the heat is applied. It is an easy matter to regulate the heat of the hot-plate or oven where gas, oil, or electricity is used; for here one is able to secure and maintain any and every degree of heat without trouble. In the case of a wood or coal stove, however, special care and management are necessary. Much food as well as time is often wasted by persons who do not understand how to manage the heat of a cooking stove, and many do not even know how to light the fire, far less how to regulate the heat of an oven or clean the oven flues. Laying the Fire.—The first thing to master is the laying of a fire, or the building and care of fires. To do this successfully the grate must be cleared from cinders and ashes ; the cinders on being freed from the ashes should be utilised again. All flues must be cleared, and the underneath part of the flues (under the ovens) must be cleaned out at least once a month. To make a fire, open all draughts, lay enough cinders on the bars at the bottom of the grate (made for the purpose of letting the air in), so as to protect the metal and temper heat; crumple up some paper and place it upon the cinders in the grate; on this lay some thin pieces of wood (kindling wood) crossways so as to make a current of air ; upon this place a layer of coals, then another layer of wood sticks, and some more coal. Now set light to the paper, and you will find that the fire will burn up brightly ; when the wood &c. ignite, add some more coal, close the smoke damper, and keep the draught damper at the bottom of the grate open till the fire looks red, then close the draught doors or dampers. Draughts are slides or small doors attached below the fire-box, they are provided to allow a current of cold air to pass over the fire so as to retard combustion.THE MANAGEMENT AND CARE OF STOVES Damper.—This is a flat plate of round or square shape, which, when closed, prevents the di’aught in direct communication with the chimney flue. When dampers are opened, the heat (or most of it) will go up the chimney, and as the combustion of coal is rapid, much heat will then be wasted. How to Clean a Close Range.—After having removed all ashes and cinders from the grate and hearth, take out one of the soot doors (the one highest to the chimney), and sweep it out by means of a flue brush as far as it is possible. When there is more than one soot door or trap, remove each in turn and clean out, but never remove more than one at a time. Having done this, sweep up carefully all the soot and ashes from the lowest soot door, and remove it. A flue brush is a brush with a wire handle which will bend into the flues; it is similar in shape to an ordinary bottle brush. Sweep the inside of the oven, and wash it thoroughly with hot water and soda, so as to remove all grease ; leave the door open to dxy. Next wash the top axxd front of the stove. When dry, mix soxne black-lead (Nixey’s) with a little water or turpentine—the latter assists in removing the grease. Apply the black-lead with a small stiff brush, and polish the top and exterior of the stove with a dry soft brush. Black-lead should never be applied until the stove is perfectly clean, free from dust, and dry. Soft paper, ordinary kitchen paper, or newspaper is often used for a final polish. Gas Stoves.—Gas is now largely used for cooking, and gas cooking- stoves have taken the place of the coal range ixx many kitchexxs. Cooking by gas has proved eminently satisfactory, especially during the hot weather. It is more ecoxxomical, because meat roasted by gas has been found to lose less in weight thaxx whexx cooked in a coal range. In other words, a larger amount of the nxxtritious juices of meat are retained wheix it is cooked by gas; hence it must be accepted as being axx economical xnode of cooking. Gas can be used for every purpose for which a wood or coal range is used. It requires less trouble, less labour, and can be ixxstantly started into full force, and can be turned out imnxediately the cooking is done with. The heat of a gas stove can be regulated with minute exactness, the required heat caxx be got just at the time it is wanted, and it can be regulated from a slow simmering fire to a brisk boilingTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 56 or baking heat at a moment’s notice. Hence there is little or no waste or loss in heat; you can at all times get enough heat for the purpose required, and none left over. Oil Stoves.—These stoves are also convenient and economical to use, and are especially adapted for small families, for camp and yacht cookery ; but they require special care: also they are likely to be dangerous from explosion, which occurs when oil stoves are not well looked after. Kitchens, or other rooms where oil stoves are used, must be well ventilated. The wicks must be kept well trimmed, or the burners will smell and smoke—a smoke which is most disagreeable, if not dangerous to health. All oil stoves are portable, no flue being required ; they can be carried from place to place at will. They are economical, because they consume about 20 per cent, less in fuel than other cooking stoves. Oil stoves are AN OIL COOKING-STOVE (WEIGHT AND BUTLER’s) constructed on much the same principle as oil lamps used for lighting purposes, and require equal care and attention. A well-constructed, cleanly kept, and well-managed oil stove will cook food as well as any other stove, and with due care the cooking should be performed with- out smoke or odour from the flame, which should in no wise come in contact with the food to be cooked. Electric Stoves.—As already stated, the electric current that serves for lighting streets and houses can be utilised for cooking, but cooking by electricity has not yet become popular. It is claimed that cooking can be carried on with the production of far less heat when electricity is used than when coal is employed, for the very simple reason that no fireplace is used, and consequently there is no loss of heat up the chimney. The electric stoves at present used resemble in outward appearance the ordinary type of gas stoves, but the interior arrangements are different; the whole of the interior being enclosedTHE MANAGEMENT AND CARE OF STOVES by the addition of a bottom plate, and as no flue is required, no opening is left at the top of the oven. The electric wires are imbedded in an insulating enamel to the surface to be heated, and the heat is produced solely by the passage of electricity. Switches are used to control the current, which can be sent through any part of the oven wherever heat is required. Thus the top, the bottom, sides or back of the oven may be heated independently of each other, or the whole may be turned on at once. To heat up the oven in the first instance, it is usual to turn on full power for, say, 15 minutes, and when cooking temperature is reached, the whole of the switches may be turned off, and cooking carried on for some considerable time without any electricity whatever. If, however, the temperature is required to be A KITCHEN FITTED DP WITH ELECTRIC COOKING-STOVES, MANUFACTURED MESSRS. CROMPTON AND CO., CHELMSFORD kept constant, the turning on of one heating surface, such as the bottom plate, will be all that is necessary. There is no combustion whatever, and therefore no products of combustion inside the oven. It is found that, on account of the even temperature, cooking may be carried on in any part of the oven with equal facility, and burning does not take place. Electrically heated grills are also constructed, while stewpans and frying-pans are provided with double bottoms, between which the conducting wires are placed. By merely connect- ing these utensils with the electric current, they can be heated ; and they can be placed in almost any place, quite independently of any stoves.58 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK CHAPTER VI ON COOKING TEMPERATURES The chief factor in cooking is heat, the laws of which are even now not completely under- stood in the scientific world. It is a most difficult study, and the average cook may be pardoned if showing ignorance on the subject; nevertheless, a certain amount of theoretical knowledge is necessary to all who wish to advance in their profession and show a uniform excellence in their work. We know that the action of heat on foods is partly chemical and partly mechanical, and is manifested in a great variety of ways. This should teach us that mere happy-go- lucky methods will not be sufficient. Study and the observance of well-established rules (modified according to circumstances) are necessary. Table showing- the Exact Register on the Saccharometer in English and French Degrees of Degrees of Fahrenheit Centigrade I. Small thread . 215 Petit filet ou lisse 101 II. Large thread . 217 Grand lisse . . 102 III. Little pearl . 220 Petit perle . . 105 IV. Large pearl . 222 Grand perle . . 106 V. Small blow . 230 Petit souffle . .110 VI. Small ball . 237 Petit boule . .114^ VII. Large ball . 247 Grand boule . 119^ VIII. Small crack . 290 Petit casse . . 143 IX. Large crack . 312 Grand casse. . 154 X. Caramel . 350 Caramel . .175 The following degrees are the most useful in sugar confectionary. For transparent icing, 229 degrees. For fondant (new ball), 250 degrees. For sugar spinning, 280 degrees. For general use (the crack), 312 degrees.ON COOKING TEMPERATURES 59 Failure in the kitchen can often be traced to the want of knowledge of the culinary temperatures needed. ‘ Cooking Thermometers ’ have been found useful; for with their help beginners are better able to estimate the varying and correct temperatures needed for each process. The scale in cooking thermometers is generally graduated from about 200 to 400 or 500 degrees Fahrenheit. The following may be accepted as a safe guide to the temperatures required for certain methods of cooking. Boiling fast . . 212 degrees of Fahrenheit. „ slow . 205 to 210 „ „ simmering 180 to 190 ,, i Mutton . 800 Oven Boasting \ Beef . . 810 iGame and poultry . 310 | Meat pies . 290 Oven Baking j Pastry and cakes . . 320 v Bread and puff paste . 340 When an oven registers 200 degrees, or below that, it is not hot enough for baking or roasting. Frying.—When oil is employed, it must be raised to a much greater temperature than either fat, butter, or even lard. For fish the fat should be from 360 to 375 degrees, according to the kind and size fish to be fried. For meat, from 370 to 380 degrees. For fritters &c., 340 to 375 degrees. Whitebait require a heat of 400 degrees, when they will fry successfully.60 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK CHAPTER YII CULINARY REQUISITES COOKING UTENSILS &c. It is of importance that every kitchen, small or large, should be equipped with the best possible utensils. No workman can produce satisfactory results without proper tools, and it is unreasonable to expect a cook to perform his or her work in a satisfactory manner without the necessary implements. A good kitchen equipment is one of the foundations of good catering. There is no end to the introduction of patent cooking utensils and alleged labour-saving machines for the kitchen; some of them are excellent and economical, whilst others are of little use to the practical cook, and many are dear at any price. It is difficult to give a complete list of cooking utensils needed, for this must, of course, be governed by individual circumstances, but in order to give an idea as to what is needed for an average large house- hold kitchen a list of the essential articles is appended. To each item in this list an explanation of the use for which the utensils are intended has been attached. Most of the illustrations of cooking utensils which appear in this work have been kindly lent by Messrs. Jones Bros, of 13 & 14, Down Street, Piccadilly, who manufacture and supply every kind of apparatus and utensil for the culinary profession. LIST OF COOKING UTENSILS For a Completely Equipped Moderately Sized Kitchen The dimensions are not in every case given, as this must necessarily depend upon the requirements, and must be varied accordingly. 1 copper stock-pot, holding about H to 2 gallons 1 copper consomme-pan, for finished consommes and purees 9 copper stewpans of various sizes, 4 to 12 inches diameter, with lids 3 saute-pans, with covers, 9 in., 10 in. and 12 in. in diameter 1 bain-marie, fitted with 6 to 8 pans, for keeping sauces, soups, gravies, &c., hot 1 round braising or fricandeau-pan, with cover 1 oval deep braising-pan, for cooking removes, hams, fricandeaus, fil- lets of beef, &e., and for braising large pieces of fish 1 large iron saucepan with steamer, for steaming puddings, meat, &c.61 CULINARY REQUISITES 1 fish-kettle, with drainer and lid, for boiling fish 3 iron saucepans, various sizes, for boiling vegetables, &c. 1 jack or salmon kettle, for boiling and braising fish, &c. 1 double cutlet pan, for cooking cutlets, fillets, &c. 1 copper preserving pan, for boiling fruits, &c., for preserving 1 preserving spoon 1 fish-fryer (deep frying-pan) and drainer,for general frying purposes 1 spoon-pan, for holding small spoons and ladles when not in use 1 copper egg-bowl, for beating whites of eggs, &c. 2 shallow frying-pans, for dry frying. 3 omelette-pans, for frying pancakes and omelettes 1 cullender, for draining vegetables, &c. 1 sugar-boiler (copper), for making syrups, &c. 1 meat screen and hot closet, for keeping meat, &c., hot, also for warming plates and dishes 2 boxes of plain and fluted paste cutters, for jellies, biscuits, &c. 1 box column vegetable cutters 1 box larding needles, for larding purposes 2 trussing needles, for trussing pur- poses 1 box cutlet cutters, for stamping out paste, &c. 3 large iron spoons, for removing fat, skimming, &c. 2 chef’s forks, 2 ladles, 3 ordinary table-forks 12 wooden spoons of different sizes 2 wooden spatulas. 1 string box 8 cook’s knives. 2 ordinary kitchen knives 1 meat chopper. 2 pastry knives 1 cutlet bat, for flattening cutlets, steaks, &c. 2 oval tinned dishes for gratins, &c. 1 salamander, for browning the surface of certain dishes 1 wire salad basket, for draining salads 1 copper skimmer, for preserves 1 wire frying basket, for holding things to be fried, such as rissoles, croquettes, fritters, parsley, &c. 1 wire slice, for the dry kettle. 1 puree presser, to rub through force- meat, purees, &e. 1 steel, for sharpening knives 1 meat saw, for sawing bones 1 marble mortar, and pestle, for pounding purposes 1 chopping block, for chopping meat, bones, &e. 2 paste-boards and 1 rolling-pin 1 glaize brush 12 tartlet tins 12 mince-pie tins 2 soup ladles 3 sauce ladles 6 tinned iron table-spoons 1 egg-slice 1 fish-slice 1 bread-grater 9 grocery boxes 1 pair of pastry nippers 1 Yorkshire pudding pan 2 cake tins or hoops 2 bake sheets, iron or copper 2 flour tubs 1 bread-pan 1 pastry slab 1 hand-bowl 1 water-can 1 coffee-mill 1 toasting-fork 2 coal-scuttles 1 spirit lamp for singeing game and poultry 1 meat press, for extracting juices from meat and poultry 2 gridirons, 1 for grilling cutlets, steaks, fillets, &c., and 1 for fish- grilling 1 sugar dredger 1 flour dredger. 1 mincing machine 1 spice or seasoning box to hold salt and condiments, pepper, &c. 3 whisks of different sizes, for whisking and stirring 3 pointed or conical wire strainers 3 wire sieves of various sizes, for sifting and strainingTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1 hair sieve and 1 silk sieve 1 glazing pot, for making meat glaze 2 timbale moulds 2 plain Charlotte moulds, for Char- lottes 2 border moulds, for aspics, creams, jellies, and savarins 2 French pie moulds, for raised pies 2 flanc moulds, for open tarts, Genoise, &c. 2 fancy jelly moulds, for creams and jellies 2 fancy tin cake moulds, for savarins, cakes, &c. 2 oblong baking sheets, for baking, &c. 2 square baking sheets. 2 paste brushes 2 fluted flanc rings, for fruit flancs &c. 1 oblong pie mould, for French pates 12 small Dariole moulds, for sweet and savoury creams, &c. 12 small plain timbale moulds 2 sponge-cake moulds, for sponge-cake and fancy gateaux 3 vegetable scoops, oval, round and fluted 1 poker 1 shovel 1 bottle-jack for roasting 1 nutmeg-grater 1 ice-pail 1 ice-spatula 1 jelly bag 2 forcing bags A set of icing pipes 6 enamelled basins 2 wash-up basins 1 offal or cinder box 1 galvanised iron pail Brushes and brooms 1 cafetiere 2 chopping boards, for mincing meat, vegetables, onions, parsley, &c. 1 set of scales and weights 1 saccharometer (syrup -gauge), for testing the correct degrees of syrups, &c. 1 ice-freezer, or ice machine, for freezing ice mixtures, &c. 2 fancy ice moulds and 1 plain parfait mould, for moulding ices i 1 wooden tub, for packing moulded ices 1 palette knife, useful for coating and marking 1 tin-opener, for opening canned goods 1 corkscrew, for opening bottles 1 ice-pick, for breaking ice l 1 set of meat skewers, for meat or game 1 spoon dish, for holding ladles, spoons, &c. 1 square or oblong double oven-pan, for oven roasting 1 meat safe, for keeping cooked meats, &c. 1 refrigerator, for keeping raw meats, fish, &c. 2 tin funnels, 2 wire drainers, used for marking and coating 1 set of measures, 1 quart to 1 gill 1 clock, to enable the cook to regulate the time required for cooking, and promptitude in serving 12 cloths of various sizes and makes, for straining consommes, jel- lies, and aspics, for turning sauces and pastes, for galantines, and for covering puddings whilst cooking 12 plates, 10 common dishes, 6 k. basins, 2 souffle dishes, 6 pudding basins, 3 pie dishes A set of earthenware fireproof casse- roles In addition to the above-mentioned utensils, &c., a well-made hard- wood kitchen table, fitted with drawers, and a properly constructed cooking-stove capable of enabling one to carry out all the various pro- cesses of cooking at one time or independently, are necessary. The list of the various utensils enumerated is as complete as(53 CULINARY REQUISITES BEACONSFIELD BORDER MOULD SAVAKliN MOULD64 the new centvry cookery book mousse MOULD AND LINING TOMATO MOULD OUTLET-BAT VIBE EGG AND SAUCE WHISKS65 CULINARY REQUISITES DOUBLE END SPOON OVEN ROASTING PANTEE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 66 LEMON CORER CURLER SIEVE PRESSER FRITTER MOULDS (MOULES A FONTANGE)CULINARY REQUISITES 67 possible, but can be modified or enlarged upon according to circum- stances. The list is not in excess for a small kitchen well equipped for two- persons ; but it is insufficient to provide cooking for ten or twelve persons. It will not be out of place to mention here that copper utensils in use should be frequently examined, so that they may be retinned immediately when needed. It is of the greatest importance to health that every copper or iron cooking-vessel be kept in good condition. Besides attending to the tinning, all utensils must be kept scrupulously clean—they cannot, in fact, be kept too clean. They must be washed and scoured with fine sand, and well rinsed in water each time they are used. All copper and tin ware should be kept bright and polished. This should be the pride of every cook. In conclusion it will be necessary to remind the reader that it is false economy to purchase cheap cooking-utensils, for the best will be found the cheapest in the end.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 68 CHAPTER VIII COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS BOILING Both boiling and steaming are known as the simplest and most economical methods of cooking. Meat loses less weight by boiling or steaming than by any other process. In the case of boiling, the liquor—i.e. the water in which meat etc. is boiled—can be turned to good account. Boiled food is considered wholesome, and is easily digested. Special points to be observed in boiling are: That the water should at all times be kept so as to cover the meat or vegetables or other things to be cooked. If it evaporates, it is best to add hot water, because the sudden introduction of cold water will lower the temperature, which is not always advisable. In boiling meat, the addition of vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, onions, celery, bouquet garni, etc., is a decided improvement, for thereby the flavour of the article boiled as well as the liquor (broth) will be much better in flavour. The exact time for boiling and steaming cannot be fixed in an arbitrary manner, as is the case with roasting. It varies from 20 to 40 minutes to the pound. Discretion as well as experience are the best guides to decide this question. Boiling meats, fish, vegetables, etc., is, within certain limits, the simplest and easiest process of cooking. Boiling implies a process of cooking effected by immersion for a certain period in boiling water or stock. All liquids do not boil at the same degree; but to boil water or stock means raising them to a temperature of 2123 Fahrenheit, though in the strict sense there is very little cooking performed at this heat: most, in fact, is done a little below, which is the degree for simmering, slow-boiling, steaming; or else considerably above it, as is the case with fats or oils, and these also have their boiling point. Milk will boil at a lower temperature than water, whilst slow and gentle simmering often works out as low as 170°, never reaching 212°. Proper simmering heat is 180°.69 COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS Boiling embraces two distinct objects, which differ considerably. One is to retain as much as possible of the juices in the flesh, and the other is to extract the juices and to mix them with the water or other liquor in which the article is boiled. To effect the first-named purpose—that is, to retain the largest practicable proportion of gravy in a joint of meat—the meat to be boiled should be put into fast-boiling water, and be allowed to boil sharply for a few minutes only, whereby the closing up of the pores of cut ends of the soft fibres will be effected, for as soon as these ends have become hardened from the coagulation of the albumen the leak- age or exudation of the juices will cease. It is stated that albumen coagulates at as low a temperature as 120°, so that a few minutes im- mersion in boiling water which has a heat of 212° should amply suffice to prevent much of the juice from escaping. After this is j effected the cooking must be continued at a lower temperature till the joint is thoroughly done. On the other hand, if meat is put in cold water and allowed to boil up slowly, and iis then simmered until tender, it will be found that much of the nutritive juices have become incorporated in the water, which is then called broth. If this be carefully done, both meat and bi’oth can be consumed, so that there cannot be much loss of nutritive matter. Salt meats, such as salt beef, salt pork, tongues, ham, and other salt, pickled, or smoked meat, should be put on in cold water. The time allowed for boiling meats is from 20 to 25 minutes for every pound, according to the size and kind of meat, and from 15 to 20 minutes over. A leg of mutton weighing from 10 to 12 pounds will require from 3 to 3£ hours, if cooked gently. Fowls take from 40 minutes to H hour, according to size and age. Smoked ham and tongue should always be soaked in cold water for at least 12 hours. A large ham requires from five to six hours to cook. SIMMERING VERSUS BOILING Simmering at 180° is undoubtedly far more effective for meat than violent boiling at 212°. With very few exceptions the heat which is applied to do more than the smallest degree of simmering is practically wasted, the water being converted into useless steam. A fowl, or any ^ small joint, which is put into boiling water and is allowed to gallop for an hour or longer, can never be as satisfactory as if put on in boiling water or stock, made to boil for a minute or two, and then allowed to simmer gently for an hour. By this last process it will be found that the same joint is more tender, more juicy, and better flavoured than would be the case by quick boiling.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 70 WHERE ACTUAL BOILING HEAT IS REQUIRED Boiling heat is required for only five purposes : 1. In the first place, as a preliminary step in the cooking of meats in general. 2. For all green, and most other vegetables. 3. For rapid reductions of stocks. 4. For evaporating water from a sauce, an infusion or a decoction from vinegar, from wine, or from milk. 5. For syrups of all kinds. For these purposes, and these alone, a cook should resort to what is known as quick boiling. Quick boiling can be brought down to slow boiling or simmering by the addition of cold water or cold stock. It is thus seen that boiling and simmering are quite distinct from each other. Quick and constant boiling will never yield, as far as meat, soups, ragouts, and some sauces are concerned, such good results as slow boiling, simmering, or seething, as it is sometimes called, will produce. When we speak of a boiled leg of mutton, or a boiled fowl or turkey, it is really not boiled at all—with the exception of the first . stage, which occupies at the most from five to ten minutes—but merely simmered. In boiling meat, a certain proportion of the nutritious qualities are sure to escape into the water and steam, for which reason the quantity of water should not be more than suffices to cover the meat, nor the saucepan an inch larger than is necessary to hold it. Boiled too long or too fast, meat becomes indigestible and hard. Hard water is better than soft water for boiling meat in, more of its tenderness and richness being retained in the former than in the latter. Too rapid boiling tends to overdo the exterior portion of the meat, while the interior remains underdone. This is the reason that when the meat has been kept at the boiling-point about five minutes the temperature should be reduced, and the rest of the process be more slowly conducted. Salted meat, in particular, should be very slowly cooked, kept simmer- ing, and allowed to grow cool in the pot. The scum which rises to the surface of the water should be carefully removed while the water is near the boiling-point, as otherwise it sinks, and looks very unsightly attached to the meat. Genuine boiling at the stated temperature must, therefore, be described as a temporary process, being as a complete process only available for the five purposes already mentioned. ‘ Simmering,’ on the other hand, is an operation with a varied scope in cookery, and as such can justly be described as the middle point of culinary heat applied for preparing certain foods.71 COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS STEAMING. Steaming is a process very similar to boiling, for it is cooking in the heated vapour of water. This practice as a means of cookery is largely adopted in hotels, clubs, schools, hospitals, prisons, barracks, workhouses, and other large institutions. It is also frequently applied in ordinary household cookery for particular articles of food requiring a very slow process of cooking. The extent of this depends greatly upon the appliances at hand. An ordinary kitchen steamer, fixed to the top of a large saucepan, with a close-fitting lid, is generally all that is required in this direction for simple household cookery on a small scale. If, however, steaming is required on a large scale, one or more large steaming apparatuses are needful to carry out this special process. The articles of food which are to be steamed are prepared in There is probably not an article in the batterie de cuisine more important for gradual, i.e. slow, cooking than a modern steamer. The experienced and economically-minded cook treasures this utensil most highly. Apart from the old-fashioned potato steamers, there are several improved patterns which are so arranged that several articles, indeed, three or four courses, can be cooked in one steamer ; the appliance is constructed so that each article of food is in its own compartment, so that whilst the steaming operation goes on, the flavour of the other articles do not affect the contents of the compartments above or below. This is done by providing each with its own steam pipe, which is run along the side from top to bottom ; the steam, therefore, does not travel from one to the other. Many puddings, some meats, and some vegetables, are consideredTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 72 better if cooked by steam, and inasmuch as the process of cooking is a very slow one, there is no fear of the food being destroyed by too fierce a heat, as the temperature in steaming never reaches beyond 212° Fahrenheit. Fish, meat, and some poultry cooked by steam are as a rule tender, full of gravy, and digestible. The advantages of steaming over boiling are that:— 1. The cooking is more gradual. 2. Puddings and souffles are decidedly lighter than when boiled. 3. No water can ever get into contact with the articles steamed. 4. A greased paper or cloth is not essential when a basin or tin is used. 5. Nutritious elements are not extracted from the food. Against this the following may be mentioned :— Steaming is much longer than any other process. This necessarily involves an extra consumption of fuel. Steaming is not only slower than boiling, but also more uncertain: for instance, if the water supplying the steam ceases to boil fast, the cooking^jjaes not proceed at all, nor does steamed meat produce any brotn^Wn other respects steaming is highly recommendable, and more especially for invalid cookery, because the slower the process of cooking the more digestible foods become. ROASTING. This is the oldest method of cooking on record, and still remains the favourite process. The success of every method of cooking depends largely on the management of the fire—in roasting this is particularly the case, for roasting requires a brisk, clear, and yet steady fire. Boasting before a fire is cooking by radiated heat—i.e. the heat rays coming from the fire are caught by the joint hanging before it. Boasting is admittedly the most expensive, for more is lost in weight in roasting than by any other process. Meat during roasting undergoes certain changes. When properly cooked its outer coating forms a crust of coagulated albumen, thus keeping the interior juicy and tender. It loses water, and some of the fat becomes melted, and so the meat becomes lighter ; connective tissue is changed into gelatine, and dark-coloured substances called osmazomes are developed, and the meat itself becomes a brownish colour instead of red. It is not quite so digestible as raw meat. Rules for Roasting a Joint.—1. To roast a joint, it should be placed before great heat for the first ten minutes, and then be allowed to cook more slowly. The great heat hardens the outside of the meat and keeps in the juices. If allowed to cook quickly all the time the meat is likely to be tough. 2. The fire should be bright and clear.73 COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS 3. It should be basted about every ten minutes, as this helps to cook it, keeps it juicy, and improves the flavour. 4. The time allowed is 15 minutes for every pound, and 15 minutes over for beef and mutton ; for veal and pork 20 minutes for every pound, and 20 minutes over. The latter should be well cooked to destroy parasites ; very thick pieces require five minutes longer for every pound. Three ways of roasting are practised, viz:— Roasting before the fire, by exposing meat to the direct heat of an open fire. This mode of roasting is confined mostly to England and America. Very few other countries practise roasting in front of the fire to any extent. Roasting in the oven of ordinary coal stoves or ranges. Of the two this mode of cooking is considered inferior to the first: never- theless it may be safely said that the greatest part of meat-roasting is done in close ovens. It appears, from various experiments, that m^jte:oasted or baked in a close oven loses rather less of its weight th^Kf roasted by an open fire. Roasting in a gas stove (under a sheet of flame). This method has of late become popular, and the results obtained are, as a rule, very satisfactory. Most of the modern gas stoves are so constructed that there is a constant supply of fresh air circulating through them, whereby one of the elements which we get by roasting in front of a fire is obtained. It matters little how the roasting of a joint of meat or poultry is effected, so long as the points previously named are observed, the main objects of which are to preserve the nutritive qualities, and to retain the juices, but the joint must be sufficiently seasoned and dressed just before serving. Elementary Rules for Roasting.—By way of supplementing the former remarks, it cannot be sufficiently insisted upon that the excellence of a roast depends to a very great extent upon the amount of basting it receives. Basting should be performed at least ^once every 15 minutes whilst a joint is cooking. It is wise to add a little dripping at first, so that this may be used for basting until the fat from the meat melts. Some cooks wrap their joints in oiled paper, others flour the joint before roasting. Neither of these plans is recommended, because thorough basting will do all that is wanted. Some cooks season a joint before it is cooked, whilst others season it with salt and pepper just before it is served. There is a difference of opinion as to which is the correct way of the two. I am inclined to hold with the latter. To ensure proper and careful roasting the fire must in the first place be in the right condition—clear, bright, and giving out a uniform but not too fierce a heat. In the case of an open fire its breadth and depth should be regulated according to the size of the joint to be roasted, so that the weight of a joint to beTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 74 roasted, the condition and form of the meat, as well as its propor- tions of fat and lean, must be considered. Meat of newly killed beasts requires longer cooking than meat which has been hung for a time. In warm weather joints require slightly less time for roasting than in cold. Boned and rolled or stuffed meat requires longer cooking than the same joints would if not rolled, and unstuffed. The meat of young animals and that of old ones requires different treatment. As a rule young flesh, containing less fibrine, requires longer cooking. White meat, such as pork, veal, and lamb, should always be well cooked, and must never be served underdone. It is almost impossible to fix the exact time required for roasting each joint of meat, because so much depends upon circumstances, that no uniform thumb rule can be given. The proper time and process of roasting must be left to the good judgment of the cook, who must be guided by circumstances and conditions. The cook’s business. is to serve the joint as full of nourishing qualities as possible. Though roasting is considered one of the easiest and most simple processes of cookery, it really requires quite as much attention to obtain perfect results as is necessary to prepare so-called ‘ made ’ dishes, the recognised test for good cooks. Baking-.—This is a most convenient form of cooking. Baking is cooking in hot air. Hot air plays a very important part in cookery, and although baking in a close oven is not done by radiant heat, there is a great amount of heat radiated from the sides of the oven and from the top and bottom. The hot air in an oven is likely to become tainted with the fumes of burnt grease &c., and smoke, which too often communicates disagreeable flavours to things baked, more especially to meats. This can be avoided to a large extent if, the oven is kept scrupulously clean, and well ventilated. For braising, roasting, and baking bread, cakes, pastry, &c., puddings, custards, and many savoury meat, vegetable, and farinaceous dishes, the oven will always remain in favour. The ordinary oven temperatures are known by the following- terms :—Very hot, quick, brisk, hot, moderate, slack, slow, gentle. Difference between Baking and Boiling, etc. —The difference between baking and boiling is that by the former method the food is cooked by dry heat, whilst by the latter it is cooked in liquid (moist heat). Baking, as compared with other cooking processes, such as broiling and roasting, differs in this : while by broiling and roasting the food is cooked by full exposure to the hot air, baking is performed in ovens, more or less close structures, whereby the action of dry heat is modified by the presence of the steam that comes from the food which is being baked. Various Ovens.--Besides the ovens attached to ordinary stoves (French system), grates, and ranges, baking is performed in various other kinds of ovens. I refer more especially to bakers’ and pastry-75 COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS cooks’ ovens. Some of the bakers’ ovens are built with bricks, which look like deep recesses in the walls, wherein the fuel is burned, and when the oven has attained the required heat, the fuel is re- moved, and the dough is put in to be baked. Ovens heated by hot air (steam), and gas ovens are now greatly used for baking purposes, when such is required on a large scale. These ovens are far cleaner and more healthy to use than the old-fashioned ovens which are heated by burning fuel. In some parts abroad there is still in vogue a very quaint way of baking bread and cakes. The oven in which the baking is conducted is an iron pot with a lid, which is hung by a hook over a fire. The fire is usually made up with logs of wood or charcoal, or both ; burn- ing embers are placed on top of the lid, whereby the bread or cake contained in the pot is being baked at the top and bottom at the same time. Baking is one of the oldest modes of cooking on record, for bread has been baked from time immemorial, and according to the Scriptures, baking was known more than 3,600 years ago. We read in the Scriptures of Sarah cooking her cakes upon the hearth, and again of Lot baking unleavened bread. Pharaoh had his baker, and in the ceremonial law given by Moses to the ancient Jews, they were distinctly directed to bring cakes * baken in the oven.’ Stewing-.—It is generally defined as a gradual process of simmering in a small quantity of liquor. The advantage which Stewing can claim over boiling or simmering is that the more nourishing and soluble elements are not separated from, but served up with the meat &c., the full flavour of which is thereby better preserved. Stewing is unquestionably one of the most economical methods of •cooking meat. The coarser and cheaper parts of meat, which cannot well be used for roasting or boiling, can by slow continuous stewing be made tender, palatable, and nutritious. The meat selected for stewing should be lean, or with but little fat. Stewing entails little loss ; all the juices coming out of the meat amalgamate with the gravy or sauce which is served with the meat. Yery little fuel and attention is needed to cook a stew after it has been set off stewing. The heating must be slow and gradual, never reaching the actual boiling point, and the scum must be removed occasionally. Some meats and fruits and certain vegetables are usually subjected to stewing. Only enough liquid is used to cover the meat, &c., to prevent evaporation. The following are the reasons for claiming this mode of cooking as the most economical:— 1. Tough meat (coarse and cheap), unsuitable for either roasting or boiling, can be made tender and palatable by stewing. 2. There is practically no waste in nutriment, for solids and liquids are both served up.76 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 3. Little fuel and little attention are required. There are two ways of stewing known and practised: the first is partly frying or browning the meat, &c. before stewing, and the second is par-boiling (Irish stew type). Stewing is performed in earthenware covered jars and stewpans in the oven or over the fire. To soften the fibres of coarse meat, it is often soaked or steeped in vinegar. Braising.—Braising (or braizing) is a combination of roasting and stewing small joints of meat in a shallow stew-pan, called ‘ braisoire ’ or braiser, which has a close-fitting lid with a grooved edge round it, on which hot coals (charcoal) are placed, whereby the meat can be cooked with a fire above it as well as under it. This process of cooking, it is said, greatly decreases loss by evaporation. It is a favourite method with the French, and is supposed to bring out an unusually fine flavour and aroma. Viands to be braised are gene- rally boned, and either larded or barded with thin slices of fat bacon. The pan in which a braise is to be made is always (or should always be) lined with a mirepoix (slices of bacon, carrot, onions and herbs), upon which the meat is placed. It is usually moistened with stock, or stock and wine. The more delicate meats, such as sweetbreads, fillets, fowls, turkeys, &c., are sometimes covered with buttered paper ; this is done to prevent the heat from the top of the pan scorching or imparting too much of a roast flavour to the meats which are to be braised. Occasional basting during the process of this method of cooking is essential. When done, the meat is taken up, the fat removed from the mirepoix and gravy, which latter is then reduced, strained, and blended with some kind of gravy or thin sauce. Mirepoix.—Perfect braising demands the mirepoix, bed of sliced carrot, turnip, onion, bacon or ham,' and a small bouquet of herbs. A mirepoix is found essential for the moistenings of braised meats, and for imparting a delicate flavour of vegetables and aromatics, which cannot be effected by any other means. Again, most braises require garnishes of a more or less elaborate nature. The latter may, however, be quite simple, inexpensive, and yet effective, and can thus come within the reach of the average household kitchen. When stewing or braising meats &c., the liquor becomes slowly reduced in the process, and furnishes a most appropriate, fragrant, and delicious sauce with which to surround the portion when served at table. So meats which are otherwise dry and of little flavour, such as veal, become saturated with juices, which render the food succulent and delicious. Spices and wine are sometimes used to FBICANDEA.U PANCOOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS 77 impart their flavours. The process of cooking a braise is thus spoken of by Jules Gouffe in his ‘ Livre de Cuisine.’ The chief operation is one of slow simmering, for, he says, if the meat be exposed to sudden heat the gravy is insipid, colourless, and weak, as it too often is when prepared by careless or ignorant cooks. The gravy should be highly nutritious, of a rich high colour and flavour, and of gelatinous consistency. ‘I advise,’ he says, ‘that for braising the quantity of meat should be large rather than small, as a long process of cooking is most effective, and you at once obtain two admirable dishes instead of one, for when the braise is cold it is equally good, and affords a pleasant change.’ Poeler.—The idea which this word conveys in cookery is practically unknown in English kitchens. No English word has been found to describe its meaning. I am unable to fill up the gap by finding an appropriate English word. Poele means a deep frying-pan, or a fireproof earthenware pan, wherein a bed of vegetables, bacon, &c., or, in other words, a kind of mirepoix with its seasoning &c. is put; upon this poultry, fowl, pullet, pigeons, &c. are placed. The bird is trussed and prepared as though for an entree, the breast is covered with slices of fat bacon, and when moistened with stock, the pan is placed upon burning embers or coals, and cooked gently till tender. Only a little liquid is used, frequent basting is necessary, but the liquid must be replenished as it reduces, so that the same quantity always remains. Etuver.—This is another French word of the cuisine the mean- ing of which is not clearly understood in this country. Smothering is the only English substitute which can convey the culinary meaning. To etuver or smother meat is to cook it slowly in a little stock without evaporation taking place, so that it cooks entirely and retains its natural flavour. This mode of cooking is always per- formed in the oven, and meat cooked in this style must always be thoroughly well done. Grilling.—This is one of the crudest and the most primitive of all forms of cooking, it is indeed, sometimes described as the savage mode of cooking, when slices of raw meat were strung on sticks, and were held over or close to a fire. ‘ Broiling ’ is the ancient word for grilling; though both words are still used they really signify the same thing. Broiling is derived from the French word ‘ brtiler ’—to burn. On the Continent grilling has become very popular. A charcoal furnace is considered the best heat for grilling or broiling purposes. Although one of the simplest forms of cookery, it is seldom wTell carried out. The process is similar to that of roasting, with the difference that only small pieces or slices of meat are used. Broiling or grilling is always done before, or over, a fire (a clear bright fire). It is a process which is always quickly performed. By broiling meats evaporation is prevented by the sudden closing of the fibres, so the78 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK cut side of the meat is quickly hardened and the surface browned. A chop, steak, cutlet, or fillet, properly broiled, should have a thin, nicely browned crust, the inside of which must be cooked to suit the requirements and taste of the person for whom it is pre- pared, viz. underdone, raw and juicy, medium, or well-cooked. A gridiron, cleaned and well greased, is the proper utensil for broiling, though some cooks use the frying-pan more often than the gridiron. In broiling on or between a gridiron, special care must be exercised to keep the fat from falling into the fire, as the sudden blaze is likely to impart a smoky and objection- able flavour to the meat. A clear bright fire, not the re- mainder of a good fire, is essen- tial to perfection in grilling. On no account must the meat be pierced with a fork or skewer, or the juices will run out of the holes made, and much of the flavour will thereby be lost. An average-sized chop or steak will require from ten to twelve minutes to broil or grill, during which time it should be turned at least five times. The value of the gridiron, its advantages as well as its abuses, is perhaps nowhere better known than in England, especially in re- lation to chops, cutlets, steaks, kidneys, fish, chicken, bones, mush- rooms, tomatoes, &c. If properly managed by careful and competent hands, nothing can be made more tasty than a grillade. Frying’. — The process of frying is in the truest culinary sense ‘ boiling in fat or oil.’ Eat is but oil solidified, and oil is liquid fat; nevertheless the conditions of boiling in oil are altogether different, and the effects to a certain extent contrary to the mode of boiling in other liquids. For frying,' the fat must be 360 degrees, but boiling oil is about three times as hot as boiling water. In consequence of this, if articles of food are plunged into boiling fat or oil, they offer the very opposite results to what they do in boiling. By the latter method, meat, vegetables, fish, &c., become soft and in some cases dissolved, they become solid boiled meats, &c., or areCOOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS 7.9 reduced to the condition of purees (pulp) ; while in frying they become firm, and ultimately brown on their outside, and if left too long in boiling fat they become black. Fat is incapable of dissolving the internal juices of frying food. When anything becomes dry through long frying, the cause is that the continued heat of the fat drives out all the moisture in the state of vapour. It is not generally known that when burnt fat is eaten in any form it causes great trouble in the stomach, &c.; for soon after it enters the stomach it produces butyric acid, which is the most unwholesome of all acids. When present in the stomach a gas is formed which causes heartburn. It is difficult to cook food in fat, i.e. to fry it, because it ought to be made at least twice as hot as boiling water before it is fit for use. Indeed, some fats make the quicksilver in the thermometer rise to 600° or 700° Fahr. When the dry frying method is employed the frying-pan should be constantly moved about to prevent the articles fried from sticking to the bottom of the pan. Shallow7 and deep frying-pans or kettles should he made of strong- iron with thick bottoms. There are two modes of frying :— 1. Dry frying, which is frying in as little fat as possible, adapted for small pieces of meat, vegetables, &c. 2. Deep or wet frying, which is done in a deep pan containing at least as much fat as will cover whatever is being fried. This method is used for various kinds of fish, meat mixtures, paste mixtures, &c., but whatever is fried in this way must be coated either with flour, batter, eggs, or crumbs : this is done to prevent the heat of the fat from entering into the substance fried. (Fish, eggs, souffles, &c., differ in this respect.) Brillat-Savarin declares that ‘ The beauty of a good fry is in carbonising or browning the surface by sudden immersion—the pro- cess known as the surprise. It forms a sort of vault to enclose all that is valuable, prevents the fat from reaching it, and concentrates the juices so as best to develop the alimentary qualities.’ Beef and mutton suet cut up very small, clarified, and strained, is used in most kitchens for frying purposes, though lard and oil will answer equally well, but in some cases these are not found quite so suitable. The light-coloured dripping obtained from roasting meat, and the clean fat taken off stocks, are in a wray preferable to. any- thing else for ordinary frying. Frying in lard is best adapted for the more bulky articles. Oil is largely used for frying on the Continent, but more especially in France and Italy, and of late years it has come into favour in this country. Oil requires more careful handling than either of the above fats, and needs to be warmed up over a gentle fire to prevent it from rising or boiling over (300°-400°).THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY ROOK Butter is sometimes used for deep frying, but it is hardly suitable, because it gets hot too quickly (150°), and is apt to burn before the article to be fried is done. AVERAGE DEGREES OF HEAT REQUIRED FOR FRYING. Butter boils at 150 degrees of Fahrenheit. Lard „ 210 Suet ,, 220 ,, „ Goose fat, &c. 860 ,, ,, Oil 890 to 400 The heat employed in the case of frying has to perform the same work as it does in roasting and boiling. Its effect must be in the first instance to harden the albumen, or in other words to form a thin crust on the outside of whatever is fried. For this reason the fat must be hot and smoking before anything of the kind named can be successfully fried. The best plan to test the proper temperature of fat is to watch it until it is perfectly still; a faint blue smoke will then be seen to rise—the fat is then ready for frying. A small piece of bread thrown into the fat is also a good test: if it turns brown immediately, the heat is correct; if not, the fat is still too cool for frying. The principle causes of failure in frying are: Putting in things to fry before the fat is thoroughly heated. Insufficient quantity of fat in the pan. Too much moisture adhering to the surface of articles to be fried. Sauter or Sauteing’.—The exact meaning of the culinary term sauter or saute is not clearly understood by most English cooks. The translation of this word is ‘jump,’ but the correct meaning is conveyed in the word ‘ toss.’ For instance, if we wish to translate * Pommes de terre saute au beurre,’ ‘ Potatoes jumped in butter ’ would hardly do, so that it is more correct and more expressive if we translate it as ‘ Potatoes tossed in butter ’; and as every English cook knows the meaning of tossing anything over the fire, the culinary term of ‘ saute ’ is more perfectly explained or defined in the word ‘toss.’ Sauteing may also be defined as dry frying. Frying proper is effected in a large quantity of fat, oil, butter, or lard : this is called wet or deep frying, whilst dry frying is to attempt frying with an alleviated, or a less severe heat than the actual frying in deep fat. This is done by using only just enough fat, butter, or lard, to enable one to toss things in the pan over the fire. The pan used for this purpose is either a saute-pan (sautoire or sauteuse), or an ordinary frying- or omelet-pan. saut£ panCOOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS 81 The object of sauteing is partly to stir the contents of the pan and to prevent it from burning. This must, however, not be performed with a fork or spoon, but by moving the pan frequently backward and forward over a quick fire. A quick and clear fire is needed, because the article to be tossed must be cooked rapidly and equally throughout. We saute potatoes, beans, &c. Liver, kidneys, chicken, fillets, &c. are sauted either in butter, oil, or lard. If cut in small, thin pieces a quick fire is best; if in larger pieces, a more moderate but well regu- lated fire is advisable. Twice Cooking-.—Although this term is not used now, it is nevertheless largely practised. Very tough meat and some fish, also some kinds of game, are said to become improved in flavour by twice cooking, with an interval of one day. Indeed, when cooking is performed on a very large scale, most of the dishes served are in a manner twice cooked. We have two examples to quote, viz. biscuits and toast, where this method is employed. The biscuit is perhaps the oldest example, for ‘ bis ’ means twice, and ‘ cuit ’ means baked or cooked, though this word is now but seldom used in the literal sense. Toast, however, serves as a good example of twice-cooking, so does pulled bread, and rusks; the latter are known as Zicieback in German (which means twice-baked). In these articles the change to dextrine is more com- plete than in once-baked bread or biscuits, and therefore the food becomes more soluble. Smoking.—This hardly comes under the heading of cooking, but as smoked meat and fish are consumed in many parts without again being cooked, we can justly look upon the process of smoking as a crude method of cooking, Cured and smoked meats, as well as fish, are highly esteemed articles of food. By smoking a piece of meat it can be preserved for a long period. The preservative effect of smoke was, no doubt discovered by accident; just like the first method of cooking, or the application of heat for the purpose of cooking, such as Charles Lamb describes in his tale of the origin of roast pig. Wheli meat is hung at some distance above a smoky wood fire, it becomes dry by smoke, the aromatic juices of the wood impart a new and a highly appreciated flavour to the articles thus exposed to smoke for a certain time. The average loss in weight by cooking meat, &c., works out as follows. Grilling . . . . . about 10 per cent. Frying „ 15 „ Steaming . „ 15 „ Boiling „ 20 ., Baking ,, 25 „ Stewing Roasting . 17 to 20 „ . about 30 ,, G82 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK CHAPTER IX STOCKS AND SOUPS' It is an acknowledged fact that stock forms the essential basis for all meat soups, consommes, most thick soups, sauces, and gravies, and as such it is recognised as being the foundation or, as Francatelli terms it, ‘ the very soul of good cookery ’; this is not altogether an exaggeration, for stock is also largely used for many other culinary prepara- tions. Stock is the liquid, or broth, into which the juices of meat, vegetables, &c., have been ex- tracted by means of low and gentle simmering. Thus the chief object in making stock must be that of drawing the goodness out of the materials employed into the liquid con- tained in the stock-pot. There is a wide range of stocks,2 from the simple homely bone stock to the double stock used for consommes, but the most useful is what cooks term the ‘ general stock,’ which will serve not only for soups and sauces, but also for a vast number of other culinary preparations for which water is often used merely because there is no stock at hand. Every household kitchen wherein it is desired to attain some degree of perfection, as well as of econoiny, should keep a constant supply of good stock. Unfortunately many ignorant or over-careful cooks, as well as housewives, look upon the stock-pot as a sort of culinary rubbish bin, where everything which cannot be made use of finds its way. On the Constituent Parts of Stock.—The nutritive and flavour- ing qualities of a properly prepared stock of first quality are: albumen, gelatine, osmazome, fat, and alkaline salts. 1 For individual recipes see Chapter XIV. 2 There are four kinds of stock principally used in cooking : - 1. Meat stock. 2. Game stock. 3. Fish stock i These are called maigre, because no meat is used in 4. Vegetable stock ) their preparation.STOCKS AND SOUDS 83 The meats used in making stock must, therefore, be carefully chosen; they must contain a certain proportion of bones, and a small amount of fat. Lean meats, the cheaper or inferior parts, are very useful for the purpose ; but fat mutton or pork should on no account be used. Bones are useful because they contain and provide a considerable amount of gelatinous matter, but in order to extract this, i.e. the gelatinous elements, from either meat or bones, it is necessary that they be subjected to a heat of not less than 200°, and that for several hours, otherwise the gelatine contained in the meat and bones will not dissolve. Gelatine is obtained from the bones, skin, and the gristly portions of meat, especially in veal. It is this which causes the stock to form a jelly when cold. It must, however, be remembered that though a soup or the stock may be firm when cold, it is by no means the most nourishing. The gelatine from bones and gristle, sinews, &c., boiled into soup can only furnish jelly for our bones, not nourishment for our body. Gelatinous stock is more easily digested, but it is devoid of flavour, unless meat is added. Gelatine may be defined as the concentrated animal substance which gives solidity or bulk to stock. Albumen and osmazome are dissolved and extracted from the meat in water, which is brought to a temperature of about 110°. Both provide flavour, a most essential item in stock-broth. Osmazome is that part of the meat which gives to each of the various kinds its distinctive flavour, and the more kinds employed in stock-making, the better the flavour will be. It is more abundant in brown than in white meats, and more so in the meat of old animals than young ones. It is largely repre- sented in lean beef, lean mutton, and in fowls. Osmazome is more highly developed in roast meats, and on this account all the trimmings, bones, &c., of roast joints should be saved and utilised for stock. Fat being necessary as an element of perfect food, must in due proportion be used in all stocks. Gristle fat and marrow fat are the best to use in meat stocks, but only in small proportion. Fat of this kind adds flavour, but that which is not absorbed must be re- moved when the stock is finished. To remove the fat continually is therefore not so essential, unless the meat used is very fat. To remove fat use an iron spoon. Put it with other fat for the purpose of clarification. Alkaline and Acid Salts are necessary for a good stock. These constituents are found in the blood and juices of raw flesh. This is the reason why raw meat must always form part of the stock in- gredients, whilst the various kinds of soup vegetables provide the necessary salts, &c.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 84 Rules for Stock-making.—1. Exercise care in selecting the proportion of meat, bones, and vegetables. See that everything is perfectly fresh, and that the utensils used are absolutely clean. 2. Cut meat and chop bones into small pieces. Use double the weight of water to that of meat and bones, the average quantity being a quart of water to every pound of meat and bone, used in pro- portion of f lb, meat and £ lb. bone. 3. Start the stock with cold water, and let meat and bones soak for a while, if possible, before being heated. Cold water draws out and dissolves the meat-juices remarkably. 4. Use a well-tinned stock-pot, copper, tin, or iron. The former is best. For small households the earthenware marmite or stock-pot is highly recommended, as a smaller amount of heat is required to keep contents at simmering point than if a copper or iron pot is used. Stock thus prepared must be brought slowly to boil. Vegetables and their uses in Stock.—Vegetables in stock con- tribute an important portion of the flavour. However, they should not be allowed to remain longer in the broth than is absolutely necessary. If, especially in first stock, these are allowed to linger in the broth they absorb some of the rich aroma of the stock, greatly to its detri- ment. Over-cooking (Simmering).—After all the nutriment from the meat, vegetables, juices, fat, albumen, and flavour have once been extracted, do not attempt to make further use of residue of fibre ; for they are dry and insipid, unless additional materials are at hand to make a second stock palatable. The French system in pot-au-feu stock is to remove the meat as soon as tender and serve it as bouilli. This does not affect the refill or general stock so much as the first stock used for clear soups, though it is always best to take out the vegetables cooked in the first stock, and replenish with fresh materials. Stock or Marmite.—The best way of making this stock is by boiling, or better simmering, a certain quantity of meat and bones, in a stock-pot, which may be iron, steel, copper, or earthenware. The water must be judiciously apportioned to the quantity of meat, and so must be the vegetables used as flavouring. One pound of meat and bones is generally used for each quart of water, and should be allowed to simmer from four to five hours, at least; vegetables such as carrots, onions (stuck with cloves), turnips, leek, celery, thyme, bayleaf, and parsley, are added after the first boil, and when the scum has been removed. The water must be cold, and be seasoned with a little salt. The liquid in simmering should be reduced to about one-third of its original quantity. We thus obtain a bouillon. Bones of cooked meat and meat scraps, remnants of poultry and game should never be wasted, but find their way to the stock-pot.85 STOCKS AND SOUPS In using stock for soups, clear or thick, we have to remember that it has the tendency to turn sour when the air temperature rises beyond sixty degrees. Precautions against this can be taken. a. By using the freshest of ingredients, meat, vegetables, &c., in proper proportion. b. By boiling up the stock daily. c. By removing the fat as soon as it congeals on the surface of a stock. The removal of fat is most essential to all finished stocks and finished soups alike. Soups, no matter of what kind, should never be greasy. It is strongly advisable that stock for soups should be prepared the day before it is required. If this advice be followed a great deal of labour may be saved, and better results will be obtained. Stock loses nothing if kept for two days, provided it be put away in clean vessels (earthenware pans). Fish Stock, for Soupes Maigres.—This can be made of almost any kind of fish, but oily fish should be avoided. Fish broth, as all know, is particularly nourishing, light, and digestible. Thick-skinned fish always makes the best broth. The following is an excellent stock : Take two lbs. fish and fish bones, set it in a pot with two quarts of water, an onion stuck with two cloves, a few peppercorns, mace, and a bouquet. Skim as it comes to a boil, and allow it to reduce to about half its quantity by very slow simmering. A little white wine or vinegar is often put with this stock. Wine gives a specially nice flavour to fish broth. Salt must be added at the last moment. Preparations made from Stocks are summarised as follows : First stock (bouillon or broth). Second, or general stock (remouil- lage) ; this is a refill of the first stock. Essences. Half-glaze, a reduction of first or second stock. Glaze. SOUPS IN GENERAL Soup As unquestionably the most judicious beginning of a dinner, no matter whether plain or recherche. When properly prepared they are most stimulating, wholesome, and highly esteemed compounds. No part of cookery seemed until recent years to be so imperfectly understood, especially by ordinary cooks, as the preparation of soups. The upper classes look upon soup as an essential part or course of a dinner. Properly speaking it is the prelude of a dinner. The middle classes, generally speaking, appreciate the importance of soup as a nutritive and sustaining diet, whilst the poorer and labouring classes look upon it with disdain, which, to be quite plain, can only be regarded as a sign of ignorance.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK There has been a good deal of needless discussion regarding the importance of soup, some people finding in it a complete dinner, whilst others regard it as a weak wash, though suitable for the nursery or sick-room. The Marquis de Cussy, a great gourmet of his time, described soup as the preface of a dinner, and said that a good work can do without a preface ; and, as a reply to this argument, the great Careme is reported to have said, ‘ Why should the Marquis wage war against soup ? I cannot understand a dinner without it. I hold soup to be the well-beloved of the stomach.’ Whatever these opinions may be worth, it is an acknowledged fact that a plate of good soup or broth partaken at the commence- ment of a meal prepares one to enjoy the more solid portions all the better. It must, however, be remembered that a little soup of good quality is far better than a large quantity of poor soup. Nothing can be more disappointing to a guest than a plate of weak, badly flavoured, watery or greasy-looking liquid, which some cooks serve up as soup. The English taste, it will be found, is in favour of rich, strong, and highly flavoured soups. This does not necessarily mean that it is universally so, as even these may be and are judiciously varied by others of a plainer description, as circumstances may require, and in accordance with the needs and taste of the guests. Before anyone can pretend to make soup of any kind, it is abso- lutely necessary that he should be well and fully acquainted with the subject of stocks and broths and their preparation, for these form with very few exceptions the basis of every soup. For this reason a cook’s whole attention must for a time be turned to that' subject in particular. It has been reckoned that there are between 550 to 600 different kinds of soup. The greater portion of this number is of course reached by giving the dignity of a separate recipe to every little variation, to all of which fashion accords separate names. Soups are divided into two groups : — I. The fat soups prepared with meat or meat stock. II. The lean soups (‘maigre’) prepared without meat. These are divided into two sections :— (a.) Clear soups. (b.) Thick soups. And these two sections are subdivided into five classes or chapters : — 1. Broths, consommes or clear soups, and garnishings. 2. Purees or thick soups. 3. Creams or filtered soups. 4. Fish soups, bisques and shell-fish soups, and purees made from fresh fish. 5. Cosmopolitan or mixed soup.87 STOCKS AND SOUPS Garnishing’S.—The garniture for either thick or clear soups con- sists of crusts, croutons, or sippets ; vegetables, either separate or mixed; cream of game or poultry; forcemeat balls, or quenelles of fish, meat, game or poultry, eggs ; custards made with eggs, or eggs and vegetable purees ; chiffonade (finely shredded green salad plants &c.); finely chopped or shredded herbs ; farinaceous preparations, nouilles, batters, Italian pastes, rice, semolina, barley, tapioca, &c. &c. Broths, Consommes, or Clear Soups.—In preparing stock for the above everything must be left to the judgment of the cook as to the selection of the proper quantities of materials needed, as the stock must vary according to the kind and nature of the soup which is desired. The proper quantities of materials needed have been laid down in the first section of this chapter dealing with stocks, which describes the ordinary practice of French kitchens. The difference between broth or bouillon and consomme is very great. Broth is the liquor plain and simple as drawn from the first stock, seasoned and garnished according to taste and requirements. This includes fish, veal, chicken, rabbit, mutton, and beef broths. A bouillon is a broth unclarified, made from beef stock, a beef broth (pot-au-feu stock). Consomme is double broth--that is, not merely in strength, but also in character. It is a beef broth which has been doubled with veal and fowl—the former (veal) to give it gelatinous substance, and the latter (fowl) to give it additional flavour. It must, however, be understood that while beef is the essential consideration for consomme stock, we are at liberty to add to it whatever else we have at com- mand ; remnants of other meat, veal, calves’ feet, the remains of fowl, a whole fowl, or a leg of mutton if wanted for table boiled, a piece of gammon, or even a ham, so long as the meat &c. used be perfectly fresh and healthful. This does not include scraps of stale meat or even bread, which are sometimes recommended as being good enough for the stock-pot. The necessary directions to be observed in making stock have been dwelt with in a previous section of this chapter, which may be summed up as follows : (a) The gradual production of heat up to boiling point. (b) The moderation of the boiling down to simmering, which must be kept up to the end. (c) Careful skimming. Upon these points being strictly observed the flavour as well as the clarification of a broth depends to a very large extent. Another detail, not less important, and one which applies to all soups, is that every particle of fat should be removed. We have already said that no soup, no matter of what kind, should ever be greasy ; that is why it is advisable to prepare the stock a day before it is required, and if convenient, to make a sufficient supply for two days.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 88 * When the broth cools, all the fat, which will be found to set on the- surface, can be easily removed. In following this rule much labour may be saved and better results obtained. Stock loses nothing if kept two days, provided it is kept in clean and dry vessels, though in hot weather the stock should be boiled up once a day. Tap in Stock-pot.—The simple contrivance of a tap in the stock- pot enables one to draw off stock without any grease, all the fat rising to the top of the stock-pot. This is very convenient, and abolishes to some extent the necessity of drawing off the stock to be kept over night. Clarification of Stock.—If due care is taken, a bouillon, suffi- ciently reduced, may be converted into consomme without clarification. There is really nothing which resembles consomme more than clari- fied bouillon, although as regards its quality it does not entirely take its place ; still it is often used in its stead. Ingredients for Clarifying or Clearing.—Lean meats, beef and veal, and the needful proportion of vegetables, with or without whites of eggs, are used for the purpose of clarification. The usual quantity taken is for, say, four quarts of stock or broth: one pound lean beef,, half a pound veal, both minced very finely, the meat being previously freed from skin and sinews, the whites of two eggs and the shell of one, half a pint cold stock, bouquet garni if liked, a small onion, half a carrot, celery, leek, &c., cut up small. These ingredients are put in a large well-tinned copper stew-pan,, beaten up well with a whisk, and the stock added. Allow it to come> to the boil—that is, it must reach the boiling point without actually boiling. It must be continually stirred until it has reached that degree. Keep it in that temperature for at least half an hour. A large quantity will require an hour or more. Skim off the fat, not the scum, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little caster sugar. Then remove and strain through a wet cloth, stretched over and fastened to the four legs of a kitchen chair, or else strain through a silk sieve. The consomme is then reheated, and served with whatever garnishing is required. If any colouring is needed, use a little caramel. A consomme must be perfectly clear, its colour must be that of sherry (pale) or straw. They are usually named after the garniture added. Purees and Thick Soups.—These are divided into two kinds, the white and the brown. Vegetable purees take the colour of the vegetable used. For white soups white stock is used, veal stock (blond de veau), chicken stock, &c. &c. Besides the meat and vegetables used, soups are thickened with flour usually cooked in butter or fat without browning (roux blanc), which forms the liaison, whilst for brown soups the flour is blended with fat to a dark or pale brown colour according to the kind of soup prepared. A mirepoix is- often prepared in connection with the thickening process of either white or brown soups.89 STOCKS AND SOUPS All thick soups, purees, and creams should be kept well stirred with a wooden spoon, as well as skimmed occasionally. All thick soups owe their distinction and names to the materials used in the preparation, the thickening, which is either meat, game, or poultry, in addition to flour, arrowroot, and other suitable liaison. The most popular thick soups are:—Chicken (a la reine), Windsor (mutton and beef), real turtle, and mock turtle, ox-tail, mulligatawny, game soups, veloutes (veal), duck, pigeon, turkey, &e. These are clearly distinct from purees, which are thickened by the ingredients of which they are mainly composed, and are comprised principally of vegetables, including carrot (Crecy), artichokes (Jerusalem), potatoes (Parmentier or Jackson), peas, cauliflower, marrow, cucumber, spinach, Brussels sprouts, &c. &c. The latter are as a rule served without garnish. Creams and Filtered Soups.—Almost every puree or thick soup, with the exception of brown soups, may be converted into creams by using cream in place of some of the butter and yolks of eggs. On the other hand many creams can be made into purees by suppressing the cream and yolks of eggs, and stirring in just before serving a small quantity of fresh butter. The following are some of the most popular creams known :— Asparagus Artichoke Barley Celery Lettuce Peas Sorrel Turnips Cucumber Cauliflower Tapioca Sago Semolina Oatmeal Leeks &c. &e. Bisques or Shell-fish Soups. —These are prepared with fish stock or meat stock, shell-fish, and the usual thickening. History shows that bisque soups were made between the years 1700-1730, though they were not in the modern form of a smooth puree, but more like stews, for, in addition to fish, quails and pullets were used in the preparation, whilst the modern bisque is simply a puree thickened with flour or rice, accompanied with various garnishings. Bisques are divided into four classes :— 1. Those made of lobster. 2. Those made of cray-fish or shrimps. 3. Those made of crabs or craw-fish. 4. Those made of mussels or oysters. They are usually highly seasoned, slightly coloured, and less consistent than either a puree or thick soup. The garnishing as a rule consists of a simple accompaniment. Fish Soups.—These are generally more acceptable for the sick-room than for the ordinary dinner-table. Oyster soup is the only kind of fish soup ever served in the ordinary way under this heading, although there are other fish purees, or fish creams, which may with advantage be served as soups, even for fashionable dinner-tables, but more especially during Lent. Cosmopolitan or Mixed Soups. —The remainder of soups must90 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK be classified under the last heading, cosmopolitan or mixed soups. The number of these preparations is both large and varied, the Bouillabaise, Bortsch, Okra, Faubonne, Fermiere, Gumbo, Gnocquis, and other foreign soups, also the national soups, such as hotch-potch, Scotch broth, cock-a-leekie, &c., are included in this list. Sick-room Soups.—There are also a number of soup prepara- tions such as beef tea, frog broth, beef-juice, chicken and veal tea, oat and barley broth, which come under the heading of soups. These apply specially to sick-room cookery, and invalid diet. Service of Soups. —Two or more soups are served for large dinners or elaborate banquets, in which case clear soup is served first. The tendencies of modern dinner-parties being to shorten the service, only one soup is served, unless the dinner is for a large number, when occasionally the choice of two soups is given, viz. a clear and a thick soup. A light clear soup, nicely flavoured and prettily garnished, is far more appreciated, or more often selected, than thick soup when two soups are given ; though thick soups are also very popular, and should not on any account be discarded. In selecting the soups for a dinner every care should be taken so that the composition is not repeated in any other dish served for the same dinner. AN UP-TO-DATE HOTEL COOKING STOVE (SMITH AND WELLSTOOD)91 CHAPTER X SAUCES AND THE IB COMPOSITION1 The Theory of Sauces.—Sauces, said the late Alexis Soyer, are to cookery what grammar is to language, and the melody to music. This shows us at once how necessary it is that every cook should thoroughly understand this branch of cookery. In no other part of the culinary art is the skill and knowledge of a cook so prominently demonstrated. To be able to make a perfect sauce is, indeed, ‘ the height of the art of cooking.’ Brillat-Savarin, the well- known epicure and states- man, in his work ‘ La Philo- sophie du Gout,’ very justly says : ‘ On devient cuisinier, on devient rotisseur, on nait saucier,’’ which may be kain-makie translated that cooking and roasting are things that can be taught, but that it needs genius to make a sauce. The most simple of dishes can be made relishable by the addition of a good plain sauce, whilst the most excellent of dishes can be improved and be made still more palatable by a well-made sauce, just like a good painting is made more effective by being varnished. Before we enter into the details of the compositions of sauces, I am anxious' to point out that every sauce, whether plain or rich, must possess a distinct flavour and character. There are many plain sauces which are made quickly and of materials usually at hand. Let these be as the name implies, simple and pure, so that they may merely taste of the materials employed, from which such sauces take their name. Richer sauces require a longer and slower process of preparation. Until the beginning of the nineteenth century, the art of sauce- making was hardly known in England. The charge made at that time against the English nation by a celebrated French epigrammatist, who said that we had many religions but only one sauce, would hardly hold good now, for it is reckoned that there are at least 650 different 1 For individual recipes see Chapter XV.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK sauces and gravies known at this moment. An ingenious cook will have as little trouble to form that number of sauces in different varieties, as a musician with his seven notes, or a painter with his palette and colours ; nor is it too much to assert that there is no other branch of cookery which offers better opportunities to display the ability of a cook than this. The art of sauce-making consists of extracting and combining certain flavours which are incorporated with the liquids. For this the gift of a good palate is essential, and the experience and skill of the most accomplished cook, as well as a thorough knowledge of the taste of those for whom he or she is cooking. Difference between Sauces and Gravies.—As there are many people who do not know the difference between sauces and gravies, it is necessary to devote a few words to this subject, so as to make the point quite clear. A gravy is simply the juices of meat (roasted or braised meat) seasoned but without being thickened, whilst a sauce may be defined, using the most general term, as a liquid seasoning containing some kind of liaison which is employed in the presentation of food. According to the standard dictionaries, a gravy may be called a sauce, although a sauce is not always a gravy. Many of the ‘ grande ’ sauces contain gravies for their foundation, which are used in a concentrated form to enrich the flavour of such sauces. It is therefore more distinctive to call liquids pure and simple ‘ gravies,’ and liquids thickened with flour or other ingredients ‘ sauces.’ Liaisons.—Thickenings or bindings. The various processes of thickening sauces as well as soups are called liaisons. There are six distinct methods known for thickening sauces, 1. Liaison with roux. 2. Liaison with eggs. 3. Liaison with butter and cream. 4. Liaison with butter and flour kneaded. 5. Liaison with blood. 6. Liaison with cornflower, arrowroot, or fecule. ROUX The most popular and most generally adopted thickening is effected by means of roux. It is therefore necessary to first give a few details to define the word * roux ’ in regard to its culinary meaning. Literally, the word means russet, but in the culinary sense it is a mixture of flour and butter cooked or blended to certain degrees, to white, brown, or fawn colours. The quantity of flour and butter employed is used in equal proportions. If made beforehand in large or small quantities, it should be kept in covered jars, when it will keep good for months. A tablespoonful is usually found sufficient to thicken a pint of liquid. Stock-roux must always be kept in jars well covered, in a cool place, ready at hand.SAUCES AND THE IB COMPOSITION 93 If the roux is used in a cold state (stock-roux), it may be mixed with cold or hot stock, but as soon as mixed it must be stirred constantly over the fire till boiling; or if mixed hot, the liquid should be poured by degrees into the roux away from the fire, and then stirred over the fire till it boils. Special precaution must always be exercised in making a sauce with a roux thickening that the temperature be lowered, or in other words that the roux be allowed to cool a little before the liquid stock or gravy is added. This will prevent the sauce from getting lumpy, and will do much towards making a sauce perfectly smooth. All roux must be stirred constantly during the process of blending (frying or roasting). WHITE ROUX (Roux Blanc) This is a mixture of flour and water cooked in a stew-pan on a moderate fire, without allowing it to attain any colour, whereby it will retain its original white colour. BLOND OR FAWN ROUX (Roux Blond) This is made by melting a certain quantity of butter, by stirring in the same or a less quantity of sifted flour, and by cooking it over a slow fire or in the oven until it has acquired a light blond or fawn colour. BROWN ROUX (Roux Brun) This is the so-called stock-roux, which can be prepared in large quantities to be used cold as required. It is made exactly in the same manner as the foregoing, with the exception that it is fried longer (“ roasted ”) till it becomes a darker colour, a chestnut brown, or russet brown. It is best to finish the roux in a slack oven, for the slower the process the better the blending and the finer the aroma of the sauce will be. ROUX LIAISON This liaison is made by pouring prepared strained stock slowly into the stewpan containing the roux, which, as before explained, must be allowed to cool a little. The mixture is then stirred over a slow fire until it boils, and allowed to simmer until it attains the desired consistency. With brown and blond sauces the roux employed is usually made up with a ‘ mirepoix ’ to introduce the necessary flavourings. This item ‘ mirepoix ’ is more fully explained later on. EGG LIAISON This is a thickening composed of yolks of eggs beaten up and diluted with a small quantity of cream or cold white stock. Cream is94 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK more often used than stock. The sauce to which this liaison is added must necessarily be boiling, it is then removed to the side of the stove, when a ladleful of sauce is stirred into the egg mixture, then the whole is poured into the sauce, and stirred over the fire (slow) for several minutes, without permitting it to boil. Every sauce or soup which is thickened with eggs should be passed through a tammy* before it can be used. This liaison is used for blanquettes and fricassees as well as soups. BUTTER AND CREAM LIAISON. Butter and cream are incorporated in equal proportions into sauces and soups, just before they are wanted for serving. Stir vigorously without re-heating. The flavour of any sauce would become altered if butter or cream were added too soon, or if a sauce were again allowed to boil. The same may be said of butter liaisons. By this process a quantity of cold fresh butter is added in small bits to sauces the moment they are taken off the fire, they are then stirred with a whisk and served without being re-lieated. KNEADED BUTTER LIAISONS To incorporate or knead as much flour into butter as it will absorb to form a soft paste, and to mix it in small portions into a thin sauce (hot), stirring it constantly until all the butter is melted, constitutes what is called a kneaded butter liaison. BLOOD LIAISON This is mostly used with game and poultry entree sauces. It is made by reserving the blood of poultry or game, to which is added a little vinegar to prevent it from coagulating; it is then strained through a fine sieve, and stirred gradually into sauces a few minutes before serving. ARROWROOT, CORNFLOUR &c., LIAISON Arrowroot, cornflour, potato-flour, fecule, or other similar farinaceous preparations are frequently used for thickening sauces. Dilute one or the other of these with a little milk, cold stock, or water, pour it through a strainer into boiling liquid, stir continually until it boils, then simmer gently for ten or fifteen minutes longer. MIREPOIX Although the word ‘ mirepoix ’ is a common term in culinary matters, it-does not in the least imply or make clear what it constitutes. It is one of the many words which the gastronomic authorities ought to abolish and substitute with a more appropriate one, one that conveysSAUCES AND THEIR COMPOSITION 95 more clearly the meaning of the composition of the title it bears. History tells us that Mirepoix was a duke whose wife, being a clever cook, became a favourite with Louis XV. I, however, fail to see what this has to clo with this culinary adjunct used in the preparation of sauces and soups, braises and stews. To come to the point, let me explain that a mirepoix is nothing else than an essence or extract of meat and vegetables, one of the most useful preparations to impart flavour of exquisite richness to various kinds of sauces, soups, and other culinary preparations. To make a mirepoix properly, use the following ingredients : — ^ lb. bacon (or ham) cut into small pieces 1 carrot (slices) 2 bay leaves A sprig of thyme 2 small onions (sliced) A clove of garlic 2 shallots Pry these carefully without actually browning, and the mirepoix proper will be complete. It will afterwards, according to requirements, be diluted and boiled up with wine—sherry, chablis, sauterne, or claret—which will be added to stock or to sauce to simmer in it and to give it the desired flavour. Many chefs do not consider a mirepoix complete without a certain quantity of veal, lean meat, being added. This I maintain to be waste, as the stock employed should contain the necessary flavour of meat needed. The addition of bacon or ham has, on the other hand, quite a different effect as to its flavour, and I cannot speak too highly of it. ESSENCES OF MEAT &c. Essences or extracts of meat, fish, poultry, and game are largely employed in the various sauce preparations. These are decoctions or concentrated liquids containing as much as possible of the flavours, which by certain processes are reduced to the consistency of half- glaze. To make an Essence.—The ingredients from which the essence takes its name are put in a stew-pan with a quantity of rich stock, wine, vegetables, and herb flavouring. When sufficiently simmered the liquid is strained into another stew-pan, and when thoroughly skimmed and freed from fat it is reduced to the consistency needed and put by for use when required. The following essences are those most frequently used in high- class kitchens : Ham essence, Truffle essence, Fish essence, Mushroom essence, Chicken essence, Rabbit essence, Pheasant essence, woodcock, snipe, partridge and lark essence, &c. These essences are of course used to enrich certain sauces, so as to make their characteristic flavour more conspicuous. It is needless to add that the use of essences is only adopted for very rich sauces, &c.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK FUMET A fumet is very much the same preparation as an essence, but much richer, being reduced with sherry or madeira. Fumet, in other words, may be termed the flavour, for it is the condensed steam which rises from certain cooked and raw meats, game, or poultry, whereby a concentrated flavour is obtained. For a fumet the raw ingredients required are usually sauted in the first instance, after which a bouquet of herbs, stock, and wine are added for reduction. Foundation Sauces.—All the great sauces, or sauces mere, as they are called in France, have either well-reduced stock or essences for their foundation. Espagnole, veloutee, allemande, and bechamel, are the names of the four sauces known as Les grand.es sauces, though the actual leading foundation sauces are a brown and a white sauce. Espagnole and Bechamel.—These are justly termed the Adam and Eve of all the other preparations, because from these an endless variety of sauces can be made. If we look into the above statement concerning the four grande sauces more closely, we find that espagnole is a brown sauce, whilst the other three are white sauces. This must strike the uninitiated as somewhat odd, because only one brown sauce is recognised, whereas in cookery, a brown sauce is used at least three times as often as a white one. It is furthermore curious, or apparently so, that the brown sauce which the French cuisine recognises as the sauce should be called Spanish (espagnole). The white sauce has two varieties, the bechamel and allemande or veloutee. It would, however, be much more distinctive to recognise but two kinds of sauces as foundation or grande sauces, viz.:— The Spanish and bechamel, which are unquestionably the two leading sauces in cookery, and as such is the case they deserve to be recognised. Sauce espagnole, versus Brown Sauce.—There are many people who imagine that espagnole sauce is nothing more than an ordinary brown sauce. The French practically owe much of their advancement in cookery to Spain, although they have excelled the Spanish cuisine by a long way. Spanish cookery was at one time the pioneer, when no doubt this sauce was introduced into France, and such being the case, it cannot be wondered at that the French cooks have stuck to the name of so important an item, which they have adopted as their chief brown sauce. The great secret about this brown sauce consists in the hammy flavour which is blended into the sauce in such a skilful manner, making it superior to and distinguishable from an ordinary brown sauce. Much of the success of a brown sauce, as a fundamental sauce, depends upon the manner in which the flour is blended, or, to be97 SAUCES AND THEIR COMPOSITION more correct, roasted. The principle of roasting flour is practically the same in every instance, although there are a number of ways of introducing the roast flavour into a brown sauce. To illustrate my meaning, let us take the roasting of coffee as an example, which will give us some idea as to what happens in roasting flour for a sauce. We know that when coffee is properly roasted its aromatic qualities are developed, whereby certain salts and volatile oils are blended, bringing out an excellent aroma, which by mere boiling of the berry could never be attained. The result obtained by roasting is not merely a .change of colour and an access of fragrance, but also the development of qualities which affect the human frame—which exhilarate the nervous system. The process of roasting flour, and the subsequent result in sauces is to a certain extent the same. To roast the flour to a nut- brown colour develops a fragrance of the most exquisite flavour, which will ultimately be incorporated into the sauce or sauces. Time required for Cooking. In preparing this as well as other sauces, which require a process of long cooking, it should be remembered that a sauce must simmer long enough to clear, and have the fat separated and come to the surface, so that it can be skimmed off. The Introduction of Ham, or Lean Bacon, the latter being more often used than ham, into the leading brown sauce is but one out of many other ways of incorporating a smoky or hammy flavour, which makes the espagnole so characteristic, and there is no question as to whether this addition really improves the flavour or not, for I can say with every confidence that the best French cooks put the ham, with due discretion, into practically every first-class brown meat sauce, or brown meat soup. We do not, therefore, need any further conviction as to the usefulness of ham in brown sauces. It is well worth noting that though the addition of ham is excellent for brown preparations, the introduction of anything approaching the flavour of ham into white sauces has just the opposite effect, being entirely opposed to its character. This shows at once that the nature of white sauce is produced by blending and ebullition alone, so as to keep it quite free from any smoky flavour. This brings us back to the starting point of this article, and before proceeding any further, we must come to a clear under- standing as to the actual difference of the brown and white funda- mental sauces, into which all others are, so to speak, divided. Bechamel, White Sauces, Veloutee.—These, as everyone knows, need not always be white, for very often they are found to be of a creamy, yellow, or greenish tint; but the white sauces, the foundation sauces proper, are the result of what has already been explained, viz. a blending of flour and butter, perfected by a certain amount of ebullition, which in the first stage becomes a white coulis, or a H98 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK veloutee, which is subsequently enriched with cream, yolks of eggs, or butter, in order to give it the required distinctive character. Brown Sauces.—The brown sauce, on the other hand, has to go through a process of roasting in the first instance, viz. the preparation of the brown roux, which is roasting flour and butter, to impart the distinctive flavour. This, in addition to the boiling and simmering processes by which the various meats, vegetables, and other ingre- dients are prepared, produces a brown sauce. Ordinary or Plain Sauces.—It must be remembered that ordinary sauces, prepared on the quick system, should be allowed to boil at least ten minutes from the time the liquid is added. When a sauce is cooked- less than ten minutes the flour will not have had time to develop its full flavour for sauces, and the butter only partially separates, which gives to the sauce a greasy appearance. Overcooking of Sauces. —It sometimes happens that by some oversight or error a sauce is cooked so long that it becomes oily. In this case a little cold stock, cold milk, or water should be added, and if the sauce is stirred until it begins to boil, it will again become perfectly smooth, but it must not on any account be allowed to boil any longer. It must be removed from the fire immediately after it boils. Error in Overseasoning. -Many a plain sauce is spoilt by cooks who are too fond of using so-called relishes. They seem to me to be unable to make a sauce without adding one or more dashes of bottled sauces, spices, &c., thinking that these additions must necessarily be an improvement. This practice, I need hardly say, is a much mistaken one, for frequently (nearly always) such additions overpower the •essential, natural flavour of their plain sauces, by overloading them with ingredients which are-'detrimental. A plain sauce as a rule needs nothing in the way of seasoning, except salt and pepper, to bring out the flavour and to awaken the palate. Those who wish for piquancy of flavour will always find means to satisfy their wants from the cruet. Characteristic of Sauces and Seasoning.—No matter what the character of a sauce may be, remember that in all compound sauces, whether plain or high class (rich), the rule for seasoning and flavour- ing is the same in every case: that is, the ingredients used for this purpose should be so proportioned that no flavour predominates over the other, so that by a careful and judicious combination of flavours the sauce or sauces prepared will not fail to be acceptable to the palate of the most refined gourmet. Cook’s Duty regarding Taste.—Furthermore remember that it is a cook’s duty to study the likes and dislikes as to seasoning and flavouring of those for whom she or he works, whereby certain ingredients for every sauce must necessarily be increased or lessened according to taste. If this is done no one need fail to become master of the art of sauce-making, as far as the extraction and com- bination of flavours in sauces is concerned.SAUCES AND THEIR COMPOSITION On the Reduction of Sauces. —We reduce or boil down sauces to give them the necessary strength. This is usually the case with the compounds into which stocks, essences, fumets, &c., have been in- corporated : these are added for the express purpose of reduction, and should be in a concentrated form, so as to lessen as much as possible the labour of boiling or simmering. All sauces which need to be reduced must be strained and freed from fat, they must be put on a quick fire at first, and must be stirred with a wooden spatula or spoon to prevent the sauce from adhering to the bottom of the saucepan in which the sauce is put. The necessary quantity of stock &c. re- quired for its improvement is next added, it is then allowed to boil until it has acquired the desired consistency : when this is effected the sauce is passed through a tammy cloth. Various Kinds of Sauces.—Having explained the difference between white and brown sauces, and having given minute details of the various thickenings (liaisons), as well as other important points concerning sauces and their preparation, I will now'give a list of the various sauces most frequently used in cookery. There are two groups of sauces: I. Hot Sauces.—These are divided into three sections : (1) Plain (2) Savoury (3) Sweet II. Cold Sauces.—These are divided into three sections : (1) Chaud-froid ' (2) Salad (3) Sweet I. HOT SAUCES (1) Plain Sauces.—These include : Melted Butter Egg Onion (white Caper Sauce Anchovy White Sauce or brown) Fennel Brown Parsley Mustard Bread, &c. &c. (2) Savour ry Sauces.—(a) White Sauces : Bechamel Cardinal Bavigote Maltre d’Hotel Cream Mornay Shrimp Plucne Oyster Veloutee Provencale Bearnaise Mussel Dutch or Celery Chicken Poulette Hollandaise Echalotte Supreme Fines Herbes Lobster Allemande Cucumber Soubise Normande Horseradish Mousseline, &c, (b) Brown Espagnole Sauces : Truffle Milanaise Genoise Bordelaise Pompadour Olive Lyonnaise Tomato Curry Turtle Reforme Chasseur Italienne Poivrade Bigarade Matelotte Bretonne Salmis Perigord Mushroom Financiere Piquante Game Orange Kobert Madere Estragon, &c. H 2THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 100 (3) Sweet Sauces : Apple Cherry Orange Gooseberry Apricot Peach German Sabayon Mousseline Vanilla Custard Chocolate, &c. II. COLD SAUCES (1) Cliaud-fvoids : White Green Pink Cream Blonde Brown Tomate Suedoise, &c: Horseradish Bavigote Verte Fines Herbes Mint Bed (2) Salad Sa uces : Mayonnaise Tartare Fines Herbes Mousseline Cardinal Bavigote Bemoulade Vinaigrette, &c. Moutarde (8) Sweet Sauces : Cream Custard Vanilla Chocolate, &c. Eum Sabayon Mayonnaise.—The Mayonnaise is the highest type of salad dressings or salad sauces. It is a mixture of yolks of eggs, sweet oil, salt, pepper, and vinegar. Its excellence depends entirely on the mode of working it up. A raw yolk of egg, when properly handled, will, when incorporated with as much as- a pint of oil, produce a thick cream. Two yolks of eggs to a pint of oil is, however, the average quantity employed. In working up a mayonnaise, the oil and egg should be so thoroughly incorporated, that separation of the two in- gredients becomes impossible. The yolks, salt, and white pepper are first worked smooth with a wooden spoon, or spatula, in a basin (placed on ice if possible), then a few drops of oil and a few of vinegar are added, the stirring continued all the time, and the remainder of oil and vinegar is used up gradually. The mixture will then present a thick, smooth, and creamy appearance. The process of stirring is long and somewhat tedious, and if not carefully done, the mixture, instead of becoming smooth, will separate or decompose in the very act of stirring. During the warm weather it is much more difficult to prepare a mayonnaise ; this is overcome by placing the basin in which the sauce is manipulated on ice. The following are the exact ingredients and quantities necessary to produce a perfect sauce:— 2 yolks of eggs | 1 pint oil I teaspoonful pepper, I Vinegar, .1 teaspoonful to every 8 f teaspoonful salt | tablespoonfuls of oil. If found too consistent, dilute with a little raw cream or cold water. Cold bechamel is sometimes used as a foundation for mayonnaise.CHAPTER XI SEASONING AND FLAVOURING The business of an intelligent cook is twofold : he or she must know how to please the eye, but above all the palate must be flattered as well, for ‘ where pleasures to the eye and palate meet, such work is done and the dishes are complete.’ The best chefs de cuisine regard seasoning and flavouring ingredients as absolute necessities to carry out their object, because the success of their cooking depends largely upon their pet creations. But condiments for seasoning and fla- | vouring must be used with skill, and 1 above all sparingly. All palates do ^Sjjj not crave for highly 1§ spiced foods, or for condiments, yet the majority of people demand that the food should be moderately seasoned with some kind of condiments, for if food lacks in savour it can be rendered full of flavour by the use of some suitable condiment. To flavour or season rightly is an accomplishment of no mean order. Consider how much food is spoilt through being overseasoned, and how much of it is made insipid through lack of proper and sufficient seasoning. Almost everything we cook has a flavour of its own, the natural flavour, and to perfect this becomes often a difficulty, because the great secret lies in bringing out the natural parts, rather than imparting a new one. All those who have been initiated into the rudiments of cookery, as well as connoisseurs, must know that the success of any dish, whether plain or elaborate, depends to a very large extent upon its seasoning, and everyone who desires to master this art must carefully study and observe all the rules pertaining to this important branch of cookery. Intelligence, carefulness, thought, sound judgment,, a steady SEASONING AN1102 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK hand, and a keen perception of palate are qualifications which every cook must possess in order to prepare food so as to make it appetising, pleasant to the taste, and in every way perfectly palatable. Well cooked and well seasoned food is admittedly more digestible than the unpalatable. An erroneous idea prevails that ‘ plain cookery ’ requires no other flavouring or seasoning beyond salt, pepper, and, say, Worcester sauce or ketchup. It can easily be proved that there are a variety of inexpensive seasonings besides these which may with advantage be used for imparting a better flavour, whereby the monotony of plain dishes becomes considerably alleviated. It is most difficult to give any precise directions for seasoning ; experience alone will teach a cook. Tastes differ considerably. What may be agreeable to one may be objectionable or insipid to another. It is the cook’s business to study the taste of those he or she serves, and the seasoning of the food must therefore be used according to the requirements of the employer and guests. It is in all cases well to remember that seasonings, whatever they may consist of, should be used in small quantities only, as one can always add more if found necessary, but it is impossible to remove any if too much has been added in the first instance. The late Monsieur U. Ude, one of the most talented chefs of the past, in his culinary work says that ‘ the best cookery in the world is worthless without seasoning.’ We know that cookery acts upon food by diminishing the firmness of some articles, and by increasing it in others. We further know that the flavour is altered as well as the smell and appearance, whilst seasoning and flavouring heightens the savouriness of food, the action of which is increased by the addition of aromatic, pungent and stimulant ingredients. The so-called highly seasoned dishes must be regulated on a sliding scale as regards the seasoning employed, so as to adapt them to the various palates, which, as before stated, differ considerably. It is quite impossible to specify in any recipe the exact quantity of seasoning materials for each dish. Not only palates but also stomachs differ as to the amount of salt and spices which suit them. For this reason, if for no other, it is always best to use all seasonings moderately, The scope of seasoning is a very large field for a cook to operate on. By seasoning and flavouring either solid substances or liquids are mingled with articles of food whereby we either modify or increase their savoury flavour and thus change their qualities. The object of seasoning, provided always it be effected in moderate and reasonable quantities, is to increase the digestibility of food, to favour food which would otherwise be insipid, and to render it at the same time more palatable and digestible. By seasoning certain food materials, we copy to a certain extent nature, who renders fruit wholesome and agreeable to the taste- by103 SEASONING AND FLAVOURING associating insipidness with acids, by combining certain forms of starch with sugar, as well as by the characteristic instinctive longing with which nature animates both man and animal for salt and for the flavour and piquancy of aromatic herbs and spices. While a fine and discriminating taste is natural to a few only, it may be cultivated in some degree by all. It is the fortune of the cook who possesses it; if not, he or she may, through plenty of experience, acquire a very fair semblance of it. The most important articles used for seasoning and flavouring are salt, sugar, pepper, spices, aromatic herbs, vinegar, vegetables, mustard, butter and other fats, oil, &c. The principal functions which these adjuncts have to perform is, as explained in the foregoing pages, to render food more palatable, more appetising, and more digestible. Salt is the chief and most important seasoning used ; it is not merely a seasoning, but a necessary of life, for it removes the insipid flavour from all eatables, such as meat, vegetables, &c. ; it acts as an appetiser, and promotes digestion. The average quantity of salt required by each person being, according to medical authority, from £ to ^ an ounce per day, it becomes a necessary adjunct for the preservation of health. When added to food it excites the supply of two important agents in the processes of digestion and nutrition, viz. the gastric juice and the constituents of the bile. Salt, like all seasonings, must be used with judgment, for if used in excess it is apt to spoil the dishes, and often renders them uneatable. When added to boiling water, it raises the boiling point and liberates the oxygen. Salt acts further as a great preserving agent for meat, vegetables, and other substances. Spices, such as white and black pepper, cayenne, cloves, nutmeg, paprika (Hungarian pepper), coriander, cinnamon, mace, &c., cannot be considered to have any nutritive properties. They are used for the purpose of imparting certain flavours to improve the taste of various food substances. In adding the seasoning and flavouring to dishes, it is of the greatest importance for a cook to remember that the exquisite sensibility of a cook’s palate can best be judged and admired by his or her cooking. Allspice.—This well-known and useful spice is the berry of the Eugenia Pimenta, a small tree growing in the West Indies. The fruit is gathered when green and unripe, and put to dry in the sun, when it turns black. Large quantities of it are employed in the manufacture of the sauces sold in shops. The berries combine the flavour of cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg, hence the name allspice. It is also called Pimento or Jamaica pepper. Gloves. —Cloves belong to the order of myrtles. They are the unopened flower-buds of a plant called the Caryophyllus aromaticus, a native of the Moluccas. Owing to their resemblance to a nail they derive their name from the French word clou. They form a well- known spice, and are much used in cookery both in sweet and savouryTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 104 dishes. To a stew or ragout, &c., an onion stuck with cloves is almost indispensable. Nutmeg.—Used extensively for various seasonings, both sweet and savoury. It is the seed of the nutmeg tree (Myristica moschata) a native of the Molucca Islands, but is now cultivated in Java, Cayenne, Sumatra, and some of the West Indian Islands. The fruit is surrounded by a husk (arillus) which is known as mace. The nutmeg is pear-like in appearance, and is usually grated for culinary purposes. Nutmegs should never be used in large proportions for seasoning because they are supposed to contain narcotic properties. Mace is the outer shell or husk of the nutmeg, and it resembles it in flavour. When good it should be orange-yellow in colour. Used whole or powdered for both seasoning and flavouring. Curry is a condiment and a spice, but is, strictly speaking, a mixture of many others. Perhaps only an Indian can make it to perfection, many of its ingredients being native to the country, whose poorest peasantry look upon curry as a daily necessity. Mustard.—There are two varieties of mustard seeds, Sinapis nigra, the black, and Sinapis alba, the white. These are ground and mixed. The pungency of mustard is more fully developed when moistened with water. It is supposed to give energy to the digestive organs, and to promote appetite if taken in small quantities. It is used as a table condiment, and for sauces, dressings, &c. Cinnamon.—This substance comes from the bark of a species of laurel, Laurus Cinnamomum, and is about the oldest known spice in the world. The cinnamon tree is chiefly cultivated in Ceylon, but it also comes from Madras, Java, and Bombay. The three-year-old branches are stripped of the outer bark, the inner is loosened and dried, which makes it shrivel up, and assume the quill form in which it is- imported. The best cinnamon should not be too dark in colour, and should be hardly thicker than paper. It has a fragrant odour, and its taste is pleasant and highly aromatic. Besides being used extensively for culinary purposes, cinnamon is much employed medicinally as a powerful stimulant. Turmeric.—Turmeric (Cucuma longa) belongs to the ginger family, and is extensively cultivated in the East Indies as a condiment. The tubers are di’ied and then ground to a fine powder. It enters largely into the composition of curry-powder, and gives it the peculiar odour and the bright yellow colour which that compound possesses. Coriander.—This is the fruit or so-called seeds of a plant of Eastern origin (Coriandrum sativum). . Coriander seeds are used by the confectioner and distiller, and in the manufacture of curry-powder. The leaves have also been used in soups and salads. They are also used for flavouring jellies &c. Aromatic Spice is a mixture of various flavours, consisting of pepper, salt, cinnamon, mace, powdered bay-leaf, thyme, marjoram, nutmeg, and cayenne. These are used principally for braised meats,105 SEASONING AND FLAVOURING sautes, ragouts, galantines, vol-au-vents, game pies, and numerous other preparations. Pepper.—Pepper is produced from the seed or berries of the plant or shrub known by the name of Piper nigrum, which grows at Malabar and various parts of India. The berry has a dark brown or black cuticle. Black pepper consists of the dried berries ground whole, whilst white pepper is produced from the same berries, after their dark husks have been removed, and ground finely. White pepper is milder than black pepper. Pepper was known to the ancient Greeks, and so highly was it thought of, that when Alaric besieged Rome in 408 a.d., he included in the ransom 3,000 pounds of pepper. As a condiment, pepper is valuable in heightening the flavour and giving piquancy to savoury dishes, and it behoves a cook to know just what pepper should be used for each dish, for by the use or abuse of this- sort of seasoning it is quite possible to make or mar the happiness of a diner. Long Pepper {Piper longum) is a spice similar in taste and smell to the ordinary pepper in common use. It is not so pungent, it is mostly used in making curry powder and in pickles. The plant on which it grows is a native of East India. Mignonette Pepper.—This is ordinary white pepper with the husks removed and crushed finely but not ground. Cayenne Pepper.—Consists of a species of the dried fruit of capsicums, which is red in colour and grows principally in Cayenne. The pods are also imported under the name ‘ chillies.’ It has a powerful pungent flavour, and is very useful for flavouring purposes. It also enters into the composition of curry powder. The plant has been acclimatised in Europe, and its pods are used for pickling, and sometimes for flavouring sauces and stews. Krona Pepper is a bright red pepper made from the Hungarian paprika, capsicum pod, &c. It is much milder than cayenne, and not in the least pungent. It forms one of the most palatable seasonings for the cuisine and table. A Pinch of Salt or Pepper.— This expression is much used in cookery: it is therefore necessary, in order to convey a notion of the accurate quantities of a pinch, to state that a pinch of salt or pepper should be a quarter of an ounce, and a small pinch (mostly applied to cayenne) of an ounce in w'eight. It would, however, be difficult and impracticable to make use of the scales every time a pinch of salt or pepper is required. The best plan is to ascertain the capacity of one’s fingers by weighing the quantity they hold, and then getting accustomed to the exact quantity required for seasoning. In the matter of spices, as well as of herbs and soup vegetables, it is best, to avoid continually referring to the scales, to accustom oneself as much as possible to be able to tell by sight the weight of the needful quantity of ingredients required.106 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Aromatic Herbs and Plants.—The following are the names of herbs and plants mostly used in the kitchen : — Parsley, bay-leaves, thyme, marjoram, sage, tarragon’ chervil, chives, onions, shallots, garlic, &e. A number of these are used in a dry state, but either dry or fresh they are used in a large variety of preparations. The Bouquet Garni is the mainstay of the French cuisine, and well it may be; it is more delicate and subtle than spices or dried condiments are apt to be. Usually the bouquet garni is composed of sprigs of chervil, chives, thyme, bay-leaves, tarragon, and parsley. Parsley possesses a wonderful property of absorbing or masking the taste of stronger flavouring ingredients, so much so that an over- dose of this herb is likely to nullify the more delicate aromas of seasonings. There is no herb which plays such an important part in cookery as parsley. Not only does it give the finishing touch to many sauces and stews, but it is the favourite for garnishing dishes. The curled leaf parsley is the best and most often used both for flavour and appearance. Parsley is said to be a native of Sardinia, but is largely cultivated in every country in Europe. Powdered parsley is excellent for a number of dishes for imparting a most delicate flavour. The process is simple ; steep some fresh parsley in boiling water for a few seconds; then drain and put it in a hot oven for a few minutes to dry. Put through a sieve and use as required. Tarragon and Chervil.—Tarragon belongs to the same family as wormwood, and is called by botanists Artemisia Dracunculus. It is supposed to be a native of Siberia. The leaves of chervil possess a peculiar flavour, which is much appreciated by many. Of all the pot- herbs these two are the most odoriferous, and are much used in French cookery in entrees and sauces, and sometimes soups. In salads, salad sauces, chaud-froid, &c., they also form an important part. Tarragon leaves are also used for flavouring vinegar, which is very largely used in all kitchens and dining-rooms. Thyme.— Thyme belongs to the same family as mint, the Labiates. The leaves of this plant (Thymus vulgaris) are used fresh or dry for stuffing, soups, &c. It possesses a highly aromatic flavour, and should be used sparingly. The lemon thyme (Thymus citriodorus) is a smaller kind, and has a strong perfume like the rind of lemons, which is very agreeable. Burnet.—The use of this perennial plant has gone somewhat out of fashion. In former times it made one of the principal ingredients in claret cup, its leaves, when slightly bruised, smelling like cucumber. Its modern use is confined to salads, and combined with tarragon, chives, and chervil, burnet forms the French ‘ ravigote.’ Although called pimprenelle in French, it must not be confused with the English pimpernel, which is poisonous. Capsicums.— Of these there are several kinds which are cultivated in the East and West Indies and in America. They yield a fruit which is pungent and stimulating, and in Mexico the pods are calledSEASONING AND FLAVOURING 107 chillies ; these are used to make a hot pickle and chilli vinegar. It is the powder of the seeds and pods dried that constitutes cayenne pepper. Capsicums owe their power to an active principle called capsicin, and are considered to be very wholesome. Savoury Herbs.—Of this flavouring herb there are two varieties, the summer savory (Satureja hortensis), and the winter savory (Satureja montana). It was introduced into England in the seven- teenth century. Both varieties are extensively used for flavouring and seasoning purposes. Marjoram.—There are four kinds of marjoram, but the sweet or knotted marjoram (Origanum Major aria), a native of Portugal, and introduced into this country in the sixteenth century, is the kind generally used in our kitchens. It imparts a delicious flavour to soups, sauces, stews, &c. In July the leaves are dried and kept for winter use. Mint.—Mint belongs to a family of plants called Labiatce. The spearmint (Mentlia viridis) cultivated in our gardens has the most agreeable flavour of the various kinds of mbit, and is the one most generally used in cookery. It possesses the property of correcting flatulency, hence the custom of using it in pea-soup and with new potatoes, &c. Bay-leaves.—The leaves of the common laurel (Primus laurus- cerasus) are employed for culinary purposes to give a kernel-like flavour to stocks, mirepoix, sauces, custards, puddings, blanc-manges, and the milk and water with which cakes are mixed. They are generally dried for use. Basil.—This is a favourite herb with the French cooks ; it has a scent very like that of cloves. Basil for winter use can be obtained in bottles, and it is the best herb for clear mock-turtle and other clear soups made of shell-fish. It is also used for flavouring vinegar. The middle of August is the best time for making basil vinegar. Onions.—The name onion is given to all plants of the onion tribe, in which we include leek, garlic, and shallot (echalote). The onion is un- doubtedly, next to salt, the most valuable of all flavouring substances used in cookery. When onions, shallots, or garlic are used they should always be well blended with other flavours, so that the peculiar and often objectionable taste of these cannot- be detected. The smell of the onion, however, is objectionable to many, whilst others will have it that the flavour of onion disagrees with them. The question, therefore, arises, how can this be overcome? The answer is very simple; by thorough cooking and manipulation the presence of onion in a stew, soup, or sauce may be disguised, retaining at the same time the essential essence of this valuable flavouring root. By cunningly concealing the flavour with others in a sauce, stew, or soup, it will yield enjoyment even to those who would carefully avoid it if they knew it was there. Whenever onion is used as a108 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK condiment or seasoning, and the article is properly treated as a flavouring substance should be, much of the objection of an unpleasant smell is removed. Too much attention cannot be bestowed upon its preparation. Garlic.—This is one of the alliaceous plants. It consists of a group of several bulbs called cloves, all inclosed in one membranous skin. When used judiciously and sparingly, garlic is a most excellent condiment; but with the English taste it seldom finds favour, although many without knowing it partake of dishes where it is cunningly concealed. Kubbing the dish once with a clove of garlic cut in half imparts quite sufficient flavour; but in Italy and other countries it is used on a larger scale-in fact, it enters into the composition of nearly every dish. Garlic is considered to be very wholesome, and to act as a slight stimulant and tonic. Shallot.—This bulbous root resembles garlic, and belongs to the same genus. It is a native of Palestine, and was introduced into England by the Crusaders. The place in Palestine where it was first found was Ascalon : hence its botanical name Allium Ascalonicum. The shallot is extremely useful in cookery, especially for flavouring- sauces, vinegar, &c. It is more pungent than garlic, but of more delicate flavour, and consequently more popular than the former. Carrots and Turnips. —Next to the onion, the carrot and turnip are considered the most important flavouring vegetables for soups and sauces. Carrots were known in the time of Elizabeth, and in the reign of James I. they were looked upon as most uncommon and as a luxury, so much so that ladies wore them as a decoration in place of feathers on their hats and sleeves. Besides their use for flavouring, carrots and turnips are largely used for garnishing certain, dishes, such as ragouts, boiled meats, &c. They are also served as vegetables by themselves, also as purees for soups, &c. It will thus be seen that the humble onion, carrot, and turnip are most important in the preparation of many dishes ; and in addition to these there is the bouquet garni, the parsley root, so-called pot-herbs and numerous others, each of which has its special value, the characteristic of which every cook should be fully acquainted with. But, let me repeat, strongly flavoured herbs as well as so-called pot or soup vegetables should always be used with moderation and judgment. Vinegar.— Vinegar is derived from a variety of sources. The best vinegar is the French vinaigre d’Orleans. It is made from white wine; but common vinegar is mostly prepared from malt in this country. The uses to which vinegar is applied in cookery are very numerous ; it forms the foundation of many sauces, and if taken -with food in small quantity it is said to assist digestion ; if taken, however, in excess, it is highly injurious. Owing to its antiseptic and agreeable flavour it is largely used for preserving vegetable substances known under the names of ‘ pickles.’ It also has the faculty of softening the fibres of meat and making them tender.SEASONING AND FLAVOUBING 109 Sugar is largely used for fruits of all kinds, and farinaceous foods ; besides seasoning tasteless things, sugar also affords considerable nutri- ment. The value of sugar as a condiment is not always sufficiently realised. It renders watery and insipid vegetables more digestible, and in unsuspected quantities it softens and heightens the flavour of sauces and ragouts. If mingled with otherwise insipid food articles, it stimulates the stomach to a slight degree and hastens the action of the digestive organs. Sugar is also found useful in rendering watery vegetables, such as peas, cucumbers, pumpkins, spinach, cooked endive, &c., more digestible, and assists digestion in the same manner to starchy matters which are used for soups, sauces, gruel, &c. Lemons.—Lemons play an important part in cookery. The rind, juice, and essential oil all contain valuable properties. The rind or peel is used for flavouring a variety of dishes. As a rule the rind is grated, but the best way to obtain the largest amount of the essence from the lemon is to pare the rind with a very sharp knife as thinly as possible, without encroaching on the white part of the rind, thus cutting right through the many cells containing the essence. Some cooks obtain the zest by rubbing the lemon with lumps of sugar. It is from the rind that the essential oil of lemon is obtained, which is a more reliable substitute than fresh lemon-peel. The peel preserved by sugar forms the well-known candied peel. Vanilla.—Vanilla was first discovered by the Spaniards. It is the fruit of a parasitical plant—an orchid—and the best is found in Mexico. It has a delicious fragrance, and is now largely used for flavouring puddings, cakes, custards, liqueurs, and chocolate, &c. For flavouring purposes it is better to use the vanilla pods or vanilla sugar than the essence of vanilla, the odour of which quickly escapes. Ginger.—Ginger is the tuber of a perennial plant called Zingiber officinale, growing chiefly in the West Indies. It is tbe most generally used of all spices, and is very agreeable and wholesome. There are two kinds of ginger—the white and the black. The former is considered the best, and is prepared by washing and scalding the tubers, and then scraping them and drying them in the sun; in the black ginger the scraping process is omitted, it being merely scalded before being dried. Ginger is much used in culinary operations, especially by confectioners, and it also finds its way into sauces, beer, spiced wines, and other beverages. Grated green ginger is deemed by epicures to be an important item in a dish of curry. Angelica.—Although the seeds of this plant are largely used in the preparation of certain liqueurs, it is chiefly in its candied form that this aromatic herb or plant is known to us. The tender stems of the leaves are boiled in syrup, and when dried are very useful for dessert and confectionery purposes. The root, as well as the leaves and seeds, have been employed for medicinal purposes. In the northern parts of Europe the leaf stalks are peeled and eaten raw as a great delicacy.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 110 CHAPTER XII ELEMENTARY METHODS 1. Weights and Measures and their Equivalents used in kitchens. 1 fluid lb. of 20 fluid oz. equals 1 lb. of 15 oz. solid measure=455 grammes. 1 gallon liquid measure equals 4 quarts (qt.)=4 litres, 54 centilitres. 1 quart. gal.) liquid measure equals 2 pints (pts.)=l litre, 14 centi- litres. 1 pint liquid measure equals 4 gills (glls.)=57 centilitres. J pint (10 fluid oz.) equals 2 gills or 1 breakfastcupful. 1 gill (5 fluid oz.) equals 1 quartern or 1 teacupful=14 centilitres. \ gill equals about 1 port-wine-glassful=7 centilitres. | fluid ounce equals 1 tablespoonful. 1 fluid drachm equals 60 drops or 1 teaspoonful. 1 lb.=16 ounces =455 grammes, equal to about 8 large or 10 small eggs. | lb.=8 ounces=227 grammes, equal to about a breakfastcupful of sugar. J lb.=4 ounces=113 grammes, equal to about 2 eggs or a breakfast- cupful of flour (level). 1 ounce=28 grammes, equal to 1 heaped up tablespoonful. Where scales or measures cannot be conveniently obtained, the following measurements will serve as an approxim ate guide: breakfastcupful of moist sugar (heaped) . weighs about \ lb. ,, ,, ,, caster sugar ,, . ,, „ 7 oz. „ ,, ,, rice (heaped) ,, „ ,, butter, lard, or dripping ,, ,, ,, flour, cornflour, arrowroot or other floury starch (heaped). ,, ,, ,, suet (chopped fine anc heaped) . ,, „ ,, flour, cornflour, arrowroot or other floury starch (level) . ,, ,, ,, bread-crumbs (pressed in) „ „ ,, sago, tapioca, semolina and hominy (heaped) tablespoonfuls of liquid make one gill or -} of a pint, tablespoonful of liquid is about h an ounce, pint of liquid weighs about a pound. 7 oz. 7 oz. 6 oz. ilb. lib. i lb- ilb.111 ELEMENTARY METHODS 1 saltspoonful 1 teaspoonful 1 dessertspoonful 1 tablespoonful 1 gravyspoonful 1 wineglassful • (port size) 1 teacupful 1 breakfastcupful (large) A pinch of pepper (cayenne) A dash of pepper A pinch of salt A grate of nutmeg . The juice of a lemon The weight of an egg in butter is equal to | teaspoonful. „ ,, | dessertspoonful. ,, 4 tablespoonful. „ ,, i gravyspoonful. „ „ 1 wineglassful. „ „ \ teacupful or \ gill. „ ,, ^ breakfastcupful or 1 gill. „ ,, i pint or 2 gills. „ „ \ saltspoonful. „ „ J saltspoonful. „ ,, 1 teaspoonful. „ i) i saltspoonful. „ ,, 1 tablespoonful. „ ,, about 1^- oz. A stone of butcher’s meat . equals . . . . 14 lb. A firkin of butter ... „ . 56 lb. A firkin of fresh butter . ,, . . . . 70 lb. A sack of flour ... 280 lb. A peck or stone of flour . ,, 14 lb. A gallon of flour ... 7 lb. A quartern of flour1 . ,,.... 3^ lb. A sack of potatoes . . ,, 168 lb. or 8 bushels of 56 lb. each. 2. Ho liquet garni.—This term has been used in several of the foregoing recipes: it is often called a bunch of herbs, or a fagot of sweet herbs, and is much used in all kinds of meat cookery where a savoury flavour is desired. Many people praise the flavour of French soups and sauces, the delicious aromatic flavour of which is generally due to the use of a bouquet of herbs or a bouquet garni, which enters largely into the composition of many of' the French preparations, soups, ragouts, and sauces. To make a bouquet garni, lay upon the left hand a few branches of fresh parsley well washed, and place upon this a sprig of thyme, a sprig of marjoram, a bay leaf, a sprig of basil, a celery leaf, and a small piece of cinnamon stick, also a clove of garlic if liked, together with a small blade of mace and a pepper pod {long pepper). Fold the parsley round the other herbs &c. and tie with string into a neat bundle (bouquet) and use as directed. Excessive use of strong-smelling herbs or spices must in all cases be avoided. 3. fi'rie^ Parsley (Persil frit) Fried parsley is mostly used to garnish fried dishes. Remove the leaves from some fresh curly parsley, wash well in cold water, drain, fold in a cloth and press gently to extract all the water ; then put in a wire frying-basket, have some fat quite hot, fry the parsley for about two minutes (long enough to stiffen), then drain on a cloth and use as required. 1 Calculated as sufficient to make a 4-lb. loat of bread.112 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 4 Chopped Far si*-y * Persil hache).—Wash some parsley, trim off some of the stalks if coarse, chop as finely as possible, place it in the corner of a clean cloth, fold the end of the cloth, and hold tightly under the water-tap or rinse in a basin of cold water, squeeze out all the water, and put on a plate till wanted. 5. To Chop an Onion Peel the onion, cutit in two lengthways, leaving the stalk ends. Commence to slice each half without detaching the slices from the stalk. Keep firmly together, and cut through several times crossways ; then cut down horizontally into fine squares, until you come to the stalk. This is the quickest way to mince an onion, but it requires practice. The other way is to peel and chop in the ordinary manner. When fine enough, wash in cold water, drain on a cloth, and use as required. 6. To Chop Mushrooms.—If freshly-gathered mushrooms are used, peel off the skins, trim the stalks, and wash in cold water ; then chop as required, and use immediately. Preserved mushrooms are well drained, and then chopped as required. 7. Liaison in general.—There are a number of processes of thickening soups and sauces, and these are called “liaisons,” in a culinary sense. A liaison may be composed of flour (fecule, arrowooot, cornflour, creme-de-riz, &c.), diluted in either milk, cream, stock, or water, according to the nature of the soup or sauce for which it is required. A liaison should always be strained before it is mixed with the liquid which requires thickening, and the preparation be well stirred whilst the latter is added. The liaison of egg is frequently used for white purees, blanquettes, fricassees, and white sauces. Only the yolks of eggs should be used, mixed with a small quantity of cream, and well beaten. Such liaison should only be added to the preparation for which it is required when it is thoroughly cooked ; part of the soup or sauce is poured on to the liaison, stirred, and then all mixed well together. When once the liaison of egg is added, the preparation must on no account be allowed to boil, but only just get thoroughly heated, so as to form the liaison, thus preventing the eggs from curdling. 8. Fan ade, for* For ceme at, &c—Put half a pint of water and an ounce of butter into a stewpan, add a pinch of salt, stir in gradually when boiling four ounces of sifted flour: work vigorously with a wooden spoon or spatula over the fire for a few minutes. The panade is done when it leaves the sides and bottom of the stewpan perfectly clean. Spread it on a dish or plate, and use when cold. Another way is to soak in tepid water or milk some white bread (without crust) for an hour, put it in a cloth to squeeze out the moisture, turn into a stewpan with an ounce of butter to six ounces of bread ; heat up over a slow fire, stirring all the while, add a pinch of salt, turn on to a plate, and use when cool.113 ELEMENTABY METHODS 9. Roux. — Roux is the French term for a preparation used as a thickening for gravies, sauces, Or soups. It consists of flour fried in butter to a desired colour or blend. -There-are three kinds—the white, the blond or fawn, and the brown. The white roux is made with, say, five ounces of butter and four ounces of flour. Melt the butter, sift the flour and stir into the butter. Cook slowly on the side of the stove for about ten minutes, without allowing it to take colour. Blond roux is made in' the same way, but is stirred over a slow fire until it becomes of a fawn or blond colour. White and blond roux are used for veloutee and Allemande sauces, the former for Bechamel and other white sauces. For a brown roux, leave it on the fire, or put in a moderately heated oven, until it attains a light brown or chestnut colour. Roux should at all times be allowed to cool a few minutes before the moistening is added. It need not be used immediately, for it will keep some time if put in a covered jar and kept in a dry place. The proportion of moisture used is one quart of liquid to four ounces of flour. 10. A Mirepoix.—A mirepoix is the foundation for flavouring sauces, braised meats, and a number of thick soups. Its composition consists of the following ingredients, which must be varied according to the quantity required2 carrots weighing about 5 oz. each; 2 onions weighing about 4 oz. each; 1 oz. of parsley or parsley root ; 2 bay-leaves ; 1 blade of mace ; 1 or 2 shallots ; 1 sprig of thyme ; 12 peppercorns; 2 cloves ; h lb. of raw fat ham or fat bacon ; h lb. beef or veal trimmings (the latter may be left out); ^ oz. mignon- ette pepper. Method.—Prepare the vegetables, cut the bacon, &c., into small pieces ; fry in a stewpan a light brown colour. Add the vegetables cut in slices ; stir over the fire until light brown, then add the herbs &c. If required for sauce or brown purees, add the needful quantity of roux, and moisten with about two quarts of stock and half a pint of white wine. Stir and cook gently for one hour or longer. 11. Salpicon.—A salpicon is a mince of either chicken, game, foie-gras, or veal with tongue, ham, mushrooms, and truffles. The whole is cut into small dice and put into some prepared sauce—Allemande, Bechamel, or brown sauce. The quantity required depends upon the dish it is to be used in. If for croquettes, only a small quantity is used for binding the mixture. Salpicon is mostly used for filling bouchees (small puff-paste patties), when it is heated up in the sauce. Oysters and lobsters, shrimps, and fillets of sole are frequently used for bouchees, in which case the filling is . prepared as above, and is known under the general name of Salpicon, ham or tongue being, of epurse omitted. iTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 114 12. Hints on Cooking Meats. Cutting.—When cutting meat for cooking, always cut across the grain of the muscle. Cleaning.—Meat for roasting or braising should never be washed. Wipe it with a damp cloth, or scrape it, if it requires cleaning or drying. Seasoning.—As a general rule, meat should be seasoned with salt and pepper just before it is taken up. Keeping on Ice.—Never place meat directly on the ice; put it on a dish or plate on the ice. Boiling.—The art of boiling meat is to put it on in boiling water, with enough water to well cover it. Boil up quickly (this keeps in the juice and flavour). Salt meat should be put on in warm water, not boiling, as this helps to extract some of the salt. When the meat boils draw on to the side of the stove, and let boil slowly, or simmer until done. Time for Boiling.—Fifteen to twenty minutes should be allowed to each pound of fresh meat, according to the kind and size of joint. The time is reckoned from the moment it begins to boil, and not when put into the pan. Salt meat requires longer to boil than fresh meat. 13. To Warm up> Cold Meat.—In re-heating meats for hash, mince, &c., it is very necessary that it should simmer in the sauce or gravy for at least three-quarters of an hour. The slices should not be cut too thin. In simmering the meat it will be found that during the first twenty minutes the fibre becomes somewhat horny and tough, and it will require at least another twenty-five minutes longer to soften the meat and to develop a more palatable flavour. It is quite a mistake to warm up meat in a hurry, for by so doing you will only render it tough and tasteless. Be-dressing viands which have previously appeared on the table is an art in itself, the chief point being to make such dishes tempting in appearance, agreeable to the palate, tender and tasty. 14. To Truss Poultry for Roasting. Turkey.—Break the legs near the toes, fasten on to a hook, and pull off so as to draw the sinews from the legs. Put the bird on to a board, breast downwards, head toward you. Take hold of the head with your left hand, and cut a slit in the back of the neck, with your right hand ; then loosen the skin round the neck, cut off the neck close to the body, also the skin, leaving it about two inches long, so as to fold it over the back. Remove the crop carefully ; put the forefinger in the throat end, and loosen the inside round the carcase. Make an incision at the vent just large enough to put in your fingers, loosen the inside, taking care not to break the gall-bag, then draw out the whole of the inside. Break the breast-bone if necessary, and flatten it; turn the bird on its back, press the legs downwards, and fasten them with a skewer. Fold over the skin of the neck and twist in the wings, fasten withELEMENTARY METHODS 115 string by means of a trussing-neeclle so as to make the bird neat in appearance; tie the knots at the side. Stuffing may be inserted at the neck or in the body of the bird before being skewered or tied. In place of string a skewer can be used to fasten the wings the same as the legs. Chickens and Pigeons.—Proceed in the same manner as for a turkey. The sinews need not be pulled out, the feet should only have the tips of the toes cut off. Cut off the neck close to the body, cut the skin off the neck so as to leave sufficient to cover over the back. Fold in or twist the wings (pinions) so that the ends are brought across the back of the ibird, press down the legs and fasten with string, which, as for turkeys, should be run through the joint of the thighs. For Boiling.—Fowls for boiling are treated the same as for roasting, with the exception that the legs are cut off at the first joint. This done, loosen the skin round the legs until it can be pulled over the legs and the latter can be pushed inside the body, after which make a slit in the skin sufficiently large to pass the tail of the fowl through it. This is done to give it a better appearance. Ducks and Geese are trussed in the same way as a turkey, but the first joints of the wings (pinions) are cut off. The feet of ducks should only have the tips of the toes cut off. Stuffing is inserted either in the neck or in the body. In trussing always turn the birds back upon the body, keeping the legs firmly to the sides, pull the skin BOILED FOWL CHICKEN, TRUSSED FOR ROASTING over the tail, slit the skin and pass the tail through it the same way as for boiled fowl. 15. To Pick or Pluck Pi rcls.—Hold the bird you wish to pluck with your left hand on your lap, pull off the feathers, commencing at the top of the breast. When picked all over, singe (hold it over a flame of gas or methylated spirit) to burn off any small feathers, hairs, or down. There is another way of plucking birds, but it requires practice, else it is apt to-spoil the appearance. Plunge the bird into very hot, but not boiling, water for about a minute, then commence to pull off the CAPON, TRUSSED AND BARDEDTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 116 feathers. If left too long in the water the skin becomes tender, and is likely to become detached in picking. 16. Bon ing Poultry or Game.—To bone poultry or game properly, they must first be picked and lightly singed. Next cut or pull off the legs, a portion of the neck and the pinions, keeping the skin of the neck as long as possible. Carefully remove the crop. Now commence to free the flesh from the carcase, beginning at the neck portion. A small sharp knife should be used for this purpose. Continue to strip off the flesh thus until the carcase is quite detached from the flesh. When you arrive at the thighs, dislocate the first joints, and remove the bones, separate also the stumps from the wings. The nerves which are found in the thighs should be pulled out when the legs are cut off. Boned poultry or game is usually stuffed, and braised or boiled. It is best not to draw the birds until after the flesh is removed. The bones &c. should be utilised for stock essence or ‘fumet,’ for sauces &c. 17. Table showing the Average Time required for Baking M.eat or Birds.—The exact time required for all joints depends necessarily on a variety of circumstances, the kind of fire employed, size and thickness of a joint, the time of year, &c., by which the cook must be guided, and use his or her judgment. Beef (should be rather under than over done). A joint of beef weighing 20 lbs. requires about 4f hours „ „ 10 „ „ „ 2£ „ 6 „ „ „ lf-2 „ Mutton. A joint of mutton weighing 10 lbs. requires 2f hours. 6 „ „ If „ „ „ 4 „ „ If „ Lamb (should be well done). A small leg of lamb requires . . about If hour. Veal (requires to be well done). A joint of veal weighing 10 lbs. requires . 3 hours. „ „ 5 „ „ . n „ Pork (requires to be well done). A joint of pork weighing 8 lbs. requires . 3 hours. „ „ 6 „ „ . . 2 „ Venison (should on no account be overdone). Anoint of venison weighing 10 lbs. requires 2f hours. „ „ 6 „ „ ll „ A haunch of venison . . . „ 4 „ Turkey or Goose. A large-sized turkey requires A medium-sized turkey or goose requires A small turkey or turkey poult requires 2f-3 hours. H-2 „ UELEMENTARY METHODS 117 Capon Fowl. A poularde or capon requires A large fowl requires . A medium-sized fowl requires A gosling requires Hare. A hare requires . A leveret requires A rabbit requires Pheasant. A large pheasant requires . A small pheasant A pigeon requires A partridge requires . Game. Black game requires . A woodcock requires . A grouse requires A quail requires A golden plover requires A snipe requires . A fig-pecker requires . A teal requires . .Ortolans require . . Larks require . 1{ hour. • 1 • I „ about 1 „ about 1£ hour. ,, 1 about | hour. „ * „ . 30-35 minutes. 20-25 „ 1 hour to lj hour. . about | „ >> i » from 25-30 minutes. „ 25-30 „ 25-30 „ 20-25 „ 20-25 „ 15-20 „ 15-20 Brown meats, such as beef and mutton, whether served as roast or removes, should rather be under than over done. Yeal, pork, lamb, and poultry, pheasants and partridges require to be well done. The great secret of cooking game perfectly is constant basting. It should be rather under than over done. Just a tint of red in the middle and full of gravy. 18. Fat for Buttering Moulds, &c.—Chop rather finely a pound of kidney suet, freed from skin, put it into a saucepan with about a gill of cold water and cook over a slow fire till quite clarified ; stir occasionally to prevent burning. Strain, and add one pound of fresh butter to the clarified fat. Stir over the fire till the substance has become quite clear. Fat thus prepared will be found far more satisfactory and more serviceable than melted butter, which is generally used for ^he purpose of greasing or buttering moulds. 19. To Fnmould.—Have a basin of lukewarm water (about 115° to 120° Fahr.), dip in the mould quickly for a second or two; remove it quickly, hold securely, give it a brisk shake, and turn on to a cold dish. Remove the mould as soon as the contents become detached.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 118 20. Hints on Boiling Vegetables.—All green vegetables should be put on the fire into fast-boiling, slightly salted water, so that they may be brought quickly to the boiling point again. They should never be left to steep too long in cold water before boiling, as this will tend to toughen them, and in many cases destroys colour and flavour. Green vegetables, such as greens, cabbage, brocoli, savoys, green artichokes, French beans, peas, &c., also cauliflowers and asparagus, must be boiled in water containing a small piece of soda (about the size of a small filbert) in addition to the salt. This retains the natural colour, extracts some of the strong flavour, and in the case of greens &c. the addition of soda is said to make these vegetables more digestible. Soda may be substituted by brown sugar. As soon as cooked strain quickly, for to let them remain longer in the water than is necessary is ruinous. Keep the vegetables hot in a dish over or in hot water till required for serving. Over-done or under-done vegetables are injurious to health. 21. To Blanch Vegetables.-- Vegetables are usually blanched in order to extract some of their bitter flavour or to soften them. Parsley, tarragon, chervil, onions, shallots, &c., are best blanched by plunging them several times into boiling water. All green vegetables should be blanched in copper stewpans in order* to retain their delicate green colour. All vegetables &c. required to be blanched are put on the fire in cold water, and must be brought quickly to the boil, and then be drained and cooled in cold water. Blanching is the prefix of the act of cooking, which is accom- plished in boiling in salted water. 22. To Blanch Bice, &e.—Kice, macaroni, &c., should always be blanched before it is put on to finish cooking. Bice should be picked and washed in several waters. It is put on the fire with plenty of cold water to well cover. It must be brought quickly to the boil and then put into a sieve to drain, allowing cold water to run over so as to cool it. 23. To Clarify Fat.—Cut the fat (beef or sheep’s kidney suet is best for frying purposes) into pieces about half an inch in size ; remove any coarse skin &c. which may be on the fat, put the pieces in an iron stewpan, add about one gill of cold water to every pound of fat, cook over a slow fire, stir from time to time to prevent it from burning ; when sufficiently cooked, which will be seen when it ceases to froth and the liquid is quite clear, move it to the corner of the stove to cool a little, then strain through a sieve. 24. Frying in Fat or Oil.—Successful frying depends upon the fat being perfectly hot (boiling), the use of clean utensils, a brisk and bright fire, and, above all, plenty of clean and good fat. Anything that is fried should be served directly it is taken from the fire and well strained. Fried dishes should never be covered over, for that renders them soft or else tough.119 ELEMENTARY METHODS 25. To Clarify Butter.—Put the butter in a stewpan or saute- pan, let it dissolve and cook slowly, then skim off the scum and all impurities. The butter is ready for straining as soon as a blue smoke appears. Strain through a fine hair-sieve or pointed strainer into a basin, let it stand to settle, then pour gently into another basin so as to keep out the sediment. 26. Liquid Caramel.—Put a pound of loaf, caster, or moist sugar into a copper stewpan or sugar-boiler. Add about half a gill of water, and let it dissolve ; stir over a slow1 fire and cook until a dark brown colour; when a whitish smoke appears it is a sign that the sugar is done. Remove it from the fire, pour on about a pint of boiling water, allow this to boil up whilst stirring, land cook till it has the appearance of a syrup; when cool put it in a corked bottle and use as required. Caramel should be used with discretion. Good cooks rarely use it, for it is apt to impart a bitter taste if used too freely. It is prin- cipally used for colouring clear soups, gravies, and sauces, and some- times jellies. 27. Saumure {Brine) Tickle for Beef or Tork.—Two gallons water {soft); 6 lbs. coarse salt; f lb.,brown sugar, 11 oz. saltpetre. Put all the above in a stewpan, let it come to the boil, skim and boil for about twenty minutes ; pour into a covered pan or tub and use when cold. Meat should lie in a pickle from eight to ten or more days, according to the size. In pickling tongues a separate pan should be used ; these usually take from three to four weeks to pickle. 28. Dry Tickling.—1| lbs. salt, 1 oz. saltpetre, £ lb. allspice, £ lb. brown sugar. First rub in sugar and let meat lie for a few hours, then rub in the saltpetre and spice, also the salt, a little at a time. Turn and knead meat well, let it lie in a cool place from ten to twelve weeks, turning it daily. The above quantity is for about 14 lbs. of meat. 29. Marinade.—Marinade is the name applied to a kind of pre- paration which is used for pickling fish or meat. It is more fre- quently used for meat than fish. This process introduces a savoury aroma, and develops the flavour of meats &c., which are usually allowed to lie in pickle from two to three days. A maripade will keep good for several months if boiled up, say, every four days. A small quantity added to brown sauce will be found a decided improvement where piquancy is required. 30. Marinade Tickle.—1 quart vinegar, 3 cloves, 1 onion sliced, 1 carrot, 1 lemon, £ orange sliced, 12 juniper berries, a few coriander seeds, 2 sprigs of thyme and tarragon, 2 sprigs of marjoram 1 of sage, 20 peppercorns and 2 blades mace, 1 pint claret, 2 bay- leaves.—Boil the vinegar and claret and pour over the ingredients. It is advisable to season the meat with a little salt before it is put in the marinade.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 12Q 31. To Whip Cream.—Pour the cream into a clean, cool basin ; whip (at first gently) until light and frothy. When required for sweet dishes, mix lightly a little plain caster or vanilla-flavoured sugar. When whipped sufficiently, put the cream on to a hair sieve, and stand in a cool place, or on the ice, until required. Always whip cream and whites of eggs in a cool place, or on the ice in warm weather. Use an ordinary wire whisk, but make sure it is perfectly clean and dry before using it. , 32. To Whisk Whites of Eggs.—In separating the whites from the yolks of eggs, the greatest care must be taken not to let the least portion of the yolks get into the whites, otherwise it will become im- possible to whisk the whites firm. Put the whites of’ eggs in an egg bowl or shallow basin, first making sure that it is perfectly clean, dry, and cool. Keep the. whites of eggs in a cool place until wanted. Add a pinch of salt and commence whisking with an ordinary wire whisk, which must be thoroughly clean and perfectly dry. Continue to whisk, increasing the pace, until it forms a firm and substantial mossy froth. 33. To Peel Almonds and Pistachios.—Pour sufficient boiling water over the almonds or pistachios to well cover them ; let them soak for several minutes, then strain and put in a basin of cold water to cool. Drain and spread them on a cloth. To remove the skin press each between the thumb and fingers. This done, put them on a sieve to dry. To Pound Almonds.—Allow the peeled almonds to dry thoroughly in a slack oven for about ten minutes. Clean and dry the mortar ; put in the almonds and pound with the pestle ; stir well and con- tinually for about ten minutes, else they are apt to get oily. When pounded put them on a cold dish and use as required. 34. Egging and Crumbing.—To crumb successfully, use the following proportions of egging: 1 egg well beaten, 1 teaspooonful of sweet oil, 1 dessertspoonful of milk, a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper (a little chopped parsley is sometimes added). Dip the article required to be crumbed in this mixture, or brush over well and cover with soft or dry bread-crumbs. Soft or fresh crumbs are made by rubbing the soft portion of stale bread through a wire sieve. The crusts of bread are placed in a baking sheet in a cool oven, and baked to a bright golden colour. They are then crushed with a rolling-pin or pounded in a mortar and passed through a sieve. These are called dry crumbs or raspings,, and are sometimes used in place of fresh crumbs. 35. Frying Patter (Pate a Frire).—Sift 4 oz. of flour into a basin; add \ oz. of oiled butter, a pinch of salt, 1 yolk of egg, and 1 tablespoonful of cream ; mix this well with a wooden spoon, and dilute gradually with about half a gill of lukewarm water, work it well121 ELEMENTARY METHODS until the paste becomes quite smooth. Allow it to stand for about half an hour or more, and when you require to use some, whisk two whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix gently. The batter is then ready for use. If intended for fruit fritters add a teaspoonful of caster sugar ; if for fish or meat a few drops of lemon juice added to the batter will be found an improvement. A thinnish batter is preferable to a thick one. 86. Chouoc Paste (Pate a Chouoc), for General Use.— 8 oz. butter, 1% gill water, 4 oz. flour (sifted), 2 whole and 1 yolk of eggs, salt, and a pinch of caster sugar. Put the water and butter in a small stewpan, add a saltspoonful of salt and a pinch of sugar ; bring it to the boil. Stir in the flour, work vigorously over the fire with a wooden spoon, continue to work on the stove until the paste leaves the sides of the stewpan clean. Let it cool, and add by degrees the eggs. Use as directed. Note.— When choux paste is used for savoury or soup quenelles the sugar must be omitted. 37. How to Mash or Coat Moulds.—See that the mould to be used is perfectly clean and dry, place it on the ice or in a small vessel containing enough crushed ice to keep the mould well sur- rounded. When the mould is cold pour in some cold liquid jelly or whatever is to be used for coating the inside of the mould. Now move it round on the ice, so that it (the jelly) reaches all sides of the mould, then pour the liquid portion out of the mould. This will coat or mask a mould with a thin layer: if, however, a thicker coating is wanted, the operation must be repeated. Cutlet and other small fancy moulds are treated in the same manner for masking purposes. Aspic, wine jellies, sweet cream, chaud-froid saucer, &c., are used for coating or masking moulds. 38. Savoury Jelly for Cold Entrees, Savouries, &c.— 1 guart clear stock orteater, 2% oz. gelatine (French leaf), the juice of 1 lemon and its rind, ^ gill sherry, ^ gill tarragon vinegar, \ gill French wine or Orleans vinegar, 1 small bunch of herbs (bouquet garni), 1 small onion sliced, 1 bay-leaf, 10 peppercorns, 10 allspice, 1 blade of mace, a few celery leaves, ^ small carrot, sliced, ^ tea- spoonful salt, the whites and shells of 2 eggs. See that all the ingredients are ready and the vegetables clean. Whisk up lightly the whites of eggs with the shells, and put them, together with the remainder of the above-named ingredients, into a well-tinned stewpan, stir with a whisk over the fire, and bring it thus slowly to the boil. Remove the whisk and draw the stewpan away from the fire, and allow it to simmer gently on the side of the stove for about twenty minutes. Strain through a clean cloth previously steeped in boiling water and tied over a soup stand or the legs of a stool turned upside down ; or pass it through a warm jelly-bag ; if not clear at first, pass it through a second or third time. The aspic is then ready for use. This aspic is suitable for borders or decorativeTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 122 purposes ; if required for other purposes, 2 ounces of gelatine will be found sufficient for the desired consistency. 39. Socle of Rice for Cold Entrees, &c.—Wash some Carolina rice in several waters, put in a well-tinned stewpan, with about three times its quantity of cold water, heat up slowly and bring to the boil, then cook at the side of the stove or in the oven gradu- ally until the rice is done ; the liquid should by this time be almost absorbed in the rice. Pound it in a mortar while warm, until it has the appearance of a smooth paste. Add a little salt to flavour, and press into a wetted mould. Set the mould in the ice for 2 to 3 hours. To unmould it immerse the mould in hot water, turn out and carve the side with a sharp knife to give it a more artistic appearance. Dress and use as foundation of cold dishes as required. 40. Spun Sugar.—Weigh half a pound of best cane sugar and put it in a clean copper sugar-boiler (pan), add a gill of water and allow it to dissolve. Bring it to the boil, remove the scum and con- tinue to boil till it registers 280 degrees on Senn’s Saccharometer: this is called the small crack or hard feather. Now take a fork or spoon and throw it lightly on an oiled rolling-pin or oiled handle of a large wooden spoon. Move the fork or spoon to and fro ; the sugar will then form the desired threads. SPECIMENS OF ARTISTIC CONFECTIONERY, SHOWING HOW SPUN AND PULLED SUGAR CAN BE MANIPULATED123 CHAPTER XIII HOBS D'CEUVRE (APPETISERS) The origin of this interesting course is to be found in the Russian ‘ Zabouska ’ Foretesti, known in Sweden as ‘ Smorgabrod,’ wherewith these nations preface what is known as a solid repast. In this country, as well as in Russia, and Sweden and Norway, hors d’oeuvre are served as the commencing course, i.e. the dishes with which a dinner is started. The service of this course in England is, however, not the same as it is in Russia or Sweden, where the various dainties forming the hors d’oeuvre course are partaken with strong liqueurs—' Vodka,’ a kind of Russian whisky, or ‘ Kummel.’ The English and French do not favour this, and many look upon it with profound contempt: it is therefore not likely to become popular at English dinner-tables. There are two classes of hors d’ceuvre, plain and dressed. The most popular and most highly esteemed hors d’oeuvre are oysters, when in season, which is for eight months (all the months in which there is an ‘ R ’) ; they are known as the ‘ king of hors d’oeuvre.’ Next in popularity to the oyster comes caviare. Oysters are served each in its deep shell, and handed round with quarters of lemons and thin brown bread and butter (daintily shaped), cayenne pepper, and chilli vinegar. Caviare is usually mixed with finely chopped shallots„and lemon- juice ; both these ingredients must be used sparingly, and the mixing- must be done with a wooden fork or a wooden skewer. Caviare should never be touched with a metal utensil. Both oysters and caviare thus served are classed as plain hors d’oeuvre. Others generally adopted in this class are, cucumbers, radishes, olives, pickles, sardines, anchovies, prawns, crayfish, lax, herring-fillets, tunny, smoked salmon, roes, smoked sausages (such as salami, Gotha, Strasbourg, Lyons, Brunswick), smoked ham (raw), and other fish and viands of the smoked or pickled description. Many of these, especially the fish, are dressed on canapes (fried or toasted slices of bread daintily cut), but when such is the case they are classed as dressed hors d’oeuvre. All kinds of sandwiches, daintily prepared, also adapt themselves as hors d’oeuvre. 41. JZeuvre {Butter).—Fresh butter is usually served at most dinners as an accompaniment with hors d’oeuvre. It is served in little pats, in the shape of small shells or little rolls (thin slices rolled). Served in little glass dishes or boats ; in hot weather put124 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK a little iced water in each boat; garnish with tiny sprigs of curly parsley. 42. Radis (Radishes).—Choose small, round, and firm radishes of a light red and white colour. Trim and wash them in plenty of water (the outer skins should he scraped off and the leaves cut to an inch in length). Dish up in little boats, or glass dishes, with a little cold water. 43. Cornichons (Gherkins).—Choose these small, firm, and green, an^l serve in little glass dishes neatly dressed, moistened with a little French wine vinegar. 44. Olives.—Spanish and French olives are the best for hors d’oeuvre, the Spanish being the most esteemed; they should remain on the table until the dessert is served. Olives destroy the taste of what has been previously eaten, hence they are so popular a relish. Choose them firm, and of a nice green colour. Steep them in cold water before serving; dish up on small dishes or boats with a little cold water. Never use a metal fork or spoon to dress them. Those left over from a meal should be rebottled at once with salted water, else they will turn black. 45. Concombre (Cucumber).—Peel very thin and cut up into thin slices, lay the slices on a dish, sprinkle with salt, cover, and let them remain thus for one or two hours. Drain well, dish up on small glass dishes, season with a little salad oil and French wine vinegar. Sprinkle over some chopped parsley, and serve. 46. Salami, Bologna, Brunswick, Lyons, and other Smokea Sausages.—Cut the sausage into very thin round slices, remove the skin, dish up neatly, garnish with parsley, and serve. 47. Royans d la Bordelaise.—These are procured packed in oil, usually in tins. Dish up in glass dishes, garnished with some parsley. 48. Sardines.—Procure*an 18-oz. tin: choose a well-known brand. Take them carefully out of the tin, wipe each slightly with a cloth, lay them in small dishes, moisten with a little sweet oil, garnish with capers and sprigs of parsley. Never use the oil out of the tin. Other fish preparations, such as lax, herrings (marine), fillets of herring (sour), &c., are served as hors d’oeuvre in the same manner. 49. Bonnes Bouches de Crevettes a l’Avondale (Bouche Cups of Shrimps, Avondale style).—f pint aspic jelly (No. 38), ^ oz. leaf gelatine, i pint picked shrimps or prawns, 1 tablespoonful chutney, 1 dessertspoonful anchovy essence, \ teaspoonful mixed mustard, % teaspoonful chilli vinegar, 1 gill tomato aspic (No. 295), salt, and a small pinch of cayenne. Dissolve the gelatine and strain it into about half a pint of liquefied aspic, put it into a basin, and whisk over some broken ice until it becomes spongy in appearance ; fill up quickly a number of small Bouchee cup moulds (Dariole or Timbale shape) and allow them to set firmly on the ice. Cut the shrimps or prawns into small dice, put125 HOBS D'CEUVBE (APPETISEBS) them in a stewpan with the chutney (chopped finely), the anchovy essence, mustard, vinegar, and tomato aspic; heat up while stirring, season to taste, and turn into a basin. Scoop out a portion of the centre of each mould with a hot dessertspoon, fill up the cavity with the prepared mixture, as it becomes cool. Set the mould on the ice for about an hour, turn out, dish up, and garnish with chopped aspic jelly. 50. Bonnes Bouches de Sardines—2£ oz. of sardine paste, a handful of small cress, 1 dessert-spoonful of street oil, 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, 3 oz. butter, brown bread, salt, pepper, and cayenne; 2 hard-boiled eggs, watercress for garnish. Cut some, thin slices of brown bread, put 2 oz. of sardine paste in a mortar, and pound with the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, and oz. of butter. Rub through a fine sieve. Spread this over the slices of bread. Wash the cress and cut up small, season with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and sprinkle over the layer of paste. Place another slice of bread on top, and press together, spread the top of each with butter, and sprinkle over thickly with finely-chopped whites of hard- boiled egg. Cut them into fanciful shapes, or strips about an inch wide, mix some sardine paste with a little cream or butter, and ornament the surface by means of a forcing bag, according to taste and fancy. Dish them up neatly on a folded napkin or dish-paper, and garnish with some picked watercress. 51. Denises d la JPrincesse {Princess Sandwiches).—4-6 oz. cooked chicken, meat freed from skin and bones, 1 oz. butter, 1 tea- spoonful lemon-juice, 4 shelled walnuts, 1 dessert-spoonful double cream, salt, paprika pepper, thin slices buttered bread. Pound the chicken meat in a mortar till smooth, then add the butter, and mix thoroughly, now add the cream, lemon-juice, and season with salt and a good pinch of paprika pepper. Work the mixture until quite smooth, and put on a plate. Blanch, drain and skin the walnuts, cut them into thin slices. Spread the prepared mixture upon thin slices of buttered bread, arrange the sliced walnuts upon the chicken puree. Press the slices together in the usual way, cut out into desired shapes, dish up, garnish with sprigs of watercress, and serve. 52. Denises d la Tnrqxie {Turkish Sandwiches).—^ loaf of white bread {stale), 3 hard-boiled eggs, 6 prawns, 4 boned anchovies {Gorgona), 1 tablespoonful chutney, 3 oz. butter, 1 saltspoonful made mustard {English), 1? pint of aspic, 4 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise {No. 277), 1 tablespoonful white sauce {No. 209), 1 tablespoonful tomato pulp, a few drops of carmine, paprika pepper, parsley for garnish. Cut the bread into slices, | inch thick, and stamp out some heart shapes or rosettes by means of a pastry-cutter, and fry them slightly in hot fat or clarified butter. Drain well and split them in halves with a sharp knife. Pound the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs, the anchovies and prawns (picked) in a mortar; when smooth add the chutney, pound again, then add the butter, season with the mustard,THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK and about a saltspooonful of paprika pepper, and rub through a sieve. Stir the mayonnaise sauce into the aspic (made liquid, but it must not be hot). Stir until it begins to set, then divide into two equal parts, mix one lot with white sauce (bechamel), and the other with tomato pulp—add a few drops of carmine to the latter to give it a more pronounced red tint. Spread the cut sides of the croutes with a thick layer of the prepared puree, and place them together into their original shapes ; press lightly together, and mask half of them with the prepared white sauce, and the other half with the prepared red sauce. The sauces must of course be merely liquid (half-set). When set arrange them neatly on one or more dishes, garnish with sprigs of freshly picked parsley, and send to table. 53. Tartlettesde Saumon a I’Eeossaise (Salmon Tartlets, Scotch Style).—1 thin slice salmon, 1 small carrot, i onion, 1 bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, 2 oz. butter, lemon-juice, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 cold potato, % celery-root,^beetroot (small), white wine (Ghablisor Graves), tarragon and chervil, pepper and salt, mayonnaise dressing, aspiG jelly (No. 38), short crust, truffle, gherkin or chilli for garnish. Prepare the short crust with ^ lb. flour, \ lb. butter, and the needful quantity of -water. Poll out the paste, stamp out a number of rounds, and line 8 to 10 tartlet moulds with these, prick the bottom of each, fill up with lentils or dried peas, bake a golden colour, turn out lentils or peas, and let the crusts cool. If the salmon be small you will probably require two thin slices ; place it in a buttered saute-pan with the carrot and onion cut into slices, and the herbs. Add a little salt and sufficient water and wine, half and half, to cover the fish, put in a teaspoonful lemon-juice, and cook over a gentle fire for about ten minutes ; let cool, and then stamp out an equal number of rounds a little smaller than the tartlet crusts. Mask each with a thin coating of mayonnaise and aspic, mingled in equal quantities, ornament one side of each with a star of truffles, chillies, or gherkins. Mix the remnants of salmon (meat only) with the potato, celery, the white of a hard-boiled egg, and a fewT' slices of beetroot, all minced rather finely, season with a pinch of cayenne, salt, tarragon and chervil, and enough mayonnaise to moisten. Line the tartlet crusts with this mixture, lay a dressed round of salmon on top of each tartlet, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with chopped aspic and parsley, and serve as hors d’oeuvre or fish entree; if intended for the latter the crusts and salmon must be of a somewhat larger size than for hors d’oeuvre. 54. Tartines a la Cardinal.—1 small lobster, 2 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful anchovy paste, 2 hard-boiled eggs, ^ gill mayonnaise sauce (No.‘Til),l gill aspic jelly (No. 38), thin slices of lightly buttered white or brown bread, 1-2 French gherkins, 1 truffle, seasoning. Remove the meat from the lobster, cut it into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar till smooth. Add the butter, anchovy paste, and the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs. Season with salt, pepper, andHOBS D'CEUVBE (APPETISEBS) 127 a pinch of cayenne, and rub the whole through a wire sieve. Should the mixture be found too stiff, add a little white sauce (cold) before it is passed through the sieve. Clean the mortar and pound a little lobster coral till smooth, add this to the mayonnaise; failing this, add a few drops of liquid carmine, so as to impart a deep pink colour. Mix the aspic last of' all—this will form the sauce for coating. Spread the prepared puree between the slices of buttered bread, and press them a little. Stamp out as many rounds as possible (about the size of a five-shilling piece). Mask these carefully with the prepared sauce. When nearly set, decorate them tastefully with fancifully cut pieces of hard-boiled white of egg, gherkin, and truffle slices. Dish up in a circle on a folded napkin or lace paper on a dish, put a handful of crisp salad in the centre, and serve. 55. Anchois (Anchovies).—Anchois a I’Jmile.—The best and most suitable anchovies for hors d’ceuvre are the Gorgonas. A very good quality also comes from Nice. Soak the anchovies in cold water for an hour or more, then take out, drain on a cloth, open them, and take out the bone, trim neatly, dry on a cloth, dish up, pour a little sweet oil over them, garnish with parsley, and serve. 56. Anchois a la Norvegicnne.—Prepare some fillets of Nor- wegian anchovies, trim neatly ; have ready three hard-boiled eggs, chop up two coarsely, yolk and white separate ; dish up in hors- d’oeuvre dishes (little glass dishes) ; season with a little chopped chervil, and red pepper; sprinkle with a little oil and vinegar. Place the anchovy fillets over the top in the shape of lattice-work ; ornament with fancy slices of lemon, quarters of hard-boiled egg and parsley. 57. Petites Tranches de Caviar d la Pemoulade (Small Caviare Slices, Pemoulade Style).—Cut twelve thin oblong slices of brown bread, pare them into heart shapes, about an inch and a half long. Butter the slices slightly. Mix two ounces of Russian,caviare carefully with a squeeze of lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped shallots, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Spread the slices rather thickly with the caviare, but do not use a knife for this purpose, as steel or metal injures the flavour of it. Have ready a teaspoonful of stiff mayon- naise, mix gently with one of cold bechamel sauce, one hard-boiled egg-yolk passed previously through a fine wire sieve, chopped parsley, fennel leaves, tarragon leaves, and shallots, half a teaspoonful of each, also half a teaspoonful of prepared mustard, and one of concentrated tomato puree. Work all vigorously, fill in a paper cornet, and orna- ment the caviare slices to taste. Dish up on small round dishes, and stand in a cool place until required. 58. Canapes ail Caviar.—Prepare some slices of toasted bread, spread them well with butter, stamp out some rounds about one and a half inch in diameter, spread these on one side thickly with Russian caviare, place half a stoned Spanish olive in the centre of each, put a sprig of parsley or watercress on top of the olives, dish128 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK up and serve cold. Or if required to be served hot, put the rounds of toast with caviare in a hot oven for five minutes, then dish up and put the olives on them just before sending to table. In either case the dish should be garnished with fanciful cut slices of lemon and hard-boiled whites of egg. 59. Caviar en Belle Vue.—This dish consists of halves of lemons cut into pretty crown-shaped baskets filled with seasoned caviare, dressed in pyramidal form on croutes of bread, previously coated with butter. The centre of each basket is garnished with a, small quantity of finely chopped shallots, and the dish is garnished with sprigs of fresh parsley. 60. Caviar a,ux JScrevisses.-—2 oz. Russian caviare, 1 shallot finely chopped, ^ lemon, a pinch of cayenne, 8 stoned olives, 16 small prawns, 2 large gherkins, bread for croutes, clarified butter for frying, parsley. Cut some slices of stale bread a quarter of an inch thick, stamp out with a plain cutter eight rounds about an inch and a half in diameter, fry them in butter a light golden colour, drain on paper or cloth and put to cool. Put the caviare in a basin, add a few drops of lemon-juice and the chopped shallot, season with cayenne and stir gently with a wooden spooi^ or fork. Cut eight thin slices of lemon, place one on each of the bread croutes, put about a teaspoonful of caviare on each of them, place a stoned olive in the centre, and arrange two picked prawns on each of the croutes. Put a tiny sprig of parsley in the centre of each olive. Dish up on a warm glass dish in a circle. Shred the gherkins and put in the centre. Ornament with a few prawn heads and serve. 61. Canapes a la Capucine.—4 slices brown bread, 4 oz. hygienic or Astrachan caviare, 8 to 10 prawns, 1 hard-boiled egg, ^ oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful mayonnaise, a few sprigs small cress. Stamp out 8. to 10 oval pieces of bread about 2 inches long, f of an inch wide. Cream the butter and mayonnaise sauce together, spread one side of each slice of bread wfith this, put a layer of caviare on top. Remove the heads from the prawns, free them from skin, split open, and place one on each. Rub the yolk of hard-boiled egg through a sieve, put a little in the centre of the canapes, ornamented with little sprigs of washed small cress, dish up on a dish-paper in a pyramidal form, place the heads of prawns on the top, and serve. 62. Tartines de Caviar en Cliaud-froid.—Put the contents of a small jar of Russian caviare into a basin, add a finely-chopped shallot and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, stir gently with a wooden spoon or fork. Cut some thin slices of brown bread, butter them, and spread one side with the prepared caviare, close up two slices and press together tightly. Stamp out some rounds with a pastry-cutter an inch and a half in diameter. Dissolve an ounce of meat glaze in two tablespoonfuls of rich brown sauce, add a gill of aspic jelly129 HOBS D'CETJVRE (APPETISERS) and a few drops of caramel, pass through a fine strainer; when cooling, mask thickly one side of each sandwich with this sauce. Dissolve a gill of aspic jelly and mix two tablespoonfuls of double cream and a few drops of lemon-juice, let it cool a little, and mask the other sides of the sandwiches. When set run a little half-set aspic jelly over the surface of each, and put them on the ice to set. Place a round piece of toasted bread in the centre of a dish, dress the sandwiches in a circle round the toast, alternately one white and one brown ; put a handful of dressed salad, such as lettuce, endive, cress,, and radishes in the centre, put the remainder of the caviare neatly on the top, keep on the ice until required for table. 63. Jfrissolettes tie Caviar. — Procure four or six very small1 farthing rolls, c'ut them in halves, and trim the edge to make them1 stand firmly, scoop out the crumbs and stand in a cool oven to dry.. Have ready some stiff mayonnaise sauce, add to it enough liquid aspic jelly to stiffen the sauce, line the inside of the rolls when cold with this, and let set. Put a dessertspoonful of Russian caviare in the centre of each roll, place a little chopped aspic jelly on the top of each,, or fill up with a layer of half-set aspic. Ornament the surface with small strips of filleted anchovies, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve when quite set. Ij If unable to get the rolls small enough, stamp out sdme rounds of bread, half an inch thick, scoop out some of the crumbs, fry in butter,, let cool, and proceed as above. 64. Caviar en Salade.—Put two tablespoonfuls of best-olive oil in a salad bowl, add a tablespoonful of vinegar, stir in with a wooden fork or spoon the contents of a small pot of Russian caviare. Slice one hard-boiled egg and two ripe tomatoes, mix carefully with the above, adding a pinch of cayenne pepper, and a little salt if needed. Dish up neatly on little glass dishes, sprinkle over a little finely chopped parsley. Ornament the dishes with some slices of hard-boiled egg and tomato, and serve. 65. Croutons al’JEspagnole.—Cut eighteen round slices of bread about an inch and a half in diameter and one-eighth of an inch thick, fry in butter, drain. Stone as many large Spanish olives with a sharp tube cutter; fill with some stiff Tartare sauce (No. 278); place one in the centre of each crouton, curl an anchovy fillet round it; garnish with finely-chopped hard-boiled egg, lobster coral, and sprigs of parsley. Dish up on small hors d’ceuvre dishes, and serve. 66. Thon Marine (Tunny Fish).—The tunny is a kind of fish which resembles the cod ; it is preserved or marinated in oil. The flesh is very firm, has a delicate flavour, and looks very much like cooked veal ; it makes a highly esteemed hors d’oeuvre, but is hardly ever served otherwise. To serve it, cut some thin slices, arrange them on oblong or round glass dishes in rows overlapping one another. Ornament the sides alternately with little heaps of chopped capers K130 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK and chopped parsley. Pour a little sweet oil over the fish just before sending to table. 67. Croutes aux JEcrevisses a la Tartare (Oroides of Crayfish, Tartare Style).—Procure six to eight small round dinner rolls (usually called farthing rolls); cut these in equal halves, scoop out the crumbs and allow the crusts to dry. In the meantime prepare a mixture of eighteen large prawns picked, one large gherkin, six anchovy fillets, and the white part of a hard-boiled egg, all of which are minced rather fine. Put these into a basin and season with a ladleful of Tartare sauce ; put a little mustard and cress at the bottom of each crust and fill up with the preparation ; stamp out some thin slices of aspic jelly, cover the surface of each with a slice, fasten the heads of prawns in the centre of each with a little lobster butter; ornament the edges with lobster butter. Dish up on small round dishes, garnish with parsley, and serve. 68. Petites Cassolettes a I’Jfpieurienne.— {Little Cases, Epicurean Style).— 2 oz. preserved lax, 2 oz. cooked ox tongue, 6 French olives, H oz. fresh butter, 2 French gherkins, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, i teaspoonful of chopped tarragon and chervil, i tablespoonful of wine vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of sweet oil, j- stick celery, about ^ lb. cassolette paste. Prepare the cassolette paste as directed below, roll out very thin ; line ten or twelve little round fluted moulds, place a round of buttered paper in each, fill up with rice, and bake for fifteen minutes in a moderately heated oven. Take out rice and papers,-replace them on a baking sheet in the oven, so that they become quite crisp, then put on sieve to cool. Cut the lax, tongue, and gherkins into little strips ; season lightly with oil, vinegar, and chopped herbs ; fill the little cases carefully with this ; stone the olives, and place one in the centre of each. Cream the butter, put it in a forcing bag or paper cornet with a fancy piping tube, and ornament the edges and surface to taste. Keep in a cool place until required for table, then dish up on little round glass saucers, and garnish with tiny bunches of ~ shredded celery and sprigs of parsley. 69. Cassolette Paste.—\ lb. flour, lfoz. butter, i an egg, a little ivater, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a pinch of salt. Put the flour into a basin, add the salt and rub in the butter until quite smooth ; then moisten with the egg, the lemon-juice, and a very little water, mix the whole thoroughly, and work into a smooth but stiff paste. Use as directed. 70. Rosettes aux Anehois.—6 filleted anchovies, 8. small mushrooms, 1 oz. anchovy paste, ^ oz. butter, 1 hard-boiled egg, chopped parsley, green butter for garnish, bread for croutes, clarified butter for frying. Cut the bread into slices about an eighth of an inch thick; stamp out some rounds about 2% inches in diameter ; mix the butter and .anchovy paste; rub the yolk of egg through a sieve, and chop theHOBS D'CETJVBE (.APPETISERS) 131 -white finely. Fry the rounds of bread a golden colour in clarified butter, drain, and cool. Spread thick on one side with anchovy butter ; cut the anchovy fillets into little strips and arrange on the croutes in the form of rosettes ; cut the stems of 8 small preserved mushrooms, and put the heads in the centre of each; garnish with the hard-boiled white and yolk of egg and the chopped parsley, decorated by means of a paper cornet with green butter ; dish up on little glass dishes and serve. 71. Canapes a la Turque.—A\ oz. butter, 4 yolks of hard- boiled egg, 4 Gorgona anchovies (boned), 3 oz. cooked lean ham, 1 oz. blanched parsley, spinach greening, 1 tablespoonful brown sauce, bread for croutes, and clarified butter. Cut some bread into slices about two inches long and half an inch wide ; fry these in clarified butter a golden colour and drain. Let cool. Pound the ham till fine, add a little sauce to produce a smooth paste, also | oz. butter and 1 yolk of hard-boiled egg. Spread thickly one side of the prepared bread croutes. Make three different kinds of butter : yellow, by pounding 2 yolks of egg and 2 oz. of butter ; the red, by pounding 3 boned anchovies with 1 oz. butter and a little brown sauce; and the green, by pounding the blanched parsley with 1 oz. butter, 1 anchovy, and 1 yolk of egg. Season the butters to taste, and rub separately through a fine sieve. By means of a forcing bag with a rose pipe or a paper cornet, force out the prepared butter alternately in the shape of crossbars on the croutes, dish up and serve cold. 72. Appetissants (Maconnaise).—3 hard-boiled eggs, 1 truffle, 2 gherkins, 3 red chillies, 6 Gorgona anchovies, 4 gill well-reduced bechamel (No. 202), 2 blanched mussels or sauce oysters, \ oz. butter, a pinch pepper, bread for toast. Cut some slices of bread about ( inch thick, toast it slightly, stamp out 8 to 10 rounds about 1^ inches in diameter ; hollow out the centre portion of each sufficiently to receive the puree named below. Cut the eggs into slices about 4 inch thick, take out the yolk and put in a mortar with 4 filleted anchovies, mussels, or oysters, and the butter ; pound till smooth, season with a pinch of pepper, add the bechamel sauce, mix well and rub through a fine sieve. Fill the hollow part of the rounds of toast with this, garnish the surface of each with little strips of truffles, gherkins, chillies, and anchovies. These will look best if put on in the form of lattice-work. Put the remainder of the savoury puree in a paper cornet or forcing bag with a fancy tube, decorate the edges artistically. Dish up on little glass dishes and serve. 73. Canapes a la Turbigo.—4 small rolls (farthing rolls), 10 prawns or 6 crayfish tails, 1 small head of celery, a feiv mixed pickles, a little aspic jelly, hard-boiled ivhites of eggs, 2 small truffles, a spoonful tomato juice, capers, and parsley, remoulade sauce (No. 285). K 2THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 132 Cut the prawns, celery, pickles, and truffles into small dice. Mix with a little remoulade sauce, which is a stiff mayonnaise sauce mixed with finely-chopped parsley, fennel, tarragon leaves, shallots,, and prepared mustard ; add to this just sufficient tomato puree te colour it. Cut the rolls in halves, scoop out the crumb, fill with the mixture, cover the surface with a thin round piece of aspic jelly. Garnish with strips of hard-boiled whites of egg, capers, truffles and parsley ; serve on small dishes. 74. Tartinesd la JBaroda (Little Sandwiches, Baroda Style).— 3 oz. Patna rice, \ lb. cold chicken meat, 2 oz. butter (fresh), \ gill cream, 1 dessertspoonful mulligatawny paste, 1 dessertspoonful of chutney, 1 tablespoonful Allemande (No. 204) or bechamel (No. 202) sauce, | pint white chaud-froid sauce (No. 290), ^ teaspoonful curry powder, some aspic jelly, 6 slices of brown bread buttered. Cut up the chicken and put in a mortar together with the butteiy mulligatawny paste, and chutney, pound well, and add Allemande or bechamel sauce. When quite finely pounded rub all through a sieve,, spread half the slices of brown bread thickly with a layer of this preparation ; if any is left over use it for garnish. Boil the rice, drain, dry, and mix with a little cream, and let cool. Cover the spread slices of bread with plain slices of buttered brown bread, press together, cut into fingers, half-moon or heart shapes. Heat up the chaud-froid sauce, mix it with sufficient curry powder to give it a greenish tint. When nearly cold mask the slices thus prepared, and when the sauce is set glaze them with a coating of half-set aspic. Dress the rice on small round silver dishes in the shape of pyramids ; dress the tartines neatly round each dish. Have ready some set aspic jelly, cut out diamond shapes and garnish the dishes with these, some sprigs of green salad, and some of the puree left over, which is- best done by means of a paper cornet or forcing-bag. Keep tlm dishes on the ice until required for serving. 75. Tartines a la Lucullus.—Take half a pound of puff paste,, give it three consecutive turns, besprinkle the paste each turn with finely-grated Parmesan cheese. Boll out in two long strips about three inches wide and a quarter of an inch thick, and cut in two crossways. Mix a tablespoonful of anchovy paste with sufficient anchovy sauce to form a smooth paste. Spread this evenly over one side of the paste, and cover with the other strip. Cut it into small squares, or oblong strips, place on a baking sheet, prick the sur- face of them with a fork, and bake in a moderately heated oven to a nice light brown. When baked put aside to cool. In the mean- time pound the following in a mortar:—Two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, one ounce of fresh butter, one ounce of bloater paste, a table- spoonful of veloutee or bechamel sauce, and three stoned Spanish olives. Put all through a fine sieve. Put into a small basin and season with a little cayenne. Put this puree in a paper cornet, cut the point, and form an ornamental border on the top of each tartine.133 HOBS D'CEUVRE (APPETISERS) Place half a stoned Spanish olive in the centre of each, curl a strip of anchovy fillet or lax round each olive, strew a few shreds of corni- chons (pickled French gherkins) round the olives, dish up, and serve. 76. Sandwiches d la Bernh ardt.—\ lb. cold meat, lean veal, beef or mutton, 2 oz. fresh mutton, 1 teaspoonful mustard, 1 table- spoonful American tomato chutney, 1 teaspoonful Mango chiotney, 2 small shallots, pepper and salt, mustard and cress, white or .brown bread and butter, parsley. Remove all skin and fat from the meat, cut it into small pieces and put it in a mortar, with an ounce of butter: pound till quite smooth, then add the mustard (mixed), tomato, and mango chutney. Peel and chop finely the shallots, fry them a very pale colour in the remainder of butter, and mix with the above. Season to taste, and rub the whole through a wire sieve. Cut the bread into thin slices, butter them lightly and spread the buttered side with the pre- pared puree, sprinkle some mustard and cress over half the slices, place them together in the usual manner, press them a little, and cut into round, square, or half-moon shapes. Arrange them neatly on a folded napkin or dish-paper, on a plate or dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. 77. Swedish Sandwiches.—Chop finely 1 gherkin, 6 stoned olives, and 1 teaspoonful capers, and mix with i gill stiff mayonnaise sauce (No. 277). Cut some thin slices of bread, butter them, spread half the number of slices of bread (buttered sides) with the above mixture, and spread the remainder of slices with cream cheese (bondons or petit Suisse). Sprinkle over each slice a pinch of cayenne or Nepaul pepper, press the slices (spread sides) together in pairs, cut the pieces into rounds, triangles, ovals or fingers, dish up, garnish, and serve. 78. Appetissants d la Suedoise.—4 slices of stale broion ■bread, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1J oz. butter, 1 oz. anchovy paste, 4 Spanish olives, 2 gherkins, cooked beetroot, 4 slices preserved lax. Have the slices of bread about half an inch thick. Cut them into triangle shapes, trim down to a convenient size. Hollow out the centre of each by means of a sharp-pointed knife. Fry these in clarified butter a nice golden colour, and drain. Mix the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, butter, and anchovy paste in a mortar, fill the cavity of triangles when cold with this puree. Cut the hard-boiled whites of eggs, gherkins, and beetroot into small •strips. Stone the olives, cut in halves, and fill each with some of the above puree, place half a slice of preserved lax, neatly shaped, on top of this, and arrange the strips of gherkin, egg, and beetroot alter- nately crosswise on each triangle so as to form a lattice pattern. Put a half of filled olive in the centre of each, garnish with a few -sprigs of parsley, and dish up. 79. Nids d la Chartres.—2 hard-boiled eggs, oz. butter, 4 teaspoonful made mustard, 1 small tin or terrine foie-gras, salt ■and pepper, stale bread.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 134 Cut the bread into slices £ inch thick. Stamp out eight rounds inches in diameter; scoop out a little of the centre portion of each,, fry in clarified butter a golden colour, and drain. Kemove the fat from the foie-gras, cut out some small cubes with a f-inch cutter. Pound the trimmings of foie-gras (without any pieces of truffles) in a mortar, together with the butter and the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, add the mustard and season to taste, mix well and rub through a coarse wire sieve on to the croutes of bread so as to cover the hollow side completely with the puree as it comes through the sieve. Dish up carefully, place a cube of foie-gras in the centre of each, garnish tastefully with hard-boiled white of egg, truffles, and a little chopped aspic if liked. 80. Olives farcies.—There are numerous ways of stuffing olives. The above being intended as hors d’oeuvre, the following method will be found the most suitable. Take 10 to 12 large Spanish olives (Queens), cut out the stones by means of a column cutter. Toast one or two slices of bread and stamp out some rounds about an inch in diameter. Prepare a mixture by pounding 4 oz. foie-gras pate, 2 yolks of hard-boiled eggs, 1 oz. butter ; season with pepper and salt, and rub through a sieve; spread thinly the rounds of toast with this, put the remainder of the puree in a forcing-bag, and fill the olives ; place each in the middle of the croutes, decorate tastefully with creamed butter and sprigs of parsley, and dish up on little glass dishes. 81. Olives farcies a la Gelee (Stuffed Olives in Aspic Jelly).— 1 bottle stuffed olives (olives farcies), 4 pint aspic jelly (No. 88), tarragon-leaves, 3 red chillies, spinach greening, 10 to 12 rounds of fried bread, 1 oz. anchovy paste, 1 oz. fresh butter.. Take about a gill of aspic and dissolve it in a small stewpan, add a few drops of spinach greening to give it a greenish tint. Mask the inside of 10 or 12 small olive or cup moulds with this, decorate them tastefully with tarragon-leaves, and fancifully-cut shapes of chilli skin. Wipe the olives carefully with a damp cloth, and set one in each of the moulds (these should be very little larger than the olives), fill up the base of the olives with dissolved aspic, and put them on the ice to set. Stamp out some rounds of bread, about an eighth of an inch thick and an inch in diameter, fry these a golden colour in clarified butter, drain and cool. Mix the anchovy paste with the butter, spread one side of the rounds of bread with this. Unmould the olives, place them on the rounds of bread, dish up on glass dishes with pretty lace paper, garnish to taste with parsley or sprigs of cresses, and serve. 82. Olives a la Madras. 6 Spanish olives, 6 anchovy filets, 2 hard-boiled eggs, ^ teaspoonful of chutney, 1 dessertspoonful of anchovy sauce or paste, 1 oz. of butter, cayenne and salt, 6 fried croutes. Stone the olives, pound the butter, anchovy paste, yolk of eggs,, chutney, and seasoning in a mortar. Then rub them through a sieve..HOBS D'CEUVBE (.APPETISERS) 135 Place a little of the mixture on each croute, put a stoned olive on each, fill with the rest of the mixture through a forcing-bag. Decorate with coral and chopped white of egg. Curl an anchovy fillet round the base of each olive, dish up on little glass dishes, garnish with parsley, and serve. 83. Olives a la Tartare.—Stamp out some slices of brown bread with a 1-inch cutter. Have ready a gill of stiff Tartare sauce (No. 278) in which has been incorporated half a gill of stiff aspic jelly. Dip each round of bread in the sauce to mask completely. Place them on a dish to set. Stone as many Spanish olives as there are rounds of bread, fill each with Tartare sauce, place one in the centre of each croute, dish up on little glass dishes, put a shrimp-tail or small prawnffail in each olive, garnish with parsley, and serve. The rounds of bread must be very thickly masked; if not satis- factory at first, coat for a second or third time. 84. I*elites Caisses a la Casanova.—Cut half a head of washed celery and one large truffle into fine Julienne strips. Season with a little mayonnaise (No. 211) or Tartare sauce ; fill about three parts some very small paper cases ; lay a slice of hard-boiled egg, cut out to size, on top of this, place a bearded oyster on each, and garnish tastefully with ravigote butter (No. 398). This is best effected by means of a paper cornet. 85. Simple Dishes.—A number of simple hors d’oeuvre may be prepared with various kinds of fancy butter, such as Montpellier, anchovy, lobster, crayfish, shrimp, ravigote, maitre d’hotel, and horseradish butter. Any of the abovenamed can be shaped into little balls, tiny pats, or cubes, served on little squares of crisp toast, very small lunch biscuits, or Parmesan biscuits. Little balls of butter are sometimes dished neatly on small china or glass hors d’ceuvre dishes. In that case, little pieces of toast or biscuits are handed round at the same time. 86. Lax fame a VHaile aux Concombres (Smoked Salmon with Cucumber).—1 tin of lax, 1 cucumber, 1 tablespoonful of sweet oil, 1 dessertspoonful Orleans vinegar, pepper and salt, 3 or 4 slices brown bread, butter, a handful of mustard and cress and water- cresses, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Cut the cucumber into 14-inch pieces, being of the same size as near as possible, cut the peel so as to form stripes of green and white (crinkled). Scoop out some of the centre and round off the bottom of each so as to give thorn the appearance of cups. Chop the pulp scooped out of the centre and put it in a basin, with the oil, vinegar, and chopped parsley. Stamp out some rounds of bread with a 2-inch cutter ; butter them on one side, cover the buttered side with thin slices of preserved lax, cut some of the lax into fine strips and mix with the cucumber pulp, season with pepper and salt. Put the cucumber cups on the prepared rounds of bread, and fill the cavities with the above mixture. Range them neatly on a round dish in the shape of a crown, season the small cress &c., and put it in the centre of the dish.136 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK CHAPTEE XIY SOUPS {POTAGES) (See also Chapter IX. on Stocks and Soups.) 87. General Stock for a good Soup—1 lb. of veal {knuckle part), 2 lbs. shin of beef {or shoulder part), 3^ lbs. bones {beef or veal), 2 gallons ivater, 2 oz. salt, some poultry giblets {cleaned), 2 carrots, 2 onions, 3 leeks, 1 head of celery, 2 cloves {stuck in the onions), 1 parsnip, 12 peppercorns, 1 small bunch of sweet herbs, bay-leaves, thyme, and plenty of parsley. If the meat used requires boning, take out the bones and tie up the meat with string; break the bones with a chopper into pieces. Put both together with the giblets in the stock-pot; add the salt and, water (cold), and let it come gently to the boil. When nearly boiling remove the scum which will have risen to the top, pour in half a gill ■of cold water, and skim again. Have the above-named vegetables and herbs prepared, and add them to the stock with the peppercorns. Let the whole come to the boil; skim again, remove the pot to the side of the stove, or if a gas-stove is used lower the flame, and let it simmer slowly for five hours. The fat which rises to the top during the process of simmering should be carefully taken off with a spoon. This fat should be put aside in a basin and used up with other fat when clarifying for frying purposes. As soon as the broth or stock is cooked sufficiently, take out the meat and put it on a dish, to be used up in some form or for second stock. Strain the broth through a wet napkin, colour it with a few drops of caramel if required for brown stock or soup. If required to be served thin, taste it and add a little more salt or pepper if it be required. If required as stock it is best to keep it without any additional seasoning, and in its natural colour. 88. Heniouillage {Second Stock).—This is prepared by adding the same quantity of water to the meat, bones, and vegetables after being used for general or first stock. Any remains of meat or bones which cannot be used otherwise should find their way to the second stock. Let it simmer for four or five hours, keeping it well skimmed. Salt or other additional seasoning should be omitted, for this stock is only used for filling up others, already seasoned, or else for purees, sauces, &c., where the seasoning in their proportion will be found correctly described. When sufficiently simmered, pass it through a cloth, and use when required; or boil it down for meat glaze.SOUPS, (POTAGES) 137 Stock made from veal makes the best meat glaze; but any kind of meat, poultry, or game stock can be reduced for glaze. 89. JPot-au-feu (Family Soup).—The pot-au-feu is what would here be termed the stock-pot. It figures as ‘ a standing dish ’ in every household in France, Germany, and Switzerland, as well as in other foreign countries where thrift is, so to speak, ingrained in the national character, and where cooking as an art is not monopolised by the rich alone. The pot-au-feu is on the simmer from the early morn until dinner-time, and many loose unconsidered trifles and scraps find their way to the stock-pot, or pot-au-feu. The art of culinary blending, however, produces a highly wholesome soup, which is at the same time nutritive and savoury. The following is a recipe which will produce a first-class soup with meat and vegetables, the same as is served on the Continent: —4 lbs. brisket of beef, 1 large onion, 2 carrots, 4 cloves, 2 leeks, % cabbage, a small bunch of soup herbs, 12 peppercorns, salt, ^ lb. French bread, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, 1^ gallons cold water. Wash the meat thoroughly in cold water (shin of beef may be sub- stituted for brisket, but it will not be so useful for serving), cover it with the water, place it on the fire and let it come gently to a boil. Be careful to skim off all the scum which rises} on top as the stock begins to boil. Wash and clean the vegetables, stick the cloves in the onion, tie up the leeks and cabbage, and put all in with the meat. Season with a table-spoonful of salt, add the peppercorns, and let the whole simmer gently for four hours. Take out the meat; strain the broth into a tureen, cut the carrots, turnips, and leeks into round pieces, and put with the broth; cut the bread into thin slices, and put it in the tureen, sprinkle the chopped parsley on top, and serve. Before straining the broth it should be tasted, and more seasoning added according to requirement and taste. The meat can with ad- vantage be served, but as a separate course, or it may be used up in some form for another meal. 90. JPetites Mar mites a la JParisienne.—This is a high- class pot-au-feu soup, served in small earthenware soup pots, which hold about half a pint of soup. Each guest is served with a small marmite, which should be handed round on hot soup-plates covered with a folded napkin. It is usual to serve at the same time small sippets of toasted and buttered bread. If marrow-bones are used for this soup, they should be sawn into inch pieces. These are likewise handed round with the soup. 4 lbs. buttock steak, 1^ lb. beef-bones, lb. knuckle of veal, some chicken giblets if handy, 2 sticks of leek, 2 cloves, % chicken, ^ celery root, 1 small onion, 2 small carrots, 1 turnip, | cabbage, 12 pepper- corns, salt, parsley (a marrow-bone). Use an enamelled soup-pot or a French stone marmite. Tie up the meat with string, put it in the soup-pot with 6 to 7 quarts of cold water or stock ; bring it slowly to a boil, take off the scum. WashTHE NEW CENTURYyCOOKERY BOOK 188 clean and trim the vegetables. Eoast the bones and giblets and chicken with a little butter in a saute-pan over the fire. Remove the fat and put this with the soup, tie up the leeks and cabbage, add these together with the carrots, turnip, onion (stuck with 2 cloves), celery, and parsley to the soup; let it come gently to the boil, skim, season lightly with salt, and add a dozen peppercorns. Let the whole simmer very slowly for about three hours. It is very essential that it should simmer slowly and continuously so as to ensure a clear broth with the needful nourishment, which can only be obtained by a slow process of cooking. Remove the meat and chicken, cut the former in convenient pieces, allowing one slice for each person ; cut the chicken into small joints. Put the pieces in a clean stew- pan, strain the broth through a fine sieve or strainer, and put with the pieces. Cut the cabbage, leek, carrots, and turnip into small pieces or slices, moisten them with broth, and keep hot. Let the soup simmer for another half-hour. Season to taste. Put equal proportions of vegetables, beef, and chicken in little soup-pots (this soup should be served in very small French marmites, sufficiently large to hold enough soup for one person), pour in the broth, sprinkle over each a little chopped parsley or chives, and serve with toasted bread sippets. If a marrow-bone is used saw it into small pieces about an inch long,.wrap up in little pieces of linen or muslin, cook with the soup, and serve as directed. If any pieces of meat are left , over, make them up into a salad, or use up in some other form. 91. Croitte-au-pot.—2 quarts of good first stock, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, cabbage, 2 oz. butter, 1 dinner roll, parsley or chives, pepper and salt, nutmeg. The stock should be made from beef and veal and bones, and the usual stock vegetables. It must be kept well skimmed, in which case it is not necessary to clarify it. Cut the carrot and turnip into round slices, drain the cabbage and cut into small pieces; put all the vegetables in a stewpan with the butter, cover and cook slowly for about ten minutes. Season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Strain the stock on to the vegetables, and let simmer for about thirty minutes ; skim occasionally. Cut the roll into thin round slices, place them on a baking sheet, bake them on both sides a golden brown in a moderate oven. Put them in a soup tureen, moisten with a little stock, pour the soup over, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley or chives, and serve. 92. Bouillon sur (Eufs (Beef Broth with Eggs).—Prepare a stock with beef, shoulder flank or sticking, allowing 1 lb. of meat and bones to each quart of water. Place it on the fire, adding a little salt, let it come gently to the boil, and remove the scum. Add the soup vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, onions, 3 leeks, previously cleaned and peeled, also a few peppercorns and a couple of bay-leaves. Cook gently from 2^ to 3 hours. Beat up one or two eggs in a soup- tureen, add to it a table-spoonful or less of finely-chopped parsley andSOUPS (POTAGES) 139 chives, and pour into it some of the strained stock, which is known as broth or bouillon; season to taste with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg, and serve. Allow one egg to every quart of broth. 93. Bouillon en Tusses (Broth in Gups).—To produce a good cup of bouillion, it requires only a rich and well-flavoured beef-stock, or pot-au-feu. broth. Put one yolk of egg into each cup, add a tiny grate of nutmeg and stir up, pour in slowly some strained hot beef- broth, sprinkle a little chopped parsley or chives on the top, and serve. The egg-yolk may, if liked, be omitted. 94. Consommes in GeneralClarification.—1 gallon of stock, lib. lean beef, 1 onion, 1 carrot, | leek, 2 cloves, ^ bay-leaf, i head celery, a few sprigs parsley, 1 sprig thyme and marjoram, 12 peppercorns, 2 sprigs tarragon and chervil, 3 whites of egg and shell, 1 glass sherry, 1 of brandy, ^ lemon or 1 dessertspoonful French vinegar, salt, sugar. The stock should be cold for clarifying. Remove all the fat. Prepare the vegetables, wash and cut into small slices, put it together with the herbs, cloves, bay-leaves, and peppercorns in a well-tinned siewpan. Pass the meat through a mincing machine several times, or chop finely. Whisk the whites of egg a little and put with the meat, moisten with a tablespoonful of cold water ; put this, with the shells, along with the stock, into the stewpan containing the vegetables. Stir over the fire until it commences to boil, then add the wine and brandy, and let simmer gently for about fifteen minutes. Season to- taste with salt and a pinch of caster sugar. Strain through a cloth ; it is then ready for use. 95. Royal pour Consommes (Savoury Custard for. Clear Soup).—2 whole eggs, 2 yolks of egg, 1 gill white stock, 1 tablespoon- ful cream, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg. Break the eggs and put into a basin, add the stock and cream, season to taste with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, strain and fill into a well-buttered plain mould. Cover with a buttered paper, stand it in a stewpan or saute-pan three-parts filled with hot water. Cook gently on the stove or in the oven until set, take out, let cool, turn on to a plate, cut into diamonds, lozenge-shapes, rounds, or small dice. Serve in clear soups or purees as directed. 96. Consomme de Volatile (Clear Chicken Broth).—1 fowl, li lbs. lean veal, 2 lbs. lean beef, 1 onion, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 1 stick of celery, 2 leeks, 3 cloves, 1 parsley root, 2 gallons of water, salt. Truss the fowl the same as for boiling, preserve the giblets, clean and wash and put them with the fowl, beef, and veal in a stock-pot, add two tablespoonfuls of salt and the water. Put it on the fire, when nearly boiling take off the scum. Skin the onion, stick in the cloves, scrape the carrots, peel the turnip, clean the celery, leeks, and parsley, and tie together in a bunch. When the stock is well skimmed and boiling, put in the vegetables, and let the whole simmer gently for five hours. The fowl may be taken out when done, and be used up140 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK in some form or the other. If care is taken in preparing this soup it will be quite clear and fit for serving when strained through a wet cloth ; but if found cloudy clarify it as directed in No. 94, taking only half the quantity of meat and' vegetables given in the recipe. 97. Consomme a In, Brisse—3 eggs (whole), 6 egg-yolks, % cooked cauliflower, a cupful of cooked spinach, 6 small French carrots. cooked, a little stock, 8 guarts consomme, a handful of boiled rice, pepper and salt. Prepare three distinct purees of the vegetables, mix with a little stock over the fire. Add to each one whole and two yolks of eggs, season with pepper and salt, press through a hair-sieve ; fill up three equal-sized timbale moulds, well buttered, and cook in a saute-pan in boiling water. When done turn out on a napkin, cut into small squares, put them in a soup-tureen with a handful of boiled rice, pour over the boiling consomme, and serve. 98. Consom me a la Talma.—3^ pints consomme (clarified double broth), 2 oz. Jordan almonds, 1 oz. bitter almonds, \pint milk, 2 whole eggs, 3 yolks of eggs, a little butter, 1 oz. rice, and seasoning. Blanch and peel the almonds, put them in a mortar and pound till quite fine, add the milk, mix thoroughly, and press through a tammy cloth or strong napkin. Break the eggs into a basin, add the yolks, and whisk up a little, so as to well amalgamate the yolks with the whites. Strain the eggs into the almond milk, season with pepper and salt, mix well, and pour into a well-buttered plain charlotte or timbale mould. Put the mould into a stewpan or sautoire containing boil- ing water to about half the height of the mould, cover with a buttered paper, and let simmer until the custard is firm enough to turn out. Let it cool in the mould, then turn on to a wet cloth, and cut the custard into half-inch squares or dice. Meanwhile blanch the rice, parboil in slightly salted water, drain off the water, let it cool, and finish cooking the rice in clear stock. Put a handful of boiled rice and the custard in a soup-tureen, pour the boiling consomme over, and serve. 99. Consomme a la Careme (Clear Soup, Careme Style).—Pre- pare'a stock with 2 gallons of water, 1 lb. of lean veal, 1 lb. of shin of beef, some roast beef bones, a small roast chicken, and a small handful of salt; let it boil up gently, skim well, and add the follow- ing : one onion stuck with a clove, one carrot, one turnip, one leek, a small head of celery, and a few peppercorns. Let all simmer gently from four to five hours, removing fat and scum from time to time, next strain the broth carefully through a napkin. Cook separately in two quarts of broth until done one small carrot, one small turnip, one leek, a few lettuce and a few sorrel leaves, all cut into small round slices about the size of a shilling-piece ; when done add it to the prepared broth, together with two tablespoonfuls of cooked asparagus points. Before serving, place a handful of small rounds of bread-crusts, stamped out the same shape as the vegetable, into the tureen.SOUPS (POTAGES) 141 Season the soup to taste, add a pinch of fine sugar and the vegetables, pour into the soup-tureen and serve. This soup, if properly done, should be quite transparent, and of a rich golden colour, without being coloured or clarified. 100. Consomme de Volatile a la Chiffonade (Chicken Broth, Chiffonade Style).—A small fowl, 3 quarts of white stock, 2 leeks, 3 oz. butter, a bouquet garni,parsley, 1 long lettuce, 1 handful of sorrel, ^ handful of chervil, salt and pepper. Cut the fowl into small joints. Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, when hot put in the pieces of chicken, season with salt and pepper, and fry slightly brown ; add the stock, boil up and skim. Now add a bunch of parsley, the bouquet garni, and the leeks (pre- viously cleaned). Simmer gently _for two hours. Wash the sorrel, chervil, and lettuce (use the tender leaves of the latter only) ; cut all into very fine strips, put them together with an ounce of butter in a stewpan, stir gently over the fire for ten minutes, moisten with some of the broth, skim, and cook for fifteen minutes, strain the remainder of the broth into this, and season to taste. Cut some neat pieces of chicken and put in a tureen, pour in the soup, and serve. 101. Consomme de Volatile f nappe (Clear Chicken Broth, Iced).—Put into a stock-pot one large fowl, two pounds of knuckle of veal, two pounds of shin of beef, two tablespoonfuls of salt, and about one and a half gallons of water ; place on the fire and bring it slowly to the boil; skim well; add a bouquet, two carrots, one turnip, a few peppercorns, one onion stuck with two cloves, one stick of celery, two leeks, one bay-leaf, and some parsley-root; let all boil gently for about five hours. Take out the fowl when done, so that it can be made further use of. Remove the fatty substance from the top, strain through a wet napkin, or a fine hair sieve; clarify in the usual manner. When strained the second time, allow it to cool, and set on the ice until required. Before sending to the table season to taste, and add one glass of sherry and half a glass of brandy. 102. Consomme Deslif/nae.—For 2 quarts of chicken or game consomme : 3 eggs, ^ gill cream, 4 gill stock {game), \ gill asparagus points, \ gill cooked green peas, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. Break the eggs into a basin, beat a little and add the cream and stock, season to taste, mix well, strain, and put into a well-buttered plain mould; place it in a stewpan half filled with water, and cook over a slow fire for about half an hour; take out, let cool, and cut into neat square pieces. Put these, together with the cooked aspa- ragus points and green peas, in a soup tureen, pour in the clear chicken or game consomme, and serve. 103. Consomme Sevigne.—2 quarts of chicken consomme, ^ cooked chicken, oz. rice, 1 gill veloutee sauce, 2 whole eggs and 4 yolks, ^ gill cream, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, 1 gill cooked peas, a few cooked French beans. Free the chicken from bones, skin, and sinews ; cut the meat into'THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 142 small pieces and pound in a mortar ; cook the rice in rich stock, and when done strain off and pound with the chicken ; add the sauce, mix well, and put in a basin ; work in the eggs and cream, season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Pass this through a fine sieve. Fill eight or ten very small well buttered timbale or dariole moulds with the mixture. Stand them in a saute-pan half filled with boiling water. Cook slowly for half an hour. Turn out on a dish or wet cloth. Cut the shapes crossways into three or four equal pieces, put them into a hot soup-tureen, with the peas and beans—the latter cut into small dice—pour over the consomme, and serve. The garniture for this soup is sometimes served separately in a deep round dish, and is handed round as the consomme is served. 104. Consomme d la LiUenne.— Shred finely 1 oz. peeled almonds, and bake a pale brown in the oven, cut 2 large truffles and six preserved mushrooms into fine shreds (Julienne fashion); put these in a soup-tureen with a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil leaves, pour over about 2 quarts of hot rich consomme, and serve. 105. Consom m e aux Petits Choux farcis {Clear Soup with Stuffed Cabbage). — 3 pints to 2 quarts of clear soup {consomme) for choux; 1 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 1 egg, a pinch of salt, about 2 oz. chicken or veal forcemeat. Put the butter in a medium-sized stewpan; add about a gill of water and a pinch of salt; let this come to the boil, then stir in the flour and work vigorously with a wooden spoon over the fire until a smooth paste is obtained (the sides and bottom of the stewpan must be left perfectly clean by this time). Allow to cool a little, then stir in the egg. Put the mixture in a forcing-bag with a plain tube, and press out some even-sized heaps on to a greased baking-tin about an inch apart. Bake these in a fairly quick oven. Cut out a small portion of the bottom of each chon and scoop out some of the inside ; fill the cavities with forcemeat, replace the crust removed for the purpose of filling, and place the choux in a buttered saute-pan; cover them with a greased paper, and place in the oven for about twelve minutes, in order to cook the farce. To serve the soup, put the choux in a soup-tureen, and pour the consomme (previously heated) into the tureen. These little choux may be filled with almost any kind of farce. Fish, game, or vegetable purees make a nice change. 106. Consomme Choron a la Richelieu.—2 quarts game consomme, 2 small fillets of cooked game, 2 carrots {small), 1 oz. tapioca de Bresil, 1 gill Royal custard {No. 95) cut into cubes, seasoning. Remove the skin from the fillets of cooked game, and cut the meat into fine shreds or Julienne strips. Scoop out some little ball shapes from the carrots and cook them in salted water till tender. Cook the tapioca in boiling Avater or consomme for about fifteen minutes, then add it to the consomme of game. Next add the cooked143 SOUPS (POTAGES) carrots, and let the consomme simmer gently for about ten minutes. Skim and season_to taste. Put the prepared and cut cubes of custard in a soup-tureen, pour over the consomme, and serve. 107. Consom me a la Nemours—2 quarts good stock (clari- fied), 1 oz. crushed tapioca, 2 carrots, % gill bechamel sauce, 3 eggs, i oz. butter, seasoning. Clarify the stock in the usual manner, and strain, it carefully. Add the tapioca (previously soaked in water) when boiling, and cook gently for fifteen minutes, and season to taste. Wash the carrots and scrape finely the red part into a stewpan containing the butter. Cook it while stirring for five minutes, add the white sauce (bechamel), and a little stock, and simmer till tender, then rub through a fine sieve. Incorporate the eggs well beaten, season to taste, strain into a buttered mould, and poach till firm. Unmould, cut into neat cubes or diamond shapes, and put into the prepared consomme. Ee-heat and serve. 108. Consomme a la Dubarry—Prepare a Eoyal custard by mixing the whole of 2 yolks of eggs with a gill of good stock. Strain into a basin, add a few Jordan almonds, blanched and cut into fine shreds; season with salt and pepper, and pour into a plain mould (well buttered), cover with a piece of buttered paper, and stand it in a saucepan of boiling water. Steam gently for 20 minutes. When set, let cool, turn out on a board, and cut it into small cubes. Cook a handful of very small buds of cauliflower in salted water, and strain when done. Wash, blanch, and cook \ ounce of best rice; drain also. Put all these in a soup-tureen and pour bver 3 pints to 2 quarts of rich chicken consomme. 109. Consomme a la Mambouie.—d pints consomme, ± lb. chicken forcemeat, 1 gill cooked green peas, 2 yolks of eggs. Mix the chicken forcemeat with the yolks of eggs, season with nutmeg and a pinch of aromatic spice, and a little salt if found necessary. Spread this in a well-buttered tin, cover with a buttered paper, and poach in the oven for about 15 minutes. When cool cut or stamp out some small rounds, by means of a column cutter. Put these and the peas, previously heated and drained, in a soup-tureen, pour over , the hot consomme, and serve. 110. Consomme a la Diplomats.—2 quarts clear soup, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 small cucumber, 18 small white button onions, 6 yolks of eggs (rate). Wash and peel the carrot and turnip, peel the1 cucumber, scoop out, by means of a vegetable scoop, some neat shapes, blanch and cook separately in salted water, or clear stock. Peel the onions, blanch and cook likewise. Carefully poach the yolks of eggs in slightly salted boiling water. Place the yolks into a soup-tureen together with the vegetables previously strained, pour over the consomme (hot),- season with pepper and salt, if required, and serve.144 THE. NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 111. Consomme a la Veneur—2 quarts rich clear consomme (made in the usual way), 2 whites of eggs, 1 tablespoonful of cream,. (2 large truffles, 1 small firm lettuce, 1 small head of white celery, carmine colouring, pepper and salt, tarragon and chervil. Mix the whites of eggs with the cream, colour with a few drops of liquid carmine, and strain through a pointed strainer into a well buttered plain mould, poach in the oven till quite firm. When done, unmould, let cool, and cut into fine Julienne strips, or very small cubes of even size; cut the truffles into similar shapes, put them in a saucepan with a little sherry and heat up. Trim and wash the lettuce and the celery, cut them into fine shreds (use only the hearts of lettuce and celery), cook separately in salted water, strain, and keep hot. Put all the ingredients together with a few tarragon and chervil leaves, finely chopped, into the consomme, season to taste, let it come to the boil, skim, and pour into the soup-tureen. 112. Consomme a la Celestine (Clear Chicken Broth, Celes- tine Style).—Prepare about three quarts of consomme, with one pound of lean veal, one pound of lean beef, one roast fowl, two gallons of water, bones of roast beef, soup vegetables, and seasoning. Boil from four to- five hours and strain ; when cold clarify in the usual way, adding one glass of sherry, and seasoning to. taste. Have ready a pancake- batter, made with two ounces of flour, half an ounce of oiled butter, half an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, two eggs, one gill of milk, one dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, tarragon leaves and chervil, and a pinch of salt. Prepare about six thin pancakes with this, fold them longways, cut them into thin strips, place them in a soup- tureen ; pour over the soup, and serve. 118. Consommeala Grisonne.—Have ready someconsomme. Prepare a pancake batter with the same ingredients as No. 112, leaving out the herbs and using cream instead of milk. When the consomme is boiling force the preparation through a colander quickly into it; let boil gently for a few minutes, when the soup will be ready for serving.- 114. Consomme a la Fortugaise.—2 quarts of consomme, 18 French plums, 2 small leeks, \ oz. butter, a pinch of cayenne. Wash the plums, put them in cold Water with a little salt; bring to the boil, strain, and rinse in cold water ; return to the stewpan in which they were blanched, add sufficient clear stock to well cover, and cook slowly till tender. Wash and clean the leeks, cut into shreds or Julienne-shaped strips about an inch long, wash well in cold water, drain, and cook a few minutes with the butter, pour in some clarified stock or consomme, and cook slowly till tender. Carefully remove all the fat, pour over the consomme, and let simmer for a few minutes. Put the plums in a soup-tureen, add a pinch of cayenne, pour in the- consomme, and serve with some sippets of toasted bread. 115. Consomme a la Florentine.—2 quarts of clear con- somme, 1 turnip, 1 carrot, about 6 oz. chicken forcemeat, spinach- greening.145 SOUP8 {POTAGES) Wash and peel thinly the carrot and turnip (if very small use two of each), cut into slices and stamp out some star shapes, a quarter of an inch in diameter, by means of a vegetable-cutter; blanch separately in salted water, and cook until tender in some consomme. Each lot must be cooked separately. Mix the forcemeat with a few drops of spinach greening, put it in a forcing-bag with a plain tube ; make some small rings on to a buttered saute-pan, poach these in boiling consomme, strain and put in a soup-tureen with the other garnish, pour in two quarts of hot consomme, and serve. 116. Consomme Colbert.—The garniture for this soup consists of poached eggs neatly trimmed (reckoning one for each person), a handful of cooked ball shapes of turnips and carrots, and a few cooked green peas. Choose the eggs very small, poach them in salted water containing a dash of tarragon vinegar. 117. Consomme a la Royal.—For 2 quarts of consomme-. The breast of a cooked chicken, 1 whole egg and 3 yolks of eggs, \ gill of cream, 1 gill stock, pepper and salt. 1 Remove the skin from the chicken’s breast and cut into small dice. Mix well the eggs, cream, and stock, season to taste, and pass through a fine sieve; fill into a buttered mould, put it in a stewpan half filled with hot water. Cook in a slow oven till firm. Let cool a little, then turn out, cut into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, cut into dice or stamp out with a column cutter. Put these and the chicken into a soup-tureen, pour over the consomme, and serve. 118. Consomme a I’Andalouse.—For 2 quarts of consomme: j> gill tomato sauce, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful cream, 1 small cucumber, chicken forcemeat for quenelles. Beat the egg in a basin and mix with it the tomato sauce (cold) and the cream, season with pepper and salt, strain and fill into a buttered timbale mould; stand the mould in a saucepan half filled with boiling water, and poach in a slow oven till firm. Let it cool a little, turn out, and cut into fanciful shapes ; put these in a small stewpan, moisten with a little clear soup and keep hot until required. Peel the cucumber, scoop out with a vegetable scoop some little bell shapes ; cook tender in salted water, and strain. Have ready some chicken forcemeat, put in forcing-bag ; form some little quenelle shapes in a buttered saute-pan, pour in a little hot clear soup, and poach. Put the garniture in a soup-tureen, pour in the consomme, and serve. 119. Consomme Julienne.—To 2 quarts of consomme : 2 small carrots, \ turnip, 1 leek, i onion, £ stick celery, 1 oz. butter, | small cabbage, a pinch of sugar, pepper and salt. Pare and wash the vegetables, slice them thinly and cut into very fine long shreds, put them in a stewpan with the butter, stir over the fire to blend well and cook a little, season with a pinch of sugar, a, little salt and pepper. Add the clear soup, cook gently for thirty minutes or so ; skim off the fat and serve. A tablespoonful of cooked n146 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK green peas, and the same of cooked French beans cut in strips, may be added to the Julienne garniture. 120. Consomme Bonquetiere.—Fm the same vegetables as in the above, omitting the cabbage. Cut them into slices and stamp out by means of vegetable or column cutters some fanciful-shaped dice. Proceed the same as in the foregoing, and add one gill Eoyal (No. 95) ; cut into small diamond shapes just before serving. 121. Consomme JPaysanne—For 2 quarts of clear soup {No. 94) : 3 carrots, 3 turnips, 1 onion, ^ small cabbage, 3 oz. butter,, a handful of sorrel, a feiv sprigs of chervil, a handful of slightly- toasted sippets of bread, salt, pepper, a pinch of sugar. Wash the vegetables, scrape the carrots, peel the turnips and onion. Cut these into thin slices, stamp out in rounds about an inch in diameter. Cut the cabbage-leaves in a similar way. Put the butter in a stewpan, add the vegetables with the exception of sorrel and chervil. Fry a few7 minutes, season with pepper, salt, and sugar, pour off the butter arid add a quart of water, shred the sorrel and chervil, and add it after the above has simmered for about half an hour. Pour in the clear soup, boil up, skim and simmer for another twenty minutes. Put the toasted bread sippets in a soup-tureen, pour over the soup when ready, and serve. 122. Consomme a la Jardiniere.—For 2 quarts of con- somme : 1 carrot, 2 small turnips, 6 small button onions, ^ cucumber, j of a lettuce, J of a stalk of celery, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil, pepper, salt, a pinch of sugar. Scrape, peel, and clean the vegetables, scoop out the carrot, turnips, and celery into the shape of peas and small olives. Wash the lettuce- and pull into very small pieces, cut the tarragon and chervil into fine shreds, blanch these and the lettuce-leaves. Cook the onions, carrot,, turnips, celery, and cucumber separately in salted water, drain and put all together with lettuce and herbs in a stewpan. Fill up with the clear soup, add the seasoning, boil gently for about ten minutes, and serve hot. N.B.—Toasted bread cut into small sippets may be served with this soup, but should be handed round separately. 123. Consomme Brunoise.—For 2 quarts of consomme : onion, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 1 leek, 1 oz. butter, a pinch sugar, pepper and salt. Peel the onion, pare and wash the carrots, turnip, and leek, cut all into very small dice, the smaller the better. Put the vegetables in a stewpan, add the butter, season with very little salt, pepper, and sugar. Cover and keep over a fire for a few minutes, shake the pan well to prevent burning. See that the vegetables get well blended, but do not let them take colour. Pour in the clear soup, and boil gently for about half an hour. Take off the fat, and serve. A few sippets of toasted bread may be served in this soup, and, if liked, a handful of finely-minced lettuce and sorrel may be added along with the above-named vegetables.SOUPS {POTAGES) 147 124. Consomme Brunoise an Biz Proceed the same as in the foregoing recipe, adding a handful of well-washed, blanched, and cooked rice about ten minutes before serving. 125. Consomme Fleuri.—Prepare a jardiniere consomme (No. 122), put 8 tablespoonfuls cooked rice into the soup-tureen, pour the hot consomme over it, and serve. 126. Consomme a la JPrineesse.—2 quarts- consomme {No. 96), 2 tablespoonfuls pearl barley, 1 chicken breast cooked, 2 table- spoonfuls cooked asparagus points. Wash well the barley, strain and boil till tender in the consomme, cut the chicken breast into small dice, add to the soup with the asparagus points. Boil up, skim, and serve. 127. Consomme a la Nantaise.—Proceed the same as for the above, adding a handful of cooked green peas in place of the asparagus points. 128. Consomme des Bois.—2 quarts clarified double stock {i.e. chicken consomme), 3 fresh truffles, the breasts of six quails, 1 gill cooked asparagus points, a plate of Parmesan crou tons. Wash, brush, and peel thinly the truffles, cook them in a little stock with a small quantity of sherry or Madeira, keep the stewpan well covered whilst cooking the truffles. Cook the quail fillets in a saute-pan with a little butter, in the oven. When done take up both the truffles and the quail fillets, and cut them into fine strips (Julienne shapes). Put these with the asparagus points in a well-tinned copper stewpan, add the consomme, and let cook gently for about ten minutes. Remove the scum, season to taste, and pour into a soup-tureen. Hand a small plateful of Parmesan croutons along with the soup. 129. Consomme d la Maneelli.—Wash and pare 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 leek, and 4 head white celery, and cut them into very fine shreds (Julienne fashion). Put these in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and cook very gently over the fire for 10 minutes. Moisten with 3 pints of consomme (clarified beef and veal broth), and cook slowly for half an hour. Skim well, removing all the fat and scum that may rise to the surface. When ready for serving season to taste with salt and pepper, and add a small handful of roasted chestnuts, peeled and cut into small dice, or better still into Julienne strips ; a tablespoonful of cooked game, such as partridge, grouse, or pheasant, cut into fine shreds, added to this soup will be found an improvement; the latter is, however, quite optional. 130. Consomme d la Flamande.—2 quarts clear soup {con- somme), 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 1 onion, \ of a medium-sized cabbage, 2 ounces butter, 1 teaspoonful caster sugar, a few sorrel-leaves, a few chervil-leaves, the crust of half a French roll, pepper and salt. Clean and peel the carrots and turnips, wash the cabbage and cut into small thin dice ; put them into a stewpan with the butter, and fry a light-brown colour. Add the sugar, drain off the butter, moisten148 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK with the consomme (clarified beef broth) and about a pint of water, and cook slowly for one hour. Wash and pick the sorrel and chervil,and cut into fine shreds. Add this to the soup, and cook a few minutes longer. Remove the scum. Cut the bread-crust into dice and toast slightly; put these in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. 131. Consomme a la Madrid.—Clarify an equal quantity of ■ chicken and beef broth (stock) in the usual manner, add 4 small ripe tomatoes cut into slices to each quart of consomme, and boil < gently for 20 minutes. Strain and serve with a few sprigs of chervil- leaves. This consomme should be of a pinkish tint, and may be served hot or cold. 132. Consomme d la Conde.—Clarified game stock, garnished with very small quenelles of haricot bean puree and cooked partridge fillets, cut into fine shreds, Julienne strips. 133. Consomm e printanier a ax Quenelles.—The garni- ture for this consomme consists of almost any kind of spring vege- tables, such as asparagus tips, French beans, buds of cauliflower, peas, cucumbers, young carrots and turnips, celery, &c., all cut or scooped out in lozenge shapes, balls, or olive shapes. The vegetables are cooked separately in salted water, and when done, strained and mixed together, seasoned with a small jfiece of butter, pepper and salt, and a pinch of sugar. The quenelles are made with chicken force- meat shaped either round or oblong. The quantity served is about a quarter of that of the vegetable garnishing; they are poached in salted water, drained, and put in the consomme with the vegetables. For a plain Consomme Printanier serve the vegetable garnishing with the consomme, omitting the quenelles. 134. Consomme Nesselrode. 2 quarts of consomme, 1 doz. chestnuts, 3 yolks of eggs, \ gill game stock, 1 glass Madeira wine, pepper and salt. Skin the chestnuts, and boil in water or milk until tender; rub through a sieve, mix with the yolk of egg and game stock, season with pepper and salt, and fill into a number of well-buttered olive- shaped moulds ; poach them in the oven for ten minutes, let them cool a little, then turn out and place them in a soup-tureen; add the wine to the consomme, season to taste, and let it boil for a few minutes, and pour gently in the tureen. It is then ready for serving. 135. Consomme a la Dubourg.—The garniture for this con- somme consists of Royal (No. 95.), plainly-cooked rice, and cooked green peas, in equal proportions. 136. Consomme d l’Imperiale.—B quarts of consomme \ lb. raw or cooked chicken meat, 2 whites and 1 yolk of egg, 1 table- spoonful of cream, 1 tablespoonful of bechamel sauce, 2 oz.fat bacon or shred beef suet, about 1 gill white stock, pepper and salt, 3 small carrots, a handful asparagus points. Prepare the consomme in the usual way. Butter a, small flat tinSOUPS (POTAGES) 149 mould or pan, spread evenly with a thick layer of forcemeat made as follows : Chop finely the chicken meat, bacon or suet, pound together in a mortar, add gradually the eggs and sauce, pass through a wire sieve, return to the mortar, and add the cream and as much stock as is required to make a nice creamy farce ; season with pepper and salt to taste. Place the mould in the oven till done ; this will take but a few minutes ; cut out some thin rounds about the size of a shilling piece, put in a soup-tureen together with a handful of small rounds of cooked carrots, and the same quantity of cooked asparagus points ; pour over the consomme and serve. 137. Consomme Sal fleetno.—2 quarts consomme, 2 small potatoes, 2 small turnips, 2 small carrots. Wash and peel the vegetables, scoop out with vegetable scoop a little larger than a pea, blanch and boil each kind separately in some clear stock, drain, and keep hot in consomme until wanted. 138. Consomme a la Xavier.—2 or 3 quarts consomme, 3 oz. flour, 1 oz. butter, 1 egg, 1 oz. grated cheese, ^ gill milk, pepper and salt. Put the milk and butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour when boil- ing, stir quickly over the fire until the mixture becomes thick and smooth. Add the cheese (Parmesan or Gruyere is best), season with pepper and salt, work up well and let cool. Beat up the egg and work into the mixture. Three-parts fill a paper cornet or forcing-bag with a plain pipe with this paste, close up the large end, press out some large pea-shapes on to a buttered saute-pan, pour on a little boiling water, and poach for five minutes. Drain on a sieve, and add to the hot consomme about ten minutes before serving. 139. Consomme aux Quenelles frites.—Prepare a quenelle paste as above, shape into small marbles, fry these in hot fat, lard, or butter, a golden brown, drain on a cloth ; pour the hot consomme into the tureen, and put in the fried quenelles just before serving. 140. Consomme Mikado—2 quarts of consomme flavoured with curry, 4 oz. lean veal, 2 oz. lean mutton, the breast of a small chicken, 2 oz. butter, ^ onion, a bouquet garni, 2 tablespoonfuls cooked rice, pepper and salt. The curry to flavour the soup should be added to the stock before it is clarified. Cut the meat into even-sized small pieces, mince the onion finely. Put the butter in a stewpan ; when melted add the bouquet of herbs and minced onion, cook a little, then add the pieces of meat, let it brown a little, put in the clear soup, let it come to a boil, skimming it thoroughly before it boils. Simmer gently for a good half-hour, season with pepper and salt, put in the boiled rice, take out the bouquet, and pour the soup in a hot tureen ready for serving. 141. Consomme a la Christophe Colombo.— 2 quarts of consomme, 6 eggs, 1 gill of cream, a few drops of liquid carmine or cochineal, salt and pepper, a pinch of nutmeg, a little butter.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 150 Have ready three even-sized, very small timbale moulds, and butter them well. Break the eggs, put two whole into a basin, four yolks into another basin, and the whites of four into a third basin, beat up each lot separately, than add a pinch of salt, pepper, and nut- meg in each, also the cream evenly divided. Put a few drops of carmine into the basin containing the two whole eggs, mix each lot thoroughly, pass through a pointed strainer separately mto the moulds, place the moulds in a stewpan with boiling water reaching to half their height, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and poach in the oven until firm. When done remove the moulds, let them cool a little, then turn out and cut into neat slices ; place these into a soup-tureen, pour in the hot consomme and serve. 142. Consomme au Hay on (Sago Soup).—3 quarts consomme, 3 oz. sago. Put the consomme in a stewpan, let it boil, stir in the sago with a wooden spoon, let simmer for about half an hour, skim, season to taste, and serve. Remarks.—If the soup is required to be served as a puree or creme, put a gill of cream into a basin, also three yolks of eggs, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, stir with a whisk and pour in the above quantity of soup, then return to the stewpan, stir over the fire for a few minutes longer, taking care not to let it boil again ; a quart of tomato puree added in place of a quart of consomme will also make a good sago soup, proceeding exactly the same as above stated. N.B.—Crushed tapioca, semolina, Indian meal, or floradormay be served in the same manner. 143. Consomme a la Flovador.—2-3 quarts consomme, \ gill milk, 1^ oz. butter, 2 oz. medium-grained Jiorador {or Indian maize), 2 yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Melt the butter in the milk, let it boil, and stir in quickly the florador. Stir over the fire for a few minutes, season with pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Let cool a little, then work in the yolks of eggs. Shape some tiny quenelles by filling a small teaspoon previously dipped in hot water, smooth over with the blade of a knife, also dipped in hot water, scoop out with a second teaspoon and drop into salted boiling water ; proceed thus until the mixture is used up. Poach the quenelles for six minutes until firm ; strain on a sieve, trim a little, and serve with the hot consomme. 144. Consomme aux Fates d’ltalie. Allow about \ gill of Italian paste, or vermicelli, to every quart of clear soup. Drop into the soup when fast boiling, and let them cook for a few minutes. Macaroni, spaghetti, &c., may also be used as garnishing for con- sommes ; but these must be parboiled first and be broken into small pieces before being cooked in the soup. 145. Consomme a la Napoleon.—2 quarts consomme, 6 oz. ravioli paste, 1 oz. foie-gras trimmings, 2 oz. cold chicken, veal, orSOUPS {POTAGES) 151 rabbit, 1 tablespoonful bechamel sauce, 1 saltspoonful chopped lemon- rind, \ teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Roll out the paste very thinly, stamp out some rounds with 1^-inch •cutter. Chop up the meat (freed from skin and gristle), lemon-rind and foie-gras very finely, mix with the parsley. Season with pepper and salt, moisten with the sauce, and mix well. Wet the edges of the rounds of paste, put rather more than half a teaspoonful in the centre of each ; close up by pressing the edges well together, giving it the shape of triangular cocked hats. This done, drop them into boiling salted water or white stock, boil from ten to fifteen minutes, drain and put in a soup-tureen ; pour into this the consomme (previously heated), .and serve. 146. Ravioli or Nouille Paste.—i lb. flour, 1 whole or 2 yolks of eggs, \ teaspoonf ul of salt, 1 tablespoonf ul grated Parmesan cheese, a little icater or 'milk. Sift the flour on to a pastry board, make a well in the centre, put in the salt, a dessertspoonful of water (to dissolve the salt), and the <eggs. Mix the whole well together with the cheese, knead it vigorously with the palm of the hand until a smooth ball is formed, wrap up in a floured cloth, and let it rest for an hour or more. Should the paste appear too dry at the beginning, add about a tablespoonful of milk or water. It must, however, be remembered that this class of paste must he rather consistent. 147. Consomme anx Nouilles.—Roll out some nouille paste very thinly on a floured board, fold it lengthways, and cut into very small strips (the finer the strips the better), shake up and put on a floured baking sheet or dish, cover with a cloth, and allow to rest for half an hour. Boil in salted boiling water, strain and drain, and serve in consomme. 148. Consomm e Ravioli—Roll out thinly some ravioli or nouille paste into a long strip, divide it into two parts ; put a row of small heaps of ravioli forcemeat about 2 inches apart on one part, wet round •each heap with a brush. Lay the second piece of paste over the one with the garnish, press down between the rows with the blunt side of a |-inch cutter. Stamp out as many rounds as there are heaps with a 1-inch cutter, place these on a pastry board, and let stand in a cool place for an hour. Cook in salted boiling water for 10 minutes, drain on a cloth, and put in a soup-tureen. Sprinkle over some grated cheese and a few drops of meat glaze, pour over some consomme, and serve. 149. Ravioli Farce.—Pound in a mortar 4 oz. cooked chicken meat, 1 oz. cooked ham, \ oz. grated Parmesan, 1 yolk of egg, 1 table- spoonful cooked spinach, 1 tablespoonful double cream ; season with a little salt, pepper, cayenne, nutmeg, and chopped parsley, rub through a fine sieve, and use as directed. 150. Potage a la Tortue seche {Turtle Soup, Clear, made with Dried Turtle).—% lb. best sun-dried turtle, 1£ gallon good stock, :2 small carrots, 2 turnips, 2 sticks celery, 1 leek, 8 onions, 4 cloves,THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 152 20 peppercorns, 2 blades of mace, a bouquet of herbs consisting of parsley, bay-leaves, thyme, basil, and marjoram, \ lb. lean beef, ^ lb. veal, 4 whites of eggs, ^ lemon, 2 glasses of sherry, 1 glass of brandy, salt, cayenne. Wash the turtle in cold water and put to soak in cold water for three or four days, changing the water each day. Wash and prepare the vegetables, tie up peppercorns, mace, and cloves in a piece of muslin. Put the turtle in a large stewpan with the stock, add the vegetables, herbs, and muslin bag as soon as the stock boils and the scum is removed. Let it cook gently from 8 to 10 hours. Remove the fat, strain off the stock, and put the turtle on a dish to cool. When sufficiently cool cut it into convenient pieces. Cut off the skin, fat and sinews from the beef and veal, chop it very fine, or pass twice through a mincing machine. Mix thoroughly with the whites of eggs and the shells of three, add the juice of half a lemon, a sprig of tarragon and chervil, stir in the stock, let it come to a boil, and allow to simmer gently for a good hour. Strain carefully through a cloth, reboil, add the wine and brandy and turtle meat, season with salt and a pinch or two of cayenne pepper, and serve. 151. Consomme de Gibier 0 la St. Hubert.—j lb. cooked breast of pheasant, grouse, or partridge, giblets of game, carcase, dec., 3 lbs. knuckle of veal, lb. lean ham or bacon, 1 large onion, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, 1 bouquet garni, 1 small head of celery,3 cloves, 1 blade mace, 12 peppercorns, 1 oz. butter, a handful of cooked green peas, salt, a pinch caster sugar. Remove the flesh from the bird, take off the skin, and cut into small even-sized dice. Put the bones of game and poultry, and the giblets (previously washed) in a stock-pot lined with the bacon or ham cut in slices, add a carrot, a turnip, and the onion all cut into slices, the cloves, peppercorns, mace, and bouquet garni. Broil over a quick fire for about 15 minutes (if found too dry add 1 oz. butter). Cut up the veal, put it with the above and. broil a little longer, so as to let it take colour ; stir all the time to prevent it from burning. Moisten with 6 quarts of water, let it come to a boil, take off the scum as it rises to the surface, and simmer gently for about 4 hours. Wash the remaining carrot, turnip, and celery, scrape and peel, scoop out as many little rounds as possible, and cook them separately in salted water ; they must be firm and yet tender. Put the trimmings of the vegetables into the stock. Season the stock with salt to taste, strain it through a cloth, and clarify in the usual manner. Strain the cooked vegetable shapes, and add them together with the peas to the clarified soup ; simmer for a few minutes. Put the dice of game in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over it, and serve. 152. Pot age a la Metternich.—2 quarts consomme (i.e. clarified beef broth), 1 small chicken or fowl, A small ripe tomatoes, 1 heaped-up tablespoonful arrowroot, 1 glass sherry or Marsala, seasoning.SOUPS (POTAGES) 153 Eoast the chicken or fowl for ten minutes in a hot oven, baste frequently and to ensure it being a nice golden brown, take up and place it in the consomme with two tomatoes, previously sliced. Simmer very gently for about one hour. Take out the fowl and place it in a dish to cool. Boil up the consomme again, remove the scum and fat, and strain it into another stewpan. Blanch the remaining two tomatoes, peel them and cut into dice, remove the seeds and place the dice into the soup. Mix the sherry and arrowroot to a smooth paste and stir into the soup. Simmer for another ten minutes. Take the fillet from the fowl or chicken, free it from skin and cut into small dice, put this into the soup, season it to taste with salt and pepper, boil up again, skim, and serve. The remains of the chicken can be utilised for some other purpose. 153. Bouillon de Volatile d VOrge (Chicken Broth with Barley).—Chop up the carcases, necks, and heads of 2 or 3 chickens, fry in a stewpan with 2 oz. of butter ; when nicely browned, pour off the butter, and pour in 2 quarts of good clear veal or chicken stock, simmer for one hour, skim and strain, pour into another stewpan, and let come to the boil. Wash one ounce of pearl barley, and add to the soup when boiling. Season to taste with pepper and salt, simmer for 15 minutes, add a little chopped parsley or chives, and serve. 154. M ulliyatawny, Clear.—2 quarts of clear stock, thelegs of a raw fowl, 1 oz. raw ham, % small onion, 1 teaspoonful curry- powder (mild), 3 tablespoonfuls boiled rice, 1 oz. butter, 1 white of egg- Cut the legs of fowl into pieces, fry in butter until brown, add the curry-powder and fry a little, pour off the fat, moisten with the stock, add the onion and raw ham cut into slices, boil up and skim, simmer for 20 minutes and strain. When cold clarify with the white of egg, add the boiled rice and a handful of chicken meat cut into dice, heat up, and serve. 155. Puree aiioc Huitres (Oyster Soup).—2 dozen large sauce oysters, 2 yolks of eggs, 2| quarts stock (white or fish), 4 oz. flour, 4 oz. butter, | pint cream or milk, lemon, pepper, salt, nutmeg and mace. Beard the oysters, preserve the liquor, cut them into halves or quarters, and put in a basin with a little cream. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour and cook a little, moisten with the stock, add the beards of the oysters and the liquor, stir over the fire until it boils, skim and let simmer for half an hour, season with a little pepper, salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a saltspoonful of ground mace. Put through a sieve, return to the stewpan, boil up, add the cream or milk. Mix the yolks of eggs with the oysters, add a few drops of lemon-juice, and put with the soup. Heat up, but do not let it boil again. The soup is then ready for table. 156. Bisque de Homard d la Mariniere (Lobster Bisque).—Remove the meat, eggs, and coral from two small lobsters ;THE NEW CENTTJRY COOKERY BOOK 154 cut the meat into dice and put it aside until wanted. Bruise the lobster shells in a mortar ; heat up three ounces of butter in a stew- pan, put in a carrot, an onion, two sticks of celery (all sliced), and a small herb bouquet; fry slightly in the butter for a few minutes, then add the bruised lobster-shell, together with four ounces of fine flour; moisten with two quarts of fish stock, half a pint of oyster liquor, and half a pint of white wine. Let it simmer for a good half-hour, stir and skim well, strain, finish with two ounces of lobster butter, a little cream, a dessertspoonful of anchovy essence, and a little lemon-juice ; season with salt and cayenne. Have ready about a dozen small white button onions boiled in fish stock ; put these, together with the dice of lobster meat, and six large oysters cut in dice, into a soup-tureen; pour on the soup and serve. 157. Bisque de JELomard d la Barisienne.—1 lobster, 4 carrot, ^ turnip, 4 oz. butter, 1 gilliohite wine, 2 oz. flour, 1 bouquet garni, 2 quarts fisli stock, seasoning teaspoonful lemon-juice, cayenne, peppercorns, and salt), ^ gill cream. Split the lobster down the back, take out the meat, break the claws, pound the shell in a mortar until quite fine, then add the butter, and mix thoroughly with the pounded lobster-shell. Put all in a stewpan and stir over the fire until hot, add the flour, and let cook for ten minutes ; moisten with the wine and stock, add the vegetables, herbs, and peppercorns, stir until it boils, let simmer slowly for twenty minutes. If found too thick, add a little more stock. Pass through a tammy cloth. Cut the meat of the claws of lobster into neat dice, put them in a soup-tureen, together with half a gill of cream. Heat up the bisque, season to taste with salt, a few drops of lemon-juice, and a pinch of cayenne, stir into the tureen and serve. The remainder of lobster meat will come in for cutlets, croquets, or bouchees. 158. Bisque de JPetoneles (Scallop Soup).—20 scallops, 4 oz. of butter, Ismail onion, 2 oz. flour, 1 bouquet garni, 1 gill of cream, 1^- quarts fish stock, 1 quart of milk, salt and pepper, 2 blades of mace, fried bread croutons, 6 peppercorns. Put the scallops in a stewpan with the fish stock, bouquet garni, half a dozen peppercorns, and the mace. Boil for 20 minutes, strain off the stock, and save for further use ; remove the parsley and herbs (bouquet garni), mace, and peppercorns, and chop the scallops finely. Peel and chop the onion, cover with boiling water, and boil for five minutes ; strain, put them in a stewpan with the butter, and cook until tender. Add the flour, stir well for a few minutes, moisten with the stock, and add the milk (boiling), put in the chopped scallops, stir over the fire until it boils, and let simmer for 15 minutes. Season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne; rub through a fine sieve; return to the stewpan, add the cream and a little more milk if found too thick ; give it another boil, pour into a soup-tureen, and serve with fried bread croutons.155 SOUPS {POTAGES) 159. Bisque auoc Sultres {Oyster Puree).—2 dozen sauce oysters, 1 oz. butter, 1 shallot, 1 slice of onion, 1 saltspoonful curry- powder, 3 pints fish stock {or mutton or veal broth), 1 large table- spoonful cornflour, 2 egg-yolks, | pint cream, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Put the oysters in a small saucepan with their liquor ; place them on a hot fire to poach, then drain, preserving the liquor. Beard half the oysters and cut them into quarters, pound the remainder with the beards in a mortar to a smooth paste, then rub through a sieve. Chop the shallot and onion. Fry them in butter, just long enough to blend, without taking colour, add the curry-powder, the cornflour, and oyster puree, and moisten with the liquor of the oyster and the stock. Stir till it boils, and let simmer for about 20 minutes ; season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, now mix the yolks of eggs with the cream and incorporate with the soup ; stir long enough over the fire to bind the former. Pass the whole through a tammy cloth. Beturn to the stewpan, add the quarters of oysters, re-heat and serve. 160. Bisque d’Ecrevisse {Crayfish Soup).—40 to 50 crayfish, 3 boned anchovies, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. rice, 1 small onion, stuck with 2 cloves, 2 quarts fish stock, 1 French dinner roll, 1 gill cream, 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice, salt and pepper. Take out the gut from the centre fin of the tail of each crayfish, shell the fish, and put the shell and half the tails in a mortar, pound very finely with the anchovies, add the butter, and put the whole in a stewpan over the fire, stir with a wooden spoon till hot, then add the rice, previously washed and drained, fry a little, and moisten with the fish stock. Now add the onion ancl cloves, and let simmer till the rice is quite tender (stir frequently) ; soak the soft part of the roll in a little milk, and add this to the soup. Pass through a tammy or fine sieve, return to the stewpan, season to taste, reheat and add the cream. Just before serving add the lemon-juice and the crayfish tails, and serve with a plate of small fried bread crolitons or small sippets of toasted bread. A little lobster spawn or lobster butter may be added to the soup if liked. 161. Potaqe de Lapin d VOseille {Babbit Soup xoith Sorrel).—1 large tender rabbit, \ lb. shin of beef, 1 lb. knuckle of veal, \ lb. lean bacon, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 3 cloves, 1 leek, 1 blade of mace, 10 peppercorns, 3 yolks of eggs, 1 gill of cteam, 1 handful sorrel-leaves, £ lemon, 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, salt, pepper, chopped parsley. Cut up the rabbit into small pieces, bone the breast and put the two fillets in a saute-pan with a handful of bacon cut small and a little butter; fry a little, and cook in the oven till done. Cut the fillets into small dice and keep for garnish. Prepare the vegetables, stick the cloves into the onion, put these together with the pieces of rabbit, bacon, beef, and veal, peppercorns, and mace into a large stewpan; pour in six quarts of water, boil up, skim, and cook slowly for about three hours. Take off the fat and strain. Melt the butter,THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 156 stir in the flour, and cook a little; moisten with three quarts of stock, add the cooked pieces of bacon and about f lb. cooked rabbit meat. Boil for half an hour, stirring occasionally. Rub the whole through a wire sieve. Return to the stewpan, season with pepper and salt and a little lemon-juice. Wash the sorrel, cut it into fine shreds, blanch, strain, and put with the soup. Mix the cream with the yolks of eggs and stir into the soup when boiling. Stir over the fire long enough to bind the yolks, but without allowing the soup to boil. Pour into a soup-tureen, sprinkle over a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and serve. 1 162. Votaye Fausse Tortue (Mock Turtle Soup, Thick).— ^ small calf’s head, 1 lb. veal, 2 lbs. lean beef, 6 oz. lean ham or bacon, 4 oz. flour, 3 quarts stock, 1 gill Madeira wine, 1 oz. butter, 1 small onion, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 stalk celery, a feiv sprigs parsley, 1 bay- leaf, 4 cloves, 1 sprig thyme, 1 sprig marjoram, 10 peppercorns, cayenne pepper, salt, ^ lemon. Bone the calf’s head, blanch it, and cook for three or four hours in stock or salted water. Press it between two boards or dishes. Cut the veal, beef, and ham or bacon into pieces, put them in a large stewpan with the vegetables, cleaned and cut into slices, the butter and herbs, stir the whole over a brisk fire until light brown. Stir in the flour, and cook until it acquires a light brown colour, moisten with 2 quarts of liquor in which the calf’s head has been boiled and 3 quarts of other stock ; add the peppercorns, a little salt, and a pinch of cayenne; let the whole come to a boil (stir till boiling), take off the scum, and simmer slowly for three hours. Strain the soup, and let cool. Cut the calf’s head into neat 1-inch squares, trim off the fat, and put them in a stewpan with the wine, cover with a lid, and simmer for a few minutes ; then add the strained soup, boil for another thirty minutes, skim well, add more seasoning if needed, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Pour into a hot soup-tureen, and serve with thin slices of pared lemon. 163. Potaye a la Heine (Puree de Volatile). —I medium-sized chicken, 3 quarts stock, 4 oz. bacon, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 bunch parsley, thyme and bay-leaf, 3 oz. butter, 1 oz. almonds, 4 oz. bread- crumbs, quenelle meat, seasoning, £ pint of milk. Slice the bacon and put in a stewpan together with the vegetables, herbs, &c. Place the chicken, previously trussed as for boiling, on top, season with pepper and salt, pour in a quart of stock, cover with a lid, and let it reduce slowly. Add the remainder of stock, boil slowly, skim, and continue to boil until tender. Remove the chicken, free it from skin and bones, and pound meat in a mortar with bread-crumbs, season with salt and nutmeg, moisten with all the stock, rub through a fine sieve and return to the stewpan. Peel and pound the almonds, boil in milk, and rub through a napkin. Add this to the soup along with the broth just before serving. Serve the soup with a garnish of small chicken quenelles, bead shapes, made with theSOUPS (POTAGES) 157 cornet and poached, also with a handful of freshly-cooked peas or asparagus points. 164. Potage de Perdreaux (Partridge Soup).—1 or 2 roast partridges, j lb. calf’s or chicken livers, 2 tablespoonfuls JEspagnol sauce, 2 quarts stock, 2 oz. butter, l\ oz. flour, 2 oz. bacon, 1 bouquet garni, 2 yolks of eggs, seasoning. Remove the fillets from the partridges, cut two of them into small dice. Take off the legs from the birds and put away for further use. Chop up carcase. Fry the bacon with a little butter, add the liver finely sliced. Season with pepper and salt, pound in a mortar, add the sauce, season and rub through a sieve (the two fillets remaining may be pounded with the above if the soup is desired specially rich). Fry the carcase with the bouquet garni in a little bacon fat and the remaining butter. Sprinkle over the flour, stir in the stock. Skim well as it begins to boil. Simmer for about half an hour, stirring occasionally ; strain through a tammy and return to the stewpan, with the puree previously prepared, boil up, add a glass of sherry or port, season to taste. Cook for fifteen minutes longer, bind with two yolks of eggs, and add the minced breasts just before serving. 165. Potage Paubonne. — 1 pint soaked lentils, 2 quarts of stock, 3 oz. butter, 1 bouquet garni, 1 gill cream, a handful of fried bread croutons, 3 tablespoonfuls cooked peas, a pinch powdered mint, pepper and salt. Drain the lentils, put them in a stewpan with the butter and bouquet of herbs, fry a little, moisten with the stock, and cook until the lentils are tender. Take out the bouquet, rub through a sieve, return to the stewpan, add the cream and mint, season to taste, heat up (but do not let it boil), put the peas and croutons in a soup-tureen, pour in the soup, and serve. 166. Potage d la Jackson.—Proceed in the same manner as in the above recipe, using 1 lb. of potatoes, washed, peeled and sliced, instead of the lentils, omitting the peas and mint. Add a little grated nutmeg in seasoning the soup. 167. Potage Creme d’Ocge (Barley Soup ivitli Cream).pint of pearl parley, 3 pints of white broth (stock), 1 oz. of butter, grated nutmeg, a gill of cream, a pinch of sugar, pepper, salt, and fried bread croutons. Wash the barley in several waters, put it in a stewpan with the broth or stock, stir over the fire until it boils, then let simmer slowly for three hours, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Rub through a hair sieve or fine wire sieve, return to the stewpan, boil up the cream, and add it to the soup together with a pinch of sugar and the butter; stir again until it is thoroughly hot, but do not let it boil. Place the croutons (previously prepared and fried in butter) in a soup-tureen, pour in the soup, and serve. 168. Creme d’Articha ats (Green Artichoke Soup).—4'green artichokes, 1 onion, 1 quart white stock, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. crbme de158 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK riz (or ground rice), ^ pint milk, £ gill cream, 2 yolks of eggsr 1 oz. salt, pepper, nutmeg, parsley. Cut off the stems of the artichokes, trim off some of the green leaves, cut each in four, ancl wash well. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the onion, peeled and cut in slices; fry a little, put in the artichokes, and stir over the fire for a few minutes, but do not let them take colour. Add the stock, season with salt and pepper, and let simmer until tender. Rub all through a hair sieve. Mix the creme de riz or ground rice with a little cold milk, boil up the remainder of the milk and add to the rice-flour. Put this and the artichoke puree in a stewpan, let it boil up, take off the scum, stir frequently to prevent it from burning; beat the yolks of eggs a little, incorporate with the cream, and add to the soup when the latter has sufficiently boiled. Add a grate of nutmeg, stir long enough to bind the eggs, but on no account allow it to boil again. Pour into a soup- tureen, sprinkle over with a little finely chopped parsley, and serve. 169. Puree de Choux-fleurs a la Creme.—2 small cauli- flowers, 6 oz. crushed tapioca, oz. ground rice (fecule de riz), ^ oz. caster sugar, 1 gill cream, 1 pint milk, 1 pint white stock, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Wash and trim the cauliflowers, cook them in salted water until tender, strain (keep the water), and rub through a fine sieve. Bring the water in which the cauliflowers have been cooked to a boil, stir in the crushed tapioca, and simmer for twenty minutes. Mix the fecule de riz or ground rice with a little cold milk, boil up the remainder of milk with the stock, stir in the ground rice and cook for a few minutes, stirring all the while. Mix all together, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste, bring it to a boil, add the cream, stir a little longer, but do not let it boil again. The puree is now ready for serving. 170. Potage de Tomato a la St. Louis.—-1% pint tomato sauce, 3 pints clear soup, 2 tablespoonfuls crushed tapioca or 1 oz. sago, 16 little quenelles of chicken (No. 403), pepper and salt. Boil the sauce and clear soup together, stir in the tapioca or sago, simmer for ten minutes, stirring continually. Season to taste, poach the quenelles, and put with the soup just before serving. 171. Potage a la Vitellus.—2 quarts rich chicken and veal broth (stock), 2 oz. pearl barley, 1| 0Zi pistachio nuts, ■§ oz. pignoli kernels, 2 egg-yolks, 1 gill cream, 1 tablespoonful spinach puree or a sufficient quantity of spinach greening to give it the desired tint, a handful of nouille lozenges (nouille paste cut into small squares) for garnish, seasoning. Wash the barley and cook it in the stock till quite tender, and rub through a fine sieve. Blanch and peel the pistachios, pound them in a mortar with the pignoli kernels, add a little cream and the spinach, and pass through a sieve. Mix this with the soup and cook for ten minutes, season to taste with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a pinch159 SOUPS (POTAGES) of paprika. Cook the nouille lozenges in salted water for fifteen minutes, drain them, and add to the soup. Mix the remainder of cream with the egg-yolks in a soup-tureen, pour over the soup, and serve. 172. Potage a laMacMahon.—1 cooked calfs brain, 2 boiled onions, ^ cucumber, 1 teaspoonful curry-powder, 3 yolks of eggs, 4 oz. butter, \ gill cream, 2 quarts of stock, pepper, salt, nutmeg. Peel the cucumber, cut into thick slices, and boil in salted water till tender. Pound the brain and onions in a mortar, add the butter and curry-powder, put in a stewpan with the stock. Boil for twenty minutes and run through a sieve. Return to the fire, mix the eggs with the cream, stir into the soup, heat up, season to taste, and serve with the cooked slices of cucumber. 173. Puree Crecy an Miz.—Wash and scrape ten large French carrots, shred off all the red part, parboil them for five minutes, drain, dry, and put them in a stewpan with three ounces of butter, one large sliced onion, and the white part of a leek ; stir over the fire for a few minutes, add two quarts of stock, season with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg; allow it to simmer until the carrots are done. Rub the whole through a fine sieve or tammy. Put it on the fire again, add more stock, a dessertspoonful of sugar, a pat of fresh butter, also one ounce of fecule or cornflour mixed first with a little milk or water. Stir well, allow it to simmer for fifteen minutes, add a quarter of a pound of rice boiled in beef broth, skim well, and serve with bread sippets either separate or in the soup-tureen. 174. Potage a VOseille (Sorrel Soup).—4 lb. pickled sorrel- leaves, 4 oz. butter, 3 pints stock, 1^ gill cream, 3 yolks of eggsr | oz. fecule de riz or potato flour, pepper, salt, a pinch of sugar, a handful fried bread croutons. Wash thoroughly the sorrel-leaves, tear them into little pieces, removing the stalks and part of the ribs, cut it in fine shreds, and put in a stewpan with the butter ; stir over the fire until it is well blended and partly cooked. Sprinkle over the fecule or potato flour, add the’stock—or, if wanted for a ‘ soupe maigre,’ use water in place of stock. Let it boil for fifteen minutes, take off the scum, mix the cream and egg-yolks thoroughly, add it to the soup, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar to taste. Keep stirring until quite hot, but do not let it boil again. Put the bread croutons in a soup- tureen, pour over the soup, and serve. 175. Puree a la Nivernoise.—2^ quarts white stock, 8 small turnips, 6 small potatoes, 3 leeks, \ pint cream, 2 oz. butter, 18 small cooked Brussels sprouts, ^ pint cooked jardiniere, pepper, salt, nutmeg. Wash and peel the potatoes and turnips and cut into slices ; wash the leeks, trim off the root and the green part of the leaves, and slice thinly. Put the butter and cut vegetables in a stewpan, and cook over a slow fire from fifteen to twenty minutes, stirring them160 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK occasionally. Add the stock, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; boil gently until the vegetables are tender, take off the scum, and rub through a fine sieve; return to the stewpan, stir in the cream, keep hot, but not boiling. Heat up the Brussels sprouts and jardiniere of vegetables in a little stock, strain, and put in a soup-tureen, pour over the puree, and serve. 176. dotage veloute au Hits.—1 chicken, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 2 quarts veal stock, 3 oz. rice, 1 bouquet garni, 1 small onion, 2 cloves, 1 bay-leaf, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. Pick, singe, and draw the chicken, and cut into small joints. Melt the butter in a large stewpan ; put in the pieces of chicken and fry a golden colour, stir in the flour and cook for a few minutes with- out browning. Dilute with the stock and about a quart of water. Now add the bouquet, i.e. a small bunch of savoury herbs (parsley, celery, leek, thyme, tarragon, chervil, &c.), the onion, and cloves. Bring it to the boil and cook very gently till the chicken is tender. Take out the best pieces of chicken, remove skin and bone, cut the meat into small dice, and put them in a soup-tureen. Blanch the rice and put it with the soup. Continue to cook for another 30 minutes. Pass through a fine sieve, return to a clean stewpan, season to taste, add a little cream if liked, re-heat and pour over the chicken dice in the soup-tureen, and serve. 177. Potage Madeleine.—2 oz. butter, 1 onion, 6 small tomatoes, 1 pint haricot beans, 1 leek, 1 large carrot-, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil, 2^ quarts consomme or double stock, seasoning. Cook the haricot beans in salted water till tender. Peel and mince the onion and fry for a few minutes in butter, but do not allow them to get brown. Add the tomatoes, previously cut into dice, the haricot beans and the stock. Cook together for twenty minutes, and rub the whole through a fine sieve. Clean and trim the leek and carrot, cut them into Julienne-shaped strips and toss in a little butter ; add about a pint of consomme, and cook till the vegetables are tender ; mince finely a few tarragon and chervil leaves and add them to the sOup. Mix both soups together, season to taste with pepper, Salt and nutmeg, boil up, skim and serve. 178. Creme de Volailfe d la Franqaise.—2 qiiarts chicken stock, % roast or boiled chicken, 2 oz. rice, 1 yolk of egg, ^ gill cream, 2 oz. fresh butter, 1 oz. flour, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. Wash and pick the rice, blanch it and cook till tender in the chicken stock; strain off enough rice to fill a teacup and keep it till required. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour and fry a little without browning; dilute with half a pint of water and the chicken stock, adding also the remainder of rice. Cook gently for about half an hour, rub the soup through a sieve, and return to the stewpan. Bernove the skin from the chicken and cut the meat into neat dice, put these into the soup, and cook for another 10 minutes. Mix the egg-yolk with161 SOUPS (POTAGES) the cream and stir into the soup. Add the rice (put aside) and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. 179. Potage Demidojf.—1 hen, 1 oz. dripping, 2 quarts Espagnole sauce, a mirepoix, 1 pint stock, 1 glass Madeira wine, 12 very small braised button onions, 1 small carrot cut into Juli- enne strips, 6 mushrooms (preserved), 2 truffles, seasoning. Prepare the hen as for boiling, and cut it into joints. Have ready a mirepoix, consisting of onion, carrot, bay-leaf, bacon, and bouquet garni, fry this in a deep saute-pan for a few minutes, then add the dripping and put in the pieces of fowl. Fry quickly to brown the latter, cover and cook in the oven till the meat is done. Take up the pieces of fowl, remove the skin and bones, and pound the meat in a mortar till fine. Pojir the fat off the mirepoix, and put this with the fowl puree in a stewpan containing the Espagnole. Cook for 30 minutes, adding about half the stock or more if needed. Tammy the soup, return to the stewpan, season to taste, add the wine and re-heat. Cook the carrot strips in stock ; strain and put with the soup, add also the truffles and champignons, previously cut into cubes, or Julienne shapes (strips). Boil up, skim and serve with the braised onions previously placed into the soup-tureen. 180. Potage de Perdreau d In Grand Due (Partridge Soup).—1 partridge or any other small bird, 4 oz. oatmeal, 4 oz. butter, 2 oz. panade, 4-6 fresh mushrooms, 3 eggs, 2 quarts white stock, seasoning, ^ gill cream. Remove the fillets from the partridge, cut up the remainder and roast it with a little dripping for about twenty minutes. Make a roux, i.e. blend the oatmeal and butter to a nice colour ; then add the roasted carcase, &c., fry for a few minutes'longer, and moisten with sufficient stock to produce the consistency of a puree. Allow to cook gently for 1^ hour, then season and pass through a fine sieve. Meanwhile pound the fillets of partridge, add the panade and a little white of egg, season to taste and rub through a sieve. Make some little quenelles about the size of small marbles with this, and poach them. Prepare a Royal, which consists of fresh mushrooms, cooked in stock and passed through a sieve, mix this with the eggs, and put in a buttered mould, poach, turn out and cut into small rounds. Put these and the quenelles into the prepared puree, add the cream, let the soup get thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil, then serve. 181. Potage dla Uuchesse—2 quarts chicken stock, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 4 oz. cooked chicken meat, 2 tablespoonfuls cooked sorrel puree, 4 yolks of eggs, 1 gill cream, 2 truffles, pepper, and salt, nutmeg. Melt the butter, add the flour, and stir for a few minutes over the fire without allowing it to brown ; add gradually the stock, boil up, and cook gently for half an hour. Stir in the sorrel puree, and rub the whole through a fine sieve or tammy. Return to the stewpan, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Beat up the egg-162 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK yolks, and mix with the cream, strain this into the soup; cut the- trufflles and chicken meat into small strips (Julienne shapes), and add also; stir over the fire till thoroughly hot, but avoid boiling, else the eggs will curdle. The soup is then ready for serving. 182. Potage de Faisan d la Diana (Pheasant Puree).—1 pheasant, 1 mirepoix of bacon, onion, carrot, and herbs, 2 oz. butter,. 1 oz. flour, % gill cream, 2 oz. pearl barley (orge perle), 1 gill claret, 2 oz. raw ham, 1 leek, 3 pints good stock, salt and pepper, small game quenelles for garnish (No. 404). Truss the pheasant as for roasting, place it on a roasting pan with a little dripping and the mirepoix above named. Roast it in the oven till three parts done, then take up the bird, untruss it, and remove the fillets from the breast. Cut the carcase into small pieces and fry in the mirepoix, adding about an ounce of butter and the ham cut up- small. Stir in the flour and let it get a^ chestnut brown colour, add’ the barley and stir the whole a few minutes longer over the fire. Moisten with the wine and add gradually the stock and about a pint of water. Stir till it boils, skim, and let simmer for about 1\ hour. Pound the fillets of pheasant in a mortar with the remainder of the butter, and add the cream ; when sufficiently pounded, rub the whole through a fine sieve. Pass the soup through a tammy, return to the stewpan, add the puree above named, season to taste, re-heat, and serve with some very small game quenelles. 183. Creme d’Asperges a la Printaniere.—1 bundle asparagus, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 3 pints white stock, 1 pint milk, pepper, nutmeg, salt, sugar, 1 gill cream, a handful of cooked green peas and beans. Clean the asparagus, cut off the tips and cook separately, as these will be required for garnish; cut the stalks, as far as tender, into small pieces, wash thoroughly in salted water, boil till partly cooked in salted water and drain. Put the butter in a stewpan, when melted add the flour, cook a little, stir in the stock and milk, let it boil up, skim, add the asparagus, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a good pinch of sugar. Cook till tender, and rub through a fine sieve. Return to stewpan, add cream, and a little more milk if needed. Put peas, French beans, and cooked asparagus tips (about a handful of the latter) in a soup-tureen, pour the puree over, and serve. 184. Creme de Concombre d la Heine (Cucumber Cream). —3 large cucumbers, 3 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 2 pints chicken stock, 1 pint of milk, 1 gill cream, 2 egg-yolks, seasoning, bread croutons. Peel the cucumbers, cut them into quarters, remove the seeds, and slice coarsely. Parboil in salted water, drain, and put in a stewpan with one ounce of butter, let stew for about half an hour ; season with pepper, salt, and half a teaspoonful of sugar. Melt the remaining two- ounces of butter in another stewpan, stir in the flour, cook it without browning ; add the cooked cucumber, dilute with the stock, boil up, skim, add the milk boiling. Cook slowly for twenty minutes. Rub-SOUPS (POTAGES) 163 through a fine sieve. Stir cream and yolks of eggs well together, pour in with the puree, return on the fire, stir until the liaison of egg and cream is formed, then pour into a soup-tureen and serve with croutons. 185. Potage au Potiron (French Pumpkin Soup).—3 lbs. ripe pumpkin, 3 oz. butter, 1 bay-leaf, % lb. stale bread, 1 onion, 1 quart milk, 1 quart stock, \ gill cream, 2 yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, 1 pinch of sugar, fried bread croutons. Cut the pumpkin into thick slices, remove the pips, put in a stew- pan, cover with boiling water, add salt to taste, and boil for five minutes. Strain off the water, rub the pumpkin through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the pulp; stir for a few minutes over the fire, then add the stock, which should be previously boiled.. Soak the bread in the milk, peel the onion and cut into slices. Boil up the milk, bread, and onion, and then put with the soup, add the bay-leaf, and cook slowly for twenty minutes; stir occasionally, and remove the scum which rises on the top. Take out the bay-leaf, pass- all through a tammy or fine sieve, return to the stewpan, add a good pinch of sugar, season with salt and pepper, and keep boiling for a few minutes longer. Put the cream in a soup-tureen, stir in the yolks of eggs ; when the soup is required, pour it slowly into the tureen, stirring it at the same time with a whisk. A plate of fried bread croutons should accompany this soup, or else some very thin slices of the crust of a French roll should be put in before it is sent to table. 186. Puree de Choux de Br uxelles (.Brussels Sprout Soup). —1^ lb. Brussels sprouts, 3 pints of good stock, 1 gill cream, a small piece of soda, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Wash and trim the sprouts, cook them till tender in salted water containing a very small piece of soda (to preserve the colour), drain well and rub through a fine sieve. Put the puree in a stewpan with the stock, boil up and let simmer for a few minutes, take off the scum, season to taste, add the cream. Keep hot until wanted for table ; but on no account let the soup boil again after the cream is once added. 187. Puree de Marrons d la Chasseur.—Procure 3 pints of large chestnuts, split them across with a sharp-pointed knife, plunge them into a stewpan with boiling water and allow to boil two minutes, drain well, dry them on a cloth and put into a frying-pan with a small piece of butter, place over a quick fire for five minutes, cover over with a cloth, apd remove shells while hot. Place the prepared chestnuts in a large stewpan with 2 quarts of game stock or dark beef stock. Cook slowly until the chestnuts are tender, rub through a fine sieve, return to the stewpan, dilute with more stock if necessary, season with salt, pepper, and a little sugar and grated nutmeg; stir over the fire until it boils, add by degrees 4 oz. of butter, and bind with 3 egg-yolks and £ gill cream. Serve with croutons of game and fried bread (any kind of game will do).164 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 188. Puree de Poireaux a la Creme (Leek Puree).—1 bunch (6) leeks, 2 oz. butter, 1 pint bechamel sauce, 1 quart white stock, 3 yolks of eggs, 1 gill cream, seasoning, small croutons of fried bread. Choose the leeks as white as possible. Trim and wash them, cut away the green parts and cut the remainder into small pieces. Blanch them in salted water, and drain them. When cool put them in a stewpan with the butter, and stir over the fire for a few minutes without allowing the leeks to get brown; then add the stock and boil till the leeks are tender. Bub the whole through a fine sieve, return the puree to the stewpan, add the bechamel, and cook for another fifteen minutes, stirring from time to time, season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. About five minutes before serving whisk up the egg-yolks with the cream and strain into the soup. Stir over the fire till the liaison is formed. Pour the soup into a hot tureen and add the fried bread croutons ; a pat or two of fresh butter stirred into the soup in little bits a few moments before serving it will greatly enrich its flavour. The soup must on no account be allowed to boil again when once the egg-yolks or butter are added. 189. Creme de Celeri (Celery Cream.). -2 heads young celery, \ small onion, peeled and sliced, 2 oz. butter, oz. four, 1 quart white stock, \ pint cream or milk, 2 yolks of eggs, salt and pepper to taste, a pinch caster sugar. Wash and trim the celery. Blanch it in slightly salted water, drain, cool and cut up into small pieces, melt the butter, when hot put in the onion and celery and stir over the fire for several minutes, sprinkle in the flour and stir again for a few minutes, moisten with the stock and cook till tender. Bub all through a fine sieve and return to the stewpan ; stir in the milk or cream, season to taste, adding also a pinch of sugar. Allow it to get thoroughly hot and serve. A handful of fried bread croutons should be put in to the soup- tureen, or else handed round as the soup is served. 190. Cremede Chicoree an Vet ante.—3 to 4 heads of chicory, 4 oz. butter, 2 quarts stock, 4 tablespoonfuls rice, salt, pepper, ^ gill cream, 1 gill milk, 2 egg-yolks, croutons of fried bread. Trim the chicory and wash thoroughly; drain, cut up rather small and put it in a stewpan with the butter, cook thus for several minutes without allowing the chicory to get brown. Wash and drain the rice, add it, and fry a little longer. Now add the stock and cook the whole till the rice and chicory are tender. Bub all through a fine sieve, return to the fire, add the milk, boil up, season to taste, and put in the cream last of all. Whisk up the egg-yolks and add along with the cream. Stir well, but do not allow it to boil. Serve with croutons of fried bread ; these may be put into the soup-tureen or may be handed round. 191. Potaqe ala St. Germain (Green Peas Soup).—1| pint freshly shelled peas (large marrowfats are best), 1 small bunch parsley, a couple of spring onions, a few sprigs of green mint,165 SOUPS (POTAGES) 1 oz. butter, 3^ pints white stock, 1 whole egg, 3 yolks of eggs, 1 tablespoonful cream, 1 gill milk, pepper and salt. Put the peas in a stewpan, and about a quart of water, a teaspoon- ful of salt, the parsley, spring onions and mint, boil till tender, and rub through a fine sieve. Return to a stewpan, put in the stock and butter and simmer for fifteen minutes longer, then season to taste and add the cream. Mix the milk with the eggs, beat up, season to taste, and strain into a well-buttered charlotte mould. Poach in the usual manner, viz. place the mould in a saute-pan, half full of boiling water, and cook in the oven till set. Unmould and cut the custard into even-sized cubes. Just before serving add a pinch of sugar and a pat of fresh butter to the soup, put in the custard cubes, and serve. 192. JBortsch Polonaise {a Russian Soup).—1 small duck, 1 lb. brisket of beef, 1 bouquet garni, consisting of fennel, marjoram, thyme, bay-leaf, carrot and parsley, 2 cloves, 3 fresh cup mushrooms, 2 oz. butter, 1 small beetroot, 1 leek, 1 cabbage (heart) 1 small piece of celery, parsley, 1 onion, 2 quarts clarified beef broth {white con- somme), £ lb. Italian sausage {cipoleta)f,sour cream, seasoning. Cook the duck in a brisk oven, till tender (not overdone), boil the beef in one quart of seasoned water with the bouquet. Skim well. Remove the fillets of the duck, cut them into dice, cut the cooked beef into similar dice, and put them in a clean stewpan with the broth in which the beef was cooked, strained. Add the mushrooms previously washed, and cut in dice. Cut the remainder of vegetables into fine Julienne strips and blend with the butter, pour off the fat and add the consomme, season to taste ; and cook gently till tender ; remove the scum and fat. Add this to the broth containing the meat. Cook all together for another ten minutes. Just before serving incorporate one to two tablespoonfuls of sour cream and one tablespoonful of beetroot juice. The sausage is cut into very thin slices, and is served in the soup or separately. The remainder of the duck can be used up as salmi or served hot or cold. A little chopped parsley should be added to the soup before it is sent to table. 193. Tschi de Soldot-—This is the name of the most popular soup in Russia. It furnishes the soldier with a satisfying meal, hence the surname 1 de soldat.’ The following is the recipe as transcribed from the MS. of a Russian chef: — 2 quarts consomme {clarified beef broth), 1 small cabbage, 1 leek, 2 small onions, 1 lb. blanched breast or brisket of beef, 1 tablespoonful flour, 2 oz. blotter, 3 tablespoonfuls sour cream, seasoning. Trim and wash the cabbage and the leek, peel the onion and cut all into fine shreds. Use only the heart of the cabbage and the white part of the leek. Melt the butter in a large stewpan, put in the vegetables (previously strained), and cook over a quick fire for about five minutes. Pour off the butter and add the consomme. Cook the beef separately in salted water, when done cut the meat, free from skin and gristle, into small pieces, and add to the soup with some of the166 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK stock (strained). Cook gently for half an hour. Fry the flour in the remainder of the butter, and for frying the vegetables let it get a golden brown, then add the cream and a ladleful of the soup, pour all into the stewpan containing the soup, boil up and simmer for ten minutes longer. Season to taste with salt and pepper. The soup is then ready for serving. Hand round a plateful of small galettes, or failing this small fried choux paste balls, seasoned with Parmesan cheese and cayenne. 194. Cocleie LeeTcie.—One small fowl, 2 oz. butter, 1 bunch leeks, parsley, 1 bay-leaf, and a few aromatic herbs, tied together in a bunch, 2 quarts of first stock, salt and pepper. Boiled rice for garnish. Singe and draw the fowl, wipe it inside and out with a damp cloth, and cut it into small joints. Melt the butter in a large stewpan ; when hot put in the pieces of fowl and fry them a nice brown colour. Pour off the butter, and add the stock, using beef broth or first stock, which must not be cloudy. Add also a pint of water, season with a little salt and peppercorns, and set to boil slowly, removing the scum as it rises to the surface. Trim, wash and clean the leeks, cut the white parts into convenient-sized lengths, blanch and parboil in salted water, take up and strain. Eemove the pieces of fowl from the soup, cut off the meat and shape in dice or half-inch lengths ; put these in another stewpan, strain the broth over it, add the leeks and the bunch of parsley and herbs, cover and let simmer gently for about an hour. Take out the parsley and herbs, skim off the fat, and season to taste with salt and pepper. The soup is then ready for serving. Served with a handful of plainly boiled rice, and sometimes with stewed stoned prunes. 195. Mutton Broth.—2 lbs. mutton (scrag end of neck), 2 quarts water, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 2 onions, salt and pepper, 1 oz. barley or crushed tapioca. Trim off the fat as much as possible from the meat, cut into small neat pieces, put in saucepan, cover with cold water, add a little salt, and allow it to come to the boil, then skim well. Prepare all the vegetables, cut into small dice and add to the broth; allow all to cook gently until the meat is tender. Eemove the bones from the meat, cut into dice. Add this and the barley or tapioca to the broth, season to taste with salt and pepper, and continue to cook for another 30 to 40 minutes. Serve hot. 196. Haricot Bean Puree.—\pint haricot beans, f lb. onions, 4 oz. butter, 2 quarts stock, % gill cream, 1 oz. crushed tapioca, pepper and salt. Soak the beans in water for several hours. Peel and slice finely the onions, fry them very slowly in the butter—they must when finished be of a pale brown colour ; strain the beans, put them with the onions, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes. Add the stock, boil up, skim, and cook gently until the haricot beans are quite167 SOUPS {POTAGES) lender, then rub the whole through a fine sieve. Return to the stew- pan, season to taste, bring it to the boil and stir in the tapioca, cook for about ten minutes longer, then add the cream; keep hot until required for table. Should the puree be found too thick, add a little more stock. A plate of fried bread croutons should be handed round with this .soup. 197. Pur lie de Topinambours {Palestine or Artichoke Soup).—- 2 lbs. Jerusalem artichokes, 1 turnip, 1 small onion, \ small head celery, 2 qtiarts stock {white), 2 oz. butter, 1 pint milk, 1 lemon, a handful of fried bread croutons, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Wash, scrub, and peel thinly the artichokes, put them in a basin ■of water, containing a little salt and the juice of a lemon, peel the turnips and onions, cut them into slices, wash the celery and cut up small. Melt the butter in a stewpan, when hot put in the turnip, onion, and celery, fry a little without burning, strain the artichokes and add them. Moisten with the stock and cook gently for about an hour. When tender put through a fine sieve. Return the puree to a clean stewpan, re-heat, add the milk (boiling), season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Serve with the fried bread croutons. 198. Puree de Lent Hies {Lentil Soup).—^ pint red lentils, 1 ■onion, 1 stick of celery, 2 oz. butter or dripping, pepper and salt, 8 pints of stock, 1 carrot, 1 turnip. Melt the butter or dripping in a stewpan ; wash the lentils, strain them, and put them in the saucepan with sliced onion and vegetables cut into pieces ; stir them over the fire for five minutes, taking care that they do not get brown, then add the stock, and a little salt., Let this come to the boil, then skim, and let it simmer gently until the lentils are done. Pass the soup through a wire sieve or colander. Re-heat, season to taste with pepper and more salt if needed. 199. Puree de Pommes de Terre {Potato Soup).—1 lb. of potatoes, 2 oz. dripping or butter, £ pint of milk, 1 onion, 1\pint of stock or water, salt and pepper, 1 tablespoonful of tapioca or semolina. Wash and peel the potatoes, cut them in slices, peel and slice the onion, melt the dripping in a saucepan, add the vegetables, and cook them in the fat for five minutes, taking care that they do not brown, then add the water and enough salt and pepper to taste. When this comes to the boil skim it, and let it boil until the vegetables are tender. Pass the soup through a wire sieve, return it to the saucepan, add the milk, and when it comes to the boil sprinkle in the tapioca or semolina, boil for another ten minutes longer. The soup is then ready for table. 200. Soupe au Lait {Milk Soup).—1 pint of white stock, 1 pint milk, i onion, 1 oz. flour, 1 oz. butter, small fried bread croutons, i gill cream, 1 yolk of egg. Blend 1 oz. butter with 1 oz. flour, and cook for a few minutes168 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK without allowing the roux to take colour. Peel the onion and mince it, boil in the milk. Add the stock, which should be well flavoured, and the milk and onion. Bring the soup to the boil and skim it if necessary. The addition of half a gill of cream mixed with the yolk of an egg should be made at the last moment just before serving, when the soup is taken from the fire. It should not reboil after the cream and yolk are added. Season with pepper and salt, and serve hot. Fried croutons may be served as a garnish, strips of carrots and leek previously cooked in stock also form a suitable garnish by way of variety. 201. Pot age a la Tom ate maigre (Tomato Soup without Meat Stock).—1 lb. fresh or preserved tomatoes, fish-bones and trim- mings (those from a brill or plaice ivill do nicely), 1^ oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, \ pint of milk, 1 onion, 1 small blade of mace, 3 cloves, 1 bouquet garni, a tablespoonful of crushed tapioca, pepper and. salt. Chop up the fish-bones, put them together with the trimmings in a stewpan, add about 3 pints of water, the onion (peeled and stuck with the cloves), the mace, and bouquet; let it boil, skim, and simmer for about half an hour. Cut the tomatoes into slices, melt the butter in a stewpan, broil them over a bright fire. Strain the fish stock into this, stir the milk into the flour, and put with the soup ; stir until it begins to boil, skim and cook slowly for half an hour. Season with pepper and salt. Rub through a fine sieve, boil again, stir in the tapioca, let simmer for another ten minutes, and serve.CHAPTER XY SAUCES (See also Chapter X. on the composition of sauces) 202. Sauce JBechamel.—• oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 1^ pint of milk, and meat stock, 1 small onion or shallot, 1 small bouquet garni, 10 peppercorns, \ a bay-leaf, 1 small blade of mace, seasoning. Put the milk on to boil with the onion or shallot (peeled), the bouquet, peppercorns, mace, and hay-leaf. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, and cook a little without browning (or use white roux), stir in the milk, &c. (hot), whisk over the fire until it boils, and let simmer from fifteen to twenty minutes. Take out the bouquet, rub through a sieve or tammy, return to the stewpan, season lightly with a pinch of nutmeg, half-pinch of cayenne, and half a teaspoonful of salt. The sauce is then ready for use. 203. Sauce JBechamel, (Maigre).—1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 pint milk, 1 small onion, peeled and stuck with a clove, a few parsley-leaves tied in a bunch, ■§• bay-leaf, 1 small blade of mace, salt and pepper. Boil the milk with the onion, clove, parsley, bay-leaf and mace. Melt the butter in the stewpan, stir in the flour, and cook for a few minutes without allowing the flour to brown, then add gradually the milk and other ingredients ; continue to stir till it boils, and let simmer for ten minutes or longer. Strain the sauce and use as re- quired, adding salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. 204. Sauce Allewiande.—Dissolve 1 oz. of butter in a stew- pan, add 1 oz. of flour, stir a few minutes without allowing it to brown, dilute with rather more than a pint of chicken stock, stir until it boils. Season with pepper and salt and grated nutmeg. Let it simmer for half an hour, skim, and finish with a liaison of 2 yolks of eggs, a tablespoonful of cream, and ^ oz. of fresh butter. Stir over the fire until the eggs begin to set, but do not let it boil; add a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice, and pass through a fine strainer or tammy cloth. 205. Sauce dSForwiande.—Dissolve 1^ oz. of butter in a stew- pan, add 1 oz. of flour, stir long enough to cook the flour, moisten with about a pint of white stock and the liquor of the sole. Allow to boil for ten minutes, skim well, and finish with a liaison of 2 yolks ofTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 170 eggs ; stir in bit by bit 1 oz. of fresh butter and a few drops of lemon- juice ; pass through a fine strainer or tammy cloth, and use. 205 a. Sauce JBlanquette.—This is exactly the same as Sauce Allemande, with three tablespoonfuls of cream instead of one. 206. Sauce veloutee.—1 oz. flour, oz. butter, 1 pint of veal stock, \ gill mushroom liquor, 4 gill of cream, 1 small bouquet garni, 6 peppercorns, salt, nutmeg, lemon-juice. Cook the flour and 1 oz. of butter together without browning, stir in the stock and mushroom liquor, add the bouquet and crushed peppercorns, boil slowly for twenty minutes, stir frequently, and skim. Pass through a sieve or tammy ; keep on the side of the stove, put a few tiny pieces of butter on top to keep from forming a skin. Just before using it add the cream. Stir well and let it get thoroughly hot without boiling, season with salt if necessary, a pinch of nutmeg, and about a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. The sauce is now ready for use, and will serve as a foundation for any white stock, or as a veloutee by itself. The cream may be omitted if used as the former. 207. Sauce a la P Gillette.—This sauce consists of Allemande or veloutee (No. 206) sauce mixed with finely-chopped parsley. 208. Sauce IIollandaise.—3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. butter, 1 gill bechamel (No. 202) sauce, j gill stock, the juice of half a lemon, salt and pepper. Boil up the sauce, remove to the side of the. stove and whisk in the yolks of eggs, add the stock (fish, chicken, rabbit or veal), mix thoroughly and add the butter gradually, season with pepper and salt and the lemon-juice. Pass through a tammy and use. Before adding the butter the sauce should be sufficiently heated to bind the eggs. Great care must be taken to prevent it curdling. Another way to make this sauce is to omit the bechamel, and to use 4 yolks of eggs to 4 a gill of stock, which is finished with 4 oz. of butter. The first is the most convenient and most popular way. This sauce, when finished, is to be just hot, and on no account must it be allowed to reach the boiling point. 209. Sauce blanche (White Sauce).—1 pint milk, 1 small onion, 1 clove, 1 bay-leaf, 2 oz. butter, 14 oz. flour, \ pint stock {white), 10 peppercorns, salt. Cook flour and butter together without browning, moisten with the milk and stock, put in the onion, clove, peppercorns and bay-leaf, stir until it boils, and let it simmer for fifteen minutes, season with salt. Strain or tammy, and use as required. It is best to first boil the onion with the milk. 210. Sauce supreme.—Make a white roux with 1 oz. of butter and 1 oz. of flour ; dilute with three parts of a quart of chicken stock ; add a small onion, one clove, and half a bay-leaf; let it simmer for fifteen minutes, skim well, and work in three pats of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of cream, one yolk of egg, and the juice of half a lemon. Mix well and pass through a tammy cloth. *171 SAUCES 211. Sauce aux Huitves (Oyster Sauce).—12 oysters, 1 oz. of gutter, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, 1 yolk of egg, f of a pint of bechamel sauce (No. 202). Open the oysters, remove the beards and put them, with their liquor, in a small saucepan, with the butter. Cover with the lid, and cook for four minutes (they must not be allowed to boil). Put the -oysters on a sieve, cut them in twos or quarters, allow the liquid to reduce to half its original quantity. Strain, return to the saucepan, add the bechamel sauce; when hot bind with, the yolk of egg, then put in the oysters and lemon-juice. Stir until the former are quite hot, season with a pinch of salt and pepper, if necessary, and serve in a hot sauceboat. 212. Sauce a la Chasseur Royal. — Chop the bones of the soles, and put in a stewpan with the trimmings of the oysters, a small sliced onion, 1 bay-leaf, 1 sprig of parsley and thyme, and a sprig of marjoram. Moisten with a glass of port wine, let it reduce to half the original quantity. Keep well covered during the process. Now add 10 crushed peppercorns, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and i pint of Espagnole sauce, or 1 gill of brown stock. Simmer for twenty minutes, remove the scum, and pass through a tammy cloth or very fine pointed strainer. Return to the stew, add a little seasoning if needed, and finish with ^ gill of double cream. Keep very hot, but not boiling, and use as ■directed. 212 a. Aurora Sauce.—Put \ pint bechamel sauce (No. 202) in a stewpan, add 2 oz. butter, a pinch of cayenne, J gill of cream, 1 dessertspoonful tarragon vinegar, and 1 oz. lobster butter. Stir •well over boiling water till hot, but without letting the sauce boil. 213. Sauce Da noise.—2 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 glass sherry, | gill Chablis or Sauterne, 1 pint fish stock, ^ oz. grated Parmesan, 2, teaspoonfuls meat glaze (No. 247), 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, 1 gill cream, ^ oz. lobster coral, salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, let it cook a few minutes without taking colour. Moisten with the wine and fish stock. Stir until it boils, then add the anchovy essence, meat glaze, and grated cheese. Season to taste with pepper and salt, let simmer gently for a few minutes, skim and pass through a fine sieve. Return to a clean stewpan. Let it come to a boil. Work in the cream and lobster coral or lobster butter. Keep hot, but do not let it boil again. Serve with dressed fish—salmon, turbot, soles, or lobster. 214. Sauce Ravigote, chaude (Hot Bavigote Sauce).—4 boned anchorites, 2 French gherkins, 1 shallot, 2 oz. parsley, tarragon, and chervil, 2 oz. blotter, \ gill cream, 5 yolks of eggs, 1 tablespoonful bechamel (No. 202), salt, pepper, and cayenne. Peel the shallot, blanch the parsley and other herbs, put these, together with the anchovies and gherkins, in a mortar and pound172 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK well. Eub through a fine sieve, put the pulp in a small stewpan, stand it in the bain-marie, stir in with a whisk the sauce (bechamel), let it get quite hot, then add by degrees the butter and cream, also the yolks of eggs one at a time. Stir until the sauce begins to thicken, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Add a few drops of spinach greening if not green enough. This sauce is excellent with green artichokes, asparagus, salmon, trout, &c. If the sauce is prepared on the open fire great care must be taken so as not to let it come to the boil. 215. Sauce Anchois.—Warm up half a pint of bechamel or Hollandaise sauce (No. 208), and stir in one teaspoonful of anchovy essence. 216. Sauce an Vin Blanc (White Wine Sauce). -Some fish liquor (fumet de poisson : if the sauce be used for fish), ^ pint white stock, 1 gill white icine, J oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 yolks of egg, lemon, salt, white pepper. If the sauce is required for dressed fish, the fish should be cooked in a mirepoix of sliced onion, parsley, and savoury herbs as usual, with the appropriate quantity of water. The liquor is strained and used in the sauce. Melt 1 oz. butter, stir in the flour, cook a little, dilute with stock, fish, liquor, and wine, cook for fifteen minutes. Add by continuous stirring the remainder of the butter bit by bit, also the yolks of egg, one at a time, season with a little salt, a pinch of mignonette or white pepper, and add a fewr drops of lemon-juice. Strain through a tammy or napkin, and use as sauce for dressed fish, &c. Mostly served with soles, salmon, trout, and whiting. 217. Sauce Xavier (Fish Sauce).—^ bunch water-cresses, a few sprigs of fennel, f pint milk, fish-bones, essence of fish, for which the sauce is prepared, 1 foz. butter, ^ oz. of flour. Seasoning, lemon- juice. Remove the stalks from the cresses and fennel, put the leaves. in a stewpan with the milk and fish-bones, previously cut into small pieces (add a tiny piece of soda), boil until the leaves are done. Strain and let cool, put the cooked herbs in a mortar, and pound with half the butter, then rub through a sieve. Cook the flour in the remainder of the butter, without taking colour, dilute with the milk in which the cresses, &c., have boiled. Stir until it boils, add the fish essence, and let the whole simmer for ten minutes. Strain, return to the stewpan, boil up, add the green puree, and cook a few minutes longer. Season with a few drops of lemon-juice, pepper, and salt, add a little cream or stock if found too thick, and keep in the bain- marie until required. 218. Sauce Cardinal.—\ pint veloutee (No. 206) or bechamel (No. 202) sauce, 1 oz. butter, jioice of % lemon, ^ oz. lobster coral or 1 oz. lobster butter(No. 891), 1 dessertspoon meat glaze, | gill mush- room liquor, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Reduce the sauce with the mushroom liquor, season with salt.173 SAUCES pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, add the lemon-juice, and whisk in the butter and lobster coral (the latter finely chopped). Strain through a tammy cloth or fine strainer, return to the stewpan, stir in the meat glaze, and keep hot in the bain-marie until required for Serving. N.B.—If sauce ndaigre is desired, use bechamel sauce only, and substitute the meat glaze with \ gill of cream. 219. Sauce aux JEcrevisses (Prawn Sauce).—Proceed the same as for sauce Cardinal (No. 218) and include 1.2 prawns’ heads which must be cut in quarters and placed into the sauce a few minutes before serving. 220. Sauce Venitienne. -\ pint Allemancle (No. 204) or Bechamel (No. 242) sauce, 1 oz. lobster butter (No. 391), 1 dessert- spoonful meat glaze (No. 247), the juice of half a lemon, pepper, nutmeg, and salt, 1 teaspoonful finely-chopped tarragon-leaves. Heat up the sauce, stir in the lobster butter and meat glaze when required for serving, add lemon-juice, sufficient pepper, grated nutmeg, and salt to taste, and last of all the chopped tarragon. 221. Sauce Mirabeau.—1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236) 14 gill fish stock, \ small onion, \ small carrot, j gill Burgundy wine, | gill mushroom liquor, 14 oz. fresh butter, chopped tarragon, chervil and parsley. Prepare the fish stock from the bones and trimmings of the trout. Peel the onion, scrape the carrot, and mince both ; fry them in a little butter to a nice colour, drain off the butter, add the wine, cover and let boil quickly for a few minutes, then add the mushroom liquor and the stock, reduce to about half the original quantity, then stir in the Espagnole sauce, and let simmer for about five minutes. Strain into a clean saucepan, add the remainder of the butter, about a tea- spoonful (in all) of chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil, also a few drops of lemon-juice and seasoning if found necessary. Whisk over the fire until thoroughly hot (not boiling) and use as directed. 222. Sauce Maintenon. This sauce is especially adapted for so-called gratin dishes, and must therefore be well reduced so as to be of the correct consistency. Boil 1 pint of bechamel sauce for about 15 minutes, stirring con- tinually ; add to it the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, 1 tablespoonful of cooked onion puree (soubise), a suspicion of garlic, just enough to impart the aroma, a pinch of paprika pepper, and a little grated nutmeg (salt if needed). Stir till it thickens, without allowing it to boil, and use as required. 223. Sauce a la Mornay.—4 pint bechamel (No. 202) sauce, j gill of mushroom or Italiennc sauce (No. 239), 4 gill cream, 4 oz. meat glaze or 2 tablespoonfuls half-glaze of chicken stock, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, l.oz. fresh butter. Put the bechamel sauce into a saucepan, reduce it well, then add the Italienne or mushroom sauce. Let it boil up, skim well and addTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 174 the cream. Now place the stewpan in a vessel of boiling water, stir with a whisk, and finish off with the grated cheese, butter and meat glaze or half-glaze ; these latter ingredients must be added by degrees, only a little at a time ; work the sauce until it becomes of a creamy appearance. It must on no account be allowed to boil again. When this sauce is required for dressed fish (baked or otherwise),, some essence of fish must be incorporated. 224. Sauce 3Iousseliue (Viande).—^ gill cream, 4 yolks of egg, 3 crushed long peppercorns, 1 oz. butter, salt, nutmeg, lemon- juice. Put cream, egg-yolks, and pepper in a stewpan, place this in a bain-marie half filled with boiling water, beat up with a whisk for a little time, then add one at a time little pieces of butter ; stir all the time, but do not add any more butter until each piece has been thoroughly worked in and is absorbed in the sauce. The sauce when finished will have the appearance of a frothy cream, and should then be passed through a tammy cloth. Just before serving finish off with a few drops of lemon-juice; a pinch of salt, and a grate of nutmeg should be added during the process of whisking. Served with fillets of veal or fowl, asparagus or artichokes. 225. Sauce Bearnaise.—^ gill tarragon vinegar, 3 shallots finely chopped, & peppercorns, crushed, 4 yolks of eggs, 1 tablespoonful white sauce, 4 oz. butter, 1 sprig thyme, meat glaze. Put the shallots, peppercorns, and thyme with the vinegar in a stewpan, cover and boil until well reduced, remove the thyme, add the sauce and a little meat glaze when hot. Whisk in the yolks of eggs (care must be taken not to let the sauce boil), remove the stewpan from the fire, and work in the butter in small pieces. Only a little butter must be added at a time, otherwise the sauce will get oily. Strain through a pointed strainer or tammy. A little finely chopped fresh tarragon and chervil may be added after the sauce is strained. 226. Sauce Albert.—Prepare a Sauce Bearnaise (No. 225), but substitute for the tarragon a few leaves of green mint, and finish with one or two leaves of the same finely chopped. 227. Sauce Creme de Celeri.—1 small head of celery, 1 pint milk, 1 oz. of butter, 1 oz. of flour, a little cream, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Remove the best part of the celery, wash well, blanch it, drain and steep in cold water; cut the celery into small pieces, put in a stewpan with the milk, diluted with a little cold stock, add some salt, boil up, skim, and let simmer until tender. Prepare in the meantime a white roux, i.e. dissolve the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and stir over a slow fire until the latter is cooked without taking colour ; then add gradually the celery and stock, let boil a little longer, pass through a tammy cloth, return to the stewpan, season to taste with175 SAUCES salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Stir over the fire until it boils, then add a little cream and keep in the bain-marie until required. 228. Sauce 3Iatelote.—^ pint Espagnole sauce (No 236), 1 oz. butter, -5 gill Burgundy wine, fisli stock, liquor or fumet de poisson, It onion, ^ carrot, i gill mushroom liquor. Peel the onion and carrot and mince very fine, fry in a little butter a nice colour, drain off the butter, moisten with the wine and mush- room liquor, let this reduce well, then add the fish stock or liquor left over in the pan in which the fish to be served with this sauce is cooked, boil up again and add the Espagnole. Let simmer for ten minutes, then strain through a fine strainer or cloth, add a small piece of butter, season, if necessary, with a few drops of lemon-juice, salt and pepper, and keep hot. Note.—If you have no Espagnole handy, substitute for it \ oz. of flour, \ oz. of butter, well blended (fried a chestnut brown), and diluted with ^ pint of rich brown stock ; boil well, and use as directed. 229. Sauce Joinville.—1 oz. flour, i gill fish stock, f pint white stock, 8 oz. butter, 3 yolks <of eggs, lobster coral, lemon-juice, salt, and cayenne. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, and cook a little without browning. Add gradually the fish and white stock, stir until it boils, and let simmer for twenty minutes. Pound the lobster coral in a mortar with an equal quantity of fresh butter, rub through a sieve and stir into the sauce. Stir in the egg-yolks one at a time. Season to taste with a pinch of cayenne, salt, and lemon-juice. Whisk well over a slow fire, or in a bain-marie. Do not let the sauce boil up again. Pass through a fine-pointed strainer or napkin, and serve as directed. 230. Sauce a la Victoria- (for Fish).—^ lb. fresh butter,4, yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful tarragon vinegar, 1 tablespoonful lemon-juice, 1 teaspoonful chili vinegar, ^ gill fish stock, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Cut the butter into small squares, put half the quantity in a stew- pan, place the stewpan in a vessel or large stewpan containing boiling water. Stir in the yolks of eggs by means of a whisk, add lemon-juice, tarragon and chili vinegar, also the stock reduced to half its quantity. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, finish by whisking in the remainder of the pieces of butter. The water in which the stewpan is placed should be kept at boiling point during the process, but on no account must the sauce be allowed to boil. 231. Sauce Gouffe.—1 gill cream, \ gill wine vinegar, 3 yolks 'of eggs, 1 bay-leaf, 6 crushed peppercorns, salt, 2 oz. butter, 2 table- spoonfuls of cream, 1 tablespoonful chopped lobster meat. Put the vinegar, bay-leaf, and peppercorns in a stewpan (covered) ; let it reduce a little. Add the yolks of eggs and stir over the fire until the sauce begins to thicken, then remove and put in a saucepan con- taining boiling water, or in the bain-marie. Work in the butter a176 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK little at a time, also the cream, stir vigorously with a small whisk. Pass through a fine strainer or tammy cloth, return to a clean stew- pan, add the chopped lobster and a pinch of salt, stir again, place a few bits of butter on top, and keep hot until required for serving. 232. Sauce Soubise.—2 onions, 1 gill white stock, \ pint bechamel sauce (No. 202), white pepper, salt, a pinch of sugar. Peel the onions, parboil in salted water, strain off the water, drain and chop very finely. Return to the stewpan, and stir over the fire until all moisture is absorbed, then add the stock and cook till tender. Now add the sauce and reduce to the desired consistency, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of caster sugar. 233. Sauce JMattre d’Hotel.—± pint bechamel, or veloutee (No. 206), sauce, 3 oz. butter, ^ lemon, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley seasoning. Put the sauce into a stewpan, add a little water, stir until it boils, and reduce well. Whisk in the butter a little at the time, and rub through a tammy cloth or fine hair sieve. Return to the stewpan, add the parsley and lemon-juice, season with pepper and salt. 234. Sauce Haifort, chaude (Horseradish Sauce, hot).—2 tablespoonfuls grated horseradish, % pint bechamel (No. 202) sauce, teaspoonful caster sugar, pinch of cayenne and salt, i teaspoonful of vinegar. Moisten the horseradish with the vinegar, mix with the sauce, and boil up whilst stirring. Add the sugar and cayenne, allow it to simmer a few minutes, taking great care that the sauce does not curdle; if found too thick, add a tablespoonful of cream or milk. Serve with hot roast beef, &c. 235. Sauce au Pain (Bread Sauce).—4 oz.fresh bread-crumbs, 1 small onion, 1 clove, A peppercorns, 1 pint of milk, ^ oz. fresh butter, salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. Peel the onion, stick in it the clove, put the onion and milk in a saucepan, boil up, stir in the bread-crumbs, add the peppercorns, and cook for fifteen minutes. Remove the onions and peppercorns, stir in the cream and butter, season with a pinch of salt, and keep hot until required for serving. If preferred, the onion may be cooked longer, passed through a sieve, and added to the sauce ; the cream can be omitted ; if found too thick, a little hot water can be added. Bread sauce is usually served with roast fowl, turkey, and game birds. 236. Sauce (Espagnole.—Espagnole, or Spanish sauce, is one of the grandes sauces—it forms the principal ingredient in a large number of small sauces (petites sauces), and it is advisable that particular care and attention be paid to the preparation of this im- portant sauce. The ingredients given will produce about half a gallon of Espagnole sauce. A smaller quantity can be prepared by reducing the quantities in proportion. It is, however, prudent to have at all times a supply of this sauce handy:—3 quarts of rich .stock, 4 oz, lean veal, 1 bouquet garni, 12 peppercorns, 4 oz. butter,177 SAUCES 4 oz. flour {sifted), 4 oz. rate ham or lean bacon, 1 carrot, 1. onion, 2 cloves, \ pint tomato pulp, i gill claret, 1 glass sherry, 4 oz. flour, some mushrooms. Wash and peel the carrot, turnip, and onion, cut up small and put in a stewpan with the bouquet of savoury herbs, peppercorns, cloves, and the veal and ham, both cut into pieces. Add an ounce of butter, and stir over the fire until of a nice light brown colour ; this forms a true mirepoix; pour off the fat, moisten the mirepoix with the stock, claret, sherry, and tomato pulp, boil gently for about an hour. Skim occasionally. Meanwhile, prepare a roux by melting 3 oz. of butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour and cook very slowly over a moderate fire, stirring all the while with a wooden spoon until it acquires a chestnut-brown colour; or place the stewpan in the oven and cook there until brown, stirring from time to time to prevent it from burning, and to blend the flour better. Allow the roux to cool a little, pour in gradually the prepared stock &c., stir over the fire until it boils, let simmer slowly for another hour, skim well, and - pass through a tammy cloth or fine sieve. If found too thick, add a little more stock. To prevent a thick crust forming on the top of the sauce, stir occasionally until quite cool. Keep the sauce in a stone vessel or pan until wanted. Be sure and boil up the sauce each day if not used up at one time, adding a little stock if necessary. 237. Sauce Demi-Glace.—Reduce \ pint Espagnole sauce with 1 gill of good gravy (strained and free from fat) ; allow to simmer about fifteen minutes, and season with a pinch of pepper. 237 a. Sauce Madere.—Proceed the same as for Demi-Glace. Add one glass of sherry or Madeira wine ; reduce a little longer than the above, and finish with ^ oz. of meat glaze. 238. Sauce Robert.—| small onion, ^ oz. butter, £ teaspoonful caster sugar, \ pint Espagnole sauce {No. 236), | glass white wine, saltspoonful dry mustard. Peel and mince the onion, fry it in the butter a nut brown, add the mustard, moisten with the wine, and reduce a little. Stir in the Espagnole and cook for ten minutes ; season it to taste and strain. 239. Sauce Italienne.—% pint Espagnole sauce {No. 236), 4 small shallots., 8 preserved mushrooms, a sprig of thyme, 1 bay-leaf, 1 tablespoonful sweet oil, 1 glass Ghablis or Sauterne, ^ gill stock. Peel the shallots, chop them finely, place in the corner of a clean cloth, hold tightly wrapped up under cold water, then squeeze out the water, and put them in a small stewpan with the oil, stir over the fire for a few minutes, to blend but not to colour. Add the wine, the mushrooms (finely chopped), herbs, and the stock, let it reduce well, and add the Espagnole. Boil for ten minutes, take out the herbs, free it from the oil, and keep hot in the bain-marie until required. 240. Sauce Salmis.—1 teaspoonful red currant jelly, | pint Espagnole sauce {No. 236), 1 gill of game stock, carcase of cooked NTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 178 game, 2 shallots, 1 bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, some mushroom trim- mings, 1 glass port wine, 1 tablespoonful sweet oil. Peel and chop finely the shallots, fry in oil a golden colour, add the bay-leaf, thyme, and mushroom trimmings, chop up the carcase- of game, and fry a little in fat or butter, drain and put with the above preparation, add the port wine, cover the stewpan, and cook them for five minutes. Moisten with the stock and sauce. Stir well and let simmer for ten minutes. Skim well, strain or tammy, season to taste, add the red currant jelly, heat up and serve. 241. Sauce iPiquante.-—^ onion or 4 shallots, 8 gherkins {chopped), 1 tablespoonful chopped capers, 1 gill vinegar, 1 bay-leaf, 1 sprig of thyme, f pint Espagnole sauce {No. 286). Peel and chop the onion or shallots, put them in a stewpan with the vinegar, bay-leaf, and thyme, cover, and reduce to half the quan- tity of liquor. Strain into another stewpan, add the chopped gherkins and capers, moisten with the sauce, boil a few minutes, and serve. 242. Sauce Chasseur.—% pint Madere sauce {No. 237), ^ gill 'game liquor {fumet), lemon-juice, and '1 to 2 livers of game. Chop the liver finely and cook with the sauce and liquor of game for about ten minutes, season to taste, add a teaspoonful of lemon- juice and serve. 243. Sauce JPeriyueux.—Chop finely three large truffles, put them in a small stewpan with a glass of sherry, reduce to one- half (covered) ; add a gill of brown sauce, and one of tomato sauce (No. 271); boil for a few minutes, finish with a teaspoonful of anchovy essence and a pat of fresh butter. 244. Sauce au Bear re noir {Black Butter Sauce).—Put H oz. butter in an omelette pan, fry over a quick fire until it acquires a nut-brown colour, then add about half a teaspoonful of vinegar, and one teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 245. Sauce Genoise.—1 sliced onion, 1 shallot, clove of garlic, 1 oz. butter, small bouquet garni {No. 2), 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, 1 glass red wine {Burgundy), 1 pint Espagnole sauce {made from fish stock if desired), a pinch mignonette pepper. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and fry onion, shallot, garlic, and bouquet, add the wine, let simmer until the onions are done, then add the sauce, and let simmer gently for ten minutes. Strain through a fine sieve or tammy, add the pepper and anchovy essence, and use as directed. 246. Sauce Genoise, maiyre.—Prepare a mirepoix of 1 carrot, 4 stick celery, 1 onion, 2 fresh mushrooms, and 2 oz. bacon, all cut into dice. Melt 1 oz. butter in a stewpan, add the above mire- poix, also a bay-leaf and a few peppercorns, and fry for five minutes over a brisk fire, add 1 tablespoonful flour, stir until it acquires a nut- brown colour, moisten with 1 glass Burgundy wine and £ pint fish stock, boil up and simmer for half an hour. Strain, season to taste. Be-heat and serve as directed.SAUCES 179 247. Glace de Viande (Meat Glaze).—Put 8 quarts of good stock, white or brown, into a stewpan, boil up, skim well, and reduce on a moderate fire from 3^ to 4 hours. It will make barely half a pint when done. Put into a jar while hot, cover and keep in a dry place, and use as required. If well made it will keep for a long time. 248. Jus (Brown Stock Gravy).—Put 2 oz. of beef suet or 1 oz. of dripping in a stewpan, add a sliced onion and carrot, fry slightly brown, put in about 2 pounds of beef trimmings or other meat, and any bones of meat or carcase of poultry which you may have by you. Let it bake in the oven for fifteen minutes, take up, pour off the fat and moisten with 2 quarts of water, add 4 head of well-washed celery, 3 cloves, a blade of mace, 6 peppercorns, and a small bouquet of herbs. Let the whole simmer gently for several hours, take off fat and scum, and strain. Season with salt as required. A few drops of caramel may be added if the gravy is not sufficiently brown. 249. Sauce JBordelaise.—f of a pint Espagnole (No. 236), or brown sauce, 1 wineglassful red ivine, 2 finely chopped shallots, % oz. meat glaze (No. 247), 1 teaspoonful chopped herbs (parsley, tarragon, and chervil), a pinch of sugar, salt and pepper. Put the wine and shallots in a stewpan, reduce to half, add the sauce, and cook slowly for twenty minutes. Take off the scum, add the chopped herbs and meat glaze. Season with sugar, salt, and pepper. Give it one more boil, and keep hot in the bain-marie until required. N.B.—In most cases where Bordelaise sauce is used, and especially so with beef, some small round pieces or slices of beef marrow are blanched and put on the meat before it is served, or else warmed up in the sauce. 250. Sauce d la Chateaubriand (sometimes called a la Crapautine).—1 gill Chablis or Sauterne ivine, 2 cloves, 1 sprig of thyme, 2 shallots, 12 peppercorns, about 1^ gill meat glaze (No. 247), the juice of \ lemon, 2 oz. butter, jr teaspoonful chopped tarragon. Peel and chop the shallots, put them with the wine, cloves, thyme, and crushed peppercorns in a small stewpan, cover and reduce to half its quantity, strain into another stewpan, add the lemon-juice. Work in the meat glaze and butter bit by bit (keep the stewpan in the bain- marie), add the tarragon last of all. Whisk well, and serve very hot with fillet steak Chateaubriand &c. 251. Sauce a la Diable (Devilled Sauce).—Fry 2 finely minced shallots in ^ an ounce of butter to a golden colour, add \ pint demi-glace sauce, 1 tablespoonful of mixed mustard, a dessert- spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and a good pinch of cayenne. Stir until it boils, skim and pass through a fine strainer, add a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, and serve. 252. Sauce Gibier (Game Sauce).—The trimmings, carcases, &c., of any kind of game may be used for this sauce ; those of grouse, or woodcock are preferable. Chop small the trimmings of game, putTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 180 them in a stewpan with a small onion, a piece of carrot, and a piece of turnip all cut in slices, a few sprigs of parsley, a sprig of thyme, one of marjoram, a bay-leaf, a small piece of mace, and one clove, moisten with half a gill sherry, cover and put on the fire to cook for five minutes. Now add a good pint of Espagnole or brown sauce, let it come quickly to a boil, and keep simmering for fifteen minutes longer. Pass through a tammy cloth, return to a clean stewpan, season with a little salt if necessary, and keep hot in the bain-marie until required for serving. 253. Sauce Colbert aax Fines Herbes.—1^ gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1 glass of Madeira wine, 1 tablespoonful of meat glaze (No. 247), H oz. of fresh butter, 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice, chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil—one dessertspoonful in all. Put the sauce into a small stewpan, stir over the fire until hot, add the Madeira wine, and let boil a few minutes. Remove to the side of the stove, and add gradually in little bits the butter and the meat glaze. Beat up with a small whisk, but do not let it boil again. Last of all add the lemon-juice and the chopped herbs; serve as directed. If desired richer, ^ oz. more butter may be added in the manner described. 254. Sauce Fein cesse (Hot Sauce for Fried Chicken, del).— Grate the thin rind of a lemon and the same quantity of horseradish, put them in a small stewpan with 2 tablespoonfuls of French wine vinegar, add a little grated nutmeg, and 8 crushed white peppercorns, boil for several minutes, then add H gills of J)echamel or veloutee sauce. Allow to cook for ten minutes and pass through a fine sieve or tammy. Re-heat, season with salt and more pepper, if needed, work in by means of a whisk 1 oz. of fresh butter and a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, and serve with any kind of fixture of poultry, fish, or meat. 255. Sauce Feforme (for Cutlets a la Rtforme).—This sauce consists of a gill or more of poivrade sauce mixed with a small glass of port wine and one teaspoonful of red currant jelly. Boil well for ten minutes and strain. The usual Reform garnish, consisting of Julienne strips of gherkins, truffles, hard-boiled white of egg and cooked ox-tongue, is served at the same time. 256. Sauce Chevreuil (Venison or Roebuck Sauce).—Mince finely 1 small onion, 1 oz. lean ham, fry these in 1 oz. butter, and add half a gill of vinegar, 12 crushed peppercorns, one bay-leaf and half a small minced carrot, a little thyme and chopped parsley. Cover and boil for ten minutes. Then add ^ pint Espagnol sauce, 1 small glass port wine, and 1 dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly. Cook for ten minutes, skim and strain, season to taste, reheat, and use as required. 257. Sauce JFtusseChop -finely 2 oz. of lean ham, 4 peeled shallots, and fry in butter (about ^ oz.) for a few seconds, then add a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme and a glass of white wine ; cover and let reduce to about half the quantity. To this add about a pint of velouteeSAUCES 181 or Allemande sauce, and allow to cook gently for ten minutes. Remove the herbs, and add a tablespoonful of finely grated horseradish, season with cayenne and nutmeg, and pass through a sieve or tammy cloth. Re-heat, stir in a pat of fresh butter and a teaspoonful of meat glaze or meat extract. This sauce is excellent with grilled fish or fillets of beef. 257 a. Marinade cuite, or Marinade Sauce.—Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, add a small sliced carrot, 3 sliced shallots, a sprig of thyme, 1 clove, and allow to fry a little; then add a few sprigs of parsley, a bay-leaf, some chives, and a tablespoonful of flour. Stir over the fire for a few minutes. Moisten with a gill of vinegar and half a pint of stock, season with pepper and salt. Allow to simmer for half an hour, strain or pass through a tammy cloth, and serve as required for releves, roast or braised game, etc. 258. Sauce d VOrange.—Chop two shallots and put them into a small stewpan with the rind of an orange, quite free from the white or pith, and a little chopped lean of raw ham and cayenne pepper ; moisten with two glasses of port wine, and a little strong gravy ; set the essence to simmer gently on, the fire for about ten minutes, then add the juice of the orange with a little lemon-juice, and pass it through a silk sieve. 259. Sauce au Jus d’Orange.—Peel an orange thinly, and cut the peel into strips (Julienne fashion), put them in a stewpan with sufficient water to cover, boil for five minutes, and drain on a sieve. Put in a stewpan ahalf-pint of Espagnole sauce, a half-pint rich stock or roast meat gravy, and half the juice of the orange. Allow all to reduce to half its quantity, strain, and add the orange-peel, a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice, a teaspoonful of red currant jelly, season with pepper and salt, boil up again, and serve with roast wild duck, wild boar, or other game. 260. Sauce Bigarcide.—Proceed the same as before, but .substitute a Seville orange for the sweet one. Use only half the peel, and boil for ten minutes at least. Omit red currant jelly, and add a glass of port wine instead. 261. Sauce Indienne.—1^ oz. butter, * oz. flour, ^ small onion, 1 tablespoonful curry-poioder, f pint good fish stock, salt, 1 tomato, a feiv savoury herbs, ^ glass Marsala wine. Melt the butter, add the onion, finely chopped ; when of a nice light brown stir in the flour and curry-powder, blend well, and cook for five minutes; pour in gradually the fish stock, add the tomato, cut into slices, and the herbs ; bring it to the boil while stirring, then add the wine, season to taste, cook for twenty minutes, strain and serve. • 262. Champagne Sauce.—Put two cloves, half a dozen peppercorns, a bay-leaf, and three-quarters of a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 236) into a stewpan on the fire ; let it reduce a little, add a glass of champagne, and the essence remaining from the braised182 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK ham. Reduce the whole for ten minutes, or longer if found too thin. Strain through a pointed strainer and serve with braised ham. 263. Sauce Poivrade (Pepper Sauce).—f pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 236), ^ oz. of butter, ^ small carrot, ^ small onion, 18 peppercorns, 1 bay-leaf, 1 sprig thyme, 2 cloves, \ oz. of raw ham or bacon. Mince the onion and carrot, cut the ham or bacon into small pieces ; fry the above in the butter for three minutes, add the pepper- corns (crushed), herbs, &c.; skim off the fat, moisten with the sauce, and boil for ten minutes or longer ; skim, strain, and serve as required. 264. Sauce JEtouennaise.—Infuse 3 finely chopped shallots, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme in a glass of claret. Add a pint of demi- glace sauce, and 2 to 3 finely chopped ducks’ livers, and let reduce, season to taste, and strain. 265. Sauce Aigre-Douce.—Take half a pint of poivrade sauce (No. 263) and add to it 1 tablespoonful of red currant jelly, boil up and skim, then add 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, re-heat without boiling again, season to taste and use as required. This sauce is especially suitable for roast game, &c. 266. Sauce Champignons, blanche (white).—Boil together gill of bechamel sauce (No. 202) and the same quantity of veal stock (or other white stock), reduce to about half its original quantity. Skim well and add 8 to 10 preserved mushrooms (half-pint tin), cut into slices, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom liquor, and 1 dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, and about half a gill of Chablis or other white wine. Let the whole boil, season to taste, then add 1 tablespoonful of cream, and serve. 267. Sauce Champignons, brune (brown).—Chop finely 8 to 10 preserved mushrooms (champignons), put them in a small stewpan with a little of the liquor and half a gill of sherry wine, cover and allow to reduce well. Now add half a pint of demi-glace or thin Espa- gnole sauce; boil up, skim, season to taste, and use as required. 268. Sauce aux Airelles rouge (Cranberry Sauce, served with Boast Turkey or Fowl.)—1 lb. cranberries, § lb. sugar, a pinch soda, a teaspoonf ul lemon-juice, f pint water. Pick over and wash the cranberries, put them in a stewpan with the water and soda. Remove the scum as soon as it begins to boil, then add the sugar, and boil gently for about twenty minutes, and keep covered whilst boiling ; remove the lid and add the lemon-juice, reduce briskly for a few minutes until the liquid stiffens ; strain into a melted mould or any earthen vessel, allow it to set in a cool place, and turn out when required. This is not exactly a sauce, although the Americans describe it as such. It forms an excellent and most appropriate accom- paniment with roast turkey. 269. Sauce Cumberland (a Cold Game Sauce).—Mince finely 2 peeled shallots, put them in a stewpan with the strained juice of a lemon, the thin rind of a lemon and that of an orange cut into fine183 SAUCES Julienne strips (shreds.) Add half a gill of water and cook for ten minutes, then strain and return to the stewpan, adding a dessert- spoonful of mixed mustard, i gill of Marsala wine, i gill of port wine,, a pinch of ground ginger, 2 tablespoonfuls of red currant jelly, the juice of a lemon and an orange, and 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, season with pepper and salt, also a pinch of cayenne, boil up, strain and serve cold with any kind of game or ducks. 270. Sauce Cambridge (an excellent Cold Meat Sauce).— Pound in a mortar 4 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 4 fillets of anchovies, 1 tablespoonful of capers, a sprig of tarragon and chervil; then add 1 dessert-spoonful of French mustard, 1 teaspoonful of English mustard, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and moisten with 2 table- spoonfuls of olive oil and 1 of tarragon vinegar. Rub the whole through a fine tammy or hair sieve, stir in a little more oil and vinegar, and work to the desired consistency ; keep it on the ice till wanted, and add a little chopped parsley or olives just before serving. No salt is needed on account of the anchovies used in making this sauce. 271. Sauce Tomate (Tomato Sauce).—Put into a stewpan 1 oz. of slices of bacon, 1 oz. of butter, and a finely-chopped onion, fry a little, and add about 1 lb. of ripe tomatoes freed from stems and cut into slices, stir over the fire a little longer, then add 1 oz. of flour previously mixed with a little cold stock or gravy. Stir in gradually three parts of a quart of stock, add a few peppercorns, a few sprigs of savoury herbs and parsley, allow all to simmer for half an hour. Remove the herbs, rub through a sieve, return to the stewpan, season with salt, a pinch of caster sugar and pepper, finish with a pat of fresh butter, and serve as required. Note.—A tablespoonful of double cream might be used instead of butter, but the sauce should not be allowed to boil again after the butter or cream as a finish has been added. 272. Sauce Creme de Tomate.— Cut up the tomato, put in a stewpan, add a bay-leaf, salt, and peppercorns, reduce to half, add a piece of butter, and when drawn pass through a tammy, return to a small stewpan, and work in remainder of 2 oz. of butter. Do not put, near too hot a place, or else it will go oily. 273. Sauce Pompadour.—2 oz. butter, \ pint veloutee (No. 206) or Allemande (No. 204) sauce, 1 shallot, 6preserved mushrooms, 2 yolks of eggs, \ gill cream, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Peel and chop the shallot, and mince finely the mushrooms. Blend the shallot in an ounce of butter, but do not let it take colour; put in the mushrooms and stir over the fire until all moisture is absorbed, then add the sauce, stir until it boils, skim well, and let it cook a few minutes. Beat up the yolks of eggs with the cream and parsley, stir into the sauce, and season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg; finish with the remaining ounce of butter, but do not let it boil again. Keep in the bain-marie until required for serving.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 184 274. Sauce MarseillaIse.—1 lb. ripe tomatoes, 1 carrot, 1 small onion, 1 oz. raw ham, 2 oz. butter, 1^ oz. flour, 1 bay-leaf, 1 gill stoclc, 1 oz. bacon (fat), salt, pepper. Remove the stems of the tomatoes, cut them in halves, crossways, take out the pips and mash up, and put them in a stewpan with the stock and vegetables ; the latter should be washed, peeled, and cut into slices. Cook slowly until tender. Cut up the bacon and ham, put them in a stewpan with an oz. butter, stir over the fire until the butter turns clear ; add the flour, and cook long enough to blend the flour (do not let it get brown); now add the tomato puree and bay-leaf. Remove the fat from the liquor left from the chicken, strain into the above, and cook together slowly for twenty minutes. Season with pepper and salt, and a pinch qf aromatic seasoning. Put through a tammy cloth or hair sieve, heat up again, finish with the remaining ounce of butter, and serve as directed. 275. Sauce Ruisseau (Watercress Sauce).bunch to atercress, \ tablespoonful capers, l^oz. of butter, 1 gillchickenstock,\pintveloutee sauce (No. 206) or Allemande (No. 204), 1 hard-boiled egg, seasoning. Wash, pick, and blanch the cresses, put them in the mortar with the egg, capers, and butter, pound until the grist is fine, and rub through a sieve. Put the sauce and stock in a stewpan, let it boil up together, skim and reduce a little. Whisk in, by degrees, the green puree. Season to taste with pepper and salt, strain through a tammy cloth, return to the stewpan, and keep hot in a bain-marie until required for serving. N.B.—On no account allow the sauce to boil again after it has been strained, or else it will become oily. 276. Sauce Spadacini.—1 gill white wine, J gill vinegar, 2 shallots, a few sprigs of parsley, 2 sprigs of basil, 1 teaspoonful crushed mignonette pepper, 1 tablespoonful tvhite sauce (bechamel (No. 202) or Allemande (No. 204)), 1 tablespoonful tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 small terrine foie gras (about 3 oz.) freed from fat, 1 yolk of egg, 1 oz. butter, 2 pinches of cayenne. Put the wine, vinegar, shallot (chopped finely), herbs, and pepper- corns in a stewpan, cover, and reduce to one half of its original quantity. Add the two kinds of sauces, boil up, and pass through the tammy. Pound the foie gras in a mortar, add the yolk of egg and the butter. Rub this through a sieve and incorporate, in small quantities, into the sauce. Whisk the sauce en bain-marie while this is being done. Season with a pinch of cayenne, and use as directed. The sauce must not be allowed to boil, and when finished should be of similar consistency as a Bearnaise. 277. Sauce Mayonnaise.—2 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful of French mustard, | teaspoonful salt, a pinch of pepper, 1 table- spoonful tarragon vinegar, about f pint best salad oil, 1 table- spoonful of cream. Put the yolks into a basin, add the mustard (raw, not mixed), salt and pepper ; stir quickly with a wooden spoon, adding, drop by dropSAUCES 185 at first and gradually more, the salad oil, and at intervals a few drops of vinegar; the vinegar is added when the sauce appears too thick. By stirring well, the mixture should become the consistency of very thick cream. At last add the raw cream, stirring all the while. A little cold water may be added if found too thick. In hot weather the basin in which the mayonnaise is made should be placed in a vessel of crushed ice. 278. Sauce Tact are.—Put 2 yolks of eggs in a basin, place it in a shallow pan containing some crushed ice, add a teaspoonful of salt, a good pinch of white pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of mustard ; stir well together, and add, gradually, a pint of salad oil and about £ gill of tarragon vinegar ; when the sauce is smooth and creamy stir in a good tablespoonful of cold bechamel (No. 203) or veloutee (No. 204) sauce, two tablespoonfuls of chopped gherkins, one of chopped capers, one of chopped parsley, and about half a teaspoonful of finely chopped tarragon and chervil. Do not mix the gherkins, capers, &c., until the ss,uce is finished, as it is likely to cause the sauce to turn if put in too soon. A few drops of lemon-juice may be added if the sauce is found too thick. 279. Sauce Suedoise, froide (a cold Sauce suitable for Boast, Game, dec.)—1 gill mayonnaise, £ gill cream, 1 teaspoonful of French mustard, 2 tablespoonfuls finely-grated horseradish. Whip the cream, stir in gradually the mayonnaise, grated horse- radish, and mustard ; add a pinch of caster sugar, and a little salt if needed. 280. Sauce Mousseline verte (a cold Sauce suitable for Fish, ibc.).—1 gill mayonnaise, | gill cold bechamel sauce (No. 203), 1 table- spoonful of picked parsley-leaves, a few sprigs each of tarragon, chervil, and burnet, 2 tablespoonfuls of cooked spinach, 2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 2 anchovy fillets, \ gill of cream. Wash and pick the green herbs, steep them in boiling water for a few minutes, drain well, pound in a mortar with the spinach, and rub through a fine sieve. Pound the yolks of eggs and anchovy fillets, mix with the green puree, add the cream, and rub the whole through a sieve. Dilute with mayonnaise and bechamel sauce, add a little seasoning and a teaspoonful of mixed mustard. 281. Sauce verte glacee.—1 medium-sized cucumber, a, few sprigs chervil and tarragon (blanched), spinach greening, 1 dessert- spoonful Orleans vinegar, 1 gill aspic, 1 gill cream, 1^ gill mayonnaise, a pinch of caster sugar, salt and pepper to taste. Peel thinly the cucumber, cut it in half, and remove the seed portion; then slice the two "halves and cook in slightly salted water till tender. Strain off the water and rub the cucumber through a fine sieve. Chop finely the herbs, and add this and the vinegar, with a little spinach greening, to the cucumber puree. Whisk the cream a little, and stir in the above when sufficiently cool. Incorporate by degrees the mayonnaise and the aspic jelly (previously dissolved, but186 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK not hot). Stir over the ice with a whisk for a few minutes, season to taste, and fill up an oblong biscuit tin; seal it with paper and lid, and place it in a charged ice-cave for 1| hour. To serve, unmould as usual, cut the shape into neat slices or cubes, and serve with grilled fish or meat, &c. 282. Sauce Vert-JPre.—2 shallots, 3 oz. butter, 2 large table- spoonfuls white-wine vinegar, \pintveloutee (No. 206) or Allemande (No. 204) sauce (ordinary white sauce can be made to do), a small handful spinach, 6 sprigs of curly parsley, 2 to 3 sprigs chives, ■ 3 sprigs tarragon, very little chervil, salt and pepper. Peel and chop finely the shallots, put them in a stewpan with the vinegar and 1 oz. of butter, cover with the lid of the stewpan, and allow to reduce to about half its original quantity. Now add the white sauce (veloutee for preference), and let simmer for a few minutes. Wash, pick, and blanch (parboil) the spinach and remainder of herbs ■ drain and cool, press out all the water, and pound in a mortar with 1 about 1 oz. of butter. Rub this through a fine sieve and mix it with the sauce as above prepared. Whisk in the remainder of the butter, season to taste, and serve. 283. Sauce Valentine.—This sauce is prepared in the same was as ‘Sauce Suedoise’ (No. 279), adding a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and substituting the French mustard with half that quantity of English mustard. 284. Sauce aux Coucombres, froide (Gold Cucumber Sauce).—\ cucumber, ^ gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), £ gill cream, 1 gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), salt, pepper, spinach greening. Peel thinly the cucumber and cut into small pieces, boil in salted water till tender, and rub through a hair sieve. Return the pulp to the stewpan, add the bechamel sauce ; let it reduce to about half the original quantity, and let it cool. Whip the cream until stiff; work in the mayonnaise sauce, and mix slowly with the reduced cold sauce, add a little salt and pepper if needed, also q, few drops of spinach greening; the sauce is then ready for use. 285; Sauce Remoulade.—Blanch a few leaves of tarragon, parsley, burnet, and chives; drain the herbs and chop finely. Put in a basin the yolk of an egg with salt and pepper to taste, stir well with a wooden spoon; work in gradually half a pint of salad oil, and at intervals a few drops of tarragon vinegar. About two table- .spoonfuls of vinegar is required to half a pint of oil. When the sauce is finished add a teaspoonful of made mustard, a pinch of caster sugar, and the chopped herbs. 286. Sauce JEpicurienne (suitablefor Asparagus, Artichokes, or Boiled Fish).—1 cucumber, 1 gill mayonnaise, | gill cream, 1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar, ^ gill aspic jelly (No. 293), 1 tea- spoonful anchovy essence, 1 dessertspoonful chopped gherkins, 1 ' dessertspoonful chutney, pepper, salt, sugar. Peel the cucumber, cut it into small pieces, cook till tender inSAUCES 187 salted water, strain and rub through a fine hair sieve. When cold, stir this puree gradually into the mayonnaise sauce, add the cream, aspic, anchovy essence, the vinegar, and chutney (the latter should previously be rubbed through a sieve) ; season with pepper and salt and a small pinch of caster sugar; add the chopped gherkins and a few drops of spinach greening to give it a greenish tint. 287. Creme de JRaifort, fvoide (.Horseradish Cream, cold).— 1^ oz. grated horseradish, 1 gill thick cream, 1 tablespoonful white- wine vinegar, 1 teaspoonful caster sugar, £ teaspoonful powdered mustard, ^ saltspoonful salt, a pinch of cayenne. Put the horseradish in a basin, add the sugar, mustard, salt, and cayenne; moisten with the vinegar. Stir in gradually the cream, and whisk gently for a few minutes. Serve in a sauce-boat with cold roast beef, &c. 288. Sauce Haifort, frappee (Iced Horseradish Sauce).— 1 stick horseradish, 1 gill cream or milk, 1 teaspoonful mixed mustard, 1 teaspoonful caster sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. Grate the horseradish as finely as possible, put it in a basin, stir in the cream or milk, the vinegar, mustard, and the sugar. Stir well and pour into a sauce-boat. When milk is used a tablespoonful of condensed Swiss milk should be mixed with the fresh milk, and the sugar should then be omitted. Freeze till a semi-liquid consistency, and hand round with grilled fish, meat, or poultry. 289. Sauce Cliaud-froid, blonde (Fawn-coloured Chaud- froid Sauce).—\ pint aspic jelly, 1 gill Allemande sauce (No. 204), j; gill cream, 1 tablespoonful Espagnole sauce (No. 236), i oz. French leaf gelatine, a glass of Madeira wine, pepper and salt. Melt the aspic jelly in a stewpan ; add the wine, Espagnole and Allemande sauce ; let it come to a boil, and skim. Soak the gelatine in cold water, squeeze it well, and put with the sauce ; when dissolved, stir in the cream, pass through a tammy cloth or fine strainer, and use as directed. 290. Sauce Cliaud-froid, blanche (White Chaud-froid Sauce).—J pint bechamel or supreme sauce, 1 gill aspic, 5 or 6 leaves French gelatine, 1 gill cream, 1 teaspoonful chilli vinegar or lemon- juice. Dissolve the gelatine along with the aspic jelly, warm up the sauce, and mix the two together. Stir over the fire until it boils, put in vinegar or lemon-juice, and cook for a few minutes. Strain or tammy; add the cream when cooling, and use as required. 291. Sauce Cliaud-froid, brune (Brown Chaud-froid Sauce).—| pint Espagnole (No. 336) or salmi (No. 240) sauce, 1 glass Madeira or sherry, ^ pint aspic, 4 leaves French gelatine, cream. Boil up the sauce. Dissolve the gelatine with the aspic, mix both together ; add the wine; let simmer for a few minutes, and pass through a tammy cloth ; add a little cream, and flavour to taste.188 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 292. Green or Pink Chaud-froid Sauce.—Proceed the same as for white chaud-froid sauce, adding a few drops of spinach greening or liquid carmine at the finish. 293. Gelee d VAspic (Aspic Jelly, for General Use).—2 quarts veal stock, 1 small bouquet garni, 2 oz. French leaf gelatine, 1^ gill sherry or Sauterne, 1 gill French wine vinegar, 2 whites of eggs, 2 celery-leaves. The stock should be cold; remove any fat that may be on the surface. Put the’ stock, gelatine, and bouquet of herbs in a stewpan. Cut the celery into small pieces, beat up the whites of eggs a little, and mix with the stock. Stir over a brisk fire continually until nearly boiling, then add the wine and vinegar, and let boil up. Move the stewpan on the side of the stove for about ten minutes. Strain through a jelly-bag or napkin, repeat straining until perfectly clear. Keep the aspic in a basin, and use as required. 294. Aspic Mayonnaise.—^ pint aspic jelly, 1 gill stiff mayonnaise. Dissolve the aspic, and let it get partially cool, then stir it gently into the mayonnaise and use before it begins to set, according to direction. 295. Aspic d la To mate (Tomato Aspic).—1 pint aspic jelly, 4 small ripe tomatoes, or \ pint tomato pulp, ^ oz. French leaf gelatine, 1 dessertspoonful sherry. Blanch and peel the tomatoes, rub through a fine hair sieve, dissolve the gelatine, and add to the pulp. Put the jelly, tomato pulp, and sherry in a stewpan, boil up, skim well, and simmer for a few minutes; pass all through a fine hair sieve, and use as directed. 296. Creme d VAspic (Aspic or Savoury Cream).—Warm up half a gill of bechamel or Allemande sauce, add a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, stir this into half a pint of liquid aspic jelly, mix with a gill of double cream, season with a pinch of cayenne and mignonette pepper. Pass through a sieve or tammy cloth, and use as directed. 297. Mayonnaisede Tornafes.—To a pint of well prepared and fairly stiff mayonnaise add half as much tomato puree or cold tomato sauce. Mix gradually, and season to taste. 298. Puree d la Uuocelle.—Chop 6 or more mushrooms, 3 shallots, a few sprigs of parsley, and 1 truffle. Melt 2 oz. of butter in a stewpan, add 2 oz. of finely chopped cooked ham and the above- named ingredients, stir over the fire for a few minutes, moisten with a glass of white wine and a little stock, < season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a small suspicion of garlic, also a little powdered bay-leaf ; when well reduced stir in four tablespoonfuls of Allemande sauce, boil again, and serve as required. 299. Fumet de Gibier (Fumet of Game).—Carcase of game, 1 small carrot, | onion, 1 bay-leaf, 1 sprig of thyme, 2 oz. rate ham, 1 oz. lard or butter, 1 glass sherry, 1 quart stock. Chop up the carcase, wash,/peel, and slice the carrot, peel andSAUCES 189 slice the onion, put the butter or lard in a stewpan ; when hot, add the carcase and ham cut into small pieces, fry a few minutes, then add the vegetables and herbs, fry again, moisten with the wine, cover and steam a few minutes, add the stock, cook for twenty minutes. Skim, strain, and use as directed. 299 a. Essence de Volatile {Chicken Essence).—Reduce 1 quart of chicken consomme (No. 178) over a slow fire to about half a pint. Skim, strain into a white pot, and use as required. 300. Vinaigrette.—Mix 4 tablespoonfuls salad oil, 2 of tarragon vinegar, \ teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley and shallots, and one of gherkins, season with pepper and salt, mix well and serve. 301. Mint Sauce.—2 tablespoonfuls finely choppedmint {green), 1 dessertspoonful brown sugar, 3 to 4 tablespoonfuls vinegar. Put the mint into a basin, add the sugar and pour over a little warm water, sufficient to dissolve the sugar, cover and let cool, then add the vinegar, stir well and pour into a sauce-boat^ ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER SAUCES. 302. Sauce d VAmiral {Admiral Sauce).—A white sauce (veloutee or Allemande), with chopped capers, parsley, lemon-rind and juice, and anchovy essence to flavour. 303. Sauce Allemande {German Sauce).—A white sauce, made from veal stock thickened with flour, cream, and yolks of eggs, flavoured with nutmeg and lemon-juice. 304. Sauce Avignonnaise {Avignonese Sauce).—Consists of bechamel sauce, yolks of eggs, grated Parmesan, and chopped parsley ; flavoured with shallots, and garlic. 305. Sauce Bohemienne {Bohemian Sauce).—A white sauce made with fresh bread-crumbs, milk-white stock, butter, and grated horseradish ; seasoned with pepper and salt. 305 a. Sauce Bretonne {Brittany Sauce).—A brown onion sauce, thickened with a little haricot puree. 306. Sauce Bourguignonne {Burgundy Sauce).—A brown sauce, composed of Espagnole sauce, finely minced onions, and parsley reduced in Burgundy wine; flavoured with thyme, bay-leaf, cloves, and mace. 306 a. Sauced la Creme {Cream Sauce).—Bechamel or supreme sauce finished with fresh cream as liaison. 307. Sauce aux Cdpres brune {Brown Caper Sauce).—A brown sauce, with coarsely chopped capers, seasoned .with nutmeg and black pepper. 308. Sauce Casanova {Casanova Sauce).—A cold fish or salad sauce, composed of mayonnaise sauce, with finely shred truffles, whites of hard-boiled eggs, flavoured with garlic. 309. Sauce Chateaubriand {Chateaubriand Sauce).—A rich brown sauce made with Espagnole sauce, meat glaze, fresh butter,THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 190 white wine, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley ; flavoured with cayenne pepper, and very little red currant jelly. 310. Sauce au Celeri (Celery Sauce).—A white sauce with cooked minced celery, served with boiled poultry. 311. Sauce Chevveuil (Venison Sauce).—A brown sauce, with claret, port wine, and thinly sliced gherkins; seasoned with red pepper. 312. Sauce Cornichons (Gherkin Sauce).—Poivradeor brown pepper sauce mixed with finely chopped gherkins. 313. Sauce Duxelle {Duxelle Sauce).—A brown sauce, with finely chopped truffles, mushrooms, cooked ham, parsley and shallots, thickened with egg-yolks, and flavoured with lemon-juice. 314. Sauce a la Ducliesse (Duchesse Sauce).—A white sauce, with finely chopped white mushrooms, cooked ox-tongue, and fresh butter as liaison. 315. Sauce Diplomate (Diplomatic Sauce).—A fish sauce, consisting of bechamel sauce, lobster coral, fresh butter, and anchovy essence. 316. Sauce JEchalote (Shallot Sauce).—A brown gravy or demi- glace sauce with finely minced shallots (blended in butter), lemon- juice, and chopped parsley. 316 a. Sauce a l’Essence de Gibier.—A brown sauce with essence of game, carefully blended and well-reduced. 317. Sauce Epicure (Epicurean Sauce).—A white fish sauce, consisting of a rich white sauce, mixed with a little essence of cray- fish, chopped truffles, chilli vinegar, and cayenne pepper. 318. Sauce d VEstpagon (Tarragon Sauce).—A thin brown sauce flavoured with tarragon-leaves. Served with poultry or quenelles. 319. Sauce aux Ecrevisses (Crayfish Sauce).—Bechamel sauce with crayfish tails, finished with a little crayfish butter as liaison. 320. Sauce Fermiere (Farmhouse Sauce).—A French sauce, consisting of Espagnole sauce with finely chopped ham, parsley, and capers. Usually served with game. 321. Sauce a la Flamande (Flemish Sauce).—Sauce for fish, made with melted butter sauce, thickened with yolks of eggs and flavoured with prepared mustard. 322. Sauce Fleurette (Fleurette Sauce).—A white sauce, served with fish or vegetables, made from flour, butter, and fleurette (which is the name applied to the first skimming of milk, which is very sweet); the sauce is seasoned with salt and pepper. 323. Sauce Financiere (Financiere Sauce).—Avery rich brown sauce, well reduced with sherry, meat extract, and mushroom liquor. The garniture of truffles, small mushrooms, cocks’-combs, &c., is added when the sauce is ready for serving. 324. Sauce Fenouil (Fennel Sauce).—A white sauce mixed with finely chopped fennel. Served with boiled fish.191 SAUCES 325. Sauce Genevois (Geneva Sauce).—A brown fish sauce, flavoured with Madeira wine, garlic, and anchovy essence ; finish with fresh butter liaison. 325 a. Sauce Gibier (Game Sauce).—A brown sauce, flavoured with certain kinds of game essence (fumet de gibier) reduced with red wine. 326. Sauce a la Gloucester {Gloucester Sauce).—A cold sauce for fish or salads, prepared with mayonnaise sauce, cream, chilli vinegar, chopped tarragon, French mustard, and cayenne pepper. 327. Sauce Garibaldi {Garibaldi Sauce).—A brown sauce for meat or fish, flavoured with a suspicion of pounded garlic, capers, curry-powder, mustard, anchovy paste and chilli vinegar. (Careful blending of flavour essential.) 328. Sauce a la Generate {General’s Sauce).—A rich brown sauce made with Madeira or demi-glace as foundation, lemon-juice, tarragon vinegar, Seville orange rinds finely chopped, and sherry flavoured with a suspicion of garlic, bay-leaf, thyme, clove, shallot, mace, salt and pepper. (Careful blending of flavour essential.) 329. Sauce Hessoise {Hessian Sauce).—A kind of cold horse- radish sauce, made with sour cream, grated horseradish and fresh bread-crumbs (previously soaked in milk), seasoned with sugar and salt; served with roast beef or steaks. 330. Sauce Hollandaise verte {Green Butch Sauce).— Hollandaise sauce mixed with young parsley-leaves, boiled, rubbed through a sieve, and pounded. 331. Sauce a la Holstein {Holstein Sauce).—A white sauce for fish, made with bechamel sauce, fish stock and white wine, well reduced ; thickened with egg-yolks and flavoured with lemon-juice and nutmeg. 332. Sauce Hare de Sanglier {Boar’s Head Sauce).—A cold sauce, prepared with bitter orange-juice and the finely chopped rind, sugar, red currant jelly, port wine, and prepared mustard, seasoned with black pepper. This sauce is useful for almost every kind of cold meat, and will keep for some time if bottled. 333. Sauce Homard {Lobster Sauce).—Bechamel sauce mixed with chopped lobster-meat and spawn. 334. Sauce au Jamb on {Ham Sauce).—A brown sauce with finely shredded or chopped ham, chopped chives, shallots and parsley, flavoured with lemon-juice. Suitably served with white meats, veal, pork, or poultry. 335. Sauce Livournaise {Leghorn Sauce).—A cold salad sauce, prepared with pounded anchovy fillets, yolks of eggs, sweet oil, vinegar, chopped parsley, pepper, and nutmeg. 336. Sauce Lyonnaise {Lyons Sauce).—A kind of tomato sauce, with fine shreds of Spanish onions (previously fried in butter) ; finished with meat glaze and lemon-juice. 337. Sauce Maltaise {Maltese Sauce).- Veloutee sauce with192 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK chopped parsley, shallots, and mushrooms, diluted with sherry; flavoured with lemon-juice and finely-shredded orange-rind. 338. Sauce Matelote, blanche (Matelote Sauce, white).—A white oyster sauce with mushroom juice, white wine, and button mushrooms ; flavoured with savoury herbs. 339. Sauce Matelote, bvune (Matelote Sauce, broion).—A red-wine sauce with fried button onions and button mushrooms; flavoured with fine herbs and anchovy essence. 340. Sauce Malaga (Port Wine Sauce).—A brown sauce pre- pared with meat glaze, port wine, and lemon-juice; flavoured with shallots and cayenne. 341. Sauce Maxim ilian (Maximilian Sauce).—Tartare sauce with tomato pulp, and finely-chopped tarragon-leaves to flavour. 342. Sauce aux Monies (Mussel Sauce).—Hollandaise sauce with cooked mussels cut into dice. 343. Sauce a la Moelle de liceuf (Beef Marrow Sauce).— Espagnole sauce flavoured with fried shallot, mixed with blanched beef marrow cut in thin slices, chopped parsley, a little vinegar, and red pepper. 344. Sauce Moutarde (Mustard Sauce).—Melted butter ,or Bechamel sauce, mixed with sufficient prepared mustard to flavour. 345. Sauce Ncipolitaine (Neapolitan Sauce).—A brown sauce with finely-minced ham, claret, currant jelly, and grated horse- radish ; flavoured with shallots, bay-leaf, thyme, and cloves. 346. Sauce JNorvegienne (Norwegian Sauce).—A cold sauce prepared with hard-boiled egg-yolks (which are passed through a sieve), yolks of fresh eggs, salt, pepper, prepared mustard, oil, and vinegar, mixed with finely-chopped savoury herbs. 347. Sauce JYonpareille (Nonpareil Sauce).—Hollandaise sauce worked up with crayfish or lobster butter ; mixed with chopped lobster meat, mushrooms, hard-boiled whites of eggs, and truffles, all finely chopped. 348. Sauce aux Olives (Olive Sauce).—A brown sauce with stoned or turned olives, flavoured with a little lemon-juice. Served with ducks, fowls, and beef. 349. Sauce aux CEufs (Egg Sauce).—A white sauce with hard- boiled eggs finely chopped. 350. Sauce aux Oignons (Onion Sauce).—A white sauce with finely-chopped boiled onions, seasoned with nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Served with boiled rabbit or mutton. Brown onion sauce is made, the onions fried in butter and cooked in demi-glace or poivrade sauce. 351. Sauce d VOseille (Sorrel Sauce).—A thin gravy sauce (demi-glace) with finely-chopped blanched sorrel-leaves. Served with braised or boiled fowls &c. 352. Sauce a la Seville (Seville Sauce).—Beduced demi-glace sauce, mixed with orange-juice and finely-cut rind of a Seville orange. Served with roast or stewed ducks or game.SAUCES 198 353. Sauce Pavisienne (Parisian Sauce).—A rich brown sauce with chopped shallots, parsley, lemon-juice, and meat glaze, worked up with a little fresh butter. Served with entrecotes, steaks, or fillets of beef. 354. Sauce JPersil (.Parsley Sauce).—Melted butter or bechamel sauce, with finely chopped parsley. 355. Sauce JPersillade (Persillade Sauce).—A kind of vinai- grette sauce prepared with mustard, sweet oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and chopped savoury herbs, served cold, with fish, vege- tables, or salad. 356. Sauce Polonaise (Polish Sauce).—Veloutee sauce with sour cream, grated horseradish, finely chopped fennel, and lemon- juice. Served with cutlets or steaks. 357. Sauce Pauvrehomme (Poor Man Sauce). — A plain brown sauce, containing some tomato ketchup and anchovy fish essence. Suitable as a fish sauce. 358. Sauce Provenqale (Provence Sauce).—Espagnole sauce with tomato pulp, finely chopped and fried onions, sliced mushrooms, and chopped parsley ; flavoured with lemon-juice, garlic, and a little cayenne pepper. 359. Sauce Prince de Galles (Prince of Wales Sauce).—A cold sauce prepared with finely chopped yolks of hard-boiled eggs and yolks of raw eggs, salad oil, tarragon vinegar, mixed with finely chopped savoury herbs and prepared French mustard. Served with grilled or fried fish, or grilled meat a la Tartare. 360. Sauce au Pain (Bread Sauce).—Consists of milk in which an onion with clove has been boiled, stale white bread-crumbs, and butter; seasoned with salt and pepper. 361. Sauce aux Pommes (Apple Sauce).—A kind of apple pulp, slightly sweetened, to be served with roast pork, ducks or geese. 362. Sauce Pavigote, chaude (Bavigote Sauce, hot).— A white sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs, reduced with wine vinegar, finished with a liaison of butter and cream and fine herbs ; flavour. 363. Sauce Pavigote, froide (Bavigote Sauce, cold).— Mayonnaise sauce, mixed with finely chopped parsley, chives, chervil, tarragon, and shallots, tinted with a little spinach greening. 364. Sauce a la Peine-Marie (Queen Mary Sauce).—A brown sauce, made with rich meat gravy thickened with Espagnole, port wine, chopped shallots, parsley, and popnded anchovies. Served with all kinds of roast meats or boiled fish. 365. Sauce Picardo (Bicardo Sauce).—A brown sauce pre- pared from the carcase of game, with finely-minced fried onions, toasted bread, sherry, finished with a little meat glaze. Served with game dishes, &c. 366. Sauce PicTielieu (Bichelieu Sauce).—A brown game sauce, with Madeira wine, meat extract, and finely-chopped truffles. o194 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 367. Sauce liomuiue (Roman Sauce).—A brown sauce for fish, prepared with Espagnole sauce, mixed with currants, sultanas, Italian pine-seeds (pignoli), moistened with a little white wine vinegar ; all pressed through a sieve before serving. 368. Sauce Sicilienne (Sicilian Sauce).—Espagnole sauce, reduced with Marsala wine, seasoned with cayenne pepper; thin rings of onions fried in butter are maxed with tlie sauce just before serving. Served with beef steaks, roast''fillets of beef, &c. 369. Sauce a la Soyev {Soyer fSauce).—A white fish sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs,v shallots, and lemon-juice, thickened with egg-yolks and cream. 370. Sauce Stragotte (Stragotto Sauce).—A kind of rich game sauce, with tomato pulp and Madeira wine, flavoured with soup vegetables, celery, and parsley roots, shallots, cloves, and mace. Generally served with Italian dishes. 371. Sauce Texienne (Texas Sauce).—A kind of curry sauce, with a little saffron, chopped parsley, lemon-juice, finished with fresh butter as a liaison. Served with meat or fish dishes. 372. Sauce Tortile (Turtle Sauce).—A brown sauce, made from turtle stock, with finely chopped shallots, a little anchovy paste, lemon-juice, sherry, and finely chopped lemon-rind ; seasoned with very little cayenne pepper. 373. Sauce TJniverselle (Universal Sauce).—A highly spiced cold sauce, for cold meats, &c., prepared with mushroom ketchup, port wine, shallot vinegar, ground spice, mace, cayenne pepper, and essence of anchovies. 374. Sauce Villeroi (Villeroi Sauce).—A white sauce, with finely chopped cooked ham and tongue, finished with a liaison of egg- yolks and fresh butter. 375. Sauce Verjus (Verjuice Sauce).—Espagnole sauce, with mashed unripe green grapes, or gooseberries cooked in stock, reduced with a little sherry, and finished with fresh butter. Served with roast ducks or pork. 376. Sauce (V York (Yorkshire Sauce).—Consists of Espagnole sauce, finely shredded orange-rind, red currant jelly, port wine, orange-juice, and a little ground cinnamon (careful blending essential). Served with boiled ham or pickled pork. SWEET SAUCES (SAUCES StJCEEES). 377. Sauce au Liqueur.—1 oz. fresh butter, ^oz. flour,1 gill milk, 1 oz. sugar, 1 ivhole egg, ^ teaspoonful vanilla essence, ^ oz. finely chopped pistachios, \ oz. finely chopped lemon-peel, 1 table- spoonful red curagoa. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour and blend over the fire for a few seconds. Moisten slowly with the milk, add the sugar, and stir well over the fire; beat up the egg and add195 SAUCES also ; strain the sauce into another saucepan, let it get hot, but not boiling ; stir in the lemon-peel, pistachios, and curayoa, and serve as directed. 378. Sauce au Cognac.—4 oz. loaf sugar, % oz. cornflour, £ gill brandy, ^ pint water. Put the sugar and rather more than a gill and a half of water in a copper stewpan, boil a few minutes, take off the scum, and reduce to a thin syrup. Mix the cornflour with a little cold water, stir into the boiling syrup, and whisk over the fire for about five minutes. Add the brandy, strain, and serve hot with the pudding. 379. Sauce an Kirsch.—Proceed the same as above directed, but substitute | gill of Kirschwasser for the brandy. 380. Strop au Punch.— 4 oz. loaf sugar, 1 orange, i table- spoonful vanilla essence, | gill best rum, gill water. Rub the sugar on the orange-rind to obtain the flavour of half the orange. Put this into a stewpan, add the rum, light it, and cover quickly: let it infuse for a few seconds over the fire, then add the water, vanilla essence, and the piece of the orange, and boil for five minutes ; strain, and serve hot with the pudding. N.B.—If preferred, brandy or Kirschwasser may be used in place of rum. 381. Sabayon au Jladere.—Put 3 oz. castor sugar, 3 yolks of eggs, and £ gill cream in a stewpan, place it in a bain-marie or vessel of boiling water over the fire, stir with a whisk until frothy, then add 1 gill Madeira wine, whisk it until it begins to thicken and is of light appearance, pour over the pudding and serve. 381 a. Sauce aux Fraises.— The pulp of 8 large ripe straw- berries, 1 glass of Sauterne or Ghablis, 1 egg, 1 oz. sugar. Put the fruit pulp, wine, and sugar in a small stewpan, whisk over a moderate fire until almost boiling, then add the egg; continue to whisk until quite frothy; on no account allow it to boil. Serve as soon as ready. 382. Sauce a VAbricot.—3 oz. apricot marmalade, 1 gill sherry or \ gill brandy, 1 gill water, 1 oz. butter. Put the marmalade in a stewpan, and let dissolve with the water and butter. Remove from the fire, add the sherry or brandy, boil up again, strain, and use as required. A liaison of one dessertspoonful of cornflour added to the above will improve the appearance for cook- ing purposes. A little sugar may be added if found necessary. 383. Sauce a V Orange.— 2 yolks of eggs, 1 small orange, 2 oz. caster sugar, f pint milk, 1 glass curaqoa. Boil up the milk and sugar, add the rind of orange finely grated, the tablespoonful of orange-juice, stir in the yolks of eggs, beat well over the fire with a small whisk. When the sauce begins to thicken, place in the bain-marie or a vessel containing boiling water, add the liqueur, and continue to whisk for ten minutes ; the sauce is then ready for serving. 384. Sauce an Chocolat.—4 oz. grated chocolate, 2 oz. icing o 2196 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK ■sugar, 3 parts of a pint of water, 1 oz.fecule or cr'eme de riz, 1 tea- spoonful vanilla essence, 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Put the chocolate, sugar, and water in a saucepan; stir over the fire until it boils. Mix the fec^ule or creme de riz with an extra gill of cold water, add it to the chocolate, bring it again to the boil, and let simmer for five minutes. Pass through a tammy or napkin, return to the saucepan, add the brandy and vanilla essence, and keep hot until required. 385. Sauce Mousseline, douce.—3 yolks of eggs, 2 whites of eggs, ^ gill of cream, 1^- oz. caster sugar, 1 ivineglassful maraschino. Put all the above ingredients into a small stewpan, beat it with a whisk, stand the pan in a bain-marie or a large vessel three parts full of boiling water. Stir until it becomes creamy, but do not allow it to boil. Serve with hot sweet puddings, &c. 386. Sauce Citron (Lemon Sauce).—Put 2 yolks of eggs in a small saucepan, beat up well, and add 2 oz. of caster sugar, ^ oz. of cornflour, and the rind of half a lemon chopped finely. Mix thoroughly, and work in slowly half a pint of boiling milk. Stir with a whisk over the fire until the sauce acquires the desired consistency, strain and serve as directed. 386 a. Sauce Caramel.—Put an ounce of loaf sugar into a copper pan and cook it to a light brown colour ; pour in quickly half a pint of syrup, flavour with vanilla pod or essence and reduce a little. About five minutes before serving incorporate a dessertspoon- ful of arrowroot, previously mixed with a little cold milk or cream. Boil while stirring for a few minutes, then strain and serve. 386 b. Sauce an Cafe.—Boast 2 ounces of raw coffee berries in a pan over a quick fire till of a chestnut brown colour. Then pound them in a mortar. Boil half a pint of water and pour over the coffee. Cover, and let it infuse for some minutes. Now strain and sweeten with plain sprup. Mix a dessertspoonful of arrowroot or cornflour with a small glass of brandy or Kirsch. Add this to the coffee. Let simmer five minutes and serve.CHAPTEB XVI BEURRES COMPOSES (FLAVOURING BUTTERS), FORCE- MEATS, ETC. Flavouking butters are used for numerous culinary purposes; they were originally introduced for imparting a specially desired flavour to sauces, and for this purpose they are still largely used on the Continent. They are also very convenient and useful to serve with grilled meat and grilled fish, for sandwiches and toasts. The taste for hors- d’oeuvre and savouries has increased considerably during the past few years, both in this country and abroad. Flavouring butters, or beurres composes, as they are termed in kitchen French, have been largely introduced in many other preparations besides those above named. They are used under the titles hors-d’cduvre and savouries. They have also proved eminently satisfactory when used for sauces, i.e. ‘ compound sauces.’ Flavouring butter is added to sauces at the last moment before being served, the object being to give a sauce the requisite fresh-butter flavour, which is deemed most essential to a well prepared sauce, as it imparts at the same time the appropriate and distinctive aroma of the condiment from which the butter obtains its name. Most cooks are aware that besides the use of these butters for sauces there are many other ways in which they can be employed, for they are eminently suitable for all kinds of sandwiches and for dainty, savoury croutes; the addition of a nicely blended butter makes a wonderful improvement both in appearance and flavour to such dishes. Several of these butters will be found excellent with cold game, cold duck, cold beef or mutton ; others may be used for spread- ing toasts, biscuits, &c, &c. For decorating little cold hors d’oeuvre. and savouries these butters are exceedingly useful, as they enhance the appearance of many such dishes. Take the humble maitre d’hotel butter as an example, and you will have some idea of the many purposes for which flavouring butters can be used. The following recipes comprise the most popular and most useful flavouring butters. Each one possesses all the essentials of an appetising, tasty, and well seasoned compound. 387. JBeuvre d’Anehois (Anchovy Butter).—6 Gorgona anchovies, 2^ oz. butter, £ lemon. Soak the anchovies in cold water, drain, take out the bones, wipe dry with a cloth, pound in a mortar with the butter; add the juice of198 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK a lemon, rub through a fine sieve, spread on a plate, put on the ice, and use as directed. 388. Heurre a la Dtable {Devilled Butter).—Mix 1 oz. or 2 oz. of butter with \ teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, a pinch of curry-powder, a pinch of ground ginger, and a saltspoonful of black pepper. Spread on a plate, and use for grilled cutlets, chops, &c. 389. Hcurve d’Hcrevisses {Crayfish or Shrimp Butter).— Pound \ pint of pickled shrimps or prawns in a mortar till smooth, add 3 oz. of fresh butter, ^ oz. anchovy paste; mix thoroughly and rub through a fine sieve. Keep on the ice till wanted. A little liquid carmine or cochineal may be added to colour if found necessary. 390. Heurre JEspaynol {Spanish Blotter).—Pound 2 oz. of lean ham in a mortar till smooth, then add two tablespoonfuls of well reduced Espagnole sauce (No. 236) ; incorporate by degrees 6 oz. of fresh butter, season to taste with pepper and finely grated nutmeg, and rub through a hair sieve. Keep on the ice till wanted. 391. Heurre de Homard {Lobster Butter).—Procure the eggs and coral of a lobster, wash and dry well; pound in a mortar with double its quantity of fresh butter. Eub through a fine sieve, and keep in a cool place till required. 392. Heurre au Jambon {Ham Blotter).—Pound 4 oz. of finely chopped lean ham (cooked), add 2 oz. of butter and a table- spoonful of double cream; season to taste with white pepper and cayenne. Pass through a fine sieve, put it on the ice, and use as required. 393. Heurre a la Madras {Chutney Blotter).—Pound 4 oz. Mango chutney in a mortar, add a tablespoonful of French mustard, and work in 6-8 oz. of fresh butter, season to taste, and add a few •drops of lemon-juice. Eub through a hair sieve, place it on the ice, and use as required. 394. Heurre Maitre d’Hotel {Maitre d’Hotel Butter).—Mix 1 oz. of fresh butter with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a sprig of tarragon, and 1 of chervil finely chopped, 1 teaspoonf-ul of lemon juice, a pinch of salt and pepper. Spread on a plate, put on the ice, and shape into pats when quite firm. 395. Heurre Montpellier {Montpellier Butter).—Zoz.parsley, chervil, tarragon, chives and cress, 2 anchovies, 9 yolks of hard- boiled eggs, 3 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful capers, 1 gherkin. Wash and pick the parsley, cress, and herbs ; blanch for three minutes, strain and cool. Drain well in a cloth and pound in a mortar. Put this on a plate, and clean the mortar. Wipe and bone the anchovies ; pound them in a mortar with the egg-yolks, capers, and gherkins. When quite smooth, add the butter and lastly the green puree. Mix the whole well together. Put through a wire sieve, and use as required. A little spinach greening may be added if the herbs should not colour the butter sufficiently.BEURRES COMPOSES (.FLAVOURING BUTTERS), ETC. 199 396. Beurre au Paprika (.Paprika Butter).—Put a tea- spoonful of paprika (Hungarian pepper) on a clean plate and mix with 4 oz. of fresh butter until it resembles a smooth paste, then put it on the ice or in a cool place and use when wanted. 397. jBeurre de Raifort {Horseradish Butter).—Wash a stick of horseradish, scrape off the outer skin, and grate finely the white part. Mix with 8 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful chilli vinegar, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice; season with pepper and salt. Eub through a fine sieve, spread on a plate, and put on the ice. Cut into diamond shapes or little rounds, and serve with grilled fillets of beef (tournedos) or steaks. 398. Beurre Ravigote {Bavigote or Green Butter).—Wash and pick 1^ oz. chervil, 2 oz. spinach, ^ oz. green chives, 1 oz. tarragon, | oz. parsley. Put it in a saucepan with water and blanch. Drain well, and pound in a mortar. Peel three or four shallots, chop finely, cook them in a little butter, until of a golden colour, and put with the herbs ; work in 6 oz. butter, rub through a fine sieve ; add a little pepper and salt, and spinach greening if necessary. The butter is then ready for use. 399. Beurre de Ruisseau {Watercress Butter).—Pick the leaves of the required quantity of watercress, and mince them as fine as possible, dry them in a cloth, then knead them with as much fresh butter as they will take up, adding a very little salt and white pepper. Put the mixture thus obtained on a plate, spread it out evenly, and place on the ice. Stamp opt some little rounds and serve in a glass dish, or use for other purposes as described. 400. Farce de Poisson (Merlon) {Whiting Forcemeat).— Kemove the meat from a large skinned whiting; put into a mortar and pound with 4 oz. of panade and 2 oz. of butter; rub all through a sieve, return to the mortar, and work in gradually 1 tablespoonful of stiff bechamel sauce (cold) (No. 202), 1 whole egg, and 2 yolks. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. 401. Veal Godiveau {Quenelles).-—^ lb. lean veal {cushion), i lb. veal suet finely chopped, 2 eggs, 2 oz. panade or pepper, 3 oz. soaked bread, salt, grated nutmeg. Free the meat from skin, fat, and sinews, and cut into very small pieces ; pound the veal and suet together in a mortar until perfectly smooth; then add the eggs pne at a time, also the panade or soaked bread, the latter to be mixed in only in small quantities. Moisten with about a gill of iced water, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Test the consistency in a little boiled water; if found too soft, add a little more bread or panade, and a yolk of egg; if too stiff, add a little more water, stock, or cream. Shape into quenelles the required shape, poach in salted water or stock, and use as required. 402. Farce de Veau {Veal Forcemeat).—Slice lb. of lean veal, free it from skin and sinews, together with £ lb. finely shred beef suet, and 2 oz. of fat bacon cut in strips; pound all well in aTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 200 mortar, pass through a sieve, put back to the mortar, season with salt and aromatic spice, chopped parsley, mushrooms, and onions (a tea- spoonful of each) : mix with a small handful of fresh bread-crumbs, work all well for a few minutes longer, bind with two well-beaten eggs. This, like all other forcemeat, should be first tried in boiling- water, and, if firm, light, and well flavoured, it is ready for use. 403. Farce de Volatile (Chicken Forcemeat).—\ lb. raw chicken meat, 1 oz. flour, 1 oz. butter, } gill chicken stock, 1 egg, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Boil the stock and butter, stir in the flour ; cook for 6 minutes, stirring all the time ; the mixture should then appear quite smooth. This is a panade. Spread it on a plate to cool. Free the chicken from skin and sinews, cut up small, and pound in a mortar until smooth. Add the panade, a little at a time, the egg, and a little cream if liked. Mix thoroughly, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Put the whole through a fine sieve. Test the consistency of the forcemeat before shaping into quenelles &c. Use as directed. 404. Farce de Gibier (Game Forcemeat).—1 lb. raw game, free from skin, bones, and gristle, \ lb. lean fresh pork, ^ pint well- reduced game sauce, 1 yolk of egg, 1 chopped shallot, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 bay-leaf finely chopped, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg. Cut the game and pork into small pieces and pound in a mortar till smooth; add the yolk of egg, chopped shallot, parsley and bay- leaf and sauce, work it till perfectly fine, season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, rub through a fine wire sieve, and use as directed. 405. Farce de Fa lsa a {Pheasant Forcemeat).—Put in a mortar | lb. of pheasant freed from bone and skin, pound well, and add 2 tablespoonfuls of reduced Espagnole sauce (No. 236), a wine- glassful of sherry, 2 oz. of foie gras, 1 oz. of panade, 1 egg, and 2 oz. of sausage-meat. Work well, season with pepper and salt and a little aromatic spice, and pass all through a fine sieve. If you find the farce too stiff, work in a little cream or more sauce. Some chopped truffles may be introduced after the farce is passed through the sieve. 406. Farce de Foie de Veau {Liver Farce).—% lb. calf’s liver, £ lb. bacon, 1 small carrot, 1 small turnip, 1 small bunch savoury herbs, 1 small onion, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Cut up the bacon and fry it. Slice the liver and fry with the bacon, chop the vegetables fine and put with the liver, add herbs, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Stir over the fire until sufficiently cooked. Remove the herbs and pound the rest in a mortar. Then run through a fine sieve. The farce is then ready for use. 407. Farce de Champignons {Mushroom Forcemeat orBEURRES COMPOSES (.FLAVOURING BUTTERS), ETC. 201 Stuffing).-—2 to 3 large fresh mushrooms, or about 3 oz. preserved mushrooms, \ small onion, 1 small French roll, milk, ^ oz. butter, i oz. grated cheese (Parmesan or Gruyere), 1 heaped up teaspoonful powdered herbs (parsley, thyme, marjoram, and bay deaf), 2 yolks of eggs, seasoning. Wash the mushrooms, drain and chop them very finely, peel and chop the onion, fry the latter a golden colour in the butter and pour over the chopped mushrooms, mix in the cheese and herbs. Soak the bread, previously freed from crust, in a little milk, add this to the above and work into a smooth paste, adding the yolks of eggs to moisten it. Season with salt, pepper, a tiny pinch of nutmeg and ground mace, and use as directed. If liked, a little chopped ham may be added to the mixture—it will improve the flavour of the force- meat considerably. FOOD AND ITS DIGESTION The following table shows the time required for the complete digestion of the more common articles of food : Food Preparation Ti Food Preparation Ti me Apples, Sweet. Raw . hrs. 1 min. 30 1 Milk Boiled lirs. mm. Barley Soup . — 1 30 - Milk Raw . . . ■ 2 15 Barley Boiled 2 0 Mutton . Broiled or Boiled j 3 0 Beef, Salt Boiled 2 45 Mutton, Lean. Roasted . 3 15 Beef, Lean Roasted . 3 0 Oysters . Raw . 2 55 Beefsteak Grilled . 3 0 Oysters . Stewed . . 1 3 30 Beans Boiled 3 45 Pork, Fat Roasted 5 15 Beets | Boiled 3 45 Pork, Salt Boiled . 3 15 Bread Baked (fresh) . 3 30 Potatoes . Boiled . , I 3 30 Butter Melted 3 30 Potatoes . Fried or Baked. | 2 30 Cabbage . Boiled 4 30 Rice Boiled 1 0 Chicken . Boiled 2 0 Sage Boiled . . : 1 45 Duck Roasted . 4 0 Sausage . Grilled . . i 3 20 Eggs, Fresh . Raw . 2 0 Soup, Bean Boiled . . ! 3 0 Eggs Soft-boiled 3 0 Suet, Boiled . Boiled . . : 5 30 Eggs Hard-boiled 4 0 I Tapioca . Boiled 2 0 Fowls Boiled 4 0 Tripe Boiled 1 0 Fowls Roasted . 4 0 Trout foiled . . : 1 30 Goose Roasted . 2 30 Turkey . Roasted . . j 2 30 Hashed Meat . Warmed . 2 30 ! Turnips . Boiled 3 30 Liver Fried or Sauted 2 30 ! Veal Fried or Roasted 4 30 Lamb Grilled 2 30 Venison . Grilled . 1 40 The addition of fatty substances or acidity to food makes digestion more slow, while the addition of seasonings will further it.202 THE NEW CENTUBY COOKERY BOOK CHAPTER XYII GABNISHINGS AND' GABNITUBES The main object of garnishing a dish is to make it effective, for in cooking it is quite as essential to please the eye as to charm the palate. The garniture of a dish forms its decoration, which should be composed of edible materials, and as such must be of ornamental as well as appropriate appearance. In serving up fish or meat, entrees and releves for table, the garnishing forms invariably an important, if not the most important, part of a dish. The principal objects of garnishing are thus twofold, one being to accompany a dish with an appropriate or suitable adjunct, and the other is to arrange.it so as to please the eye and satisfy the palate. A dish may be prepared and cooked ever so carefully, and taste delicious, but if its appearance or its garnish and dressing is not as it should be—not pleasing and not inviting—its success is very often marred. A dish is often not enjoyed because its appearance is against it. Everything connected with the garniture of any dish depends to. a very large extent on the good taste and judgment of a cook, as well as on the materials a cook may have at command, but the cook must know how to effect an artistic combination without overloading the dishes with garnish. This is often overlooked, much t.o the detriment of otherwise smart dishes. The principal garnishes used for both hot and cold dishes , consist of vegetables, of which almost every kind may be adapted— either sliced, cut into shreds or fancy shapes, buds or whole (small vegetables). Besides these, forcemeat made up into various forms, quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, financieres, lambs’ or calves’ sweetbreads, cocks’ combs,'&c. &c., a,re very often employed for garnishing hot meat dishes ; while for fish i dishes and releves, crayfish, prawns, oysters, cockles, scallops, fried smelts, &c., are also used for that purpose. - In addition to this, sauces are likewise used in garnitures, and in some cases, such as lobster, oyster, crayfish, or shrimp sauces, they form the only garnish of a dish. Simple garnishings, such as fried parsley, croutes . and croutons, sippets, fresh parsley, cress and cresses, cucumber, beetroot, eggs, (hard-boiled, fried, and poached), olives, capers, gherkins, beetroot,GARNISHINGS AND GARNITURES •203 lemon, aspic, &c., may be mentioned en passant. These decorations, most of which are applicable to cold meats &c., are matters which must be left entirely to the taste of the cook, as very few rules can be given for plain garnitures. It is hardly possible to give here a minute description of every garniture known and recognised as a distinct garnish in the culinary art. But in order to convey more clearly a general idea of various garnitures, I will name those most commonly in use, and in so doing I will describe the characteristic of the various compositions from which each garnish, so to speak, takes its name. Those who employ them must be left to choose their adaptation according to their good judgment and taste. / The following are largely used for the purpose of garnishing:— Oysters fried, stuffed .tomatoes, stuffed olives, potato balls and croquettes, rice croquettes, made in tin moulds or done up into cork or ball shapes, chestnuts, cauliflower, purees, beans, ragouts. Fried potato straws or strips, thin slices, or potato ribbons also make an effective garnish. When garnishing a dish endeavour to make the.opposite sides alike, so that the colour and design harmonise. HATE LET SKEWERS FOR GARNISHING. There are other garnishings not mentioned in this list, viz. those for soups, consommes, purees, and creams. Most of these have been referred to in the chapters relating to these subjects. We also have silver skewers or hatelets—they are mostly used for decorating cold dishes. These consist as a rule of truffles, cocks’THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 204 combs, mushrooms, hard-boiled whites of egg, and some kinds of vegetables both cooked and raw. In some cases these are fastened in an artistic manner on to skewers, or else set in various tints of aspic jelly, for which purpose special hatelet moulds are employed. Hatelets are used as a rule for cold capons, fowls, pressed beef, tongues, hams, galantines, and other meat or fish dishes. The various garnitures enumerated refer more especially to removes, releves (fish or meat), but any of them can, unless otherwise stated, be easily adopted for entrees. The following is a representa- tive description of the best known typical garnishings of dishes :— 408. A VAllemande {Godiveau or German Quenelles).— Mashed potatoes, grated horseradish, and a sharp white sauce. ^4 VA llemande is also a surname given' to dishes prepared after a typical German fashion and garnished accordingly. Served with boiled or braised meats. 408a. A VAncienne.—Boiled beans (kidney), hard-boiled eggs, and braised cabbage-lettuces. Served with a rich cream sauce flavoured with spring onions. 409. A VAnglaise does not signify any particular garnish. It implies that a dish bearing such a surname is either plain, roast or boiled, or is prepared according to a typical English method. 410. A I’Alsacienne.—Braised sourcrout, mashed peas, slices of braised ham and sausages. Served with removes only. 411. A VAlliance.—Braised spring carrots, artichoke bottoms, and fried button onions, with demi-glace sauce (No. 239). 412. A I’Andalouse.— Groups of braised spring cabbages, lettuces, and fried sausages, cut into small pieces. Sauce, Demi-glace, for removes, &c. 413. A lf Athenierw e.—Larded and braised meat, garnished with short pieces of fried and stuffed aubergines (egg-plants). Sauce, Madere (No. 237 a). 414. A la Beaufort {for Fish). Groups of colloped lobster, bearded oysters, mushroom heads, lobster coral, and suitable sauce to go with the fish, 415. A la Bohemienne.—Small marble-shaped fried potatoes, stoned olives, mushroom heads, and button onions, dressed in groups round braised or roast meats. Sauce, Poivrade (No. 263). 416. Ala Belle-Vue {for Cold Dishes).—Masked with white chaud-froid sauce, decorated with slices of truffles and red ox-tongue, tarragon-leaves and chopped aspic jelly. 417. A la Bigarade.—Finely shredded orange-peel, cooked in salmi sauce (essence of duck), flavoured with a glass of good port wine. Generally served with ducks. 418. A la Bretonne.— StewejJj haricot beans (whole or puree), brown onion sauce, flavoured with mustard, horseradish, and chopped parsley. Usually served with mutton.GARNISHINGS AND GARNITURES 205 419. A la Bignon.—Small round or kidney potatoes, scooped out, raw, stuffed with sausage-meat, and baked in butter. 420. A la Bourgaignotte (for Fish only).—Small quenelles made with whiting forcemeat poached in fish stock. Sauce, Matelote (No. 228). 421. A la Bayard.—Cooked ox-tongue and artichoke bottoms cut into dice, mushrooms and truffles cut into slices; the whole boiled for a few minutes in well-reduced Madere sauce. Small rounds of fried bread covered with a thin layer of foie gras, puree complete this garnish. 422. A la Bayonnaise.— Cooked asparagus points, button onions (boiled), gherkins and anchovy fillets, dressed in groups round braised or broiled meats. 428. A Id Bontoux.—Very small macaroni timbales, tartlets, flavoured with fumet of game, tomato sauce, grated cheese, and slice of cooked meat, dressed round braised meats, and served with demi-glace sauce. Sometimes served with poultry as a remove. 424. A la Bordeaux signifies the special sauce prepared with Bordeaux wine (claret) ; in its garnish marrow-fat is general^ used, especially for fillets of beef. (Also known as Bordelaise.) 425. A la, Bourgogne usually signifies that the sauce of a dish bearing such a name has French red wine as a basis, the garnish being generally small braised button onions. 426. A la Brisse.—Border of mashed turnips, sauce demi-glace, and tomato reduced. Served with fillets of beef or duck. 427. A la Bordelaise for tournedos, small steaks and fillets. Parboiled slices of beef, marrow grilled and placed alternately with the cooked meat when it is dished up. For sauce, reduce finely chopped shallot in claret, add sufficient quantity of Espagnole or demi-glace. Season with cayenne, &c., and pour over the meat. 428. A la Bourgeoise.—Young carrots and turnips cut into neat shapes, parboiled and braised, also button onions, braised and glazed, dressed in groups. Sauce, Demi-glace (No. 237). 429. A la Cambaceres.—Small, even-sized truffles, mushroom heads, olives (stoned), and brown sauce. Usually served with fish removes. 430. A la Castelaine {for Fisli Entrees).-—Lobster meat, tails and claws, cut into slices, slices of truffles, bearded oysters, and white fish sauce. 431. A la Favour.—Steamed or poached nouilles, thin round slices of carrots, cooked in rich white stock. Sauce, Veloutee (No. 206), enriched with yolks of eggs, and extra quantity of fresh butter. 432. A la Chambord {for Fish).—Small quenelles made with forcemeat of fish, mushroom heads, bearded oysters, sliced truffles, cooked in brown fish sauce or Genoise (No. 244). 433. A la Chartre.-—Olive-shaped young carrots, parboiled and206 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK finished in demi-glace sauce, reduced in glaze and glazed. Sauce, Demi-glace (No. 237). 434. A la Chasseur.—Fillets of game cut into dice, also preserved mushrooms, cut likewise, cooked in salmi sauce (No. 240), or chasseur (No. 242), well blended with port wine. In some cases the garnish is chopped very finely. 435. A la Clam,art.—Green peas, either whole or in puree as a border or in centre; usually served with lamb or poultry. Sauce, Tomato (No. 271) and Demi-glace (No. 237) blended. 436. A la Chateaubriand.—Fine large button mushrooms breaded and baked au gratin, or preserved mushroom heads, sauce Madere (No. 237 a), with slices of truffles, or sauce Perigueux (No. 243), for tournedos, entrecotes, or fillets of beef. 437. A la Chesterfield (for Fish).—Small black truffles and cray-fish tails, sauteed and finished in a little glaze, dressed in groups. Sauce, Genoise (No. 244). 438. A la Chevaliere.—Mushrooms, truffles, and cocks’ combs Salmi (No 240), or Demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 439. A la Chipolata.—Young carrots and turnips, size and shape of olives, parboiled and braised, boiled and glazed chestnuts, dice of boiled bacon, mushrooms, and slices of Italian sausages. 440. A la St. Cloud.—Chicken forcemeat quenelles, decorated with truffles, poached in stock, cocks’ combs, and cocks’ kernels. Sauce, Allemande (No. 204). The meat with which the above is garnished is larded with strips of truffles, and braised. 441. A la Chartreuse. — Small timbales of mixed vegetables or spinach, dressed in groups, with heaps of green peas, French beans, ends of cauliflower ; sauce Espagnole. If served cold, the mixed vegetables are set in timbales with aspic jelly, and the cooked green vegetables, slightly seasoned with mayonnaise or tartare sauce (No. 271). 442. Garnishing aux Cepes.—Cut 6 to 8 preserved cepes into shreds or quarters, place in a small stewpan with 1 large table- spoonful of sweet oil (do not use the oil out of the tin in which the cepes are preserved) ; add a crushed clove of garlic, season with salt and pepper, and fry a few minutes. 443. A la Conti {for Poultry and Veal).—Fillets larded with strips of truffles, braised, garnished with slices of ox-tongue and gherkins. Sauce, Demi-glach (No 237). 444. A la Crapaudine {for Poultry).—Crumbed and grilled, stoned olives and truffles round the sides. Sauce, Demi-glace (No. 239), and Tomate (No. 271). 445. A la Cressg or Creey usually denotes a garnish of carrots in the form of puree or otherwise. 446. A la Clermont.—Finely shredded slices of preserved mushrooms and ox-tongue. Sauce, Veloutee (No. 206), enriched with yolks of eggs and fresh butter or cream, or entrees of chicken and veal.GARNISHINGS AND GARNITURES 207 446 a. A la Dauphine signifies a special mode of cooking, i.e. braised then coated with thick sauce, egged, crumbed and fried. The garnish consists of small croquettes made of potato puree and choux paste. 447. A la Dubou&et.—Small kidney potatoes, the centres of which are scooped .out, stuffed with forcemeat, either fish or meat, according to the kind of dish it is served with. The potatoes are partly fried and braised in the oven, arranged round a dish of meat, poultry, or fish, or put in the centre. Sauce, Tomate (No. 271). 448. A la Dufferin (for Fish).—Blanched scallops, cut into quarters, bearded oysters cooked in a rich Genoise sauce. Anchovy fillets are added to the garnish the last moment. Sauce, Genoise (No. 245). 449. A la Duclair.—This is characteristic with braised ducks, stuffed with a liver forcemeat seasoned with savoury herbs. Bounds of toasted or fried bread, well buttered on one side, and covered with liver forcemeat, are dressed round the dish. The sauce consists of a demi-glace well reduced with claret and orange-juice. 450. A la Durance (for Fish).—Cray-fish tails, and slices of lobster meat cut into convenient shapes. The sauce consists of Hollandaise (No. 208), tinted with lobster butter (No. 291). 451. A VEcarlate.—Cooked smoked ox-tongue cut into slices, dice, and sometimes chopped. Sauce, Tomate and Espagnole in equal quantities, well reduced. 452. A VEcossaise.—Small timbales lined with thin pancakes, made with a savoury batter, filled with lamb forcemeat, baked in the oven, and dressed round the dish. Sauce, Demi-glace (No. 237). 453. A l’Espagnole.—Small stripped tomatoes and baked stuffing, savoury meat, ham, mushrooms, carrots, &c., braised onions, and stoned olives. Sauce, Espagnole (No. 236), reduced with sherry and gravy. 454. A la Flam ande.—Alternate groups of carrots and turnips, scooped out, parboiled and braised, or boiled, cooked green and French beans, and braised Savoy cabbage. Sauce, Demi-glace (No. 237). 455. A la Financiere.—Blanched sweetbread cut into small slices or dice-shaped pieces, mushroom heads, stoned olives, chicken forcemeat or Godiveau (No. 401), quenelles, cocks’ combs and kernels, and slices of truffles. Sauce, Madere (No. 237 a), reduced. 456. A la Franchise.—This surname being applied to a large number of dishes, soups, fish, entrees, omelettes, sweets, &c., no special garnish can be quoted as a reliable guide ; a la Franqaise must thus be accepted as. signifying certain typical French modes of preparing rich dishes of exquisite flavour. 457. A la Genoise.—Cut some thin strips of nouille paste, rolled out very thinly, boil in salted water, drain and finish in butter, serve in centre of meat or poultry, garnish with dried truffles and mushrooms. Sauce, Madere (No. 237 a).THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 208 458. A la St. George.—Prepare small quenelles of veal or Godiveau (No. 401), poach, cook in demi-glace, dress in groups alternately with .mushroom heads. 459. A la Georgienne.—Stewed rice, cooked in rich stock, and finished with a rich tomato puree, shaped into quenelles or small dumplings by means of a liaison of eggs, bake the quenelles in a buttered saute-pan in a hot oven, and serve round the dish. Sauce, Tomate (No. 271). 460. A la St. Germain.—This garniture is of the same character as that a la Clamart (puree of green peas), either as a border or in the centre of a dish. Sauce, according to dish, usually Madere, (No. 237 a), or Allemande (No. 204). 461. A la Gitana.—Spanish onions, boiled and braised, cut into slices, breaded and served over with tomato sauce well reduced, baked and dressed round or in the centre of the dish. Sauce, Tomate, (No. 271), and Madere, reduced and seasoned with sweet red Spanish pepper. 462. A la Grecque (for Boast, Braised, or Boiled Meats).— Quarters of aubergines, or egg-plants, parboiled in salted water, drained and fried in butter. Dressed in groups round the dish or in the centre. Sauce, Madere (No. 237 a), andBearnaise (No. 225), care- fully blended. 463. A la Godard (Godiveau Quenelles).—Slices of cooked sweetbread, cocks’ combs, mushroom heads, and quarters of artichoke bottoms, finished separately in sauce champignon (No. 267), with a glass of Marsala wine added. Dressed in alternate groups. 464. A la Gouffe.—Small round or oval-shaped bread croutons, toasted or fried, buttered and spread over with parboiled slices of beef marrow, glazed over with meat glaze. Sauce, Espagnole (No. 236). 465. A la Glengarry.—Small round black truffles and heads of preserved mushrooms, finished in a rich meat or chicken glaze, flavoured with game (fumet). Sauce, Chasseur (No. 242). 466. A la Gourmet.—Artichoke bottoms (preserved), cut into quarters, dice shapes of mushrooms, truffles, and cooked ox-palate, boiled down in a glass of Marsala wine. Served mixed or in groups with Madere sauce (No. 237 a). 467. A la Gudewife.—Peeled and blanched onions, cooked in white stock till tender, chopped very finely, re-cooked with a little bechamel sauce, and flavoured with mango chutney. Served in the centre of the dish. Sauce, Demi-glace (No. 237). 468. A la St. Hubert.—Braised cabbage lettuces, shaped into balls, braised button onions, and demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Served with roast or braised beef and mutton. 469. A VIrlandaise,—This name is applied to dishes which contain potatoes in the form of puree or otherwise. For instance, Irish stew is known as'Ragout a l’lrlandaise. 470. A Vltalienne.—This name is applied to dishesGARNISHING AND GARNITURES 209 prepared after certain typical Italian ways of cooking; it generally implies that the dish is made of or garnished with macaroni, nouilles, ravioli, &c., flavoured with Parmesan cheese, tomato or demi-glace sauce. (See Milanaise and Napolitaine Garnish.) 471. A la Jardiniere.—This signifies a collection of young vegetables cooked after being neatly cut or scooped into shapes ; it is adapted for soups, entrees, and removes. The following is a typical example for an entree garnish :— 1 small turnip, 1 dessertspoonful flour, 1£ oz. butter, 1 pinch caster sugar, ^ gill bechamel sauce, j gill cream, salt, pepper, and pinch of grated nutmeg, parsley, a pint of various kinds of macedoine of vegetables, such as green peas, French beans (cut in short pieces), turnips, carrots scooped out, cauliflower buds, asparagus tips, dec. Wash and peel the turnip, cook it in salted water until tender, strain and rub through a sieve. Mix 1 oz. butter with the flour, stir over the fire for a few minutes, add the turnip pulp, sauce, and seasoning, let it come to a boil; then stir in the cream and keep hot; if found too thick, add a little milk or white stock. Boil the macedoine of vegetables separately in salted water, strain, and put with the sauce. Let it get thoroughly hot without boiling, finish with the remaining butter, and use as required. 472. A la Joinville.—Truffles, coarsely chopped. RichVeloutee sauce (No. 206). Served with poultry and braised meats. 473. A la Louis X V.—New potatoes, centre scooped out, filled with chicken forcemeat and chopped truffles, baked or braised, served with fillets of beef, tournedos, &c. Sauce, Madere or Tomate (No. 272). 474. A la Lyonnaise.—Peeled onions, cut into round slices, dipped in milk and flour, fried and served in centre of dish. Brown Sauce (No. 7). 475. A la Maitre d'Hdtel.—This name is applied, to dishes garnished with parsley butter, or a white sauce containing finely chopped parsley. (See Sauces and Compound Butters.) 476. A la Macedoine.—This also applies to a mixture of vegetables, as for jardiniere, and is used as garnish for soups and entrees. It is also adapted for fruit. A typical" collection of fruit dressed as salad or in jelly. 476 a. A la Milanaise.—Mushrooms, truffles, and smoked and cooked ox-tongue, all cut into julienne-shaped pieces. Cooked macaroni, cut into short pieces, finished together or separately in tomato and Madere sauce, mixed in equal quantities, flavoured with grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese. The macaroni is sometimes substituted by cooked rice, richly seasoned with tomato and cheese. 477. A la Marengo (for Chicken Saute).—Sliced truffles and mushrooms, eggs, fried whole (folded in) in sweet oil. Sauce, Tomate (No. 271) and Espagnole (No. 236), flavoured with wine. pTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 210 478. A la Montebello.—Well-reduced tomato sauce (No. 271), blended with half the quantity of Bearnaise (No. 225), with 3 or 4 truffles, cut into slices. Sauce and truffles must be heated carefully without boiling. 479. A la JY~op o lit ait le.—Cooked macaroni, with tomato and cheese flavouring, dressed in the centre of dish, or in timbale shapes round the dish. Sauce, Tomate (No. 271). 480. A la JAivernaise.:—Cooked carrots, turnips, and French beans, all cut into Julienne-shaped strips, dressed in centre or round the dish, served with Supreme Sauce (No. 210), with an extra liaison of yolks of eggs. 481. A la Palmeritaine.—Halves or quarters of aubergines, stuffed with savoury meat stuffing or quenelle meat, baked gratin style, dressed round the dish wdth potato puree in the centre. 482. A la Parisienne.—No special garnish can be quoted for dishes bearing this name; excepting that in the case of fillets of beef, small ball-shaped potatoes fried or baked are served. Dishes richly garnished and highly seasoned are thus specified. 483. A la Paysanne.—Braised celery, olive-shapes of carrots and turnips, also braised together with small kidney potatoes parboiled and fried in butter, dressed in alternate groups. Sauce, Demi-glace (No. 237). 484. A la Princesse.—Asparagus points cooked in salted water and drained, finished in butter. Small croquettes of chicken and beef, to represent two colours, a light and a dark; dressed in groups round the dish. Sauce, Demi-glace (No. 237), or Tomate (No. 271). 485. A la Piemontaise.—Cooked macaroni finished in rich stock, butter, and cheese, well blended and reduced ; filled into small buttered timbale moulds, baked, and served round the dish. Sauce, Tomate (No. 271). 486. A la Polonaise is generally applied to dishes coated with a thick sauce, sprinkled with brown butter, and finished in the oven. Beetroot introduced in some form, either as garnish or flavour in dishes are also styled a la Polonaise. 487. A la Printaniere.—This, like jardiniere or macedoine, applies to a garnish of mixed vegetables; but there must be a collection and variety of spring or early-grown vegetables. 488. A la Michelieu.—Tomatoes, small, ripe, and firm, centre scooped out, and filled with a mixture of shallots fried in butter, chopped ham, chopped truffles and mushrooms, and bread-crumbs, baked gratin style, dressed round the dish. Sauce, Perigueux (No. 243). 489. A la Pegence.—Chicken or Godiveau quenelles, sliced truffles and mushrooms, cocks’ combs and kernels, and slices of cooked sweetbread. Sauce, Allemande (No. 204), well reduced with white wine. If served with fish omit the sweetbread. 490. A la Hobson.—Chicken livers freed from gall, -washed and211 GARNISHING AND GARNITURES dried ; fried in butter over a quick fire ; add a large truffle cut into dice, moisten with Sauce Madere or Demi-glace (No. 237)., and serve in the centre of the dish. 491. A la JRouennaise.—Young carrots and turnips cut into neat olive shapes and button-onions sauted in butter, seasoned with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar; finished in the oven with just enough stock or demi-glace to'keep from burning (shake frequently); dress in groups or serve in the centre of the dish. Sauce, Espagnole (No. 236). 492. A la Soubise.—This name is usually applied to dishes which contain onions in sufficient quantity to make it the pre- dominant flavour of a sauce or garnish. Soubise puree is made as follows:— Cut some white onions into slices, boil in butter without browning, moisten with stock (white), cook till tender, rub through a sieve, add a little bechamel sauce; reduce well, season with salt, pepper, a pinch of sugar, and grated nutmeg. Usually served with braised mutton or ducks. Sauce, Demi-glace (No. 237). 493. A la Tovttie.—Boiled chicken-livers, slices of cooked sweetbread, truffles, and mushrooms all cut into dice shape and cooked for a few minutes in sherry wine ; dressed with stoned olives, mixed, or in groups. Sauce, Tortue (No. 372) or Demi-glace (No. 237). 494. A la Valenciennes.—This garniture is very similar to “Milanaise.” Cut truffles, mushrooms, and smoked ox-tongue into fine shreds (Julienne fashion). Add some cooked rice, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and plenty of grated cheese; reduce with tomato sauce (No. 271). 495. A la Windsor.—Green haricots (flageolet beans), sprigs of cauliflower, and young carrots, all parboiled and cooked separately in salted water or white stock; dressed in alternate groups with capers. Usually served with boiled or braised mutton.212 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK CHAPTER XVIII DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT). 496. Bouillabaisse.—1 red mullet, 1 whiting, a small eel, a small lobster, 6 mussels, 1 sole, 2 small onions, a gill of oil, an ounce of butter, a quart of fish stock, a bouquet garni (No. 2), 2 cloves, a clove of garlic, 3 small tomatoes, \ gill of claret, a pinch of Spanish saffron, salt and pepper, cayenne, a crotcte of bread and parsley. Peel and slice the onions, heat the oil in a stewpan and brown the onions, pour off a little of the oil, add the fish stock, claret, the bouquet garni, cloves, also the garlic finely bruised or minced ; dilute the saffron in a little water, and add to the stock. Trim and clean all the fish, cut it into convenient pieces (the sole may be filleted to come in better for garnish ; the mussels are prepared in the usual way). Season the fish with salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne, and one of saffron. Put all the fish into the stewpan containing the stock, and let cook slowly for about twenty minutes. Remove the stalks from the tomatoes, cut them in halves crossways. Squeeze out gently some of the juice, broil them in the butter, and keep warm. Have ready the bread croute, which must be trimmed according to the size of dish used for serving; fry it a golden colour in oil or fat, fix it in the centre of a deep dish by means of white of egg or frying butter. Skim the fat off the fish, and when ready arrange the pieces neatly on and around the crouton, garnish with the tomatoes and parsley, and send to table very hot, with some of the liquor well skimmed and strained. 497. Cotelettes de Saumon d I’Indienne (Salmon Cutlets).—2 to 2| lbs. middle cut of salmon, 2 oz. butter, about \pint of piccalilli or mixed pickles, 1 gill Indian sauce (No. 261), 1 egg, a few small lobster claws, bread-crumbs, pepper and salt. Slit the pieces of salmon down the back in two, take out the bone, remove the skin, and divide each half into three or four cutlet-like pieces. Trim neatly and season with pepper and salt, egg and crumb each cutlet twice. Melt the butter in a saute-pan ; when hot (not burning), range the cutlets in this pan and fry rather briskly on both sides. Drain carefully on paper or a cloth, insert small lobster claws in the ends, dish up in a circle on a thick or thin border of mashed potatoes. Have ready the piccalilli cut into fine julienne strips and heated up in the sauce. Put this garnish in the centre of the dish, pour the same round the cutlets, and serve.DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 213 498. Dame de Saumon a la Chambord.—Wash and dry a middle cut of salmon weighing about four pounds; put it in a stew- pan with one and a half pint of stock, one carrot, an onion stuck with a clove, one gill of white wine, one ounce of butter, a bouquet garni, and a few peppercorns; season with a little salt, cover it over and simmer slowly over the fire for about an hour. When done take up the salmon, strain the stock into a small saucepan, add one ladleful of Espagnole sauce (No. 236) and one of tomato sauce (No. 271) ; let boil for ten ■ minutes, skim well, stir in two pats of fresh butter, a tea'spoonful of anchovy paste, the juice of a lemon, and pass through a tammy cloth. Have ready a garnishing consisting of twenty-four small poached fish quenelles, made with whiting forcemeat (No. 400), twelve mushroom heads, eight crayfish tails, eight cooked oysters, and three sliced truffles. Dish up the piece of salmon, remove the skin on the surface, garnish top and side with the garniture and a decorated hatelet skewer; sauce over gently, and serve the remainder of the sauce in a boat. 499. Dame de Saumon a la National.—About 3 lb. salmon (tail-piece), 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 turnip, a bouquet of herbs, 1 small piece of celery, 6 peppercorns, 1 quart of fish stock, 2 small cucumbers, 1 gill Chablis, 3 or 4 potatoes, salt, parsley, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 gill of milk, grated nutmeg and pepper, 1 tablespoonful of cream. Cut the fish into slices about half an inch thick. Butter a saute- pan, cut up the carrot, turnip, celery, and onion (previously prepared), into thin slices. Line the saute-pan with these, put in the fish, season with a dessertspoonful of salt; cover with the remainder of vegetables, add the peppercorns and savoury herbs ; moisten with a pint of fish stock and the Chablis wine ; cover with a buttered paper and cook in a slow oven for about thirty minutes. Wash and peel the potatoes, peel thinly the cucumber, scoop out as many round balls as possible. Blanch them, each lot separately, and drain, and cook gently in some white stock or salted water, until tender, then drain and keep until wanted. Take out the salmon with a slice, place it neatly on a hot dish, cover and keep hot. In tho meantime have ready a white roux, prepared with one and a half ounces of butter and one ounce of flour, strain in the stock left from the fish, add the milk (boiling), also the trimmings of the cucumbers, previously blanched in salted water. Let the whole come to a boil, and allow to simmer for twenty minutes, adding more stock as the sauce reduces. Pass through a tammy or fine sieve, return to the stewpan, and finish with the cream ; season with a pinch of white pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Pour the sauce over the slices of fish so as to mask them nicely. Besprinkle with chopped parsley; garnish the sides with groups of the stewed potatoes and cucumber, and serve hot. 500. Cdtelettes de Saumon a la Danoise {Salmon Cutlets with Banish Sauce).—Procure about 2£ lb. of middle cut of a smallTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 214 salmon, have this cut into half-inch-thick slices. Cut each slice in two lengthways, trim neatly into cutlet shapes, season each with pepper and salt, and spread a little anchovy paste on each side of the cutlets ; dip them in flour and brush over with beaten egg, then cover with bread-crumbs. Fry in boiling fat for about ten minutes, or until the fish has acquired a golden colour. Drain on paper, dish up, garnish with fried parsley,'and serve with Danoise sauce (No. 213), to be handed round separately. 501. Filet de Saumon d la Fuchesse.—2£-3 lb. salmon (tail-piece), 1| oz. butter, a small glass white wine, 12 preserved mushrooms, mushroom liquor, 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice, 1 gill icell reduced Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 2 ripe but firm tomatoes, chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, mashed potatoes, 2 yolks of eggs, seasoning. Remove the skin from the fish, take off the fillets from the bone, place the fillets in a buttered saute-pan ; season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Add the wine, mushroom liquor, and lemon-juice, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderately heated oven from fifteen to eighteen minutes, according to the thickness of the fish. Have ready some mashed potatoes, mixed with a little butter and one or two yolks of eggs, nicely seasoned, arrange a bed of this on an oblong silver dish. Range the cooked fish neatly on this. Make a pretty border of mashed potatoes by forcing it through a large-sized rose pipe round the fish, and mask well with the sauce made for that purpose. Garnish the top of the fish tastefully with mushroom heads and slices of tomatoes, previously tossed in a little butter over a quick fire and seasoned to taste. Place the dish in a quick oven for a few moments, sprinkle a little finely chopped parsley over the top of the fish garniture, and serve with a "little more sauce, which should be poured round the dish, or sent to table separately in a sauce-boat. To make the sauce above referred to, put the Espagnole sauce into the saute-pan containing the liquor with which the fish was cooked. Add the trimmings of the mushrooms and tomatoes and the anchovy essence, and stir over the fire until sufficiently reduced. Pass through a fine strainer, season to taste, and use as directed. ■ Small salmon trout and red or grey mullets can be served in the same style; it is then, however, not necessary to remove the skin of the fish. 502. Saumon d la Matelote.—2 to 3 lb. of salmon cut into half-inch slices, 2 oz. butter, 2 dessertspoonfuls finely chopped herbs— i.e. parsley, a little chervil and tarragon, and some chives—the juice of 1 lemon, 1 glass Chablis or Sauterne wine, 3 truffles, 18 preserved mushrooms (champignons), 12 small braised button onions, 18 small fish quenelles (No. 561), ^ pint rich Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1 ounce meat glaze, seasoning. Wipe and pare the slices of salmon, melt the butter in a large215 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) saute-pan, place in the salmon, sprinkle over with the chopped herbs, season with pepper and salt, add the lemon-juice and the wine, cover with a buttered piece of paper, and cook in fairly hot oven for ten minutes. Baste the fish frequently. Poach the quenelles of fish (these must be made rather small, the shape of marbles). Drain them and put into the sauce, cut the mushrooms and truffles into slices, toss them in a little butter and put them into the sauce with the meat glaze. Warm up to boiling-point. Take up the fish and dress on a hot dish. Strain the liquor from the fish into the sauce, boil up and skim, and pour over the fish. Garnish the dish nicely with the braised button onions, truffles, &c., and serve hot. 503. Sure de Saumon d la Moderns.—Head-piece of salmon {about 4 lb.) \-pint Ghablis wine, a small bunch of parsley, 1 quart fish broth, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 6 small truffles, 1 egg, 12 mushrooms (heads), 12 Spanish olives, a lemon, J lb. fish sausages, seasoning. Wipe the fish with a damp cloth, trim it, truss neatly with strings, put it in a deep saute-pan or fish-pan, season with salt and pepper, add the parsley tied up in a bunch, cover with a piece of buttered paper, moisten with the white wine and fish broth, let it come to the boil over the fire, and then place it in a hot oven and let it simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour or more (it depends upon the thickness of the fish ); baste occasionally. When done, drain the fish and place it on a dish. In the meantime melt two ounces of butter, add the flour, and stir over the fire until the flour is of a deep fawn colour ; dilute with the fish liquor ; add the juice of half a lemon ; season with a little salt and mignonette pepper ; pass through a fine strainer or napkin, and finish with the remainder of the butter. Remove the skin from the fish sausages ; amalgamate with a yolk of egg ; shape some little corks, egg and crumb them, and fry in hot lard a golden colour. Prepare the truffles (sliced), mushrooms (whole heads only), olives (stoned and blanched), for a garnish ; sauce the fish well with the sauce; warm up the garniture, and place in small groups round the fish, also the fish croquets. Garnish the top of the fish with slices of lemon, truffles, and a few sprigs of parsley. Serve hot. 504. Mousselines de Saumon d la Cardinal.—1 lb. salmon, ^ oz. butter, \ pint well-reduced bechamel (No. 203), 1 lohite of egg, lobster coral, 2 truffles. Seasoning, Cardinal sauce (No. 218). _ Skin and bone the salmon, pound fn a mortar until quite fine, add gradually the reduced bechamel sauce and the white of egg. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne or Nepaul pepper. Put through a fine wire or hair sieve, and keep on the ice until wanted. Butter a number of small dariole or timbale moulds, decorate the bottom and sides of each with fanciful cut slices of truffles, sprinkle allTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 216 over the inside with finely chopped dried lobster coral. Fill them with the salmon forcemeat, steam for twenty-five minutes, dish up on a hot dish, and serve with sauce cardinal. 505. Saumon a la Montmorency. — 3 lb. salmon (head-piece or middle cut), 1 bouquet garni, 1 oz. butter, 1 chopped shallot, 1 carrot, 1 sliced onion, 18 olives, 1 glass claret, £ gill wine vinegar, salt, pepper, aromatic seasoning, ^ pint of matelote sauce, (No. 228). Clean and wash the fish, truss it nicely, put it in a well-buttered saute-pan with the sliced carrot, onion, bouquet of herbs, and seasoning to taste. Moisten with the wine and vinegar. Cover with a buttered paper. Put it in the oven and cook about an hour, baste well from time to time. When ready for serving take it out, dish up, remove the upper skin, and keep hot. Fry the shallot in a little butter, add to it the liquor left from the fish ; boil up, and add the matelote sauce. Reduce a little, sauce over the fish, garnish with stoned and stuffed Spanish olives, and serve the remainder of the sauce separately. 506. Saumon en iSpillotes.—2 lb. salmon, f lb. cooked ham, 2 oz. butter, 2 shallots, 1 small onion, 8 mushrooms, 1 tablespoonful parsley (chopped), 1 teaspoonful salt, \ teaspoonful pepper. Cut the salmon into six or eight even slices, remove the skin, beat them gently with a bat, season with salt and pepper, and roll them. Cut out as many heart-shaped pieces of paper as you have slices, grease them well w;ith butter or oil. Cut double the quantity of thin slices of ham. Peel and chop finely the shallots and onion, put them in a saucepan, with an ounce of butter, previously heated, and brown slightly. Then add the parsley and mushrooms chopped fine, season with salt and pepper and let cool. Lay a slice of ham on each piece of paper, spread over these a layer of the cooked herbs, place a rolled slice of salmon on each, spread with a thin layer of cooked herbs, and cover with another slice of ham, then fold the paper and twist the edges together, or tie up with string. Put them on a buttered baking-tin or sautoir, and bake for twenty minutes in a slow oven. Have ready a hot dish, remove the fish from the tin, and if tied remove the string, dress them neatly on a dish, leaving the paper on, and serve hot. 507. JPdte de Saumon d VHomard (Salmon Pie with Lobster).—About li lb. salmon, 1 tin lobster, 1 oz. butter, % pint bechamel sauce (No. 203), 1 truffle, 1 hard-boiled egg, 6 to 8 small fish quenelles (No. 561), puff-paste, seasoning, 1 yolk of raw egg. Wipe the salmon, and cut it into three or four slices. Cut the lobster in half, pick out the flesh and chop it small, mix this with the sauce, and season with pepper and very little nutmeg. Butter a pie- dish (medium size), put in a layer of the above mixture, then a slice of salmon, season with salt and pepper, cover with mixture and con- tinue until the fish is used up, placing a slice or two of hard-boiled egg, and a slice of truffle between the layers ; pour in a little stockDRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 217 (white fish stock is best) and put the fish quenelles on top, divide the remainder of the butter and place it likewise on top. Cover with puff-paste the same as for meat pies, brush over with beaten yolk of egg; ornament with fanciful cut leaves of paste, brush over the leaves and bake in a fairly hot oven for about one hour. Serve hot or cold. 508. Truites a la Cambaceres.—2 small trout, j lb. lean bacon, small bunch of herbs and parsley, 1 gill white wine, ^ pint white stock, ^ oz. butter, 1^ gill well-reduced Espagnole (No. 286), 8 olives, stuffed, 1 large truffle, 8 mushrooms, fleurons. Salt, pepper, lemon-juice. Clean and wash the fish, put a bed of slices of bacon, herbs and parsley in a braising or saute-pan, moisten with wine and stock. Season with pepper and salt, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a quick oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. When done lift out the fish carefully and dish up; reduce the liquor, skim and strain, add sauce and reduce again, flavour with a few drops of lemon-juice, finish with half an ounce of fresh butter, warm up the garnish—i.e. the slices of truffles, heads of mushrooms, and stuffed olives—in a little stock or sauce. Garnish the dish tastefully with the above, and sauce over carefully, put a few fleurons round the dish, and serve. 509. JPetites Truites a la THvonnaise.—4 small river trout, 4 £-inch-thick slices of bread, 3 oz. blotter, ^ gill Cliablis or Sauterne, ^ gill fish stock, 18 small button onions, 12 champignons, ■§- oz. mea t glaze, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, 2 tablespoonfuls Genoise or other brown fish sauce (No. 246), seasoning. Clean the fish, and trim it. Butter the slices of bread and bake them till light brown in the oven. Place the baked bread in a saute- pan (buttered), upon these place the trout (one on each), season with pepper and salt, and put a few tiny bits of butter on top of each fish. Moisten with the wine and the fish stock, cover with a buttered paper. Bake in a brisk oven till the fish is done. Peel the onions, fry them a golden brown in butter, add some gravy, and cook and glaze them in the oven; use the heads of mushrooms only, heat them up separately in a little stock or gravy. Now take up the trout, range them in an oblong dish, and keep hot. Take two pieces of the bread and the liquor of the fish, and put it in a stewpan, add the remainder of butter, break up the bread, and stir with a whisk, add the sauce and the meat glaze. Stir the whole over the fire, season to taste, and cook for a few minutes. Lastly add the anchovy essence, and pass all through a fine sieve or ' strainer. Sauce over the fish with this. Arrange the button onions and mushroom-heads round the base of the dish, and serve hot. 510. Truites a la Meuniere 3 to 4 small trout (4 to 6 oz. each), 3 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, 1 teaspoonful. chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice, 1 teaspoonful vinegar, pepper and salt. Scale the fish, draw it and wipe with a damp cloth. Season withTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 218 pepper and salt. Melt half the butter in a saute-pan, put in the fish (previously floured), and cook over a moderate fire till the fish is done ; the trout must be turned frequently during the process of frying. Take up the fish and dish up. Now add the remainder of butter to the butter in which the fish was cooked, let it acquire a nut-brown colour (do not let it get black), then add the anchovy essence, stir well over the fire, and gradually mix in the lemon-juice and the vinegar. Lastly add the chopped parsley, then pour the whole over the prepared fish, and serve the dish very hot. 511. Filets de Truite /rites d, la Milanaise.—2 or 8 small trout, ^ gill olive oil, 1 lemon, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, 1 egg, 1 oz. grated Parmesan, salt, pepper, bread-crumbs, lard or olive oil for frying, fried parsley for garnish. Steep the fish in boiling water for about a minute, peel off the skin, split each lengthwise and remove the bone. Put the fillets in a pie-dish or other flat dish, season with salt and pepper, moisten with oil, sufficient to cover, add the juice of one lemon, and let it soak thus for about an hour. Beat up the egg, and mix with the chopped parsley. Mix sufficient freshly made bread-crumbs with the grated Parmesan cheese. Drain the fillets, rub them over on each side with a little flour, dip them in the beaten egg, and cover well with the pre- pared crumbs. Have ready some lard or oil in a deep saute-pan ; when hot, put in the fillets and fry a golden colour. Drain well on a cloth or paper, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with Sauce Italienne (No. 289). 512. Filets de Truite ala Mirabeau.—Procure a medium- sized trout, remove the scales and wipe the fish with a damp cloth. Take off the fillets and put them skin upwards in a saute-pan contain- ing a quarter of a gill of sweet oil (Provence oil is preferable). Season with pepper and salt, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over the fillets, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about ten minutes. When done, remove the skins, take up the fillets with a fish-slice, and place them on a hot dish. Sauce over carefully with Mirabeau sauce (No. 221), and send to table. This recipe may be applied to any fresh-water fish. 513. Escalopes de Turbot d la Dauphin,e.—About 2£ lb. turbot, % gill bechamel sauce {No. 202), butter, 1 tablespoonful cream, 1 egg, sauce ecrevisses {No. 219), 1 glass Sauterne, puree of potatoes, seasoning. Free the fish from skin and bones, cut eight or nine even-sized escallops of turbot, oval or round, pare them neatly and place them in a buttered saute-pan with a small glass of Sauterne wine ; season with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, and cover with a piece of buttered paper. Pound the trimmings, previously freed from skin &c., in a mortar till smooth, add the white of an egg, and enough bechamel (well reduced) to form a farce of desirable consistency; add also a littleDRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 219 cream, and rub the whole through a fine sieve. Poach the escallops in a fairly-heated oven for ten minutes ; then take up and cover with the prepared farce. Place each as done on a buttered baking-sheet and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes longer. Have ready some well-seasoned prawn or crayfish sauce, incorporate the liquor in which the fish was cooked. If there is any fish farce left over, make and poach a few small quenelles for garnish. Have ready a hot dish with a border of potato puree neatly decorated, place the escallops of turbot on top, sauce over very carefully, and garnish with the fish quenelles, if such have been made. Serve very hot. N.B. Brill, plaice and John Dory can be treated in the same way as above described. 514. Filets de Turbot d la Careme.—2| to 3 lb. turbot, 2 oz. butter, 1 glass Ghablis or Sauterne wine, 18 heads of preserved mushrooms, 1 dessertspoonful lobster coral, 18 prawns, % pint bechamel sauce (No. 202), 2 to 3 truffles, 12 sauce oysters, 1 yolk of egg, whiting forcemeat, seasoning. Cut the turbot into slices about half an inch thick, cut each in two lengthways, and remove the dark skin and bones; trim and shape neatly, and range them in a saute-pan (well buttered), season with pepper and salt, moisten with white wine and a little mushroom liquor. Put a tiny piece of butter on top of each slice, and cover with a buttered paper. Cook in a moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. Pre- pare the garniture as follows :—Cut the truffles into slices, put these with the mushroom-heads in a stewpan, add the oysters, previously bearded and cut in halves, moisten with a little white sauce, and keep hot till required. Fill a well-buttered border mould with whiting forcemeat, and poach in the usual manner. When done unmould on to a round dish. Take up the slices of turbot, and range them neatly on top of the border. Strain the liquor in which the fish was cooked into a stewpan, add the remainder of the sauce, also the lobster coral, previously pounded with an ounce of butter and rubbed through a sieve. Stir over the fire till quite hot, then add the yolk of an egg and about a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice. Whisk well over the fire, but do not let the sauce boil again. Put the garniture in the centre of the dish. Sauce over the border carefully with the prepared sauce, garnish the centre with picked prawns, and serve at once. 515. Filets de Turbot d la Cussy.—2 to 3 lb. turbot (small fish), 1 glass of white wine, 6 cocks' kernels, 6 mushrooms and liquor, 1 oz. butter, 1 truffle, 6 to 8 small quenelles, ^ lemon, \ pint Allemande sauce (No. 204), \ gill tomato sauce (No. 271), pepper and salt, puff-paste, fleuronsfor garnish. Bone the fish, removing the dark skin, cut the fillets into con- venient oblong pieces, flatten a little with a cutlet bat, and trim. Range the fillets in a well-buttered saute-pan. Moisten with the wine220 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK and mushroom liquor, season with pepper and salt, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about twelve minutes. Take up, dress neatly on a hot dish, and keep warm. Pour the sauces into the pan containing the liquor, boil up and strain into a stewpan containing the mushrooms, kernels, and quenelles. Allow these to get thoroughly hot. Garnish the dish, reduce the sauce, and pour over the fish, decorate with slices of lemon and fleurons, and serve. 516. Filets de Turbot d la Florentine.—This is one of the most tasty ways of serving turbot .or any kind of white fish. Cut some turbot into small fillets—remove the skin and place in a saute- pan well-buttered, season the fish, moisten with a glass of white wine, and cook for ten minutes in the oven. Range them neatly on a silver- plated dish, and put a layer of prepared spinach over the fillets, so as to completely cover them, pour over this a layer of bechamel sauce, mixed with sufficient grated cheese to flavour, sprinkle over the top some bread-crumbs, grated cheese, and oiled butter, and bake in a very hot oven for about ten minutes. 517. Turbot a la Frovengale.—About 2} lb. turbot (middle cut), ^ pint veloutee sauce (No. 206), 1 gill white wine, 2 small shallots chopped fine, 1 gill white stock, 2 oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 tea- spoonful anchovy paste, 2 teaspoonfuls capers, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, a small bunch of parsley and herbs (bouquet) (No. 2). Wash and wipe the fish well, cut it into thick slices or leave whole, place it in a stewpan, season with pepper and salt, and add veloutee sauce, white wine, stock, chopped shallots, and bouquet garni. Set it to simmer slowly until the fish is done, and baste occasionally. Put the fish on a dish and keep warm. Reduce the sauce until you obtain the desired consistency. Remove the herbs, add the yolks of eggs, work in the butter, and pass through a cloth. Return to a smaller stewpan, add the anchovy-paste, chopped parsley, and capers, stir a few minutes over the fire, and pour over the fish. 518. Supreme de Turbot a la Roy ale.—About 21 lb. turbot (middle cut), 2 oz. butter, ^ pint veloutee sauce, 1 shallot, 1 small glass white ' wine, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, half a handful of grated Swiss cheese, salt and pepper, nutmeg. Pare the fillets and skin from the fish, cut the former into heart- shapes, making as little waste as possible. Butter a saute-pan, put in the chopped shallot, arrange the fillets neatly in the pan,, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, moisten with the white wine, cover and coolr in a quick oven for about ten minutes. Take up the fillets and dress them (6n a buttered oblong silver or gratin dish. Put the sauce into the pan in which the fish was cooked, reduce a little, then add the cream, aAd work in about half the remainder of butter ; pour this over the fillets in the dish, so as to completely cover them, sprinkle over some grated Swiss cheese, and divide the rest of butter in little bits, here and there. Brown in a quick oven for a few minutes, and serve quickly. .221 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 519. Filets de Turbot d la Salamandre.—Procure a piece of turbot (tail end) weighing about 2£ lb. Remove the dark skin, and fillet, trim, flatten, and pare into heart-shaped slices, range them neatly in a buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over two finely chopped shallots, and add about half an ounce of butter divided into little bits ; moisten with half a gill of white wine and a tablespoonful of stock. Cover with buttered paper and cook in a slow oven for fifteen minutes, pour off the liquor and put it in a saucepan with about a gill of white sauce (veloutee or bechamel) (Nos. 202 or 206), heat up, stir in one or two yolks of eggs and a tablespoonful of cream, and cook until it binds. Dish up the cooked fillets in a row on a buttered dish. Strain the sauce over the fish so as to well coat it. Sprinkle the top with grated cheese (Parmesan or Gruyere) and a few bread-crumbs, brown in a very hot oven, or under a hot salamander, and serve. 520. Turbot JBouilll a la Victoria.—About 3 to 4 lb. of turbot, 1 small onion stuck with a clove, a small bunch of parsley, a tablespoonful of French vinegar, 10 small lobster croquets, 6 prawns, salt, Victoria sauce (No. 230). Wipe the fish with a damp cloth, place it in the fish-kettle, cover well with water, put in the onion and clove, also the parsley, vinegar, and sufficient salt to taste ; let it come to the boil quickly, and simmer until the fish is done, which will take about twenty minutes, more or less, according to the thickness of the fish. When done, drain it and slide on a hot dish. Have ready some small ball-shaped lobster croquets; also the prawns; garnish the dish with the croquets, prawns, and a few sprigs of parsley. Serve with a boat of Victoria sauce. 521. Tvmandes d la Janin (Flounders, Janin Style).— 2 large flounders, % lb. fish quenelle forcemeat (No. 400), 1 oz. butter, \ gill white wine, 1| gill Espagnole sauce, 12 crayfish or prawn tails, 2 truffles, 12 sauce oysters, seasoning. Cut the fillets from the flounders, remove the black skin, trim and pare the fillets, spread one side of each with a layer of fish quenelle forcemeat. Fold each in two, or roll them if convenient. Place them in a well buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, add half the wine, cover with a buttered paper and cook in the oven till done. Take up the fish and range them in the form of a circle on a dish; keep hot. Put the sauce and remainder of wine in the saute- pan with the fish liquor ; cook for ten minutes, season to taste, and strain through a tammy. Slice the truffles, beard the oysters, and cut them in halves. Heat these with the crayfish or prawn tails in a little stock, or toss them in butter. Place them in the centre of the dish and pour the sauce carefully over the whole. 522. TAmandes en Souchet (Souchet of Flounders).—4 to 6 flounders, 2 small onions, 1 botoquet garni (No. 2), | carrot,222 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK f turnip, 1 slice of parsnip, 10 peppercorns, fish stock or water, salt, parsley. Thinly cut brown bread and butter, ^ lemon. Trim the fish, and place them in a saute-pan, season with a good pinch of salt, add the onions cut in slices, the bouquet of herbs, and peppercorns, cover with stock or water, allow it to boil, and let simmer slowly for about ten minutes. Cut the carrot, turnip, and parsnip into fine strips (Julienne shapes), and cook till tender in fish stock or salted water. Take up the flounders, dish up neatly on a deep entree dish. Strain the liquor, and if found cloudy clarify with raw white of egg. Blanch and chop a little parsley, strain the vegetables, add to the fish liquor, pour this over the fish, sprinkle over with parsley. Garnish with a few thin slices of lemon, and serve with brown bread and butter, which is handed round along with the fish. Note.—Soles and almost any white fish may be served as souchet. A souchet is usually served in hot soup-plates ; one small flounder or half a large one is reckoned as one portion. 523. Filets de Barbue ci la Grand Due.—Remove the dark skin of one good-sized brill, fillet it, and cut each fillet into neat pieces of convenient size ; trim them neatly. Place them in a large earthenware dish, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle with a few drops of lemon-juice, two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, and a dessert- spoonful of finely chopped parsley and chives. Allow the fillets to soak for at least one hour. Have ready some well reduced veloutee sauce (No. 206), let it cool a little, then dip each fillet in the sauce so as to well mask them. When the sauce has set, cover with fine bread-crumbs, then dip in beaten egg and crumb again. Shape and smooth the fillets. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, place the fillets in it, and fry over a quick fire; as each side acquires a light-brown colour turn carefully with the blade of a knife so as to allow the other side to colour. Drain the fillets on a cloth, dish them up in a circular row on a round dish, and keep hot. Warm up a gill of veloutee sauce, add a dessertspoonful of finely grated horseradish, a tablespoonful of well reduced tomato pulp, and a tablespoonful of cream ; when hot add a dozen cleaned and blanched mussels and a few bearded oysters, let these get thoroughly hot, but do not let the sauce boil again. Put the garniture in the centre of the dish, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, and pour the sauce round the base of the dish. When brill is not. obtainable,'plaice or turbot may be substituted. 524. Filets de Barbue a la Madeleine (.Fillets of Brill, Madeleine Style).—1 brill, \ lb. whiting forcemeat (No. 400), 1 tea- spoonful finely chopped green herbs, £ oz. butter, seasoning, ^ gill rich white stock, 1 egg, “ panurette ” for crumbing, frying -fat, fried parsley. Sauce Marseillaise (No. 274). Fillet the brill, remove the skin, flatten the thick ends of the fillets and cut into eight to ten neat oblong pieces of even size. Season and cover one side of each with fish forcemeat mixed with the herbs;DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 223 roll up and place them in buttered paupiette rings, range them in a buttered saute-pan containing the white stock (the latter must be well flavoured; otherwise add a small mirepoix). Cover with a buttered paper and cook for about fifteen minutes in the oven. When done, take up, let them cool a little and then remove the rings. Dip each paupiette in beaten egg and roll in panurette or brown crumbs. Fry in deep fat a golden colour, drain, dish up in a circle on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, placed in the centre of the dish, and send to table with a boat of hot Marseillaise sauce. 525. JBarbue bvaisee a VAmiral.— Cut the fins and tail off a good-sized brill, or large plaice, if the former is not obtainable, place it on a bed of vegetables (mirepoix) in a turbot kettle, dark skin down- wards. Moisten with half a pint of Chablis wine and white stock, season with salt, cover and braise over the fire till tender. Prepare twelve large oysters and twelve mussels, beard the oysters, egg and crumb them in white bread-crumbs, and fry them in deep fat; egg and crumb the mussels in red bread-crumbs (panurette), and fry likewise. Take up the fish, place it on a dish, arrange the oysters and mussels alternately round the sides, sauce over with a nicely flavoured cardinal sauce. Put a group of round potatoes (pommes Parisiennes, fried) on each end of the dish, and decorate the centre of the fish with thin slices of truffles and lemon ; serve with a boat of cardinal sauce (No. 218). 526. Cabillaud frit a VIndienne (Fried God, Indian Style).—About lb. cod (middle cut of tail end), 2 eggs, 3 French gherkins, ^ lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls piccalilli, bread-crumbs, frying- fat, salt, cayenne. Cut the fish into five or six neat scollops about half an inch thick. Season with salt and a little cayenne, beat up one egg, boil the other till hard, dip the slices of fish in egg, cover well with bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat a golden colour ; drain and dish up. In the mean- time prepare a garnish consisting of gherkins, hard-boiled white of egg, and piccalilli, all cut up into Julienne strips. Warmup in a little butter, moisten with fish stock, garnish the dish tastefully with alter- nate groups of the above and fanciful-cut slices of lemon. Send to table with sauce Indienne (No. 261). 527. Cabillaud a la Maltaise.—About 2£ lb. cod-fish (middle cut), % pint veloute sauce (No. 206), 1 gill white wine, 2 small shallots (chopped fine), 1 gill white stock, 2 oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful anchovy paste, 2 teaspoonfuls capers, 1 tea- spoonful chopped parsley, a small bunch parsley and herbs (bouquet) (No. 2). Wash and wipe the fish well, place it in a stewpan, season with pepper and salt, and add veloutee sauce, white wine, stock, chopped shallots, and bouquet garni. Set it to simmer slowly until the fish is done; baste occasionally. Put the fish on a dish and keep warm.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 224 Reduce the sauce until you obtain the desired consistency. Remove the herbs, add the yolks of eggs, work in the butter, and pass through a cloth. Return to a smaller stewpan, add the anchovy paste, chopped parsley, and capers; stir a few minutes over the fire, and pour over the fish. 528. Mousseline de Cabillaud.—12 ounces cod-fish, free from shin and bones, 8 eggs, 2 oz. butter, 1 gill cream, 2 oz. flour, 1 gill fish stock. Seasoning : Cardinal sauce (No. 218). Pound the fish in a mortar and rub it through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, and mix over the fire for several minutes without letting the flour get brown. Moisten with the fish stock and continue to stir until the mixture becomes a smooth paste. Return the pounded fish into the mortar, add the above pre- paration, mix thoroughly and work in the eggs one by one, also gradually the cream, season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and cayenne or paprika. Put this into a well-buttered souffle tin, cover with a greased paper, and steam or bake for about forty minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with cardinal sauce. This may be poured .over the shape or round the base of the dish. 529. Cabillaud recrepi bo a illi (Crimped Cod, boiled).— Procure about 2j lb. of crimped cod (middle cut), wipe it with a cloth, place in a fish-kettle, cover completely with cold water, season with a small handful of salt, add a medium-sized sliced onion, one clove, a few peppercorns, and half a wineglassful of French wine vinegar. Let it come to the boil quickly, and allow it to simmer very gently for about five minutes, when the fish will be sufficiently cooked. Drain it well, dish up on a folded napkin, and serve on a hot dish with a suitable sauce. 530. Filets de Maquereaux d la Maitre d’Hotel (Fillets of Mackerel, Maitre d'Hotel).—2 mackerel, 1\ oz. butter, \ oz. flour, 1 small shallot, 2 tablespoonfuls mushroom liquor or fish stock, ^ lemon, 1 large teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 gill milk, stock, pepper and salt. Wipe the fish and remove the fillets. Butter a baking-tin or saute-pan, strew over the shallot peeled and finely chopped, range the fillets on this, skin upwards, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over a few drops of lemon-juice. Moisten with mushroom liquor or fish stock, cover with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Meanwhile, melt an ounce of butter in a sauce- pan, stir in the flour, cook a few seconds, pour in the milk, a little at a time, and add a little stock (white), stir until it boils, and let simmer for ten minutes. Take up the fish, remove the skin and dress on a hot dish, put the liquor of the fish with shallots into the. sauce, boil up and strain, then add the parsley, a few drops of lemon-juice, season to taste, and pour over the fillets. 531. Filets de Soles aux Aubergines.—2 good-sized soles, 3 aubergines (egg plants), 1 oz. butter, J pint olive oil andDRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 225 clarified butter (half of each), the juice of half a lemon, 1 teaspoonful meat glaze, 1 small glass icliite wine, salt and pepper, about 1 oz: Carolina rice, cooked in rich stock, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Skin the soles, remove the fillets, flatten, pare and fold them, season with pepper and salt and range them in a well-buttered saute- pan, moisten with lemon-juice and white wine, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Meanwhile cut the aubergines, freed from skin, into cubes or olive shapes, dip them in seasoned flour, and fry a golden colour in olive oil and clarified butter. When done, take up and drain, cook the rice until it is almost dry, and shape it in the centre of a dish, dress the fillets of soles round the rice shape. Melt an ounce of butter and let it get a nut-brown colour (this is called Beurre Noisette), then put in the chopped parsley and pour over the dish, garnish round the base with the fried aubergines, and serve hot. 532. Filets de Soles d la Borin.—1 medium-sized sole, 2 oz. butter, the juice of 1 lemon (strained), 3 to 4 potatoes, salt, mignonette pepper, chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful double cream. Skin the sole, cut off the fillets and trim them neatly, range them in a saute-pan, previously buttered, season with pepper and salt, add the lemon-juice, cover with a buttered paper, and poach in the oven till tender. GLreat care must be taken to keep the fillets a nice white colour. Lift out the fillets, range them on an oblong dish, and keep hot over a saucepan of boiling water. While the sole is cooking wash and peel the potatoes, cut them into the shape of olives, blanch and drain them, and finish cooking in butter. Add the cream to the fish liquor, stir over the fire till hot (not boiling), drop in a few tiny bits of butter, season to taste, and strain this over the fillets. Surround them with the potato olives, sprinkle some freshly chopped parsley over the fish, and send the dish to table. This is one of the many favourite dishes served at the Maison Bovin in Paris. 533. Filets de Soles d la Catalaine.—Trim and pai;e eight to twelve fillets of soles, fold them neatly and place them in a saute-pan containing one ounce of fresh butter, season with pepper and salt, and cook in the oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Prepare a puree of Jerusalem artichokes, season to taste, and form into a border placed in a hot dish ; dress the fillets upon this. Fill the centre with cepes, previously tossed in butter and seasoned with salt and pepper. Sauce the fillets with a well-reduced bechamel sauce (maigre, No. 203), into which a small quantity of whipped cream has been incorporated. 534. Filets de Soles d la Chasseur Moual.—3 medium- sized soles, 2 large truffles, 1 small whiting, 1 oz. butter, 12 oysters, 12 preserved mushrooms, 1 glass white wine, 3 oz. panade, 2 eggs, seasoning, 1 tablespoonful cream. Sauce, Chasseur Royal (No. 212). QTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 226 Remove the skin from the soles and fillet them. Skin and bone the whiting, pound in a mortar till smooth, add the panade, | oz, butter, salt to taste, a pinch of cayenne and a grate of nutmeg; mix thoroughly, and work in the cream and the eggs. Rub through a fine sieve, fill up a well-buttered fluted border mould sprinkled with bread-crumbs or panurette, cover with buttered paper, and bake in a moderately heated oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. In the mean- time flatten the fillets of soles a little, fold each into halves, range them neatly in a buttered saute-pan, season with salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon-juice, moisten with a small glass of white winer cover with a buttered paper, and cook slowly in the oven ; they will take about ten minutes. Blanch the oysters, remove the beards, cut them into quarters, slice the mushrooms, and put in a small stewpan ; moisten with Royal Chasseur sauce, cut the truffles into slices, stamp out eight nice stars, and keep for garnish. Add the remainder of slices with the above garnishing, strain the liquor of the fillets into this along with the sauce, and cook for a few minutes. Unmould the border on to a hot entree dish, dress the fillets neatly on to this (en couronne), place a star of truffles on top of each fillet, put the dish in the oven to get thoroughly hot, fill the centre with the prepared garniture, pour a little sauce Chasseur Royal over the garnish and some round the border, and serve the remainder separately with the dish. 535. Filets de Soles a la Czarina.—2 medium-sized soles, 2 oz. butter, 2 shallots chopped finely, % gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1 tablespoonf ul concentrated tomato pulp, 1 small glass white wine, 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice, ^ lb. mashed potatoes, 1 tea- spoonful meat glaze, 2 yolks of eggs, a few sprigs of chervil, 1 tea- spoonful chopped chives or ciboulette, grated horseradish, salt, pa- prika pepper. Skin the soles, remove the fillets, trim them, put trimmings and bones in a stewpan with a little stock or water, and let it well reduce, adding a little seasoning. Fold the fillets, season them, and put them in a saute-pan with an ounce of melted butter. Cook them over a brisk fire, so as to slightly brown each side. Cook the shallots in the wine, add the meat glaze, lemon-juice, the sauce, and a little chopped chives, add fish stock and reduce; boil up and keep hot, mix the remainder of chopped herbs with the potato puree, add to it half an ounce of butter and the egg-yolks. Stir well over the fire till thoroughly hot. Spread this on a dish to cool. Stamp out some oval shapes, one for each fillet, and fry them in butter. Dress the cooked fillets on these, dish them up, re-heat the sauce and pour over, put a little scraped horseradish on top of each fillet, and serve hot. 536. Filets de Soles a la Dioeletien.—Fillets of soles, stuffed with fish quenelle forcemeat (No. 400), folded or rolled, and cooked in butter and sherry or Marsala wine, dressed in the form of a border or circle, garnished with small hearts of lettuces (braised), and very smallDRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 227 fish quenelles (poached). • Serve with a sauce composed of rich Espagnole (No. 236), fish liquor, and finely chopped truffles. 537. Filets de Soles d la Gastronome.—2 medium-sized soles, £ lb, whiting forcemeat (No. 400), 2 oz. crayfish butter (beurre d’ecrevisses) (No. 389), 1 egg, panurette or white bread- crumbs, 8 champignons, salt and pepper, frying-fat. Sauce vin blanc (No. 216). Fleurons for garnish (half-moons of puff-paste baked). Skin and fillet the soles, flatten each fillet a little and spread with forcemeat, mixed with half the quantity of crayfish butter. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and fold each fillet. Trim the edges with a sharp knife ; egg well and crumb with either panurette or white bread- crumbs. Have ready a well reduced white-wine sauce (sauce au vin blanc), incorporate the remainder of crayfish butter and the champignons (mushrooms), finely chopped. Fry the fillets a delicate brown in hot fat. Drain them carefully and dish up. Pour the sauce round the dish, not over the fillets; garnish with fleurons and serve. 538. Filets de Soles d la Grand-Due.—Skin two or three soles, remove the fillets, season them with salt and pepper, fold them and place them in a buttered saute-pan, moisten with a little mushroom liquor (cuisson de champignons), cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Prepare a sauce Mornay (No. 223). Dress the fillets on an oval dish, with alternate slices of truffles and crayfish or prawn tails between the fillets. Mask the whole with the sauce Mornay, sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and a few drops of oiled butter. Brown the surface under a salamander or in a very sharp oven. Garnish with cooked asparagus points — these may be placed in the centre or on each side of the dish. The dish is then ready for serving. 539. Filets de Soles d VFmdienne.—2 soles, lobster puree (No. 540), 1 egg, bread-crumbs, seasoning, 6 mushrooms, 2 gherkins, 2 tablespoonfuls piccalilli, \ gill mild curry or Madeira sauce, frying-fat, plain boiled rice. Skin and fillet the soles, flatten each fillet a little, and spread one side with lobster puree, fold them over in half, and pare the sides neatly ; season the fillets with salt and pepper, dip them in beaten egg, and cover with bread-crumbs. If liked, this operation may be performed twice. Cut the piccalilli, gherkins, and mushrooms into fine shreds (like Julienne strips), put them in a small stewpan with the sauce, and heat up carefully. Fry the fillets a golden colour in clari- fied dripping or butter, drain them, and dish up in a circle on a hot dish. Put the garniture in the centre with a little sauce, and serve with a small dish of boiled rice, the same as for a curry. 540. Lobster Puree for Fillets of Soles d VLndienne.— Take the meat of half a lobster, chop it finely. Melt half an ounce of butter in a small stewpan, stir in half an ounce of flour, and cook over the fire for a few minutes without browning. Add about a table- spoonful of cream, and the same quantity of milk or stock. Mix228 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK thoroughly, and let it cook for a few seconds, then add the chopped lobster-meat, season to taste, mix well with a yolk of egg, let it bind, and use as directed. 541. Filets de* Soles d I’Americaine.—Skin two good-sized soles, take off the fillets and fold them neatly, after trimming the edges. Season with pepper and salt, and range them in a row on a buttered.gratin dish (china or plated dish). Moisten with a little white wftne, and sprinkle over two small finely-chopped shallots. Cover with buttered paper and cook' in the oven for five minutes, then pour the liquor from the dish in a previously prepared rich tomato sauce (made with tomato pulp and veloute, and well reduced). Pour this carefully over the fish so as to completely mask it. Sprinkle over some- freshly made bread-crumbs, and place tiny pieces of lobster butter (No. 391) on each fillet. Finish in a sharp oven, allowing about eight minutes to brown the surface, then send to table at once. 542. Filets de Soles d la Sezet.—Skin and fillet one or more soles, fold the fillets and place them in a buttered saute-pan. Season with pepper and salt, sprinkle with a few finely-chopped tarragon- leaves, moisten with a -small glass of white wine, and cook in the oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Prepare a sauce composed of one gill bechamel (No. 203), half a gill tomato pulp, and an ounce of anchovy butter - the latter must be whisked in. Dish up the cooked fillets, incorporate the liquor (strained) into the sauce, and pour the sauce over the fillets, garnish with very small lobster or crayfish croquettes (No. 596), slices of truffles, anchovy fillets (curled up), and mushroom- heads. Serve hot. 543. Filets de Soles d la Marcelle.— Skim and fillet one or more soles. Prepare a whiting forcemeat (No. 400-), mix it with some finely-chopped blanched oysters and chopped truffles. Season the fillets and co\ er one side of each with the prepared puree. Fold the fillets and trim them neatly. Place them in a buttered saute- pan containing a bed of mirepoix, i.e. sliced bacon, carrot, onion, bay-leaf, parsley, and other herbs. Moisten with a small glass of Chablis or Sauterne wine, and poach in the oven. When done take up the fillets, dress them on a hot dish in the shape of a circle, sauce over with veloute or bechamel sauce (maigre) (Nos. 203), made with fish stock, fill the centre with fried oysters and mussels, and serve hot. 544. Filets de Soles d la Messaline.—Fillets of soles cooked in a buttered pan with a little champagne, dressed and sauced over with a sauce composed of tomatoes and Italian pimentos, garnished with quarters of artichoke bottoms tossed in a little fresh butter. 545. Filets de Soles d la Monireuil.—2, soles, H oz. butter, % gill Chablis or Sauterne wine, the juice of ^ lemon, 1 dessert- spoonful parsley (chopped finely), 1 tablespoonful liquefied meat glaze, 1 gill veloutee sauce (No. 206), salt, pepper, and cayenne, 2 or 3 potatoes (cut into small marble shapes).DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 229 Skin and fillet the soles, put the bones in a stewpan with enough water to cover, a slice of onion, herbs, and about half the wine, season with salt, and cook for twenty minutes, then strain. Season the fillets, fold or roll them neatly, trim and place them in a buttered saute-pan, add the lemon-juice and remainder of wine, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Take them up, put the veloutee sauce into the liquor, boil up and strain. Ee-heat the sauce, add the prepared fish stock, and reduce to its original quantity. Now add the chopped parsley, season with a pinch of cayenne, and add. half the meat glaze. Cook the small potato balls in salted water. Drain well and blend with the remainder of the butter. Dress the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with the potato balls (heaped up high), pour the sauce over the fillets, and sprinkle some meat glaze over the whole. 546. Filets de Soles d Id Mornay.—2 medium-sized soles (filleted), 1 gill white ivine, ^ lemon, oz. grated Gruyere cheese, j, pint milk, 1 oz, grated Parmesan, £ oz, flour, 3 oz. fresh butter, 1 small onion, 1 bouquet garni (No. 2), pepper and salt, aromatic seasoning. Trim the fillets a little, range them closely, but neatly, on a buttered saute-pan or oval dish; season with pepper and salt; moisten with a few drops of lemon-juice and the white wine; cover with finely sliced onion, put buttered paper on top, and cook in the oven for about eight minutes. Put the milk in a small saucepan, add the bouquet garni, the bones and trimmings left from the sole, and a good pinch of aromatic seasoning, and the essence from the fillets. Let the whole reduce to about half the original quantity. Mix the flour with half the quantity of butter, and add to the stock thus made, previously strained. Stir with a whisk over the fire for about ten minutes, incorporate the grated cheese, and the remainder of the butter. Spread a layer of sauce on an oval flat silver dish, range the cooked fillets in a row on this, sauce over well, sprinkle thickly with grated cheese. Put the dish in a very brisk oven for five minutes, or under a hot salamander, to colour the surface, and serve. 547. Filets de Soles d la Fiemontaise.—Skin one or more soles, remove the fillets, fold them and range them in a buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt; moisten with a small glass of white wine, cover and poach in the oven for ten minutes. When partially cooked, add enough tomato sauce (No. 271) to well cover the fillets, bake for another five minutes, dish up, pour over the sauce, garnish with small polenta croutons, and slices of truffles. Serve hot. 548. Filets de Soles en Mamequin.—2 medium-sized soles, ^ oz. butter, i glass white wine (Sauterne or Ghablis), 1 gillsoubise sauce (puree), 1 ounce grated Parmesan cheese, 1 white of egg, salt and pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls bechamel sauce (No. 203), 4 short crust paste.230 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Roll out the paste to a round shape, about a quarter of a inch in thickness. Place a flanc ring (pastry ring) on a greased baking-tin and line the ring with the paste ; prick the bottom with a fork, fill the shape with rice, dried peas or haricots, and bake a nice golden colour. Remove the rice or other ingredient used, while the paste is hot, and replace the crust on the baking-tin. Skin and fillet the sole, trim the fillets, flatten them, season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice, fold them neatly, and range on a well-buttered saute-pan, moisten with the w7ine, cover with buttered paper, and cook for ten minutes in the oven. Spread the bottom of the paste crust with white sauce ; place in the fillets. Mix the soubise puree with the white of egg, previously beaten to a stiff froth, add also the grated cheese, a pinch of white pepper, and a little cayenne. Pour this neatly over the fillets in the crusts. Bake in a hot oven for another six to eight minutes, and send to table as soon as it leaves the oven. 549. Filets de Soles d la JRoyale.—Skin one or two soles, remove the fillets, season them and spread a layer of finely minced or pounded truffles and champignons moistened with a little bechamel sauce (No. 203) over one side of each fillet, roll or fold them, range them in a buttered saute-pan, moisten with a glass of Madeira or Marsala wine, cover and cook till tender. Dish up in a row or circle on a hot dish, sauce over with a hot mousseline or Hollandaise sauce (Nos. 224 and 208), and serve at once. 550. Filets de Soles ala Suetone.—Fillets of soles, seasoned, folded and poached in the oven with butter and a little white wine. Prepare a Normande sauce (No. 205), incorporate some pounded pis- tachio kernels (blanched). Dress the fillets on a dish, sauce over neatly, and garnish the dish with small shells of prawns or shrimps and pistachios, seasoned with white sauce. 551. Filets de Soles d la Victoria.—Fold the fillets and cook them in a buttered saute-pan with a little white wine. Dress them on a border of mashed potatoes, previously browned in the oven. Sauce over with a well reduced white wine sauce (sauce au vin blanc, No. 216), garnish with chopped truffle and tongue, also with some small fleurons (half-moons of puff-paste). 552. Soles a la Colbert.—Trim a good-sized sole, take off both skins and wipe it with a cloth. With a sharp-pointed knife make an incision alongside the bone, break the bone at each end, remove it carefully without mutilating the fish. Brush the fish with beaten egg on both sides, and cover well with fresh bread-crumbs. Fry in deep hot fat a golden colour, drain it well on paper or a cloth, dish up and fill the centre of the fish (the cavity where the bone was removed) with well-seasoned maitre d’hotel butter (No. 394), garnish with sprigs of parsley and quarters of lemon, and serve. 553. Soles a la Normande.—Clean, skin, and trim two large soles, make an incision about a quarter of an inch deep along each side of the bone of the skinned part. Place in a buttered saute-pan,DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) 281 ;season with pepper and salt, moisten with a gill of white wine, sprinkle with a finely chopped shallot, place a few bits of butter here *and there, and cook it in the oven for about ten minutes. Have ready a garniture of prepared oysters, mussels, and button mushrooms. Put the sole on a dish, dress, and garnish neatly ; sauce over with Nor- mande sauce (No. 205), in which the garniture has been cooked ; garnish the sides with croutes of bread made from rasped French dinner-rolls (buttered slices browned in the oven). Serve the remain- ing sauce separately in a sauce-boat. Fillets of soles are done in the same way. They are folded and dished up in a row, one overlapping the other, and a mushroom-head placed on each fillet. The mussels and oysters are placed in groups round the sides of the fillets. Scollops are, in some cases, used as garnish, but only when mussels are not obtainable. If smelts are in season this dish should be garnished with a few fried smelts in addition to the other garniture. 554. Soles au Parmesan.—2 medium-sized soles, 1 oz. flour, 1 tablespoonful mushroom-juice, 2 oz. butter, 14 oz. grated Par- mesan, 1 gill of milk, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Skin, trim, and wipe two medium-sized soles, place them in a buttered saute-pan, season with salt and pepper, pour over them the mushroom-juice, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven until •done. This will take from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the heat of the oven.* In the meantime put the milk to boil, melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and stir over the fire until the flour becomes of a fawn colour; now add the boiling milk, about an ounce of the grated Parmesan cheese, and a little boiling water ; stir over the fire until it boils, let it simmer for about ten minutes, adding a little more water or fish stock, if you have any, if the sauce should appear too thick; season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. The soles being cooked by this time, place them on am oblong, fiat •dish, add the liquor which remains in the saute-pan to the sauce, strain it, and pour over the fish ; sprinkle with the grated Parmesan remaining. Place the dish in the oven or under a hot salamander just long enough for the top to take colour, and serve in the same dish. - 555. JPaupiettes de Filets tie Soles a la Riche!leu.—2 large soles, 1 whiting, 3 oz. bread-crumbs, 3 oz. butter, 4 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. lobster meat, 1 oz. lobster butter, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 1 finely chopped shallot, 1 gill white wine, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, lemon-juice, pepper and salt, 8 small croiltes of fried bread, 8 mushroom-heads, 1 truffle, 4 oz. flour, 4 pint white stock. Skin the soles, remove the fillets, and flatten a little; put the bones in a stewpan with half a pint of water and the stock, reduce to half, and strain. Skin and bone the whiting, pound in a mortar till smooth, moisten the bread-crumbs with the cream, add to the pounded fish with the shallot and lobster-meat, pound and mix thoroughly;232 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK now add one and a half ounce butter and three yolks of eggs, season with pepper and salt, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, mingle well, and rub through a sieve. Spread one side of each fillet with the forcemeat, roll up, trim a little, and wrap each fillet in a piece of buttered paper. Place them closely in a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle with a few drops of lemon- juice, and cook for five minutes in the oven ; then add the wine, baste well, and cook another ten minutes, or longer if needed. Spread one side of each croute with a little of the remaining forcemeat, and bake for a few minutes. Take up the fillets, remove the paper, place each upright on the croutes, put a mushroom-head on each, and keep hot. In the meantime, knead one ounce butter with the flour, stir over the fire for a few minutes, add the liquor of the fillets and the reduced stock, stir until it boils, and simmer for fifteen minutes ; bmd with the yolk of egg, strain, work in the lobster butter, and season to taste. Dish up the paupiettes, sauce over, sprinkle with chopped parsley, place a star of truffles in the centre of each, and serve. 556. Filets de Soles a la Trouville.— Skin three medium- sized soles, take up the fillets, fold, flatten slightly, and trim them neatly; place in a well-buttered sautoir ;, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; moisten with a gill of white wine and a little white stock, cover over, and let cook for.about fifteen minutes over a quick fire ; drain the fillets and keep warm. Next put in the sautoir a dozen mushroom-heads, with a little of their liquor; also a dozen mussels, and a dozen oysters ; cook these together until thoroughly hot. Dish up the fillets en couronne, alternating each fillet with one large oyster. Reduce the gravy with half a pint of bechamel sauce (No. 203), take out mushrooms and mussels, thicken with two yolks of eggs and a pat of fresh butter ; pass through a napkin or tammy cloth, return to the sautoir with the garnishing; range the heads of mushrooms on the top of the fillets, and the remainder of garnishing in the centre of dish ; sauce over, sprinkle with a little dissolved meat glaze, and serve. 557. Soles a la Vatel.—2 medium-sized soles, % lb. whiting forcemeat (No. 400), 3 small truffles, 12 prawns (picked), 12 mush- room-lieads, 12 cocks’ kernels, 1 gill white icine., 2 French gherkins, 2 oz. butter, parsley and savoury herbs, ^ pint white, sauce,, seasoning. Skin the soles, trim off the fins and heads, slit them. down the back, and carefully remove the bones of each (great care must be taken so as not to break the fish). Season with salt and pepper, and fill the cavities with whiting forcemeat, the latter having been mixed with a little chopped parsley, chopped truffle trimmings, and a tiny pinch of savoury herbs. Place the soles in a buttered saute-pan, moisten them with half a gill white wine, and a tablespoonful of mush- room liquor. Cover with buttered paper and cook in a moderate oven for ten minutes; Take up the soles and put them on a buttered dish;233 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) when cold mask over with well reduced white sauce, made in the following manner: Chop up the fish-bones and put them in the saute-pan where the soles were cooked; add a small piece of butter, and stir over the fire for a few minutes; now add half the remainder of the wine, cover and let infuse for another five minutes ; add the white sauce and reduce to half its original quantity, stirring occasion- ally to prevent burning. Season the sauce to taste, and pass through a tammy. When cold, mask the soles as directed. Decorate the fish with fancifully-cut slices of truffle and gherkins, cover with a buttered paper, and place in the oven for another ten minutes. Warm up the garniture—truffles (sliced), cocks’ combs, and mushrooms (whole)—in a little white wine and sauce. Range these neatly in groups round the fish as it leaves the oven, and send to table on the dish in which the soles were cooked. 558. Soles au Vin Blanc.—2 medium-sized soles, 1 glass Sauterne or Chablis wine, 6 mushrooms (preserved), 1 small blade of mace, 2 oz. fresh butter, 2 small shallots (peeled and chopped finely), ^ gill fish or meat stock, pepper and salt, 1 gill bechamel or veloutee sauce, the juice of i lemon, parsley for garnish. Wipe, skin, and trim the soles. Butter a saute-pan, sprinkle over with the chopped shallots, lay in the soles, season with pepper and salt, add the mace, moisten with white wine and stock, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for ten minutes or longer. When done, take up the fish, put on a dish, and keep hot. Reduce the fish liquor, add the sauce, a few drops of lemon-juice, and tails of mushrooms finely chopped, boil up, season to taste, and strain over the fish. Garnish with the heads of mushrooms slightly tossed in a little butter, and a few sprigs of freshly-picked parsley. Serve hot. 559. Filets de Soles a la Xavier.—2 medium-sized soles, % gill white wine, ^ oz. butter, salt, pepper, enough whiting forcemeat No. 400) to fill a border mould, Xavier sauce (No. 217). Skin the soles, fillet them, tie each fillet in a knot, and place them on a buttered baking-sheet. Season with pepper and salt, add the wine, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook for ten minutes in a quick oven. Butter a border mould, fill up with whiting forcemeat. Cook in the oven in a saute-pan half filled with boiling water for about twenty minutes. When done, turn out on a hot dish. Dress the cooked fillets in a circle on the border. Cover completely with hot Xavier sauce. Sprinkle a few drops of liquid meat glaze over the surface, and serve. Use fish-bones and essence of the fillets in making the above sauce. 560. Faapiettes de Soles d la JNiQoise.—Skin one or two soles, fillet them and spread each fillet with a fish quenelle forcemeat ” (No. 561), mixed with a teaspoonful of finely-mixed fresh herbs, and the same quantity of anchovy paste. Roll up the fillets, place them on a buttered baking-sheet or pan. Cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Prepare a tomatoTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 234 sauce, add a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, and pass through a fine tammy cloth, stir in an ounce of fresh butter, dish up the fillets (paupiettes), pour over the sauce, and garnish with small blanched and braised gherkins (gourgeons ronds de Nice) cut in two, and sprinkle the fish with grated cheese, and brown in the oven for a few minutes. Serve very hot. 561. Fish Quenelle Forcemeat {Farce a Quenelle de Poisson). —| lb. white fish {whiting, haddock, pike, or cod, free from bone and skin), 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 1 gill cream, 3 eggs, % gill fish stock, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Make a panade by melting one ounce of butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour and cook a little, then add the fish stock, stir the whole well over the fire until the mixture leaves the sides of the pan clean. Spread this on to a plate to get cool. Pound the fish, previously freed from skin and bones, in a mortar ; when quite smooth, add the panade and gradually the yolks of two eggs and one whole egg. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; mix in half the cream and pass the farce through a fine sieve. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, incorporate this and the cream into the forcemeat, and use as directed. 562. Paupiettes de Soles a I’Fmpereur.—2 medium-sized soles, i lb. turbot forcemeat {No. 400), 1 dessert-spoonful chopped chives, chervil, and parsley, 1 small head celery, 1 small onion, 2 oz. butter, 1 gill cream {sour), 8 small potato cassolettes {made by lining 8 dariole moulds with potato paste) {puree Duchesse), carefully baked, seasoning, bechamel sauce {No. 203), grated horseradish, 1 small truffle, anchovy essence. Skin the soles, fillet them, trim the fillets and spread them with turbot farce, or forcemeat, season them, and roll up as paupiettes. Put an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, also the celery and onion, cut into small pieces or slices, fry a little, and place the paupiettes on top of this. Cover with buttered paper and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Heat the cream, add about half a gill of bechamel sauce, season with paprika pepper and a little anchovy essence, whisk in the remainder of butter, and pass through a tammy. Put the cassolettes on a baking-sheet and place a paupiette in each. Sauce over each carefully with the prepared sauce. Bake for a few minutes hi a quick oven. Dish up, sprinkle the top of each paupiette with a little finely-chopped truffle and horseradish, and serve. 563. Grondins d la Talleyrand. —Scale and clean the gurnets, remove the fillets and cut them in convenient pieces, put them in a well-buttered saute-pan with a small onion cut in slices, some parsley, two or three cloves, a bay-leaf, pepper and salt, and a sufficient quantity of white stock and wine (Chablis or Sauterne). Cover with a buttered paper ; cook in the oven for about twenty minutes. When the fish is cooked, drain it well and serve it in an entree dish with the following sauce poured over it:—Put an ounce of butter intoDRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) 235 a saucepan, and when melted mix well with it a dessertspoonful of flour; add the liquor from the fish and a gill of fish stock, stir till the sauce is quite smooth, then add a couple of teaspoonfuls of cream ; continue cooking, but be careful not to let it actually boil. Lastly, add the yolks of two eggs, beaten up with a teaspoonful of lemon- juice, and flavour with pepper and salt, strain over the fish, and serve hot. 564. Grondin farci etouffe (-Baited Gurnet, stuffed).— 1 gurnet, 2 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 egg, 2 finely-chopped shallots, 1 oz. chopped beef meat, ^ teaspoonful mixed herbs {powdered), 3 chopped mushrooms, 1 oz. butter, 1 glass white wine, sauce matelote (No. 239), anchovy essence! Scale and clean the gurnet, wash and dry it inside and out with a cloth. Prepare the stuffing by mixing the above-mentioned ingredients with about half an egg or more if found necessary, and season to taste. Stuff the inside of the fish with this, and sew up the belly. Truss it with its tail in its mouth, and place it in a well-buttered saute-pan or baking-tin, brush the surface with egg, and cover with bread-crumbs. Place a few tiny pieces of butter on top of the fish, moisten with the wine. Bake in a sharp oven for about twenty or twenty-five minutes. Place the fish on a crouton of fried bread, untruss it, and pour the sauce round the base of the dish. The sauce must be hot, and mixed with a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and the liquor of the fish must be incorporated into the sauce. 565. Filets de Merlans au Gratin.—4 small whitings filleted, & preserved mushrooms, 1 glass Chablis or Sauterne, 2 oz. butter, chopped parsley, 1 gill sauce Italienne {No. 239), ^ lemon, pepper and salt, bread-crumbs. Trim the fillets neatly, lay them on a buttered silver-plated gfratin or fire-proof china dish, sprinkle over a few drops of lemon-juice, season with pepper and salt, add the wine and a little mushroom liquor if handy, put in the oven for ten minutes. Take out, pour off the liquor, and put into the sauce. Boil up the sauce, cut the mush- rooms into slices, and lay neatly in a row on the fillets ; sauce over carefully, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, place a few little bits of butter here and there, and bake for another ten minutes. Place the dish on another dish and serve. • 566. Filets de Merlans d la Ju t re.—3 medium-sized skinned whitings, 2 tablespoonfuls sweet oil, 1 oz. of vinegar {French wine), 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, pepper, salt, parsley for garnish, frying-batter, fat for frying, Joinville sauce {No. 229). Remove the fillets, flatten them slightly, fold them in twos, pare neatly, and put in a deep dish ; season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over the oil, vinegar, and chopped parsley, let them lie in soak for one or two hours. Take out, drain, dip in frying-batter (previously prepared), fry in hot clarified fat or butter a golden colour, drain onTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK a cloth or paper, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with Joinville sauce. 567. Filets de Merlans frits d la Tyrolienne.—Remove the fillets of five medium-sized whitings (skinned); season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice, roll in flour, dip in egg beaten with a table- spoonful of sweet oil, roll in fresh bread-crumbs, smooth them with a knife. Dip the ends of each fillet in egg, thrust a small skewer through each to give them the shape of rings, fry light brown in clear hot fat, drain them carefully on a drainer, pile up on a folded napkin, put some fried parsley on the top, garnish with quartered lemons, and serve with a well-buttered tomato sauce (No. 271). 568. Souffle de Merlan.—2 small or 1 large whiting, 2 oz. flour, 3 oz. butter, \ pint milk, 1 gill cream, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, 4 eggs, pepper and salt. Skin the fish, free it from bones, and chop the fillets finely or pound in a mortar. Butter a souffle tin, and fasten a well-buttered paper band round the top, sprinkle the inside of the mould with a few brown bread-crumbs. Put the remainder of the butter into a stewpan, when hot stir in the flour, cook a little without browning ; add the milk, stir briskly until smooth, then add the cream, cook a little longer, stirring all the while ; remove from the fire, cool a little, work in the yolks of eggs, anchovy essence, and lastly the fish. Mix well, season with pepper and salt. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add this to the mixture, pour it into the mould, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. Dish up, and serve with a suitable fish sauce. 569. Rouyets d la Francillon.—Clean four red mullets, make a few incisions on each side of the fish, dip them in oil and flour, and grill them in front or over a clear fire. Have ready four croutes of bread, cut and shaped the same as the fish, and fried in clarified butter. Butter the croutes with anchovy butter, and place one grilled red mullet on each. Dish up and pour a well-prepared tomato sauce, into which a small quantity of anchovy butter (No. 287) has been incorporated, over the fish. Garnish with fried straw potatoes and fried parsley, and serve. 570. Rouyets en Filets d la Juive.—3 to 4 red mullets, i gill sweet oil, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley mixed with a few leaves of fennel and tarragon, 2 tablespoonfuls, flour, 1 egg, breads crumbs, frying-fat or frying-oil, pepper and - salt, tartare or vert-pre sauce (No. 282). Carefully remove the fillets from the fish, lay them in a pie- dish, sprinkle over, some salt, a good pinch of pepper and the chopped parsley &c., pour over the oil and let the fillets lie there for at least one hour. Take up the fillets one by one, drain, but do not wipe them. Dip each into flour, brush over with beaten egg, and roll in bread-crumbs or panurette. Pry in hot fat or oil a golden colour, drain well on a cloth or paper, dish up, garnish237 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) ’With, parsley, and send to table with a boat of tartare sauce or vert-pre sauce. In place of crumbing the fillets, they may be dipped in a frying- batter. Fillets of soles or whiting done in this fashion are also very nice. 571. Mougets d la Venitienne.—Clean and wash five nice red mullets, wipe them dry ; put into a saute-pan one dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, one of chopped onions, one of chopped mush- rooms, two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, and a small glass of sherry, lay in the mullets, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a little white stock, cover them over with a buttered paper, and set them in a moderate oven for about half an hour. When done, remove paper, dish up the fish and keep warm, take off the oily substance from the pan, put it on the fire with two ladlefuls of brown sauce (No. 236), one dessertspoonful of anchovy essence, and a pinch of sugar; let it boil for a few minutes, and pass through a sieve ; garnish the mullets with large Spanish olives, stuffed with fish forcemeat and mushroom- heads, each of which has a small slice of truffle inserted ; put the dish in the oven for a few minutes to get thoroughly hot; sauce round the dish, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. The remainder of the sauce can be served separately in a boat. 572. Anguille a VFspagnole.—1 or 2 eels {skinned), 2 table- spoonfuls flour, | gill sweet oil, 12 sweet almonds, 1 clove of garlic, § peppercorns, a pinch of saffron, salt, 1 glass port wine, small fried bread croiites for garnish, chopped parsley, lemon-juice. Clean the fish well, cut off the heads and tails, divide into neat pieces, wash and dry thoroughly. Put the flour on a plate, mix with one teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper. Dip the pieces of fish into the flour and fry a nice colour in hot oil. Take out, strain, and put in a stewpan, add the garlic previously fried in oil, also the saffron and peppercorns, moisten with the wine, boil up, add sufficient fish stock or water to well cover the fish. Blanch and peel the almonds, shred coarsely, bake a light colour in the oven, add these to the stew, and let it simmer slowly till tender. Dish up neatly, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, squeeze over a little lemon- juice, garnish with croutes, and serve. 573. Fritot d’Anguilles, Sauce Femoulade {Fried Eel, Bemoulade Sauce).—1 good-sized eel, 3 yolks ,of egg, 1 teaspoonful oiled butter, bread-crumbs, a few sprigs of parsley, | teaspoonful sweet herbs, pepper, salt, fat for frying, ^ lemon, Bemoulade sauce {No. 285). Wash and clean the eel, remove tail and head, split open and take out the bone, cut into neat pieces about H inch long, dry well on a cloth and dip in a little flour, previously mixed with sufficient salt and pepper to season. Beat the yolks of eggs, add the oiled butter, savoury herbs, and parsley finely chopped. Coat the pieces well with this, then roll in bread-crumbs. Fry in hot fat a golden colour, drain well, dish up on a hot dish with folded napkin, garnish withTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK slices of lemon and fried parsley, and serve with a boat of Remoulade sauce. Fried eels should always be served with an acid sauce; lemon- juice squeezed over the fish just before serving will improve the flavour. 574. Eperlans an Citron.—The smelt is a most delicious fish. There are but few ways of cooking it, the best is frying in deep fat. They may be crumbed, i.e. dipped in egg and bread-crumbs, or coated with batter (frying-batter.) Fried smelts are excellent cold as well as hot. The following is one of the smartest ways of dressing and serving smelts : — Wipe the smelts with a damp cloth (on no account empty them), then dip them in flour mixed with a pinch of salt—sufficient flour, about two tablespoonfuls, should be put on a plate for this purpose ; shake each fish and brush over with beaten egg and then roll in panurette. This is a special kind of red bread-crumbs (a Continental preparation, which may be obtained at most high-class grocers), or failing this, roll in ordinary bread-crumbs. Have ready some hot fat, drop in the fish when the fat is smoking hot, and fry for a few minutes ; it requires but a very short time to cook them ; they should be of a golden colour. Drain the fish on paper or cloth, dish up on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley and slices or quarters of lemon. A plate of thinly-cut brown bread and butter should be handed round when fried smelts are served. 575. Eperlans en Brochettes (Fried Smelts on Skewers).— 1 dozen smelts, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, seasoning, clarihed dripping or lard for frying. Wipe the smelts with a wet cloth, see that they are perfectly fresh, wipe them dry with a clean dry cloth. Dip them in beaten egg, and cover with bread-crumbs. Curl them up, and fasten each on a small skewer. Put them in a frying-basket and plunge into a pan of very hot fat. Fry the smelts a delicate golden brown. Turn them on a cloth or some kitchen paper and drain well, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper. Garnish with fried parsley and quarters of lemon and serve. 576. Eperlans a la Celestine.—1 doz. smelts, | pint pan- cake batter, £ lb. whiting forcemeat (No. 400), 1 truffle, G small prawns, 1 oz. butter, remoulade sauce (No. 285). Prepare about 1 oz. very thin pancakes, spread one side of half the pancakes with whiting forcemeat, well seasoned and mixed with a little cream ; cover each with a pancake like a sandwich, press lightly, and cut into triangles or the shapes of half-hearts. Split the smelts longways, take out the bones, leaving the heads, but remove the eyes from them. Mix the remaining forcemeat with some chopped truffle, and fill the inside of the smelts with this. Cover one side of each triangle of pancake with a layer of forcemeat, place on them the smelts rolled up. Stand on a buttered baking-sheet or saute-pan,239 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) cover with buttered paper, cook in a slow oven for fifteen minutes, dish up, garnish with prawns, and serve with Remoulade sauce. 577. JEperlans farcis a la JPouraine {Stuffed Smelts, Pouraine Style).— Select about twelve large smelts, clean them, and make an incision the whole length of the fish and remove the centre bone. Fill them with whiting forcemeat (No. 400) mixed with six finely chopped mushrooms and chopped parsley. Close them up neatly, dip each in flour and range on a well-buttered dish ; pour over some melted butter, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Dish up, cover with sauce bechamel (No. 203). Brown the surface in the oven or under a salamander, garnish with lemon quarters and parsley. 578. Souffle d’JEperlans.—12 medium-sized smelts, 1 small whiting, 1 tablespoonful well-reducedbechamel sauce {No.203), 1 white of egg, 1 truffle, \ oz. butter, { gill cream, seasoning, Joinville sauce, {No. 229). Wipe the smelt with a. damp cloth, remove the fillets, skin and bone the whiting, pound the fillets of smelts and whiting in a mortar till smooth, add the bechamel sauce, and season with salt, pepper, and a tiny pinch of cayenne. All the ingredients used must be kept as cold as possible to prevent curdling, it is therefore best to keep them on the ice till wanted. Incorporate the white of egg, and rub all through a fine hair sieve. Whip about a quarter of a gill of double cream, and mix this with the above. Keep the basin containing the farce on the ice whilst stirring in the cream. Grease a plain timbale or charlotte mould with clarified butter, decorate the bottom of the mould with fancifully-cut slices of truffle, arrange the latter in the form of a pretty border or rosette. Three parts fill the mould with the preparation, and poach in the usual manner. 579. JPetoncles d la JPcovene4ale {Scallops in Provenqale Style).—18 scallops, | pint of white stock, 2 oz. of blotter, ^ gill cream; 1 small onion, 2 shallots 1 oz. flour, 3 yolks-of eggs, 3 mushrooms. Put the scallops in a stewpan with one ounce of butter, and let it cook for ten minutes. Peel and chop finely the onion and shallots, blanch them in water, and drain. Put them ii> a saucepan with an ounce of butter, and cook until light brown ; stir in the flour, stir a few minutes over the fire, moisten with scallop liquor and the stock, let it simmer for fifteen minutes, stir in the yolks of eggs, one at a time, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne, put in the scallops, let them get thoroughly hot, but on no account allow the sauce to boil; mix in the cream just before serving, dress the scallops neatly on a dish, pour the remaining sauce round them, garnish the dish with fleurons of puff-pastry, and serve. 580. JPetoncles an Gratin.—Prepare and cook the scallops as above directed, dress in dome-shape on a buttered gratin-dish, sauce over thickly with the sauce when cold, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, place a few small bits of butter hereTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 240 and there on the surface, and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. Place the dish on another dish with a folded napkin and serve. 581. Blanchailles (Whit'eFait).—1 quart whitebait, flour, salt, ana pepper, lard for frying, lent on, brown bread and butter. Keep the whitebait on the ice until the last moment, drain the fish from the water in a colander or sieve, spread out a clean cloth on the table, place the pan containing the lard on the fire and let it get thoroughly hot; sprinkle a good handful of flour on the cloth, put the fish on the cloth, flour well, fold and shake' gently, but sufficiently well to separate each fish ; shake out into a wire basket or wicker sieve, and plunge into the boiling lard, fry a pale golden colour (two minutes is sufficient to cook them), shake gently all the time they are cooking; when done put on to a clean cloth or paper to absorb the fat, sprinkle with salt and pepper (a little cayenne if liked), dish upon a hot dish with folded napkin, and serve with slices of lemon and thinly-cut brown bread and butter. 582. Sprats (Melettes).—Although not considered a fine fish, sprats are highly appreciated and enjoyed by many. It is an inex- pensive and dainty little fish. Sprats can be cooked in several ways, grilled, fried, pickled, or smoke-dried ; in flavour they are not unlike sardines. In fact, many so-called cheap sardines are often nothing else than sprats preserved in oil. The best and most popular way to cook sprats is to grill them. Owing to their oily nature,, they require no other preparation beyond cleaning and flouring. They are often broiled in an omelet or frying pan, but it is best to dredge them with a little flour before cooking them. They require from six to eight minutes to cook, grilling or broiling. Serve them with quarters of lemon and thin slices of brown bread and butter. 583. Melettes f.rites (Fried Sprats, No. 1).—Wipe the fish well with a cloth, dust with flour, and broil in a frying-pan over a clear fire for ten minutes, season with salt, dish up and serve with quarters of lemon and thinly cut buttered slices of brown bread. 584. Fried Sprats (No. 2).—Wipe the fish, as above, dip in frying batter (No. 35}., and coat each fish well, drop into hot fat or lard, fry a golden colour, drain on a cloth, season with salt and cayenne, serve with tomato sauce (No. 271), and quartered lemons. 585. Fried Sprats (JNo. 3).—-Wipe the fish as above, dip in beaten egg and bread- crumbs, fry in hot fat or lard, and serve as above. 586. Be if/nets d’Huitres (Oyster Fritters). —12 plumy oysters, 6 thin slices of streaky bacon, 2 oz. flour, a pinch of salt, 1 egg, \ oz. butter, frying-fat, parsley, ^ lemon. Beard the oysters, and sprinkle over with lemon-juice, flatten the bacon with a cutlet-bat, and cut each slice in two crossways, roll up . each oyster in a half-slice of bacon, and trim the edges. Prepare a batter in the following manner : sift the flour into a basin, add a pinch of salt, stir in the yolk of egg, and ipoisten with sufficient tepid waterDRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 241 (about a tablespoonful) and the butter (oiled) to form a smooth paste, beat up well with a wooden spoon, and allow it to stand for a time, whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth and add it to the batter ; dip each oyster and bacon into the batter—covering completely— and drop one by one into boiling fat or clarified butter. Fry a golden colour, drain and dish up ; fry some washed and picked parsley and garnish the dish with this. 587. Cromeskies aux Hultres.—H doz. 'sauce oysters, 8 yolks of eggs, 2 dessertspoonfuls creme de riz, 1 oz. butter, 12 thin slices of bacon, 1 tablespoonful of cream, | lemon, white pepper, salt, and mace ; frying-batter. Lard or dripping for frying parsley. Blanch and beard the oysters, preserve the liquor. Mince them coarsely, put the butter in a stewpan, when melted add the oysters, season with a little pepper, salt, and a pinch of ground mace ; stir in the creme de riz (ground rice) ; add the liquor of the oysters, the cream, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley; when hot, stir in the yolks of the eggs, let them bind, and put the mixture on a plate, or dish to cool. Divide into twelve equal portions, shape into little rolls, wrap each in a piece of thinly cut bacon, dip in batter, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. 588. Hultres a la Dubarry.— 6 to 8 Dutch potatoes of even size, 18 to 24 small oysters, 2 tablespoonfuls supreme sauce (No. 210), 1 tablespoonful double cream, \ gill Chablis, salt and pepper, 1 oz. fresh butter, 1 yolk of egg. Wash and dry the potatoes, cut off a small portion at each end and place them in a well buttered saute-pan, bake in a hot oven till quite done. Remove a portion of the inside of each potato and rub this through a sieve whilst hot; mix with half an ounce of butter, one yolk of egg, and a little seasoning. Beard the oysters, put them in a stewpan with the liquor and the wine, cover and let them get thoroughly hot without actually boiling, then take up and drain off the liquid, add the supreme sauce, and cream, season to taste and mix care- fully. Place the potatoes in a row on a buttered metal-plated dish, put four oysters and a little sauce in each. Put the prepared potato puree in a forcing-bag, force out a neat border round each potato, cover the top of each with the sauce mixture, and in so doing endeavour to make a neat garnish. Brush over with a little beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven for a few minutes. Serve the dish as soon as it leaves the oven. 589. Huitres a la Salamandre.— Open a dozen large Colchester or Whitstable oysters, take the oysters from the shells and put them in a fire-proof saucepan with their liquor and a few drops of lemon-juice and let them get hot, but not boiling; Remove from the fire and let them get cold, then drain them on a cloth, and remove the beards. Wash the upper shell of each oyster, let dry,, and place them in a baking-tin. Put a teaspoonful of supreme (No. 210)242 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK or bechamel (No. 203) sauce in each shell, place the oyster upon this, cover with more sauce, season with a tiny pinch of cayenne or Nepaul pepper. Sprinkle over with bread-crumbs, grated Parmesan cheese and a little oiled butter. Hold the tin under a hot salamander for a few minutes to take colour, or failing this put the tin in a very sharp oven for a few seconds, dish up and send to the table immediately. 590. Fricassee (VHaltres.—2 doz. large oysters, 2£ oz. butter, J oz. flour, 1 gill of white stock, £ gill cream, 3 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, salt, nutmeg, white pepper, 10 small heart-shaped slices of fried bread. Open the oysters, preserve the liquor, remove the beards; put the oysters into a stewpan, one ounce of butter, and a little oyster liquor. Season with a pinch of salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a pinch of pepper. Stir over the fire for two minutes and strain. Melt the remainder of the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, and cook a little without browning; dilute with the gravy from the oysters, the remainder of the oyster liquor and the stock, stir until it boils, and simmer for about ten minutes. Then add the cream, yolks of eggs, and lemon- juice ; stir over the fire a few seconds longer, so as to bind the yolks. Pour the sauce through a fine strainer or tammy cloth, pour it in a saute-pan with the oysters, heat thoroughly, but on no account allow it to boil. Dish up on a hot dish, garnish with croutes of fried bread and a few sprigs of parsley. 591. Quenelles aux Huitres (Oyster Quenelles).—18 large oysters, \ gill bechamel sauce (No. 203), k lb. raw chicken or veal, 2^ oz. butter, 4 oz. panade, yolks of 3 eggs, f gill cream, J lemon, meat glaze, salt, pepper, cayenne, aromatic seasoning, mashed potatoes for border. Free the meat from skin and sinews, pound in a mortar till smooth, add two yolks of eggs, two ounces of butter, and the panade, season with salt, pepper, and half a teaspoonful of aromatic seasoning ; work in about two tablespoonfuls of cream to produce a nice quenelle mixture, and rub through a fine sieve ; blanch and beard the oysters (preserve the liquor), butter eight small quenelle moulds, line well with the quenelle mixture, place an oyster in the centre of each, and fill up with the same ; put them in a saute-pan with a little boiling water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. >Shape a dozen small quenelles (like round balls), poach them in a little stock, put them with the remainder of the oysters (previously cut in dice) in a small stewpan, add half an ounce of butter and toss over the fire for a few minutes ; moisten with the bechamel sauce and the. oyster liquor previously reduced, mix a little cream with a yolk of egg and add to the ragout, season with a few drops of lemon-juice, a pinch of salt, and a dust of cayenne pepper; have ready a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, unmould the quenelles, arrange them neatly on the border, put the little quenelles and oysters above mentioned in the centre, coat overDRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 243 -with the sauce, sprinkle with a few drops of liquid meat glaze, and serve hot. It is best to boil up the bechamel sauce and oyster liquor together, adding the egg-yolk and cream, and then strain over the •oysters and quenelles; when once added the ragout must not be allowed to boil again, else it will curdle. 592. Quenelles frites aux Huitres (Fried Oyster Quen- elles).—Blanch and beard 12 to 18 large sauce oysters, drain them and mask each with a layer of chicken forcemeat (Farce de Volaille, No. 403). The farce must cover the oysters on both sides. Egg and •crumb them twice and fry in hot fat a golden colour, drain, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a boat of piquante or white- wine sauce. 593. Petits Pates aux Huitres.—1 lb. of puff-paste, 2 doz. oysters, £ gill cream, 3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. butter, % teaspoonful lemon- juice, 1 oz. flour, parsley, salt, pepper, fish broth. Prepare the puff or feuilletage paste in the usual way, roll out about a quarter of an inch thick, put it on the ice for five minutes. Stamp out with a 3-inch fancy pastry-cutter eight or nine rounds, turn over, and place them on a baking-sheet, brush the surface with beaten egg, trace an incision with a smaller round cutter, previously dipped in hot water. Bake in hot oven for about twenty minutes, take out the soft part of the inside, save the lids, and keep the patties warm until required. Put the oysters, with their liquor, into a sauce- pan, let them come to the boil, drain them, remove beards, and cut each oyster in two (save the liquor). Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, and cook a little; dilute with the oyster liquor, and sufficient fish stock to form a sauce; let it boil for about ten minutes, add the yolks of eggs and the cream, stir well, but do. not let it boil again; season to taste with pepper and salt, add the lemon-juice, and pass through a fine sieve or tammy. Put the oysters with the sauce, and stir over the fire until the former are thoroughly warm; fill the puff-paste cases, put on the covers, and dish up on a hot dish, with a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve. 594. Petites Poachers a la Suedoise.—Have ready some puff-paste, roll out about one-eighth of an inch thick; stamp out some rounds to line ten to twelve small patty-pans, trim the edges and fill them with dried peas or rice; bake in a hot oven a bright yellow, allow them to cool a little, take out the peas, but do not take the paste crust out of the patty-pans. Prepare a ragout of sweetbread, lobster, crayfish tails, and broiled bacon, all being cut in dice, in equal proportions and in quantity as may be required to fill the patties ; these are placed in a stewpan and warmed up with two spoonfuls of veloutee or bechamel sauce (No. 203) ; when sufficiently mixed fill up the patties, strew over the surface of each some grated Parmesan cheese and a few crumbs made from fresh bread ; put a few small bits of lobster butter on the top of each, put them in a very R 2THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 244 hot oven, long enough to brown ; take them out of the pans, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve. 594 a. Vol-au-Vent d la Chambord.—Z lb. puff-paste, 6 crayfish tails, 2 truffles, 6 mushrooms, 18 small fish quenelles, and 12 bearded oysters, f of a pint of Genoise sauce (No. 246). Make the puff-paste in the usual way, give it six turns, roll out three-quarters of an inch thick, cut it into the desired size of the vol-au- vent (round or oval), turn the paste over on to a baking-sheet, brush the top over with beaten egg, make a circular incision (to form the lid) about a quarter of an inch deep; this is best done with a large round cutter or a sharp-pointed knife. Put the paste in a hot oven. When sufficiently baked remove the lid, scoop out the soft part of the inside, brush the inside of the crust with egg, and put back into the oven for a few minutes. Prepare the garniture, and warm it up in the sauce ; let it cook slowly for five minutes. Put the vol-au-vent crust on a deep dish, fill with the garniture, cover with the lid, garnish with crisp parsley, and serve hot. 595. llomard d 1’A.mericaine.—1 lobster, 2 shallots, 1 oz. butter, 1 gill white wine (Ghablis), 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), and cayenne pepper. Remove the tail from the lobster and cut it into scallops, place them in a circle on a silver dish, or fire-proof china dish. Fry the shallots (previously chopped) in the butter, add the remainder of the lobster meat, moisten with wfine, boil up, and add the two sauces. Take out the meat, and dish up ; reduce the sauce, season with cayenne pepper and a few drops of lemon-juice, pour over the dish, garnish with sippets of toasted bread, and serve. 596. Cotelettes de llomard.—1 cooked large lobster, 1 oz. butter, 2 shallots, peeled and chopped finely, 1 gill well reduced bechamel sauce (No. 203), 4 chopped preserved mushrooms, 1 egg, and 1 yolk of egg, salt, pepper, cayenne, bread-crumbs and frying-fat. Split the lobster in half, take out all the meat and chop finely. Put the butter in a small stewpan, add the shallots and fry them a golden colour, put in the lobster meat, stir well for a few minutes, then add the sauce ;■ when thoroughly hot put in one yolk of egg, and cook for another minute or two, remove the pan from the fire, season the contents with salt and pepper and a pinch of cayenne, and turn on to a buttered dish to cool. Strew some bread-crumbs on a pasteboard, divide the lobster mixture into pieces about the size of a small egg, and give each the shape of a cutlet. Beat up the egg, dip each cutlet into this, cover well with bread-crumbs, shape again, smoothing each cutlet over with the blade of a knife. Place them in a frying-basket, and fry a light- brown colour in plenty of hot fat or lard. Drain on paper or a cloth, insert a small piece of a lobster leg into the small end of each cutlet, dish up in a circle on a folded napkin or lace paper on a hot dish, put a little fried parsley in the centre thereof, and send to table with a boat of hot tomato sauce.DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 245 Lobster croquettes are made in the same manner, but shaped into corks or balls, and should be somewhat smaller than cutlets. 597. Howard farci au Gratin.—Procure a good-sized boiled lobster and cut it in two (lengthwise). Remove the meat and scrape the shells clean. Reserve the spawn, if there is any, to make a sauce (au beurre d’ecrevisse). Break also the claws, &c., and remove the meat. Cut the nicest pieces into neat slices, and mince the rest rather finely. Have two or three chopped shallots, fry them a golden colour in 1^ oz. butter ; add the lobster meat, also a good tablespoonful of bechamel sauce (No. 203), and one of cream; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; add also one dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, two sprigs of chopped tarragon, and the juice of half a lemon. Stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, then add a well-beaten egg, and stir long enough until the eggs begin to bind. Fill up the shells, sprinkle with fried bread-crumbs, put a few drops of melted butter over the surface, and bake for ten minutes in a moderate oven. Dish up, place a hand- ful of fried parsley in the centre, stick a few lobster sprays here and there, and serve with a small boat of sauce Danoise (No. 213), or any other similar sauce. 598. Coguilles de Howard d la Gauloise.—1 hen lobster (boiled), 1 whiting, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz.panade, 2 whole eggs and 1 yolk, 1 teaspoonful anchovy paste, 1 truffle, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and cayenne. Cardinal sauce (No. 218). Break the lobster shell, remove the meat, reserve coral and spawn, cut the tail into neat scallops; pound the coral and spawn with a little butter, and put in a stewpan with the scallops, let it get thoroughly hot, and put on one side. Skin and bone the whiting, put the fillets with the remainder of the lobster meat in a mortar, and pound till smooth ; add the panade, remainder of the butter, and eggs one by one, and the anchovy paste. Season with a pinch of salt, half a pinch each of cayenne pepper and nutmeg, mix thoroughly, and rub through a fine sieve. Butter some small coquille moulds, decorate them with thin strips of truffle, line the moulds with some of the forcemeat, place a nice scallop of lobster in the centre of each, and fill up with lobster forcemeat. Cook in a saute-pan half filled with water for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn out on a hot dish, sauce round with hot cardinal sauce, and serve. Note.—The lobster butter in which the scallops were cooked should b6 utilised for the sauce. 599. Filets de Sole a la Salisbury.—Choose two or three very small lobsters, open them half-way, remove the tails and claws, and clean the interior of the body well. Prepare a light force- meat with the meat obtained from the claws and tails, put a little of the farce at the bottom of each carcase, on top of which place two neatly trimmed and folded fillets of sole. Season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon-juice, cover each completely with the remaining farce de246 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK homard. Eange them in a saute-pan, add sufficient white stock, and steam in the oven for about twenty minutes. Have ready a mixture of rice cooked in stock, and half its quantity of mashed potatoes, season to taste, and form a border. Dress the coquilles on to the border. Garnish with a few heads of button mushrooms. Put a tablespoonful of well ^educed bechamel or veloutee sauce (No. 206) in each coquille, and serve. 600. Souffle de Homard, Sauce Aurora.—Two lien lob- sters, 6 eggs, i pint well-reduced bechamel sauce (No. 203), pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Split the lobster, remove the flesh from the shell, and pound in the mortar until very fine. Add the sauce (hot) by degrees, also the yolks of eggs, and the seasoning. Rub all through a sieve and put in a basin, beat up the whites to a stiff froth, mix all lightly together,, put it m a well-buttered mould or some ten or twelve small timbale moulds, steam for an hour and a quarter. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with Aurora sauce (No. 212 a). 601. bale d la bourgeoisie.—Z lb. skate, bouquet garni (No. 2), 1£ oz. butter, 1 og. flour, 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice, 1 oniony | pint stock, 1 glass white wine, pepper, and salt. Wash the skate and cut in pieces; take fins and skin, and put into a pan with the stock or water, bring to the boil, and skim ; add the onion sliced and bouquet, simmer half an hour, and strain. Heat butter, stir the flour in it, and let brown ; add stock, lemon-juice, the wine, and pieces of skate; season to taste, simmer about a quarter of an hour, or until skate is cooked. Dish up, reduce sauce and strain over. Garnish with a few croutons of bread, glazed over with extract of meat, and serve hot. 602. bale au beurre JNoir. - Wash, trim, and boil the fish in salted water sufficient to cover, adding a sliced carrot and half an onion, if liked. When done, take up, drain well, and dish up. Heat 1£ oz. butter, when of a nut-brown colour take off the stove, add a teaspoonful of vinegar or lemon-juice, pour quickly over the skate, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve very hot. Note.—Fish stock and sauces of any kind may be greatly improved by the addition of a small quantity of meat glaze or some Lemco. Half a teaspoonful is the proportion used for every half- pint of sauce or weak stock. 603. Croquettes de boisson (Fish Croquettes).—f lb. cold fish, freed from skin and bones,'a gill of well reduced bechamel sauce (No 203), 1 dessertspoonful anchovy essence, 1 yolk of egg, and 1 whole egg, salt, and pepper, panurette or bread-crumbs, parsleyy frying-fat. Shred the fish as finely as possible, or mince very small, heat up the sauce, add the anchovy essence, season to taste, and stir in the- minced fish. When thoroughly hot stir in one yolk of egg, let it. bind, and turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. Make up into even-247 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) sized cutlet shapes, insert a small piece of macaroni at each end of the cutlets, dip in beaten egg, crumb well, either with panurette or ordinary bread-crumbs. Fry in deep fat a golden colour, drain well, dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 604. Court-Bouillon.—Strictly speaking this term applies to fish, &c., cooked ‘ au bleu ’ (cooked in water, vinegar, wine, herbs, &c). There is, however, a dish, a kind of mixed stew, which is known under this name for which no corresponding term in English has ever been adapted. The recipe is as follows : 1 lb. of fisli {skinned and boned—cod, salmon, turbot, or any other suitable fish), 2 small onions, 1 oz. butter, 1 small table- spoonful flour, 1 gill claret, ^ gill vinegar, f pint stock, 2 or 3 ripe tomatoes, salt, and pepper. Peel and slice the onions, fry them in a stewpan with the butter, a light colour, add the flour, fry a little, moisten with the stock, vinegar and wine, stir, boil up and skim; put in the fish and tomatoes, arrange them in alternate layers, both being cut into slices, simmer for about half an hour, season to taste, dish up, and serve. 605. JPdte de Boissond VAmericaine {American Fish Pie). \ lb. cooked turbot, cod or haddock, f lb. mashed potatoes, 2 oz. butter, £ pint white sauce, 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 yolks and 1 whole egg, pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Break up the fish into flakes, removing the skin and bones, put it in a stewpan with \ oz. butter, stir a little over the fire, and add half the sauce and half the cheese, season to taste and heat up. Heat the potato puree with an ounce of butter, stir well, season to taste, and bind with two egg-yolks. Line a well-buttered pie-dish with a layer of the prepared potatoes, about half an inch thick, put in a layer of sauce and the prepared fish, cover with another layer of sauce, and lastly cover all with more potato puree. Smooth the surface, brush over with beaten egg, sprinkle with grated cheese and a pinch of cayenne if liked. Mark the fop prettily with the point of a knife, place the dish in a pan containing a little water, and bake thus in a quick oven for twenty minutes until the pie is thoroughly hot, and the top of a nice rich brown colour. 606. Bate de Boisson d la Marinieve.—1 sole, 1 eel, 1 glass claret, 1 onion {sliced), 12 button onions, % cloves, 1 clove of garlic, ^ oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful anchovy essence, 6 mushrooms, 6 prawns or 12 shrimps {picked), pepper and salt, i lemon for crust, 12 oz. flour, 6 oz. lard, 2 yolks of egg. Prepare a pate-crust as follows: Bub the flour and lard together until quite smooth, add one yolk of egg and a little cold water and knead into a stiff paste, keep on the ice for an hour, then knead again, roll out about half an inch thick and line the inside of a well-buttered raised pie-mould (placed on a greased baking tin), press the paste firmly against the sides, and line with buttered paper. Trim theTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 248 edges, fill up with rice or dried peas, lay a piece of buttered paper oh top, wet the edges of the paste and cover with same. Trim the edges, ornament it neatly with a pastry-pincher or otherwise, brush the top with yolk of egg, and decorate according to fancy, with fanciful cuts of paste, leaf-shapes, stars, crescents, &c., brush over with egg, and bake in a slow oven for about an hour. Cut round the inside of the edge and lift up the cover, remove the rice or peas and paper and brush the inside with egg, take off the mould and keep the crust in a warm place until wanted. Skin the sole and eel, remove the fillets from the sole and shape them in a twist, bone the eel, and cut it into pieces; put the fish in a stewpan with the wine, one gill water, the sliced onion, cloves and garlic, season to taste, cover and cook slowly for fifteen minutes. Lift out the fish, and keep hot. Brown the flour in an ounce of butter, moisten with the liquor of the fish, and a little fish stock. Stir and boil gently for twenty minutes. Strain, add the anchovy essence, a little lemon-juice, heads of mushrooms, the tails of prawns or shrimps, and the button onions fried in butter and finished in the oven till tender, let the whole get thoroughly heated, then put in the fish. Heat again, range the whole neatly in the pie-crust, put on the cover, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER PISH ENTREES, &c. 607. AngwiMe d la Tartare (Fried Eel, with Tartare Sauce).—Parboiled eel, cut in pieces, drained, dipped in batter, fried, dished up en couronne with Tartare sauce in centre. 608. Filets de Brochet pique a la < olbert (Fillets of Pike, Colbert Style).—Filleted pike, larded, stea/med in the oven, with white wine sauce (No. 216). 609. Filets de Brochet d la Lyon naise (Fillets of Pike, Lyonese Style).—Fillets of pike stewed in white wine sauce, and garnished with small marble-shaped potatoes cooked in fish stock. 610. Brochet d la Co stela hie [Pike, Castelaine Style).—Pike stuffed with sliced truffles, tongue, and bacon all finely minced, braised, served with white sauce and a garniture of lobster meat, truffles, and oysters. 611. Brochet d I’Ancienne {Pike, Ancient Style).—Stewed pike, served with white sauce, garnished with truffles, gherkins, mushrooms, and capers. 612. Brochet d la Bemoulade {Pike, Bemoulade Style).— Boiled pike served cold with a thick tartare and mustard sauce. 613. Brochet farci et qratine.—Stuffed pike, baked in gratin style. 614. Brochet d la Favour {Pike, Cavour Style).—Grilled pike garnished with nouilles, grated horseradish, and cubes of carrots, served with rich veloutee sauce (No. 206).DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) 249 615. Cabillaud d la Dieppoise {Fried Cod, Dieppe Style).— Slices of cod, dipped in milk and flour, fried, drained, garnished with parsley and served with white matelote sauce. 616. Cabillaud a la JPortugaise {Cod, Portuguese Style).— Slices of cod fried, served with a sauce composed of tomato sauce, essence of anchovy, and mussels. 617. Cabillaud grille d la Colbert {Grilled Cod, Colbert Style).—Slices of cod dipped in dissolved butter and well floured, grilled, and served with maitre d’hotel butter. 618. Carrelletfrit. Sauce JPersil.—Fillets of flounder egged, crumbed, and fried in fat, seasoned with parsley sauce. 619. Esturgeon d VAnchois.—Boiled sturgeon with anchovy sauce. 620. Esturgeon ala Cardinal {Sturgeon, Cardinal Style).— Boiled sturgeon garnished with quenelles of whiting and crayfish, and served with cardinal sauce. 620 a. JPapillotes d’Esturgeon.—Stewed sturgeon fillets served in paper cases. 621. Earned’ Esturgeon ala Milanaise {Sturgeon Steak, Milanese Style).—Middle piece or steak of sturgeon braised, garnished with eel-pout livers and crayfish tails. 622. Homard d la Bechamel {Baked Lobster, Bechamel Style).—Shells of lobster stuffed with a mixture of minced lobster meat, bechamel sauce, and seasoning, and baked. 623. Homard d la Suedoise {Lobster, Swedish Fashion)..— Border of lobster meat and forcemeat, poached in a fancy border mould and sauced over with anchovy sauce. 624. Homard d la Gloucester {Lobster, Gloucester Style).— Stewed lobster, the meat only being dished up, and served with a sauce composed of lobster butter, egg-yolks, and meat extract. 625. Filets de Maquereau d I’lndienne {Fillets of Mackerel, Indian Style).—Braised fillets of mackerel, served with a curry sauce diluted with a little white wine. 626. Filets de Maquereau au Vin Blanc.— Broiled mackerel, or grilled, served with white wine sauce (No. 216). 626 a. Filet de Maquerea u au Gratin.—Baked fillets of mackerel, gratin style. 627. Maquereau a la Boulonnaise {Mackerel, Boulognese Style).—Boiled mackerel, garnished with mussels and oysters, served with white fish sauce. 628. Filets de Merlans d la Maitre d’Hotcl {Fillets of Whiting, Hotel-keeper's Style).—Broiled fillets of whiting done in parsley butter. 629. Filets de Merlans d la Comtesse {Fillets of Whiting, Countess Style).— Baked fillets of whiting, dressed in paper cases and served with a garnish of crayfish tails and small liver forcemeat balls.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 250 630. Filets de Merlans frits ci la Toniate.—Fried fillets of whiting and tomato sauce. 631. Merlan frit a la Francaise (Fried Whiting, French Style).—The fish is wiped, and scored along the sides, bones, removed, but not skinned, dipped in milk, well floured, and fried in fat until crisp, served with anchovy or shrimp sauce. 632. Filets de Merlans d l’Orly (Fillets of Whiting, Orly Style).—Filleted whiting, seasoned, dipped in white of egg and flour, fried crisp, and served with tomato sauce. 633. Merlan d l’Italienne (Whiting, Italian Style).— Steamed whiting with brown mushroom sauce. 634. Monies d la Californie (Mussels, California Style).— Stewed mussels with slightly fried sliced tomatoes, finely chopped cooked onions, parsley, and veloutee sauce. 635. Rougets en Fapillotes (Bed Mullets in Papers).—The fish after being prepared for cooking are wrapped up separately in oiled paper, the ends being twisted, they are then broiled, dished up, ' and served with a brown sauce, ‘ aux fines herbes.’ 636. Saumon d Id Goda rd (Salmon, Godard Style).—Braised salmon with a collection of stewed vegetables, dressed round the dish, served with sauce Genoise (No. 246). 637- Saumon d la Victoria (Salmon, Victoria Style).— Grilled salmon, garnished with stewed oysters and crayfish quenelles, and served with Madeira sauce. . 638. Saumon d la Fiemontaise (Salmon, Piedmontese Style).—Fried fillets of salmon, garnished with timbale-shaped rice croustades, and served with tomato sauce. 639. Escalopes de Saumon d la Nantaise.—Slices of salmon, cut from the tail-piece, seasoned and broiled in butter, dished up alternately with thin collops of lobster, garnished with stewed oysters and lobster sauce. 640. Fame de Saumon d VAmiral.—Boiled middle-cut of salmon skinned, dished up, sauced over with a lightly-buttered brown fish sauce, and garnished with fried oysters and lobster collops. 641. Faupiettes de Saumon aux Huitres (Paupiettes of Salmon with Oysters).—Boiled fillets of salmon stuffed with a salpicon of oysters, braised and served with a rich brown sauce. 642. Faupiettes de Saumon a la Regence (Salmon Paupiettes, Regent Style).—Rolled fillet of salmon, stuffed and braised. Served with Perigueux sauce (No. 243). 643. Saumon en Tranches d la Meuniere (Slices of Salmon, Meuniere Style).- Braised slices of salmon breaded and served with a rich brown sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs. 644. Grenadins de Saumon d la Venitienne.—Larded fillets of salmon, seasoned and braised, dressed in a circle alternately with heart-shaped fried bread croutons, sauced over with a well- buttered sauce Venitienne (No. 220).251 DRESSED FISH .AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 645. Sure cle Saumon d la Cambaceres.—Braised head- piece of salmon, garnished with small truffles, mushrooms, and stoned olives, sauced over with a rich brown Genoise (No. 246), seasoned with cayenne and lemon-juice. 646. Sure de Saumon d la Frovenqale.—Braised head- piece of salmon, garnished with stoned parboiled olives, served with a brown fish sauce, flavoured with chopped shallots, parsley, soupgon of garlic, and lemon-juice. 647. Escalopes de Soles a la Vernon.— Fillets of soles, folded and braised with a little rich stock, wine, &c., dressed on a border of savoury rice, centre of dish filled with a ragout of oysters and mussels. Sauce Supreme (No. 210). 648. Filets de Soles d la Neurille.—Fillets of soles, folded, seasoned, and cooked in a saute-pan with a dash of white wine, mushroom liquor, and lemon-juice, dressed in gratin style with white sauce, mushrooms and oysters, sprinkled with bread-crumbs and cheese, and browned in oven before serving. 649. Filets de Soles a la Sauphine.—Fillets of soles, spread over with whiting or other fish farce mixed with finely chopped mushrooms, parsley and shallots, folded, and braised in the oven. When cold, trimmed, egged, crumbed and fried in clarified butter. Small lobster claws are inserted at the end of each fillet, served with lobster sauce. 650. Sdtelets de Sole d la Villeroi.—Fillets of soles, spread with forcemeat and rolled up, fastened on silver skewers, egged and crumbed, and baked with plenty of butter in hot oven. Served with a rich tomato sauce (No. 272). COLD SERVICE FISH ENTREES AND SECOND COURSE DISHES. 651. Cdtelettes de Somard d l’Aspic.—1 small hen lobster, 1 ripe tomato, 2 anchovies, 2 oz. picked shrimps, 1 oz. butter, about 1 pint aspic jelly (No. 293), seasoning. Line ten*cutlet moulds with aspic jelly. Split the lobster, remove the meat, and cut into slices about one-eighth of an inch thick. Cut the tomato in slices, remove skin and pips. Set a slice of lobster and tomato in each mould. Wash and bone the anchovy, pound in a mortar with the butter and shrimps, moisten with sufficient aspic to make the mixture set, and rub through a fine sieve. Season to taste. Fill up the moulds with this; finish with a thin layer of aspic. When set turn out. Dish up neatly on a round dish, fill the centre with the remainder of lobster meat and tomato cut into dice. Garnish with chopped aspic and parsley. Keep in a cool place till required for table. 652. Mayonnaise de Somard—1 large lobster, 4 filleted Gorgona anchovies, 1 hard-boiled egg, 6 stoned olives, 4 pickled252 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK French gherkins, a small handful of capers, one large or two small lettuces, a fete slices of pickled beetroot, mayonnaise (No. 277). Cut the lobster lengthways, take out all the meat; if there is any coral chop it fine and reserve to ornament the surface ; break the claws, take out the meat intact if possible, as it will come in for ornamenting the dish. Cut the remainder of the meat into neat pieces. Wash and trim the lettuce, tear the good leaves into convenient pieces. Put the cut lobster meat and salad into a basin, add sufficient mayonnaise sauce to season, mingle gently, and place in a heap in the centre of a round dish ; shape it in the form of a dome, mask it with very stiff mayonnaise sauce, surround it with the pieces of claws, alternately with quarters of hard-boiled egg, garnish systematically according to taste and fancy with long strips of fillets of anchovy, capers, fancifully-cut pieces of beetroot, chopped coral, stoned olives, slices of gherkins. Keep on the ice until required, and serve as cool as possible. 653. (Petites Dormes de Honmrd a la Creme.—£ hen lobster (small), 1 gill aspic jelly, 1 gill cream, 1 gill tomato pulp, 1 tablespoonful mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), 2 sheets French gelatine, salt, pepper, a few sprigs of tarragon and red chillies for garnish. For pastry 2 oz. flour, H oz. butter, 2 oz. grated cheese (Parmesan or Gruyere), egg, cayenne. Line some very small square fluted patty or tartlet moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly, and deedrate tastefully with tarragon-leaves and thin strips of chilli pods. Cut the meat of the lobster into very small pieces, dissolve the gelatine in the tomato pulp, then strain and add to it the remainder of aspic jelly, whip the cream till stiff and mingle with the above. Add to this the mayonnaise sauce and the lobster, season to taste with salt and pepper. Fill the little moulds with this mixture and place them on the ice to set. Meanwhile prepare a fairly stiff paste with the flour, grated cheese, butter and egg, rub the butter into the flour, then add the cheese and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Moisten with half an egg well beaten up, and mix into a paste; roll out to about one-eighth of an inch thick, cut out some squares a trifle larger than the moulds, place the squares of paste on to a greased baking-tin, prick the bottom of the paste with a fork, and bake in a very moderate oven for about ten minutes. Take up, and when cool turn out the moulds, and place each cream on to one of the paste crusts. Dish up on a dish lined with lace paper, and serve. 654. J5ordure de TTomard d I’Indienne.—1 hen lobster, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 6 boned anchovies, \ lemon, 1 tablespoonful Madeira, 1 dessertspoonful chutney, 1 pint aspic, 1 small truffle, 2 oz. best Patua rice, \ pint cream, salt, pepper, paprika. Wash the rice, blanch it, then drain and cook in boiling water, slightly salted, till tender, strain off the water, drain the rice and let it cool. Split the lobster, remove the meat, cut it into small pieces253 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (COLD) aftid put it in a mortar with the anchovies ; pound until smooth, then add the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs, mix thoroughly. Now add the wine, chutney, a few drops of lemon-juice, and about half a pint of aspic; season to taste, mix well and rub through a sieve, stir till nearly cold, and mix in a little whipped cream. Fill with this mixture a border mould previously marked with aspic and tastefully decorated with truffle, white of egg, &c. Put the mould on the ice to set. To serve, immerse the mould in tepid water and turn out on a cold round dish. Mix the rice with the remainder of cream (whipped), season to taste, and dress in the centre of the border, pile up high, and decorate it with strips of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg, sprinkle over a little paprika pepper, and serve. 655. Mousse de Homard, frappee.—1 hen lobster, H gill double cream, 1 gill bechamel sauce (No. 203), 1 gill aspic jelly, 2 leaves French leaf gelatine, 1 gill tomato mayonnaise (No. 277), lobster coral, paprika pepper, and salt. Split the lobster, remove the meat from the shell, and chop it very finely. Stir it into the bechamel sauce, season to taste, heat up whilst stirring. Dissolve the gelatine in the aspic and stir into the above puree. Pour into a basin and let cool. Whisk the cream till stiff, mix it with the tomato mayonnaise, and work carefully into the mixture in the basin. Have ready a souffle dish-lining, fastened with a band of paper above the edge ; pour the prepared mixture, as it begins to set, carefully into it, and pack in a tin surrounded with crushed ice and freezing-salt. A properly charged souffle ice-cave or charged ice-box is strongly recommended to be used for this purpose. When slightly frozen (frappe), remove from the ice-cave, sprinkle the top with a combination of fine lobster coral and paprika, then remove paper band, stand the lining in its souffle dish, and send to table at once. In cold weather the two leaves of gelatine may be left out. 656. Escalopes de Eangouste d la Cardinal.—i crawfish or lobster, 6 to & prawns, 1 ounce panade, eggs, salt, pepper, and paprika; 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls bechamel sauce (No. 203), 6 to 8 small eggs, 2 to 3 slices of truffle, fresh bread-crumbs, frying-fat consisting of half dripping and half clarified blotter, Cardinal sauce (No. 218). Break the crawfish or lobster (reserve the spawn and coral, if any), remove the meat and mince small. Heat up in a stewpan with the panade a little butter and enough white sauce to moisten ; when thoroughly hot add two yolks of eggs, season to taste, and stir over the fire till the mixture binds. Spread on a dish or plate and set to cool. Shape six to eight oval croquettes with the ends pointed and the centre of each made hollow (one side only), egg and crumb them carefully, and fry a golden colour in hot fat. Take up, drain, and dish up in a row on a hot dish ; place a small trimmed poached egg in the centre of each croquette. Cover over very carefully with well- reduced Cardinal sauce ; insert a prawn at each end of the croquettes.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK '254 Place a star or half moon of truffle in the centre of each and serve hot. 657. Fleurettes de Turbot d la Hollandaise.—\ lb. cooked turbot, free f rom skin and bone, ^ pint stiff mayonnaise (No. 277), ^ pint aspic jelly (No. 293), 1 truffle, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley and herbs, 1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce, salt and pepper. Line some oval zephire or dariole moulds with aspic, decorate with strips of truffle to form the shape of a rosette. Mix the remainder of aspic with the mayonnaise, coat the moulds with a layer of this. Take the fish, season with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and a sprig of tarragon ; mix in anchovy sauce and two large tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise. Fill up three parts full the lined moulds with this, finish filling up with the remainder of mayonnaise. Put the moulds on the ice to set. Turn out, dress on a bed of salad or little blocks of aspic. Serve cold. 658. Timbale de Turbot d la Masse.—^ lb. cooked turbot or any other white fish, 8 to 10 prawns, 2 oz. cooked rice, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, 1 teaspoonful anchovy paste, 1 dessertspoonful chutney, a few drops of lemon-juice, 1 tablespoonful rich brown sauce, salt and pepper to taste, | pint aspic jelly, £ oz. gelatine. Free the fish from skin and bones and flake it very finely, mix the anchovy essence, paste, and chutney with the lemon-juice and a table- spoonful of rich brown sauce ; stir well and add a few drops of lemon- juice, a pinch of salt, and cayenne to flavour. Mix in three parts of the fish and half the rice; dissolve the gelatine and strain into the above. Whisk up the aspic until it becomes of a frothy appearance, quickly line or mask the inside of a plain savarin mould. Mix the remainder of whipped aspic with the prepared fish, rice, &c., and fill this into the lined mould as soon as the coating therein is sufficiently set. Place it on the ice for about an hour. Mix the remainder of rice and fish, season with salt and pepper, cayenne and white pepper. Turn out the mould on to a dish, put the rice and fish loosely in the centre, so as to give it a dome-shaped appearance. Trim the prawns and range them neatly round the top of the timbale. The base of the dish can be garnished with diamond-shaped pieces of aspic. 659. Dariole de Saumon d la Moseovienne.—About 1| lb. of cooked salmon, 18 oysters, 3 large truffles, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 oz. anchovy paste, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, | gill cream, about a pint of aspic jelly (No. 38), 6 filleted anchovies, a few slices of cucumber, a, pinch of cayenne, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Flake the salmon, line a medium-sized dariole mould with aspic jelly, ornament with a few slices of truffles, some nice flakes of salmon, and a few cooked and bearded oysters. Set the garnish well with a little aspic and put to cool. Pound the remainder of the fish in a mortar together with six cooked oysters, the hard-boiled egg, and the anchovy paste. Season with a pinch of cayenne pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Rub through a fine sieve, add the tarragonDRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (COLD) 255 vinegar, the cream, and about half a pint of aspic jelly, mix well, and fill the mould with this mixture; put the anchovy fillets, a few slices of truffles, and a few bearded oysters between the farce in filling. Should the mixture not quite fill the mould, fill up with aspic jelly, and put it on the ice until required. Immerse the mould in tepid water, turn out on a round dish, garnish round the sides with chopped ■ aspic and a few fancifully cut slices of cucumber. 660. Dame de Saumon a la JRavif/ote.—About 2| lb. middle cut of salmon, 1 onion, 1 carrot, a small bunch of parsley, 1 gill French wine vinegar, ravigote butter (No. 398), aspic jelly, (No. 88), 1 oz. fresh butter, 2 hard-boiled eggs, ^ pint cooked peas, 1 truffle, and some French gherkins for garnish, peppercorns, salt. Wipe the fish, salt it well, and put it in a fish-kettle with sufficient hot water to cover, add the vinegar, peppercorns, sliced onion and carrot, and parsley. . Bring it slowly to a boil, and keep at the boiling- point (not boiling) until tender. Let the fish remain in the water until cold, then strain carefully, place it on a cloth, remove the skin and put on a small board. Mask the surface with a layer, of ravigote butter, put it on the ice to set, then cover with a layer of half-set aspic jelly. Carefully place the fish on an oval dish, decorate the sides with ravigote butter and fresh butter ; this is best effected by means of a forcing-bag or paper cornet; ornament with green peas and fancifully cut slices of gherkins and truffles. If you have any lobster coral handy use it also in the garnish. Fill the centre of the salmon with a little green salad or a macedoine of cooked vegetables. Cut the eggs into quarters and garnish the sides with them, alternately with little heaps of green peas and chopped aspic jelly. Serve with a boat of Tartare sauce'(No. 278). 661. JPetits Souffles de Saumon d VIndienne.—| lb. cooked salmon, 1 teaspoonful of curry powder, \ teaspoonful curry paste, 2 oz. butter, 2 small tomatoes, 2 small onions, ^ pint fish stock, oz. anchovy paste, 1 dessertspoonful chutney, •§• teaspoonful aromatic seasoning, ^ oz. gelatine, \ gill cream, cochineal, 10 to 12 small souffle cases. Melt the butter in a small saute-pan, and fry in it the onions, previously peeled and sliced ; when the onions are slightly coloured, add the curry powder and cook for a few seconds, then add the sliced tomatoes, curry paste, anchovy paste, and seasoning. Moisten with the fish stock and let simmer for ten minutes. Now put in the fish, finely minced, and the chutney, dissolve the gelatine with a little water, add it to the mixture and rub through a fine sieve, put in a few drops of cochineal to give it a pinkish tint if desired. Whip up the cream and mix with the puree when cool. Fasten a paper band about an inch broad round each souffle case, fill up with the prepara- tion, and stand them in a tin on the ice until required ; then remove the paper bands, put some previously prepared anchovy butter in a paper cornet, ornament the tops to taste, dish up, garnish with freshTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 256 parsley, and serve. A few drops of lemon-juice is an improvement with this mixture, and wh^n desired stiffer, a little dissolved aspic jelly may be added before filling the cases. 662. Tranchettes de Saumon en Belle-Vue.—§ lb. cooked salmon, 1 gill plain aspic jelly for lining, tarragon and chervil leaves, \ pint mayonnaise, stiffened, f gill well-reduced aspic (No. 38), 1 large truffle. Line six to eight small oblong or square moulds (sandwich or Neptune shape) with dissolved aspic jelly, decorate with fancifully cut slices of truffle and leaves of tarragon and chervil; when set, coat with a layer of prepared mayonnaise. Flake the fish, season with mayonnaise, and add the remainder of truffles chopped coarsely. Fill up the mounds three parts full with the dressed salmon, finish filling with some mayonnaise and aspic. Let the moulds remain on the ice till wanted, then turn out, dish up, garnish with green salad, and serve. 663. Truite Saumonee d la Norvegienne.—A salmon trout, 1 oz. grated horseradish, 1 gill aspic, ^ gill cream, 1 gill mayonnaise (No. 277), cucumber, tarragon and chervil leaves, 1 small onion stuck with a clove, 1 small bouquet garni, a glass white wine, bechamel sauce (No. 203), border of cooked rice or puree of potatoes with peas, chillies, salt, peppercorns. Wash and clean the fish, half fill a fish-kettle with water, put in the wine, onion and bouquet garni, also a small handful of salt and about twelve peppercorns ; when warm, put in the fish on a tray, let it come to the boil and keep simmering very gently for about thirty minutes (on no account must the water boil). Let the fish cool in its liquid, take up gently in the tray and place on a dish on a bed of rice previously prepared, and carefully remove the skin. Mix half a gill of mayonnaise with the same quantity of aspic, stir on the ice until it begins to thicken, then mask the surface of the trout completely, garnish tastefully with tarragon and chervil leaves, cucumber rind and slices, also some fancifully cut pieces of chilli, coat over with a thin layer of half-set aspic, and set on the ice to cool. Garnish the sides with coarsely chopped aspic jelly and parsley, and serve with the following sauce :— Soak the horseradish in the cream for several hours, rub through a fine sieve, put it into a basin and stir in the remainder of mayon- naise sauce, also a tablespoonful of cold bechamel sauce, season with pepper and salt and a pinch of cayenne if liked. Pour into a sauce- boat and serve with the fish. Note.—If potato puree is used in place of rice for the border, mix the puree with an equal quantity of mashed green peas. As much as possible of the moisture in potatoes and peas must be extracted before the puree is shaped. 664. Truite Samnonee d la Rothschild en Chand- froid.—Procure 1 large,’ or 2 medium-sized salmon-trout, aboutDRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {COLD) 257 5 lb. in weight, wash well ; make an opening for filling ; prepare a stuffing with 4 oz. of fresh bread-crumbs, 1 tablespoonful of chopped onions, 3 yolks of eggs, ^ lb. of whiting forcemeat (No. 400), salt, pepper, 1 oz. of fresh butter, and a tablespoonful of coarsely chopped truffles ; fill the fish, sew up the opening, put in an oval braisoire or baking-dish well buttered, with a gill of stock and two glasses of white wine; cover with buttered paper, and cook gently in the oven, basting it from time to time. When done, dish up, and allow it to cool, then add a pint of Madere sauce to the remaining stock, reduce well, mix with a gill of stiff aspic jelly, and strain the sauce. Remove carefully the skin off the fish, mask over with the sauce when the latter is nearly set, ornament with truffle, aspic jelly, slices of cucumber and lemon and parsley. Serve remainder of sauce diluted with mayonnaise with the fish. 665. Filets de Truite d la Mayonnaise.— 1 large or 2 small trout, | pint mayonnaise {No. 277), f- pint aspic, a few French gherkins, frying-fat, or clarified butter. Trim and wipe the fish, brush over with milk, and dip in flour. Have ready some hot fat or clarified butter, and fry a golden colour. When cold place the soles on a gridiron for a few seconds, take off the crust and remove the fillets, cut them into neat pieces about an inch long. Line a border mould with aspic jelly, decorate the bottom with neatly-cut slices of gherkins, mix the mayonnaise sauce with sufficient aspic jelly to make it set; put a layer of this sauce in the mould, range in neatly the pieces of fillets, coating each piece in the liquid mayonnaise before setting ; fill up the mould with the batter, so as to well cover the fish, set on the ice to cool; when set immerse in tepid water, turn out on a dish, and garnish the centre with dressed salad. 666. Truite d la Malvoisie.—1 small trout, 1 cucumber, 1 gill ivliite icine, 1 bay-leaf, 4 carrot, ^ onion, salt, 1 gill aspic, 1 gill mayonnaise {No. 277), tarragon vinegar, parsley, ^ gill cream. Clean and wipe the fish, put it in a fish-kettle with enough water (warm) to cover, add the wine, bay-leaf, carrot and onion, also suffi- cient salt to season the water. Cook till the fish is tender, then take it up carefully and drain on a cloth. When cold, remove the skin and put the trout on a dish. By means of a vegetable-cutter, scoop out some small rounds of cucumber—the latter must be thinly peeled beforehand—put the little rounds on a plate, and season with a few drops of vinegar and chopped parsley. Mix half the mayonnaise sauce with half the given quantity of aspic, stir it on the ice until it begins to set, then mask the surface of the fish carefully with this. Chop some of the cucumber finely, enough to make a table- spoonful. Whisk the cream, and mix the latter with the chopped cucumber, the remainder of aspic and mayonnaise, put all in a sauce boat, and send to table with the fish. Surround the trout artistically with the rounds of cucumber. s"258 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK These may, if liked, be masked with a little aspic jelly. Garnish to taste, and serve. 667. Traites a la Nansen.—2 trout, weighing about 1 lb. each, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 lemon, ^ pint Chablis, 1 bouquet garni, 1 pint consomme, f oz. French leaf gelatine, the white and the shell of 2 eggs, 1 gill aspic, 1 pint tomato cream (No. 272), | pint cold horseradish sauce, half frozen (No. 288), 1 small cucumber, a handful Brunoise seasoning. Procure the trout not drawn, make a small incision at the back of each and draw carefully, wash and wipe the fish and put them in a deep saute-pan, or oblong kettle, add enough cold water to cover, the wine, carrot, and onion (sliced), the bouquet garni, and five or six slices of lemon, season to taste with salt, and bring slowly to the boil; move the pan on one side and let it stand for half an hour, then remove and let the fish get cold in the liquor or stock. Take up the trout and put them in a wire tray to drain, and carefully remove the skin. Boil up the stock, and strain, then add the consomme, the gelatine, whisk the whites of eggs and shells and stir into the stock. Continue to whisk until it boils, then move on one side and let simmer very gently for a few minutes. Pass through a jelly-bag or wetted cloth, till it comes out clear. Take an oblong plain mould (one large enough to take the two trout), mask the inside with aspic, decorate the edge with tiny dots of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg, and fill up with the prepared fish aspic. Fill eight to ten large olive moulds with the tomato cream, and put them on the ice to set. Cook the Brunoise (finely-cut dice of carrot, lettuce and turnip) in a good clear stock, strain and mix with aspic. Mask the fish with this just before it commences to set. To serve, unmould the aspic shape on to a cold dish,- place the trout on the top, garnish round the sides with small tomato shapes and thin slices of fancifully cut cucumber, and send to table with a boat of half- frozen horseradish sauce, and a boat of semi-set aspic mixed with Brunoise. 668. Coqallies de Filets de Soles d la Favorite.— 1 medium-sized sole, \ oz. butter, \ small lobster, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 small truffle, J pint aspic jelly, ^ lemon, | gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), 2 tablespoonfuls white sauce, salt, pepper, and cayenne to season, mushroom liquor or white wine. Skin the sole, remove the fillets, and bat out lightly each fillet with a wet chopping-knife or cutlet-bat. Remove the meat from the lobster and chop finely, put it in a stewpan with a little butter, season to taste, and stir over the fire for a few moments, then add enough sauce to moisten, spread the mixture on a plate, and let cool. Cut each fillet of sole in half crossways, season with pepper and salt, spread over with lobster mixture, and fold up. Place them on a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle over with a few drops of lemon-juice, and259 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (COLD) moisten with a little white wine or mushroom liquor, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Meanwhile mask some cockle-shell moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly, decorate each tastefully with stripes of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg, mix about half a pint of aspic liquid (i.e. not quite set) with the mayonnaise sauce, line the decorated moulds with this, then place the prepared fillets into the moulds, fill up with mayonnaise aspic, and put them on the ice to set. To serve, dip the moulds into warm water, and unmould quickly onto a dish, garnish with aspic jelly, and serve. 669. Filets de Sole en Aspic.—2 soles, 1 lobster, oz. blotter, 1 oz. flour, \ gill cream, i gill stock, chopped parsley, 2 truffles, 1 quart aspic jelly (No. 293), lemon-juice. Skin the soles and remove the fillets, chop the lobster meat until fine, melt the butter, stir in the flour ; when cooked add the lobster, moisten with cream and stock, season with salt, pepper, a pinch of cayenne, a few drops of lemon-juice, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley ; mix thoroughly, and put on a plate to cool. Spread one side of the fillets with this mixture, roll up each fillet, tie with string, place on a buttered baking-sheet, cover with buttered paper, bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Line a plain border mould with aspic jelly, decorate with fancifully cut slices of truffles, pour over another layer of aspic, set the fillets when cold, whole or cut in halves, fill up with aspic, and put on the ice to set. Serve with a nice salad in centre. 670. Chaud-froid de Filets de Sole d la Capucine.—1 large sole, % small lobster, 8 prawns, 1 truffle, % gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, f pint aspic (No. 293), a little white sauce, 1 gill cream, 2 sheets French gelatine, a few drops of liquid carmine, pepper and salt, 1 oz: butter, lemon. Remove all the meat from the lobster, chop finely, and pound in a mortar, add the anchovy essence and sufficient white sauce to form a smooth paste, season to taste. Fillet the sole, flatten the fillets, and spread the above farce on one side of each ; roll up or fold in two, place them on a well-buttered baking-sheet or saute-pan, season with a little pepper and salt and a little lemon-juice, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. When done take up and set aside to cool. Mask the inside of a border or large dariole mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly, decorate the sides artistically with picked prawns and fancifully cut slices of truffle, and a few leaves of tarragon and chervil. Stand the mould on the ice, dissolve the gelatine in the remainder of aspic, stir when cooling into the mayonnaise, add the cream and a few drops of carmine to give it a nice pink colour, season with a pinch of sugar, a little salt and pepper, and coat the inside of the mould. Cut the fillets into neat slices and set these into the mould with alternate layers of sauce. Add a little more aspic to the sauce if needed, and fill up the mould260 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK with this. Allow it to stand on the ice until quite firm. Immerse in tepid water, turn out on a round entree dish, and serve. If a border mould is used, a little dressed salad should be served in the centre. 671. Filets de Soles en Fers d Cheval.—1 large or 2 small soles, i pint picked shrimps, 1 teaspoonful anchovy paste, 1 tea- spoonful chopped parsley, \ pint bechamel sauce (No. 203), about a pint of aspic jelly (No. 293), lemon, 2 truffles, pepper and salt, 1 oz. of butter, \ gill ivliite wine, 8 horseshoe-shape moulds. Remove.the fillets from the soles, trim them nicely. Chop the shrimps finely, put them in a saucepan on the fire with i oz. butter ; when warm, add the anchovy paste and parsley; moisten with a few drops of bechamel sauce, put on a plate and let cool. Spread one side of the fillets with this mixture, roll up the fillets, shape them well and tie up with some cotton, place them in a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle over with a few drops of lemon-juice, and the wine, season with pepper and salt, cover with a buttered paper, and cook slowly in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Set them on a baking-sheet and let them get quite cold. Put the bechamel sauce with about a gill of aspic in the saute-pan containing the fish liquor, stir over the fire and reduce a little, and strain through a tammy. Trim the fillets neatly, and cut them in twos crossways. Mask the moulds with a coating of aspic jelly. Ornament the bottoms with small slices of truffles to represent the nails, Ac. Cover with a layer of the prepared chaud-froid sauce; when nearly set put in each mould half a fillet; cover well with chaud-froid sauce ; set this again, and fill up with more sauce, finish- ing with a thin coating of aspic. Put them on the ice till set. Turn out on a dish, place them in border shape, put a little salad in the centre and garnish with fancifully cut pieces of aspic and parsley. 672. Filets de Soles d la Mayonnaise (Mayonnaise of Fillets of Sole).—2 medium-sized soles, 1 oz. butter, \ lemon, mushroom liquor, | gill cream, 1 gill mayonnaise (No. 277), £ oz. leaf gelatine, 1 gill aspic., Skin the soles, remove the fillets, trim them and fold each neatly, place them in a well-buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with lemon-juice and mushroom liquor, add the remainder of the butter divided into small bits, cover with a buttered paper and cook in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Take up and put them on a sieve to cool. Soak the gelatine in water, dissolve over the fire, and strain into the aspic. Let this cool a little, then stir in the mayonnaise, whip the cream and add carefully with the above. Coat the inside of a plain border mould with the prepared sauce, when set put in the fillets of soles, pour in a little more of the sauce and place on the ice to set, then fill up with the remainder of the sauce. When firm turn out on a dish, and serve with a neatly dressed salad in the centre. 673. Turban de Filets de Sole ala Montpellier.—Line a border mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly (No. 387) ; when set decorate the sides with truffles and hard-boiled white of egg, then mask with a layer of ‘ Beurre Montpellier,’ prepared as follows :261 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (COLD) Pound in a mortar 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 peeled shallot, 1 dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful each of tarragon, chervil, and fennel leaves, 3 boned Gorgona anchovies, 1 oz. of fresh butter, and half a tablespoonful of spinach puree. When well pounded add a dessertspoonful of cream, season with pepper and salt, and rub through a fine wire sieve, dilute with about half a gill of aspic jelly, and mask the mould as directed. Pound half a pound of cooked whiting freed from bones, add an ounce of anchovy paste, half a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy or a tablespoonful of white sauce, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and a tablespoonful of cream ; when smooth rub through a fine sieve, mix with about half a pint of liquid aspic jelly, season with a dust of cayenne pepper and salt. Take the fillets of a large sole, cut each in two, flatten a little with a cutlet-bat, fold in two, trim the sides, put them in a buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a glass of white wine, and cook in a slow oven until tender. When done take them out and put to cool. Line the mould again ■with the whiting puree, set the fillets of sole, after being well drained, in a row in the border, fill up with the remainder of the whiting puree, and put on the ice to set. Immerse the mould in tepid water, turn out on a round entree dish, place a suitable Avax or ‘ suif ’ figure in the centre, surround with a bed of salad, lettuce, endive, cucumber, &c. 674. Filets de Soles ala Feg ence.—2 small soles, 1 small loliiting, 3 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 1 anchovy, filleted, 1 oz. marinated tunny fish (Thon marine), seasoning, i lemon, i oz. butter, J gill cream, 1^ gill aspic cream (No. 296), aspic jelly and salad for garnishing. Skin the soles, remove the fillets, and flatten each a little, and trim the edges; put the bones in a stewpan, add white stock or Avater, a small onion and a clove, and boil to produce fish stock. Skin and bone the Avhiting, pound in a mortar, add the hard-boiled egg-yolks, anchovy fillets, and the tunny fish. When quite smooth season to taste with salt, pepper, and a tiny pinch of cayenne, and rub through a fine sieve. Sprinkle the fillets of soles Avith lemon-juice, a little salt, and a little paprika pepper ; spread one side of each fillet with the prepared forcemeat, roll them up, wrap each in a small piece of buttered foolscap paper, put them in a buttered sauts-pan with enough fish-stock to half cover them, and cook slowly in the oven for about twenty minutes. When done, take them up, let cool, and remove the paper bands. Coat each of the prepared fillets Avith a layer of aspic cream; when one layer is set repeat the operation so as to thoroughly mask them. Dish up the fillets in the form of a border. Whisk the cream, season it with a little pepper and salt, put it in a forcing-bag with a small rose pipe, and decorate the centre of each fillet Avith this. Garnish round the fillets with chopped aspic jelly, and fill the centre of the dish with some nice green salad. 675. Filets de Soles en Zephires.—1 large sole, \ small lobster, \ teaspoonful anchovy paste, ^ teaspoonf ul chopped parsley,THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 262 1 oz. butter, \\ gill bechamel sauce, ^ lemon, | pint aspic jelly, i gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), 1 large truffle, seasoning. Skin the sole, remove the fillets, flatten them carefully with a wetted cutlet-bat, and pare them neatly into six even-sized pieces as near as possible the shape of oval zephires (the shape of the moulds used). Eemove all the meat from the lobster shell, chop it finely and put in a stewpan with half an ounce of butter, the anchovy paste, a few drops of onion-juice, and the parsley. Cook for a few minutes, and moisten with a tablespoonful of sauce, season to taste, and spread on a plate to cool. Spread a layer of this mixture on each fillet, place them in a buttered saute-pan, moisten with two tablespoon- fuls of mushroom liquor, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. When done take up and let cool. Mask six small zephire moulds with a thin layer of aspic, decorate the bottom of each with some fancifully cut slices of truffle. Mix the remainder of bechamel sauce with the mayonnaise, stir in half' the aspic jelly, and strain; coat the moulds with this, place one of the prepared fillets in each mould, and fill up with another layer of the white sauce &c. Put the moulds on the ice till set. Unmould when required for table, dish up neatly on a cold dish, garnish with some kind of dressed salad and chopped aspic, and serve. 676. A lign Hies in Aspic (Eels in Savoury Jelly).—1 eel about 2 lb. in weight, gill vinegar, % lemon, 1 small bunch herbs (bouquet garni), 2 slices of onion, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 pint aspic jelly, 1 raw egg, a few picked shrimps. Clean the eel, remove the head, take out the bones, sprinkle the inside of the fish with salt, pepper and chopped parsley, and tie up in a muslin bag or thin cloth. Place it in a stewpan with the vinegar, a slice of lemon, herbs, and onion slices, add enough water to cover, and cook till tender. The bones and head should be put in with the fish whilst cooking. It will take from half to three quarters of an hour to boil, according to the thickness of the eel. Take out the fish, let it cool, and remove the cloth. Cut the eel into convenient slices, and put on one side. Reduce the liquor in which the fish was boiled, strain it, and add to it the aspic, whisk lightly the white and shell of an egg, stir this into the aspic &c., let it come to the boil (stirring all the time), allow the stewpan to stand for ten minutes on the side of the stove, then strain through a jelly-bag or cloth. Mask the inside of a plain mould completely with the prepared jelly, decorate the bottom and sides neatly with slices of hard-boiled eggs and shrimps. When hot put in the slices of eel, with a layer of jelly between the layers of fish and eggs. Fill up the mould with some more jelly. Allow the contents of the mould to set. When quite firm turn out on to a cold dish, garnish to taste, and send to table. In filling the mould great care must be taken to allow each layer of fish and jelly to set before a second layer is put in. Aspic of lobster, prawn, or fillets of soles is prepared in exactly the same manner. 'DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {COLD) 263 677. Dame de Cabillaud d la Sefton.—About 2 lb. middle cut of cod, 1 small carrot, 1 small onion, 1 small bunch of herbs (bouquet garni), ^ gill Chablis or Sauterne wine, a handful spinach, \ gill Allemande sauce {using fish stock in place of meat stock), ^ teaspoonful tarragon vinegar, 1^ gill aspic jelly, £ oz. beef gelatine, h gill cream, 1 gill mayonnaise sauce {No. 277), seasoning. Put the fish, after being cleaned, in a stewpan, cover it with warm water, add the wine, carrot previously cleaned, the onion, peeled and stuck with one clove, and the bunch of herbs. Season with salt and bring it to the boil, simmer very gently until the fish is tender, drain and cool. Meanwhile wash and cook the spinach, drain it well, and rub through a sieve. Heat up the Allemande sauce, add the vinegar and about half the given quantity of aspic jelly, dissolve the gelatine and strain it into the sauce, stir until cool, then add enough spinach puree to give it a greenish tint, lastly add half the cream and half the mayonnaise, season with a little salt and pepper, stir the sauce over the ice until.it begins to thicken, then coat the fish completely (it is best to remove the skin of the fish before it is coated) ; this operation may be performed twice if desired. Mask it over when the sauce is set with a layer of aspic jelly. Place the fish on a dish. Surround the dish with prettily arranged small salad, chopped cucumber, or diamonds of aspic. Dilute the remainder of the sauce with the rest of the mayonnaise sauce and the cream, season to taste, and send it to table with the fish. Salmon is eminently suitable, and highly recommended for this mode of preparation. 678. Chaud-froid d’Hultres d la Montpellier.—12 large oysters, 1 dessertspoonful vinegar, 1 bay-leaf, 1 slice onion, 1 gill aspic jelly, 1 tablespoonful spinach puree, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil chopped finely, ^ gill cream, 3 sheets of gelatine, 1 tea- spoonful lemon-juice, 1 gill bechamel or.veloutee sauce. Remove the beards from the oysters and put both with their liquor into a stewpan, add the vinegar, bay-leaf, and onion, and heat up slowly (the oysters must not boil). Take up and put the oysters on a sieve to drain and cool. Strain the liquor, dissolve in it the gelatine, previously soaked in water, add the spinach puree, heat up and stir in the sauce, chopped tarragon and chervil. Mask twelve oyster-moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Mix the remainder of aspic with the prepared sauce, and pass through a tammy cloth. When nearly cold coat the oyster-moulds with a layer of this sauce ; place an oyster in each, sprinkle over each a few drops of lemon- juice, a tiny pinch of salt and pepper (white paprika or cayenne, according to taste). Fill the moulds with chaud-froid sauce, and put them on the ice to set. Have ready on a dish a border of rice masked with white or red chaud-froid sauce, unmould the oysters, and place them neatly on the prepared border. Fill the centre with green salad, and send the dish to table.2C4 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK CHAPTER XIX ENTREES GEAUDES DE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) For cold service see Chapter XXII The meaning or application of the term ‘ entree ’ has undergone con- siderable changes and modification during the last ten years, not only in this country, but alike on the continents of Europe and America. The correct meaning of the word is often confused with that of ‘ entremet'—no doubt this is because the difference of these two names is not clearly understood by many. Again one will find a remove, releve, or even a hors d’ceuvre (side dish) served under the heading of ‘ entree.’ This I also attribute to the same cause, the want of better knowledge. There are certain laws, culinary and gastronomic rules, most of which are as yet unwritten, and I may say, unexplained, but nevertheless well understood by first-rate chefs and gourmands, which govern the culinary operations, the preparation, style of get-up (dressing), and the mode of serving those dishes known as ‘ entrees.’ It is not too much to say that on the entree or entrees of a well balanced dinner hangs the whole ordering of the entire arrange- ment. It is a matter of the greatest importance, which has been thought out with the greatest care, not only by clever chefs, but by gourmets and epicures alike, whereby the most refined artistic tastes are blended with the utmost.effect. However this may be, there still exists a number of cooks—simple and uneducated cooks—who bestow but little thought on this important branch of the profession, and forget that in preparing an entree, like almost everything else in cookery, it is quite as necessary, if not more so, to please the eye as to charm the palate, and this negligence frequently causes a dish which in other respects is well cooked to be viewed with disfavour: it lacks in proper dressing and its appropriate garnish, which more often than not forms the characteristic of entrees, whereby its merits are ignored. The lady of the house or the housekeeper, who generally study every detail of a menu before it is passed, should make it a special point that the entrees as well as the rest of a dinner are correctly prepared and suitably garnished, and where the cook is given (as he or she should have) a free hand as far as the culinary preparations are concerned, he or she should see that an entree is sent to table as perfect and as correct in garnish or decoration as it can possibly be. If this is done there can be but little doubt as to itsENTREES CHAUDES BE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 265 success, whether it be a simple or a more elaborate entree. The garnishing or decoration of dishes being dealt with in a separate chapter, I will confine myself only to the subject ‘ Entrees,’ their character, and the service thereof. The name entree oan be given to any made dish : that is, to a dish composed and served with more than one ingredient, these being dis- tinguishable from joints (releves), because they are never served whole—there are exceptions, but very few indeed. In bygone days entrees appeared on the table with the joint as side dishes, while now and for a long time past they form a course by themselves. The translation of ‘ entree ’ is ‘ entrance.’ No one has as yet been able to account for this title, which probably originated in conse- quence of these dishes being handed round as soon as they were brought into the dining-room, in place of being put at the head of the table at the beginning of the meal, as was and still is the case with other dishes. Entrees of every kind afford an immense scope for the cook’s talents, because by this mode of dressing and cooking almost every food material may be rendered delicious, tasty, and attractive. If we want to understand the correct signification of the entree course, it is necessary to study for a moment Careme’s excellent arrangement of a complete French dinner. This system, though written many years ago, with a slight alteration holds good to-day. It is the ancient French dinner service remodelled by Careme, and is undoubtedly the best devised plan, being adapted on Brillat Savarin’s principles, whose motto commends one to proceed from the light to the more solid, and from the plain to the more elaborately prepared. He divides his dinner into two courses, the first consists of the entree course, and the second of the entremet course : the second course being commenced with a roast. By the first course, the releve or remove is included in the entrees ; this comprises small and large, or light and solid dishes—in fact an entree is the name of any preparation which we associate with a made dish of some sort. After the hors d’ceuvre a dinner begins with its first course, audit includes the small and large entrees. It is here where one is apt to get confused. Large entrees are frequently substituted for a remove or releve, so called, because it takes the place of the soup-tureen, being served immediately after the soup. The remove must not have the character of an entree, for it may mean either a fish or a joint of meat, and we should never think of calling either of these an entree; for, as I said before, entree is a name which we associate with made dishes. To make this quite clear, and be the other name whatever it may, if people will have a joint of meat or fish (remove or piece de resistance), then the proper place according to the French idea is that it must be served immediately after the soup, that is at the beginningTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 266 of the first course (the term first and second course or service is rarely ever used now, for it fulfils no purpose) ; while in England it is served at the end of the first course. 679. Classification of Entrees.—Entrees are divided into two classes, the hot and cold service. The hot dishes may be sub- divided again into two classes, the light and the solid entrees, or those which are served with a sauce, and those served without a sauce. There are a large number of entrees composed of meat sauted, fried, grilled, broiled, or braised, dressed simply with a good sauce, or if applicable with a dainty vegetable garnish. This garnish and sauce may also be applied to removes ; these, however, differ from entrees, inasmuch as in the former case the pieces are dressed small, while in the latter they usually consist of a boned joint, which is served whole. On the other hand there are other dishes of a more elaborate kind, both in preparation and garnish. All these come under the heading of hot entrees, solid, otherwise known as the small hot meats garnished, such as cutlets, fillets, grenadins, escallops, tournedos, large pates, sweetbreads, fricandeaux, ragouts, fricassees, boudins, quenelles, salmis, compotes, etc. Light entrees consist of various kinds of dainty morsels, such as souffles (small), meat fritters, small pates, bouchees, rissoles, croquettes, cromeskies, fricandines, beignets, timbales, darioles. 680. Cold Entrees.—This is known as the cold service. It is the most elegant and most artistic portion of cookery in general, es- pecially so when large dishes for special occasions are to be prepared, for ball suppers, banquets, wedding breakfasts, grand buffets, &c., where the moulding or ornaments in wax, fat, rice, &c. is required. Flowers, figures, &c., are then introduced in a great variety. A great deal of skill and study are required for this branch of the art. Any cook of ordinary intelligence may, however, by careful study, become an expert in this branch, provided he or she will give it special and sole attention for a time, so as to develop fully some artistic taste and ideas. Various kinds of sauces known as chaud-froid sauces, and aspic jelly, aspic creams, &c., are brought largely into use for cold entrees. Such preparations, or adjuncts, must be prepared with great care : they must be made tasty, and on no account too stiff. The aspic especially should be well flavoured, limpid, and above all transparent and clear ; for if there be any defect in this, then the handsomest dishes are open to criticism, and very justly so. In any cold entree, the cook’s special aim, next to the proper cooking of the articles, must be that of rendering the dish or the dishes effective in appearance. This can only be done by introducing tastefully and pleasingly arranged designs in the decorations. When croutons of rice, bread, &c., are used, they should be cut with precision and taste.ENTREES CHANDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 267 Hatelets, silver skewers, ornamented with fancifully cut vegetables, and aspic garnishing, come largely into use with dishes of this kind. These add greatly to the effective appearance of any dish. The number of other dishes, less elaborate than those just named, is also very large. These, although smaller, require just as much care and attention, because in a sense they are equally important. In preparing cold dishes, allow plenty of time, do them beforehand. This kind of work should never be hurried, nor left over to be finished at the last moment. The choice of entrees and their preparation must on no account clash with either the fish, remove, or roast, nor must the sauces served with either be the same or similar in appearance. When three kinds of entrees are served the light entree must be served first and the cold last. A hot entree is generally served before a cold dish. Again an entree composed of small birds must go before one prepared from a large bird or large meat. The sauce for such dishes (hot) is always served in the dish and not separately, unless the dish will not hold sufficient sauce to go round the table, then some of the sauce may be handed round in a sauce-boat. In the case of light entrees, with some exceptions, the sauce is handed round separately as a rule ; a little sauce is often poured over the dish just to sauce it, or, as it is termed in culinary French, to nape. It depends entirely upon the fish as to whether a white or a brown entree should take the lead, and this naturally depends in a great measure upon the dishes selected. If the remove be a white meat it is best to serve the white entree first—that is, if there be two, a white and a brown entree—so as to prevent two dishes of a similar kind in colour following. If, however, the French service is adopted this rule must be reversed, as in the French fashion the remove is invariably brought on after the fish. All entrees should be handed round the table. CAILLES EN CAISSES A LA PEBIGOUBDINE 681. Canolettes a la Montglas.—6 oz. puff-paste trimming 1 lamb's sweetbread, 1 small stick celery, 1 gill white sauce—AlleTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 268 mande (No. 204) or bechamel (No. 202) —2 mushrooms, 1 truffle, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, fried parsley, pepper and salt. Roll out the paste, cut it into strips, butter the exterior of some cornet tins, roll the strips of paste round each tin, so that the strip of paste overlaps half the other at each turn, keep all of even size. Egg Over the surface, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and bake on a greased baking-tin (laid flat) in a hot oven. Blanch and cook the sweetbread and celery, cut into small dice, warm up in the sauce, season to taste; add the mushrooms and truffles, also cut in dice. Remove the paste- crust from the tins as soon as baked, fill them with the above mixture, place a star of truffle in the centre of each, dish them neatly on a dish with folded napkin, pointed ends inwards, put a handful of fried parsley in the centre, and serve. 682. Cdtelettes d’Agneau d la Bonaparte.—8 lamb cutlets, 1 oz. of butter, a small onion, \ carrot, a bay-leaf, a bouquet of parsley, 1^ pint of white stock, 3 tablespoonfuls of creme de riz, i oz. meat glaze, \ glass champagne, pepper, and salt, mashed spinach for garnish, a gill of tomato sauce (No. 271). Trim the cutlets neatly, put them in a braisiere or saute-pan with the butter, fry a little on both sides and add sliced onion, sliced carrot, bay-leaf, and parsley, season with pepper and salt. Moisten with the champagne or Chablis wine and about a gill of stock, cover with a buttered paper and braise in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. Mix the creme de riz with a little cold stock, boil up a pint of the stock in a small saucepan. Mix both together and stir until it boils, season to taste. Let it simmer for a few minutes, then pour into little cutlet-moulds slightly greased, or in one round mould. Stand it in a cool place to set. Turn out and put a cutlet on each of these shapes. If the round mould is used it should be turned out, the rice shape cut into slices, and trimmed into rounds the shape of cutlets. Dish the cutlets with a rice shape in a circular row, and keep warm. Strain the gravy from the cutlets, take off the fat, put it in a sauce- pan with the meat glaze, and let it reduce until fit to glaze over the cutlets. Have ready a puree of spinach nicely flavoured, put it in the centre of the cutlets, sauce round with tomato sauce, and serve. The tomato sauce should be allowed to boil up in the saute-pan after the gravy is strained off, in order to impart the essence to the sauce. 683. Cdtelettes d’Agneau d la Cahors.—8 to 10 lamb cutlets (neatly pared), 1 oz. butter, 2 shallots, 3 truffles, 1 table- spoonful meat glaze, | gill sherry, teaspoonful chopped parsley, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 xohole egg, 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), seasoning, bread-crumbs, clarified butter. Peel and chop finely the shallots, fry them a light colour in one oz. butter, add the truffles finely chopped, moisten with the sherry, cover and let it reduce well. Stir in the meat glaze and parsley, bind with the yolks of eggs, stir until it thickens, and putin a forcing-ENTREES CHAUDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 269 bag. Make an incision on one side of each cutlet through the whole of the width, but without cutting the sides ; fill the inside with the above mixture, season with pepper and salt, dip in beaten egg and bread-crumbs ; repeat this again. Fry slowly in clarified butter a golden colour, drain on a cloth, dish up, pour the tomato sauce, pre- viously heated, round the dish, and serve. 684. Cdtelettes d’Agneau grillees (GrilledLamb Cutlets).— Cut eight or ten lamb cutlets from the best end of a neck, and pare and trim them neatly. Place them on or between a gridiron, over or in front of a good clear fire, and cook them for about ten minutes ; during this time the cutlets should be turned at least four times. On no account must the meat be pierced with a fork or skewer, as in so doing some of the juices of the meat will be lost, and the flavour of the meat will thereby be impaired. Season the cutlets with salt and pepper. Adjust a paper frill on each cutlet-bone, dish them up in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes (use a round dish in pre- ference to an oval one), fill the centre with nicely cooked and well- seasoned green peas, pour a little hot gravy round the base of the dish, and serve. 685. Cdtelettes d’Agneau a la Mahnaison.—Cut as many lamb cutlets as may be required, trim and pare them neatly, season with pepper and salt, and egg and crumb them. Fry them in clari- fied butter and drain. Dish them up in a circle on a bed of potato puree, previously baked (au gratin) in the oven. Garnish the dish with three distinct coloured purees, i.e. lentil puree, green pea puree, and potato puree, also with small stuffed and baked tomatoes. Send to table with demi-glace sauce (No. 237), well flavoured with lemon-juice. 686. Cdtelettes d’Agueaa d la Lion d’Ov. -8 nice lamb cutlets—centre cut of neck, 1 small foie gras pate, 1 piece lamb leaf fat, 6 oz. veal forcemeat (No. 402), 3 mushrooms, 2 oz. butter, seasoning, bread-crumbs, soubise sauce (No. 232), and demi-glace (No. 239). Trim and pare the cutlets, slit the side of each to the bone, but without parting. Prepare a puree with the foie gras, and fill the openings made with this ; insert a slice of truffle and mushroom here and there ; close up and fry the cutlets a little in butter. Season the raw forcemeat, mix with remainder of foie gras puree, truffles, and mushrooms finely chopped. Cover each cutlet completely with this forcemeat, wrap up in thin leaf fat or pig-caul, egg, crumb, and fry very carefully in a saute-pan containing enough clarified butter or lard to cover them. When done, drain, dish up in a circle, fasten frills on bones, put soubise sauce in the centre, and serve demi-glace round the base of the dish. 687. Cdtelettes d'Agneaa d la Mange.—Lamb cutlets, egged and crumbed in grated Parmesan cheese and bread-crumbs, fried in butter and dressed on a border of savoury rice mixed with finely chopped truffle ; the centre of the dish is garnished with aTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 270 ragout of cocks’ combs, sweetbread slices, and truffles. Pour a well- seasoned tomato sauce (No. 271) round the base of the dish. 688. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Michelieu.—8 to 10 lamb cutlets, Richelieu garnish (No. 488), 2 oz. butter, 6 to 8 small arti- choke bottoms, ^ pint cooked asparagus points, 1 truffle, salt and pepper, demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Trim, flatten, and pare the cutlets, season them with pepper and salt; clarify the butter, then put it in a saute-pan, when hot place in the cutlets, and cook them over a quick fire. See that each side gets nicely browned. Take up the cutlets, drain off the fat, and dress them in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes in a hot dish. Attach a paper ruffle on each cutlet-bone. The artichoke bottoms and asparagus points must be heated beforehand ; toss the latter in a little butter, and season to taste. Put the Richelieu garnish, previously heated, in the centre of the dish. Fill each artichoke bottom with asparagus points, range these neatly round the cutlets. Sprinkle on top of each a little chopped truffle, pour some hot demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 689. Cdtelettes d’Agneau d la Villeroi (Lamb Cutlets icith Cucumber Sauce).—8 good-sized lamb cutlets, 2 oz. fresh butter, ^ pint well-reduced bechamel (No. 202) or Allemande (No 204) sauce, 1 egg,panurette, cracknel biscuits, seasoning, parsley, frying - fat, cucumber sauce (No. 284). Trim the cutlets, flatten and pare nicely, season both sides with gait and pepper, and put in a saute-pan with two ounces of melted butter, and fry the cutlets a light brown on both sides. Drain them, and place them between two tin sheets, with a weight on top. When cold, immerse the cutlets in lukewarm bechamel or Allemande sauce, so as to completely coat them. Place them on a wire tray and let cool. Crush finely a few cracknel biscuits, and roll the coated parts of the cutlets in this. Then dip them in beaten egg, and crumb with panurette. Keep the bones of the cutlets perfectly clean. Fry a nice colour in hot fat. Drain, dish up in a circle, fill the centre with fried parsley, put small paper frills on the bones, and send to table with a boat of cucumber sauce. 690. Ejiigrammes d’Agneau d la Soabi.se.—1 breast of lamb, 2 quarts stock, 1 bunch parsley, 1 bay-leaf, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 onion, 2 cloves, 1^ gill /Lllemande saucfi (No. 204) or veloutee sauce (No. 206), salt and pepper, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, frying-fat, soubise sauce (No. 232). Trim the breast of lamb, cut it in two, blanch it, put it in a stew- pan with the stock (boiling). Let it boil up, skim, add the vegetables &c., previously cleaned, and cook gently till the meat is quite tender. Take up the breast, remove the bones while hot, and place the meat flat under weight. When cold trim, removing all the hard skin and gristle, and cut into convenient pieces. Season with pepper and salt. •Coat each with Allemande or veloutee sauce. This operation is bestENTREES CHAUDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 271 repeated until the sauce is quite set. Dip each piece in beaten egg and roll in bread-crumbs, then fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain well, and dress the pieces on a dish in the form of a circle. Put the soubise sauce in the centre, and serve hot. 691. Filet d’Agneau d la Spadacini.—1 neck of lamb (best end), \ lb. cooked savoury.rice flavoured with saffron, 1 small bread croute (cork-shape), 1 artichoke bottom, 1 truffle, 1 egg, 2 oz. clarified butter, flour, seasoning, Spadacini sauce (No. 276), demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Cut the meat from the bones of the neck, trim the superfluous fat and pare neatly ; then cut into eight pieces, flatten each, and shape into round fillets. Fix a cork-shaped fried bread crouton on the centre of a round entree dish. Arrange the cooked rice round it as neatly as possible, insert a silver skewer (hatelet) with the fond d’artichaut and truffle previously fixed on. Keep the dish in a warm place. Dip the prepared fillets in beaten egg, then in seasoned flour, and fry a golden colour in clarified butter. Dress them neatly round the hatelet on the dish, put a tablespoonful of Spadacini sauce on each fillet, pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 692. Navarin d’Agneau en Casserole.—1 lorn of lamb, 1 spring cabbage (blanched), 12 button onions, 8 thin slices of bacon, 2 oz. butter, 1 pint rich brown sauce, salt and pepper. Cut the meat into small chops, trim off the skin and superfluous fat. Melt the butter in an earthenware fireproof casserole, put in the lamb chops, and fry lightly on each side. Take them up and place on a plate. Peel the onions and fry them a nice golden colour in the butter. Divide the cabbage (previously washed, trimmed and blanched) into eight portions, and wrap each into a thin slice of bacon. Pour the butter off the onions, and place the lamb chops, cabbage, bacon, and onions in alternate layers in the earthenware pan. Season to taste with salt, pepper and nutmeg, moisten with the sauce, cover the pan with its lid, and cook in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Just before serving, skim off the fat from the surface, and send the dish (casserole) to table placed on a dish with a folded napkin. 693. Noisettes d’Agneau d V Union.—1 loin of lamb, 8 fonds of artichoke, 2 oz. butter, 18 to 20 small fresh button mush- rooms, 1 tablespoonful meat glaze, or 1 teaspoonful of Lemco (Liebig Company's Extract of Meat), 1 gill stock, 1 teaspoonful finely chopped parsleyteaspoonful chopped chervil, \ teaspoonful chopped chive, a few leaves of chopped tarragon, ^ lemon, salt and pepper, demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Remove the meat from the loin and trim into a meat fillet, paring off the superfluous fat. Cut the meat into about eight noisettes (fillets), shape each nicely. Melt an ounce of butter in a saute pan, and cook the noisettes over a quick fire till done (great care must be taken not to over-cook them), season the noisettes before or after cooking them.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 272 Heat the artichoke foncls in the broth, chop the mushrooms, previously washed and peeled, saute them in butter, then add the lemon-juice, meat glaze or extract, and the chopped herbs. Season to taste, and cook for a few minutes. Fill the artichokes with this. Dress the noisettes on a hot dish, place an artichoke fond on top of each, garnish with fleurons or croutons of bread, pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 694. Queues d’Agneau a la Musse.—4 or 5 lambs’ tails, 1 glass Ghablis, 1^ pint stock, 1 clove of garlic, 1 bay-leaf, 1 sprig of thyme and 1 of basil, 2 cloves, 1 small bunch of parsley, pepper, salt, frying-batter and frying-fat. Wipe the tails with a damp cloth, cut them into small joints, blanch and drain. Cook until tender in the stock and a little water, adding the wine, savoury herbs, parsley, &c. Season to taste, allow them to cool in the stock. Chop a little parsley and mix with the frying- batter, drain the pieces of tail in a cloth, dip them in the prepared batter, and fry a golden colour in hot fat or lard. Drain, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with hot tomato sauce (No. 271). 695. Mis d9Agneau H la Volta ire.—8 lambs’ breads of good size, 8 cooked artichoke bottoms (fonds d’artichauts) 1 small onion, 1 carrot, 3 to 4 slices of bacon, 1 bouguet garni (No. 2), ^ pint rich stock, 2 tablespoonfuls bechamel so.uce (No. 202), 3 egg-yolks, v ason- ing, 1 oz. Parmesan cheese (grated), 1 oz. butter. Trim the breads, blanch, drain and pare them neatly. Prepare a mirepoix with the onion, carrot, bacon, and bouquet, put this in a saute-pan, and place the lambs’ breads upon it; moisten with stock, season with salt and pepper, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and braise in the oven- from thirty to forty minutes, baste occasionally. When done, take up the breads and glaze them. Strain the stock and reduce it a little, remove all fat and add a liaison of egg-yplks with two tablespoonfuls of, bechamel sauce. As soon as it begins to thicken, pass it through a fine sieve and keep hot. Place the arti- choke bottoms on a buttered saute-pan, into each put a teaspoonful of the prepared sauce, put the lambs’ breads upon this, and sauce over well with the above sauce, sprinkle well with grated Parmesan cheese, as well as with oiled butter (use remainder of butter for this). Bake in a very hot oven for six minutes, then dish up, and serve with a suitable sauce. ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER ENTREES OF LAMB. 696. Chartreuse d’Agneau a la Gastronome.—Boned breasts of lamb, rolled, stewed in rich white stock, cut into strips, ranged in a cylindrical mould, alternately in rows with braised green lettuce-stalks cooked ‘au bain-marie,’ and served with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 697. Cotelettes d'Agneau a la Duchesse. -Braised lamb cutlets,ENTREES CHANDES DE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 273 masked with Duxelle sauce (No. 813), egged, crumbed, fried. Dished up on a vegetable border, with a puree of green peas in centre, served with sauce supreme (No. 210). 698. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Maltaise. —Fried lamb cutlets, egged and crumbed, served with Maltaise sauce, composed of veloutee sauce (No. 206), sherry, lemon and orange juice, and finely shred orange-peel. 699. Epaule d’Agneau a la Chevet.—Boned, rolled, and larded shoulder of lamb, braised and glazed. Served with a brown sauce reduced with white wine, mingled with chopped shallots and parsley. 700. Epaule d’Agneau a la Montmorency.—Boned shoulder of lamb, stuffed with forcemeat, larded and braised, served with a garniture of cocks’ combs, mushroom heads, truffles, chicken quenelles, and slices of sweetbread, done in veloutee (No. 206) or Allemande sauce (No. 204). 701. Epaule d’Agneau a la Paysanne.—Boned shoulder of lamb braised, served with a garniture of stewed sliced carrots, turnips, and peeled tomatoes. Served with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 702. Epaule d’Agneau a la Polonaise.—Boned shoulder of lamb, braised, sliced, dressed in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes ; sauced over with a rich brown sauce, sprinkled over with brown bread-crumbs, egged, and browned in the oven. Served with poached eggs on top of bordure. 703. Epigrammes d’Agneau a la Bearnaise.—Small lamb chops, boned, flattened, pared and sauted in butter, when cold immersed in veloutee sauce (No. 206), and dipped in eggs and bread-crumbs. They are then fried in clarified butter or dripping, dished up and served with Bearnaise sauce (No. 225), in the centre of the epigrammes. 704. Epigrammes d’Agneau a la Dauphine.—Partly cooked lamb collops or fillets, dipped in a mixture of butter and yolk of eggs, thickly bread-crumbed, and fried in butter. Served with a puree of green peas and suitable sauce. 705. Epigrammes d’Agneau a la Macedoine.—Lamb collops, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter, served with a collection of finely shaped carrots and turnips, French beans, and green peas. Sauce: demi- glace (No. 237). 706. Filet d’Agneau a la Venaison.—Boiled boned loin of lamb, pickled in marinade (No. -29), flavoured with cloves, juniper berries, pepper and savoury herbs. Braised in the usual way and served with brown sauce mixed with a little sour cream. 707. Filets d’Agneau a la Villeroi.—Braised lamb fillets, masked with stiff Allemande sauce (No. 204), egged, crumbed in bread and grated cheese. Baked in a quick oven {au gratin), and served with tomato sauce (No. 271). 708. Poitrine d’Agneau a la Turque. - -Boned breast of lamb, stuffed with sdusage-meat, braised, dressed in a border of stewed rice, slightly flavoured with saffron powder, sauced over with demi-glace (No. 237), or a mild curry sauce. TTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 274 709. Poitrine d’Agneau farcie a la Very. -Boned breast of lamb, stuffed with veal forcemeat and braised, served with French beans, sauted or tossed in butter. Serve with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 710. Langues d’Agneau a la Duxelle.—Boiled sheeps’ tongues, cutinto halves and spread over with a mixture of bread-crumbs, chopped shallots, parsley and mushrooms, butter and egg-yolks. Dressed on a dish, sauced over with Duxelle sauce (No. 313), and baked in the oven (gratin style). 711. Carbonades de JKouton d la Wantaise.—3 or 4 lbs. best end of neck of mutton or a piece of loin, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 small onion, 1 bouquet garni (No. 2), f pint Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 2 oz. butter, 1 glass port, 24 small stuffed onions, \ pint green peas (cooked), salt, pepper, larding bacon. Bone the meat, pare off all the fat, cut into quarter-inch-thick slices, flatten each a little, trim, and lard with strips of fat bacon. Prepare the vegetables, cut carrot, turnip, and onion into slices, and put in a saute-pan with the butter and bouquet; season and broil a few minutes over a quick fire, put in the larded fillets, let brown slightly on both sides ; drain off the fat, add half a pint of sauce and a glass of port wine, cover and cook slowly in the oven for twenty minutes; take up the fillets, drain and dish up in a row on a small border of mashed potatoes or puree of peas. Free the sauce from its fat, strain into a small stewpan, add the remainder of Espagnole, boil up and moisten the stuffed onions, previously prepared, with this sauce. Dress the latter with the green peas in alternate rows round, the base of the dish. Sauce over a little, and serve the remainder of the sauce in a sauce-boat. 712. Cotelettes de Moutondla Bretonne.—6 cutlets cut from the best end of a neck of mutton, 2 small onions, ^ pint well cooked haricot beans, 2 oz. butter, salt and pepper, brown sauce. Trim and pare the cutlets neatly, fry them in a saute-pan with the butter, turn them frequently .to brown both sides, take up, strain, and keep hot. Mince the onions (peeled), and fry these a golden colour in the butter left from the cutlets ; pour off some of the butter and put in the haricot beans, cook these together for about ten minutes, stir frequently, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a little brown sauce, and rub through a wire sieve. Re-heat, keep up in the centre of a dish, dress the cutlets round the puree, and serve with some rich brown sauce. 713. Cdtelettes de Mouton d la Byron.— Cut, trim, and flatten six or more large mutton cutlets, insert in equal proportion with a larding needle, across the lean part, some strips of raw ham and larding bacon. Put the cutlets in a stewpan with the trimming (but no fat), a small sliced carrot, half an onion stuck with a clove, and a slice of parsley root or celery. Add a quart of mutton stock, season with pepper and salt, and allow to cook slowly for about anENTREES CHANDES DE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 275 hour. When done drain the cutlets, press them between two boards, and let them cool. Add a gill of Espagnole sauce (No. 236), to the fond, reduce well, and strain. Add a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley and three tarragon-leaves to the sauce, immerse the cutlets in this, and let cool again. Dip in beaten egg and milk, roll in bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat or butter. Drain on a cloth, dish up in a circle. Have ready a ragout of sheeps’ kidneys, fill the centre with same, put a few warm green peas on top, fasten paper frills on the bones, and serve. 714. Cdtelettes deMouton auoc Petits Pais {Mutton Cutlets with Green Peas).—Cut a best end of neck of mutton into cutlets ; trim, flatten, and pare them. Season with pepper and salt, mix a plateful of bread-crumbs with an ounce of finely-chopped lean ham ; dip the cutlets in beaten egg, and cover with bread-crumbs. Melt about two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, and cook the cutlets to a nice golden brown. Take them up, drain them, and dish up in the form of a border on small bed of mashed potatoes and peas. Fill the centre with cooked green peas, pour a little gravy or sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 715. Cdtelettes de Mouton an JNaturel.—Procure the best end of a neck of mutton, saw off the upper part of the rib-bones, so as to leave the bones of the cutlets about three inches long. Saw off the spine-bone close to the end of the ribs, cut or trim off the flat bones adhering to the thick end of the neck, cut slantwise into cutlets. Flatten each a little and pare neatly, and without waste; cut off the skin on the side of each bone, and scrape the ends of the bones ; season with pepper and salt, brush over with oiled butter, and grill; or melt about an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, put in the cutlets when hot, and broil on both sides over a brisk fire. Dish up and serve with plain gravy. 716. Cdtelettes de Mouton d la Soubise—Proceed to cook the cutlets in the same manner as in the foregoing recipe. Dish up in a circle on a very thin - border of mashed potatoes. Sauce round with demi-glace (No. 237) or brown sauce well reduced. Put some onion puree or soubise sauce (No. 232), pile up in the centre, and serve. 717. Cdtelettes de M»uton d la Pompadour.—6 or 8 neatly pared mutton cutlets, 2 oz. butter, 1| gill soubise same {No. 232), 1 gill Pompadour sauce {No. 270), ^ pint macedoine vegetables, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, frying-fat, pepper and salt. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt, and fry slightly in butter, drain and place between two boards to press. Coat both sides of the cutlets with well-reduced cold soubise sauce. Egg and crumb twice. Fry slowly in clarified fat or butter, drain and dish up in a circle. Heat up the macedoine of vegetable with a little Pompadour sauce, season, put in the centre of the dish and serve. Lamb or pork cut- lets are served in the same style. T 2276 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 718. Cdtelettes de Mouton d la Prince de Galles.—4 to 6 mutton cutlets, 6 oz. cooked veal or rabbit, 8 oz. liam, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 large pig's caul, 2 small shallots, 2 tomatoes, chopped parsley, 2 oz. butter, seasoning, 1 whole egg, bread-crumbs, frying-fat, sauce. Trim the cutlets neatly, make an incision at the side of each cut- let with a small knife so as to slit the meat without making a wide opening (this is intended to receive the forcemeat). Pound the veal or rabbit meat and ham (freed from fat, skin, or gristle), when fine incor- porate the yolks of eggs, and a little cream if found too consistent, season well and rub through a sieve. Put the farce in a cornet or forcing-bag, and press the farce into the opening of each cutlet. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt. Heat up the butter in a saute-pan and fry each side of the cutlets just for a minute or so to brown, take up and let cool. Cut the tomato into slices, allowing one neat slice for each cutlet. Peel and chop the shallots and fry a little in the butter wherein the cutlets were partially cooked, put in the tomato slices and broil a little, take up the tomatoes, place one slice on each cutlet, sprinkle over some parsley and a very little of the shallots. Wrap up each cutlet in a piece of caul, the ends of which may, if liked, be moistened with a little white of egg, egg and crumb them carefully and neatly, fry them in hot fat (lard is preferable) for about ten minutes, take up, drain, and dish up on a thin border of mashed potatoes. The dish may be garnished with macedoine of vegetables or green peas. Serve hot with brown, tomato (No. 271), or piquante (No. 241) sauce. Note.—The cutlets must be trimmed so as to remove all or nearly all the fat and skin. Instead of frying the cutlets in deep fat they can be placed in a well-buttered pan and be cooked in the oven, when about fifteen minutes should be allowed. 719. Cdtelettes de Mouton a la Princesse.—Trim ten to twelve small mutton cutlets in the usual way, fry them a little in butter, lay between two baking-sheets to press ; when cold, cover one side of them with a thin layer of chicken forcemeat (No. 403), mixed with finely-minced mushrooms and truffles ; dip them in stiffly reduced Madere sauce (237a), set them on the ice to set the sauce quite firm on the cutlets, dip them in egg and crumbs, fry in clarified butter, strain on a cloth. Dish up in circular form, fill the centre of the dish with cooked asparagus points (mixed with a few fresh peas if desired), sauce round with Perigord sauce (No. 243), and serve. 720. Cdtelettes de Mouton d la Provenqale.—Prepare the cutlets as before, oil them slightly with salad oil (huile de Pro- vence). Broil them on one side only, and put them on a dish to get cold. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt. Spread the cooked side thickly with puree a la Provengale (No. 358), cover with a mixture of bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese. Put one ounce butter in a saute-pan, when hot lay in the cutlets raw side downwards, baste the surface with, oiled butter, and cook in a hotENTREES CHAUDES BE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 277 oven for ten minutes. Dish up in a circle, garnish the centre with small rounds of potatoes (pommes Parisienne) (No. 767), pour round some demi-glace (No. 237), and serve. 721. Cdtelettes de Wouton d la Me forme (Mutton Cutlets, Reform Style).—6 to 8 neatly cut and trimmed mutton cutlets, a handful of fresh bread-crumbs, 1 tablespoonful finely-chopped ham, 1 slice of ham, 1 rate egg, 1 hard-boiled egg, 4 French gherkins, 1 truffle, 6 preserved mushrooms, a small carrot {cooked), 1 oz. lard, 2 oz. butter, seasoning, Reforme or pepper sauce {No..255). Flatten the cutlets lightly with a cutlet-bat, pare off some of the fat, and free the bones from skin (about an inch down). Season the cutlets lightly with pepper and salt, dip in beaten egg, and cover well with a mixture of bread-crumbs and chopped ham. Shape them neatly and put them on a plate till required. Cut the slice of ham, the white of the hard-boiled egg, the gherkins, the truffle, and the mushrooms into oblong shreds of even size, put them in a stewpan with a little stock and a small piece of fresh butter. Season with a pinch of pepper, and keep hot. Dissolve the remainder of butter and the lard in a saute- or frying-pan; when hot, put in the cutlets and cook till tender—a nice light brown colour. Drain, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, put the shreds of vegetable &c. in the centre, pour some Reforme or pepper sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 722. Cdtelettes d la Riche.—6 or 8 mutton or lamb cutlets, 1 pig's caul, 1 oz. butter, liver farce, 1 truffle, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, fat to fry, pepper, salt, sauce Perigueux {No. 243). Trim and shape the cutlets, season with pepper and salt, put them in a saute-pan with 1 oz. butter (previously heated), fry the cutlets lightly over a quick fire (the cutlet must not be allowed to fry long, and should be quite underdone when taken up). Drain, put to press between two tins; when cold, pare and trim neatly. Have ready some liver farce ; chop the truffles finely and mix with the farce. Cover each side of the cutlet with the farce, wrap up each in pig’s caul, egg and crumb (twice if necessary), shape neatly, and place in a wire basket. Fry a golden colour in hot fat or lard; strain, dish up, and serve with Perigueux sauce. 723. Cdtelettes de Mouton d la Strasbourgeoise {Mutton Cutlets, Strasbourg Style).— 8 neatly-trimmed and pared mutton cutlets, 1 small terrine foie gras {No. 12 size), 1 shallot, ^ gill brown or Espagnole {No. 236) sauce, 1 gill tomato sauce {No. 271), 2 oz. butter, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, frying-fat, pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a saute- or frying-pan ; when hot put in the cutlets (flattened slightly with a cutlet-bat, trimmed very neatly, and seasoned with pepper and salt), fry them over a quick fire so as to brown each side without cooking through the meat. Take up and drain the cutlets. Free the foie gras from the lard usually found on the top-, cut it into small pieces, and pound in a mortar. Peel and chop finely the shallot, fry it in the butter left in the pan in which theTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 278 cutlets were cooked, put this (shallot and butter) in with the foie gras, mix thoroughly, adding a little brown sauce to form a smooth puree or farce. Season to taste, and rub through a wire sieve. Spread one side of each cutlet with a thick layer of this farce, egg.and bread- crumb them, and fry in very hot fat. Drain, dish up, and pour hot tomato sauce round the base of the dish. 724. Cot alettes de Mont on a la Talleyrand6 to 8 mutton cutlets, 4 to 6 oz. cooked fowl freed from skin and bone, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 shallots, i gill white sauce, A preserved nmshrooms, seasoning, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, 1 oz. butter, frying-fat, demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Trim and pare the cutlets, season with pepper and salt, and cook them slightly in a saute-pan with the butter (they must only be partly cooked), and place them on a dish to cool. Pound the meat of the fowl in a mortar until smooth, then add the yolks of eggs, and a tablespoonful of sauce, mix well, season to taste, and rub this through a fine sieve. Chop the mushrooms finely, also peel and chop the shallots ; fry the latter a golden colour in the pan in which the cut- lets were par-cooked ; then add the mushrooms, stir over the fire for a few seconds, and mix with the puree as above prepared. If found necessary, a tablespoonful of bread-crumbs and a tablespoonful of white sauce can be added to the puree. The seasoning above referred to should consist of salt, pepper, a tiny pinch of nutmeg, and a similar quantity of cayenne. Mask the cutlets completely with the puree or farce, brush them over carefully with beaten egg, and crumb all over. Fry a golden brown in hot fat, drain on a cloth or paper, dish up in a row or in a circle, pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 725. Filets cle Moat on a la Tyrolienne.—About 3 lb. best end of a neck of mutton, 4 small even-sized tomatoes, 12 button onions, 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 1 gill of sweet oil, \ gill Orleans vinegar, 1 minced shallot, 1 bay-leaf, a clove of garlic salt, 2 oz. ham, 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), 1 gill stock, 1 oz. butter, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, frying-fat. Remove the meat from the bones of the neck of mutton, cut it into eight nice fillets, trim off some of the fat, and lay them in a marinade for twelve hours. The marinade in this case consists of the oil, vinegar, shallot, bay-leaf, garlic, coarsely chopped parsley, and salt. It is advisable to turn the fillets from time to time. Cut the tomatoes in halves and squeeze out a little of the pulp. Peel the button onions, fry them a golden colour in the butter. When this is done pour off the butter. Add the stock, and let come to the boil quickly; skim well, and braise in the oven until done ; the stock should, by the time the onions are done, be reduced so as to glaze them completely. Put the butter left from the onions in a saute-pan, place in the tomatoes, season with pepper and salt, and fry gently for a few minutes. Take out the fillets from the marinade, wipe dry with a cloth, egg and crumb them, and fry in hot fat to a goldenENTREES CHAUDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 219 sheeps’ kidneys, six yolks of eggs, 2 oz. blotter, ^ pint cooked brown. They must cook slowly, else they will not be clone by the time they are of the desired colour. Range the fillets neatly in a row in the centre of an oblong dish. Have ready the ham finely chopped and warmed in a little brown sauce, just sufficient to moisten. Put a dessertspoonful of the ham in each half of tomato, place a button onion on top of each. Pour the demi-glace sauce round the dish and serve. The demi-glace should be well reduced, and have a table- spoonful of the marinade incorporated during the process of reducing. 726. I*elites Timbales a la Meridionals (.Little Timbales, Meridionale Style).—f lb. lean mutton fillet, 2 tablespoonfuls Espa- gnole sauce (No. 236), 1 tablespoonful sherry or Madeira, 1 table- spoonful cream, 1 oz. butter, 2 eggs, 10 stuffed Spanish olives, \ gill well-reduced tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), pepper, salt, nutmeg. Cut the meat into small pieces and pound in a mortar until smooth. Add the Espagnole sauce, wine, cream, half an ounce of butter, and the eggs, one at a time, season to taste, mix well, and rub through a sieve. Butter eight to ten small timbale or dariole moulds, fill them with this preparation, leaving a small hollow in the centre of each, in which place about a dessertspoonful of reduced tomato sauce and an olive stuffed with forcemeat; cover well with forcemeat, and place the moulds in a saute-pan half filled with boiling water. Let it come to the boil, then cover with an oiled paper, and finish cooking in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. Unmould, dish up, and sauce over with hot demi-glace. 727. Cervelles d la Dreux (Sheeps’ Brains with Mush- rooms) .—f sheep’s brains, a tiny bunch of parsley, some mushroom trimmings, 1 onion, 4 yolks of eggs, 1^ oz. panade, or ^ gill toell- reduced white sauce, 1 oz. butter, paprika, pepper, salt, grated nut- meg, 18 preserved mushrooms, Madere sauce (No. 237 a). Wash the brains several times in salted water, remove the skin and wash a second time in fresh water. Peel and slice the onion, put this, the parsley, and fresh mushroom trimmings in a stewpan half filled with water, plunge in the brains and let them boil for about five minutes, then drain them carefully and rub the whole through a wire sieve into a basin. Put the panade or sauce into a mortar and work in the yolks of eggs, add this to the brain puree, stir well, and season to taste with a pinch of pepper, a pinch of paprika, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Butter eight to ten small dariole moulds, fill these with the prepared puree. Poach these in the usual manner for about ten minutes in a saute-pan containing boiling water. When done turn out the moulds on to a hot dish, arrange the darioles in a circle, pile the preserved mushrooms, previously heated in brown sauce (Madere sauce), in the centre of the dish, pour some hot sauce over and round the darioles, and serve. 728. Itofjnons de Moaton d la Chinoise.—Six smallTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 280 asparagus points, 2 tablespoonfuls bechamel (No. 202) or veloutee (No. 206) sauce, chopped parsley, 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), \ gill of oil, pepper and salt. Skin and wipe the kidneys. Split each without dividing entirely, and fasten on skewers. Season with pepper and salt. Melt one ounce of butter, and butter the kidneys thoroughly on both sides. Broil them over a clear fire from six to eight minutes. In the mean- time put the remainder of the butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, put in the asparagus points, toss over the fire till hot, moisten with the white sauce. Add a little pepper, salt, and the chopped parsley. Fry the yolks of eggs separately in hot oil and strain. Take up the kidneys, put a tablespoonful of asparagus points in the centre of each, place the fried yolks on top, dish up, pour round some hot tomato sauce, and serve. 729. Rogrtorts sautes en Caisses.—4 large sheeps’ kidneys, 1 shallot, H oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful (level) flour, 1 gill rich brown stock or gravy, 1 small glass Madeira, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper and salt, 8 rounds of fried bread to fit the bottoms of 8 china ramequin cases. Steep the kidneys in boiling water for a few seconds, remove the skins, split them into halves, and slice them as finely as possible. Season with pepper and salt. Peel and chop or mince finely the shallot. Melt the butter, put in the shallot and fry a golden colour ; fry the sliced kidneys in this over a brisk fire—toss frequently; this should take about five minutes. Sprinkle over the flour, and stir a few moments longer over the fire. Now add the stock or gravy, and the wine, stir until it boils, and cook gently for another ten minutes. Place the ramequin cases in the oven to get hot, put a thin round of fried bread in each, fill up each case with kidneys and sauce, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over the top of each, dish up, and serve quickly. 730. Mognons sautes aux Champagne.—3 to 4 sheeps’ kidneys, 1 oz. butter, 2 small shallots, Q to 8 preserved mushrooms, 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), a glass (about ^ gill) Madeira, parsley, bread croutons and seasoning. Remove the skin and core from the kidneys, and cut the latter into thin slices.. Season with pepper and salt. Mince finely the peeled shallots and slice the mushrooms. Put the butter in a saute-pan, when hot add the shallots and allow them to get a pale brown or fawn colour, then add the kidneys, and shake or toss well over a brisk fire for about six minutes. Now add the champagne, cover the pan, and le.t the contents infuse for a few seconds. Put in the sauce, previously well-reduced, and the mushrooms. Allow the whole to get thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil, else the kidneys will become hard. Dish up, garnish with croutons of fried bread sprinkled with chopped parsley, and serve. Calves’ kidneys or calves’ liver may be prepared in the same manner.ENTREES GHANDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 281 731. Mognons grilles (Grilled Kidneys).—Steep as many sheeps’ kidneys as are required in tepid water, remove the skins and split each in half without quite detaching them. Fasten them on to wooden or iron skewers, season with salt and pepper, brush over with sweet oil, or liquefied butter, place them on a greased gridiron, and broil on both sides from five to eight minutes. Dish up on toasted or buttered bread, and serve with a small quantity of devilled butter placed in the centre of each kidney. ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER ENTREES, ETC., OF MUTTON. 732. Carbonades de Mouton a la Chartreuse.—Braised boned loin of mutton, larded, surrounded with small vegetable timbales, groups of green peas, sprigs of cauliflower, and French beans. Sauce: Demi- glace (No. 237). 733. Casserole de Mouton a l’Anglaise. Neck or loin of mutton, boned and freed from fat, cut into small fillets, stewed in an earthen- ware fire-proof pan (use rich gravy) with a suet crust on top. 734. Cotelettes de Mouton a l’Avignonnaise.—Boiled mutton chops or cutlets, drained, dressed in a circle on a baking-dish, masked over with a rich veloutee sauce (No. 206) sprinkled with fresh bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, and baked in the oven (gratin style). 735. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Bardoux. -Breaded mutton cutlets, broiled in butter, served with green peas mixed with coarsely chopped fried ham previously tossed in a little butter. 736. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Choiseul.—Mutton cutlets spread over with veal forcemeat, mixed with fine herbs and chopped mush- rooms, wrapped in pigs’ caul or lambs’ leaf-fat, dipped in oiled butter, rolled in fresh bread-crumbs, and fried. Serve with suitable sauce. 737. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Dreux.—Grilled mutton cutlets garnished with coarsely minced fried lean bacon, tongue and gherkins, dished up in a circle with mashed potatoes in centre. Sauce : Demi- glace (No. 237) or other thin brown sauce. 738. Cotelettes de Mouton a l’ltalienne—Mutton cutlets steeped in a mixture of salad oil, lemon-juice, and chopped savoury herbs, crumbed in finely-chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallots, lemon-rind, powdered mace and bread-crumbs, fried in clarified butter, and served with Italian sauce (No. 239) (use herbs and spices judiciously). . 739. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Madras.—Mutton cutlets egged and crumbed in fresh bread-crumbs mixed with finely chopped tongue and ham fried in deep fat. Garnished with mixed pickles cut into Julienne shreds, and served with a mild curry sauce. 740. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Maintenon.—Mutton cutlets split open, filled with a stuffing of chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallots and chicken forcemeat, slightly broiled and afterwards baked in the282 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK oven. Dressed alternately with heart shapes of tongue and ham, and served with Italian sauce (No. 239). 741. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Milanaise.—Grilled mutton cutlets dressed in the centre of a rice border, the rice being stewed with tomato puree and flavoured with Parmesan cheese. Demi-glace sauce (No. 237) is served round the cutlets. 742. Coteletes de Mouton a la Nelson.—Par-broiled mutton cutlets, covered when cold and pressed with chicken forcemeat, onion puree, and grated cheese, baked in the oven, served with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 743. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Soyer.—Par-broiled mutton cutlets, or small chops neatly trimmed and seasoned, sprinkled with finely chopped parsley, shallots, and savoury herbs. They are then fried in butter, dished up and served with maitre d’hotel butter (No. 394), flavoured with a suspicion of garlic. 744. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Vicomtesse. —Mutton cutlets, grilled and pressed, then immersed in a well-reduced Madere sauce (No. 237a), egged, crumbed and fried. Dished up in a circle with a mixture of spring vegetables in centre and served with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 745. Epaule de Mouton a la Saiute-Menehould.—Shoulder of mutton braised with carrots, turnips, bacon and savoury herbs, when done cut into slices, dished up, covered with brown sauce, sprinkled over with bread-crumbs, and small pieces of butter, browned in a hot oven or under a salamander. 746. Escalopes de Mouton a la Chipolata. Fried crumbed mutton fillets or collops, cut from the chump ends of loins of mutton, gar- nished with braised chestnuts, carrots, turnips, and small onions, pieces of fried sausages, and fried potato croquettes. 747. Filet de Mouton a la Gascogne.—Boned piece of lean mutton (loin or neck) larded with anchovy fillets, braised and served with a brown sauce, flavoured with a suspicion of garlic. 748. Hachis de Mouton a l’Ecossaise.--Hashed mutton laid in a pie- dish, covered with bechamel sauce (No. 202), a thin layer of mashed potatoes, and bread-crumbs. Baked in a hot oven. 749. Hachis de Mouton a la Portugaise.—Thinly sliced roast leg of mutton browned slightly in butter with thin slices of ham, carrots, chopped shallots, a little garlic and chopped parsley. Braised in Madere sauce (No. 237 a). Served in a deep entree dish. 750. Langues de Mouton a la Dreux.—Boiled sheeps’ tongues, skinned and split open, ranged on a dish, spread over with a mixture of bread soaked in milk, chopped parsley or mushrooms, egg-yolks, and seasoning, sauced over with Duxelle sauce (No. 313), sprinkled over with bread-crumbs, and baked in the oven. 751. Langues de Mouton panees.—Blanch some sheeps’ tongues, trim them or cook them till tender in seasoned stock. Bemove the skins and split them lengthways, season with salt and pepper, and dip them in oiled butter, cover well with bread-crumbs. Dry-fry them in butter in a saute-pan until they acquire a golden colour.ENT BEES CHAUDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 283 Dish up round a bed of .spinach or green pea puree, pour some piquante sauce (No. 241) round the base of the dish, and serve hot. 752. Longe de Mouton en Chevreuil.—Boned loin of mutton braised in a richly-flavoured game stock with plenty of savoury herbs, carrots, onions, peppercorns, and juniper berries. Served with port wine or Reforme sauce (No. 255). 753. Pieds de Mouton a la Rouennaise.—Boiled sheeps’ trotters, boned and stuffed with sausage-meat, dipped in frying-batter, and fried in hot fat. Served with piquante sauce (No. 241).. 754. Queues de Mouton braisees a la Francaise. Sheeps’ tails braised, with carrots, turnips, small onions, garnished with the vegetables used in braising, and small marble-shaped fried potatoes. 755. Rognons de Mouton a l’Epicurienne.—Sheeps’ kidneys skinned and split, broiled or grilled ; when dished up the centres are filled with a thick tartare sauce (No. 278). Garnish the dish with small round fried potatoes, and serve with poivrade sauce (No. 263). 756. Rognons de Mouton Sautes a la Francaise.—Sliced sheeps’ kidneys, seasoned with salt, pepper, and a very little cayenne, grilled or broiled over a quick fire ; when partly done dredge with flour, and finish cooking in a little demi-glace sauce (No. 237), garnish with fried bread croutons, buttered and sprinkled over with chopped parsley. 757. Rognons de Mouton a la Turbigo.— Sliced sheeps’ kidneys tossed in butter and finely- chopped shallots. Finish cooking in a little white wine sauce mixed with small pieces of sausages and grilled lean bacon. Cut in dice-shapes. 758. Rognons de Mouton aux Fines Herbes.—Grilled sheeps’kidneys, the centres of which are filled with maitre d’hotel or parsley butter (No. 394). Serve with a little demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 759. Rognons de Mouton panes.—Sheeps’ kidneys blanched, skinned, and split, put on skewers, buttered, covered with bread-crumbs, and baked in a very hot oven, or fried in deep butter. 760. Mag out de Mouton (Haricot Mutton).— 3 lb. loin of mutton, 4 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 2 pints stock, 2 carrots, 8 to 10 small button onions, 1 bouquet garni (No. 2), a clove of garlic, 2 turnips, salt and pepper, \ glass claret. Cut the meat into neat pieces, pare off skin and fat, fry the pieces in the butter, and let them take a nice colour, then drain the pieces, trim, and cut the bones. Prepare the vegetables, cut the carrots into olive shapes, and the turnips like pigeons’ eggs, peel the onions and fry each lot in the butter until they have attained a fine colour. Take up and drain. Pour over some of the fat (butter), put in the flour, and fry a nut-brown colour, then moisten with the stock, add the claret, bouquet (clove of garlic, must be first fried a little), &c. ; boil up whilst stirring, skim, put in the meat (seasoned), and cook284 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK for about half an hour; now put the fried vegetables with the stew, and simmer gently till tender. When done, and ready for table, dress the meat in the centre of a dish, surround it with groups of vegetables, reduce the sauce a little, and strain carefully over all. 761. Ragout a VIrlandaise (Irish Stew).—3 lb. neck of mutton, 4 lb. potatoes, 1. large onion, 12 button onions, 1^ pint stock, salt and pepper. Cut the neck into convenient pieces, trim off some of the fat, wash, peel, and slice the potatoes ; peel and slice the onions, peel the button onions and blanch. Put a layer of potatoes at the bottom of a stewpan, put a layer of meat over that, season with pepper and salt, strew over a few slices of onion : proceed thus until the meat is used up. Add the small onions, when blanched, whole, among the layers, cover the top with a layer of potatoes, add the stock, let it simmer foi; about two hours. This stew should not be skimmed, as the fat will be absorbed by the potatoes ; any scum which rises to the top before it commences to simmer should, of course, be re- moved. When done, dish up neatly on a hot dish, and sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve. The stew, properly cooked, should not look watery. A tea- spoonful of mushroom or walnut ketchup may be added where this seasoning is liked. 762. AiguiUettes de Bceuf d la Brazza.—2 thick slices of sirloin of beef, cut lengthwise, larding bacon, a clove of garlic, 2 bay- leaves, £ pint claret, \ pint stock, or brown sauce, 1 tin or bottle of cepes or morels (morilles), pepper and salt, meat glaze (No. 247). To prepare this dish successfully a fire-proof earthenware casse- role is required. Free the meat from fat, lard one side of each with strips of bacon, put the meat in the casserole, add pepper and salt, the wine, garlic and bay-leaves, and let it stand thus covered for six hours. Place it on the fire, adding the stock or sauce, let it come to the boil, skim and sfmmer very gently in the oven, or on the stove for one and a half to two hours, according to the size of the meat. When done, take up, drain, place it on a dish, glaze the top with meat-glaze. Skim the gravy, reduce well, heat up the cepes or morels in a little gravy, garnish the dish with this, and serve the remainder of gravy in a sauce-boat. 763. Filets de Bo&uf d l’Athenienne.—About Fib. fillet of beef, larding bacon, a pint of mirepoix (carrot, turnip, onion, bay- leaf, bacon, Ac.), ^ gill Marsala, 1 oz. butter, 8 small cooked artichoke bottoms, 2 egg-plants (aubergines), macedoine of vegetables, \ gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), \ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 236), | gill brown stock, a little stewed rice for dishing up, salt and pepper. Trim the fillet, cut into even-sized slices about a quarter of an inch thick, flatten and pare a little, lard them with small strips of larding bacon. Put the mirepoix and butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, lay in the fillets, larded side upwards ; season with salt andENTREES CHAUDES DE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 285 pepper, put them in a hot oven until they take colour, then add the wine and stock, cover with a buttered paper, and continue cooking in the oven until the fillets are tender. Take out the fillets, remove the fat from the mirepoix, add the brown sauce, and cook over the fire for ten minutes. Skim and strain. Prepare the macedoine of vegetables with some carrots, turnips, cut with a vegetable scoop, together with some French beans and peas ; cook separately in salted water, strain, and moisten with bechamel sauce; season to taste, and fill up the artichoke bottoms in a pile ; place them on a saute-pan in the oven to get hot. Cook the egg-plants, cut into thick slices when cold, egg, crumb, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Have ready some cooked rice, nicely seasoned, put a layer of the rice in the centre of an oblong dish, dress the fillets neatly on this, surround with filled artichoke bottoms and fried egg-plant. Pour a little of the sauce, which should be well reduced, over the fillets, and serve the remainder separately. This dish can also be served by leaving the fillet whole, proceeding exactly as described. 764. Cc&urs de Filets de Beeuf d la Car erne.—Cut six to eight half-inch-thick slices from a fillet of beef (middle cut), flatten them a little, and trim closely into round shapes ; season them with salt and pepper. Insert the thin blade of a knife into each fillet, and make an incision sufficiently large to receive a slice of truffled foie gras pate. This done, insert the foie gras. Melt about one and a half ounces of butter in a saute-pan, when hot put the fillets in and saute them over a quick fire, adding during this process a finely-chopped shallot, and fry a light-brown colour. The shallots must not be fried too soon, else they will become too dark before the fillets are sufficiently cooked. Have ready a pint of cooked asparagus points, finished in a little butter and nicely seasoned, also about a gill of Perigord sauce (No. 243). Dress the fillets on croutes in a circle in the centre of a round dish, sauce over carefully with Perigord sauce, put the asparagus points in the centre of the dish, and serve. 765. Filets de Bceuf d la Chateaubriand.—3 double fillets, each weighing about 16 oz., sweet oil, Parisienne potatoes {No. 767), maitre d’hdtel butter {No. 324), Chateaubriand sauce (No. 250), seasoning. The name Chateaubriand is given to a double fillet, cut from the centre of a fillet of beef, the weight varying from sixteen to twenty ounces. Trim and pare the fillets neatly, and flatten slightly so that each is about three-quarters of an inch thick. Season with salt and pepper, baste freely with oil, and broil them over a slow but regular fire from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to requirement—if wanted rare sixteen minutes will suffice. Range them on a hot dish and serve with maitre d’hotel butter, or surround with Parisienne potatoes and pour Chateaubriand sauce over the meat and serve. The latter is the correct way if the above-named dish is required. A Chateau- briand plain is served with maitre d’hotel butter only.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 286 766. Filets de Beeuf d la Colbert.—About 2 lb. fillet of beef, 8 oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfids sweet oil {Provence), 3 shallots, ^ glass Marsala or sherry wine, 1^ gill Espagnole sauce {No. 236), chopped parsley, lemon-juice, salt, pepper, cayenne or paprika, Parisienne potatoes {No. 767), fried bread croutes. Trim and pare the piece of fillet, cut it crossways into about eight slices, flatten them slightly, and season with pepper and salt. Melt two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, add the oil, when hot range in the small fillets and fry over a brisk fire for a few minutes. They must be fried quickly on both sides and must be cooked rare (underdone)-. Put them on a plate, pour off most of the fat in the pan, into this put the shallots, previously peeled and chopped finely, fry a little (they must not get brown) ; then add the wine, and the sauce, stir and let boil for a few minutes, gradually add in little bits about an ounce of butter ; season with cayenne or paprika pepper and a little salt if needed, add also about half a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and about a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Return the fillets to the sauce thus prepared, mix well, but avoid boiling again. Dress the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with small round fried potatoes (pommes Parisienne), surround the base of the dish with six to eight heart- shaped slices of bread fried in clarified butter, and send to table hot. 767. Femmes Parisienne.—These are prepared in the same manner as ‘ pommes Chateau,’ the potatoes being scooped out in little round balls, by means of a vegetable-cutter, or scoop. In blanching, great care must be taken ; they should be brought to the boil quickly, else they will be in pieces by the time they are cooked. Ten minutes is ample for baking. They are mostly served as a garnish with fillets of beef, steaks, or tournedos. 768. Filets de Beeuf d la Garibaldi.—2| lb. fillet of beef {middle cut), about £ lb. beef marrow, 1 large truffle, \ lb. ham, 2 eggs, 1 oz. butter, tomato {No. 271) or piquante {No. 241) sauce, salt and pepper, nutmeg, macaroni croquettes for garnish. Cut the fillet into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, beat them a little with a wet knife, and stamp or cut out some rounds about two inches in diameter. Cut as many thin round slices of marrow as you have fillets, blanch them and keep till required. Remove skin and fat from the trimmings of the fillet, cut up small, and pound in a mortar till smooth. Add suet and marrow, about half the quantity that there is meat, pound together thoroughly, mix in the yolks of two eggs, season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, and rub through a wire sieve. Season the fillets, put a thin slice of blanched marrow and a slice of truffle on each, placing a thin layer of beef farce between them. Put a thin slice of bacon, as nearly as possible the size of the fillets, on the top of each fillet; thus prepared, press slightly together. Cover over completely with a thin layer of farce, chop finely the trimmings of truffle, dip the fillets in white of egg, sprinkle the surface with chopped truffle. Melt the butter in aENTREES CHA TIDES DE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 287 saute-pan; when hot, put in the fillets and broil over a quick fire for a few minutes, then cover with a buttered paper, and finish in a hot oven. When done, take up, dress in a row on a small bed of mashed potatoes. Sauce over with well-reduced tomato or piquante sauce, garnish the sides with fried macaroni croquettes, and serve hot. 769. Filets de JBeeuf pique ci la Iieyniere.—Middle cut of fillet {about 4 lb.), 1 large truffle, 1 glass sherry, 1 small carrot, 1 small turnip, 1 small onion, 10 peppercorns, 1 bouquet garni {No. 3), larding bacon, 4 even-sized tomatoes, 8 small potatoes, 2 oz. butter, 1 Spanish onion, 2 oz. Parmesan cheese, 1 oz. bread-crumbs, 2 yolks of eggs,. 8 rounds of bread crorites, 1 quart of stock, 1 gill brown sauce, pepper and salt, meat glaze (No. 247). Free the fillet from skin, sinew, and fat; trim a little, and cut into eight even-sized slices (fillets). Lard one side of each fillet with strips of bacon and strips of truffles ; butter thickly a saute-pan, range the fillets in it, clean the carrot and turnip, cut into slices, peel the onion and cut in slices. Season the fillets with pepper and salt, cover with the vegetables, herbs, peppercorns, and trimmings of bacon. Put this on the fire and broil both sides of the fillets a little, then add the sherry and stock, cover with a lid or buttered paper, and braise in the oven for about twenty minutes. Take out the fillets, put them on a dish, and keep hot. Remove fat from the liquor, add the brown sauce, boil gently for ten minutes, and strain. Boil the Spanish onion in salted water. Peel the potatoes, cut the ends, scoop out the centre with a column-cutter, prepare a mixture with the Spanish onion finely chopped, grated Parmesan cheese, bread-crumbs, egg-yolks, and one ounce of butter. Fry the potatoes in hot fat or lard, drain and cool, then fill with the prepared stuffing. Cut the tomatoes in halves, broil slightly in butter, put a stuffed potato on the cut side of each tomato, place them on a baking-sheet, and bake for ten minutes. Dish up the fillets on fancifully cut croutes of fried bread, brush the surface of the fillets with dissolved meat glaze, garnish round the dish with the stuffed potatoes and tomatoes. Pour a little of the sauce round the dish, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. 770. Filets de Reeitf d la Viennoise.—2 lb. lean beef, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 teaspoo'nful savoury herbs, 3 oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful flour, 3 onions, 2 eggs, 1 gill demi-glace sauce {No. 237), salt, pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg. Remove the sinews from the meat, cut it into small pieces, and chop very fine, or pass twice through the mincing-machine. Mix this with chopped parsley, savoury herbs, a little flour, one whole and one yolk of egg, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Form some even-sized balls, flatten each with the palm of your hand to give them the shape of round fillets. Peel and slice the onions, cut some of the slices from the centre of each onion, rather thicker than the rest, divide the rings carefully, and reserve the largest forTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK *288 frying separately. Dissolve about an ounce of butter in a frying-pan, and fry the divided onions until of a golden colour; put them in a small stewpan, with sufficient brown sauce to keep moist, and allow to simmer gently for about twenty minutes. Dredge the prepared fillets with a little flour, and fry in butter in a frying-pan. Dip the onion rings into flour, then into white of egg, and again in flour, place them in a frying-basket, and fry a golden colour. Dish up the fillets, put a spoonful of stewed onions on the centre of each. Ornament round the fillets with the fried onion rings, sauce over the fillets with demi-glace sauce, sprinkle with a few drops of meat glaze, and serve. 771. Miff nous de Filet de Beeuf auoc Bananes (Small Fillets of Beef with Bananas).—3 lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, 4 bananas, 1 small onion, 1 gill cream, 2 yolks of eggs, meat glaze, horseradish, chopped parsley, frying-fat, pepper and salt, flour, bread-crumbs, brown sauce,. Trim the fillet, cut it crossways into six even-sized slices (fillets), pare these into round shapes, season with pepper and salt. Broil both sides of the fillets in butter over a quick fire for about eight minutes, take up, glaze over with meat glaze, and keep hot. Have ready the onion finely chopped, blanch, drain, and fry without browning in the butter in which the fillets were cooked ; add the cream, stir till hot (not boiling), now add the yolks of egg and let bind, rub through a strainer, and keep hot. Peel the bananas, split each in two and divide in halves, crossways, dip in flour, egg and crumb, and fry in hot fat. Dish up the fillets on a hot dish, mix some finely-grated horseradish with the sauce, and put a spoonful of it on top of each fillet, sprinkle over with liquid meat glaze and chopped parsley, garnish with fried bananas, and serve with brown sauce. 772. Filets Mignons d la Beauffremont.—2 lb. fillet of beef, 1 egg, 2 oz. fresh butter, fresh bread-crumbs, \ lb. macaroni, 1 oz. grated cheese, 3 truffles, 2 oz. meat glaze (No. 247), 1 pint tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 gill Mad'ere saioce (No. 237 a), pepper and salt. Cut about eight small slices from the fillet, trim them neatly, season with pepper and salt, dip in beaten egg, and crumb them. Melt the butter in a saute-pan; when hot, put in the fillets and bake in a hot oven for about fifteen minutes ; turn them occasionally. Have ready some macaroni blanched in salted water, let them boil in a little stock until tender, and finish with tomato sauce and grated cheese. Dress the fillets en couronne on a round dish, place the macaroni in the centre. Cut the truffles into thin strips, sprinkle over the macaroni, reduce the remainder of tomato sauce with the Madere sauce and meat glaze, and serve with the dish. 773. Filets Mignons d la Castelaine.-6-8 very small filletsENTREES CHAUDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 289 of beef, lh oz. fresh butter, 2 finely chopped shallots, 1 dessert- spoonful chopped parsley, 1 glass Chablis, 8 to 10 neat slices lobster (meat), pepper and salt, sauce Pompadour (No. 273), meat glaze (No. 247) for garnish, small fish quenelles (No. 561), stuffed olives (olives farcies), and slices of truffles, glazed. Flatten the fillets a little, then pare and trim them into neat round shapes, season them to taste. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the fillets, and fry quickly over a brisk fire to brown slightly both sides of the fillets. Boil the shallots in the wine for five minutes, add this with the parsley to the fillets, cover the pan, and cook quickly for about five minutes. Press the fillets on a dish, warm the slices of lobster in the liquor left from the fillets, and place a slice between the fillets (keep hot). Pour the sauce into the pan containing the liquor, re-heat, skim off the fat, and pour over the fillets. Garnish with slices of truffles, stuffed olives, heated up in liquefied meat glaze, also a few very small fish quenelles, poached in fish stock ; sprinkle a little meat glaze over the latter, and serve. 774. Filets MUjnons a la Dauphine.—-2^ lb. fillet of beef, 1 small onion, 1 small carrot, 1 bouquet of herbs, 1 glass Gliablis, | gill oil, 1-J- oz. butter, pepper and salt, larding bacon, ^ lb. potato puree, 2 oz. cooked chicken meat, 1 truffle, a handful cooked spinach,, 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 6 potato croquettes (A la Dauphine), 1 glass sherry, a handful cooked rice, 6 small artichoke bottoms. Trim the fillet and cut into eight neatly-shaped pieces, flatten a little with the cutlet-bat, insert in each a few strips of larding bacon, season with pepper and salt. Lay them on a bed of vegetables (carrot and onion sliced), and the herbs, moisten with Chablis and oil, let remain to soak for about one hour or more. Cook the rice in a little stock, season and keep till wanted ; prepare the potato croquettes, egg, crumb, and fry (keep hot). Drain the fillets on a cloth, fry in butter over a quick fire for about six minutes (they must be underdone, unless specially desired well done). Take up the fillets, keep hot, pour off the butter from the pan, add the sherry and reduce to half, then add* the tomato sauce and cook a few minutes. Chop the chicken meat and truffle, moisten with a little sauce, season to taste, and fill the artichoke bottoms with this mixture. Cover the surface well with cooked spinach, previously rubbed through a sieve, and seasoned ; place a tiny piece of butter on each, and put in the oven for about ten minutes to get hot through. Dress the rice and bed on a dish; dish up the fillets on this. Garnish the sides alternately with a stuffed artichoke and a potato croquette, pour a little sauce round the dish, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. 775. Filets Mignons a la Genoise.—2| lb. fillet of beef, beef marrow, 3 to 4 large potatoes, 2 oz. butter, meat glaze (No. 247), Genoise sauce (No. 245). Cut the fillets into eight to nine very small rounds, about a quarter of an inch thick, flatten, pare, and season. Peel the potatoes UTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 290 and scoop out some small marble shapes, blanch, and finish cooking in hot fat or in the oven with a little butter. Blanch and broil the marrow. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the little fillets, fry over a quick fire, slightly browning both sides. Pour off the butter, brush over the fillets with liquid meat glaze, dish up in a row on a small bed of mashed potatoes or peas, put a small piece of cooked marrow on top of each fillet. Arrange the potatoes in groups round the dish, sprinkle with some chopped parsley, sauce over the fillets with Genoise sauce, and serve the remainder separately in a bowl or boat. 776. Toumedos a la Quirinal.—8 small fillets of beef (weighing about 5 ounces each), 1 tin foie gras naturel, 2 large truffles, larding bacon, 2 oz. butter, 2 shallots, 2 small carrots (young), 1 glass sherry, 8 champignons, 1 tablespoonful Lemco (Liebig Co.'s extract of beef), 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 287), 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice, salt and pepper, Parisian potatoes (No. 767). Flatten the fillets slightly, pare and trim them into round, flat shapes. Insert a few strips of larding bacon in each so as to form a star. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, when hot place in the fillets, and cook over a quick fire for some minutes ; turn them occasionally so that they acquire a nice brown colour on each side. Take them up, and saute eight neat slices of foie gras in the same butter. Dress the fillets and foie gras escalopes alternately on a round dish in the form of a circle. Have ready a rich sauce prepared as follows:—Cut the carrot (red part only), mushrooms (champignons), and one shallot into small dice. Cook the carrot and one shallot in a little stock, mince finely the other shallot, and fry in butter, add the wine, and the other ingredients (cut in dice), cover and cook for ten minutes, skim, add the sauce and half a tablespoonful of Lemco. Season the sauce with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne, and flavour with lemon-juice. Cut the truffle into slices, dissolve the remainder of meat extract with a few drops of stock, glaze fhe slices of truffle in this, and place them on top of the fillets. Sauce over the whole carefully, and fill the centre with Parisian potatoes (pommes Parisienne). 777. Coeurs de Filets de Seen/ a la Rossini.—A bout 21 lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, 6 large chicken livers, 1 truffle, 8 round pieces of fried bread, £ gill Lucca oil, 1 shallot, 2 oz. foie gras, pepper and salt, meat glaze (No. 247), demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Pare the fillet, cut it into slices about a quarter of an inch in thickness, flatten and trim neatly (each slice should weigh from three to three and a half ounces when trimmed). Put a quarter of a gill of oil and an ounce of butter in a saute-pan. When hot, put in the fillets, and cook over a quick fire ; they should be rather underdone unless otherwise ordered ; they will take from five to seven minutes at the most. When done place them on a dish, season with salt and pepper, and brush over with meat glaze.ENTREES CHAUDES DE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 291 Prepare beforehand the following farce:—Wash the livers and cut them into fine slices. Fry the finely-chopped shallot in butter, put in the liver, and toss over the the fire for a few minutes, season, pound in a mortar with the foie gras and a large tablespoonful of brown sauce, pass through a sieve, divide the farce into eight portions, and spread over one side of the eight fillets. Place each on rounds of fried bread, poach in a hot oven for a few seconds only, brush over with meat-glaze, dish up, place a slice of truffle on top of each, and serve with demi-glace sauce. 778. Filets Mignons a la Rothschild.—2-2^ lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, a little meat-glaze {No. 247), a tablespoonful of finely-grated horseradish, \ gill cream, 2 lb. mashed potatoes, 2 eggs, bread-crumbs, 1 sour cooking-apple, clarified butter for frying purposes, 6-8 preserved mushrooms, seasoning, tomato sauce {No. 271). Trim the fillet of beef and cut crossways six to eight even-sized slices, pare them neatly and season with pepper and salt. Melt some butter in a saute-pan and fry the fillets on both sides over a brisk fire, but taking care that they get cooked rare — i.e. rather underdone in the centre. Mix the mashed potatoes, horseradish, and cream in a stewpan over the fire, when thoroughly hot work in a couple of egg- yolks, stir until the latter begin to bind, then season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and spread the mixture on a dish or plate. Shape this into six to eight (same number as fillets) even-sized balls, flatten them down to about the same shape and thickness as the fillets. Egg, crumb, and fry them in clarified butter. Drain and keep them hot. Remove the stalks of the preserved mushrooms, and toss them in the butter used for frying the fillets. Peel and core the apple and cut it into thin slices, dip them in milk and flour, and fry in hot clarified butter. Place the potato shapes on to a hot dish, and put a fillet upon each, brush these over with liquid meat glaze, and place, a slice of fried apple on top of them. Arrange the fillets tastefully on top of the dish, and put a mushroom-head on top (centre) of the apple slices. Pour some hot tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. It is, of course, safer to leave the frying of the fillets till almost the last. It will only take about five or six minutes to fry them as they should be—viz. rare or underdone ; if fried any longer they will be over-done. 779. Olives de Rceuf {Beef Olives).—1^ to H lb. of fillet of beef or rump steak {cut thick), 1 egg, 2 oz. fresh bread-crumbs, H oz. beef suet, chopped finely, ^ oz. chopped ham, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, £ teaspoonful aromatic spice, a pinch of poiodered street herbs, \ teaspoonful fimely-grated lemon-rind, salt and pepper, f pint brown sauce. Free the meat from skin and fat, and cut it into slices, flatten each slice with a wetted cutlet-bat- they must be rather thin andTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 292 about four inches long by one and a half to two inches wide. Prepare the following stuffing: Put the bread-crumbs, suet, ham, parsley, herbs, lemon-rind, and spice into a basin, mix well, and moisten with a well-beaten egg. Season the slices of meat with a little salt and pepper, and lay them out flat. Spread a layer of the prepared stuffing on each slice of meat, roll up neatly, and tie each with a piece of string. Have the sauce heated in a stew- or saute-pan, lay in the prepared rolls, cover and stew gently from forty to forty-five minutes. Remove the strings from the rolls and dish them upon a bed of mashed potatoes. Pour over some of the sauce, and garnish the sides of the dish with spinach or groups of braised button onions. Serve hot. 780. Gullasch (Gulids-hus), an Austro-Hungarian Dish.— 1 lb. lean beef (sirloin or rib), 4 onion, 3 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful caraway seeds, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, 1 gill brown stock {No. 87), 2 small potatoes, 4 oz. bacon, \ wineglassful of Madeira, 4 tea- spoonful of salt, a pinch of paprika pepper. Remove the skin and fat from the meat, cut it into small dice, wash and peel the potatoes, cut them likewise in dice, together with the bacon ; tie the caraway seeds in a piece of muslin cloth. Melt half the butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, add the onion finely chopped, and fry a little, just enough to slightly colour them ; add the meat, season with salt and pepper, and let it cook in a hot oven or over a bright fire for about ten minutes. Sprinkle with the flour, moisten with the wine and stock, add the tied-up caraway seed, and let it simmer slowly. Melt the remainder of the butter in a frying- pan, add the bacon, and fry a little ; now add the potatoes and cook them slowly over the fire until of a nice golden colour ; pour off the superfluous fat, mix with the meat, cover over and allow to simmer gently until the meat and potatoes are quite done. Stir from time to time, using a fork for this purpose so as not to break the potato dice, remove the caraway seeds, dish up on a hot dish, and serve, very hot. Veal can be treated in the same way. Coarsely-minced apples are sometimes added, and cooked with the meat. 781. Tournedos d I’Aixoise.—Saute or toss some neatly-cut tournedos (fillets of beef cut small) in sufficient butter, dress them on croquettes made of fresh cepes. Garnish the dish with halves of fried tomatoes, green peas, or small rounds of new potatoes, fried. Serve with demi-glace (No. 237) or moelle (No. 340) sauce. 782. Tournedos d la Seymour.—Cut some thin slices of fillet of beef, trim them and saute them in butter. Season to taste, and place each on an artichoke bottom previously heated and seasoned, dish up in a circle, cover each with a well-flavoured Bear- naise sauce (No. 225), place a slice of truffle on each, and fill the centre with stuffed French olives. Sauce over with demi-glace (No. 237) and serve.ENT BEES CHAUDES BE VIANDES {EOT MEAT DISHES) 293 783. Tournedos d la Madeleine.—Cut eight slices of fillet of beef, of equal size, each weighing about a quarter of a pound ; beat them a little and trim them neatly. Prepare as many croutons of bread, the same size as the tournedos ; fry them in clarified butter and drain. Warm up in a small earthen pan three ounces of meat glaze, work in with a wooden spoon gradually four ounces of fresh butter; work vigorously until it resembles a light creamy substance, adding in the meantime the juice of one large lemon, one shallot, a sprig of tarragon, one of chervil, one of chive, and a few sprigs of parsley, all chopped very fine; season with salt, pepper, and a little cayenne. Parboil about two ounces new kidney potatoes, previously scraped ; drain and fry them in butter a nice light yellow; season with salt and pepper, and when done sprinkle with a little chopped parsley. Put a little butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, add the tournedos; let them brown one side, then turn and let brown the other side, over a quick fire ; now season with pepper and salt, dish up each on a crouton of bread, place them on a dish, put the potatoes round the tournedos in rows ; put a dessertspoonful of the prepared butter over the top of each, leaving a little space in the centre for a few drops of dissolved meat glaze ; serve quickly. 784. Tournedos de JBoeuf d la Moscovienne.—Choose a nice piece of tender loin or sirloin of beef, remove all the sinews and fat, cut it into even-sized oblong slices, flatten a little with the cutlet- bat, and lard them with small strips of larding-bacon, raw ham, and truffles, so that they are inserted in alternate rows. Place the tournedos in a flat stewpan, cover them with a few slices of fat bacon, add half a sliced onion, half a sliced carrot, and a small bunch of savoury herbs (No. 2). Season with pepper and salt, moisten with a gill of white wine and a gill of brown stock (No. 87). Cover and cook briskly over the fire from fifteen to twenty minutes. Drain the tournedos, remove the bacon, add half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 236), and a dessertspoonful of grated horseradish to the fond. Let all reduce well and strain into a small stewpan. Remove all fat, and finish the sauce with a pinch of caster sugar and an ounce of fresh butter, worked in bit by bit; keep the sauce warm. Glaze and dish up the tournedos, garnish with alternate groups of button mush- rooms, previously warmed in well-reduced stock, and medium-sized stuffed onions (No. 785). Pour the sauce over the garnish (not over the meat), and serve. 785. Stuffed Onions a la Moscovienne.—Peel eight to ten medium-sized onions, parboil them in salted water, with a small piece of butter. Drain on a cloth, and cool. Carefully scoop out the centre part of each onion, and chop very fine, with about half its quantity of mushrooms. Put it in a stewpan, with a handful of bread- crumbs, season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, moisten with a little Espagnole sauce (No. 48), mix well, and stuff the centre of the onions with sauce. Place them on a buttered saute-pan,294 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK sprinkle the top with fresh bread-crumbs, put a small bit of butter on each one, and bake in a moderate oven a golden colour. Time to bake, about half an hour. 786. Tournedos de Beeuf d la Napoleon.—2 to 3 lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, 4 oz. calves’ liver, 2 oz. foie gras, 2 oz. cooked tongue, 2 oz. fat bacon, 1 shallot finely chopped, 1 egg, 1 oz. meat glaze, stoned olives, 1 oz. panade, salt and pepper, Bordelaise sauce (No. 249), marrow-fat. Trim the piece of fillet, and cut it in very small pieces. Grill or broil them in a little butter for about six minutes (they must not be cooked through), and place them between two boards to press and cool. Cut the liver into slices, and mincq the bacon evenly. Melt a little butter, add the shallbts, and fry a golden colour; then add the bacon and liver, and toss over the fire for about five minutes ; season to taste, put on a plate, and let cool. Pound the above in a mortar, together with the tongue and foie gras, add the panade and egg, mix well, season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. Spread one side of each fillet thickly with this farce ; stuff as many stoned olives as there are fillets with the same. Cook the fillets for a few minutes in the oven, brush over with meat glaze. Put the olives in a buttered saute-pan in the oven, and cook for six minutes. Blanch the marrow (cut into very small rounds), drain, and warm up in the sauce Bordelaise. Dish up the fillets on a potato border, put again in the oven so as to heat them thoroughly. Put a stuffed olive and a round of marrow on each fillet, sauce over and round with well-reduced Bordelaise sauce, and serve. 787. Cdtelettes Barlsiennes d VJEcarlate.—2 lb. cooked ox-tongue, £ lb. raw chicken meat, 2 oz. cooked ham or bacon, 2 oz. suet, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 3 oz. panade (No. 8), 2 eggs, salt, pepper, and cayenne, 1 gill demi-glace (No. 237), and tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 dessertspoonful meat glaze, 1 oz. butter. Cut the tongue into eight to ten slices, give them the shape of cutlets, prepare a stiff forcemeat mixture with the remnants of tongue, the chicken, ham, suet, panade, and eggs, pound and pass through a sieve ; season with pepper and salt, and the chopped parsley. Butter some small cutlet-moulds, fill them with the forcemeat, and steam them in the oven. Place the tongue cutlets in a well buttered saute1 pan, add a ladleful of gravy or stock, let them get thoroughly warm, glaze them over with dissolved meat glaze, turn the cutlets from the moulds, dish up alternately a cutlet of tongue with a cutlet of force- meat, dress in a circular form ; have ready the demi-glace sauce, well flavoured with tomato sauce, pour the sauce in the centre of the dish, and serve. 788. Porterhouse Steak larded d la Gonffe.—Cut two steaks from the sirloin about one inch in thickness. Each steak should have the undercut left on, and must be cut from the chine- bone portion. Flatten and trim a little, lard one side of each withENTRIES CHAUDES DE VlANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 295 strips of fat bacon (larding bacon), season with pepper and salt, brush over well with oiled butter, broil over a brisk fire (rather underdone), dish up, garnishing a la Gouffe (No. 464), and serve with demi-glace (No. 237). ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER ENTREES, ETC., OF BEEF. 789. Beefsteaks a l’Anglaise.— Small steaks cut off the sirloin or tenderloin of beef, pared, seasoned, dipped in oiled butter, and broiled. Dished up with parsley butter (No. 394) on each, garnished with small round chipped potatoes. 790. Beefsteaks a la Bardoux.—Thinly-cut round fillet steaks, dipped in oiled butter, rolled in a mixture of fresh bread-crumbs, finely-chopped beef-marrow and parsley, salt and pepper. Pried briskly in butter, and served with mattre d’hotel sauce (No. 233). 791. Beefsteaks a la Brisse.—Small round fillet steaks, slightly marinated, then drained and broiled. Served with well-reduced and highly-spiced tomato sauce, surrounded with small timbales of mashed turnips. 792. Beefsteaks a la Godard,—Small round fillet steaks, seasoned and grilled. Served with a rich demi-glace sauce (No. 237), garnished with small slices of sweetbreads, mushroom-heads, quartered artichoke bottoms, and truffles. 793. Beefsteaks a la Soyer.— Small, but rather plump, tender steaks, dipped in oiled butter, sprinkled with bread-crumbs, finely- chopped chives, parsley, and seasoning, fried in butter or lard, and served with a richly-prepared savoury herb sauce. 794. Chateaubriand a la Chipolata. -Broiled double fillet steak, dished up and garnished with braised and glazed chestnuts, fried pieces of sausage, and mushroom heads. Served with tomato sauce (No. 271). 795. Chateaubriand a la Cordon Rouge. Double fillet steak basted with oiled butter, seasoned, sprinkled with finely-chopped ham and fresh bread-crumbs, then broiled gently in clarified butter, garnished with groups of sliced truffles, prepared Brussels sprouts, and small stuffed tomatoes. Served with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 796. Chateaubriand a la Marseillaise.—Grilled double fillet steak, surrounded with groups of glazed carrots, button onions, and very small cooked pieces of calves’ feet, coated with batter and fried. Served with Bordelaise sauce (No. 249). 797. Entrecotes a la Parisienne.—Grilled entrecotes (sirloin steaks) of beef, spread over with a mixture of finely-chopped shallot and chopped parsley, lemon-juice, and meat glaze. Garnished with small round fried potatoes. Serve with rich gravy. 798. Filets de Bceuf a la Claremont.—Braised fillets of beef larded and glazed, served with a garniture of braised, stuffed cucumber and tomatoes, also some small stuffed onions glazed. Sauce : Bear-THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 296 naise (No. 225), on top of the fillets with demi-glace (No. 237), round the dish. 799. Filets de Bceuf a la Conflans.—Braised fillets of beef, finished in white wine and savoury herbs. Served with a garniture of finely- shredded ox-tongue, mushrooms, and truffles, and a well-reduced demi- glace sauce (No 237). 800. Filets de Boeuf a la Financiere.—Boast fillets of beef, larded and glazed, garnished with slices of sweetbread, mushrooms, truffles, forcemeat quenelles, and turned olives. Served with Madere sauce (No 237 a). 801. Filets de Boeuf a la Garfield.— Small round fillet steaks larded, grilled, dished up and garnished with finely-cut Julienne shapes of ham, tongue, truffles, and mushrooms. Served with poivrade sauce (No. 263). 802. Filets de Boeuf a la Polonaise.— Small round fillets made from finely-choppdd lean rump or tender loin of beef and a small propor- tion of chopped suet, seasoned, shaped, egged, crumbed. Fried in clarified fat, garnished with small round fried potatoes, and served with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 803. Filets de Bceuf a la Royale.— Braised fillets of beef, larded, surrounded with a garniture of forcemeat quenelles, stoned olives, sliced truffles, and small glazed lambs’ breads, served with tomato sauce (No. 271). 804. Filets de Boeuf a la Sicilienne. -Grilled fillets of beef, served with Sicilian sauce, which is composed of a well-reduced Madeira wine sauce with finely-shredded onion, previously fried in clarified butter. 805. Noix de Boeuf a la Bourgeoise.—Braised piece of kernel or rump (centre cut) of beef larded, finished in a richly-flavoured brown sauce, to which a little tomato puree has been added. Garnish with braised carrots and button onions, and serve with the above-named sauce well reduced. 806. Paupiettes de Boeuf a la Richelieu. Thin slices of fillets of beef stuffed, rolled, and braised, garnished with forcemeat quenelles, truffles, and mushrooms. Serve with Bichelieu sauce (No. 366). 807. Tournedos a la Colbert.—Small round fillet steaks seasoned and fried in equal parts of sweet oil and butter. Dish up en cou- ronne, fill the centre of the dish with small rounds of fried potatoes, garnish with bread croutons, and serve with shallot sauce reduced with sherry. 808. Tournedos a la Nicoise.—Small fillet steaks grilled, served with a demi-glace sauce (No. 237), blended with tomato puree. Garnish the dish with stuffed olives. Note.—Bump steaks, porterhouse steaks, tenderloin steaks, sirloin steaks, entrecotes, fillet steaks, beef olives, and tournedos may also be finished and served in a greater variety by substituting any appropriate garnish or sauce with their respective names as herein indicated.ENTREES CHANDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 297 809. Langue de Bceuf a la Romaine.—Braised pickled ox-tongue, served with sauce Romaine, composed of Espagnole sauce (No. 236), white wine, blanched currants, sultanas, Italian pine-seeds (pignolis), chilli vinegar, and a little powdered sugar, all well reduced and passed through a tammy. 810. Langue de Bceuf au Gratin.—Slices of boiled ox-tongue dressed on a buttered baking or gratin dish, spread over with a mixture of brown sauce, fresh bread-crumbs, chopped shallots, parsley and mushrooms, hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and fresh butter, baked in a quick oven, and sent to table on the dish in which it is baked. 811. Langue de Bceuf au Parmesan.— Boiled ox-tongue sliced, arranged on a gratin dish, spread over with a mixture of white sauce, grated Parmesan cheese, bread-crumbs, chopped shallots, and fresh butter, baked and served in a gratin or baking dish. 812. Palais de Bceuf a l’Orly.—Stewed ox-palate, spread over, when cold, on one side with forcemeat mixed with a little savoury herbs, then rolled, and dipped in cold white sauce. When set, egg, crumb, and fry in deep fat. Serve with tomato sauce (No. 271). 813. Palais de Bceuf grille.—Pickled ox-palates, boiled, pressed, and cut into pieces, egged and crumbed, dipped in oiled butter, and grilled. Serve with a piquante tomato sauce. 814. Queue de bceuf. braisee d la Polonaise (.Braised Ox- tail with Cauliflower).—Cut a good-sized ox-tail into sections, blanch the pieces in slightly-salted water, cool and drain them thoroughly on a cloth. Melt about two ounces of butter in a braising- pan, when hot put in the ox-tail, season with salt and pepper and fry them over a quick fire for some minutes, now add one large carrot cut into slices, a sliced onion, a few slices of lean bacon, twelve peppercorns and a bay-leaf. Fry a little longer, so as to blend the vegetables. Pour off the butter, moisten with a pint of Madere sauce (No. 237 a), and cook in the oven (pan covered) from one and a half to two hours, or till the meat is quite tender. Meanwhile cook a large cauliflower (previously trimmed and washed) in salted water. Dish the ox-tail pieces on a round dish, sauce over carefully, put the centre part of the cauliflower in the centre of the dish, and place the smaller parts around it. Sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley and pour a little butter (beurre noisette, No. 244) over the vegetable. The slices of bacon, carrot, and onion may, if liked, be included when dishing up, but the sauce must be strained before being used. 815. Steak and Kidney Pie.—Make a puff-paste crust (see ‘Pastry’), cut about a pound of rump or buttock steak into thin slices, dip each slice into a mixture of flour, salt, and pepper, and roll a slice of kidney and a tiny piece of fat into each slice of beef. Place them in a pie-dish pour, in enough water or stock to come half-wayTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 298 up the dish, wet the edges of the dish and line with a strip of paste, brush the edge of the crust with egg, milk, or water, and place on a cover of paste. Make a small incision in the centre of the paste, and decorate with a few fancifully cut leaves of paste. Brush over with beaten egg-yolk and bake for about one and a half hour. Yeal and ham, pigeon,, and rabbit pies are made in the same manner. Hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters or slices can be used with the filling ingredients if liked. A rough puff or flaky crust is eminently suitable for all kinds of meat pies. 816. Steak and Oyster P adding. 1 lb. flour {sifted), 8 oz. beef suet, 1 gill milk, li lb. buttock or rump steak, 18 sauce oysters, ^ gill stock {No. 87), salt and pepper, | lemon. Free the suet from skin and chop it very finely, sprinkle a little flour or bread-crumbs with the suet when chopping it, put the flour and suet in a basin, add a good pinch of salt, and mix thoroughly. Add the milk, and a little water if needed, and work into a paste. Cut the beef across the grain into thin slices. Mix about a table- spoonful of flour with a teaspoonful of fine salt and half a teaspoonful of pepper in a plate, dip one side of the meat slices in this, roll in each a small piece of fat. Beard the oysters. Boll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick and line with it a pudding-basin of suitable size. Reserve a piece of the paste large enough for the top of the pudding. Fill the lined basin with layers of beef and oysters. Rasp a little lemon-rind between the layers, moisten with well seasoned stock and a little lemon-juice. Wet the edge of the paste crust, and place on the cover; press down the edges very firmly. Tie up the basin in a pudding-cloth, which has been wrung out in hot water and floured : in tying the cloth allow sufficient room for the crust to swell in cooking. Put the pudding in a stewpan half filled with boiling water, and cook for two and a half hours, or steam for about three hours. When done remove the cloth, turn out the pudding on a hot dish, and serve. 817. Cold Meat Kedgeree.—6 oz. of cold meat {any kind ivill do), 4 oz. rice, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 oz. butter, 2 slices finely- chopped onion, parsley, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Remove the skin, gristle, and superfluous fat from the meat, and chop it not too finely. Boil the rice in the usual manner, so that when tender each grain will separate and is intact. Drain the rice when done. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the onion and fry a golden colour, then add the meat, and fry for a few minutes, stir in the rice, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Shell the eggs, chop the whites, and mix with the above. Heat up the whole thoroughly and dish up in a pyramidal form. Rub the yolks of eggs through a wire sieve and sprinkle over the kedgeree. Sprinkle over likewise some finely-chopped parsley, and arrange the dish as neatly as possible. Place it in the oven for a few minutes, and send to table.ENTREES CHAUDES.DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 299 Cold poultry or game can be prepared in exactly the same manner. 818. Hacliis de Banif a la Bourgeoise (Beef Hash, Bour- geoise Style).—1 lb. cold beef (roast sirloin, rib, or top side), 4 oz. preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked, ham, 2 finely-chopped shallots, 1 oz. butter, 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), i gill tomato puree, seasoning, 4 potatoes scooped out in marble-shapes, parboiled and fried in butter. Cut the meat into neat square slices about an inch in size ; cut the mushrooms into thin slices, and the ham into dice. Fry the shallots in the butter without browning, then add the ham and allow to fry a little, then the mushrooms, lastly add the meat, and stir the whole carefully over the fire for a few seconds ; moisten with the brown sauce and tomato puree, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, cook slowly for half an hour, without letting it boil. Arrange the hash in the centre of a hot dish, surround it with the fried potatoes, and serve. 819. Scotch Collops.—1 lb. lean beef (steak), 1^ oz. butter, jz small onion (finely minced), 1 teaspoonful flour, salt and pepper, 1 gill stock. Mince or shred finely the meat, free from fat or skin. Melt the butter, fry the onion a nice colour, stir in the flour and cook a little longer, then add the minced meat, and lastly the stock. Season lightly with pepper and salt, simmer gently for about forty minutes. Dish up, surround the dish with toasted bread sippets, or bread croutons, and serve hot. 820. Bate d la JKirliton (Mirliton Pie).— f lb. cold meat free from bone and gristle,N f lb. mashed potatoes, ^ medium-sized onion, i gill stock, 1 oz. butter or dripping, 1 tablespoonful currants, 1 egg, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Mince the meat rather finely, or chop it coarsely, peel and mince finely the onion, fry it in the butter or dripping a golden colour ; put in the meat, season to taste with salt, pepper it, fry for a few minutes, then add about half the stock, and the currants previously cleaned. Beat up the egg, and mix three parts of it with the mashed potatoes, season the latter, and line a greased pie-dish with it, reserving some of the puree to cover the pie. Fill up with the prepared mince ; add the remainder of the stock, and cover with about an inch layer of potato puree. Smooth over the surface neatly. Brush over with egg kept for this purpose, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty- five minutes. 821. Homan Bie.—Line a large pie-dish, previously buttered, with boiled macaroni, have ready some cooked cold meat, such as veal, rabbit, chicken, tongue, ham, or cold game-; cut it up rather small, and place in layers in the pie-dish, pour a little white or brown sauce over each layer, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; when the dish is full, sauce over with a goodTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 300 layer of rich bechamel (No. 202). Sprinkle over some grated Par- mesan cheese, and cover neatly with boiled macaroni. Pour a little melted butter over the macaroni, and strew over some more grated cheese. Bake in a quick oven for about half an hour, see that the surface is nicely browned, and serve at once. 822. Cornish Cutlets.—About f lb. of cold meat, 1 lb. of potatoes, 1 tablespoonful of ketchup, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, % teaspoonful bread-crumbs, 2 eggs, chopped lemon-rind, fat for frying, salt and pepper. Cut the meat into slices (a quarter inch thick), trim them into heart-shapes, put the slices on a dish, and sprinkle with salt, pepper, and parsley, pour over the ketchup. Wash, peel, and boil the potatoes, dry them and rub through a sieve, beat up one egg and mix with the mash, season with pepper, salt, and add the lemon-juice or a little grated nutmeg. Cover well each slice of meat with mashed potatoes, shape and smooth with a knife. Beat up the other egg, dip each cutlet in the egg, and crumb well; when set egg and crumb again. Fry the cutlets in hot fat a golden colour, drain on a cloth, dish up, and garnish with crisp parsley. 823. Brisotins de Veau a la Bouquetiere (.Braised Veal Bolls, Bouquetiere Style).—2 lb. lean veal, 6 oz. larding-bacon, \ lb. forcemeat, 2 oz. butter, 1 sliced carrot, 1 small sliced otiion, \ pint stock, 1 gill Mad'ere sauce (No. 237 a), 1 glass of sherry, jardiniere of rate vegetables, seasoning, mashed potatoes for border. Cut the meat into six to eight slices of even size, about a quarter of an inch thick, beat them with a cutlet-bat, and season with pepper and salt. Lard one side of each with strips of larding-bacon. Spread the sides, not larded with a layer of forcemeat (any kind will do, chicken, veal, &c.), roll up, and tie with string. Put the butter in a deep saute-pan, place in a carrot and onion, range the rolled pieces on top, cover with a buttered paper, and cook over the fire until the meat has a golden colour. Next add the stock and sherry, put in the oven and braise for twenty-five minutes, basting it occasionally. Take out the brisotins and keep hot; remove the fat from the essence, add the sauce, boil up and strain. Have ready a narrow border of mashed potatoes, remove the string from the brisotins, dress them nicely on the border, fill the centre with a jardiniere of vegetables, and serve with the sauce. 824. Jardiniere of Vegetables.—Scoop out by means of a vegetable-scoop an equal quantity of carrots, turnips, and cucumber ; cut some French beans into . small pieces, prepare also a handful of asparagus tips, cauliflower buds, and green peas. Cook each vege- table separately in -salted water, drain, add a small piece of butter, a pinch of caster sugar, season with pepper and grated nutmeg, and toss over the fire for a few minutes. Serve in groups round the dish as garnish, or mix all together;ENTREES CHAUDES DE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 301 moisten with a little brown sauce, and serve in the centre as above directed. 825. Cdtelettes de Venn d la Frangadse.—5 or 6 bones of best end of neck of veal, 2 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful chopped herbs, i teaspoonful chopped lemon-rind, 6 tablespoonfuls bread-crumbs, pepper and salt, 2 egg-yolks, tomato sauce {No. 271). Saw off the chine-bone and the upper part of the rib-bones of the neck, thus leaving the rib-bones about three inches long. Divide into cutlets, flatten with a cutlet-bat, trim neatly, and season. Melt about half an ounce butter, beat up the egg-yolks and mix together on a plate, add the lemon-rind and chopped herbs, and mix thoroughly; dip the cutlets into this, and then into the bread-crumbs. Melt the remainder of butter in a saute or frying pan, and fry the cutlets a golden colour. Drain, dish up, put a frill on each bone, and serve with tomato or demi-glace sauce. 826. jEscalopes de Veau.—About 1^ lb. cushion part of veal (leg), 3 oz. butter, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. Cut the meat into six or seven even-sized slices, flatten each with a cutlet-bat, trim or pare neatly into shape (round or oval), and season lightly with pepper and salt. Melt about an ounce of the butter, beat up the egg, add the parsley and melted butter, and mix thoroughly. Dip each slice of meat into this, and cover with bread- crumbs. Melt the remainder of butter in a saute-pan, when hot put in the cutlets and fry a golden colour, turning each side as it gets brown. Dish up on a thin border of mashed potatoes. Fill the centre with prepared French beans, pour a little gravy or brown sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 827. Escalopes de Veau a la Russe.—About 2i lb. knuckle of veal, 3 oz. clarified butter, 4 oz. pork, 4 oz. beef marrow, 2 oz. anchovy paste, 1 yolk of egg, 1 teaspoonful poiodered savoury herbs, | pint preserved cepes, 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), salt, pepper, bread-crumbs. Trim the veal, cut it into eight even-sized scallops, beat them with a cutlet-bat, and shape neatly. Put two ounces butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, put in the scallops, and fry over a quick fire a nice light-brown colour. As the meat will afterwards be cooked again, the frying process should be done quickly without actually cooking the scallops or cutlets. Place them between two boards, put a weight not too heavy over the top, and keep them until cold. Strain the butter, and keep for further use. Cut the pork and marrow into small pieces, pound in a mortar ; when fine, add the anchovy paste, savoury herbs, egg-yolk,.and a small piece of butter about the size of a nutmeg. Pound thoroughly until smooth, season with pepper and salt, rub through a fine sieve, and cover one side of each scallop thickly with this farce. Put them on a buttered baking- sheet, cover over with a few fried bread-crumbs, sprinkle with oiledTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 302 butter, and place in a hot oven for about ten minutes. If preserved cepes are used, strain them well, saute them in a little butter, season with salt and pepper, add the demi-glace sauce, and cook for ten minutes. Dish up the scallops in a circle on a hot round dish, and put the ragout of cepes in the centre. 828. Filets de Veau a la Colbert.— Cut about two pounds of lean fillet of veal into eight slices, flatten, trim and season with pepper and salt. Put two ounces of butter and two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil into a saute-pan, when hot place in the fillets, fry them over a quick fire on both sides, drain the fillets and put them on a plate. Pour off most of the fat in the saute-pan, add three finely- chopped shallots, fry a little, dilute with a small glass of sherry and rather more than a gill of Madere sauce (No. 237 a), boil for a few minutes, add a pinch of cayenne, a few drops of lemon-juice, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, stir well, and work in an ounce and a half of fresh butter. Return the fillets and mix well with the same, but do not let it boil again. Dish the fillets in a circular row, place a heart-shaped slice of fried bread between the fillets. Fill the centre with small round potatoes (pommes de terre a la Parisienne, No. 767), sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, pour the remainder of the sauce over the fillets, and serve. 829. Filets de Vea u a la Hongroise.—1| to 2 lb. fillets of veal (knuckle or cushion part will do), 6 new potatoes, 6 anchovy fillets, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 fresh egg, 1 tablespoonfid capers, gherkins, 1 lemon, 1 teaspoonful lemon-fuice, ( gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 2 oz. butter, salt and pepper, paprika, bread- crumbs. Free the meat from skin and sinews, cut it into thin slices across the grain of the meat, beat each slice with the blade of a chopping-knife or cutlet-bat, and chop lightly so as to thin them. Pare them neatly, season with salt, pepper, and paprika, roll them in flour, dip in beaten egg, and cover with bread-crumbs. Clarify the butter, then put it in a saute-pan, and when hot put in the fillets and cook them a nice golden brown. Dress them flat in a circle on a hot dish ; on each fillet place a slice of hard-boiled egg, and on these arrange symmetrically some fillets of anchovies and capers. Fill the centre of the dish with cubes of potatoes cooked as follows:—Scrape and wash the new potatoes, cut them into neat cubes, blend in salted water, drain and fry in clarified butter a golden colour, take up, drain, and season with white pepper and paprika. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley on top, surround the border of the dish with thin slices of gherkins and slices of lemon, the peel of which has been notched. Send to table with Espagnole sauce flavoured up with a few drops of lemon-juice. 830. Filets de Vea u a la Talleyrand (Fillets of Veal, Talley- rand Style).—1 lb. lean veal (fillet or cushion part), 1 f oz. butter, 2 small shallots, 1 dessertspoonfid chopped parsley, (lemon, 2 yolks ofENTREES CHAUDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 303 eggs, 6 small preserved mushrooms, 1 gill white sauce, 1 teaspoonful meat glaze (No. 247), salt and pepper. Cut the meat into six equal-sized slices, and of even thickness, pare them neatly into round or oval shapes, and flatten each a little with a cutlet-bat. Melt the butter in a saute or frying pan, when hot put in the fillets, and fry them a light-fawn colour. Take up the fillets, and add to the butter in the pan the shallots, previously peeled and chopped finely, fry these a little without browning, then add the mushrooms, also chopped finely, cook these while stirring for a few seconds, mix the yolks of eggs with the hot sauce, and pour this into the above. Season to taste, stir, then put in the chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon-juice, place the fillets in this, and shake the pan gently over the fire so as to thoroughly heat the meat; the sauce must on no account be allowed to boil, else it will curdle. Dish up the fillets in a row on a thin bed of mashed potatoes (to keep the fillets in a nice position). Sauce over carefully with the sauce, sprinkle over a few drops of liquid meat glaze, and serve. 831. Filets de Veau d la Victoria.—About 3 lb. cushion or kernel of veal, 3 to 4 slices of bacon, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 onion, 1 small bouquet of herbs, 1 oz. butter, i gill white wine, 1 gill white stock, pepper and salt, ^ pint well-reduced bechamel sauce (No. 202), 6 preserved mushrooms, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, clarified butter or dripping for frying, piquante sauce (No. 241). Trim the meat, free it from skin and sinews, line a braising-pan with slices of bacon. Dress the vegetables and cut them into slices, put these with the bouquet of herbs in the pan, place the meat upon it, put the butter on top, fry over a sharp fire, turning the meat fre- quently, until it acquires a nice golden-brown colour, then moisten with the wine and stock, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Baste frequently. When done take up the meat, and let it cool. Cut it into half-inch-thick slices. Chop the mushrooms and mix them with the white sauce. Mask each slice of veal thickly with this sauce; as soon as the sauce has set dip each slice into beaten egg, and cover well with bread-crumbs. Fry the crumbed slices in a saute-pan containing clarified butter or dripping : cook them a light-brown colour. Drain and dish up in a circle on a hot dish, the centre of which may be filled with a ragout of mushrooms and truffles, spinach, or green peas. Pour some hot piquante sauce-round the fillets, and serve. 832. Grenadine de Veau a la Marcliand de Via.—H to 2 lb. fillet of veal, larding-bacon, 2 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 2 finely-chopped shallots, | gill tomato sauce (No. 271), | gill brown sauce, | glass claret seasoning, mashed potatoes, 3 to 4 slices of lean bacon. Cut the veal into slices of convenient size, flatten each slice a little with a wetted cutlet-bat, trim them into shape and insert a couple of rows of thin strips of bacon by means of a larding-needle in each slice.304 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the shallots and fry a little without browning. Drain off the butter and put the shallots in a small stewpan. Return the butter to the saute-pan, put in the grenadins, and fry them a nice golden colour on each side. Add the claret to the shallots, cover the stewpan and let it reduce to about a third the quantity ; now add the two sauces and the parsley, season with pepper and salt, and reduce to about half the original quantity. Pour off the butter from the grenadins, add the sauce, cover the saute-pan with a lid, and allow contents to cook gently for about fifteen minutes. Take up the grenadins, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish on a thin border of mashed potatoes. Fill the centre with strips of lean bacon, previously fried in a little butter, pour the sauce over the grenadins, and serve. 833. Grenadins de Veau a la Jardiniere. — Trim a piece of cushion of veal, cut it into twelve slices, flatten them, trim and give them the shape of hearts as near as possible ; lard them rather closely with strips of fat bacon. Next prepare a layer of sliced vegetables and bacon in a buttered sautoir, range the meat on this, season with salt and pepper, moisten with a glass of white wine and some white stock, cover with a buttered paper, and set to braise in the oven for about an hour, during which time care should be taken to baste from time to time. In the meantime have ready some veal forcemeat, and fill up a flat border mould (well buttered), which steam in a stewpan ; turn out on a dish and. keep warm. When the grenadins are done, range them in circular form on the border of forcemeat; fill the centre with a preparation of jardiniere of vege- tables (No. 471), with a little demi-glace. Sauce over the grenadins with their own stock well reduced. 834. Quenelles de Veau a la Marengo.—f lb. veal, freed from skin, fat, and sinews, £ lb. soft bread, 4 oz. butter, 4 yolks and 2 whole eggs, ^ gill white sauce or veloutee (No. 206), 1 oz. small preserved mushrooms, \ gill tomato sauce (No. 271), £ gill stock, \ gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1 glass sherry, 6 small eggs fried in oil for garnish, salt, white and red pepper, and, nutmeg. Soak the bread in cold water or milk for about ten minutes, press out the moisture, and put it in a stewpan with two ounces of butter. Stir over the fire until it resembles a smooth paste, and leaves the sides of the pan clean. Then add the yolks of four eggs, stir a little longer, to cook the eggs, and spread on a plate ; cover'with a buttered paper and let cool. Chop the veal small, and pound in a mortar till smooth. Rub the pounded meat through a sieve, and return to the mortar. Mix in the prepared bread panade. Add the remainder of the butter, which should be quite cold (having been kept on the ice), work in the white sauce and two whole eggs, one at a time, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, put it on a plate or dish and keep on the ice till wanted. Shape the forcemeat into quenelles by means of two dessertspoons previously dipped in boiling water, and place each- ENTREES CHANDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 305 carefully on a buttered saute-pan, about half an inch apart. Pour in gently some boiling water or white stock, and cook for about fifteen minutes. Put the tomato, Espagnole sauce, stock, and sherry in a stewpan, let it reduce well, skim, and add the mushrooms, cut in slices. Lift out the quenelles, drain carefully on a cloth, dish up in pyramid form, sauce over with the above, fry the six eggs separately in very hot salad oil till slightly brown, drain on a cloth, and place them round the quenelles. 885. Quenelles tie Venn d lit Tyrolienne.—% lb. lean veal, 6 oz. soft bread, \ pint milk, 8 whole and 2 yolks of eggs, a couple of tablespoonfuls white sauce (bechamel, No. 202, or veloutee, No. 206), 3 to 4 oz. lean bacon, ^ lemon, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. rice, 4 small ripe tomatoes, 1 pint rich stock, salt, pepper, bread-crumbs, frying-fat, parsley, fried bread croutons. Shred the veal, free it from skin and sinews, soak the bread in the milk. Pound the meat in a mortar, adding by degrees two whole eggs and the two yolks of eggs, also the sauce and about an ounce of butter. Drain the bread and add it to the above, mix thoroughly and season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Rub the whole through a fine wire sieve ; this constitutes the forcemeat or Farce de Yeau. Wash the rice, put it in a stewpan with enough cold water to cover it, let it come to the boil, drain and steep it in cold water (this is blanching the rice), melt two ounces of butter in a stew- pan, put in the bacon, cut into dice, fry a little, then put in the rice (well drained), stir over a brisk fire for a few minutes without browning, and add sufficient stock to well cover the rice, cook it very gently until quite tender, stirring occasionally and adding some more stock to prevent it from burning. Cut the tomatoes into small pieces or slices, toss them in butter over a quick fire for about ten minutes, season with pepper and salt, add the juice of half a lemon, and a little stock. Let it boil for ten minutes, then strain. Reserve a little of this sauce to go round the dish, and put the remainder into the rice, which must be allowed to reduce to the required consistency for moulding. Shape as many quenelles as are required, use a couple of dessert-spoons dipped in hot water to form the quenelles. Poach the quenelles in stock or salted water, when cold dip each in beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat a nice light-brown colour. Fill a buttered border mould with the rice. Unmould it quickly on to a hot dish (round entree), place a round croute in the centre of the dish. Arrange the quenelles on top of the border and the croute, pour the tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and garnish with fried parsley. 836. l ean Saute d la Marengo.— Slices of cushion or fillet of veal, fried, and stewed (etouffe) with sliced mushrooms, chopped shallots, tomato and Espagnol sauce, flavoured with sherry. Dish up in pyramidal form, garnish with eggs, fried whole in very hot sweet oil, the same as for ‘ Chicken Marengo.’ xTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 306 837. Petites Noisettes de Veau d la Princesse. —About 2 lb. of fillet or cushion of veal, \ pint asparagus tips, 8 artichoke bottoms, 2 truffles, \ lb. butter, 4 gill white wine, ^ gill sherry, \ pint demi-glace sauce (No. 237), salt,pepper, and nutmeg, 8 rounds of fried bread (size of fillets). Cut the veal into six or eight even-sized round slices, flatten a little and trim neatly. Put the artichokes into sufficient hot salted water to cover, acidulated with a few drops of lemon-juice ; add a small piece of butter, and boil up very gently. Cook the asparagus points in salted water containing a very small piece of soda, strain, let cool in water, strain again and put in a stewpan, moisten with a little demi-glace sauce and half an ounce of butter. Slice the truffles and cook them in a little sherry. Season the fillets with pepper and a very little grated nutmeg. Saute them in butter in the usual way. Put them on a baking-sheet and brush over with meat glaze. Place each on a round piece of fried bread ; fill the artichoke bottoms with asparagus points and put one on each fillet. Dress them in a circle on a dish. Put the remainder of asparagus points in the centre of the dish. Arrange the slices of truffles as a garnish on top of each dressed fillet, so as to form an effective design. Have ready the demi- glace sauce, previously well reduced, with the wine, and containing the essence of truffle and fillets. Sauce round the dish and serve. 838. Olives de Veau (Veal Olives).—1 lb. lean veal (cushion op fillet), 2 tdblespoonfuls bread-crumbs, 1 ounce finely chopped beef suet, ^ oz. butter, chopped parsley, mixed herbs, lemon-rind and nutmeg, 1 egg, salt and pepper, brown sauce, % glass sherry. Cut the meat into slices, beat them out by means of a wetted cutlet-bat, and pare each slice. Mince finely the trimming of the meat, omitting any skin or sinews, mix this with the suet, butter, and bread-crumbs, add some chopped parsley, grated lemon-rind, and half a teaspoonful of mixed herbs. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and mix with the egg, previously beaten, taking only enough to moisten the mixture. Spread each slice with the prepared stuffing, roll up and tie with string. Range them in a stew- pan, containing a little dripping or butter, and fry a light colour ; pour off the fat, add about three-quarters of a pint of brown sauce and the sherry, and stew gently for about an hour, or longer, until the meat is quite tender. To serve, remove the string, dress the olives on a bed of spinach or mashed potatoes, and strain the sauce round the base of the dish. Beef olives are made in exactly the same manner. 839. Paupiettes de Vea u d la Toscane.—2| to 3 lb. fillet of veal, 1 oz. butter, 4 even-sized ripe tomatoes, 8 thin slices of bacon, 2 oz. fat pork, 4 oz. panade, 3 yolks of eggs, 10 peppercorns, 2 tnffles, 8 mushrooms, | gill 'white sauce, f? pint stock, 4 pint tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 bouquet garni (No. 2), 1 carrot, i turnip.ENTRIES CHANDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 307 1 onion, meat glaze, pepper, salt, and cayenne, ^ pint cooked green peas, 1 tablespoonful bread-crumbs, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Cut the veal into slices about one-eighth of an inch thick, bat the slices and trim into heart shapes, place a thin slice of bacon on each of the slices of veal; pound the trimmings of veal and bacon, previously freed from skin and gristle, also the pork. When smooth, add the panade and the yolks of eggs, season with pepper and salt, and a pinch of cayenne; mix thoroughly, and rub through a sieve. Put a layer of this farce on the slices of veal and bacon, roll up, put a piece of buttered paper round each, tie up with string so as to keep in shape. Put in a deep saute-pan, add 1 oz. butter, the peppercorns, bouquet garni, and carrot, turnip, and onions, cut into slices, place the paupiettes on top, cover and fry over a quick fire for a few minutes, then moisten with the stock. Put the pan in the oven or on the side of the stove, and braise for about one hour. Baste occasionally. Cut the tomatoes into halves, scoop out a little of the interior, chop the truffles and mushrooms finely, mix with the remainder of the farce, add bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, and white sauce, season with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Stuff the tomatoes with this, place them in a well-buttered saute-pan, and cook in an oven for ten minutes. Remove string and paper from the paupiettes, place them on a baking-tin, brush over with liquid meat glaze, and put in the oven for a few seconds. Put each paupiette in the centre of a stuffed tomato, dish up in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce round them, dress the peas in the centre of the dish, and serve. The sauce is prepared as follows: take off the fat from the liquor in which the paupiettes have been cooked, strain the latter into a saucepan, add the tomato sauce, and reduce to required consistency. Add a little more seasoning if it be found necessary. The paupiettes may be dressed on a thin border of mashed potatoes, and, if desired, a puree of spinach, by way of a change, can be served in place of peas. 840. JPetites Creates tie Veau a VEcarlate.—8 to 10 oz. lean veal, 2 oz. panade, ^ gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), 3 yolks and 1 whole egg, 1 oz. butter, salt, mignonette pepper and a pinch of grated nutmeg, % oz. ox tongue (cooked and chopped very finely), Pompadour sauce (No. 273), Macedoine or green peas. Cut the veal into small pieces, or shred it finely, removing skin and sinews, pound it in a mortar and add the panade, the bechamel sauce, and the eggs—the latter must be put in gradually. Season to taste, and mix in rather more than half the butter. When the farce is fine enough (sufficiently pounded), rub the whole through a fine wire sieve. Butter a number (eight to ten) tongue moulds, dust the inside completely with finely chopped tongue, and fill up with the prepared farce. Stand the moulds in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook for about twenty minutes.308 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Turn the moulds on to a cloth, dish the little tongues in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, fill up the centre with prepared Macedoine of vegetables or green peas, pour a little sauce Pompadour round the base of the dish, and serve. 841. jPetits Souffles de Veau d la Minute.—£ lb. lean veal, free from shin and sinews, 8 eggs, 1 gill cream, 1 truffle, seasoning, a little bechamel or other white sauce (No. 202), butter. Shred the meat as finely as possible, then pound it in a mortar until quite smooth, adding one by one the yolks of eggs, and lastly the cream. Rub this through a fine hair sieve, and put it in a basin. Beat up the whites of eggs, and mix into the puree. Season lightly with salt, pepper, and a dust of nutmeg. Butter a few small china souffle cases, put about a teaspoonful of bechamel sauce into each, and fill with the prepared farce. Chop finely the truffle and sprinkle this over the top of each. Place the cases on a baking-tin or saute- pan, cover with a buttered "paper. Bake for about fifteen minutes. Serve the cases on a hot dish, covered with a folded napkin. 842. Souffle de Veau (Veal Souffle).— lib. lean veal, 1 gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), 1 gill double cream, 3 eggs, 2 oz. butter, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, 1 small truffle, supreme sauce (No. 210). Free the meat from all skin and gristle, cut it up very small, and pound in a mortar until quite smooth ; add gradually the butter, the yolks of three eggs, and one white of egg, also the sauce (cold),, season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Whisk the two whites of eggs (remaining) to a stiff froth, beat up the cream a little, and mix both carefully into the forcemeat. Decorate the bottom of a well-buttered timbale or plain charlotte mould with thinly sliced, or finely-chopped truffles; and three parts fill it with the preparation. Steam gently for about an hour. Unmould and serve with supreme or other good white sauce. 843. Tend eons de Veau d la Jardiniere.—About 3 lb. neck of veal, 8 to 10 thin slices of bacon, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 bay- leaf, a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, 1 oz. butter, i pint white stock, 1 glass Ghablis, meat glaze (No. 247), salt and pepper, jardiniere of vegetables (No. 471). Free the meat from the bones, pare off the skin &c., and cut into scallops or little fillets a little larger than oyster-shells. Blanch them, press, and let cool. Trim neatly into shape, season lightly with salt and pepper, wrap each in a thin slice of bacon, and place in a saute-pan with the butter on a bed of sliced onion, carrot, and herbs. Moisten with the stock and wine, ..cover with a lid, and stew gently in the oven or on the stove for about an hour. When done, drain off the liquor into another saute-pan, add some meat glaze, and reduce to about half the original quantity; remove the fat. Put the tendrons in with the glaze and allow them to get thoroughly blended, so as to introduce the flavour of the glaze. Dish up on a border ofENTREES CHAUDES BE VIANDES <HOT MEAT DISHES) 309 mashed potatoes and serve a jardiniere of spring vegetables in the •centre. 844. Tendrons de Venn a la Palestine (Tendrons of Veal Palestine style).—^ breast of veal, £ carrot, i turnip, \ onion, 1 bouquet garni (No. 2), 3 cloves, a few peppercorns, 1 quart stock, 1 glass sherry, \ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 6 small artichoke bottoms, | lb. Jerusalem artichokes, 1 tablespoonful white sauce, ± oz. blitter, pepper and salt. The portion of meat used for tendrons is situated, near the thin edge of the breast, and may, in other words, be called the gristly portion of the breast-bone. Remove the skin and bone from the breast, cut the desired portion into squares or heart shapes, and blanch them in salted water. Drain well and place in a stewpan on a bed of carrot, turnip, onion, bouquet of herbs, &c. Add peppercorns and cloves, moisten with the stock and wine. Cover and cook very slowly for about two hours, or longer. When done, take up carefully and place between "two boards or dishes, and let them cool. Reduce the stock, add the sauce, season to taste, and reduce again to half glaze. Trim the tendrons, and re-heat in the sauce, previously freed from grease. Wash and scrape the Jerusalem artichokes, cut into slices, cook till tender in milk and water, drain, run through a sieve, season with pepper and salt. Add a little butter and the sauce. Heat up and bind with a yolk of egg. Fill the artichoke bottoms previously heated, so as to give them a dome-shaped appearance, sprinkle with white bread-crumbs, put a small bit of butter here and there, place in a hot oven for ten minutes. Dish up the tendrons in a circular row, garnish the centre with the artichokes, pour the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Note.— Spinach, green peas, or any other suitable vegetable may be served in place of artichokes. The tendrons, when cooked, should be quite soft, and the gristle portions should have become almost transparent. 845. Timbales de Veau d la Ma/rechale.—6 oz. lean veal, 3 to 4 oz. panade, 3 yolks of eggs, a tablespoonful cream, 3 to 4 slices of cooked ox-tongue, 1 truffle, seasoning, i oz. butter, tomato sauce (No. 271). Cut up the veal, which should be freed from skin and sinews, and pound it in a mortar till quite smooth. Add the panade and gradually the egg-yolks, mix thoroughly, and add, last of all, the cream. Rub the whole through a fine sieve, and put the farce into a basin. Butter a number of small dariole or timbale moulds, stamp out some rounds of tongue about the size of the bottoms of the moulds, cut out the centre by means of a column cutter, and place the rounds thus obtained in the bottoms of the moulds. Slice the truffles, stamp out some rounds, and put them in the centre of the tongue, chop up310 THE NEW (ENTUKY COOKE BY BOOK finely the trimmings of truffle and tongue, and put this with the farce above prepared. Season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Fill the buttered moulds with this ; range them in a saute- pan containing enough boiling water to three parts cover the moulds. Place a buttered paper on them, and cook in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, pour some hot tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 846. Veal and Ham JPie.—to If lb. lean veal (fillet or cushion part is best for this purpose), about f lb. rate or cooked ham, 2 hard-boiled eggs, a couple of rashers of streaky bacon, chopped parsley, 4 teaspoonful grated lemon-rind, salt and pepper, a grate of nutmeg, stock or water, about 1 lb. of puff-paste, 1 fresh egg. Free the veal from skin and sinews, cut it into thin slices, cut the ham in a similar fashion. Eange the veal, ham, and bacon, in layers in a pie-dish; cover each layer with a few slices of hard-boiled egg, and sprinkle each layer with a little seasoning, salt, pepper, lemon- rind and chopped parsley—one teaspoonful of salt and a quarter teaspoonful of pepper in all should be used—add a pinch of- nufmeg at the last. Put in about half a gill of stock or water. Line the edge of the pie-dish with a strip of paste, brush it over with beaten egg, roll out some more paste about the size of the pie-dish, and cover it carefully with the paste. Trim off the edges, make a hole in the centre of the paste, brush over the whole with egg, cut out a few fanciful shapes of leaves from the remainder of the paste, and fix these in the form of a rosette in the top of the pie round the hole, and after having egged these leaves, bake the pie in a moderate oven for about one and a half to one and three quarters of an hour. Serve hot. If this pie is to be served cold, dissolve a quarter of an ounce of gelatine, and mix with a teaspoonful of ‘ Lemco,’ and pour this into the pie as it leaves the oven. 847. Cdtelettes de Veau dlaDreux.—Broiled veal cutlets larded with tongue, streaky bacon, and pickled gherkins, served with a garniture of sliced mushrooms and sweetbread. Sauce : Tomate (No. 271). 848. Cdtelettes de Veau d la Lorgnette.—Egged, crumbed, and fried veal cutlets. Garnish with rings of onions dipped in milk and flour and fried in clarified butter, and serve with a good gravy. 849. Cdtelettes de Veau d la Saint Cloud. — Yeal cutlets larded with strips of truffles, fried in fresh butter. Garnished with forcemeat quenelles. Sauce : Allemande (No. 204). 850. Bonnes Bouelies de Veau d la Moderne.—l lb. mashed potatoes, 2 oz. butter, 1 gill cream, 3 yolks of eggs, 1 truffle, 6 mitshroonis, the remains of cold veal, 1 gill veloutee sauce (No. 206), 1 gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Remove the skin from the veal, cut it into small slices or mince coarsely, put it in a small stewpan together with the mushrooms andENTBEES CHAUDES DE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 311 the truffle finely chopped, and sufficient veloutee sauce to moisten ; add a small piece of butter, and stir over the fire until hot. This forms the salpicon. Rub some cooked potatoes through a fine sieve, mix them with a piece of butter and a little cream. Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Let the puree get thoroughly hot, then add the yolk of an egg, and work it well until it forms a light paste. Butter some small moulds, line them with the puree. Place about a dessertspoonful of the salpicon in the centre of each mould, cover with potato puree, smooth the top with the blade of a knife, brush over with yolk of egg, and bake in a moderate oven until it is of a golden-brown colour. Warm up the bechamel sauce, add the remaining veloutee sauce and egg-yollt, and stir well over the fire. When hot, finish with a little cream, and add the remaining butter bit by bit. Turn out the little moulds into an entree-dish, pour the sauce round them, and serve hot. The remains of chicken, pigeon, rabbit, or game may be made up in this form. 851. Cevvelles de Veau a a JBeurre noiv.—Remove the skin from three calves’ brains, wash well, drain and cook in richly- flavoured stock for about six minutes, strain well, dish up and sauce over with some hot black butter sauce (No. 244). 852. Cevvelles de Yean d la Milan wise.—Fried calves’ brain served with stewed macaroni and tomato sauce. Garnish the dish with strips of ham, tongue, preserved mushrooms, and finely shredded truffles. 853. Cevvelles de Veau, d la Poalette.—2 nice calves' brains, 1^ oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, ^ pint stock {No. 87), ^ gill cream, 1 yolk of egg, 1 lemon, 1 shallot, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 4 oz. rice, 1 pint veal broth, salt and pepper. Wash and clean the brains in several waters, put them in a stew- pan with sufficient water to cover, add one bay-leaf, one small onion cut into slices, a small bunch of parsley, a teaspoonful of salt and a little lemon-juice. Bring it slowly to the boil, take up the brains, and cut them into dice. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, peel and chop the shallot, fry it in the butter a golden colour, add the flour, and cook a little without browning, stir in the stock (the liquor from the brains may be used for this instead of ordinary stock), bring it to the boil and cook gently for ten minutes, then strain, season to taste, add the remainder of the lemon-juice and the cream. Put the brains in the sauce and re-heat gradually ; add the chopped parsley a few minutes before serving. Wash and pick the rice, blanch it, drain, and cook it in stock till tender ; when the rice is ready for moulding, i.e. sufficiently reduced, and the grains are separate but quite tender, season with salt, pepper and a little grated nutmeg, stir in the yolk of egg, cook a little longer till the egg is set, then fill a well-buttered plain border mould. Shake the mould so as to get the rice well set, then turn out on a hot dish, put the ragoftt of brains in the centre, and serve hot.312 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 854. Escalopes de Veau d la Savoisienne.—Broiled veal collops or thin slices of fillet of veal dressed in the centre of a border of small rice timbales. Sauce : Demi-glace (No. 237), blended with Tomate (No. 271). 855. jEscalopes de Veau d la Viennoise.—Veal fillets or collops egged, crumbed, and fried, served with a thin brown sauce, garnished with gherkins, olives, capers, fillets of anchovies, and hard- boiled eggs. 856. Fricandeau de Veau d la Regence.—Larded cushion of veal, braised and glazed with its own gravy reduced, dished up with a garniture of veal quenelles, slices of sweetbread, mushrooms, and truffles. Sauce : Madere (No. 237 a). 857. Fricassee de Veau d VAllemande.—Pieces of breast, fillet, or neck of veal freed from skin and bones and stewed in white sauce, garnished with crayfish quenelles, crayfish tails, asparagus tips, and sprigs of cauliflower. 858. Foie de Veau braise.—Take a small calf’s liver, soak it in cold water for about twenty minutes, then drain and wipe it with a cloth. Insert small thin strips of larding-bacon into the surface of the liver. Prepare a mirepoix of vegetables—onion, carrot, bay-leaf, bacon and herbs. Put these in a stewpan containing about one and a half ounce of butter. Fry the vegetables a golden colour, put in the liver and let it brown gently, pour off the fat, add about half a pint of rich brown sauce and a gill of good stock. Season with pepper and salt, and let simmer gently for about an hour. Then add a glass of port wine, the juice of half a lemon, and a small quantity of finely- chopped parsley. Boil up, take up the liver, let the liquid reduce, strain and remove the fat. Dish up the liver, sauce over carefully, and serve whole. 859. Foie de Veau a la Clermont.—1 large Spanish onion, 2 oz. butter, 4 pint stock, ■§• pint Espagnole sauce (No. 236), f lb. calves' liver, a tablespoonful flour, salt,-pepper, chopped parsley. Peel and blanch the onion, cut it into very fine dice, and fry a golden colour in about an ounce of butter ; then add the stock, and cook slowly until reduced to a thick puree. Now add the brown sauce and reduce further. Mix the flour on a plate with a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper. Cut the liver into slices about three-eighths of an inch in thickness, pare each slice to the shape of a neat fillet, and dip in the prepared flour. Melt the remainder of butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, put in the liver and fry the slices on both sides until they are firm to the touch. This should not take more than six or eight minutes. Put the onion puree on a hot dish, drain the slices of liver, place them neatly on top, sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley, and serve. 860. Foie de Veau d I’JEchalote.—1 lb. calves' liver, 2 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful flour, 2 finely-chopped shallots, 1 tea-EN TREES CHAV BE S HE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 313 spoonful lemon-juice, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, pepper and salt, £ gill brown stock, 1 glass of Chablis, a few half-moons of puff- pastry {fleurons). Wipe the liver with a clamp cloth, cut it in very fine short slices, season with pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, add the chopped shallots, and fry a light colour; put in the liver, and toss over a quick fire for about five minutes ; sprinkle the flour over, toss again, add the chopped parsley, lemon-juice, and wine, also the brown stock. Let it simmer whilst stirring for another five minutes. Pile up on a hot dish, garnish with half-moons of puff-paste, and serve. 861. JPieds de Yean d I’Horly.—1 pair of calf’s feet, 1 carrot, 1 onion, oz. flour, % gill vinegar, peppercorns, salt, oil, parsley, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, fat for frying, tomato sauce {No. 271). Wash and scald the calf’s feet, bone the upper part and remove the shank-bone, slit them in two, and steep in cold water for one or two hours. Blanch them in salted water. Put them in a stewpan with sufficient water or stock to well cover. Add the carrot and onion sliced, and a few peppercorns. Cook slowly till tender. Drain, remove the hoof-bones, place the meat under press, and let cool. Cut into convenient strips. Prepare a dressing of oil, vinegar, and chopped parsley ; pour this over the pieces and let them soak for an hour. Mix the flour with a little pepper and salt, dip each piece in this, then egg and crumb in the usual way, fry in hot fat a golden colour, strain, dish up, and serve with tomato sauce. 862. Queues deVeau ci I’Alsacienne.—3 to 4 calves’ tails, 2 oz. butter, 4 oz. bacon or ham trimmings, celery-root, 1 small onion sliced, 1 small bouquet garni, 1 small glass cognac, stock, demi-glace sauce {No. 237), small smoked and boiled sausages for garnish, seasoning. Cut the calves’ tails into joints two ancla half to three inches long. Soak them in lukewarm water for an hour, take up, drain, and fry carefully in a braising-pan containing the butter, bacon, root, onion, and herbs. When well blended, add the brandy (cognac), season with salt, pepper, and cook well covered with stock, in the oven for about half an hour. Bemove the fat from the surface, strain off the liquor, and reduce it with the sauce. Add it to the calf’s tail and finish cooking in the sauce till quite tender. Dish up on a hot dish, piled up high, pour the sauce carefully over the pieces, garnish with fried . sausages and grated horseradish, and serve. Ox-tails can be treated in the same manner. 863. To Blanch Sweetbreads.—After having soaked the sweetbreads in cold water from two to three hours, put them in a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover. Let the whole come quickly to the boil, then plunge them quickly into cold water, let them remain for half an hour, and then drain them.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 314 8.64. It is de Veau frit d I’Awiericaine.—Cut a blanched •sweetbread into slices about half an inch thick, season with pepper and salt, beat up an egg, add a little, chopped parsley and half an ounce of melted butter, mix well; dip the slices into this, cover well with bread-crumbs, repeat this operation, shape, and fry in boiling fat. Drain, serve on toast or a hot dish ; pour some hot tomato sauce round, not over, the sweetbreads, and serve. 865. His de Yean en Hdtelets.—Cut some cooked sweetbread into small slices ; cut as many thin slices of bacon of the same size. Season the breads with a little pepper or aromatic seasoning. Put three slices of sweetbreads and of bacon, alternately placed, on to small skewers, and proceed thus until the breads and bacon are used up. Egg and crumb twice, or dip into frying-batter. Have ready some hot fat, fry a golden colour, drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. 866. Jit's de Vena a la Chartreuse.—Blanch, trim, and lard two or more heart sweetbreads, braise them in the usual manner, and glaze them when finished. Dress them on a croute of fried bread (neatly cut), and garnish with a chartreuse of vegetables, previously heated (green peas, asparagus tips, young carrots, and beans), place three poached quenelles of chicken (No. 403) on each side of the dish, decorated with stars of truffles &c. and a few mushroom heads, and then sauce over with demi-glace sauce (No. 237), and serve hot. 867. His de Yea a d la Con t i.—2 heart sweetbreads, larding- bacon, mirepoix, seasoning, demi-glace (No. 237), or Madere (No. 237 a) sauce, a few slices of tongue, 2 large truffles, h pint stock, chicken or veal quenelles for garnish (No. 403), meat glaze [No. 247). Blanch, truss, and press the sweetbreads. Lard the best side with strips of larding-bacon and strips of tongue, stud the centre with truffles. Line a saute-pan with a mirepoix, i.e. a few slices of bacon, a sliced onion, a sliced carrot, a bunch of herbs parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf) ; lay the sweetbread on this, moisten with the stock ; season with salt, whole peppercorns, and cover with a buttered paper. Boil up, and finish cooking in a slow oven—it will take from forty to forty-five minutes. Baste frequently during the time. Brush over with meat glaze, and let it get a nice golden colour. Take up the sweetbread, strain the liquor through a fine sieve, skim off the fat, and reduce to a glaze ; mix this with the brown sauce, and heat up. Dish up the sweetbread on a bread croute. Garnish round with some well-shaped chicken or veal quenelles, decorate with fancifully cut slices of truffle, pour some of the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve the remainder separately in a sauce-boat. 868. His de Veau frit mix JEpinards.—1 large or 2 small sweetbreads, ^ pint thick bechamel (No. 202) or Allemande (No. 204) sauce, l^r lb. cooked spinach (puree), piquante (No. 241) or Robert sauce (No. 238), salt and pepper, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, and frying - fat.ENTREES CHATIDES BE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 315 Blanch the sweetbreads, trim, parboil for ten minutes in slightly salted water, cool, and cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch thick; trim the slices a little (avoiding waste). Have ready some well-reduced white sauce, partly cool, season the slices of sweetbread, dip each into the sauce, so as to coat them well. Place on a baking- sheet or wire tray, and put on the ice to get set. Beat up the egg, dip each into egg, and crumb. Place them in a frying-basket and fry in hot fat or lard a golden colour. Dish up in a circular row on a thin border of mashed potatoes, fill the centre with spinach, previously heated and well seasoned, give them a pyramidal shape, pour the sauce, previously heated, round the dish, and serve. 869. His de Yean d Vlndienne {Sweetbread, Indienne Style).—1 'pair heart sioeetbreads, -k pint good stock, border of chicken quenelle meat {No. 403). Steep the sweetbreads in cold water for one or two hours. Blanch them in one quart of cold water, bring them to a boil. As soon as they become firm and round without being hard, take them out of the water, remove the pipe, and press them well between two dishes till cold. Then fold each one in a buttered paper and braise them in half a pint of good stock for half an hour. After this time take them up and set them aside to cool. When cool cut them in slices with a sharp knife, dish up on a border of chicken quenelle meat, and pour the curry sauce over. Serve plain boiled rice in the centre. 870. R is de Yean d la Jardiniere.—2 heart sweetbreads, larding-bacon, 2 slices streaky bacon, a small bouquet of herbs, 1 onion sliced, 1 carrot sliced, 2 cloves, a fete peppercorns, aromatic seasoning, salt, 1 gill rich stock, meat glaze {No. 247), oz. butter, jardiniere garnish {No. 471), a croute of bread. Trim the sweetbreads, and steep them in cold water for a few hours, blanch them—viz. bring them to the boil in slightly salted water—cool them, and press them between two plates or dishes, writh a weight on top. Lard the best sides of the sweetbreads with strips of larding-bacon. Put the bacon (cut small), the onion, carrot, butter, herbs, cloves and peppercorns in a saute- or braising-pan, arrange the sweetbread on top (larded sides upwards). Heat over a bright fire for several minutes, then moisten with the stock, add salt, pepper, and aromatics to taste, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven from thirty to forty minutes. Baste frequently. During the process of braising, sprinkle the top of the sweetbreads occasionally with liquefied meat glaze. When done transfer the sweetbreads into another pan. Bemove the fat from the liquor, add a little more meat glaze ; reduce to half glaze, and strain over the sweetbreads. Have ready a hot dish, place upon it a fried bread croute, dress the sweetbreads well upon this. Sauce over carefully and garnish with jardiniere. The dish is then ready for serving.316 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 871. His de Veau d la Toulouse.—Braised larded sweet- bread, served with slices of sweetbread, truffles, chicken quenelles, cocks’ combs, prepared in Allemande sauce (No. 204). Garnish with fancy shapes of fried bread croutons. 872. IHs de Veau a la Louis JPhilippe.—1 large or 2 small sweetbreads, 6 oz. ham, 1 oz. blotter, 1 oz. parsley butter, 8 mush- rooms, 1 small onion, 1 teaspoonful powdered herbs, 2 tablespoonfuls bread-crumbs, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 large truffle, 6 oysters, pepper, and salt, i pint sauce Madere (No. 237a). Soak the sweetbread in cold water, blanch it, and remove the skin and gristle, and cut in slices, about half an inch thick. Chop the ham and mushrooms finely, add the onion, finely chopped, bread-crumbs, and powdered savoury herbs, and mix with the egg-yolks and parsley butter ; season with pepper and salt, and cover the slices of sweetbread completely with this mixture. Place each on a square piece of buttered paper, or if preferred in a butter paper or china case ; put a slice of truffle and a bearded oyster on top ; wrap up neatly if paper is used. Melt a little butter in a saute- pan, put in the papillotes, and bake in the oven for fifteen minutes. Dish up in the papers, on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a boat of sauce Madere. If cases are used, put a tiny piece of butter on top of each, and bake in the oven. 873. His de Veau d la Milanaise (Sweetbread, Milanaise Style).— 1 pair heart sweetbreads, larding-bacon, a mirepoix, a few slices of carrot and turnip, onion, savoury herbs, and bacon trimmings, 1 pint rich white stock, seasoning, demi-glace sauce (No. 237), 1 gill sherry for garnish, 3 oz. macaroni (Spaghetti), 1 bread croustade, 1 oz. grated Parmesan, 1 oz. butter, 1 truffle, 1 oz. cooked ox-tongue, 6 mushrooms, 1 gill Allemande (No. 204) or veloutee (No. 206) sauce. Soak the sweetbreads in cold water for a few hours, parboil till firm, cool, drain and place them between two boards to press. Trim neatly and lard the best side with strips of lar,ding-bacon. Put them in a sautoir on a bed of carrot, onion, herbs, &c. (being the mirepoix as above stated), season with salt, pepper, and aromatic spices (epice culinaire), moisten with the stock and wine. Let it come to a boil, then cover with buttered paper, and finish cooking in a moderate oven. This will take from forty to fifty minutes—frequent basting is very essential. Remove the fat from the stock, take out the sweetbreads, reduce stock, after being strained, to a half-glaze, glaze the sweetbreads, and place on a fried bread croustade on a dish, and keep hot. Heat up the garniture, dress the latter neatly round the base of the dish, and serve with demi-glace sauce. To prepare the garniture Milanaise, break the macaroni into one- inch lengths, and cook till tender in slightly salted water, cool, and drain. Heat up the sauce (Allemande or veloutee), add the grated cheese, and add the macaroni to this. Place a few tiny bits ofENTREES CHAZIDES DE VIANDES {EOT MEAT DISHES) 317 butter on top and keep hot. Cut the tongue, truffle, and mushrooms, into fine shreds. Melt the remainder of butter in a stewpan, when hot put in the above, and toss a few minutes over a brisk fire, season with a pinch of cayenne, and a very little nutmeg. Moisten with a little demi-glace if needed. Arrange the macaroni and the above preparation in alternate groups around the dish. 874. His de Veauala ViZleroi {Fried Sweetbread or Sweet- bread Fritters). Cut one or two cooked (boiled and pressed) sweetbreads into slices, about a quarter of an inch in thickness, coat the slices with some well reduced cold veloutee (No. 206) or bechamel (No. 202) sauce. "When set, dip them into a well-made, light frying-batter, and fry them in hot fat a golden brown. Drain, sprinkle with salt and pepper, arrange them neatly on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a suitable sauce (Tomato, No. 271, or piquante, No. 241). 875. His de Venn d la Senn.—Blanch, trim, press, and braise two or three sweetbreads, and when cold cut them into slices (escalopes) of even size. Prepare a farce of foie gras, and when ready mix it with one-fourth of the quantity of Duxelle puree (No. 298), then spread it about a quarter of an inch thick on the slices, and poach them slowly in a saute-pan with a little consomme stock, flavoured with Madeira wine. Select some artichokes of the same size as the slices, and fry in a little butter. When so prepared, sprinkle some truffles cut into very fine Julienne strips on the sweet- bread slices ; dish them up and sauce over carefully, then garnish with prepared nouilles, mixed with tongue, cut into similar strips as the truffles. Serve, and use a well-reduced demi-glace (No. 237) sauce- (flavoured with a little port wine) with this entree.1 876. His de Veau d la MontreuiZ {Sweetbread, Montreuil Style).—1 pair heart sweetbreads, larding-bacon, 2 truffles (large),. 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 bouquet garni (No. 2), bacon trimmings, seasoning, 1 oz. butter, ^ pint rich ichite stock, 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), 1 glass sherry or Madeira, a little meat glaze (No.. 247), 1 or 2 croutes of fried bread for garnish, 6 to 8 small patty cases, sorrel or spinach puree, % hard-boiled white of egg. Steep the sweetbreads in cold water for about two hours, blanch, cool, drain and trim them. Place the breads between two tins or boards. Cut some thin strips of larding-bacon 'and -truffles, lard the best sides of the sweetbreads alternately with bacon and truffle (three rows). Prepare the vegetables, cut it up in slices, and line the bottom of a braising or saute-pan with these and pieces of bacon, add the butter, bouquet, &c., put in the sweetbreads, larded side up. Season with pepper, salt, and aromatic spice, moisten with stock, cover with buttered paper, bring it to the boil over a quick fire, and 1 This dish was composed by M. Chevriot, chef to Her late Majesty, and served at the dinner given in honour of the Khedive's visit to Windsor, June 28, 1900.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 318 cook in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. Baste well at intervals. When nearly done remove the fat, add a little meat glaze to enable the sweetbreads to be nicely glazed by the time they are completed. Take up the sweetbreads, place them on the croutes, dish up and keep warm. Strain the liquor, reduce well, brush over the sweetbreads, and add the demi-glace to the liquor. In the meantime, have ready some little tartlet or small dariole moulds lined with short crust or rough puff-paste, baked a nice colour. Heat up the spinach or sorrel, flavoured with a little of the sauce and well seasoned, fill the baked crusts with this—use a forcing-bag for this to shape the puree so as to give each a dome-shaped appearance—ornament tastefully with strips of hard-boiled white of egg. Range these neatly round the sweetbreads, pour a little of the sauce over the latter, serve the remainder in a sauce-boat, and hand round with the dish. 877. Croquettes de His de Veau en Caisse (Hot or Cold Entree).—6 oz. cooked sweetbread, 6 mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, 2 oz. butter, 1 small shallot, 1 dessertspoonful flour, 1 egg, a little stock, lemon-juice, chopped parsley, fried parsley, salt, pepper and nutmeg, ^ pig’s caul, 8 to 10 oval paper souffle cases. Chop finely the ham or tongue and the mushrooms. Cut the sweetbread into very small dice, or chop coarsely. Melt half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, when hot put in the shallot finely chopped, fry a little, stir in the flour, and cook whilst stirring for a few minutes. Moisten gradually with about half a gill of rich stock, let it come to the boil, then add the chopped meat, also a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon-juice, bind with the yolk of one egg. Season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Let it get thoroughly hot, and spread on a plate to cool. Make up into neatly-shaped even-sized oval shapes a little smaller than the paper cases, wrap each carefully in a thin square of pig’s caul, fasten the ends with a little white of egg, and let them stand for a few minutes to set. Butter the inside of the paper cases. Fry sufficient parsley to form little beds for each case. Melt the remainder of butter in a saute-pan, put in the croquettes, and fry a golden colour over a moderate fire, or in the oven. Wlfen done take up, drain well on paper or cloth, put on a baking-tin, brush the surface of each with liquid meat glaze, pass in the oven for another minute or two, and place them on the beds of fried parsley in the paper cases. Dish up when cold, and serve with a boat of tomato mayonnaise (No. 297). These croquettes are equally nice served hot, in which case a hot sauce, either piquante (No. 241), or tomato (No. 271), sauce should be handed round at the time of serving. 878. Donnes feuilletes de His de Vea u .—1 large or 2 small sweetbreads, k pint rich stock, 1 gill supreme (No. 210) or Allemande (No. 204) sauce, 8 preserved mushrooms, k lb. puff-paste (Chap. XXIV.), 2 truffles, 1 tablespoonful grated Parmesan cheese, bread- crumbs, k oz. butter, pepper, salt and nutmeg.ENTREES CHAUDES BE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 319 Blanch, trim, and cook the sweetbread in the stock till tender ; the stock must be rich and well-flavoured with vegetables. When done, take up, cut it into dice shapes and put in a stewpan with the mush- rooms and truffles, cut into small dice or slices; season with a little pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg, then add the sauce (hot) and keep hot till required. Line some small round bouchee moulds with puff-paste, prick the bottom of each, to prevent blistering while baking, tfill them with uncooked rice or dried peas, and bake them in a hot oven to a golden colour. When done take out the.rice, unmould •them and fill the croustades with the sweetbread ragout. Sprinkle over the top of each some grated cheese, a few bread-crumbs, and a little melted butter. Just before serving put the croustades in a sharp oven for a few minutes, then serve. 879. Escalopes de Ills de Veau a la Parmentier (Siveet- bread Cutlets with Potato Croquettes).—1 pair of sweetbreads, 1| gill white sauce (No. 209), bechamel (No. 202) or Allemande (No. 204), 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 2 tablespoon/ids finely-chopped cooked lean ham, 1 dessertspoonful finely-chopped truffles, 1 dessert- spoonful finely-chopped preserved mushrooms, 8 eggs, bread-crumbs, lard or butter for frying, 2 lb. mashed potatoes, 1 teaspoonful parsley, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, seasoning. Wash, wipe and blanch the sweetbreads, allow them to remain immersed in cold water for about one hour, then cook in slightly salted water until they are nearly done. Drain them and allow to cool in cold water, remove the skin, &c., and cut them into neat scallops or cutlets. Put the white sauce in a stewpan, add the chopped ham, truffles and mushrooms, also a couple of tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, stir over the fire for a few minutes, season with a pinch of cayenne, salt, and spread on a dish to cool. Spread a layer of this mixture over each slice of sweetbread, egg and crumb them twice, and shape them neatly. Fry them in hot lard or clarified butter a golden brown, drain them on a cloth or paper, and dish up in the form of a border. Have the potato croquettes ready, and range them in the centre of the dish, pour the previously heated tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 880. Parmentier Croquettes.—Put the mashed potatoes in a stewpan with a small piece of butter, when hot add the cream and chopped parsley, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg, lastly stir in one or two yolks of eggs, and allow to bind. Spread the mixture on a dish, when cold shape into small balls, egg and crumb them, fry in hot fat a light colour, and drain. 881. Mirotou de Ills de Yea a en Cocotte.—1 cooked sioeetbread, 6 champignons, 2 truffles, the breast of a cooked chicken, % pint supreme sauce (No. 210), f pint cooked green peas, 4- oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, seasoning. . Cut the sweetbread and chicken into small slices, slice the cham- pignons and truffles. Butter eight oblong china souffle cases and fillTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 320 them with the above, sauce over each layer with supreme sauce and season to taste with salt and pepper. Rub the peas through a fine sieve, melt the butter in a stewpan, add the peas puree, season to taste and stir till hot. Add the egg-yolks and cook a little longer. Put this in a forcing-bag with a plain tube, force out the puree on to the top of cases, so that the surface of each is well covered. Place the cases on a baking-sheet and cook in a fairly hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Dish up and send to table very hot. 882. Roulettes de Ris de Vea u d I’Imperatrice.—6 oz. cooked sweetbread, 6 mushrooms, 1 small truffle, puff-pastry, fried parsley, puree of green peas, 2 oz. cooked ox-tongue, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, ^ gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), pepper, nutmeg, and a good pinch of paprika. Mince rather coarsely but evenly the sweetbread, tongue, the mushrooms and truffle, and put in a saucepan with enough sauce to bind so as to produce a salpicon of moderate consistency. Season to taste, and keep hot in the bain-marie. Poll out the paste, cut out some squares or rounds of even size, roll each round some small wooden rollers, well greased (any size so long as they are not more than two or three inches in length). Place them on a baking-sheet, folded sides downwards, brush over with beaten white of egg, sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake in a moderate oven to a nice light-brown colour. Remove the wooden rollers.1 Fill the roulettes of pastry with the above mixture. Garnish with green pea puree by means of a forcing-bag, and fried parsley. Dish up, and serve hot. 888. Timbales de Ris de Veau d la Mirabeau.—24 stuffed olives, 1 cooked stoeetbread, lb. lean veal, \ lb. veal suet, 3 oz. panade, 3 yolks of eggs and 1 whole egg, 6 to 8 preserved mushrooms, 2 truffles, ^ oz. anchovy paste, a few cocks’ kernels, well-reduced demi-glace (No. 237), or Madere sauce (No. 237 a), seasoning. Butter a large timbale mould, and garnish the bottom with stuffed olives, pound the veal and suet, separately, in a mortar till quite smooth, then mix together, and add by degrees the panade and eggs (yolks and whites). Mix thoroughly in the mortar, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Add the anchovy paste, and pass the mixture through a fine sieve. Test the consistency of the farce. Line the bottom and the sides of the timbale mould with the farce, cut the sweetbread, mushrooms, truffles, and cock’s kernels into small dice, and moisten with some well reduced, rich Madere or demi-glace sauce. Put this in the mould, fill it up with the remainder of the farce. Place the mould in a saute-pan containing boiling water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about one and a quarter hour. Turn out on a round dish, sauce 1 These rollers are merely made of plain wood, three and a half to four inches long, three-quarters of an inch in diameter. Ordinary penny rulers, cut to size, will answer.the purpose, but they must not be painted.ENTREES CHANDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) • 321 over with some hot Madeira sauce, and send a small boat of the same sauce to table with the dish. 884. Vol au Vent de JRis de Veau.—1 lb. puff-paste or feuilletage, 1 large heart sweetbread, 1 gz. butter, 18 small pre- served mushrooms, 2 slices ox-tongue, 1 gill Madeira sauce (No. 237 a), salt and pepper, 1 egg. The puff-paste must be prepared with special care for this dish, and should have at least five turns. Eoll it out to about an inch in thickness, then, with the help of a dessert plate, cut the paste with the point of a sharp knife to the size required. Turn it on to a baking-sheet, brush the surface very carefully and evenly with beaten egg yolk, mark the centre with a large round paste cutter by making an incision, about an inch from the edge of the paste. Trace a few lines in the centre ring by means of the point of a knife, and bake in an evenly heated but not too hot an oven from thirty to forty minutes. When done lift up the cover and take out some of the interior of the pastry. Keep the Vol-au-Vent warm till wanted. Wash, trim, parboil, drain, and pare the sweetbread, cut it into con- venient slices, fry them in the saute-pan with the butter, pour off the butter, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, &e. Add the Madeira sauce, the tongue, cut into dice or strips, and the mushrooms cut into slices. Cook this for some minutes. Fill the Vol-au-Vent with this preparation, have it placed on a hot dish, put on the lid, and serve immediately. 885. liot/nons aux CEufs brouilles (Calf’s Kidney with Scrambled Eggs).—1 large or 2 small calves’ kidneys, 2 oz. butter, 2 shallots, 1 gill Madeira sauce (No. 237 a), 1 teaspoonful fin ely - chopped parsley or chives, 4 eggs, salt and pepper. Remove skin and fat from the kidneys, cut it into very thin slices, and season with salt and pepper. Peel and chop the shallots, and fry them in a saute or frying pan to a very pale colour, add the kidney slices, and fry over a quick fire for five minutes. This process is called sauteing or tossing. Add the Madeira sauce, and let cook gently for ten minutes. Beat up the eggs, add about a table- spoonful of milk, season to taste, and put it in a stewpan with the remainder of butter (1 oz.). Stir over the fire till it thickens, dress the kidney ill a circle on a hot dish, put the scrambled eggs in the centre (piled up high), sprinkle with chopped parsley or chive, and serve at once. 886. lilauquette de Veau (WhiteVeal Stew).—1| lb. to 2 lb. cushion of veal or fillet, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 12 preserved mush- rooms (champignons), 8 to 10 small onions, 1 bouquet garni (No. 2), | gill white wine (Chablis or Sauterne), \ gill cream, Zyolhs of eggs, lemon-juice, seasoning. Cut the veal into neat square pieces, put it into a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover, add a good pinch of salt and the juice of half a lemon, bring it to the boil, and remove the scum. Now addTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 322 the wine, the bouquet garni, and the small onions, previously peeled. Cover and cook gently for about an hour. Pour off the stock and remove the bouquet. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, cook whilst stirring for a few minutes, but do not let it get brown, moisten with a pint of stock, boil up, skim, and add the mush- rooms, cut it in halves or slices, cook for ten minutes, then add the cream and egg-yolks, strain over the cooked veal, re-heat, without letting it actually boil, season to taste, dish up, garnish with fleurons, and serve hot. 887. Tete de Veau en Tortile.—Wash half a calf’s head well, and rub with a coarse cloth. Bone carefully ; start cutting from the centre of the head down to the nostrils. Wash and blanch the flesh ; put in a stewpan an ounce of flour, stir in a quart of water and a teaspoonful of vinegar; add an onion, three cloves, a bunch of herbs, one carrot, and a bay-leaf. Cut the meat of the head into convenient pieces, remove the centre of the ears, put them into the stewpan, add two or three quarts of stock, and boil slowly till tender. Skim occasionally. When done take up as many pieces as may be required (the re- mainder will keep if put with the stock into an earthenware pan), put them in a stewpan with a glass of sherry, cover and boil five minutes, season to taste, and add Garnishing a la Tortue (No. 493). Cook for fifteen minutes longer, dish up, garnish with fried bread croutons glazed over, and fried parsley, and serve. Note.—The brain should be removed, washed, and kept in water till wanted. The tongue can be cooked at the same time, or may be served as a separate dish. 888. Tete de Veau d t« Foulette.—Cook half a calf’s head as in the foregoing recipe. Add about one pint of poulette sauce (No. 207), omitting the sherry and Tortue garnishing. Simmer slowly for fifteen minutes, dish up and serve. If found that the sauce is too thick add a little milk or cream. 888 a. Tete de Veau d la Vinaigrette.—Wash, blanch, and cook as before, drain well, dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve with a boat of vinaigrette sauce, consisting of one gill of best oil, rather more than half a gill of vinegar, pepper, salt, chopped chervil, parsley, olives, and one small shallot. 889. Tete de Veau d la ('aroar—Proceed as before; finish cooking in tomato sauce (No. 271), adding garnishing a la Cavour (No. 431). Dish up, garnish neatly, and serve. 890. Filets de Fore d la Ferigueux—-Bone a small neck of pork, trim off all the fat, and lard one side with strips of fat bacon. Place it in a deep saute-pan, on a bed of sliced carrot, onion, and bouquet garni, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a glass of sherry and a gill of brown stock. Let it come to the boil, and finish cooking in a moderate oven; baste well from time to time. When done, take up, skim the liquor and strain into a small stewpan addENTREES CHAUDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 323 about three-quarters of a pint of Perigueux sauce (No. 243), boil up, and let simmer for a few minutes. Dish up the fillets, left whole, or cut into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, pour over some sauce, and serve the remainder separately. A border of mashed potatoes brushed over with egg, and baked in the oven, will serve well as a base for the fillets, and greatly improves the appearance of the dish. 891. Cdtelettes de Pore a la Robert.—Cut eight to nine small pork cutlets from the best end of the neck of pork. Trim and pare neatly, leaving about half an inch of fat round each cutlet. Put the cutlets in a deep dish, season with pepper and salt and chopped parsley, pour over two tablespoonfuls sweet oil, allow them to remain in soak for half an hour, turn frequently. Drain, and broil over a clear fire. They should be well done, and will take from fifteen to eighteen minutes. Dish up, and serve with sauce Robert (No. 238). 892. Cdtelettes de Pore d la Soubise.—Prepare the cutlets in the same manner as the foregoing, broil them with a little fresh butter in a saute-pan, or on the gridiron. Dish up on a border of mashed potatoes, put a well-reduced soubise puree, or sauce (No. 232), in the centre, and serve sauce demi-glace (No. 237) round the base of the dish. A few drops of liquid meat-glaze or meat extract (Lemco) put over the soubise just before serving will be found an improvement. 893. Pieds de Pore d la Duxelle.—Procure two pairs of pickled pigs’ feet, braise them in richly-flavoured stock until tender. When done take up, remove the bones, and cut each foot in two, lengthwise. Have ready some Duxelle puree (No. 298) ; spread over the inside of each piece with a thick layer of this. When set, cut each in two, egg and crumb twice, and fry in clarified butter a golden colour. Drain on a paper, or cloth. Dish up en couronne, fill up the centre with Duxelle puree and a few heads of mushrooms tossed in butter, garnish with crisp parsley, and serve with sauce Poivrade (No. 263). ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 894. Cotelettes de Pore a la Navarraise.—Pickled pork cutlets, drained well and fried in butter, finished in brown sauce and sliced tomatoes, dressed round a bed of stewed rice. 895. Cotelettes de Pore aux Fines Herbes.—Broiled pork cutlets served with a white wine sauce containing chopped parsley and a small quantity of mixed savoury herbs. 896. Cotes de Pore a la Diplomate. Braised spare ribs of' pork, garnished with small groups of stewed red cabbage, fried pork sausages, and stuffed potatoes. 897. Oreilles de Pore en Vinaigrette.—Boiled pickled pig’s ears, dressed with vinaigrette sauce (No. 300). Garnished with hard- boiled eggs, capers, gherkins, and stoned olives.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 324 898. Oreilles de Pore en Menus Droits. -Pickled pig’s ears, braised and served with finely sliced fried onions. 899. Oreilles de Pore frites, Sauce Tartare.—Boiled pickled pig’s ears, soaked in oil and chopped savoury herbs, dipped in frying batter (No. 35), and fried in clarified butter, served with Tartare sauce.(No. 278). 900. Palais de Pore gratine.—Boiled pig’s palate, seasoned, dished in a gratin dish with bechamel sauce (No. 202), a few sliced mush- rooms, fresh bread-crumbs, small pieces of butter, and baked in a quick oven. 901. Pieds de Cochon a la Sainte-Menehould.—Pickled pig’s feet, boned, boiled, and stuffed, dipped in seasoned frying batter (No. 35), fried in clarified butter, served with piquante (No. 241) or Robert sauce (No. 238). 902. Tete de Pore a la Mobile.—Braised salted pig’s head (previously boned), finished in brown sauce and sliced tomatoes, 'slightly fried, dished up on stewed rice, and served with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 903. Tete de Pore frite, Sauce Remoulade.—Boiled pickled pig’s head, boned, pressed, and cut into square pieces. Season, egg, crumb, and fry in deep fat. Serve with remoulade sauce (No. 285) and fried parsley. 904. Zampins farci (Stuffed Pig's Foot).—This dish is made from the foot of a young porker, including a part of the leg. It must be salted in brine for some days before it is used. Remove a portion of the bone, and stuff with farce de champignons (No. 407). Prick the rind with a larding-needle, to prevent breaking whilst cooking, and wrap in a cloth, tie both ends, and cook till tender in stock or water. Unwrap, dish up, sauce over with well reduced champagne sauce (No. 262), garnish with groups of French beans, and serve hot. 905. Souffle au Jambon (Ham Souffle).—6 oz. lean cooked ham, a small liqueur glass cognac, | gill Madeira sauce (No. 237 a), 3 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1£ gill milk, 3 yolks and 4 ivhites of eggs, \ teaspoonful aromatic seasoning, a little salt. Cut about two ounces of the ham into small dice of even size ; put these into a cup and add the cognac, cover and keep till required. Cut the remainder qf ham into small slices, and pound in a mortar, adding at the same time about a quarter of the quantity of milk above stated. When smooth, rub through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, and cook for a few seconds over the fire. Add remainder of the milk gradually, stir with a wooden spoon till it boils, and cook for another ten minutes. Allow to cool a little, then put it in a mortar, add the ham puree, and mix thoroughly. Incorporate one by one the yolks of eggs. Season to taste with aromatics and salt, and pass the whole through a sieve. Add the diced ham and cognac. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and work carefully into the preparation. If the latter be foundENTREES CHAUDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 325 too consistent add about a tablespoonful of Madeira or bechamel sauce (No. 202). Three parts fill a well buttered plain charlotte or timbale mould, place it in a shallow pan containing boiling water, and let come to the boil. Cover the mould with a greased paper, and steam in the oven from forty to forty-five minutes. To serve, un- mould quickly out on a hot dish, and pour some hot Madeira sauce round the base of the dish. 906. tJambon a VAnglaise.—Parboiled ham, wrapped in a crust of paste made of flour and water, set to roast in a braisiere (braising pan) with white wine, butter, and seasoning. The crust and skin is then removed. Cut into thin slices, dish up, and serve with a well reduced brown sauce, flavoured with Madeira wine. 907. Jmribon a la Bayonnaise.—Braised ham, with finely- chopped fried onions, dressed on stewed rice, garnished with pieces of fried sausages. Serve with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 908. Petit Sale Piemontais (Spare Bibs).—Soak a piece of the breast ribs of salt or pickled pork in water, and wash it. Boil it very gently in stock till tender. Cook some rice in rich brown stock till the latter is almost absorbed in the rice, flavour it with Parmesan cheese and tomato puree, and dress upon a dish in the form of a bed. Cut the spare rib into neat slices and arrange neatly upon the rice. Serve with Colbert sauce (No. 253). 909. Pieds de Cochon d la Per iyord (Grilled Stuffed Pig's Feet).—Cook some salted or pickled pig’s feet in stock, richly flavoured with vegetables, till quite tender. Cool and bone them. Cut each foot in two lengthways, stuff each half with a mixture of sausage-meat and chopped truffles and liver forcemeat (No. 406). Wrap each in a piece of pig’s caul, brush over with oiled butter, and roll in brown bread-crumbs. Grill over a moderate fire for about fifteen minutes, dish up, and serve with Perigord sauce (No. 243). FILETS DE CANETON EN CHEMISETHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 326 CHAPTER XX ENTRIES CHAUDES DE VOLAILLE dtc. (ENTREES OF POULTRY dc.—HOT DISHES) (For cold service see Chapter XXII) 910. Filets de Canard d la Castillane.—1 large duck, £ lb. raw rabbit or chicken meat, 2 oz. panade, lb oz. butter, 2 tablespoon- fuls of demi-glace (No. 237) or Espagnole sauce (No. 236), b glass sherry, \ pint well-reduced tomato sauce (No. 271), 2 oz. rice, 24 large Spanish olives (stoned), 2 truffles, pepper and salt. Remove the fillets from the duck, flatten each a little, cut out some rounds, pare neatly, and put in a well-buttered saute-pan. Moisten with a very small quantity of sherry, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about ten minutes, just in time for serving (do not cook them beforehand). Take off all the meat from the carcass of duck, removing the skin and sinews, and pound this with the rabbit or chicken meat in a mortar until fine; then add the panade, mix thoroughly, and pound till smooth, adding butter and the brown sauce and a little of the tomato sauce if needed to moisten the farce. Season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Pass through a wire sieve and fill up a small border mould (previously buttered), steam or poach for twenty minutes, stuff the stoned olives with the remainder of the farce, poach them in a little stock and keep hot in the tomato sauce. Blanch the rice, cook in a little stock and tomato sauce, keeping it well moistened until quite cooked, then reduce until fit for moulding. Season the rice, fill up a cylindrical- shaped butter-mould. Have ready the border of forcemeat, turned out on a dish ; put the rice shape in the centre, dress the neatly dried fillets alternately with slices of truffles round the top of the border, arrange the stuffed olives tastefully round the rice shape, sauce over and around well with hot tomato sauce, and serve quickly. A salpicon of cooked duck, truffles, and mushrooms, all cut into small dice, and finished with a little tomato sauce, might be introduced in the centre of the forcemeat. 911. Salmi de Canard (Salmi of Duck).—liar ge tender duck, 4 oz. bacon, 12 stoned French olives, 1 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, f pint stock, 1 small bunch herbs (bouquet garni, No. 2), ^ small onion, and salt and pepper. Singe, draw, and truss the duck, peel and slice the onion, cut.the327 ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) bacon into dice. Cook the latter in a baking tin ; when crisp take out half the quantity and put it on a plate, put the onion in the baking tin with the remainder of bacon and fat, set the duck on this, add the bunch of herbs, and put a little butter on top of the duck, season with pepper and salt, and cook in moderate oven for about twenty minutes, so as to half cook the duck. Take up, untruss, and cut it into neat joints. Fry the flour in the remainder of butter (one and a half ounce) to a nice brown colour, dilute with the stock, boil up, skim, and add to this the gravy from the tin in which the duck was cooked, pouring off every particle of fat beforehand. Stir the sauce until it boils a second time, (a small glass of claret may be added at this stage if liked). Put the pieces of duck, the olives, and the dice of bacon into a clean stewpan, strain the sauce over this and add the bouquet of herbs. Simmer very gently for another twenty-five or thirty minutes, season to taste, skim off the fat, and remove the herbs. Dress the duck in the centre of a hot dish, surround with the olives and bacon. See that the sauce is of the desired consistency, adding a little gravy if found too thick, or reducing it if it is too liquid ; then pour over the duck and serve. 912. Canard a la JPortugaise.—1 large fat duck, 4 small tomatoes, 1 pint brown stock, 1 bouquet garni (No. 2), 1 oz. butter, \ pint JEspagnole sauce (No. 236), 4 pint tomato sauce (No. 271), 3 thin slices of ox-tongue, 1 truffle, 6 to 8 musliroom-heads, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, mashed potatoes for dressing, 1 glass sherry. Singe, draw, and wipe the duck, joint it neatly, and put the carcass in a saute-pan, sprinkle with salt, place the pieces of wing, legs, and breast on top, spread on each a small piece of butter, and put in a hot oven for ten minutes. Take out the pieces of duck, put the carcass in a stewpan with the stock, bouquet of herbs, and stew for half an hour; then add the sauces, remove the fat, add the sherry, and reduce a little. Slice the tomatoes rather coarsely, fry them a little in butter. Cut the tongue in Julienne strips, slice the truffles. Eub the sauce through a tammy cloth, put the pieces of duck in a stewpan with the sauce, truffles, and mushrooms, and let stew gently for about half an hour. Toss the tongue in a little butter over a quick fire, just long enough to warm through. Season the salmi with a pinch of pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Dish up on a round or oval dish on to a pyramid of mashed potatoes, place the garnish of tomatoes, tongue, and mushrooms in small groups round the dish, sauce over well with the salmi sauce, and serve very hot. 913. Hahnl de Canard d la Montreull.— 2 small ducks (trussed), 1 oz. butter, \ pint stock, 1 small bouquet of herbs (No. 2), 1 glass sherry, 1 gill Espagnole (No. 236), ^ pint tomato sauce (No. 271), 2 oz. smoked cooked ox-tongue, 6 preserved mushrooms, 3 large truffles, i onion, 1 small carrot, pepper, salt, nutmeg, fleurons or croiltons of bread.THE NEW CENTUBY COOKERY BOOK 328 Partly roast the ducks, let cool and divide into neat joints. Spread the butter in a flat stewpan or saute-pan, lay in the onion and carrot, previously peeled and cut in slices, also the bouquet garni; put in the pieces of duck, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, cook in a hot oven for about ten minutes, pour off the butter. Moisten with the stock, wine, Espagnole, and tomato sauce, cover with the lid, and let it simmer gently for about three parts of an hour or longer. Take out the pieces of duck, place them in another stewpan, skim the sauce, and strain over the duck. Cut the ox-tongue, mushrooms, and truffles into Julienne shape, put with the above, and simmer for another ten minutes. Put a fried bread croute in the centre of a hot dish, fix it with a little batter, or a little flour and water mixed will do ; if you have no batter handy, put in the oven a few minutes. Dress the pieces of duck and garnishing artistically on and around the croutes, and sauce over gently. Decorate with a few fleurons of puff-paste, previously dipped in a little liquid meat glaze, and serve hot. 914. Ccinavd en Chemise.—Bone a duck, split it open, and spread with a nicely-seasoned liver farce, roll up like a galantine, and tie up in a cloth. Cook in rich stock for forty or fifty minutes, according to size. (The duck must be done rare, almost under- done.) Remove the cloth and braise in the oven for another ten minutes. Serve with orange sauce (No. 259) or Rouennaise sauce (No. 264). 915. Canard grille a la JEranqaise.—Divide a duck down the middle, rub over with a mixture of French mustard, chutney sauce, and seasoning, and broil gently in butter Serve with brown sauce containing white wine, chopped pickled lemons, and preserved musnrooms. 916. Ca neton a la Cain haceres.—1 duckling, trussed for braising, a mirepoix, consisting of bacon, carrot, onion, bay-leaf and herbs, 1 tablespoonful sour cream, 1 oz. butter, 1 large cooked beetroot, 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), salt and pepper, paprika. Arrange the mirepoix in a braising-pan (copper, or fireproof earthenware), fry it a light brown, place in the duckling, and cook over a brisk fire till the outside of the bird has acquired a golden colour. Place it in the oven for fifteen minutes, then take up, and cut the duckling into small joints. Put the carcass and joints into the pan, add the tomato and Espagnole sauces, season to taste, and let simmer gently for about twenty minutes. Dress the duckling on a croute of fried bread on a dish, and keep hot. While the cooking of the duckling goes on saute (toss) the beetroot, cut into Julienne shapes (strips) in butter, season to taste, and surround the dish with this. Strain the sauce, remove the fat, add the cream, and let reduce to the desired consistency. Pour some of the sauce over the dish and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat.ENTREES OF POOL TRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) 329 917. Caneton a la Crapaudine.—l duckling, 3 tablespoon- fuls sweet oil, a bouquet garni (parsley, bay-leaf, thyme, and clove), the juice of half a lemon,pepper and salt, 1 fried bread croute. For the sauce : The giblets of the duckling, 1 oz. butter, ^ oz. flour, the juice of half an orange, 1 pint good stock, pepper and salt. Draw and singe the duckling, slit it open by cutting it through the back, cut off the wings, and use with giblets. Eub the duckling all over with oil, sprinkle over with lemon-juice, season lightly with pepper and salt, run a couple of skewers through the - breast of the duckling to keep it flat, and let it lie on a deep dish for an hour or two. Place the bouquet of herbs under the bird, pour over remainder of the oil, and keep covered. Put the whole in a deep saute-pan, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in a rather quick oven from twenty-five to thirty-five minutes. Baste frequently, and dress it on a croute of fried bread when done. Use the same pan in which the duckling was cooked, add the butter, when hot, put in the giblets, neck, liver, and wings, all chopped up small, fry over a quick fire, add the flour and let it brown. Moisten with the stock and orange-juice, stir until it boils. Skim and reduce to about half its original quantity. Season to taste, strain, colour with a few drops of caramel if needed, boil up again, skim carefully, pour a little of the sauce round the dish, and serve the remainder separately in a sauce- boat. 918. Filets de Caneton fa eel d la Legumiere.—Remove the backbone from a large-sized duckling, lay it out flat, and take out the other bones; have ready some veal forcemeat (No. 402), spread the stuffing over every hollow place of the interior, lay a few strips of raw ham in between the forcemeat, tie or sew up the duckling with strings. Put a few slices of bacon at the bottom of a deep saute-pan, together with a small bouquet garni (No. 2) and a few slices of onion; lay the duckling in the pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a little stock, and put it in a moderate oven for about an hour or more until tender, basting it from time to time; take it up, and keep warm. Take out the bacon and onion from the saute-pan, add half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 237 a) and a tablespoonful of tomato sauce (No. 271), let all simmer for a few minutes, and pass through a tammy cloth. Cut the duckling into neat slices, dish up in an oblong entree dish, garnish the sides with alternate groups of cooked green peas, young carrots and turnips (scooped out in olive shapes), and a few sippets of bread, sauce over carefully, and serve. This dish is also served as a Remove. 919. Caneton d la Bigarade (Grilled Duckling, Bitter Orange Sauce).—Singe a young duckling, and split it down the back, open it and flatten well. Season with pepper and salt, and place it in a roasting tin with a little butter. Roast it for ten minutes or so in the oven, and finish till quite done over the grill. Cut it into neat joints, dish up, and serve with Bigarade sauce (No. 224).330 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 920. Canetons a la Duclair.—Roast ducklings stuffed with the hearts and livers, finely chopped shallots, parsley and seasoning. Cut into joints, dish up, and serve with demi-glace sauce (No. 237), well reduced with claret, orange-juice, and chopped chives. 921. Canetons a la Saint-Monde. —Braised ducklings, finished in Madere sauce (No. 237 a), garnished with thick slices of cooked cucumber, slightly fried in butter, and fried bread croutons. 922. Salmis de Canetons d la Verjus.—Ducklings stewed in a thin brown sauce. A well flavoured Espagnole sauce (No. 236), blanched green grapes, and a little red currant jelly, are added as a garnish. The sauce is finished with a little fresh butter just before the grapes are added. 923. Hissolettes deFoie Gras d la Pompadour.—1 small terrine of foie gras, 6 preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. cooJced tongue, 2 tablespoonfuls veloutee or bechamel sauce (No. 202), 1 lb. puff-paste, frying-fat, parsley for garnish. Prepare a salpicon with the foie gras, mushrooms, and tongue, put it in a stewpan and moisten with sufficient sauce to obtain the right consistency for a salpicon, heat up and put on a dish to cool. Have ready some good puff-paste (six turns), roll out about one- eighth of an inch thick, and stamp out some rounds with a plain cutter. Put about a teaspoonful of the salpicon mixture in the centre of each round of paste, slightly wet the border thereof, fold over so as to produce half-moon shapes, press down lightly so as to close the ends. Fry in smoking hot fat, drain, and serve on a dish with folded napkin. Garnish the dish with sprigs of freshly picked parsley, plain or fried. The fat must be very hot, but not burning. Take special care not to touch the edges of the paste, otherwise the dish will not be a success, because the paste will not rise. 924. Zepi tires de Foie Gras aux Truffes, Sauce Supreme.—Make sufficient forcemeat of fowl to line eight zephire moulds (oval-shaped fluted moulds), butter the moulds well, ornament the bottom of each with truffles, put them on the ice to set firm, line bottoms and sides with forcemeat (No. 403), in which a quantity of foie gras puree has been incorporated. Place a nice piece of foie gras naturel in the centre, season with a little savoury spice (aromatic seasoning), spread over with forcemeat until full, set them on the fire in a sautoir half filled with water. As soon as it boils cover with buttered paper, and allow them to finish poaching in the oven, which will take from fifteen to twenty minutes. Dress them in the form of a star on a round entree dish, sauce over with a light supreme sauce (No. 210), sprinkle with a few drops of dissolved meat glaze, and serve. 925. Ole braisee, Sauce en Celeri (Braised Goose with Celery Sauce).—Truss a goose in the same manner as for roasting, place it on a bed of vegetables (carrot, onion, celery, bay-leaf, beets, and slices of bacon) in a large braising-pan, season with salt and331 ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) pepper, and put in the oven with about an ounce of butter, spread on top of the goose. Cook them carefully, first in rather a fierce heat, to brown the surface nicely, and subsequently in moderate heat; baste frequently during this process. When nearly done take up the goose, cut it into neat joints or convenient-sized pieces. Have ready about a gill of rich brown sauce into which incorporate a small glass of port wine and a teaspoonful of red-currant jelly; place the pieces of goose into, this and cook gently till quite tender. Mean- while prepare a celery sauce, by mincing finely the white part of a cleaned and washed celery head ; fry this with an ounce of butter for a few minutes over the fire, stir in a tablespoonful of flour, cook while stirring for five minutes, and moisten with about three-quarters of a pint of white stock, stir till it boils, and stew gently for twenty minutes. Pass it through a sieve, re-heat, season, and serve with the goose. 926. Ole a la Mont-Vernon.—Eoast goose, stuffed with a mixture of boiled onions finely chopped, and mashed potatoes, dished up with a border of halves of apples, baked in the oven till brown with goose-fat, and served with thin brown sauce flavoured with a little red currant jelly. 927. Ole braisee a la Da aphi noise.—Braised goose, stuffed with chestnut puree, minced shallot, and seasoning, served with a brown sauce mixed with some orange-juice and finely shredded orange- peel. 928. Pigeons ala Coquette.—2 Bordeaux pigeons, 6 fresh eggs, 6 artichokes buttered (preserved), 1 oz. butter, 1 gill rich brown sauce (No. 248), 1 tablespoonful port wine, seasoning, a gill rich supreme (No. 210) or veloutee sauce (No. 206). Truss and wash the pigeons in the usual manner. Remove bones and skin and pound the meat in a mortar till quite smooth, then add the butter, and season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Boil the eggs till hard, remove the shells, and cut a piece off the bottom to make them stand ; cut also a piece off the top, so as to scoop out the yolks ; put the latter with the pigeon farce in the mortar and mix the whole thoroughly with this and the brown sauce. Rub through a fine sieve, and add the wine (the latter may be omitted). Put the prepared farce in a forcing-bag, and fill the whites of egg shapes by means of this ; place each on an artichoke bottom (fond d’artichaut), force a thin border of farce round the edge, and range them on a buttered saute-pan. Heat up thoroughly in the oven, placing previously a buttered paper over the top, then •dish up and sauce over with hot supreme or veloutee sauce. 929. Pigeons a la Ste-Menehould.—Braised pigeons (whole) cut into halves, glazed, sprinkled with bread-crumbs and oiled butter, and browned in a sharp oven, served with sauce Remoulade (No. 285). 930. Pigeons a la Villageoise.—Pigeons, braised whole in butter, herbs, &c., similar to that in casserole (No. 933), served with a thin brown sauce flavoured with lemon-juice.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 332 931. Ballotines de Pigeons d la Financiere.—Bordeaux pigeons, boned, stuffed with foie gras and liver farce and truffles, shaped like little galantines, boiled in stock, and glazed, dressed on a crouton of bread, garnished with financiere, i.e. mushrooms, cocks’ combs, kernels, truffles, dice of cooked sweetbread, and sauced over with a rich demi-glace (No. 237). 932. Cdtelettes de Pigeons d la JNigoise.—Bordeaux pigeons cut in halves, boned, and spread over with foie gras farce, shaped like cutlets, egged and crumbed and fried in clarified butter. Dressed on a bed of risotto, mixed with truffles, served with demi- glace sauce (No. 237). 933. Pigeons en Casserole d la Beige.—2 Bordeaux pigeons, 2 oz. butter, 1 gill gravy, \ gill brown sauce, \ gill Marsala or sherry wine, \ cabbage, 6 thin slices bacon, 1 small onion, seasoning. Truss the pigeons as for roasting, put them in an earthenware stewpan (casserole de terre faience) containing the butter (heated); let them take colour over a brisk fire, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Take up the pigeons, untruss, and cut them into neat joints ; peel the onion, and fry a nice brown in the butter, or else cook it with the pigeon at the beginning. Pour off the fat (butter), blanch the cabbage and divide it into six portions ; fry the bacon, roll up each slice of bacon in a portion of cabbage, arrange these in a layer in the earthenware pan, place the joints of pigeon on top, moisten with the stock, sauce, and the wine. Season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg ; cover the pan and set it in the oven to cook for about half an hour. Remove any fat that may float on the surface, and send the casserole to table as it leaves the' oven. 934. Pigeons d la Polonaise.—2 Bordeaux pigeons, 4 oz. streaky bacon, 8 oz. chicken livers or calf’s liver, 1 small onion, 1 egg, 1 oz. butter, bread-crumbs, seasoning, frying-fat, demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Bone the pigeons, cut the bacon into small pieces, and fry in a saute-pan with a little butter ; when almost done add a finely-minced onion, and fry likewise. Now add the liver, previously cleaned and sliced ; season with finely powdered savoury herbs, salt, and pepper, and cook over a quick fire for a few minutes. Put this in a mortar and pound till fine, then rub through a hair sieve or fine wire sieve. Fill the pigeons with this farce, truss them, and roast them in the oven, basting them frequently with oiled butter. When nearly done take up and let cool. Brush over with beaten egg, and roll in bread* crumbs. Fry them in deep fat (which must be hot) for about ten minutes, then take up, strain, untruss the birds, and dish up ; pour some sauce round the dish, or send some separately to the table. 935. Pigeons en Casserole d la Bogale.—2 Bordeaux pigeons, ^ fowl (large), 2 oz. panade, £ gill bechamel sauce (No. 202),ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) 333 1 egg, 2 finely-chopped shallots, a small bunch savoury herbs, (bouquet garni), 8 to 10 pressed mushrooms, 2 oz. bacon, 1 wine- glassful Marsala -or sherry, 2 oz. butter, k pint demi-glace sauce (No. 237), seasoning. Truss the pigeons, then cut them up into neat joints and fry the pieces in a saute-pan for a few minutes a nice golden colour. In an earthenware pan (French casserole) fry the shallots a pale brown with the bacon, cut into slices, pour off the butter, and lay in the piece of pigeon, the mushrooms (cut into slices), and the bouquet of herbs; season to taste with pepper and salt, and moisten with the sauce and the wine. Put it in the oven and cook for ten minutes, then remove the herbs, and put the chicken farce on top of the pigeons ; return to the oven, and cook very gently from thirty to forty minutes. Send to table in the casserole in which the dish is cooked. 936. Chicken Farce for Pigeons a la Roy ale.—Remove the skin and bones fiym the fowl, and pound the flesh in a mortar till smooth ; add the panade and white sauce, mix thoroughly. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; work in the white of an egg, and rub the whole through a fine sieve (the yolk of an egg can be added if liked). Arrange the farce neatly on top of pigeons in the casserole, and proceed to cook as directed in the foregoing recipe. 937. Cdtelettes de Pigeon (farcies) d la Princesse.— 3 Bordeaux pigeons, 1 bundle of sprue or £ pint asparagus tops, 6 large sauce oysters, f lb. lean beef, 4 oz. butter, £ lb. of panade (No. 8), 1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1^ oz. of meat glaze, 3 yolks of eggs, f pint sauce Italienne (No. 239), mashed potatoes for border, pepper and salt. Split the pigeons in halves, remove the breast-bones and beat them flat with a cutlet-bat. Remove fat and sinews from the beef, cut up small and pound in a mortar; add the butter and panade, pound the panade separately before it is added to the meat, work in the egg-yolks, season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. Mix about a tablespoonful of Espagnole sauce with the forcemeat and spread over the cut side of the pigeons. Place a bearded oyster in the centre of each, folded so as to give it a neat shape, and sew up with strings. Put each in a buttered paper, put them in a buttered saute-pan, and cook them in a hot oven with a glass of sherry and the remainder of brown sauce. Remove the papers, brown them under a salamander, and glaze over with dissolved meat glaze. Take out the strings and dish up on a border of mashed potatoes, with a stew of asparagus points in the centre, and serve with Italienne sauce. The asparagus points should be washed, blanched, and cooked tender in salted water, well strained, moistened with the sauce left over from the pigeons, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. 938. Petites Timbales de Pigeon d la Supreme.— Remove the meat from two Bordeaux pigeons ; pound it in a mortar with a quarter of a pound of dried beef suet and two ounces of baconTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 334 cut into strips ; rub it through a wire sieve; return it to the mortar ; add two ounces of butter, three chopped mushrooms, two ounces of panade (No. 8), and a tablespoonful of Allemande (No. 204) or veloutee (No. 206) sauce; season well with pepper, salt, and aromatic spice; work it thoroughly, and add gradually two whole eggs and one yolk of egg. Butter twelve small timbale moulds, line them rather thickly with the above farce, place a dessertspoonful of salpicon (No. 11), of pigeon, ham, tongue, truffles, and mushrooms in the centre of each, cover, fill up with the farce. Place them in a saute-pan, pour in some boiling water so as to steam them, cover with a buttered paper, bring it to the boil over the fire, and steam in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. When done, turn out; dish them up in a circle; place a small mushroom head and a piece of truffle on each; pour some supreme sauce (No. 210) over and around them; garnish with a few fleurons of puff-paste and fancy shapes of sliced ox-tongue. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 939. Pigeons a la Marigny.—Halves of pigeons, seasoned and braised, dressed on heart-shaped slices of smoked cooked ox-tongue, covered with oiled paper, and baked in the oven, served with Madere sauce (No. 237 a). 940. Chartreuse de Pigeons a la Rouennaise.—Braised pigeons, dressed in the centre of a border composed of carrots, turnips, braised savoy cabbage, and small squares of boiled pickled pork, all set in a symmetrical row. Garnish the dish with slices of smoked pork sausages, and serve with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 941. Compote de Pigeons a l’Americaine.—Stewed pigeons with small squares of fried bacon and medium-sized button onions, slightly sugared and fried in butter. Served with brown sauce mixed with a small quantity of cranberry jelly. 942. Compote de Pigeons a la Bourgeoise.—Parboiled pigeons, stewed in brown sauce with a little claret, small fried button onions, savoury herb flavouring. Served with a garniture of cooked young carrots, green peas, and glazed button onions. 943. Cotelettes de Pigeons aux Pointes d'Asperges.—Pigeons cut in halves, boned, seasoned, and shaped into cutlets, and partly braised. When cold press them between two dishes, egg, crumb, and bake them in clarified butter. Serve with a brown sauce (flavoured with sherry or port wine), and garnish with stewed asparagus points. 944. Cotelettes de Pigeons au Supreme.—Halves of pigeons, boned, except the legs, flattened, seasoned, fried, pressed, pared. Filled with chicken salpicon and truffles, and shaped into the form of cutlets. Egged, crumbed, fried, and served with veloutee sauce (No. 206), thickened with cream, egg yolks, and butter. 945. Pigeons en Matelote.—Pigeons cut into joints, seasoned, broiled in butter and thin slices of bacon, stewed in a brown sauce,ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) 335 white wine, chopped chives, parsley, thyme, and mushrooms. Garnished with fried button onions. 946. Pigeons en Papillotes {Pigeons in Cases).—Pigeons cut in halves and boned, well seasoned, covered with a mixture of liver forcemeat (No. 406), chopped shallots and parsley, and sliced button mushrooms. Dressed in well-buttered paper cases, baked slowly in the oven, and glazed before serving. 947. Pate de Pigeons chaud.—Parboiled stuffed pigeons cut into halves filled into a pie-dish with slices of rump steak, parsley, seasoning, and hard-boiled slices of eggs, and stock, covered with a rich pie-crust, and baked. 948. Medallions de JPoularde d la Heine.—1 -pullet or large fowl, 2 oz. blotter, 4 oz. panade, 1 egg, 1 gill cream, f pint of asparagus tips, \ pint veloutee or Allemande sauce {Nos. 206 and 204), 1 truffle {large), a little lobster spaion, seasoning, bread for croutes. Eemove the meat from the fowl (all the fleshy parts), free from skin and sinews. Flatten some of the best pieces, and shape them into round fillets or medaillons. Cook them for a few minutes in a saute-pan containing the butter, strain and press lightly until cold. Put the remainder of meat, trimmings, &c., into a mortar and pound till smooth, adding half its quantity of panade, one white of egg, and sufficient cream to form a farce of medium consistency. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg and rub it through a fine sieve. Now spread one side of the medaillons with a thick layer of this farce, smooth it nicely by means of a knife dipped in hot water. Mix the remainder of farce with sufficient pounded lobster coral to give it a red tint, and pipe a neat border of a star or rosette on each medaillon. Slice the truffle, cut out the letters V.R., and place carefully in the centre of each. Arrange the medaillons on a well-buttei-ed drainer to fit the pan in which they are to be cooked (steamed), put them in the pan contain- ing some boiling water, and allow to steam gently for about twenty minutes. Meanwhile prepare and fry in clarified butter or lard some bread croutes about the size of the medaillons. Cook the asparagus tops in salted water, drain, and finish them in the butter in which the fillets were first cooked ; moisten with a little white sauce, and season to taste. Fix the croutes on a hot dish in the form of a crown, dish up the medaillons on these, dress the asparagus ragofit in the centre, pour a little hot white sauce round the base of the dish, and serve the remainder separately in a sauce-boat. The sauce should be Carefully warmed, and any cream left over stirred into it a few minutes before it is required. 949. JPoularde souffl.ee d VOrloff. 1 fat pullet, 1 small chicken, 2 or 3 whites of egg, 1^ pint cream, a few slices fat bacon,THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 336 a sliced carrot,.1 sliced onion, a bouquet garni (No. 2), ^ pint stock, 1 oz. butter, pepper and salt, nutmeg, veloutee or supreme sauce (Nos. 206 and 210), financiere garniture (No. 455). Truss the pullet the same as for boiling, line a braising-pan with slices of bacon, put in the carrot, onion, and bouquet, lay in the pullet, cover the top with the butter, put in a hot oven for ten minutes, moisten with the stock, season, cover with a buttered paper, and braise until about three-parts done. Remove the pullet and let it get cold. Bone the chicken, free the meat from skin and gristle, chop finely, and pound till quite smooth. Rub through a fine sieve, return to the mortar and work in the whites of egg. Season with salt, pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a suspicion of nutmeg. Whip the cream and mingle with the forcemeat. Untruss the pullet; with a sharp-pointed knife cut out the breasts and bones, so that it forms an oval case ; place it in a saute-pan (buttered), fill the hollow part with a fourth part of the prepared forcemeat, poach in a moderate oven for twenty minutes, cut the two breast fillets into scollops, range them in two rows on top of the forcemeat, coat with a little sauce, return to the oven for another ten minutes or so, put the remainder of the forcemeat on top, smooth neatly, fasten a paper band round it if necessary, and finish cooking in a moderate oven. Dress the poularde whole on a bed of cooked rice, on a large silver dish; garnish the sides with financiere previously warmed in a little sauce (arrange the garniture in groups or clusters), pour over some rich veloutee or suprendte sauce, and serve hot. Note.—It is safest to test the forcemeat first; if found too stiff add a little more cream, and if found too liquid add a little more white of egg whipped to a stiff froth. 950. Poularde sautee d la Saint Valentin.—Stewed pullet with finely-chopped truffles, mushrooms, garnished with heads of mushrooms, hard-boiled yolks of eggs, fleurons (small half-moon shapes of puff-paste, baked), and chopped parsley, served with orange sauce (No. 258), reduced with Madeira wine. 951. Poulet ‘ en Casserole—Trim a tender fowl the same as for boiling or braising, and rub the skin well with the cut side of a lemon. Take an earthenware or copper stew or braising pan, large enough to hold the fowl, put in two to three ounces of butter, three or four small onions (button onions) peeled and stuck with two cloves, and a full bouquet garni (this means with every herb to hand, but very little of each) ; add to this a handful of bacon cut into dice. Allow to get hot and put in the fowl; let it cook very gently on the stove for about one hour, baste the fowl frequently and turn it from time to time. When done pour off the fat, seaso^ the fowl with salt and pepper ; moisten with a ladleful of rich gravy or a tablespoonful of liquefied meat glaze, put it in the oven for about ten minutes, and baste it well with the liquor. Take up the fowl, untruss, dish it up on a hot dish, strain any liquid remaining in the pan over the fowl, and serve.ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES) 337 Many people prefer the fowl dressed on a bed of rice ; in which case the rice should be cooked in good stock to the desired consist- ency. This mode of cooking a fowl is known in France as ‘ poeler,’ and is usually performed upon burning embers or charcoal, the pan used being a fireproof earthenware casserole. It would then be more correct to send the fowl to table in the casserole. 952. Poulet a la Duchesses—1 boiled chicken {small), 6 oz. lean liam, 12 preserved mushrooms, 2 French gherkins, i pint veloutee (No. 206) or bechamel (No. 202) sauce, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 lb. potatoes, 1 oz. butter, { gill cream, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. Free the chicken from skin and bone, and cut the meat into shreds ; cut the ham, mushrooms, and gherkins in a similar manner. Wash, peel, and boil the potatoes, drain, and rub through a fine sieve; put them in a stewpan, mix with the butter and cream, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg ; when thoroughly hot, mix in the egg-yolks-, and keep hot. Bring the sauce to a boil, put in the chicken, ham, and gherkins, stir gently, and let it get hot ; season with pepper and salt. Fill a buttered border-mould with the potato- puree, turn out on a dish, bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. Serve the chicken &c. in the centre, and sprinkle over a little chopped parsley. 958. JPoulet a Jo Hongroise.—l fat tender chicken, 4 oz. butter, f oz. flour, ^ gill white wine, ^ pint milk, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, 1 lemon, paprika pepper, salt, nutmeg, 3 oz. rice, .2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, 1 pint stock. Cut the chicken into neat joints, the same as for poulet saute (No. 965), brown the pieces slightly on both sides in a saute-pan, with about two and a half ounces of butter. Season with paprika, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Drain off some of the butter, sprinkle over the flour, and brown a little ; then add the wine and milk (pre- viously boiled), stir well, and simmer very gently from twenty to thirty minutes. Add the parsley last of all; wash, blanch, and cook the rice with stock. Season with nutmeg, salt, and paprika; add remainder of butter, ham, or tongue, cut into small dice. Butter a border-mould, fill up with rice (pack firmly), turn out on a round flat dish. Dress the chicken in the centre of the border, strain the sauce, reduce again, add the juice of half a lemon, and finish with a little more butter. Pour over the, chicken, and serve. 954. Poulet en Cocotte,—1 fowl, trussed for boiling, 8-12 small button onions, 4 oz. bacon, streaky, 2 oz. butter, 12 new pota- toes, 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), 1 glass Marsala or sherry, salt, pepper, chopped parsley. Cut the bacon into dice and fry in a saute-pan with the onions, previously peeled ; take out the onions and put them on a plate : put the fowl in a fire-proof pan (casserole), pour over the bacon and fat, : also a little butter, season with pepper and salt, and let it take colour z388 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK over the fire ; then cover and cook in the oven for twenty minutes. Meanwhile wash and scrape the potatoes, blanch and drain them, finally saute them in butter in a saute-pan. Pour the fat off the chicken. Add the wine, sauce, and button onions, return to the oven and cook for another fifteen minutes. Take up the fowl, untruss, and dish up; surround it with the button onions and potatoes. Season the sauce to taste and pour a little over the fowl. Serve the remainder in a sauce-boat and send to table with the fowl. 955. Filets de I*o n let aux Grose illes.—Remove the breasts of two chickens, pare and trim them neatly, season with pepper and salt, dip them in white of egg and cover with bread-crumbs (use fresh crumbs for this purpose). Make a farce with the remainder of meat of the chickens, fill up a well-greased border-mould, and poach it in the oven for thirty-five minutes. Cut the carcass into small pieces and fry in butter with a small onion and a bouquet garni, pour off the fat, add a gill of demi-glace sauce (No. 237), half a gill of rich gravy, and a dessertspoonful of red currant jelly, allow this to reduce well, strain, and season to taste. Fry the crumbed fillets in clarified butter. Dish up the border and fill the centre with green peas, tossed in butter. Cut the fillets in halves and place neatly on top. Pour the sauce round the base of the dish and serve hot. 956. Fricassee de Poulet (Fricassee of Chicken).—Truss a young fowl for boiling, and put it to cook in a large stewpan with one quart of hot water. Let it come to a boil slowly ; when it reaches this point remove the scum and add a couple of stalks of celery, three or four sprigs of parsley, a bay-leaf, two slices of onion, and a carrot: season with salt and pepper. Simmer for three-quarters of an hour, closely covered. As soon as done (test it with a fork) take it from the stock, untruss and cut into neat joints. Now make the sauce. Cook together in a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour for a few minutes, but do not allow it to brown ; add slowly a pint of the strained stock of the fowl, boil ten minutes. Mix in another dish the yolks of two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of milk, one of melted butter, and a tiny pinch of cayenne pepper ; add this care- fully to the hot sauce, stirring all the time ; let the sauce get thoroughly hot, but do not let it boil again, add a teaspoonful of lemon-juice and strain over the pieces of fowl. Dish up the cooked fowl (the skin may be removed if liked) on a bed of cooked rice. Sauce over care- fully, and serve very hot. Needless to say the pieces of fowl must get thoroughly hot in the sauce before dishing up. Some sliced preserved mushrooms put with the sauce will make an improvement to the fricassee. 957. Poulet frit d la Tf/rolienne.—1 tender chicken, 1 whole egg and 1 yolk of egg, 2 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonf ul chopped parsley, pepper and salt, bread-crumbs, clarified butter' or lard, tomato sauce. Draw, singe, and wipe the chicken, and cut it into small joints.339 ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) Beat up the eggs, melt the butter, and mix both together, add the chopped parsley and sufficient pepper and salt to taste. Dip the pieces of chicken in this, cover with bread-crumbs ; when set, repeat this operation. Fry in hot lard or butter a golden colour. Drain on a cloth, dish up in a pyramid form, •garnish with fried parsley, and serve with tomato sauce (No. 271). Unless the chicken used be young and tender, and the joints be cut small, this dish will not be a success. Cold pieces of fowl or game can be served in the same way, but should be skinned before being crumbed. 958. Poulet frit a la Villeroi.—1 fowl, a mirepoix, consist- ing of bacon, carrot, onion, bay-leaf’, 2 cloves, and savoury herbs, 1 pint stock, 2 oz. butter, £ oz. flour, 1 glass white wine, 3 yolks of eggs, 1 whole egg, lemon-juice, bread-crumbs, seasoning, frying-fat, parsley. Truss the fowl as for braising, place it on a bed of vegetables and bacon (mirepoix), with an ounce of butter in a stewpan (braisiere), and let the surface of the fowl get nicely browned over a bright fire. Moisten with stock, season with pepper and salt, cover, and place in the oven for about half an hour ; baste occasionally. Take up the fowl, untruss, and cut it into neat joints. Put the carcass into the stewpan in which the fowl has been cooking, remove the fat before- hand ; add the wine, and boil up. Strain or reduce the stock a little. Cook the flour in the remainder of butter (1 ounce), but do not allow it to get brown ; stir in the stock; add the juice of half a lemon, and let reduce to a moderate consistency (the sauce must boil at least for ten minutes). Stir in the egg-yolks and let bind. Dip the pieces of fowl in this sauce after it has cooled, cover each piece completely, and put in a dish. When set brush over with beaten egg, roll in bread- crumbs, fry them in hot fat a golden colour, drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. 959. Quenelles de Volatile (Chicken Quenelles).—1 fowl, weighing about 1^ lb., 1 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 1 gill milk or white stock, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful cream, seasoning, white sauce. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour and cook a little, dilute with the milk or stock, and stir until it becomes a smooth paste, that leaves the sides of the stewpan perfectly clean. Spread this on a plate and let cool. Skin and bone the fowl, pound the meat in a mortar till ‘smooth, work in by degrees the panade, the eggs, and the cream, season with pepper, salt, and a little -grated nutmeg or a pinch of cayenne, and rub through a fine sieve. Butter a saute-pan, shape some quenelles by means of two spoons, dip one spoon into hot water and fill with forcemeat, smooth its surface with a knife dipped in hot water, and remove the quenelle with the second spoon and place on to the saute-pan. Proceed thus until all the forcemeat is used up. Pour boiling stock or water carefully around the quenelles, and poach them for about fifteen minutes. WhenTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 340 clone take up, drain them on a hair sieve, and dress them neatly on a hot dish, garnish the centre of the dish with spinach or potato puree, and serve with a nicely flavoured white sauce, which should be poured over the quenelles. 960. Quenelles a la Clamavt.—8 to 10 oz. chicken, veal, or rabbit meat free from bone, skin, and gristle, £ lb. bread panade (No. 8), 2 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls cream, 1 gill of bechamel sauce (No. 202), 1 oz. butter, 1 gill of cooked peas, 1 truffle, ^ cucumber, % pint stock, pepper, salt, mustard, aromatic spice, spinach greening, mashed potatoes for border. Cut the meat into small pieces, pound in a mortar till smooth, add the panade, mix thoroughly with the cream, a few drops of spinach greening or a tablespoonful of cooked spinach, and the eggs. Season to taste, and rub through a sieve. Fill a number of well-buttered and ornamented pie moulds with this farce; place them in a saute-pan with a little water and cook in the oven for about ten minutes. Reduce th& stock to a quarter, add the sauce, and reduce again. Scoop out some pea shapes of cucumber, cook in salted water, strain, and put in a stewpan together with the peas, add the butter and toss over the fire. Cut out the truffle in pea-shapes, mix with the above, moisten with a little sauce, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. Turn out the moulds and dress neatly on a round border of mashed potatoes. Fill the centre with the prepared garnish, and pour a little of the remaining sauce round the base of the dish. Should any quenelle-meat be left over, put it in a forcing-bag or paper cornet and force out on a buttered saute-pan very small quenelles about the size and shape of peas; add a little stock, poach for three or four minutes, and mix these with the above-mentioned garniture. 961. Poulet saute ala Cabello.—1 young chicken (trussed), b gill olive oil, 1 orange, % pint demi-glace sauce (No. 237), ^ gill tomato sauce (No. 271), % oz. butter, 1 glass port wine, % pint of preserved pimentos (siveet), a tablespoonful meat glaze, seasoning. Untruss the chicken, cut it into six to eight joints, wipe them, and fry a nice light brown colour in the oil. Pour off the oil and season the chicken with salt, pepper (white and red); chop or grate the thin rind of an orange ; add this, also the wine and sauces (demi-glace and tomato), to the chicken, cover, and cook gently for about twenty minutes. Take out the chicken and dress the pieces neatly on a dish containing a small bed of potato puree. Keep it hot, melt the butter till nut-brown, and pour over the dish of chicken. Have ready the pimentos cut into Julienne shapes and make hot with a little demi- glace, add to this the meat glaze, and dress in the centre of the dish or in groups round its base. Re-heat the sauce, skim it, season to taste with a good pinch of aromatic spice. Strain it over the chicken and serve very hot. 962. Poulet saute a la Carnot.—1 chicken, 1 oz. butter, 1 shallot, 1 glass sherry, 1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1 gillENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) 341 tomato sauce (No. 271), about £ lb. short crust paste, £ oz. grated cheese, 4 oz. cooked game or beef, 1 oz. ham, 4 oz. butter, 1 table- spoonful well-reduced bechamel (No. 202), 2 yolks of eggs, 1 hard- boiled egg, salt, pepper, 1 truffle, a croute of fried bread. Draw, wipe, and singe the chicken, cut it into neat joints (it should make twelve nice pieces), melt the butter in a saute-pan; when hot put in the pieces, season with pepper and salt, and fry a golden colour over a brisk fire. Add the shallot, finely chopped, at the last moment, so as to blend a little; now add the sherry, cover and reduce a little, then add tomato and Espagnole sauce, put on the lid, and let simmer gently for about forty minutes. Roll out the paste, butter six or more little dariole moulds and line them with the paste ; line the inside with greased paper, fill them up with raw rice or dried peas, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for fifteen minutes, or until they are of a nice golden colour. Turn out the rice, remove the paper, and fill with the following mixture: Cut the ham and game or beef into small pieces, and pound in a mortar till smooth; add the bechamel sauce, butter, and hard-boiled yolk of egg, pound well, work in the two raw yolks, season with pepper and salt, and rub through a wire sieve. Cut the truffle into slices and stamp out as many rounds as you have cases ; chop the trimmings finely and mix with the above. The filling must be done very carefully, and is best performed with a forcing-bag. Sprinkle the surface with grated cheese and bake for ten minutes in a moderate oven. Dish up the chicken on a croute of fried bread, fixed on a hot dish by means of a little batter or white of egg. Skim off the fat from the sauce, and strain over the chicken. Cut some slices of hard-boiled white of egg, stamp out neatly some triangle or heart shapes, cut out the centre so as to receive the slices of truffle previously prepared ; place these tastefully on the baked cases, and dress them round the croute. Garnish with a few sprigs of parsley and serve. Note.—These croutades or timbales make a very pretty second course or savoury dish, served by themselves or as a garnish. 963. Poulet saute a la Chasseur.—1 fat chicken or fowl, \ oz. butter, £ gill salad oil, 1 glass sherry, 1 small onion, 2 oz. raio ham, 6 oz. rice, 1 gill salmi or game sauce (No. 240), £ pint Espa- gnole sauce (No. 236), 10 preserved mushrooms, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Draw, singe, and cut the fowl into neat joints. Put the oil and butter in a saute-pan; when hot, put in the pieces of chicken, season with pepper and salt, and fry a light brown over a quick fire ; add the onion, finely chopped, and the ham, cut into slices or squares. Fry a few minutes longer, drain off the fat, add the sherry and Espagnole sauce, and let simmer slowly for about half an hour. Wash the rice, blanch it in slightly salted water, drain and cook till tender with a little stock and the game sauce ; season with pepper and salt. Put the rice in a buttered plain-border mould, pack tightly,342 THE NEW CENTUBY COOKEBY BOOK and turn out on a hot dish. Chop the mushrooms finely, put with the chicken, add a few drops of lemon-juice, cook a few minutes longer. Dish up the chicken in the centre of the rice, slip a little cutlet frill on each end of the legs before the sauce and garnish are added, and serve. 964. JPoulet saute a la Duroc.—Joint the chicken in the usual manner for sauteing, season and fry in oil, drain and cook till tender in a rich tomato sauce (No. 271). Dish up and garnish slices of mushrooms, stuffed olives, sauted chicken livers, and fried bread croutons. 965. JPoulet saute a la Marengo.—1 good-sized chicken, 1 gill best salad oil, 1 gill brown sauce (Espagnole, No. 236), 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 shallot, 1 glass Marsala, 8 preserved mushrooms, 1 truffle, salt and pepper, 3 eggs, and puff-paste, and fleurons for garnish. Cut the chicken into eight neatly trimmed joints, and put them in a stewpan or saute-pan with the oil, fry quickly to slightly brown the outside of the chicken, now add the shallot finely chopped. Pour off the oil into a smaller stewpan ; then add the two kinds of sauce, the mushrooms, the truffle, both being cut into slices. Cover the pan, season with pepper and salt, and set it in the oven to stew for about forty minutes. Fry the eggs in the oil; they must be shaped just like poached eggs (not flat); arrange the pieces of chicken neatly on a silver dish, dispose of the mushrooms and truffle; place them tastefully around the chicken. Strain over the sauce previously freed from fat, garnish with fleurons, i.e. half-moon or crescent shapes of baked puff-paste, and serve. 966. JPoulet saute a la iPlombiere.—Cut up into neat joints two tender chickens; cut into small dice a quarter of a pound of streaky bacon. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, add the bacon, and fry a little ; now add the pieces of chicken, together with two finely-chopped shallots. Allow the chicken to fry over a brisk fire for about five minutes, until they have acquired a nice light-brown colour on both sides. Mix a tablespoonful of flour, a tablespoonful of mild curry powder, and a dessertspoonful of finely- desiccated unsweetened cocoanut. Sprinkle this over the pieces of chicken, stir well over the fire, moisten with a glass of white wine, a tablespoonful of brandy, and rather more than a pint of white stock or water; add also a small bunch of parsley and half a bay-leaf. Bring it gently to the boil, season with pepper, salt, and a very little grated nutmeg, add also a teaspoonful of red-currant jelly and the juice of half a sour orange. Let it simmer slowly for about thirty to forty minutes. Skim off the fat, remove the herbs, and if too thick add a little more stock or water. Have ready sufficient plain boiled rice to make a border. Dress the pieces of chicken neatly in the centre of the border, together with the garniture and sauce. Have ready the thin rind of half an orange finely shred, and warmed;ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) 343 strew it over the centime, garnish with a few fleurons of puff-paste, and serve. 967. Poalet saute a la Cavour.—Cut up a large fowl into neat joints and saute it the same as directed in No. 965. Finish cooking it in a rich brown sauce flavoured with curry and saffron, garnish with small timbales of rice similarly flavoured. 968. Poulet saute a la Savoyarde.—1 large tender fowl, 4 oz. fresh fat pork, 1 oz. butter, 1 glass Marsala or sherry, 1 dessertspoonful finelywhopped herbs, i pint demi-glace sauce (No. 237), % pint of chestnut puree (nicely seasoned and cooked in rich stock), seasoning, 8 to 10 croutons of fried bread cut into lialf- moon shapes. Prepare the fowl as for roasting; cut it up into small joints, and season with pepper and salt. Cut the pork into small slices, and put it in a saute-pan with the butter. When hot, add the pieces of fowl and fry them to a golden colour. Pour off the fat, add the wine, cover the pan, and cook contents quickly for five minutes. Now moisten with the sauce, add also the herbs, and let simmer for about twenty-five minutes, or till the fowl is tender. Heat the chestnut puree, which must be made rather consistent, half fill a wide timbale mould with it, and turn on to a dish to form a bed ; dress the fowl upon this. Boil up the sauce, skim, season to taste, and pour over the fowl. Garnish with the bread croutons, which must be previously dipped in liquefied meat glaze. 969. JPoulet grille d I’ltalienne.—Procure a plump chicken, cut it open from the back, spread out and flatten well, rub both sides with lemon-juice, and season with pepper and salt. Insert two or three skewers so as to keep the chicken quite flat; immerse in sweet oil for about ten minutes, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and grill it over or in front of a bright fire. Prepare a sauce by frying two peeled and chopped shallots hi butter, add to this a finely-chopped anchovy, freed from bone, one glass of Marsala wine, and a gill of tomato puree. Allow to cook for ten minutes, then add one fresh tomato, cut into slices, and a table- spoonful of meat extract. Boil again, skim, and pass through a sieve. Re-heat and season to taste. Dish up the chicken, remove the skewers, garnish with cauliflower bud and shredded artichoke bottoms. Pour the sauce round the dish and serve. 970. Poussins frits d la Lyonnaise.—2 or 3 (according to size) very small spring chickens (baby chickens), the juice of 2 lemons, 2 bay-leaves, 1 teaspoonful of chopped chives, a few sprigs of chervil, pepper and salt, clarified butter, frying-batter, 1 or 2 small Spanish onions, tomato sauce (No. 271). Singe and draw the chickens, and cut them into small joints, the same as for fricassee. Blanch the pieces in slightly salted water, drain, and dry them with a cloth, put them on a dish, season with salt and pepper, sprinkle over the chives and chervil, add the bay-THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 344 leaves and lemon-juice, cover with another dish, and let stand for two hours. Drain the pieces of chicken, dip them in frying-batter, and cook a light brown in clarified butter, or butter and lard mixed in equal proportions. Drain and keep hot. Peel the onions, cut them into thin slices, and divide into rings ; steep these in milk and dip in flour. Fry in plenty of hot fat till crisp and of a golden brown. Dish up the chickens, and garnish tastefully with the fried onions. Serve with hot tomato sauce. 971. Ailerons de Volatile a la Creole (Chicken Breasts, Creole Style).—2 Surrey fowls or chickens, 6 oz. rice, 1 pint rich stock, 2 oz. butter, 3 truffles (small), 6 artichoke bottovis (small), 14 pint cooked vegetable macedoine, 1 gill sauce aigre-douce (No. 265), aromatic seasoning, salt and pepper. Carefully remove the breasts of the fowls or chickens, leaving the bones on them. Trim them neatly and cut into nice portions, say three of each breast, removing the skin at the same time. Toss the joints in butter in a saute-pan for a few minutes over a brisk fire ; when nicely coloured put the pan in the oven, covered with a piece of buttered paper, and allow to braise for ten or fifteen minutes. Season with aromatics and salt, pour off the fat and add the sauce. Blanch and cook the rice (this must be done beforehand), cook it in stock and add the butter left over from cooking the chickens. Season to taste and let reduce in the oven till almost dry. Mix with the truffles, previously chopped finely. Fill a buttered border mould with the cooked rice ; shake it well, so as to get the rice in firmly, and unmould on a hot dish. Have ready heated the artichoke bottoms and macedoine of vegetables, fill the former with the latter, and place them neatly round the top of the border of rice. Dress the chicken breasts in the centre of the dish, pour over a little of the sauce, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat to be handed round separately. Place the dish in a hot oven for a few minutes to get well heated, and send to table. 972. Turban, de Filets de Volatile (Turban of Chicken Fillets). —Remove the breasts of two fowls, take off the skins and lard with strips of larding bacon. Braise them on a mirepoix of vegetable and bacon, and finish in demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Prepare a border of cooked rice and white mushrooms (champignons), chopped finely and well seasoned. Dress the cooked fillets on this, mask the fillets with a rich supreme sauce (No. 210), pour the demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and garnish with small fleurons of puff-paste. 973. Ball of i ne de Volatile d la Cardinal.—1 fat chicken or pullet, 1 terrine of foie gras pate (No. 9 or 8), 4 slices of streaky bacon, | lb. cooked ham, 4 truffles, 1 glass of white wine, 1 bouquet garni (Mo. 2), a mirepoix (No. 10), J lb. of veal forcemeat (No. 402),845 ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES) 1 egg, 1 gill of rich veal broth {or chicken-broth made from chicken bones), aromatic seasoning. Bone the chicken or pullet in the ordinary way, but do not remove the leg bones. Line with slices of bacon, spread with a layer of forcemeat, previously mixed with a yolk of egg, introducing here and there some thick slices of truffles and slices of cooked ham. Sprinkle with some aromatic seasoning. Cut the foie gras into slices, lay in between the ham and truffles, cover with the remainder of forcemeat. Take up the two ends, fold tightly, and sew up with string. Wrap up the stuffed chicken in a piece of buttered paper. Put the prepared mirepoix (No. 10) in deep saute-pan or braisiere, fry a little, put in the chicken. Add the bouquet garni, wine and stock, or broth. Cook in the oven for about one and a half hour or more, according to the size of the chicken used. Baste well from time to time*. When done take out the chicken, remove the paper and string, cut up in slices, or dress it whole on a hot dish, and serve with Cardinal sauce (No. 218). 974. Cdtelettes de Volatile d la {Richelieu.—1 chicken, 1 tin foie gras {about 6 oz.), 4 oz. fat pork, aromatic spice, pepper and salt, pig's caul, 3 or 4 fresh mushrooms, 4 oz. butter, 1 truffle, bread-crumbs, 1 egg, demi-glace sauce {No. 237), morilles. Remove the fillets of chicken, flatten them, and cut out about ten nice rounds, the size of a four-shilling piece. Pound in a mortar about six oz. of chicken meat free from skin and gristle, cut up the pork and foie gras, pound each separately, then mix well. Season with pepper, salt, and aromatics, and rub the whole through a fine wire sieve. Chop finely the fresh mushrooms (these being previously peeled and trimmed), broil them slightly in some butter over a brisk fire, cut the caul into pieces large enough to envelop a cutlet; put each piece of caul over a cutlet-shaped mould (you will need eight or ten of these). Put a tablespoonful of the prepared farce on the centre of each piece of caul, spread out the farce, now put a chicken fillet on top of this, then a few chopped and broiled mush- rooms, a thin slice of truffle, and finish up with a further layer of farce. Fold in the pig's caul, press the whole lightly into the moulds, so as to obtain correct cutlet shapes. Beat up an egg, add to it an ounce of liquid butter, also a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, mix thoroughly ; coat the cutlets with this, then dip in fresh bread- crumbs. Endeavour to keep the cutlets in neat shapes while crumbing. Fry them in hot butter a nice colour, dish up on a narrow border of mashed potatoes, fill up the centre with broiled morilles or fresh mushrooms, and serve with demi-glace sauce. 975. Rains de Volatile a la Creole.—10 to 12 oz. raw chicken, freed from skin and bone, 2 oz. calves' liver, 4 oz. foie gras, 1 small bouquet garni {No. 2), 2 shallots, 1 gill white stock, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. ground rice, 3 eggs, £ gill milk, 4 gill cream, salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, sauce Italienne {No. 239).340 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Cut the chicken into small pieces, slice the liver finely, peel and chop finely the shallots, and fry the latter for a few seconds in the butter, add the chicken and liver and fry together with the bouquet over a brisk fire till well blended. Remove the bouquet and pound the chicken and liver in a mortar, and rub through a fine sieve. Return the puree, to a stewpan, and season to taste. Add the ground rice, previously mixed with the milk, and cooked in stock ; stir and cook slowly for ten minutes. Let cool a little, then add the cream and the. yolks of eggs, together with the whisked white of one egg. Mix the foie gras, cut into cubes, with the above, and fill up some well- buttered timbale or dariole moulds. Steam for about thirty-five minutes. Dish up and serve with Italienne sauce poured over the pains. 976. Cuisses de Volatile enFdpillotes aux Fpinards.— 4 to 6 raw chicken legs, 6 slices fat bacon, \ pint stock, 1 gill white wine, 1 bay-leaf, thyme, \ carrot, % onion, 1 gill no ell-reduced Espagnole sauce (No. 236), salt, pepper, 6 heart-shaped slices of cooked ham, spinach puree. Take out the bones from the legs, leaving a portion of leg-bone (drum-stick), season with pepper and salt. Line a saute-pan with small pieces of bacon, add the bay-leaf and a sprig of thyme, the carrot and onion sliced; lay in this the chicken legs, moisten with the wine and stock, and cook in a brisk oven till tender. Cut some slices of bacon into heart-shapes, and fry slightly. Press the cooked chicken legs a little, trim, and put each on to a piece of buttered paper (strong white paper should be used), previously cut out into heart-shape. Lay a slice of bacon on the chicken, spread over a layer of spinach puree, and put a slice of ham on top; wrap the buttered paper well round each leg thus prepared, twist it on the ends so as to well fasten it. Range on a buttered saute-pan and bake for about fifteen minutes. Dish up and serve with a sauce made as follows : Strain the liquor left from the chicken, skim off the fat, put the Espagnole sauce with this, and cook a few minutes. Season if necessary, and serve. Note.—The paper used for papillotes should be cut large enough to answer the purpose of wrapping round the legs. They are sent to table in the papers. A cutlet frill may be put on each bone. 977. Cuisses de Volatile d la Florentine.—Chicken legs boned and partially fried in butter when cold immersed in supreme sauce (No. 210), then egged, crumbed in fresh bread-crumbs and grated parmesan cheese, and fried in clarified butter. Served with tomato sauce (No. 271). 978. Filets de Volatile d la Cecile (Chicken Cutlets, Cecile Style) 1 spring chicken, 1 oz. butter, | onion, 1 bay-leaf, 6 oz. foie gras, 2 oz. beef marrow, 1 slice bacon, 2 yolks of egg, 6 oz. cooked as- paragus points, 1 tablespoonful white sauce, potato puree, 2 slices cooked ox-tongue, 1 truffle, pepper and salt, meat glaze, demi-glace sauce (No. 237).ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) 347 Remove the fillets from the chicken, take off the skin, larcl each fillet with small strips of tongue and truffle, place them in a buttered saute-pan lined with a slice of bacon, slices of onion, and bay-leaf ; put a few bits of butter on top, moisten with a little white stock. Season with pepper and salt, and cover with buttered paper. Cook slowly for about twenty minutes, baste frequently ; when done take up, and glaze the top with liquid meat glaze. In the meantime prepare a farce as follows :—Pound the foie gras, asparagus points, and beef marrow (previously blanched) in a mortar till smooth, add one yolk of egg, the sauce, and seasoning, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Arrange a meat border of mashed potatoes on a well-buttered silver dish ; this is best done by means of a forcing-bag with a rose tube ; brush over lightly with yolk of egg. Put the prepared farce in the centre of the dish, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about fifteen minutes. Range the cooked fillets neatly on top of the farce ; glaze and serve very hot accompanied with a boat of demi-glace sauce. Pheasant or pigeon fillets may be prepared in the same manner. 979. Kart de Volatile d la Madras (Curried Chicken).— 1 chicken, 2 oz. butter, 1 small onion, 1 dessert-spoonful Madras curry powder, 1 tablespoonful Empress mulligatawny paste, 3 cloves, 1 small piece cinnamon, 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), ^ gill tomato pulp or puree, 1 dessertspoonful freshly-grated or else desiccated cocoanut, the juice of half a lemon, salt, boiled rice. Cut the chicken into neat joints, peel and chop finely the onion. Melt the butter in a stewpan, fry the chicken a light brown colour; then take out the pieces of chicken, fry the onion in the same butter ; when of a pale brown colour add the curry powder and fry a little, stirring all the time over a bright fire; return the chicken to the pan. Mix thoroughly, adding the cocoanut, mulligatawny paste, cloves, and cinnamon. Moisten with the sauce and puree and about half a gill of water or stock, boil up, and skim. Cover the pan and let simmer very gently for about forty minutes. About ten minutes before serving add the lemon-juice and enough salt to taste. When done dish up neatly in the centre of a border of plain boiled rice, or serve the rice separately if so desired. Although the word ‘ curry ’ is given as ‘kari,’ which is the French translation for ‘curry,’ the foregoing recipe is a genuine Indian dish, prepared by an Indian cook. 980. Medallions de Volatile a la Carente.—1 large fotvl or Surrey capon, 2 oz. butter, a mirepoix (bacon, carrot, and onion, cut in dice), a small bunch of savoury herbs, 1 gill white stock, % gill Bearnaise sauce (No. 225), 1 tablespoonful sherry, 1 oz. meat glaze (No. 247), 2 truffles, a few slices of cooked ox tongue, 6 preserved mushrooms, seasoning. Remove the breasts and wing portions of the fowl or capon, take off the skin and sinews ; flatten each piece with a wetted cutlet-bat and pare into round or oval shapes ; each breast should make two shapes. Prepare the mirepoix and fry a little in a saute-pan with aTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 348 little butter, put the fillets on top of this. Season with pepper and salt, moisten with stock, cover with a buttered paper and cook in a slow oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Cut the truffle, mush- rooms, and tongue into cubes or Julienne strips, and heat up in a little stock, butter and sherry wine. As soon as the fillets are done take them up, trim each a little, and dress in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes on a round dish ; fill the centre with the prepared garnish of truffle, tongue, and mushrooms. Have ready some Bearnaise sauce, incorporate into this the given quantity of meat glaze, pour some of the sauce over the garnish and the remainder round the base of the dish, and send to table. The sauce must be rather stiff in appearance; the meat glaze has to be worked in gradually., and great care must be taken that the Bearnaise sauce does not boil. 981. May out de Volatile a la Toulousienne.—1 fowl, 2 or 3 lambs’ sioeetbreads, 1 pint veloutee (No. 206) or Allemande sauce (No. 204), 10 preserved mushrooms, 2 truffles, 1 small cucumber, and asparagios points, ^ oz. butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, mashed potatoes for border. Truss the fowl for boiling, and boil in white stock or salted water, well flavoured with vegetables, for about three-quarters of an hour; take up, let cool, and cut up into neat joints (use the carcass along with the sauce to improve its flavour). Wash, blanch, cool, and trim the sweetbreads, cut them into convenient slices, and put in a deep saute-pan or stewpan along with the pieces of chicken. Strain the sauce, previously heated and flavoured with the carcass, over this, toss the whole together until it is hot. Add the mushrooms and truffles, cut into slices; season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, shake well and keep covered, and simmer for about twenty minutes. Prepare a neat border of mashed potatoes well seasoned and finished with a liaison of egg-yolks. Dress on a well-buttered dish; decorate to fancy, brush over with egg, and bake in the oven a golden colour. Dish up the ragout of chicken, &c., in the centre, sauce over carefully, garnish with peashapes of cucumber and asparagus points, previously cooked and seasoned, and heated up in a little butter. 982. Souffles de Volatile eu Caisses.—6 oz. raio chicken (fillet), 2 whole eggs, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 gill cream, 1 truffle, 2 mush- rooms, \ oz. butter, salt and pepper. Free the meat from skin and sinews, pound it in a mortar until smooth, add by degrees the yolks of four eggs and the cream, season to taste, and rub it through a fine sieve. Chop the truffle and mush- rooms (preserved) rather finely and add to the farce. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and mix it carefully with the above. Have six to eight chine or paper souffle cases, well buttered. Divide the mixture in equal parts into the cases, so that they are about three-parts full. Put them on a baking-sheet or saute-pan and bake in a fairly hot oven for about eighteen minutes. Arrange the casesENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC: (HOT DISHES) 349 on a dish with a folded napkin and serve hot. This dish can also be made with any other poultry, with garni or with veal. A boat of hot bechamel sauce (No. 202) is often served as an accompaniment with this dish. 983. Souffle de Volatile.—Proceed in exactly the same manner as indicated in recipe for Yeal Souffle (No. 842), using the same quantity of chicken instead of veal, or if desired the weight can be made up wTith a small quantity of veal. The carcase and trimmings of the chicken should be used for stock to make the white sauce. 984. Attriotes de Volatile d la Vaudoise.- 10 slices of coojted ox-tongue, ^ cooked fowl, 8 mushrooms, 2 truffles, 1 glass sherry wine, \ lb. raiv chicken or game, 3 oz. fresh pork, 2 shallots, 1 whole and 2 yolks of eggs,parsley, ^ lemon, £ gill cream, meat-glaze (No. 247), 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 gill Allemande sauce (No. 204), 2 oz. butter, salt, pepper, aromatic seasoning, pig's caul. Mashed potatoes for border. Cut the tongue slices in even-sized rounds or ovals, put the trimmings in a mortar, add the raw chicken or game, freed from skin and bone, and pound till smooth. Cut the pork into slices, and pound likewise ; mix both together, add a finely-chopped shallot, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, mix well, and work in the cream and yolks of eggs. Season with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice. Put through a fine sieve, and put in a basin. Kemove the skin and bones from the cooked chicken, cut it into small dice, chop the mush- rooms and truffles coarsely, and mix with the forcemeat. Cover the round slices of tongue completely with this mixture, and wrap each in a small piece of cleansed pig’s caul; dip them in beaten white of egg. Heat up the butter in a saute-pan, place in the attriotes, fry over the fire for a few minutes, and finish cooking in the oven for another ten to fifteen minutes. Have ready a border of mashed potatoes ; ornament the sides prettily with a forcing-bag and a fancy pipe or tube. Brush over with yolk of egg, and put in the oven to brown a little. Dress the attriotes on the border, brush over with meat glaze, and serve the following sauce in the centre and round the dish : Chop the remaining shallot finely, fry in the pan in which the attriotes were cooked, pour off the fat, moisten with the tomato and Allemande sauce and the sherry; let it reduce a little, add a tea- spoonful of meat glaze and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, season to taste, strain, and add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. The sauce is then ready for serving. 985. (Boudins de Volaille d la (Richelieu.—Prepare a chicken forcemeat (No. 403), line with it about eight small well buttered boudin or quenelle moulds. Fill the centre with a salpicon made as follows : — Cut a cooked sweetbread into dice, mix with it six champignons, one large truffle, and a slice of tongue, all cut into small dice ; moisten with a little supreme sauce (No. 210), and season to taste. CoverTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 350 each mould with a layer of forcemeat, so as to completely cover the salpicon. Poach the moulds in the oven. (Place them in a saute- pan with a little water, covered with buttered paper, and cook in the oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes.) When done, unmould and let cool ; egg and crumb them carefully, and fry in very hot fat till of a nice golden colour. Take them up as soon as done, drain them, and dish up on a folded serviette or dish-paper. Serve with a hot ravigote sauce (No. 214). 986. Cassolettes a la Princesse Alice.—Prepare a savoury choux-paste, mix it with half its quantity of finely mashed potatoes, and line some buttered cassolettes or bouchee moulds with it. Prepare a salpicon of finely minced cooked chicken, truffles, and veloutee (No. 206) or supreme (No. 210) sauce, add enough egg-yolks to bind the mixture. Fill the cassolettes with this. Put them on a baking- sheet and bake for twenty minutes in a moderately heated oven. Turn out on a hot dish ; pour some hot Perigord sauce (No. 243) round the base of the dish and serve hot. 987. Crepinettes de Volatile auoc Truffes.—A cooked chicken or some pieces left over, 1 oz. of chopped ham or tongue, 2 small truffles, 2 eggs, about a gill and a half of veloutee sauce (No. 206), b teaspoonful salt, 1 saltspoonfulpepper, nutmeg,pig's caul or veal udder, bread-crumbs, frying-fat, and tomato sauce (No. 271). Remove the meat from the bones, take away the skin and gristle; chop the meat finely, likewise the truffles. Put these together with the ham in a saute-pan, add the sauce, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Cook for ten minutes, stir occasionally, bind with the yolk of one egg, and spread on a dish to cool. Divide into six or eight parts ; shape these oblong, wrap each in a piece of veal udder or pig’s caul. Dip in beaten egg, roll in bread-crumbs ; when set, egg and crumb again, shape neatly, and fry in hot fat. Drain on a cloth or paper, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with tomato sauce. 988. Croustades de Volatile d la Montpellier.—4 oz. calves' liver, 2 oz. bacon, 1 oz. butter, 2 shallots, 8 oz. chicken, freed from skin and bones, 2 oz. panade, 3 whole eggs, salt, mignonette pepper, aromatic spice, a sprig of thyme and marjoram, 1 truffle, about b lb. shortcrust paste, sauce Madere (No. 237 a). Cut the liver and bacon into thin slices, and season to taste. Peel and chop the shallots finely, fry them in the butter a pale brown colour. Put in the bacon and fry a little, then add the liver, and toss over the fire for a few minutes, together with the thyme and marjoram (only very little of each must be used). Remove the herbs, and pound the remainder in a mortar ; pound the chicken separately, add the panade and three yolks of eggs ; when smooth and thoroughly mixed season with a little aromatic spice, and salt and pepper if found necessary. Now add the liver farce and mix it well together, with the truffle chopped finely. Rub this through a fine wire sieve.351 ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. [HOT DISHES) Should the farce be found too stiff a little brown sauce (Madere) may- be added. Eoll out the paste rather thinly, and line several small croustade or timbale moulds with this ; trim the edges of the paste and prick the bottom to prevent blistering. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mingle rather more than half with the prepared farce (forcemeat). Fill up the lined moulds with this, and put them on a baking-sheet into a fairly hot oven. Bake for about twenty-five to thirty minutes. When half done spread a little of the remaining whipped whites of eggs on top of each croustade, and sprinkle over a little grated cheese, mixed with a pinch of cayenne pepper, and finish baking. The white of egg can be put on the croustades by means of a forcing bag with a large rose pipe, and will cook all the smarter for it. When done unmould carefully, arrange them nicely on a dish and serve with hot sauce Madere. 989. Fricandelles de Volatile d V Allemande.—\ lb. cooked chicken meat or any other kind of poultry, including a little ham or tongue, 1 slice of onion chopped fine, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, H oz. of butter, £ oz. flour, 2 eggs, i gill of gravy' or stock, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, f pint of pancake batter, bread-crumbs, frying-fat. Chop the meat very fine, melt half an ounce of butter in a sauce- pan ; when hot add the chopped onion; fry for three minutes, then add the flour and cook to a golden colour, stir in the gravy, cook five minutes, now add the meat; when thoroughly hot bind with two yolks of eggs, season with pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg; when well mixed remove from the fire. Make four or more pancakes, put them on a paste-board, spread the prepared meat mixture over the pancakes, roll up each neatly, let set, and cut into oblong pieces about two inches long. Beat up the white of an egg a little, dip in each piece, roll in bread-crumbs; when sufficiently set, egg and crumb a second time. Place the fricandelles in a wire basket and fry in hot fat or lard to a golden colour ; drain on a cloth, dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper, garnish with crisp parsley, and serve. Note.—As an accompaniment to this dish a nicely dressed beetroot or lettuce salad is recommended. In order to make a change, chicken may be substituted by cold fish, or any kind of meat, or scraps left over from a previous meal. 990. Palmettos de Volatile d la Gambetta.—1 lb. chicken {or veal forcemeat), 6 eggs, i gill cream, 1 truffle, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little clarified blitter, tomato sauce. Butter eight to ten small round dariole moulds, beat up the eggs the same as for an omelet, add the cream, and season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Divide this mixture equally into the moulds, and poach slowly in the oven. Put the forcemeat, previously seasoned, in one or two well-buttered flat moulds, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about twenty minutes. Let cool a little, then stamp out as many rounds as there are moulds, and of the352 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK same size as the moulds. Turn out the egg moulds, and place one on each of the forcemeat socles, put a fancifully cut slice of truffle on top of each, dish up, keep in the oven till hot, and serve with tomato sauce (No. 271). 991. ]Pelites Bonibes a la Milanaise.—lb. veal, rabbit, chicken, or game, 2 oz. panade, 3 yolks and 1 white of egg, 2 table- spoonfuls white or brown sauce, 1 oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful sherry or Madeira, 1 dessertspoonful of chopped truffle peelings or truffle trimmings, 2 oz. cooked macaroni, seasoning, Perigord (No. 243) or tomato (No. 271) sauce. Cut up the meat, which- must be freed from skin and sinews, pound it in a mortar till smooth, then add the panade, eggs, and sauce, season to taste with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, mix in a little butter (about half an ounce), and pass the whole through a fine . wire sieve. Butter some little bombe or timbale moulds, line them all over with short tips of cooked macaroni—these must be cut about one-eighth of an inch thick. Stand the moulds on the ice to set, then fill them with the above prepared farce. Place them in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, cover with a buttered paper, and poach in the oven for about half an hour. Take up, unmould, and « arrange the bombes on a hot entree dish. Pour some hot tomato or Perigord sauce over and serve. 992. JPetites Bouchees a la Heine.—About 1 lb. of feuille- tage paste, \ cooked chicken, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, 6 mush- rooms, 2 truffles, 1 gill bechamel (No. 20)2) or Allemande (No. 204) sauce, gill cream, 2 yolks of eggs, pepper, salt, nutmeg. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick, let it rest in a cool place for ten minutes, then stamp out, by means of a one-and- three-quarter-inch fluted paste-cutter, eight to ten rounds ; lay them about half an inch apart on a wetted baking-sheet. Brush the surface with beaten egg. Dip a smaller round plain cutter into hot water and mark the surface of each (this will form the lids). Bake in a moderately sharp oven for fifteen or eighteen minutes. Remove lids, and scoop out a portion of the inside while hot. In the mean- time prepare a salpicon by mixing the chicken, ham, mushrooms, and truffles. Put all in a stewpan with the sauce ; when thoroughly hot add the cream, and lastly stir in the egg-yolks. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Keep over the fire to bind the mixture. Fill up the cases, put on the lids, and serve. 993. Creme de Volatile d VArgentenil.— 1 small fowl, 3 oz. panade (No. 8), 2 eggs, h gill cream, 25 heads of green asparagus, a handful of spinach, salt, pepper, nutmeg, ^ oz. of btitter, supreme sauce (No. 210). Bone the fowl, remove skin and sinews, and cut the meat into small shreds, pound in a mortar, and rub through a sieve. Return .to the mortar, add the panade, the yolk of egg, and the cream, mix thoroughly and season to taste. Clean the asparagus and spinach ;353 ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES) cook both separately in salted water, rub the spinach through a sieve; cut off the soft portions of the asparagus and pass through a sieve ; mix both purees together. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix with the forcemeat. Divide the vegetable puree into two lots, add a yolk of egg and some forcemeat to one and rather more force- meat to the other, so as to give both two different shades of green, resembling asparagus-tops. Butter thoroughly an asparagus mould, fill up with the darker green puree, then the lighter green, and lastly the white forcemeat. Place the mould in a stewpan containing some hot water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook for about one hour or more. When done, turn out on a hot dish. Pour some hot supreme sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. The same dish may be served cold, omitting the supreme sauce and adding a garniture of aspic jelly. 994. Timbale Tarinoise.—b lb. macaroni (boiled), | lb. cooked chicken or rabbit meat, 4 oz. cooked ham, 4 oz. ox-tongue, 6 to 8 preserved mushrooms, 1 oz. butter,, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 1 gill white sauce, ^ gill cream, 1 teaspoonful finely grated lemon-rind, 2 eggs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, demi-glace (No. 237) or Madbre (No. 237 a) sauce. Line a well-buttered timbale mould or ordinary pudding basin with the macaroni. Do this carefully, so that the shape resembles a bee-hive when it is turned out. Cut the remainder of macaroni into short pieces, cut all the meats into Julienne strips or shreds, also the mushrooms. Put these in a stewpan with the butter, stir till hot; add the grated cheese, the white sauce, and the cream ; heat up well without allowing it to actually boil ; then stir in the eggs, previously beaten, and continue stirring over the fire until the mix- ture begins to set. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg and the lemon-rind. Fill the lined mould with this, cover with a piece of buttered paper, stand it in a stewpan half filled with boiling water, and cook in a brisk oven for about half an hour. Turn out on to a hot dish, pour some hot demi-glace or sauce Madere round, and serve. 995. JPillaff de Vola tile (Chicken Pillau).—1 chicken or small fowl, 1 carrot, 6 black peppercorns, 1 piece of green ginger (tohole), 1 blade of mace, 3 oz. butter, 1 to 2 lbs. scrag end of mutton, 3 small onions, 1 clove of garlic, 2 bay-leaves, salt, 2 cloves, 4 to 6 oz. best rice (Patna), 1 large tablespoonful curry or mulligatawny paste. Cut away all the meat from the fowl, free it from skin, and cut. into small conveniently-sized pieces. Chop up the carcass and bones ; put them in a stock-pot or stewpan with the mutton, pre- viously cut in pieces. Add water and soup vegetables to make a stock, which should be allowed to boil for at least two and a half hours. Onion, garlic, green ginger, bay-leaves, and peppercorns should be added, and the stock should by the time it is finished and strained produce about three pints of broth. Fry the pieces of354 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK chicken in butter to a nice pale brown. Pour off the butter, and put into a deep stewpan, add the remainder of fresh butter, stir in the rice, and allow to fry for several minutes over a moderate fire. When the rice has sufficiently evaporated moisten with the stock, and stir over the fire until it commences to boil; then allow to simmer gently on the side of the stove. Mince finely one small onion, fry in butter a golden colour, add the curry-paste and mace, also a tablespoonful of stock, mix well, add the chicken pieces, and mix the whole with the rice. Stir the rice &c. occasionally, to prevent burning. Season with salt and pepper at the last. Just before dishing up fry one more onion, cut into very thin slices ; these must be fried in butter and be of a nice pale brown colour. Dress the pillau in a pile on a hot dish, strew over with thin strips of fried onion, and send to table. ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER POULTRY ENTRE'ES. 996. Cotelettesde Volaille a la Montpensier.—Chicken fillets chopped finely, seasoned, and shaped into cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Served with tomato sauce (No. 271). 997. Quenelles de Volaille a l’ltalienne.—Chicken forcemeat quenelles, with chopped preserved mushrooms in centre of each, steamed in the oven. Served with a rich brown sauce, containing truffles, slices of mushrooms, chopped parsley, and chopped cooked ham. 998. Supreme de Volaille a la Royale.—Stewed chicken fillets dished up in the centre of a vegetable border, garnished with fanci- fully cut slices of ox-tongue, truffles, and macedoine of vegetables. Served with supreme sauce (No. 210). 999. Poulet (Chicken or Fotvl). Poulet a la Cardinal.—Boiled chicken, breast bone removed, stuffed with veal forcemeat (No. 402), and dished up with a garniture of small fancy quenelles and slices of truffles. Served with cardinal sauce, composed of white sauce, anchovy essence, lobster butter, and chilli vinegar. 1000. Poulet a la Chivry.—Braised chicken, dished up with rings of Spanish onions, filled with a mixture of chives, boiled onions, and blanched tarragon leaves all finely chopped, sauced over with a savoury herb sauce prepared with the chicken stock. 1001. Poulet a la Livournaise.—Split chicken, flattened, steeped in a mixture of lemon juice, sweet oil, flavoured with bay-leaf, parsley root, and onions, drained, sprinkled with fresh bread-crumbs, and broiled slowly in butter. Served with Livournaise sauce, composed of salad oil, anchovy paste, egg-yolks, tarragon vinegar, and season- ing, all well mixed and served cold. 1002. Poulet a la Montmorency.—Braised chicken stuffed with a salpicon of sweetbreads, truffles, and mushrooms, breast larded, and glazed, dished up with a garniture of slices of sweetbread and mushroom-heads. Served with sauce Madere (No. 237 a).355 ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) 1003. Poulet a la Vigo.—Braised chicken, finished in Madeira wine sauce (No. 237 a), dished up and garnished with small ripe tomatoes, scalded, and baked whole. 1004. Poulets braises aux Fines Herbes.—Braised chickens, served with a rich brown sauce, seasoned with finely chopped chives, tarragon, chervil, parsley, garden cress, and flavoured with white wine. 1005. Epigrammes de Poulets aux Truffes.—Boned and skinned chicken, flattened and shaped like collops, fillets, or cutlets, larded with truffles, and cooked in butter. Served with truffle sauce (No. 243). 1006. Fricassee de Poulet a la Chevaliere.—Fricasseed chicken (fillets larded and garnished with fancifully cut slices of truffles, braised, and glazed), dished up with a ragout of mushrooms, truffles, and cocks’ combs. The dish is garnished with small fried chicken croquets. 1007. Fricassee de Poulet a la Havelock.—Fricasseed chicken in a white sauce thickened with a liaison of egg-yolks and fresh butter, fillets larded, braised, and glazed, and decorated with rings of ox-tongue. Dished up and garnished with groups of truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’ combs. 1008. Fricassee de Poulet a la Heine.—Fricasseed chicken, dished up in a pyramidal form, garnished with chicken forcemeat quenelles (No. 403), mushroom-heads, sliced truffles, and fried sippets of bread brushed over with meat glaze. 1009. Fricassee de Poulet a la Saint-Lambert.—Fricasseed chicken dished up in a pyramidal form, surrounded with groups of small braised carrots, green peas, and French beans. 1010. Poulet frit a la Dauphine.—Boiled chicken joints immersed, when cold, in veloutee sauce (No. 206), then egged, crumbed and fried. Dished up and garnished with groups of spring vegetables neatly shaped. Served with bechamel sauce (No. 202). 1011. Poulet frit a la Duchesse.—Boned chicken cut into neat pieces, trimmed and flattened, steeped in lemon-juice, flavoured with savoury herbs and finely chopped onions, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried. Served with duchesse sauce, prepared with veloutee sauce (No. 206), cream, and minced ham. 1012. Poulet frit a la Viennoise.—Boned chicken cut into neat pieces, trimmed and flattened, marinated in savoury herb samure or pickling, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried. Served with tomato sauce (No. 271). 1013. Poulet saute a la Bayonnaise.—Chicken cut into joints and fried in butter, then stewed in brown sauce with coarsely minced ham, sherry wine, small peeled and sliced tomatoes. Dressed' in the centre of a border of stewed rice. 1014. Poulet saute a la Bearnaise.—Saute of chicken finished in a veloutee sauce (No. 206) with the addition of meat glaze (No. 247), white wdne, chopped parsley, and tarragon-leaves, thickened with a liaison of egg-yolks and fresh butter. 2THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 356 1015. Poulet saute a la Fermiere.—Saute of chicken, sauce enriched with cream and flavoured with lemon-juice. Dished up in pyramidal form, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. Garnished with groups of neatly cut spring vegetables. 101G. Poulet saute a la Florentine. -Saute of chicken, flavoured with chopped shallots and green pepper, sauce diluted with tomato puree and white wine, and then well reduced. 1017. Poulet saute a la Godard.—Neatly-shaped pieces of chicken, skinned, larded with truffles and bacon, first cooked in butter, and afterwards stewed in a rich white sauce with chopped mushrooms. Garnished with whole truffles, heads of mushrooms, and fleurons (small half-moon shapes of puff-paste baked). 1018. Timbales de Poulet a la Meridionale.—Chicken timbales, prepared with finely minced chicken meat, demi-glace sauce (No. 237), panade (No. 8), ancl flavoured with a little Worcester sauce. Filled in well-buttered timbale moulds with some well-reduced tomato puree in the centre. Steamed in the oven, and served with Madeira wine sauce (No. 237 a). 1019. Chapon a la Bourgeoise.—Braised capon cut into small joints and finished-in a brown sauce blended with tomato sauce (No. 271), and white wine (reduced), garnished with groups of glazed carrots and button onions. 1020. Chapon a la Cavour. — Stuffed capon braised (breast larded and glazed), served with reduced Allemande sauce (No. 204) well worked with meat extract and lemon-juice, garnished with small timbales, baked nouilles, or macaroni. 1021. Chapon a la Piemontaise.— Boast capon stuffed with force- meat and sliced truffles, served with tomato sauce (No. 271) and ravioli paste quenelles, which are stuffed with veal forcemeat and well-reduced tomato puree, or tomato paste. 1022. Chapon au Gros Sel.—Braised capon, breast larded and covered with thin rims of lemon. Served with reduced demiglace sauce (No. 237), containing a small quantity of coarse salt. This must be added just before serving (hence the name, gros sel, i.e. coarse salt). 1023. Dinde ala Chipolata. -Boast turkey larded and stuffed with sausage meat and veal forcemeat, dished up with a ragout of small rounds of sausages, small squares of fried bacon, button mushrooms, and sliced truffles finished in sauce Madere. Garnished with a border of small forcemeat quenelles. 1024. Dinde a la Godard.—Braised turkey (breast larded), stuffed with veal forcemeat mixed with sliced sweetbread and mushrooms. Dished up and garnished with slices of truffles, mushroom-heads, cocks’ combs, turned olives, and small chicken quenelles. Served with sauce Madere (No. 237 a). 1025. Dinde a la Provencale.—Boast turkey stuffed with finely chopped boiled onions, bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, egg-yolks, sliced truffles, and seasoning, served with tomato sauce (No. 271).357 ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES) 1026. Linde a la Reyniere.—Boast turkey dished up, surrounded with small fried sausages and large chestnuts, cooked whole in chicken broth. Served with a rich brown sauce, in which the liver, previously braised in turkey fat, and chopped finely, has been incorporated. 1027. Blanquette de Linde aux Morilies.—Stewed turkey in white sauce with morels (a species of mushroom). Select a young turkey for this dish, truss it as for boiling, and cut up when parboiled, then stew like fricassee. 1028. Cuisses de Linde Farcies a la Garibaldi. -Legs of turkey boned, stuffed with chicken and veal forcemeat, truffles, ham and tongue, all finely minced. Braised slowly with little gravy. Served with a garniture of stewed macaroni flavoured with tomato puree and small rice timbales. 1029. Linde grillee a la Liable.—Cold roast turkey cut into neat joints, covered with beurre diable (devilled butter) (No. 388). Grilled over a slow fire, served with a piquante or other sauce. A little curry- paste or curry-powder should also be used for flavouring this sauce. ENTREES OF RABBIT, ETC. 1030. Gibelotte de Lapin.—1 or 2 Ostend rabbits {skinned), J lb. fat bacon, bouquet garni {No. 2), 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 18 button onions, 1 glass Chablis or Sauterne, f of a pint of stock, salt, pepper. Wipe the rabbit with a damp cloth, and cut it into neat joints not too large. Cut the bacon into slices, put the butter and bacon in a saute-pan, and stir over the fire for five minutes. Take out the bacon, and put on a plate. Peel the onions, fry them a golden colour in the butter, and put with the bacon. Let the butter get thoroughly hot, and put in the rabbit. Let each piece become of a nice brown colour, season with salt and pepper, sprinkle in the flour, let it get nicely brown, moisten with the stock ; add the wine and bouquet garni, which should consist of two sprigs of parsley, a sprig ■of marjoram, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf, all tied up neatly with a piece of white cotton or thin string. Let it come slowly to a boil, skim, put in the onions, and let the whole simmer very gently for about an hour and a quarter. The saute-pan should be kept well covered when once the contents commence to simmer, so as to prevent as much as possible the steam from escaping. About ten minutes before the above-stated time put in the liver, well washed, and cut into four. Before dishing up take out the pieces of rabbit, onion, and liver, and put in another saute-pan ; add the bacon. Take off the fat from the sauce, and strain over the rabbit. Place a round piece of toasted bread in the centre of a dish, dress the pieces of rabbit neatly on it, and put the garnish over and round it. Boil up the sauce, and pour over the meat.358 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1031. Lapin frit a la Tartare.—1 young rabbit, 1 egg, 2 oz. butter, bread-crumbs, Tartare sauce (No. 278), seasoning, frying fat. Skill, draw, wash, and wipe the rabbit, cut it into neat joints, and fry in butter in a saute-pan until three-parts done. Sprinkle with a little pepper and salt, put the pieces to cool, then trim ; dip each in beaten egg and crumb ; when set dip in oiled butter, and egg and crumb again. Place the pieces in a frying-basket, and fry a golden colour in clarified fat or lard, drain, dish up on a hot dish with folded napkin or dish-paper, garnish with fried or fresh parsley, and serve with Tartare sauce. This dish is sometimes garnished with strips of fried bacon. 1032. Let its Souffles de Lapin (Small Souffles of Babbit).— 1 small rabbit, 2 oz. finely-chopped liam or tongue, 2 yolks of eggs, 1^ gill of well-reduced bechamel sauce (No. 202), f oz. butter, 1 lb, mashed potatoes. Seasoning, % pint of supreme sauce (No. 210). Cut the meat of the rabbit into small pieces, removing any gristle ; put it in a mortar and pound till quite smooth; add the yolks of egg and the bechamel sauce; work well and mix in the ham or tongue. Season with very little salt, a pinch of pepper, and a grate of nutmeg ; then rub through a wire sieve. Butter about eighteen fancy moulds (dariole or small ham-shaped moulds) ; fill these with the above preparation. Place the moulds in a saute- or stew-pan,, containing boiling water to reach half-way up the moulds. Cover with a piece of buttered paper, bring it to the boil over a quick fire,, then put in a moderate oven and cook for about twenty-five minutes. Have ready a border of mashed potatoes dressed on a dish. (Season the potato puree with pepper and salt, and mix with a small piece of fresh butter). Turn out the moulds ; range the souffles neatly on top of the border. Sauce over with hot supreme sauce, and serve. The centre of the dish should be filled with either peas, French beans, or flageolets, previously heated in a little stock or gravy,, flavoured with a small small piece of butter, a pinch of sugar, pepper, and salt. 1033. Gibelotte de Lapin a la Hourf/uignonne. — Stewed rabbits, done in brown sauce. The same as directed for gibelotte de lapin (No. 1030), using claret in place of Chablis, and with small braised button onions. 1034. Darioles de Lapin a la Heine.—£ lb. rabbit meat freed from bone and skin, 2 oz. lean pork, 1 oz. butter, 2 oz. panade,. 3 yolks of egg, \ gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), a small tin or terrine of foie gras pate. Seasoning (salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne), supreme sauce (No. 210). Pound the meat (rabbit and pork) in a mortar until quite smooth ; then add by degrees the panade, the eggs, and bechamel sauce, also about three-quarters of an ounce of butter. Season to taste, and rub through a fine wire sieve. Butter some dariole moulds; dust theENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES) 359 inside with finely-chopped hard-boiled yolks of egg, and line with a layer of forcemeat as above prepared. Put a piece of foie gras in the centre of each, and fill up with farce (forcemeat). Place the moulds in a saute-pan, with sufficient boiling water to reach half-way up to the moulds. Cover them with buttered paper, and poach in the oven for about twenty minutes. To serve, turn out the moulds on to a hot round entree-dish. Arrange the darioles neatly, and pour the supreme sauce over them. 1035. Cdtelettes de Lapereauoc.—Take four legs (culottes) of wild rabbit, cut them in two, remove the bones (reserve the knuckle-bones for further use), flatten each with the cutlet-bat. Prepare a forcemeat of rabbit meat (three ounces), one egg, one ounce of fat bacon, two tablespoonfuls of white sauce. Season with pepper, salt, and aromatic spice. When powdered pass through a sieve. Fry a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil leaves in a little fresh butter, and add to the farce. Spread the cut side of the rabbit legs with this farce, shape them neatly in the form of' cutlets, season with a little salt and pepper, wrap each in a piece of pig’s caul, fry a little on each side in butter. When cold, insert small bones to imitate cutlet bones, dip in egg and bread-crumbs, fry in clarified butter or fat, drain, dish up, and serve with tomato sauce No. 271. 1036. Croquettes de Lapereauoc d la Maintenon.— Minced cooked rabbit, prepared into a salpicon with thick bechamel sauce (No. 202), shaped into croquettes (cork or cutlet shapes), egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat, drained and served with brown sauce reduced with sherry wine. 1037. Lapereauoc frits d la Tartare. - Wild rabbits boned, pickled in a marinade (No. 29), drained, cut into neat joints. Egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter. Served with Tartare sauce (No. 278).360 CHAPTER XXI ENTREES CHAUDES DE GIBIER (ENTREES OF GAME : HOT DISHES) (For cold service see Chapter XXII) 1038. Faisan braise aux Choux.— 1 pheasant, 3 to 4 slices fat bacon, \ lb. raw ham, a small cabbage or a savoy, a bouquet garni (No. 2), 2 oz. butter, 2 pairs Frankfort sausages, about h pint stock, salt and pepper. Truss the pheasant as for boiling, line a braising-pan or ordinary stewpan with the bacon; over this place a few bits of butter, allow it to get quite hot, then put in the pheasant and let it fry over the fire until it is well coloured. Meanwhile trim, wash, and blanch the cabbage or savoy in slightly salted water, drain well, and divide into several small portions. Take up the pheasant, cut it into neat joints, pour off some of the fat in the stewpan, arrange the bird and cabbage in layers in the pan, add the bouquet of herbs ; season each layer with pepper and salt. Blanch the sausages, and place them, together with the ham, cut into slices, between the layers of pheasant and cabbage ; now add the stock, cover the pan, and allow to braise gently for an hour or longer according to the size of the bird ; the bouquet of herbs should, of course, be allowed to remain during the process of braising, and be removed as soon as the dish is done. Dress the whole smartly on a hot dish, cut the sausages into slices, and arrange in the shape of a border round the base of the dish. See that the whole is dressed high ; pour a little gravy over and round the dish and serve hot. 1039. Her dure de Faisan d la Chasseur.—i lb. raw pheasant, freed from bone, skin, and sinews, \ lb. panade, a couple of tablespoonfuls well-reduced bechamel (No. 202) or veloutee sauce (No. 206) and an equal quantity of double cream, 1 oz. fresh butter, 2 whole eggs, 12 preserved mushrooms, 1 large truffle, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, demi-glace (No. 237) or Madeira; sauce (No. 237 a). Pound the pheasant meat in a mortar until smooth, then add the panade and work well, adding gradually the white sauce, the eggs, butter, and the cream ; season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and rub the whole through a fine sieve. Take a well-buttered border mould ; garnish the bottom with mushroom-heads, into which a starENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) 361 of truffle has been inserted. (Each mushroom must be neatly trimmed, and a place the size of the truffle star stamped out, in which the truffle is inserted.) Chop the trimmings of mushrooms and truffle rather finely and mix this with the puree, then fill the border mould. Place it in a saute-pan half-filled with boiling water, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook it for about forty minutes over the fire or in the oven, whichever is most convenient. When done take up the mould, turn out the contents on to a hot dish, pour some hot Madere or demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and sekve. 1040. Faisanen Coquette.— 1 plump pheasant, 6 preserved artichoke bottoms, 1 tablespoonful port wine, 6 fresh eggs, 1 oz. butter, 1 gill rich brown sauce, seasoning, a gill rich veloutee (No. 206) or supreme (No. 210) sauce. Truss and partially roast the pheasant in the usual manner. Bemove bones and skin, and pound the meat in a mortar till quite smooth; then add the butter, and season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Boil the eggs till hard, remove the shells, and cut a piece off the bottoms to make them stand ; cut also a piece off the top, so as to scoop out the yolks ; put the latter with the pheasant farce in the mortar, and mix the whole thoroughly with this and the brown sauce, rub through a fine sieve, and add the wine (the latter may be omitted, if liked). Put the prepared farce in a forcing-bag, and fill the whites of egg-shapes by means of this. Place each on an artichoke bottom (fond d’artichaut), force a thin border of farce round the edge, and range them on a buttered saute-pan. Heat up thoroughly in the oven, previously placing a buttered paper over the top; then dish up and sauce over with hot supreme or veloutee sauce. 1041. Faison en Robe de Cham bre.—1 pheasant ready for trussing, 1 lb. lean pork, ^ lb. calves' liver, ^ lb. lean veal, \ lb. larding bacon or ordinary fat bacon, 1 oz. butter, 2 shallots, 1 large or 2 small truffles, a feiv slices of cooked ox-tongue, 3 yolks of eggs (raid). Seasoning, 1 lb. puff-paste. Bone the pheasant, cut up rather small the pork, veal, and bacon and pound in a mortar till smooth. Cut the liver into thin slices, peel and chop the shallots, fry them a light brown in a saute-pan with the butter, then put in the liver and cook for a few minutes over a quick fire ; put this with the pounded meat, continue to pound until all is quite fine, then add the egg-yolks. Season to taste with salt, pepper, aromatic spice, and a little grated nutmeg, and rub through a fine sieve. Lay the boned pheasant out flat on a board, skin downwards, spread the prepared farce evenly over the bird, upon this put the tongue (cut into strips) and the truffles (cut into slices). Boll up carefully, tie up in a cloth as for a galantine, and cook for about forty-five minutes in the stockpot. When done take up, let cool, untie, and wrap the galantine thus obtained in puff-paste ; put it on a baking-sheet; mark the top of the paste artistically, brush overTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 362 with egg-wash, and bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Dish up and serve hot or cold. If the former, send a boat of gravy or demi-glace sauce (No. 237) to be handed round. If served cold, garnish with plenty of aspic jelly. 1042. Fpigrammes de Faisan d la Jardiniere.—1 large pheasant, 2 oz. butter, \ pint Allemande sauce (No. 204), salt, pepper, nutmeg, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, frying-lard or butter, veal forcemeat (No. 402), demi-glace sauce (No. 237), jardiniere of vegetables for centre, panurette. Remove the fillets from the pheasant, flatten each, and cut into heart-shaped pieces. Trim neatly, season with pepper and salt, fry lightly in some butter, press between two boards. When cold immerse well in almost cold Allemande sauce (repeat this twice to coat thoroughly), set to cool, then egg and crumb. Coat a well- greased border-mould with the panurette, fill with the prepared forcemeat, cook in a saute-pan half filled with boiling water, and finish in the oven. When done turn out on a hot dish. Fry the epigrammes, drain, dish up on the border, fill the centre with prepared Jardiniere, sauce round with demi-glace, and serve hot. 1043. Filets de Faisan aux Epinards.—A young pheasant, ± lb. raw or cooked rabbit meat, % lb. beef tongue cut into strips, 4 preserved mushrooms, £ lb. sliced ham, 1 large truffle, sliced, 1 oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 cooked chicken-livers, a little cream or ivhite sauce, a mirepoix consisting of bacon, onion, carrot, bouguet garni, Ac., 1^ gill ivhite wine, 1 pint stock, 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), seasoning, potato puree, panurette, spinach puree. Pick, singe, and bone the pheasant in the same manner as a fowl is boned for galantine. Prepare a nice farce by pounding the rabbit meat, chicken-livers, and the ham; when fine add the yolks of eggs (these may be hard-boiled, if liked), white sauce, or cream sufficient to form the necessary consistency of the farce. Season with pepper, salt, and aromatic spice, mingle well, and rub through a wire sieve ; put it into a basin, work in the mushrooms and truffle. Lay out the boned pheasant on to a board, skin downwards, spread the forcemeat evenly on the meat, put the strips of tongue evenly divided on the farce &c., roll up carefully, and sew up the ends and sides. Chop the carcase of the bird rather coarsely and put in a sautoir with the butter, fry a little over a quick fire, then add the mirepoix, and stir a few minutes longer over the fire, so as to blend the whole to a nice light colour; lay the stuffed pheasant on this, allow the surface to take colour, moisten with the stock and wine, cover with buttered paper, and let it braise gently in a moderate oven for about an hour; when done untie, glaze over the top with meat glaze, and keep hot. Remove the fat from the mirepoix and liquor, add the tomato sauce, boil for a few minutes, then strain and reduce to a nice consistency. Butter a border mould, sprinkle with panurette, and fill up with potato puree863 ENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) enriched with one or two yolks of eggs, bake in a hot oven for ten minutes or so, and turn out on a hot dish. Have the spinach puree ready and hot, well seasoned, and richly flavoured. Cut the pheasant into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, arrange these neatly on the prepared border, dress the spinach in the centre, sauce over the slices with a little of the sauce, and serve the remainder separately in a sauce-boat. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1044. Eaisan a la Bonne-Femme. -Braised pheasant, with small pieces of ham, sliced and stewed Spanish onions. Served with a brown sauce mixed with some Indian chutney. 1045. Faisan aux Choux.—Braised pheasant with stewed cabbages, garnished with fried slices of rolled bacon, small carrots, and pieces of fried sausages. 1046. Cotelettes de Faisan a la Richelieu.—Pheasant forcemeat shaped into cutlets and poached; when cold egged, crumbed and fried in deep clarified butter. Served with a rich Perigueux sauce (No. 243). 1047. Filets de Faisan a la Talleyrand.—Fillets of pheasant, larded and braised. Served with a daintily-prepared stew of minced pheasant arranged round the fillets. Garnish the dish with slices of hard- boiled eggs. 1048. Salmis de Faisan a la Bohemienne.—Stewed pheasant in brown sherry sauce (No. 237 a), minced ham, and mushrooms. Garnished with fried bread croutons and whole stuffed button mush- rooms. 1049. Salmi de Coq de Bruyere (Salmi of Grouse).— 2 small grouse, £ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 236), £ gill tomato sauce (No. 271), \ gill sherry toine, 18 stoned French olives, 12 large preserved mushrooms, 1 small bouquet garni (No. 2), 6 small button onions, seasoning, 1 croute of bread. Pick, draw, singe, and truss the grouse as for roasting; put them in a baking-tin, cover the breasts each with half an ounce of butter, and roast them for about ten minutes in a quick oven. Take them up, untruss, and cut the birds into small joints. Cut up the carcass and fry them with the bouquet garni (a small bunch of savoury herbs) in the baking-tin with the butter left over from the birds. Pour off the fat, and put the remainder in a stewpan, add the wine, cover, and let reduce quickly. Now add the Espagnole and tomato sauces, boil up, season to taste, skim, and cook for ten minutes. Arrange the pieces of grouse in a clean stewpan or saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, add the olives and mushrooms (sliced), and364 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK strain the sauce over this. Allow to simmer gently for twenty minutes. Fix the bread-croute (a suitably-shaped oblong or round piece of bread fried in hot fat) by means of a little frying-batter or white of egg on an entree dish. Dress the pieces of grouse on this with the garniture (olives and mushrooms), pour over the sauce carefully, and serve at once. 1050. Spatchcock of Grouse.—This is an excellent English dish that can be served for dinner, but it is equally suitable for breakfast or lunch. Pick, draw, and singe the bird; place it on a board, and split it down the back, and cut through the bone. Wipe the inside of the bird with a damp cloth, cut off the feet at the first joints ; remove the neck (close to the body of the bird), flatten it, and season with salt and pepper. Brush over the inside with sweet oil, and sprinkle over with finely-chopped shallots and parsley. Dredge with a little flour. Skewer it into a flat shape by means of two steel skewers ; place it between a well-greased gridiron, brush over with oiled butter or sweet oil, and cook before or over a clear fire (charcoal fire in prefer- ence to a coal fire). Cook from fifteen to twenty minutes, turn the gridiron occasionally, and baste freely from time to time with oiled butter. When done, take the bird from the grill, remove the skewers, dish up, and serve with a wrell-prepared tomato sauce (No. 278). Pigeons, chickens, pheasants, and partridges are equally good prepared in this way. 1051. Grices bardees a la Chasseur.—Roast fieldfares, barded, served with mushroom sauce (No. 267), garnished with minced game and fried sausages. 1052. Pate chaud de Mauviettes.—Prepare a paste for crust with the following ingredients : \ lb. flour, 1 oz. chopped beef suet, H oz. butter, £ gill water, a pinch of salt. Work it the same as ordinary short paste. Line an oval raised-pie mould, about three inches high and six inches long ; then take twelve to eighteen larks, bone and stuff them with forcemeat (No. 404 or 406), and shape neatly. Prepare a thin sauce with the bones, half a pint brown sauce, two glasses sherry, and half a pint consomme or gravy, and reduce well. Roll a slice of bacon round each stuffed lark ; line the bottom of the mould with thin slices of bacon (streaky), then place in a layer of the birds, and here and there the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and proceed thus until the mould is full. When filled, cover the mould with paste, ornament tastefully, brush over with yolk of egg, and bake for about two hours in a moderate oven. Pluck and clean a few of the heads of birds, and fry them in a little butter (to be set in at the edge of the pie just before serving). When baked, remove the cover carefully, and having reduced the sauce sufficiently pour over the interior, replace the cover, ornament with the birds’ heads, and serve.365 ENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) 1053. Mauviettes a la Parmentiev.—6 to 8 larks, boned, 4 oz. bacon, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 bay-leaf, 1 small bouquet garni (No. 2), 1 stalk of celery {white), seasoning, hording-bacon, 2 oz. butter, ^ lb. puff-pciste, 1 egg, 2 large potatoes. Chop the celery, previously washed and trimmed very finely, season with salt and pepper, and fill the larks with this, bard and truss them, and place them on a bed of bacon, carrot and onion, cut small; add the butter and bouquet garni and cook in a hot oven for twenty minutes ; baste frequently. Take out and let cool. Wrap each in a piece of puff-paste, so as to hermetically seal each bird in the paste, giving them the shape of small eggs. Place them on a baking- sheet, brush over with beaten egg, and bake for fifteen minutes in a moderate oven ; wash and peel the potatoes, cut them into very fine strips, like straw potatoes, fry them a golden colour in hot fat. Drain and arrange in the shape of a nest on a hot dish ; place the baked larks in the centre, and serve with a thin sauce or gravy. 1054. Mauviettes a la Pompadour.—Prepare the following and place alternately in layers in a stewpan:—£ lb. streaky bacon (cut in slices), \ lb. lean beef, £ lb. veal, 1 carrot, 3 cloves, 10pepper- corns, a few sprigs of savoury herbs, 2 blades of white mace. Cover the stewpan closely, set it on the fire and allow it to draw until the gravy is extracted; then add a pint of boiling stock, and allow to simmer for half an hour or more. Remove the fat and strain. Draw and bone six larks, and stuff them with forcemeat made as follows : —Pound in a mortar three ounces of lean beef ; when quite fine add 3 oz. of bread-crumbs, one yolk of egg, the rind of half a lemon finely chopped, a few sprigs of tarragon-leaves, and the juice of half a lemon. Pound all well, and mix with a tablespoonful of cream. Season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Stuff the birds with this, flatten the breasts, dip them in flour, and fry in butter a nice brown. Pour off the butter. Add the birds to the sauce, cover well, and let simmer for about ten minutes. Have ready six small oval-shaped fried bread croutons, put a thin slice of broiled bacon and a slice of lemon on each. Dress the birds upon these, sauce over, and serve. A glass of Madeira wine will greatly improve the sauce if added when the birds are being simmered. 1055. Mauviettes a la Mentiere.—8 or 9 larks, \ lb. streaky bacon, £ lb. lean beef, £ lb. veal, 1 carrot, 3 cloves, 10 peppercorns, 2 blades whole mace, a few sprigs of savoury herbs, 1J pint stock, forcemeat, 2 oz. butter, pint sauce Perigueux (No. 243), i lb. boiled bacon, 1 lemon, fried bread croustades or croutons. For the Forcemeat.— 3 oz. lean beef, 3 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 yolk of egg, rind of half a lemon, a few sprigs of tarragon, 1 tablespoonful cream, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, lemon-juice. Cut the raw bacon, beef, veal, and carrot (previously scraped) into slices, and place alternately in layers in a stewpan with the cloves, peppercorns, mace, and herbs. Cover the stewpan closely, set it onTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK the fire, and allow it to draw until the gravy is extracted; then add the stock (boiling), and simmer for half an hour or more. Draw and bone the larks and stuff them with forcemeat, made as follows: Pound the beef in a mortar ; when quite fine add the bread-crumbs, yolk of egg, lemon-rind finely chopped, and a squeeze of the juice, and tarragon. Pound all well, and mix with two tablespoonfuls of cream ; season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Stuff the birds with this, flatten the breasts, dip them in flour, and fry a nice brown in butter. Pour off the butter, put the birds into a stewpan, skim the stock or liquor, add the sauce, boil up, and strain over the birds ; cover well and let simmer very slowly for about twenty minutes. Have ready some small oval-shaped croustades ; put a thin slice of boiled bacon and a slice of lemon on each. Dress the birds upon these, sauce over, and serve. A glass of Madeira wine will greatly improve the sauce, if added while the birds are being simmered. 1056. Mauviettes Farcies a la Madrid.—6 larks, boned, 2 eggs, 2^ oz. butter, 2 oz. soft bread-crumbs, 1 oz. chopped ham, •g- teaspoonful curry-paste, 3 oz. lean veal, ^ leek, ^ head celery, 1 small carrot, 1 small onion, 1 bouquet garni (No. 2), \ gill white wine or sherry, \ pint broion sauce (No. 236), meat glaze (No. 247), pepper and salt, fried parsley, 6 paper cases. Pound the veal and ham in a mortar till fine ; add the curry-paste, one ounce butter, bread-crumbs, and eggs; mix well and rub through a wire sieve, season with a little white pepper, and fill up the boned larks by means of a forcing-bag ; wrap each bird in a small piece of muslin cloth, and tie up the ends. Chop up the carcase of the birds, put them with one and a half ounce of butter, the carrot, onion, leek, and celery, all cut in slices, in a stewpan ; fry for ten minutes, put in the larks, moisten with white wine, add the bunch of savoury herbs (bouquet garni), and cook in the oven for about half an hour. Baste the birds occasionally. When cooked, remove, unwrap the birds, brush over with liquid meat glaze, and keep hot. Skim off the fat from the mirepoix in the pan, add the brown sauce and a little stock, simmer for ten minutes, strain and skim ; put a tablespoonful of meat glaze with half a gill of the sauce and boil up. Place each bird in a paper case, sauce over with a little of this sauce, garnish round the edges with some fried parsley, dish up, and serve the remainder of the sauce, seasoned with pepper and salt, separately in a sauce-boat. If preferred the birds may be dressed on a border of mashed potatoes instead of serving them in paper cases. Partridges or quails can be cooked and served in the same manner. 1057. Ortolans poches d la Delmonico.—Bone three or four ortolans, stuff them with a ham farce, mixed with truffles ; place the stuffed ortolans in an earthenware braising-pan on a mirepoix and slice of bacon. Season and moisten with a glass of champagne and a gill of good stock. Have ready a paste made of flour and whites of eggs ; roll it out round, and place it on top of the ortolans in theENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) 367 braising-pan. Poach it in the oven from thirty- to forty minutes, and send to table in the marmite a terre (the pan in which it is cooked). 1058. Filets de Becasses d la Talleyrand {Fillets of Woodcock, Talleyrand Style).—2 woodcocks, trussed for roasting, 4 oz. fillet of beef, 4 oz. panade {No. 8), 1 white and 3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. fat pork, | glass Sauterne, 4 oval croutes of fried bread, 1 gill white stock, ^ pint sauce Gibier {No. 252), 2 oz. butter, salt, and pepper, mashed potatoes for a small border. Eoast the woodcocks, and baste well with clarified butter. Remove the fillets and put on a plate ; remove the meat from the legs, free it from skin, and pound in a mortar ; pound the beef and pork together till smooth, add the panade, pounded game, and work in two yolks of eggs ; season to taste with a little salt and pepper, and rub through a fine sieve. Trim the fillets neatly, cover each completely with the above farce ; when set, dip in beaten white of egg, place in a buttered saute-pan, cover with a gill of white stock and half a glass of Sauterne, and poach in a quick oven for twelve minutes. The croutes should be as nearly as possible of the same shape as the prepared fillets. Spread each with forcemeat (the same as made for fillets) so as to give them a dome-shaped appearance, smooth over with a wet knife, put the croutes thus prepared in a hot oven for ten minutes, just long enough to get thoroughly hot and to colour the top. Drain the fillets on a cloth, dish them up alternately with the croutes on a thin border of mashed p'otatoes, stand the dish in the oven for a few seconds longer. Put the remainder of forcemeat in a stewpan, add a little Gibier sauce, previously well reduced; when hot, add a yolk of egg, stir over the fire until it begins to thicken, dress it in the centre of the dish, piled up high, sauce over quickly with Gibier sauce, and serve. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1059. Capissantes de Becasses aux Truffes.—Minced snipes Avith truffles, mixed with game sauce (No. 252). Filled into shells, covered with a rich game sauce and bread-crumbs, and baked in an oven till browned. 1060. Becasses farcies a la Stockholm.—Parboiled boned snipes stuffed with a forcemeat of beef and pork, mixed with chopped shallots, mushrooms, and gherkins. Braised in the oven, and served with a white wine sauce. 1061. Pate de Becasses a l’Anglaise.—Raised pie filled with partially roasted snipes cut into joints with layers of calves’ liver and bacon forcemeat, and ham. When baked, take off the cover and fill up with truffle sauce (No. 243), replace the cover, and serve hot.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 368 1062. Cattles a la Moliere.—4 quails, 2 oz. butter, 1 lb. lean veal, J lb. beef suet, 4 oz. panade, 2 whole and 1 yolk of eggs, 1 gill cream, i pint game sauce {No. 252), ^ glass sherry, 6 heads of mushrooms, 6 cocks' combs, 6 cocks' kernels, 8 small quenelles, 2 truffles, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Truss the quails for roasting, put them in a saute-pan or tin with the butter, and roast in the oven till three-parts done. Prepare a farce, cut the veal into fine slices, pound in a mortar, and rub through a sieve. Shred the suet finely, and pound likewise; mix both together, add the panade, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, work in the yolks of eggs and a little cream. Put this in a basin. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix carefully with the forcemeat. Butter a small border-mould, fill up with the above pre- paration ; place it in a stewpan, with enough boiling water to come about half-way up the side of the mould. Let it come to the boil, cover with a buttered paper, and finish in the oven. Prepare eight small quenelles with the remainder of forcemeat, poach them in a little stock, strain, and put in the game sauce, previously heated. Add the sherry, cocks’ combs, and kernels also the truffles cut into slices. Let the whole simmer for a few minutes, and keep hot till wanted. Turn the border of forcemeat on to a round entree dish. Cut the quails in halves or quarters, place them in the hot sauce for about five minutes, then dress them neatly round the base of the border. Dress the financiere garniture in the centre of the dish, boil up the sauce, sauce over the whole, and serve. 1063. Cattles a la Tosca.—4 quails, game forcemeat for stuffing, 2 or 8 truffles, risotto for border (see below), 12 stuffed capsicums, 2 oz. bacon, carrot, onion and bay-leaf for mirepoix, stock, seasoning, Madere sauce {No. 237 a). Bone the breasts of the quails; cook the bones in the stock to flavour it. Fill the empty space of the quails with game forcemeat, and insert the truffles cut into slices. Truss them and place them in a saute-pan containing a bed of braising or sliced bacon, slices of carrot and onion, and the bay-leaf (a mirepoix). Add a gill of stock and half a gill of sauce, and cook in a brisk oven for half an hour ; baste frequently. In the meantime prepare the risotto. When finished fill a border mould with it, and keep hot. Fill the capsicums (use pre- served ones) with forcemeat of game ; poach them in stock. Lift out the quails, strain the sauce (liquor), skim well, add to it the remainder of the sauce, and reduce -well, and season to taste. Un- mould the risotto on to a hot entree dish, cut each quail in two, and dress them pyramidically in the centre of the border. Lay the stuffed capsicums in a circle on top of the risotto border, pour the reduced sauce over the quails, and serve hot. 1064. Game Forcemeat {For Cailles a la Tosca).—| lb. game, free from skin and bone, \ lb. calf's liver, and 1 oz. butter, some369 ENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) bacon, 1 shallot, J lb. soft bread (French rolls), soaked in milk, 1 whole egg and 3 yolks, paprika pepper, salt, nutmeg. Pass the game twice through a mincing machine, cut the bacon into thin slices or dice. Melt the butter, add the shallot, peeled and chopped, and saute the liver in this for a few minutes. Pound it in a mortar, add the game, mince and pound both together till smooth, extract all the liquid from the soaked bread, and add it to the meat in the mortar; continue to pound ; now add the eggs, and mix thoroughly, season to taste with the above-named condiments. Rub all through a fine sieve ; poach a small quantity of the farce in boiling water to test its consistency, and use as directed. 1065. Risotto (for Cailles dl a Tosca).—4 oz. butter, 1 oz. onion minced, 6 oz. rice (well pickled), H pint ichite stock, 1 table- spoonful glaze or meat extract, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 1 small truffle chopped finely, | gill tomato pulp. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan, add the onion, fry for a moment, then put in the rice, picked, but not washed, stir over the fire till thoroughly hot, then moisten with stock, using enough to double the quantity of rice (adding more later on if needed). Cover and cook gently for twenty-five minutes ; stir occasionally with a fork. When nearly done add the remainder of the butter, the truffle, and the tomato pulp, also the necessary seasoning of salt and pepper. Cover again and put it in the oven for another ten minutes. By this time all the moisture should become absorbed. Stir in the grated cheese, mix well, and use as directed. 1066. Cailles poelees a la Rarisienne.—6 quails, 2 oz. ’ butter, salt, pepper and nutmeg, parsley, 3 or 4 chicken livers, 1 gill demi-glace (No. 237) or sauce Madere (No. 237 a), 1 gill milk, a handful of bread-crumbs, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 shallot, about 6 slices of bacon. Prepare the quails as for stuffing. Put the milk in a stewpan, add half an ounce of butter, a small bay-leaf, salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg ; when boiling stir in the bread-crumbs (about a hand- ful). Simmer for ten minutes. Remove the bay-leaf and stir in the egg-yolks. Cut up the chicken livers small, saute them in butter in which a finely chopped shallot has been blended ; season with pepper, salt, and aromatics, and rub the liver &c. through a sieve. Mix the puree with the bread-crumbs &c. and stuff the birds with this. Wrap each quail in a thin slice of bacon, place them in an earthenware pan (casserole) with the remainder of butter, and cook over a slow fire for half an hour. Pour off’ the fat and finish cooking in the sauce (demi- glace or Madeira). 1067. Cailles err Feuilletage (Quails in Pastry).—-Bone four quails, stuff them with liver farce (No. 406), and braise them in a mirepoix with a little rich and well flavoured stock. Take up, let c6ol, and cut each bird in two. In boning the quails do not remove the legs, which latter should have the feet left on. Have some good B BTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 870 1 glass port ivine, 2 oz. cooked ham, meat glaze. puff-paste, roll each half of quail in a round piece of paste; arrange this so as to leave the foot out, brush over with egg, and bake in a fairly hot oven a nice golden brown. Place a little white paper frill upon the foot of each quail, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. ' 1068. Cailles en I*apillotes.—6 small quails, 2 small onions, 1 carrot, celery, 2 fresh mushrooms, 2 oz. butter, 1^ oz. meat glaze, ^ lb. feuilletage or rough puff-paste, a little sauce Madbre (No. 237 a), seasoning. Pluck and singe the quails, and bone the breasts from the inside. Shred finely the onions and carrots (previously prepared), using only the red part of the carrots ; cut likewise the celery (white part) and mushrooms. Fry all these in a stewpan with the butter till a light fawn colour ; stir this frequently till cooled. When done, season and moisten with meat glaze and spread on a plate to cool. Shape the mixture into small balls, and insert one into each of the quails ; shape them neatly and wrap up nicely into rough puff-paste, just like a dumpling. Place them on a baking-sheet, brush over with egg-yolk, and bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Dish up on an entree dish on a folded napkin, and send to table with a boat of well- flavoured sauce Madere. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1069. Cailles en Chemise.—Boned quails, stuffed with a liver farce, tied up, and braised rare. Served with sauce bourguignonne (No. 306). 1070. Cailles a la Cendre.—Trussed quails barded, wrapped in oiled paper, cooked in wood embers or charcoal, the same way as potatoes ; when done remove the paper, arrange the birds neatly on a dish. Serve with a rich brown sauce reduced with Marsala wine. 1071. Cailles a la Mirepoix.—These are quails sprinkled over with white or red wine vinegar, carrots, savoury herbs, juniper berries, &c., and allowed to soak for two to three hours. Braise these on a bed of mirepoix. Serve with sauce marinade (No. 257 a). 1072. Croustades de Cailles a la Champenoise. -Braised halves of quails stuffed with game forcemeat (No. 404), chopped mushrooms, and liver. Dressed on fried bread-crusts, glazed, and served with demi- glace sauce (No. 237). 1073. JPerdreaux a ax Champignons (.Partridges with Mushrooms).—2 partridges, 4 oz. lean bacon, peppercorns, 2 cloves, 3 oz. butter, \ lb. fresh or \ lb. preserved mushrooms, chopped parsley, 1 gill stoclc, seasoning, | lb. larding bacon, a mirepoix con- sisting of a small bunch of herbs, thyme, parsley, bay-leaf, sliced onion, carrot, and turnip; brown or demi-glace sauce (No. 237),371 ENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) Procure the birds ready trussed. Untruss and bone them, leaving ihe end bone of the legs. Cut the larding bacon into the usual-sized strips or lardons, and lard the breasts of the partridges. Shape them neatly. Line a braising-pan with the trimmings of bacon, herbs, sliced onion, carrot and turnip, peppercorns, cloves, and one ounce of butter. Let this get thoroughly hot, put in the birds, larded side upwards, season with pepper, salt, and aromatics, put a few slices of lean bacon on top, and set it in a hot oven for about fifteen minutes ; then add the port wine and the stock, and braise for about forty minutes, keeping the birds well basted during the process of braising. Take up the partridges, cut them in halves and keep hot, and brush over the surface with meat glaze. Chop up the carcass of the birds, and put this into the pan in which the birds were cooked. Add about half a pint of sauce, and boil up quickly; remove the fat and strain the sauce. Skim well and season to taste. Dish up the birds ■on a border of mashed potatoes, or if preferred on a fried bread- crouton. The mushrooms are served in the centre or dressed on either side. Prepare the mushrooms as follows :—Wash and skin the mush- rooms, chop them finely, and put them in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter and two ounces of ham also chopped finely, and fried a little in the butter. Cook them over a quick fire for about ten minutes, season to taste, and serve as directed. 1074. Celestines de Perdreaux.—3partridges, 2 oz. panade (No. 8), 3 large truffles, % gill rich brown sauce, bread-crumbs, seasoning, frying-fat, chestnut puree for garnish. Remove the breasts from the birds, skin them, and flatten each breast or fillet with a wetted cutlet bat. Take the meat from the legs and wings and pound it in a mortar, add the panade, two or three egg-yolks, and season to taste. When smooth enough rub through a fine sieve. Mince the truffles, and cook for some time in the brown sauce, which should be reduced to an almost puree-like consistency. Spread each fillet with a layer of this ragout, then Avith a layer of forcemeat. Pare each fillet neatly, brush over carefully with beaten egg-white, and cover with bread-crumbs (panurette crumbs are particularly well adapted for this purpose). Fry the prepared fillets in deep fat to a nice brown colour. Drain and dish up in the form of a circle on a hot round dish round a pyramidal shape of chestnut puree. Pour a little demi-glace (No. 237) or tomato sauce (No. 271) round the base of the dish and serve at once. 1075. Perdrix braisees aux Choux (.Braised Partridges with Cabbage).—-2 or 3 partridges, 2 small cabbages, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 8 oz. salt pork or fat bacon, 3 cloves, bouquet garni (No. 2), 1 glass white wine, 1^ pint rich broth, 1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), salt, pepper, nutmeg, 2 oz. dripping. Singe, draw, and wipe the birds, truss them with their wings turned inwards. Put them in a roasting-tin, cover with dripping, and roast for ten minutes. Take up and drain. Wash the cabbages,THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 372 cut into quarters, remove the stalks, cook for ten minutes in salted water, and drain. Have ready a large stewpan, put in some slices of pork or bacon, the carrot and onion cut into slices, cloves, and bouquet; lay the partridges on this, and put the cabbage on top, then some more bacon or pork, add the wine and stock, season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, cover and cook slowly for thirty to forty-five minutes. Dress the cabbages on a dish to form a bed, place the partridges on this (whole or cut up), garnish with slices of carrot, and bacon or pork. Skim and strain the broth, add the sauce, boil up,, and sauce all over. 1076. Cdtelettes de Perdreaux d la Financiere.—2 par- tridges trussed for roasting, 1 liard-boiled ivhite of egg, 3 truffles,. 18 preserved mushrooms, 1 small bottle financiere, % oz. butter,, l .egg, 1 oz.panade (No. 8), £ gill veloutee sauce (No. 206), 1 gill sauce Madere (No. 237 a), meat glaze (No. 247), salt and pepper, a crouton of fried bread, a small quantity of mashed potatoes. Eoast one of the partridges, bone the other, and pound the meat,, freed from sinews and skin, till smooth ; add the raw egg, panade, and veloutee. sauce. Season to taste, and rub through a wire sieve. Bone the cooked partridge when cold, and cut into thin slices. Stamp out some rounds for garnish and eight to ten cutlet shapes ; stamp out some little rounds of white of egg (hard-boiled), of truffle, and of mushroom ; butter eight to ten cutlet moulds, decorate them with the little rounds just referred to, put them on the ice to set, work up the farce, and put a thin layer in each mould ; lay a thin slice of cooked partridge on top, fill up with farce, smooth over with a wet knife (press down well), put them in a saute-pan containing a little hot water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderately heated oven for twenty minutes. Heat up the financiere ragout in the sauce Madere, add the remaining mushrooms and truffles, left whole or cut in dice, and simmer for a few minutes. Fix the croute of fried bread in the centre of a hot dish, around which put a thin border of mashed potatoes. Turn out the cutlets, dress them neatly on the border of mashed potatoes. Arrange the financiere as a garniture artistically on the croute, pour the sauce round, sprinkle with a little dissolved meat glaze, and serve. 1077. Partridge Sodge-Podgel—1 brace of partridges, % lb., streaky bacon, 2 sheep's kidneys, 6 to 8 sauce oysters (bearded), 1 shallot, 4 potatoes, 1 gill stock, 1 oz. butter, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Procure the partridges ready trimmed for roasting, bone them, and cut the birds into neat pieces. Cut the bacon into slices, skin the kidneys and slice them, peel and chop the shallot, wash, peel, and cut the potatoes into round slices about one eighth of an inch thick. Take a fire-proof tureen, or, failing this, use a large pie dish, butter it well, and fill up with alternate layers of partridge, bacon, kidneys, and oysters; put at least one layer of potato slices in the centre.ENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) 373 Season each layer with pepper and salt and a tiny pinch of cayenne ; sprinkle the chopped shallot over the top. Pour in the stock. Melt the butter ; dip each slice of the potatoes (remaining) in the butter and range them neatly on the top of the contents of the dish. This must be done very neatly; the slices must overlap each other and must be arranged in rows, so that the surface is completely covered. Pour the remainder of the melted butter over the potatoes. Sprinkle with a few fried bread-crumbs if handy, and cover with a buttered piece of paper. Cook the dish in a moderately heated oven for about two hours. When done remove the buttered paper, sprinkle the top -of the dish with finely-chopped parsley, place it on a flat dish with a folded napkin or dish-paper, and send to table hot. 1078. Pate de Perdreaux (Partridge Pie).—2 young par- tridges, | lb. lean veal, % lb. boiled bacon or gammon, 1 gill Soubise ■(No. 232) or onion sauce, 1 oz. blotter, 2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped parsley, preserved mushrooms, salt, pepper, and aromatic seasoning. Puff or rough paste for covering. Procure the birds ready trussed, divide them into halves, and fry these slightly in a saute-pan with the butter. Line a pie-dish with thin slices of lean veal and bacon, lay in the birds, season with chopped mushrooms, chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and a good pinch of aromatic spice. Put a layer of veal and bacon slices on the top, and pour the sauce over this; cover this with slices of hard-boiled eggs. Poll out the paste and cover the pie in the usual manner. Bake for a full hour in a fairly well heated oven, and pour a little rich stock or gravy into the pie as it leaves the oven. Serve either hot or cold. 1079. Souffle de Perdreau d VAnglaise.—About 8 oz. ■cooked partridge, 2 oz. brown bread-crumbs, 3 eggs, \ gill cream, | gill brown stock, butter, 3 large truffles, 1 oz. panade (No. 8), pepper, salt, and cayenne. Free the meat from bone, skin, and sinew, cut it up finely, put it into a mortar and pound until smooth ; add the bread-crumbs and panade, mix well, and work in three yolks of eggs, one at a time. When well pounded add the seasoning, stock, and cream, mix thoroughly, and pass it through a fine wire sieve. Butter one large or two small plain moulds, decorate the bottom with fancifully-cut slices of truffles ; when set fill up with the forcemeat, cover with a buttered paper, stand it in a stewpan containing boiling water, and steam for forty-five minutes. Turn out on a hot dish and serve with Madere (No. 237 a) or Perigueux sauce (No. 243). 1080. Salmis de Perdrix blanche d la Re (fence (Salmis of Ptarmigan, Begent Style).—Prepare this salmis the same as that of duck (No. 911), adding a good half-pint of garnishing (a la Begence (No. 489) ten minutes before serving. Beckon one ptar- migan for three persons, or three for eight.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 374 ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1081. Perdreaux a la Beauharnais.—Braised partridges, garnished with stewed asparagus points, fresh button mushrooms, and artichoke bottoms. Served with truffle sauce (No. 243). 1082. Perdreaux a la Pompadour.—Stuffed partridges larded and braised, served with a daintily-prepared foie gras and truffle stew, moistened with a rich brown sauce. 1083. Chartreuse de Perdreaux.—Stewed partridges, with braised spring cabbages and young carrots, dressed in the centre of a border of macedoine of vegetables. 1084. Filets de Perdreaux a la Marechal.—Braised breasts of partridges, with truffles, mushrooms, and fried potato quenelles or croquettes. 1085. Filets de Perdreaux a la Princesse.—Breasts of partridges, skinned, larded with bacon and truffles, braised, and served with Madeira wine sauce (No. 237 a). 1086. Pains de Perdreaux a la Dauphine.—Poached or steamed quenelles of partridge forcemeat, mixed with truffles and mushrooms. Served with asparagus points, button mushrooms, in centre or side of dish, and Madeira sauce (No. 237 a). 1087. Salmis de Perdreaux a la Chasseur.—Stewed partridges with chopped mushrooms, Bordelaise sauce (No. 249), chopped rind of lemon, garnished with fleurons or sippets. 1088. Compote de JPluviers d la Dor la (Compote of Plovers).—2 small plovers, trussed for roasting, 1 oz.: butter, 1 lb, potatoes cooked and made into a puree, 2 small tomatoes, 6 to 8 preserved mushrooms (champignons), 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), 5 gill stock, 1 glass sherry or Marsala, 4 oz. meat glaze or Lemco, 1 small bouquet garni, 1 egg, seasoning, 12 small godiveau quenelles (poached) -(No. 401). Partially roast the birds in front of the fire, or in the oven, using the butter for basting. Allow about fifteen minutes, not more. When cold enough to handle cut them up into neat joints, remove the skin, and put the pieces in a saute-pan ; place the mushrooms, cut into slices, and the quenelles, previously cooked and drained, on top of the pieces. Toss the tomatoes (sliced) in a little butter, add the sherry, cover, and let reduce ; then add the carcases of the birds, cut up small, the stock, the sauce, and the bunch of herbs, and cook for about twenty minutes. Remove the bones and herbs, and pass the remainder through a fine hair sieve or tossing cloth ; add the meat glaze or meat extract, and pour over the pieces of plover &c. in the saute-pan. Season with salt, pepper, and half a teaspoonful of Krone pepper. Cover and let simmer gently for about ten minutes. Arrange a neat border of mashed potatoes on a round entree-dish, brush over the375 ENT BEES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) border with beaten egg, and place it in the oven till it acquires a golden brown colour. Dress the pieces of plover and garniture in the centre of the dish ; sauce well with the sauce, previously skimmed and well reduced. Send to table hot. 1089. Cdtelettes de Pluviers en Caisses.—Boned plovers, stuffed with forcemeat and shaped into cutlets and braised, served in small cutlet-shaped paper cases. Serve chasseur sauce (No. 242) separately with this dish. 1090. Salmis de Pluviers d la Chasseu r (Salmis of Plovers, Hunter’s Style).—Proceed the same as for salmis of duck (No. 911), adding about twelve preserved mushrooms, cut in slices or chopped coarsely, and omitting the olives. The dish should be garnished with eight heart-shaped bread-croutons brushed over with meat glaze or Lemco. 1091. Sarcelles aux Olives (Teal or Widgeon with Olives).— This dish is prepared exactly the same as Salmis de Canard aux Olives (No. 911), using two to three widgeons instead of duck. 1092. Zephires de Canard Suuvage d la JMetropole.— 1 wild duck, 1 dessertspoonful chutney, 4 oz. panade, puff-paste trimmings, glace cherries for garnish, f pint salmis sauce (No. 240), 1 wineglass port wine, 2 yolks of eggs, salt and pepper, cooked sorrel or spinach, Espagnole sauce (No. 236), tomato sauce (No. 271). Remove the meat from the duck, and pound it in a mortar till quite smooth, add the panade and yolks of eggs, gradually mix thoroughly and moisten with about a gill of salmis sauce and half the port wine; season with pepper, salt, and aromatic spice. Test the consistency of the farce before using it in a little boiling stock or water. If found too firm add a little more sauce, and if found too moist a little more panade. Butter a few zephire moulds, fill them with the mixture, and poach in the usual manner from fifteen to twenty minutes. Meanwhile prepare the sauce, using the carcass of the duck, Espagnole and tomato sauce, also the remainder of port wine. Season and strain. If you have no sauce for the farce the salmis sauce must be prepared at the start. Turn out the zephires on a hot dish, arrange them neatly. Place a fancifully cut ring or square border of baked puff-paste on each. Fill the centre with cooked hot and well seasoned sorrel or spinach puree, and put one or two halves of glace cherries in the middle of the spinach or sorrel. Place the dish in a sharp oven for a few minutes, pour a little of the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1093. Canards sauvages a l’Americaine—Braised wild ducks stuffed with soaked bread well buttered and seasoned. Served with a brown sauce made of boiled duck giblets, chopped shallots, and port wine. 1094. Canards sauvages a la Chasseur.—Braised wild ducks stuffed376 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK with a mixture of minced game and chopped mushrooms. Served with a game sauce (No. 252) into which a little black currant jelly has been incorporated. 1095. Filets de Canards sauvages aux Truffes.—Fillets of wild duck cooked in butter and finished in a rich brown sauce made of wild duck giblets, sliced mushrooms, finely minced shallots, and truffles. 1096. Sarcelle a la Woscovite (Widgeon, Moscow Style).— 1 tender widgeon, 1 small bouquet of herbs, £ glass sherry, 1 oz. butter, \pint-Espagnole sauce (No. 286), 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 gill stock, 2 thin slices cooked ox-tongue, 1 large truffle, 6 mush- rooms, 8 small godiveau quenelles (No. 401), salt, pepper, nutmeg, fried bread croute or croutons. Singe, draw and wipe the bird, cut into neat joints (wings, legs, and breast), chop up the carcass and put it in a stewpan with a little butter. Cook over a quick fire to brown, add the bouquet, moisten with stock, and let simmer for fifteen minutes. Season the joints with salt, pepper, and a small pinch of grated nutmeg. Heat up the butter in a saute-pan, lay in the pieces, and cook over a brisk fire for six minutes. Then add the sherry, cover, and reduce a little, then the sauce (Espagnole and tomato), and let simmer slowly till tender. Cut the tongue and truffles into narrow strips (julienne shape), mince the mushrooms. Put these together with the godiveau quenelles in a stewpan, strain over the prepared gravy of the carcass, previously skimmed, add a little seasoning, and let cook together for ten minutes. Skim the sauce containing the duck. Place the croute of bread in the centre of a hot dish (this should be fastened with a little butter or a mixture of flour and water). Dish up the duck as neatly as possible on the croute, garnish with alternate groups of tongue and truffle, mushrooms and quenelles ; put the gravy with the sauce, boil up, strain the sauce, pour a little over and round the base of the dish. Serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. Adjust some paper frills on the ends of the wings and legs, and serve. Note.—If small bread-croutons are used omit the centre croute and place the former round the base of the dish along with the garniture. 1097. Sarcelles bardees d la Westphalie.—Braised teal barded, served with slices of broiled Westphalian ham, also sliced truffles in the sauce. 1098. Tetras d’Ameriqtie a la Chasseur.—American goose stewed in brown Madeira wine sauce (No. 287a), with chopped mushrooms and shallots. 1099. Andouillettes de Ghibier1 en Caisses a la Frangaise.—4 oz., cooked game, freed from skin and bone, 1 Any kind of chickens, veal, pork, or any other meat may be substituted for game, hut the name then changes; as, Andouillettes de Volaille, Andouillettes de Veau, &c.377 ENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) 3 mushrooms, 2 oz. lean bacon or liam (cooked), 2 oz. butter, 1 small shallot, 1 dessertspoonful flour, 1 egg, a little stock, lemon- jioice, chopped parsley, fried parsley, pepper and salt, nutmeg, pig's caul, ovcd souffle cases. Chop finely the game, ham, and mushrooms ; melt half an ounce of butter in a stewpan; when hot put in the shallot, finely chopped, fry a little, stir in the flour, and cook, while stirring for a few minutes. Moisten gradually with about half a gill of stock, let it come to the boil, mix in the chopped meat, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a few drops of i lemon-juice, bind with the yolk of one egg; season with pepper, salt, and a little grate of nutmeg. Let it get thoroughly hot, and spread on a plate to cool. Make up into neatly-shaped, even-sized cork shapes (in accordance with size of paper cases), wrap each carefully in a square of pig’s caul, fasten the ends with a little white of egg. Let stand for a few minutes to set. Butter the inside of the paper cases, fry sufficient parsley to form little beds for each case. Melt the remainder of the butter in a saute-pan, put in the andouillettes, and fry a golden colour over a moderate fire or in the oven. When done take up, drain on paper or cloth, put on a baking- tin, brush the surface of each with liquid meat-glaze. Pass in the oven for another minute and put on beds of fried parsley in paper cases. Dish up and serve with a boat of piquante (No. 241) or tomato (No. 271) sauce. 1100. Croustades de Gibier a la Gambetta.—Salmis of game, with truffles, filled on fried bread croustades, and garnished with small stuffed tomatoes. 1101. Friandines de Gibier d la Ferif/tteux.—Prepare about one pound of salpicon (No. 11), of any kind of cooked game, tongue, mushrooms, and truffles. Take one pound of puff-paste, roll it out very thin ; stamp out some rounds with a fluted pastry-cutter ; put a small heap of salpicon mince in the centre of half the quantity of each round, wet the edges with a brush, cover each with the other half; press gently, taking care to keep the mince in the centre of each one. Dip them carefully in the well-beaten egg, crumb in freshly-made bread-crumbs mixed with a small handful of chopped ham or a dessertspoonful of chopped truffles ; fry in clarified butter, drain on a cloth, dish up in a pyramidal form, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve with a boat of sauce Perigueux (No. 243). 1102. Mousses de Gibier ala Lion d’ Or.— About 1 lb. of raw game, pheasant, partridge, or any other bird (freedfrom skin and bones), 6 oz. pork (fresh), 3 raw eggs, 3 oz. panade (No. 8), 1 No. 12 size jar foie gras, 1 gill brown sauce (Espagnole, No. 236), pepper, salt, and aromatics, 1 gill supreme sauce (No. 210), 1 oz. fresh butter, 1 oz. meat-glaze (No. 247). Cut the game and pork into small pieces (the pork must consist of equal parts of lean and fat). Pound these in a mortar till smooth, then add the panade. Mix thoroughly and work in the yolks of the eggsTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 378 and the foie gras, previously freed from the lard usually found on the top of the terrine. (Take out the pieces of truffle in the foie gras and chop coarsely.) Add the brown sauce, season to taste with pepper, salt, and aromatic seasoning, and rub the whole through a fine wire sieve. Test the consistency of the farce in some boiling water. If found too stiff add a little more sauce, if too thin add a little more panade, then stir in the chopped truffles. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the mixture. Fill up several small- sized lion moulds, previously buttered. Shake the moulds so that the farce sets well into the shapes. Then place them in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, cover the moulds with buttered paper, and cook in a hot oven for about thirty-five minutes. Warm up the supreme sauce, add while whisking the butter and the meat-glaze, but do not let the sauce boil again. Turn out the moulds on to a hot dish. Sauce over carefully and serve. 1103. Petite# Timbales de G-ibier a la Galmier —i lb. rate hare, partridge, or pheasant meat, freed from shin and bones, 2 chicken livers or an equivalent quantity of calf’s liver, 3 table- spoonfuls well-reduced bechamel sauce (No. 202), 1 raw egg and 1 yolk of egg, 1 large truffle, 1 tablespoonful double cream, \ lb. cooked lean ham, £ lb. cooked game, 8 large mushrooms (preserved), 3 table- spoonfuls macedoine of vegetables, 1 tablespoonful rich brown sauce, seasoning, tomato sauce (No. 271). Pound the raw meat and the chicken livers in a mortar till quite smooth, then add the bechamel sauce and the eggs. Season to taste and rub through a fine sieve. Butter about 8 small timbale moulds ; sprinkle them over with finely chopped truffle. Work up the farce with the cream and line the moulds with it. Prepare a salpicon with the cooked game and ham (cut into small dice) and the macedoine of vegetables, add the brown sauce, season, and put about a dessert- spoonful in the centre of each mould, fill up with the remainder of farce, and poach in the oven for about twenty to twenty-five minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, place a mushroom on top of each timbale, sauce over carefully with tomato sauce, previously heated, and serve. 1104. Bor dure de Lievre u V A'utriehieune.—1 hare, larding bacon, a mirepoix of vegetables, 3 oz. blotter, 1 glass claret, £ gill cream, 4 oz. panade, about 4 oz. chestnut puree, 10 to 12 very small potato croquettes (fried), | pint demi-glace sauce (No. 237), seasoning, meat glace (No. 247), red currant jelly. Remove the fillets from the hare, cut them into eight nice slices, lard these with bacon, and place them in a saute-pan on a mirepoix, larded sides downwards, with about two ounces of butter. Season with pepper and salt. Cover with buttered paper, and put in a quick oven for ten minutes; add the wine and a little stock, and cook in the oven until quite tender (baste frequently). Put the trimmings of the fillets and enough of the meat of the hare to make ten ounces in a mortar, pound well, add gradually the panade, the cream, and a little379 ENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) brown sauce, season to taste, rub the whole through a fine sieve. Fill up a well-buttered border mould, steam for one and a quarter hour, turn out oil a hot dish, dress the fillets on the border and brush over with meat glaze, put the chestnut puree in the centre of the dish, and upon this dress neatly the potato croquettes. The demi- glace .sauce is put with the mirepoix in which the fillets were cooked ; allow to boil for some minutes, skim well and strain, reduce again, add a teaspoonful of red currant jelly, season to taste, and pour round the base of the dish. 1105. jBordure de Lie ere d la Her g ere.—1 small hare, | lb. fresh pork, £ lb. bacon, 2 truffles, 2 oz. butter, 6 oz. panade (No. 8), 3 eggs, 3 shallots, 1 glass Madeira, 1 gill aspic jelly (No. 293), 1 hard-boiled egg, seasoning. Eemove the breasts and the fleshy parts of legs of the hare, cut it into small slices, slice likewise the pork and bacon. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, add the shallots, finely chopped, brown a little, put in the sliced meat (the liver of hare may also be added if liked), season with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, saute over the fire until of a nice brown, moisten with Madeira, and put in a basin to cool. Then pound in a mortar until smooth. Add the panade and the eggs one by one. Cut the truffles into slices, stamp out some fanciful shapes and keep for garnish ; chop finely the trimmings, and mix with the farce. Bub the whole through a wire sieve, fill up a well-buttered border-mould, put in a saute or braising pan containing boiling water, to reach half-way up the mould. Cover with buttered paper and cook in a moderately heated oven for about .one and a quarter hour. When done stand on the ice till cool; turn on to a cold dish. Mask over carefully with half-set aspic jelly, ornament the top of the border with truffle shapes and fancifully cut slices of hard-boiled white of egg. Coat the garnish with a little aspic, put a few sprigs of fresh parsley here and there, and serve. The remainder of the hare will be found very useful for hare soup, game sauce for stock, &c. 1106. Civet de Lievre d la Bordelaise.—1 tender hare, 1 onion, 2 cloves, thyme, 2 bay-leaves, 12 small button onions (glazed), 2 oz. bacon, 1 oz. butter,, % glass white and \ glass red wine, ^ pint stock, ^ oz. flour, seasoning, 8 croutons, and 8 godiveau quenelles. Skin and neatly draw the hare (if there is any blood left preserve it, mixed with a little vinegar). Preserve the liver carefully, removing the gall. Cut the hare into twelve to fourteen neat joints, place in a deep dish or jar, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and sliced onion, two cloves, one sprig thyme, and bay-leaves. Add the wine and let it thus soak well mixed for five or six hours. Lift out the pieces, drain on a cloth. Fry them lightly in a saute-pan with the butter, dredge with the flour, and stir over a brisk fire until of a light brown colour, moisten with stock, red wine, and liquor, fry the bacon, previously cut into dice, and put with the civet, when the latter boils. Simmer for about one hour. Put the small onions, previously braised,THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK in a saucepan, and keep hot. Chop liver and heart very finely, mix with the blood (if any), and add to the stew about a quarter of an hour before it is done. Have ready some godiveau quenelles and croutes of fried bread. Dish up the civet as neatly as possible, decorate with braised onions, croutons, and godiveau quenelles round the base of the dish, and serve with a small dish of red currant jelly. 1107. Grenadins de Tyler re a la JTanoverienne.—1 hare, larding bacon, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. streaky bacon, a glass Gliablis or Sauterne wine, 1 pint Espagnole sauce (No. 236), a small bouquet garni (No. 2), 1 onion stuck toith 2 cloves, 2 oz. sultanas, a 2-inch stick of cinnamon, a small bunch of parsley, - 1 tablespoonful red currant jelly, salt and pepper, croutons of fried bread, a handful of glace cherries. Remove the fillets from the hare, cut them into scollops, flatten slightly and lard one side of each scollop with strips of larding bacon. Cut up the two ounces of bacon and put it in a saute-pan with an ounce of butter, fry a little and season, then put in the slices of larded hare, larded sides upwards, fry lightly, add the bouquet garni and the wine, and cover. Place the pan in the oven for about ten minutes. Cut the best portion of the remainder of the hare into neat joints ; fry these in a stewpan with two ounces of butter until nicely browned, add the brown sauce, parsley, onion, cinnamon, red currant jelly, and the sultanas, previously picked and soaked in tepid water. Cook slowly until tender, then take out the parsley, onion, cinnamon, carefully remove the fat, and season to taste with pepper and salt. Cut the glace cherries in halves and heat up in some rich gravy, and mix with the ragout of hare. To dish up place each scollop on a heart-shaped fried bread-crouton, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish ; put the ragout of hare and cherries in the centre (piled up high), reduce the sauce, skim again, and pour it carefully over the meat. Serve hot. 1108. Turban de Lievre d la Bohemienne.—1 small hare, 3 oz. butter, 3 oz. bacon, 1 small carrot, 1 onion, 2 cloves, 1 inch cinnamon-stick, 1 gill icell-reduced Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1 glass port wine, ahoitt 8 oz. panade, aromatic spice, salt, pepper, 1 gill demi-glace (No. 237) or madere (No. 237a) sauce, about 12 glace cherries, 18 to 24 marbles of potato croquettes. Remove the fillets of the hare, cut them into neat dice of even size. Melt two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, add to it the bacon, cut into small pieces, the carrot, onion, previously prepared and sliced, also the cloves and cinnamon, fry a little, then put in the fillets, fry them over a quick fire, and finish cooking them in the oven until they are quite tender. Take up the pieces of fillet and keep them hot. Pound about three-quarters of a pound of the remainder of the hare (freed from skin, bone, and sinews) in a mortar; when smooth add to it the panade, the wine, and Espagnole sauce, mix well, season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve (the bacon used for frying theENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) 881 fillets may be added to this farce and will improve its flavour). Fill a well-buttered border mould with the prepared farce, cover with a buttered paper, and steam in the usual manner. When done unmould on to a hot round entree dish ; dress the pieces of fillet in the centre of the border. Reduce the demi-glace sauce, and pour this over the whole; arrange the potato croquettes in a row on top of the border, place the cherries (cut in halves and heated in a little port or sherry) tastefully in the middle. Note.—A couple of teaspoonfuls of Lemco added to the farce is a great improvement. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1109. Civet de Lievre a la Finnoise.—Pickled hare jugged, finished in demi-glace sauce (No. 237) to which a small quantity of sour cream has been added. 1110. —Cotelettes de Lievres a l’Allemande.—Loin of hare cut into cutlets, pared and trimmed ; season, egg, and crumb them, and fry in hot butter. Dish up and garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs and French gherkins. Serve with a white wine sauce. 1111. Lievre en Gite.—Potted hare meat, prepared in tureen with sausage-forcemeat and hare fillets; moistened with Madeira wine, and covered with slices of bacon. Baked in the oven, and served cold in the tureen in which it is cooked. 1112. Lievre farci a la Fermiere. — Trussed boned hare, flattened, stuffed with pork forcemeat, and braised. Dish up, and serve with a brown onion sauce, mixed with finely minced ham and chopped parsley, and reduced with Marsala wine. 1113. Filets de Lievre a la Sicilienne.—Larded fillets of hare, braised and finished in reduced sauce Madere (No 237 a), flavoured with cinnamon and parsley. Dressed in a pyramidal form, and glazed. 1114. Pate de Lievre a la Cumberland (Hare Pie).— 1 small hare, ^ lb. calves’ liver, 4 oz. bacon, 1 shallot, ^ a clove of garlic, 2 oz. butter, seasoning, herbs, thyme and marjoram, 4 tea- spoonful of each, 1 glass port icine, 1 egg, herbs, spoonful of red currant jelly, a little stock. Suitable paste crust. Skin the hare and wash it several times in fresh water ; cut it into joints, and bone each. Put the carcass in a stewpan with water, to make stock, flavour with cloves, a little sauce, bay-leaf, and salt. Skim as it boils, and cook gently for one hour. Wipe the meat, cut it into slices, and fry in an ounce of butter ; add the shallot (peeled and chopped), take out the meat, and let cool. Add the remainder of butter to the stewpan in which the hare was fried ; when hot put in the calves’ liver, previously sliced thinly, and two ounces of the bacon, fry for a short time, and pound all in a mortar till smooth. Bub this through a382 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK wire sieve and mix with a well-beaten- egg. Season with salt, pepper, and aromatic seasoning. Line a pie-mould with hot water or nouille paste, prick the bottom and sides with a fork, line the sides and bottom with thin slices of bacon and with a layer of the prepared farce ; fill up the mould with the fried pieces of hare. Sprinkle the powdered herbs and seasoning in between, moisten each layer with port wine and red currant jelly, cover the top with farce, and lay on the crust; fix the latter firmly. Decorate with fanciful pieces of paste in a tasteful manner. Do not forget to make a suitable incision in the centre of the cover of crust, to allow the steam to escape while cooking. Bake in a moderate oven from, ©ne and a half to two and a quarter hours, according to the size of the pie. As the pie leaves the oven pour a little welLreduced stock into it; this is best done by means of a funnel. This pie is delicious hot, but, as many prefer it cold, it would be advisable to introduce some aspic jelly instead of the stock. In this case the mould should not be removed until the pie is quite cold. 1115. Ruble de Lievre d la Mode.—Small joints of hare (fillets larded), seasoned and drained, fried in butter and stewed in brown sauce, with small squares of salt pork. Served with its own sauce well reduced and flavoured with a little chilli vinegar. 1116. Levraut frit d VOrly.—Boned leveret, cut into small pieces, egged, crumbed, and fried, served with tomato sauce (No. 271). 1117. Cdtelettes de Venaison d la Puree de Marrons.— 4 to 6 venison cutlets, 1| oz. butter, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, chestnut puree, demi-glace sauce {No. 237), seasoning. Pare the cutlets neatty, flatten and trim again ; season them with pepper and salt, beat up the egg, dip each cutlet in egg, and cover with bread-crumbs. Melt the butter in a saute-pan; when hot put in the cutlets and fry each side a nice brown colour ; take up, drain, and dish up in a circle on a small bed of mashed potatoes. Pill the centre with chestnut puree, pour a little demi-glace or other thin brown sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1118. Cuissot de Venaison a la Riehemond.—Boast leg of venison larded, cut into neat slices sauced over with reforme (No. 255), garnished with small fried sweet potatoes and red currant jelly. 1119. Chevreuil braise a la Saint Hubert.—-Braised pickled venison, larded, finished in a brown sauce, flavoured with claret and cinnamon. Served with a garniture of French prunes which have been stewed with the meat. 1120. Cotelettes de Chevreuil a la Turque.—Venison cutlets, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter, served with tomato puree, and garnished with fried parsley.383 ENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) 1121. Escalopes de Chevreuil a la Chasseur. -Escalopes or fillets of venison, cooked in butter and finished in a rich chasseur sauce (No. 242), into which.a little red currant jelly has been incorporated. 1122. Longe de Chevreuil a la Puree de Tomate.—Braised loin of venison with tomato puree, mixed with a small quantity of sauce marinade (No. 257 a). 1123. Salmis de Chevreuil a la Sultane.—Pickled venison cut into small joints and jugged in a rich brown sauce, to which a glass of port wine and picked and blanched sultanas or raisins have been added. 1124. Tournedos de Chevreuil a la Milanaise.—Small venison steaks, seasoned and broiled in butter. Served with stewed macaroni as a garnish and tomato sauce (No. 271). 1125. Filet de Cerf pique a la Diable.—Fillet of deer, larded and braised in the usual manner, cut into neat slices, dished up, and served with a sharp pepper sauce (sauce a la diable). 1126. —Carre de Sanglier a la Russe. -Braised neck (jointed) of wild boar, cut into cutlets and served with a sweet sauce (orange sauce, containing picked and blanched sultanas and shredded almonds). 1127. Cuissot de Sanglier aux Cerises.—Leg or haunch of a young wild boar, braised in the usual way, adding red wine, powdered sugar, and cinnamon to flavour the sauce. Mix some glace cherries, cut in halves, with the sauce in which the meat is finished; cut the meat into slices and serve with the sauced cherries as a garnish.384 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK CHAPTER XXII SERVICE FROID (COLD SERVICE). COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME 1128. Cdtelettes d’Agneau d la Danzig.—Best end of a neck of lamb, 2 oz. butter, 1 truffle, hard-boiled white of egg, 1 oz. tongue, 1 tin foie gras, ^ pint white chaud-froid sauce, seasoning, 2 handfuls cooked peas, 1^ gill aspic jelly (No. 38), 2 tomatoes, mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), 1. tablespoonful cream. Seasoning, vegetable macedoine. Trim and pare the neck neatly, cut it into small cutlets, season with pepper and salt, and boil in a saute-pan with butter ; when done put under press until cold. Pound the foie gras in a mortar, add the cream and a little white sauce, moisten with sufficient aspic to make it set; then rub through a fine sieve and mix with a little finely-chopped truffle. Trim the cutlets, cover them completely with the farce just prepared. Allow the farce to set, then mask well with chaud-froid sauce previously mixed with enough green pea puree to give it a greenish tint (a little spinach greening may be added if necessary). Ornament one side of each cutlet with some fancifully cut pieces of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg, the garnish to be set with aspic jelly ; when set dip each cutlet in half-set aspic. Have ready a small border mould filled with a macedoine of vegetables neatly set in aspic; dish the cutlets on the border. Prepare a salad seasoned with mayonnaise composed of tomatoes, green peas, and macedoine of vegetables ; fill the centre with this and serve. 1129. Cdtelettes d’Agneau d la Moscovienne.—1 neck of lamb, 1 quart aspic (No. 38), 2 tablespoonfuls chopped green mint, 1 pint macedoine of vegetables, 1 gill of stiff tartare sauce (No. 278), 1 hard-boiled egg, 2 slices of tongue, 1 large truffle, seasoning. Trim the best end of the neck of lamb ; season and braise it in the usual manner. When cold trim neatly and cut into cutlets. Dissolve a pint of aspic, add a pinch of sugar, and pour into a saute- pan. When partly set mix in the chopped mint. Range the cutlets in the pan in a layer about half an inch apart from each other. Allow to set, and cover with the remainder of the aspic jelly. Set on the ice. Mask a border mould with aspic, decorate sides with fancifully cut slices of truffles and tongue, cooked peas, beans, and385 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME hard-boiled white of egg. Mix the macedoine of vegetables with sufficient liquid aspic to make it set when cold. Season with tartare sauce, add any pieces of truffle, tongue, and hard-boiled egg which may be left over. After coating the border mould with a second layer of aspic, and when this is thoroughly set, partly fill the cavity with the dressed macedoine, and finish up with a layer of aspic. Turn out on a round dish when quite set, cut or stamp out the cutlets ; dish them up en couronne on the aspic border. Heap up the remainder of dressed macedoine in the centre; finish with a few leaves of lettuce or endive, and serve. 1130. Mis d’Agneau d la Sevigne (Lambs’ Sweetbreads in Cases).—Parboil eight lambs’ breads, trim them neatly, and lay them in a saute-pan lined with slices of bacon, sliced carrot, onion, and a small bouquet garni. Season the breads and moisten with a glass of Madeira wine and a little stock. Braise in the oven and baste frequently. Take them up and press each into round pastry rings about the size of the breads. Cover with a well-reduced Villeroi sauce (No. 374), to which a sufficient quantity of aspic or dissolved gelatine has been added, to make it fairly firm. When quite set remove the breads from the rings and place them in paper souffle or Ramakin cases. Decorate the top of each with thin slices of truffles cut into pretty shapes, and mask with aspic jelly. Force some cold green pea puree round the edge of each sweetbread and serve. A little mixed salad can, if liked, be put at the bottom of each case before the sweetbreads are placed in. A boat of green mousseline sauce (No. 280) should be handed round with this dish. 1131. Cdtelettes d’Agneau a la Renaissance.—8 or 9 lamb cutlets, 6 oz. calves' liver, 2 oz. butter, 12 preserved mushrooms, 4 oz. bacon, 1 small onion, \ pint aspic cream (No. 296), 3 tablespoonfuls tomato pulp, salt, nutmeg, aromatic spice, aspic jelly, salad for garnish. Trim the cutlets, flatten each a little with a bat, and pare them into neat shapes. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, and cook the cutlets a nice colour on each side. Take up, drain, and press the cutlets. Cut the liver and bacon into thin slices, chop the mush- rooms finely. Peel and chop the onion ; fry in the saute-pan containing the butter left over from the cutlets. When the onions are nicely blended put in the bacon and fry a little, then add the liver, and toss over the fire for about six minutes ; season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and spice, and rub through a fine sieve. Return this to a basin and add the chopped mushrooms, and enough tomato (about two tablespoonfuls) to moisten the farce. Cover one side of each cutlet with this farce ; smooth it well with the edge of a knife. Mix the aspic cream (liquefied) with about a tablespoonful of tomato pulp or tomato sauce (No. 271), season to taste, and coat the covered side of each cutlet with this sauce just as it begins to set. Place the c c386 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK masked cutlets on a wire tray on the ice. When quite cold and set dress the cutlets in the form of a crown on. a round or oval dish. Adjust a paper ruffle on each cutlet bone, fill the centre of the dish with a nicely dressed green salad, and serve. 1132. Chaud-froid de Cotelettes d’Agneau.— 1 best end of neck of lamb, \ carrot, ^ turnip, 1 onion, 1 small bunch of herbs (No. 2), \ pint stock, 1 glass sherry, ^ pint aspic, 4 leaves French gelatine, 4 gill cream, 1 gill veloutee (No. 206) or bechamel sauce (No. 202), gill tomato puree, salt, pepper, salad for centre. Trim and pare. the neck the same as for cutlets, place it in a braisjpg-pan on a bed of sliced carrot, turnip, and onion, and herbs. Season with pepper and salt, moisten with stock and half a glass of sherry. Cook in a quick oven at first and finish in a cooler oven ; baste occasionally. When done take up and put in a cool place. Cut the cooked neck into cutlets, trim and pare neatly and coat with the following sauce : Melt the gelatine and add to the white sauce when the latter is hot; add rather more than half the aspic ; divide this in two lots, mixing one lot with tomato puree and the other with the cream ; season to taste, and pass both separately through a tammy cloth. Coat half the cutlets with the white sauce and the others with the red sauce. Dish up the cutlets when set (en couronne) ; fill up the centre of the dish with dressed salad. 1133. Cotelettes de Mouton d la Vallorbes.—3 lb. best end neck of mutton, \ lb. liver farce (No. 406), 8 leaves French gelatine, 1 gill aspic jelly (No. 38), \ pint tomato sauce (No. 271), | pint bechamel sauce (No. 202), salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; salad of shredded celery and truffles mingled with tartare sauce (No. 278) for the centre. Trim the neck neatly, cut off the bone ends ; tie up, and braise in the usual way ; when done put to cool. Prepare the liver farce as described in No. 406 ; cut the meat into cutlets, trim them, season with pepper and salt, and cover one side with a thin layer of liver farce. Dissolve the gelatine and incorporate with the sauces, thus allowing four leaves for the tomato sauce and four leaves for the bechamel sauce. When sufficiently cool, coat the covered sides of the cutlets alternately with white sauce and tomato sauce. Place the cutlets, after being well masked, on to a wire tray, and keep on the ice until quite set; then mask with a thin layer of aspic. Dish up in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes mixed with an equal quantity of mashed green peas; put the dressed salad in the centre of the dish ; place paper ruffles on the cutlet bones, garnish with chopped aspic jelly, and serve. 1134. Filets de Been/ d la Madrid.—3 lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, 1 small onion,! small'carrot, 1 small turnip, 1 bay* leaf, 6 peppercorns, 1 sprig of thyme, 1 sprig of marjoram, meat- glaze, 3 firm ripe tomatoes, 1 tablespoonful horse-radish mustard,387 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME grated horse-radish, mayonnaise cream (No. ‘Ill), salt and. pepper, 1 gill aspic jelly (No. 3.8), watercress. Free the fillet from skin and superfluous fat, cut it into three- quarter inch slices, flatten each slice by means of a cutlet-bat, and trim neatly. Prepare the vegetables, and cut into slices. Melt the butter in a saute-pan. When hot put in the vegetables, the bay-leaf, peppercorns, and herbs ; fry a golden colour over a quick fire, put in the fillets, and let them cook over a brisk fire until three-parts done (they should be somewhat raw, but not too underdone). See that •they are nicely browned on each side. Season to taste with pepper and salt, take them up and place them on a wire tray ; brush them •over while hot with liquefied meat-glaze, and let them cool. When quite cold coat them with mayonnaise cream, into which a table- ;spoonful of horse-radish mustard has been incorporated. Dip the tomatoes into boiling water, and remove the skin ; then cut them into slices, and place a slice of tomato on each fillet. Mask them with half-set aspic jelly, dish up on a round dish in the form of a border, put a little scraped horse-radish in the centre of each fillet, garnish with chopped aspic and watercress, and serve. 1135. Filets <le Mignons en Chaud-froid.—‘l\ to 3 lb. middle cut of fillet of beef, larding-bacon, 2 oz. butter, i small ■onion or 2 shallots, ^ pint brown chaud-froid sauce (No. 291), | pint aspic jelly, 1 truffle, 1 hard-boiled egg, salt and pepper, 1 pint preserved flageolets, parsley, dtc'., mashed potatoes, cream. Free the fillet from skin and fat, and cut it crossways into slices about a quarter of an inch thick ; flatten each slice of fillet with a wetted cutlet-bat and trim them into neat rounds of even size. Stud each fillet with short strips of larding bacon, peel and chop the onion or shallots (use the latter in preference) ; melt the butter in a large saute-pan, and fry them a very pale colour. Put in the fillets and fry over a brisk fire, allowing about four minutes for each side (the meat should be underdone). Take up the fillets, season with pepper and salt, and press them between two boards or plates until cold. Trim the fillets again, mask them completely with brown chaud-froid sauce. When the sauce is set garnish one side (top portion) with a rosette of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg. Now ■cover them with a thin coating of aspic jelly, and put them on a tray on the ice. Drain the flageolets on a sieve, and rub them through, so as to obtain a puree; season this with pepper and salt and a little grated nutmeg, and mix with a little slightly whipped cream. Arrange a small bed of mashed potatoes on an oblong silver dish. Kange the fillets in a row in the centre. Put the prepared puree into a forcing- bag with a rose pipe, and force out a neat border round each of the fillets. Ornament the sides of the dish with the puree, in the shape of rosettes, and some finely-chopped aspic. Serve as an entree for dinner or as a supper dish. c c 2388 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1136. Filet de Beeuf d la Javanaise.—Trim a piece of fillet of beef (centre cut, weighing about four pounds), wrap it in thin slices of larding bacon, and place in a braising-pan on a mirepoix, bacon, onion, carrot, herbs, celery, &c., and braise in the usual way in the oven till done. Take up, remove the bacon, glaze it well, and let it get cold. Dress the fillet (whole) on a crouton of bread on an oblong dish, garnish the sides with hard-boiled half eggs, filled with macedoine salad, and halves of tomatoes, filled with tartare. dressing. Decorate the top of the fillet with grated horse- radish and parsley. Serve cold as remove for dinner or as a supper or luncheon dish. 1137. Galantine de Beeuf (Galantine of Beef).—1 lb. beef, b lb. bacon, 1 gill stock, 6 oz. bread-crumbs, pepper and salt. Cut the beef and bacon very small, put it into a basin with the bread-crumbs and seasoning. Beat the eggs and stock together, pour into the other ingredients, and mix well. Form into a short roll with the hands, tie in a pudding-cloth, boil for two and a half hours, press slightly until cold, and glaze on top. 1138. Petits Souffles glaces d VFcarlate.—\ lb. cooked ox- tongue, 1 shallot, b pint good brown sauce (No. 237 a), 1 bouguet garni (No. 2), b tomato, b oz. gelatine, 1 gill cream, 1 slice of truffle, 2 tablespoonfuls sherry, b 9^ aspic jelly (No. 38), cochineal, seasoning, 8 small souffle cases. Chop the shallot finely, put it in a stewpan with the sherry, reduce a little, then add the tomato cut in slices, the sauce, and bouquet garni, cook together for ten minutes or longer, and strain. Dissolve the gelatine, strain, and add the above while hot. Cut the tongue into small pieces, pound in a mortar till smooth. Add a little of the sauce and the cream, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Whip the brown preparation on the ice or a cold place until it becomes spongy, then add the puree, season to taste, and colour with a few drops of cochineal, to give it the desired tint. Fill the souffle cases, previously fastened with small paper bands, about half an inch above the cases with the mixture. Freeze in a charged ice-cave for about an hour, garnish the surface with fanciful cuts of truffle or white of egg, mask well with a layer of aspic, return to the ice-cave. Before serving remove the bands, and sprinkle the sides with panurette. 1139. Petites JOangues d VFspagnole.—b 26. cooked ox- tongue, 2 oz. cooked chicken or veal, b 9^1 Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1 glass sherry, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, b oz. French leaf gelatine, a few drops liquid carmine, white pepper and nutmeg, b pint cooked macedoine of vegetables, about b pint aspic jelly, b oz. meat glaze. Soak the gelatine, boil up the sauce and sherry, reduce a little, and strain. Cut the tongue and chicken, or veal, into small pieces, put in a mortar and pound till smooth. Add the sauce and389 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME cream, mix thoroughly, season with pepper and a grate of nutmeg, colour with a few drops of the carmine, and rub through a sieve. Put the mixture into eight or ten little tongue-moulds, arid set on the ice. Mask a small bombe or some mould with aspic, decorate the sides tastefully with little stars of cooked carrot, turnip, &c. (macedoine), season the remainder of macedoine to taste, and mix with aspic jelly ; put this into the mould when it begins to set, and fill up with aspic. Turn out on to a cold dish when set. Turn out the little moulds, brush over with meat-glaze, previously mixed with a tablespoonful of aspic jelly. Arrange the little tongues round the macedoine, shape points upwards. Decorate neatly with chopped aspic jelly and a few small sprigs of parsley between and round the tongues, and serve. 1140. Cdtelettes de Venn fro ides.—Cut as many cutlets from the neck of a small calf as necessary, trim and pare each neatly, season with salt and pepper, and fry in butter till quite tender. Drain them on a cloth and let them get cold. Cut as many thin slices of cooked ham as there are cutlets, and of the same size as the cutlets, place one on each with a fancifully cut slice of truffle in the centre of the ham. Place them on a wire tray and mask over well with one or two layers of well-reduced aspic jelly into which a glass of Madeira wine has been incorporated. Dish up tastefully, and garnish the centre with a tomato or celery salad. If the cutlets from the neck are found too large, which is frequently the case in .this country, use cushion or leg part known here as fillet, and cut into conveniently cut slices, flatten and shape them, and pound as above directed. 1141. Cdtelettes de Veau en Belle-Vue.—Select eight small veal cutlets of even size, trim, pare, and flatten them a little. Stud each with a few strips of larding bacon and tongue, and place them in a braising-pan containing a bed of slices of onion, carrot, bay-leaf, marjoram, thyme, and parsley. Add one ounce of butter, a few slices of streaky bacon, and moisten with half a pint of white stock and a gill of white wine, Sauterne, or Hock. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt. Cover the pan and cook in the oven for one hour (baste the cutlets occasionally during the process of cooking). When done take up the cutlets and place them between two boards (weighted) till quite cold. Trim them again, scrape the bones so that they are quite clean, and mask each cutlet with a layer of aspic cream (No. 296) or white chaud-froid sauce (No. 290) ; when this is set repeat the operation. Decorate one side of each cutlet with slices of truffle. Mask them with aspic jelly and put them on the ice. Fix a crouton of bread, column-shape, in the centre of a round dish ; decorate it with green herbs, butter, and arrange the cutlets round it. Garnish with small salad and serve. 1142. Roulade d la JSForvegienne.—1 small breast of veal, 1 lb. lean beef, \ lb. bacon (streaky), 6 oz. soft bread (Vienna or rolls) soaked in milk, \ oz. truffle peelings, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonfid390 THE NEW CENTUBY COOKERY BOOK aromatic spice, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley and herbs, 1 gill stoclc, salt, brown chaud-froid sauce (No. 289 or 291), meat-glaze, aspic jelly for garnish. Bone the breast of veal, trim, pare, and flatten. Chop the beef and bacon rather finely, and put both in a basin with the bread well squeezed out; spice, truffles, parsley, and sufficient salt to taste. Mix well, moisten with the stock and egg. Lay the breast, boned side up, flat on a board, season with salt and pepper; spread the above preparation on it, roll up, tie in a pudding-cloth, boil in the stock-pot or salted water for two and a half to three hours. Take up, press lightly till cold. Pare neatly, coat well with brown chaud- froid sauce, well blended with meat glaze. Trim when set, dish up and garnish with aspic. 1143. Supreme de Veau ci VAspic.—About 2| lb. cushion of veal, 13 oz. butter, 1 glass of sherry, 1 pint chaud-froid sauce {white, No. 290), about 4 oz. ravigote butter (No. 398), 8 thin slices of truffles, 2 round socles of rice, 2 slices of fat bacon, aspic jelly for garnish, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, a small tvax figure for centre. Trim the meat, remove the skin and sinews, cut into eight heart- shaped slices of even size. Cut the bacon into small strips about an inch long and lard the fillets. Place them in a well-buttered saute - pan, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, moisten with the sherry, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for twenty minutes. Drain the fillets, and when cold mask them well with white chaud-froid sauce ; put them on a wire tray to set. Have ready some cooked rice, form a round shape about five inches in diameter and one and a half inch high; also a smaller round about two inches in diameter and two inches high; press both well and place on the ice to set. Place the larger round on a dish, cover with ravigote butter, put the smaller round in the centre of the large socle, cover also with butter, and ornament the sides according to fancy. Coat the fillets with, half-set aspic jelly, and when set dish them in a circle on the socle of rice; place a slice of truffle between the fillets. Place a wax figure, if possible in the shape of a small vase, on top ; fill with chopped aspic, and garnish round the dish with diamond shapes of set aspic jelly. Note.—Fillets of chicken,' pigeons, or pheasant can be prepared in the same way. 1144. Bis de Veau d la {Biarritz.—1 large or 2 medium- sized heart sweetbreads, 3 to 4 slices fat bacon, 1 bouquet of herbs, 1 carrot, 1 onion, \ oz. butter, £ pint well-reduced veal or chicken stock, 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), \ pint veloutee sauce (No. 206), \ gill aspic jelly, f gill white wine, ^ oz. gelatine, 1 truffle, 1 or 2 red chillies, 4 oz. best rice for socle, pepper and salt. Blanch the sweetbreads, or, in other words, place them in a stewpan with enough cold water to cover, add a good pinch of salt and let boil; strain off the water, allow cold water to run over freely, wash, pare, or391 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME trim where necessary (removing any skin or sinews). Cut the carrot and onion into slices. Put the butter in a deep saute-pan, cover the bottom with a layer of the vegetables and the bouquet of herbs, put the sweetbreads on top, season with pepper and salt, cover with the slices of bacon ; moisten with the stock and wine, put on a lid and cook in a moderate oven from thirty to thirty-five minutes ; baste frequently, adding a little more stock if needed. When cooked take up and let cool. Warm up the tomato veloutee sauce; add to it the strained liquor from the sweetbreads, dissolve the gelatine in a little water or stock and strain into the sauce, which should be of a pale- pink colour (a few drops of liquid carmine or cochineal may be added if found necessary). Strain the sauce into a basin and put in a cool place. Cut the sweetbreads into a quarter-inch thick slices, mask each side with the above sauce as it becomes consistent enough to coat. Decorate one side of each slice with fancifully cut strips or leaves of truffle and chilli skin (crown or star shapes are most effective). Fix the garnish with aspic, and when set mask over the whole with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Have ready a socle or flat border of cooked rice, coat with the remainder of sauce and aspic, put this in the centre of a cold dish (silver-plated), dress the prepared slices of sweetbread on the border or socle, and serve as a cold entree for luncheon, dinner or ball supper. 1145. jKis tie Veciu a VAmiral.—Blanch two or three nice heart sweetbreads, trim them carefully and cook in white stock till tender ; the stock must be well flavoured. When done wrap the sweet- breads in a clean cloth and press them lightly between two boards. Have ready a white chaud-froid sauce (No. 290), cut the sweetbreads into neat oval slices of even size, and mask each well with the chaud- froid sauce, decorate one side of each tastefully with thin slices of truffle (cut into fancy shapes). Prepare beforehand a daintily decorated border of aspic, using plenty of vegetables for garnishing it. When set turn out on a dish and dress the prepared sweetbread slices round the border. Fill the centre with a richly dressed prawn salad, i.e. a salad composed of lettuce, endive, prawns, and dressing. 1146. JPetites Croustades d la Milanaise,—k lb. puff- paste, 6 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, ^ pint aspic jelly (No. 38), 1 gill cream, 1^ gill tomato aspic (No. 295), 2 oz. cooked ham or smoked ham sausage, pepper, salt, and cayenne, 1-| teaspoonful mixed mustard. Boll out the parts thinly, stamp out six or eight rounds with a plain or fluted cutter, two inches in diameter ; place these on a baking- sheet, brush over with water, sprinkle with Parmesan, and bake in a quick oven till a golden colour ; take up and let cool. Melt the aspic jelly; when cooling add the remainder of grated cheese and the seasoning, salt, pepper, mustard, and cayenne, stir well, and mix in the cream previously whipped ; also the ham, finely chopped. Have ready six or eight very small plain dariole moulds ; coat the inside392 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK well with a layer of tomato aspic, decorate with a few tarragon and chervil leaves if liked; when set, fill up the moulds with the prepared cream, put on the ice for at least an hour, then turn out. Place the cream on the baked pastry, decorate the sides with whipped cream, dish up, and serve. 1147. Petits Sou ffles ati Jambon .—8 to 10 oz. cooked lean ham, 1 gill rich Madeira sauce (No. 237 a), 1^ gill aspic jelly, pint cream, 2 leaves French leaf gelatine, seasoning. Cut the ham into small slices, and pound till smooth in a mortar; add the brown sauce gradually, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water. Heat up the aspic and strain the gelatine into it. Whisk this over the ice till it begins to set, then stir into the ham mixture. Season to taste with pepper, grated nutmeg, and a pinch of ground mace. Whip the cream till stiff, and work into the mixture. Continue whisking for some minutes, then fill up some little souffle cases (paper, china, or silver). A band of paper should be previously fixed round each. Place them in a charged ice-cave for two hours. Remove the paper band, dish up, and serve quickly. 1148. Souffle de Jambon a V Espagnole (Ham Souffle).— \ lb. cooked ham (lean), 1 oz. butter, 1 shallot, ^ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 236) (rich in flavour), 1 gill aspic jelly (No. 38), £ oz. French leaf gelatine, 1 gill cream, 1 white of egg, seasoning, salt, pepper, and paprika. Cut the ham into dice. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, add the shallot, peeled and minced finely, and fry a little, then put in the ham and fry over a quick fire for five minutes, put it in a mortar and pound finely, adding a little Espagnole sauce to moisten. Rub the whole through a fine sieve and put it in a stewpan with the sauce. Allow to cook for ten minutes, and season to taste. Then add the aspic jelly and the gelatine, dissolved and strained. Whisk the egg- white to a stiff froth and stir into the mixture before it is quite cool. Whip the cream and incorporate with the mixture. Stir over the ice till it commences to set, then pour into a prepared souffle dish, with a paper band attached. Keep it on the ice for about two hours. Remove the paper band, sprinkle the top with panurette seasoned with a good pinch of paprika or krona pepper, and serve at once. 1149. Pates of Turkey or Chicken.—Prepare a good light puff-paste, and make some small patty cases ; a convenient plan is to order as many patty cases as may be needed from the confectioner. Any good shop will be able to supply them at a few hours’ notice. The cases, whether home-made or ordered from the confectioner, must be empty, i.e. the soft portion must be removed from the centre of the pastry. To make the mixture for filling proceed as follows : Mince (not too finely) six to eight ounces of cooked turkey or chicken, free from bone, skin, and sinew (a little cooked veal may be mixed with it if needed), three to four ounces of cooked ham or393 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME tongue, and a few preserved mushrooms cut into dice. Melt an ounce of butter in a small stewpan, stir in three-quarters of an ounce of flour, blend this over the fire without browning, then gradually add not quite half a pint of stock and milk. Allow it to boil whilst stirring. Cook for ten minutes, then strain, and add the minced meat &c. Season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a tiny pinch of cayenne, also add a tablespoonful of cream and a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice, and let the whole stew very gently for another ten or fifteen minutes. Re-heat the patty cases, and fill them with the prepared mixture. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. These pates are delicious either hot or cold. 1150. Galantine de Volatile.—1 large fowl, 1 lb. veal force- meat (No. 402) or 1 lb. sausage meat, 1 hard-boiled egg, a few slices of cooked ox-tongue and liam, 2 large truffles, 2 gherkins, | oz. pistachio nuts (peeled), meat-glaze, aromatic spice, salt and pepper. Bone the fowl carefully, so as to remove the carcass completely with- out tearing the skin of the fowl (see No. 16) ; the skin of the legs and wings should be drawn inside. Slit the back of the boned fowl, and lay it out on a board, skin downwards. Season with aromatic spice, salt, and pepper, and spread the forcemeat or sausage meat evenly upon the fowl. Upon this put the tongue, ham, hard-boiled egg, gherkins, and truffles, all cut into cubes or strips ; the pistachios are also evenly distributed among the above. Having done this, put a thin layer of the forcemeat over all. Then fold in both sides of the fowl so as to give the whole the shape of a roll. Sew up with twine, and roll in a clean cloth, the ends of which are tied with string. Cook in good second stock for about two hours or more, according to the size of the fowl. When done take up, and press till cold between two weighted boards. Remove the cloth and the twine, then glaze the galantine. Dish up and garnish tastefully with aspic jelly and parsley. 1151. JPoulet en Helle-Vue.—2 chickens or fowls (trussed for boiling), 1 quart white stock, white chaud-froid sauce (No. 290), aspic jelly (No. 293), 8 large truffles, a few slices of smoked cooked tongue. Wrap up the fowls in buttered paper, and boil till tender in richly- flavoured white stock. Take up, remove the skin, and let cool. Reduce half the liquor of fowls, skim well, and stir into the chaud- froid sauce; reduce again and pour into a basin, stir the sauce on the ice until it commences to get firm, then pour quickly over the fowls so as to completely coat them. Decorate the breasts with fancifully- cut slices of truffles and tongue ; when thoroughly set, mask over with a coating of half-set aspic jelly. Dish up, garnish round the base with blocks of aspic, also some chopped aspic and tongue. 1152. Cdtelettes do Volatile d lit Gelee (Chicken Cutlets in Aspic).—Prepare a chicken farce as indicated in No. 403. When394 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK steamed and cold cut the shape into slices about a quarter of an inch thick ; stamp out some cutlets by means of a cutlet cutter. Decorate some cutlet moulds (previously marked -with a thin layer of aspic jelly) with cooked green peas, truffles, and hard-boiled white of egg. When the garnish is set place a chicken cutlet in each of the moulds, fill up with aspic jelly, and set them on the ice until required for table. Unmould the cutlets, arrange them neatly on a cold dish in the form of a border ; fill the centre of the dish with cooked mace- doine of vegetables, seasoned with mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), and garnish round with small cress. 1153. Medallions de Volatile d VLmperiale.—Z chickens, larding-bacon, 4 truffles, 1 white of egg, 1 gill cream, a mirepoix for braising, 1 oz. butter, \ pint white chaud-froid sauce (No. 290), liquid aspic jelly, and some set for garnish, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, a salad of asparagus points for garnish, 8 to 10 rounds of cooked ox-tongue. Eemove the skin from the chickens, raise the fillets and wings, flatten a little, and make up into eight to ten rounds. Lard these carefully with larding-bacon. Remove all the meat from the chickens, free it from gristle, and pound in a mortar until very fine ; then pass through a wire sieve, return to the mortar, and work in the white of egg. Beat up the cream, mix with the forcemeat; add pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg to taste, and set on the ice until required. Put the broth in a deep saute-pan or braisiere, spread over the bottom thickly, cover with some mirepoix consisting of carrot, turnip, onion, bay-leaf, and herbs, and a few slices of bacon; range the larded fillets on this, moisten with chicken stock, cover with a buttered paper, and braise in the oven for about thirty minutes; w'hile basting frequently strain off the liquor. Press the fillets between two baking- sheets. When cold trim neatly into round medaillons, cover one side of each with the prepared forcemeat, put again in the saute-pan with the liquor, cover with buttered paper, and poach in a slack oven for ten minutes. Set to cool, mask with chaud-froid sauce; when the sauce is set ornament the top with fancifully-cut pieces of truffles to form a crown or a rosette. Mask the surface with half-set aspic. Dress on croutes of smoked tongue on a round dish, fill the centre with asparagus salad, garnish round with diamond shapes of set aspic, and serve. 1154. Tartines de Volatile en Surprise.—1 large tender chicken, i lb. ox-tongue (cooked), % lb. chicken forcemeat (No. 403), 1 white of egg, seasoning, 1 gill aspic cream (No. 296), 1 gill aspic jelly (No. 293), a little butter. Carefully remove the fillets of the chicken, bat them flat and cut into neat squares, a little smaller than sandwich moulds, which will be required for this dish. Slice the tongue, and cut the slices to the same shape as the fillets. Put half the squares of chicken fillet on a buttered baking-tin, season with a little pepper and a pinch of395 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME cayenne, moisten the top well with white of egg, place on to each a slice of tongue, brush over with white of egg, spread a thin layer of forcemeat (prepared from part of the chicken trimmings) on this, cover with the remainder of chicken fillets previously dipped in white of egg, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. When done place between two boards and press till cold. Mask as many sandwich moulds as there are sand- wiches with clear aspic ; when partly set ornament with a few cooked green peas and some fancifully-cut slices of tongue, coat the garnish with a layer of partly set aspic cream, place the sandwiches, previously trimmed, carefully into the prepared mould, mix the re- mainder of the jelly and cream together and fill up the moulds, and put on the ice to set. Turn out on a cold dish, arrange them in a row in the centre, garnish the sides with a little green salad, and serve. 1155. Cremes de Volatile en Tomates.—About £ lb. cooked chicken meat, f lb. ripe tomatoes, 2 oz. cooked ham, 4 oz. butter, \ pint aspic jelly (No. 293), 1 gill cream, 2 tablespoonfuls veloutee sauce (No. 206), ^ dessertspoonful meat-glaze (No. 247), 8 tomato- moulds, parsley, salt, and pepper. Wipe the tomatoes, remove the stems, cut into slices, and saute in half an ounce of butter, season with salt and pepper ; when done rub them through a fine sieve, and incorporate three large tablespoonfuls aspic jelly. Remove the skin and sinews from the chicken, put it in a mortar, and pound till smooth; add the ham and pound also, pass all through a sieve, mix with it the veloutee sauce and dissolved meat- glaze and about two tablespoonfuls liquid aspic, or, if preferred, substitute with dissolved gelatine to set the puree ; stir well, add the seasoning, beat up the cream and mix with it. Line each half of the tomato-moulds with aspic jelly; when set, mask thickly with the tomato puree; fill them up with the chicken puree. Press each set of halves together tightly and place them on the ice to set. Immerse the moulds in tepid water, wipe with a cloth, turn out, dress neatly on a dish, garnish with chopped aspic jelly and a few sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. 1156. Tomates d I’Algerienne.—1 cooked fowl, small; pint of aspic jelly (No. 293), 1 gill veloutee (No. 206) or bechamel (No. 202) sauce, 1 glass sherry, 1^ gill tomato puree (concentrated), 1 gill cream, salt, pepper, nutmeg, a pinch of sugar, \ oz. chicken glaze, 2 leaves of gelatine, 10 tomato-shaped moulds, spinach greening. Line the tomato-moulds with aspic jelly, put the tomato puree and one gill of aspic in a stewpan, dissolve the French gelatine in the same, boil up, and reduce a little ; add a pinch of sugar, skim, pass through a fine sieve, and cool; then line the moulds with a layer of this preparation. Remove the flesh from the chicken, free it from skin and gristle, pound in a mortar till fine. Boil up together the white sauce, one and a half gill aspic and sherry. Reduce to one- third part, add the chicken glaze, tammy, and mix with the pounded396 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY ROOK chicken. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Whip the cream, and mix in. Fill the moulds with this preparation before it is completely set. Close the two halves of each mould firmly together (care should be taken that the marks of each part of the mould are opposite one another). Place on the ice long enough to set. The remainder of aspic should be tinted with a little spinach greening, and poured into a saute-pan to set. Cut out some leaf- shapes, place them on a dish so arranged as to receive the tomatoes. Turn out the moulds, dish up, chop some aspic, and decorate. 1157. Petites Cremes de Volatile d VJEcarlate.—\ lb. cooked chicken, freed from bone and skin, \ lb. cooked tongue, \ gill Allemande {No. 204) or veloutee {No. 206) sauce, H gill aspic (No. 298), 1 gill cream, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil, 1 large ripe tomato, % oz. butter, pepper, salt, cayenne. Mince the chicken and tongue, put it in a mortar, and pound till smooth. Add the sauce, previously mixed, with ^ gill aspic, season to taste, and rub through a sieve. Cut the tomato into slices, saute them in a little butter, and cook over a quick fire. Rub through a fine sieve or tammy, and mix with a gill of aspic. Line eight or ten little fancy moulds with this. Whip the cream and mix with the chicken puree before it is completely set; mix with it two or three leaves of tarragon and chervil, finely chopped, fill the moulds with this mixture, and put on the ice till set. Unmould, dish up, garnish to taste, and serve. 1158. JPetites Darioles de Volailles d la Chartreuse.— 6 oz. cold chicken {freed from skin and bone), 6 preserved mush- rooms, pint aspic jelly, 1 gill Espagnole sauce {No. 236), ^ oz. meat- glaze, 1 gill cream, 1 hard-boiled egg, 6 to 8 small chicken quenelles (No. 408), 3 or 4 cooked cocks' combs, seasoning, 1 glass sherry, 1 gill veloutee {No. 206) or bechamel {No. 202) sauce. Line about eight or ten small dariole moulds with a thin layer, of aspic. Ornament the bottoms and the sides with fancifully cut slices of truffle and white of egg, fix the garniture with liquid aspic. Put the white sauce and one gill of aspic in a stewpan, reduce to one- third, add the cream, reduce again, and pass through a tammy. Allow this to cool a little, then mask the insides of the moulds with this preparation. Cut the chicken meat, mushrooms, and remainder of truffles into convenient slices, cubes or fillets ; mix with a sauce composed of Espagnole sauce, sherry, half a pint aspic, and meat-glaze. Reduce a little, and mix carefully with the meat &c.; allow to cool, and season the whole to taste, then fill up the moulds, and stand them on the ice until perfectly firm. To serve immerse the moulds in warm water for a few seconds, wipe quickly with a cloth, and turn out quickly on to a dish with folded napkin or dish-paper. Garnish with chopped aspic round the base of the dish, and send to table. 1159. JPetites JBonibes a la Victoria.—Boast or boiled fowl, % pint rich bechamel or veloutee sauce (206), \ oz. French leaf307 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME gelatine, % 'pint aspic jelly, 2 truffles, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 gill cream, 6 large Spanish olives {stoned), ^ gill tomato pulp or sauce, salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, 2 oz.foie gras, spinach greening. Remove the meat from the fowl, free it from skin, and pound in a mortar till quite smooth. Dissolve the gelatine in the white sauce, and strain into the mortar containing the pounded chicken ; mix thoroughly, season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. Mix a few drops of spinach greening with a little aspic, and line the bottom of six small bombe or bouchee moulds with it. Pound the foie gras with the yolk of the hard-boiled egg, season to taste, and stuff the stoned olives with this. Set one olive in the bottom of each mould, mix the prepared puree with a gill of whipped cream, pour about a table- spoonful of it into each mould/ and let set. Mask the sides of the mould with plain aspic, decorate tastefully with fancifully-cut slices of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg, Mix the tomato pulp or sauce with about half the quantity of aspic, and line the decorated portion of each mould with this sauce. Chop the trimmings of truffle finely and mix with the chicken puree ; fill up the moulds with this, and put on the ice until set. To serve dip each mould in warm water for a moment, wipe quickly with a cloth, then turn out on a dish lined with a folded napkin or lace-paper, garnish with chopped aspic, and serve. 1160. Pains de Tolaille d VArgenteuil.—£ pint aspic jelly, % lb. cooked chicken meat, ± glass marsala, 1 gill cream, 8 prawns, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1^ gill supreme {No. 210) or veloutee {No. 206) sauce, 6 oz. cooked rabbit or lean veal, 2 slices cooked ox- tongue, seasoning, 2 tablespoonfuls asparagus puree or spinach puree Line the two halves of an asparagus mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly, pound the tongue in a mortar with the yolk of egg, add about a tablespoonful of aspic, mix well, and rub through a sieve. Put this puree in a cornet or forcing-bag when almost set, and force out two lines across each half of the mould, so as to represent the ribbon of a bundle of asparagus. Cut up the chicken and veal or rabbit meat (previously freed from skin and gristle), pound in a mortar with the white sauce till quite smooth, adding the latter by degrees. Season with pepper and salt, add the wine, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Put the preparation into a basin, work in the aspic, which must be liquid but not hot, stir in a cool place till nearly set, then add the cream, previously whipped stiff. Mix about a fourth part with a little spinach or green asparagus puree, and put this in each half of the mould to form the asparagus-tops ; fill the remainder of the mould with the white puree previously mixed with the asparagus puree ; close up the mould, wrap up in paper, and place in the ice for about one and a half hour. Immerse the mould in tepid water, turn out on a dish with a folded napkin. Decorate the dish with cooked prawns and diamonds of set aspic jelly, and serve as a cold entree.398 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1161. Aspic de Foie Gras d la Fiplomate.—Pound half a pound of cooked fowl freed from skin and bone, pass through a sieve, and mix while hot with a tablespoonful of bechamel sauce (No. 202) ; incorporate about one-third part with liquid aspic (No. 293). Work the whole well together. In the meantime have ready some ox-tongue, hard-boiled whites of eggs, and black truffles. I)lace a round or oval mould upon some crushed ice, pour in about two tablespoonfuls of clear aspic jelly to mask the bottom and sides well as soon as it has set. Ornament the bottom with tongue, white of egg, and truffles, cut in leaves, crescents, &c., so as to form a neat design. Mask the sides the same as the bottom when set. Ornament likewise with truffles, tongue, and egg-white ; but cut these so as to form dice to cover the whole of the sides (mosaic style). For decorating it is necessary to dip each piece of garniture in a little liquid aspic jelly, so as to make it adhere to the mould. As soon as the decoration is finished and well set, put one or two layers of the prepared chicken puree at the bottom of the mould, place an appropriate-sized pate de foie gras, freed from crust and fat, in the centre, and fill up side and top with the remainder of the puree ; the last layer should be aspic. Put the mould on the ice until set. When ready for serving, dip the mould in tepid water for a few seconds, withdraw it quickly, wipe round the mould with a cloth, and turn it on a dish with folded napkin or on a socle of rice. If there be time to prepare the latter, the dish will look much more attractive. 1162. Chaud-froid de Foie Gras en Caisses.—1 tin foie gras pate (No. 8 or No. 9 size), % gill sherry, £ pint light brown chaud-froid sauce (No. 289), a little small salad, aspic jelly for garnish, 6 to 8 souffle cases. Remove the foie gras from the tin, trim off all the fat, with a sharp knife cut the foie gras into slices, about the size of the souffle cases. Have ready some chaud-froid sauce, reduced with the wine, let it cool, and mark the slices of foie gras before the sauce actually sets. Mark each with a thin coating of aspic. Prepare a small quantity of salad (cut very small), put a little of it in each of the cases, place the foie gras on the bed of salad, garnish with finely chopped set aspic, dish up, and serve. 1163. Darioles de Foie Gras en Belle - Vue.—1 tin or terrine foie gras (size No. 9 or No. 10), 1 pint aspic jelly, 1 hard- boiled egg, salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, 1 gill veloutee (No. 206) or supreme (No. 210) sauce, 2 large truffles, 2 slices of cooked tongue. Line six to eight small timbale moulds with half-set aspic jelly. Decorate the bottom of each with a round of tongue in the centre, a ring of truffle, and a ring of hard-boiled white of egg. Ornament the sides alternately with thinly cut lozenge-shapes of truffle, white of egg, and tongue, and mask the inside of each timbale with a thin399 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME layer of aspic. Remove the lard from the foie gras, take out the truffles, and chop finely. Pound the foie gras in a mortar, add the yolk of egg and the sauce, season to taste, mix well, and rub through a sieve. Work in about half a pint of aspic jelly and the chopped truffles. Fill the moulds when the mixture begins to set. Keep the moulds on the ice until set, turn out, and serve. 1164. Darioles de Foie Gras d la Vatel.—1 tin or terrine of foie gras (No. 10 size), 1 hard-boiled white of egg, 1 truffle, 1 pint aspic (No. 293). Open the tin or terrine of foie gras, remove all the lard on top, and turn out on a plate. Mask a number of small plain or fluted dariole moulds with aspic jelly, and decorate the bottom and sides with fancifully cut slices of truffle and white of egg. Stamp or cut out some convenient shapes of foie gras, trim off any particles of fat or lard, and put one in each of the dariole moulds ; fill up with half- set aspic, and stand on the ice until set. Immerse in tepid water, turn out on a cloth, and dish up on a silver or glass dish. Garnish with chopped aspic and serve. 1165. Fes de Foie Gras d la Strasbourgeoise.—1 terrine foie gras (size No. 10 or No. 12), 1 large truffle, 2 oz. cooked lean ham, ^ gill stiffly made mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), 1 leaf French leaf gelatine, £ gill well-reduced Mad'ere or brown sauce (No. 237 a), 1 tablespoonful double cream, ^ pint aspic jelly, celery salad for centre. Procure ten to twelve so called domino or des moulds, line them with a very thin coating of aspic jelly, stamp out some slices of truffles to the desired shapes of the dominos. Mix sufficient mayonnaise with a little cream and aspic to ensure its setting firmly, put a layer of this into each mould. Cut the foie gras to the size and shape required and set in the moulds ; chop the ham, the remains of truffles, and foie gras very finely, mix them with the sauce, warm up carefully, add the gelatine, previously dissolved, and enough aspic to form a nice consistency, then fill the moulds completely with this and place them on the ice to set. Prepare a salad with finely shredded white celery, dress with mayonnaise and aspic and set up on a round dish (pile up high). Unmould the dominos and place them neatly round the dressed salad. 1166. Fleurettes dr Foie Gras (Foie Gras with Mayon- naise).—1 medium-sized tin or terrine of foie gras pate, 1 truffle, 1 gill of mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), i, a gill of bechamel sauce (No. 202), £ a pint of stiff aspic jelly, a few sprays of tarragon and chervil, 2 leaves of French leaf gelatine. Have ready six to eight small flat oval moulds (any pattern). Trim the foie gras, cut it into slices, and stamp out as many ovals aS there are moulds, similar in shape, but somewhat smaller. Melt the aspic and coat the moulds thinly with it; decorate them with strips of truffle and tarragon and chervil-leaves. Stir the400 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK mayonnaise sauce to the remainder of aspic while it is still liquid. Coat the moulds with this, and put the remainder in a mortar with the trimmings of foie gras and pound till smooth; season to taste, dissolve the two leaves of gelatine in the bechamel sauce, and add this to the pounded foie gras. Pass it through a fine sieve. Coat each of the oval pieces of foie gras with this mixture, and set it in the moulds, fill up with the puree, smooth over with a knife, and place the moulds on the ice to set. When ready for serving, immerse the moulds in tepid water, wipe with a cloth, turn out, and dish up, garnish to taste, and serve. 1167. Foie Gras glace a la Hongroise.—l fresh goose's liver, 1 small Spanish onion, 2 bay-leaves, paprika pepper, 2 slices bacon, 1 oz. butter, 1 pint aspic jelly (No. 293), aromatic seasoning. Wipe the liver with a damp cloth, and pare it; peel and slice thinly the onion, and put it in a saute-pan or fire-proof earthenware casserole containing the butter (melted), add the bay-leaves and fry a little ; dredge with paprika, using about a teaspoonful. Put the liver on this and cover with some of the onions and the bacon, season with aromatic spice (epice culinaire), and let cook in a fairly hot oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes. When the foie gras is sufficiently cooked take it up and put it in an oval tureen or souffle dish. Strain the liquor from the pan over the liver (foie gras) and place it in the cool. When cold fill the tureen or dish with half-set aspic jelly, and put it on the ice to set. When wanted for table decorate the top smartly with truffle-slices, white of egg, &c. 1168. Fains de Foie Gras a la Georges Sand.—1 tin or terrine foie gras (size No. 9 or No. 10), 1 gill veloutee (No. 206) or supreme (No. 210) sauce, 1 pint aspic jelly, 2 truffles (large), 1 hard- boiled egg, 2 slices of cooked tongue, salt, pepper, and aromatic spice. Fill six to eight small timbale moulds with half-set aspic jelly. Decorate the bottom of each with a round of tongue in the centre, a ring of truffle, and a ring of hard-boiled white of egg. Ornament the sides alternately with thinly-cut lozenge-shapes of truffles, white of egg, and tongue, and mask the inside of each timbale with a thin layer of aspic. Remove the lard from the foie gras, take out the truffles and chop finely, pound the foie gras in a mortar, add the yolk of egg and the sauce, season to taste, mix well and rub through a sieve. Work in about half a pint of aspic jelly and the chopped truffles; fill the moulds when the mixture begins to set. Keep the moulds on the ice until set. Turn out and serve. 1169. Petites Bombes d VAlsacienne.—1 tin or terrine foie gras pate, 1 gill cream, 2 eggs, 1 gill well-reduced veloutee sauce (No. 206), \ gill chicken stock, ^ oz. gelatine, 2 oz. cooked ham (lean), 1 gill aspic (No. 293), k endive, aromatic seasoning. Separate the whites from the yolks of eggs, mix each lot separately with a tablespoonful of cream; season with a pinch of salt. Pour separately in a well-greased mould, cover with paper and stand in aCOLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME 401 saute-pan half-filled with boiling water, steam slowly for ten minutes, then draw the pan on one side and let stand till cold. Turn out on a cloth, cut into slices, and stamp out into fanciful shapes suitable for garnishing. Open the tin or terrine of foie gras, remove the lard from the surface, turn out, take out the pieces of truffle, wash them, and cut into fanciful shapes also for garnish. Cut the ham in the same manner for a similar purpose. Line six to eight little square or oblong-shaped moulds with aspic jelly, garnish the bottom portions with the stamped-out shapes of truffles, yolks and whites of egg, and ham, so as to form symmetrical designs. Put the foie gras and trimmings of ham into a mortar, pound until smooth, and rub through a sieve, return to the mortar and work in the veloutee sauce and the remainder of cream. Dissolve the gelatine in the chicken stock and incorporate with the puree, add half a tablespoonful of aromatic seasoning, mix well. When nearly cold fill up the centre of the moulds, and place them on the ice to set. Turn out on a dish, surround with a bed of endive salad, or any other kind of green salad, and serve. 1170. Petites Cremes a la Mulhouse.—1 terrine or tin of foie gras, 1 bundle of asparagus or \ pint asparagus-points, 4 pint veloutee (No. 206) or Allemande (No. 204) sauce, seasoning, ^ oz. French leaf gelatine, 1 gill whipped cream, 1 gill aspic jelly (No. 293), truffle and red chillies for garnish. Procure eight to ten square baba moulds or dariole moulds, line the inside with a thin coating of aspic jelly, decorate each mould according to taste with strips of truffle, red chilli, and some nicely cooked asparagus-heads. The green part of the asparagus must be cut into short pieces and be cooked in slightly salted water. After having selected the heads required for garnish drain off the water and rub the pieces through a fine sieve. Dissolve the gelatine in the sauce, add this to the puree, season to taste with pepper and salt, also a pinch of nutmeg or cayenne if liked. Set it on the side to cool a little, then mix in the whipped cream, and a little spinach greening to give it a nice green tint. Mask the inside of the moulds with a thick layer of the prepared puree. Remove the fat from the foie gras, trim it neatly, and cut it into conveniently-sized pieces. Put one or two of these into each mould, and fill up with the re- mainder of the puree. If there should not be sufficient to fill all the moulds mix a little aspic with the puree. Let the moulds set on the ice. When required for table dip each mould into some warm water and turn out the creams on a cloth, dress them in the form of a circle on to a round entree dish, fill the centre with some green salad or sliced tomatoes. Put a little chopped aspic round the base of the dish, and serve. 1171. Petites Mousses a l’Ancienne.— 6 oz. foie gras (preserved), 2 tablespoonfuls Allemande or bechamel sauce (Nos. 204 and 202), 1 white of egg, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 4 oz. leaf gelatine, D D402 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 2 or 3 slices of cooked tongue, 1 truffle, i pint aspic, ^ gill white stock. Put the white of egg in a basin with a teaspoonful of milk, and pour into a small flat mould ; poach in the oven ; when set let it get cold, turn out, and cut into neat strips, stars, or rounds. Cut also some strips and stars out of the slices of tongue. Put the trimmings of egg and tongue into the mortar with the foie gras, and pound till smooth ; add the sauce, mix well, season with a little pepper and aromatic spice, and rub through a fine sieve or hair sieve. Mask six to eight small timbale moulds with a thin layer of aspic, decorate the inside with tongue, white of egg, and truffle, set the decoration with a little more aspic, and put the moulds in a cool place. Put the prepared puree in a basin. Melt the gelatine in the stock, and strain when almost cold into the puree, mingle well with a whisk. Whisk in the cream and rather more than half the aspic jelly. As soon as the mixture begins to set fill up the little moulds ; put them aside to get firm. Immerse in tepid water, turn them out on to a cold dish, arrange neatly, garnish the centre with crisp salad, celery, and cucumber, decorate with chopped aspic, and serve. 1172. Fetites Mousses de Foie Grasd la Heine.—Procure a terrine or tin of foie gras, size No. 10, take out contents (liver and farce), and remove the lard, cut the liver into slices, place in a buttered saute-pan with a small mirepoix of sliced carrot, onion, and a small sprig of thyme, and a few dice of lean bacon ; cook over a brisk fire for a few minutes, season with a little aromatic spice, moisten with a glass of sherry, and allow to get cold. Mask eight to ten small dariole or fluted timbale moulds with aspic jelly, ornament each with fancifully cut slices of truffles. Put the pre- pared foie gras &c. into a mortar, pound well, and pass through a sieve. Put this in a basin, stir in two tablespoonfuls of dissolved meat-glaze and two tablespoonfuls of aspic jelly, stand the basin on some crushed ice, and work the mixture with a wooden spoon until it commences to thicken, add by degrees a little more aspic jelly or very strong veal stock, last of all work in about half a gill of whipped cream, fill up the masked moulds and stand them on the ice. Dress the mousses in a circle, placing each on a round of aspic jelly, fill the centre with cooked asparagus-points or cooked green peas, well seasoned with a little mayonnaise-aspic jelly, garnish with diamond shapes of set aspic jelly and parsley. Keep in a cool place until required for table. 1173. Zephires de Foie Gras.—1 medium-sized tin or terrine of foie gras pate, 1 truffle, i gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), 1 gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), | pint stiff aspic jelly (No. 293), a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil, 2 sheets of French leaf gelatine. Have ready six to eight small zephire (oval) moulds. Trim the foie gras, cut into slices, and stamp out as many ovals as there areCOLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME 403 moulds, similar in shape, but somewhat smaller. Coat the moulds thinly with aspic, decorate with strips of truffle and tarragon and chervil leaves. Stir the mayonnaise sauce and the remainder of aspic while still liquid. Coat the moulds with this, and put the remainder in a mortar with the trimmings of foie gras, pound the latter till smooth, season to taste, add the sauce in which the two leaves of gelatine has been dissolved. Pass through a fine sieve, coat ea<?h piece of foie gras with this and set into the moulds, fill up with the puree, smooth over with a knife, and place the moulds on to the ice to set. When ready for serving immerse the moulds in tepid water, wipe with a cloth, turn out, dish up, garnish to taste, and serve. 1174. Filets de Caneton d la Lorraine.—1 large duckling, 1 gill brown chaud-froid sauce (No. 291), 1 terrine of foie gras (No. 12 size), % gill veloutee sauce (No. 206), 1^ gill aspic jelly (No. 293), ^ lb. cooked lean ham, \ glass Marsala, 1 gill double cream, salt, pepper, and paprika. Truss the duckling for roasting, and roast carefully in front of the fire or in the oven (baste frequently with butter). When done let cool, then remove the fillets and part of the wing ; cut these into even- sized slices the shape of hearts. A good-sized duckling should make eight pieces (fillets). Take the truffles out of the foie gras and rub the latter through a sieve, mix with a little cream or white sauce, season to taste, and spread one side of each prepared fillet with this ; then coat the fillets with brown chaud-froid sauce. The latter must be nicely flavoured ; the carcass of the duckling should be utilised for this purpose. Decorate the' fillets with fancifully cut slices of truffle, and mask them with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Pound the ham in a mortar, add to it the remainder of foie gras puree, the veloutee sauce, and the wine; mix well, season with pepper, salt, and paprika, and pass all through a fine sieve. Incorporate the aspic jelly (previously whisked to a froth) and the cream (also whipped). Stir this over the ice until it commences to set, then pour it into a silver-plated round vegetable or entree dish. Keep it on the ice till quite set. Arrange the prepared fillets neatly on top of the puree (mousse), and send to table when required. 1175. Fate d la Strasbourgcoise (Strasbourg Pie).—Line an oblong greased Strasbourg pie mould with nouille paste or hot water crust rolled out about a quarter of an inch in thickness. This must be done very carefully, and the paste must be pressed well against the sides, so that the pattern of the mould is ob- tained when the pie is baked. Prick the sides and bottom of the lined mould with a fork to prevent blistering. Have ready a forcemeat made of veal, pork. DBLONG STRASBOURG PIE MOULD andTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 404 panade, and line the inside of the mould with this. Fill the mould with alternate layers of thin slices of streaky bacon, slices of veal, slices of fresh lean pork, and farce to which a small quantity of foie gras has been added. Season each layer with aromatic seasoning and finely powdered herbs. Cover the top layer with slices of fat bacon. Put on the paste to form the lid, wet the edge so as to merely seal the ends, pinch the edges with a paste-pincher, and garnish the top with fancifully cut leaves of paste: leave a small hole in the centre for evaporation. Brush over with egg-yolk and bake in a moderate oven for two to two and a quarter hours, according to the size of the pie. When nearly cold fill the pie with savoury aspic (No. 293). 1176. Chaiid-froid tie Cailles d la Victoria.—4 quails (boned and cleaned), \ pint aspic jelly (No. 298), £ gill aspic cream (No. 296), 4 gill tomato cream (No.' 272), 4 oz. raw veal (lean), 2 truffles, 4 oz. cooked ham (lean), 2 oz. panade (No. 8), 1 egg, ^ oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful white sauce, seasoning, parsley, tarragon, and chervil, mirepoix (No. 10), 1 pint stock, a border of cooked rice, a lidtelet of financier e. Make a farce by pounding the veal in a mortar, when fine add the ham and panade, pound till perfectly smooth, mix in the egg and the white sauce, season to taste with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, and rub the whole through a fine sieve. Fill the quails by means of a forcing-bag with this farce, put a couple of slices of truffle in each bird ; close them up and tie up in a buttered mousseline cloth. Place them on a mirepoix consisting of carrot, turnip, onion, and bacon, moisten with a pint of stock, and cook them till tender; it will take about thirty to thirty-five minutes. When done take up and let cool. Remove cloth and cut each bird in half. Line eight small round-top ortolan moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Mask one- third part with aspic cream, another with tomato cream, and sprinkle the centre part with finely-chopped parsley mixed with a few tarragon and chervil leaves. Now place half a quail in each mould, cut side upwards, mix the aspic and tomato cream together, add some aspic jelly with it, and fill the cavities of the mould with this. Place the moulds on the ice to set. Arrange a cooked rice border (cold) on a dish, unmould the shapes and range them neatly on the border, setting one in the centre on a rice shape. Insert a hatelet of financiere, garnish with chopped aspic, and serve. 1177. Cailles farcies en Caisses aux Petits JPois.—6 quails (boned), 8 to 10 chicken livers (cleaned), 1 oz. butter, 2 shallots (small), 4 oz. lean bacon, 1 small tin foie gras (No. 14 or No. 12), 1 small bouquet garni (size No. 2), pepper and salt, a mirepoix of vegetables etc. for braising (No. 10), ^ pint cooked green peas, 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise (No. 277), a little aspic (No. 293) and meat-glaze (No. 247), \ gill white wine, | gill broion sauce (demi- glace, No. 237, or Espagnole, No. 236), 12 quail cases. Cut the livers into slices, also the bacon ; peel and slice theCOLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY,,..AND GAME 405 shallots ; fry all these in a saute-pan with the butter ; add the bouquet of herbs, season with pepper, and let cook over a quick fire for ten minutes. Remove the herbs, put the remainder in a mortar,, and pound till smooth, add the foie gras (freed from fat and cut into small pieces), pound all together and rub through a sieve. (The truffles in the foie gras should be removed, chopped rather coarsely, and mixed with the farce when finished.) Stuff the quails with this, shape each bird neatly, and place them in a braising-pan on a bed of mirepoix ; moisten with a little of the wine, cover. with buttered paper, and braise in the oven ; when half done add the sauce and the remainder of the wine. As soon as the quails are done take them up and let cool. Strain the sauce (liquor from the braising-pan) into a small stewpan, remove the fat, and reduce to the consistency of glaze ; .coat the quails with this. Mix a little aspic with the meat-glaze, and let dissolve over the fire. Cut the quails in halves and place them (cut sides down) on a wire tray. Glaze each with meat-glaze and aspic. Season the green peas with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of mayonnaise ; half fill the quail cases with peas and place the quails on top; garnish with chopped aspic or rows of green peas round the edge of the cases. Dish up and serve. 1178. Cailles en Caisses a VAspic (Quails in Cases tvith Savoury Jelly).—2 or 3 quails, \ lb. liver farce (No. 406), aspic jelly (No. 293), a mirepoix (No. 10), 1 glass sherry, 2 tablespoonfuls .meat-glaze (No. 247), souffle cases. Bone the quails, leaving the legs and first joints on each bird, stuff with liver farce, wrap up each bird securely and neatly in a piece of muslin, and tie each end with string. Put the mirepoix (consisting of half a carrot, one turnip, one onion, one bay-leaf, six peppercorns, bouquet garni, six ounces bacon, all cut up in small squares) in a saute-pan, with sufficient brown stock to cover the vegetables, put in the quails, add the sherry, and braise gently for twenty to thirty minutes. Set to cool, remove the muslin, cut each bird in two length- ways. Have ready at hand some oval souffle cases ; line each with a little dressed salad. Mask the surface of 'each bird with dissolved meat-glaze, and when set coat over with a thin coat of aspic jelly. Place each half (cut side down) on to the paper case. Garnish round the sides with chopped aspic jelly and serve. 1179. JTaisan en Aspic.—Take the remains of a roast pheasant, and cut the meat into neat slices, freed from skin and sinew. Put a layer of aspic jelly in the bottom of a timbale mould ; decorate it with stars or crescent shapes of slices of truffle and white of egg, leaves of chervil, and stars of red chillies or slices of ox-tongue. When the garnishing has set arrange the slices of cold pheasant in layers and mask each layer with aspic jelly. The last layer should, of course, be of aspic. Place the mould on the ice to set. When firm turn out on to a cold dish, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 406 1180. Chartreuse de Faisan d la Balmoral.—\ lb. cold pheasant (freed from skin and bone), 6 or 8 small chicken quenelles (No. 403), 3 large truffles, 6 preserved mushrooms, 3 or 4 cooked cocks' combs, 1£ pint aspic jelly (No. 293), seasoning, 1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1 glass sherry, ^ oz.meat-glaze (No. 247), 1 gill ve- loutee or bechamel sauce (No. 202), 1 gill cream, 1 hard-boiled egg. Line a charlotte or large timbale mould with aspic. Ornament the bottom and sides with fancifully cut slices of truffles and white of egg, fix the garniture with liquid aspic. Put the white sauce and one gill of aspic in a stewpan, reduce to one third, add the cream, reduce again, and pass through a tammy. Allow this to cool a little, then mask the inside of the mould. Cut the pheasant meat, mush- rooms, and remainder of truffles into convenient slices or fillets, mix with a sauce composed of Espagnole sauce, sherry, half a pint of aspic, and meat-glaze; reduce well, and mix with meat &c. ; when cooling season the whole to taste, and fill up the mould. Stand on the ice until perfectly firm, immerse in tepid water, and turn out on a dish with folded napkin or dish-paper. Garnish with chopped aspic round the base of the dish, and serve. 1181. Fetites Cremes de Faisan.—6 oz. cooked pheasant meat, f pint veloutee or Allemande sauce (Nos. 204 and 206), \ oz. French gelatine, 1 gill cream, 1 gill aspic (No. 293), 1 gherkin, 2 red chillies, 4 teaspoonful chopped lemon-rind, seasoning. Mask the inside of eight or ten little timbales or dariole moulds with aspic jelly; decorate with little fancifully cut pieces of gherkin and chillies, put on the ice to set. Free the meat from skin and sinews, and pound in a mortar till smooth. Heat up the sauce, soak the gelatine, and let it dissolve in the sauce ; mix the sauce with the pounded meat, add the lemon-rind, a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Put through a fine hair sieve; when cooled a little whip the cream and add to the mixture. Fill up the moulds with this, place on the ice to set. Turn out and dish up. Decorate with chopped aspic and serve. 1182. Mauviettes a VAspic.—Bone from eight to twenty larks, fill them with liver farce (No. 406), wrap up each lark tightly in a small piece of muslin, braise in a rich stock, and put to cool. Line as many small oblong moulds as there are larks with aspic jelly, decorate the bottom and sides with truffles and hard-boiled white of egg, also a few leaves of tarragon and chervil. Allow the decoction to set. Unwrap the larks, put one in each mould, fill up the rest with aspic, and place on the ice to set. Unmould, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. 1183. Galantine de Ferdreaux.—Carefully bone three or four plump partridges, and in doing this see that the skin is in no way torn. Cut open each bird lengthways down the back, and spread out on a board (skin downwards), season with salt and pepper, and spread with a layer of chicken forcemeat' (farce de volaille). Upon407 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME this place long strips of cooked ham and tongue, blanched and peeled pistachio nuts, and rather thickly-cut slices of truffles. Add another lalyer of forcemeat and roll up each carefully, tie up in napkins or pudding cloths, and cook in stock for about one and a quarter hour. When done press the galantines between two boards, and allow to get cold. Remove the cloth, coat or mask the galantines with meat-glaze (No. 247) or brown chaud-froid sauce (No. 291). Decorate to taste and fancy, dish up, garnish with cold aspic jelly round the base of the dish, and serve. 1184. Chaud-froiddeJPerdreaux {Chaud-froidof Partridge). 2 roast partridges, f pint brown chaudfroid sauce {No. 291), 1 crisp lettuce, 8 firm ripe tomatoes, ^ cucumber, 1 hard-boiled egg, 8 stuffed olives, % pint aspic jelly {No. 293), mayonnaise sauce {No. 277). Cut the partridge into neat pieces, free them from skin, and mask each piece completely with a pale-brown chaud-froid sauce. When set, run over sufficient half-set aspic to mask them. Prepare a bed of mixed salad in the centre of a dish, arrange the pieces of partridge neatly in a pile on the salad, placing the breast pieces on top. Garnish with slices of tomato, cucumber, quarters of hard-boiled egg, stuffed olives, and chopped aspic jelly. A bed of cooked rice, or a border of cooked rice, may be used as a foundation ; it will improve the appearance of the dish and facilitate the dressing. The rice should be coated with chaud-froid sauce,' and masked with aspic. 1185. Timbale de JPintade a la Marechale.—l small guinea-fowl, \ pint Espagnole sauce {No. 236), ^ onion, ^ carrot, 2 oz. bacon, 1 oz. butter, 1 bunch herbs, £ oz. gelatine, f pint aspic jelly {No. 293), ^ gill tomato pulp, 1£ gill cream, 6 stuffed olives {olives farcies), 1 truffle, tarragon vinegar, salt, pepper, cayenne. Truss the bird the same as for roasting, cut the vegetables and bacon into slices and place in a saute-pan with the bouquet of herbs ; lay the bird on top, spread the butter over it, and cook in the oven until tender ; baste occasionally. When cold remove the meat, free it from skin and bone, cut it into small pieces, and pound in a mortar till smooth. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water, add it to the Espagnole sauce, strain, and mix with the puree in the mortar. Season to taste, and stir in a tablespoonful of cream. Rub this through a fine sieve. Meanwhile mix one gill of aspic (liquid) with half a gill of cream, and pour on a plate to cool. Mix the tomato pulp with an equal quantity of aspic, and a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and set likewise on a plate. Line a fancy mould thinly with aspic jelly, set the stuffed olives at the bottom by means of a little aspic. Stamp out some rounds, stars, or any other pretty shapes of aspic cream and tomato cream (previously set), and garnish the sides of the mould with these, placing here and there a thin round of truffle. Melt the trimmings of aspic and tomato creams and mix with the prepared puree ; when nearly cold add the remainder of the cream, previously whipped, mix well, and pour into the mould. Put it on the ice to40s THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK set. When ready for serving dip the mould into warm water, wipe quickly with a cloth, and unmould into a cold dish. Put a little chopped aspic round the base of the dish and serve. Partridge, snipes, grouse, or other game may be served in the same manner. 1186. Cdtelettes de Gibier d VMtoile.—6 oz. cooked game, oz. gelatine, 1 pint aspic jelly, 1 truffle, chilli, 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 4 oz. foie gras pate, 1^ gill salmis sauce (No. 240), a handful of vermicelli stars, endive, cucumber, rice border, and seasoning. The meat must be freed from skin, bones, and gristle ; pound it in a mortar with the foie gras, add to it the sauce in which the gelatine has been introduced ; season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and aromatics, and rub through a sieve (fine wire or hair). Cook the vermicelli stars in salted water, containing a little lemon-juice, strain and cool. Line a number of cutlet moulds with aspic, garnish them with vermicelli stars, filling the centre of each little star alternately with red chilli and truffle. Fill up with the prepared puree before it begins to set firm. Put the mould on the ice. Prepare a border mould by lining it with aspic, decorate the sides with stars of cucumber, truffle, &c. Coat with tomato sauce mixed with enough aspic to make it set; three parts fill with cooked rice (cold), and fill up with aspic. Allow the border to set, and turn out on a dish when quite firm ; place a wax figure in the centre. Turn out the cutlets, and range them tastefully round the top of the border. Garnish with slices of cucumber and endive, and serve. 1187. Petits Pains d la Chevalier.—6 oz. cooked game (any kind), 2 oz. cooked ham or bacon, 2 large tablespoonfuls cream, 1 truffle, 1 hard-boiled egg-yolk, 1 tablespoonful bechamel sauce (No. 202), 1 gill aspic jelly (No. 293), aromatic seasoning. Mask the bottom of six or eight small zephire moulds with aspic, place a star of truffle (thinly cut) in the centre, mix aspic (remainder of) and cream together, coat well the inside of the moulds with this, and stand on the ice to set. Free the game from skin and sinews, cut the ham and game into small pieces, pound in a mortar till smooth, add sauce and the yolk of egg, season with a good pinch of aromatic seasoning, and rub through a fine sieve. Chop the remainder of the truffle finely, mix with the above mixture, add the remainder of aspic and cream while the latter is liquid, fill up the moulds, cover with a layer of stiff aspic, and place on the ice. When thoroughly set turn out, dish up, and serve. 1188. Ter vine de Gibier a la Suisse.—This dish forms one of the most delicious delicacies and is very popular in Switzerland and France. The dish is suitable for a cold entree, as a ball supper dish, or for other occasions where a cold collation is desired. Almost any kind of game can be used—pheasant, partridge, snipe, hare, or venison. Free the meat from bone, skin, and gristle, weigh it and allow half its weight in fresh pork (lean and fat). For two pounds of game use one pound of pork. Pass these twice through a409 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME mincing machine or chop very finely by hand, then pound in a mortar and rub through a wire sieve. Peel and chop finely four to six small shallots, fry them a golden colour in one ounce of butter, add six finely crushed juniper berries and a small glass of cognac, a gill of red wine (claret or Burgundy). Cover the pan in which this is put and let boil fast for three minutes. Add it to the farce (pounded and sieved meat), season with salt, white pepper, mignonette pepper, paprika, a little ground mace and grated nutmeg, and about a teaspoonful of aromatic seasoning ; mix thoroughly. Line a fireproof tureen (these can now be had at most china shops) with thin slices of fat bacon. Place in a layer of farce, and fill up the tureen with alternate, layers of raw ham and farce. The top layer should be of thin slices of fat bacon. Put the tureen in a moderate oven and bake for one and a quarter hour. Pour off the fat which will have accumulated on the top of the meat. When cold pour over a sufficient quantity of well reduced aspic or savoury jelly. The top may, if liked, be decorated with fancifully cut slices of hard-boiled whites of eggs and truffles. 1189. Pate de Lievre a VAnglaise (Hare Pie).--Hare cut into small joints, filled into a pie dish, with alternate layers of force- meat, slices of bacon and liver, covered with puff-paste crust, and baked in moderate oven. 1190. Pate de Lievre d la Frangai.se.— Raised pie crust, filled with pieces of partially fried hare and alternate layers of forcemeat, bacon, and mushrooms, baked in a moderate oven. 1191. Pate de Mauviettes d VAnglaise.—This is, of course, a lark pie, made after the true English fashion, and as such a most highly appreciated dish, not only in England but in various parts of the Continent as well. 1 dozen larks, about £ lb. lean beef, % lb. streaky bacon, 1| gill stock, 5 to 6 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 small teaspoonful finely chopped lemon-rind, 2 teaspoonfuls chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful chopped ham, 1 shallot finely chopped, 1 yolk of egg, puff-paste, pepper and salt. The larks for this dish are by far best if boned, though this is not essential. Make a stuffing with the bread-crumbs, shallot, half the chopped parsley, the lemon-rind, and the chopped ham and the egg- yolks ; add a little water or stock if found necessary, and season to taste. Roll the birds in flour ; and fill them with the stuffing. Cut the beef and bacon into very thin slices. Line the bottom of a large pie-dish with beef and bacon, season to taste and sprinkle with parsley; place the birds on this, arrange them neatly, fill up the dish with the remainder of bacon and beef, season again, and moisten with the stock. Cover the dish with puff-paste, ornament the centre taste- fully (allowing a small incision in the middle for the steam to escape while cooking), brush over with egg, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about one hour.410 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1192. Raised Game Pie.—1^ lb. flour, H gill milk, 6 oz. butter, the yolk of an egg, pepper, salt, cayenne, ana nutmeg, 1 lb. veal, 1 lb. fresh pork, game of all kinds—pigeons, pheasant, grouse, chicken, larks, quails--a little of each; £ lb. ham, liver farce, or foie gras, 1 tablespoonful chopped mushrooms, 1 tablespoonful chopped truffles, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley and pistachios, \ pint good stock, chopped aspic. Make a paste of the flour, mixing the butter and milk into it hot, add the yolk of egg, a little salt; mix and knead well. Line a raised pie-tin with this paste about a quarter of an inch thick. Mince the veal and pork together ; season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and nut- meg ; place this mince all round the mould inside the paste ; fill in the centre with fillets of pigeon, pheasant, grouse, chicken, strips of ham, and the larks and quails stuffed with liver farce; sprinkle over the chopped mushrooms, truffles, pistachios, and parsley a little pepper and salt; cover over with some of the mince; wet the paste round and lay on the top cover, close it well round the edge, trim it, and work up the trimmings of paste to make an ornament for the top. Tie a band of buttered paper round the mould about three inches above the top, and bake in a steady oven for three hours. When the pie is nearly cold move the top ornament of paste, and pour in about half a pint of good stock—not too liquid, or it will soak through the paste—replace the ornament, and when quite cold dish up the pie, garnished with chopped aspic. A MODERN HOTEL KITCHEN (mESSRS.'e. & A. MAIN, LTD.)411 CHAPTER XXIII REMOVES AND ROASTS, WITH HINTS ON CARVING 1193. Aloyau de JBceaf d la Godard.—About 6 lbs. sirloin of beef, £ lb. bacon, 1 sliced carrot, 1 Sliced onion, 1 bouquet of herbs, 1 gill sherry or Sauterne, | pint tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 gill brown sauce (No. 236), 1 pint stock, 2 truffles, 8 mushrooms, 3 arti- choke-bottoms, tjr cooked sweetbread, 8 small chicken quenelles (No. 403), pepper and salt. Remove the bones of the loin, pare nicely. Cut the bacon into strips about one inch and a half long. Make some holes in the meat by means of a wooden skewer, and insert the strips of bacon. Roll and tie firmly. Put the onion, carrot, and bouquet of herbs in a braising-pan, lay the piece of beef on this, moisten with the wine and stock, season with pepper and salt, and braise for two hours in a moderately-heated oven; baste the meat from time to time. Skim off the fat, add the tomato and brown sauce, previously warmed, cook for another three-quarters of an hour. Take up the meat and keep hot, free the sauce from fat, and strain ; boil for another ten minutes. Add the garnishing, consisting of preserved mushroom-heads, quartered artichoke-bottoms, small pieces of sweetbread, slices of truffles, and quenelles. When the latter is thoroughly hot, untie the loin of beef, dish up on a small bed of mashed potatoes ; surround with groups of quenelles, sweetbread, mushrooms, artichokes, &c. Pour some of the sauce over the meat, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat along with the dish. 1194. Filet de Bceuf d la Brillat-Savarin.—Procure the centre-piece (about four pounds) of fillet of beef, remove fat and sinews, lard the top with strips of truffles, cover it with a layer of sliced vegetables, bard it with slices of fat pork, tie up with string ; put it in an oblong braising-tin or baking-pan, season with aromatic spice and salt, moisten with half a pint of white wine and some stock or water; set it in a moderate oven for about one hour; baste occasionally. When done drain and keep warm ; strain the gravy, remove the fat, put it into a stewpan with a pint of brown sauce, one glass of Madeira wine, and let all boil until well reduced. Next remove strings, fat, and vegetables from the fillet, trim, and dish up on a crouton of fried bread ; garnish round the fillet with alternateTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 412 groups of slices of braised sweetbread, small glazed button onions, and mushroom-heads; sauce the whole with part of the prepared sauce, and serve the rest separately. Pieces of braised calves’ brains can be served with this dish as a garnishing when desired. 1195. Filet de JBceuf d la Cyrano.—3 lbs. sirloin of beef (boned), 1 plover or snipe, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. bacon, 2 oz. cooked ham, ^ lb. calves’ or chicken liver, i small onion, 1 shallot, 1 clove of garlic, 1 bay-leaf, 1 egg, 1 terrine foie gras, salt and pepper, 1 gill sherry, larding-bacon, 12 stuffed olives, 1| gill stock, meat-glaze for the olives, 12 very small cases of puff-paste, 1 mirepoix of vegetables <£c., sauce gibier (No. 252). Bone the plover or snipe, chop the carcass very small, mince the meat of the bird finely and put it on a plate. Slice the liver. Melt about half the butter in a stewpan or saute-pan, add the bacon (cut into dice), fry a little, then add the liver, fry quickly, and add the onion, cut into thin slices,, shallot, garlic, and bay-leaf ; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; lastly add a small glass of sherry or Madeira wine, cover the pan with a lid, and let contents simmer over a quick fire. Kemove the slices of onion and bay-leaf, and put the remainder in a mortar, pound till quite smooth ; bind or moisten with the yolk of an egg and a little brown sauce or cream if needed and rub through a fine sieve. Trim the piece of beef, remove the skin and fat; cut it open lengthways, so that it forms one large slice, of even thickness ; beat out a little with a cutlet-bat, spread over with a layer of farce as above prepared. Put one row of foie gras pate down the centre of the farce, and insert the fillets of snipe, previously skinned, and roll up carefully, so that the foie gras shall be in the centre. Fasten and tie up with string ; then lard the surface with several rows of fine strips of larding-bacon. Put the carcass of the bird, clove of garlic, and mirepoix of vegetables, &c., with some pieces of bacon in a braising-pan ; upon this place the prepared fillet, moisten with about a gill of stock, and braise in a sharp oven for the first ten minutes ; baste well and finish braising in a slightly reduced heat for about one hour. Add the meat-glaze at the last and baste the whole with the liquor well reduced. Take up the fillet, untruss it, and let it get cold. Dress it on an oblong entree or releve dish ; glaze it again with the reduced liquor, freed from fat, garnish the dish with stuffed French or Spanish olives, each being placed in a little crust of puff-paste. Insert one or two hatelets (garnished) and serve. This dish can also be served hot with a nice sauce gibier or Keforme. 1196. Filet de Been/d la Henri IV.—About 4 lbs. fillet of beef (a nice piece), larding-bacon, bouquet garni, 1 carrot, 1 onion, \ gill claret, £ lb. streaky bacon, 1 pint good stock, sauce tartare (No. 278), ^ pint well reduced demi-glace sauce (No. 237), meat-glaze, 6 to 8 artichoke-bottoms, ^ pint macedoine of vegetables, 2 oz. butter, chopped parsley, 1 oz. coarsely chopped lean ham.413 REMOVES AND ROASTS Trim the fillet of beef, pare off the fat and skin, lard the top side with strips of bacon, tie up neatly here and there with strips so as to keep in good shape during the cooking. Prepare and cut up the vegetables and bacon ; place these in a deep braisiere (braising-pan). Add also a good ounce of butter. Place the piece of fillet on top of the vegetables and a bouquet (mirepoix). Season lightly. Put it in a quick oven or over a brisk fire just long enough to slightly brown the surface of the fillet, then moisten with the stock and wine ; cover with buttered paper, braise slowly in the oven or on the side of the stove (with lid on). Baste frequently. When done take up the fillet (as a rule the meat should be but underdone and not cooked through), take off the fat, add the demi-glace sauce, and cook long enough to obtain the desired consistency of the sauce; then strain into a saute-pan, remove the string from the fillet, place the fillet in the pan with the sauce, and keep hot. In the meantime heat up the fonds d’artichauts (artichokes) in a little stock, drain well and coat the interior with liquid meat-glaze, heat up the macedoine, saute them in a little butter (one ounce), add the ham, some chopped parsley, a pinch of sugar and pepper and salt, toss lightly, and keep hot. Dish up the fillet on a crofiton of bread (this is far better for carving than placing it on the dish without a bed), larded side upwards, fill the artichoke-bottoms with the macedoine ; range these neatly on either side of the fillet. Put a teaspoonful of tartare sauce on top of the macedoine, with a tiny pinch of red pepper to finish. Pour a little sauce over the fillet, just enough to moisten, and serve the remainder of the sauce separately in a sauce-boat. If the fillet needs it brush over the larded side with meat-glaze as it leaves the oven. 1197. Filet de Beeuf d la Louis XV.—Procure a piece of fillet (middle cut) about four to five lbs. in weight ; pare off the fat and sinews ; trim neatly ; lard it lengthways with small strips of fat bacon; put it in a baking-tin with one glass of sherry wine, a table- spoonful of dripping, a sliced onion, carrot, and turnip; season with salt and pepper ; roast it in a quick oven from forty to fifty minutes, or longer if you wish it to be well done; baste it well during the time of cooking. Take out the fillet, pour off the fat left in the tin, add to the fond a pint of thin brown sauce and a teaspoonful of extract of meat; let simmer for a few minutes, skim and strain. Have ready a croustade of bread large enough to hold the fillet, fix same on an oblong dish ; glaze the surface of the fillet with dissolved meat-glaze ; stand it in the centre of the croustade ; garnish round the dish with groups of stuffed fried potatoes, and serve the sauce separately with the dish. 1198. Filet de Beeuf d la Metropole.—A piece of fillet of beef, larding-bacon, 1 glass of sherry or Madeira, 1 glass of Chablis or Sauterne, 1 onion, 1 carrot, 1 bay-leaf, 1 sprig of thyme, a few sprigs parsley, 1 tablespooonful sioeet oil, 12 peppercorns, salt, 2 truffles, 4 artichoke-bottoms, a few chicken forcemeatTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 414 quenelles (No. 403), \ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 4 oz. rice cooked in stock, i pint stock or consomme, Dauphine potato croquets. Pare and trim the fillet into neat shape, lard the surface with strips of fat bacon, put it'in a deep dish or pan, sprinkle with a little salt, and pour over the wine ; add the carrot and onion, peeled and sliced, the bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, peppercorns, and oil; cover and let it soak in marinade for twelve hours ; turn it occasionally. Roast the fillet in a hot oven for about twenty minutes; baste well with dripping or butter. It must be still underdone (saignant) when taken up. Use preserved artichoke-bottoms, put them in a buttered saute- pan, moisten with a little stock or consomme, and warm up in the oven. Strain the liquor in which the fillet has been marinaded and put into a stewpan; boil up and add the sauces. Let the whole simmer for ten minutes, skim off the fat, and keep hot. Cut the truffles into thin slices or small dice ; poach the chicken quenelles in stock or consomme, strain, and moisten with a little sauce; add the truffles with the quenelles, drain the artichoke-bottoms, and fill them with the above. Place the fillet on a neatly-shaped bed of cooked rice on an oblong dish, garnish with the filled artichoke-bottoms and Dauphine potato croquets ; brush over the fillet with some liquid meat-glaze, and serve with the sauce, which should be served separately. 1199. Filet de Bceaf d la Xeres.—About 3 lbs. middle cut of fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, about 1 lb. cooked ox-tongue, larding- bacon, 1 glass port, 1 gill stock, 6 artichoke-bottoms, green peas, new potatoes, tomato sauce (No. 271), pepper and salt. Pare the fillet, removing the skin and part of the fat, by means of a wooden spoon ; make a slit through the centre of the fillet (outside) and insert the piece of ox-tongue, neatly trimmed, into the opening made. Lard the surface of the fillets with strips of fat bacon. Butter a saute or oblong flat braisiere, put in the fillet, larded side upwards. Season with pepper and salt, cover with a buttered paper and cook in a brisk oven for about ten minutes, so as to acquire a nice colour, moisten with a gill of rich stock and a glass of port wine, and continue to cook until done according to requirements, which is usually underdone (saignant). When ready for table dress the fillet on a croute of bread, or bed of rice neatly shaped. Put about a gill of tomato sauce with the liquor in which the fillet was cooked, let the whole be reduced, and then strain. Cook the peas and toss them,in a little fresh butter. Warm up the artichokes, fill up each bottom with peas and place them round the dish, also the potatoes, which should be ready boiled and fried whole in butter. The sauce is best served separately. On sending the fillet to table the top should be well glazed over with meat-glaze. 1200. Boiled Beef or Mutton.—Wipe the meat, cut off any superfluous fat, and weigh the joint. Put the meat into a stewpanREMOVES AND ROASTS 415 of boiling water, sufficient to cover it. Season with salt, and let boil fast for five minutes to harden the outside. Remove the scum, add some vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and onions, and let simmer gently until tender. Average time allowed for cooking is twenty minutes to the pound and twenty minutes* over. Salted or pickled meat should be placed in cold or tepid' water, and must be brought slowly to the boil. Boiled beef is served with a garnishing of cooked carrots and turnips and small suet dumplings. Boiled mutton is garnished with vegetables—i.e. carrots, turnips, and onions—and is served with caper sauce (see ‘ Sauces ’). 1201. Braised Beef d la Mode.—3 to 4 lbs. rump of beef, larding-bacon, a piece of lemon, a sprig of thyme, 1 bay-leaf, 2 cloves, an onion, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 quart stock, 2 carrots, 8 to 10 small button onions, a bouquet garni (No. 2), a glass of claret, pepper and salt. Trim the meat, which must be free from bones, insert some strips of bacon (larding-bacon), place the meat in a basin, season with salt and pepper, add the lemon-juice, wine, bay-leaf, thyme, and an onion sliced. Let it stand thus for several hours. Take up the meat, strain well and fry it in the butter a nice brown ; place the meat on a dish, stir the flour into the fat &c. in which the meat was fried, let it get a nice brown, then add the marinade, the stock, and bouquet garni, let it come to a boil, and skim. Replace the beef, add the carrot (previously cleaned and cut into slices), also the onions (the latter are better if slightly fried). Simmer gently for about one and a half to two hours. Dish up the meat, skim the fat off the sauce and strain over the beef, arrange the carrots and onions in groups round the dish, and serve. A clove of crushed garlic added to the sauce, at an early stage will impart a flavour which is much appreciated by connoisseurs. 1202. Piece de Bceaf braise a la Vert Vre.—Braise a piece of rump of beef, weighing from four to five pounds, in the usual manner. Prepare meanwhile the garniture vert-pre, which consists of a selection of green vegetables, such as French beans, flageolets, green peas, small timbales of spinach or chicory. The vegetables must be cooked separately. Dish up the beef, cut into slices or whole, whichever is preferred, garnish the base of the dish with groups of the above vegetables, and serve with a nicely- flavoured demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 1203. Carre de Mon-ton braise auoc Woollies.—A neck of mutton (best end), 1 oz. butter, 1 onion, peeled and cut into quarters, 3 or 4 slices of streaky bacon, a small bouquet garni, 3 or 4 small carrots (cleaned and cut into pieces)', 2 cloves, 4 pint stock, i pint Espagnole sauce (No. 236), pepper and salt, nouilles. Trim the meat and carefully remove the bones ; fold in the thin end and tie with twine. Melt the butter in a braising or stew pan, put in the onion, cloves, and bouquet, and fry a little; place the neckTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 416 on top of this, with the bacon, and allow the meat to acquire a nice brown colour (turn it frequently). Now add the carrots, moisten with the stock, season with pepper and salt, and let the whole simmer for about an hour, then add the brown sauce, and finish in the oven with a lid over the pan. Time required for cooking is from one and a half to one and three-quarter hour. When done take up the meat, remove the string, and keep hot. Strain the sauce, skim off the fat, add a glass of sherry, boil up again, and reduce a little. Dress the neck (whole or cut into slices) on a bed of prepared nouilles. Sauce over carefully, garnish the sides with groups of nouilles, and serve very hot. A little sauce may be sent to table separately in a sauce-boat. 1204. JEpaule de Mouton farcie (Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton).—1 small shoulder of mutton, 1 small onion, finely chopped, 1 teaspoonful chopped savoury herbs, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, 4 oz. of streaky bacon cut up very small, salt and pepper, fat for baking, 1 egg, bread-crumbs. Trim the joint, removing any superfluous fat &c.; remove the bones, and lay the joint on the table, spread it out, and season with salt and pepper. Sprinkle some of the herbs, parsley, and onion over the meat, place a layer of chopped bacon on the seasoning and put the remainder of seasoning over the bacon. Boll up the meat, fasten it securely with string or with skewers, then put it on a baking- tin or flat braising-pan, containing about eight ounces of dripping or butter. Cover with greased paper and bake in a moderate oven for about one hour and a half. Baste frequently. Now remove the paper, brush over the joint with egg, and cover with bread-crumbs; put it again in the oven (quick heat) for twenty to thirty minutes, according to the size of the joint. Keep it carefully basted during the whole process of cooking. When done draw out the string or skewers, place the joint on a hot dish, and. serve it with a nicely flavoured thin brown gravy. 1205. Gitjot de Mouton braise d la Bvetonne (.Braised Leg of Mutton with Haricot Beans).—1 small leg of mutton, 2 oz. dripping, 1 oz. butter, 1 bouquet garni, 1 small onion, lpint haricot beans (haricot de Soissons), ^ clove garlic, salt and pepper, 1^ gill stock, % pint demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Wash the haricot beans, and put them to soak in three pints of water till wanted. (Allow two to three hours for soaking if possible.) Cook them in slightly salted water till tender. Bone the leg of mutton, and tie up into its original shape with thin string. Insert the garlic in the centre of the leg. Only a very tiny piece of garlic should be used. Melt the dripping in a braising or stew pan, large enough to hold the meat. Add the onion, previously peeled and stuck with a clove, and the bunch of herbs (bouquet garni), place in the meat, allow it to acquire a nice brown colour over a fairly quick fire. Pour off the fat, add the stock, and season with salt and pepper; cover417 REMOVES AND BOASTS the pan and place in the oven. It will take from two and a half to three hours to cook; the meat must be well basted at least once every half-hour. When the haricots are tender drain off the liquor, add the butter, and season to taste, toss them over the fire for a few minutes, and moisten with a little demi-glace sauce. Add the remainder of sauce to the meat about twenty minutes before it has finished cooking. Dish up the leg of mutton. Skim the sauce and strain it over the meat. Surround with groups of haricot beans and serve the remainder in a vegetable dish, to be handed round with the meat. 1206. Gigot de Mouton roti.—In France this dish is not prepared in the same way as in this country, at any rate not in the provinces. The following is the mode of preparation recommended : Choose a small leg of fat mutton ; trim and bone it, i.e. remove the hip and thigh bones. Season with salt and pepper, finely chopped parsley, one finely chopped shallot, and a bruised clove of garlic (garlic introduced into raw meat loses its objectionable acidity and odour ; it renders ths meat more appetising and imparts a very fine flavour). Tie up the meat, and place it in a baking-tin with a few slices of carrot, one sliced onion, and two ounces of butter. Bake it in a hot oven for twenty minutes, baste frequently, and finish baking or roasting in a slacker oven until tender. The usual time allowed for boned and rolled joints is twenty minutes to every pound, and twenty minutes over. When done dish up, pour away the fat from the tin, and add some thin brown sauce or stock for the purpose of making the gravy. Season it and pour round the meat. 1207. Ballotine d’Agneau anx Petits Pols.—1 shoulder of lamb, 6 oz. veal, 4 oz. pork, 3 oz. cooked ham, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, 2 truffles, larding-bacon, 3 slices of streaky bacon, 1 onion, 1 carrot, 1 bay-leaf, parsley, 1 pint green peas {cooked), 1 pint stock, 1 pint Espagnole sauce {No. 236), salt and pepper. Bone the shoulder of lamb, but let the end bone remain for a handle. Prepare a stuffing with the veal, pork, ham, and parsley, all finely chopped and seasoned to taste. Remove all sinews and I part of the fat from the shoulder, and fill with the above, laying in between the stuffing the truffles (sliced). Close up and shape neatly; sew up the opening with a needle. Put the shoulder in the stockpot for about five minutes to harden the surface; let cool and lard the top with larding-bacon. Clean and cut the carrot and onion into slices. Line a braisiere or deep saute-pan with the bacon, put in the carrot, onion, bay-leaf, and a small bunch of parsley, place the shoulder on this, and brown slightly over a brisk fire. Moisten with the stock and the sauce, cover, and cook in the oven until tender ; it will take from forty to forty-five minutes. Take up the shoulder, skim the sauce, strain it and reduce a little, put the cooked peas into the sauce, add a pinch of sugar, and some salt and pepper if needed ; cook for two minutes, and serve with the meat. If required as a releve E E418 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK (remove) serve it whole, and put the peas round the dish as a garnish; if as an entree, put a bed of peas into the dish, cut the ballotine into slices and place on top ; sauce over a little and serve the remainder of the sauce separately. 1208. Carre d’Agneau froid a la Jiohemienne.— Procure a nice neck of lamb, remove the skin from the fat, shorten the ribs, saw off the spiny parts, pare and trim nicely, put it in a saute-pan with a handful of sliced vegetables, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a little stock, and braise in the oven for about an hour or more, according to the size. When done take out the neck and put in a cool place. Add a little more stock to the vegetables in the saute-pan, let it reduce to half, skim off the fat and pass through a sieve, mixed with sufficient dissolved gelatine to make it set as aspic, also half a pint of tomato sauce (No. 271) and a dessertspoonful of red currant jelly ; when nearly cold, but still liquid, sauce over the neck with the sauce, and when set mask with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Dish up on a crouton of bread or socle of boiled rice, garnish the sides with six aspic timbales of peas. Have ready two silver hatelets decorated with a cock’s kernel and comb at the top, a slice of truffle and a plover’s egg beneath ; stick them into each side of the top of the neck ; it is then ready to serve. 1209. Selle d’Agneau d la Hollandaise {Saddle of Lamb, Dutch Style).—Eemove the skin of a fine saddle of lamb, and bard it with slices of fat bacon ; truss the joints as for roasting, and place it on a roasting-tin with a few slices of onion, carrot, and a little dripping for basting. Cook it in a rather quick oven at first, so as to nicely brown the surface, then reduce the heat and finish cooking till quite done, basting it frequently. Eemove the bacon and moisten the joint; place it on an oblong joint-dish, and glaze the surface with liquefied meat-glaze. Garnish the sides with small new potatoes, baked in the oven, and put a bouquet of watercress at each end of the dish. Insert two hatelets, suitably garnished, at each end of the joint and serve with a boat of rich gravy or thin demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 1210. Frieandeau pique aux Epinards.—4 to 5 lbs. cushion or kernel of veal {often called fillet of veal), larding-bacon, 1 onion, 1 carrot, 1 small bunch parsley and herbs, 2 oz. butter, 1 pint stock, ^ pint rich brown sauce, salt and pepper, 1 glass sherry, 2 lbs. or more cooked spinach. Free the meat from the skin that covers it, remove likewise the fat and the sinewy skin showing, then lard the surface with strips of fat bacon, four or five rows neatly arranged. Line a deep saute-pan or a braising-pan with the trimmings of bacon and fragments of veal, the onion and carrot, previously peeled and scraped and sliced, also the bunch of herbs; place the meat on top (larded side upwards), spread over with butter, season with pepper and salt, and put it in a hot oven in order to slightly brown the surface of the meat. Then419 REMOVES AND ROASTS moisten with the stock and wine, cover with buttered paper, and set in the oven to cook from one and three-quarters to two hours. When the meat is thoroughly done take it up. Strain the liquor, skim off the fat, and reduce to half-glaze; add the sauce, boil up, season to taste. To serve this dish place the meat on a hot dish, surround with spinach as a garnish, pour a little of the sauce over the meat, and the remainder in a sauce-boat; or cut the meat into thin slices and place again in the original position. Dress the spinach in the shape of a bed on a hot dish, place the meat on top, sauce over lightly, and send to table. Spinach for Garnish.—Cook the spinach in the usual fashion, drain well, and rub through a sieve, or chop it very finely. Melt an ounce and a half of butter in a stewpan, put in the spinach and stir till quite hot, stir in two tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce and a tablespoonful of cream, cook gently for another fifteen minutes, and use as directed. The seasoning should consist of salt, pepper, and nutmeg. 1211. JPoitrine de Venn farcin (Stuffed Calf’s Breast braised).—1 small breast of veal; stuffing, i lb. soft bread-crumbs, 6 oz. sausage meat, 2 chopped walnuts, 1 teaspoonful grated lemon- rind, 1 teaspoonful thyme, basil, and marjoram (powdered), 2 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 egg, and a little milk or stock, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; a mirepoix consisting of carrots, onion, bacon, and a bouquet garni (No. 2), 2 oz. dripping, demi- glace (No. 287) or tomato (No. 271) sauce. Bone the breast of veal and prepare it ready for stuffing. - Prepare the stuffing by mixing all the above-named dry ingredients, and season to taste ; then add the egg, well beaten, and enough milk or stock to form the liaison. Melt the butter, and add also ; sew up the end of the breast. Put the dripping in an oblong braising-pan, or any other pan large enough to hold the stuffed breast ; when the dripping is melted add the mirepoix and fry for a few minutes, then place the breast upon this, brown both sides over a quick fire, add a little stock, and finish cooking in the oven; baste frequently. When done take up, remove the string, cut it into thin slices, dish up, and serve with hot demi-glace or tomato sauce. 1212. Hams and How to Cook them .—The name * ham ’ is given to the hind leg of an animal when it is salted and cured or smoked. The ham of the pig is most popular and unquestionably the finest and most appreciated. The salting process is effected by the use of common salt, saltpetre, and bay salt, with occasional addition of sugar and soda. Wine and sometimes beer are in some places used in order to give the ham a finer flavour. The proportions of seasoning and flavouring substances vary in different localities ; the same may be said of the methods of drying, curing, and smoking. The process of salting and curing generally occupies some three or four weeks ; different countries have different methods, and the various E B 2THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 420 processes adopted give an interestingly distinct flavour to the meat. The most noted hams throughout the civilised world are the ‘ York ; ’ they are well known for their mildness and delicate flavour. Excellently flavoured hams are also produced in the well-known bacon districts of Wiltshire, Cumberland, Suffolk, and Hampshire. Cumber- land hams are usually dried without smoke. Thoroughly cured and well smoked hams are often eaten without being cooked. The West- phalian ham is largely used for hors-d’oeuvre and salads. 1213. Howto Cook a York Ham.—Newly cured or smoked hams (three or four months old) need not be soaked for any length of time prior to cooking ; but if a ham happens to be of older standing, say upwards of a year old, it must be soaked for at least twenty-four hours in cold water before it will be really fit for cooking; when the ham has been sufficiently soaked scrape and trim it, and put it in a lai’ge pan with enough cold water to well cover it ; bring the ham slowly to the boil, and cook gently for about four or five hours, according to size and weight, and when it is done allow it to cool in its own liquor. 1214. Span ish Ham .—Spanish hams require to be soaked, say, from twenty-four to thirty-six hours ; they must be cooked with great care and attention, otherwise they are spoilt and are consequently not worth eating. First soak the ham well, thoroughly scrape and cleanse it, put it in cold water and gently boil for an hour ; then put it in a braising-pan moistened with a pint of wine and enough stock to cover it, and simmer gently from three and a half to four hours; allow the ham to become cold in its own liquor. 1215. Westphalia Ham.—These hams need to be soaked in water for about thirty-six hours at least. The water should be changed once in twenty-four hours. When soaked, trimmed, and cleansed put the ham in a pot with enough cold water and allow to simmer for about an hour ; then Cake up and place in a braising-pan, moisten with suffi- cient stock to cover, add some sliced carrots, onion, celery, a clove of garlic, six cloves, a blade of mace, pepper, marjoram, thyme, and two bay-leaves ; let the ham thus simmer very gently for about five hours. Allow it to cool in the liquor. 1216. Janibon a fa Basquaise {Ham, Basque Style).—Select a sound smoked ham, soak and partially cook it in the usual manner. When about half done take it out and place it in an earthenware vessel; put in enough marinade, vinegar, wine, thyme, bay-leaf, onion, carrot, peppercorns to cover the ham. Let it remain thus for at least eight hours. Wrap up the ham in several wrell-greased papers, and roast in front of a moderate fire or in the oven for about two hours. Baste frequently. Remove the paper and skin it, cut off about half close to the bone, trim away the superfluous fat, glaze it nicely with well-flavoured meat-glaze, cut it into slices and place on to a dish in its original shape ; pour some Madeira sauce (No. 237 a) over the ham and garnish the dish with stuffed tomatoes. Serve hot.REMOVES AND BOASTS 421 1217. Jamb on a la Gelee {Ham icith Aspic Jelly).—Cut some thin slices of cooked cold ham, and arrange them neatly on a dish. Garnish the sides with coarsely chopped set aspic or savoury jelly, French gherkins, and parsley. Instead of chopping the aspic cut it into neatly-shaped cubes, lozenge or heart shapes. It may be added that the characteristic of this dish depends largely on the way in which it is dished and garnished. 1218. Jambon a la Marguerite.—1 small York liam, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 bouquet garni {No. 2), peppercorns, 2 shallots, 2 glasses champagne, 1 oz. butter, 1 quart stock, 1 lb:pork sausages, 1 pint demi-glace sauce {No. 237). Soak the ham in tepid water for twelve hours, take out the hip- bone, and place in a deep braising-pan with the carrot, onion, and bouquet garni (previously prepared). Cover with water and cook slowly from three to four hours, according to size of ham. Lift out the ham and pour off the water. Chop the shallots finely, fry in butter a golden colour, dilute with champagne and stock; lay in the hani, previously trimmed and pared, and cook from thirty to forty-five minutes with the vegetables and peppercorns. Add the sauce. Par- boil the sausages, »cut them into pieces about an inch long, egg, crumb, and fry in hot fat. Take out the ham, cut slices, and dish up ; reduce the sauce, skim and strain; garnish the dish with fried sausages, and serve with the sauce. 1219. Jambon braise au Champagne {Braised Ham with Champagne Sauce).—A small ham, J pint Marsala or sherry, 1 quart stock, 1 glass champagne, 1| gill demi-glace {No. 237) or Espagnole {No. 236) sauce. Steep the ham in cold water for twenty-four hours, saw off the knuckle-bone; then place it in a braising-pan with enough water to well cover, and cook it very gently till done. Take up the ham, trim it, and put it in another stewpan with the Marsala wine and stock, cover, and let simmer for half an hour or so. Take the ham out, skim the liquor and free it from fat, and reduce it to a half-glaze. Now add the champagne and the brown sauce, boil up, put in the ham, and simmer for a short time longer. Dish up the ham, glaze the surface, insert one or two silver skewers, skim and strain the sauce ; pour a little round the ham and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. 1220. Roast Chicken.—Pick, draw, singe, and truss a chicken ; roast it before a clear fire or in the oven. Put a little butter or dripping over the chicken and into the tin, to enable you to baste it frequently during the process of cooking. A quick heat is required for the first ten minutes and a slower heat after that. A small chicken will take about forty minutes and a large one about an hour. When done remove the skewers and string ; place it on a hot dish, garnish with watercress, and pour a little gravy, made in the same manner as directed for roast meat, round the dish, and serve with a boat of bread-sauce (No. 235).422 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1221. Dinde farcie aux Marrons\(Bomst Turkey Stuffed with Chestnuts).-—1 medium-sized tender turkey, ^ lb. fresh pork, £ lb. lean veal, 6 mushrooms, 36 chestnuts, 3 to 6 truffles (if liked), 1 small onion, herbs, parsley, and spice, salt and pepper, \ gill good stock, £ lb. dripping. Draw and singe the turkey, cut off the legs and neck, wipe the inside with a damp cloth, and break the breast-bones gently. Bemove the skin, bones, and sinews from the pork and veal, cut it up very small, and pass twice through a mincing machine, or pound in a mortar. Peel and skin the chestnuts, and cook till tender in stock or water, drain, and break up small. Mix the chestnuts and meat together in a basin, add the mushrooms, finely chopped, the onion, previously blanched and chopped finely, a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley, a dessertspoonful in all of chopped olives and savoury herbs. Season to taste with pepper, nutmeg, and salt; moisten with a little stock and mix thoroughly, then add the truffles, (if liked), cut into slices. Fill the breast and body from both ends, very tightly, so as not to leave any space unoccupied ; truss neatly the same way as for roasting, tie and sew up with twine, so as to keep it firmly together. Baste with dripping, and roast it in front of a fire, or bake in the oven in a suitable roasting-tin. Cook for about one and a half to two hours, according to the size of the bird. Baste well during the process of cooking. When done take it up, untie, and dish up. Serve with gravy in a separate bowl. Note.—To make this dish more elaborate a garnish consisting of groups of chestnut puree, stoned olives, small braised onions, and mushroom-heads can be served round the dish; it will make the dish much more effective. 1222. Canard braise aux JShavets.—1 large duck, 6 rashers of bacon, 1 onion, sliced, 1 carrot, sliced, 3 slices of lemon, a small bunch of herbs (bouquet garni), 1 glass of white wine, 4 medium-sized young turnips, % pint demi-glace sauce (No. 237), 2 oz. butter, 1 gill rich gravy, salt and pepper. Truss the duck ready for braising. Line a braising-pan (brai- siere) with the rashers of bacon, sliced onion, carrot, and lemon ; place the duck upon this, season with salt and pepper, add the bouquet of herbs, moisten with the wine, and cover with a sunken lid. Put the pan on a charcoal or coal fire, place some burning embers on top of the lid, and cook thus for forty minutes ; baste occasionally. When half done add the sauce and continue to cook till the duck is quite tender. Peel the turnips, cut them into quarters, and pare neatly; blanch in salted water, drain well, and fry in butter. Pour off the butter, add the gravy, season to taste, and simmer till done, taking care that the pieces are not broken or mashed. Take up the duck, untruss and place it on a hot dish. Strain the sauce, reduce it a little, and remove all the fat that is on the surface ; pour this round the dish. Arrange the turnips round the base of the dish and serve.BEHOVES AND ROASTS 423 1223. Caneton braise a la Bourgogne.—1 good-sized duckling, 6 small button onions, 1 carrot sliced, 3 or 4 slices of bacon, 1 small bunch herbs, 1 glass Burgundy, 1 gill brown sauce, pepper and salt, mashed potatoes, 1 egg-yolk, 1 teaspoonful powdered savoury herbs, 2 slices of lemon. Singe, clean, and truss the duckling ; stuff it with a puree of potatoes previously mixed with egg-yolk and powdered herbs, and highly seasoned with pepper. Line a braising-pan with the bacon ; upon this put the sliced carrot and the button onions, previously peeled and browned in a little butter over a quick fire. Add two thin slices of lemon, and place the duckling on top ; moisten with half the wine and put the pan in a hot oven for ten minutes, to allow the duckling to get browned; take up and add the remainder of wine and a little stock or water, braise over the fire or in the oven till quite done ; taste frequently. The brown sauce should be added about ten minutes before the duckling is done. To serve take up the duckling and place it on a hot dish ; surround with the small onions. Boil up the sauce in the pan, strain it and remove the fat, season, reduce to the right consistency, season to taste with pepper and salt, and pour it round the base of the dish, or send to table separately in a sauce-boat. 1224. Canards d l’ Orange.—Boast one or more ducks, trussed neatly, till done ; baste frequently during the process of roasting. Cut into the usual number of joints and dish up on a hot dish. Garnish with small bunches of watercress and quarters of oranges, from which the pips have been removed; pour a little gravy round the base of the dish and send to table with a boat of orange sauce (No. 259). 1225. Oie rotie farcie (Boast Goose,Stuffed).—1 gooseweigli- ing from 5 to 6 lbs., 1 oz. dripping, 3 onions, 18 sage-leaves, 2 oz. chopped suet, 4 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 egg, pepper and salt. Pick, draw, and singe the goose, wipe the inside with a damp cloth, and stuff in the usual manner with a stuffing made as follows:—Peel the onions, blanch together with the sage-leaves, strain and chop finely. Chop the suet, mix it with the onions and sage, add the bread-crumbs and the egg, previously beaten, season and mingle well. Now truss the goose for roasting, and roast for about an hour and a half before a brisk fire the first half-hour, and a moderate fire after ; baste occasionally. Sprinkle with a little salt just before it is taken up. When done untruss, place on a hot dish. Strain off the fat from the dripping-pan, and keep it for further use. Add some stock or gravy to the pan, season, boil a few minutes, pour on the dish, and serve. 1226. Caneton roti.—Pick and draw a good-sized duckling, singe it, remove the liver and heart, carefully wash and put again inside the bird. Truss neatly, put it on a baking-tin with a little dripping. Boast it in the' oven or in front of the fire for about forty minutes. Bemove the strings, dish up on a hot dish, pour the dripping424 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK from the tin, add about half a pint of stock or gravy, season with pepper and salt, and boil up. Strain the gravy thus prepared over the duckling, garnish with some picked and washed watercresses, and serve. Apple sauce is sometimes served with this roast, but it is not essential. 1227. Caneton a la Jfouennaise (.Braised Duckling, Bouenese Style).—1 good-sized Bouen duckling (see Note), B oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful of chopped shallots, 1 bouquet garni (No. 2), 2 tablespoonfuls fresh bread-crumbs, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, ( liqueur glass of cognac, 1 gill claret, % pint stock, ( lemon, salt, pepper, and a little spice, 1 small onion, 1 dessertspoonful flour. In drawing the duckling save the heart and liver, remove the gall, wash and chop all fine ; season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of ground spice. Peel and boil the onion in stock or water, chop finely. Put the chopped onion, liver, &c., in a basin, add the cognac, chopped parsley, and bread-crumbs, melt an ounce of butter, mix this well with the stuffing, adding sufficient stock to moisten, and put in the interior of the ducklings. Fasten both ends with string and truss them. Melt 2 ounces of butter in a braising-pan, fry the shallots a little, put in the duckling, and cook over the fire long enough to take colour, take it out, put in the flour and brown a little, pour in the claret and stock, let it come to a boil. Replace the duckling, add the bouquet garni and a few drops of lemon - juice. Cover with a lid or buttered paper, and braise in the oven until tender. Take out theX dugkling, joint it, but keep in shape, and dish up on a hot dish.. Strain the sauce. Reduce a little, strain through a napkin or pointed strainer, sauce over and round the duckling. This dish may be served as remove or entree. Note.—As a roast, ducks can be served in the same manner by stuffing them with a mixture of bread-crumbs, chopped livers and hearts, herb seasoning, chopped parsley and shallots, egg, and fresh butter. 1228. Pintade rdtie an Cresson (Boast Guinea-Fowl with- er esses).—Singe, draw, and wipe two guinea-fowls, place a piece of fat bacon inside each, and truss for roasting. Wrap up each fowl in a piece of buttered paper and roast in front of a brisk fire for half an hour or a little longer ; baste well with butter or dripping while roast- ing. When done take up, untruss, dish up, surround with freshly picked and washed watercress, seasoned with salt, pepper, a little vinegar, and oil (two tablespoonfuls of oil to one of vinegar). Serve with fried bread-crumbs (No. 1237), bread sauce (No. 235), and gravy. 1229. Poularde rdtie.—Singe, draw, and truss a large poularde, which is a large spring chicken which has been fattened up. Baste well with butter or dripping, roast in front of a brisk fire or bake in a hot oven. Baste well with fat and turn frequently during the425 REMOVES AND ROASTS process of cooking ; dredge with a little flour when almost done. Take up, pour off the fatr from the dripping-pan, add sufficient brown stock to make the gravy, boil up; whilst stirring season with pepper and salt, and strain. Garnish the dish with cress, endive, or watercress salad, and serve with a boat of bread sauce (No. 235). 1230. Faisan barde an Cresson.—Pick, draw, singe, and truss one or more pheasants. Cover the breast with a thin sheet of fat bacon (larding-bacon) tied on with some thin string; roast it for thirty to forty minutes, according to the size of the bird. Remove the string, dish up, garnish with bunches of picked watercress, seasoned with a little oil and vinegar. Serve with gravy, bread sauce (No. 235), and fried bread-crumbs (No. 1237). 1231. Becasse farcie rotie (Boast Stuffed Snipe).—2 or 3 young snipe, 4 oz: butter, 2 oz. ham, 2 oz. bacon, 6 sauce oysters, 3 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 stick white celery, seasoning, gravy. Pick and singe the birds, remove the inside and chop up about half the intestine; put this into a basin and mix with the bread- crumbs. Use only the white part (heart) of the celery ; wash and chop it finely. Mince finely the ham, beard the oysters and cut them into dice, put these with the ham into the basin, season with salt and pepper, and mix all well with two ounces of melted butter. Stuff the birds with this, truss them, and wrap each bird in a thin slice of bacon. Put the remainder of bacon in a roasting-tin ; upon this place the birds and roast for about twenty minutes in a fairly hot oven. Baste frequently. When done take up, untruss the birds, and dress them on suitably sized pieces of toasted bread on a hot dish, garnish with watercress, and serve with a boat of gravy and a glass dish of red currant jelly. 1232. Coq de Bruyere rdti (Boast Grouse).—Grouse should, like most game birds, be well hung if required for roasting purposes. It is advisable to keep them hung unplucked for about a week. Great care must be taken in plucking, so as not to injure the skin, which is more delicate when birds have hung than it is when freshly killed. When plucked, singe, draw, and truss the grouse similarly to fowls. Mix some butter with a little pepper and put a piece of butter about the size of a nutmeg into the body of each bird ; hang before a brisk fire or place in a tin if done in the oven ; the former method, how- ever, is the best and more correct way. In each case the birds must be very liberally basted with either oiled butter or hot bacon fat. Well hung or high game should always be well cooked. Grouse take from forty-five minutes to an hour, according to size. If cooked in the oven a thick piece of toasted buttered bread should be placed under each bird ; the toast thus used is served with the bird. When done take up, untruss, place on a hot dish, garnish with watercresses and fried bread-crumbs (No. 1237), and serve with gravy and bread sauce (No. 235).426 THE NEW CENTUBY COOKEBY BOOK 1233. Lievre farci, etouffe (Stuffed Hare, braised).-—1 hare, 6 oz. cold poultry or game, 6 mushrooms, 1 egg, 2 oz. bread-crumbs, \ dessertspoonful of aromatic seasoning, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 of chopped chives, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 3 cloves, 2 shallots, a bouquet of herbs, 2 glasses red roine, 1 gill brown stock, 4 pint brown sauce, larding-bacon, 4 oz. lean bacon, pepper and salt. Skin, draw, wash, and wipe the hare ; cut out some of the fleshy parts from the sides or underneath, where it will show least, clean and wash the liver and heart; chop these and the flesh cut out very finely, chop likewise the cooked game or poultry, previously freed from skin, bone, and gristle, also the mushrooms ; peel and chop the shallots. Put the chopped ingredients in a basin, add the bread- crumbs, aromatic seasoning, parsley, and chives; mix well and moisten with the egg. Stuff the hare with this, and truss and skewer it. Lard the breast and sides with strips of larding-bacon, cut the lean bacon, carrot, and onion into slices and put into a saute- pan or braisiere, add the cloves and bouquet garni. Place the hare in the pan, moisten with the wine and stock, cover with buttered paper, and braise in a moderately-heated oven for two hours; baste occasionally. During the last half-hour add the sauce, previously heated. Take out the hare, remove the skewers and string and put on a hot dish, strain the sauce into a stewpan, skim off the fat, season with pepper and salt to taste, let simmer for a few minutes. Pour the sauce over the hare, or, if preferred, serve it separately in a sauce-boat. A garniture of quenelles godiveau (No. 401) and mushroom-heads and truffles dressed in groups round the dish will improve the dish, especially if served as a remove. 1234. JBecasses aux Huitves—One brace of woodcocks, 18 oysters, 3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 oz. butter, ^ gill cream, lemon-juice, pepper and salt, mace, ■§• pint demi-glace (No. 237). Pick, draw, and wipe the woodcocks, beard the oysters, and cut them into quarters. Mix the bread-crumbs with the egg-yolks, the cream, and butter, add a few drops of lemon-juice, a pinch of ground mace, and pepper and salt to taste; mix with the oysters and stuff the birds with this ; sew up and truss for roasting. Put the birds in a roasting-tin with a little dripping and bake in a quick oven from thirty to forty minutes; baste occasionally. When done untruss, dish up on two pieces of toasted bread, and serve with demi-glace sauce. 1235. JPerdreaux rdtis d VJEspagnole (Boast Partridge, Spanish Style).—Procure a pair of partridges ready trussed for roasting. Put two well-wiped Gorgona anchovies into the body of each bird. Line a small roasting-tin with a few rashers of bacon, put a layer of sliced tomatoes on top, place in the partridges. Add sufficient salt and pepper to season, also a few sprigs of parsley, baste well with oiled butter, and roast in the oven for a good half-REMOVES AND ROASTS 42T hour. Baste occasionally. When done take out the birds, untruss, dish up on a hot dish, skim off the fat from the gravy. Add a teaspoonful of soy to colour it; also a gill of good stock. Boil up and cook for a few minutes, then strain over the birds and serve. 1236. Perdreaax d la Crapaudine (Partridge, Crapaudine Style).—Fresh-killed partridges are best for this dish. Pluck, singe, and draw the birds ; split each bird down the back, spread open, wipe the inside, flatten with a cutlet-bat, and skewer them so as to keep flat. Brush over well with sweet salad oil, season with salt and pepper, dip in fresh bread-crumbs, sprinkle over some more oil, place them on a gridiron previously cleaned and rubbed with a piece of fat bacon. Grill on a brisk fire at first and finish over a slow fire ; they will take from twenty to twenty-five minutes, according to the size of the birds. Remove the skewers. Dress the partridges on a hot dish pyramid fashion, and send to table accompanied with a boat of remoulade sauce (No. 285). Great care must be bestowed on the grilling, so as not to let them brown ; the birds should be of a light brown colour. 1237. Fried Bread-Crumbs.—Put three ounces of fresh bread-crumbs in a frying-pan with about half an ounce of butter. Fry over the fire a light brown colour, stirring continually, and place on a sieve for a few minutes before the fire to drain. 1238. Perdreaux rdf is d 1’Anglaise.—Procure a pair of well-hung partridges ready trussed for roasting. Hang them before a brisk fire and baste well with oiled butter. They will require about twenty minutes to cook, but need occasional basting. When done untruss, dish up on a piece of toasted or fried bread ; garnish with a handful of well washed and picked watercress and fried bread- crumbs. Serve with gravy and bread sauce (No. 235). 1239. Sure de Sanglier (Dressed Boar's Head). 1 boar's head, or a pig's head, a mirepoix, pickle, 2 lbs. sausage meat, 1 lb. cooked ox-tongue, 6 large truffles, pistachio kernels, lard, 1 pint white wine, aromatic seasoning, peppercorns, bay-leaves, parsley, dc., meat-glaze (No. 247). Clean the head carefully, remove the ears (these should be boiled separately, but must be kept firm, as they will be required for decoration), bone the head, commencing from the back, put it in a good pickle for at least eight hours. If a boar’s head is used it must be scalded in boiling water containing vinegar, so as to make it thoroughly clean and freed from hair. The pickle for either pig’s or boar’s head should consist of vinegar, water, salt, peppercorns, one bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, a few sprigs of thyme, marjoram, sage, and a few peeled shallots; a little saltpetre may also be added. Drain the pickled head, wipe it, and season with a good tablespoonful of aromatic spice (no salt), fill the cavities made by the removal of bones &c. with sausage meat, slices of truffle, tongue cut into dice, and pistachios, previously peeled. Sew up the opening made byTHE NEW CENTUBY COOKERY BOOK 428 boning with twine, to give it its natural shape, and wrap up in a cloth tightly. Boil it for five hours in good stock or water, a pint of Sauterne or Marsala wine, a mirepoix consisting of carrot, herbs, onion, parsley, peppercorns, and blade of mace, and four cloves. When done take out and allow to cool. Untie, when cold, the back of the head; fasten the ears with small wooden skewers in their proper places ; use a little lard to hide the ends of the skewers ; wipe the skin and glaze the head with meat-glaze. 1240. Selle de Venaison rdtie (Roast Saddle of Venison).— Venison to be perfect must be well hung. A small saddle is always preferable to a large one. Remove the skin covering the sirloin, also the sinews, and trim the joint neatly. In removing the skin be very careful, so as not to cut off any flesh (lean). Insert some thin strips of fat bacon (larding-bacon), lard it across the grain of the meat, then tie it firmly with string. Arrange some slices of carrot and onion in the baking or roasting pan in which the joint is to be cooked. Season with salt and pepper, add about one ounce of butter, and place in the joint. Cook it in a brisk oven for the first fifteen minutes, and roast slowly after that till done. Frequent basting is most essential. A saddle weighing from five to six pounds requires from one and a quarter to one and a half hour to roast. When done take up the joint, untie it, put it on a dish and keep hot. Pour off the fat in the roasting-pan, add some good stock or gravy. Season and boil up, skim, and strain around the dish containing the joint. A nice sharp sauce containing some red currant jelly is often served with venison. 1241. Cuissot de Chevreuil, Sa uce (J rose Hies (Leg of Venison, with Red Currant Sauce).—Carefully remove the skin of a leg of venison, lard it neatly (insert rows of strips of larding-bacon), place it in a deep pan, and cover with marinade (No. 29). Allow it to marinade for eight to ten hours, then take up, drain, and roast it in the usual manner. Frequent basting\.during the process of roasting is most essential. When done brush over with meat-glaze, and place it on a hot dish. Pour off all the fat from the roasting-pan, put a little marinade liquor into the pan, also two tablespoonfuls of well reduced Espagnole sauce (No. 236), a large tablespoonful of red currant jelly, and a small glass of port wine. Season with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Boil up and cook for several minutes, skim, and strain, and pour round the base of the dish containing the joint. Insert a hatelet decorated with a fancifully cut lemon and truffle, in the centre of the joint, put a bouquet of watercress at each end of the dish, and serve.429 PRACTICAL HINTS ON CARVING PRACTICAL HINTS ON CARVING. Let’s carve him as a dish fit for the gods, Not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds.—Shakespeare. It is of great importance that all ship managers, stewards, and housekeepers should attain proficiency in the art of carving. The principles are simple enough and therefore come within the mastery of the ordinary housekeeper as well as the busy head of kitchen or dining-room. The two fundamental principles to be learnt and invariably observed before success in carving may be expected are— 1. To have a knowledge of the natural construction of the various pieces to be cut up. 2. To know how to properly handle the carving tools, and keep them in the right position while carving. The last includes both the position of the carver as well as that of the particular piece (joint or bird) to be carved. Meat &c. to be carved must be laid on a dish containing but very little or no gravy or sauce, nor garnishing, to enable the carver to turn it to the most convenient position required for the purpose. A proper set of carving tools is almost indispensable, and should comprise a. A solid two or three pronged fork. b. A good thin, sharp-bladed knife. c. A pair of carving scissors. A bird or a joint of meat badly carved will prove wasteful, because fewer-persons will be served than would be when well and properly carved. Anything which needs to be carved at table should be placed on a dish sufficiently large to allow the joint to be turned, if needed, without moving the dish from its position. The dish should be placed close in front of the carver. The knife used for carving must be light and sharp, and of a convenient size. Such joints as ham, veal, and beef should be cut very thin ; while pork, lamb, and mutton should be cut a trifle thicker. The carver ought also to be acquainted with the choice cuts of each kind of joint. 1242. To Carve Fish.—A silver slicer or trowel should be used for this purpose ; a steel knife applied to fish often spoils the delicacy of its flavour. Great care must be taken in serving out fish to prevent breaking the flakes, which ought to be kept as entire as possible. Short-grained fish, such as salmon &c. should be cut lengthwise, not crosswise. 1243. To Carve Sirloin of Beef.—A sirloin should be cut into thin slices, with a sharp, firm cut from end to end of the joint. At the upper portion the cut should be clean and even ; then use the point of the knife to loosen the slices from the bones. In carving the undercut remove the superfluous fat, and cut the slices from end to end in the same manner as the upper portion. Be careful always to cut downTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 430 straight to the bone of a sirloin or rib of beef ; by so doing you will not spoil the appearance of the joint, and what remains will look tidy. 1244. To Carve Neck of Veal or Mutton.—See that the neck is properly jointed before it is cooked. Cut the joint diagonally from the left-hand side into slices of moderate thickness. 1245. To Carve Loin of Veal.—Cut out the kidney, turn the joint over, and carve into slices of moderate thickness. Serve a slice of kidney and fat with each slice of meat, having first inquired of. the guest if the former are desired. 1246. To Carve Leg or Loin of Pork.—In carving either of these the knife must follow in the lines marked out or scored by the cook before the meat is roasted on the skin which forms the crackling, the skin when roasted being usually too crisp to be conveniently cut through with-the knife. It frequently happens that the lines scored on a leg of pork are too far apart for single cuts ; when this ie the case the crackling must be raised to enable one to cut thinner slices. Always cut the meat across the grain, not lengthways. A little seasoning should be placed on the side of the plate ; also apple sauce, if such is served, which is usually the case, but it is better to hand both round in separate bowls. 1247. To Carve Rabbit or Hare. —In either case first separate the legs and shoulders ; then cut the back part across, into two parts. This is best accomplished by inserting the knife into the joint, andPRACTICAL HINTS ON CARVING 431 raising up the back by means of the fork. The back or fillet part is considered the best portion of a hare or rabbit. 1248. To Carve Ham.—Ham should be cut through to the bone first from the centre or near the thin end. The slices must be cut thin. Always commence cutting from the upper side. The fairest way by far, so as to serve fat and lean evenly, is to begin cutting from the centre of the thickest part, and to cut thin circular slices ; by this means the flavour of the ham is far better, and it will prove to be the more economical mode of serving. 1249. To Carve Shoulder of Mutton.—This ioint is usuallv sent to table lying on the dish the reverse side to that which is shown in the illustration. It should then be turned over. Com- mence carving into slices, more in the shape of a wedge at the end. Serve a small slice cut from the bladebone end to each guest. All slices should be cut through to the bone, as shown in the illustra- tion. The under parts of a shoulder are considered the most delicate, but it is essential for the carver to consult those at table as to which portions they prefer. 1250. To Carve Haunch of Venison.—First cut it across length- ways down to the bone; then turn the dish with knuckles furthest from you and commence cutting slices from the centre of either side of the cut first made; cut down as deep as possible. The knife should be held in a sloping position when making the first cut. Venison should never be cut in very thick slices and plenty of good gravy should be served with each portion. See that both meat and gravy are very hot, and that some red currant jelly is handed round at the same time. 1251. To Carve Saddle of Venison, Lamb, or Mutton.—Commence to carve lengthwise at first on both sides of the spinal bone, after which cut crosswise downward, and detach from the bone. The slices should be cut as close to the bone as possible. Hold the fork firmly in the centre of the saddle. Large slices should be cut in two crosswise. The slices should be from half to three-quarters of an inch in thickness. A small portion of the fat taken from the sides should be served with each portion, also some nice hot gravy and red currant jelly, both of which may be handed round separately. 1252. To Carve a Leg of Mutton.--The simplest way to carve SHOULDER OF MUTTONTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 432 from a to c, then loosen the slices from the bone; then turn the leg and cut the under portion in the same manner. Another way is to; reverse the leg, commencing to cut at d, proceeding in a similar way; as above described. 1253. To Carve Ox-Tongue.—Commence cutting from the middle of the tongue; cut the slices not too thin and take them from each side, being careful not to cut the slices., through to the bottom part of the tongue. The extreme end of the tip and the lower part of the tongue are generally used up for chopping in salpicons, &c. A little of the fat should also be put on each plate. When rolled tongue is served it must he cut horizontally into rather thin slices. 1254. To Carve Steak.—This is a very simple matter; rump steak, porterhouse- steak, or sirloin steak is cut into fairly thick pieces, right across the steak. A little fat, gravy, and scraped horse-radish should accompany each por- tion. 1255. To Carve Calf s Head. — Begin by making long slices from end to end of the cheek, cutting quite through to the bone, as shown by the dotted lines from a to b. With each of these slices serve a cut of a little of what is called the throat sweetbread, which lies at the fleshy a leg of mutton is to take hold of the bone end with the left hand, to cut the portion marked a with a firm stroke of the knife: next make a sharp incision down to the bone at b. Cut slender slices A433 PRACTICAL HINTS ON CARVING part of the neck end. Cut also slices from c to d—these are gelatinous and most delicate—and serve small pieces with the meat. A little of the tongue and a spoonful of the brains are usually placed on each plate. The tongue is best served on a separate plate, surrounded by the brains, and is cut across in rather thin slices. Some persons prefer the eyes part, which is removed by a circular cut marked by dotted lines at e. First put the knife in slanting at f, inserting the point at the part of the dotted line, and driving it into the centre under the eye ; then turn the hand around, keeping the circle of the dotted line with blade of the knife. This portion should be cone- shaped at the under part, when the circle is completed by the knife. The lower jaw must next be removed, beginning at o ; and to do this correctly the dish must be turned. The palate is also considered a dainty, and a little of it might always be offered to each guest. " 1256. To Carve a Turkey.—A turkey is usually large enough for a small company, so that the breast and wings generally suffice. The slices should be cut from each side of the breast alternately, beginning close to the wing. A little stuffing or a small piece of liver 2 i. ought to be served to each guest. The manner of cutting the slices is shown in the illustration. When it is necessary for the legs to be carved, they should be severed from the body and then cut into slices. 1257. To Carve Duck {Canard).—A young duck or duckling is carved very much the same as a fowl. First cut off the wing portions. The first slices of the breast should be cut close to the wing, proceeding upwards to the centre of the breast (breast-bone).THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 434 The legs are next removed and cut in two at the joints. If stuffed,., an opening should be made at the end portion of the duck, and the stuffing scooped out with a spoon, allowing a small portion to each guest. A large duck is carved in the same way as a goose. 1258. To Carve Goose (Oie). — Stick the fork into the centre of the breast, hold firmly, and commence to carve slices from the neck down the breast, as shown in the illustration. Remove the wings and leg bones, and commence carving the remainder of the goose,. leaving nothing but the carcass. 1259. To Carve Partridges, Woodcocks. &c.—Put the fork into the breast, cut a slice from the outside of the breast, then cut close along the breast-bone, severing the wings and legs from the carcass. The favourite parts of a partridge are the wings, breast, and the so called merrythought. 1260. To Carve Chicken, Capon, or Poularde.—Stick the carving- fork into the leg, hold firmly down on the dish, lift it. up and loosen with the knife, cutting through the joint at the back. Divide it in two at the second joint. Then cut off the wings, and lastly the breast, each being cut in half crosswise. Some people prefer to lay the bird on its side, and then proceed to carve in the same manner as above described. In helping roast pheasant or fowl add some of the cresses with which it is garnished ; always serve bread sauce and gravy, with roast poultry. 1261. To Carve Grouse, Partridge, Plover, &c —These birds are cut up similar to a fowl, and unless too small, as would be the case with snipe and quails, thejr may be cut into quarters, other- wise in halves. Some birds are cut so as to make three portions. The backbone of a woodcock is considered by some epicures a titbit,435 PRACTICAL HINTS ON CARVING whilst others consider the thigh to be the most delicate morsel. In other respects the breast and wing portions are accepted as the best bits of almost any kind of bird, tame or wild. The following cuts illustrate the various parts of pheasant, woodcock, and snipe as they should look when properly carved or jointed. SNIPE OK WOODCOCK CUT INTO JOINTS Breast Wing (Aileron) Fillet Carcass SuprSm e Leg PHEASANT CUT INTO JOINTS Small birds are generally served on toasted bread, which should be seasoned with some of the dripping obtained whilst roasting. A small piece of toast should accompany each plate, also some brown (fried) bread-crumbs, bread sauce, and gravy. Roast poultry or game birds are as a rule garnished with crisp watercresses or some small cress.436 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK CHAPTER XXIV VEGETABLES {LEGUMES) There was a time when it was said of the English that they knew no vegetable-cooking except boiling potatoes; this was probably due to the fact that an Englishman first discovered this useful and much prized vegetable. No country has, however, made such progress in vegetarian diet as Great Britain, and for this reason, if for no other, the above remarks can no longer be regarded as true. The French, Swiss, German, and Italian nations long set a fine example to us in this matter, for they cultivate vegetables most assiduously, and they certainly have many more varied ways of pre- paring and cooking them than are, generally speaking, known in England. These nations, it must be admitted, esteem vegetables as a food much more than we do in this country. The serving of dressed vegetables can, of course, be overdone. At a dinner of several courses it is not desirable to serve more than two dressed vegetables, or plainly cooked as an accompaniment with the releve or roast; but if the dinner only consists of two courses five or even six kinds of vegetable dishes have been known to be introduced. Having touched upon the rudiments of vegetable cooking, it may not be out of place to explain a few of the principal rules, which, when carefully observed, have so much to do with the successful cooking of vegetables treated in the ordinary way. These little things are so often overlooked by the so called artistic cooks, and yet most vegetables must undergo the preliminary stage of cooking before they can be turned into entrees or savouries. First of all, let me urge that all vegetables of very strong flavour should be cooked in a large quantity of water (that is, sufficient to well cover the articles), and the water must, in many cases, be changed during the process of cooking ; this, again, has a tendency to give the cooked article a much more delicate flavour than it would. otherwise have. All root vegetables, such as potatoes, salsify, carrots, turnips, celeriac, beetroots, &c., should be kept with the earth which naturally adheres to them until they are prepared for cooking. It is a mistake to wash vegetables and keep them till required for use, because they are then much more likely to decay, as the air is almost as injurious to them as oversoaking them in water prior to cooking.437 VEGETABLES {LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED PLAIN BOILED VEGETABLES. The following rules will be found helpful to those wishing to cook , vegetables in the simplest way :— All vegetables to go into fast-boiling water, to be quickly brought to the boiling point again, not left to steep in the hot water before boiling, which toughens them and destroys colour and flavour. The time table must always be regulated by the hour at which the meat will be done. If the meat should have to wait five minutes for the vegetables there will be a loss of punctuality, but the dinner will not be damaged ; but if the vegetables are done and have to wait for the meat, then the dinner will certainly be much the worse. Yet so general is the custom of overboiling vegetables, or putting them to cook in a haphazard way somewhere about the time, that very many cooks do not recognise the damage. They would quickly see the superiority of the vegetables just cooked the right time, but would attribute it to some superiority of the article itself, to its being fresher and finer, not knowing that the finest and freshest, if im- properly cooked, are little better than the poor ones. VEGETABLES PLAIN AND DRESSED. 1262. Artichauts a la Barigoule.—3 globe artichokes {medium size), \ gill sweet oil, 3 oz. fat pork, { lb. raw ham, 6 chopped mushrooms, 1 tablespoonful chopped shallots, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, % gill Madeira wine, 1 gill brown sauce, 1 gill brown stock, small bunch parsley, a few slices of carrots and turnips, \ onion, 3 slices of fat bacon, season- ing, Italiemie sauce {No. 239). Trim the artichokes, cut off the stalks, the hardest leaves from the bottom and the tips of the other leaves ; wash and drain. Put them in a stewpan with salted water (cold), boil up, cool and drain ; remove the centre parts of leaves for filling, and fill with a stuffing made as follows : Chop ham and pork fat very finely, mingle with the mushrooms and chopped parsley ; fry the shallots in a little butter, and mix the lot together in a stewpan ; knead the butter and flour together, moisten the stuffing with the brown sauce, adding likewise the kneaded butter and flour, and season with a pinch of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Stir well and fill the artichokes as directed. Place a square piece of bacon on top of each ; tie each artichoke with string to keep in shape. Put the remainder of the bacon in a saute-pan, also the carrot, turnip, and onion, all sliced, and the parsley. Lay the artichokes on top, pour a few drops of oil over each, add the wine and stock, cover with a piece of oiled paper. Cook in a moderately heated oven from thirty to forty minutes, and baste occasionally. When done, remove the string and bacon fat, strain the liquor, skim off the fat, add about a gill of Italienne sauce438 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK to this, and reduce a little. Dress the artichokes on a hot dish, pour a tablespoonful of sauce in the centre of each, and serve the remainder of the sauce separately. 1263. Artichauts a la Chamber)/.—6 large preserved artichoke bottoms, 1 oz. butter, 6 rounds of toasted buttered bread, 1 gill Perigueux sauce {No. 243), salt and pepper. Dress the artichoke bottoms on a sieve or on a cloth. Melt the butter in a saute-pan; when hot put in the artichokes, and fry them gently on both sides; season to taste. Arrange them neatly in the saute-pan, the hollow parts upwards, and carefully break a small egg in each artichoke bottom; put the pan in a fairly hot oven long enough to poach the egg. Dish up on rounds of toasted bread, about the size of the artichokes. Sauce over with a well seasoned hot Perigueux sauce and serve at once. 1264. Artichauts a la Lyonnaise (Globe Artichokes with Fried Onions).—Select four green artichokes, trim and cook them in salted water till tender. Drain, cool, and remove the leaves; toss the bottoms (fonds) in a little butter. Have ready some finely sliced onions, fried in butter ; fill the artichokes with this, season with pepper and salt and a little lemon-juice. Ee-heat in the oven for ten minutes. Dish up neatly and pour some demi-glace (No. 237) or veloutee (No. 206) sauce round the base of the dish ; sprinkle some finely chopped parsley on top of the fried onions and send to table immediately. 1265. Artichauts a la ALoellc.—Heat up some artichoke bottoms, the edges of which have been previously cut into flutes, place a slice of blanched marrow fat on each, dish up, and pour over a hot demi-glace sauce (No. 237) flavoured with lemon-juice and a good pinch of cayenne or paprika pepper. 1266. Bciyiiets d’Artichauts a la Viomoise.—12 very small even-sized artichoke bottoms (preserved), about f lb. chicken or veal forcemeat (farce de volaille) (No. 403), 1 lb. unsweetened savarin dough, seasoning, -clarified lard, and beef suet (in equal proportions) for frying, demi-glace sauce (No. 237), fried parsley. Wipe the artichoke bottoms with ,a cloth, fill them with well seasoned chicken or veal farce, and shape each neatly. When the farce has sufficiently set wrap each stuffed artichoke in unsweetened savarin dough, and place them on a floured board; set them aside to rise from one to two hours. Plunge in hot fat and fry gently to a golden colour ; take them up, drain well, dish up on a folded napkin or lace paper, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve with a boat of demi-glace sauce containing a good pinch of paprika pepper. 1267. Artichoke Bottoms.—Cut the edges of a number of artichoke bottoms as fancy borders, mark them over with some dissolved meat glaze into which a little aspic jelly has been intro- duced. Put a chicken puree at the bottom of each fond ; cut some hard-boiled eggs into halves, cut off the points evenly; place one halfVEGETABLES {LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 489 • on each fond, on top put a small slice of truffle; mask the whole with . aspic jelly, set to cool, and serve. 1268. Artichauts de Jerusalem d la Creole.—1\ lb. good- sized Jerusalem artichokes, 2 oz. butter, \ gill rich stock, \ lb. . cooked game puree, salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, demi-glace sauce {No. 237) or rich brown sauce. Wash, scrape, and peel thinly the artichokes; drop each as finished into a basin of water (cold) containing a little salt and the juice of a lemon. Put them in a stewpan with enough of the water in which they were soaked to well cover them, and cook for about twenty minutes. Drain them, and scoop out the centre of each by means of a vegetable or column cutter. Fill the cavities with a well flavoured game puree seasoned with aromatics &c. Place the stuffed artichokes in a buttered saute-pan, add the stock, put a little sauce (brown) on top of each. Bake in the oven for about twenty minutes. Dish up on a hot dish, arranging them in a row or border shape. Pour a little hot demi-glace or other other good brown sauce over and round them, and serve. 1269. Artichauts entiers d la Chasseur.—3 medium-sized ■ artichokes, \ small onion, 1 shallot, 1^ oz. butter, b lb. fresh button mushrooms, ^ gill Espagnole sauce {No. 236), 1 dessertspoonful ■ chopped parsley, about 6 thin slices of fat bacon, \ gill of white wine, b gill of good stock or gravy, b gill rich tomato sauce {No. 271), 2 tablespoonfuls of fresh bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, and grated nut- meg, a bouquet garni {No. 2), a few slices of carrot and turnip. Cut off the stalks of the artichokes, trim off the under leaves, cut off the tops of the leaves, pare the bottoms, remove the leaves, wash well and drain. Choose three of the largest mushrooms, and pare and trim neatly ; trim, wash, and chop the remainder. Peel and chop finely the onion and shallot, and fry in butter a golden colour ; add the chopped mushrooms, stir over the fire until the moisture of the mushrooms is sufficiently reduced, then add the bread-crumbs and parsley, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of nutmeg, moisten with enough sauce to well bind the mixture. Fill the centres of the artichokes, place a trimmed button mushroom on the top of each, cover with slices of bacon, tie each with a piece of string to keep in shape. Line a saute-pan with a few pieces of bacon, a bouquet garni, a few ; slices of carrot and turnip, add the wine and stock, put the artichokes neatly in the pan, cover with a buttered paper, and braise in the oven until tender ; it will take from forty-five to sixty minutes ; baste occa- sionally. Untruss the artichokes and dress them on a hot dish. Strain the liquor into a saucepan, remove the fat, add tomato sauce, and a little Espagnole sauce if needed, reduce to half-glaze, finish with a small piece of fresh butter, season to taste, and pour round the dish. Serve hot. 1270. Fonds d’Artichauts d la Aloruay.—6 to 8 artichoke ■ bottoms, 1 small tin or terrine foie gras, about a gill Mornay sauceTHE NEW CENTUBY COOKEBY BOOK (No. 223), some chicken or veal forcemeat (No. 402 or 403), 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, sherry, i oz. butter,bread-crumbs. Turn out the foie gras, take out the pieces of truffles contained in the pate, and chop these rather finely. Put the foie gras in a mortar and pound, add the forcemeat (enough to make a sufficient quantity of filling for the artichoke bottoms) ; when well pounded take out and rub through a wire sieve, put into a basin and mix with the chopped truffles, and a tablespoonful of sherry or Madeira wine. Pill the bottoms with this, smooth the surface, and coat with a thick layer of Mornay sauce. Spread over with grated cheese and a few fried bread-crumbs, put a tiny piece of butter here and there, bake in a hot oven for ten minutes, or place under a hot salamander, to brown the top, and serve. 1271. Fonds d’Articliauts d la Heine.—6 to 8 artichoke bottoms, 1 small onion, 1 small bouquet garni (a small bunch of herbs), 3 to 4 thin slices of lemon, 1 oz. beef suet, peppercorns, 4 oz. cooked rabbit or veal, 2 slices of cooked ox-tongue, 1 small truffle, a small lamb's <sweetbread (cooked), bechamel sauce (No. 202), bread- crumbs or panurette, pepper and salt, frying fat, 2 eggs, parsley. Trim and wash the artichoke bottoms, put them in a stewpan with sufficient water to well cover them, add the onion, peeled and cut into thin slices, the bouquet of herbs, the slices of lemon, the beef suet, a pinch of salt, and a few peppercorns. Cook till they are tender, then drain the artichokes and place them on a sieve to cool. Mince finely all the cooked meats, chop finely the truffle, and put all in a small stewpan with sufficient bechamel sauce (white sauce) to moisten the mixture, stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, add one yolk of egg, season to taste with pepper and salt, and continue stirring until the liaison of egg is formed. Fill the artichoke bottoms with the mixture thus prepared, and shape each as neatly as possible. When quite cold brush over with beaten egg, and crumb in fresh bread-crumbs or panurette ; the latter is a special kind of bread-crumbs (a Continental preparation). It is well to perform the egging and crumbing operation twice. Fry in very hot fat a golden brown colour, drain on a cloth or paper. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve as a savoury vegetable or breakfast dish. 1272. Fonds d’Artichants en Cocotte.—10 to 12 artichoke bottoms (preserved or fresh), 4 potatoes, 1 oz. butter, 4 oz. streaky bacon, 1 glass white ivine, Gliablis or Sauterne, 1 gill veal stock or consomme, .seasoning. Pare the artichokes neatly with a small knife, cut the edges in the form of flutes, wash and peel the potatoes, scoop out as many rounds (ball shapes) as possible; this is done by means of a round vegetable-cutter. Cut the bacon into dice, having previously removed the rind, and blanch them. Drain the bacon, melt the butter in a fire- proof earthenware casserole, or so called cocotte pan, place in the artichokes, potatoes, and bacon in alternate layers, season with salt*.441 VEGETABLES .(LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DBESSED mignonette pepper, and paprika, moisten with the wine and stock or consomme, cover the pan and place it in the oven for about half an hour ; baste frequently. When all the ingredients are well cooked remove the fat from the top and send to table very hot in the pan in which they were cooked. 1273. Hissolettes d’Artichauts.—6 preserved artichoke bottoms, 6 preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked ox-tongue, 3 to 4 table- spoonfuls well reduced Allemande (No. 204), veloutee (No. 206), or bechamel (No. 202) sauce, 1 teaspoonful chopped truffle peelings, seasoning, i lb. flour, 6 oz. beef suet, 1 yolk of egg, piquante sauce (No. 241). ' Mince the artichokes, mushrooms, and tongue rather finely. Mix these with the truffles and put them in a stewpan with the white sauce. Stir over the fire till thoroughly hot and spread on a plate to get cool. Free the suet from skin and pass twice through a mincing machine. Make a smooth paste with this and the flour, adding a pinch of salt and enough water to bind. Roll out the paste and stamp out some twenty rounds by means of a paste-cutter. Wet the edges of half the number of rounds of paste, and place a teaspoonful of the prepared mixture in the centre of each. Cover each with another round of paste, close up the edges by pressing them down firmly, trim with a fluted paste-cutter a little smaller than the one first used. Range the rissolettes on a baking sheet about an inch apart from each other, brush over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about twenty minutes. Dish up neatly on a hot dish containing a folded napkin or dish paper, garnish with parsley, and serve with a boat of hot piquante sauce. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1274. Artichauts a l’ltalienne.—Stewed artichokes with brown sauce and chopped mushrooms, previously blended in a little Marsala wine. 1275. Fonds d’Artichauts a la Provencale.—Artichoke bottoms stuffed with onion puree (soubise) stewed and served in a rich brown sauce. 1276. Souffle d’Artichauts a la Lyonnaise.—Green artichoke puree, mixed with chicken souffle mixture, the centre being garnished with champignons puree. Cooked (steamed) in artichoke-shaped moulds and served hot with supreme sauce (No. 210). 1277. Topinambours a la Creme.— Jerusalem artichokes stewed in white cream sauce (No. 306 a). 1278. Topinambours a l’Espagnole.—Jerusalem artichokes stewed and served with brown sauce. 1279. Topinambours a la Georgienne.—Boiled Jerusalem artichokes, sliced, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, fried in butter, dished up, and sprinkled with fresh bread-crumbs and baked a light brown (gratin style).THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 44‘2 1280. Topinambours a l’lndienne.— Stewed Jerusalem artichokes done in curry sauce (No. 261). 1281. Topinambours au Gratin.—Stewed Jerusalem artichokes, sliced or mashed, prepared with white sauce, dished up and baked in gratin style. 1282. How to Prepare Asparagus for Cooking.—Select the asparagus of even size if possible, remove the buds with a sharp- pointed knife, and scrape or peel thinly each shoot from the tips downwards ; cut the stem ends so that they are all of equal length, and put them into a pan of cold water. Carefully wash and strain them, and tie with small bundles of about twelve to fifteen in a bundle. Cut off the bottoms. Keep them in water or in the ice till wanted. Boil in slightly salted water, containing a little lemon-juice, till the soft parts are tender. When once cooked, asparagus should not be left standing in water, as it is apt to turn sour in a very short time- The pan in which asparagus is cooked must be large enough to hold it, and the water must be sufficient to well cover it, and must be boiling before the asparagus is put in. Asparagus usually take from twenty- five to thirty minutes to cook. 1283. Asperges a la Hollandaise.—Prepare and boil the asparagus in the usual way, drain and dish up, and serve them with Hollandaise sauce (No. 208). This may, if liked, be poured over the tips, but it is best handed round in a sauce-boat. 1284. Asperges a I’Indienne.—Cook the asparagus in the usual way, and serve it with a well made mild curry sauce (No. 261). Dress the asparagus on a dish (hot), pour over the sauce, and serve. 1285. Asperges d la Vinaigrette.—Cook the asparagus in water, place it on a sieve, and let it get cold. Dish up and put the dish on the ice till wanted. Serve with a vinaigrette sauce, com- posed of 3 tablespoonfuls of best olive oil, 1 tablespoonful of best French tarragon vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of chilli vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, chervil, and tarragon, 1 teaspoonful of finely chopped gherkins. Season with salt and pepper, mix well, and use as directed. 1286. Asperges an Peurre fondu {Asparagus with Melted Butter).—Prepare the asparagus as usual, and boil in salted water till tender; take up, place them on a sieve to drain, and dish up on a piece of toasted bread, place on folded napkin and dish. Serve with a boat of oiled butter. 1287. Croquettes de Pointes d’Asperges {Asparagus Croquettes).—Cook a pint of asparagus points in salted water till tender, then drain. Put two tablespoonfuls of well reduced Allemande sauce (No. 204) in a stewpan, add half a gill of cream, and allow to get thoroughly hot; incorporate three yolks of eggs, add the asparagus points, season with pepper and grated nutmeg. Cook till the liaison is formed, then spread on to a plate and let cool. Shape into cro-443 VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DBESSED •quettes of even size, egg and crumb them, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Take up, drain, dish up, and serve hot. 1288. Asperges a la Alilanaise.— Dress the cooked asparagus, after being well drained, on toasted bread, on a dish. Arrange them so that all the heads are at one end. Cover the head portions with grated Parmesan cheese mixed with an equal quantity of Gruyere. Melt some fresh butter, season it with salt and pepper, pour this over the cheese-covered part of the asparagus. Place the dish in the oven for a few seconds to take colour, and serve at once. 1289. jPelites Vouchees a la Princesse.—Boil a pint of green asparagus points in salted water ; when done drain on a sieve. Dissolve half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a little grated lemon rind, stir in the asparagus points, season with nutmeg and pepper, also a pinch of sugar, and moisten with a tablespoonful of bechamel sauce (No. 202). Simmer for ten minutes ; just before serving bind the mixture with a yolk of egg previously mixed with a little cream. Stir gently until it sets, but do not let it boil. Fill some small puff-paste bouchee cases with the mixture. Put them in the oven for a few minutes to get hot, then dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve. 1290. Petits Pains aux Asperges.—8 small farthing rolls or little dinner rolls, j pint asparagus points, 1 gill bechamel sauce, (No. 202), 1 tablespoonful cream, 1 yolk of egg, salt and pepper, nutmeg, lemon-juice. Cut the tops off the rolls, scoop out the soft part of the crumb, and place them in the oven to get dry and crisp. Boil the asparagus points in salted water until tender, drain, heat up the sauce, and put in the asparagus; season with pepper and a grate of nutmeg, beat up the yolk with a little cream, and add to the above. Stir gently over the fire, long enough to bind the yolk; lastly, add just a drop or two of lemon-juice, fill up the rolls with this, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with a few sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve hot. 1291. Pointes cV Asperges a la Roy ale.—Cooked asparagus tips, re-heated in a rich Allemande sauce (No. 204) mixed with cooked smoked ox-tongue cut into Julienne shapes (very fine strips) dished up and sprinkled with finely chopped truffles. 1292. Ragout aux Pointes (VAsperges (Steived Asparagus Points).—Cutoff the tops (green part only) of about eighteen sticks of asparagus previously cleaned, boil them in salted water for about twenty minutes, and strain. Put half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, add the tops, toss a little over the fire, moisten with a tablespoonful of bechamel sauce (No. 202) and one' of cream, season with pepper and grated nutmeg, shake continually over the fire until quite hot, and serve.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 444 ABBREVIATED RECIPES 1298. Asperges a la Bernoise.—Freshly boiled asparagus dressed on an oblong dish with alternate layers of grated Gruyere cheese with some finely minced onions fried in butter put on top ; then sprinkle with grated cheese and bread-crumbs. Bake for fifteen minutes in a sharp oven and serve hot. 1294. Asperges a la Nicoise.—Boiled asparagus dished up cold and served with a specially prepared salad-sauce made of sweet oil, hard- boiled egg-yolks passed through a sieve, vinegar, and seasoning. 1295. Asperges au Veloute.—Boiled asparagus finished in veloutee sauce (No. 206). It is best only to cook the soft parts of asparagus for this dish. 1296. Asperges eu Branches a la Bechamel.—Boiled asparagus drained, dished up on toasted bread with bechamel sauce (No. 202) poured over. 1297. Asperges en Branches a la Colbert.—Boiled asparagus drained, dished up on toasted bread. Sauce over with Colbert sauce (No. 253), and serve hot with poached eggs placed on top. 1298. Asperges en Branches a la Piemontaise.—Boiled asparagus dished up on toasted bread covered with grated Parmesan cheese and coated with hot white cream (No. 306 a) sauce. 1299. Asperges en Petits Pois.—Green asparagus points cut very small to resemble peas and boiled. Drain and toss in a little fresh butter, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of caster sugar, dish up, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. 1300. Pointes d’Asperges a l’Argenteuil.— Puree of green asparagus points, mixed with chicken cream farce (cooked) or cooked chicken quenelles, set in asparagus-shaped mould so as to resemble a bundle of asparagus. This dish may be served hot with supreme sauce (No. 210) incorporated and poured round the shape, or cold with aspic (No. 293) incorporated and salad as garnish. 1301. Pointes d’Asperges a la Sevillienne.—Asparagus puree, pre- pared from the heads, points or sprue, filled into an aspic-coated mould mounted with cooked cold asparagus, well masked with aspic. This dish is served cold, and is garnished with a salad of artichoke bottoms in the centre, or round the base of the dish. 1302. Asperges sautees au Beurre.—Boiled asparagus cut into short lengths (soft parts only), seasoned and finished in butter, dished up neatly on a slice of toasted bread. 1303. Aubergines a laLyonnaise.—Baked stuffed aubergines or egg- plants, with fried sliced onions placed on top of each. Serve hot. 1304. Aubergines aux (Eufs I*odies.—3 aubergines, 6 small poached eggs, 1 gill tomato pulp, 1 oz. bread-crumbs, 2 oz. chopped ham, J oz. butter, pepper and salt, chopped parsley.VEGETABLES (.LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 445 Cut the aubergines in halves lengthways, and remove the pips. Cook them till tender in salted water, take up and drain on a sieve. Mix the tomato pulp with the bread-crumbs and ham, warm up with the butter, and reduce a little ; season with pepper and salt and fill the .cavities of the aubergines with this ; put the aubergines on a dish, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and place in a hot oven for 5 minutes. Place one poached egg carefully on each half, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. 1305. Aubergines Anglaises (or Gourgeons) an Gratia (Vegetable Marrow Baked).— 2 small vegetable marrows, 6preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked ham, 2 chicken livers, 1 shallot, 1 oz. butter, % gill brown sauce, bread-crumbs, pepper and salt. Peel the marrows, cut them in halves lengthwise, and cook in salted water until tender ; take up, drain, scoop out the seedy portions. Cut the livers into thin slices, chop the shallot and fry in the butter a golden colour ; add the livers, and toss over the fire for a few minutes; then add the mushrooms, chopped finely, and the ham ; season to taste and moisten with a little sauce. Pill the cavities of the marrows with this, pour a little sauce over each, and place them on a buttered saute-pan. Sprinkle with bread-crumbs, add a few tiny bits of butter here and there, and bake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. Dish up carefully and serve very hot. Great care must be taken not to overcook the aubergines in the first instance, else they will break in dishing up. 1306. Aubergines farcies.—2 medium-sized egg-plants, 2 oz. butter, 6 mushrooms, 2 chopped shallots, 1 oz. lean bacon, 2 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 oz. suet, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 1 egg, salt and pepper, 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Cut the egg-plants lengthwise in twos, remove a portion of the interior to make room for the stuffing. Chop the bacon, mushrooms, and suet finely. Put the butter and bacon in a stewpan; when hot add the shallots, and fry a little ; mix in a basin the suet, parsley, bread-crumbs (previously soaked in a little milk), and Parmesan cheese. Season with pepper and salt; add butter and shallots, also the yolk of an egg, or, if found necessary, the whole egg. Mix well, then put this stuffing in the aubergines. Range them in a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle with a mixture of bread-crumbs and grated cheese, bake in a moderate oven for half an hour or more. Dish up, and serve with demi-glace sauce. 1307. Vegetable Marrow a a Gratia. - Place some nicely boiled and well drained slices of vegetable marrow in a buttered dish, season with salt and pepper, and cover completely with a well reduced white sauce (cold), sprinkle with a mixture of bread-crumbs and grated cheese, place a few tiny bits of butter here and there on top, and bake in a hot oven to brown the surface. 1308. Staffed Vegetable Men-row. — A medium-sizedTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 446 vegetable marrow, 2 tablespoonfuls chopped ham, 2 tablespoonfuls chopped suet, 2 tablespoonfuls bread-crumbs, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 1 egg, pepper and salt, 1 oz. butter. Peel the marrow, cut it in half lengthwise, remove the seeds from the centre. Prepare a marrow stuffing from the above ingredients. Boil the marrow for barely fifteen minutes in salted water, take up, drain and cool, lay the marrow in a buttered tin; put the prepared stuffing in each half, sprinkle over a few bread-crumbs, and place a few tiny bits of butter on top, bake in well heated oven for fifteen minutes, dish up and serve hot. Cucumbers can be cooked in the same way. 1309. Vegetable Marrow (aux Fines Herbes.)—Peel thinly two marrows, cut them in halves longways, remove the seedy portion. Have ready a pan half filled with water slightly salted ; let it boil, put in the marrows and cook till tender, then well bake about twenty minutes. When done take up carefully with a slice and place them on sieve to drain, dish upon a vegetable dish on a slice of toasted bread. Melt about three-quarters of an ounce of butter ; when hot add a small shallot, peeled and finely chopped, _ also a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley, and tarragon and chervil leaves; fry for a few seconds and pour over the marrows. ABBKEVIATED BECIPES. 1310. Betteraves sautees au Beurre. Clove-shaped pieces of cooked beetroot tossed in butter. Seasoned, dished up, and served with a rich gravy or thin tomato sauce. 1311. Betteraves a la Bordelaise.—Thickly sliced cooked beetroot slightly fried in sweet oil, flavoured with chopped onion also fried slightly, and finished in a red wine sauce. 1312. Cardons en Croutons a la Veloute.—Stewed cardoons dressed on bread croutons and served with veloutee sauce (No. 206), which should be handed round in a sauce-boat. 1313. Carottes d la JEterli noise.—1 large bunch of young spring carrots, f pint gravy or rich stock, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful caster sugar, 2 oz. butter, \ gill cream, •§■ gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), seasoning. Wash and scrape or turn the carrots, blanch them in slightly salted water and drain ; melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the carrots and the sugar. Toss over the fire for a few minutes, moisten with the gravy or stock. Cover the pan and allow to simmer gently on top of the stove or in a hot oven for about ten minutes. By this time the liquor should be almost absorbed, or at any rate reduced to a glaze. Season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Add also half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Shake the pan well, so as to thoroughly blend the carrots with the seasoning.447 VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED Butter a pudding basin, sprinkle the buttered part with chopped parsley, and line the basin neatly with carrots ; fill up tightly with the remainder of carrots, place the basin in a hot oven for a few minutes, and turn out quickly on to a hot dish. Heat up the demi-glace sauce, add the cream, season to taste, and pour round the base of the dish. 1314. Carottes a la JBruxelloise.—1 bunch of young spring carrots, 1 oz. bittter, % teaspoonful chopped parsley, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 table spoonfuls cream, salt, pepper, and caster sugar. Trim, wash, and scrape the carrots, cut them into halves or quarters, and blanch them in slightly salted water. Drain them and put them in a stewpan with the butter. Toss them over the fire for a few minutes without allowing them to get brown, then add a gill of good stock, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar, and cook till tender. Mix the yolks of eggs with the cream and pour into the stewpan containing the carrots ; stir till the liaison is formed, then add the parsley (finely chopped), mix thoroughly, and serve very hot. 1315. Carottes farcies a ax -JEpinards.—Z good-sized tender carrots, 4 oz. cooked game, poultry, or rabbit, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, 3 or 4 mushrooms (champignons), 1 tablespoonful bread-crumbs, 1 tablespoonful bechamel (No. 202) or Espagnole (No. 236) sauce, 1 yolk of egg, seasoning, 1 pint spinach puree. Waah and peel thinly the carrots, cut them into two-inch lengths, and pare each to about the same thickness all through. Boil in salted water till nearly tender ; drain and let cool. With a column- cutter stamp out the yellow (centre) part from each. Mince finely the game or poultry, ham or tongue, and mushrooms. Season with chopped parsley, salt, pepper, fine herbs, and grated nutmeg. Moisten with sauce and the egg-yolk. Cook over the fire till hot, then add the bread- crumbs. Fill the cavities of the carrots with this, place them on a buttered saute-pan, and bake for fifteen minutes in a fairly hot oven. Heat up the spinach puree, season to taste, and dress in the shape of a pyramid on a round entree dish ; surround with the baked stuffed carrots, pour a little hot gravy or demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. If liked, a small braised button onion, or a fried button mushroom, can be placed on top of each carrot; this will improve the appearance of the dish, though it is not essential to serve these. 1316. Carottes nouvelles a la Flamande.—l bunch new carrots, 1 oz. butter, ^ pint white stock, \ tablespoonful flour, 2 yolks of eggs, ^ gill cream, a dessertspoonful chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, caster sugar. Wash and scrape the carrots (they should be spring carrots, all one size, if possible), cut them in halves or quarters, trim off a little of the inside and shape neatly, parboil them for ten minutes in salted water, drain them in a collander. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the carrots, season with a little salt, some pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and two pinches of caster sugar, sprinkle them with the-448 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY HOOK flour, toss over the fire for a few minutes. Add the stock and simmer gently for about twenty minutes, skim, and stir occasionally ; when the carrots are done add the yolks of eggs, previously beaten up, also the cream ; stir gently over the fire until the eggs are set, then dish up neatly on a hot dish, besprinkle with finely-chopped parsley* garnish with a few croutons of fried bread, and serve. 1317. Souffles aux Carottes.—^ pint of puree of young carrots, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. of flour, 3 eggs, a pinch of caster sugar, salt, pepper, nutmeg, cayenne. To make the carrot puree boil the red part of young carrots in stock or slightly salted water ; rub through a fine sieve when tender. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, stir, and cook a little without burning the flour ; put in the carrot puree and let it come to the boil. Season to taste ; separate the whites of eggs from the yolks; put the former, in an egg-bowl and work the latter, one at a time, into the hot puree. Whisk the whites of egg to a stiff froth and mix gradually into the puree. Fill some buttered Ramakin cases with this mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Serve hot. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1318. Carottes a la Bechamel.- -Boiled carrots cut into neat shapes and finished in a rich white sauce (No. 202). 1319. Carottes a la Bourgeoise. Parboiled new carrots (pared or turned), drained, seasoned and finished in well reduced white stock with a little fresh butter, thickened with a small quantity of flour and butter. 1320. Carottes a l’Espagnole.—Parboiled new carrots (pared and split in two or four), finished in rich white stock, Espagnole sauce (No. 236), flavoured with a little caster sugar, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and fresh butter. 1321. Carottes a la Lilloise.—Pared new carrots cut into thick round slices, cooked in a little water with fresh butter and sugar to season; when done a liaison of egg-yolks, butter, cream, bechamel sauce (No. 202), and chopped parsley is added. 1322. Carottes a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Parboiled new carrots (pared and cut into quarters), drained, seasoned, cooked in white stock thickened with veloutee sauce (No. 206), fresh butter, a little sugar and chopped parsley, served with fried bread croutons placed round the dish. 1323. Carottes a la Poulette.— Boiled young carrots, neatly trimmed or turned, finished in white sauce (Poulette, No. 207) containing finely chopped parsley. 1324. Celeri a la Deml-f/lace (Stewed Celery in Brown Sauce).—4 heads of celery, 2 oz. butter, salt, and pepper, about H gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), a little stoch, toasted bread.VEGETABLES {LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 449 Pare the heads and roots of the celery, remove the green parts, cut them into even lengths (three to four inches), and wash thoroughly in salted water. Drain well on a cloth, put them in a saute-pan with the butter divided into little bits and a ladleful of white stock; cover with buttered paper, and let cook slowly for half an hour. Season with salt and pepper ; add the sauce, and put the pan in the oven for thirty minutes. Take up the celery, dress it on toasted bread slices on a hot dish, reduce the sauce, take off the fat, and pour over the celery. 1325. Souffles de Celeri {Celery Souffles).—^ lb. of the white part of celery, H gill milk, ^ bay-leaf, a small blade mace, 1 slice onion, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, pepper, celery salt, 3 eggs, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. Trim and wash the celery, cut it into slices, blanch in salted water, and drain. Put the milk, celery, bay leaf, mace, and onion in a stewpan and boil till tender, remove the mace and bay leaf, and pass the celery through a fine sieve. Put a gill of water and the butter in a stewpan, add a pinch of celery salt, and stir in the flour as soon as the water boils, work vigorously with a wooden spoon for several minutes over the fire, put in the celery puree, and let cool a little. Add the grated cheese. Stir in the yolks of two eggs and one whole egg ; this must be done gradually. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and mingle with the mixture, season with a little cayenne or Nepaul pepper. Three parts fill some paper or china Eamakin or souffle cases. Bake in a hot oven for about ten minutes, arrange the cases on a dish with folded napkin, and serve immediately. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1326. Celeri a la Fermiere. — Prepared celery heads cut into neat pieces, parboiled and drained, seasoned, stewed in stock with a layer of lean pork, finished in a rich brown sauce ; dished up alternately with celery heads and slices of pork. Pour the sauce over and round the dish. 1327. Celeri a la Genevoise.'—Prepared celery heads cut into neat pieces, parboiled, drained, seasoned with pepper, salt, and grated nut- meg, stewed in a saute-pan, with layers of fat bacon and stock. When done drain, range in a baking dish, sauce over with veloutee sauce (No. 206), sprinkle with bread-crumbs and Parmesan cheese, and bake in the oven till the surface is nicely browned. 1328. Celeri a l’ltalienne.—Parboiled celery heads, drained, seasoned, and stewed in rich broth or stock, covered with a layer of thin slices of bacon, served with Italienne sauce (No. 239). The bacon should be served with the celery. 1329. Celeri an Veloute.—Stewed celery finished with veloutee sauce (No. 206), with which a little fresh butter has been incor- porated. G GTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 450 1330. Celeri frit a la Tomate.—Boiled celery (cut into four-inch lengths) drained and seasoned. Dipped in frying batter and fried in hot fat. Dish up and serve with tomato sauce (No. 271). 1331. Puree de Celeri aux Croutons.—Mashed celery, passed through a sieve, seasoned with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a little sugar, mixed with a liaison of well-reduced bechamel sauce (No. 202) and fresh butter, and served with triangular-shaped slices of fried bread (croutons). 1332. Cepes farcis au Jus.—Stuffed cepes (a species of mushroom) moistened with gravy and cooked in the oven. Dished up and served with its own gravy, seasoned and freed from grease. 1333. Cepes d la Jiordelaise.—Cepes, or ceps, are a kind of edible mushroom of a yellowish colour; they are largely cultivated in the province and district of Bordeaux, and are imported to this country in a preserved state, generally in oil or in water (au natuel). 1333 a. Cepes d VHaile.—Cepes have a most agreeable and nutty flavour, and make an excellent vegetable. Side dish or savoury. To prepare a dish of ‘ cepes a la Bordelaise ’ mince very finely two small cloves of garlic, fry this in a saute-pan with a couple of tablespoonfuls of sweet oil (huile de Provence) a pale colour, then pour off the oil and add about an ounce of butter ; when hot pour in a pint can of preserved cepes (previously drained), sprinkle with finely chopped parsley, season with pepper and salt, and toss quickly the pan over a brisk fire for about ten minutes; squeeze over a few drops of lemon-juice, moisten with some hot Bordelaise sauce (No. 249), and serve hot. 1334. Champignons d la lie charnel.— 5 medium-sized xohite cup mushrooms, 5 eggs, 1 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful flour, 1 gill milk, toasted bread, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Wash, peel, and trim the mushrooms, put them in a saute-pan with sufficient water, boil up and drain on a cloth, mix the butter and flour together, put it in the saute-pan with the milk ; when hot lay in the mushrooms, heads downwards, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, and allow to simmer for about ten minutes. Have ready the five eggs, boiled hard, peel them, cut round the lower part of the white, and remove the upper part, so as to show the yolks; stamp out five rounds of toasted bread, a little larger than the mush- rooms, butter each round, and place the mushrooms upon them ; put one egg-yolk in the centre of each, strain the sauce, and pour carefully round the eggs; serve hot. If the sauce is found too thick add a tablespoonful of white stock or cream. 1335. Champignons farcis.—Peel a dozen large button or small cup mushrooms (fresh), remove the stalks. Prepare a stuffing con- sisting of ten preserved mushrooms, chopped fine, fried in two ounces of butter; add two shallots, chopped fine, a dessertspoonful of chopped451 VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED parsley, and a tablespoonful of chopped ham; season to taste; mix well. Fill the mushrooms with this, place them stuffed sides up on a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle the surface with soft bread-crumbs and grated cheese, add a few drops of oiled butter, bake for ten minutes in a quick oven, dish up, and serve. 1336. Champignons a la Diable.— Proceed the same as above, adding a tablespoonful of curry paste and a good pinch of cayenne to the mixture above described ; scoop out a portion of the head of each mushroom, fill up with the stuffing, place (stuffing upwards) in a buttered saute-pan or in small buttered earthenware souffle cases, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and grated cheese, bake in a quick oven for ten minutes, dish up, and serve. 1337. Champignons a la Montglas (Mushrooms, Montglas Style).—Prepare some nouille paste, roll it out as thinly as possible, and line the two parts of six or eight mushroom moulds with the paste. The moulds must be well greased and the paste must be well pressed in, or else the paste will not come out perfect. Fill the moulds with uncooked rice or dried peas, and bake a light brown colour. Unmould while hot, and place them on a sieve. Peel and wash a basket of cup or button mushrooms, remove the stalks, and chop the mushroom heads finely. Melt down two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, and fry in it two finely chopped shallots. Add the chopped mushroom and fry a little. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Moisten with white sauce (bechamel maigre, No. 203), and let cook till reduced to a puree. About ten minutes before serving fill the two halves of mushroom moulds with the prepared puree, join the two parts so as to make them look like mushrooms. Dish up on a folded serviette, garnish with parsley, and serve with a boat of tomato sauce (No. 271), or cucumber sauce (No. 284). 1338. Stewed Mushrooms.—lb. fresh mushrooms, 1 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 gill tomato {No. 271) or brown sauce, dressing. Peel the mushrooms, trim the stalks, and fry them in the butter for five minutes; season with pepper and salt. Add the sauce, and simmer gently for another ten minutes. Dish up on a hot dish, sprinkle over with parsley, and serve hot. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1339. Champignons a la Bordelaise.—-Fresh mushrooms washed and peeled, cooked in butter over a brisk fire, seasoned with cayenne pepper, and finished with demi-glace sauce, mixed with chopped shallots, previously fried in butter, and chopped parsley. 1340. Champignons a la Piemontaise.—Broiled or grilled fresh mushrooms, cut into slices, finished in a sauce composed of melted butter, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley. 1341. Champignons a la Provencale.—Fresh button mushroomsTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 452 fried in oil, drained, and finished in a rich gravy sauce containing chopped shallots, a clove of crushed garlic, chopped parsley, and lemon juice, seasoned with cayenne pepper and served with croutons arranged round the dish. 1342. Champignons aux Fines Herbes.—Sauted mushrooms in butter, and finished in a rich brown sauce containing finely chopped savoury herbs. 1343. Champignons au Gratin.—Washed and peeled mushrooms seasoned with grated ham, chopped parsley, herbs, shallots, &c., dished on a greased gratin dish, sauced with a well-buttered Madere sauce (No. 237 a) ; sprinkled over with bread-crumbs, and bake in a very hot oven for twenty minutes. 1344. Champignons Farcis a la Napolitaine.—Fresh cup mush- rooms washed and peeled, stuffed with a mixture of celery, garlic, shallots, and parsley, all chopped fine, grated Parmesan cheese, and bread-crumbs. Range on a buttered baking sheet, sprinkle with fresh crumbs and cheese and a few drops of sweet oil, and bake in a hot oven. Serve with a well-seasoned (No. 237) demi-glace sauce. 1345. Choux-Maves a la Creme.—8 small kohl-rabis (turnip-rooted cabbage), 1 oz. butter, ^ gill Allemande (No. 204) or veloutee (No. 206) sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, salt, white pepper, nutmeg, ^ pint white stock. Pare the kohl-rabis, cut into quarters, or, if large, into six equal parts. Blanch them in salted water, plunge them in cold water, and drain. Put the butter in a stewpan, and when hot lay in the blanched kohl-rabis, toss them over the fire for a few minutes (they must not take colour), moisten with the stock, let it come to the boil, take off the scum, put in the sauce, and cook gently until tender (a little more stock or sauce may be added if found necessary); finish with the cream, and add the seasoning. Dish up in a deep vegetable dish, and serve. Great care should be taken so as not to let this vegetable boil again after the cream is added. 1346. Chottx-Mouge au Petit Lard (Bed Cabbage).—1 red cabbage, 2 small onions stuck with a clove, 2 small apples peeled and cored, 4 slices of streaky bacon, 2 oz. butter, 1 glass claret, 1 dessertspoonful flour, pint stock, seasoning. Trim and wash the cabbage, cut into fine shreds, the same as is done for pickling, cut the apples into slices, cut the bacon into small pieces. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the bacon, and fry a little, then add the cabbage, apples, and onions, stir well, sprinkle in a dessertspoonful of flour, and moisten with the claret and stock. Cook for an hour over the fire, then season with salt and pepper, cover, and place it in a hot oven for another hour. When ready for serving take out the onions. This dish can be served with any kind of roast or braised meat, poultry, or game.VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 453 1347. Chou-de-Mer d la Creme (Seahale with Cream Sauce.)—1 baked seakale, 1 lemon, 1 dessertspoonful flour, 1 gill cream, 2 eggs, salt and pepper, 1 tablespoonful white sauce. Trim and wash the seakale, pat it in a basin with enough water to cover, and add a good pinch of salt. Half fill a convenient-sized stewpan with water, add the juice of half a lemon and the flour, previously mixed into a paste with a little water (flour and lemon juice are used to preserve the whiteness of the seakale). Season with salt and boil up. Place in the seakale, tied up in bundles, and cook till tender. Take up, drain, and dish up on a piece of toasted bread. Whisk the cream, the sauce, and egg-yolks in a stewpan over the fire till hot, not boiling, add a teaspoonful of lemon-juice and enough salt and pepper to season. Pour this over the heads of the seakale and serve at once. 1348. Chou-de-Mer glace d la Creme (Bed Seakale with Cream Sauce).—Cook the seakale in the usual way, as described in the foregoing recipe. When cold place it in a tin and bury it in the ice for about two hours. Prepare the cream sauce as directed in the above recipe, and keep it in the ice till wanted. Dish up the seakale on a cold dish, mix the cold sauce with a tablespoonful of stiff mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), and pour over the seakale. This is a most delicious dish for lunch or supper. 1349. Choux-de-Mer d la Florentine (Seakale, Florentine Style).—Trim and wash a basket of seakale ; cook it in plenty of salted water and the juice of one lemon. When done take up and drain on a sieve. Put a slice of toasted bread on a dish, arrange the cooked seakale nicely upon this. Sauce over carefully with a layer of well reduced bechamel sauce; sprinkle over some grated cheese (equal quantities of Parmesan and Gruyere). Season with white pepper and a pinch or two of paprika and cayenne. Pour over a few drops of melted butter and dredge lightly with a few bread-crumbs. Place the dish in a very hot oven long enough to brown the top. Serve at once as vegetable entremets or savoury. 1350. Chou-de-Mer d la Hollandaise (Seakale with Hollandaise Sauce).—Wash, pare and trim a basket of seakale, put a tablespoonful of flour in a stewpan (large enough to hold the kale), dilute with water, place in it the seakale, add more water to cover, and salt to taste. Boil till tender. Take up, drain well, and dish up. Sauce over with Hollandaise sauce (No. 208), and serve. 1351. Choux d la Lilloise.—Small portions of parboiled cabbage, drained, slightly pressed, and fried in butter, seasoned with chopped onions, parsley, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Dished up and served with a suitable brown gravy. 1352. Choux farcis au Jieurre.—2 medium-sized cabbages, i lb. mushrooms, 1 lb. fat bacon, ^ lb. fresh bread-crumbs, 4 yolks of eggs, ijr lb. sausage-meat, 2 oz. of butter, 1 onion, 1 clove, chopped454 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK parsley, pepper, salt, die., 1 quart of stock, 1 gill brown sauce, No. 236). Remove the loose leaves from the cabbages, trim and wash well, plunge into cold water containing salt and a small piece of soda or moist sugar, parboil it for fifteen minutes, strain and cool in fresh water, press them gently, cut in twos lengthways, remove the stalky parts, and put the cabbages on a cloth. Prepare a stuffing with the sausage-meat, the mushrooms finely chopped, the bread-crumbs, about a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, and the egg-yolks ; season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Mix also an ounce of butter with this preparation, and fill the centre part of the cabbages with this. Shape them neatly, enfold them in thinly cut slices of fat bacon, tie carefully with string, place them in a stewpan or deep saute-pan, add the stock, a small onion stuck with a clove, and an ounce of butter * set it in the oven, and let braise gently for about an hour and a half ; baste from time to time. Drain the cabbages, remove the fat, and dish up. Take the fat off the gravy, add the brown sauce, and reduce to half-glaze; strain over the cabbages, and serve. 1353. Choux-Itaves a la Menagere. — Peel some kohl-rabis (a species of turnip), cut each in quarters and pare neatly (olive shapes), blanch and drain. Cook them in nut-brown butter and finish stewing in a light brown sauce ; season and serve. 1354. Choux de Bruxelles sautes an Jieuvre (Brussels Sprouts).—Trim and wash one pound of Brussels sprouts ; boil them in salted water in the usual manner. When done take up, drain, and let them get cool. Melt an ounce and a half of fresh butter in a saute or frying pan; put in the sprouts, season with pepper and a pinch of grated nutmeg, toss the sprouts in the pan over a bright fire for about ten minutes, dish up, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley,, and serve. 1355. Chou-fleur a, la Polonaise.—Trim, wash, and drain a nice rigid cauliflower, divide it into separate and even-sized buds or flowerets, pare the stalks, rinse them again. Cook in salted water till they are about three parts done. Pour off the water, add an ounce of fresh butter, season with pepper and grated nutmeg, and finish in the oven. Dish up as neatly as possible on a hot vegetable- dish (round dish in preference), give the buds a kind of dome shape in dressing them, sprinkle over some nicely fried brown bread-crumbs, and serve. 1356. Chou-fleur an Gratia.—I cauliflower, H oz. butter, 5 oz. corn flour, i pint milk, 1^ oz. grated cheese, salt, pepper, nut- meg, bread-crumbs. Trim and wash the cauliflower, cook it till tender in slightly salted water, drain it well, and let cool. Melt one ounce’of butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, cook a little, dilute with the milk, and let boil for ten minutes; season to taste, add one ounce grated cheese. Press the cauliflower into shape. Put a teaspoonful of the sauce on the dishVEGETABLES {LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 455 intended for serving. Place the cauliflower upon this. Sauce over carefully with the remainder of the sauce. Sprinkle over the remainder of the cheese and a few bread-crumbs, place four bits of butter here and there, and brown in the oven. 1357. Beignets de Chou-fleur {Cauliflower Fritters).— Divide a.cooked cold cauliflower into sprigs, dip each floweret into some cold thick white sauce (bechamel or veloutee); see .that the sauce is well seasoned. When the sauce is set dip the pieces of cauliflower into a light frying batter, and drop them one by one into hot fat. Fry a golden colour, then take up, drain, sprinkle with fine salt and a pinch of paprika pepper, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve quickly. 1358. Concomhres a la Creme.—2 cucumbers, 1 oz. butter, i gill cream, 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar, salt, pepper, nutmeg, chopped parsley. Peel the cucumber as thinly as possible, split each in two length- ways and remove the seeds, then cut the pieces in cubes of even size. Cook them in salted water for fifteen minutes, take up, and drain on a sieve. Put the cooked cucumber in a saute-pan with the butter, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, add the sugar and the cream, and bring to the boil; shake the pan well during this process. Dish up, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve hot. 1359. Beignets de Concomhres.—Peel thinly a medium-sized cucumber, cut it into |-inch slices, remove the centre portion by means of a column-cutter. Blanch the slices in slightly salted water for ten minutes and drain on a sieve. Place them on a saute-pan or flat dish, and fill the centre with some liver forcemeat or salpicon of ham. This is best done by the use of a large forcing-bag with a plain tube attached. Prepare a nice light frying batter and let it stand till wanted. Dip each cucumber cube into the frying batter ; see that it is completely coated with batter, then fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain carefully, sprinkle with fine salt and a little cayenne or paprika pepper, dish up neatly, and serve hot. 1360. JJarioles de Concomhres a la Mena.—1 medium- sized cucumber, ^ oz. of butter, 2 eggs, 1 gill stock, a few drops spinach dressing, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, 1 tablespoonful cream, 1 small truffle, tomato sauce {No. 271). Peel the cucumber thinly, cut it in half lengthways, remove the seed part, cut up the remainder into pieces and put it into a stewpan with the butter. Stir over a brisk fire for a few minutes, then add about a gill of stock and a pinch of salt; cook till tender, then rub it through a fine sieve. Beat up the eggs and strain this into the above pulp; colour it with a few drops of spinach greening, to give it a greenish tint; season with pepper, nutmeg, and salt to taste, and mix well. Have ready some buttered dariole moulds, garnish the bottom of each with a star-shaped slice of truffle, fill each mould with the456 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK prepared custard and poach till quite firm. Unmould on to a hot dish, -sauce over with tomato sauce, and serve. 1861. Concombre farci (Staffed Cucumber).—Select a large cucumber and cut it into pieces about two inches long. Take out the centre with a cutter and fill it with sausage-meat. Braise the cucumber slowly for about twenty minutes. Dish the pieces up on croutons of fried bread brushed over with glaze. Have some round pieces of ham and truffle and put on as lids, and pour brown sauce (or white, if preferred) round. A few tomatoes cm gratin placed round the dish will greatly add to the appearance and success of this entree. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1362. Concombres a l’Espagnole.—Parboiled cucumbers cut into quarters, drained, fried in butter, and served with Espagnole sauce (No. 236), dished up in pyramidal form. 1363. Concombres a ITtalienne.—Cucumbers stuffed with a mixture of sausage-meat, chopped mushrooms, and savoury herbs, braised, cut crosswise into inch-thick pieces, ranged in layers on a dish, sprinkled with Parmesan cheese, and sauced over with hot veloutee sauce (No. 206). 1364. Puree de Concombres.—Mashed cucumbers cooked in stock, drained, and passed through a sieve, blended with a little bechamel sauce (No. 202), seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little sugar. Be-heat and serve hot. 1365. Petits Souffles aux . Epinards.—2 lbs. spinach, 4 eggs, 1 oz. butter, \ gill cream, cayenne pepper and salt, 10 paper souffle cases. Wash and pick the spinach leaves, cook them until tender in plenty of boiling water (salted); it usually takes about twenty minutes. When done drain, plunge into cold water to cool, then press out all the moisture, and rub through a fine sieve. Put the butter in a stewpan; when hot add the spinach puree, season with a good pinch of cayenne and salt, if needed ; stir over the fire till hot, separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, work in three yolks, one at a time, remove from the fire before it boils, whip up the cream, and add to the mixture when cool. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir in as lightly as possible. Have ready the souffle cases, each fastened with a band of buttered white paper, about an inch broad ; pour in the souffle mixture, about three parts full, and bake in a moderately heated oven for fifteen minutes. Dish up, take off the bands, and serve as hot as possible. Note.—It is rather difficult to give the exact quantity of spinach for this dish, because some spinach requires more trimming than other, but when cooked there should be about a pint of it.VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 457 1366. Epinards a la Bechamel.—Pick and wash about three pounds of spinach, boil it in salted water, rinse and cool in cold water; press out the wqter, and pass the spinach through a wire sieve, or chop it very fine ; melt in a stewpan two ounces of butter, add one ounce of flour, stir over the fire for a few minutes, add the spinach, also one gill of fresh cream and a small ladleful of bechamel sauce (No. 202) ; season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, stir until thoroughly hot, stand in the bain-marie. When wanted dish up on a deep round or oval dish, smooth the surface with a knife, and garnish with fancifully cut croutons of fried bread or fleurons. 1367. JEpinards a la Colbert.—Puree of spinach, served with neatly trimmed poached eggs on top ; garnish with fried croutons of bread or fleurons of puff paste. 1368. JEpinards aux (Eufs d la Vert-Bre (Spinach and Eggs with Green Sauce).—Wash and pick about two pounds of spinach. Cook it in salted water till tender and drain. Eub it through a sieve. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, and fry in it half a small onion, finely chopped; when a pale brown add a dessertspoonful of flour and fry a little longer, then put in the spinach puree and a large tablespoonful of cream. Season to taste and cook for about fifteen minutes. Poach four eggs and trim them neatly. Press the spinach into a well buttered flat timbale or charlotte mould and turn out on a hot dish. Place the poached eggs on top of this. Sauce over with a sauce vert-pre (No. 282), and pour a little rich gravy round the base of the dish. Serve at once. 1369- Friandi/nes aux Epinards.—Prepare and cook in the usual way about a pound of spinach, rub it through a fine sieve. Melt an ounce of butter, and fry in it two finely chopped shallots, add the spinach, sprinkle in a dessertspoonful of flour, stir well, season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. If found too thick add a tablespoonful of cream. Cook for ten minutes, and spread on to a plate to cool. Eoll out some puff paste or rough puff paste. Stamp out some rounds with a two-inch paste-cutter, wet the edges of half of them, and put about a dessertspoonful of spinach in the centre of each. Cover them with the other rounds of paste, and press down the edges neatly. Dip each in beaten egg and cover with panurette or ordinary bread-crumbs. Fry in hot fat or clarified butter a golden colour. Drain them on a cloth or paper ; dish up in the form of a pyramid. Garnish with fried parsley and serve hot. 1370. jRavioles aux Epinards (Spinach Bavioles).—2 lbs. spinach, 1 oz. butter, 1 shallot, 1 tablespoonful flour, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, salt and pepper. For ravioles \ lb. flour, 1 oz. butter, 2 yolks of egg, tomato sauce (No. 271), grated cheese. Pick and wash the spinach in several waters, put it in a stewpan with very little water and salt. Cook till quite tender and rub it through a fine sieve. Melt one ounce of butter in another stewpan, add the shallot, finely chopped, and fry for a few moments, without458 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK letting it get brown. Add the flour (a level tablespoonful), fry a few minutes, put in the spinach, and stir well, moisten with the cream, and season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Mix thoroughly and cook gently for ten minutes. Put it on a plate to allow to cool. Prepare a fairly stiff paste with the flour lb.), one ounce butter, and two yolks of eggs; add very little milk, if necessary also a pinch of salt. Knead the paste well. Roll out very thinly. Stamp out some rounds (2 to 2| inches in diameter). Place a table- spoonful of spinach on a round of paste, brush the edge with egg or water, and place another round of paste on top. Seal the edges well, and continue thus till all the paste and spinach is used up. Drop the prepared ravioles in a stewpan of boiling and salted water, and cook for fifteen minutes. Drain them on a sieve, dish up, sprinkle with grated cheese, cover with tomato sauce and more cheese, bake in a hot oven for a few minutes, and send to table very hot. 1371. Butter Beans.—1 pint butter beans, 2 oz. butter, 5 yolks of eggs, 1 gill of rich stock, 1 tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, a few drops lemon-juice, seasoning. Soak the beans in water over night or longer. Simmer gently in slightly salted water for three hours. Strain the beans and keep them hot. Melt the butter in a stewpan, allow it to cool a little, then add the yolks of eggs and the vinegar, lemon juice, and stock. Stir these ingredients briskly over the fire until thickened. Re-heat the butter beans in this; season to taste. Dish up on a hot vegetable dish and serve. 1372. Haricots panaches a la Boulette.—± pint cooked kidney beans, £ pint cooked flageolets (both these can be procured in tins or bottles), 1 oz. butter, ^ gill poulette sauce (No. 207), salt and pepper. Drain the vegetables, cut the beans into short pieces ; melt the butter in a saute-pan; when hot put in the French beans and flageolets. Season to taste, and toss over the fire for about five minutes; now add the sauce, which should be hot. Allow the vege- tables to get thoroughly hot in the sauce, dish up, and send to table. 1373. Haricots Verts a l’Albion.—String one and a half pound of French beans, cut them into lozenge shapes, and boil in plenty of salted water till tender. Drain them and let them cool. Melt one and a half ounce of butter in a saute-pan, add the beans and saute (toss) them for a few minutes. Season with pepper, add the juice of half a lemon, half a tablespoonful of meat-glaze, and a tablespoonful of veloutee sauce (No. 206) or bechamel (No. 202). Mix the whole thoroughly and let it get quite hot. Dish up, piled up high, and garnish with triangular-shaped fried bread croutons and quarters of artichoke bottoms, previously sauted in butter. Sprinkle the beans with finely chopped parsley, and serve hot. 1374. Haricots Verts sautes.—These can either be served in the centre of a dish of veal cutlets (escalopes) or separately.459 VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DBESSED Select about half a pound of small French beans, prepare them, and boil till tender in salt water; drain and let cool. Melt about one and a half ounce of butter in a saute-pan, add the beans, season with a pinch of pepper, a pinch of nutmeg (grated), and a pinch of caster sugar. Toss well over the fire until the beans are thoroughly hot, sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley, and serve as directed. 1375. Flageolets a la Foulette.—H pint French flageolet beans, 1^ oz. butter, ^ gill white sauce, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper and salt, 1 tablespoonful cream. Put the flageolets in a stewpan, with a little salt and half an ounce of butter, add a quart of water, and cook till tender (if preserved flageolets are used, boil only for a couple of minutes). Drain in a colander, and put them while hot in a saute-pan with one ounce of butter ; toss over the fire for a few minutes, then add the white sauce, chopped parsley, and cream. Season with pepper and salt. Mix well by tossing, not stirring. Cook for a few minutes longer. Dish up, and serve hot. 1376. Haricot Feans.—\ pint haricot beans, 2 oz. streaky bacon, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, H oz. dripping or butter, Jr gill stock or gravy, pepper and salt. Soak the beans for twelve hours ; put them in as much cold water as will cover them, and boil for two hours, or until they are soft; drain the water from them, melt the butter or dripping in the saucepan, fry in it the bacon cut into small dice ; put in the cooked beans, and enough salt and pepper to season, and the chopped parsley; moisten with the stock or gravy, place the pan on the fire or in the oven and reheat. Shake the pan occasionally to prevent the beans burning. Serve on a hot dish. 1377. Laitues braisees au Jus.—6 lettuces,6slicesfatbacon, 1 small onion, parsley and herbs, about 1 gill of stock (brown), 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), salt and pepper. Choose the lettuces of even size (not too large), take off the greenest leaves, pare, parboil, cool, press out the water, but keeping them in shape. Lay them in a buttered saute-pan, season with salt and pepper, cover with slices of bacon, slices of onion, a few sprigs of parsley, and some savoury herbs, if handy, and, say, half a bayleaf, a sprig of thyme, and a sprig of marjoram. Moisten with stock. Set to boil, and braise in the oven for about an hour and a quarter. Take out the lettuces, strain on a sieve, pare, shape them neatly, and dish up. Remove fat &c. from the liquid. Add the demi-glace, reduce well, strain, and sauce over the lettuces. 1378. Fains de Laitues.—8 firm cabbage lettuces, 2 oz. butter, | oz. flour, 3 eggs, ^ gill rich gravy, Jr gill double cream, ^ gill Madeira sauce (No. 237 a), salt, pepper, nutmeg. Trim and wash the lettuces. Boil fa*t till tender in slightly salted water. Drain, squeeze out the moisture, and chop them very finely.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 4G0 Melt 1£ oz. butter in a stewpan, add the flour, stir for a few minutes to cook the flour, then add the minced lettuces, moisten with the gravy, stir with a wooden spoon till the whole simmers, cook for a few minutes, remove the pan from the fire and let cool a little ; next add by degrees the yolks of three eggs and the whites of two, also the cream. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Fill up some well buttered dariole or timbale moulds. Stand them in a saute-pan half filled with boiling water, and poach in the oven for thirty to thirty-five minutes. Unmould on a hot dish and serve with sauce Madere. 1379. JMarrons au Jus {Stewed Chestnuts).—1^ lb. chestnuts, 1 quart stock, 1 small blade mace, 1 piece of celery, 1 small onion, peeled and stuck with a clove, ^ gill brown sauce, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. meat glaze, the juice of | lemon, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Slit the chestnuts and put them in the oven for about ten minutes, then remove the outer husks. Parboil the chestnuts in slightly salted water for about 20 minutes, drain, and remove the inner skin. When peeled put them in a stewpan with the stock, the mace, celery, and onion, and boil till quite tender ; it will probably take from thirty to forty-five minutes. When quite done, i.e. mealy, pour off the stock, drain the chestnuts and return them to the stewpan ; add the butter and toss or saute them over a brisk fire, taking great care so as not to break the chestnuts. Pour off the butter, take out the onion, mace, and celery. Add the meat glaze and the sauce ; when hot put in the lemon juice, season to taste, dish up, and serve hot. 1380. Puree d’Oseille.—Wash and pick about 1 lb. of sorrel, boil till tender in salted water, strain well, and rub through a fine sieve. Melt ^ oz. butter in a stewpan, add a dessertspoonful of flour, cook a little, and add the sorrel; moisten with a gill of cream or stock, season with pepper and salt, stir and cook until it has the desired consistency. Sorrel puree makes a very nice garnish for fricandeau of veal, veal cutlets, paupiettes, poached eggs, &c. If served with the latter the dish should be garnished with croutes of fried or toasted bread. 1381. Puree de JSTavets au Gratin.—2 lbs. young turnips, 3 oz. butter, £ oz. flour, 1 gill bechamel sauce {No. 202), ^ pint rich stock, 1 medium-sized onion, salt, pepper, nutmeg, bread-crumbs. Wash, peel, and slice the turnips, put them into cold water with a little salt. Peel and blanch the onion, chop it finely, then cook for ten minutes in an ounce of butter; add the turnips, previously drained. Stir the whole over a slow fire for about fifteen minutes. Melt an ounce of butter, add the flour, and cook a little without browning, moisten with the stock and boil up while stirring, cook for ten minutes. Now mix both the turnips and thickened stock and let simmer for about half an hour. Pass all through a sieve, season to taste with a pinch of sugar, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Arrange in a pile on a gratin dish. Mask with the white sauce, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and divide the remainder of butter in little bits onVEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DBESSED 461 top. Bake for ten to fifteen minutes in a hot oven and serve very- hot. 1382. Petits Paniers a la Jardiniere£ lb. short paste, ^ pint of macedoine of vegetables, oil and vinegar, % lemon, 1 table- spoonful aspic jelly, 1 small truffle, pepper and salt. Line eight small patty pans with the paste, shape some twisted slips of paste, bake them and fasten each end crossways with some yolk of egg and flour mixed to the sides of the patty pan. Fill up the interior of the patty pans with raw rice, bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes, turn out the rice, and set them to cool. Have ready some cooked macedoine of vegetables, drain well on a cloth, season with a little oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, moisten with a table- spoonful of aspic, fill the baked crust with the moisture. Mask the surface of each with aspic, ornament with fancy shapes of lemon-rind or truffles, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley. Dish up and serve. The remnants of truffle can be mixed with the macedoine. 1383. Petits Pols (Green Peas).—Shell the peas, put them into a saucepan with boiling water to which salt and a small quantity of moist sugar has been added ; there should only be just enough water to well cover the peas. Let them boil quickly ; the stewpan should not be covered ; when done drain on a colander or sieve, put them on a hot vegetable dish, place a few small pieces of butter on top, and serve. A few sprigs of green mint added to the water will improve the flavour of the peas. 1384. Petits Pols d la Basquaise (Green Peas Basque Style).—1 quart green peas, 2 tender cabbage lettuces, 1 small onion, 1 small bunch parsley, 1 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful flour, salt, sugar, and pepper. Trim and wash the lettuces, cut them into fine shreds, and put them into a saucepan with the peas, onion, and parsley, add sufficient salt to flavour, also a lump of loaf sugar. Add enough cold water to well cover the contents of the pan. Cover it and cook for about twenty-five minutes over a good fire. (A small piece of soda may be added,' if liked, to retain the green colour of the peas, but is not essential.) Remove the parsley and onion. Mix the butter with the flour and knead it. Add this to the peas, cook for another ten minutes, season with a pinch of pepper and more salt if needed, dish up, and serve. A few fleurons of puff pastry may be placed round the dish if liked. 1385. Petits Pols a la Bomaine (Green Peas with Lettuce).—■ 1 pint cooked green peas, 1 button onion, 1 small cabbage lettuce, 1 oz. butter, a feio sprigs parsley tied in a bunch, a saltspoonful caster sugar, \ teaspoonful flour, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Peel and blanch the onions, drain them, and chop very finely. Wash and trim the lettuce, and cut the white leaves into very fine shreds. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the onions, and fry a pale golden colour, then add the shredded lettuce and fry with the onions for a462 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK few minutes. Now add the peas and the parsley, stir or toss carefully for several minutes over a moderate fire, sprinkle over the flour, moisten with a few drops of water, season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Ad'd also the sugar. Allow to simmer very gently for ten minutes, remove the parsley, and serve. 1386. Petits Pois au Bear re (Green Peasfor Centre of Cutlets). —Put about a pint of freshly gathered shelled peas in a stewpan with a pint of boiling water, add a sprig of green mint, a teaspoonful of salt, and | teaspoonful of moist sugar, and boil till tender. Str’ain the water from the peas, add a couple of pats of fresh butter, a good pinch of caster sugar, and a pinch of pepper; toss over the fire for a few minutes, remove the mint, and serve as directed. 1887. Cornets aux Petits Pois.—Roll out some puff or rough paste one-eighth of an inch thick, cut it into even-sized strips, about an inch wide, and wrap this round as many cornet moulds as may be required. Grease the moulds slightly, and wet the end of the edge of the paste a little, so as to fix it. Place them on a baking- sheet and bake in a fairly hot oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. When done remove the cornet-shaped pastry carefully from the moulds and put them on a sieve. Cook some freshly shelled peas in plenty of slightly salted water, containing a very small piece of soda and a sprig of green mint. When done strain them carefully, and put them in a saute-pan or small stewpan with just enough butter to toss them over the fire without burning. Add a table- spoonful or so of white sauce and a pinch of caster sugar. Season with a little more salt, if needed, and a pinch of pepper. Mix with a small quantity of finely minced parsley. Reheat the cornets, fill them carefully with the prepared peas. Sprinkle a little krona or paprika pepper on the open top of each. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve hot. 1388. Petits Pois au Jamb on a la Franqaise.—Rut three pints of peas into a stewpan with a sprig of green onion, one of green mint, and one of parsley, a tablespoonful of fine sugar, a little salt, and a pint of water; cover and let them stew gently over* a slow fire from twenty minutes to half an hour; remove the herbs; if much liquor is left pour off a little, and allow the remainder to boil down. Have ready about half a pound of lean ham, coarsely cut; fry it in an ounce of fresh butter, sprinkle with a dessertspoonful of flour ; add this to the peas. Mix well by tossing the whole over the fire, dish up, and garnish with fleurons (small half-moon shapes of puff paste). 1389. Petits Pois de Conserve (How to Prepare Preserved Peas for Table).—Open a quart tin or bottle of preserved peas, put them into a pointed strainer, hold this'under a water-tap and let the cold water run freely over the peas for a few minutes. Shake the strainer so as to thoroughly drain the peas. Have ready a small saucepan three parts full of boiling water, containing a sprig of mint, greenVEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 463 or dried, and a pinch of salt. Put in the peas and boil quickly for five minutes, then drain them in a strainer. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, add the peas, and toss over the fire for a few seconds ; sprinkle over half a teaspoonful of flour, season with pepper and salt and a tiny pinch of caster sugar. Moisten with 2 tablespoonfuls of rich stock or gravy. Cook gently for about eight minutes, shaking the pan frequently. The peas are then ready for serving. 1390. jPuree de Pois Verts (Green Peas Puree).—Boil a quart of shelled peas in slightly salted water till tender (a small pinch of soda or a teaspoonful of moist sugar should be put into the water, as that will preserve the green colour). When done, drain off the water, rub the peas through a sieve. Put the puree in a stewpan with enough milk or cream to moisten, also a small piece of fresh butter. Season to taste with pepper and salt and stir over the fire till quite hot. Serve as a garnish for cutlets &c. 1391. Poireauoc d la Diablo (Devilled Leeks).—6 young leeks, oz. butter, 3 slices of toasted bread, 1 pint stock (toell -flavoured), 1 gill white sauce (bechamel, No. 202), 2 yolks of eggs, 1 gherkin chopped finely, 1 saltspoonful mustard, salt, cayenne or Oriental salt, panurette or bread-crumbs. Wash, trim, and cook the leeks in the stock ; when done take up and cut them into three or four inch lengths. Heat up the white sauce, put in the gherkins, and mustard, also a little salt if needed, stir in the yolks of eggs and allow the latter to bind, taking care that the sauce does not curdle. Butter the toasted bread lightly and spread over with a little of the sauce. Kange the leeks neatly on the toast and cut into finger-shapes. Mask each with a thick layer of the sauce, sprinkle over with panurette or bread-crumbs and a pinch of cayenne or Oriental salt, place a tiny piece of butter here and there on top of each. Put them in a very hot oven or under a salamander to brown, dish up, and serve. 1392. Poireauoc au Gratin (Leeks Gratin Style).—Wash and trim about ten young leeks, boil in salted water for five minutes, drain and finish cooking in white stock, drain again, and range neatly on a well buttered gratin dish. Season with a little pepper and grated nutmeg, sauce over with well reduced bechamel sauce (No. 202), sprinkle over with grated Parmesan and bread-crumbs, place a few tiny bits of butter here and there. Put the dish in a brisk oven for about ten minutes to brown the top. Serve in the same dish placed on another with folded napkin. 1393. Fritot de Poireauoc (Leek Fritters).— 6 large young leeks, 1 gill milk, \ pint stock, ^ blade mace, a sprig of young thyme, \ bay-leaf, 1 egg, salt, pepper, and a gill of well reduced white sauce, bread-crumbs, frying-fat, parsley. Wash, trim, and pare the leeks, cut the white parts into about three inches in length, put them in a stewpan or saute-pan with the milk, mace, thyme, and bay-leaf, add the stock, and boil till tender.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 464 Take up the pieces of leek, drain on a cloth, dip each piece separately into thick white sauce, so as to completely cover it, and place on a wire rack to set. Beat up the egg, dip each piece into this, and roll in bread-crumbs; when set repeat the crumbing. Drop each piece into very hot fat and fry a golden colour, drain, sprinkle with salt and cayenne pepper, dish up on a hot dish with a folded napkin or dish paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. The cooked pieces of leek may, if liked, be dipped into frying batter and be fried thus in lieu of egging and crumbing. 1394. Boiled Potatoes.—Wash and peel thinly the potatoes, put them in a saucepan of cold water, sufficient to well cover them, add a little salt, and boil till they are tender. Pour off the water, and put the saucepan with potatoes back on the fire to dry for about three minutes. Shake the pan frequently, to prevent them from burning. They will take about half an hour to cook.> 1395. Washed Potatoes.—Prepare and boil the potatoes as above described ; when cooked, drained, and dried, mash them with a fork or rub through a sieve. Return to the stewpan and add butter, salt, and pepper, allowing an ounce of butter to every pound of potatoes. Beat up well over the fire until thoroughly hot and add a little milk or cream. 1396. Crumbed Potatoes.—Wash and peel thinly a pound or more new potatoes of even size, boil them carefully till tender, but not overdone. Drain them, cut them in halves, and place them on a dish; season with pepper and salt, pour over them some melted butter, and dip each in brown bread-crumbs. Melt some butter in a baking tin (Yorkshire pudding tin) ; when hot place in the potatoes and bake them in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes. When done dish up in the form of a pyramid on a round dish, and serve hot. 1397. Pommesde Terre Anna (Anna Potatoes).—This mode of cooking potatoes is practically little known in this country. When other vegetables are getting scarce something fresh in this line will make a welcome change. Nearly every one knows how to fry and boil potatoes, but few know how to make Anna potatoes, though the method of preparation is most simple. Procure a cylindrical-shaped timbale mould, or, if this is not convenient to get, use an ordinary timbale mould, and brush the inside wrellwith clarified butter. Wash and peel as many potatoes as may be required to fill the mould, cut them into slices about the thickness of a shilling piece. Range the slices neatly in the form of wreaths in layers in the mould, season each layer lightly with fine salt, and sprinkle over with oiled butter. Continue thus until the mould is full and well packed. Place the mould in a hot oven and bake from fifty to eighty minutes, according to the size and shape of the mould used. When done turn the contents of the mould on a hot dish and serve at once. It is very essential that the potatoes should be baked as soon as the mould is filled ; they are likely to go black if left standing about.VEGETABLES {LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 465 1398. Potato Chips.—Wash and peel thinly as many even-sized potatoes as may be required, and cut them into very thin slices cross- ways. Drain them in a cloth. Put them in a frying-basket and plunge into boiling hot faJj. When they are almost cooked remove them from the fat for about three minutes, to allow the fat to get hot again. Then plunge in a second time fora few minutes longer to acquire a nice golden brown. Take up, shake well, and sprinkle with fine salt. Dish up, and send to table at once. 1399. Pornmes de Terre a la Pa/risienne.—Peel- the potatoes, scoop them with a vegetable-cutter into round balls, blanch them carefully in salted water, and drain them. Melt two ounces of clarified butter in a saute-pan ; when this is hot put in the potatoes* and toss them over the fire for a few minutes, then bake them in the oven for t m minutes. 1400. Pornmes de Terre d la Bignon.—12 small round potatoes, | lb. raw mutton, 2 oz. fat pork, 1 yolk of egg, 14 oz. butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Cut up the mutton and pork into small pieces, season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Chop until very fine, or pass twice through a mincing machine, and mix with the yolk of an egg. Choose the potatoes of even size, wash them well, and peel thinly. Scoop out part of the inside by means of a vegetable Scoop, leaving the bottom uncut. Blanch them in boiling water for two minutes, drain and fill well with the above described sausage-meat, and close the openings with a piece of potato. Melt the butter in a saute-pan ; when hot lay in the stuffed potatoes, and bake in the oven for twenty minutes Baste well with the butter, dish up, sprinkle with a little finely- chopped parsely, and serve, or use as a garnish for releves or entrees. 1401. Pornmes de Terre d la • lianeerelle.—Wash and peel eight to ten large kidney potatoes, scoop out by means of a vegetable scoop as many balls as possible. Cook them gently in salted water, drain, and place in a stewpan ; add half an ounce of butter and about a gill of bechamel sauce (No. 202), shake over the fire until hot, dish up in the form of a pyramid. Sprinkle over with dissolved fish glaze, and serve. , 1402. Pornmes de Terre d la IJneltes.se.—Wash and peel about two pounds of mealy .potatoes, boil until done, drain off. the water, and let them dry in the oven for a few minutes, covered over; rub them quickly through a wire sieve ; while warm mix with three yolks of eggs, two ounces of clarified butter, and a tablespoonful of cream; season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; when well mixed turn out on a floured board and make twelve parts of equal size ; give each the shape of a square, trace a few lines with a knife, lay them on a buttered baking-sheet, egg the surface, bake them in a quick oven, and dish up. 1403. Pornmes de Terre d la Gastronome.—12 medium- sized potatoes, 2 truffles, \ glass sherry, % pint Espagnole sauce {No. 236), salt and pepper. h h466 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Wash and peel the potatoes, cut them in halves lengthwise, stamp out with a tube-cutter as many round tubes as possible, put them in a stewpan, cover well with warm water, add a pinch of salt, and cook for about twenty minutes, taking care that the potato-shapes do not boil too fast, otherwise they will break and look unsightly. When done strain them and put in a hot dish. In the meantime chop the truffles finely, put them in a small stewpan with the sherry, and cook for five minutes; then add the sauce, let it reduce slowly, season with-pepper and salt if needed. Pour the sauce over the potatoes, and serve. 1404. l*oitunes de Terre d la Paysanne.—8 cold potatoes (boiled), \ pint of bechamel sauce (No. 202), \ gill of cream, 2 oz, of butter, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, ^ teaspoonful chopped chives, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Cut the potatoes into squares, put them in a small stewpan, with a little water, on the fire ; when hot strain off the water ; season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg; put in the sauce and cream ; let simmer gently for about ten minutes. Melt the butter in a frying-pan ; add the parsley and chives; fry a little, and mingle gently with the potatoes. Pile up on a hot dish, and serve. Note.—The reason why cold boiled potatoes are recommended for this dish is because fresh hot-boiled potatoes are apt to go to pieces and get pulpy during the process of this preparation. 1405. Pommes de Terre aux Tomates d la Savarin.— 8 small even-sized potatoes, 4 firm tomatoes, 1 onion, 1 oz. Parmesan cheese, 2 egg-yolks, \ oz. bread-crumbs, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. chopped ham, salt and pepper, 2 slices of toasted bread. Peel the potatoes, cut off the ends of each, scoop out by means of a column-cutter the centre of each potato, fry in hot fat a golden colour, and drain. Put the butter in a small stewpan ; when hot put in the onion, finely chopped, cook just for a minute over the fire, then add the Parmesan cheese, finely grated, and the bread-crumbs, stir for two minutes, remove from the fire, add the yolks of eggs and a pinch of salt and pepper. Cut the tomatoes in two crossways, squeeze out gently a little of the juice, chop up the ham finely, sprinkle over the cut halves of tomatoes, fill the centre of the potatoes with the prepared stuffing, place one in the centre of each tomato. Brush over with a little oiled butter, stand them in a buttered baking- tin or saute-pan, cover over with a piece of buttered paper, and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes ; dish up on rounds of freshly toasted bread, and serve. 1406. Pommes de Terre JBoivin.—Cut some peeled potatoes into olive shapes, blanch them, drain and cool ; fry them in butter, and blended shallots, add finely chopped lemon-rind and seasoning, and finish in a hot oven. Dish up and sprinkle over with chopped parsley.VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DBESSED 467 1407. Cassolettes a la Parmentier.—lb.potatoes, peeled, boiled, and rubbed through a sieve, 1 oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful cream, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 whole egg, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, bread-crumbs, pepper and salt, frying fat, savoury ragout for filling. Heat the butter in a stewpan, put in the potato puree, stir over the fire till thoroughly hot; add the cream, but if the potatoes are watery or very moist use less cream or omit it altogether ; add the parsley, yolks of eggs, and seasoning, stir until the eggs are set to bind the puree. Allow the mixture to get cold, then make up into balls, then shape them somewhat flat, egg and crumb them, and fry them in hot fat. Cut out a bit by means of a paste-cutter, lift it off, scoop out some of the soft part of the potato, fill with a ragout or savoury mince of fish, chicken, or game, put the lids on, dish up, set in the oven for a few seconds, and serve. 1408. Pommes1 Chateau.—Peel twelve medium-sized potatoes, cut them into quarters, round off the sharp edges, blanch in salted water, and drain. Put 2 oz. clarified butter in a saute-pan; when hot place in the potatoes, toss them over the fire for a few minutes, then put in the oven, and bake for twenty minutes. When finished they should be crisp and of a nice golden colour. Drain on a cloth or paper, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley and salt, dish up in a pile, and serve hot. 1409. Pom mes Pailles.—Peel six medium-sized potatoes, cut them into thin slices, cut these into fine shreds about 1^ in. long. Wash well and drain on a cloth. Have ready some hot fat, sufficient to well cover the quantity of potatoes, put the potatoes into the fat when very hot, and fry for about six minutes. Take out, drain well, sprinkle with a little fine salt, shake them lightly, and dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper. 1410. Pommes de Terre Crapaudine (Baked Potatoes French Style).— 8 to 10 potatoes (large), 3 oz. butter, 4 oz. Gruyere cheese, salt, paprika pepper, panurette. Wash and peel the potatoes, cut each in half lengthwise and slice thinly (crosswise), cut the Gruyere cheese into thin slices. Butter a border mould, sprinkle the inside with ‘ panurette.’ Melt the remainder of the butter in a stewpan, fill the mould with alternate layers of slices of potatoes and slices of cheese, season each layer with a tiny pinch of salt and a pinch of paprika pepper, and pour over each layer a little melted butter. Bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Unmould into a hot dish and serve hot. 1411. Croquettes de Pommes d la Dauphine.—10 floury potatoes, 5 yolks of eggs, 2 ivhites, 4 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. grated Parmesan, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, bread-crumbs, and f rying fat. Wash and peel the potatoes, cut into quarters, put them in a stew- pan with cold water, add a little salt, and cook until tender; drain and put on a sieve; next place them on a dish in the oven to get 1 Abbreviation for Pommes de lerre.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 468 thoroughly dry, and then rub through a sieve. Prepare a choux paste with i pint water, butter, flour, and 1 whole and 2 yolks of eggs ; when ready stir in the potato puree and cheese, and season with pepper and a little grated nutmeg. Butter a dish, spread the mix- ture on it to get cool. Shape it into croquets on a floured board, egg and crumb in fresh bread-crumbs, place in a frying-basket, fry a golden colour, drain on a paper or cloth, season with a little salt,, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. 1412. Croquettes de Pomrnes de Terre a la Moderne.— Wash and peel about 2 lbs. of potatoes, cook them in the ordinary way, drain and dry well, and rub through a sieve. Mix with two yolks of eggs a tablespoonful of cream, stir over the fire until set, season with pepper and a little grated nutmeg, and allow to cool. Chop coarsely j lb. lean cooked ham, 2 oz. chicken or veal, and 6 mushrooms ; mix all in a stewpan with two tablespoonfuls of well-reduced bechamel sauce (No. 202). Roll out the mashed potatoes about a quarter of an inch thick, cut into square pieces, place a small quantity of the prepared salpicon in the centre, fold and roll to give it the shape of a cork, taking care to close up both ends. Dip in beaten egg, crumb in freshly-made bread-crumbs, and fry in boiling fat or clarified butter a nice light brown colour. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve as a side dish, or with a meat entree. 1413. Pormnes de Terre en Copea ax (Ribbon Potatoes).— Cut some washed and peeled potatoes into half-inch thick slices. Next cut the slices into thin ribbons, strain, and fry in hot fat till a golden colour. Drain, sprinkle with fine salt, and serve. 1414. Pom rues de Terre farcies.—Select eighteen small but even-sized mealy potatoes, wash and peel them thinly, cut off the ends of each a little, scoop out the centre of each by means of a Column-Cutter, fry in hot fat a golden colour. Put in a small stewpan one ounce of butter ; when quite hot add a small boiled Spanish onion finely chopped, a handful of grated Parmesan cheese, two egg-yolks,, and a tablespoonful of bread-crumbs ; season and fill the potatoes, and bake them for a few minutes in a hot oven. 1415. Potato Flakes or Saratoga Chips.—Wash and peel thinly six large potatoes. Cut them in very thin slices, and put these in plenty of cold water. Let them stand for several hours (over night if possible) on the ice or in a cool place. Pour off the water and drain the potatoes, return to the basin, and cover again with cold water ; add also a large piece of ice. Heat up some frying fat (lard and dripping), strain the potato slices carefully, put about one-third of the quantity in a frying-basket and fry a pale brown colour. Shake the basket several times during the frying process. When done drain thoroughly and turn them on a large dish lined with soft brown paper. Then proceed to fry the remainder of the potatoes in exactly the same manner. To serve, sprinkle over with a little very fine salt. Care must be taken to observe the following essential points, otherwiseVEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 469 this dish will not be a success : Cut the slices very thin and evenly. The fat must be smoking hot before they are plunged into it, and must be kept boiling all the time. Potatoes thus fried and carefully strained will keep good for a long time if kept in a covered tin lined with paper. They are often eaten cold as well as hot, and are highly appreciated in the United States. 1416. Pommes nouvelles sautees au Beurre.—Peel or scrape twelve to eighteen new round or kidney potatoes (small and even size). Melt 2 oz. butter in a saute-pan ; when clarified add the potatoes, cook over a moderate fire or in the oven ; they will take about twenty minutes, and should be of a rich golden colour when done. Season with salt, sprinkle with a little freshly-chopped parsley, dish up, and serve. 1417. Pommes nouvelles a la Hollandaise.—Wash, scrape, and boil about two dozen or more even-sized new potatoes ; drain, dry, and put them into a vegetable dish. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan ; add a tablespoonful of bechamel sauce (No. 202). Work up well; mix with one yolk of egg the juice of half a lemon ; season with a little white pepper, grated nutmeg, and salt; stir a little longer over the fire, but do not let it boil. Pour over the potatoes and serve. 1418. Pommes de Terre etouffees a la Haye.—Wash and scrape some large new Dutch potatoes. Drain and bake them in a hot oven till nearly done. Cut off the top of each, scoop out the interior without breaking the potatoes, and fill the cavities with a mixture of butter, cream, chopped parsley, and potato puree. Replace the tops and finish the potatoes in the oven. Bake to a golden colour and serve. 1419. Pommes Gigolette.—Wash and boil about 2 lbs. Dutch potatoes ; when cooked drain and let cool, then remove the skin and slice the potatoes finely. Toss the potatoes in sufficient fresh butter, cut up about Jr lb. ham into dice, broil this over a quick fire. Have ready a well-buttered charlotte mould, line the bottom and sides with a couple of layers of sauted potatoes, then add a layer of ham, a layer of sliced tomatoes, season each layer with pepper and salt, and proceed thus until the mould is filled. The last layer should, of course, be potatoes. Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Turn out on a hot dish and serve with tomato sauce (No. 271). 1420. Pommes frites d la Julienne.—Wash and peel some potatoes ; cut them into small shreds, similar to julienne roots ; wash well and dry on a cloth; throw them, a few at a time, into plenty of clear boiling fat; shake the potatoes about in the fat until they are crisp and of a deep yellow colour. Drain on a cloth, sprinkle slightly with salt, and serve on a folded napkin. In order to. move the potatoes well in the fat, so that they may be equal in colour, it is best to use a frying-basket, into which the potatoes are placed for frying. 1421. Pommes hachees a a Gratin.—Cut 8 cold boiled po- tatoes into small squares, put them in a saucepan containing \ gill470 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK cream and \ oz. butter, previously warmed; add salt and pepper, and 1 tablespoonful grated cheese ; heat up. Butter a gratin dish, sprinkle with grated cheese, strew the potatoes on this, sprinkle well with grated cheese and bread-crumbs, place a small piece of butter here and there, and bake in a quick oven ; bake a nice light brown, and serve. 1422. Pommes sautees a la Suisse.—Slice as thinly as possible about 8 cold potatoes of medium size. Melt 1 oz. butter in a frying or omelet pan, put in the potatoes, season with pepper and salt. Cook over a quick fire for five minutes, toss very frequently; put them on one side of the pan, so as to give it the shape of an omelet. Allow them to colour nicely, then turn out on a hot dish, and serve. 1423. Pommes sautees a la Parisienne.—Choose 8 medium-sized cold boiled potatoes, cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Put about 1^ oz. butter in a saute-pan ; when hot put in the slices of potatoes, season with pepper and salt, and toss over a bright fire until of a golden colour. Dish up, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, and serve. 1424. Kromeskis a la Jackson (Potato CromesJcis).—8 new potatoes, 12 preserved mushrooms (champignons), 1 large truffle, 1 gill Allemande sauce (No. 204), 1 yolk of egg, i pint pancake batter, 2 oz. butter for frying pancakes, salt, pepper, nutmeg, frying batterf frying fat, fried parsley for garnish. Wash and scrape or peel thinly the potatoes, and cook in salted water till tender, then strain and let cool. Make about ten small very thin pancakes with the batter and the butter above named. Cut the potatoes, mushrooms, and truffle into very small dice, or mince the latter coarsely. Put this in a stewpan with the sauce and allow to heat over the fire. Season to taste and reduce ; stir frequently to prevent burning. Add the egg-yolk, and cook a little longer, then spread the mixture on a dish and let cool on the ice. Divide the mixture into ten portions, roll each in a pancake, cut off the ends. Dip in frying batter and fry a golden colour in plenty of hot fat, Drain, and dish up on a folded napkin. 1425. Souffles de Pom mes de Terre a la St. Louis.—8 kidney potatoes (not too large and of even size), 1 oz. of butter, ^ gill of cream or milk (about), 2 whites of eggs, ^ oz. grated Cheddar cheese, salt and pepper. Wash and scrub the potatoes with a brush; when thoroughly clean dry them on a cloth, put them in a moderately heated oven, and bake until done. Make an incision with a round cutter or knife at the ends, and scoop out the contents by means of a teaspoon, taking care not to break the skins. Bub the soft parts thus removed through a wire sieve, put it in a basin, work in the butter while warm, boil up the cream or milk, and add likewise; beat up well with a wooden spoon, season with salt and pepper, and mix in the cheese.471 VEGETABLES {LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DBESSED Beat the white of egg to a stiff froth, and mix carefully with the puree. Fill the potatoes with this preparation, stand them on a gratin dish or greased baking-sheet with a little puree, so as to make them stand firmly, bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes, and serve as soon as done. 1426. JPommes Soufflees.—Wash and peel six to eight good medium-sized mealy potatoes, cut them into slices (lengthwise) a quarter of an inch thick. Plunge them into a friture of moderately heated fat for about six minutes, lift out, let cool a few moments. Let the fat get quite hot, plunge in the potatoes, move the basket about; the potatoes should then swell. Drain, season with fine salt, dish on a folded napkin. 1427. Timbale JParmentiere.—f lb. mashed potatoes, £ gill cream, 3 to 4 raw potatoes, 2 oz. of butter, 2 small onions, chopped parsley, 3 tomatoes, 3 yolks of eggs, 1 gill of bechamel sauce {No. 202), panurette or brown bread-crumbs, tomato sauce {No. 271), seasoning. Mix the mashed potatoes with half the cream and heat up, season to taste, and add one yolk of egg. Mix well, butter a charlotte or timbale mould, sprinkle the buttered part with panurette or brown bread-crumbs, and line with the potato puree. Peel and blanch the onions, drain and cut them into slices. Slice the tomatoes, heat up the bechamel sauce, and bind with two yolks of eggs. Wash, peel, and slice the raw potatoes ; fill the lined mould with alternate layers of tomatoes, onions, and potatoes; season each layer with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and grated nutmeg, and moisten with a little of the prepared sauce; the latter can be mixed with a little cream or milk if found insufficient. Cover the mould with potato puree. Bake in a moderately heated oven for about an hour. Turn out on a hot dish, pour some hot tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 1428. Timbale de JPommes de Terre a la Mirette.—8 kidney potatoes, 2 oz. butter, 2 truffles, i tablespoonful Liebig Company’s Extract of Beef {lemco), 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. Wash and peel the potatoes, cut them into even-sized dice, and drain on a sieve or on a cloth. Melt one and a half ounce of butter in a saute-pan. When hot put in the potatoes and cook them to a nice golden colour, either over a quick fire or in a fairly hot oven. Great care must be taken not to mash them up while they are being cooked. Cut the truffles into shreds, and mix them with the potatoes. Season to taste, and moisten with lemco, previously mixed with a little stock. Fill the mixture into a plain charlotte mould (well buttered), sprinkle the cheese' between the layers. Pour the remainder of butter (liquefied) over the potatoes &c., and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Unmould and serve very hot. 1429. JPommes rissolees.—Wash and peel thinly some potatoes, cut them into quarters and pare each smoothly with a sharpTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 472 knife. Plunge them into boiling water, slightly salted; let them come to the boil, then drain them on a cloth. Put them in a saute-pan containing some hot butter, and fry them slightly brown over the fire or in a brisk oven. When done drain off the butter, add a good pinch of fine salt, a little chopped parsley, and a tiny piece of fresh butter. Shake well, then dish up and serve. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1430. Pommes de Terre a la Bordelaise.—Peeled potatoes, thinly sliced, fried lightly in deep fat; then drain, season, and finish in a saute-pan containing enough oiled butter and finely chopped fried onions to toss the potatoes. 1431. Pommes de Terre a la Bourgeoise.—Thickly sliced potatoes, blanched, drained, and stewed in a rich brown sauce, flavoured with thin slices of fried onions. 1432. Pommes de Terre a la Brabanconne.—Mashed potatoes mixed with finely chopped and blanched shallots, parsley, and grated cheese, seasoned with pepper salt, and nutmeg. Dress in the form of a pyramid in a deep dish ; sprinkle the surface with bread-crumbs, grated cheese, and a few bits of butter; bake till brown in a hot oven. 1433. Pommes de Terre a la Bretonne.—Cold boiled potatoes, peeled, cut into squares or large dice, fried slightly in butter, mixed with finely chopped fried onions, chopped parsley; add enough brown sauce to moisten at the last. 1434. Pommes de Terre a la Chateaubriand.—Peeled potatoes cut into quarters, pared to the size and shape of large olives; parboil in salted water, drain and fry in butter, or bake in a sharp oven; dish up and serve with a few small pieces of parsley butter (beurre maitre d’hotel, No. 394) placed on top. 1435. Pommes de Terre a la Colbert.—Cold boiled potatoes cut into squares, seasoned with pepper and salt, tossed in butter, and stewed in a little rich brown sauce ; a little fresh butter and chopped parsley are also added at the last. 1436. Pommes de Terre a la Comtesse.—Thin slices of raw potatoes ranged neatly in a well buttered timbale mould, moistened with very little seasoned veloutee sauce (No. 206), and baked in a hot oven for about thirty minutes. Turn out on a hot dish and serve. 1437. Pommes de Terre a la Dieppoise.—Cold boiled potatoes, cut into slices, together with an equal quantity of slices of cold sausages; fry carefully in butter, season, and serve with a light brown sauce. 1438. Pommes de Terre a la Garfield.—Potatoes cut into small dice, parboiled, drained, and fried in clarified butter. Season and serve. 1439. Pommes de Terre a la Hanovrienne.—Peeled raw potatoes sliced, stewed in white stock just enough to cover ; finish with fresh butter and chopped parsley, and. serve.473 VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DBESSED 1440. Pommes de Terre a la Hongroise.—Plain boiled or steamed small potatoes, dished up, seasoned, sauced over with oiled butter and a few drops of lemon-juice. 1441. Pommes de Terre a lTmperatrice. — Small walnut shapes, cut out of peeled raw potatoes, parboiled, drained, mixed with sliced truffles and mushrooms, and cooked in butter until quite done. 1442. Pommes'de Terre a ITtalienne.—Sliced raw potatoes, placed in layers in a well-buttered flat mould with alternate slices of salami sausage and a thick white sauce consisting of cream, chopped hard- boiled yolks of eggs, grated Parmesan cheese, chopped cooked ham, and finely cut fillets of anchovies, the last layer of the mould being anchovies. Bake in the mould in a hot oven and serve. 1443. Pommes de Terre a la Julienne.—Peeled raw potatoes, sliced thinly and cut into very fine strips or shreds ; fry till crisp in hot fat, drain, sprinkle with salt, and serve on a folded napkin, or use as a garnish. 1444. Pommes de Terre a la Maitre d’Hotel. Thick slices of raw potatoes, blanched, drained, and stewed in white sauce and chopped parsley. Season and serve. 1445. Pommes de Terre a la Milanaise.—Baw potatoes cut into dice, parboiled, drained, and seasoned, stewed in white sauce with squares or dice of cooked ham and grated Parmesan cheese. Thicken with yolks of eggs, and place on a dish to cool. Shape into croquets, then egg, crumb, and fry in hot fat, trim, season with salt, and serve. 1446. Pommes de Terre a la Navarraise.—Peeled potatoes cut into half-inch squares, fried in sweet oil, drained, sprinkled with salt, and served on a folded napkin. 1447. Pommes de Terre a la Suedoise.—Slices of raw potatoes blanched, and stewed in a rich meat gravy. A few thin slices of fried onion are added at the last with the seasoning. 1448. Pommes de Terre a la Turque.—Potato puree prepared as for croquettes, made into small half-moon shapes filled with anchovy paste, egged, crumbed, and baked in clarified butter. 1449. Pommes de Terre a la Vaudoise.—Sliced peeled raw potatoes, ranged in layers on a buttered baking-dish; season each layer with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and grated Gruyere cheese. Sprinkle grated cheese, bread-crumbs, and a few drops of oiled butter over the top and bake in a hot oven. 1450. Pommes de Terre a la Viennoise.—Raw potatoes cut into fairly large dice, parboiled, drained and stewed in seasoned beef broth, flavoured with onions and cloves. Dish up and sprinkle over with finely chopped parsley. 1451. Pommes de Terre a la Villageoise.—Finely chopped cold potatoes seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, stewed in a little stock, some cream, and a little fresh butter. 1452. Pommes de Terre a la Worlitz.—Potato puree prepared as for croquettes, shaped into oblongs or squares, egged, crumbed in grated474 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Parmesan cheese on one side only, adding a small piece of lobster butter on the centre of each. Bake in a very hot oven to brown the surface. 1453. Pommes de Terre au Gratin.—Potato puree prepared with cream, seasoned, dressed on a well buttered gratin dish, covered with bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese and a few small pieces of fresh butter. Bake in a very hot oven. 1454. Croquettes de Pommes de Terre.—Potato puree, seasoned and mixed with yolks of egg, shaped into balls, corks or croquettes, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter, lard or dripping. 1455. Croquettes de Pommes de Terre a la Rouennaise.—Mashed potatoes, prepared as for croquettes, made in size and shape of small eggs or olives, dipped in frying batter, fried in hot fat, drained, sprinkled with salt, and served on a folded napkin. 1456. Pommes de Terre en Puree a la Jackson.—Mashed potatoes finished with cream and seasoned, garnished with fillets of Gorgona anchovies. 1457. Pommes de Terre frisees.—Shapes of curls, small ribbons cut out of large kidney potatoes with a special cutter, resembling curls when fried in clarified butter. Season with salt, dish up, and serve. A capital garnish for entrees, &c. 1458. Pommes de Terre machees.—Potatoes boiled in beef broth, drained, and made into a puree, seasoned with white pepper and a little grated nutmeg, when served sprinkled over with finely chopped parsley. 1459. Pommes de Terre persillees.—Peeled potatoes cut into shapes of walnuts or large olives, boiled in salted water, drained, and fried or sauted in fresh butter. Dish up and sprinkle with chopped parsley. 1460. Quenelles de Pommes de Terre.—Potato puree, well seasoned and mixed with egg-yolks, shaped into quenelles and poached in salt water or seasoned stock, drained, dished up, and sprinkled over with fresh bread-crumbs fried in butter. 1461. Salsifis a la Bechamel.—Wash and scrape some salsify and cook in milk, salted water acidulated with lemon-juice. Drain when done and finish in a well prepared bechamel sauce (No. 202). 1462. Salsifis au Beurre Fondu.—Wash I and scrape the’salsify, cook till tender in salted water acidulated with lemon-juice; drain and dish up, pour over some melted butter, and serve. 1463. Salsifis a la Villevoy (Fried Salsify).—Wash a bundle of salsify. Scrape them carefully and trim them, put each in a basin of water seasoned with lemon-juice as they are cleaned. Cook till tender in salted water and drain when done ; put them in a pie-dish and season with oil, vinegar, and chopped parsley.VEGETABLES {LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 475 Have ready a light frying batter ; dip each salsify in this batter and drop into boiling fat; fry a golden colour. Take up and drain on a cloth or paper. Dish up and garnish with fried parsley. N.B.—Salsify cooked, i.e. boiled, as above directed, can be finished in a parsley sauce—that is, bechamel (No. 202) and chopped parsley flavoured with lemon-juice—and cooked for ten minutes. This is called a la Poulette. 1464. Tomates a I’Americaine.—This is another novelty recently introduced; it is exceedingly appetising and cooling. The combination is new as well as perfect in flavour, and can only be appreciated if tasted. Here is the recipe :— Choose six to eight even-sized ripe but firm tomatoes, hollow out as much as possible of the soft centre portion of the tomatoes. Remove the seeds and mix the pulp with an equal quantity of stiff mayonnaise (No. 277). To this add finely chopped celery and ripe pine- apple in equal parts. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture and place them in the ice-box for at least two hours. To serve put each tomato on a lettuce-leaf, dress neatly on a silver-plated entree dish or glass dish, and garnish with watercresses and radishes; the latter should be so arranged as to form a wreath round the dish with the tomatoes in the centre. 1465. Tomates a la Bouquetiere.—8 medium-sized tomatoes, 1 tablespoonful salad oil, 1 gill cooked, macedoine vegetables, 1 truffle, 2 oz. cooked tongue, 2 oz. cooked chicken meat, 1 dessert- spoonful chopped parsley, ^ lemon, 1 oz. French capers, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Steep the tomatoes in boiling water for a few seconds, peel them carefully, and scoop out the centre; cut the tongue, chicken, and truffle into fine shreds or dice, put these with the macedoine in a basin, season with oil, lemon-juice, pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne, mix with the capers and chopped parsley. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, dish up on a glass dish, and serve. 1466. Tomates a la Napolitaine {Baked Tomatoes and Eggs).—Cut four large ripe but firm tomatoes in halves, remove the seeds, and place them, cut side upwards, in a saute-pan containing an ounce of oiled butter or an equal quantity of best olive oil. Season the tomatoes with salt and pepper, and bake in a hot oven for six minutes. Break carefully a fresh egg on each half of the tomatoes, return the pan to the oven, and bake for another six minutes, long enough to set the egg. Dress them neatly on a hot dish, sprinkle a little chopped parsley in the centre of each egg, pour some hot demi- glace (No. 237) or tomato (No. 271) sauce, well seasoned, round the base of the dish, and serve at once. 1467. Tomates a la Iientiere.—Plunge some firm tomatoes into boiling water, skin them, scoop out the centre and fill the cavity of each with pounded ox-tongue, cream, picked shrimps, and mayonnaise cream (mixed with a little aspic) ; mask each tomato thus476 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK prepared with a tomato cream, and garnish with truffle slices. Dish up and decorate with macedoine salad &c. 1468. Tomates aux Champignons.—8 medium-sized ripe, but firm tomatoes, 10 to 12 preserved mushrooms, or 6 large fresh cup mushrooms, 2 oz. butter, 2 small shallots, 2 tablespoonfuls white bread-crumbs, ^ teaspoonful chopped parsley, 2 tablespoonfuls rich demi-glace (No. 237) or Madeira (No. 237 a) sauce, 8 rounds of fried bread (croutons), seasoning. Kemove the stalks from the tomatoes; wipe them with a cloth. Scoop out carefully the pips and a portion of the pulp, taking great care not to break the sides of the tomatoes ; chop the mushrooms finely ; when fresh ones are used wash and dry them first. Peel and chop the shallots, fry them a golden colour in an ounce of butter, then add the chopped mushrooms, bread-crumbs, and parsley; mix well and moisten with the sauce, beat up, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Fill up the cavities of the tomatoes with this, put a tiny bit of butter on top of the stuffing of each tomato. Eange them in a well-buttered saute-pan, and cook in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. Dress them on the prepared bread croutons, which must be cut to the size of the tomatoes. Dish up, and garnish with a few sprigs of fresh parsley or watercress. Serve hot. 1469. Beignets de Tomates (Tomato Fritters.)—4 ripe but firm tomatoes (small), 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful salad-oil, lemon, pepper and salt, frying batter and fat. Remove the stalks from the tomatoes, wipe them, and cut cross- ways into thick slices (each tomato should make about three nice slices); put these in a deep dish. Season lightly with pepper and salt, sprinkle over the parsley, oil, and lemon-juice. Prepare a batter with four ounces of flour, one tablespoonful of oil, a pinch of salt, one egg, and a little tepid water. Beat the white of the egg to a stiff froth and add last of all. Allow the batter to stand a while. Drop each piece of tomato into the batter, so as to coat it completely. Take out with a skewer or fork, drop into the hot fat, fry a golden colour, drain on paper or cloth, dish up, and serve hot. 1470. Tomates en Surprise (a Cold, Rich Dish).—Line some tomato moulds with aspic cream, fill them with a mixture com- posed of cooked asparagus points, bechamel sauce (No. 202), Tartare sauce (No. 278), and aspic jelly (No. 293), seasoned with nutmeg, salt, pepper, and mace. Place the moulds on the ice to set. To serve, unmould, dish up, and garnish with a small mixed salad and sprigs of parsley &c. 1471. Tomates farcies a la Flamande (Stuffed Tomatoes, cold, Dutch fityle).-—6 even-sized ripe and firm tomatoes, about 1 pint aspic (No. 293), 4 Gorgona anchovies, filleted, 1 dessertspoonful capers, 1 hard-boiled yolk of egg, mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), parsley, 2 lettuces. Wipe the tomatoes, carefully scoop out the centre by means of a477 VEGETABLES {LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED column-cutter or a teaspoon. Chop the capers, yolk of egg, and anchovy fillets, mix with a gill of mayonnaise and a gill of aspic, stir over the ice until nearly set, then fill the cavities of the tomatoes, cover with a sprig of parsley, and put on the ice to set thoroughly. •Coat each tomato several times with half-set aspic, or line some little moulds with aspic, and set the tomatoes in the sauce. Have ready the lettuces, washed and divided into small pieces, season with salt and pepper, dress with mayonnaise, and put in the centre of a dish. Arrange the prepared tomatoes round the salad, garnish with sprigs, of parsley and blocks of aspic jelly. Some lobster or another kind of cooked fish may be used for the stuffing in place of the anchovies. 1472. Tomates farcies a Vltalienne.—Select eight or nine even-sized tomatoes,.remove the stalks and green parts, cut out the centre with a scoop, leaving the opening as small as possible, and, without breaking the sides of the fruit, remove the pulp from the tomatoes. Put into a stewpan one small chopped shallot, and fry in half an ounce of butter ; add two ounces of finely-chopped cooked ham, fry a little longer; next add the tomato pulp, a glass of sherry, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, six chopped mushrooms, and a small handful of fresh bread-crumbs; mix well over the fire, season with pepper and salt, and bind with one ladleful of veloutee sauce (No. 206) and two yolks of eggs ; stir again over the fire for a minute or two. Fill the tomatoes with this preparation, put them on a buttered baking-tin or saute-pan, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and grated cheese, drop a little oiled butter on top of each ; bake in the oven for half an hour. Dish up on a hot dish ; reduce a little brown sauce with the gravy from the tomatoes, pour over, and serve. 1473. Tomates farcies a la Suisse (Stuffed Tomatoes, hot, Swiss Style).—8 to 10 small ripe and firm tomatoes, a small terrine foie gras, 4 preserved mushrooms, 2 tablespoonfuls Madeira sauce {No. 237 a), 2 tablespoonfuls chopped ham, 1 tablespoonful grated Swiss cheese, 1 oz. butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, chopped parsley. Wipe the tomatoes, cut a small portion off the top of each, and scoop out carefully the pulp, taking great care so as not to break any.' Kemove the fat from the foie gras, cut it into very small dice, chop finely the mushrooms, put the ham, mushrooms, and foie gras in a basin, moisten with the sauce, add the cheese and a little chopped, parsley, season to taste, and mix well. Fill the tomatoes with this preparation, place a tiny piece of butter on top of each, and bake them in a moderately heated oven for about twenty minutes. Have ready some rounds of toasted and buttered bread, a little larger than the tomatoes. Place the tomatoes on these, dish up, and serve. 1474. Okra aux Tomates.—1 lb- fresh tomatoes, or ^ quart can of preserved ones, 1 tin or bottle of preserved okra, a couple of slices of onion, 1 oz. butter, salt, pepper, a slice of toasted bread, seasoning.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 478 If fresh tomatoes are used remove the stems and cut the fruit into slices. Put the onion (minced finely) in a stewpan containing the butter, fry over the fire for a few moments, then add the tomatoes, and let simmer for about three-quarters of an hour. Season slightly with pepper and salt, then add the contents of a tin or bottle of okra (the latter can be procured from almost any high-class grocery store). Stew gently for at least half an hour longer, and season with pepper and salt. Dish up tastefully, garnish with neat slices of toasted bread, and serve hot. 1475. To mates sautees (Tomatoes tossed in Butter).—Cut some ripe but firm tomatoes into slices, peel and chop some shallots, fry them in butter in a saute-pan, add the tomatoes, season and fry them in the oven for about ten minutes. Dish up, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. 1476. Souffles a la To mate.—1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 oz. ham, 1 pint white stock, 1 gill milk and cream, 1 small onion stuck with 1 clove, 6 peppercorns, 3 whites of eggs, 1 gill concentrated tomato puree, a pinch paprika pepper and salt, sotijfle cases. Melt the butter in a stewpan, mix the flour with it, and let it cook without taking colour ; boil up the stock with the onion and pepper- corns, and let it reduce to half its original quantity, which would be a gill. Boil up milk and cream together, add to the roux, and strain in the stock carefully ; cut the ham into small pieces, and add also ; stir the sauce well until it boils, and let simmer until it is well reduced; rub through a fine sieve (take out the ham), add the tomato puree, beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the mixture with the seasoning. When the former is .sufficiently cool fill up three parts full some souffle cases, and bake in a moderately heated oven from ten to fifteen minutes. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1477. Tomates a la Bock (.American Dish).—Sliced tomatoes broiled in butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, nutmeg, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley. 1478. Tomates a la Caroline.—Baked tomatoes stuffed with rice, previously stewed in beef stock, well seasoned, and mixed with a little grated Parmesan cheese. 1479. Tomates a l’Espagnole.—Tomatoes stuffed with forcemeat, bread-crumbs, finely chopped ham, moistened with egg-yolk, brown sauce, and seasoned. Braise in the oven and serve with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 1480. Tomates a la Florentine. -Halves of tomatoes stuffed with a mixture of finely chopped chicken livers, grated Parmesan cheese, egg- yolks, finely chopped shallots, fried in oil, and white bread-crumbs, moistened with sherry wine and well seasoned. Range on a baking-VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 479 sheet, sprinkle over with bread-crumbs, grated cheese, and a little oiled butter, and bake in a hot oven. 1481. Tomates a la Marseillaise.—Halves of tomatoes, seasoned, fried in oil. Spread the cut sides with a mixture of hard-boiled egg- yolks, chopped shallots, chives and parsley, butter, and pounded anchovies, sprinkle over with bread-crumbs, and bake in a hot oven. 1482. Tomates a la Sicilienne.—Select some firm tomatoes, scoop out the centre of each, and fill with a mixture of tomato pulp, finely chopped ham, parsley, shallots, mushrooms, and bread-crumbs, moistened with a well-reduced Madere sauce (No. 237 a). Range on baking-sheet, sprinkle over with bread-crumbs, grated cheese, and a few drops of oil, and bake in a hot oven. 1483. Tomates farcies a la Reine. —Fresh tomatoes (firm) scooped out, stuffed with chicken forcemeat, baked, and served with Madere sauce (No. 237 a). 1484. Tomates roties.—Baked tomatoes (cut in halves without de- taching them entirely. Remove the seeds and put a small piece of butter and seasoning in the centre of each. Close up, cover with buttered paper, and bake for about twenty minutes. 1485. Truffes a la Borchardt.—Wash and brush twelve large fresh truffles. Soak them in fresh water for three hours. Drain and put them in a stewpan with sufficient sherry or Marsala wine to cover, add a few crushed peppercorns, cover, and cook for twenty minutes. When this is done hollow out the centre of each truffle by means of a sharp-pointed knife, and fill them with a previously prepared salpicon of finely chopped mushrooms and oysters seasoned with a little white sauce and lemon-juice. Dip each truffle in a rich frying batter, so as to completely cover it with batter. Fry a golden colour in clarified butter and one-fourth of olive oil. Drain them carefully and dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper. Serve with a suitable sauce or use as garnishing. Note.—The interior of the truffles removed must be saved, as it can be used for sauces &c. 1486. Truffes d la Perig our dine.—12 small fresh truffles, or preserved truffes broisees, 1 tin or terrine foie gras naturel weighing about | lb., 2 oz. fresh butter, 1 small glass Marsala or Madeira wine, 1 liqueur glass cognac brandy, about 2 gills aspic (No. 293), 1 small bouquet garni (No. 2), salt, pepper, and aromatic seasoning, 12 small artichoke bottoms (cooked), Tartare sauce (No. 278). Wash and brush thoroughly the truffles (if fresh truffles are used) ; use tepid water for this. Put them in a stewpan with the wine, cognac, and bouquet garni, also a pinch of salt and pepper. CoverTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 480 the pan and let simmer quickly for ten minutes. Set to cool. Pound the foie gras in a mortar ; add to it the butter (not melted), the liquor from the truffles, and a little cream if needed ; season tc taste with salt, pepper, and aromatic seasoning, mix well, and rub through a fine hair sieve. Place this on the ice on a plate. Peel thinly the truffles. Chop the peelings as finely as possible (the latter are required for crumbing, and if found insufficient use some tinned truffle peelings to make up the required quantity). Divide the foie gras puree into twelve portions, shape them round, and place a truffle in the centre of each ball. When set cover the surface completely with chopped truffle peelings, place them on a tin or wire tray, and mask each with semi-set aspic jelly. Trim the artichokes, flute the edges with a sharp knife, and place them on a silver or china dish ; put a tea- spoonful of Tartare sauce in each, place the prepared foie gras and truffle balls in the centre, garnish with fresh parsley, keep on the ice for half an hour, and serve. 1487. Truffes an Champagne.—1 lb. fresh truffles of medium size, 3 to 4 thin slices bacon, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. raw ham, 1 oz. carrot, 1 oz. onion (stuck with 1 clove), 1 bay-leaf, 1 sprig of thyme, £ pint champagne, a little stock, seasoning. Wash and brush thoroughly the truffles, wrap up each in a thin piece of bacon. Cut into dice the ham, carrot, and onion ; fry these together with the herbs in an ounce of butter, then add the truffles, cover the stewpan for a few seconds, moisten with the wine, skim, and simmer for about fifteen minutes. Take up the truffles, remove the bacon, skim the stock, strain it, and work in by degrees the remainder of the butter, which has been previously kneaded with a teaspoonful of flour ; boil up, add a little stock if needed, season to taste. Dish up the truffles, and pour the sauce round the base of the dish. 1488. Tru ffes a Vltalienne.—Slices of truffles, tossed in fresh butter, with finely minced shallots and parsley, moistened with brown sauce and lemon-juice. Season with salt, cayenne, and a little ground mace. Heat well and serve. 1489. Buisson de Truffes a la Boy ale.—Large round truffles, cleaned and dried, stewed in Madeira wine, then set to cool; drain, and serve on an oval-shaped bread-crust, dished on a folded napkin, decorate with silver skewers stuck with slices of truffles and sprigs of parsley. 1490. Bordure de Pommes de Terre.—Wash and peel some potatoes, cut them into thin slices and then into strips about the size of wood matches. When well washed drain them on a cloth, POTATO BORDURE WITH WIRE MOULD BY MEANS OF WHICH THE BORDER CAN BE MADE.VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 481 after which pack them loosely into a wire border mould, as shown in the illustration on the previous page ; place the wire cover over and fix with the pin attached. Plunge the whole into very hot fat and fry till a golden brown colour. Take up, drain well, remove the cover, and turn out on a hot dish, sprinkle with a little fine salt, and serve. FARINACEOUS DISHES. 1491. Beignets de Gruyere d la Krona.—| lb. firm fresh Gruyere cheese, free from rind,panurette (grated rush), 1 teaspoonful krona pepper-seasoning, 1 egg, frying-fat, or clarified butter, 4 gill ichite sauce. Cut the cheese into oval or round slices about 4 inch thick. These must he cut of even size. Coat each on both sides with a layer of cold white sauce, and place on a wire tray to set. Mix a plateful of panurette bread-crumbs with the krona pepper. Dip each cheese slice in beaten egg and roll in the crumbs. Place them in a wire frying-basket and plunge into very hot fat ; fry till nicely coloured (it will take about four minutes). Drain, dish up on a folded napkin or lace paper, and serve quickly. 1492. Gnocchi a la Basse.—| pint milk, 4 gill white wine, 3 eggs, 6 ounces butter, (5 ounces flour, 4 ounces grated Parmesan cheese, salt, pepper, and paprika, bechamel sauce. Put the milk and wine in a stewpan. When hot add half the quantity of butter, sift the flour, and stir it gradually into the liquid as soon as it begins to boil fast. Work the mixture vigorously over the fire with a wooden spoon until it leaves the sides and bottom of the stewpan perfectly clean. Set the pan on one side for a few minutes, so as to cool the paste a little. Now incorporate the eggs one at a time, about half the grated cheese, and season to taste with a pinch of salt, white pepper, and a little paprika, beat up well, and work in finally the remainder of the butter. Shape some quenelles by meana of a table or dessert spoon, drop them into fast boiling water or stock, slightly salted ; poach them from fifteen to twenty minutes, keeping the cover on the stewpan while cooking. Take up, drain, dish up neatly, incorporate the remainder of grated cheese with the bechamel sauce, let this boil, and sauce over the quenelles. Serve very hot. 1493. Macaroni d la Rossini.—Pound four ounces of raw chicken livers, previously cleansed, in a mortar, adding the same quantity of truffle and foie gras, season with salt, pepper, grated cheese, and nutmeg, moisten with one yolk of egg and a tablespoonful o‘f brandy. Rub through a fine sieve. Meanwhile cook in salted water some large-sized macaroni ; when done pour off the water and drain the macaroni on a cloth. Fill the pipes with the prepared farce, using a paper cornet for this purpose. Place the stuffed macaroni in a stewpan, pour over sufficient tomato sauce to cover. i i482 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Cook for twenty minutes in the oven, dish up, and sprinkle over with grated Parmesan cheese. 1494. Nouilles au Graf in.—Prepare a stiff but smoothly kneaded paste with half a pound of flour, half an ounce of butter, three yolks of eggs, and a pinch of salt. Allow the paste to stand for at least one hour; then roll out as thinly as possible, fold the pieces rolled out, and cut the paste crossways into narrow strips about an eighth of an inch thick. Loosen the strips (shake them up and dredge with a little flour), put the nouilles into a pan of fast boiling salted water, and boil for about eight minutes; then drain and let cool. Butter a gratin dish ; spread over a little white sauce, then a layer of nouilles ; sprinkle over some grated cheese and a few drops of oiled butter, cover with sauce, and continue thus until the nouilles are used up. See that the last layer is well masked with white sauce ; sprinkle over with bread-crumbs, place a few tiny bits of butter here and there on top of the crumbs, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. The dish is then ready for serving. 1495. JPain de Semoule d la Tomate.—3 oz. semolina or fiorador, 1 pint milk, ^ pint tomato pulp, 2 eggs, 3 fresh tomatoes, 1 bay-leaf, 1 small blade mace, 1 oz. grated cheese, 1 piece celery, pepper and salt, 1 oz. butter, ^ oz. corn-flour. Put half a pint of milk into a stewpan, add bay-leaf, mace, and celery. When boiling stir in the semolina or fiorador, work this over the fire until it thickens ; then add the grated cheese, half an ounce of butter, and half a gill of tomato pulp. Season to taste, stir, and cook gently for at least ten minutes. Take out the bay-leaf, mace, and celery; let the mixture cool a little. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, stir the yolks into the mixture, beat the whites to a stiff froth and add also. Have ready one large or several small well- buttered timbale moulds. Blanch, peel, and slice the tomatoes. Three parts fill the mould or moulds with the mixture, add the sliced tomatoes in layers between the mixture. Put the moulds in a saute- pan containing a little boiling water, cover them with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for at least thirty minutes. Mix the remainder of the milk with the corn-flour, pour into a stewpan, add the remainder of tomato pulp, boil up while stirring, season to taste, and cook for five minutes. Unmould the pain on to a hot dish, strain over the prepared sauce, and serve. 1496. Raviolis a Vltalienne.—£ lb. flour, 2 or' 3 yolks of eggs, salt and pepper, about 6 oz. fish or liver farce, 1J gill good tomato sauce, 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, % oz. butter. Sift the flour on to a paste-board, make a well in the centre of the flour, add a pinch of salt, mix in the yolks of eggs and a little water, and work it to a stiff paste ; this must be kneaded thoroughly for at least ten minutes ; it must be stiff and yet of an elastic texture. Roll out the paste as thinly as possible, stamp out some rounds about the size of half a crown piece, put about a teaspoonful of farce (liver483 FARINACEOUS DISHES or fish forcemeat richly seasoned and mixed with Parmesan) on the centre of a round, wet the edges of the paste, and cover with another round of paste, press the edges well together, and proceed thus until enough raviolis are obtained. Drop these into fast boiling and slightly salted water, and boil for about fifteen or twenty minutes. Take them up and drain on a sieve. Dress them on a dish in layers with tomato sauce and grated Parmesan cheese between the layers. Sauce over well with tomato sauce, sprinkle over with cheese, and place a few tiny bits of fresh butter here and there. Set the dish in a brisk oven for ten minutes and serve quickly. 1497. Risotto a Vltalienne.—^ lb. Patna rice, 2 oz. butter, 1 small onion, 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, ^ pint tomato sauce, about 1 pint good stoclc, salt, pepper, nutmeg, ^ teaspoonful saffron. Wash the rice in several courses of water, drain and dry it. Peel and mince finely the onion. Melt the butter in a stewpan; when hot add the onion, fry over a gentle fire until a light fawn colour, then add the rice; shake the pan over the fire for a few minutes, so as to fry the rice a little. Next add the seasoning, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and saffron; moisten with a little stock, and add more as the rice begins to swell. When the stock is used up gradually add the sauce. When the rice is tender mix in the grated cheese. It is then ready to serve. In preparing this dish remember that the rice should be well done, and should be neither too dry nor too moist. 1498. JELiz a VIndienne (Curried Bice).—4 oz. rice, 1 tea- spoonful curry powder, 2 shallots, 1^ oz. butter, 1 gill brown sauce, 1 tomato, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 teaspoonful cream, seasoning, loater- cress for garnish. Pick, wash, and drain the rice; peel and chop the shallots. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the shallots, and fry a golden colour, stir in the curry powder and fry a few minutes longer, stirring all the while, then add the rice and shake the pan over the fire in order to blend the rice thoroughly. Moisten gradually with the brown sauce, cream, and a little stock if found necessary. Peel the tomato, cut it into dice, and add also. Cook gently till the rice is tender. Be care- ful to see that the rice is kept moistened, as it swells in cooking; stir frequently, but gently ; season with salt, pepper, a pinch of ground mace, and nutmeg. Dish up, surround the base with slices of hard- boiled egg and a tuft of watercress between the slices of egg. Serve very hot. 1499. Ttiz a la Hong noise.—Pick half a pound of best rice (do not wash it) ; put it into a stewpan with lid. Add an ounce of butter, half a teaspoonful of paprika, and a teaspoonful of salt; mix well, cover, and place in a hot oven for ten minutes, then add a handful of mushrooms cut into dice, moisten with a quart and a half of good chicken or mutton broth, and let cook slowly on the stove or in theTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 484 oven from 1 to 2 hours. A small bunch of savoury herbs can be added while the rice is cooking, but must be removed before it is served. 1500. Biz a la Polonaise.—£ lb. Caroline rice, 2 oz. butter, 1 quart chicken or beef broth, 3 small shallots, 1 small onion stuck with 3 cloves, 4 to 6 small firm tomatoes, grated cheese, salt, and pepper. Clean the rice, but do not wash it, put it in a stewpan with the butter, and stir over the fire for a few minutes, then add the shallots, previously peeled and chopped finely, and let brown a little, moisten with the stock or broth, add onion and tomatoes, the latter cut into slices, season slowly, and cook for one hour. A few minutes before serving add half a cup of grated cheese, and remove the onion. 1501. Biz a la Tomate (Tomato Bice).—4 oz. rice, 1 small onion stuck with a clove, 1 small bouquet garni, 3 shallots, 2 oz. butter, 1 gill tomato sauce, % to 3 small firm but ripe tomatoes, 1 oz. grated cheese, seasoning. Pick and wash the rice, blanch it in slightly salted water; then drain. Put it in a stewpan with the onion, bouquet, and tomato sauce, cook gently till tender, adding a little stock if the rice gets too dry, as it swells. Remove the onion and bouquet garni. Peel and chop finely the shallots, fry them in half the butter to a pale brown colour. Add this to the rice, season with salt, cayenne, and a tiny pinch of ground mace. Mix in the cheese and keep hot. Cut the tomatoes into neat slices, fry them carefully in the remainder of butter, and season to taste. Dish up the rice on a hot dish, garnish with slices of tomatoes, and serve.485 CHAPTER XXV SALADES (SALADS) The word salad is generally defined as a dish of raw herbs or plants (salad plants) eaten with salt, or dressed with vinegar and oil, eaten with other dishes as a relish or an accompaniment. But few people are content to eat salad with salt alone; the majority prefer it dressed in some tasty mixture known as salad dressing. When, we come to the dressing of salads we usually discover a weakness, or some lack of knowledge how to please the palate. The reason is that salad-making or salad-mixing is an art, if not a gift, which is granted to but few. Most people can with study and a certain amount of judgment achieve success in this branch of the culinary art. Salads are prepared in such a variety of ways, and form such a large number of materials, that the subject is broad enough to fill a separate volume. Nearly all succulent vegetables can be brought into requisition in compounding salads. No matter what a salad is composed of, it should always look cool, inviting, and dainty. Almost anything under the sun in the way of eatables can be converted into a salad. The variety of salads is therefore almost endless—raw products, acetarious plants or succulent plants, hot and cold cooked vegetables, fish and meat, are indifferently mixed or blended together. In a typical plain salad the lettuce is generally the foundation, whilst the Russian salad—salade russe—is regarded as the most recherche of dressed salads or fancy salads. So called French salads take the lead in popularity, and these are served to be eaten with the roast or separately. -A true French salad is dressed with vinaigrette and the fourniture d’herbes ; the mixing of this salad could be tabulated in at least fifty ways, the one rule being that a typical French salad should, in addition to the herbs used, consist but, of one kind of vegetable, i.e. of lettuce, endive, batavia, tomato, or escarole. This is frequently disregarded in this country. A French cook or housekeeper will on no account mix any two of these plants together for a salad, because it is claimed that their delicate flavours become thereby impaired, if not entirely destroyed.486 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1502. Nut Potato Salad.1 This salad is very delicious. Now if you don’t think this is true, Just try it ; ’tis very nutritious ; You’ll find that the recipe’s new. Boil four large potatoes and slice thin, Three bunches of celery cut up, Then mix them together and put in Some walnuts, about half a cup. Part second remains without guessing, The salad is not yet complete ; One large cup of mayonnaise dressing, The same of whipped cream, rich and sweet. ' 1503. Salade d la Reyniere.—Wash and drain two nice French lettuces, tear into small pieces, toast a slice of bread about one-tliird of an inch thick, dip it in salad oil, put it in a salad bowl ; dress the lettuce on this with alternate layers of cooked French beans; garnish with cooked beetroot, hard-boiled eggs, chopped chervil, so as to form a nice design ; season with pepper, salt, oil,, and chilli vinegar just before sending to table. 1504. Salade d la Contoise (Contoise Lettuce Salad).— 2 cabbage lettuces, 1 firm tomato, a small handful of fine white dandelion, 2 oz. boiled pickled pork, 1 tablespoonful salad oil, 1 table- spoonful French wine vinegar, chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Trim, wash, and drain the lettuce and dandelion, tear up the leaves into convenient pieces, drain again in a cloth, cut the tomato into small pieces (dice shapes), cut the pork into small dice, or strips, fry with a little oil in a frying-pan a nice brown, add the vinegar, heat up. Put the salad, all well mixed, in a bowl, season with pepper and salt, mingle in the fried pork and vinegar; while warm add the oil last of all, heap up in the centre, sprinkle over some chopped parsley, clean the sides of the bowl, and serve. 1505. Salade de Laitue (Lettuce Salad).—Wash and trim three heads of cabbage lettuce, cut off the stalks, and break the leaves into convenient pieces, dry them thoroughly in a salad basket; put the salad into the bowl ; then add sufficient pepper and salt to taste in the salad-spoon, fill it with tarragon vinegar, mix it till the salt is dissolved, and pour the contents of the spoon over the salad ; add three saladspoonfuls of oil. The proportion of vinegar to oil should be as one to three. Mix the salad carefully but thoroughly, adding during the process a few sprigs of fresh tarragon not too finely chopped. Place on the top one or two hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. Sprinkle over some chopped parsley or chive and serve. 1 By Alye in What to Eat.SAL ABES (SALADS) 487 1506. Salade d VJSspagnole (Spanish Salad).—Cut six small, firm tomatoes, three cooked potatoes, and one beetroot into thin slices ; put these in a bowl, add to it the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, chopped rather finely, and about half a pint of preserved French beans, cut into short pieces. Season with pepper, salt, and salad dressing (No. 1554), and serve. 1507. Salade de Tomates {Tomato Salad).- 6 firm, even- sized tomatoes, 1 tablespoonful vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls salad oil, 1 teaspoonful mixed mustard or ‘ Mustardyne,’ 1 teaspoonful chopped chives or parsley, pepper and salt. Wipe the tomatoes, scald them in boiling water for one minute, drain on a cloth, carefully remove the stems and skin, and let cool. Cut them into thin slices, and place in a salad bowl. Now prepare the dressing. Put two saltspoonfulls of salt in a basin, together with a saltspoonful of pepper, the mixed mustard or ‘ Mustardyne,’ pour in the vinegar and oil, and mix thoroughly with a wooden salad- spoon ; just before serving the salad add the chopped chives or parsley to the dressing, and pour it over the tomatoes. 1508. Salade Mirette.—This salad consists of very young lettuce-leaves, the heart of young celery cut into shreds, and hard- boiled white of egg. The whole is seasoned with mayonnaise (No. 277), and when dressed covered with hard-boiled yolks of eggs rubbed through a coarse sieve. 1509. Salade d la JMEonte-Carlo.—4 ripe, firm tomatoes, 2 truffles, \pint cooked asparagus points, 6 small artichoke bottoms {cooked), 2 lettuces, mayonnaise dressing {No. 277), seasoned with krona pepper. Blanch and peel the tomatoes, and cut them into slices, cut the truffles into thin slices and the artichoke bottoms into shreds or oblong slices. Wash and trim the lettuces, mix all the ingredients together in a basin, season with pepper and salt and a little oil and vinegar. Dress the whole in pyramidal form on a deep dish or shallow salad-bowl, garnish round the base with groups of asparagus points. Pour a little mayonnaise sauce, seasoned with krona pepper, over the whole, and send a boat of this dressing to table along with the salad. 1510. Salade de Cardon.—Trim and wash one or two sticks of cardoon, cut off the root and leaves and cut into two or three inch lengths. Boil these in slightly salted water until they can be peeled easily. Put them on a sieve to drain and cool. Cut the cardoons in halves crossways and shred each finely, like julienne roots. Prepare a little mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), flavoured with garlic vinegar, put it in a salad-bowl, and dress the shredded cardoon on top of this. Garnish tastefully with hard-boiled white of egg and shreds of gherkins. Send to table to be mixed when required. 1511. Salade de Concomhres {Cucumber Salad).—Peel thinly one or more cucumbers, cut into very thin slices, and arrange them488 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK neatly in a salad bowl or dish, mix two parts of salad oil with one part of vinegar, add pepper and salt to taste, and a little chopped parsley, stir well and pour over the sliced cucumbers. 1512. Salade de Concombre et, Celeri {Celery and Cucumber Salad),—This is one of the finest salads, though not much known. Wash some white celery according to the quantity required; cut it lengthways into fine strips or shreds, and throw it into iced water for about half an hour. Peel a cucumber very thinly, and cut in the same way as the celery. Drain the latter and put it in a bowl with the cucumber, season with salt and pepper, and mix it well with mayonnaise dressing. Heap it up in the bowl, wipe the sides of the bowl with a damp cloth, surround the salad with a border of small red radishes, garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs, sprinkle over a little finely chopped French gherkin and parsley, and serve. Ordinary salad dressing, oil and vinegar or so called vinaigrette sauce, will do as well if mayonnaise sauce is not handy or convenient to use. 1518. Salade de Chicoree (.Endive Salad).—Trim and wash well a nice endive, divide into small pieces, drain and dry in a cloth or salad basket, put it in a salad bowl, season with pepper and salt, pour over some salad dressing (No. 1554), and mix thoroughly. Batavia can be used in place of endive. Finely shredded celery, sprigs of watercresses or small cress may be mixed with this salad if liked. 1514. Salade de Chicoree au Lard (Endive Salad with Bacon).—1 head white endive, 4 thin slices of streaky bacon, salt and pepper to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls French wine vinegar. Pick, wrash, and rinse the endive, using only the white (bleached) leaves. Divide them into short pieces and place them in a cloth to thoroughly drain them. Remove'the rind from the bacon, cut the latter into shreds, and fry a golden brown in a frying or omelette pan (they must be tossed over the fire till of a rich light brown colour). Drain the cooked bacon on a sieve or on paper to free it from the liquid fat. Now mix with the endive, adding the needful quantity of salt and pepper, also the vinegar. Mix the whole thoroughly, wipe the side of the salad bowl, and serve. 1515. Salade d la Jardiniere (Mixed Vegetable Salad).— Have ready the following ingredients :—1 small or ( a large cooked cauliflower, 1 small cooked and pickled beetroot, 2 to 8 cooked patatoes (not mealy), 1 small pickled cucumber, ‘l firm tomatoes, 1 crisp lettuce or endive, ^ pint mayonnaise dressing (No. 277). Divide the cauliflower into very small portions, cut the beetroot into shreds and the potatoes into small strips, slice the cucumber and the tomatoes. Range all these ingredients in layers in a salad bowl; season each layer slightly with salt and pepper, and pour a little salad dressing (mayonnaise) over all; pile up the contents of the bowl, and arrange a neat border of lettuce or endive, previously washed and drained, round the prepared pickled salad.489 SALADES (SALADS) Toss all carefully the moment it is required for serving. 1516. Salade d la Demidoff.—8 to 10 new kidney potatoes scraped and cooked in salted water, 2 large truffles, 3 young spring carrots, 2 young spring turnips, 1 lettuce {cabbage), salt, pepper,- a dessertspoonful of finely chopped herbs, salad oil, French wine vinegar. Drain and cool the potatoes, cut them into slices, and put in a basin. Cook the truffles in a little Marsala wine, drain, cool, and slice also; mix these with the potatoes, adding a little chopped herbs (parsley, tarragon, and chervil), salt, pepper, and about a tablespoonful of oil and the same quantity of vinegar. Scrape the carrots, peel the turnips, and cook them separately in salted water, then drain, cool, and cut into slices; season these with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, and chopped herbs, and arrange a neat border in a salad bowl: put the prepared potatoes and truffle salad in the centre. Garnish with lettuce leaves, previously dressed, and send to table. 1517. Winter Salad.—A small head of celery, ipickled beetroot {well boiled), 3 or 4 cold potatoes, pepper and salt, dressing {No. 1554). Peel and slice the potatoes and beetroot, wash the celery and shred not too small, arrange these ingredients in layers in a salad bowl, season to taste, pour over some salad dressing, sprinkle over, if liked, a little chopped parsley. Wipe the sides of the bowl, and mix well when required. 1518. Salade de Pols et Haricots Verts {Green Pea and Bean Salad).—For this salad use preserved peas and French beans or freshly cooked vegetables. If the latter be used, boil them in slightly salted water containing a small piece of soda, or better still a pinch of saleratus, to preserve the green colour. The peas and beans must, of course, be cooked separately. When done drain on a sieve and let them get cool. Cut the beans into pieces of about an inch long. Mix both beans and peas in a bowl, adding the necessary salad dressing, cut a clove of garlic in two, and rub the inside of a salad bowl with the cut side. This will give the salad a much appreciated and not too pronounced flavour. Arrange the prepared salad neatly in the bowl and garnish with rings of hard-boiled white of egg, rounds of sliced beetroot, and parsley. When the flavour of onion is liked, one or two finely chopped shallots may be mixed with this salad. 1519. Salade des Pomme dc Terre {Potato Salad).—1£ lb. small firm potatoes, boiled in the skins, j lb. lean bacon, ^ small onion, salt, pepper, vinegar to taste, 1 tablespoonful mayonnaise {No. 277), parsley. Peel the potatoes, and slice them while hot, cut the bacon into dice, and fry a nice brown in a frying-pan, drain the bacon and put it in a basin with the potatoes and the onion finely chopped. Season with salt and pepper, mix the mayonnaise sauce with about two490 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK tablespoonfuls of French wine vinegar, and pour this over the potatoes. Mingle the whole carefully, so as not to break the potato slices. Dish up in a salad bowl. Sprinkle over with chopped parsley and serve. 1520. Mayonnaise de Celeri et Woix (Walnut and Celery Mayonnaise).—1 stalk white celery, £ pint peeled walnuts, 1 gill stiff mayonnaise (No. 277), salt and pepper, 1 tablespoonful double cream. Trim and wash the celery, cut it into small shreds or julienne shapes, and drain on a sieve or in a salad basket. Cut the walnuts (previously shelled and peeled) into small pieces, mix both celery and walnuts, and season with salt and pepper. Add by degrees the mayonnaise and the cream. Dress in a pile on a vegetable dish or a small flat salad bowl. Garnish with a few sprigs of watercress or small radishes, and serve with roast poultry or game. 1521. Salade aax Epinards et CEufs (Spinach and Egg Salad).—A delightful cold dish can be prepared by cooking and dressing the spinach as directed in recipe No. 1368. When cold, season with sweet salad oil and lemon-juice, and press into one or more moulds. Have ready also two hard-boiled eggs and mayonnaise (No. 277) or remoulade (No. 285) sauce. Arrange a bed of shredded lettuce on a dish (border shape), turn the spinach from the moulds in the centre of the dish, cut the eggs into slices and arrange them tastefully on top of the spinach. Mask over the whole with mayonnaise or remoulade sauce, garnish with hard-boiled yolks of eggs rubbed through a sieve and sprigs of watercresses, and serve. 1522. Saiade aux (Eufs {Egg Salad).—6 hard-boiled eggs, % gill cream, \ gill mayonnaise sauce {No. 277), chopped parsley, beetroot, red chillis and capers, salt and pepper, 1 lettuce, 1 slice toasted bread. Peel the eggs, and cut them crosswise into slices, whip the cream till stiff, then add to it the mayonnaise and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Wash and trim the lettuce, place a round .of toasted bread in a salad bowl, dress on this a layer of lettuce leaves, then a layer of mayonnaise, then a layer of slices of eggs, and so on until the eggs and lettuce are used up. Season each layer to taste. Pile up high, sprinkle over'with chopped parsley. Garnish tastefully with slices of beetroot, capers, and red chillis, and serve. 1523. Salade Italienne {Italian Salad).—Cut half a pound of cold roast veal and half a pound of boiled potatoes into convenient- sized dice or slices. To this add four ounces of .cooked and pickled beetroot, four ounces of pickled gherkins, 1 tablespoonful of capers, and a handful of crisp lettuce leaves, season to taste, and pile up in a salad bowl. Pour over some fairly stiff remoulade (No. 285) or mayonnaise (No. 277) sauce, and garnish with stoned olives, slices of smoked Italian sausages, and slices of lemon.491 SALABES (SALADS) 1524. Salade Mignonne.—2 medium-sized potatoes boiled in tlieir jackets, 1 stick celery, £ pint preserved small button mush- rooms (those preserved in white vinegar are best adapted), % pint cooked green peas, £ pint pickled button onions, 2 small cabbage lettuces, a few sprigs of chrysanthemum bloom and blossoms {shredded very finely), about a gill of stiff mayonnaise sauce {No. 277), salt and pepper. Peel the potatoes, cut them into even-sized small dice ; select the celery as white as possible, trim and wash well, and cut the white part into fine shreds, pare the stalks from the mushrooms (cham- pignons) and cut them in halves, leaving out a few for garnish, halve the pickled onions, trim and wash the lettuces, reserve the hearts for garnish, and tear the remainder into small pieces, put these, together with the potatoes, celery, onions, mushrooms, and green peas, in a basin, season with salt and pepper according to taste, and mix with sufficient mayonnaise sauce to flavour the salad. Dress neatly in a salad bowl, pile up high or in the form of a pyramid, pour over a little mayonnaise dressing, so as to thinly cover the surface, garnish with the lettuce hearts, sprinkle over with shredded chrysanthemum, and serve. 1525. Salade d la Haehel.—1 head celery, 2 truffles, 2 hard- boiled eggs, 2 French gherkins, ^ gill mayonnaise {No. 277) sauce, a few slices of cooked beetroot, salt, pepper. Wash and clean the celery, cut all the white part into very fine shreds (like julienne roots) ; slice the truffles, and cut them into shreds likewise. Mix both together and season with pepper and salt, dress with mayonnaise sauce, and put in the centre of a glass bowl or china salad dish. Peel the eggs, cut them into slices, and arrange into a border round the celery and truffle salad, decorate prettily with finely shredded gherkins and beetroot cooked and pickled. Instead of ordinary eggs plover’s or pheasant’s eggs may be used for a change. 1526. Salade Musse, aw Maigre {Russian Salad).— pint mayonnaise {No. 277), 1 gill cooked green peas, 1^ cauli- flower, 3 new potatoes, 2 tomatoes, 1 truffle, 1 gill mixed vegetables {carrot, turnip, and French beans), 2 gherkins, and garnishing. Cook separately in slightly salted water the various vegetables, previously prepared, the carrot, turnip cut into dice or stars (the mixed vegetables may be used preserved), the cauliflower divided into sprigs or buds. The potatoes are cooked and cut afterwards into neat short strips. The tomatoes are cut up in slices raw. Put a piece of butter into the water in which the vegetables are boiled. When all are cooked, drain well, and put in layers in a large basin or salad bowl. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of caster sugar; arrange the whole of the ingredients, including the gherkins and truffles, which are cut into fine shreds, in several distinct sections or layers. Cover each layer with mayonnaise sauce. Smooth over neatly with mayon-492 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK naise. Decorate according to fancy with various small groups of shredded smoked salmon, hard-boiled white of egg cut into quarter-inch dice, chopped or shredded beetroot, stoned or stuffed olives, anchovy fillets, capers, or truffles. Serve some mayonnaise sauce separately with this dish. 1527. Salade d la Saint Jacques (St. James's Salad).—Cook six ounces of rice in well seasoned white stock till tender ; when cold add to it two finely chopped truffles, six preserved mushrooms cut into dice or shreds, and two finely chopped shallots. Season with mayonnaise (No. 277) and range neatly in a salad dish. Sprinkle over with grated Parmesan cheese, and garnish with olives, slices of lemon, and slices of hard-boiled egg. 1528. Salade Japonaise (Japanese Salad).—Coat a border- mould with a thin layer of clear aspic jelly, decorate it with stars of truffles or hard-boiled yolks of eggs, previously rubbed through a sieve ; the bottom and side of the mould should be completely covered with this. Trim and wash a firm lettuce, cut it into fine shreds, season it with aspic and mayonnaise in equal proportions, and add to it a handful of cooked green peas or French beans. Fill up the border-mould with this, and pour a layer of aspic over the top. Place it on the ice to set. Prepare the following for the centre of the border :—Cut two hard- boiled whites of eggs into fine strips or shreds ; add to it a handful of cooked asparagus points and a handful of finely-cut cucumber slices. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and mayonnaise sauce, moistened with a couple of tablespoonfuls of whipped double cream. Turn out the mould on to a round dish, fill the centre with the above-named preparation, and coat the whole with a very stiff mayonnaise dressing. Garnish the top with rings cut out of hard-boiled white of egg and cooked beetroot. Sprinkle over with some finely-chopped truffle, and serve at once. 1529. Salade Suedoise (Swedish Salad).—Slice thinly six ounces each of cooked beef (boiled), beetroot, gherkins, and some apples. To this add six boned anchovies, cut into small pieces, and one table- spoonful of capers, season with oil, salt, pepper, and vinegar. When mixed add a hard-boiled egg cut into slices, dish up, and garnish with six bearded oysters, six anchovy fillets, and slices of hard-boiled egg. 1580. Uordure de JNoioc et Celeri d la Monaco (Chestnut and Celery with Mayonnaise), a smart supper dish.—1 gill mayon- naise (No. 277), \ pint aspic jelly (No. 293), 1 head white celery, ^ pint shelled walnuts, 1 blade mace, 1 bay-leaf, 1 slice onion, \pint tomato pulp, oz. gelatine (sheet), 1 teaspoonful tarragon vinegar, salt, pepper, paprika, 1 French gherkin, a few tarragon leaves, and chillis for garnish. Mark a plain border-mould (pint size) with a thin coating of aspic, decorate the side with fancifully cut chilli and tarragon leaves. Mix half a gill of mayonnaise with enough liquid aspic jelly to make it set,SALADES (SALADS) 493 and line the decorated mould with this. Put it in a cool place to set. Meanwhile put the walnuts in a stewpan, cover with boiling water, add a little salt, the mace, bay-leaf, and onion, and boil for ten minutes or so. Drain them and put them in cold water, remove the skin and shake them gently in a towel. Cut them into shreds. Dissolve the gelatine and add to the tomato pulp, season with pepper, salt, and half a teaspoonful of paprika, flavour with the vinegar, boil up, and strain. When almost cold mix with it about half the shredded walnuts, and fill the border-mould with this preparation and put the mould in a cool place until required. Wash and scrub the celery, rinse it well, and dry on a cloth. Cut away all the green parts, and cut the white part into julienne strips. Mix them in a basin with the remainder of the walnuts. Add pepper and salt to taste. When ready for serving mould the border and dress on a round,dish. Season the salad with mayonnaise and place it in the centre of the dish, pile up high, sprinkle with a little chopped gherkin, and serve. A little green salad, lettuce or endive, may be mixed with the celery and walnuts if liked. In that case it should be cut into shreds, or else torn up into very small pieces. 1531. Salade d la JBeauvilliees.—1 carrot, 1 turnip, \ cooked beetroot, 1 small cooked cauliflower, a handful of cooked peas, the same of French beans, \ stick celery, 6 anchovies filleted, £ lb. Lyons sausage cut into thin slices, 10 stoned olives, French capers, salt, pepper, cold ravigote sauce (No. 363). Peel and cleanse the raw vegetables, cut into half-inch cube shapes, and cook separately in salted water ; drain, cool, and put in a basin, add the cauliflower, divided into small sprigs, the peas, and the beans, cut into short lozenge shapes. Cut the anchovy fillets into small strips, about an inch long ; cut the white part of celery, the slices of Lyons sausage, and the beetroot into fine shreds. Mix gently, season with pepper, salt, and a little ravigote sauce, and dress neatly in a salad bowl. Garnish with groups of capers, olives, and finely-chopped beetroot, and serve. Note.—The ravigote sauce may be substituted by a vinaigrette (No. 300) or mayonnaise sauce (No. 277). 1532. Salade d la Villeroi.—Cut into coarse shreds or thin slices one small cucumber (previously pickled), one small cooked beetroot, one lettuce, three cooked potatoes, and four fresh tomatoes; set these on one side and prepare a dressing as follows: Eub one hard-boiled yolk of egg through a sieve into a salad bowl, add three tablespoonfuls of Valentine sauce (No. 283), one small teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful tomato puree, a teaspoonful of prepared mustard, and a pinch of cayenne pepper; mix well and work in gradually two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, one of French wine vinegar, and a dessertspoonful of anchovy essence; add the prepared vegetables, and mix carefully. Dish up in a clean salad bowl, in aTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 494 pyramidal form; place the heart of a nice French lettuce in the centre, ornament with chopped hard-boiled eggs, chopped chervil and parsley, and a few French capers. 1533. Salade Murger.—This is composed of calf’s feet or calf’s head, boiled in stock and cut into small shreds when cold. It is then seasoned with a dressing made with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, mustard, and finely chopped parsley, other herbs, and shallots. This is an excellent way of using up cooked calf’s feet or calf’s head. 1534. Salade de Volatile (Chicken Salad).—1 boiled chicken, 2 heads lettuce, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 gill mayonnaise (No. 277), 1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar, 12 stoned olives, 1 tablespoonful capers, 2 stalks ichite celery, salt and pepper. Bone the chicken, cut up into neat small slices. Wash the lettuce, wipe the leaves. Wash the celery, and cut into small pieces. Put chicken, lettuce, and the celery in a basin, -season with pepper and salt and vinegar, transfer into a salad bowl, pile up in the centre, garnish with alternate groups of lettuce leaves, quarters of hard- boiled egg, stoned olives, and capers. Pour the mayonnaise dressing- over the centre salad, decorate the top with hard-boiled yolk of egg, finely chopped, capers or gherkins, &c., according to fancy and taste. 1535. Salade de Canard (Duck Salad).—£ a cold duck, | stick of white celery, 1 tablespoonful Orleans vinegar, 2 tablespoonftds Provence oil, 1 teaspoonful each of chopped olives and parsley, 2 thin slices of sour orange (unpeeled), 1 cabbage lettuce, seasoning, % bunch cresses, mayonnaise sauce (No. 277). Cut the duck into inch dice or cubes, wash and clean the celery, cut it into fine strips or shreds (using the white parts only), mix both and put into a basin, season with pepper and salt, pour over the vinegar and oil, and let it stand for a while. Cut the orange slices into quarters or eighths. Wash and trim and drain the lettuce and the cresses, line a salad bowl with the leaves of the lettuce, then put in the cresses and the orange, moisten with a little mayonnaise sauce, add the mixture above referred to, cover with a thin layer of mayonnaise, and sprinkle over with chopped parsley and chives. 1536. Salade Imperials (Game and Celery Salad).—1 cooked (roasted)partridge,! stick white celery,lor2 truffles, 3 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise (No. 277), a pinch cayenne or Nepaulpepper, 3 or 4 slices of cooked and pickled beetroot,‘l pickled French gherkins, 2 table- spoonfuls whipped cream. The partridge must be carefully roasted and must not be allowed to get over-done. Eighteen to twenty minutes will be sufficient for roasting a moderate-sized bird. When cold remove the breast fillets and the meat from the wings, take off the skin, and cut the meat into shreds. Wash the celery, trim it and cut the white parts into fine shreds, next cut the gherkins, beetroot, and truffles into similar shapes. Mix all carefully in a basin, sprinkle with pepper, and season with the mayonnaise. Dress all neatly in a glass salad bowl. Decorate theSALADES (SALADS) 495 top with whipped cream, slices of gherkins, truffles, beetroot, &c., and serve. 1587. Salade de JPerdreati d la Ca/rpentras.— l cold roast partridge, 2 lettuces, \ head celery, mayonnaise dressing (No. 277), 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 truffle, 2 tablespoonfuls vinaigrette (No. 300), 8 stoned French olives, 1 tablespoonful capers, 1 gherkin, pepper and salt. Cut the partridge into neat joints, remove the skin and most of the bones, put in a dish, season with pepper and salt, pour over the vinaigrette, and keep in a cool place for about an hour or more. Wash the lettuce and celery, remove the green leaves, and shred the white portions, season a little. Dress the lettuce, celery, and partridge in alternate layers, in the shape of a dome or pyramid, in a salad bowl, mask with stiff mayonnaise, decorate the surface with fancifully-cut slices and strips of gherkins and truffles. Surround with a garnish of quartered hard-boiled eggs, French olives, and capers, and serve. 1538. Salade de Qibier (Game Salad).—The remains of any kind of cold game, 1 hard-boiled egg, 2 lettuces, pepper, salt, cayenne, mayonnaise sauce (No. 277). Pickled beetroot for garnish. Cut the meat from the bones of the game, remove the skin, and cut the meat into medium-sized dice. Trim and wash the lettuces, pull the leaves from the stalks, and shred them finely; cut out some star shapes from the white of the egg, chop up the yolk and trimmings, and put with the meat. Dress the lettuces, meat, and mayonnaise in alternate layersvin the shape of a pyramid or dome, in a salad bowl. Sprinkle a little seasoning between the layers, cover with mayonnaise sauce. Garnish with stars of sliced beetroot and hard-boiled white of egg. 1539. Salade de Sardines d VMspaynole (Spanish Sardine Salad).—Remove the skin and bones from twelve to sixteen sardines, cut them into short pieces, and mix in a basin with two tablespoonfuls of capers. Season with salt, pepper, and vinegar, and mix with some finely shredded lettuces. Arrange this in a salad bowl, and garnish with stoned Spanish olives filled with anchovy butter. 1540. Salade d la Meuniere (Oyster and Celery Salad).— 1 dozen large oysters, 1 large head 'white celery, ^ gill cream, £ gill tarragon vinegar, 3 yolks of eggs, i teaspoonful made mustard, ^ oz. blitter, salt, cayenne pepper, 1 tablespoonful mayonnaise (No. 277) or Tartare (No. 278) sauce, 1 hard-boiled egg, parsley. Beard the oysters, cut them into quarters, and heat them up in their own liquor without allowing them to boil; heat up the cream, vinegar, and butter, add the mustard, and stir until quite hot, then add the egg-yolks, and keep on the fire while stirring until the liaison is formed. Put in the oysters, heat again, and set on the side to get cool. Wash and trim the celery, remove the outer leaves of the stalk, shred the white portion of the celery and put in a bowl,THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 496 season to taste with salt and cayenne, add a little of the dressing from the oysters and the mayonnaise or Tartare sauce, then mix in the oysters &c., mingle gently the whole, and dish up in a salad bowl; pile up high ; sprinkle over with finely chopped parsley, and garnish tastefully with slices of hard-boiled egg. 1541. Salade a la Colchester {Oyster Salad).—1 dozen oysters, 1 small head tohite celery, \ gill mayonnaise sauce {No. 277), 2 tablespoonfuls caviare, lobster coral, 2 hard-boiled plover's eggs, seasoning. Blanch the oysters, beard them, and cut into small dice. Wash and clean the celery, shred the white parts finely, and mix with the oysters. Season with pepper and salt, and toss in mayonnaise sauce. Dress neatly in a large glass dish, and mask with more mayonnaise sauce. Cut the plover’s eggs into slices, remove the yolks, place them round the salad, and fill the centre of each with caviare ; put a tiny heap of lobster coral in the centre of the caviare. Keep the dish in a very cool place until required for table. 1542. Crab Salad.—Take the meat of two or three small crabs, cut it into convenient-sized pieces, put it in a basin, and mix with about one-third its quantity of shredded celery or endive. Season with salt, pepper, two tablespoonfuls of sweet salad oil (olive or Lucca), three tablespoonfuls of wine or malt vinegar, and a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley. Serve on little plates on lettuce leaves; decorate with slices of hard-boiled egg, capers, and stoned olives ; stuff the latter with anchovy butter. Cold salmon may be treated in the same way ; in this case include some sliced cucumber in the garnish and mixture. 1543. Salade de Homard {Lobster Salad).—1 large hen lobster, \ pint mayonnaise sauce {stiff) {No. 277), 1 lettuce, 1 endive, 4 bunch ivatercresses, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 6 anchovies {filleted), 1 teaspoonful capers, 10 Spanish olives {stoned), 2 or 3 French gherkins, salt and pepper. Split the lobster lengthways, remove all the meat from the shell and claws (preserve the coral for garnish). Cut the lobster-meat into neatly-sized dice or slices. Trim, wash, and drain the lettuce, endive, and cresses ; break or cut these into convenient pieces. Arrange lobster and salad in alternate layers in a salad-bowl, season each layer with pepper and salt, and spread over with a layer of mayonnaise dressing. Cut the hard-boiled eggs into round slices, and cover the surface of the salad with this. Coat the whole carefully with mayonnaise and decorate with the remainder of egg-slices, olives, gherkins, capers, and anchovy fillets. Keep the bowl on the ice until required for table. 1544. Lobster Salad in Shells.— 1 lobster, £ gill Tartare sauce {No. 278), 8 lettuce, \ lemon. Split the lobster, crack the claws, and remove all the meat; divide it into small dice and season well with Tartare sauce. Clean and trim497 SALAJDES (SALADS) the shells of the lobster, fill up with the prepared salad, and range them on a dish. Wash and trim the lettuce, break the leaves into pieces. If any lobster mixture is left over put it in the centre of the dish, and upon this place the lettuce leaves. Garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. 1545. Salade d la Caroline.—4 oz. Caroline rice, 2 large truffles, 6 mushrooms, about \ pint of picked shrimps, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 glass Chablis, pepper, salt, oil and vinegar, parsley. Wash, blanch, and cook the rice the same as for curry, drain and dry, and let cool. Cut the truffles into fine shreds, and put in a stewpan with the wine and mushrooms; cover and boil for a few seconds ; mix these with the rice, add the shrimps and a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. Prepare the dressing, consisting of three tablespoonfuls of oil, two of vinegar (best French wine), a teaspoonful of salt, half a tea- spOonful of pepper, and a little French or English mustard; pour the dressing over the above, mingle well but carefully, dress in a heap in a deep dish or in a salad bowl. Ornament the surface with slices of hard-boiled white and yolk of egg, chopped parsley, a few small stars of truffle, &c. Serve separately or with a dish of sliced tomatoes. 1546. Salade d la Dieppoise.—6 to 8 artichoke bottoms (pre- served), 1 large truffle, £ head white celery, 6 oysters or mussels, | gill mayonnaise sauce (No. ‘i'll), a few anchovy fillets, 1 bunch watercress. Cut the artichokes into strips, shred the truffle, wash and clean the celery and cut into shreds, blanch and beard the oysters, or stew the mussels, cut them into dice. Mix all carefully in a bowl, and add the mayonnaise, so as to thoroughly mask the whole. A pinch of cayenne pepper, salt, and nutmeg may be added if liked. Dish up neatly in a glass bowl, or china salad dish, garnish with anchovy fillets, well wiped, and some little tufts of watercress. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1547. Salade a la Cazanova (Cazanova Salad).—Prepare some finely shredded celery, truffles, and whites of hard-boiled eggs ; season with mayonnaise sauce (No. 277) and finely chopped salad herbs and shallots. Dish up neatly in a salad bowl and serve. 1548. Salade a la Flamande (Flemish Salad).—This consists of a mixture of fillets of herrings, chopped apples, slices of beetroot, cooked potatoes, Brussels sprouts, and sprigs of cooked cold cauliflower, seasoned with ordinary salad dressing or mayonnaise. 1549. Salade a 1’Italienne {Italian Salad). — Cooked carrots, turnips, potatoes, and beetroots, cut out in half-inch thick round slices, ranged in pyramidal form in a salad bowl, with cooked Brussels sprouts, French beans, and sprigs of cauliflower. Dressed with ravigote sauce (No. 363). K K498 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1550. Salade a la Polonaise (Polish Salad).- This is prepared with lettuce, endives, celery, sliced potatoes, apples, smoked salmon, and fillets of anchovies. Seasoned with the usual salad dressing, and garnished with minced cooked ham and hard-boiled eggs. 1551. Salade a la Heine (Queen Salad).- -White celery stalks, hard- boiled whites of eggs, both cut into fine shreds, seasoned with Tartare sauce (No. 278), finely chopped truffles and parsley, and garnished with slices of Brunswick sausage and yolks of hard-boiled eggs, dropped or rubbed through a sieve. 1552. Salade d’Ete (Summer• Salad). — This is a kind of lettuce salad, a mixture of lettuce, sliced cucumber, and artichoke bottoms, cut into thin slices; the whole is highly seasoned with a nice salad dressing, and should be garnished with radishes and pickled red cabbage. 1553. Salade Beige.—For this salad use well-bleached Belgian endive or Batavia, or equal quantities of each. Trim and wash thoroughly, and break up the leaves into convenient-sized pieces. Season with salt, pepper, and oil and vinegar in the usual propor- tions, and as directed in other plain salad recipes. Mix with this some preserved red pimentos, dish up, and serve. 1554. French Salad Dressing.—Mix in a basin 1 teaspoonful of French mustard, | teaspoonful of salt, 1 saltspoonful white pepper ; add 1 tablespoonful of French wine vinegar (vinaigre d’Orleans) and about 3 tablespoonfuls best salad oil (huile de Provence), beat up with a wooden fork or wooden spoon ; lastly add a heaped-up tea- spoonful of finely-minced olives, or else parsley; the former is, how- ever, much more satisfactory. Pour this over the prepared lettuce or other salad. The above quantity is sufficient for a salad for four or five persons. 1555. Salade de Cerises.—1 lb. sour cooking cherries (fresh or preserved), 1 tablespoonful salad oil, 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice, a few drops tarragon vinegar, 1 tablespoonful cognac or ^ table- spoonful kirschwasser, a few tarragon and chervil leaves chopped finely, a teaspoonful caster sugar. If fresh cherries are used remove the stalks and stones, crack the latter and take out the kernels, put them with the cherries in a bowl. Mix the remainder of the ingredients above given in a small basin, and mingle with the cherries. Serve'in a small salad dish or glass side dishes. This is an excellent accompaniment for roast game or duck. 1556. Fruit Salad.—This delicious and ever welcome dish is made by slicing various kinds of fruit, fresh or preserved, such as peaches, apricots, bananas, pine-apple, oranges, &c. xirrange the fruit in layers in a salad-bowl or deep glass dish ; sprinkle each layer of fruit with caster sugar, and pour over \ to ^ a pint of sherry or Madeira, according to the quantity of fruit used, also a small499 SALADES (SALADS) quantity of plain syrup. Place the bowl on the ice for about two hours. Just before serving add a small glass of liqueur, such as kirschwasser, cura90a, Benedictine, or Chartreuse. This is a most refreshing dish, suitable at all seasons of the year, but more especially for hot summer days. 1557. Salade de Fruits (Fruit Salad in Glasses).—Put into small tumblers, or goblet glasses, layers of strawberries, thin slices of bananas, and stoneless cherries. Pour into each glass a tablespoonful of the following mixture : — Half-gill syrup, the juice of one lemon (strained), one liqueur glass maraschino, and one liqueur glass of cognac brandy. Mix the remainder with a gill or more of sweet clear jelly ; divide this into equal parts, and pour over the fruit in the glasses. Keep on the ice till required for table. A few fancy gateaux or Genoese fingers should be handed round with this. 1558. Compote de 3Telon, to be served ivith any kind of roast game or game entrees.—1 melon, 1 gill ivater, 1 glass Marsala or Madeira, 4 teaspoonful krona pepper, 4 saltspoonful ground ginger, the juice of 1 lemon, 1 lump loaf sugar, 1 teaspoonful rice flour. The melon used must be perfectly ripe. Peel it, cut it in half, and remove the seeds ; divide the melon into even-sized slices about If or 2 inches long; place these in a deep enamelled or copper saucepan, pour over the wine. Mix the rice flour with a little cold water, bring it slowly to ’the boil, add the ginger and the remainder of water, the lemon-juice, sugar, and krona pepper. Boil for five minutes, stir fre- quently, and strain over the melon. Cover the pan and cook in a slow oven for fifteen minutes. The compote is then ready for serving. 1559. Salade d’Oranges (Orange Salad).—4 oranges, 4 lemon, 1 tablespoonful sweet salad oil Qmile de Provence), 1 table- spoonful brandy, 4 teaspoonful caster sugar, 4 teaspoonful finely chopped tarragon and chervil, a pinch of cayenne. Remove the peel and pith from the oranges, divide the fruit into the natural divisions, removing at the same time all the skin and pips. Put the fruit in a salad bowl, add a few thin slices of lemon, free from skin and pips, pour over the oil and brandy, season with sugar and cayenne. Add the chopped herbs. Mix thoroughly but carefully, and pile up neatly on a dish. Keep the dish on the ice until required for table. 1560. Salade d’Ananas (Pine-apple Salad).—Cut half a peeled ripe pine-apple into fine shreds (remove the cores before shred- ding). Mix this with the white part of a small head of celery, chopped small. Place it on the ice till wanted. A few minutes before serving mix it with sufficient mayonnaise sauce (No. 277) to moisten and season the salad. Dress neatly on a deep glass dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve it ice-cold. K K 2THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 500 CHAPTER XXYI SWEET ENTREMETS As a rule sweets in general—that is, hot and cold puddings, creams, pastry, and dessert ices—are called Third Course Dishes. Some authorities class these dishes, including fresh fruit, as * Dessert; ’ others call them Entremets sucres (Sweet Entremets) ; this last is, no doubt, the most correct. This course is, as everyone knows, .the last one of a dinner, for savouries (if such are served) are included in this part of the service. I shall not, however, deal with savouries for the present, but confine myself exclusively to sweets. Probably owing to these dishes coming last, many cooks and housekeepers do not seem to consider them of sufficient importance to require that strict attention which other courses receive. Indeed, some look upon these dishes as luxuries and not necessities ; others, however, recognise their importance, and1 devote the attention which they deserve as an obligatory complement of every dinner. I am inclined to think that the sweet course is one to which we cannot devote too much thought and care, because it is a course which is absolutely necessary for any dinner. If the hors-d’oeuvre and soup are the so called prelude to a dinner, then the sweets may be described as the final act of a repast. Without dwelling upon the fact that the cook’s skill and taste can be displayed to advantage by the delicate manner in which the sweets are prepared, it must be admitted that in an ordinary household of moderate means it is economical to serve sweets with a meal, for when these are not provided a greater quantity of meat must be consumed to satisfy nature’s demands. Moreover the majority of people require a certain amount of sugar and starch in their diet, and both of these are very largely represented in these dishes. Children always welcome * sweets ’ and puddings, and these are generally wholesome and nourishing; it is as well not to deprive the young people of this pleasure. Even the poorer classes will find it economical to provide a simple pudding &c. When planning a dinner which contains one or more substantial dishes of meat it must be borne in mind that the first principle regulating the ‘ sweets ’ course should be that the dishes must be at once light and elegant. On the other hand, if the main portion of a.501 SWEET ENTREMETS meal is to be light the sweets may be of a more substantial kind, though elegance of appearance is always to be aimed at. In a recherche meal the sweets should show the touch of a master- hand both as regards the quality and the artistic finish. Like the final touches of a picture the sweet should convey to the palate what the completed picture does to the eye, a certain sense of pleasurable satisfaction. Any suggestion of solidity is out of place in the scheme of a high-class repast. If several sweets are served at one meal the order of service must be from the solid to the light. Sweets are divided into two groups, Hot Sweets and Cold Sweets. PLAIN SWEETS. There are many plain puddings which come under the heading of ‘ Invalid Dietary,’ because they are so simple that they cannot hurt even a delicate constitution. These plain puddings can be made of milk and rice, tapioca, semolina, sago, corn-flour, vermicelli, macaroni, flour, &c. &c. If properly prepared they are both tasty and nourish- ing. Fruit, apples especially, are largely used for simple dishes. Both milk and fruit puddings are inexpensive and wholesome. The drawback in all simple dishes, speaking generally, is that the uneducated cook does not consider them worthy of careful treatment, merely because they are so simple. An intelligent educated cook knows that careful attention is quite as essential in the simplest operation of cooking as it is in the most elaborate. This is a truth which must be grasped by all who wish to succeed. Hot sweets may be further classified as follows : puddings, boiled, steamed, and baked, comprising souffle puddings, fruit puddings, custards, caramels, savarins, fruit fritters (beignets de fruits), pancakes, omelets, beignets, fruit tarts, charlottes, dumplings, &c. &c. ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS). 1561. Ponding d VAutricliienne.—4 eggs, 2 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. ground almonds, 4 oz. cake-crumbs, £ gill cream, 2 oz. glace cherries, | pint fresh or preserved raspberries. Put the raspberries in a buttered, fire-proof china souffle dish (quart or three-pint size). Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs. Put the former in a basin and the latter in an egg-bowl on the ice. Stir the sugar into the yolks and beat up to a cream, adding the ground almonds and cake-crumbs gradually. Melt the butter apd stir it into the mixture, also the cream. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them carefully into the above preparation. Turn this into the souffle dishes containing the first. Put the glace cherries, previously cut in halves, on top, and bake in502 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK a moderately heated oven for half an hour. Serve very hot. If fresh raspberries are used they must be previously stewed in a little syrup. 1562. Ponding d la Perlinoise.—4 oz. flour, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. caster or loaf sugar, 4 oz. almonds, 8 eggs, 3^ gills milk. Blanch, peel, and shred the almonds finely, and dry them in a cool oven. Sift the flour into a basin, stir in half of the milk, and beat to a batter. Put the butter and remainder of the milk in a stewpan, let boil, add the sugar, and stir in the prepared batter; keep stirring until it begins to thicken, then pour into a basin and let cool. Work in the yolks of eggs, two at a time, beat well; add a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs, and whisk till stiff ; mis carefully with the above preparation ; fill into one or two well-buttered moulds, cover with a buttered paper, and boil from one and a half to two hours, according to size. Serve with sweet orange or custard sauce. 1563. Poudiftg a la Ca/mbaceres.—i lb. beef suet, 6 oz. caster sugar, 8 eggs, 4 oz. ground almonds, 4 oz. flour, 4 oz. stoned raisins, 4 oz. crushed macaroons, 1 oz. angelica (cut into small dice), 1 small glass of rum, \ gill cream. Free the suet from skin, and pound it in a mortar till fine, then rub through a sieve and put it in a basin. Stir in the yolks of eggs and the sugar and work to a light mixture, adding the cream at the last. Choi) the raisins, add these and the almonds, also the maca- roons, angelica, and rum. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth ; sift the flour and mix both carefully into the above preparation. Have ready one or two well-buttered moulds; three parts fill them with the mixture. Cover with a buttered paper and steam for two and half hours or longer. Serve hot with a sweet sherry sauce or a well-flavoured hot custard sauce. 1564. Ponding a la Cannelle.—J pint milk, 3 oz. sponge biscuits, 4 eggs, \ lb. caster sugar, J lb. ground almonds, an inch of cinnamon or 4 oz. ground cinnamon, 2 oz. butter, grated nutmeg, 1 tablespoonful flour. Put the milk and cinnamon into a stewpan on the fire and bring to the boil; break up the sponge biscuits, put them in a basin, and strain the. milk over when boiling. Cream 1^ oz. butter with the sugar, add the yolks of eggs, one at a time, stir in the almonds and a pinch ’of grated nutmeg. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth ; stir the biscuit mixture into the preparation of eggs &c., adding slowly the whites of egg and a tablespoonful of sifted flour. Butter a pudding-mould, sprinkle well with bread-crumbs, fill three-parts full with the above, and bake for three-quarters of an hour in a moderately heated oven. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a hot rasp- berry syrup. 1565. Ponding a la Cresy (Carrot Pudding).—£ lb. young carrots, ^ lb.finefresh bread-crumbs, \ lb. butter, £ lb. glace cherries, £ lb. caster sugar, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonf ul ground cinnamon, a pinch of salt.ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) 503 Thoroughly wash the carrots, scrub them with a brush, but do not scrape them. Cover with boiling water slightly salted, and cook till tender. When done rub through a fine sieve. Cream the butter with the sugar ; when well worked add the bread-crumbs and the cinnamon. Stir in the yolks of eggs and beat well. Cut the cherries into quarters and add also. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Mix the carrot pulp with the creamed butter, bread-crumbs, &c., and add lastly the beaten whites of eggs. Pour into a well-buttered mould and steam for rather more than two hours. Serve'with lemon-sauce or sweet sherry sauce. 1566. JPouding d la Dresde.—2 oz. flour, 1^ oz. butter, | pint milk, 2 tablespoonfuls desiccated cocoanut, 3 eggs, 2 oz. tchole-meal bread-crumbs, 2 oz. sugar, ^ teaspoonful ground cinna- mon, 1 ligueur glass curagoa, the grated rind of half a lemon. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour and cook a little; add half a gill of water and one gill of milk and work well while stirring. Warm up the remainder of the milk, and pour it over the cocoanut; add the brown bread-crumbs to this, let it stand for ten minutes in a warm place, then add the sugar and lemon-rind. Stir the yolks of eggs into the panade (the prepared butter, flour, and milk mixture), whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add the cocoanut and brown bread mixture with the panade &c. Stir well, and fold in the beaten whites of eggs ; add the cinnamon and liqueur. Pour the whole into a well-buttered souffle tin, or ordinary pudding mould, and bake it for about one hour in a moderately heated oven. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with hot fruit syrup or some other nicely flavoured pudding sauce. 1567. JPouding d la JJuchesse.—4 oz. butter, 4 oz. siogar (caster), 4 oz. macaroons, 6 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls orange marmalade, 1 teaspoonful ground rice, 1 oz. chopped pistachios. Cream the butter and sugar in a basin, adding gradually the yolks of six eggs ; incorporate the macaroons (roughly pounded) and the orange marmalade. Whisk the whites of six eggs till stiff, add to it the ground rice and half the pistachios; mingle carefully with the mixture. Butter a timbale or plain charlotte mould, sprinkle the bottom with chopped pistachios, and pour in the mixture. Steam for one hour and fifteen minutes in the usual manner ; unmould and serve with a hot sweet sauce. 1568. JPouding Louis JNapoleon.—6 oz. sifted sugar, 6 whole eggs, -2 oz. flour, dried and sifted, 1^ oz, corn-flour, 2 oz. pounded almonds, a few drops orange-flower igater, 1^. oz. fresh butter, a pinch of salt, some stewed apricots, peaches, die., crystal- lised fruit, meringue for ornamenting. Separate the whites of eggs from the yolks, put the yolks into a basin with the sugar, work it with a wooden spoon, beat the whites to a stiff froth, add the ground or pounded almonds, the orange-flower water ; mix all gradually with the whites of eggs, the flours, and the504 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK butter, previously warmed. Fill into a buttered pudding-mould, bake in a quick oven for about half an hour, cut off the top carefully, scoop out some of the centre. It is best to do this after the cake has stood for some time on a sieve, so that the steam may well escape. Next fill up the opening with some stewed but well-drained fruit. Sprinkle over with a glass of maraschino; dress up the top with the fruit, to give it a dome-shaped appearance. Have ready a meringue preparation made with three whites of eggs and one and a half ounce of fine sugar. Spread over the top gently, but evenly ; ornament a little with the cornet, garnish with some crystallised cherries and angelica, put it in the oven just long enough to get hot through and to set the egg-whites, and serve. 1569. Ponding d la JKinnte {.Hartz pudding).—2 eggs, 2 oz. caster sugar, f teaspoonful of essence of vanilla or other flavouring, 2 oz. of flour {sifted), i teaspoonful of baking powder, 1 heaped up tablespoonful of jam {raspberry, straicberry, or apricot). Break the eggs into a basin, add the sugar, and beat up quickly. Mix the flour with the baking-powder and stir the eggs &c. into this. Beat up to a light batter, add the flavouring essence, and pour half the mixture into a flat buttered cake tin. Dissolve the jam and pour it over the mixture, then add the remainder. Bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes, turn out on to a warm dish, dredge with sugar, and serve at once. 1570. Ponding d la Moelle {Baked Marrow Pudding).— 6 oz. beef-marrow, 6 oz. bread-crumbs, 4 oz. sugar, 3 eggs, 2 oz. candied peel (lemon and orange), £ gill brandy, f gill sherry, 2 oz. crystallised cherries. Chop the marrow very finely, put into a basin and mix with the bread-crumbs. Separate the yolks of eggs from the whites, cream the yolks with the sugar, adding one at a time. Shred the peel very finely, cut up the cherries into small pieces ; add this to the yolks and sugar, stir in the marrow and crumbs and mix in the brandy and sherry. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mingle carefully with the mixture. Fill up a well-buttered cylindrical- shaped cake-mould with this, stand on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about one hour. Turn out on a hot dish, dredge with sugar, and serve hot with German or jam sauce. 1571. Ponding d la Wormande.—6 medium-sized sour cooking-apples, 3 oz. butter, 6 oz. sugar, 4 oz. fried bread-crumbs, 1 gill claret, 3 eggs, vanilla essence, 1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon. For sauce : 1 tdblespoonful apricot jam, 1 tablespoonful red-currant jelly, 1 glass claret. Peel the apples, cut them into quarters, and core. Put them in a saute-pan with the butter and about two ounces of caster sugar, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven till tender. Put the fried crumbs into a basin, moisten with the wine, cream the remainder of505 ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) sugar and eggs together, add it to the above, together with the syrup of the apples, flavour with a few drops of vanilla essence and cinnamon, mix thoroughly, and fill into a well buttered and sugared copper pudding-mould, placing the apples in layers between the mixture. Place the mould on a baking-tin in a moderate oven, and bake for one hour. Unmould, and serve with a sauce prepared with the ingredients above stated. 1572. Ponding d VOriente.—4 eggs, 4 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. Vienna flour, 1 oz. corn-flour, 1 tablespoonful coffee extract ; sauce or syrup. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs ; put the former into a basin, the latter into an egg-bowl on the ice. Cream the butter and sugar together for about ten minutes, add the egg-yolks gradually and beat up thoroughly; then mix in the coffee extract. Mix the two kinds of flour and rub through a sieve; whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mingle carefully the flour and egg-whites into the mixture. Three parts fill a plain charlotte or timbale mould, previously well greased. Steam in the usual manner for about one and a half hour. Turn out on to a hot dish and sauce over with a syrup, or better with the following sauce:— 1573. Sauce for Ponding d VOriente.—Put three yolks of eggs into a well-tinned copper bowl or stewpan; add one ounce of sugar, a glass of kirschwasser, a tablespoonful double cream, and half a tea- cupful of freshly made coffee. Whisk this over a saucepan of boiling water from ten to fifteen minutes, long enough to form a liaison ; the sauce is then ready for serving. 1574. Ponding a la Paysanne.—6 oz. white bread-crumbs, 2| oz. butter, about % pint milk, 5 eggs, J lb. sultanas {cleaned), 1 heaped-up tablespoonful apricot jam, 2 oz. caster sugar, \ gill rum, 1 teaspoonful finely-chopped lemon-rind. Soak the crumbs in the milk for half an hour, drain off the superfluous milk, and put the crumbs in a stewpan; add two ounces of butter, and stir over the fire until thoroughly hot. Let cool a little, then add the sugar, the yolks of eggs, lemon-rind, sultanas, jam, and rum. Mix. well, beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix in gradually. Butter the pudding-mould, pour in the mixture, cover with a buttered paper, stand it in a stewpan three- parts full of boiling water, let it come to the boil, and bake in the oven for an hour and a half. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a sabayon au rhum. 1575. Ponding a la Saxon.—4 sponge cakes, 6 macaroons, a handful of ratafias, 4 eggs, ^ pint of milk, 1 glass of sherry, 2 oz. almonds, 1 gill cream, a few glace cherries, angelica, a few drops vanilla essence. Butter a plain charlotte mould, decorate the bottom with halves of cherries and .strips of angelica. Blanch, peel, shred, and bake the almonds a light brown colour. Sprinkle the sides of the mould withTHE NEW GENTUIiY COOKERY BOOK 506 these, then fill it with alternate layers of slices of sponge cakes, macaroons, and ratafias. Beat up the eggs, mix with the milk, cream, and wine, flavour with vanilla. Pour this into the mould, cover with buttered paper, and let it stand for about an hour. Steam for two hours, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with German sauce or fruit syrup. This pudding is exceedingly nice served cold, in which case it should be garnished with more fruit, and. sent to table with a border of whipped sweetened cream dressed round the base of the pudding. 1576. Ponding a la Schiller.—Prepare about twelve thin pancakes made in the usual manner. Line a cylindrical-shaped mould, well buttered, with a layer of pancakes. Cover one side of the remainder of pancakes with raspberry jam or apricot marmalade, roll up each, and cut into inch pieces, and range them in the mould as neatly as possible, with halves of cherries or apricots laid in between the rows of pancakes. Mix five yolks of eggs with a pint of milk, add three to four ounces of caster sugar, half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence; pour into the mould, stand the mould in a saute-pan with boiling water, cover with buttered paper, and finish cooking in the oven. It will take about forty-five minutes to cook. When done turn out. Coat the whole with apricot marmalade, and send to table with some kind of custard or other light sweet sauce. 1577. Ponding a la St. Jean.—£ lb. chopped suet, ^ lb. preserved pine-apple, 2 oz. preserved ginger, \ lb. glace pears, 8 oz. soft bread-crumbs, ^ lb. sponge-cake crumbs, 1 lemon, ^ glass Madeira, ^ glass St. James's rum, 5 eggs, 2 oz,. caster sugar, \ gill milk or cream. Have ready the suet finely chopped, the pine-apple cut into small dice, ginger and pears chopped finely, and put into a basin with the cake and bread-crumbs. Moisten with the wine, rum, and juice of the lemon, add the sugar and the rind of half a lemon, finely chopped. Beat up the eggs thoroughly, and mix with the above. Butter a pudding-mould, dust with flour, pour in the preparation, tie over with a buttered paper or cloth, and steam from two to three hours. Remove the paper or cloth, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with sauce sabayon, No. 381. 1578. Ponding d la Victoria.—| lb. beef suet, 4 oz. fresh bread-crumbs, 3 oz. flour, 4 oz. apples, peeled and cored, 4 oz. apricot jam, 2 oz. mixed peel, 3 oz. dried cherries, 3 oz. sugar, 4 eggs, 1 glass brandy, 1^ gill cream. Free the suet from skin and fibre, chop finely, dry and sift the flour, chop the peeled and cored apples finely, and shred the peel. Put these ingredients into a basin, add the cherries cut into quarters, also the remainder of dry ingredients, and jam. Mix thoroughly. Beat up the eggs, and mix with the cream; stir this into the basin and work well, adding the brandy last of all. Fill the mixture into a well-buttered mould, cover with a buttered paper, or tie over with aENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) 507 cloth (previously buttered and floured), put to boil in boiling water, , and cook for an hour and a half, or more. Unmould, and serve with a hot sweet custard sauce; flavour with a dessertspoonful of mara- . schino or curacoa liqueur. 1579. Ponding d la Wellington. 4 oz. finely chopped beef suet, 4 oz. flour, 4 oz. brotvn bread-crumbs, 4oz. sultanas, 1 oz. finely chopped candied orange peel, 4 oz. caster sugar, 1 tablespoonful caramel, 5 eggs, 1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon, 1 small glass Marsala or sherry, 1 gill milk, chestnut puree for garnish, apricot sauce (No. 382). Mix all the dry ingredients in a basin, add the caramel and the eggs, one at a time, moisten with sufficient milk to produce a light consistency, add the wine and a pinch of grated nutmeg, and mix the whole well. Fill up a well-buttered border-mould, cover it with buttered paper, and steam for about three hours. Meanwhile prepare the chestnut puree, flavour it well with cream, vanilla, and sweeten to taste. Unmould the border on a hot dish, pile the puree in the centre of the dish, pour round the apricot sauce, and serve hot. 1580. Ponding mix Cerises (Cherry Pudding).—I lb. best cooking cherries, 6 oz. loaf sugar, an inch cinnamon, 1 gill cream, 3 oz. flour, 2 oz. caster sugar, 4 eggs, the rind of ^ lemon, a pinch of salt, a little butter, £ gill milk. Stone the cherries by means of a wooden skewer or a bent piece of wire, put them in a stewpan with the sugar, cinnamon, and enough water to cover, cook until tender, and allow to cool. Mix the flour with a little milk and a pinch of salt, boil up the cream, and mix both together; add the caster sugar, and stir over the fire until the mixture becomes smooth and leaves the stewpan clean. When cool add the grated rind of half a lemon, separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, and work in the yolks, one at a time. Beat up the whites to a stiff froth, and mix carefully. Butter a pudding-mould, garnish the bottom with a layer of cherries, and fill up alternately with a layer of the prepared mixture and the cherries ; cover with a buttered paper, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about half an hour. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a suitable fruit syrup. 1581. Ponding an Chocolat.—^ lb. chocolate, % pint milk, 1 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. cake-crumbs, 4 eggs, i teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Break up the chocolate, put it with the milk in a stewpan, and boil up. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, cook a little without taking colour, add the cake-crumbs, moisten with milk, stir over the fire until it becomes thick and leaves the sides of the pan per- fectly clean. Let the mixture get cool, then work the egg-yolks in one by one. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add this as well as the vanilla essence to the preparation, pour into a well- buttered plain mould, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and steam508 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK for an hour and a half, or bake for one hour in a moderately heated oven. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with chocolate sauce. 1582. Ponding au Clio col at meringue.—1 pint milk, 8 eggs, 2 oz. corn-flour, 3 oz. chocolate, vanilla essence, 3 oz. caster sugar. Mix the corn-flour with a little cold milk. Boil the remainder of the milk vith the chocolate and about two ounces of sugar. Stir in the corn-flour and work over the fire until it thickens, cook for about ten minutes, then stir in the yolks of two eggs and one whole egg. Add the vanilla essence and beat all. Have ready a well-buttered pudding or cake tin, pour in the mixture, and cook in a moderate oven in a bain-marie or otherwise. It will take about forty-five minutes to steam, or half an hour to bake. Beat the remaining two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix with the sugar left over, add a little vanilla essence or vanilla sugar to flavour. When the pudding is done turn out on a dish, let cool a little, cover quickly with the froth of whites of egg &c., dredge with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes longer. A few shredded almonds may be stuck in the pudding before it is sent to table. 1583. Ponding aux Macrons {Chestnut Pudding).—Prepare a mixture the same as for chocolate pudding (No. 1581), but use only one ounce of chocolate, and add four to six ounces of chestnut puree. Fill into a buttered mould, and bake or steam. Serve with vanilla or custard sauce. 1584. Ponding mix Won illes.—| lb. nouille paste, \ oz. butter, 8 oz. caster sugar, 6 eggs, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence, 1 oz. mixed peel {candied). Roll out the nouille paste as thinly as possible, fold it and cut into very thin strips, loosen them and drop them into slightly salted fast boiling water containing the 4 oz. of butter. Allow to boil rapidly for five minutes. Take them up carefully with a. perforated ladle or slice, and put them on a sieve to drain. Meanwhile cream the yolks of eggs with the sugar, and add the flavouring essence. Beat up the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth. Butter a plain timbale or ordinary pudding mould. Mix all the ingredients carefully together, adding also the peel, cut into fine shreds, and three parts fill the mould. Cover with a piece of buttered paper, and steam for 1£ hour. Serve hot with a suitable sauce. 1585. Pouding an Pain noir {Brown Bread Pudding).— 6 oz. brown bread-crumbs, £ pint milk, 3 oz. butter, 4 oz. sugar, 3 eggs, 2 oz. mixed candied peel, grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, a pinch of salt. A glass of sherry, if liked. Boil up the milk and pour over the bread-crumbs, add the cinna- mon, candied peel (finely chopped or shredded), and a pinch of salt. Work the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs one at a time, mix in the soaked bread-crumbs, and add a little grated nutmeg. Put the mixture in a well-buttered mould, cover with a buttered paper,ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) 509 and steam for about two hours ; if wine is used it should be added last of all. Unmould the pudding on a hot dish and serve with fruit syrup or custard sauce. This pudding is equally nice served cold. 1586. Ponding Prince George.—4 oz. finely chopped beef suet, 2 oz. whole meal bread-crumbs, 8 oz. Genoise cake, crumbled, 2 oz. finely crushed macaroons, 6 oz. preserved pine-apple cut into dice, 1 teaspoonful preserved cinnamon, 4 oz. preserved ginger, chopped finely, 1 small glass rum, % glass kirsch, 5 eggs, 2 oz. sugar, \ lemon. Mix the suet with all the dry ingredients in a basin. Put the pine-apple and ginger in a small basin, pour over the rum and kirsch, cover, and let soak for an hour; beat up 'the eggs well, and add by degrees to the dry ingredients. Work this thoroughly, then add the fruit, &c. If found too stiff a little fruit syrup or milk can be added. Fill one or two well-buttered pudding-moulds with the mixture, cover with buttered paper, and steam for three hours or longer. When done turn out on a hot dish and serve with a hot custard sauce or fruit syrup, flavoured with some kind of liqueur. 1587. Ponding de Pananes.—2 bananas, \ lb. caster sugar, 3 eggs, ^ gill milk or cream, 4 oz. Coombs' s self-raising flour, 1 oz. blitter. Cream the sugar and butter, work in the yolks of eggs, one at a time, add the flour (sifted), then stir in the milk or cream. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Peel the bananas, and cut in thin slices. Put both into the mixture (stir in gently). Have ready some buttered dariole moulds or one pudding-mould, put in the preparation, three-parts full. Steam or bake for one hour. When done turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a syrup or sweet sauce. 1588. Ponding de Marrons d la Creole.—f lb. cooked chestnuts, rubbed through a sieve, £ lb. caster sugar, \ lb. butter, 9 eggs, 4 oz. crushed macaroons, vanilla flavouring. Cream the butter and sugar in a basin ; add the macaroons and the yolks of eggs one at a time, add the vanilla flavouring, and mix in the chestnut puree. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix .the whole carefully. Fill up two well-buttered moulds, and steam for 1^ to 1J hour in the oven or in a covered stewpan on the stove. Dish up and serve with vanilla custard sauce. 1589. Ponding de Noel (Christmas Pudding).—4 lb. stoned raisins, 4 lb. picked and cleaned currants, £ lb. candied, peel cut into shreds, 1 peeled apple (russet) chopped, 2 oz. ground almonds, the rind of 1 lemon grated, f lb. suet finely chopped, ^ teaspoonful ground cloves, h teaspoonful ground cinnamon, f lb. bread-crumbs, £ lb. flour, a pinch of salt, 5 eggs, 4 gill milk, 4 gill rum or brandy. Put all the dry ingredients in a large basin, mix thoroughly, work in the eggs one at a time, and the rum or brandy. Butter one or twu pudding-moulds, fill with the mixture, tie over with a buttered cloth. Place the mould in a stock-pot or large stewpan three-parts full of boiling water, and boil for about four hours. Add more boiling;510 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK water when needed. Take off the cloth, turn the pudding on a hot dish, dredge well with caster sugar ; pour about a gill of rum or brandy round the dish, and light the same the moment it is sent to table. 1590. Finger Pudding.—6 oz. almonds, 1 gill milk, 6 oz. caster sugar, 8 eggs, 1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful grated lemon-rind, a pinch of ground cloves, 3 oz. butter, 2 oz. crushed biscuits (Savoy or finger biscuits). Blanch and peel the almonds, dry and pound them in a mortar, adding the milk little by little, cream the sugar with eight egg-yolks in a basin ; when sufficiently beaten add to it the preserved almond mixture, the cinnamon, lemon-rind, and cloves. Whisk the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, melt the butter, and stir both alternately and in small quantities into the above mixture ; lastly add the crushed biscuits. Three-parts fill one or two well-buttered moulds. Steam this in the usual way for about an hour, turn out on a hot dish, and send to table quickly, accompanied with a suitable sweet sauce. 1591. Ponding an Miel (Honey Pudding).—A guar ter-pound of honey, 6 oz. soft bread-crumbs, 1 small lemon, 2 eggs, ^ tea- spoonful ground ginger, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. fiorador, 1 gill milk. Stir the honey and bread-crumbs in a basin; cook the fiorador for ten minutes in the milk, and add it to the above ; when well mixed add the rind of half a lemon, finely grated, the ginger, and the yolks of two eggs. Beat up the mixture for some minutes, butter a plain pudding-mould, and add the remainder of butter to the above mixture. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and incorporate gently. Three- parts fill the mould with the mixture, and steam from H to If hour. Serve hot with a suitable sauce or syrup. 1592. Marmalade Pudding.— 6 oz. orange marmalade, 8 oz. bread-crumbs, 6 oz. finely chopped beef suet, 2 eggs, half a teaspoonful baking-powder, a pinch of salt. Put the marmalade, bread-crumbs, and suet in a basin; mix well, stir in the eggs one at a time. Add the salt, beat up well for a few minutes, and add the baking-powder at the last. If found too stiff a little milk or cream may be added. Put the mixture in a well-buttered pudding-basin, cover it with a buttered paper, and steam for three hours or boil for 2 b hours. When done turn out on a hot dish and serve with a suitable sweet sauce. 1593. Primrose Pudding.—\ lb. butter, i- lb. caster sugar, 5 eggs, f lb. flour (sifted), the rind of a small lemon grated, \ tea- spoonful vanille essence. Cream the butter and sugar in a basin till light and of a cream- like consistency. Add the eggs, one at a time; beat well and stir in a little flour, to avoid curdling. Work the mixture for at least twenty minutes ; then add the lemon-rind and vanilla, also the remainder of the flour, and a pinch of salt.ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) 511 Butter one or two timbale moulds, pour in the mixture, and steam for about two hours. Cover them with buttered paper. When done turn out on a hot dish, and serve with wine sauce, vanille custard, or sabayon sauce (No. 881). Note.—If liked, a tablespoonful of finely chopped primrose petals may be stirred into the mixture, just before the flour is added. 1594. Ponding Prince Henri.—£ lb. sugar {caster), i lb. butter, 7 eggs, 4 oz. glace cherries, 1 oz. candied peel, i lb. flour, 1 glass kirschwasser, 8 finger biscuits, sweet sauce. Cream the sugar and butter together in a basin; add gradually while stirring the yolks of seven eggs, cut the cherries into small dice, and chop the peel finely. Stir these into the mixture, also the kirschwasser liqueur, and beat well. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix this and the flour gradually into the prepared mixture. Line the bottom and sides of a well-buttered mould with the finger biscuits; then put in the mixture. Cover* with a buttered paper ; steam for about 2 or 2^ hours. Serve with any kind of suitable sweet sauce. 1595. Snowdon Pudding. £ lb. beef suet {chopped finely), i lb. bread-crumbs, 4 oz. caster sugar, the rind of one lemon finely grated, 1 oz. ground rice, 2 eggs, i gill milk, % tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, 1 oz. glace cherries, £ lb. raisins {stoned), 1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon. Cut the raisins and cherries in halves, grease a pudding-basin or tin mould, and ornament the bottom and sides with the fruit. Put the remainder of the fruit and all the dry ingredients in a basin, mix them thoroughly, then add the eggs and milk, stir well, and lastly add the marmalade ; this should be slightly warmed, so that it will mix more freely. Pour the mixture into the ornamented mould, cover with a . ■ cl p er, and steam for l^-.hour. Kemove the paper. Turn the pudding out on a hot dish, pour some hot custard or fruit syrup round the base of the dish, and serve. 1596. Ponding transparent.—6 yolks of eggs, 4 oz. caster sugar, 4 oz. butter, apricot jam. Cream the sugar and butter together, add one by one the yolks of eggs, beat up for about fifteen minutes. Butter five or six small timbale or dariole moulds. Divide half the above mixture equally into the moulds, then place about a dessertspoonful of apricot jam in the middle of each mould, fill up with the remainder of mixture, and steam them from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Take up, allow the moulds to stand for a few minutes, then turn out on to a lpot dish, pour round some custard sauce, and serve. 1597. Mousse atioc Framboises.—Prepare a mousseline pudding mixture (No. 1599), and, incorporate £ gill of raspberry syrup and a few fresh or preserved whole raspberries, as well as a few crushed finger biscuits. Colour with liquid carmine or cochinealTEE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 512 to give the desired tint, and finish as directed in Recipe No. 1599. Serve with a syrup flavoured with raspberries. 1598. Mousse a VA.Isacienne.—4 oz. sugar (caster), 8 eggs, 4 oz. butter, 1 orange, % lemon, mousseline sauce (No. 385). Separate the whites from the yolks of eggs. Cream the butter and sugar in a basin or copper egg-bowl; when thoroughly worked and creamy add the yolks, the juice of the orange, and that of the half-lemon (work in gradually). Whisk over a stewpan of boiling water until it begins to thicken (this process is exactly the same as for a Genoise or a Hollandaise). Stir in the whites of eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Have ready a charlotte mould, well buttered, and dredged with flour, put in the mixture, cover with a buttered paper. Steam in the oven (the mould being stood in a saute-pan or stewpan three parts full of hot water) for a good half-hour. Turn out on a hot dish, sauce over with mousseline sauce, and serve quickly. 1599. Poudiny Mousseline—2 oz. butter, 1 lemon, 2 oz. caster sugar, 4 eggs, 2 oz.-flour, ^ teaspoonful vanilla essence, mousse- line sauce (No. 385). Cream the butter, add the sugar, and work together for ten minutes ; then add the rind of lemon (chopped finely), stir in the yolks of eggs, one at a time, likewise the juice of half the lemon, and vanilla essence. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Mix care- fully the whites and flour (previously sifted) with the above prepara- tion. Have ready a plain charlotte mould, well buttered, and lined with buttered paper ; pour in the mixture, cover with paper, place in a saucepan three-parts filled with boiling water, cover the pan, and steam the pudding for a little more than an hour. Turn out on to a hot dish, remove the paper. Whisk the mousseline sauce until quite frothy, and pour round the pudding. Note. - This being a very light souffle pudding, it is essential that it should be served quickly. 1600. Poudiny Souffle d l’Ananas.—\ lb. fresh or pre- served pine-apple, \ pint milk, 2 inches vanilla pod, 4 oz. butter, 3 eggs, 4 oz. caster sugar, 4 oz. Vienna flour, angelica for garnish. Put the milk and vanilla pod in a stewpan on the fire, boil up and let it infuse on the side of the fire or in the bain-marie for about half an hour. Melt the butter in another stewpan, stir in the flour, cook a little ; strain the milk into this and work it vigorously over the fire until the flour is thoroughly cooked. Remove from the fire, add the sugar and a handful of cut pine-apple, stir, and let cool a little. Next stir in the yolks of three eggs, one at a time. Butter a plain char- lotte mould, decorate the bottom with slices of pine-apple and angelica, stamped out with a plain round cutter. Add the whites of eggs, previously whipped to a stiff froth, to the mixture; pour it into the mould, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for about half an hour. Remove the paper, turn out on a hot dish, garnish tastefully513 ENTREM.ETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) with a few fancifully cut slices of pine-apple, and serve with a sweet sauce or syrup. 1601. Ponding Souffle d la Par men tier.—Wash six large potatoes, bake them in their skins in the oven; when done, break the skin, scoop out the floury part of the potatoes, rub through a sieve. To every half-pound of puree mix two ounces of finely sifted sugar, two ounces of butter, half-pint of boiling cream, and the rind of half a lemon, finely chopped. Beat the mixture with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth, add three to four yolks of eggs, beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth ; butter and flour a souffle-tin, fasten a paper band, well oiled, round the top, to prevent the mixture overflowing, bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a well-heated oven, and serve as soon as ready ; turn out. * 1602. Ponding Souffle auoc Framboises.—| lb. ripe rasp- berries, 4 eggs, 2 oz. cake-crumbs or fresh bread-crumbs, 2 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. fecula, or creme de riz, ^ oz. butter, ^ gill cream. Pick the stalks from the raspberries, put them in a basin with the cream, and mash up small; add the sugar and crumbs. Separate the yolks of eggs from the whites, put the fecula or creme de riz in a basin, stir into this the egg-yolks ; when smooth add to the mixture, whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix gradually with the above. Have ready a well-buttered charlotte mould, lined with buttered paper. Bake in a hot oven for about twenty-five minutes. As soon as cooked the pudding should be sent to table. Serve a suitable sauce or syrup along with the pudding. 1603. Ponding Souffle aux Amandes {Burnt Almond Plodding).—\ pint milk, 1 dessertspoonful creme de riz, a pinch of ground cinnamon, 1 oz. burnt almonds, 4 pint cream, 6 yolks of eggs, 1^ oz. vanilla sugar. Put the milk and cream in a stewpan, and allow to come to the boil, pound the almonds and put into the milk, then add one ounce of vanilla sugar, stir in the yolks of eggs and the mixed creme de riz ; whisk the whole over a gentle fire, in order to bind the eggs: this must be done without allowing the mixture to boil, else it will curdle. Pour this into a well-buttered plated souffle dish, sprinkle over with a pinch of ground cinnamon and sufficient vanilla sugar to cover the surface. Put the dish in a brisk oven for about ten minutes, so that the surface gets browned; then serve quickly. If the oven is not hot enough to brown the. top, hold the dish under a salamander for a few seconds. Note.—Corn-flour, potato flour, or Vienna flour may be used in place of creme de riz. L L514 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1604. Abricots a la Colbert {Apricots, Colbert Style).—Preserved firm apricots (halves), drained, filled with rice cooked in milk and flavoured with vanilla, coated with reduced apricot marmalade, dipped m beaten egg, rolled in pulverised macaroons, fried slightly brown in clarified butter. Dished up on rounds of fried bread made to adhere to the dish with a little marmalade, and sauced over with a thick apricot sauce. 1605. Pommes a la Conde {Apples, Conde Style).—Pared cored apples, ranged in a buttered sautoir, sprinkled with powdered sugar, lemon-juice, and oiled butter; cooked in the oven, centre filled with apricot puree. Dished up in the centre of a border of rice cooked in milk and sweetened to taste, ornamented with fancifully cut pieces of angelica, crystallised cherries, raisins and almonds, and served with apple syrup. Note.—Almost any kind of fruit can be dressed in the above manner, such as peaches, apricots, pears, &c., and are styled a la Conde. 1606. Ponding Souffle mix Praises {Strawberry Pud- ding).—Proceed the same as directed in Recipe No. 1602, but Substitute for the raspberries half a pound of freshly picked ripe strawberries, and add also some red colouring, cochineal or carmine. 1607. Souffle cl VOrange.—f pint milk, 2 eggs, 2 oz. caster sugar, 1 oz. butter, 3 oz. cake-crumbs, 8 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 orange, 1 glass of noyeau or kirsch, a feio glace cherries. Heat up the milk and pour over the crumbs ; cream the butter and sugar, add the yolks and one white of eggs, stir until stiff; then add the soaked crumbs, the liqueur, half the orange-rind, finely peeled and chopped, also one dessertspoonful of orange-juice. Pile up neatly on a buttered souffle dish, bake a golden brown in a moderately heated oven (about half an hour). Whisk the remaining white of egg to a stiff froth, cover the souffle completely with this, dredge with sugar, garnish with glace cherries ; return to a quick oven for a few minutes to brown, and serve. This souffle is also very nice served cold. 1608. Souffle d- Oranges d la Gilbert.—6 oranges, 3 eggs, 2 oz. caster sugar, 1 glass cura^oa^ 2 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful fecula or corn-flour, a teaspoonful orange-flower water. Select the oranges of even size and firm and juicy; cut the top portion of each and carefully remove the inside. Rub the pulp through a fine sieve and add to it the liqueur. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, put the former into a small stewpan and the latter into a basin or copper bowl and keep on the ice ; add the sugar and butter to the yolks and stir over a gentle fire until theENTREMETS SUCRES {HOT SWEETS) 515 liaison is formed. Mix the pulp and liqueur with the fecula or corn-flour and work this into the above, whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mingle carefully into the mixture, adding at the same time a few drops of orange-flower water. Eange the orange cases on a baking-tin, fill them with the above preparation, and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve very hot. 1609. Ponding Genevoise.—Fill a well-buttered timbale- mould with layers of cooked rice (cooked in milk and sweetened) and apple puree (sweetened and flavoured with cinnamon), bake for twenty minutes, and serve with hot fruit syrup. 1610. Souffle aux Prunes {Prune Souffle).—^ lb. good-sized 'prunes, 1 lemon, 4 oz. caster sugar, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonf ul flour, \ oz. fresh butter, | oz. sweet almonds blanched and peeled. Wash the prunes in several courses of water, place them in a basin, -cover with fresh cold water, and let them soak for a few hours. Cook them over a slow fire or in the oven in an earthenware fire-proof pan (casserole) until they are tender, add the thin rind of a lemon and with enough water to cover set them aside to cool. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs and cream, the former with the sugar. When thoroughly worked to a creamy consistency sprinkle in the flour and mix well, add also the strained juice of half a lemon and the prunes, freed from the stones and cut into small pieces. Butter a souffle or ordinary pie dish thoroughly; whisk the whites of eggs till stiff, and incorporate half into the mixture, also half the almonds, cut into small strips. Fill up the souffle dish, pile the remainder of egg-froth on top, sprinkle with caster sugar, place the remainder of almond strips here and there on top of the souffle. Bake from twenty-five to thirty minutes in a moderate oven. 1611. liordure de Poires d la Heine.—2 lbs. small stewing pears, 4 lb. loaf sugar, 1 oz. butter, 1 inch ichole cinnamon', 3 sponge cakes or apiece of Genoise cake, 2 ichole and 1 yolk of eggs, 2 oz. caster sugar, 1 gill milk, rind of half a lemon. Peel the pears, core them, and put in a stewpan with a quart of water, the loaf sugar, the piece of cinnamon, and a few drops of -cochineal. Let it boil up, skim, and allow to simmer until the pears are tender ; this will take about half an hour. Take out the fruit, reduce the syrup to the proper consistency, put the pears in the syrup again, and keep warm. Butter a border-mould with clarified butter, line the bottom with a piece of buttered paper, beat up the eggs in a basin, add the caster sugar, milk, lemon-rind, finely chopped, and a few drops of cochineal, to give it a pink colour. Cut the cake in slices, place it in the mould, fill up with the custard mixture, and stand the mould in a sautoir or baking-tin half filled with boiling water ; cover with buttered paper, and bake in the oven for forty minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, remove the paper, arrange the pears in. a row on the border. Strain the syrup, pour over the pears, and serve.>16 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1612. Poives au lliz a la Marquise.—Obtain a quart tin of preserved Bartlett pears, open the tin, and heat half in a well- tinned stewpan ; strain on a sieve, and reduce the syrup with 2 liqueur glasses of vanilla liqueur or maraschino. Wash J lb. pint) rice, drain, and cook in not quite a pint of milk, with 2 oz. caster sugar, \ oz. butter, and the rind of \ lemon, chopped fine. When done bind with 2 yolks of eggs, butter a flat pudding-mould, fill in the pre- pared rice, turn out on a dish. Dress the pears neatly in a pyramidal form on the top, beat up two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add suffi- cient caster sugar to sweeten, spread the surface and sides thickly with this. Ornament a little, dust with sugar, and bake in a mode- rately heated oven for fifteen minutes. 1613. JPommes en Beurre (Braised Apples).—Peel thinly eight or more even-sized Beinette apples or other small sour cooking apples ; cut out the centre of each (the core) by means of a column- cutter. Arrange the apples in a well-buttered saute-pan, put about a teaspoonful of moist sugar into the cavity of the apple. Pour over each a little oiled butter, and sprinkle with lemon-juice, and bake with the lid on the pan in a moderate oven till done. Care must be taken to keep the apples whole. Arrange them neatly on a round dish, and fill the centre of each with red currant jelly. Have ready a syrup composed of red currant jelly, one pot of butter, and a glass of Madeira, reduce well and coat the apples with it. Place the dish in a very hot oven for a few seconds, so as to glaze them, and serve hot. 1614: JPommes a la Lexington.—6 green cooking apples, 1 oz. flour, 1 oz. caster sugar, 1 egg, cake-crumbs, ground cinnamon, pine-apple jam, f rying fat. Peel and core the apples, put them in a steamer or in the oven, and cook till nearly done. When cold mix the flour and sugar with a good pinch of cinnamon, and dip each apple into this, then in beaten egg, and roll in cake-crumbs. Fry in hot fat a golden brown, drain, and fill the centre with pine-apple jam or grated pine-apple. Place a round of red currant jelly on top of each, dish up, and serve hot or cold. If served cold chopped wine jelly should be served round the dish. A fruit syrup (pine-apple or apricot) should be handed round with the dish in either case. 1615. Pomines a la Neiye.—6 sour cooking apples, | lemon, 4 to 6 oz. sugar, 1 tfblespoonful cream, \ pint milk, 2 whites and 4 yolks of eggs. Vanilla pod or essence for flavouring. Peel, core, and slice the apples, put them in a stewpan with some lemon-rind, a little water, and two ounces of sugar, and cook till tender ; then rub through a fine sieve. Add the cream and let cool. Boil up the milk, adding the vanilla flavouring and enough sugar to sweeten. Whisk the yolks of eggs in a basin, and stir the boiling milk gently into this ; return to the fire, and allow the eggs to bind, then strain. Butter a pie-dish, put in the apple puree and pour overENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) >17 the prepared custard. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar, and arrange it in rock-like pieces over the custard, dredge the whole with sugar, and bake in a fairly heated oven till the egg-whites have acquired a light brown colour. Serve quickly. 1616. Casserole de Famines au Fiz.— d cooking apples (Wellington or Newtown), 4 oz. rice, 1 oz. butter, pint milk, 3 oz. caster sugar, \ teaspoonful of salt, 1 oz. chopped almonds, 1 oz. orange peel, 1 yolk and 1 whole egg, H oz. of glace cherries. Peel and core the apples, put them in a saute-pan with two ounces of sugar and a gill of water, put the lid on, and place in a hot oven until tender. Wash the rice in lukewarm water, drain well, and put into a stewpan with the milk (which must be hot), cook slowly until the rice is almost done. Eemove from stove, and add the orange-peel, finely chopped, the cherries, cut into small dice, the almonds, chopped and pounded, the butter, the remaining ounce of sugar, and the salt. Mix well together, adding the eggs at the same time. Have ready a round timbale mould, butter it well, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and line bottom and sides thickly with the prepared rice. Place the apples in the centre, leaving out one for garnish, and cover with rice until full; tie over with a buttered cloth, stand it in a deep stewpan half filled with boiling water, cover over and cook for an hour. Eemove the mould, let drain for a minute, then turn out on a hot dish, place the apple put aside on top, ornament with a few cherries, and serve with sauce au liqueur (No. 377). 1617. Fommes etouffees d la Folonaise—4 to 6 sour cook- ing apples, 2 tablespoonf uls apricot jam, 2 ichites of eggs, 3 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. crushed macaroons, ^ teaspoonf ul cinnamon. Peel the apples, take out the cores, and cut them into slices (cross- ways) about a quarter of an inch thick. Spread the slices with apricot jam or marmalade, and pile up in a dome shape on a round silver or fire-proof china dish, previously buttered, and sprinkled with crushed macaroons. Mix about an ounce of sugar with the macaroons and ground cinnamon, and besprinkle the apple shape with this. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add about two ounces of sugar and the remainder of macaroons, mask the surface of apples with this, dredge with sugar, and bake in a moderately heated oven from thirty to forty minutes. Serve as soon as done, placing the dish on a napkin on another dish of similar size. 1618. Gidsette de Fommes.—| lb. apple compote {use sour apples, 4 eggs, 4 oz. caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful grated lemon-rind, 2 oz. sultanas, 3 oz. crushed macaroons or biscuits. Eub the apples through a fine sieve. Work the yolks of four eggs and the sugar to a cream, add the lemon-rind and the sultanas, and mix with the apple puree. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and mingle carefully into the above preparation, together with the crushed macaroons or Savoy biscuits. Have ready a buttered518 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK souffle dish, pour in the mixture, dredge with caster sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. Serve quickly and hand round a boat of fruit syrup or wine sauce. 1619. Apple Amber. -3 large apples, 3 oz. sugar, 2 oz. fresh butter, ^ lemon, 3 yolks of eggs and the whites of 2, 1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon, a pinch of ground cloves. Puff-paste trimmings. Candied fruit; cherries and angelica. Peel and core .the apples, cut them into slices, and put in a stew- pan with the sugar and a tablespoonful of water. Simmer gently until tender, then rub through a fine sieve, and return the pulp to a clean pan ; add the rind (finely grated) of half a lemon and its juice, the cinnamon and clove. Mix thoroughly and add about li oz. of butter. When hot stir in the yolks of eggs and let bind. Butter a pie-dish, line the top and edge with puff-paste, decorate the edges, put the preparation of apples &c. in the pie-dish, and bake till the mixture is set and the pastry partly browned. Meanwhile whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, stir in a tablespoonful of caster sugar, and spread this roughly on top of the pie, sprinkle over some sugar, decorate to taste with candied fruits, and bake in a slow oven long enough to set and colour the eggs. 1620. Pannequets a la Mancelle (Pancakes, Mancelle Style).—Fry some thin pancakes, slightly browned, spread them over with a layer of sweet chestnut puree flavoured with maraschino liqueur, roll up, dust with sugar, and glaze them in a hot oven. Dish up; serve hot. 1621. Chestnut Amber.—\ pint milk, 2 tablespoonfuls chest- nut puree (puree de marrons), 2 eggs, 2 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 oz. caster sugar, 1 small lemon, 1 oz. butter. Vanilla flavouring. Boil the milk with the thin rind of half the lemon, and pour over the bread-crumbs ; take out the lemon-rind after a while. Beat the egg-yolks, sugar, and butter to a cream, and add to it the chestnut puree. Mix all the ingredients together, add the strained juice of the lemon, and pour into a well-buttered pie-dish. Bake till firm and slightly brown in a moderately heated oven, then cover with a meringue, produced with the whites of eggs, whisked to a stiff froth and sweetened with sugar. Dredge the top with caster or icing sugar and return to the oven until the meringue is nicely browned. This dish can be served hot or cold. 1622. Peehes an JMz meringue.—1 quart preserved peaches, 6 oz. rice, the rind of 4- lemon, 4 eggs, 10 oz. caster sugar, about 1 quart milk, 1 oz. butter, red currant jelly, 1 glass maraschino. Wash the rice in several courses of water, blanch it and drain well, put it ima stewpan with the milk, boil gently, add 3 oz. sugar, the butter, and lemon-rind. Let it cook slowly for about thirty minutes; remove the lemon-rind, work in the yolks of three eggs, put into a buttered timbale mould, turn out immediately on a hot dish, strain the peaches on a hair sieve, and arrange them in a pyramidal form on top of the519 ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) rice. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, stir in gently 5 oz. caster sugar, and cover the whole completely with a thick layer of this ; put the remainder in a paper cornet or forcing-bag, and decorate the surface to taste. Dust well with sugar, and bake a golden colour, which will take about twenty minutes. Cut some diamond shapes of red currant jelly, and garnish the sides of the dish just before serving. Add the liqueur to the syrup, boil up, strain, and serve separately in a sauce-bowl. 1623. Suedoise d’Abricots.—Choose twelve large apricots, halve them, remove stones, and blanch the kernels; make a syrup with ^ lb. loaf sugar and f pint water. Put in the apricots whilst the syrup boils, add a small glass of cura9oa, and allow it to simmer for a few minutes; drain the fruit on a hair sieve ; cut a cork-shaped piece of bread about three inches long, also twenty-four round slices, about the shape of halves of apricots ; fry these in hot butter, drain, sprinkle with a little ground cinnamon and caster sugar; fasten the large crouton on the centre of a round dish with a little marmalade; put each half-apricot on one of the small croutons, range them in rows round the centre piece, finishing with a fruit on the top; stand the dish in the oven to get hot, boil up the syrup, pour over the apricots, put half of a kernel upon each fruit; ornament with a few strips of angelica, and serve. 1624. Flan d’Ananas d la Neige.—Half a preserved pine- apple, 2 oz. caster sugar, about % lb. of short crust, the white of 2 eggs. Boll out the paste about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and line a pastry ring (a flanc ring six inches in diameter) with it, place it on a baking-sheet, fill up with dried peas or rice, and bake a delicate brown in a moderate oven. Cut sufficient thin slices of pine-apple to fill the paste crust, range the fruit in one layer closely into the baked crust, being careful to previously remove all the rice or peas used during the baking; pour over a thin layer of confectioner’s custard, just enough to cover the fruit, and bake for ten minutes in a fairly warm oven. Meanwhile beat up the whites to a stiff froth, mix with the castor sugar, spread the meringue mixture quickly and smoothly over the surface, dredge with sugar and a pinch of powdered cinnamon, and return to the oven long enough to brown slightly. This dish may be served hot or cold. 1625. Parfait d’Ananas d la Tostini.—1 good-sized pine- apple, fresh or preserved, 3 whites of eggs, 2 oz. vanilla sugar, ^ gill confectioner's custard, flavoured with maraschino syrup, a border- mould of Genoise cake, almonds and pistachios for decoration. If a fresh pine-apple is used peel it thinly. A preserved pine- apple is, however, more suitable for this dish. Cut a small slice off the bottom, to make it stand firmly, and by means of a paste-cutter or sharp knife cut out the centre portion of the pine-apple. Pound the trimmings in a mortar, rub it through a sieve, flavour with a teaspoonfulTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 520 of maraschino, and keep till wanted. Cut the hollowed out pine-apple into half-inch slices (crossways), and fix them together in the original shape by spreading some confectioner’s custard between the slices. Place this in the centre of a Genoise border cake, either on a baking- sheet or better into a round silver dish. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add the sugar, and cover the outside of the pine-apple with it. Mix the remainder of beaten egg with the first puree, and with this fill up the centre of the pine-apple. Bake in a hot oven till nicely browned and hot through. Decorate the dish tastefully with strips of blanched and peeled almonds and pistachios. Serve hot with pine-apple syrup well flavoured with maraschino and previously heated. 1626. Bordure de Fruits a la Rationale.—Prepare some peaches, apricots, grapes, strawberries, and slices of pine-apple, blanch them in syrup, peel the apricots and peaches, drain on a hair sieve. Have ready a border of Savarin cake, dish up, dress the fruit in the centre ; ornament with fancy-cut pieces of angelica, crystallised cherries, and citron peel. Reduce the syrup until thick with a glass of maraschino, and pour over the fruit. This dish can be- served hot ©r cold as desired. 1627. Bordure Savarin.—Sift 2 oz. flour in a small basin ; form a hole in the centre, dilute \ oz. German yeast with lukewarm milk, add this to the flour, aud make a light dough ; set it aside to rise in a warm place. Next sift 6 oz. flour into a large basin, add 2 oz. sugar, 3 oz. warm butter, a little milk, and four eggs (two at a time) ; beat up well for about ten minutes, then add the prepared yeast, together with a tablespoonful of sweet cream. Work it again for a few7 minutes, and fill an appropriate-sized border-mould rather more than half full. The mould must be well buttered, and the interior sprinkled with fine sugar and ground rice or finely shredded almonds or cocoanut. Cover the mould, and let stand in a warm place, to rise from one to two hours, by which time the contents should have risen to fill the mould. Bake in a hot oven. 1628. Bonding a la Bardalouse.—4 oz. flour, 8 to 10 chestnuts, \ glass sherry, 1 gill milk, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot jam, ± glass kirsch, \ oz. German yeast, 8 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. loaf sugar, 2 eggs, \ lemon, 2 inches vanilla-pod, fruit forflecoration. Sift the flour into a basin, make a well in the centre, put the yeast (previously diluted with a little tepid water) in the centre, mix with a little of the flour to form a sponge, and allow it to rise. When the sponge is risen work in about one gill of tepid milk, i oz. caster sugar, a pinch of salt, and two yolks of eggs. Work the whole (flour and liquid) for about twenty minutes, then put it in a warm place to rise. As soon as the paste is sufficiently risen fill a well buttered and floured border-mould three parts full, allow to rise again, and bake in a moderate oven. In the meantime prepare a syrup by boil- ing the loaf sugar with I gill of water, the juice of half a lemon, one521 ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) glass of sherry, and the vanilla-pod. Skim, and let it infuse well. Eemove the vanilla, and keep the syrup hot. Peel and cook the chestnuts until tender, rub through a sieve, add 2 055. of caster sugar, mix with a glass of maraschino. Whip the two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the puree. Turn out the border when baked, trim, and immerse well with the prepared syrup, then place it on a dish, fill the centre with the puree, give it a domed-shaped appearance. Dredge well with caster sugar, and bake well in a slow oven for about fifteen minutes. Put the remainder of the syrup in a stew-pan, add the apricot jam and a little water, reduce, strain, and coat the border. Decorate with fruit and send to table. 1629. Baba au Blium.—f lb. sifted flotir, a pinch of salt, rather more than \ oz. yeast, 2 oz. caster sugar, 4 oz. butter, 5 eggs, llr oz. cleaned currants, 4 gill cream, about 14 gill milk. Put four ounces of the flour in a small basin, make a well in the centre, put in this, the yeast diluted with a little tepid milk, work it to a smooth dough, cover with a cloth, and let it rise in a warm place. Put the remainder of the flour in a large basin, make a well in the centre, add the salt and sugar, work in the eggs and a little milk, and beat for fifteen minutes. When the dough has well risen add it to the above, knead well for another fifteen minutes, put in the cream (just tepid), also the currants, and mix. thoroughly. Have ready six to eight small or one large well-buttered baba-mould (these are cylindrical-shaped copper moulds). Sprinkle the bottom and sides with a few currants, let rise for fifteen minutes in a warm place, and bake in a moderately heated oven. When done, turn out on a sieve, baste well, while hot, with rum syrup, dish up, sauce over with the sauce, and serve hot. 1630. Timbale a la Pompadour.—Prepare sufficient ‘baba- paste ’ (No. 1629) to fill a well-buttered copper pudding-mould, bake it in the usual way, turn out on a sieve, and, when cold, cut off the top carefully, scoop out the centre, and fill with a macedoine of fruit; reduce the syrup well with so much apricot marmalade and a little kirschwasser as to make a stiff syrup, pour some of this over the fruit, put the top on it, and turn over on a dish. Have ready some small rounds of apples, cooked partly in white and partly in red syrup, also a nice peach. Ornament the top with the fruit, garnish with angelica and dried cherries. Glaze over with the reduced syrup, warm in the oven, and serve. 1631. Timbale d la St-Petersbourg.—6 oz. caster sugar, 6 eggs, 2 oz. ground almonds, 1 glass kirschioasser, 4 oz. best Vienna flour, 2 tablespoonftils apricot or quince marmalade, the whites of 2 eggs, ^ oz. pistachio mots. Break six eggs into a copper egg-bowl, add the sugar, and beat with a whisk over a very slow fire for about fifteen or twenty minutes, then add the ground almonds, and beat a little longer, melt the butter, and mix this and the flour alternately and in small quantitiesTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 522 into the above. Then add the liqueur (kirsch). Fill a well-buttered mould with the mixture, and bake in a moderately heated oven from thirty to thirty-five minutes. Unmould on to a sieve and let cool. Meanwhile beat the two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add to it the pistachios, previously peeled, blanched, and chopped. Heat up the marmalade and mix it with the beaten eggs. Place the cake on a dish, and fill the centre thereof with the last-named preparation, pile up high, and dredge with a little caster sugar. Bake in a hot oven long enough to heat the cake and brown the surface of the egg mixture. Pour some hot rum or other syrup round the base of the dish, and serve hot. 1632. Timbales aux Fruits ala Metro pole.—Mix 4 oz. butter (melted) with about i lb. brioche paste. Put this into a buttered charlotte mould, and allow it to stand in a warm place for about thirty minutes. Bake it in a moderately heated oven. Meanwhile prepare a compote or macedoine of peaches, prunes, pears, or any other fresh or preserved fruit. If the former are used cook them in some syrup. Drain the fruit, reduce the syrup with some apricot marmalade, and mix again with the macedoine of fruit, flavoured with a glass of kirsch. Scoop out the centre of the baked cake, and fill the hollow with the prepared fruit. Decorate the top with pistachios, glace fruit, &c., and serve not too hot. 1633. Timbale a la Sicilieme.—Prepare a brioche paste crust timbale as above directed, and fill it with layers of cooked and sweetened rice and fruit, previously stewed. Serve hot or cold with a suitably flavoured fruit syrup. 1634. Timbales de Semoule a la Tortugaise.—1 pint milk, 3 oz. semolina or fine-grain fiorador, 2 oz. caster sugar, 3 whole eggs and 1 white of egg, 1 bottle or tin of apricots, angelica, glace cherries. Vanilla-pod for flavouring, a few almonds cut in halves or shreds, 2 tablespoonfuls whipped cream, maraschino syrup for sauce. Put the vanilla into the milk for half an hour before boiling, then boil with the milk and take it out. Bring the milk to the boil again, and stir in the semolina, boil for several minutes while stirring. Bemove from the fire, work in the sugar, the yolks and one white of egg, reserving the remainder of whites for beating up to a froth; this being carefully mixed into the above preparation as soon as it gets cool enough, the whipped cream and a few drops of maraschino liqueur should be added at the same time as the whites of eggs. Butter six or eight small timbale moulds, fill the mixture into these, and steam for half an hour. Warm up six to eight halves of apricots, some angelica cut into leaves, almonds, and halves of cherries. Turn out the timbales on a hot dish, place half an apricot on top of each, decorate them tastefully with cherries, angelica, and almonds, pour over a nicely prepared apricot syrup flavoured with maraschino, and serve.523 ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) 1685. Meringuage Sicilienne.—12 to 14 meringue shells (small), 2 oz. strawberry or gooseberry pulp, 1£ pint whipped cream, 4 oz. sugar, glace cherries. Boil the sugar with a little water to the crack (about 300 degrees Fahrenheit). Grease the outside of a charlotte mould, and stand, opening downwards, on a plate; dip the sides of each meringue in the boiled sugar, and place them in rows against the side of the mould, piling one row on the other until the top of the mould is reached. Remove the mould carefully, and put the shape on to a dish. Whip the cream, add the fruit pulp, fill the centre with this, garnish neatly with some glace cherries, and, if liked, with a few fancifully cut leaves of angelica. If preferred, the top may be covered with meringue shells. Serve quickly. 1636. Bonnes Bouehes d la Washington.—5 blood oranges, 2 Bartlett pears, 2 peaches, 2 slices pine-apple, 2 apricots, glace cherries or other fruit in equal parts, 1^ gill claret, 1 gill chartreuse, \ lb. powdered macaroons, meringue mixture. Stew the fruit as for compote, if fresh fruit is used, but bottled fruit will do if the former is not procurable ; cut the fruit into slices about the size of a small cherry, cut the oranges in halves ; carefully remove the pulp, so that the skin remains intact. Rub the pulp through a sieve, and add to it the wine and liqueur; thicken this syrup with macaroons. Mix in the fruit, fill up the orange-rinds, smooth over with the blade of a knife, cover the surface with meringue mixture, ornament to taste, pyramid fashion, dust with sugar, and bake in the oven a golden brown. 1637. Charlotte de Cerises.—\ lb. cooking cherries, the rind of half a lemon, 4 oz. butter, 6 oz. sugar, 1 teaspoonful powdered cinnamon, about 1^ lb. Genoise cake or German zwieback. Stone the cherries, put them in a stewpan with very little water, add the sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the cinnamon, also two ounces of butter ; steam over the fire gently until the cherries are tender (shake the pan from time to time). If Genoise cake is used cut it into neat slices, and bake both sides a golden colour. Line the bottom and sides of a well-buttered charlotte mould with these or German zwiebacks; each piece should be dipped in oiled butter, so as to make them hold fast; fill up the mould alternately with baked biscuits (Genoise) or zwiebacks and the cherries, lay them in tightly, sprinkle a little dissolved butter over the top, and bake for half an hour in the oven. Serve with a kirsch syrup. 1638. Charlotte d VImperiale.—Fill a well-buttered plain charlotte mould with Genoise paste and bake it evenly in a fairly hot oven; when done unmould, cut off the top, and remove the soft part of the interior. Place the cake-crust on a dish and fill it with a rich cream composed of six egg-yolks, one pint of cream or milk (boil- ing), a quarter of an ounce of fecula, four ounces of sugar, a quarter-THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 524 gill of apricot pulp, and one small glass of rum. Replace the top and mask the whole with a meringue mixture, i.e. two whites of egg whisked till stiff and sweetened with one ounce of caster sugar. Garnish with glace fruits and bake in a slow oven for thirty minutes. Serve hot with a fruit syrup (apricot or peach). 1639. Charlotte de JPommes {Apple Charlotte).—Cut a stale fine-grained sandwich loaf into one quarter-inch thick slices, cut these into strips about one and a half inch wide and of the same length as the charlotte mould which is to be used for this dish. Cut also a sufficient number of triangular-shaped or narrow kite- shaped slices to cover the bottom of the mould. Grease the inside of the charlotte mould with clarified butter. Now dip the shorter pieces of bread into oiled butter and place them, one by one, in the form of a circle at the bottom of the mould ; it is best to allow the slices to overlap each other, the points always meeting in the centre. Next arrange the long strips in a similar fashion, by dipping each into oiled butter and fixing them closely against the sides of the mould (these also should overlap each other). Fill the mould with a well-made, fairly stiff apple puree flavoured with sugar, lemon, and ground cinnamon. A small quantity of cake-crumbs can be added if liked. Trim off the strips of bread that overlap the edge of the mould and bake in a fairly hot oven for about forty minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish and pour a hot fruit syrup round the base of the dish. Serve quickly. 1640. Omelette sucree {Sweet Omelette).—A real French omelette should never be ready before it is required for table. The guests should wait for an omelet. Fresh eggs and fresh butter are indispensable for making a genuine omelette. Break six to eight eggs into a basin, add to them a tablespoonful of cream or milk and beat up with a fork for several—four or five—minutes ; add a pinch of salt and a teaspoonful of caster sugar. Melt one and a half ounce of butter in a clean omelet pan; when hot (not burning hot or smok- ing) pour in the beaten eggs, stir with a spoon over a brisk fire until the mixture begins to set, then shake the pan and fold the contents towards one side (the side opposite the handle of the pan). Let it take colour, i.e. a golden brown (if jam is desired, put it in the centre of the omelet before folding). Give it the shape of a cushion. Turn out quickly on a hot dish ; dredge over with fine caster sugar, decorate the top by means of a red-hot iron, and serve at once. 1641. Omelette d la Charlotte.—3 eggs, \ lemon, 2 oz. caster sugar, 3 oz. flour, \ gill fresh cream, \ tablespoonful orange- flower water, 2 oz. butter, apple marmalade. Break the eggs and separate the whites from the yolks. Beat the yolks with the sugar, add the lemon-rind, chopped finely, and orange- flower water. Whisk the whites of eggs and mix them carefully with the flour and the yolks. Whip the cream until stiff and add to the525 ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) mixture. Melt the butter in two large omelet pans, pour into each half the mixture ; let it set over the fire and then put them in a moderate oven for about ten minutes to finish cooking. Heat the apple marmalade, spread a thick layer over each omelet, roll them lightly, and dust with sugar, and serve. 1642. Omelette a la Celestine.—10 eggs, 3 oz. crushed macaroons, 2 tablespoonfuls caster sugar, 3 kinds of jam, a little cream, 1 oz. butter, a pinch of salt. Break the eggs into a basin, add the salt and cream, beat them up well, and mix with the sugar and macaroons. Make five or six omelets of equal size with the mixture, insert one kind of jam in the centre of each (about a tablespoonful), roll up, dust them over with sugar, and glaze with the salamander or a hot iron. Cut each in two ; dish up in a circle, and serve quickly. 1643. Omelette soufflee.—6 yolks of eggs, 10 whites of eggs, 4 oz. caster sugar, \ oz. febula, flavouring. Put the yolks and sugar into a basin and work them well with a wooden spatula ; add the flavouring and fecula. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth and mix carefully with the yolks. Have ready a buttered plated baking-dish ; dress the mixture on it, pile up as high as pos- sible, shape the sides with the blade of a knife, and make a deep insertion in the centre.. Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Dust with sugar, and serve. 1644. Omelette soufflee en Surprise.—A thin piece of Genoise pastry for foundation, the whites of 3 eggs, 1 yolk of egg, 2 oz. fine caster sugar, vanilla flavour, 1 pint cream or ivater ice. Trim the Genoise pastry to an oval or round shape, according to the shape of dish to be used. Scoop out the centre and fix it on the dish. Cream the yolk of egg with one and a half ounce of sugar; add a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs and whisk them in an egg- bowl till quite stiff. Add the flavouring essence or vanilla sugar to the creamed egg-yolk, and work in gradually the stiff whites of eggs. The ice must be well frozen and placed in the cavity of the genoise. Cover completely with the above preparation, smooth the surface with the blade of a knife, garnish with angelica strips and glace cherries, dredge with sugar, and bake in a fierce oven for four to five minutes. Serve at once. Much of the success of this dish depends upon the swiftness of the operator. 1645. Omelette soufflee au Chocolat—Proceed the same as directed in the recipe No. 1643, omitting the fecula, and add in its place a tablet of grated chocolate (unsweetened preferred). Bake as directed, and serve as soon as it leaves the oven. 1646. Omelette au Mhum.—6 eggs, 2 oz. butter, small glass rum, 1 tablespoonful of caster sugar and 1 of cream, a pinch of salt. Break the eggs into a basin, add the salt and sugar, beat up well together with the cream and a little rum. Melt the butter inTHE NEW CENTUBY COOKERY BOOK 526 an omelet pan; when hot pour in the eggs &c. Stir, cook, roll, and brown the omelet to a light colour ; turn carefully on to a dish, dust with sugar, pour the rum round the omelet, light it, and serve quickly. 1647. Savarin d VAnanas—Prepare and bake a border- shaped savarin (No. 1627), place it on a sieve, and soak it well with maraschino syrup. Cook sufficient slices of pine-apple to fill the centre of the border, in the same kind of syrup. Dish up the savarin and fill the centre tastefully with pine-apple slices, decorate with glace cherries; sauce over the whole with a fairly thick syrup, flavoured with maraschino and apricot marmalade. The dish is then ready for serving, and should be sent to table hot, but when preferred it can be served cold. Apricots or peaches are frequently served in a savarin border, the mode of preparation being the same as for pine-apple savarin. 1648. Omelette aux Fraises—Prepare an omelet with the desired number of eggs in the usual manner; just before folding it arrange a layer of compote of strawberries (previously drained) in the centre of the omelet. Fold it and allow it to take colour, then turn out on a hot dish. Sprinkle over with caster sugar and mark the surface with a red-hot skewer, pour some strawberry syrup, flavoured with a little maraschino liqueur, round the base of the dish, and send to table immediately. 1649. Rissoles de Cerises (Cherry Rissoles).—Stone some cook- ing cherries, and cook them in a little syrup till done. Poll out some puff-paste, stamp out the required number of rounds, and put a dessert- spoonful of cherry compote in the centre of each; wet the edge of the paste and fold over, like ordinary rissoles. Bake in a fairly hot oven, roll in caster sugar previously mixed with powdered cinnamon and vanilla sugar. Dish up and serve. 1650. Croquettes de Cerises.—f lb. cooking cherries (sour), 1£ lb. cake-crumbs (crushed finger biscuits or Genoise), 4 oz. sugar, 1 teaspoonful grated lemon-rind, a pinch of powdered cinnamon, 1 egg, crushed rusks, fat for frying, 2 glasses noyeau. Stone the cherries, put them in a stewpan with the sugar and a little water ; cook until tender, strain off a little of the juice, and add the cake-crumbs and liqueur, grated lemon-rind, and cinnamon ; spread the mixture on a dish and let cool. Make up into cork shapes, beat up the egg, brush over the croquets with egg, roll in the crushed rusks or baked and crushed slices of Genoise cake ; when set egg and crumb again. Fry in clarified butter or fat to a golden colour, strain on a cloth or paper, dust with sugar, dish up on a folded napkin or lace paper, and serve; garnish top of each with a glace cherry or angelica. 1651. Croquettes de Riz.—^ lb. Carolina rice, 1^ pint milk, 1 oz. butter, 3 yolks of eggs, 1 whole egg, 4 oz. caster 'sugar, lemon- rind, bread-crumbs, f rying fat, angelica.ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) 527 Wash the rice in several courses of water, put it in a stewpan with the milk and the rind of half a lemon, bring it to the boil, cover, and let simmer slowly until tender. Remove the lemon-rind, work in one by one the yolks of eggs and the sugar. Stir over the fire until set and turn on to a plate or dish. When cold divide into eight equal portions, shape into croquets (heart or pear shapes), brush over with beaten egg, crumb, and fry in hot fat a pretty golden colour, strain on a cloth or paper; dredge with sugar and put a strip of angelica in the end of each croquet, dish up, and serve with apricot syrup or lemon-sauce. 1652. J3e iff nets de Pommes {Apple Fritters).—3 or 4 sour cooking-apples, caster sugar, ^ teaspoonful ground cinnamon, 1 dessertspoonful brandy, 1 dessertspoonful kirsch, frying-batter, clarified fat or lard. Prepare the batter as directed in No. 35. Peel the apples thinly, cut into slices about |-inch thick, cut out the cores by means of a column-cutter. Put the slices on a plate, pour over the brandy and kirsch, cover over with another plate, and shake together for a few minutes. Dip the slices of apple into the batter, and drop into the fat previously heated ; fry a golden colour, drain on a cloth. Mix a little ground cinnamon with caster sugar, just enough to flavour ; dust over the fritters with the sugar, dish up, and serve as hot as possible. 1653. JBeignets de Groseilles vertes {Gooseberry Fritters). —A pint of large gooseberries, 1 white and 2 yolks of eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 2 oz. flour, 2 tablespoonfuls water, caster sugar, a pinch of salt, clarified butter or lard. Sift the flour into a basin. Add a pinch of salt, stir in gradually the yolks of eggs, cream, and water, and work into a smooth batter. Let it stand for half an hour. Pick the fruit, beat the white of egg to a stiff froth and mix with the batter. Heat the butter or lard, dip the gooseberries into the batter, drop into the hot butter or lard, and fry a golden colour. Drain on a cloth, sprinkle with caster sugar, dish up, and serve. 1654. JBeignets de Praises.—Select about one pound of large strawberries ; remove the small leaves, but leave on the stalks ; place them in a basin ; sprinkle with a little ground cinnamon ; dissolve some peach marmalade, strain, add a small glass of liqueur brandy, and keep warm. Have ready a small quantity of light frying-batter. Next dip the strawberries into the marmalade, roll in powdered sponge cakes or powdered biscuits, dip each strawberry into the batter, drop them gently in some boiling fat or butter, and fry till crisp and of a nice light colour ; drain, and dish up on a folded napkin. Dust with sugar and serve quickly. 1655. JBeignets de Pei lies-Cl and e.—Proceed in the same manner as above described, using ripe but firm greengages, previously stoned, in place of strawberries. 1656. JBeignets d’Abricot {Apricot Fritters).—8 apricots.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 528 i pint syrup, yeast batter (No. 1657), frying-fat, caster sugar, and ground cinnamon. Cut the apricots in halves and stone them, cook them in the syrup until tender, cool, and drain on a sieve. Cover the fruit with yeast batter, and place them on to buttered strips of paper; let them stand for half an hour in a warm place, then drop them into plenty of boiling fat. Fry to a golden colour, take up, drain on a cloth or paper, sprinkle with powdered sugar, mix with finely ground cinnamon, and serve on a dish covered with a folded napkin. 1657. Yeast Batter for Fritters.—Dilute a quarter of an ounce of compressed yeast with a little tepid milk, work in two ounces of flour, and make a light dough. Let it rise in a warm place. When sufficiently risen add six ounces of sifted flour, an ounce and a half of melted butter, a pinch of salt, a pinch of sugar, and enough milk to form a smooth paste ; beat up well, and put again in a warm place to rise. Cover the halves of apricots completely with the batter, place them on buttered paper, and proceed as directed. 1658. Beignets d’Ananas d la Misler (.Pine-apple Frit- ters).—6 round slices preserved pine-apple, £ inch thick, i pint creme patisserie (confectioner’s custard), frying-batter, clarified butter or beef suet, vanilla sugar, 1 small glass of kirschwasser. Cut the centre of each slice of pine-apple with a round cutter. Divide each slice in two, put them on a plate, and pour over the kirschwasser, or, if preferred, maraschino can be used in place of the former. When the pieces have been immersed for ten minutes take them up, and drain on a sieve, cover each with patisserie creme or confectioner’s custard. Let this set well, then dip each in some specially prepared light batter, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain, dredge with vanilla sugar, dish up, and serve. A boat of pine-apple syrup, heated, and flavoured with kirsch or maraschino, should be handed round with the fritters. 1659. Frying-Batter for Pine-apple Fritters.—2 oz. flour (sifted), \ oz. butter (melted), 2 tablespoonfuls cream, a pinch of salt, 1 teaspoonful caster sugar, 1 whole egg, and 1 yolk of egg. Put the flour in a basin, add the salt and sugar, stir in the cream and the yolks of eggs, beat well for some minutes, then add the melted butter. Let the batter stand for some time, and when it is required whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth and stir carefully into the batter. 1660. Beignets de Bananes (Banana Fritters).—Select some bananas, not too ripe, peel them, cut them lengthways into pieces about two and a half inches long, put in a deep dish and sj>rinkle over with a glass of kirschwasser. Prepare a batter (No. 35 or 1657), dip the bananas into this, and drop into very hot clarified butter, fry them a nice colour ; drain on paper or cloth, dredge with caster sugar flavoured with a little ground cinnamon, dish up, and serve hot.529 ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) 1661. JBeignets a la Torrijos.—2 French dinner-rolls, \ pint milk, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. loaf sugar, 1 glass maraschino, ground cinnamon or nutmeg, clarified butter for frying. Rasp the crust from the rolls and cut them into round slices, about quarter-inch thick, and put in a dish. Beat up the yolks of eggs, add the milk and liqueur, and about half an ounce of sugar. Stir and pour over the slices of bread and let soak for about fifteen minutes. Drain the pieces and fry a golden colour in the clarified butter. Drain well on a cloth or paper, sprinkle with caster sugar previously mixed with enough ground cinnamon or nutmeg to flavour. Dish up, and serve-hot. 1662. JBeignets au JMoka (Coffee Fritters).—Cut two or three milk rolls into slices, place them in a large pie-dish, and pour over enough strongly made coffee to soak them. Make a light frying- batter, allow it to stand for at least one hour. Beat up two yolks of eggs, mix them with a tablespoonful of vanilla sugar, pour this over the slices of milk rolls. Dip each slice into the frying-batter and fry a golden colour in very hot fat or lard. Take up and drain the fritters. Dredge them with caster or icing sugar and dish up. Serve hot with a sauce-boat full of cherry syrup or sauce to be handed round along with the dish. 1663. JBeignets a la Tyrolienne —Prepare a choux-paste mixture (No. 1951), put it in a forcing-bag with a star tube or pipe, and force out some round or oblong shapes on to an oiled baking- sheet. Drop these into hot fat and fry a golden colour. Drain, brush over with apricot marmalade, and roll in caster sugar mixed with a little cinnamon powder. Dish up and serve with a hot or cold vanilla sauce. 1664. JBeignets Souffles a la Vanille.—Prepare some choux-paste (No. 1951), add a teaspoonful of caster sugar and a few drops of vanilla essence. Have ready some hot lard or clarified butter, drop in the paste with a dessert or tea spoon, fry (rather slowly at first) until a nice golden colour is obtained. Drain well, dredge with caster or icing sugar, and serve hot. 1665. JBeignets de Crepes (Pancake Fritters).—2 oz. flour, | gill milk, 1 egg, 1 lemon, a pinch of salt, vanilla sugar, 4 oz. butter or lard for frying. Sift the flour into a basin, add a small pinch of salt, and stir the milk in gradually, beat up well and stir in the yolk of an egg. Grate half the rind of the lemon, and add it together with a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth and mix gently: with the above. Heat up the butter (clarified) or lard in a frying or omelet pan, when quite hot drop in the mixture by means of a dessertspoon and fry a golden colour. Too many must not be fried at one time. As soon as they are fried strain on a cloth or paper, dredge well with vanilla sugar, dish up, and serve hot with a lemon- sauce, or sauce citron. M MTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 530 1666. Crepes, Pancakes (Batter).—4 oz. of flour (Coombs's self-raising), 1 whole egg, 3 yolks of eggs, \ oz. oiled butter, 1J gill of milk, a pinch of salt. Put the flour into a basin, add the salt, beat up the eggs, and stir gradually into the flour ; add a little of the milk and beat to a smooth paste, then pour in the remainder of the milk and the oiled butter (this must be done gradually), mix well, strain through a pointed strainer into a jug. Let the batter stand for some time before using. 1667. To Fry Pancakes.—To fry pancakes successfully pro- ceed as follows: Put a very small piece of butter in a pancake pan; when hot pour in a small quantity, say two tablespoonfuls, of the batter, so as to cover the bottom of the pan completely. Fry over a clear fire till one side is coloured, then toss it over and fry the other side; when done turn on to a clean board, and proceed as directed. Dust with sugar, squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice over, roll up, or fold, and dish up on a hot dish. 1668. Panequets an Confiture (Baked Pancakes, French Fashion).—3 oz. butter, 2 oz. caster sugar, 3 oz. flour, the grated rind of \ a lemon and its juice, a pinch of salt, 1 pint milk, about 1 oz. clarified butter, 3 to 4 tablespoonfuls of jam. Put the butter and sugar in a basin and beat to a cream. Add the flour (previously sifted), the lemon-rind, and lemon-juice, also the pinch of salt; beat the mixture for ten minutes, adding gradually the eggs and milk. Continue beating for another ten minutes after the flour is added, and let the mixture stand for about an hour. Put a little butter in an omelet-pan, pour in about a cupful of the pancake mixture, and bake in a hot oven for about twenty minutes ; when done turn out on a board dredged with sugar, spread some hot jam on one half, and turn over the other half; continue thus until the mixture is used up. 1669. Creme brulee (Burnt Cream).—\ pint milk, \ pint cream, 1 dessertspoonful creme de riz, 6 yolks of eggs, 1^ oz. vanilla sugar, a pinch of ground cinnamon. Mix the creme de riz with a little cream (cold). Put the milk and cream in a stewpan and allow to come to the boil, add one ounce of vanilla sugar. Stir in the yolks of eggs and the mixed creme de riz. Whisk the whole over a gentle fire, in order to bind the eggs, and this must be done without allowing the mixture to boil, else it will curdle. Pour this into a well-buttered plate or souffle dish, sprinkle over with a pinch of ground cinnamon and sufficient vanilla sugar to cover the surface. Put the dish in a brisk oven for about ten minutes, so that the surface gets browned, then serve quickly. If the oven is not hot enough to brown the top hold the dish under a salamander for a few seconds. Note.—Corn-flour, potato-flour, or Vienna flour may be used in place of creme de riz.ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) 531 1670. Creme Zdbajone (Mexican Custard).—8 yolks of eggs, 4 oz. moist sugar or granulated sugar, £ pint Marsala. Beat the egg-yolks and sugar till quite light and creamy. Add the wine and place the vessel containing the mixture over a pan of boiling water. Stir till it thickens, serve hot in small glasses, and sprinkle a pinch of ground cinnamon on the top of each. 1671. Pommes a la Duchesse (Apples, Duchesse Style).— Peel some large sour cooking apples, scoop out in small.rounds by means of a vegetable scoop, cook them in syrup, arrange them neatly on a layer of apple marmalade, spread thickly upon a crouton of fried bread, insert a small piece of angelica in each round of apples. Serve with a well-reduced apple syrup. 1672. JPommes rdties a la Polonaise (Baked Apples, Polish Style).—Pare and core some apples, cut them crosswise in thin slices, range them on a layer of marmalade on a buttered baking- dish, mask over with well-reduced syrup, sprinkle with crushed macaroons, ground cinnamon, and sugar. Bake in a moderate oven and send to table in the baking-dish. 1673. Pom me s a la Portugaise (Apples, Portuguese Style). —Pared and cored apples, rubbed over with lemon-juice, stewed in syrup, flavoured with maraschino liqueur ; fill the cavities of the apples with red currant jelly, and place a glace or a crystallised cherry on top of each. Serve with the syrup. 1674. Croutes au Madere.—Various kinds of compote of fruit may be used for this dish. Dress the fruit tastefully on fried bread or cake croutes or croutons. Garnish with angelica and glace cherries and pour hot fruit syrup flavoured with Madeira, kirsch, or rum over the dish. 1675. Croutes a la JNormande.—Pared, cored, and quartered apples, stewed in syrup, flavoured with butter, lemon-juice, and sherry, dressed on fried croutes (crusts) made from bread or Genoise cake. Coat the whole with dissolved peach or apricot marmalade. Serve with hot fruit syrup. 1676. Ponding souffle a VIndienne.—6 ozs. loaf sugar, 2 oz. shredded almonds, 1^ oz. butter, 2 oz. semolina or florador, 1 gill milk\ 1 tablespoonful caster sugar, 4 eggs, a feio drops of vanilla essence. Put the loaf sugar in a copper pan with a few drops of water; when melted place it on the fire and cook till it acquires a light amber colour, then add the shredded almonds, stir quickly over the fire for a few seconds longer, and mask the interior of a plain charlotte mould in the same manner as for a caramel pudding. Boil up the milk and butter, stir in the semolina or florador, and cook for a few minutes over the fire, stirring all the while. Let this cool a little and add the egg-yolks and the caster sugar. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and incorporate this and the vanilla flavouring with the above. Three parts fill the prepared mould. Put it in a saute- 31 M 2582 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK pan containing boiling water and cook for twenty minutes over the fire, then put it in the oven and bake for another fifteen minutes. Unmould on to a hot dish and pour over a hot custard sauce. Send to table quickly. 1677. Ponding souffle d la Russe.—2 oz. butter, 3 oz. flour, | pint of milk, a pinch of salt, 8 oz. caster sugar, 6 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls raspberry jam, 6 thin pancakes. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, and cook a little, then add the milk (boiling) and stir till it boils, season with a pinch of salt and incorporate the sugar. Cook for five minutes while stirring, and let it cool a little. Work in six yolks of eggs and the jam, previously heated and passed through a sieve or strainer. Butter a plain charlotte mould and dredge with flour. Line the bottom and sides of the mould with pancakes. Whisk four whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir it lightly into the above mixture. Cut the remainder of pancakes into shreds and mix with the above. Put this into the prepared mould and bake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes. Dish up and serve with a suitable sauce. Caramel sauce is Excellent and goes well with this souffle. 1678. (Eufs vanille d la J\reifje.—± lb. caster sugar, 1 pint of milk, 1 gill cream, 6 whites of eggs, vanilla essence or pod. Put miik, cream, sugar, and vanilla in a saute-pan, and heat up. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. When the milk, cream, &c., is boiling drop into it the whites of eggs, previously shaped with a tablespoon (the shape of quenelles); dip the spoon into boiling water each time it is used, and avoid putting in too many at a time. Turn the shapes as they are being poached. Each quenelle will take from three to four minutes to cook. When done range them nicely in a deep silver dish. Strain the custard over and round the quenelles, and serve. Use vanilla-pod if possible, as it gives a better flavour.533 CHAPTER XXYII ENTREMETS FROIDS ET GRACES (COLD SWEETS AND ICES) Cold Sweets.—These include fruit tarts, babas, savarins, creams, mousses, jellies, tartlets, small and fancy cakes, gateaux, fancy pastry, eclairs, choux-pastry, fruit compotes, charlottes, meringues, nougats, caramel creams, &c. &c. It is here necessary to point out that all hot dishes should precede the cold ones. There are a number of dishes named which can be served either hot or cold, including certain puddings, savarins, babas, caramels, pies, and tarts. Other important points to be observed in the. sweet course are the534 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK proper blending and distribution of colours and flavours, the selection and arrangement of which require some knowledge, taste, as well as judgment. The rule of the order of service in sweet entremets is the same as in entrees and other courses, viz. that the order should be alternately dark and light; thus two dishes of similar colour and flavour cannot be served in succession. The list of sweets provides a much larger variety than any other course, hence there should not be much difficulty in the selection of suitable dishes. 1679. Works of Art in Sugar.—The illustrations on previous page as well as the two others on p. 122 are specimens of art sugar work executed by Monsieur Landry, a specialist in this particular branch. Almost the whole of the construction of this and other pieces is made of sugar boiled to full ‘ crack ’ and brilliantly coloured. Gum-paste and pastillage, as well as glace royale, are also used in the construction of these truly artistic ornamental grandes pieces de patisserie. 1680. Bavaroise a la Vanille (Vanilla Cream).—4 pint milk, \ pint cream, 4 oz. loaf sugar, 2-inch vanilla-pod, f oz. French gelatine, 4 yolks of eggs. Put the sugar, milk, and vanilla in a stewpan, and bring slowly to the boil. Stir the yolks of eggs, pour on the milk &c. when boiling, mix well, and return to the stewpan, stir on the fire until it thickens, then take out the vanilla and pass through a pointed strainer or fine sieve. Dissolve the gelatine in half a gill of water, strain it into the above mixture, let it cool a little, and add the cream previously whipped. Fill up a mould, place it in a basin surrrounded with crushed ice; when thoroughly set immerse in tepid water, turn out on to a dish with folded napkin, and serve. Note.—Wipe the vanilla-pod and put away for further use. More sugar may be added if liked. A stiffly whipped white of egg added to the above mixture just before moulding it will make the cream much lighter. 1681. Bavaroise aw Chocolat.—£ lb. chocolate, 3 oz. sugar, \ oz. French leaf gelatine, 1 tablespoonful creme de riz, 1 quart milk, 6 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence. Soak the gelatine in a little cold milk, mix the ground rice or creme de riz with half a gill of cold milk. Put the chocolate, sugar, and remainder of milk in a stewpan; boil gently, and stir until the chocolate is dissolved ; add the gelatine and creme de riz; stir until it boils. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin, pour on the milk &c., stir well, and return to the stewpan ; add the vanilla essence, and stir over the fire until it thickens, but do not let it boil. Strain through a fine hair sieve, pour into a fancy mould ; when set turn out on a cold dish and serve. The top of the shape may be decorated with whipped cream, sweetened with a little vanilla sugar, by means of a cornet or forcing-bag. 1682. Bavaroise de Bananes.—1 quart milk, 2 oz. corn-flour, 2 oz. sugar, 2 bananas, % teaspoonful vanilla essence, 2 yolks of eggs..535 ENTBEMETS FBOIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) Boil up the milk, add the sugar, wet the corn-flour with a little cold milk, and stir into the boiling milk; stir over the fire until it thickens, and add the yolks of eggs and flavouring essence. Let the eggs bind, and set aside to cool. Peel the bananas, and cut into thin slices, mix with the above, and fill into one or two wetted moulds; put on the ice to set. When ready, immerse the mould in tepid water, turn out on a dish, and serve with a cold fruit syrup. 1683. Bavaroise aa Caramel.—6 oz. caster sugar, l\ pint milk, % pint cream, 1 oz. French gelatine, 6 yolks of eggs, 1 lemon. Peel the lemon finely, chop the rind and put it in a copper sugar- boiler ; add two ounces of sugar and a few drops of lemon-juice, stir over the fire until it acquires a dark amber colour; add the milk and boil up; then stir in the yolks of eggs two at a time, and the remainder of the sugar. Stir over the fire until it begins to thicken, and pass through a fine sieve or strainer. Dissolve the gelatine in a gill of water, and strain it into the above ; let it cool a little, whip the cream and mix. Fill up a mould, stand it on the ice to cool; when set turn out and serve. 1684. Bavaroise aux JPeches (Peach Cream).—Prepare a cream as directed in No. 1680, and add one and a half gill of peach puree, well reduced, before incorporating the gelatine. Decorate the mould tastefully with wine-jelly and peach-kernels and angelica before moulding. 1685. Ba varoise a la Nesselrode.—Prepare a vanilla cream (No. 1680), flavour with cinnamon in addition to the vanilla, and in- corporate two tablespoonfuls of chestnut puree. Decorate a jelly- mould with wine-jelly and glace fruit. When set fill up with the prepared cream and place it on the ice to get firm. 1686. Creme frappee aux Mille Fruits.—Prepare a vanilla cream (No. 1680), and incorporate two firmly whisked whites of eggs, also one ounce of shredded almonds»and some maraschino or curacoa liqueur to flavour. Before the mixture begins to set stir in half a pint of mixed preserved fruits, such as apricots, cherries, pine- apple, angelica, &c. Pour slowly into a coated and decorated mould and place on the ice to set. 1687. Japonais a VOrientale.—5 whites of eggs, 4 oz. ground or else finely chopped hazel-nuts, or, failing this, almonds, 6 oz. caster sugar, Ipint vanilla cream (bavaroise, No. 1680) in a plain charlotte mould, 1 gill double cream, 1 oz. vanilla sugar, a few glace cherries and angelica for garnish. Put the whites of eggs into a clean egg-bowl, add a pinch of salt, and beat them to a very stiff froth. Work in six ounces of sugar very gently, also the nuts or almonds, and put the mixture into a forcing- bag with a plain tube. Force out as many round shapes on to a slightly greased baking-tin as may be required. There should be different sizes, so that a pyramidal shape may be formed with them. Make the shapes thus ^ . Sprinkle over a little caster sugar and536 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK bake in a slow oven. When done remove the meringue shapes and let cool. Dress them on a dish with alternate layers of bavarois, cut from the vanilla cream, having a meringue for the bottom and for the top. Whisk the cream till stiff, flavour with vanilla sugar, and cover the whole shape with it. Decorate tastefully with halves of cherries and angelica leaves and serve. 1688. Creme renversee.—\ ‘pint milk, 4 eggs, 6 oz. caster sugar, % gill cream, \ teaspoonful lemon-essence. Put two ounces of the sugar with half a gill of water in a copper sugar-boiler; boil until it acquires a light-brown colour, or, in other words, until it is a caramel. Mask quickly the inside of a plain mould (one and a half pint size); when the interior is thoroughly lined with this let it get cool. Beat up the eggs in a basin, add the remainder of the sugar, the milk, cream, and the essence of lemon. Strain the whole into the lined mould, place in a stewpan, fill up with boiling water to half the height of the mould, and cook in a moderately heated oven for forty minutes. This dish can be served hot or cold. Great care must be taken in the turning out if served hot, otherwise it should stand for at least one hour and a half before it is turned out. In either case it is served with its own liquor. 1689. Creme Fraises d la Chart reuse. — 1 small punnet of ripe strawberries, f pint clear wine jelly, % pint cream, 1 glass chartreuse, \ oz. angelica, 4 leaves gelatine. Melt some of the jelly, put a fancy or plain mould in a basin containing crushed ice, and line the inside of the mould thinly with a layer of jelly. Pick out a few of the best fruit, halve them, remove the stalk, and substitute a stalk with small pieces of angelica stuck in each half. Decorate the bottom and sides of the mould with these ; mask well with jelly, so as to keep the fruit firm and in position. Pick the stalks of the remainder of strawberries, and cut them in slices ; melt the remainder of the jelly, put in the sliced fruit, melt the gelatine in a little jelly, and strain into this. Let cool a little, whip the cream, and mix it with the above; add the liqueur and stir over the ice until it begins to set, then pour into the decorated mould. Stand it on the ice until firm, then turn out and serve. 1690. Creme a la Genoise.—% pint milk, 1 gill cream, 2 oz. crushed macaroons, 2 oz. loaf sugar, 1 oz. glace fruit, 4 yolks of eggs, 4 orange, 4 glass cognac brandy, i oz. French gelatine. Put the macaroons in a basin, pour over the brandy,, and let soak. Put the pieces of loaf sugar on the rind of orange, so as to extract the oil and flavour, put the sugar and milk in a stewpan, and bring to the boil. Beat the yolks of eggs a little,' stir ill the boiled milk, return to the stewpan, and stir over a slow fire until it begins to thicken ; then put aside and stir in the gelatine, previously dissolved in a little milk. Strain through a pointed strainer or hair sieve ; now mix in the macaroons and brandy, and let cool a littie. Cut the537 ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) fruit, lemon, and orange peel, shred it into fine shreds. Whip the cream until stiff and mingle with the preserved fruits into the cream. Stir until it commences to set, then pour into a mould and put on the ice to set. When required for table immerse it in tepid water, turn out on a cold dish, and garnish, if handy, with a little chopped jelly. 1691. Creme cuite a la Suisse.—3 oz. glace fruits (cherries, apricot, angelica, etc.), \ pint cream, \ pint milk, 6 yolks and 3 ivhites of eggs, 1| oz. loaf sugar, f oz. French gelatine, 1 glass cura<;oa, 1 gill icine jelly. Mask a quart mould with jelly, decorate the bottom and sides with glace fruits, and set the fruit with a layer of jelly. Put the milk and cream with the sugar in a stewpan, bring to the boil. Mix the eggs in a basin, pour over the boiling milk and cream, stir well, and return to the stewpan. Stir over a slow fire and let it come gradually almost to the boil, strain into a basin, dissolve the gelatine in a little milk, and pass through a strainer into the above ; stir occasionally until nearly cold, then add the liqueur and glace fruit cut into shreds, should any be left over ; pour into the decorated mould when it com- mences to get cool. Stand it in a cool place until set. Immerse in tepid water and dish up on a cold dish. 1692. Creme au Tapioca a la Compote <Je Fruits.— 3 oz. ground or crushed tapioca, 2 oz. loaf sugar, 2 inches vanilla- pod, | pint milk, % pint cream, about a pint of compote of fruit, almonds, and glace cherries for garnish. Put the milk, vanilla-pod, and sugar in a stewpan, let it come to the boil, stir in the tapioca, stir until it boils, and cook for about fifteen minutes. Pour into a basin to cool, whip the cream and mix with the tapioca when cool (remove the vanilla). Fill this into a border-mould, stand it in a cool place till firm, unmould on to a round dish, ornament the border tastefully with blanched and shredded almonds and halves of glace cherries, fill the centre with any kind of stewed fruit, pour some of the fruit syrup round the border, and serve. The fruit may, if liked, be flavoured with a glass of chartreuse or maraschino. 1693. Creme a la Fomaine —3 oz. Jordan almonds and 1 oz. bitter almonds, 1 pint milk, 1 \ gill cream, 4 oz. loaf sugar, 1 tablespoonful orange-jloioer water, 1 oz. French gelatine, 4 yolks of eggs. Blanch and peel the almonds, throw them into cold water, wipe them dry, and chop rather finely. Put the milk into a stewpan and boil up, add the sugar; put the almonds in a copper preserving-pan and stir over the fire until they have acquired a light-brown colour. Add the almonds to the milk and let boil, stir in the yolks of eggs and let them bind over the fire, then remove quickly, and pass through a fine sieve; soak the gelatine in a little cold water, drain and let dissolve, and strain into the cream ; add the orange-flower water while warm, whip the cream, and work in lightly (the cookedTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 588 cream must be nearly cold when the whipped cream is added), mingle well with a wooden spoon, and pour into a mould ; stand it on the ice; when set, turn out, garnish with some preserved fruit or com- pote, and serve. 1694. Creme a la Diplomats,—£ pint milk, 3 yolks of eggs, ^ gill cream, 1 oz. sugar, 2 oz. macaroons, 4 to 6 Savoy biscuits, \ oz. gelatine, about ^ pint wine jelly, a few glace cherries and angelica for garnish. Make a custard with the milk, egg-yolks, and sugar, crush up the macaroons, and pour the hot custard over same. Add the cream and gelatine previously melted, and allow it to get cool a little. Meanwhile decorate a plain charlotte mould, previously lined with jelly, with cherries, angelica, and savoy fingers ; put in another layer of jelly, so as to set the decoration. Whisk the remainder of jelly until frothy, and line the decorated mould with this. Fill the centre with the prepared custard ; set the mould on the ice, and serve when required. 1695. Creme a l’ Imperatrice.—1\ pint milk, ± pint cream, 3 oz. ground rice, 2 oz. caster sugar, \ oz. French leaf gelatine, vanilla essence, glace cherries, angelica, pistachio nuts, and jelly for garnish. Boil the milk, stir in the ground rice, and cook gently for about fifteen minutes. Soak the gelatine in a little milk or water, dissolve it, and strain it into the rice ; stir in the sugar and half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence ; let cool a little, then add a few glace cherries (cut into small dice) and a tablespoonful of blanched, peeled, and coarsely chopped pistachios. Whip the cream and stir gently into the above. Have ready a fancy border or jelly-mould, masked with jelly and decorated tastefully with glace cherries, pistachios, and angelica, pour in the prepared mixture, and put the mould in a cool place to set. To serve immerse the mould in tepid water, turn the contents on a cold dish, decorate with coarsely chopped jelly and some fruit compote. 1696. Creme de Mirabelles en Surprise.—4 pint mira- belle puree (this is obtained by heating up a bottle of preserved mirabelles and rubbing the fruit through a fine sieve), % pint cream, f oz. French leaf gelatine, 1 gill wine jelly, 1 tablespoonful mara- schino, 1J oz. caster sugar, 1J wineglassful port icine, \ gill red currant jelly, a few shredded almonds and glace cherries for garnish. Mask a bombe-mould with a thin layer of clear wine-jelly. Heat the fruit pulp (puree) up slowly, add to it the sugar and the mara- schino. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water, and strain into this. Stir until it commences to cool, then stir in the cream, previously whipped. Stand the prepared mould in a basin surrounded with crushed ice, and pour in a little of the prepared puree. When set place in a narrow glass tumbler, and pour some more cream roundENTREMETS FBOIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) 539 the same, so as to completely fill the mould. Allow this to set, then pour a little warm water into the tumbler, so as to remove it from the mould. Mix the remainder of wine-jelly with the red currant jelly, and add the port wine. When nearly cold pour into the cavity of the mould (made by removing the tumbler), sprinkle in some finely shredded blanched peeled almonds and a few glace cherries cut into slices; place on the ice until thoroughly set, then unmould on to a, silver entremet dish; decorate with coarsely chopped red wine-jelly, almond strips and glace cherries. 1697. Creme d la Monaco.—4 pint apricot pulp (well reduced), 1 pint cream, f oz. gelatine, \ pint maraschino jelly (No, 1709), | pint milk, 10 drops almond essence, 4 oz. caster sugar, ^ lemon, glace cherries, almonds and maraschino biscuits for garnish. Heat up the apricot pulp and add enough sugar to sweeten, also the thin rind of half the lemon and a teaspoonful of its juice. Dissolve the gelatine and add half its quantity, and strain into a basin. Boil up the milk, add sugar to sweeten and the remainder of gelatine (strained), flavour with almond essence. Whip the cream and stir half into the milk and the other into the apricot preparation. Pour into separate moulds, and put on the ice to set. These creams must be respectively of a nice yellow tint and white tint. A few drops of liquid saffron may be added to the apricot cream if found necessary. Mask two plain charlotte moulds (pint size) with a coating of maraschino jelly, decorate the bottom and sides tastefully with slices of cherries (not too thin) and slices of blanched almonds. Cut out by means of a spoon or knife small pieces, of even shape, of the white and yellow cream ; place a layer of each alternately into the mould and here and there halves of cherries; pour some jelly between each layer, allowing each to set before another is added. Proceed thus until the moulds are filled. Keep on the ice till firm, then unmould, dish up, and garnish with small finger biscuits glazed with pink and white maraschino icing. 1698. Creme a VOrange (Orange Cream).—Mask a jelly- mould with lemon or wine-jelly, decorate it with glace cherries and angelica, prepare a vanilla cream (No. 1680). Add to it the juice and the finely grated rind of an orange, also a little well reduced apricot marmalade. Fill up the mould and place on the ice to set. 1699. Crbme de Grose tile verte (Gooseberry Cream).— Proceed as above, but substitute the orange with half a gill of goose- berry puree and a little lemon-juice. Add a few drops of spinach greening and mould. A little more gelatine (1 or 2 extra leaves) should be added during the hot weather to all creams &c. in which gelatine is used. 1700. Gooseberry Fool.—1 quart unripe gooseberries, \ lb. loaf sugar, 1 pint cream. Remove the stalks from the gooseberries, put the fruit in a clean540 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK stewpan with the sugar and about half a pint of water, and let the fruit boil gently for half an hour. Bub through a fine sieve and keep the pulp obtained on the ice. Add a little more sugar if needed. Whip the cream and mix with the fruit pulp a few minutes before serving. Fill up some little ice glasses, or serve in a glass or silver dish ; hand some fancy biscuits or sponge fingers at the same time. If liked, the mixture can be partly frozen. 1701. Canary Cream.—H pint milk, 4 oz. loaf sugar, 1 lemon, f oz. leaf gelatine, 6 yolks of eggs. Boil the milk, add the sugar and the thin rind of the lemon. Dissolve the gelatine in a little warm milk, and add it to the above. Beat up the yolks of eggs, add the strained juice of half the lemon. Stir into the stewpan containing the milk &c., put it on the fire and stir until it becomes thick (it must not boil). Strain into a wetted mould. Place it on the ice or in a very cool place to set. Turn out when set and serve with fruit compote or jam. 1702. Chocolate Mould.—8 oz. of chocolate, 8 oz. patent corn- flour, 1 quart of milk, 2 oz. sugar, vanilla. Melt the chocolate in one pint of milk, mix the corn-flour smoothly in the other pint of milk ; add the melted chocolate and sugar, and boil for ten minutes, always stirring. Flavour with a few drops of vanilla essence. Rinse mould with cold water, and pour in the mixture. Turn out when set, and decorate the dish with whipped cream. 1703. Coboury Trifle.—Cut half a dozen sponge cakes into slices, spread them with raspberry or apricot jam, and place them together like sandwiches. Arrange them neatly in a glass dish, pour over one glass of good sherry or Marsala, and let them soak for about ten minutes. Cover the whole with macaroons, which should be arranged in the form of a pyramid ; pour over a gill of rich custard, and garnish with halves of glace cherries. Whisk half a pint of cream till stiff, and cover the whole with it by means of a forcing-bag, decorate tastefully with peeled and shredded sweet almonds, angelica, and cherries. The dish is then ready for serving. 1704. JBanana Hlanc-Manye.—1 quart milk, 2 oz. corn- flour, 2 oz. sugar, 2 bananas, -g teaspoonful vanilla essence, 2 yolks of eggs. _ ‘ Boil up the milk, add the sugar, wet the corn-flour with a little cold milk, and stir into the boiling milk. Stir over the fire until it thickens, and add the yolks of egg and flavouring essence. Let the eggs bind and set aside to cool. Peel the bananas and cut them into thin slices; mix with the above, and fill into one or two wetted moulds ; put on the ice to set. When ready immerse the mould in tepid water, turn on to a dish, and serve with a cold fruit syrup. 1705. Gelee au Yin (Wine Jelly).—2 quarts water, f pint -white wine or sherry, 6 oz. best gelatine, 2 oranges, 3 lemons, 1 oz. coriander seed, i lb. loaf sugar, 2 whites of eggs.541 ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. {COLD SWEETS, ETC.) Put the water, sugar, the rinds of oranges and lemons, thinly peeled, into a stewpan, and allow it to boil up. Add the juice of the fruit, wine, and coriander seed ; allow the syrup to cool a little. Whisk the whites of eggs and shells, and stir into the syrup; then add the gelatine, which has been already soaked in cold water and well strained, and stir over the fire until it boils ; allow it to simmer until the gelatine is melted, then pass through a jelly-bag or fine cloth (previously rinsed in boiling water). Strain two or three times until quite clear. Pour into moulds and set to cool. When set, immerse in tepid water, turn out on a dish, and serve- 1706. Gelee an Punch {Punch Jelly).—i lb. loaf sugar, 2 lemons, 1^ oz. best French gelatine, a wineglassful of kirsch, a wineglassful of rum, a wineglassful of sherry, ^ inch cinnamon, 1 egg, 20 coriander seeds, 1 gill of cream, \ oz. caster sugar. Put the sugar in a copper stewpan, add a pint of water, and boil to a syrup; add the thinly peeled rind of the lemons, and the gelatine previously soaked ; when the latter is dissolved, put in the liqueur and wine, cinnamon and coriander seeds; also the juice of the lemons. Bring it again to a boil, let it cool a little. Beat up the white and shell of one egg, stir in, bring slowly to a boil; strain through a jelly-bag, and pour in a mould to set. When turned out, fill the centre of the jelly with whipped cream, sweeten with caster sugar, and serve. 1707. Gelee an Fraises (Strawberry Jelly).—Pick half a pound of small red strawberries, pulp them a little, and put them in an earthen pan. Have ready a pint of syrup (made with half a pound of sugar and a pint of water), pour it over the fruit after the first heat is off, cover with strawberry-leaves, and let it stand for an hour. Put two ounces of soaked gelatine into a stewpan; add one pint of water, the juice of a lemon, and the strawberry syrup strained ; clarify with two whites of eggs, strain through a jelly-bag until transparent; mask a mould with a little jelly on the ice, then orna- ment with large ripe strawberries, and fill the mould with jelly when the latter is cold enough to allow the strawberries used for ornament- ing to set. 1708. Gelee an Vin de Champagne {Champagne Jelly).— 1 quart water, 2^ oz. gelatine {French leaf), 1 orange, 2 lemons, 12 oz. lump sugar, \ pint sherry, 2 cloves, 1 inch cinnamon, 1 dessert- spoonful coriander seeds, ^ pint of champagne, 2 rohites of eggs and shells. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, add the juice of orange and lemons, also half of the peel (cut very thin) ; put this, together with the other ingredients, in a stewpan, whisk the whites of eggs, crush the shell and add also. Put upon a slow fire, stirring frequently. As ■soon as it boils move the pan on the side of the stove, pour in a* tablespoonful of cold water, and let simmer very gently for about ten542 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK minutes. Strain through a wetted cloth or jelly-bag, or through filtering paper. Pour into a mould and let it set on the ice. Immerse in lukewarm water. Wipe the mould, and turn out quickly on a dish. 1709. Gelee an Marasquin (.Maraschino Jelly).—Proceed the same as directed in the foregoing recipe, omitting the champagne and adding two small glasses of maraschino liqueur in its place ; the sherry used must be of a very pale colour. 1710. Macedoine de Fr uit a la Gelee.—H pint wine jelly, strawberries, apricots, peaches, greengages, raisins, or other kinds of fruit. Dissolve the jelly. Place a copper jelly-mould in a shallow pan of broken ice, pour in a little jelly ; let it set. Arrange a layer of fruit neatly, cover with jelly, and when this is set pour in some more jelly, more layers of fruit, alternating with different kinds. Continue this until the mould is full, but great care must be taken to see that each layer is quite set before another is put in. When fresh fruit cannot be obtained use bottled or tin fruits, but dry each piece on a cloth before it is set in the jelly. Keep the mould on ice until set, then immerse in tepid water, turn out on to a folded napkin or on a silver dish, and serve. 1711. Gelee au JEthum d la JRusse (Russian Rum Jelly).— Mask a fancy jelly-mould with a thin coating of wine-jelly coloured with liquid carmine or cochineal, prepare a punch jelly as directed in recipe No. 1706, using rum for flavouring. Whisk a sufficient quantity to fill the mould till quite frothy. Fill the mould and let set. 1712. Fraises an Gelee (Jellied Strawberries).—Prepare a jelly as directed in recipe No. 1705. Keep it as bright as possible, and colour with a few drops of carmine or spinach greening. Mask a mould with this ; when set fill it gradually with layers of jelly and layers of freshly picked ripe strawberries. See that each layer is set before the next layer of fruit is added. Set in a cool place till firm. Turn out and dish up. 1718. Gelee d la Polonaise.—1^ pint maraschino jelly (No. 1709), 1 pint milk, \ oz. corn-flour, \ oz. gelatine, 1 oz. sugar, 2 yolks of eggs, % teaspoonful vanilla essence, 1 tablespoonful maraschino. Mix the corn-flour with a little cold milk, boil up the remainder of milk with the sugar, then add the mixed corn-flour and stir while it boils ; soak the gelatine in water and add it to the above, beat up the yolks of eggs and add them also. Allow the eggs to bind, and strain the whole into a basin, then add the flavouring essence and the maraschino. Pour this into a flat mould and let it set on the ice. Unmould and cut the custard into small diamond blocks or cube shapes. Set these in a fancy border mould in layer with the jelly. When the mould is full place it in a cool place to set. Turn out and serve as a cold dinner or luncheon sweet.543 ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) 1714. Mousseline de Gelee, Napolitaine.—1 quart wine jelly (No. 1705), 3 ivhites of eggs, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence, 1 teaspoonful grated orange-rind, 1 dessertspoonful finely chopped pistachios, a few drops of liquid carmine, and spinach greening. Mask a pint mould or a quart-sized jelly-mould, plain or fancy pattern, with a thin layer of jelly, and place it on the ice. Whisk the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth, then stir in the remainder of the jelly (previously liquefied but not hot). Whisk this on the ice till it commences to set, then divide quickly into three parts ; flavour the first with vanilla and pour into the jelly-mould ; into the next put the grated orange-rind and colour with a few drops of carmine; this is then poured on the first layer. The last portion is mixed with the pistachios, coloured with a few drops of spinach greening, and poured on the orange mousse. Be careful to see that each layer is set before the next is added. Should the mousse become too firm for working re-heat it gently ; commence whisking again till of the right consistency. 1715. Gelee an Kirsch a la Nansen (Kirsch Jelly, Nansen Style).-—Line a three-pint jelly-mould with a thin layer of clear lemon- jelly flavoured with kirsch, decorate the sides and bottom with fancifully cut glace fruit, and keep on the ice. Add a small glass I of kirschwasser to 1J pint of lemon-jelly, whisk two whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir into the jelly ; whisk this over the ice until it commences to get stiff, then add a handful of finely cut glace fruit and fill the prepared mould with this mixture. Place the mould on the ice to set. To serve, immerse the mould in warm water for a moment, wipe it, and turn out quickly on to a cold dish. 1716. Ponding Froid d la St. Cloud.—\ pint strong coffee, 4 eggs, 2 oz. caster sugar, \ gill cream, sponge cahes or Genoise cake, 3 oz. siveet almonds, £ oz. butter, 3 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, 2 tablespoonfuls maraschino, angelica, and glace cherries. Blanch the almonds, peel and shred finely, put them on a baking- tin, and bake in a slow oven a fawny colour. Butter a plain charlotte mould, sprinkle the inside with shredded almonds, and fill up with small pieces of sponge cake or Genoise cake-crumbs. Dissolve the sugar in the coffee, let it cool, and add the eggs (previously beaten), the cream, and the maraschino liqueur; mix thoroughly and strain into the mould; put the remainder of shredded almonds on top, cover the mould with a piece of buttered paper, and stew in a stew- pan containing enough boiling water to half surround the mould in depth. Steam this for about two hours. Let cool until set, then turn out on a cold round dish. Warm up the marmalade with a little water and sugar, strain, and mask the pudding. Ornament the top and sides with little rings of angelica and halves of glace cherries. Keep on the ice until required for table. 1717. Ponding d la Marguerite.—Five eggs, | pint milk, aTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 544 gill of cream, 2 oz. caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful cavona or vanilla essence, 1 oz. moist sugar, red currant jelly, crushed ice, a little butter. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, put the yolks in a basin and whisk up a little, then add the caster sugar and the cream. Melt the moist or brown sugar in a stewpan and allow it to get an amber colour (not caramel), put in the milk and boil up, then stir it into the basin containing the egg-yolks &c. Have ready a well- buttered pudding-mould (a plain charlotte mould is best), add the flavouring essence to the mixture, and strain it into the buttered mould. Put the mould in a saute or other flat stewpan containing some boiling water. Let it come to the boil over the fire, then place a buttered paper on top and steam in the oven for rather more than an hour. When done allow to cool, and set it in a basin, surround the mould with crushed ice, and keep it thus for at least one hour. To serve, dip the mould in warm water for a second or two, unmould on to a cold dish, decorate the top with red currant jelly. The jelly may be cut into cubes or forced through a forcing-bag. 1718. Ponding d VAbricot (Gold Apricot Pudding).—1 gill apricot-pulp, gill milk or cream, f oz. gelatine, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. caster sugar, 1 oz. chopped almonds, a feto drops cochineal, 1 dessertspoonful lemon-juice. Soak the gelatine in a little water, boil up the milk, beat the yolks of eggs in a basin with the sugar, stir in the boiling milk, return to the stewpan over the fire, and stir till it thickens (it must not boil), pour back into the basin, add the gelatine and let dissolve, then add the apricot-pulp and lemon-juice. Strain into another basin. When nearly cold and well stirred fill up into one large or several small moulds. Turn out and serve when quite set. The moulds may be decorated with jelly and fruit before they are filled with the above preparation. 1719. JBordure de Hiz a ax Prunes.—2 oz. rice, 2 oz. caster sugar, lpint milk, the thin rind of % a lemon, 3 yolks of eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, 1 oz. blanched and chopped pis- tachio-kernels, 1 glass maraschino, glace cherries, angelica for garnish, 2 dozen stewed French plums, ^ gill whipped cream, a teaspoonful cinnamon, sugar. Pick and wash the rice, and cook till tender in the milk, add the sugar and lemon-rind, finely chopped, put the lid on the panin which the rice is cooked, and put it in the oven for a few minutes to allow some of the moisture to evaporate ; then add the egg-yolks and the maraschino. Fill a buttered border-mould with the cooked rice, stand the mould in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, and bake in the oven for half an hour. Unmould on a round silver-plated or china dish. When cold mask with liquefied apricot marmalade, and sprinkle with chopped pistachio-nuts. Stone the cooked plums, put them into shape again, insert a short strip of angelica into, each545 ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) plum, and arrange them on top of the border of rice, or in the centre of the dish ; garnish with a few halves of glace cherries. Ornament the top and sides with whipped cream, using a forcing-bag with a plain or fancy pipe for this purpose. 1720. Jtiz a VImperatrice.—2 ok. Carolina rice, 1 pint milk, 6 oz. sugar, \ pod vanilla, 5 yolks of eggs, 1 gill cream, 3 sheets French leaf gelatine, 6 oz. glace fruits, apricots, cherries, die., 1 glass kirschwasser, and a pinch of salt. Wash the rice in several courses of water and drain well. Boil up the milk with the vanilla-pod, stir in the rice, add a pinch of salt, and let it cook very gently for forty-five minutes. Take out the vanilla, wipe it well, and put away for further use. Soak the gelatine in tepid water for a few minutes, and put with the rice. Stir in the yolks of eggs and sugar ; keep stirring over the fire until the eggs begin to set; remove quickly from the fire and let cool a little. Cut the fruit into dice; whip the cream. Mix the fruit, cream, and kirschwasser with the rice ; fill up one large or several small moulds. Put some crushed ice in a flat tin or large basin, stand the mould or moulds in this, and keep them in a cool place for at least two hours. Immerse in tepid water, turn out on a cold dish. Garnish with a few fancifully cut pieces of crystallised fruit, and serve. 1721. fiommes meringues a la Creme.—10 small sour cooking apples, 10 oz. loaf sugar, k lemon, 1 inch cinnamon, 2 cloves, \ pint cream, 3 whites of eggs, 6 oz. caster sugar, 10 crystallised cherries, angelica. Peel the apples thinly, core them carefully without breaking. Put the loaf sugar, half-pint of water, cinnamon, cloves, and lemon-juice in a copper stewpan, and reduce to a syrup. Skim well and strain into a saute-pan. Kange the apples neatly in the syrup, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a hot oven until tender. Lift out the apples, strain carefully, and place them on a buttered baking-sheet. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; mix with the caster sugar. Put the meringue mixture in a forcing-bag with a plain piping tube ; cover each apple completely with the mixture, dust with sugar, and bake in a cool oven for fifteen minutes. The meringue crust should be quite dry, and of a fawny colour when taken out of the oven. Put them on the ice to cool. Whip the cream, add a dessertspoonful of caster sugar ; when the apples are cold, fill the centre of each with some of the whipped cream. Dish up on little heaps of whipped cream in a cold dish. Put a crystallised cherry and two or three lozenge-shaped slices of angelica on the top of each. Put the remainder of the cream in the centre of the dish, and serve. 1722. Omelette a la Meringue.—4 ichites of eggs, 3 oz, caster sugar, vanilla essence, 1 teaspoonful maraschino liqueur, | gill cream, pistachios and almonds for garnish, a tablespoonful red currant jelly. N N546 THE NEW CENTUBY COOKERY BOOK Add a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs and beat up in an egg-bowl till quite firm; add a few drops of vanilla essence and 2 oz. of caster sugar. Arrange the mixture on a buttered baking- sheet in the shape of an omelet (half-moon or cushion shape), dredge over with caster sugar, and bake in a very slow oven for about forty minutes. Be sure the oven is not too hot, else the meringue will become too brown; it should be of a delicate golden brown when finished. When done remove the meringue-shape and let cool. Whip the cream till stiff and sweeten with sugar, add the maraschino and put it in the centre of an oblong silver-plated dish ; press in the bottom of the meringue, and place it on top of the cream. Insert some strips of almonds and pistachios, previously bleached and dried, into the meringue crust, and serve. Apple puree, pear puree, or thick custard may, if liked, be used in place of the whipped cream. 1723. Ananas meringue (Frosted Pine-apple).—Scoop out the centre portion of a preserved pine-apple without breaking the shape, place it on a plated dish, and fill the cavity with a macedoine of fruit flavoured with liqueur. Mask the whole with a meringue mixture (stiffly whisked whites of egg and sugar) ; dredge with caster sugar. Bake slowly for fifteen or twenty minutes, and serve hot or cold. 1724. Tetites Jionibes de Fraises a la Moderne.—\ lb. small ripe but firm strawberries, 1 pint toine jelly, 1 glass mara- schino, 1 gill double cream, liquid carmine, angelica. Line a number of bomb-shaped moulds with jelly previously coloured with a few drops of carmine. Cut some of the smallest strawberries into slices ; put a small piece of angelica in the end of each half to form the stalks. Place them neatly around the sides of the’mould, so as to line them completely, and put on the ice to set. Cut the remainder of fruit into dice or slices. Boil remainder of jelly, slightly coloured, for a few minutes, to reduce its quantity. Pour into a' basin, stir over the ice to cool, then add the cream, liqueur, and fruit. Mix all carefully over the ice ; fill the centre of the mould. Keep on the ice till required for serving. Unmould, dish up, garnish with a few nice strawberries and chopped jelly, and serve. 1725. Fetits Pains de Fraises (.Little Strawberry Moulds).— 1 punnet of strawberries, 1 pint wine jelly, £ glass maraschino, £ oz. French leaf gelatine, 2 eggs, 1 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. loaf sugar, angelica. Dissolve some of the jelly, pick about a dozen of the best straw- berries. Mask some fancy dariole moulds with jelly; when partly set garnish the surface with strawberries and angelica leaves; coat the garnish with half-set jelly, and put on the ice to get firm. Beat up the eggs; pick the remainder of the strawberries, put them in a basin, crush with a wooden spoon, and rub through a fine hair sieve. Make a syrup (about 1 gill) with the loaf sugar; put the fruit pulp,ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) 547 syrup, eggs, and maraschino in a copper bowl, and whisk over a saucepan of boiling water. Dissolve the gelatine, previously soaked in water, and strain into the pulp &c. ; keep stirring over the hot water until the mixture binds ; then take off, beat a little longer over some crushed ice. When sufficiently cool fill up the moulds and leave on the ice until quite set. Immerse the moulds in tepid water, turn out neatly on a dish, garnish with chopped wine jelly and some glace cherries, and serve. 1726. Bananes farcies aux Fraises.—8 to 10 bananas (not over ripe), % lb. best scarlet or forest straioberries or a gill of preserved strawberry pulp, 1 oz. sugar (caster), 1 glass curaqoa, ^ lemon. Choose bananas of a good colour, wipe them with a cloth, cut off the stems, and split them in halves lengthways. Scoop out carefully the soft portion and put it in a basin; add to it the strawberries or pulp, which should in each case be well reduced, without being burnt; mash the fruit until quite smooth, rub through a hair sieve, incorpo- rate the liqueur and a few drops of lemon-juice; add a little caster sugar if necessary. Fill the banana shells, place two halves together, tie up with string, and put on the ice. When required for serving remove the string and tie each with a piece of narrow ribbon. 1727. Tivoli aux Fraises.—Mask a fancy jelly-mould with a thin layer of maraschino jelly (No. 1709), then fill up with a rich strawberry cream (mousse de fraises); pour some more jelly on top to completely fill the mould. Set it on the ice till quite firm. Dish up, and garnish with fresh strawberries. 1728. Pains d’Abricots ail Marasquin. — Preserved apricots mixed with a little maraschino liqueur, lemon-juice, powdered sugar, and some gelatine dissolved in very little water; pass through a fine sieve, set on ice until it thickens, and then pour into moulds. This sweet is served the same as ordinary jellies. 1729. Bordure Pierre le Grand.—^ lb. almonds, % lb. caster sugar, 12 eggs, 3 oz.fecula (potato or rice-flour), 4 oz. butter, 1 tea- spoonful orange-floiver wetter, £ gill cream, 3 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, 1 oz. pistachios, compote of fruit, and custard sauce. Blanch and peel the almonds, dry them in front of the fire and pound them in a mortar, adding about two tablespoonfuls of water and the juice of a lemon. When quite fine put this into a basin, and incorporate the yolks of twelve eggs. Whisk the whites of ten eggs to a very stiff froth. Melt the butter and mix the whites of eggs, butter and fecula carefully with the above, add also the orange-flower water. Three parts fill two savarin border-moulds previously buttered and floured, and bake in a moderate oven to a nice golden brown. Unmould and let cool; cut them in half and fill the centre with whipped cream suitably flavoured. Place them together in the original shape and mask each with dissolved apricot marmalade. Sprinkle over with chopped pistachios nuts and dish up. Fill thef.4H THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK centre with any kind of fruit compote, pears, peaches, or apricots, and’ send to table with a cold custard sauce. 1730. Chartreuse de Pommes a la Princesse—6 small cooking apples, \ oz. French gelatine, 2 cloves, the rind of b lemon,. 2 oz. angelica, about 3 oz. sugar, a few drops carmine or cochineal, 1 pint jelly, 1 oz. glace cherries, ^ gill of cream, ^ oz. pistachios. Peel, core, and slice the apples ; put them in a stewpan with half a pint of water, the sugar, lemon-rind, and cloves, and cook over the fire; when the apples are thoroughly cooked remove lemon-rind and cloves, and rub all through a fine sieve. Dissolve the gelatine and stir in with the puree while hot. Divide the puree in two, mingle one part with a little thick cream and the other with a few drops of cochineal; pour into separate saute-pans, and put on the ice to set. When- perfectly set, stamp out some half-moon and diamond-shape- pieces. Stand a charlotte mould in some ice, mask the sides with liquid jelly, dip each piece of apple puree into the jelly, and arrange these, together with fancifully cut pieces of angelica, tastefully at the bottom and sides of the mould. Place a smaller mould in the centre of this, so as to leave about an inch of space all round : fill this carefully with half-set jelly and allow it to set firmly. Dissolve separately the trimmings of the puree used ; add the remainder of cream previously whipped, sweeten to taste, mix equally with about a gill of jelly. Remove the mould in the centre and fill the cavity by degrees with layers of this preparation. Be sure you allow each layer to set before you put on the next. Between the layers sprinkle the pistachio nuts, previously blanched, peeled, dried, and chopped. Stand on the ice until required, then immerse in tepid water, turn out, and serve. 1731. Charlotte a la St. Jose.—15 to 20 sponge finger- biscuits, b pint cream, ^ gill milk, 4 oz. preserved pine-apple, ^ oz. gelatine, 1 oz. caster sugar, about 2 gills wine jelly. Mask the bottom of a plain mould with jelly, ornament with fancifully cut slices of pine-apple, with half a glace cherry in the centre ; pour the rest of the jelly when nearly set on this, let it set on the ice, and line the sides with finger-biscuits, the sides and one end of which must be neatly trimmed before being used for lining. Soak the gelatine in the milk ; let it dissolve over the fire ; whip up the cream, mix with the remainder of pine-apple cut into small dice ; add the sugar and a tablespoonful of pine-apple syrup; strain the gelatine and milk into the cream ; mix well, and when cool enough pour carefully into the mould. Keep in a cool place until required, turn out, and serve. 1732. Charlotte aux Praises.—3 doz. or more finger-biscuits, 1 % pint strawberry pulp, 3 oz. caster sugar, 1| gill cream, 1 oz. gelatine. Cut enough finger-biscuits into long triangles to form a rosette at the bottom of a charlotte mould. Stamp out a small round in the549 ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) •centre and put in a crystallised strawberry or cherry. Trim the ends and sides of as many biscuits as may be required to line the sides of the mould; place the biscuits close together in an upright position. Bring the pulp to the boil, sweeten with sugar, and dissolve the •gelatine in the pulp. Bub through a hair sieve, and let cool a little ; whip the cream, sweeten with sugar, and mix with the pulp. Fill up the lined mould with this, but not until it commences to set, and put the mould on the ice. When thoroughly set turn out on to a folded napkin and serve. 1733. Charlotte de Gaufrettes.—1 large box cigarette icafers (Swiss gaufres), icing sugar (glace royale), 1 gill milk, l^r gill cream, ^ oz. caster sugar, ^ oz. gelatine, ^ teaspoonful cavona or vanilla essence, glac'e cherries. For crust : ^ lb. flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. caster sugar, ^ egg, \ oz. ground almonds. . Line the sides of a plain charlotte mould with the gaufres, fit them close to each other by means of a little royal icing. Heat up the milk, add the gelatine and let dissolve, whip the cream ; add the sugar, Jr oz., and the flavouring essence. Strain the milk and gelatine, and add it to the cream ; stir it until it begins to cool and thicken, then pour it into the mould. Great care must be taken, so as not to disturb the wafer biscuits. Put the mould in a cool place to set. Prepare a paste with the flour, butter, 2 oz. sugar, egg, and almonds. Boll out, and stamp out a round the size of the charlotte mould in use ; bake this in a moderate oven, and let cool. Place this crust on a dish, unmould the charlotte on to the paste crust, decorate with glace or crystallised cherries. A little whipped cream may be arranged ■on the top if liked. 1734. Cha rlotte de Groseilles vertes (Gooseberry Charlotte). —Line a plain charlotte mould with finger-biscuits or slices of genoise; when the bottom of the mould and the sides are carefully lined fill the mould with a well prepared half-set gooseberry cream made as directed in No. 1699. Place the mould on the ice till set, turn out, and serve when required. 1735. Charlotte Hollandaise.—- Proceed to line a plain charlotte mould with biscuits the same as for an ordinary charlotte russe. Fill the mould with a well-prepared rich chocolate or cocoa cream or bavaroise (No. 1681). 1736. Charlotte Basse d la JPlombiere.—14 to 18 finger - biscuits, 1 gill of milk, 1 oz. ground almonds, ^ gill cream, 1 small glass maraschino liqueur, 1 dessertspoonful caster sugar, % oz. ■gela tine. Trim the edges of the biscuits, cut off the tips, and line the bottom and sides of a plain charlotte mould with these, so that they fit closely to each other. The bottom of mould should be arranged to form a rosette of biscuits ; these must be cut accordingly. Boil up the milk and pour it on to the ground almonds, add the maraschino liqueur and the sugar, and stir well. Melt the gelatine with a few drops of waterTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 550 or milk and strain into the above. Whip the cream to a stiff froth and work it gradually into the milk &c. as soon as the latter becomes cool enough. Just before the mixture becomes set pour it into the prepared mould ; this must be done very carefully, so as not to disturb the biscuits. Place the mould on the ice for about an hour and a half. To serve turn the contents of the mould on to a silver or glass dish. 1737. Charlotte a la Suisse.—Line a charlotte mould with red wine jelly about a quarter-inch think, and place it on the ice to set; then stamp out a cross from the centre of jelly; remove it and fill the cavity with white cream or bavaroise. Line the sides of the mould with evenly cut slices of Genoise pastry or finger-biscuits. Fill up with alternate layers of vanilla cream and strawberry cream. When set turn out on a dish covered with a folded napkin or dish- paper. Garnish the sides of the charlotte with whipped cream and serve. 1738. Charlotte Basse aux Pist aches.—Decorate the bottom of a plain charlotte mould with wine-jelly and pistachio nuts, trim enough finger-biscuits to go round the sides of the mould, and mask each with smooth chocolate icing (made of dissolved chocolate, white of eggs—icing sugar). When set and dry range them neatly, glaced side towards the tin, round the inside of the mould. See that they fit closely. Prepare a cream by pounding one ounce of blanched and peeled pistachio nuts. Boil this in a gill of milk, dissolve half an ounce of gelatine and strain into the milk, add a dessertspoonful of caster sugar, and flavour with vanilla cream or vanilla sugar. Whip up half a pint of double cream and mix carefully with the above (see that the milk has sufficiently cooled before the cream is added). Pour this carefully into the prepared mould, so as not to disturb the biscuits. Allow it to set on the ice or any cool place, then turn out on a cold dish, garnish with chopped wine-jelly and serve. 1739. Peches a la Pompadour.—Make a custard with one pint milk, three ounces vanilla sugar, three whole and three yolks of eggs, and cook (steam) it in a buttered charlotte mould. When cooked allow the cream to cool, and then unmould it on to a round dish. Build round it some biscuits dipped or soaked in kirsch and apricot marmalade. Immerse the peaches (cooked) in a good syrup flavoured with vanilla, and fix the fruit on top of the biscuits. Decorate with some crystallised fruits, and serve with a strawberry sauce or a kirsch creme. 1740. CEufs en Surprise.—Choose ten to twelve halves of cooked apricots, large size, drain them well, and place them on a well- tinned baking-sheet. Whisk some lemon-jelly on the ice till frothy; when about to set cover each apricot with this, adding as many layers as are necessary. This is to resemble the whites of eggs. Allow to set on the ice. Cook some semolina or florador in milk, flavour with sugar and vanilla, fill up a border-mould, and let cool. UnmouldENTREMETS FBOIDS. ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) 551 the border on a cold dish, dress the prepared apricots on top, sauce over with a thick syrup, and serve. 1741. Mattes aux Amandes (Dates Stuffed with Almond Paste).—Pound four to six ounces of peeled almonds with a few pistachio nuts in a mortar. Add sufficient syrup to form a stiff but smooth paste. Roll this out on a sugared board and cut into oblongs, the size of dates. Stone a number of dates and fill with almond paste. When this is done dip each prepared date into sugar boiled to the crack, i.e. 285 degrees on Senn’s saccharometer. Serve as dessert. Green almonds or French plums may be treated in the same way. 1742. Marrons au Moka (Chestnuts with Coffee Cream).— 3 dozen large chestnuts (Spanish), 4 oz. sugar, | pint black coffee, 1 gill double cream, 3 egg-yolks, 1 inch vanilla-pod. Slit the chestnuts, boil them long enough to remove the shells and inner skins; put them in a stewpan with enough water to cover the vanilla-pod and three ounces of sugar, and cook them till they are quite soft without breaking. Take them up and allow to drain on a sieve. Put the vanilla-pod in with the coffee, add the remainder of the sugar and the cream when nearly boiling, stir in the egg-yolks, and work over the fire till it begins to thicken, then strain. Dish up the chestuuts and pour the prepared sauce over them. Serve cold With whipped cream if liked. 1743. Ho r dure aux Fraises d la Madrid.—1 pint bavaroise custard (No. 1680), £ pint whipped cream, 1 oz. vanilla sugar, 1 oz. best rice, cooked in milk, a small punnet of scarlet strawberries, 1 gill icine-jelly. Prepare the bavaroise as directed, cook a handful of strawberries so as to extract the juice, sweeten with sugar, and strain a couple of tablespoonfuls into the jelly (the latter must be stiff enough to allow this incorporation to set). Wash and cook the rice in milk; when done sweeten with a little sugar and stir into the bavaroise. Mask one or two border-moulds with the prepared jelly (the latter must be a pretty red colour), decorate with picked strawberries and angelica. Mix about half the cream into the rice and bavaroise custard, and when cool enough pour this into the prepared border-moulds. Place it on the ice to set. To serve, unmould it on a round entremets dish; fill the centre with whipped and sweetened cream mixed with the remainder of strawberries and send to table. 1744. Bordure de Marrons a la Chantilly.—About 1 pint Spanish chestnuts, half their weight of loaf sugar, about J pint of milk, ^ oz. French leaf gelatine, 2 inches vanilla-pod, 1 gill cream, ^ oz. vanilla sugar, 1 oz. chocolate, 1 gill sweet jelly. Wipe and shell the chestnuts, scald them in boiling water, and remove the skins. Cook till tender in milk, together with the vanilla- pod. When done take out the vanilla and rub through a wire sieve.552 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK (The chestnut puree should weigh about eight ounces.) Put the loaf sugar in a stewpan, add about a gill of water, and reduce to a syrup. Dissolve the gelatine, and strain with the syrup; mix the chestnut juice with this, and stir over the fire until it becomes quite smooth ; turn into a basin and let cool. Melt the chocolate with the jelly, strain, and let cool a little; mask the inside of a border-mould with this, and put on the ice to set; then fill up with the half-set chestnut mixture and keep cool to set well. Whip the cream till stiff, sweeten with vanilla sugar, and put on a sieve to drain. Immerse the mould in tepid water, wipe it with a cloth, turn out on a dish. Dress the cream in the centre in the shape of a pyramid, and serve. 1745. Bordure aux Prunes a la Creme.—1 lb. primes, j lb. loaf sugar, 1 gill claret, the rind of half a lemon thinly cut, 1 inch cinnamon stick, \ oz. leaf gelatine, 1 gill cream. Stone the prunes, put them on the fire in a fire-proof pot or stew- pan with the lemon-rind, cinnamon, claret, sugar, and just a little water. Stew slowly until tender, adding a little more claret if needed ; take out cinnamon and lemon-rind. Pass through a fine sieve, dissolve the gelatine, and strain into the prepared pulp; half an ounce is reckoned to be sufficient for every pint of pulp. Mix well, cool a little, pour into a border-mould previously lined with clear wine-jelly. When cold and set immerse in tepid water, turn out on a dish, decorate with shreds of pistachio kernels and almonds. Whip the cream, sweeten slightly with vanilla sugar, put it in the centre of the mould, and serve. 1746. Bordure de Figues d la Creme.—^ lb. dried figs, the rind of half a lemon, 1 oz. caster sugar, oz. French gelatine, \ pint claret, 1 gill whipped cream. Cut the figs into small pieces, put them into a stewpan with the sugar and lemon-rind ; moisten with the claret, or, if preferred, with the same quantity of water instead of the claret. Simmer gently on the stove or in the oven until tender. Soak the gelatine, dissolve it, and add to the figs. Remove the lemon-rind, and put the whole through a sieve. Stir in a little cream (about a quarter gill), pour into a border-mould; when set turn out on a cold dish, put the- whipped cream, slightly sweetened with vanilla sugar, in the centre, and serve. N.B.— The liquor put with the figs should be almost absorbed by the time they are done. 1747. Oranges glacees d la Napolitaine.—4 to 6 fine even-sized oranges, vanilla custard, wine-jelly, spinach greening, 1 glass green chartreuse. Wipe the oranges, make an incision on top of each with a pastry - .cutter about one inch and a quarter in diameter, remove the covers with a small knife, and lay them aside till later. Scoop out the centre of the oranges with a small teaspoon, being careful not to553 ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) break the skin (the pulp may be used for some other purpose). Arrange the orange-shells in a tin, place the tin in a basin or tub surrounded with broken ice. Fill the oranges in alternate layers with vanilla cream and jelly, the latter being prepared in two colours, red and green, being flavoured with raspberry and curac^oa or chartreuse. Each layer must be set before the other is poured in. Put on the covers before the top layer is set. When well set and firm, cut the oranges carefully into quarters (this is best done with a knife dipped in hot water), dress them on a dish with a folded napkin or dish-papers, and serve. 1748. Compote de JPom/mes d la Creme.—1 lb. cooking- apples, 2 cloves, lemon-rind, £ lb. loaf sugar, ^ pint milk, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 oz. vanilla sugar, 1 glass sherry, 1 glass maraschino, ^ pint whipped cream. Peel and core and stew the apples with the loaf sugar, cloves, lemon-rind, and sufficient water to cover. Strain off the juice and put the apple-stew in a glass dish. Prepare a thick custard by boil- ing the milk, sweetened with vanilla sugar, flavoured with sherry and thickened with the egg-yolks. Let the custard get cold, then pour over the apples. Sweeten the cream slightly before it is whipped, and add the maraschino at the last. Put on a sieve to strain for a short time, then put the cream roughly on the apple and custard ; ornament according to taste, and serve. 1749. Gateau Surpris aux Fraises.—S eggs, 8 oz. caster sugar, 10 oz. sifted flour, 8 oz. ground and sifted almonds, 10 oz. butter, chocolate icing and royal icing, 10 tvafer cornets, about 1 quart strawberry ice cream, 1 oz. chopped pistachio, custard for filling cornets. Break the eggs into a copper bowl or basin, add the sugar, and whip well for a few minutes. Stand it over a stewpan with boiling water and beat vigorously with a whisk for about twenty minutes. Butter and flour a large saute-pan or deep square baking-sheet. When the mixture is sufficiently worked stir in by degrees the sifted flour, the sifted ground almonds, and the butter (melted); mix care- fully but well; pour into the tin and bake in a moderately heated oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes. When cold cut out as many rounds as are required, but they must be cut successively smaller and smaller. Stamp out the centre of each round thus obtained to form rings about an inch or one and a half inch broad, leaving the largest and the smallest ones whole. The largest will form the bottom and the smallest the top of the ‘gateau.’ Have some apricot jam made liquid, place the large round on a dish, spread the tops and bottoms of the rings with apricot jam and fix them together, commencing with the largest, so as to form a pyramid. Allow the gateau to set and coat the outside with chocolate icing. Ornament with royal icing to taste. Do not fasten the top piece. Fill the cornets with a previously prepared custard (creme patissiere), sprinkle the tops with choppedTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 554 pistachio kernels, fasten them by means of a little icing in a row round the gateau. When the dish is wanted for table, remove the top piece and fill with well-frozen strawberry ice cream; replace the top, and serve. The chocolate icing can be substituted by straw- berry fondant or orange fondant icing. 1750. Gateau a la Heine.—Cream | lb. of fresh butter with ^ lb. of caster sugar ; add one by one six yolks of eggs, 4 oz. ground almonds, and 4 oz. of fecula (potato flour), flavour with vanilla or lemon, and stir in the beaten whites of 3 eggs. Lastly add gill of whipped cream and a few candied violets or orange flowers. Butter a spiral-shaped mould, and dredge with fine sugar; fill up, and bake in a moderate oven. When done unmould, mask with apricot marmalade, and ice with maraschino icing. Decorate tastefully. 1751. Cornets de Nougat dla Creme.—^ lb. sweet almonds,. % lb. sugar, \ lemon, 1 gill cream, vanilla sugar, pistachio hernels for garnish. Blanch, peel, and shred the almonds finely, put them on a baking- sheet, and bake in a cool oven a fawm colour. Put half a pound of caster sugar in a copper pan, add the strained juice of half a lemon, cook until it is a light brown, add the shredded almonds, stir well, and let boil again,. Pour quickly on to an oiled marble slab, stamp out some very thin circles about two and a half inches in diameter. Wrap each quickly round an oiled cornet mould, put in a second mould so as to keep in shape. Remove when cool, whip the cream, sweeten with a little vanilla sugar ; fill the cornets with this, sprinkle with a few chopped pistachio kernels, and serve. The edges of the cornets look better if garnished with little beads of royal icing. These cornets can also be filled with ice cream or any kind of sweet custard, and will thus make a pleasant change. 1752. Gateaux Savigny.—8 eggs, ^ lb. caster sugar, finches vanilla-pod', 6 oz. almonds {sweet), 6 oz: butter, 6 oz. flour, coffee icing, almond cream. Blanch and peel the almonds, shred them coarsely, and place them on a baking-sheet in the oven until of a fawny brown. Break the eggs in a basin, add the sugar and the vanilla, beat up with a wooden spoon until creamy, stand the basin in a vessel of hot water over the fire, and whisk until it has the appearance of a thick Genoise mixture. Take out the vanilla, add the almonds, and mix in gradually the- sifted flour and melted butter. Put the preparation in a well-buttered saute-pan, bake in a slow oven for about twenty-five minutes, turn out, and let cool. Divide the gateau into two rounds, take out a little of the soft crumbs, spread with creme d’amandes or praline d’amandes, close together neatly ; cut into any desired shapes, diamonds, fingers, or ovals, mask the surface with fondant icing flavoured with coffee, and sprinkle over with finely-chopped roasted almonds. 1753. Creme d’Amandes for Gateaux Savigny.—% lb..ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) 555 sweet almonds, 2 oz. bitter almonds, 4 oz. caster sugar, 1 glass maraschino, 1 tablespoonful orange-flower water, li oz. flour, 1 oz. butter, k pint milk, 2 yolks of eggs. Put the butter in a stewpan ; when melted stir in the flour, let it cook for a minute or two, pour in the milk (boiling), mix well and work in the yolks of eggs, stir over the fire until the eggs are set, then turn into a basin and let cool. Blanch and peel the almonds, chop them very finely, place on a baking-sheet covered with a piece of paper, and bake in a moderate oven until light brown.. Put the baked almonds in a mortar, pound them, and add by degrees the cooked custard, maraschino, and orange-flower water, mix thoroughly, and use as directed. 1754. Gateau de Savoie d la Chantilly.—Separate seven whites of eggs from the yolks, placing the whites in a copper egg- bowl and the yolks in a white basin ; add half a pound of powdered sugar and a few drops of vanilla essence to the yolks ; work these well together until it has the appearance of a light creamy substance. Sift half a pound of dried flour on to a plate. Add a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs, and whisk them into a stiff froth ; next proceed to mix the whites, the yolks, and the flour carefully, and in small quantities at a time. The mixture is then poured into a well greased and sugared border-mould. Tie a paper band round and above the edge of the mould, and bake in a very slow oven for about half an hour. When done turn out on a sieve to get cool. When ready for serving whisk half a pint or more of double cream. Sweeten slightly with vanilla sugar ; dish up the bordure on a round dish; dress the cream in the centre, and serve. 1755. Gateau cles Anges {Angel Cake). — Beat up ten whites of eggs till quite firm ; then add four ounces of caster and one ounce of vanilla sugar (No. 1970). Beat this up thoroughly for at least twenty minutes, then add four ounces of sifted flour, previously mixed with half a teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Fill up one or more buttered fancy cake moulds and bake in a slack oven for about forty minutes. When done unmould, mask with fondant icing (No. 1964), and decorate with royal icing (No. 1968). 1756. Gateau St. JEmilion.—Prepare a Genoise paste mix- ture ; see that it is well beaten, and add one ounce of chopped baked almonds, three-parts fill a well-buttered plain timbale or charlotte mould with this. Bake it in a moderate oven for about forty-five minutes, or longer, according to the size of the mould. When suffi- ciently baked put the cake on a sieve to cool; then cut off the top slice and scoop out the centre part of the cake. Fill the cavity with a rich caramel bavaroise (No. 1688), flavoured, in addition to vanilla, with half a tablespoonful of kirschwasser and a tablespoonful of mara- schino liqueur. When half set mix in a few blanched or shredded pistachio nuts and some glace cherries cut in quarters ; the cream may then be poured into the cake-shape. Allow it to set in a cool place,556 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK replace the top slice of cake, and mask the whole with a moka icing. Decorate tastefully, and serve as cold dinner or lunch, sweet. 1757. Moka Icing for Gateaux St. Emilion.—Put about ten ounces of icing sugar through a sieve ; put it in a basin and work in one teaspoonful of kirschwasser and one teaspoonful of strong coffee essence, or a tablespoonful of freshly-made strong coffee. Stir over the fire till dissolved, and pour over the cake while warm. If coffee essence is used a little water should be added, else the icing will be too stiff. 1758. Gateau a la Hegence.—Make a stiff paste with the following ingredients:—Six ounces flour (sifted), four ounces ground almonds, six ounces caster sugar, two eggs, a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon and one teaspoonful of grated lemon-rind. Flour the paste-board and roll out the paste to two round shapes. Stamp out each with a large round cutter, roll out the trimmings and cut it into half-inch strips, fix these round the edge of the paste to form borders. Spread the centre of the paste with dissolved apricot marmalade, and fill up with the following mixture:—Pound in a mortar six ounces blanched and dried almonds, add one white of egg and three yolks, some lemon-juice, and six ounces caster sugar. When quite smooth work in the whites of four eggs whisked to a stiff froth, also four ounces of sifted flour. See that the gateaux are well and evenly spread with this mixture, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about forty minutes. 1759. Savarin a la Charivari.—Prepare and bake a savarin border (No. 1627). When cold soak it slightly with a syrup, flavoured richly with maraschino, chartreuse, and curapoa, and ice over with lemon-flavoured transparent icing. Fill the centre with partially set cream and custard mixed with glace or crystallised fruits all cut into thin slices. Arrange this cream so as to give it a dome-shaped appearance. Decorate with a little red currant jelly, and set the dish on the ice till wanted for table. 1760. Sand-Torte (Tourte de Sable).—■§■ lb. fresh batter, | lb. caster sugar, 8 eggs, ^ lb. best Vienna flour mixed with a small quantity of potato flour, ^ oz. grated chocolate, ^ lemon, \ tea- spoonful powdered cinnamon, 1 liqueur glass old rum. Work the butter and sugar to a cream, add gradually (one by one) the yolks of eggs, and continue to beat the mixture for about twenty minutes. Work in the finely grated rind of half a lemon, the cinnamon, the rum, and lastly the flour. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, adding a pinch of salt before commencing to whisk them, and work these into the mixture. Fill one or two well-buttered and floured flat cake moulds with the mixture ; when half full sprinkle over with the grated chocolate, then add the remainder of the mixture and smooth the surface with a potato knife. Bake in a moderate oven for about fifty minutes. Unmould, let cool, and cover with water icing. Decorate tastefully with glace fruit.ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. {COLD SWEETS, ETC.) 1761. Gateau au Chocolat {Chocolate Cake).—\ lb. fresh butter, \ lb. caster sugar, £ lb. grated chocolate, £ lb. Vienna flour {sifted), 4 eggs, 1 oz. ground rice, i teaspoonful vanilla essence, chocolate icing. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the grated chocolate and work in the eggs one at a time. Now add the flour and ground rice, and lastly the vanilla flavouring. Beat the mixture for at least ten minutes (longer if possible). Fill a well-buttered gateau mould and bake for about three-quarters of an hour in a moderately heated oven. When done turn out on to a sieve and let cool, cover with chocolate icing and decorate to taste with glace royale. The same mixture put into a buttered pudding-mould and steamed for one and a half hour will make a very delicious pudding. 1762. Chocolate Icing.—Put four ounces of chocolate on a plate in the oven, make soft, then put it in a stewpan with half a pound of icing sugar, moisten with half a gill of water, and stir over the fire until quite hot and smooth. This mixture must be very hot, but should not be allowed to boil. 1763. Gateau Trot's Freres.—| lb. caster sugar, 8 large eggs, £ lb. butter, 1 lemon, 6 oz. flour, blanched and peeled almonds, pistachios, angelica, and glace cherries, apricot marmalade. Put the sugar in a clean basin or a copper egg-bowl, add gradually the yolks of eight -eggs and the butter ; work till it resembles a creamy substance. Add the finely grated rind of a lemon and half its juice (strained). Whisk the whites of egg till stiff and stir (fold) in carefully with the flour, which should be previously sifted. Pour the mixture into a trois freres mould ; failing this, use a fancy cake mould, and bake in a moderately heated oven from forty to forty-five minutes. Coat the cake whilst still warm with some dissolved apricot marmalade ; use a brush for this purpose. Decorate with strips of almonds, pistachios, angelica, and cherries. 1764. Gateau milefeu Hies.—1 lb. best puff-paste {feuille- tage), No. 1944, f pint vanilla bavaroise set in a plain mould, 2 to 3 tablespoonfuls strawberry or raspberry jam, 1 oz. chopped pistachios, royal icing, 1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick, and cut out a number of rounds, the first being about the size of a plate and each of the remaining ones should be gradually smaller in size. Put them on a wetted baking-sheet, mix the royal icing with the 'ground cinnamon and spread the surface of each round of paste with a thin layer of this. Bake in a fairly hot oven a golden brown and let cool. Put a thin layer of jam on top of the icing and a layer of bavarpise ; the latter being previously set on the ice and unmoulded, can be cut into slices to meet this requirement. Arrange them on top of each other, the largest round at the bottom and the smallest on top. Decorate the whole according to taste with glace royale, chopped pistachios, and glace cherries if liked. Place it in a very hot oven558 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK for a few minutes only, so as to set the icing. The gateau is then ready for serving. 1765. fiord are Japonaise a la Gelee Prepare a small savarin border (No. 1627), and bake a light colour. Mask a larger border-mould with maraschino jelly (No. 1709). Coat the cake-border with liquefied apricot marmalade and when set drop it into the prepared mould. Fill up with maraschino jelly and place in the cool to set. Turn out on a cold dish and fill the centre with whipped cream mixed with some ground almonds and a little sugar to taste. 1766. Poires d la Frincesse.—Small pears, stewed whole in a rich syrup ; remove natural stem and replace with strips of angelica. Dress them on a genoise border, previously masked with apricot marmalade. Cover the whole with spun sugar and serve with a suitable fruit syrup. 1767. Dariolettes d la Chantilly.—Prepare a frying-batter as directed in the adjoining recipe. Have ready some hot fat (clarified butter or dripping), dip a dariole fryer (that is, a small copper dariole mould fixed on to a handle) into the fat and then into the batter, so as to completely mask the outside of the mould. Fry in hot fat to a golden colour, then take up and remove the case carefully; continue this until the desired quantity of cases are fried. Put a teaspoonful of apricot marmalade, flavoured with a little maraschino or kirsch, into each case or dariolette. Mix an ounce of ground almonds with half a gill of thick syrup and a gill of whipped cream, and fill the cases with this. Dredge with grated chocolate or ground cinnamon and serve. 1768. Frying-Batter for Dariolettes.—Sift four ounces of flour into a basin, add a dessertspoonful of sweet oil, a pinch of salt, and a teaspoonful of caster sugar. Stir in gently two yolks and one whole egg, and beat up well for several minutes. Then add about three parts of a gill of cold milk or milk and water. When thoroughly mixed the batter will be ready for use. 1769. Denises d la Jalousie.—\ lb. rough puff or puff {feuilletage) paste, confectioner's custard flavoured with almonds, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade. Cut the paste into three parts, roll out rather thin into oblong strips, about two and a half inches wide. Trim the edges, and see that both strips of paste are of one size. Place one piece on a baking- sheet, spread over with a thin layer of dissolved apricot marmalade, cover with the second piece ; spread the centre of the paste with a layer of confectioner’s custard, being careful to leave about half an inch margin all round. Cut the third piece of paste into narrow strips, lay them across in two ways, in the form and shape of lattice- work ; fix the ends of paste with a little water or egg, and run a narrow band of paste round the edge to form a border; pinch the •edges with a paste notcher or gauffre tool, in order to decorate, theENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) border. Bake in a fairly hot oven ; when done and still hot brush over with liquefied marmalade. Cut into convenient slices when cold. 1770. Souffle a la Par me.— 1 oz. corn-flour, 2 oz. caster sugar, 1 gill cream, | pint milk, 1 oz. butter, \ teaspoonful vanilla essence, \ oz. gelatine (French leaf), 4 eggs, 6 marrons glaces (chestnuts), 1 oz. crystallised Parma violets, kirsch and maraschino for flavouring. Cut the chestnuts (these must be quite tender) into dice and put them in a pie-dish or plate, pour over enough liquor, kirsch, and maraschino to well soak them. Cover and let stand till required. Mix the corn-flour with a little milk; put it in a stewpan with the sugar, stir in the remainder of milk (hot), add the butter and stir over the fire till it comes to a boil, cook for a few minutes. When cool add the vanilla essence, the yolks of three eggs, and the cream. Whisk this over the fire till the eggs begin to set. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water and strain into the above. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and incorporate it with the mixture. Stir over the ice till nearly cold; then add the prepared chestnuts and half the violets, crushed small. Fill a silver souffle dish with the preparation, and place in a charged ice cave. A paper band may be fastened round the dish if found necessary. This must, however, be removed just before the souffle is sent to table. When ready for serving sprinkle the remainder of crystallised violets over * the top. 1771. JBiscotins auoc Peches.—6 stewed peaches, 1 lb. Genoise cake (baked in a flat tin), % pint cream, \ teaspoonful vanilla essence, | gill wine-jelly, 4 oz. ground almonds, 1 tablespoonful kirsch, 1 oz. caster sugar, a few drops of liquid carmine. See that the skins of the peaches are carefully removed before stewing (preserved peaches will do nicely for this dish). Place the halves of peaches on a sieve to drain, bake the ground almonds in a cool oven a pale brown colour, let cool, and mix with a couple of tablespoonfuls of cream, a little caster sugar, and the kirsch; work it to a smooth paste, and fill the halves of peaches with this. Stamp out some rounds of Genoise cake with a two-inch paste-cutter, place half a peach on each, filled side downwards. Whip the remainder of cream till stiff and add the jelly, when nearly cool; flavour with vanilla essence and a little more sugar, if needed, colour with a few drops of liquid carmine, and stir on the ice until it commences to set, then cover each peach croute completely with this. Let them set on a wire tray and repeat this operation. Keep on the ice until required for table, then dish up neatly on a round dish and serve. A little chopped wine-jelly can be put round the base of the dish’ if liked; it will add greatly to the appearance of the dish. 1772. Jambou de Ccireme.—This applies to a cold sweet made in the shape of a ham out of Genoise pastry. It is very560 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK popular in France during Lent. Several layers of genoise are fixed together with apricot marmalade and whipped cream between some layers. The whole is then cut to resemble a ham and coated over with chocolate icing; the bone is imitated with almond paste or marzipan. The dish is garnished with wine-jelly, chopped up, or cut into fanciful shapes. 1773. Cotelettes en Surprise.—Roll and stamp out on a floured board twelve thin heart-shapes of feuilletage paste, put a teaspoonful of apricot marmalade on one side of each, and about half a tea- spoonful of soft almond paste on top; wet the edges, fold over, press down the edges well, and give them the shape of cutlets as near as possible ; put them on a baking-sheet and bake ; when cold paste the cakes with dissolved apricot marmalade, and roll them in crushed macaroons; have ready some short pieces of baked almond paste, insert one in the small end of each to imitate bones; make a skewer red hot to imitate the gridiron marks. Dish up the cakes in a circular form on a thin layer of apricot marmalade; pour some melted red currant jelly when nearly cold in the centre, and serve. This is a very effective dish, but needs some practice in the shaping of cutlets. 1774. Napolitaitries a la Suisse.—\ lb. caster sugar, 4 eggs,. 1 lb. butter, 1 gill of milk, pinch of carbonate of soda, a little pounded nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful chopped lemon-rind, 10 oz. best flour,. 2 oz. sweet almonds, puff-paste trimmings, macaroon or almond paste, greengage and apricot jam, 1 tablespoonful ground chocolate, a few drops of liquid carmine. Cream the butter and sugar well, add the eggs one at a time; when nicely creamed, add the^nutmeg, lemon-rind, carbonate, and flour; mix the whole well. Divide the mixture into three portions, and colour two portions respectively one pink with carmine and the other brown with the ground chocolate. Spread the three lots- separately on a paper-lined baking-sheet, about half an inch in thickness, and bake in a slow oven, without letting it take colour; when done, turn out and let cool. Roll out into a square strip about half a pound of puff-paste, one-eighth of an inch thick, place on a baking-sheet, prick it here and there to prevent it from blistering, and bake in a hot oven ; when done cut it in half, and spread over with dissolved apricot jam. Cut the previously baked mixture into- strips the width of the puff-paste; lay them alternately across one- half of the puff-paste until the whole of the jam is covered. Roll out some, almond paste, and put a thin layer over the strips, spread over with greengage jam, repeat the layers of strips as before, taking care- that the strips laid over are of a different colour to those first placed, so 4;hat if the first is pink the next should be brown, and if yellow, the next should be pink or brown, and so on. Cover over with a thin layer of apricot jam, and, last of all, another layer of almond paste; now put the other half of puff-paste on top, so as to cover the whole.561 ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) press it between two boards, and place some weights on top; let it remain thus for about two hours. Remove weight and board, spread a layer of meringuage over the surface, sprinkle with shredded almonds, place the cake in the oven long enough to set the meringue mixture, and cut into convenient pieces. 1775. Meringues a la Chantilly.—5 whites of eggs, \ lb. caster sugar, 3 dessertspoonfuls vanilla sugar, aboict % pint cream. Take great care in separating the yolks from the whites of eggs ; put the latter in a clean copper egg-bowl with a tiny pinch of salt, and whisk slowly at first, increasing the speed until it becomes a hard froth. Mix in quickly, but sparingly at first, the caster sugar and one dessertspoonful of vanilla sugar. Have ready a large baking- sheet lined with foolscap paper. Put the mixture into two large paper cornets or a forcing-bag (not quite full). If paper cornets are used, cut off the point ends, close the large end, and press out on to the baking-sheet some evenly-sized egg-shapes; dust with sugar, and bake in a very slack oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Remove the shells from the paper, press down carefully the inside part of each shell, and dry in a cool oven. Fill the shells with whipped cream, sweetened with vanilla sugar, place them together in the usual way, dish up, and serve. Meringue shells thus made may be kept for several days, but should be put in a tin box in a dry place. 1776. Compote de Fruits d la Chantilly.—6 to 8 apri- cots, 2 peaches (peeled and cut into quarters), 1 gill of strawberries, -k lb. of cherries, 1 gill of red currants, 1 gill of white currants, \ lb. of black or white grapes, about 6 oz. of caster sugar, 2 table- spoonfuls of Chablis, 1 tablespoonful of brandy, 2 tablespoonfuls of maraschino, about 1 gill of double cream, £ oz. of vanilla sugar. Prepare each kind of fruit, arrange them tastefully in layers in a glass bowl or salad dish, sprinkle each layer with a little caster sugar and dress the fruit so as to come up to a point. Proceed thus with the fruit and sugar, finishing with a layer of strawberries or cherries. When required for the table whip the cream, flavour it with the vanilla sugar, and by means of a forcing-bag or paper cornet cover the sur- face and sides with the cream, endeavouring to give it as pretty a shape as possible. The wine and liqueur should be mixed together, and either poured over the fruit before the cream is put on or else handed round the table as the fruit is served. It is not advisable to use any more wine or liqueur than the above quantities, for too much of it often tends to injure the delicate and natural flavour of the fruit, while the right quantity of the same will be found welcome as well as refreshing. 1777. Nougats et Croqnants.—These are generally known as pibces de confiserie, belonging to the high art of confectionery. Both are comparatively easy to prepare. Nougats are made by boil- ing two parts of sugar to hard crack or pale caramel, mixed with one o oTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 562 part of shredded almonds. This preparation is then rolled out on an oiled marble slab and shaped by means of oiled moulds into desired shapes, which are subsequently filled with whipped and sweetened cream, ice, or custard. Croquants are made by boiling sugar to the crack, and dipping fruit, such as skin of oranges, nectarines, peaches, &c., into the sugar ; they are then placed in rows inside buttered moulds, with glace or candied cherries in between the fruits used, so as to obtain a perfect shape. The top may be finished with a sheet of boiled sugar or marzipan, while the centre is filled with ice or whipped cream. Spun or pulled sugar is used for garnishing in accordance to taste and fancy. 1778. Glace Napolitaine.—\ pint of strawberry or raspberry pulp, 1 oz. chocolate, 6 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence, 3 pints milk, 1 pint cream, 6 oz. caster sugar, cochineal, crushed ice, and freezing salt. Work the yolks of eggs with half the quantity of sugar until smooth. Boil up the milk, add the remainder of the sugar, and pour on to the egg mixture, stirring vigorously. Return to the stewpan and stir over a slow fire until the liaison is formed (this will take three or four minutes). Strain into a basin. Grate the chocolate, put it in a small stewpan with a tablespoonful of water; when dissolved, mix about one-third of the prepared cream, work well, and let cool. Mix the fruit pulp with half the remainder of prepared cream, colour with a few drops of cochineal if necessary. Add the vanilla essence with the other half. Divide the fresh cream into equal proportions with the three kinds of preparations ; freeze each lot separately. Pack in layers in a mould. Cover closely and pack in ice and salt for about two hours. Unmould, cut into convenient pieces, and serve. 1779. Glace au Marasquin.—1 pint milk, 4 oz. loaf sugar, 6 yolks of eggs, {pint cream, 2 glasses maraschino, ice, and freezing salt. Boil the milk and add the sugar. Put the yolks of eggs in a basin, mix thoroughly, and stir in the hot milk. Return to the pan in which the milk was boiled, and stir over the fire until it begins to thicken (on no account let it boil). Strain through a fine hair sieve and let it cool. Beat the cream to a froth, and mix with the above, together with'the maraschino liqueur. Freeze the preparation in the usual manner. Fill up a mould, cover hermetically, and bury in crushed ice and coarse salt for about two hours. Immerse in cold water, wipe the mould, turn out quickly, and serve on a folded napkin. 1780. Glace a la Grappe de Muscat.—6 oz. muscatel grapes, 2 oz. sugar {caster), f pint cream, the juice of a lemon, 1 white of egg, 1 liqueitr-glass chartreuse, 1 glass sherry {if liked), 1 gill syrup. Put the grapes in a basin, mash up with a wooden spoon, add the sugar, and rub through a fine hair sieve, using the syrup. StrainENTREMETS FBOIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) 568 the lemon-juice into the pulp; put all in a freezer and freeze partially. Beat up the cream a little ; mix this, add 'also the white of egg whisked to a stiff froth, and, lastly, the liqueur, and wine if liked. Finish freezing, mould or serve roughly dressed. A few drops of spinach greening may be added to give the ice a delicate tint of green. If this ice is moulded the bottom of the mould may be decorated with a few grapes and angelica leaves, the pips of the grapes being previously removed. 1781. Glace Plombiere a la Japonaise. — Prepare a custard with one and a half pint of milk, eight yolks of eggs, and one ounce of sugar; stir the custard over the fire to bind the yolks, press through a hair sieve; add three ounces of apricot marmalade, six ounces of ground almonds, one glass of kirschwasser, and a pinch of salt; when cold, mix with half a pint of whipped cream and four ounces of powdered macaroons. Freeze in the usual manner in mould, put a small quantity of apricot marmalade in the centre. Serve with small ratafia biscuits round the dish. 1782. Glace aiix Fraises a la Farisienne.—1 lb. small- size straivberries, £ lb. ripe raspberries, 1 lb. loaf sugar, a good pint of water, 2 lemons, 12 lbs. ice, 4 lbs. freezing salt. Wash and pick the fruit; drain well, rub through a fine hair sieve, and add the juice of two lemons, which should also be passed through the sieve. Put sugar and water into a copper stewpan, heat up until the former is melted, skim and mix with the fruit pulp. Let cool. Break up or pound the ice, mix well with freezing salt, fix the ice pail (sorbetiere) with broken ice and salt in the centre of a wooden tub, and freeze the syrup in the ordinary way. Fill in a suitably shaped mould, close up so that it is hermetically sealed, and bury in a pail of broken ice mixed with salt for about two hours. When required for table, immerse in tepid water ; wipe the mould with a cloth, uncover, and turn out on a folded napkin or dish-paper on a dish, and serve. The quantity of freezing salt required for freezing purposes is about a quarter of a pound to every pound of ice. 1783. Glace a/a 31 clou (Melon Ice).—1 ripe musk melon, 1 lb. loaf sugar, 2 lemons, 1 tablespoonful orange-flower water, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence. Cut the melon in two, remove the seeds, the rind, and green portion of the fruit. Cut it into small slices. Boil the sugar in a pint of water to a syrup ; remove the scum, and boil the melon for about five minutes in this. Take up the fruit and rub it through a fine sieve. Add to it an equal quantity of syrup, the strained juice of two lemons, and the* flavouring essence. Freeze in the usual manner, and serve up in glasses, or mould it into shape. If cream is desired mix about one gill with the above ingredients just before freezing it. 1784. Glace a la Creme de Baaanes {Banana Cream Ice).—564 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 6 to 8 ripe bananas, 3 lemons, 1 pint custard, \ pint cream, 1 small glass curagoa or cognac brandy, ice, and freezing salt. Peel the bananas, and rub them through a sieve into a basin, add the juice of two lemons and the liqueur; stir the custard into this. Whip the cream and add at the last. Put the mixture in a freezer and freeze in the usual manner. Serve in a pile, or in cups, or mould it, if the latter be preferred. 1785. Custard for Banana Ice Cream.—1 pint milk, 4 oz. lump sugar, 6 yolks of eggs, flavouring. Boil up the milk, add the sugar; when dissolved stir this over the yolks of eggs (previously beaten). Return to the pan in which the milk was boiled, and stir over the fire until it thickens ; it must not boil. Pass through a sieve, add the flavour, and use as directed. 1786. Glace an Caramel.—4 oz. loaf sugar, 6 oz. caster sugar, 1 quart milk, H pint cream, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence or 1 tablespoonful of vanilla sugar, ice, and freezing salt. Put the loaf sugar into a copper sugar-boiler or iron frying-pan. Add a few drops of water and stir over the fire until it melts, turns brown, boils, and ultimately smokes. Boil the milk and stir into the burnt sugar, boil up again, strain, and let cool. Add the caster sugar while still hot. Incorporate a pint of cream when cool, and flavour with vanilla. Whip the remainder of cream, and mix with the above. Put into the freezer surrounded with plenty of crushed ice mixed with coarse salt, and freeze in the usual way. Work the mixture well to get it perfectly smooth. When set, pack into one or two moulds, wrap up the moulds in paper, repack in crushed ice and salt. Keep thus for two hours, then unwrap, wipe the moulds, immerse in tepid water, turn out, and dish up. 1787. Glace an Moka.—8 light tablespoonfuls ground coffee, 1 quart water, 6 oz. caster sugar, 1 inch vanilla-pod, | pint milk, k pint cream, ice, and freezing salt. Have ready a hot dry coffee-pot, put the coffee in the filter, pour over little by little the water (boiling), put on the lid; when the water has run through, repeat, pouring it through a second time ; stand it in the bain-marie until required. Put the milk, sugar, and vanilla in a stewpan, heat up, but do not let it boil; add the coffee, let it cool, and stir in the cream. Take out the vanilla and pour into an ice-freezer, previously placed in a tub containing broken ice mixed with coarse salt (freezing salt). Freeze until it resembles a creamy substance ; fill up into little glasses and serve. Coffee thus prepared should be in a liquid state when served. A bowl of caster sugar should be handed round at the same time. 1788. Biscuit glace cmx Braises.—Make a strawberry custard with a gill of milk, two egg-yolks, half an ounce of sugar, and a few pulped strawberries to colour and flavour ; when cold freeze till nearly stiff. Prepare one pint of thick syrup with about twelve ounces of loaf sugar, water, and vanilla-bean for flavouring; while the syrupENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) 565 is warm pour it into a basin containing eight well-beaten yolks of eggs; stir quickly over the fire with a wire whisk until the mixture thickens; stir until it becomes cold ; next mix a pint and a half of whipped cream and one ounce of powdered sponge cake ; put it on the ice, and freeze -when wanted. Line the bottom of an oblong ice- mould with the prepared strawberry ice, let it set firmly ; fill up with the cream last prepared when this is nearly frozen ; cover the mould well, bury in salt and ice, and freeze for two hours. 1789. Biscuits glaces a la Turque.—1 oz. freshly roasted and coarsely ground coffee (plantation and Mocha), \ gill syrup, 2 sheets gelatine, 1 gill double cream, 1 oz. French almond rock, 12 wafer biscuits (oblong shape). Pour the boiling syrup over the coffee, cover, and let stand for a few minutes to infuse, add the gelatine and when dissolved strain into a small basin. Whip the cream till stiff and incorporate with the coffee and almond rock (crushed up). Pour on to a tin and let it set on the ice. Cut it into slices, the same size as the biscuits, and sandwich them together. Place in an ice cave for two hours and serve on a dish, with fancy lace paper or folded napkin. 1790. Bombe glacee a la Venitienne.—Line a bombe- mould with strawberry cream ice, and fill the centre with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla sugar. Cover the mould and set, previously wrapped in paper, in crushed ice and salt; freeze for three hours and serve in the usual manner. Garnish with very small macaroons. 1791. Bombe glacee an Chocolat.—Line a bombe-mould with chocolate-cream ice and fill the centre with vanilla-water ice. Cover the mould tightly and wrap up. Bury it in a pail of broken ice and salt, and freeze for three hours. Dish up and garnish with Swiss ice wafers or chocolate biscuits: 1792. Bombe glacee a la Sicilienne.—Mix a pint of vanilla custard with a handful of finely crushed macaroons, freeze in the usual way, and line a bombe-mould with it. Fill the centre with pine-apple or strawberry-water ice. Cover the mould and proceed as directed in the foregoing recipes ; garnish the dish with small chocolate macaroons. 1793. Coupe glacee a la Bogale.—This is a delightful novelty, suitable both as a second sweet and as dessert ice. Prepare two kinds of ice, lemon-water flavoured with kirschwasser and apricot cream; when sufficiently frozen for moulding pour into as many champagne glasses as needed a liqueur glass of champagne; then fill up with alternate layers of the two kinds of ice, sprinkle some finely crushed macaroons between the layers of ice. Place a small ratafia biscuit on top of each and send to table at once. The glasses for this dish should be rather small. 1794. Compote de Boires en Surprise.—Line an oval- shaped jelly or pudding mould with halves of red pears (preserved) ;THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 566 fill the centre with a good vanilla-cream ice and turn out quickly on to a dish. Pour some red fruit syrup round the dish and serve. 1795. Mousse auoc JPoires.— 4 large or 6 small stewing pears, 10 oz. caster sugar, 10 drops vanilla essence, 4 pint cream, ice and freezing salt. Pare and core the pears, cut up into slices, put them in a copper pan with sufficient water to well cover. Add the sugar and cook until tender, or put them in a fireproof stone casserole, add water and sugar, and cook in the oven until done. Rub through a fine hair sieve while hot, add the vanilla essence, and stir on the ice with a wooden spoon until cold. This should produce about a pint of pulp. Line a charlotte mould with white paper, whip the cream until stiff, mix with the pulp and fill into the mould; cover with a round piece of paper and a lid fitting the mould, so as to hermetically seal it. Bury the mould in crushed ice and freezing salt for at least two hours. When required for serving take out the mould, immerse in cold water, wipe it well, remove the cover, turn out on a dish covered with a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, remove the paper lining, and serve quickly. 1796. Mousse cm Curagoa.—3 gills cream, i gill curac-oa, 2 oz. caster sugar. Put the cream into a china bowl, set in a tub surrounded with crushed ice, beat it with a whisk, at first slowly, until it represents a stiff froth, adding the caster sugar and liqueur last of all. Fill some little souffle cases, place them carefully in an ice-box charged with crushed ice and freezing salt, or transfer the bowl with contents to a charged ice-box. After one and a half or two hours it will be set and ready for serving. In this case dress the mousse by means of a spoon in a pyramidal form on a glass dish, and serve quickly. Note.—Various flavours, maraschino, kirsch, or rum liqueurs, may be introduced in place of cura9oa. 1797. Mousse au Marasquin.—4 yolks of eggs, 1 lb. loaf sugar, 1 pint ivater, \ gill maraschino, £ gill kirsclvwasser, about 4 pint cream, ice and freezing salt. Put the sugar and water in a copper pan, boil up slowly, remove the scum, and boil until it becomes a syrup registering 36 degrees by the saccharometer or syrup-scale (pese-sirop). Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin, stir in the hot syrup, add the two liqueurs, stir with a whisk over a stewpan of boiling water for about six minutes, taking care that the eggs do not curdle. Place the basin in a cool place, stirring the contents while cooling. Have ready a plain charlotte mould lined with white paper, add the cream, well whipped, to the mixture when cool, and fill the mould. Cover with a piece of paper, close up with a lid so as to hermetically seal the mould, bury it in a pail of crushed ice and freezing salt. Let it remain thus for at least two hours. When required for serving immerse the mould in cold water, wipe well, remove the lid, turn out on a dish covered with aENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) 567 folded napkin or dish-paper, remove the paper lining, and serve quickly. 1798. Ponding glace a la Peine-Claude.—Rub the fruit of eighteen stewed greengages through a sieve, add a little syrup and a few drops of spinach greening, and freeze to the usual consistency for moulding. Peel the kernels of twenty-four young green walnuts, and pound them in a mortar with eight ounces of caster sugar ; add half a pint of cream, and rub the puree through a sieve. Mix with a gill of rich custard, flavour with noyeau liqueur, and freeze in the usual manner. Line a plain ice-pudding mould with the greengage ice, fill the centre with the walnut ice, fix on the lid, wrap up in paper, and place the mould in crushed ice and salt. Keep it thus for three or four hours. Unmould, garnish the ice-shape with small cornets or gaufrettes filled with whipped sweetened cream, and a preserved strawberry on top of each. Serve immediately. 1799. JNids d’Oiseau glaces (Birds’ Nests with Ice).—Prepare some nougat, roll it out on a marble slab, and shape into a birds’ nest, using a nest-mould for this purpose. The inside of the mould is oiled and the nougat is pressed in so as to take the shape, which is then turned out on a round dish. Have ready some vanilla or caramel ice cream, and fill a number of small egg-moulds with this. When moulded and set sufficiently turn them out and place the eggs in the centre of the nougat nest. Cover the whole with some freshly made spun sugar and serve at once. This is an exceedingly pretty sweet, but it requires a certain amount of skill and patience to prepare it to perfection. 1800. Souffle glace d la Joinville. - Beat up four whole eggs and three yolks of eggs in an egg-bowl, add one pint of syrup and stir over the fire till hot and frothy, then whisk over the ice till quite cold. Whip up a pint of double cream and amalgamate with the contents of the egg-bowl. Add a few drops of lemon essence, half a glass of maraschino liqueur, and a handful of mixed fruit. Fill up some paper or silver-plated souffle cases, sprinkle the top with finely grated chocolate and chopped pistachio kernels, and place in a charged ice-cave. Freeze thus for two hours. Send to table immediately it leaves the ice-cave. 1801. Charlotte glacee a la Princesse.—Prepare one and a half pint of rich ice-cream custard, flavour it with a small glass of liqueur brandy, add half a gill of whipped cream ; freeze this to the usual consistency for moulding. Line one or two plain charlotte moulds with white paper, previously rubbed over with good olive oil. Trim some finger or Savoy biscuits, and range them neatly round the inside of the moulds. Mix an ounce of finely-cut glace cherries with the ice mixture, and fill the moulds. Place the mould or moulds in a charged ice-cave for two hours. When required for table unmould, carefully remove the paper, and ornament the top of charlotte with whipped cream coloured a pale pink, using a forcing-bag with a rose568 THE NEW CENTTJEY COOKERY BOOK tube for this purpose. This must be done very quickly, as it needs to be served immediately. 1802. Charlotte glacee a la Florentine {Iced Charlotte, Florentine Style).—Line a charlotte-mould bottom a,nd sides neatly with finger biscuits, then fill with orange-water ice mixed with a sufficient quantity of whipped cream to make it very light; set to freeze for two hours in a charged souffle case. Serve it on folded napkin. 1808. Charlotte glacee a la Creole.—Line a plain charlotte mould with iced biscuits, finger biscuits, or Genoise slices, covered with different-coloured royal icing (glace royale). See that the icing has got quite hard on the biscuits before they are used for lining the mould. Arrange the biscuits just the same as for * charlotte russe.’ Mix a pint of vanilla-custard ice with a gill of sweetened chestnut puree and a handful of fruit (pine-apple, peaches, &c.) cut into dice, previously soaked in a little, maraschino liqueur. Freeze this mixture, and fill up the prepared mould; this must be done with special care. Keep it in a charged ice-cave or souffle ice- case. When wanted for table unmould the charlotte carefully on a dish covered with lace paper or a folded napkin; garnish to taste and serve immediately. 1804. Tutti-Frutti glace.—5 yolks of eggs, 1 pint milk, 8 oz. sugar, vanilla flavouring {pod or essence), 2 tohites of eggs, £ gill maraschino, | pint double cream, 1 oz. pistachios, 1 oz. glace cherries, | oz. candied peel {mixed), 1 oz. glace apricots. Prepare a custard by boiling the milk and sugar ; add the vanilla- pod or flavouring essence ; pour this over the yolks of eggs previously beaten, return to the stewpan, and stir over the fire till it thickens, strain into a basin, and let cool. Whisk separately the whites of eggs and cream till stiff, and amalgamate both. Cut the pistachios, previously peeled, into thin shreds, cut the other fruit into small dice. Put the custard in a freezer, and commence to freeze; when partly done amalgamate the fruit, and lastly the whipped whites of eggs and cream. When nearly frozen add the maraschino. Mix well, and continue to freeze till set. Mould in the usual way, or serve rough on a dish. Dredge the shape with powdered chocolate, and serve. 1805. La Lame JBlanche.—Line a freezing mould with white paper, and stand it in a charged freezer. Whisk separately one pint of cream and four whites of eggs, add four ounces of caster sugar, flavour with vanilla essence and some kirsch liqueur, amalgamate both eggs and cream, add a handful of finely-shredded blanched almonds, and pour into the prepared mould. Eeplace the mould in the charged freezer, and let it remain thus for five or six hours. To serve, unmould, remove the paper, and cut the ice into squares or oblongs. Dish up, and serve with ice wafers. 1806. Fruits a la Frinciere.—Procure a pint and a half of569 ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) preserved fruit, peaches, pine-apple, and apricots, cut them into con- venient pieces (small dice), and put them in a basin with enough syrup to cover, cook till tender half a pint of green gooseberries in syrup and put them with the other fruit. Pour off some of the syrup into a stewpan. Add half a wineglassful of brandy and a liqueur-glassful of maraschino, boil up, and add to the fruit. Mix with the strained juice of three lemons and let cool. Then freeze in the usual manner, and serve in a glass dish or in cups and hand round with ice biscuits, wafers, or sponge fingers. • 1807. Sorbet d’Ananas.—2 lbs. fresh or preserved pine-apple, H lb. caster sugar, 2 lemons, 2 eggs {whites), 1 liqueur-glassful of kirsch, 1 liqueur-glassful rum. Peel the pine-apple thinly (if fresh fruit is used), take out the eyes, and cut into slices. Core out the centre of each slice, and chop the slices very finely. Put it into a basin, add the caster sugar and half a pint of water let it stew thus for four hours or longer. Put three pints of water in a copper stewpan; when boiling add the above, boil up, take off the scum which rises to the top, take off the fire, and let cool. When ready for freezing strain the juice of two lemons into the syrup. Freeze in the usual manner ; when about half frozen stir in the beaten whites of eggs and liqueur. Freeze a little longer. When it has the appearance of a creamy substance it is ready for serving. Fill up in sorbet cups or in glasses with handles, and serve. 1808. Sorbet a la Homaine.—6 oz. loaf sugar, 2 oz. caster- sugar, 3 small lemons, 1 white of egg, 1 glass of Jamaica rum. Rub the loaf sugar on two lemons, so as to extract the oil from the yellow part of the rind ; put the sugar in a copper pan, moisten with 1 gill of water; cut the lemons in halves, and strain the juice into the pan. When the sugar is dissolved add another pint of water, boil up, skim, and cook to a light syrup (about 20 deg.). When cool strain the syrup into a freezer surrounded with crushed ice and freezing salt; proceed to freeze a little. Beat up the white of egg to a stiff froth ; put the caster sugar on the fire with a tablespoonful of water; when dissolved pour into it the stiff whites and mix well; add the rum and mingle with the half-frozen ice mixture. Work well with a spatula, and serve in little goblets or punch-glasses. This quantity will fill seven or eight glasses. 1809. JParfait an Cafe.—4 oz. freshly-roasted coffee, ^ pint vanilla syrup, 4 yolks of eggs, | pint cream, ice and freezing salt. Boil up the syrup and pour over the freshly-roasted (not ground) coffee, so as to make an infusion. Allow it to stand a few minutes, then strain into a basin ; whisk the yolks of eggs in a clean stewpan ; stir in the syrup, set it on the fire and whisk until the yolks begin to bind, strain into a basin; add a few drops of caramel if needed, and let cool on the ice. Freeze in a sorbetiere surrounded with crushed ice and salt; when half-frozen add the cream, previously whipped toTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 570 a froth. Put the mixture into a cylindrical-shaped mould, well covered; place in a pail of ice and salt for two hours; turn out and serve. If more convenient the parfait may be served in goblets. 1810. Cafe frappe en Tasses a la Viennoise—1 quart f reshly made Mocha coffee, ^ pint milk, \ pint syrup, 1 pint cream, 1 glass of old cognac or kirsch, and freezing salt. Mix the coffee, syrup, and milk (previously boiled) together, pour into the freezer, and freeze until of the consistency of batter; whip the cream, mix three parts thereof with the iced coffee, stir in the kirsch or cognac, and freeze a little longer. Fill some very small cups with this, put a teaspoonful of whipped cream on top of each, and serve quickly. Finger-biscuits or small vanilla wafers should be handed round at the same time. 1811. The glace (Iced Tea).—1£ oz. good Ceylon tea, 1 quart boiling water, % pint cream, 4 oz. caster sugar, 1 lemon. Put the tea in a teapot, previously heated, pour over the water (boiling), allow it to infuse; then pour off into an ice-freezer, pre- viously placed in a tub charged with broken ice and coarse salt; mix the tea with the sugar and cream. Freeze until of a creamy appearance, then put into a jug and serve in cups or glasses. Cut the lemon into thin slices, put them on a glass dish, and hand round with the iced tea. Tea thus prepared should be in a liquid state when served; vanilla flavouring is sometimes added, but is not recommended.1 CHAPTER XXVIII ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. (SAVOURIES AND BREAKFAST DISHES) 1812. Huitres gratinees en Coquilles (Oysters in Shells). —18 oysters, 1 oz. butter, % lemon, 3 tablespoonfuls bechamel (No. 202), white bread crumbs, cayenne or krona pepper, parsley for garnish. Open the oysters and remove the beards ; ’preserve a little of the liquor and eighteen round shells. Wash the shells and wipe dry ; butter the inside. Put a teaspoonful of bechamel sauce in each of the shells, also a few drops of oyster liquor and lemon-juice ; lay the bearded oysters on this, season with a dust of krona or cayenne, put a little more sauce on top of each ; sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and lay a tiny piece of butter on top of each. Place them on a baking-sheet in a quick oven for ten minutes or less, just long enough to slightly colour the top; dish up on a very hot dish on a folded napkin; garnish with a few sprigs of freshly-picked parsley, and serve as hot as possible. 1813. Huitres d 7a Tsar.—12 oysters, 12 rounds of sliced cooked ox-tongue, 1 oz. anchovy paste, 3 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, i lemon, 3 oz. flour, 1£ oz. butter, 1 yolk of egg, salt, and cayenne. Sift the flour, mix it with two ounces of grated cheese, and rub in the butter ; add a pinch of salt and a dust of cayenne, and work into a stiff paste with egg-yolk. Roll out, stamp out some rounds about two inches in diameter, place them on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake a golden colour. Put the oysters, after having removed the beards, with some of the liquor in a saute-pan ; sprinkle with lemon-juice, a pinch of salt, and a dust of cayenne ; toss over the fire till hot, but do not let them boil. Mix the anchovy paste with the remaining cheese, spread on one side of the baked biscuits. Heat up the rounds of tongue in a little butter and place one on top of the paste, or place the tongue on the biscuit and spread a layer of the paste on the tongue. Put an oyster in the centre of each; bake a few minutes; dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. 1814. Coquilles d la Suedoise.—Open eight to ten large oysters, take out the oysters and beard them. Clean the deep shell of each oyster and place them on the ice to get quite cold. Mean- while mix an ounce of ‘ hygienic caviare ’ with a finely chopped shallotTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 572 and a few drops of lemon-juice. Put a teaspoonful of this into each oyster-shell and place an oyster upon it. Garnish with tiny sprigs of parsley, dish up, and keep on the ice till wanted for table. Hand a plate of thinly cut brown bread and butter along with this dish when serving it. 1815. Huitres en Caisses a la T)table.—Prepare a ragout of oysters, using the oysters whole (bearded), and add a well flavoured white wine sauce, or veloute (No. 206), incorporate cayenne, lobster butter, and Parmesan cheese to taste, fill a number of small souffle cases, cover each with panurette or fresh bread-crumbs, cheese, and oiled butter, and bake for a few minutes in a very hot oven. 1816. Croquettes aux Huitres (Oyster Croquets).—Make a salpicon of minced oysters, bechamel sauce (No. 202), mushrooms, and cooked white fish, well seasoned and mixed with egg-yolks. Shape into croquettes, egg, crumb, and fry in deep fat. Drain and dish up. 1817. Bonnes Bouches aux Huitres (Oyster Titbits).— Wrap each oyster into a thin slice of streaky bacon, fasten on skewers, and broil them. Place each on a small round of fried bread (crouton). Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. 1818- Macaroni aux Huitres (Macaroni with Oysters).— Cook a quarter of a pound of spaghetti (macaroni) in stock or salted water, drain, and finish with tomato sauce, grated cheese, and the needed seasoning. Fry some blanched oysters, eight to ten, in a little butter, and mix with the above. Dish up and bake in gratin style. 1819. Huitres au Gratin (Baked Oysters, Gratin Style).— Blanch 18 to 24 oysters of medium size, drain them (preserving the liquor), and remove the beards. Have ready half a pint of bechamel sauce (No. 202), reduce it well, and work in a tablespoonful of double cream, one teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a pinch of krona pepper, and a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. Put the oysters into this and re-heat without bringing it actually to the boil. Season with salt and incorporate a little of the oyster liquor. Pour the prepared mixture on a buttered gratin dish or into several buttered shells (oyster shells may of course be used, if liked). Sprinkle some fine bread-crumbs over the top, also some grated Parmesan cheese and a little oiled butter. Bake in a very hot oven just long enough to brown the surface, and serve at once. 1820. Huitres sur Canapes (Oysters on Toast).—Toast some slices of white or brown bread, cut some thin slices of cooked ham, stamp out some rounds of toasted bread and ham, about H to 2 inches in diameter; cover each round of toast with ham, and place upon them the same number of oysters as there are rounds of toast; the oysters should be drained from the liquor and bearded ; put a tiny piece of fresh butter on top of each oyster, season with a pinch of salt and a pinch of cayenne, then bake in a hot oven for about threeENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 573 minutes. Dish up on a folded napkin or lace-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. 1821. Hnitres a la Wellington.—Open the required number of oysters, remove the beards, and put a teaspoonful of seasoned caviare on the lower shell, place the oysters upon these, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and dish up. Ornament the dish with slices of lemon. 1822. Houchees an Caviar.—Prepare six very small puff-paste patty-cases (houchees). They must be very small. Remove the lid, scoop out carefully the centre portion, and keep hot. Peel and chop a shallot very finely and put it in a saucepan with half an ounce of butter, stir over the fire long enough to slightly warm the shallot, put in the contents of a small pot of ‘ hygienic caviar,’ stir gently with a wooden spoon, add two tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce (well reduced) and a few drops of lemon-juice, let it get thoroughly hot. Fill up the cases with this, place them on a dish, put on the little lids, garnish with little heaps of fried parsley, and serve hot. 1823. Caviar a VAndalouse.—Select eight even-sized small onions, peel them and cook for ten minutes in salted water, drain them, and when cool cut or scoop out the centre portion of each. Fill the openings with a mixture of hygienic or Astrachan caviare mixed with a yolk of egg, a tablespoonful of soft bread-crumbs, a small piece of butter, and a pinch of black pepper. Put the stuffed onions on a buttered baking tin or pan, and bake for fifteen or twenty minutes in the oven. Have handy eight rounds of fried croutons, spread with anchovy butter, and put a baked onion on each. Range them neatly on a dish, and garnish with fancifully-cut slices of lemon and parsley. 1824. Caviar ala Di able (.Devilled Caviare).—3 oz. 1 hygienic caviare,’ 1 oz. sweet almonds, blanched and peeled, 1 lemon, bread for croutes, cayenne or Nepaul pepper, \ oz. butter. Cut the bread into slices about 4 inch thick, stamp out some rounds of an inch in diameter, scoop out the centre, and fry in clarified butter or lard a golden colour. Shred the almonds, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake a fawny colour. Mix the caviare with the juice of half a lemon (using a wooden fork or spoon), add the almonds and a pinch of cayenne. Mix the butter with a little red pepper to give it a bright colour, spread on a plate and put on the ice. Fill the croiites with the prepared caviare, stamp out some little stars and place one in each croute. When required for table put in a hot oven for six minutes to get hot through ; dish up, garnish with slices of lemon and parsley, and serve. 1825. Crepes an Caviar (Caviare Pancakes).—Prepare some caviare as in the foregoing recipe, spread over some freshly fried thin pancake (savoury) with a thin layer of anchovy butter and a layer of caviare. Roll up and cut into neat pieces, bake in a quick oven for a few seconds. Dish up, and serve with quarters of lemon.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 574 1826. Palmettes de Caviar—Procure a small jar of Senn’s ‘ hygienic caviare,’ mix it with a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice and two finely-chopped shallots. Stir with a wooden fork or wooden skewer. Prepare a few slices of plain or toasted brown bread, cut them into heart shapes of even size. Spread over one side of each with caviare. Cream some fresh butter and mix with a little lobster coral; put it in a forcing-bag or paper cornet, and decorate the border of each with this butter. Dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper on a silver dish (pointed ends of the croutes inwards, so as to form a rosette shape), garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley and quartered lemon. Serve cold as hors-d’oeuvre or savoury. 1827. Croutes de La it a nee de Cabillaud d la Madras {Cod's Roe, Madras Style).—\ lb. cod roe smoked, £ onion, a clove of garlic, 2 tablespoonfuls tamarind pulp, 1 tablespoonful Favourite chutney, 1 teaspoonful curry powder, 1^ oz. butter, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 French gherkin, 8 oval-shaped pieces of fried bread. Cut the cod roe into eight slices, chop the onion and garlic very finely, and fry in the butter ; stir in the curry powder, fry a little, and add the tamarind pulp, chutney, and lemon-juice ; stir until it boils, then lay in the slices of cod roe and let them get hot through. Chop the gherkin, cut a few fanciful slices of the white of egg, chop the remainder, also the yolk. Dress each slice of cod roe with a sufficient quantity of pulp on the fried pieces of bread; decorate with the gherkins, white of egg, and yolk of egg, so as to produce a neat design; dish up, place in the oven for a few minutes, or serve cold. 1828. Laitance de Harengs d la Broche.—Toss some herring roes in butter and finely-chopped shallots (well blended), fasten each with a small silver skewer, and place each on a piece of toasted bread cut to the required size and spread over with anchovy paste. Dish up, and garnish with parsley and lemon quarters. 1829. Petites Tartelettes, Cracovienne.—i lb. puff-paste, 1 dozen oysters, 1 oz. butter, ^ oz. flour, 2 oz. cooked ivhiting or other white fish, ^ gill cream, oyster liquor, hard-boiled egg, seasoning, 1 dessertspoonful meat-glaze. Roll out the puff-paste about a quarter of an inch thick; cut out some rounds and six or eight flat tartlet moulds, fill these with raw rice, bake a nice colour, and take out the rice and put the crusts on a sieve. Chop the white of the hard-boiled egg and the flesh of the whiting finely. Warm up the oysters in their liquor, beard them, put six or eight of the nicest on one side, and cut the remaining ones into small slices. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; stir in the flour and cook without browning ; then add the oyster liquor and cream, stir well, put in the minced fish, white of egg, and oysters ; season with pepper and salt. Fill the tartlets with this mixture. Glaze the oysters, put aside the liquid meat-glaze ; put one on top of each tartlet. Rub the yolk of egg through a sieve and decorate round the oysters. Bake for ten minutes, dish up, and serve.575 ENTREMETS SAVOUBEUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 1830. Talmouse de Merluche fumee.—8 oz. flour {sifted), 3 oz. butter, 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 tea- spoonful lemon-juice, paprika and cayenne pepper, smoked haddock, a tablespoonful white sauce. Prepare a short-crust paste with the flour, two ounces of butter, a pinch of cayenne, one ounce of cheese, one yolk of egg, lemon-juice, and a little water. Put about half a small haddock in a tin with a little butter into the oven for ten minutes, remove skin and bones, and chop the fish finely. Mix with the remainder of butter and cheese, season with paprika, and moisten with the sauce and half a yolk of egg. Roll out the paste, one-eighth of an inch thick, stamp out some rounds with a two-inch cutter, put a tablespoonful of the mixture in the centre of each round, wet the edges, and take up the edges in such a manner as to form a triangular shape similar to a Pope’s cap (talmouse), brush over with egg, sprinkle a tiny pinch of paprika on the top of each, and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Dish up and serve hot. 1831. Croiites a la St. Georffes.—i dried haddock, \ pint milk, 2 eggs, 1 shallot, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 oz. butter, brown bread, seasoning. Scald the fish, remove the skin and bones, break up the flesh into very small pieces, and put it in a saute-pan with the milk. Cook till tender, take up the fish, drain, and shred it as finely as possible. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the shallot (peeled and finely chopped) and the parsley; blend a little but do not let it get brown; then add the fish and stir over a gentle fire. Beat up the eggs, add about a couple of tablespoonfuls of the milk the fish was cooked in, season with a pinch of pepper and a pinch of nutmeg ; stir this into the pan containing the fish ; when it commences to set remove it from the fire. Have ready some neatly shaped croutes of fried brown bread, dress the mixture upon these; dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve as after-dinner savoury or breakfast dish. 1832. Sardines au Parmesan d la lief fence.—1 tin sardines, £ lb. flour, 2 oz. Parmesan cheese grated, 1 egg, 1 oz. butter, salt, cayenne pepper, frying-fat. Sift the flour on to a board, make a well in the centre of the flour, put in a pinch of salt, a little grated cheese, the yolk of the egg, and a few drops of water. Work this to a stiff but smooth paste, which must be well kneaded for at least ten minutes. Place in the cool for half an hour. Cut the tails off six or eight sardines, wipe them gently with a damp cloth. Roll out the paste as thinly as possible and cut into oblong pieces. Oil the butter, dip each sardine in butter and roll in grated cheese, place on a piece of paste and wrap up neatly, seal the ends with white of egg. Drop into hot fat, fry gently a golden brown, take up, drain well, dish up neatly. Sprinkle over with grated cheese mixed with a pinch of cayenne pepper and serve hot.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK >76 1833. Eclairs de Sardines.—Skin carefully some sardines and yu*ap each neatly in a piece of puff-paste, previously spread over with a little anchovy paste. Brush over with egg-yolk and place on a baking-sheet. Mark the surface of the paste crossways with the point of a knife, and bake in a sharp oven for ten minutes. Serve hot or cold. 1834. Sardines a la Waive.—8 or 9 sardines, 3 yolks of eggs, \ oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful cream, | teaspoonful lemon- juice, a few tarragon leaves (finely chopped), a pinch of salt, and a pinch of English mustard, a pinch of cayenne, 8 or 9 fingers of toasted bread. Put the sardines on a hoard and remove the skin carefully with a cloth. (Use boneless sardines, sardines sans aretes, in preference to the ordinary kind.) Place them on a buttered tin and heat up in the oven, to be ready by the time the coating mixture is finished. They must not be heated too soon, otherwise they will get dry. Beat up the egg-yolks in a small stewpan, add the butter, cream, and the seasoning, including the mustard and tarragon. Stir over the fire till the mixture begins to thicken, then add the lemon-juice. Keep hot, but do not allow it to boil. Have the fingers of toasted bread ready, place a sardine on each of them, dish up, and pour about a dessertspoonful of the above mixture over each, so as to completely cover the sardines. Serve hot. 1835. Canapes de Sardines d la Soubise.—Prepare a soubise puree (onion puree); incorporate a little grated cheese and bechamel sauce (No. 202), and reduce to a thick sauce, spread some toasted bread with this and place some skinned and boned sardines upon it. Cut into fingers, cover each with more sauce and sprinkle over grated cheese and bread-crumbs. Bake in a sharp oven for five minutes, dish up, and serve. 1836. Petites Condoles d VAnchois.—Proceed the same as directed in recipe No. 1921, but incorporate sufficient anchovy paste in both the paste crust and the filling to give it the flavour and colour of anchovy. Sprinkle the top of the gondoles with red bread-crumbs (panurette), and bake in a very hot oven for a few minutes. 1837. Canapes a la Madras.—3 anchovies (boned), 3 oz. cooked chicken, 1 dessertspoonful Madras chutney (.Empress brand), 2 hard-boiled egg-yolks; 2 oz. butter, seasoning, pistachios, and toasted bread. Pound anchovies and chicken in a mortar till fine, add the chutney and egg-yolk, pound again and mix thoroughly with one ounce of butter, season to taste with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and rub through a sieve. Cut the toasted bread into oval shapes (by means of a paste-cutter), butter each with a thin layer of butter, and spread over thickly with the prepared farce. Decorate with chopped pistachio nuts. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve.577 ENTREMETS SAVOVREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 1838. Petites Croutes a la Colmar (Small Savoury Croutes with Ham).—10 to 12 small croutes of bread, fried in clarified butter or lard, 3 large Gorgona anchovies (boned), 2 hard- boiled eggs, 3 oz. fresh butter, a dust of Nepaulor paprika pepper, a few sprigs of parsley, tarragon, and chervil, 2 or 3 thin slices of cooked ham. Pound the anchovies in a mortar, add to it the yolks of the hard- boiled eggs and the butter, mix well, season with a dust of pepper, chop the parsley and other herbs finely (a teaspoonful in all), and add to the mixture, rub this through a fine sieve and put it in a forcing-bag with a rose pipe. Stamp out the slices of ham to the size of the croutes, allowing one for each, place these on the croutes, force the prepared mixture tastefully on top of the ham, garnish each croute with hard-boiled white of egg (rubbed through a coarse wire sieve). Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. If the savoury puree is desired a deeper pink a few drops of liquid carmine should be mixed with it before it is passed through the sieve. 1839. Petites Pains de Crevettes.—\ pint picked shrimps, 1 gill cream, 1 gill brown stock, 2 eggs, 1 dessertspoonful chutney, 3 Spanish olives, 2 French gherkins, cayenne, and salt. Put shrimps, chutney, gherkins, and olives (stoned) in a mortar, and pound until very fine ; then add the stock. Beat up the cream until stiff. Bub shrimps &c. through a fine sieve, mix with the cream, season with a pinch of cayenne and salt. Have ready six or eight very small timbale or dariole shaped moulds, butter these well, dust with bread-crumbs (panurette is best to use for this purpose).. Put the moulds in a saute-pan three-parts filled with boiling water, cover with buttered paper, steam for about twenty minutes; then turn out and serve with sauce ruisseau (No. 275). 1840. Anchois d la Vatel.—10 or 12 Gorgona anchovies, \ lb. chicken forcemeat, a teaspoonful of finely chopped fine herbs (parsley, tarragon, and chervil—of the latter tivo only a very small quantity), about \ a teaspoonful of chopped shallot, £ oz. of butter, 6 small preserved mushrooms, a glass of white wine, a tablespoon- ful of brown bread-crumbs, 10 or 12 fingers of toasted bread, | oz. of grated cheese. Wipe the anchovies carefully with a cloth, open the middle of each without dividing them entirely in halves ; trim off the head and tail portions, remove the backbone. Mix the forcemeat with the chopped herbs and shallot, and fill the inside of the anchovies with this; press the fish together and put. into shape. Butter a round silver or fireproof china dish, put each fish on a finger of toasted bread, and arrange them neatly on the dish so as to form a pleasing pattern. Chop the mushrooms very finely, sprinkle over the fish ; put the grated cheese and bread-crumbs in a similar way over the surface, place the remaining butter in little bits here and there ;578 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK wipe the edges of the dish, bake in a moderately heated oven from ten to fifteen minutes, garnish with parsley, and serve at once. 1841. Eclairs (VAnchois.— Scrape, wipe, and bone one dozen Gorgona anchovies, roll out some short paste or remnants of puff-paste rather thin, enclose each anchovy neatly in the paste ; place them on a baking-sheet, brush over with beaten egg-yolk, mark slightly with a knife, sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese and a pinch of cayenne over each; bake them in a quick oven for ten minutes. Dish up on a folded napkin : garnish with parsley, and serve quickly. 1842. Kedgeree au Paprika (a Breakfast Dish).—4 oz. rice, 24 picked praivns or an equal quantity of shrimps, some rich stock, 1± oz. butter, 1 hard-boiled egg, salt, paprika pepper, ^ oz. grated cheese. Pick, wash, and blanch the rice, drain well, and put it in a stew- pan with the butter ; stir over the fire for a few minutes, then moisten with stock and cook till tender, adding more stock as required; by degrees and as the rice swells while cooking stir frequently to pre- vent it from sticking. Now add sufficient salt to taste, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and enough paprika pepper to give the rice a soft pinkish tint; chop finely the prawns or shrimps, keeping aside a few for garnish; chop the white of the hard-boiled egg, and add both, together with the cheese, to the rice, stir gently until thoroughly hot. Dish up on a hot dish, garnish with hard-boiled yolk of egg (rubbed through a coarse sieve or chopped finely), some prawns or shrimps, and a few sprigs of freshly picked watercresses. Serve hot. 1848. Beignets de Ear eng fume (.Bloater Fritters).—2 bloaters, frying-batter, l\ oz. grated cheeze, frying-fat. Split the bloaters and take out the bones, remove the skins and cut off the heads. Divide each fillet into three or four neat pieces. Mix the frying-batter with an ounce of finely grated cheese ; dip each piece of bloater into the batter, so as to completely cover it, and drop into very hot fat, fry a golden colour, take up, drain well, and dish up. Sprinkle over some grated cheese and serve very hot. 1844. JPaupiettes de Harengs (Boiled Herring Fillets).— 4 to 5 salt herrings (Dutch herrings), 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 lemon, 3 filleted anchovies, 1^ oz. butter, a pinch of cayenne. Parsley, beet- root, and gherkins for garnish. Steep the herrings in cold water for a few hours. Fillet them, removing the white skin and all bones, cut each lengthways in two and pare neatly. Put the trimmings of the fillets into a mortar together with the anchovies and pound till smooth, add the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs and the butter, season to taste (no salt), and mix thoroughly. Put this through a fine sieve and spread the inside of the herring fillets with a layer of this puree ; roll up neatly. Dip the ends into finely chopped hard-boiled white of eggs. Dish up, sprinkle over some lemon-juice, garnish with thinly-cut slices of lemon, gherkins, beetroot, and parsley ; serve cold.579 entremets savoureux, bonnes bouches, etc. 1845. Pailles aa Parmesan a la Yarmouth.—Make some cheese straws, as directed in recipe No. 1922, and cut some thin strips of smoked herrings (kippers) the same size as the paste; place one of each together and twist them like a screw* Fix them on a baking-sheet and bake in a sharp oven for a few minutes. 1846. Petits Souffles au Thon.—4 oz. preserved tunny-fish, 6 boned anchovies, 1 hard-boiled egg, 3 boned sardines, 2foz. grated cheese, 3 tablespoonfuls cream, 1£ oz. butter, 4 tablespoonfuls reduced bechamel (No. 202), \ oz. panurette or bread-crumbs, pepper and cayenne, 1 white of egg, 8 china or paper souffle cases. Pound in a mortar the tunny-fish, anchovies, and sardines, add an ounce of grated cheese, one tablespoonful of cream, two tablespoonfuls of well-reduced bechamel sauce, hard-boiled egg, and the butter ; work well till smooth, season with a little pepper and a pinch of cayenne. Rub through a wire sieve, and fill the souffle cases previously buttered three-parts full. Put them on a baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. In the meantime put one and a half ounce grated cheese, the remainder of the cream and bechamel sauce, panurette or bread-crumbs, and white of egg well beaten in a small stewpan ; add a pinch of cayenne, and stir over the fire for a few minutes, so as to get it thoroughly hot; put a tablespoonful of this into each of the partly- baked souffles, return to the oven for another five minutes to brown the surface, dish up, and serve very hot. 1847. Tartines de Homard d la St. Martin.—1 oz. lobster puree or lobster butter, 1^ oz. fresh butter, 3 yolks of eggs, ^ glass of old port, salt, cayenne, slices of toasted bread. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the yolks of eggs, and stir over the fire for a few seconds ; leave long enough to heat through without boiling. Remove and add the lobster puree or butter, also the port wine; stir well, season with salt and cayenne. Cut some fingers of freshly-toasted bread, put a thick layer of the preparation on each, put the fingers on a baking-sheet, bake for two minutes in a | hot oven. Dish up, and serve very hot. 1848. Ballons de Saumon fame (Smoked Salmon Bolls).— 1 tin preserved lax or 6 oz. smoked salmon, 6 to 8 small round rolls, 2 hard-boiled eggs, a teaspoonful chopped tarragon, chervil, and chives, 2 tablespoonf uls sweet oil, 1 ditto of French vinegar, a few capers, pepper and salt, parsley. Rasp the rolls all over, cut them into halves, scoop out the crumb, and put to dry in the closet and let cool. Cut some neat strips of the lax or smoked salmon, chop the remainder rather coarsely, chop up the eggs, and put both in a basin, add the chopped herbs, season with the oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Mix well and fill the rolls with this ; arrange the strips of salmon over the filling of the rolls in the form of lattice-work, put a caper in each cavity. Dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper in a pyramidal form, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. p p 2580 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1849. Iiosanges a la Baltimore.—% lb. flour {sifted), 5 oz. butter, 2 oz. grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese, 1 egg, 1 hard-boiled yolk of egg, a teaspoonful cream, a little milk, 1 oz. anchovy paste,. 1 tin preserved Ihx. Put the butter into the flour, mix in the grated cheese, moisten with the yolk of one egg, and work into a smooth paste by adding a little milk. Roll out the paste, about one-sixteenth of an inch thick, and make it into two strips of about three inches wide. Mix the anchovy paste with a hard-boiled egg-yolk and a teaspoonful of cream, spread this evenly over one piece of the paste, arrange a layer of preserved lax on this, and put the other piece of paste upon it. Trim the edges. Beat the white of egg to a stiff froth, mix it with cayenne or paprika pepper and a few drops of anchovy or shrimp essence; spread this thinly and evenly over the paste, and cut into even-sized fingers. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about fifteen minutes; arrange the fingers neatly on a hot dish, covered with a lace-paper or folded napkin, garnish with sprigs of watercress, and serve. 1850. Petites Croustades d la JKedicis (Little Croustades, Medicis Style).—\ loaf stale bread, 1 raw egg, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 tin of lax, 2 French gherkins, 1 oz. butter, small cress, 4 filleted anchovies, 1 teaspoonful French mustard, Nepaul or paprika pepper. Pare the crust off the bread and cut it into slices rather more than half an inch thick. Stamp out eight to ten ovals, about 2£ inches by 1 inch. Put the bread-trimmings through a wire sieve, and use for crumbing. Scoop out as much as possible of the centre of the ovals, immerse these in a little milk for about ten minutes, then drain, dip in beaten egg, and crumb all over, fry them a golden ‘colours in hot fat and drain. Pound the anchovy fillets, the yolks of eggs (hard- boiled), and a small handful of cleaned small cress when fine; add the butter and mustard, season with a pinch of pepper, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Fill the cavities of the croustades with this puree, place one or two slices of preserved lax on top of each, garnish with hard-boiled white of egg and gherkins in a tasty style, heat up quickly, and serve. 1851. Foie Gras a la Dumas.—1 small tin or tureen foie gras pate, stale bread for croutes, 2 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful Madras chutney, 1 teaspoonful Senn's horse-radish mustard, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, 1 tablespoonful sherry, 1 teaspoonful mild mulligatawny paste; watercress for garnish. Remove the fat from the foie gras, cut the foie gras into oblong slices, stamp out or cut \ inch thick slices of bread and shape into oblong pieces a little larger than the foie gras. Fry these a golden colour in the butter, drain, and let cool. Put the trimmings of the foie gras in a mortar with the chutney, mustard, and the rest of the ingredients named above ; pound till smooth and rub through a sieve. Cover one side of the fried bread croutes with a layer of the prepared581 ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. puree, place the foie gras upon this. Dish up and garnish with a few sprigs of freshly gathered watercresses. This dish may be served hot or cold, as a hors-d’oeuvre or after- dinner savoury. 1852. Friandines d la Westplialienne.—About f lb. puff- paste, 1 oz. anchovy paste, 6 thin slices of rate Westphalian ham, 6 oz. cooked veal or rabbit, 2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, % gill bechamel, sauce (No. 202), ^ gill cream, \ oz. butter, the breast of a cooked pheasant or fowl, 2 small gherkins, . 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise, 3 slices pickled beetroot, seasoning. Eoll out the paste about one-eighth of an inch in thickness, cut into strips about two inches wide, spread half the strips with anchovy paste, and cover with the other half. Stamp out eight rounds two inches in diameter, also the same number of rings, but somewhat smaller than the rounds. Place these on a baking-sheet and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes, and let cool. Pound the cooked veal or rabbit in a mortar till smooth, add the hard-boiled yolks of eggs, the cream, sauce, and butter; season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne or Nepaul pepper, work well so as to mix the ingredients thoroughly, and rub through a wire sieve. Spread the large rounds with this puree, place the rings on top, put some of the puree in -a cornet, cut the point, and shape a circle on top of the rings with the puree; cut the slices of ham conveniently so as to form each into a roll, place on the puree (upright), fill the centre with a ragout of pheasant or chicken, beetroot and gherkins, all cut into small dice and seasoned with mayonnaise sauce. Ornament the top and sides with the remainder of the puree by means of a paper cornet or forcing-bag with a fancy tube, dish up on a folded napkin or dish- paper, and serve as after-dinner savoury or breakfast dish. 1858. Croquettes de Jambon au JRiz.—1 lb. cooked ham, % lb. cooked rice, 1 oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 shallot, £ gill cream, \ gill veloutee sauce (No. 206), 1 whole egg, bread-crumbs, clarified fat or lard, parsley, pepper, and a pinch of powdered sage. Chop finely the ham and rice separately. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the shallot, finely chopped, and fry a little ; add the ham and rice, season with pepper and powdered sage, stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, add the sauce and cream. When on the point of boiling stir in the egg-yolks; when the mixture begins to thicken remove from the fire and spread on a dish to cool. Shape into even-sized balls, corks, or cutlets ; dip in beaten egg and bread- crumbs, fry in hot fat or lard, drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. The rice may be substituted by mashed potatoes, but less ham and more potatoes should be used than the above quantities. 1854. Croittes au Jambon (Ham Croutes).—8 or 9 fried bread croutes, 6 to 8 oz. cooked ham, % oz. blotter, 1 shallot, 2 yolks of eggs, chopped parsley, pepper, £ gill cream. Cut some slices of stale bread, and stamp out round or oval582 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK shapes by means of a paste-cutter, and fry them a light brown in hot fat. Fry a finely-chopped shallot in half an ounce of butter, put in the ham, finely chopped, and stir over the fire till quite hot; then add the yolks of eggs and the cream, season with pepper, and stir until it thickens. Pour about a tablespoonful of the mixture on to the croutes, sprinkle over with finely-chopped parsley, dish up, and send to table very hot. 1855. Beignets a la Madras (Madras Fritters).—4 slices of brown bread, 3 tablespoonfuls chutney, 1 oz. butter, 4 slices of cooked ham, frying-batter, frying-fat, parsley. Stamp out some rounds by means of a plain paste-cutter one and a half inch in diameter, spread each round with butter, and cover the buttered sides with a layer of chutney, place on this a round of ham the same size as the bread, and press together lightly. Dip each slice into frying-batter (No. 35) and fry a golden colour in hot fat. Drain well, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. 1856. Grilled Ham with Cucumber Puree.—Prepare a tasty puree of cucumbers—which must first be peeled, sauted in butter, and cooked in a small quantity of rich stock. Arrange the puree of cucumber on a hot dish, and dress some nicely grilled slices of ham on top, garnish the dish with a few very small stuffed and braised lettuces, sauce round with demi-glace (No. 237), and serve. 1857. jBacon and Macaroni (a Breakfast Dish).—4 oz. Italian macaroni, 4 oz. streaky bacon, % pint stock, 1 oz. butter, seasoning. Break the macaroni into small pieces, and put into a saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted, cook for five minutes, then drain and cool. Boil up the stock, skim, and add the macaroni; cook till quite tender, but not pulpy. Slice the bacon rather thinly, cut it into small dice, and fry a little in a saute-pan. Now add the cooked macaroni and the butter, season with pepper, a little salt, and a grate of nutmeg, stir carefully over the fire and cook for another ten minutes. Let it get a nice brown, then turn on to a hot dish and serve. 1858. Zephires a la Parmentier.—1 | lb. potato puree,. 4 eggs, 1^ oz. butter, \ oz. potato flour, 1 oz. panurette or bread- crumbs, 1 oz. Gruyere or Parmesan, grated, 2 oz. lean cooked ham, 1 oz. cooked game or poultry, 2 preserved mushrooms, \ teaspoonful mixed mustard, 2 tablespoonfuls Espagnole or brown sauce, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Put the mashed potatoes with an ounce of butter in a stewpan, stir until hot, season with a little pepper and salt, bind with two yolks of eggs, and put on a dish to cool. Chop up the ham, game or poultry, and mushrooms, and pound in a mortar till smooth ; add two yolks of eggs, the mustard, the sauce, and the grated cheese, season with pepper and a pinch of nutmeg, and mix well. Butter some oval- shaped plain or fancy dariole moulds, sprinkle well with panurette or583 ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. bread-crumbs, fill up with the prepared potato puree, and bake in the oven a nice golden colour. Scoop out the interiors, and fill up with the pounded preparation. Beat up the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, adding a pinch of salt, cover the surface of each roughly with a little of the stiff whites of eggs, and return again into a quick oven, so as to colour the surface. Unmould carefully, dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper, and serve very hot. 1859. Tartelettes a la Polenta.—£ lb. short-crust paste, 2 oz. polenta or coarse-grain florador, % gill milk, 2 oz. grated Parmesan, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 oz. butter, 2 oz. cooked pheasant or chicken meat,. 2 oz. cooked ox-tongue, 3 preserved mushrooms, 1 tablespoonful bechamel sauce (No. 202), salt, pepper, and cayenne- Boll out the paste very thin, stamp out some rounds with a fluted cutter, large enough to line eight to nine tartlet-moulds. Prick the paste with a fork when lined. Put the milk and half a gill of water in a stewpan, add the butter and a pinch of salt; when boiling stir in the polenta or florador. Cook over the fire ; while stirring for ten minutes add the Parmesan, remove from the fire, and work in the yolks of eggs. Season with pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste, and let cool. Chop the chicken, tongue, and mushrooms finely, mix with the sauce, and season with pepper. This forms a salpicon. Half fill the lined tarlet-moulds with polenta mixture, put a dessertspoonful of the salpicon in the centre of each, and fill up with polenta mixture. Smooth over with a knife, brush over with oiled butter, sprinkle the surface well with grated cheese. Bake in a moderately heated oven from fifteen to twenty minutes, unmould, and dish up on a hot dish. 1860. Flans de Crepes aux Fpinards.—£ lb. cooked spinach, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 tablespoonful cream, 1 white of egg, bread-crumbs, f pint pancake batter, 2 oz. butter, 10 small rashers bacon, salt, pepper, nutmeg, pinch of sugar. Put the spinach through a sieve. Heat up in a stewpan with the cream and a little stock or gravy;. when hot stir in the yolks of eggs, season to taste with pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg, and a pinch of sugar. Take off the fire and let cool. Prepare a number of thin pancakes (fried in butter). Spread some of the prepared spinach on one side of each pancake, placing them together in twos; stamp out some rounds by means of a plain two-inch cutter, dip in beaten white of egg, and crumb. Fry in hot fat a golden colour, drain, dish up in a row, place the rashers of bacon, nicely fried crisp, on each side, garnish with a few sprigs of fried parsley, and serve with a boat of tomato (No. 271) or piquante (No. 241) sauce. 1861. JEtissolettes d la Solferino.— ^ pint pancake batter, 1 oz. butter, 4 oz.foie gras (potted), 4 mushrooms (preserved), 2 oz. cooked stveetbread, 1 gill veloutce (No. 206) or bechamel (No. 202) sauce, 1 egg, seasoning, bread-crumbs, frying-fat, quid about 2 oz. chicken forcemeat.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 584 Fry some very thin pancakes, stamp out some rounds about two inches in diameter. Prepare a salpicon as follows : cut the foie gras (with truffles), mushrooms, and sweetbread into very small dice, put this in a saute-pan with the sauce ; when thoroughly hot add the yolk of an egg ; season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nut- meg. Put it on a plate and let cool. Then shape into little balls, place these in the centre of the rounds of pancake. Put a little raw chicken forcemeat round the edge of each, and fold over the same as rissoles. Brush over with egg, dip in bread-crumbs, and fry a golden colour. Dish up on a folded napkin, and serve hot. 1862. Jamb on a la Weige.— 5 oz. of lean liam, 4 eggs, £ gill milk or cream, i teaspoonful powdered sweet herbs, ^ oz. butter, a pinch of aromatic spice, and a pinch of dry mustard. Chop the ham very fine, mix it with the savoury herbs, spice, and mustard, beat up two whole eggs and two yolks of eggs. When well beaten add the milk or cream and all but a dessertspoonful of chopped ham, melt the butter, grease a deep round plated dish with same, and put the remainder with the mixture. Sprinkle the buttered part of the dish with a few brown bread-crumbs; put the mixture in the dish, and place in a moderate oven for ten minutes (leave long enough to set). Beat up the two remaining whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix in a dessertspoonful of chopped ham, pile it on the dish, cover it over, and bake for another five minutes. 1863. Beignets de Cervelles.—Thoroughly wash some calf’s or pig’s brains, removing the blood and skin. Put them in a stewpan with sufficient water to cover, a dessertspoonful of French vinegar, a few peppercorns, half an onion, and a bouquet garni (No. 2). Boil for five minutes, then take out the brains, place in cold water, and drain. Cut them into neat pieces, put in a plate, season with pepper, salt, one tablespoonful of oil, and a few drops of chilli vinegar. Sprinkle over a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. Have ready some frying-batter, dip each piece into this, and drop into hot fat; fry a golden colour, drain, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve with piquante sauce (No. 241). 1864. Beignets d la Venitienne (Savoury Fritters).— Prepare a choux paste (No. 36) and incorporate one slice of ox- tongue, one slice of ham, four mushrooms (champignons), and one ounce of cooked chicken meat, all cut into small dice. Season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, also a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Have ready a sufficient quantity of hot fat. Spread the mixture on a dish and cut out some even-sized rounds by means of a paste-cutter or spoon, drop them into the fat and fry, slowly at first, till a nice golden colour. Drain on a cloth or paper. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot—accompanied with a boat of suitable sauce, i.e. piquante (No. 241), tomato (No. 271), or poivrade (No. 263) sauce. 1865. Rissoles d la Reine.—Prepare a salpicon of finelyENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 585 chopped cooked chicken, ham, or tongue, mushrooms and truffles, moistened with white sauce and seasoned to taste, spread on a plate and let cool. Boll out some puff or rough puff paste, stamp out some rounds, place a teaspoonful of the mixture on each, wet the edge and fold over, so as to give them the shapes of half-moons. Press down the edges of the paste well. Egg and crumb them and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain well, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. (Breakfast or supper dish.) 1866. Zephires a la Montglas.—Mask the interior of six to eight oval fluted zephire moulds with a thin coating of aspic, which must be perfectly clear ; when set sprinkle the sides and bottom with finely chopped truffles and hard-boiled egg rubbed through a wire sieve. Pour a thin layer of white chaud-froid sauce (No. 290), or aspic cream (No. 296), over this and allow to set. Prepare a mixture composed of equal parts of cooked chicken fillets, ox-tongue, truffles, and champignons (mushrooms), all cut into julienne strips, moisten with mayonnaise cream or white chaud-froid sauce and season to taste, fill the moulds with this, finish with a layer of aspic. Put the moulds on the ice for about fifteen minutes, then turn out on a cold dish. Garnish with chopped set aspic, slices of lemon, cucumber, and parsley, and serve immediately. 1867. Devilled Game.—Any kind of cooked game can be used for this dish. Cut it into neat slices, free from skin and bone. Season the slices with cayenne, salt, and paprika, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Dip them into oiled' butter and cover with brown bread-crumbs. Place the slices neatly on a well-buttered baking-tin, and put them in a sharp oven for a few minutes to get browned. Care must be taken that the meat does not get dried up. Dress them in a circle on a dish with a lace-paper; fill the centre with crisp, fresh watercress, previously seasoned with salt and lemon-juice. Serve very hot. 1868. Jombalayah (an American Breakfast Dish).—4 oz. Patna rice, 4 oz. cooked ham, salt, cayenne pepper, 1 lettuce. Boil the rice in slightly salted water (the same as for curry or kedgeree), so that each grain is intact when the rice *^s tender. Drain and cool the rice when done. Mince the ham as finely as pos- sible, and mix both ham and rice carefully in a basin, add a pinch of cayenne pepper, wash the lettuce, and place a layer of leaves on a cold dish, dress rice and ham upon this, and garnish neatly with the heart of the lettuce. Serve cold. 1869. (Eafs d la Colbert.—Take four or six new-laid eggs. Break each very carefully in a cup, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle over about half a teaspoonful of grated Gruyere or Parmesan cheese; drop each very gently into a pan of hot fat or frying oil; the latter, if of good quality, is preferable for this purpose. Keep the eggs in shape and turn frequently by means of a wooden spoon. Fry them to a pretty golden colour; then take up and drain them on a cloth orTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 586 kitchen paper. Dress them neatly on a hot dish, sprinkle over with grated cheese, and serve quickly. 1870. (Eufs frits au JBeuvre noir.—This is a simple but delightful breakfast dish; the secret of success lies mainly in the correct preparation of the beurre noir, or black butter, as it is called in England. This, by the way, is a misnomer, as butter when cooked till black becomes unpleasant in paste. The above dish is made as follows : —Melt an ounce of butter in an earthenware fireproof pan (casserole) ; when hot break into it gently three to four eggs, have ready three to four rounds of buttered toast a little larger than the eggs, spread them with a little anchovy paste; take up the eggs, one at a time, trim into a neat round shape, and place each on the provided toast, and dish up. Re-heat the butter remaining in the casserole, and let it get a dark nut-brown colour (not black), then add a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar and a good pinch of chopped parsley or chives, reduce a little, and pour over the eggs on the dish; serve hot. 1871. CEufs ala Par mentier (Parmentier Eggs).—8 large potatoes, 6 small eggs, 1 gill white cream sauce (bechamel, No. 202, or supreme, No. 210), 1 oz. grated cheese, % oz. butter, bread- crumbs. Wash and scrub the potatoes, dry them, and bake them in the oven, cut them into halves, and scoop out the mealy parts. Poach the eggs in slightly salted water, flavoured with lemon-juice, trim them, put a little sauce in each half of the potatoes, place an egg in each, mix the remainder of sauce with half the cheese, cover with the sauce, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and grated cheese, divide the butter into little bits and place on top; brown in a very hot oven. Dish up, and serze quickly. 1872. CEufs a, V Pearl ate.—6 new-laid eggs, 6 slices of cooked ox-tongue, 1 gill gravy or rich brown stock, 1 small glass sherry or Marsala, salt, pepper, lemon-juice, about 1^ gill supreme sauce (No.. 210). Poach the eggs in boiling water, slightly salted and flavoured with lemon-juice. Cut the slices of tongue into neat shapes, about the size of the egg, when poached. Chop the trimmings of tongue very finely. Put the slices of tongue in a saute-pan with the gravy and wine, and heat up thoroughly. Take up the eggs, drain and trim them; place each upon a slice of tongue and arrange on a hot dish ; season with salt and pepper, sauce over carefully with hot supreme sauce, and serve hot. Put a little chopped tongue in the centre of each egg. 1873. CEufs a la Courtet (Cold).—Cut some even-sized ripe- tomatoes in halves, scoop out carefully the interior, and fill with scrambled egg, nicely seasoned. When cold mask carefully with a stiff mayonnaise and a thin layer of aspic jelly. Dish up in a circle- and garnish with gherkins and pickled beetroot cut into fanciful shapes ; fill the centre of the dish with lettuce and tomatoes cut into-ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 587 julienne strips, suitably seasoned with an oil and vinegar dressing. Serve cold. 1874. (Eufs frits a la Fermiere.—Grill or broil eight thin slices of lean bacon or ham, fry the same number of eggs in a little butter or bacon fat, trim each neatly and place on a slice of bacon or ham. Range these in the form of a border round a dish, fill the centre with a mixture of vegetables (macedoine de legumes) heated and mixed with a little white sauce. Garnish the centre with Parisian potatoes (marble-shaped potatoes, blanched, drained, and baked in the oven, or fried). The dish is then ready for serving. 1875. (Eufs poches a la To mate (Poached Eggs in Tomato Sauce).—Boil up a pint of tomato sauce (No. 271) in a saute-pan, skim it if necessary, and drop in carefully three or four eggs, cook them till the white is firm to the touch, basting the eggs well with the sauce during this process. Lift them carefully with a slice or skimmer, trim them, dish upon a piece of toasted bread. Pour over the sauce, which must be suitably seasoned with salt and pepper, and serve hot. 1876. (Eufs poches au Vin blane (Poached' Eggs with tvliite Wine).—Poach carefully six to eight eggs in slightly salted water, flavoured with white wine and a few drops of lemon-juice. Have ready as many fried bread croutons as there are poached eggs. Take up the eggs, trim them neatly, and place them on the croutons, then dish up. Have ready a sauce prepared with one gill of reduced white wine, an ounce and a half of meat glaze, and one ounce of butter; the latter must be whisked in in very small quantities, and must not boil. Season with a good pinch of cayenne or krona pepper. Mask the eggs with the sauce, which must be thick enough to coat them nicely, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over each egg, and serve. 1877. (Eufs aux Nouilles a la Carola.—Prepare some nouille paste (No. 1946), cut it into very thin strips, and blanch in salted water for three minutes; drain and toss in butter. Season with nutmeg and pepper, and put some on a buttered fire-proof dish. Dredge well with grated cheese. Upon this range a layer of slices of hard-boiled eggs, then a layer of nouilles, and lastly a layer of fresh mushrooms, seasoned and tossed in butter. Cover with a well- reduced bechamel sauce (No. 202), strew with grated cheese and oiled butter. Bake in a sharp oven for ten minutes. 1878. (Eufs a la Suzette—Cut some baked potatoes in halves lengthwise ; scoop out the mealy part and mix with bechamel sauce (No. 202), grated cheese, and seasoning. Line the potato crusts with this and put in each a poached egg (neatly trimmed). Spread some of the mixture over each and sprinkle with cheese and bread-crumbs and oiled butter. Bake in a sharp oven and serve hot. 1879. (Eufs a la JPrincesse (Egg Darioles).—4 to 6 eggs, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 oz. butter, a handful coohed aspara-THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 588 gus points, preserved lax, salt, paprika pepper, tomato sauce {No. 271), toasted bread. Butter four to six small dariole moulds, sprinkle with grated •cheese and a few pinches of paprika pepper ; break an egg carefully into each mould, and season with pepper and salt. Place the moulds in a saute-pan, containing enough hot water to reach half-way up the mould, and cook on the stove or in the oven until the whites of the eggs are set. Stamp out some rounds or ovals of toasted bread about the size of an egg, butter them well on one side, and lay a slice of lax on each. Toss the asparagus points in a little butter, season to taste, and put in layers on the buttered toast. Turn out the moulds on top of the asparagus, dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve with a sauce-boat of tomato sauce. 1880. Kish au Parmesan a la Pouard.—Beat up eight yolks of eggs, add a gill and a half of milk or cream, an ounce and a half of grated Parmesan cheese, a good pinch of cayenne pepper, and a tiny pinch of salt. Pour the mixture into small silver or china souffle cases, bake in a moderate oven, and serve very hot. 1881. Petits Pains aux CEufs.—Brioche or choux paste, 4 eggs, 1| oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 tablespoonfuls of meat-glaze, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 1 oz. of butter, 1 tablespoonful of cream, pepper and salt. Butter eight oval boat-shaped moulds, fill three-parts full with brioche paste, let stand in a warm place for about an hour, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about half an hour. Turn out of the moulds, cut carefully round the edge of the surface, and remove the top. Scoop out the soft part of the inside; melt the meat glaze, and mask the interior of cases and lids with the glaze, and place them, hollow parts downwards, on a sieve to strain. Put the butter, eggs, cream, and grated cheese in a stewpan, beat up well, and stir over the fire until it thickens ; then add the parsley and seasoning. When suffi- ciently set fill up the cases, replace the lids, put in the mouth of the oven for a few seconds, dish up on a hot dish, brush over the surface with meat glaze, and serve. 1882. CEufs garnis it la Volga.—Boil six small eggs till hard; when cooled cut them in halves and carefully remove the yolks. Kub the latter through a sieve, and mix with a gill of remoulade sauce (No. 285). Prepare a salpicon of a quarter jar of Russian caviare, three to four anchovy fillets cut into small dice, twelve prawn-tails cut into small dice. Add sufficient remoulade sauce to bind this mix- ture, and fill the cavities of eggs with this. Place each on oval-shaped croutons of bread fried in butter. Sauce over each carefully with remoulade sauce, dish up, and garnish neatly with prawns and cresses or parsley. Serve as hors-d’oeuvre or side dish. When a large quantity of eggs dressed in this style is needed it is advisable to incorporate a sheet of dissolved gelatine into each gill of remoulade sauce.589* ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 1888. Omelette a la Bonne-femme.—6 eggs, 1 oz. bacon, a boiled potato, a breakfast roll, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, \ tea- spoonful chopped chives, salt and pepper. Break the eggs into a basin, beat up for five minutes; add the parsley and chives, also a pinch of salt and pepper to taste. Cut the bacon into small squares, likewise the thin crust of the roll; melt the butter in a frying or omelet pan, fry the bacon slightly brown, then add the bread-crust and the potato cut in squares, toss over the fire for a few minutes, pour in the egg mixture, stir with a fork gently over a bright fire for two minutes. Then fold up in the shape of a cushion, towards the side opposite to the handle of the pan, hold it in a slanting position for a minute also over the fire, to colour it lightly : take a hot dish in your left hand, holding up the pan with your right, bring the centre of the dish towards the edge of the pan with the omelet, and then turn the pan over quickly, so that the omelet will come right in the centre of the dish. Serve hot with two or three tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce poured round the dish. 1884. Omelette aux Fines Herbes a la Frangaise.—6 eggs, 1 tablespoonful cream, 2 dessertspoonfuls chopped parsley, in- cluding a leaf or ttoo of green tarragon and a sprig of chervil, a pinch of szveet herbs, 1 oz. butter, a clove of garlic, pepper and salt. Break the eggs into a basin, add the cream, and beat up well; add the chopped herbs and seasoning. Cut the clove of garlic and wipe the inside of the omelet-pan with the cut side. Melt the butter in this pan, clarify, and when hot pour in the egg mixture. Stir over a brisk fire with a fork until the eggs begin to set, then roll towards the side of the pan opposite the handle, and give it the ^ shape of an oval cushion. Allow it, to take colour (a golden brown). Turn out on an oval dish (hot), and serve. Tarragon and sweet herbs, or the flavour of garlic, may be omitted. A small chopped shallot may be added to the butter and fried a little, if liked. 1885. Omelette a la Charentiere.—Beat up six eggs in a basin, add the necessary seasoning (pepper, salt, and nutmeg), a table- spoonful of milk or cream, and a heaped-up teaspoonful of French mustard. Cut two or three ounces of lean bacon into small dice, and fry in an omelet-pan an ounce of butter for a few minutes. Add two finely minced shallots and fry likewise, but do not allow them to get quite brown. Pour in the egg-mixture, and stir over a brisk fire till it commences to set, then shape quickly into the form of an oval cushion, allow it to take colour, and turn out on a hot dish. 1886. Omelette d la Bernoise.—Proceed as above, omitting the bacon and adding about two ounces of Gruyere cheese, cut into small dice. Fry the shallots in an ounce and a half of butter, .pour in the mixture with the cheese, and finish cooking in the usual manner.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 590 1887. Omelette a la Raphael.—Make a savoury omelet with six eggs, and place in the centre a fine stew of fillet of beef (goulash de bceuf) and truffles, fold the omelet. When browned slightly, turn on to a hot dish, and pour some demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish. Serve quickly. 1888. Omelette aux JPoireaux (Leek Omelet).—6 eggs, 1| oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful grated cheese, salt and cayenne, 1 tablespoonful milk or cream, 2 leeks, well washed, trimmed, and stewed in brown sauce. Break the eggs into a basin, add the cheese, sufficient salt and cayenne to taste, and the milk or cream, beat well to amalgamate the yolks and whites of eggs and other ingredients. Cut the cooked leeks into slices, and keep hot in a small stewpan with just enough sauce to moisten. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan ; when thoroughly warm (not too hot) pour in the egg mixture, and stir over a bright fire until the eggs begin to set. Shape quickly into the form of a cushion, place the stewed leeks in the centre, and fold in the ends. Allow the omelet to take colour, then turn out on a hot dish, pour a little brown sauce round the base of the dish, and serve quickly. 1889. Retites Omelettes a la Mar exhale.—8 eggs, 8 slices of cooked smoked ox-tongue, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, £ gill of cream, 1^ oz. butter, salt, pepper, Colbert sauce (No. 258). Break the eggs into a basin, add parsley, pepper, salt, and beat up well, add the cream and mix thoroughly. Divide into eight equal portions; melt a little of the butter, and prepare a very small omelet with each portion of the mixture ; place it on the slice of tongue, trimmed to required size,' and proceed thus until the eight omelets are made ; dish up on a hot'dish in-the shape of a border (encouronne), pour Colberirsauce round the dish, and serve. 1890. Omelettes gratinees an Parmesan.—6 eggs, 1 large tablespoonful Kcream, 2 tablespoonfuls grated Parmesan, 1^ oz. butter, white pepper, a few brown crumbs, tomato sauce (No. 271). Break the eggs into a basin, add rather more than half of the grated cheese and a pinch of pepper (no salt), mix well with a whisk, add the bream, and beat well. Melt half the butter in an omelet-pan, pour in half the egg-mixture. Stir over a brisk fire until the eggs begin to set (it requires generally three minutes to stir), then fold into a cushion shape, let it rest for one minute to take colour ; turn on to a hot dish. With the other half of the mixture and butter prepare a second omelet, and put it along with the first. Trim the omelets neatly, sprinkle over with a few bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan, also a few drops of oiled butter, put the dish in a sharp oven or under a hot salamander for a few minutes, and serve with nicely-seasoned hot tomato sauce poured round the omelets. 1891. Fricassee d’CEufs.—6 eggs, 1^ oz. of butter, 1 gill cream, i gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), a small shallot, pepper, salt,591 ENTREMETS SAVOZJREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. a pinch of grated nutmeg, fried bread croutons, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Boil the eggs for fifteen minutes, lay them in cold water, take off the shells, cut them in halves crosswise, take out the yolks for garnish. Peel the shallot and chop finely. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the shallot, and fry a golden colour. Add the sauce, let it come to a boil, mix in the cream; when hot put in the whites of egg, add the seasoning. Stir gently, or, better, shake the pan so as not to break the slices, and keep on the fire until hot. Warm up the yolks in a little thin white sauce, dress them in the centre of a dish, put the whites round the yolks as neatly as possible, sprinkle over with some chopped parsley, garnish with a few croutons of fried bread, and serve. 1892. GEufs a la Dreux.—6 eggs, \ lb. lean ham (cooked), 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, \ oz. butter, \ gill cream, salt and pepper., cayenne, six rounds of buttered toast. Butter thickly six deep patty-pans, chop the ham finely and mix with the parsley, sprinkle well the patty-pans with this, so as to com- pletely cover the inside of each pan, break an egg carefully into each pan, season with a pinch of salt, pepper, and cayenne, and divide the cream equally on top of each egg; put also a tiny piece of butter in each. Put the tins in a saute-pan three-parts full of boiling water, place in the oven, and poach until the whites are completely set. Have ready some rounds of buttered toast as nearly as possible the size of the patty-pans, turn out the pans and dress them carefully on the toast, dish up, and serve very hot. 1898. GEufs a la Milanaise.—6 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls grated Parmesan cheese, 1 tablespoonful cream, toasted bread, pepper, about \ gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 \ oz. butter. Break the eggs into a basin, beat up well with a' tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese and the <$eam, add a pinch of pepper. Divide this into four equal parts. Melt a little butter in an omelet-pan, pour in one part and make into a small omelet, taking care that the omelet is of a nice cushion shape. Proceed thus until four omelets are made. Boll each in Parmesan cheese, put them on an oval shape of buttered toast, sprinkle the surface with more Parmesan, put them on a baking- sheet, and place in a hot oven for two minutes. Dish up on a hot dish, pour round with hot tomato sauce, and serve. 1894. GEufs bvouilles aux JPointes d’Asperges.—6 eggs, 1 gill asparagus tips, 2 oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful cream, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Boil the asparagus tips in salted water until tender, drain well, put them in a saute-pan with an ounce of melted butter, and saute over the fire for five minutes. Break the eggs in a basin, add the cream, season with a little salt, a pinch of pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, beat up well, put it in a stewpan with the remaining ounce of butter, stir over the fire for a little while, then add the asparagus, stir again until the eggs begin to set. Dish up on a hot dish,592 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK garnish with parsley, and serve. Slices of cucumber in place of asparagus points will be found a nice change. A pinch of caster sugar should be added when sauteing if cucumber is used. 1895. (Eufs a la Boston.—6 eggs, oz. butter, ^ large onion, 1 teaspoonful flour, 1 gill milk or cream, 2 oz. chopped cooked ham, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, % gill Madere sauce (No. 237 a). Peel and slice the onion and fry it in an ounce of butter to a golden colour, sprinkle in the flour, stir long enough to cook the flour, moisten with the milk or cream, season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch each of pepper and nutmeg. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs and put the yolks with the onions &c., stir well and add one ounce of chopped ham. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix carefully with the above. Butter a round baking-tin or gratin-dish, dress the mixture neatly on it, sprinkle the top with chopped ham, bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes; when done, turn out on a hot dish and serve with Madere sauce. 1896. Scrambled Eggs.—6 eggs, £ gill cream, f oz. butter, salt and pepper to taste, toasted bread (buttered). Break the eggs into a basin, add pepper and salt, beat with a fork until the yolks and whites are thoroughly mixed. Put it in a stew- pan with the butter and cream, stir over a brisk fire until the mixture begins to set. Have ready a square piece of toasted bread well buttered, cut each into quarters, and put neatly on a hot dish ; turn the egg mixture on to this, garnish with a few sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. Or, instead of dressing the eggs on toast, put the mixture, heaped up, in the centre of a dish, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. 1897. (Eufs brouilles aux Anchois.—6 eggs, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, 1\ oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 6 Gorgona anchovies, a pinch of cayenne pepper and salt, toasted slices of bread, parsley for garnish. Wipe the anchovies with a damp cloth, remove the fillets, and cut into strips. Cut the toast in oblong slices about three inches long and two inches broad, and butter them. Beat up the eggs ; put them, together with the anchovy essence, an ounce of butter, and the cream, in a small stewpan; add a pinch of cayenne, and salt to taste. Stir over the fire until the mixture begins to set; put an equal quantity on the buttered side of each piece of toast; lay the strips of anchovies across each in the shape of lattice-work ; place a caper in each cavity; dish up, put the dish in the oven for a few minutes, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. 1898. (Eufs brouilles aux Truffes (Scrambled Eggs with Truffles).—6 eggs, oz. butter, 1 large truffle, ^ glass Marsala, salt, pepper, nutmeg, 1 slice toasted bread. Cut the truffle into fine shreds; put in a stewpan with the wine and a tiny piece of butter; cover and reduce the liquid to about half its quantity. Break the eggs into a basin ; season with salt, pepper,593 ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. and a pinch of grated nutmeg; mix thoroughly. Melt the butter in a stewpan, pour in the eggs, stir over the fire until the mixture begins to set; then add the truffle &c., quickly. Mix well together; stir over the fire for another minute; then turn on a hot dish on a slice of buttered toast; dress in a heap, garnish with a few sippets of toast, and serve. Note.—Cooked ham, tongue, mushrooms, peas, asparagus points, &c., may be used as a change, in place of the truffles, but for cooked vegetables the wine should be omitted and replaced with cream. 1899. (Eufs brouilles a la Turque (Scrambled Eggs, Turkish Style).—Break six to eight eggs into a basin, season with pepper and salt and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Whisk them well and stir into a stewpan containing an ounce of melted butter ; stir over the fire till the eggs are set enough to be turned out, then dress them in the form of a border on a hot round dish. Have ready a saute of chicken livers (finely sliced and tossed in butter, flavoured with shallot and parsley and suitably seasoned) ; put these in the centre of the dish, pour some hot tomato sauce (No. 271) round the base of the dish, and send to table immediately. 1900. (Eufs garnis a la Coquette.—5 neio-laid eggs, 1 oz. butter, about ^ gill cream, 2 oz. lean ham or tongue, salt, cayenne, and nutmeg. Procure five small china souffle cases; butter them well; put a small piece of butter in each of them, also a tablespoonful of cream, a pinch of salt, and a little grated- nutmeg; place them on a baking- sheet in a hot oven or on the top of the stove. When the contents commence to simmer break carefully in each one egg ; put a tiny pinch of cayenne pepper in the centre of each yolk ; put back on the stove or in the oven, and allow the eggs to set lightly. Have ready the ham or tongue finely chopped, sprinkle over the white part, so as to leave the yolks free ; serve very hot. 1901. (Eufs Miroire a la JPrincesse.— Q eggs, 6 rounds fried bread, 1 oz. butter, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, parsley, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, asparagus-point ragout, salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a saute-pan ; break the eggs one by one into a basin and slide them into the pan, and cook them in the oven until the whites are set; season lightly with white pepper and salt. Cut them out with a plain round cutter and place each on a crouton of fried bread. Ornament the eggs with alternate little groups of chopped ham or tongue, chopped parsley, and chopped yolk of egg (hard-boiled). Dress them neatly on a round dish ; put them in the oven just a second or two ; fill the centre with a ragout of asparagus points and serve. 1902. (Eufs farcis aux Crevettes.—4 hard-boiled eggs, 12 large or 18 small prawns, 3 Gorgona anchovies, 1-| oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful bechamel sauce (No. 202), salt, pepper, and cayenne, 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271). Q QTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 594 Remove the shell from the eggs, cut them in halves crosswise, scoop out the yolks and put them in a mortar, add the boned ancho- vies and picked prawns, and pound very fine. Rub all through a wire sieve; return to the mortar, add the butter and bechamel sauce, mix thoroughly, and season to taste. Fill up the hard-boiled whites of egg, place a prawn-head in the centre of each, sprinkle the surface with a little grated Parmesan cheese ; put them on a buttered dish or saute-pan, and bake in a hot oven for about ten minutes. Dish up neatly, sauce round with hot tomato sauce, and serve. - 1903. CEufs a la Carnot {Hot).—Trim neatly some artichoke bottoms of a nice white colour, cut the edges like a fancy border, keep warm in some dissolved meat glaze. Have ready some rather thick chicken puree, finished with a little fresh butter over the fire. Poach a fresh-laid egg for each fond, place a tablespoonful of chicken puree in the fond, trim the eggs nicely, place on top, dish up, sauce over with gravy, and serve. 1904. Fonds d la President.—Cut the edges of a number of preserved artichoke bottoms as for fancy border, mask them over with some dissolved meat glaze into which a little aspic jelly has been introduced. Put a little chicken puree at the bottom of each fond, cut some hard-boiled eggs in halves, cut off the points evenly, place one half on each fond, on top put a small slice of truffle, mask the whole with aspic jelly, set to cool, and serve. 1905. Croquettes aux CEufs (Egg Croquets or Bolls).—Cut six to eight hard-boiled eggs into slices, rub them through a coarse wire sieve. Mince coarsely a dozen preserved mushrooms, and slightly fry them in an ounce of butter. To this add the egg puree, stir well, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Moisten with sufficient well-reduced bechamel sauce (No. 202) to form a bind- ing. When thoroughly hot pour tlie mixture on a plate and let it cool. Shape the mixture into croquettes, even-sized balls, or cork shapes, dip each into beaten egg (rawr), and cover well with coarse- grained florador or semolina; the former is preferable. Fry in hot fat a golden colour ; dish up neatly and garnish with fried parsley. Note.—The above, dressed around a bed of cooked spinach, nicely seasoned, makes a very tasty dinner or supper dish. 1906. Cromesquis aux CEufs (Egg Cromeskies).—3 hard- boiled eggs, 2 raw yolks of eggs, £ gill bechamel sauce {No. 202), \ teaspoonful finely chopped truffle, \ oz. chopped ox-tongue, 5 thin pancakes {unsweetened), seasoning, frying-batter, frying-fat. Peel the eggs, cut them into slices, and chop rather coarsely; put them in a stewpan, moisten with the sauce and the egg-yolks, season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Stir over the fire till hot, add the truffles and tongue, mix well, and turn on to a plate to cool. Shape into even-sized corks, wrap each in a square piece of pancake, dip into frying-batter, and fry in hot fat. Drain, dish up on a folded napkin, and garnish with crisp parsley.ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 1907. CEufs en Chaud-froid.—6 or more new-laid eggs, 1J gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), ^ gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 gill aspic jelly, £ oz. leaf gelatine, 1 large truffle, slices of cooked ox-tongue or ham, salad and dressing. Poach the eggs carefully in slightly salted water, containing a little lemon-juice ; when set take up and trim and set them on a sieve to cool. Heat up the white sauce ; add to it the gelatine, previously dissolved and strained. Season to taste and mix with a.couple of tablespoonfuls of aspic. When nearly cold mask half the number of poached eggs. This must be done twice, allowing the first coating to set before the second one is added. Now heat up the tomato sauce, and mix in an equal quantity of white sauce and some aspic jelly ; when nearly cold mask the remainder of eggs in the same manner. Cut out as many rounds of tongue or ham as there are eggs ; the slices should be as near as possible the size of the eggs. Place one egg on each slice, mask them over with a thin coating of aspic; decorate tastefully with fancifully-cut slices of truffle. Dish up on a cold dish in the form of a border, fill the centre of the dish with a nicely prepared salad, and serve. 1908. JBiscotins an Fromaf/e.—2 ichole eggs, 3 yolks of eggs, gill milk, j gill cream, 2 oz. grated Gruyere cheese, 1 oz. grated Narmesan cheese, \ oz. butter, seasoning, ^ lb. choux paste. Beat up the eggs in a basin, add the milk and cream and half an ounce of grated cheese, and season with very little salt, white pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg. Fill ten to twelve small tartlet moulds (previously buttered) with this mixture, put them in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, and cook in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Mix the choux paste with one ounce of grated cheese. Meanwhile roll out the choux paste and stamp out as many rounds as there are tartlets, and of similar size ; put them on a buttered baking-tin and bake a golden colour. Place them on a hot dish, dress the cooked custards on these croutes, sprinkle them freely with grated cheese, hold the dish under a red-hot salamander for a few minutes, and serve at once. 1909. JNiokes au Gratia (Gnocchi).—2 oz. blotter, j pint water, 3 oz. flour or 2 oz. florador, 2 eggs, 3 oz. grated cheese, 3 oz. chopped ham, 1| gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), salt, and paprika pepper. Put the water and butter in the stewpan, add a pinch of salt, stir in when boiling the flour or florador, and work over the fire until it becomes perfectly smooth, like a pate a choux. Bemove the pan from the fire, let the paste cool a little, then add the eggs one at a time, and work in at the same time a handful of grated cheese and the ham roughly chopped. Divide the paste, shape it into little quenelle shapes on a floured board, put these into boiling water, and cook for a few minutes. Drain the quenelles on a sieve, let cool, and arrange them neatly on a buttered gratin dish. Cover with well-reducedTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 596 bechamel sauce, sprinkle well with grated cheese, season with a good pinch of paprika, and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. Stand the dish on a folded napkin and serve very hot. 1910. JBeignets a la Gruyere (Cheese Fritters).—About % lb. choux paste (No. 36), 6 oz. Gruyere cheese, 1 egg, soft bread- crumbs, salt, Nepaul pepper, fat for frying. Cut the cheese into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, stamp out some ovals with a pastry-cutter, wipe each piece with a dry cloth, coat one side of each piece of cheese with choux paste, smooth over with a palette knife, beat up the eggs. Have ready a plateful of bread-crumbs, mix with them two saltspoonfuls of salt and a good pinch of Nepaul pepper. Dip the slices of cheese in the egg-crumb, let the coating get dry, then egg and crumb again. Let them stand for a few minutes, and then plunge them into hot fat, and fry until a golden colour. Drain, dish up on a folded napkin, and serve quickly. 1911. JPetites Croutes an Frontage.—White or brown bread, clarified fat or butter for f rying, 1 oz. fresh butter, 1 yolk of egg, 1 dessertspoonful cream or milk, 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 1 oz. bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, and cayenne. Cut some slices of bread about half an inch thick, stamp out some rounds one and a quarter inch in diameter, mark the centre with a smaller cutter, and scoop out the centre to receive the filling. Pre- pare a mixture with the cream, egg-yolk, butter, cheese, and bread- crumbs, season to taste. Fry the hollowed croutes in hot fat a golden colour, drain, and fill with the cheese mixture ; heap up, and smooth the surface with the blade of a knife, put it in the oven for a few minutes, or hold under a hot salamander long enough to brown the top, and serve on a folded napkin. 1912. JDiablotines a la Gruyere.—Line a dozen small dariole moulds with very thin ordinary paste ; boil up a gill of milk in a stewpan, add one ounce of butter, mix with half an ounce of corn- flour, also three ounces of grated Gruyere cheese ; stir well over the fire, and mix with two beaten eggs, season with a little salt and highly with cayenne. Half fill the moulds with this preparation, put a small quantity of anchovy or bloater paste in the centre of each, cover with the remaining mixture, sprinkle the surface with grated cheese, bake in a moderate oven a light brown, turn out, and serve quickly on a folded napkin. 1913. Fetites Marquises a la Suisse.—^ lb. puff-paste trimmings, f pint milk, 1 oz. flour, 1 oz. butter, 1 bay-leaf, 1 small onion, 1 clove, salt, mignonnette pepper, parsley, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. grated Gruyere cheese, 6 oz. choux paste (No. 36). Peel the onion, stick in the clove ; put this, the milk, bay-leaf, and a sprig of parsley in a small stewpan and boil for a few minutes ; melt the butter in another stewpan, stir in the flour, and cook for some minutes without letting the flour take colour ; moisten with the boiled milk ; stir until it boils. Add half an ounce of cheese, seasonENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 597 to taste, and let simmer gently for ten minutes ; then strain through a pointed strainer, and add the yolks of eggs, mix well, and let cool. Eoll out the paste, stamp out some rounds, and line six or eight bouchee, cup, or tartlet moulds; prick the bottoms with a fork, put a tablespoonful of the prepared sauce into each, sprinkle with grated cheese ; upon this put a layer of choux paste, forced through a cornet or forcing-bag ; dredge the surface with grated cheese, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about ten minutes. Unmould, dish up on a folded napkin or lace-paper covered dish, and serve hot. 1914. iBatons Gruyere.—4 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, \ pint milk, 3 eggs, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 1 oz. Gruyere cheese. Sift the flour. Put about half an ounce of butter and the milk into a stewpan, add salt, pepper, cayenne, and grated nutmeg to taste. When it boils stir in the flour and work vigorously over the fire until the paste is smooth and leaves the sides and bottom of the pan clean. Let cool a little, then work in one by one the yolks of three eggs and the grated cheese. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth and incorporate also, together with the remainder of the butter, previously oiled. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered baking-sheet or saute-pan and sprinkle over with a layer of finely-shredded Gruyere cheese. Bake in a moderately heated oven, cut it into convenient oblong slices (baton shapes), and serve as hot as possible. 1915. Houles au JParmesan.—6 oz. fine bread-crumbs, 6 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 oz. fresh butter, 2 eggs, cayenne, panarette {red bread-crumbs), frying-fat. Mix the fresh bread-crumbs, grated cheese, and butter well together. Add a pinch of cayenne, beat up the eggs and add enough to form a paste. Shape this into balls about the size of walnuts, brush over with beaten egg, roll in red bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat a nice colour, drain, dish up, and sprinkle with grated cheese and serve hot. 1916. Quenelles au JParmesan.—4 oz. bread-crumbs, 6 oz. butter, a pint good stock, 8 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 4 eggs, bechamel sauce {No. 202), grated nutmeg. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the bread-crumbs, add a couple of tablespoonfuls of stock, and work over the fire until the mixture leaves the bottom and sides of the pan perfectly clean. Add two pinches of grated nutmeg and a pinch of salt. Allow the mixture to cool a little, then stir in nearly all the cheese, two whole and the yolks of two eggs. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and add also. Put the remainder of stock in a stewpan with half as much water, season to taste, and when boiling drop in by means of a table- spoon neat shapes of the mixture, boil for several minutes, then drain and dish up. Pour over some hot bechamel sauce and serve. 1917. Souffles au PapriPa—Make a choux paste (No. 86), incorporate two ounces grated cheese and a sufficiency of paprika pepper to taste, add also the whites of two eggs whisked very stiff.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 598 Three parts fill some buttered china or paper souffle ' cases with this mixture and bake in a sharp ovqn for about fifteen minutes. 1918. Fonda Souffle an Parmesan.—2 oz. Brown & Poison’s corn-flour, f pint milk, 6 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 yolks and 4 whites of eggs, 1 oz. butter. Mix the corn-flour with a little milk, then stir into it the remainder of milk boiling. Stir with a wooden spoon over the fire until it thickens, then add one or two yolks of eggs, the grated cheese, and seasoning (salt, pepper, nutmeg, or cayenne). Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mingle carefully with the above when it has cooled a little. Put the mixture in a well-buttered silver-plated vegetable dish, and bake from eight to ten minutes in a brisk oven. Serve immediately. 1919. Creme an Frontage.—10 yolks of eggs, 8 whites of eggs, 6 oz. butter, 8 oz. grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese, | gill double cream, salt, pepper, cayenne and nutmeg to taste. Put the yolks of eggs and the butter in a stewpan and stir over the fire long enough to bind the former without curdling. Then add the cream. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix these carefully with the above; season with salt, pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a grate of nutmeg. Pour into a buttered souffle-dish, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 1920. Tomates farcies an C vat in (Baked Tomatoes)-.— Select some small firm, ripe, and even-sized tomatoes, remove the stems, cut off the top of each, and scoop out the centre without break- ing them. Fry two or three chopped shallots in a little butter, add minced ham, mushrooms, and herbs, and moisten with some brown sauce, incorporate a few bread-crumbs, and season with salt and pepper; fill the tomatoes with this. Sprinkle some bread-crumbs and grated cheese over the top of each, and bake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. 1921. Fetites Gondoles an Farmesan.—Line twelve small boat-shape or oval moulds with ordinary paste-crust, fill with peas or rice, bake in the oven a nice colour, and take out the rice or dried peas. Put in a stewpan three tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce, warm up, and add about a gill of savoury aspic, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Allow it to reduce a little. Incorporate with one table- spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese and two of grated Gruyere cheese. When perfectly cool add half a gill of whipped double cream. Fill a forcing-bag with the mixture and proceed to fill up the baked crusts, sprinkle the tops with grated Parmesan, and serve. 1922. Failles au Farmesan (Cheese Straws).—About 6 oz. puff-paste, 2 oz. freshly grated Parmesan cheese, cayenne pepper. Roll out the paste, sprinkle well with grated cheese, fold in three, and give it one turn. Allow it to stand for ten minutes, and repeat the operation until the cheese is used up. Do not use any flour for flouring the board ; use grated cheese in place. When rolling out forENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 599 the last time sprinkle with a little cayenne pepper. Cut th*e paste into very narrow strips about three inches long, twist each strip in screw-like fashion, and place in rows on a wetted baking-sheet. Shape also four or five rings about an inch and a quarter in dia- meter. Bake the strips and rings in a slow oven for about ten minutes. Make up into bundles by means of the rings, dish up on a folded napkin, and serve hot. 1923. Macaroni a la Dieppoise.—h lb. Naples macaroni, 1 quart stock, 1 gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), ^ lb. chicken force- meat, 12 fresh prawns, 2 oz. butter, lobster spawn, H oz. grated Parmesan cheese, seasoning. Blanch the macaroni, pour into a colander, place them again in a stewpan with two quarts of water, and parboil; strain off the water, cut the macaroni into pieces about an inch long, add the stock, butter, and half a teaspoonful of salt, let simmer until tender, stir in half the cheese, and season with pepper. Mix the forcemeat with sufficient cooked lobster spawn to colour, and remove the tails from the prawns. Butter a silver-plated gratin-dish, put a little bechamel sauce on the dish, spread a thick layer of macaroni, next put on a layer of force- meat, then another layer of macaroni, sprinkle a little grated Parmesan between the layers, use forcemeat for the next layer, coat well with bechamel sauce, cover with Parmesan cheese, arrange the prawns round the edge of the mixture in a circular form, sprinkle with a few fresh bread-crumbs in the centre, also a few drops of oiled butter. Bake in a moderately heated oven for about half an hour, garnish with the heads of the prawns and a few bits of curly parsley, put the dish on to another suitable dish, and serve hot. 1924. Croquettes de Semoule.—1 lb. semolina or coarse- grained florador, 1 pint of milk, 3 eggs, 1 oz. of grated Parmesan, 1 oz. of butter, bread-crumbs, frying-fat, pepper and salt. Cook the semolina or florador in the milk (let the milk and butter boil up, and stir in the semolina) ; cook slowly for ten minutes. Season with a little salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; add three yolks of eggs, and the cheese ; beat up well and spread on a flat dish to cool. Stamp out into shapes (oblong or round), dip in beaten egg, crumb well, fry in hot fat or clarified butter, strain on a cloth; dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 1925. Petits Cannelons aa Florador.—\ lb. nouille paste, 4 oz. florador, 1 oz. butter, 1 pint milk, 2 oz. grated cheese, 1 egg, 2 slices cooked ham or tongue, bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, frying-fat or butter. Put the milk and butter in a stewpan ; when boiling sprinkle in the florador, stir and boil gently for ten minutes, then add the grated cheese and a pinch of salt and pepper to taste. Spread the mixture on a flat dish. Boll out the nouille paste very thinly, cut it into even-sized pieces about an inch wide and three inches long. Spread the centre with a thick layer of the mixture, put a strip of ham or600 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK tongue iii the middle of each, wet the edges a little and roll each piece neatly, so that the paste completely envelops the mixture. Beat up the egg, brush over the cannelons, roll them in bread-crumbs ; when dry egg and crumb again; fry in hot fat or clarified butter, drain, and dish up on a napkin or lace-paper ; garnish with parsley. 1926. Attereaux a l’Iniperiale.—3 oz. semolina or coarse- grained fiorador, % pint milk, 1 egg, 2 yolks of eggs, | lb. Gruyere cheese, seasoning, \ oz. butter, bread-crumbs, frying-fat. Put the milk in a stewpan, add a small blade of mace, 1 small bay-leaf, and the butter ; when it boils stir in the semolina or fiorador. Let it cook while stirring for about ten minutes, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg; remove the mace and bay-leaf, add the two yolks of eggs and a tablespoonful of grated cheese. Stir over the fire until the liaison of egg is formed ; then turn out on a plate or dish and let cool. The cheese should be cut into quarter-inch thick slices and into rounds about three-quarters of an inch in diameter. When the mix- ture is cold stamp out some rounds the same size as the cheese ; fasten four rounds of the latter with alternate rounds of cheese (three) on to a skewer, and proceed thus until all the mixture and cheese are used up. Beat up the eggs, dip each wooden or steel skewer shape in the egg, cover with bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat a golden brown. As soon as the frying is completed remove the shapes from the skewers, and fasten them on to silver-plated skewers, fix these on a round of toasted bread placed ready on a dish, and serve at once. 1927. Golden Such.—£ lb. Cheddar cheese, 1 oz. butter, a wineglassful of ale, celery salt, Nepaul pepper, 2 eggs, 1 table- spoonful cream, £ teaspoonful lemon-juice, i teaspoonful Worcester sauce. A slice of buttered toasted bread. Mince the cheese, and put it in a small stewpan with the butter, ale, a saltspoonful of celery salt, and half a saltspoonful of Nepaul pepper. Beat up the eggs with the cream and stir into the stewpan. Mix thoroughly and whisk the mixture over the fire till creamy and partly set, flavour with lemon-juice and Worcester sauce. Pour this upon hot buttered toast, cut into four. Garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley and send to table. 1928. Biscuits ail Parmesan (Cheese Biscuits).—3 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a pinch of cayenne and salt; whipped cream for garnish. Sift the flour and cayenne on to a board, rub in the butter, and mix with the grated cheese. Make a well in the centre, put in the yolks, lemon-juice, and a teaspoonful of water, and work to a smooth stiff paste. Boll out the pastry very thinly, stamp out some small rounds, place on a floured baking-sheet, prick them with a fork, and bake in a cool oven for a few minutes. Before serving place a small quantity of whipped cream mixed with Parmesan and a pinch of cayenne, in the shape of a pyramid, in the centre of each biscuit.ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 601 1929. Biscuits de From age d la Creme.—3 oz. Vienna flour, 1 oz. Paisley flour, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. Parmesan cheese {grated), i lemon, 2 yolks of eggs, ^ gill cream, salt, and cayenne pepper. Put the flour into a basin, mix it with about a quarter of a tea- spoonful of salt and a pinch of caypnne. Rub in the butter until quite smooth, then mix three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese ; add the juice of half a lemon, the two yolks of eggs, and work into a stiff paste. If too short for rolling add a few drops of milk, but the less the better. Roll out the paste about one-eighth of an inch thick, stamp out some round shapes, place them on a baking-sheet, prick them with a fork, and bake for ten minutes in a cool oven. Whip the cream, add the remaining ounce of cheese and a pinch of cayenne, put a little pyramid in the centre of each biscuit by means of a forcing-bag or cornet, and serve cold on a folded napkin or dish-paper. 1930. Amandes salees {Salted Almonds).—Planch and peel some whole almonds, spread them on a paper-covered board or baking-sheet, and bake to a golden colour. Dissolve a little gum arabic in some water, just enough to thicken—about half a gill of water. Sprinkle the almonds while hot with this, shake well, and dust over with fine salt by means of a salt-dredger. Shake up the almonds from time to time until they are cool; they will then be ready for serving. Salted almonds, the same as pistachios, filberts, or hazel nuts, which can be done in the same way, are dished up in fancy paper cases, and are handed round with the dessert. They should remain on the table during the whole of the dinner. 1931. Amandes d la JDiable.-—^ lb. almonds, 1 oz. butter, ^ gill sweet oil, salt, cayenne pepper. Scald and peel the almonds, place them on a baking-tin, and dry in a cool oven. Clarify the butter, add the oil, and, when hot, put in the almonds ; keep stirring gently until they are equally slightly browned. Put them in a frying-basket, drain and shake well; then put them on a cloth, sprinkle liberally with fine salt and cayenne pepper, fold the cloth, and shake them a few seconds. Dish up and serve hot. 1932. CEufs d la Matelote {Eggs, Seaman’s Waij).—Poach some eggs in a rich meat stock, trim them and dress them on rounds of buttered toast, sauce over with a rich brown sauce flavoured with savoury herb and onion. Garnish with strips of fillets of anchovies. 1933. Fyramide d’CEufs d la Be forme {Egg Pyramid, Reform Style).—These are stuffed halves of hard-boiled eggs, dished up in a pyramidal form, sprinkled over with finely shredded ham and truffles. Sauce over with a rich brown sauce, and bake in a quick oven. 1934. CEufs d la Garfield {Eggs, Garfield Style).—These are very similar to Scotch eggs. Take some hard-boiled eggs, remove the shells, and cover them with a layer of force or sausage meat, egg and crumb them with crushed vermicelli, fry in deep fat or clarified butter, and serve with piquante sauce.602 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1935. Biz a la Florentine (Bice, Florentine Style).—This is rice cooked in rich broth mixed with picked shrimps, crayfish-tails, or prawns, flavoured with curry paste, grated Parmesan cheese, and finely chopped fried onions. An excellent breakfast dish. 1936. Biz a la Turque (Bice, Turkish Fashion).—Stewed rice seasoned and flavoured with saffron powder, cayenne pepper, Smyrna raisins, and finished with fresh butter. , 1937. Biz a la Bolonai.se (Bice, Polish Style).—Thinly sliced fried onions and finely shredded cooked ham are mixed with rice cooked in meat stock and strained. Season and flavour with cayenne pepper and grated cheese. 1938. Biz a la Bievnontai&e (Bice, Piedmontese Style).— Stewed rice made savoury with finely chopped fried shallots, grated Parmesan cheese, and cayenne pepper. This is dressed in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes and served as a breakfast or supper dish. 1939. Biz a la Milanaise (Bice, Milanese Fashion).—Stewed rice mixed with finely chopped cooked meat, such as fowl, game, tongue, or ham, flavoured with grated Parmesan cheese, seasoned with salt, nutmeg, and pepper. 1940. Biz a I’JEspagnole (Bice, Spanish Style).—Boiled rice, drained and fried in olive oil, mixed with tomato stew and slices of ham, seasoned with grated cheese and Spanish sweet pepper ; the dish is garnished with rounds of ham and slices of smoked sausages. 1941. Bisoletti (Savoury Bice Croquets).—These are croquets made of stewed rice, seasoned with a rich brown or red savoury sauce. Some prepared mincemeat (salpicon) is enclosed in the centre of the croquets; they are then dipped in egg and bread-crumbs, and fried in deep fat. Drain, dish up, and serve for breakfast or supper, or use as a garnish for entrees. 1942. Biz a la Beine (Bice, Queen's Style).—This is a delicious breakfast dish, and consists of stewed rice mixed with finely chopped hard-boiled white of eggs and the white part of cooked haddock finely shredded, seasoned, and mixed with grated cheese. Dish up in a pyramidal form, and allow it to brown in a quick oven.603 CHAPTER XXIX PATISSERIE, COMPRISING CONTINENTAL PASTRY, GATEAUX, TARTELETTES, AND BISCUITS PATES D’OFFICE (CULINARY PASTES) Recipes under this heading include those which serve as a founda- tion, lining, or filling for entremets &c. There are two varieties, the pastes and the creams. The latter are more commonly known as crimes pdtissieres or cremes d'office ; these are used largely in the preparation of Continental pastry. 1943. Short Crust Paste (Pate a foncer).—1 lb. flour, % lb. blotter, a pinch of salt, about ^ pint water. Sift the flour, add the salt, nob in lightly the butter, moisten with sufficient water to make the paste, knead it until it forms a smooth paste. Let it rest in a cool place for about an hour before using it. For fruit pie-crust, tartlets, &c., add an ounce of caster sugar and one yolk of egg, proceeding in the same manner, using enough water to work the ingredients into a smooth but not too firm paste. MAKING A WELL 1944. Feuilletage (Puff-paste).—1 lb. flour, | oz. salt, 1 lb. butter, abotot % pint water, 1 teaspoonful lemon-jioice. Sift the flour on to the pastry slab, add the salt, make a well in the centre, put in sufficient cold water and the lemon-juice to form a smooth paste, working in at the same time a little butter about the size of a walnut. Knead the paste as little as possible, and allow it to stand for a few minutes before working in the remainder of the butter.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 604 Wash the butter in iced water, knead it in a wet cloth, and shape into a flat square. Roll out the paste into a square about twice the size of the butter; the sides of the paste should be rolled somewhat thinner than the centre. Put the butter in the centre of the paste, fold in the four sides, so as to completely envelop the butter. Roll out very gently and in one direction only, and fold in three; this is called the first turn. Keep the paste in a cool place and repeat rolling and folding it as before three or four times, allowing the paste to cool for at least ten minutes between the turns. The paste is then ready for use. 1945. Pate <VOffice (a Useful Paste for Lining Tartlets, dc.).—£ lb. flour, 3 oz. sugar {caster), 1 oz. butter, 1 small egg, 1 tea- spoonful of chopped lemon-rind, a pinch of salt. Mix and work the above ingredients in the usual way ; if too dry moisten with a little milk (knead well). HOW TO KNEAD PASTE 1946. Pate nouille {Nouille Paste).— lib. flour, 1 ^ oz. butter, 2 small whole or 3 yolks of eggs, a pinch of salt, a little milk or water. Sift the flour on to the pastry slab, make a well in the centre. Add the salt, eggs, and butter. Mix thoroughly and knead to a stiff but elastic paste ; a little milk or water should be added with the eggs. Great care must, however, be taken not to make the paste too soft. This paste requires at least fifteen minutes’ kneading. Divide into pieces, roll out very thinly, and use as directed. 1947. Pate Puchesse.—1 pint cream, 2 oz. caster sugar, j lb. butter, 1 teaspoonful orange-flower water, a pinch of salt, flour, 2 or 3 eggs. Put the cream, sugar, butter, orange-flower water, and salt in a stewpan, and when at the boiling-point stir in enough sifted flour to form a dry paste, and work over the fire till the flour is cooked. When a little cool add two or three eggs.PATISSERIE, ETC. 60 1948. Pdte brisee d VAncliois (.Anchovy Paste Crust for Savouries).—6 oz. flour, 2^ oz. butter, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon milk or cream, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence or anchovy paste. Sift the flour, rub in the butter, add the anchovy, the egg, and sufficient cream or milk to work it into a stiff but smooth paste. Line moulds &c. as directed. 1949. Pdte a Pate (Raised Pie Crust).—1 lb. flour, 1 gill milk, 4 oz. lard. Sift the flour, put the milk and lard into a small stewpan, and beat up. Mix a small quantity of water with this, and work into the flour to produce a firm but smooth paste. Use the paste for lining, and covering for raised pies, pork or game. 1950. Hough Puff or Half-Puff Paste (Demi-feuilletage). —1 lb. flour, 12 oz. butter, a pinch of salt, lemon-juice, and water. Sift the flour on to a paste-board, make a well, and put in half a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, the salt, and an ounce of the butter ; add enough water to make a smooth yet stiff paste. Roll out, fold in the remainder of the butter, and proceed in the same manner as directed in No. 1944. Roll and fold four times in all. This paste is used for meat or fruit pie crust, tartlets, &c. 1951. Pdte d Clioax (Choux Paste for Sweet Dishes).—( lb. butter, 1 pint water, 1 lemon, 2 oz. sugar, a pinch of salt, 2 or 8 eggs, about 4 oz. flour. Put the water, butter, lemon-rind finely chopped, sugar, and salt in a stewpan on the fire, and when at the boiling point stir in sufficient flour to form a stiff paste, and work over the fire till the flour is cooked. When a little cool add two or three eggs according to size. 1952. Macaroon Paste.—4 oz. ground almonds, \ lb. caster sugar, 3 ivhites of eggs, 3 drops almond essence. Pound the almonds and sugar in a mortar ; add the whites of eggs one at a time ; pound well, so as to thoroughly mix it; last of all add the essence, and use as required. If placed in a jar and covered it will keep good for some time. 1953. Creme d’Amandes. — Pound a pound and a half of blanched almonds with half a pound of caster sugar ; when fine enough pass through a sieve. Then make a cream with half a pound of sugar, half a pint of milk, two ounces of flour (sifted). Cook for ten minutes ; add one yolk of egg and a few drops of vanilla essence. When the mixture is sufficiently creamy incorporate the almond paste. 1954. Pdte d’Amandes (Almond Paste).—Put six ounces of loaf sugar in a stewpan, add a pinch of cream of tartar and about a tablespoonful of water, bring it to the boil, remove the scum, and boil to the ball degree, i.e. 235 degrees by Senn’s saccharometer, then pour it into a basin containing three ounces of ground almonds, mix thoroughly with about half the white of an egg. When well worked turn out on a board and use as required.THE NEW CENTVBY COOKERY BOOK 606 1955. Almond Paste (Xo. 2).—14 lb. lump sugar, saffron, 1 gill toater, 3 drops almond essence, f lb. ground almonds, 1 egg. Put sugar and water in a copper pan; when dissolved place on the fire and let boil to the small blow degree ; add the almonds and essence, also saffron to give it a yellow tint; turn on a slab and work in one whole egg; work to a soft paste. 1956. Galcttes.—Sift a pound and a half of flour on to the table, make a well, put in the centre of it half a pound of caster sugar, four eggs, a pinch of salt, a quarter of an ounce of ground ammonia, and work into a fairly smooth dough by adding the needed quantity of milk. Roll out about one-third of an inch thick, cut out into rounds with a three- inch round cutter, and place them on a buttered baking-sheet about half an inch apart. Brush over with egg and milk, mark the surface of each by means of a four-pronged fork, and bake in a fairly sharp oven. 1957. Pate 3fadeleine.—1 tb. flour, 4 lb. butter, 1 lb. caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful orange-floioer water, the juice and rind of \ a lemon, 6 eggs. Sift the flour and put it with the sugar and butter (previously oiled) in a stewpan; add the orange-flower water, lemon-juice, and the lemon-rind finely chopped. Work in the yolks of eggs ; beat the whites to snow and incorporate with the mixture. 1958. Creme pdtissiere {Confectioner's Custard).—14 pint milk, 4 oz. sugar, 4 yolks of eggs, \ oz. potato flour (Jecule de pommes de terre), 3 sheets French gelatine, flavouring essence. Boil the milk, add the sugar and flavouring. Beat the yolks of eggs with the fecule, pour gradually the hot milk on to this, and stir over a slow fire until it begins to thicken. Dissolve the gelatine and mix with the above, strain through a fine sieve, let cool, and use as directed. 1959. Creme Frangiparte.—h lb. flour {sifted), 2 oz. butter, £ lb. caster sugar, 1 pint milk, 4 eggs, a pinch of salt. Put into a small stewpan two whole eggs and four yolks, stir in the flour, the sugar, almonds, and a tiny pinch of salt ; stir well with a wooden spoon ; add the milk little by little, stirring well, to avoid the formation of lumps; now add the butter, and stir continuously over a gentle fire, taking great care that it does not burn or stick to the bottom of the pan. Cook for about ten minutes, add flavouring essence, and turn into a basin. Use as required. 1960. Creme d Gateau de Pith trier.—\ lb. caster sugar, 4 lb. butter, 4 lb. sioeet almonds (blanched), 2 eggs, 4 gill double cream. Pound the almonds with the sugar and add one egg. When the almonds are in a smooth paste add the other eggs. Mix thoroughly, and add the cream last. Add any desired flavour and use as required. 1961. Creme, d Gateau fourre.—4 lb. sugar, 4 lb. sweet almonds (blanched), 4 lb. butter.607 PATISSERIE, ETC. Pound the almonds to a paste with the sugar and a few drops of lemon-juice ; put this paste into a stewpan, add the butter, and work all together over a slow fire. To this put an equal quantity of creme frangipane (No. 1959). When well mixed put it into a jar to keep for use. 1962. Tourte a la Frangipane.—£ lb. short-crust (No. 1943) or puff-paste trimmings, 3 oz. flour, 4 yolks of eggs, i pint cream or milk, 2 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. butter, 1 inch cinnamon, 1 inch of vanilla-pod (split), 2 oz. ground almonds, a pinch of salt. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick. Pace a flan or pastry ring, about six inches in diameter, on a baking-tin, butter slightly, and line with paste; notch the edges with the hack of a knife, prick the parts with a fork, and fill with frangipane cream (No. 1959). Bake a golden colour in a moderately heated oven. Dust with caster or icing sugar, and glaze. Serve hot or cold. 1963. Fate a Brioche (Brioche Paste).—1 lb. flour, 4 oz. butter, 2 or 3 eggs, k oz. yeast, £ gill milk, 1 teaspooonful caster sugar, and a pinch of salt. Mix the yeast with a little tepid water ; add sufficient flour to make a sponge paste, and allow to stand for an hour or so. Put the remainder of the flour in a basin, add the salt and sugar, break and beat up the egg. Melt the butter in a little warm milk. Stir this gradually into the yeast and then mix with the flour &c., and work into a dough. Knead well for a good quarter of an hour. Then stand it in a basin and allow to raise for about two or three hours, keeping it in a moderate temperature. Then make up into shapes or mould and bake. 1964. Icing for Gateaux, Petits Fours, and Small Cakes (Fondant for Masking Cakes and Gateaux).—lk lb. lump sugar, a good pinch of cream of tartar, about a gill of boiling water. Put the sugar into a copper stewpan, add the pinch of cream of tartar, pour the water (boiling) over, and let stand on the stove until the sugar is quite dissolved. Set it over a quick fire and allow it to boil up quickly for a few minutes. The best way to find out when the sugar has boiled sufficiently is to try the heat with a thermometer, which should register 230 degrees for fondant sugar. Take it from the fire and rub the syrup with a wooden spoon against the sides for a minute or two. After it has stood to cool for a few minutes sprinkle a few drops of cold water over the top and stir until it becomes a white or creamy substance. It is best to turn it into an earthenware basin as soon as it is done. It can be kept for a long time if covered over with a thick damp.cloth, which should, of course, be changed and redamped from time to time. When required for use a quantity is put into a stewpan or basin and stood in hot water over the fire, and is worked until it is fit for glazing. A little water may be added if not soft enough. In order to know when lTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 608 the fonclant is fit for use it should be just warm enough to bear the finger in it. Any flavouring can be added when melted ; use always the best quality. Chocolate flavour is added by grating a small quantity of unsweetened chocolate or cocoa powder, both of which should be previously melted before being added. For coffee flavour use extract or essence of coffee. 1965. Water Icing or Transparent Icing.—Put a pound of loaf sugar into a clean and dry stewpan or copper sugar boiler; add half a gill of warm water, stir with a wooden spoon until the sugar is dissolved; then place it over the fire and boil for about five minutes, or until it is reduced to a thick syrup. It should register 230 degrees Fahr. on the saccharometer. Pour it into a basin and stir till almost cold. Use it for coating or covering cakes and pastry. This icing must be used before it is quite cold, otherwise the covering will not be successful. 1966. Glace fondante an Cafe (Coffee Icing).—Put a pound of best icing sugar or very fine caster sugar in a copper pan, add about a gill of water and boil it to the small ball degree; turn out into a basin, and work with a spatula until it becomes creamy; flavour with a dessertspoonful of best coffee essence. Dip in the surface of the gateaux and finish as directed. It is necessary to remember that if fondant icing is used too warm it will lose its brilliancy, and that it should be stirred until it has reached the desired consistency for icing —in other words, the icing point. 1967. lieurre au Cafe (Hoka) (Coffee Butter for decorating Pastry and Cakes).—£ lb. fresh butter, 4 oz. caster sugar, 1 yolk of egg, essence of coffee. Cream the sugar and yolk of egg for about ten minutes ; add a few drops of coffee essence or very strong freshly-made coffee, so as to impart a flavour of coffee. Work in by degrees the butter, previously put in a warm place to make it soft. When sufficiently worked put it on the ice for a few minutes, stir again, and use for garnish by means of a forcing-bag and fancy tube or a paper cornet, point cut according to requirement. 1968. Glace royale (Royal Icing).—Put half a pound of icing sugar in a clean and dry basin, add a teaspoonful of lemon-juice ; work these to a creamy substance with the white of one egg. Beat it with a wooden spoon until the mixture is a white, shiny, and fairly con- sistent paste. 1969. Chocolate Icing.—Break three ounces of Van Houten’s chocolate into small pieces, put it in a clean and dry stewpan with half a gill of water, place it on the fire and stir with a wooden spoon until melted; then stir in half a pound of icing sugar. When well dissolved remove from the fire and use while warm as required. 1970. Vanilla Sugar.— Split some vanilla-pod, cut it up into small pieces, and pound in a mortar with a quantity of caster sugar609 PATISSERIE, ETC. (two pounds of sugar to one ounce of vanilla); when fine pass through a sieve, and keep in a well-closed tin or jar. 1971. Meringues (Shells).—| lb. sifted sugar, 6 whites of eggs. Whisk the whites of eggs in an egg-bowl until they represent a stiff froth ; mix them with the sugar lightly ; be careful not to work the batter too much in mixing, otherwise the froth will become too soft for shaping. The preparation is then ready for moulding the desired shapes of meringues; this may be effected with a spoon, with a cornet, or piping-bag. Place some foolscap paper on a baking-sheet, or on a board of about three-quarters of an inch thick, shape the meringues on it in rows, keep them about an inch apart from each other, dust them with sifted sugar, place them in a very moderate oven for about two houi;s. When done take up each meringue, break in the bottom carefully with your thumb, put back on the baking- sheet, and allow them to dry overnight in a warm place. 1972. Meringues au Citron.—Proceed as before; add the rind of half a lemon finely chopped and mixed with the sugar ; when baked cool fill with whipped cream slightly sweetened. 1973. Meringues mix Amandes.—Proceed as before, adding a quarter of a pound of peeled, dried, and pounded almonds to the sugar, and proceed as previously described. 1974. Meringues mix IHstaches.—A quarter of a pound of pistachio kernels, peeled, dried, and pounded with two whites of eggs; make a stiff froth of five whites of eggs, and mix with a quarter of a pound of sugar ; whisk all over the fire until it becomes cold, then add the pistachios, and mix carefully. Shape the meringues and bake. If liked, two ounces of ground almonds and two ounces of pistachios may be used in place of the four ounces of pistachios. 1975. Genoise Paste.—5 whole eggs, 4 oz. caster sugar, 3 oz. flour, dried and sifted, 2 oz. warmed blotter. Separate the whites of eggs from the yolks, place the whites in a copper egg-bowl and the yolks in a round basin ; to the latter add the sugar, and work them well with a wooden spoon for about five minutes. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, mix the flour and butter, and whisk lightly with the yolks to incorporate the ingredients ; the mixture will then be feady for pouring into buttered and floured tins, sheets, fancy moulds, &c. 1976. Genoise au Chocolat.—Prepare the same mixture as given for plain Genoise, but incorporate with the yolks and sugar two ounces of ground almonds and one ounce of grated chocolate. 1977. Genoise au Cafe.—Add a dessertspoonful of best coffee extract, with the yolks of eggs and sugar, and prepare the same mixture with the given ingredients as for Genoise. 1978. Genoise decoree.—Prepare the Genoise mixture (any flavour) and put into a square baking-sheet; if you do not have one with the sides turned up all round fasten a piece of wood across the It R610 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK part which is open, to keep the mixture from running off. Bake it in a quick oven to a nice yellow colour ; cut it into fancy or plain shapes, put them to dry, then glaze them with different coloured fondant or glace royale ; when dry ornament with apple and red currant jelly. 1979. Gateau Genoise (Genoise Cake).—6 eggs, ^ oz. caster sugar, 6 oz. butter, 6 oz. flour, the thin rind of | a lemon finely chopped. Break the eggs into a basin or into a copper egg-bowl; beat up with a whisk and add the sugar ; whisk these together over a stew- pan of boiling water for about fifteen minutes, till it appears like a thick cream, then stir in by degrees the flour (sifted) and the butter (melted); lastly add the lemon-rind, pour this mixture into a well- buttered saute-pan, and bake in a moderately heated oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes. Turn out, let cool, and use as required. 1980. Madeleines d’Fpernay.—^ lb. caster sugar, 7 eggs, 4 oz. sifted flour, the rind of half a lemon finely chopped, 1 oz. of ground almonds, 2 oz. butter. Put the sugar into a basin, stir in the yolks of the eggs one at a time, and beat until it resembles a thick cream; stir in half the flour, the lemon-rind, and almonds. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, melt the butter, work in gently the whites of eggs, the remainder of the flour, and the melted butter. The mixing must be done very carefully, so as to retain as much as possible the frothy consistency of the whites of eggs. Three-parts fill some well-buttered madeleine or floured patty-pans, bake them in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. 1981. Sponge Cakes.—6 oz. flour, 6 oz. caster sugar, 6 yolks and 4 ichites of eggs, a gill of milk. Sift the flour and put it in front of the fire to dry ; cream the sugar and egg-yolks, and beat or whisk for at least twenty minutes ; now add the milk and flour together, mix the whites of eggs, which have been whisked to a stiff froth, the flour, and eggs; the whites must be worked in very lightly and by degrees, i.e. in small quantities. Three-parts fill some well buttered and sugared or floured sponge-cake moulds. Bake in a moderately heated oven for about thirty minutes. 1982. Sponge Fingers.-—Prepare a mixture as for sponge cakes, as directed in the foregoing recipe, put it into a forcing-bag with a plain tube, and force out even-sized and even-shaped fingers on to a greased baking-sheet. Dredge them with caster sugar and bake in a moderately heated oven for about fifteen minutes. 1983. Pain d’Fpice (French Gingerbread).—f lb. flour, { lb. ground rice, % oz. baking-powder, 1 oz. ginger {ground), 8 oz. honey or treacle, ^ gill milk, 1 egg, 4 oz. ground almonds, 8 oz. butter, 1 lemon, 1 saltspoonful grated nutmeg, 1 ditto ground clove. Sift the flour, baking-powder, and ground rice, and mix together. Put the honey or treacle and butter in a warm jar, and put in a warm place until the butter is dissolved. Peel the lemon thinly and chop611 PATISSERIE, ETC. the rind finely. Stir the liquids with the beaten egg into the flour, add the chopped lemon-rind, ground almonds, ginger, nutmeg, and cloves. Beat for fully twenty minutes. Form into balls, or put the mixture into a well-greased baking- tin, bake in a moderately heated oven for about forty minutes, let cool, cut into convenient shapes or slices, and serve. If desired, the cake can be glazed with transparent icing before it is cut up. 1984. Tranches a la Weir/e.—^ lb. butter, l lb. caster sugar, £ lb. flour, 2 oz. icing sugar, 2 oz. ground almonds, £ rind lemon- peel, 4 yolks of eggs, 6 whites of eggs. Work the butter with the egg-yolks and caster sugar; add the flour, beat up four whites of eggs, and mix gently with the mixture; bake in a flat, oblong buttered tin, whisk the two remaining whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix with them sugar, ground almonds, and lemon- peel. Spread over the surface thickly, but in convenient slices. Shape neatly, and bake quickly a light yellow. Dust with sugar before baking. Fruit jam can be spread thinly over the cake before the snow is added. 1985. Langues cle Chat.—^ lb. fresh butter, | lb. icing sugar, 5 whites of eggs, 4 oz. flour, vanilla flavouring. Cream the butter and add the sugar, work well for about ten minutes, and incorporate one by one the five whites of eggs. Lastly add the vanilla flavour (about half a teaspoonful) and the flour (sifted). Dress in the form of little tongues (cats’ tongues) on a buttered and floured baking-sheet, and bake in a slack oven. This forms one of the most popular dessert biscuits both here and on the Continent. 1986. Champignons.—4 ivhites of eggs, a pinch cream of tartar, 6 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. chocolate powder, 12 oz. icing sugar, a small quantity of almond paste (No. 1954). Put the whites of eggs into a clean copper bowl or basin, add the cream of tartar, and whisk to a very stiff froth or foam. When firm gently work in the caster sugar. Put this mixture in a forcing or Savoy bag with a plain tube, force out meringue shapes to the size and form of macaroons (i.e. mushrooms) on to a baking-sheet lined with paper, dredge with chocolate powder, and bake in a very cool oven. For each meringue shape a small stalk (i.e. mushroom stalk) out of almond paste, and dry them in a cool oven. When the meringues are firm damp the paper, remove the shapes, and glaze the bottom part of each with chocolate icing, made by heating the remainder of chocolate powder with the icing sugar till dissolved ; insert the stalks before the icing has quite set. When cool dish up and serve. 1987. Gaufres a la Suisse.—For gaufres : ^ lb. ground almonds, % oz. flour, £ lb. caster sugar, 1 egg whole and two yolks, 10 drops vanilla essence. For cream : 2 whites of eggs, 2 oz. ground almonds, 4 teaspoonful ground cinnamon, 1 tablespoonful cream, £ lb. icing sugar.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 612 Cream the sugar and eggs together; when perfectly smooth and creamy mix with a quarter of a pound of ground almonds, flour, and the vanilla essence. Grease a baking-sheet, and place upon it table- spoonfuls of the mixture about one and a half inch apart from each other, and bake in a moderately heated oven. When nearly done take it out of the oven and wrap each gaufre quickly round a well- greased cornet or cornucopia tin; put back into the oven and bake a few seconds longer, then remove from the tins, and place on a sieve to cool. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix in gradually the ground almonds, cinnamon, icing sugar, and about a tablespoonful of whipped cream, put this mixture in a forcing-bag, and fill the cornets or the gaufres with it. Lay them on a baking-tin and put in a cool oven long enough to set the filling. Serve hot' or cold. Note.—If preferred the gaufres can be filled with whipped cream, slightly sweetened with vanilla sugar. In this case they are served cold. 1988. Cornets Genevois {Swiss Cornets).—1^ oz.fresh butter, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 oz. flour (sifted), 2 tablespoonfuls caster sugar, 6 drops of vanilla essence, \ gill milk, 3 tablespoonfuls raspberry or strawberry jam, ^ gill cream. Cream the butter with the sugar, add by degrees the yolks of eggs and the vanilla essence. When well beaten add the milk and the flour. Have ready a well-buttered baking-sheet; drop the mixture in dessertspoonfuls about two inches apart on to the fire, and bake in a moderately heated oven. When of a pale brown colour take out and twist quickly, cut carefully into cornet shapes, or roll them on greased cornucopia tins, so as to shape them more evenly. Put about a tea- spoonful of jam in each, and fill up with whipped and sweetened cream. 1989. Queen Cakes.—£ lb. butter, % lb. caster sugar, 3 eggs, 2 oz. currants (cleaned), ‘l oz. glace cherries (cut in dice), a grate of nutmeg, the thin rind of \ a lemon (chopped finely), the juice of 1 lemon, i tablespoonful brandy, £ lb. Vienna flour, 1 oz. Paisley flour. Put the butter and sugar in a basin and work with a wooden spoon to a cream, add the eggs one by one, and beat the mixture thoroughly until it resembles a light sponge. Mix in a separate basin the fruit, lemon-rind, and the Vienna and Paisley flour. Stir this into the beaten eggs &c., then add the nutmeg, lemon-juice (strained), and the brandy. Stir the mixture for several minutes longer. Have ready some buttered and floured queen-cake tins, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a fairly hot oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Unmould the cakes and place them on a sieve to cool. These cakes may be coated with chocolate icing, water icing, or royal icing, or served plain, according to taste. 1990. Gateau a la JPortugaise.—j lb. almonds (peeled), l\ orange, £ lb. caster sugar, 3 whole eggs, 1 oz. fecula, glace royale, crystallised cherries, and angelica.613 PATISSERIE, ETC. Cream the sugar and yolks of eggs in a basin, pound the almonds in a mortar, incorporate the juice of oranges and peelings finely chopped. Work well in the mortar for a few minutes; work this mixture in with the sugar and yolks of eggs, and add the fecula. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix gently with the mixture, and fill into an oblong mould well buttered ; bake in a moderate oven for half an hour or more. Turn out on a sieve to cool, glaze neatly with a coat- ing of glace royale, ornament with crystallised cherries and angelica. Serve whole or cut into slices. 1991. Gateau de JPdques (French Easter Cake).—For crust: | lb. flour, £ lb. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, a pinch of salt. For filling : 8 oz. rice cooked in milk, 6 eggs, 2 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. ground almonds (browned in the oven), i gill cream, fondant icing, vanilla flavouring. Sift the flour, rub the butter into it till quite fine, then add the salt and work into a smooth but fairly stiff paste with the two egg- yolks and a little water. Roll out the paste and line two convenient- sized flan-rings, and prick the bottoms of the paste with a fork. Cream the six egg-yolks with the sugar, add the vanilla flavouring, and stir in the cooked rice and the almonds. Whisk the whites of eggs and the cream separately, incorporate both into the mixture. Fill up the lined flan or pastry rings with this, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about half an hour. Allow to cool, then remove the rings and cover the surface of the gateaux with fondant icing. 1992. Denises aax Amandes (.Frosted Almond Sandwiches). —Roll out some puff-paste about a quarter of an inch thick. Cut it into two long strips about three inches wide. Place one of them on a wetted baking-tin ; prick the paste with a fork and spread with a thin layer of raspberry or apricot jam ; upon this spread a layer of cheese- cake mixture. Place the other half of pastry carefully upon this, close up the edges with a paste-pincher ; brush over with milk, dredge with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Mean- while beat up to a stiff froth one white of egg, add a tablespoonful of vanilla sugar, and spread it over the pastry as soon as it has cooled a little. Sprinkle over with blanched and shredded almonds, divide into portions of about one and a half inch wide ; return to the oven and bake for another ten minutes. 1993. Talmouses d VAbricot.—Pdte d’office (No. 1945), apricot jam, \ lb. choux-paste, egg. Roll out thinly some pate d’office or pate a seche and cut out some rounds with a paste-cutter about four inches wide. Place a tea- spoonful of apricot jam in the centre of each round, dilute a quarter of a pound of choux paste with a little rich custard (creme Pithivier No. 1960), spread this thickly over the round pieces, leaving a little space free at the edges ; wet the edges with beaten egg ; fold the paste over on three sides, to give it the shape of a three-cornered hat,614 THE NEW CENTUBY COOKERY BOOK place on a baking-sheet and bake in a moderate oven. When nearly- done brush over with boiled sugar (same as for transparent icing, No. 1965), place half a glace cherry on each, and finish baking. Serve cold. 1994. N~ids d’Oiseaux (Birds’ Nests).—Whisk up three whites of eggs and mix with four ounces of icing sugar; flavour with a tea- spoonful of ground cinnamon and stir in an ounce of shredded almonds and half an ounce of strips of citron. Shape the mixture into balls and place on a buttered baking-sheet. Press the rolling-pin into the centre of each to form a hollow, to imitate a bird’s nest. Bake in a slack oven and fill the centre with whipped cream flavoured with apricot marmalade. Place some small comfits on top to imitate eggs, and decorate with a little green sugar. 1995. Petits Gateaux Pithiviev.—£ lb. almonds {peeled), £ lb. caster sugar, a fete sprigs crystallised orange flower, 1 table- spoonful of cream, £ lb. fresh butter, 1 teaspoonful chopped lemon- peel, 1 whole and 2 whites of eggs, about | lb. puff-paste {No. 1944). Pound the almonds in a mortar together with the orange flower; when quite fine add the cream, lemon-peel, and two whites of eggs. Put the sugar into a basin, cream the butter with the sugar, add the whole egg, and work until thoroughly incorporated ; now add the pounded almonds and work until smooth. Boll out the puff-paste, stamp out some rounds about three and a half inches in diameter: stamp out rings of paste three-quarters of an inch wide and fix on the rounds to form the border ; fill with the mixture ; place a few strips of paste crosswise, bake in a moderate oven, when nearly done dust with sugar and finish baking. 1996. Dartois aux Abricots meringues.—Boll out some puff-paste (No. 1944) about three inches wide, trim off the edges, place it on a baking-sheet, and bake for ten minutes. Spread with warm apricot marmalade ; have ready a meringue mixture, put it in a forcing-bag with a plain tube, put it in the shape of ribbons across the layer of marmalade, so as to form a lattice-work pattern. Dredge with sugar, place halves of glace cherries and small pieces of angelica alternately in the centre of the patterns. Bake in a cool oven for ten minutes, just long enough to dry, cut into convenient finger shapes, and serve cold. 1997. Gateau St. Honore {St. Honore Cake).—Puff-paste or pate d’office {No. 1945), pCite d choux {No. 1951), creme St. Honore, glace fruits for decoration. Boll out some puff-paste or pate d’office about a quarter of an inch thick; cut out a round piece about eight to ten inches wide and place on a baking-sheet; wet the edge, put in a forcing-bag some previously prepared pate a choux, and press out round the wet edge to form a border about an inch and a quarter wide and an inch high. Put also a little choux paste in the centre and spread out, prick the centre, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Make some615 PATISSERIE, ETC. small balls with the remainder of the choux paste, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake also. Have ready some sugar cooked au caramel, dip the cake balls and the same number of large glace cherries in the ready prepared sugar; place them alternately one against the other on the border, and fill up the centre with creme a gateau (No. 1960). 1998. Quillets (Small Dessert Tartlets).—Line some very small tartlet moulds with rough puff-paste (No. 1950), fill them with madeleine mixture (No. 1957), dredge with sugar, and bake in a slack oven. Turn out of the mould, scoop out centre partially, and fill cavities, with almond cream (No. 1953). Decorate with whipped cream and serve. 1999. Tartelettes aux Frmnboises.—1 punnet raspberries (picked), ^ glass brandy, \ pint syrup, f lb. Coombs's self-raising flour, 6 oz. butter, \ oz. butter, ^ oz. sugar, 2 yolks of eggs, a little water, and milk. Sift the flour into a basin, rub in the butter, add the sugar, mix the yolk of egg with a little milk. Add a pinch of salt and put with the above; work into a smooth paste, adding a little water if more moistening be required. Roll out the paste, stamp out some rounds, and line a number of buttered tartlet moulds ; fill with rice, and bake in a moderate oven. Boil up the syrup, put in the raspberries, and cook for a few seconds. Add the brandy and let cool. Drain and fill the tartlet-cases with the raspberries. Reduce the fruit-syrup to about half its quantity. Pour about a tablespoonful over each tartlet, and serve when cold. A little desiccated cocoanut sprinkled over the tartlets will be found an improvement. 2000. Gateau JRusse (Russian Cake).—Prepare a Genoise cake mixture (No. 1979), divide it into three equal parts ; mix one part with one ounce of chocolate, previously melted or grated, and one part with a few drops of cochineal or liquid carmine, leaving the third part plain. Bake each lot separately in a well buttered and floured flat cake-tin. When baked turn on to a wire sieve and let cool. Carefully line a square or oblong biscuit-tin with almond paste (No. 1954). Melt some apricot marmalade, and rub it through a sieve. Cut the prepared Genoise into even-sized long strips about half an inch thick. Arrange these in alternate colours, and place them in layers neatly into the almond-paste lined tin. Spread each layer with apricot marmalade, and proceed thus until the tin is filled. Spread a little more marmalade over the top, and cover with almond- paste. Let the tin stand in a cool place for about one hour. Un- mould carefully, and cut the shape crosswise into neat slices, accord- ing to the thickness desired. Dish up tastefully, and serve as a cold dinner sweet or for afternoon tea. As a guide to those who try this recipe I may say that the cake, when cut into slices, should look like parts of a draught-board. 2001. Eclairs au Cafe.—| pint milk, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. corn-616 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK flour, 2 oz. Vienna flour, 3 eggs, \ teaspoonful vanilla essence, 1 oz. caster sugar, a pinch of salt, moka custard for filling, coffee-icing for covering (No. 1966). Put the water, butter, sugar, and salt into a stewpan ; when boil- ing stir in the corn-flour and Vienna flour (previously mixed) ; work it with a wooden spoon over the fire long enough to produce a soft paste which will leave the bottom and sides of the pan clean. Draw the stewpan from the fire, add the flavouring essence, and gradually work in the eggs (leaving out one white). Beat the paste well for some minutes, then put in a large forcing or Savoy bag with a plain tube, and force out even-sized shapes similar to finger-biscuits on to a lightly-buttered baking-tin, about an inch apart from each other. Bake to a nice fawn colour in a moderate oven. When done split the sides with a sharp knife, and till each with a teaspoonful of moka custard. Have some coffee-icing ready, and dip each eclair into it, so as to cover the sides well and smoothly. Place the eclair on a wire tray to set, and dish up when required. 2002. Moka Custard for Filling Eclairs.—1 gill milk, 1 oz. loaf sugar, \ oz. corn-flour, \ pat of fresh butter, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful coffee essence, a few drops of vanilla essence. Put the milk and sugar in a stewpan and boil up. Mix the corn- flour with a little cold milk, pour the boiling milk on this, mix thoroughly, return to the stewpan, and let boil a few minutes ; add the flavouring essences and the butter, stir in the egg-yolks, continue to stir until it binds, pour it into a basin and let cool. 2003. Gateau Mousseline.—6 eggs, 4 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. fecula (potato or rice flour), the juice and rind of ^ lemon, £ tea- spoonful vanilla essence, 1 oz. shredded almonds. Separate the yolks of four eggs from the whites, put the former in a basin and the latter in an egg-bowl, place it on the ice ; add the sugar to the yolks and work to a cream ; beat in the two remaining eggs (whole, one at a time), grate the lemon-rind, strain the juice, and add both to the mixture, also the vanilla flavouring. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mingle this and the fecula very carefully with the mixture. Have ready a buttered and floured Genoise mould or flat cake tin. Fill with the mixture, sprinkle the top with the shredded almonds, and bake in a moderately heated oven from thirty to forty minutes. 2004. Pelites Galettes d la Nantaise.—6 oz. ground almonds, 1 small glass of kirschwasser, a few drops of vanilla essence, 4 oz. caster sugar, 6 eggs, 2 large tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, transparent icing or fondant icing, angelica, a few blanched almonds split in halves, 3 to 4 glace cherries. Put the ground almonds in a mortar with the sugar, mix well, and work in the kirsch and yolks of eggs one by one. When sufficiently smooth take it out and put it in a basin, add the vanilla essence. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and incorporate with thePATISSERIE, ETC. 617 above-named mixture. Place several small, well-buttered flan rings on a greased baking-sheet, three parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a slow oven for twenty minutes or longer. Remove the rings, cover the surface of each galette with apricot marmalade, previously dissolved and strained, place one on top of the other with the mar- malade between. Coat carefully with icing. Decorate with split almonds, cherries, and fancifully-cut leaves of angelica. 2005. Tartelettes au Chocolat.—Ingredients for paste for lining : 6 oz. flour, 1 egg, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. sugar, little milk, pinch salt. For mixture : 1^ oz. butter, 2 oz. caster sugar, 2 eggs, rasp- berry jam, 1^ oz. grated chocolate, | teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 table- spoonful fecula or corn-flour. Prepare the paste, roll out and line some tartlet-moulds, put a teaspoonful of raspberry jam in each. Make the mixture as follows : Put the sugar in a basin, add the butter, and stir until creamy; then add one yolk of egg, the chocolate and cinnamon, beat up the two whites of eggs, and mix together with the fecula ; fill up the tartlets and bake in a moderately heated oven. Ice over the top with choco- late icing (No. 1969), and decorate with royal icing (No. 1968) to taste. 2006. JPrussiens or Palmiers.—Roll out some puff-paste (No. 1944), dredge it well with caster sugar, and fold as usual. Repeat this twice, then roll up and cut into half-inch thick slices ; place these upside downwards on to a baking-sheet, and bake a deli- cate brown. 2006 a. Smelles.—Proceed in the same way as above described, but instead of rolling up the paste at the last stage roll it out flat and stamp out some rounds with a fluted two-inch cutter, then roll them to oblong shapes, dust with sugar, and bake a golden colour. 2007. Tartelettes a la St. Cloud.—\ lb. short-crust (No. 1943), \ lb. puff-paste, | lb. greengage jam, | gill cream, glace cherries and angelica, vanilla sugar (No. 1970), caster sugar. Roll out the short-crust; line six to eight tartlet-pans, brush over with beaten egg, dust with sugar, fill the centre with greengage jam, previously rubbed through a coarse sieve; bake in a moderate oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Roll out the puff-paste about one-eighth of an inch thick. Stamp out some rings fully half an inch smaller in diameter than the tartlets, brush these over with milk, turn wet side on to caster sugar, and put on to a baking-sheet, sugared sides upwards. Bake in a fiuick oven, and place a ring on each of the baked tartlets. When cold fill the centre with whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla sugar. Place a glace cherry in the centre of each, finish with a few strips of cut angelica, and serve on a folded napkin. 2008. Dames d’JFTonnenr (Maids of Honour).—2 oz. of Jordan almonds, I oz. caster sugar, 2 yolks 'of eggs, 4 oz. Paisley618 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, 1 tablespoonful of orange-flower water, puff-paste for lining (No. 1944). Blanch, peel, and dry the almonds, put them in a mortar and pound with the caster sugar until fine, add the yolks of eggs one by one, mix in the cream, the orange-flower water, and the Paisley flour. Line some tartlet-nnjvilds with the puff-paste, put in the mix- ture, and bake in a moderately heated oven. 2009. Tulles (Dessert Macaroons).—-Pound three-quarters of a pound of peeled almonds with four ounces of sugar, add the whites of six eggs, and work into a coarse paste. Flavour with vanilla, and incorporate two or three stiffly whisked whites of eggs. Dress on a buttered baking-sheet like macaroons, with shreds of almonds on top of each. Dredge with caster sugar and bake in a slack oven. When done place each macaroon on oiled rolling pins. 2010. Tartelettes aux Oranges.—2 Jaffa or St. Michael or 4 Tangerine oranges, 3 oz. sugar (caster), 3 oz. butter, 3 yolks and 1 white of eggs, \ teaspoonful vanilla essence, about 4 lb. puff-paste trimmings. k Peel the oranges very thinly, without cutting any of the white part; chop the rind finely. Cream the butter and sugar, add by degrees the yolks of eggs, stir in the vanilla essence, chopped orange- rind, and two tablespoonfuls of orange-juice. Add a pinch of salt to the white of egg, whisk to a stiff froth, and fold into the mixture. Boll out the paste, line from eight to ten tartlet-moulds, prick the paste with a fork, and fill three-parts full with the mixture. Put them on a baking-tin, bake for fifteen minutes in a moderate oven, then dust with sugar, and finish baking. Turn out, cool, and dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper. 2011. Tartelettes ala Parisienne.—\ lb. of short crust for lining (No. 1943), 2 small eggs, 1 oz. ground almonds, 3 oz. caster sugar, 3 oz. butter (fresh), 1 oz. patent corn-flour, 2 oz. crushed cake-crumbs, Genoise or sponge cakes, 1 dessertspoonful lemon-juicet 4 teaspoonful ground cinnamon, 2 tablespoonfuls cream. Boll out the paste, stamp out some rounds the size of the tartlet- moulds, line these with the paste, and prick the paste with a fork. Cream the buttery with the sugar, work the eggs in gradually, and beat well for some minutes, then add the ground almonds. Moisten the corn-flour with the cream, then mix with the above. Now add.the cake-crumbs (previously rubbed through a sieve), the lemon-juice, cinnamon, and the ground almonds. Fill the lined tartlet-moulds with this preparation, dredge the top with caster sugar, and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. 2012. Tartelettes aux Artia tides.—For paste : 4 lb. flour, 4 lb. butter, 1 yolk of egg, a teaspoonful caster sugar, a pinch of salt. For mixture : \ lb. almonds (ground), \ lb. caster sugar, f oz'. corn-flour, §■ oz. butter, a grate of nutmeg, 1 whole egg and 1 yolk, 2 tablespoonfuls jam.PAT IS SEBIE, ETC. Prepare a short-crust paste by adding a pinch of salt and a tea- spoonful of sugar to the flour, rub in 4 oz. butter, moisten with the yolk of an egg and a few drops of water or milk if needed. Poll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick, stamp out some rounds, and line a number of buttered tartlet moulds or patty-pans (the above quantities are estimated to produce from eight to nine tartlets). Prick the bottom of each mould with a fork to prevent blisters in baking. Mix the corn-flour with one whole and a yolk of egg. Add the sugar (4 oz.), work in the ground almonds, add the nutmeg and butter (i oz. melted), put about half a teaspoonful of strawberry or raspberry jam in each lined mould, fill up with the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven to a golden colour. 2013. Tartelettes a la Balmoral.—Puff-paste for lining tartlet-moulds, 2 eggs, 2 oz. dried cherries, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. caster sugar, i oz. fecula or 1 oz. corn-flour, 2 oz. crushed sponge-cakes, 2 oz. lemon-peel. Beat the butter and the sugar to a cream, add the egg-yolks one at a time ; chop the cherries and peel very small, and add to the mixture; beat together with the powdered sponge-cakes. Line the tartlet-moulds with puff-paste trimmings. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix this with the corn-flour or fecula carefully into the mixture; fill up the lined moulds (not quite full), dust with sugar, place them on a tin, and bake in a moderate oven for eighteen minutes. 2014. Granville Tartlets.—2 oz. butter, 2 oz. currants, 1 oz. ground rice, 2 whites of eggs, 1 oz. candied peel, 3 oz. sugar, 3 oz. sponge-cake crumbs, f lb. puff-paste (No. 1944), a little water icing (No. 1965), 5 drops of lemon essence, 1 tablespoonful cream, 1 oz. dessert cocoanut. Cream the butter and sugar until perfectly smooth, add the ground rice and crumbs, chop the peel finely and add together with the currants, cream, and flavouring essence. Beat up the whites and amalgamate. Roll out the paste, cut out some rounds, and line small oval tartlet-moulds; put in a spoonful of the mixture, and bake in a moderately heated oven. Cover the tops with water icing or fondant icing, sprinkle with desiccated cocoanut, and serve. 2015. Clarence Tartlets.—2 eggs, 4 oz. caster sugar, 6 oz. fresh butter, a pinch of grated nutmeg, orange flavouring, crystal- lised cherries, puff-paste. Line a dozen tartlet-moulds with puff-paste trimmings. Beat the eggs and sugar to a cream, add a pinch of grated nutmeg and a few drops of orange flavouring. Dissolve the butter and stir into the mixture; fill the tartlets about three-parts full. Place on a bakings sheet and bake to a delicate brown in a moderate oven. When done place a crystallised cherry in the centre of each and ornament round with a few fancifully-cut pieces of angelica. 2016. Tartelettes a la Saint Beals.—6 oz. Vienna or620 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Coombs's self-raising flour, 4 oz. butter, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful milk, 4 oz. sugar, a pinch of salt, raspberry jam, 2 oz. ground almonds, 1 tablespoonful fecula or corn-flour, vanilla essence. Prepare a short-crust paste with the flour, two ounces of butter, two ounces of caster sugar, one egg, and a pinch of salt. Poll it out about one-eighth of an inch thick, stamp out some rounds and line ten or twelve tartlet-moulds, and put a teaspoonful of raspberry jam in the centre of each. Put two ounces of butter in a basin, cream it with two ounces of caster sugar, and, when well worked, add the ground almonds, fecula, and two yolks of eggs ; beat the white of one egg to a froth, and mix with the butter, sugar, &c.; flavour the mixture, and fill the lined tartlet-moulds. Place a thin strip of paste crosswise with caster sugar and bake in a moderate oven from, fifteen to twenty minutes. 2017. Cheese Cakes.—4 eggs, 2 lemons, 1 lb. sugar, 4 oz. butter, rough puff-paste. Put the yolks of the eggs into a basin, add the sugar, and work to a cream; then add the grated rind of one lemon, the juice of two lemons, and the butter previously melted. Place the basin in a stew- pan containing boiling water, add the whisked whites of two eggs to it, and stir the mixture until it thickens, and then allow it to cool. Line some tartlet-tins with a good rough puff-paste made with eight ounces of ribs suet and three-quarters of a pound of flour &c. Three- parts fill them with the prepared mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Brush them over with beaten whites of egg, dredge with caster sugar, and return to the oven for another five minutes to acquire a nice fawny brown colour. An ounce of ground almonds added to the mixture is a great improve- ment. 2018. Dominos.—Genoese pastry (No. 1975), ^ lb. icing sugar, 1 white of egg, apricot marmalade, desiccated cocoanut or almonds, brown vegetable colouring. Cut the pastry into shapes of dominos, coat the sides with a thin layer of marmalade, and dip into finely chopped desiccated cocoanut or almonds. Prepare some royal icing with the white of egg and sugar, and coat the top of each domino with this. Put them aside to set. Add sufficient brown colouring to the remainder of the icing, put it in a forcing-bag or paper cornet. Mark out a thin line to divide each domino, and force out little dots to make them resemble dominos. 2019. Biscuits de Bordeaux.—2 oz. butter, 2 oz. caster sugar, 8 oz. flour, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful orange-juice, 1 small glass old port wine, a pinch of salt, ground cinnamon. Cream the butter and sugar together, add the egg and flour and the other ingredients, knead into a firm paste, roll out on a floured board about one-eighth of an inch thick. Cut out some oblong pieces two inches long by three-quarters of an inch wide, place them on aPATISSEBIE, ETC. 621 floured baking-sheet, prick them over with a fork, and bake in a well- lieated oven. 2020. Biscuits de Cognac.—4 lb. flour, 8 whites of eggs, 4 gill cream, 4 gill brandy, 14 oz. caster sugar, a pinch of salt, 1 tablespoonful milk. Sift the flour on to a board, add the salt and sugar; mix a table- spoonful of milk with the whites of eggs, and pour into a well in the centre of the flour, together with the brandy and cream. Work the whole into a smooth paste, and roll out very thin on a floured board. Stamp out some rounds with a tin cutter, prick them over with a fork, and bake on a floured sheet in a quick oven. 2021. Opera Biscuits.—8 oz. Vienna flour, 4 oz. caster sugar, 4 oz. ground almonds, 4 oz. glace cherries, 1 oz. pistachio kernels, 4 eggs, 8 drops vanilla essence. Put the sugar into a basin, add the eggs one at a time, and work to a light cream. Sift the flour, and work in lightly. Blanch the pistachios, peel, and chop small; cut the cherries into small pieces, and add both to the mixture, together with the almonds and vanilla essence. Put the mixture into a forcing-bag, with a large plain tube. Squeeze out some drops on to a greased tin about the size of a half- penny-piece ; dust over with fine sugar, and bake hi a moderately heated oven. When done remove from the tin on to a sieve, and serve when cold. 2022. Water Biscuits.—1 lb. flour {sifted), 1 oz. Paisley flour, 3 oz. butter, a saltspoonful of salt. Mix the two kinds of flour in a basin, rub in the butter until the latter becomes thoroughly amalgamated with the flour. Add the salt and mix well, moisten with enough water to form a soft paste or dough. Roll it out on a floured board about one-eighth of an inch thick; prick the paste with the prongs of a fork. Stamp out some round or square biscuit shapes, place them on a buttered baking- sheet and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. If liked a little grated cheese can be mixed with the flour. 2023. Cocoanut Biscuits.—4 lb. cocoanut {desiccated or freshly grated), the whites of 3 eggs, 14 oz. potato flour or corn-flour, 4 oz. caster sugar, wafer paper or rice paper. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, thoroughly mix the sugar, cocoanut, and flour, stir into the whites, mix carefully with a wooden spoon. Drop the mixture in little heaps, about 4 inch apart, on wafer or rice paper laid on to a baking-sheet. Bake in a very slow oven. This mixture may now be laid out for baking by means of a biscuit or forcing-bag, but where only a small quantity is required this mode of dressing is not advisable. 2024. Biscuits d VAfricaine.—4 oz. caster sugar, 4 oz. flour, 4 oz. butter, 2 oz. corn-flour, 3 eggs, 3 oz. desiccated cocoanut, a little milk. Rub the flour and butter together until very fine, add the corn-THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 622 flour, sugar, and two ounces of the cocoanut. Mix thoroughly, make a well in the centre, beat up the eggs and add them, work into a smooth dough ; roll out about an eighth of an inch thick, cut or stamp out some oblong biscuit shapes or fingers, place them on a buttered baking-sheet, brush over with a little sweetened milk and egg, sprinkle some cocoanut over the top of each. Bake in a moderately heated oven for about twenty minutes. If the paste is found too stiff a little milk or cream should be added. 2025. Boune-Bouche Drops.—3 oz. Vienna flour, 1 oz. Paisley flour, 1 egg, 1 tablespoonful cream, \ lemon, 1^ oz. sugar, H oz. butter, salt, | oz. almonds. Cream the sugar and butter in a basin, add the egg and the lemon- rind finely grated. Beat with a wooden spoon until quite smooth. Mix the Vienna flour and Paisley flour, add a pinch of salt, and rub through a sieve. Stir the flour into the above mixture, moisten with a little cream at first, work it thoroughly and add the remainder of the cream. Blanch the almonds, cut them into shreds, and dry in the oven. Mix about a teaspoonful of lemon-juice and the shredded almonds "with the dough. Drop the mixture in little heaps about 14 inch apart from each other on to a well-buttered baking-tin, dust over with a little caster sugar, and bake in a moderately heated oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. 2026. Biscuit a Cuillere.—8 eggs, \ lb. caster sugar, 6 oz. flour, sifted (or 4 oz. fecula). Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs. Put the yolks in a basin with the sugar, and stir with a wooden spoon or spatula until quite smooth and creamy. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth (add a pinch of salt before beginning to whisk). Work the flour and whites of eggs in small quantities into the creamed yolks (if the eggs are small it will not require more than five ounces of flour). Fill a forcing-bag three-parts full with the mixture, and with a plain pipe (|-inch) press out the paste on to a baking-sheet, covered with white paper, in the shape of -fingers about three inches long; keep them about an inch apart. Proceed thus until the mixture is used up. Dust over with caster sugar. Bake in a moderately heated oven a golden colour. Let them cool on the paper, and remove carefully with a palette knife. Pack into an air-tight tin, and use as required. 2027. Macrons cm Chocolat (Chocolate Chestnuts).—Pre- pare some marrons glaces as directed in the above recipe, coat each carefully with chocolate fondant icing (No. 1969). Dry them in a cool oven for a few minutes, and brush over with gum as soon as removed. 2028. Marrons glaces.—Collect some fine sound chestnuts (Spanish chestnuts are best), slit the skins with a fine-pointed knife. Roast them in a frying-pan over a moderate fire, or blend them in boiling water, till the outer and inner skins can be removed. When they are all peeled drain them and put them into a clean stewpanPATISSERIE, ETC. 623 (copper) with enough syrup to cover ; add a vanilla-pod, and simmer very gently till the chestnuts are tender. Put them in a basin and allow them to stand covered till the following day. Reboil them in the syrup the next day. Take them up and drain on a sieve. Meanwhile boil a syrup—one pound of sugar to one gill of water— to the ‘ crack,’ stick a wooden skewer into each chestnut and glace them in the syrup as soon as it is sufficiently cooked, i.e. when on lifting the skimmer out of the syrup and blowing through it the sugar forms a quantity of bubbles at the back of the skimmer; work it with a spoon against the sides of the pan till it is nearly cold, and dip the chestnuts into this separately, with a fork; place them on trays and let them dry. 2029. Pain perdu.—i stale tin-loaf, 1 quart milk, 1 pod of vanilla, 2 eggs, i teaspoonful ground cinnamon, caster sugar, frying- lard or clarified butter. Cut the bread into slices about half an inch thick, trim off the crust, cut into fancy shapes, round, diamond, or half-moons. Put the milk in a stewpan, add the vanilla, sweeten to taste, and boil up. When nearly cold pour over the pieces of bread and let them soak. Beat up two whites and one yolk of eggs, add a pinch of salt, immerse the pieces of bread and fry in hot butter or lard to a light colour, drain on a paper or cloth, sprinkle with caster sugar in which the ground cinnamon has been amalgamated. Dish up in a pile and serve with a boat of custard, made with the remaining yolk of egg, the milk, and a teaspoonful of corn-flour. * 2030. Pulled Bread.—Procure a few French rolls, cut off the crust, pull the crumby part into rough pieces, sprinkle over with a little warm milk, place the pieces on a baking-tin, and bake in a very slow oven until crisp and of a pretty golden colour.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 624 CHAPTEE XXX THE CONSTRUCTION OF MENUS To compose menus, or bills of fare, is not an easy task. Indeed, to be able to write out a well-balanced and reasonable menu is considered evidence that the writer has reached the highest stage of the culinary art. It is much easier to cook a dinner than to plan it. A menu is in effect the architect’s plan, and the cook is the builder ; but a cook, to be a perfect master of his art, must act both as architect and builder. There are numerous fashionable lady housekeepers and hosts who prefer to select the dishes which are to form the menu for their dinner parties, and in so doing they seem to study their own tastes rather than those of their guests. Nothing could be more unsatis- factory ; and, as a matter of fact, such plans often result in a more or less decided fiasco. Whether it be the cook, the housekeeper, or the hostess who composes the menu of a dinner &c., it must be borne in mind that the meal should be so arranged as to please the tastes of the guests. A wise host or hostess should first consider the characters of the diners and their tastes, if the latter are known to him or her. Bacon, dealing with this subject, says : ‘ The dinner is for eating, and my wish is that the guests, not the cook, should like the dishes.’ Unless a cook be a thorough master or mistress of the art in all its details, the arranging of the menus should not be entrusted to his or her care. This, of course, refers to first-class menus. A little dinner, consisting merely of soup,, fish, and joints, presents little or no difficulty to the cook or housekeeper. It is, however, quite a different matter when hors d’oeuvre, entrees, releves, rotis, and entremets are required for a big dinner. The art of gastronomy has certain rules and regulations which, though, they may be unwritten laws, are strictly observed by the sensible—and justly so. Beyond the hard and fast rules laid down for the proper serving of a dinner or other set meal, dictating, as it were, the manner in which the greater number of courses should follow, other things have to be considered by the chef or hostess, who must show some discernment in choosing the different dishes. Menu is a French word which means ‘ tiny or minute details.’ As a culinary term it means a list of dishes intended for a meal, whichTHE CONSTRUCTION OF MENUS is written or printed on cards, to be placed before the guests: these cards are commonly called £ bills of fare.’ Every repast, however simple, has its bill of fare, plain or complicated, written or unwritten ; that is to say, a plan must be made, deciding what food is to be pre- pared and cooked for each meal; and this plan is the guide for the cook, orders being given in accordance with the directions and decisions arrived at. Speaking in the broadest sense, to make a menu is nothing more than to select the dishes for a repast. Unfortunately, the selection of food, more especially among the middle and lower classes, does not receive that attention which it should have ; and little is done to help the ordinary housewife to solve this important question. If it were a question of feeding animals, ample information could be gained from innumerable publications ; and yet if one wishes to know how to select the right ingredients and proportions of food for the nutrition of men, the anxious inquirer can only be referred to some scientific treatise. Such works are, as a rule, not very clear to anyone unacquainted with the scientific principles of the chemistry of food. To return to our subject. It should be mentioned that, so far as menu cards are concerned, they are essentially the outcome of modern civilisation. The ancients knew nothing of them; they contented themselves with judging the nature and character of dishes as they were brought on the table. No mention of bills of fare or menus is to be found in any classic writings. Our forefathers had probably no need for such things, for the dishes in those days were comparatively small in number. But at the present time, when articles of food have become almost innumerable, and the selection is so great, menus are a necessity as well as a convenience. The use of menu was first heard of in 1541, when at a banquet given by the Duke of Brunswick it was observed that he had a long piece of paper by the side of his plate to which he occasionally referred. One of the guests asked the Duke what the paper was for ; upon this his grace explained that it was a programme of what was being served for the banquet, and by consulting it he could preserve his appetite for the dishes he liked best. The idea was so much admired that it became very popular, and the plan was soon adopted, and has since developed to the present state of perfection. Whatever may be said for and against menu or bill of fare compilation, to compose a menu is an art, and the style in which this is done adds considerably to the popularity and success of a repast. The dinner is unquestionably the most important as well as the most substantial meal of the three or four served daily. Brillat Savarin’s verdict in the matter of menus is very curt, but nevertheless to the point. It is ‘ Menu mal fait, diner perdu,’ meaning that if the menu is badly composed the dinner is sure to be a failure. A menu gives one, as it were, a foretaste of the cook’s ability, and if the bill of fare is well and carefully compiled, and, needless to say,626 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK the cooking all that is desired, perfect in every way, the confidence of the diner is at once inspired. To order a dinner is to be able to put together a list of dishes; which requires thought, invention, and combination. This is the essence of the art of menu compilation, for it involves four important things : novelty, simplicity, originality, and taste. A well balanced menu must be original, seasonable, and characteristic in every sense; the old-fashioned and dull routine must as much as possible be avoided. The first consideration in making up a menu must be paid to the occasion, season, and the magnitude of the repast to be given. There are menus for quiet-living families, who require but simple and plain meals; the principal object in this case is to escape monotony, to vary the composition of dinners from day to day, while avoiding too much diversity in the same meal. Dinners to be given to a party of friends are not as a rule quite so simple as those served in the ordinary way, but even here there should be moderation in the selection of dishes, for most people will enjoy a meal with few courses, plain but good, far better than an elaborate spread with a lot of unnecessary over-decorated and richly prepared dishes. This, however, is a rule which must be regulated as it were on the sliding scale, for a great deal depends upon the diners and the host’s position and means. The best plan in every case is to hit the happy medium which will satisfy the guests and harmonise with the host’s position. An elaborate ball supper, a state banquet, or a society dinner requires a very different menu from that provided for a little dinner to entertain a few friends. The chief considerations for all menus, whether of a frugal or more important character, may be summarised as follows-:— 1. The kind and style of a meal, and the number of guests expected. 2. To fix the number of courses of which the meal is to consist. 3. The selection of dishes, special attention being paid to the choice thereof, observing that they must bear suitable relation to each other. 4. Observe the season of the year, and be guided accordingly. Menus vary according to the seasons. Certain products are at their best at different periods, therefore it is more or less essential that these must be considered. In January and February oxtail or giblet soup, and all kinds of game, such as wild duck, woodcocks, and snipe, are served. These latter are not procurable in April or May. In April and May, spring soup, crimped salmon, lamb, &c., would be considered most seasonable dishes. 5. In introducing so-called seasonable viands into a menu, see that the remainder of dishes or courses harmonise with them. In the spring, for instance, young poultry and the meat of young animalsTHE CONSTRUCTION OF MENUS 627 and young vegetables are in perfection. If a special feature of these be made in a menu, it would be considered bad taste to introduce a mock turtle or ox-tail soup, for it would need a lighter and more delicate soup with which to commence a dinner with a plat printaniere. 6. See that the combination of every dish selected is well assorted, the colour well blended, and finally see that the flavours of the materials are judiciously applied. 7. See that everything needed for carrying out the programme is procured in good time, so that it may be handy when required. 8. In carrying out a menu, from the beginning to the time of serving the dishes thereon, observe punctuality in the strictest sense. Never serve anything half finished, and see that hot dishes are served hot, and cold dishes cold. 9. Make sure that every dish on the menu is correctly and concisely described. It matters little in what language the menu is set up, so long as the correct rules above specified are properly observed. French being the recognised language of the kitchen all over the civilised world, it has become the fashion, rightly ojr wrongly, to make out every menu of importance in that language. It is quite true that there are a number of typical French and other foreign dishes which cannot be translated into English in any form of nicely sounding words, but I maintain that in most cases, should it be so desired, the English language has enough words to provide a name for every dish. The langue de cuisine, or kitchen French, is practically a language of itself, and unless one is well acquainted with the many terms and phrases thereof, it becomes a difficult task to remember the correct names of the various dishes which constitute a dejeuner, dinner, luncheon, or supper. MENUS FOE LAEGE DINNEES- In preparing a bill of fare for a large dinner it is advisable not to include dishes which are difficult to dress when done in a great number, for such will cause needless complication in the kitchen, and often lead to a confusion in the service. It is also most unwise to use new names of dishes which are not known, or which may be known under a different title, for they will only puzzle the diner, who may know the technical names of old dishes. Avoid also the use of pompous names of dishes, especially when the cost for their prepara- tion is not known, for they often lead to confusion and disappointment. The names of high-standing personalities, towns, countries, &c., are applied in connection with many dishes: the French cuisine espe- cially has the names given to dishes in honour of men who gained their celebrity either by their talent as diplomats, statesmen, soldiers,628 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK artists, or who have distinguished themselves by their gastro- nomic or epicurean merits. Hence we have such names in connection with certain dishes as Lucullus, Savarin, Louis XV., Soubise, Richelieu, Careme, Maintenon, Conde, Colbert, Villeroy, Talleyrand, Nesselrode, Demidoff, Marie-Louise, Montglas, Victoria, &c., &c. These names, as well as many others which have been incor- porated in this work, are associated with various culinary preparations, and are recognised by cooks of all nations. There are, unfortunately, some narrow-minded cuisiniers who are in the habit of altering the genuine names of dishes, to which they adapt some other high-sounding names, in order to make themselves famous, but will only succeed in making themselves look ridiculous and small in the eyes of a real gourmet, who is not likely to be thus deceived. If, however, the composition of a certain dish is due to the talent and initiative of the cook, then the case is different, and he will have a perfect right to name such a dish according to his fancy. The importance of a well-composed menu is so great that it adds to the success of a dinner in a great measure, whilst a defectively composed menu may compromise the reputation of a good chef. Although the menu may be of little use to some people, it is indis- pensable to connoisseurs who understand the language of the kitchen, for they will then, by analysing the menu, be able to judge the dinner as well as the capacity of the chef, according to the arrangement of the dishes and the combination of the viands. On looking at the various compilations of dinner menus, one will find that there are three kinds of dinners: the solitary dinner, social dinners, and set dinners. All need and merit an equal amount of consideration by the menu compiler and the cook, who should be one person. The last two dinners may be termed society dinners. The success of a dinner does not depend in the least on two soups, two fish, two entrees, &c., but on having it well cooked, well served, sufficient on the table, and, above all, everything of the best possible quality. It is far better to have one of each and good, well dressed, than a large number of dishes badly done. The way to success, in fact, is to have the dishes choice, but limited in number. The wines as well as the dishes should be more remarkable for their excellence than their variety. As an illustration of this, take the words of the late Earl of Dudley, who used to say : ‘ A good soup, a small turbot, and a neck of venison, duckling with green peas, or chicken with asparagus, and an apricot tart, is a dinner for an emperor.’ FRENCH DISHES IN GENERAL La fine cuisine bourgeoise is perfection, and its dishes for family dinners are more likely to be generally adopted in England than the more elaborate and expensive dishes of la haute cuisine Franqaise, which will not, I fear, ever become generally prevalent in England.629 THE CONSTRUCTION OF MENUS Careme tells us that at grand balls and dinners he used to roast 'fowls and turkeys merely for his soups ; and in his recipes generally talks of two, four, and even six birds, as though they could be got at the rate of eighteenpence apiece. Such a system of cookery can never become general either in this or any other country. To come to the more practical point, viz. the actual construction of menus, it is necessary that this, the most important branch of the subject we are discussing, be illustrated by examples, and I would now refer the enquiring reader to the various specimen menus appended. SPECIMEN MENUS. POTAGE. Poisson Entree Roti Entremet MENU DU DINER. LE 15 JANVIER. A PLAIN DINNER. FRENCH Queux de Boeuf. Filets de Cabillaud a la Normande. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Milanaise. Dinde Botie aux marrons. Pouding k la Viennoise. ENGLISH Ox-tail. Fillets of Cod, Normandy style. Mutton Cutlets, Milanese style. Roast Turkey stuffed with chestnuts. Viennese Pudding. It will be observed that no vegetables have been entered on the above bill of fare. One or two vegetables should be served : these are selected according to taste and season. The following, in addition to potatoes, is a list of vegetables procurable in January :—Artichokes (Globe and Jerusalem), Brussels sprouts, celery, tomatoes, seakale, savoys, cauliflower, salsify, parsnips, turnips, Spanish onions, &c. &c. A complete list of foods in season will be found on page 34. Menu du Diner le 15 Mars. jfrencb Bill of Fare, March 15. JEnglxsb Hurs-d’ceuvre Anchois sur Canapes. Anchovies on croutons of toast. POTAGE. Consomme Brunoise. Clear Soup, Brunoise style. Poisson . Filets d’Anguille 4 la Juive. Sauce Tartare. Fried fillets of Eel, Jewish fashion. Tartare Sauce. Entree . Tournedos a la Bearnaise. Pommes Parisiennes. Tournedos, Bearnaise style. Parisian potatoes. Roti . Canard Roti. Salade a la Francaise. Roast Duck. French Salad. Entremets . . Concombres farcies, etuvees. Riz a l’lmperatrice. Tourte a la Rhubarb. Huitres 4 la Diable en caisses. Stuffed Cucumbers, baked. Rice Mould, Empress style. Rhubarb Tart. Devilled Oysters in cases.630 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK A DECEMBER MENU. FRENCH ENGLISH Hors-d’ceuvre Hors-d’oeuvre varies. Selection of Side Dishes. POTAGES Consomme & la Royal. Clear Soup with Royal Custard. Potage k la Mulligatawny. Thick Mulligatawny. Poissons . __ Soles au Vin Blanc. Soles with White Wine Sauce. Eperlans frits, Sauce Re- Fried Smelts, Remoulade moulade. Sauce, Tomato flavour. Small Pheasant Patties. Entrees . Petites Bouchees de Faisan a la Moderne. Terrine de Lapereaux. Terrine of Rabbit, or Hare. Releves . Gigot de Mouton Galois. Roast Leg of Welsh Mutton. Legumes. Vegetables. Roti . Sarcelles roties. Roast Veal. Pommes Juliennes. Salade. Julien Potatoes, and Salad. Entremets . . Pouding Souffle aux Pommes. Apple Souffle Pudding. Creme glacee de Prunes de Damas. Damson Cream Ice. Savoureux . . Petites Croutades au Par- Little Parmesan Cheese mesan. H Xenten Dinner. Crusts. FRENCH ENGLISH Puree de Choux-fleurs, maigre. Blanchailles au Naturel. Souchet de Carrelets. Mousses de Homard si la Cardinal. Cotelettes de Turbot il l’lndienne. Dame de Saumon a la Suedoise or Pintade roti aux Cressons Choux de mer a la Rollandaise. Chartreuse aux Oranges. Cafe frappe a la Neige. Eclairs d’Anchois. Cauliflower Soup (without meat). Whitebait. Flounders in Souchet. Lobster Mousses, Cardinal Sauce. Turbot Cutlets, Indian style. Salmon, Swedish style (cold) or Roast Guinea-fowl with Cresses. Seakale with Dutch Sauce. Orange Jelly, Chartreuse style. Iced Coffee with Whipped Cream. Anchovy Eclairs. Specimen jtfenus in English and french. (i) Tapioca soup, Potage au tapioca. Breast of veal a la poulette, Tendrons de veau a la poulet te. Fillets of sole fried, tomato sauce, Filets de soles a I’Orly. Boast leg of mutton, Gigot rdti. Puree of haricot beans, Puree d'haricots. Bavarian cream and fruit, Bavarois aux fruits. (2) Crecy soup Potage puree Crecy. Broiled whiting, Merlans grilles. Braised shoulder of lamb, Epaule d’agneau braise. Boast fowls, Poulets rotis. Peas and bacon, Pois au lard. Croquenbouche, Croquenbouche. (3) Bread soup, Potage au pain. Boiled beef, Bobert sauce, Piece de bceuf, Sauce Robert. Boast chump of veal, Quartier de veau rdti. Asparagus, Asperges pi branches. Virgin cream, Creme vierge.631 SPECIMEN MENUS IN ENGLISH AND FRENCH (4) Spring soup, Potage print anier. Boiled bass, shrimp sauce. Bar bouilli, sauce crevettes. Beef marrow a 1’Orly. Moelle de bceuf a VOrly, Roast leg of Southdown mutton. Gigot de Pre-Sale roti. Sauteed potatoes, Pommes sautees. Almond cakes, Gateau d’amande massif. (5) Green pea soup, Potage auxpetits pois. Hot salmon-pie, Pate chaud de saumon. Mutton cutlets a la jardiniere, Cotelettes de mouton jardiniere. Glazed ham, Jambon glace. Vegetable salad. Salade de legumes. Apple fritters, Beignets de pommes. («>: Sorrel soup, Potage a Voseille. Sole stuffed with mixed herbs, Sole farcie aux fines herbes. Rissoles of cockscombs and truffles, Bissoles de cretes de cog et de truffles. Roast fillet of beef, Filet de bceuf roti. Stewed chicory, Chicoree aujus. Iced strawberry souffle, Souffle glace aux fraises. FRENCH. Creme de Chicoree. Filet de sole Bruxelloise. Croustades k la Castillaine. Poulet frit a la Villeroi. Canard sauvage roti. Salade d’oranges. Cardons braises a l’Espagnole. Crime glacee aux bananes. Quenelles au Parmesan. Dessert. ENGLISH. Cream of chicory. Fillets of sole, Brussels style. Small croustades with chestnut puree. Fried chicken, Villeroi style. Roast wild duck. Orange salad. Braised cardoons with brown sauce. Iced banana cream. Parmesan cheese quenelles. Dessert. Consomme a la Talma. Saumon bouilli. Sauce concombre. Timbale de turbot a la Russe. Filets de boeuf it la Chateaubriand. Chaud-froid de cailles a la Victoria Quartier d’agneau, sauce a la menthe. Petits pois. Pommes nouvelles. Mousse frappee a la Genevoise. Denises au Parmesan. Salade. Fromage. Dessert. Clear soup, Talma style. Boiled salmon, cucumber sauce. Timbale of turbot, Russian style. Grilled fillets of beef, Chateaubriand style. Chaud-froid of quails, Victoria style. Fore-quarter of lamb, mint sauce. Green peas. New potatoes. Iced custard and cream, Geneva style. Hot cheese sandwiches. Salad. Cheese. Dessert. birthday Sinner of JU.J1 €mperor William 33. ©eburtStagSsgeter @. ®l. beg £>eutfd)en jlatferS SBilfyelm am 27. Sanuar 1895. £->:• * ©peifenfolge @cf)itbfrbten=<Suppe. ©teinbutte auf hamburger 2Crt. ^rebgsSunfe. gifctjSartoffeln. Senbenbraten auf vgotjenjollern 2t«. 23remet SunEe. ©rftet: Srinffprud). $iiE)nerEtein auf e^tpgigec 2lrt. 3weiter Sirinffpructi. gafanen auf granffurter 2Crt. ©emifdjter (Salat. SDritter Srinffprudj. ©efroreneg auf ^otgbameu 2lrl. ^aifertorte. SSacfraerE. grucfjte.632 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Specimen f'lepas of Cypical English Dippers White Celery Soup. Codfish and Oyster Sauce. Lobster Croquettes. Fillets of Beef with Olives. Salmi of Partridges. Fricandeau of Veal with Spinach. Roast Turkey and Sausages. Broccoli. Potato Croquettes. Brussels Sprouts. Plum Pudding. Mince Pies. Stewed Pears, Whipped Cream. Anchovy Toast. Clear Soup with Custard. Baked Turbot, Wine Sauce. Fried Fillets of Soles. Jugged Hare, Orange Salad. Fillets of Beef with Vegetables. Boiled Turkey, Onion Sauce. Boiled Ham. Roast Wild Duck. Celery Salad. Ribbon Jelly. Apple Amber. Grouse Soup. John Dory, Dutch Sauce. Lobster Cutlets. Stewed Bordeaux Pigeons. Roast Haunch of Mutton. Boiled Turkey and Tongue. Mashed Potatoes. Spinach. Wild Ducks, Orange Sauce. Baroness Pudding. Apple Tart. Trifles with Cream. Pineapple Jelly. Caviar on Toast. Asparagus Point Soup. Fillets of Whiting au Gratin. Quenelles of Rabbit in Aspic. Saddle of Mutton. Grouse Salad. Cabinet Pudding. Anchovy Savoury. Stuffed Olives. Tomato PurEe. Turbot A la CrEme. Foie Gras in Aspic. Loin of Lamb. Roast Partridges. Pineapple Pudding. Cheese Ramakins.WINDS CP HER MAJESTY’S DINNER. !28Wv ^u*ve/, ICjOO. Dotages. Consomme de tortue. Potage des Rois. Do.tssons. Saumon sauce roche.' Eporluns frits sauce ravigotte. Cutters. Ris de veau a la Senn. Chaud-froid de voluiile a la Heine. Ddebrs. Ra?uf braise a la Richelieu. Selle d’agneau sauce menthe. Petits pois a l'Anglaise. Hot. Cailles aux pommes de terre a lTndionne. lEntrrmrta. Asperges sauce llullandaisc. Babas au curayao. Eclairs aux /raises. Creates de Chantilly. ©lairs. Creme au chocolut. Eau.de citron. Huffet. Hot and Cold Fowls. Tongue. Cold Roast Beef. . e * r*\. *.. - - • .m. • I HT- w •THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK PRIVATE DINNER BY MAITRECHEF C. J. CORBLET. M.C.A.SPECIMEN MENUS FOB THE FOUR SEASONS 635 SPECIMEN MENUS rck the EOUR SEASONS. T~ HE dishes named in these Menus are in accordance with the products of the season, and the directions for preparing the same will be found concisely described and explained under the respective headings of the Recipes. The quantities stated in the Recipes are usually calculated to be sufficient for about eight persons: these can be increased or reduced according to requirement. SPRING. Potage Julienne maigre. Cabillaud tt la Mornay. Eperlans en brochettes. Yol-au-vent de Gnochis. Epinards & la cr^me. Dame de saumon braise. Tomates sautees. Croutes aux champignons. Salade de cardons. Bordure de riz aux prunes. Diplomate au Marasquin. Huitres ti, la Diable. Dessert.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK menu. SPRING. POTAGES: Consomm€ Brunoise ^ la Royale. Creme de Topinambours. POISSONS: Rougets a l'ltalienne. Filets de Merlans a l'Horly. ENTREES: Boudins a la Richelieu. Cotelettes d'agneau aux pointes d'Asperges. I RELEVE: Fricandeau brais€ aux £pinards. Pommes Parisiennes. ROTI: Canetons au cresson. Salade de coeur de laitues. ENTREMETS: Savarin aux fruits. Biscuit glace a la Vanille. Pains de Fromage a la gelee. Dessert. Fruits. Caf€ noir. Seasonable jMenus of pinners i SPRING. Potage a la Sante. Ferr as aux fines herbes. Coutre filet a la Rossini. Mousse de homard d la Vendome. Dindonneaux rotis. Salade de saison. 11aricots verts a VA nglaise. Bombe en surprise. Sa?id torte. Compot de Cerises. Dessert. -<%p- Consomme Julienne* Filets de Soles d la Chartres. Tournedos sautes d la Madeleine. Coq de bruyere d la Broche. Aspcrgcs en branches, Sauce Hollandnise. Poudm Saxon. Failles de Fromage. Dessert. -=*•>- Potage d la Vitellius. Saumon a la Maximilian. G'anards sauvages en chemise, Sauce bigarade. F'ilets de Kean d la Talleyrand. Poulardes roties au cresson. Jambons glaces au champagne. Concombres farcies au jus. Meringues Chantilly auxfraises. Talmouses de Merluchefumee. LeriTeri dimmcr menus. - (i) Potage a la creme d’orge. Kougets a l’ltalienne. Vol-au-vent a la Macedoine. I-; Croquettes de semoule. Darne de saumon a la Tartare. Salade de saison. Pouding aux amandes. (2) Potage puree a la Palestine. Filets de sole a la Dauphine. Bouchees d’anchois. llpinards a la creme. Galantine d’anguilles. Salade aux tomates. Omelette aux confitures. Pailles au Parmesan. (1) Pearl barley soup with cream. Bed mullets, Italian style. Vol-au-vent with mixed vegetable. Semolina croquets. Salmon steak, Tartar sauce. Salad. Almond pudding. (2) Puree of Jerusalem artichokes. Fillets of sole, Dauphine style. Small anchovy patties. Mashed spinach with cream. Galantine of eels. Tomato salad. Jam omelet. Cheese straws.637 SPECIMEN MENUS FOE THE FOUR SEASONS Lencen dimmcr Menus—continued. (3) (3) Puree a l’oseille. Cotelettes de saumon a l’Indienne. Bordure de riz aux huitres. Pommes croquettes. Fonds d’artichauts aux epinards, Croutes aux anehois. Grfipes au chocolat. Glace a l’ananas. Dames d’honneur. (4) Potage creme de riz. Filets de soles a l’Orly. Turbot bouilli, sauce anehois. Crevettes au gratin. Carottes it la Bechamel. Pommes pailles. Pointes d’asperges a la Sicilienne. Corbeilles a la vanille. Gelee a l’orange. (5) Potage Parmentier. Cabillaud roti aux eperlans. Pommes Parisieimes. Petites bouchees de liomard it la Cardinal. Tomates au gratin. Mayonnaise de saumon. Glace Napolitaine. Cigarettes de fromage. (6) Julienne au maigre. Beignets d’huitres. Truite saumonee, sauce Hollandaise. Pommes poissons. CEufs frits a la Colbert. Cotelettes de rizine. Aspic d’ecrevisses. Salade a la Fran<;aise. Charlotte glacee a la Florentine. Cassolettes savoureux. (7) Potage aux huitres. Ombre <\ la maitre d’hdtel. Vol-au-vent aux oeufs, sauce creme. Haricots verts au beurre. Grenadins de saumon il la Venitienne. Salade de harengs fumes. Croquettes de macaroni. Abrieots au riz, sauce framboise. Sorrel soup. Salmon cutlets, Indian style. Rice border with stewed oysters. Potato croquets. Artichoke bottoms stuffed with spinach. Anchovy crusts. Pancakes with chocolate. Pineapple ice. Maids of honour. (4) Rice cream soup. Fillets of soles, Orly style. Boiled turbot, anchovy sauce. Baked prawns, gratin style. Young carrots, Bechamel style. Straw potatoes. Asparagus points, Sicilian style. Vanilla baskets. Orange jelly. (5) Puree of potatoes. Baked cod with smelts. Potatoes, Parisian style. Small lobster patties, Cardinal style. Baked tomatoes. Salmon mayonnaise. Neapolitan ice. Cheese cigarettes. (6) Julienne in fish broth. Oyster fritters. Salmon trout, Hollandaise sauce Fish potatoes. Baked eggs, Colbert style. Rizine cutlets. Savoury jelly of crayfish. French salad. Iced charlotte, Florentine style. Savoury cassolettes. (7) Oyster soup. Broiled grayling with* parsley butter. Vol-au-vent with eggs, cream sauce. French beans with butter. Salmon fillets, Venetian style. Smoked herring salad. Macaroni croquets. Apricots with rice, raspberry sauce. Bisque d'Escalopes. Soles a la Normande. Souchet de limandes. Omelette au thon marine. Crofitons d’asperges. Saumon a la Marechale. Timbale de poisson a la Romaine. Parfait au Parmesan. Salade Russe. Epinards a la creme. Pouding de marrons. Champignons il la Diable. Olives farcies il la Royale. Consomme a la Sevigne. Filets de sole a la Joinville. CEufs a la Chambord. Petites bouchees de cepes. Pommes a la Duchesse. Homard.il la Saint-Cloud. Chartreuse d'oranges il la Russe. Petits souffles au fromage.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Dessert. Cafe noir. LCMTEM DINNCR MCMUS—continued. Sardines a la Tartare. .< Soupe maigre aux choux. Potage au lait. Cabillaud a la Proven^ale. •Filets de merlans a la Tyrolienne. • Fricassee d’oeufs. Omelette gratinee au Parmesan. Macaroni Milanaise. Flageolets a la poulette. Puree de lentiles. Fritot de celeri. Salade de liomard. Savarin au kirseh. Bavaroise a la vanille. Pailles en Parmesan. Dessert. Vegetarian Dinners. ”' -v.f Lentil soup. Poached eggs with spinach. Butter bean cutlets and tomato sauce. Curried aubergines with boiled rice. Irish stew. Macaroni au gratin. Apple and tapioca pie. Bird’s-nest pudding. Semolina custard. Palace blancmange. ' Savoury omelet. Vegetarian jVfenus. Shredded celery it la Mayonnaise. Sliced tomatoes k l’huile. Olives. Radishes. Consomme de legumes. • Carrot soup it la Crecy. Egg-plant, stuffed and baked. Sauce fines herbes. Choux-fleurs a la creme. Shredded wheat with spinach. Salsify fritters. Macedoine salad. Potato croquettes. Cranbery sauce. Ginger pudding. Strawberry meringues. Tutti frutti ice cream. Savoury omelet. Cheese. Salad. Olives d’Espagne. Radis et beurre frais. Puree de tomate. Creme de concombres. Cotelettes de riz, sauce piquante. Coquilles aux petits pois a la Suedoise. Artichauts a la Lyonnaise. Omelette a la Charentiere. Macaroni au gratin. • Champignons frits. Salade melangee. Grisette de pommes. Creme a l’ananas. Biscuits glaces a la Turque Canapes Andalouse. Fruits et dessert. Cafe noir. Croutes aux amandes. Potage creme d’orge lie. Gourgeon a la Blanchaille. CEufs a la fermiere. Concombres a la creme. Chartreuse de legumes. Tomates it la Napolitaine. Nouilles a la Salamandre. Epinards a la Vert-pre. Salade de haricots verts. Beignets au Moka. Rissoles de cerises. Gelee aux fruits. Patisserie Suisse. Glaces de fantaisies. Pailles en Parmesan. Fruits et dessert.SPECIMEN MENUS FOB THE FOUR SEASONS 639 Summer. Consomme Pay sail lie. Creme d’Asperges. Saumon Sauce Riclie. Chaud-froid de Cailles a la Russe. Filet de Boeuf Piqub Richelieu. Poulet a la Broche. Salade 4 la Villeroi. [aricots Verts Nouveaux au Beurre. Cocotte de Peche 4 la Royale. Bombe glacee Lucullus. Petits Fours. Crotlte 4 l’Indienne. Dessert. Hors-d’oeuvre Varies. Consomme Portugais. Bisque de Homard. Filet de Sole en Souchet. Ris de Veau aux Champignons. Carre d’Agneau a la Renaissance. Pommes de Terre Chateau. Petits Pois 4 la Menthe. Chapoii Roti. Salade de Romaine. Gelee au Vin de Champagne. Biscuit Glac6 Marquise. Dessert. Cafe.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 640 jYfenu. POTAGES. Consomme aux Quenelles. POISSONS. Blanchailles. Filets de Saumon a la Sefton. entre'es. Cailles a la Souvaroff. Crdne de Vollaile aux Tomates. releve". Selle d’Agneau, Sauce Generale. ROTI. Canetons aux Petits Pois. Salade Mirelli. ENTREMETS. Petites Ci^mes de Legumes. Souffles cle Groseilles Glaces. Glaces Napolitaines. Nids d’Hirondelles au Consomme. Turbot Sauce Mousseline. Filet de Veau a la Franchise. Supremes de Volaille. Petits Pois a l’Anglaise. Ortolans a la Broche. Salade de Laitues. Charlotte Plombi&re Pralinee. Consomm6 a la Brisse. Rougets a la Venitienne. Canetons a la Portugaise. CStelettes d’Agneau a la Pompadour. Homard a l’Amdicaine. Poulets de printemps rotis. Pommes de terres soufflees. Pouding a la St-Cloud. Tartelettes aux Cerises. Potage St-Germain. Saumon a la Rosebery. Ablettes frites. Supreme de Veau a l’Aspic. Handle de Venaison roti. Aubergines a la Proven^ale. Gel6e aux Fraises. Nougat a la Chantilly. Biscuits aux Parmesan. Olives a l’Alsaeienne. Consomme Chiffonnade. Cendrillons de filets de Sole. Vol-au-vent a la Victoria. Aloyau de Bceutf a ,1a Godard. Sorbet d’Ananag. Pigeon de Bordeaux roti. Petits Pois au Lard. Suedoise d’Abricot. Diablotines a la Gruyere. SUMMER. Jfiequ. # HORS-D CEUVRE. Petites Dariolesde Homard en Aspic. POTAGE. Consomme Julienne. POISSONS. Saumon bouilli, sauce Hollandaise. . Ze phi res cle Merlans, sauce Matelotte ENTREES. Pigeons de Bordeaux en casserole. Petits souffles au Jambon. RELEVES. Selle d’Agneau roti a 1’Anglaise. Asperges au beurre fondu. Sorbets au champagne. ROTI. Chapon de Man. Salade panachee. Pommes de Terre rissoMes. ENTREMETS. Meringues ft la Chavilly. , Bombe glacee aux fraises. Boules au Parmesan Fruits et Dessert.SPECIMEN MENUS FOR THE FOUR SEASONS ♦ ♦ (&ufumn ♦ . POISSONS. Supreme de Turbot a la Royale. Filets de Merlans a la Tyrolienne. RELEVJE. Carre de Mouton braise aux Navets. ENTREES. Souffle de Perdreaux al’Anglaise. Sorbet a l lmperiale. HOTI. Dindon roti au Cresson. Salade de Celeri. Haricots Panaches. ENTREMETS. Savarin au Rhum. Creme renversee. Fromage de Brie. Dessert. Caviare aux icrevisse?. Petites Marmites a la Parisienne. Filets de Truite k la Milanaise. endroiis d’Agneau aux pointes d’Asperges. • Consomme Saint-Hubert. Petites bouchees aux Huitres. Sole au Parmesan. Poulet frit & la Tyrolienne. Sauce Remoulade. , Grigot d’Agneau roti, Epinards a la Bechamel. Cr&me k la Romaine. Tartines k la Baroda. Pommes de Terre nouvelles. Pigeons farcis a la Princesse. Salade a la Lyonnaise. Ponding aux Peches a la Riclielieu. Anchois a la Norvegienne. • Potage Bonne Femme. Filets de Soles k la Chasseur Royal. Ris de Veau a la Financiere. Petits Pois a la Franyaise. Pintade bardee rotie. Salade, Pommes Pailles. Pouding glace a la Nesselrode. Petits Souffles au Thon.642 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK f§ea6onable McnuA. AUTUMN. Hors-d’oeuvre varies. Consommd de volaille.1 Creme Nivernaise. Rougets k la Vdnitienne. Noisettes de Prd-Sald a la Lion d'Or. Salmis de Perdreaux Chasseur. Poulets r6tis au cresson. Salade. Aubergines farpies au gratin. • Bombe glac^e a la Sicilienne. - Canapes a la Madras. Consommd k la Careme. Dame de saumon a la moderne. Atriots de volaille k la Vaudoise. Perdrix braises attx chouX. Rond de veau roti. Salade 4 la Dumas. Bordure de marrons k la Chantilly. Tomates au gratin. Pur6e de chou-fleur. Eperlans a la Cdlestine. Sarcelles aux olives. CEufs & la Gambetta. Levraut k la Bordelaise. Pommes de terre Julienne. Selle de mouton rdtie. Beignets de groseilles. Niokes au gratin. MENU. HORS-D’CE UVRE. Huitres au citron. Sardines k l’huile. POTAGES. Consomme Sevigne. Creme Crecy au riz. POISSONS. Soles au Via blanc. Blanchailles au Naturel. ENTREES. Bouclides de Faisan a la Moderne. Filets de Veau a la Talleyrand. • RELEVES. Jambon braise, sauce Madere. Ponds d’artichauts a, la Marie. ROTIS. Grouse et Perdreaux bardes a la broche. Pommes de terre Anna. Salade a la Rachel. ENTREMETS. Pouding souffle aux framboises. Creme de Peches en surprise. Petits Fours. Dessert. Cafe noir. Menu. POTAGES: Consomme k la Talma. Puree tortue fausse. POISSONS : Turbot bouilli, sauce homard. Cotelettes d’hultres. ENTREES: Friandines de volaille. Civet de lievre. RELEVES : Aloyau de boeuf aux Nouilles. Ldgumes. ROTIS : Cailles bardees. Pommes de terre pailles Salade de chicore. ENTREMETS : Souffles de celeri. Pouding de marrons a la Creole Charlotte a la St-Jose. Crofites aux anchois. Dessert assortis. Cafe noir.643 SPECIMEN MENUS FOB THE FOUR SEASONS Appetissants, Suedoise. Potage a la Demidoff. Filets de turbot a la Normande. Cotelettes de pore a la Robert. Lapin frit a la Tartare.' TTilet de boeuf a la Chateaubriand. Pommes de terre a la Lyonnaise. Chartreuse de poires & la Princesse. Araandes it la Diable. Consomme Brunoise. Filets de merlans au gratin. Salmis de perdreaux. Artichauts a la Barigoule. Canard aux olives. Filet de boeuf roti. Salade de celeri. Pommes de terre Duehesse. Mousse a la Plombiere. Huitres en caisses a la Diable. Potage bisque de homard. •Cabillaud recrepi, sauce aux huitres. P’ilets de mouton a l’Algerienne. Flageolets a la Poulette. Chapon barde rSfci. Salade Beige. Pommes de terre farcies. Pcmmes au riz meringuees. Consoles a 1’anchois.THE NEW CENTTJBY COOKERY BOOK 644 fleoa 6a Dirjer. HORS-D'OEUVRE. Olives farcies. Salami de Milan. POTAGE. Consomme a la chiffonade. PQISSONS. Filets de Turbot Florentine. Rougets a la Veriitienne. Pommes de terre Hollandaise. ENTREES. Zephires a la Montglas. Pigeons a la Polonaise. RELEVES. Jambon d’York, braise, au Madere. Laitues a la demi-glace. ROTIS. Perdreaux bardes au cresson. Salade de Saison. Pommes frites, ENTREMETS. Pouding a la Ducliesse. Souffle glace.a la joinville. BONNE-BOUCHE. Canapes a la Madras. English Translation of the Menu* * APPETISERS. Stuffed Spanish Olives. Milanese Sausage. SOUP. Clear Soup with Chiffonade Garnish. FISH. Baked Fillets of Turbot. Red Mullets, Venetian style. Dutch Potatoes. ENTREES. Savoury Zephires, Montglas style. Fried Stuffed Pigeons, Polish fashion. REMOVES. Braised York Ham, Madeira Sauce. Stewed Lettuce with Demi-glace Sauce. ROAST. Barded Partridges with Cresses. Green Salad. Fried Potatoes. SWEETS. Ducliesse Pudding. Iced Souffle, Joinville style. SAVOURY. Madras Canapes. MENH m DINER. WINTER. Whits tables. Pot agecreme de Bee asses. Truite grille, sauce Vcnitienne. Selle de veau a la Milanaise. Truffes du Perigord au Champagne. Mousse de faisans en Bellevue. Asperges d'Argenteuil sauce. Albert. Dinde rdti. Salade de coeurs de laitues. Gateau Savigny. Glace aux peches. Froma^ es. DESSERT. Hors-d ’oeuvre varies. < Consomme Petite Marmite. Fausse tortue. Filets de sole frits, sauce tomate. Poularde Sautde Bourgeoise. Gigot de mouton. Haricots verts. Choux de Bruxelles. Pommes Chateaux. Perdreau sur Canapd. Salade de saison. Pouding Dafioise. Gelee au Champagne. Harengs Lunds sur crofite. DESSEkT. Huitres Natives. Turbotin a la Florentine CailTes en Chemises. Gigot de Prd-Sald bouilli, sauce capres. Porterhouse Steak a la Goube. Choux-fleurs, sauce Hollandaise. Pommes au Beurre. Perdreaux bardis sur croutes. Pommes en Liard. Salades Panachdes. Jambon d’York pc ole au Madere. Cdleri Braisd a la Moelle. Mousseline Marguerite. Bombe a la Victoire. Petits Fours.645 SPECIMEN MENUS FOR THE FOUR SEASONS J^eaeonaBfe (tttenue. HORS-D’CEUVRE. Hultres en coquilles. POTAQES. Consomme anx Nouilles. Creme a la Bonne Femme. POISSONS. Barbue braisSe a l’Amiral. Croquettes de homard. ENTREES. Olives de Veau a laBearnaise. Perdreaux en casserole. RELEVE. Baron de Pre-Sale roti. ' Haricots verts panaches. Granite au Moka. ROTI. Dinde farcie aux marrons. Tomates sautees en beurre. Pommes de terre aux fines herbes. ENTREMETS. Babas en Kirsch. Gelee aux Bananes. DESSERT SpeciiDet) Mepas of Cable d’Hote Lupcbeops apd Dippers AT FIXED PRICES As Served in Restaurants, Clubs, and Hotels in London. LUNCHEON at Is. 6d. per Head. (APRIL.) # Hors-d’oeuvre Fausse tortue. Eperlans frits. « Steak and kidney pie Veau saute Provenijale. Fromage. LUNCHEON at Is. 6d. per Head.. (SEPTEMBER.) # Hors-d’oeuvre or Crecy au tapioca. Doree Venitienne. Gigot de mouton garni or Tete de veau poulette Boeuf a l’lndienne. Fromage.646 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. LUNCHEON at Is. 6d. per Head. Hors-d’oeuvre or Potage mariniere. Eperlans frits or Blanchailles. Roast Beef or Blanquette de veau Lapin saute Chasseur. Promage. ("NOVEMBER.) Sardines a, l’huile. Potage Parmentier. Filets de barbue frite, Sauce Tomate. Cotelettes de mouton a la Bretonne. Pouding cabinet. Fromage. N.B.—The Menus herein quoted at fixed prices are mostly specimens as served in London Clubs, Hotels,, and Restaurants. They can be taken as an average criterion of the ordinary business, but the number of guests, the season as well as the places where dinners are to be served, should always be taken into con- sideration when quoting prices, as such may entail some alteration in the price and the style of Menus. FRENCH MENUS at 2s. 6d. per Head. Hors-d’oeuvre. Consomme Solferino. Paupiettes a la Valois. Rognons sautes au Madere. Choux de Bruxelles au beurre. Dindon a la broche. Salade de saison. Glace. Fromage. Dessert. Hors-d’oeuvre. Consomme vermicelli. Barbue Capri. Perdreau aux choux. Cotelette de mouton Bouchere. Salade de saison. Tarte au fruit. Fromage. Dessert. FRENCH DEJEUNER OR LUNCHEON MENUS. CEufs poches a la creme. Cotelette d’agneau Soubise. Pintade aux choux. Epinards au beurre. Eclairs au chocolat. Truite de riviere Meuniere. Grillade de jambon aux epinards. Entrecote a la moelle. Pommes Savoisiennes. Savarin au kirsch. Sardines farcies au maigre. Veau saute fines herbes. Mutton-chop Vert-pre. Nouilles fraiches a l’ltalienne. Feuillette aux abricots. Homard a la Parisienne. Poulet saute a la Hongroise. Timbale a la Milanaise. Tournedos a la Marion-Delorme. Asperges sauce mousseline. Souffle aux Avelines.SPECIMEN MENUS OF TABLE D’HOTE MEALS 64 Hors-d’oeuvre varies. Chateaubriand grille. Tartelettes de pommes de terre, Sauce Bordelaise. Pintade rotie. Salade. Arlichauts a la vinaigrette. Beignets Tyroliens, sauce vanille. Omelette a la Nantaise. Darne de saumon. Beurre Montpellier. Poulet saute a la Marengo. Pommes de terre Anna. Rissoles de cerises. CEufs a la Chartres. Souffle de Langouste. Chateaubriand a la Mirabeau. Pommes soufflees. Profiteroles au chocolat. Boudins grilles, sauce raifort. Biftecks a la maitre d’hotel. Pommes au lard. Agneau froid a la gelee. Pannequets a la creme. Dinner at 3s. 6d. Potage a la Windsor. Surmulet grille, sauce matelote. 'Escalopes de lapereaux aux pointes d’asperges. Pintade rotie. Navets au jus. Beignets de fraises. Dinner at 4s. Consomme a la Julienne. Turbot bouilli, sauce Hollandaise. Croquettes de volaille, sauce tomate. Gigot de mouton roti.. Haricots verts sautes. Paisan roti. Pommes frites. Salade. ' Gateau d’amandes. Dessert. Fromage. Cable (Tfiote Dinner at 3s. 6d. per head. Hors-d’oeuvre varies. Consomme Chasseur, Gravy soup. Creme St-Germain, Thick vegetable soup. Mulet grilld, sauce Souchet, Grilled Grey Mullet. Pommes nouvelles, New potatoes. Caneiloni a la Mentasti, Stuffed macaroni. * Noix de veau pique a la Donasole, Larded loin of veal. Poulet roti au cresson, Boast chicken with cress. • Salade de saison, Green salad. Glace a la Trianon, Ices. Fromage er fruit, Cheese and fruit. (Translation.) Windsor soup. Red mullets, matelote sauce. Scallops of young rabbits with asparagus points. Roast guinea-fowl. Braised turnips. Strawberry fritters. (Translation.) Julienne clear soup. Boiled turbot. Dutch sauce. Chicken croquets, tomato sauce. Roast leg of mutton. French beans tossed in butter. Roast pheasant. Fried potatoes. Salad. Almond cake. Dessert. Cheese.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 648 DEJEUNER at 4s. per Head. Hors-d’oeuvre varies. Petites soles pocliees ii la Mariniere. Chateaubriand saute au Madere Pommes nouvelles rissolees. Yiande froide assortie. Salade. Beignets de pommes ii. la Parisienne. MENUS of DINNERS as SERVED in LONDON CLUBS. 3s. Dinners. .Clear soup with rice, or Puree of carrots. Pried slip, anchovy sauce. Hashed mutton. Boast beef. Brussels sprouts and potatoes. Khubarb tart, or ice. Tapioca soup, or Puree of leeks. Boiled trout or Whitebait. Stewed pigeons. Roast forequarter of lamb. Macaroni cheese. Open cherry tart, or Fruit jelly. 4s. Dinners. Consomme vermicelle. Puree aux huitres. Baie au beurre noir. Poulet saute a ITtalienne. Boeuf roti. Petits pois a l’Anglaise. Pouding cabinet. Glace a l’orange. Dessert. Clear soup with lettuce leaves. Baked sole. Timbale of game au chasseur. Chicken with tomato sauce. Roast leg of mutton. Chopped asparagus with cream. Apple tart and Rizine custard. Macedoine of fruit. Dessert. 5s. Hors-d’oeuvre. Consomme printanier a la royale. Filets de maquereaux El la Venitienne. Rougets au gratin. Bouchees a la Montglas. Noix de veau, sauce Perigueux. Yolaille de Bresse roti. Pommes Duchesse. Tomates farcies. Choux-fleurs ii la creme. Croute aux fruits. Petits fours. Glace aux fraises. Dinners. Brunoise. Pea soup. Salmon and lobster sauce. Whitebait. Vol-au-vent of sweetbreads. Lamb cutlets with peas. Roast beef. Boiled fowl. Rissoles. Potatoes. Brussels sprouts. Balmoral pudding. Jelly and pastry. Vanilla ice. Dessert.SPECIMEN MENUS OF CLUB DINNEBS dc. 649 At 4s. 6d. HORS-D’CEUVRE. Sardines. Butter. POTAGES. Printanier a la royale. Bonne femme. POISSONS. Saumon, sauce persil. Soles frites. ENTREES. Rissoles de volaille. Ris de veau jardiniere. ROTIS. Lamb and mint sauce. New peas and potatoes. ENTREMETS. Genoise glacee. Chocolate ice. FROMAGES. Stilton. Gruyfere. Gorgonzola. DESSERT. Varies. At 5S. HORS-D’CEUVRE. Varies.' POTAGES. Consommd aux quenelles. Puree de haricots Bretonne, POISSONS. Filets de turbot de Reyniere. Blanchailles. ENTREES. Croustade de ris d’agneau. Pigeon en compote. RELEVE. Hanche de venaison. ROT I. Poularde au cresson. ENTREMETS. Fonds d’artichauts Italienne. Glace Napolitaine. Patisserie. DESSERT. FROMAGES. Table cPhote Dinners at fixed prices* jVlenu at 5s. per head. Canapes de caviar Peterhoff. Tortue claire. Puree Maire. Paupiettes de sole a la Riclie. Blanchailles au poivre noir. Supremes de Pre-Sale Dubarry. Dindonneau Chipolata. Endives Flamande. Pommes Hanoverienne. Mauviettes bardees sur croutes. Salade Andalouse. Poudings aux fruits. Glaces Josephine. Nougatine. Dessert. January. Hors-d’oeuvre. Ppule au pot. Creme Andalouse. Supreme de truite au Chambertin. Terrine de volaille 3, la Victoria. Selle d’agneau aux aubergines. Pommes de terrenouvelles. Caille rotie. Salade de laitues. Petits pois au beurre. Couronne d’ananas a la Royale. Biscuit glace Tortoni. Dessert. Cafe. June. T)inner jYtenu at 5s. per tjead. Hors-d’oeuvre varies. Consomme aux pates de Genes. Puree Garbure. Saumon, sauce liomard. mquette de volaille au riz, sauce supreme. Carre de Pre-Sale boulangcre. Faisan a. la broche. Salade. Celeri au jus. Christmas pudding. Glace Plombiere. Petits fours. Beignets au Parmesan. Dessert. December.THE NEW 'CENTURY COOKEBY BOOK. 650 J)>ner at 5s. per head. jYiequ at 6s. per head. Hors-d’-ceuvre. Potages. Croute au pot. Soupe aux moules. Lorgnettes de merlans au gratin. Tournedos a la Choron. Ghapons de Bresse a, la broclie. Endives au jus. Salade. Glaces. Patisserie. Dessert. Huitres. Consomme Sevigne. Julienne St-Germain. Filets de sole Portugaise. Ris de veau braise Toulousaine. Filet de bceuf poele Dubarry. Poulet de Surrey il la broche. Salade de mache, celeri et betterave. Croute au Madere. Casserole glacee en surprise. Petits fours. Fruits. Cafe noir. December. * * T)iner franqais at 6s. per head. ©inner at 7s. 6cl. per head. (.SEPTEMBER.) HORS-D’CEUVRE VARIES. Creme Saint-Germain. Turbot sauce mousseline. Selle de Pre-Sale braisee. Champignons farcis et pommes croquettes. Filets de poulets a la Montpensier. Aloyau a la broche. Coeurs de laitues Perigourdine. Petits pois a la Franeaise. Souffle aux fraises. Friandises. * POTAGES. Consomme Brunoise. Creme aux huitres. POISSONS. Filet de Sole a la Portugaise. Blanchailles. ENTREES. Aspic de foie gras en Belle Vue. Tournedos a la Parisienne. Pommes au beurre. jYienu at 6s. per heacl- ROTIS. Perdreau. Salade. Choux-fleurs au gratin. Hobs-d’ceuvbe. ENTREMETS. Potages. Consomme a la Marie-Louise. Puree St-Germain. Creme Caramel. Bombe. Glacee en surprise. DESSERT. * Poissons. Filets de sole it la Normande. Blanchailles. French Dinner at 7s. 6d. per head. • (NOVEMBER.') Entbee. Cailles a la Touraine. Bouchee a la Reine. Hors-d’oeuvre varies. Releve. Filet de boeul a la Touraine. Potage velours. Creme St-Germain. Filets de sole a la Normande. Les deux Whitebait. Souffle de Jambon a la Willis’s. R6ti. Pintade barde. Salade a la Russe. Fonds d’artichauts a la Mornay. Chartreuse de fraises. Bombe a la Mousseline. Filets de hareng marines en caisses. January. Filet de boeuf a la broche. Foie gras nouveaux sautes aux truffes. Pluvier Dore sur croustade. Salade de saison. Asperges d’Argenteuil, Sauce mousseliffe. Bombe Chelsea. Petits fours Franpais. Dessert.651 TABLE D'HOTE DINNERS AT FIXED PRICES Ipnner at 104. per head. Royale natives. Consomme Brunoise a l’orge. Creme a la Beine. Truite saumonee a la Chambord. Aspic de foie gras a la Lucullus. Filet de boeuf braise a la Savarin. Pommes nouvelles. Poulardes de Bresse a la broehe. Salade de saison. Cardon braises a la moelle. Biscuits glaees. Corbeilles des friandises. Toast de laitance a la Sefton. Fjotel Dipper at 10s. 6d. per bead. Service d la Russe. MENU. BILL OF FARE. Melon. POTAGES. Consommd printanier royale. Creme de mai’s. HORS-D’CEUVRE. Petites timbales Lucullus. POISSON. Darne de saumon a la Chambord. RELEVES. Selle d’agneau Parisienne. Pommes Duchesse. Haricots verts. Tomates farcies. ENTREES. Mousse Balmoral. Ris de veau a la Montpensier. Homard a la Russe. Punch a l’Impdriale. ROT. Perdreaux. Salade Venitienne Melon, SOUPS. Clear Spring, with custard. Cream of maize. HORS'D’CEUVRE. Small timbales, Lucullus style. FISH. Middle cut of salmon, Chambord style. REMOVES. Saddle of lamb, Parisian style. Duchesse potatoes. French beans. Stuffed tomatoes. ENTREES. Mousse Balmoral. Sweetbread, Montpensier style. Lobster a la 'Russe. Imperial punch. ROAST. Partridges. Venetian salad.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 652 DESSERT. DESSERT. Bamquec Menus. 80 to 100 Covers, at 6s. Bill of fare. menu. SOOPS. bORS-D’CEOVRE. Portuguese. Vermicelli. POTAGES. FISH. Consomme a la Bourgeoise. Puree Parmentier. Salmon and lobster sauce. Grilled mullet, ravigote sauce. Poissons. ENTREES. Turbot, sauce Hollandaise. Filets de sole a l’Orly. Tournedos a la Gouffe. Chicken saute a la Marengo. ENTREES. REMOVES. Blanquette de veau a la Clamart. Lamb and mint sauce. Tournedos a la Mirabeau. Fillet of beef, Tuscan style. Grilled ham and peas. RELEVES. ROAST. Selle d’agneau, sauce menthe. Duckling and watercress. Chipped potatoes. Jambon au vin de Madere. Epinards au jus. Pommes de terre Duchesse. VEGETABLES. ROT. Boiled potatoes. Saute potatoes. Pigeons rdtis au cresson. Spinach. Salade de saison. SWEETS. entremets. Apricot meringues. Mille-feuilles a la Chantilly aux fraises. Strawberry tartlets. Mousse it la Cardinal. Macedoine jelly. Petits gateaux Conde. Gateau Beatrice. Ice pudding. Merluche sur toast. Cheese. Salad.BANQUET MENUS. 653 BANQUET MENUS—continued. 70 to 80 Covers, at 8l 6d., exclusive of Wines. Wines. Vermuto di Torino. Manzanilla. Haut Sauteme. Th. Roederer, Chateau Margaux. Seligmann et Cie. Yerzenay Cabinet. Deutz et Geldermann. Dessert Wines. Chateau Larose. Royal Port. Liqueurs. HORS-D'OEUVRE. Caviar et anchois sur carisfpe, POTAGES. Consomme a la reine. Creme de laitue. POISSONS. Truite saumonde froide, sauce ravigote. Filets de sole am vin blanc. Coquille de homard a la Bechamel. ENTREES. Cailles il la Souvaroffi. Cotelettes d’agneau a la Reforme. Pommes nouvelles. Punch au Champagne. ROTI. Poularde de la Bresse a la casserole. Salade de laitue a la creme. Salade de tomates. ENTREMETS. Asperges en branche a l’huile. Saravin a la Montmorency. Meringues a la Chantilly. Biscuits glaees a la Royale. Croiites de Yacherin. Dessekt. Fruits de saison. Cape! Mepu at 10s. 65. per Head. HORS-D’CEUVRE VARIES. POTAGES. Consomme Careme. Puree Saint-Germain. POISSONS. Suprcmes de sole a la Cordeliere. Blanchailles. ENTREE. Casserole de volaille ii la Cocotte. Tournedos a la Savarin. RELEVE. Baron d’agneau. Jambon braise. Petits pois au beurre. ROTI. Faisan barde sur croustade. Salade de saison. LEGUMES. Asperges, sauce mousseline. ENTREMETS. Pcches a la Conde. Gateau Nougatine. Creme de fromage glace. Petits fours Parisienne. Dessert. Cafe a la Turque.654 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK BANQUET MENUS—continued. 80 xo too Covers, at 12s. 6d., exclusive of Wines. EOBS-D'CEUVBE Huitres. Cliablis. POTAGES Tortue claire. Bisque de homard. Amontillado POISSONS ENTREES: BELEVES: Turbot, sauce Genoise. Cabillaud, sauce Hollandaise. Filets de soles frits a la tartare. Petits vols-au-vent a la financiere. Cotelettes d’agneau a la Maintenon. Civet de levraut. Aloyau de boeuf a l’Anglaise. Hanche de venaison. Hock et Moselle. H. <fe G. Hirsch, Mayence. Marcobrunner Auslese. Hochheimer. BOTIS : ENTBEMETS : GLACE: DESSEBT: Jambon de York au Madere. Epinards a la Fran<,iaise. Pommes de terre soufflees. Choux-fleurs au gratin. Perdrekux, pommes de terre frites. Pouding diplomate. Patisserie melete. Gelee a la macedoine. Tourte de pommes. Charlotte Russe. Creme a la vanille. Compote de fruits. Pouding a la Nesselrode. Ananas. Melons. Raisin. Poires. Noix. Cafe et liqueurs. Sparkling Moselle. Magnums, Bollinger, Extra quality. Perinet et fils, 1880. Nuits. Chateau Lafitte. Chateau Palmer 1875. Port et Madeira. Dinner at 15s. per Read. Hors-d’ceuvre. Sardines. Olives farcies. Radis en beurre. Potages. Consomme Milanaise. Puree Chasseur. Poissons. Saumon, sauce mousseline verte. Filets de soles a la blanchaille. Pelevd. Carre de sanglier a la broche, saucebigarade. Legumes. Roti. Poularde de Bresse au cresson Salade Casanova. Entremets. Entrees. Vol-au-vent a la Toulouse. Filets de caneton a la jardiniere. Charlotte de pommes. . Gateau Saint-Honore. Bombe glacee en surprise. Patisserie Franyaise. Dessert.655 BANQUET MENUS. BANQUET MENUS—continued. DINER a la RUSSE at 18s. 6d. per Head. Potages. Tortue claire. Puree de gibier. Poissons Truite au bleu, sauce Hollandaise. Rougets a l’ltalienne. Eperlans frits. Entrees. Petites cremes de volaille a la Papillon. Ris de veau a la Biaritz. Sabui de cailles a la Richelieu. Relev^s. Dindonneaux a la Chipolata. Langue de bceuf. Selle de mouton. Legumes. Rots. Faisan barde. Canard sauvage, sauce bigarade. Pommes soufflees. Salade de saison. Entremets. Omelette soufflee en surprise, Pouding a la' diplomate. Gelee de champagne a la Princesse. Meringues a la creme de vanille. Chartreuse de fraises. Bombe au chocolat. Huitres k la Diable. PUBLIC DINNER • .(As Served in France) At 21s. per head, inclusive of Wines. (30 to 50 COVERS.) Service a la Franchise. MEfJU. Huitres. Chablis. Potages. Consomme de volaille aux quenelles. Potage Imperiale. Sherry. Hors-d’oeuvre. Petites croustades Lueullus. Poissons. ■ Turbot, sauce liomard. Filets de bars a la Venitienne. Clos iJu Bocher. Rele vd. Tournedos ii la Rossini. Fleur de Sillery. Entries. Chartreuse ii la diplomate. Gbtelettes d’agneau a la Macedoine. Aspic de foie gras en Belle Yue. Punch a la Btnnaive. Roti. Poularde truffee. Salade panachee. Champagne : Moet et Chandon. Entremets. Asperges en branches, sauce Hollandaise. I Timbales de poires Duchesse. Glace de fantaisie. Medoc vieux. Vieux Malaga. DINER RUSSE at 22s. 6d. per head. JVLEf'lU. Huitres Natives. Potages. Tortue claire. Creme Portugaise. 1 Poissons. Darnes de saumon a la Chainbord. Filets de sole a la ColberST* Entrees. Poularde a la Marechale. Chaud-froid de cailles a la Demidoff. Releve. Filet de boeuf a la Renaissance. Legumes. Sorbet au marasquin. Roti. Perdreaux au cresson. Salade de saison. Entremets. Asperges en branches, sauce Hollandaise. P£ches a l’lmperatrice; Piece de nougat a la Chantilly. Biscuit. Petits fours. Dessert. Glace ii la Princesse. Pailles au Parmesan a la Yarmouth. Cafe Turque.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. BANQUET MENUS—continued. Regimental Dinner At 27s. 6d. INCLUSIVE OF WINES. Meoa. . . HORS-D'OEUVRE. Huitres au citron. Chablis. POTAGES. Consomme a la fermiere. Creme de volaille. Tortue li(Se. Dry Sherry. POISSONS. Truite du Bhin, sauce Bordelaise. Mousse de merlanS a la Dieppoise. Niersteiner. ENTREES. Bis de veau a la Toulouse. CVitelettes d’agneau aux pointes d’asperges. Dry Imperial, Perinet etfils. RELEVES. Filet de boeuf a la Proven^ale. Pommes de terre Chateau. Jambon au vin de Madere. Bpinards au jus. * ROTI. Poulardes roties au cresson. Salade a la Perigord. Fonds d’artichauts farcis. ENTREMETS. Souffles de pommes a la creme. Gelee a l’orange. Petits gateaux palmiers. Hareng fume sur toast. Pouding glace. Gaufrettes. Fine Champagne Liqueur. DESSERT. Chateau Marquis de Terme. Old Bottled Port. Cafe noir. DimeR at 25s. inclusive of Wines (39 to 40 COVERS.) POTAGES. Tortue claire. Consomme 4 la Marie-Louise. POISSONS. Saumon, sauce Hollandaise et Genevoise Blanchailles. ENTREES. Souffles de volaille it l’Ambassadrice. Bis de veau a l’Argenteuil. RELEVES. Quartier d’agneau. Poulets printaniere. Jambon d’York. Pommes nouvelles. Petits pois. Haricots verts. Sorbets a l’ananas. ROTIS. Cailles et Canetons d’Aylesbury. Salades, a la Grimod et a la Fran^aise. LEGUMES. Asperges en branches. Kari it l’orientale. ENTREMETS. Charlotte a la Polonaise. Glace mousseuse. Pailles au Parmesan. Caviar a la Diable. DESSERT. CARTE DE VINS. Punch. Amontillado. Marcobrunner. Hoehheimer. Pommery et Greno. G. H. Mumm. Chateau Margaux. Oporto.BANQUET MENUS. 657 am enoLiSH dimmcr At 30s. per head, inclusive of Wines. BILL OF FARE. HORS-D’OEUVRE. Pickled tunny fish. Sardines. Canapes of caviar, Remoulade style Sauterne. SOUPS. Clear turtle. Bisque d’ecrevisses. Madeira. Lyons sausage. • / FISH. Salmon, Genoese sauce and cucumber Whitebait, plain and devilled. Fillets of soles and Hollandaise sauce. 1lode: Laubenheimer. ENTREES. Bouehees ii la Princesse. Sweetbreads a la Portugaise. Champagnes: Heidsiech et Cie. ; Mumm et Cie. Punch a la Bomaine. REMOVES. Lamb and mint sauce. Salade Romaine. Spring chicken and parsley sauce. Braised ham and Madeira sauce. Haunch of venison and red currant jelly. French beans. Crayfish and asparagus point salad. ROAST. Duckling and watercress. Chipped potatoes. Giant asparagus. Green peas, French style. SWEETS. Mocha cake. Charlotte, Neapolitan style. Chartreuse of pineapple. Ice pudding. Small ice biscuits. Liqueurs. Cheese. Salad. DESSERT. Peaches. Hot-house grapes. Strawberries. Melon. Chateau Montrose. Malmsey. Cafe noir et Cognac. TJ UTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 658 BANQUET MENUS-—continued. <£e Cordon T^ouge. DINER DU 27 JANVIER 1899. Prepared by Maitre Chef L. Cossart, M.C.A.TYPICAL AMERICAN MENUS Cypical A/neRiCAM r\erius. QSreagfasf* Sliced oranges. Oatmeal. Sugar and cream. Smothered beef. Saratoga chips. Cerealine griddle cakes. Coffee. fnmc0+ Broiled lobster. Parker House rolls. Watercress. Radishes. Cheese ramakins. Tea. ©tnner* Puree of vegetabl.es without meat. Stuffed breast of veal. Brown sauce. Plain boiled potatoes. Stewed tomatoes. Browned sweet potatoes. Lettuce salad. French dressing. , Cheese straws. Apple snow. Coffee. fin €aster-Day jta. SERVED AT THE ISLE WORTH HOTEL, ATLANTIC CITY. Little neck clams on shell. Blue Point oysters on shell. Fresh horse radish. Green fruit la Montebello. Essence of chicken en tasse. Celery. Radishes. Salted almonds. Olives. Bouchees it l’Eugenie. Potomac shad with roe ii la Point Shirley. Sliced cucumbers. Julienne potatoes. Boiled leg of lamb it l’Ecossaise. Diamond back terrapin en caisse a la Newburg. Sweetbreads glace aux champignons frais. (Eufs farcis £i la Maximilian. Punch Imperial. Prime ribs of beef. Mignon venaison au Bar-le-Duc. Roast Boston duckling, apple sauce. Sliced tomatoes. Chow-chow. Dill pickles. India relish. Sweet pickles. New steamed potatoes. Mashed potatoes. New asparagus au beurre. Haricots verts panaches. Petits pois. Stewed tomatoes. Mountain quail sur canape. English bread sauce. Romaine salad. Isleworth pudding. Transparent sauce. Easter nest ice cream. Club meringue pie. Timbale de fraise a la Parisienne. Gateau praline glace. Bon-bons. Petits fruits. Gateaux Frantanchines. Strawberries and cream. Grapes. Oranges. Bananas. Apples. Cheese. Nuts and raisins. Cafe noir. u u 2THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 660 v^rnerican jyCenus. Menu of a banquet given at a San Francisco Hotel:— Oysters on the half shell. Celery. Consomme. Mock turtle. Mission olives. Dressed lettuce. Broiled shad it la Maitre d’Hotel. Sliced cucumbers. Pepper salad. Roast beef, demi-glace. Pried egg plant. Spring lamb, mint sauce. Green peas. Young turkey, cranberry sauce. Mashed potatoes. Roman Punch. Chicken salad a la Mirabeau. • Snail ;V la Caprea. Broiled tomatoes. i Sauce Mayonnaise. Charlotte Russe. Cake. Candy fruit Pretzels. Cheese. Ice cream. Black coffee. Ai) Americai) Diooer MENU. Mock turtle. Consomme, with chicken fillets. Boiled trout, cream sauce. Fillet of sole, walnut sauce. Fried perch, Tartar sauce. Dressed lettuce. Radishes. Lamb’s tongue. Boiled Philadelphia capon. Oyster sauce. Cucumber. Sliced tomatoes. Sirloin of beef, dish gravy. Tame duck, apple jelly. Spring lamb, mint sauce. Cincinnati ham, champagne sauce. Chicken croquettes, supreme sauce. Sweetbreads, financiere. Pear fritters with maraschino. Devilled lobsters, Roman punch. Mashed potatoes. New string beans. Lima beans. Sweet potatoes. Asparagus. Bermuda onions. Green peas. Sirloin beef. Ham. Tongue. Turkey. Lobster salad. Vegetable salad. Snow pudding. Whipped cream. Lemon pie. Washington pie. Cream pie. Vanilla ice cream. Chocolate ice cream. Fancy cake. Nuts. Raisins. Oranges. Macaroons. Charlotte russe. Bananas. American cheese. Frozen pudding. Roquefort cheese. Lady fingers. Crackers. Wine jelly. Strawberries and cream. Olives. Honey in comb. Tea. Cocoa. Coffee.TYPICAL AMERICAN MENUS 661 <M(M<M<Mcpcp<M<Mepcpcpqs<McMcp<M<M<M<M<M<M<M<M<M<M<M<M<MM<M<M<M<M<M<M .A. A A A A .A. A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AMERICAN TABLE D’H0TE DINNER. Louisville Hotel, Louisville, TJ.S.A.: Sunday, May 26 Little neck clams. POTAGES. Benolton. HORS-D’OEUVRE. lbers. Radishes. Young onions. POISSON. Sheep’s head A la Meissonier. RELEVES. Roast’sirloin of beef, Yorkshire pudding. Browned new potatoes. Roast lamb, mint sauce. Strawberry ice cream $1.00 incl. Wine. ENTREE. Sweetbreads en papillote & la Senn. ENTREMET. Asparagus au beurre fondu. SORBET CREME YVETTE. Salade panachee. Roquefort. ROTI. Roast spring chicken k l’Anglaise DESSERT. Assorted cakes. Cafe noir. AN AMERICAN LtiNGHEQN MEN0. Oyster cocktail. Little neck clams. Radishes. Salami. Dill pickles. Olives. Celery. Sweet pickles. Pickled beets. Spiced oysters. Consomme, Renaissance. Fillets of kingfish, crayfish butter. Roast sirloin of beef. Lamb fries, English. Timbale of snipe, Toulouse. Cold. Roast fowl. Sardines. Potted breast of grouse. Terrine de foie gras. Ox tongue. Smoked Scotch herring. Roast beef. Boneless pigs’ feet. Galantine of turkey. Lettuce. Cold slaw. Mashed turnips. String beans. Stewed tomatoes. Boiled and mashed potatoes. Charlotte Russe. Mince pie. Pineapple sherbet. Assorted cakes. Brie and American cheese. Bananas. Oranges. Apples. Cider. Coffee.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 662 TYYTYTTYY4‘4*TY4'4r4*4*4*4,4‘TTTTTv4'T4’4'TVTT4-4/-4'T4'TT4'T4*4‘4'4,4'4,^l,. Hn Hmerican Supper flDenu. Celery. Blue Points. ■<*> Consomme in cups. -<P~ ■ ' Mangoes. HOT SERVICE:— Sirloin or Tenderloin steak a la Creole. English mutton chops with baked potatoes. Venison steak, club style. Lyonnaise potatoes. Corn fritters. COLD SERVICE:- Boned turkey. Lettuce k la vinaigrette. Mayonnaise of chicken. Pate de foie gras. Mortadella. Anchovy salad. Kum omelet. •• • Filbert ice cream. • Assorted cakes. Compote of peaches. Brandied pears. Neufchatel cheese. Tea. Coffee. Christmas guf>f>er ■e^S’ At the READ HOUSE, CHATTANOOGA, TENN. mEf4U. “May all Christmas Joys be yours 1 Consomme en tasse. Cracked wheat. Mush and milk. Broiled lake trout, Steward sauce. Boiled or broiled salt mackerel. Sliced cucumbers. Broiled sirloin or tenderloin steak, plain or Creole. Chicken saute k la printaniere. Fried oysters. Potatoes—baked, Lyonnaise, French fried. Egg nogg. Eggs t° order. Omelets plain with jelly, calf brains, or oysters. Cold roast beef. Sardines. Tongue. Mutton. Ham. Chicken salad. French rolls. Graham and rye bread. Biscuits. Cream waffles. Corn cakes. Peaches with cream. Assorted cakes. Pineapple cheese. Water crackers. Maple syrup. New Orleans molasses. Cocoa. Tea. Coffee. Chocolate.TYPICAL AMERICAN MENUS /cN AMERICAN BREAKFAST JVIENU. Bananas. Oranges. Apples. Grape fruit. Sliced bananas with cream. Stewed little neck clams. Clam broth. Stewed oysters. Cracked wheat, oatmeal, hominy, rice. Omelets, plain or Spanish. Eggs to order. Broiled shad, mattre d’hotel. Fried jack salmon. Broiled tenderloin or sirloin steak. Ham. Calf’s liver. Bacon. Golden plover on toast. Lamb chops. Fried mush. Sausage. Fried oysters. Fricassee of chicken. Potatoes. Baked. Brown hashed. Stewed in cream. German or French fried. Lyonnaise. Breads. Vienna. Graham. Rye. Corn and Boston brown bread. Toast. French and Vienna rolls. Shredded wheat biscuits. Raisin muffins. Buckwheat, wjieat, and corn griddle cakes. Maple syrup. Rock candy drip. Honey. Baked apples. Stewed prunes. Compote of peaches. Apple butter Coffee. Tea. Ceylon tea. Chocolate. Cocoa. ^ Washington J^i^tbday G®leb^ation £)inne^. “ A good digestion to you all; and once more I shower a welcome on you; welcome all.”—Richard II., i., 3. Blue Points on half shell. “ Take ye each a shell.”—Pope. Select celery en branche. “ The salt is spilt.”—Gay. Cream of lentils fi la Major Domo. “ The genial savour of stews.”—Byron. Baked red snappers, sauce poivrade. Parisienne potatoes. “Fishes that tipple in the deep.”—Lovelace. Spanish olives. Salted almonds. Tomato pickles. “ Pretty, tiny, little kickshaws.”—Henry IV., v., 1. Roast young turkey stuffed, cranberry sauce. Potato croquettes. Sifted peas ft la Bechamel. “Hungry generations tread thee down.”—Keats. Sherbet ft la Lalla Rookh. “ Trifles light as air.”—Othello, iii., 3. Broiled plovers on toast. Asparagus tips, Hollandaise. “ One little sandpiper and I.” Fresh shrimp mayonnaise, with roasted wafers. Dressed lettuce. “ Our shrimps to swim again, as when they lived, in a rare butter.”—Ben Jonsor. Bread sticks. Graham bread. “Here is bread, which strengthens man’s heart.”—Matthew Henry. Caramel ice cream. “ Wliicb melts like woman’s kisses.”—Byron. Assorted cakes. “ Things sweet to taste.”—Richard II., i., 3. Assorted fruit. “ I will make an end to my dinner : There’s pippins and cheese to come.” Merry Wives of Windsor i., 1. Edam and cream cheese. Water crackers. Cafe noir. “ Coffee, which makes the politician wise.”—Pope.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK G64 fi Typical (jerman Dinner jVlenu. ©petfenfolge. DineR De noce SERVED AT THE Hotel M£tropole, Geneva, Switzerland, On January 10, 1900. MENU. Potage oxtail claire. Truite au lac, sauce Bicke. Cuisson de chevreuil ii la Metternick. Biz de veau 4 la Ckevakfere. Asperges en tranckes, sauce mousseline. Cliapon du Mans truffes. Salade de saison. ©d)itb!r6ten=0uppe. Oleine ?>afteten. ©teinbutte mit Jbrebg=Sunfe. Bombe a la Medicis. Gateau Porte-bonkeur. Piece Montee. Corbeille de fruits. Friandises. •RatbfrMen mt't geb. Stubcln. 3ftel)fd)nitte mit ©belpilsen. SDtaponnaife ocn ©cfiiigel. nenu le 24 Juin, 1898. ©nten, gruebte, ©alat. Sdjoten mit gerofietem 23v01. ^irfd)cn=©anert. .Rafejiangem ©efronteg. 9iad)tifd). VINS. Ckablis ler cru. Dezaley 1895. POTAGE. Consomme parfait a la royale. POISSONS. Truites du lac flanquees de truite de riviere. Sauce kollandaise—beurre fondu. Pommes en serviette. jWenu of a Dinner in Swiss Dialect . . GIVEN AT THE , , Sckloss Teufen 1895. Berncastler 1886. RELEVES. Selle de ckevreuil a la St-Hubert. ENTREES. Supreme de volaille il la Stanley. HOTEL BELLE-VUE, NEUHAUSEN, SWITZERLAND September 11, 1898. ^^tB3Cbbef. E11 unklari Suppe mit ckkne Mockli. En Salm, wie me am Bhyfall gfange hat, derzue a gali Bruje und Herdopfel. Es wahrschafts Stiickli vomene Ochs, mit verschiedene Gartegmiiesli. Oeppis Ganslebere mit ere Art schwarze Herdopfel. Gfiillti Artischokebodeli. Jungi Bebkiihner, umgah mit fette Waektle, derzue Salokt. Diplomatisch unterenandergmisekti Siiessis. Oeppis Zammegfroris mit chlinem Backziig. Hamedaler Chas und anderi Chas. Allerkand zum Schneugge und Schliike. Pontet Canet 1878. Bauentlialer Auslese 1886. Heidsieck Monopole LEGUMES. Primeur de legumes. Jambon d’York. ROT IS. Faisans de Boheme. Cailles sur canapes. Salade Busse et cceurs de laitue. Compote Niijoise. ENTREMETS. Ponding k la Francfort. Sauce Sabayon. Corbeilles de glace a la federale. Piece montee a la moderne. Fruits et desserts. Hotel Belle-Vue, Zurich, Switzerland.KV«$TLIfeSTVB£^*1 A GERMAN MENU IN THE EGYPTIAN STYLE(566 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK An Italian Menu. LISTA DEI OIBI. Antipasto. Suppa di Ravioli a brodo. Rombo, salsa Ollandese. Filetto di bue alla„Napolitana. Pasticcio di fegato d’ oca. Sparagi alia Milanese. Tacchino al crescione. Insalata. Gelato di lampone. Pasticeeria con mandorle. Formaggio, Fi'utti. BILL OF FARE. Hors-d’oeuvre. Consomme Ravioli. Turbot-, Hollandaise sauce. Fillet of beef Napolitaine. Goose liver pate. Asparagus, Milanese style. Young turkey with cresses. . Salad. Raspberry ice. Almond pastry. Cheese. Fruits. A Roumanian Menu. Translated.1 Mezelicu. Icre verte. Masline, sardele. Supa borsu de miel. Morun la gratar cu lamie. Scoic cu ored. Muschiu la frigar, garnisitu. Guiu cu came. Gasca friptu cu salata. Cletite cu dulceta. Trojitura. Struguri. Cafea. Hors-d’oeuvre. Green caviare. Olives, anchovies. Puree of lamb. Roast sturgeon, sliced lemons. Mushrooms with rice. Roast beef, garnished. Fowls'with beans. Roast goose and salad. Peacock cakes with fruits. Savoury dish. Grapes. Coffee. A Menu in. Volapuk. Tapioca-sup modii Crecy. Turbot ko klafilavaet. Jiipaloet ku foctavaet. Goks modii Vicomtesse. Makar Milanik. Magabagoks poloetol. Salade flifik. Peihls flifik. Losets ko vaet modii Dijon. Spargs de Spitzberg. Bostab. Cr6cy and tapioca soup. Turbot, shrimp sauce. Mutton and venison sauce. Chicken A la Vicomtesse. Milanese timbales. Roast guinea-fowl. Season salad. New peas. Lobster, Dijon sauce. Spitzberg asparagus. Dessert. A Turkish Menu. Tscliebria tschorbasehi. Orman kababi. Nohut hanissi. Puff beurighi. Ternik lialwassi. Taprak lani dolmassi. Ellmassia. Assida. Gulatsch. Zerdsch pillau. Khoschab. Mutton broth with eggs and vinegar. Lamb roasted whole. Fricasseed chicken with walnut and pepper sauce. Cheese souffle. Boiled semolina with honey and butter. Pickled cabbage and gherkins. Baked calves’ feet. Semolina pie. Thick cream with rosewater. Gold-pillau. Scented water.MENUS INTERNATIONALS Misoschiru. Kuchitori Hachimono. Choku. Wanmori Sunomono. Konomono. Sashimi. Sushi. A Japanese Menu. ' Miso-bean soup. A kind of snail pie. Fish stew. Bean-vegetable. A meat soup. ' Cucumber and dried fish. Corn-vegetable. Raw fish. Rice with vinegar. SPECIMEN D’UN DINER FLAMANDE. Menu in Flemish and French. Spijs Kaabt. Lente soep. Zalm met kappersaus. Ossenharsts met truffelsau Romeinsche punch. Haring met snyboonen. Nubische kwakkels met korstijn. Borneimsche endvoogels met krieken. Kreeften met salaad. Conde rijs. Pasteigebak. Js room. Yruchten—Nagerecht. TRADUCTION. Potage printanier. Saumon sauce capres. Aloyau sauce aux truffes. Punch Romaine. Harengs haricots coupes. Caille de Nubie sur croutons. Canard de Bcrnheim aux cerises. Homard et salade. Riz A la Conde. Patisserie. Glace creme. Fruits et dessert. An Italian Dinner Menu. Riso e piselli al ftrodo (Consomme au riz et aux pois). Fritto misto alia Milanese (Friture A la Milanese). Tacchino bragiato alia Manin (Dindon A la Manin). Stufatino di bue al Madera (Etdve de boeuf au Madere). Carciofi alia Giudea (Artichauts A la Juive). » Polli alio spiedo (Poulets A la broche). Insalata di tartufi alia Piemontese (Salade de truffes blanches du Piemont). Stracchino gelato alia Napolitana (Fromage glace A la Napolitaine). Torta Lombarda (Tarte Lombarde). Dessert variato (Dessert varie). A SPANISH RESTAURANT’S PLATS DU JOUR. Menu de Lunes. Arroz £ la Yalenciana. MPrtes. Guisillo Madrileiio. Mifrcoles. Arroz a la Valenciana. Jueves. Cocido a la Espanola. Viebnes. Bacalao a la Vizcaina. Sab ado. Albondigas a la Espanola. Domingo. Cocido a la Espanola. Semaine. Lundi. Riz A la Valencienne. Mabdi. Ragout A la Madrilene. Mebcbedi. Riz A la Valencienne. Jeudi. Pot-au-feu A l’Espagnole. Vendbedi. Morue A la Basque. Samedi. Boulettes A l’Espagnole. Dimanche. Pot-au-feu A l’Espagnole. A Menu in Latin. Jus cancris incoctis conditum. Lumbuli bubuli subassati addito jure vini Materiani ex insulis fortunatis necnon globuhs cx Solani tuberibus. Yel brassica florens vel phaseolus viridis una cum perna linguisque scissis. Anguilla cocta cum jure mixto compositoque. Assum ferinum. Savilla et acetaria. Lactis flos glacialis ad moduffl principis Pueckleri. Butyrum caseusque.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK BUFFGT CT SOUPGR CHAUD. 7Wenu GROSSES PIECES FROIDES. Tute de sanglier a la St-Hubert, Dames de saumon a l’Algerienne. Galantine de volaille a la Yictoire. Poularde a l’Ecossaise. Buisson de bomards en fioquillage. Pates de faisans a l’aneienne. PIECES MONTEES. Tronc d’arbre ii la voliere. Gerbe de ble a la printaniere. Chalet Suisse.' Baba Polonaise. Gateau Breton. ENTREES FROIDES. Chaud-froid de mauviettes en mandarine. Petites timbales de foie gras a la Luculluf Zephire de volaille a la Venitienne. Chartreuse de filets de sole a la chatelaine. Mayonnaise de turbot a la Bagration. Aspic de langouste en Belle-Vue. Langue a l’ecarlate. Brawn a l’Anglaise. Jambon en gelee. Capons decoupes. Salade de saison ENTREMETS. Chartreuse d’ananas la Bourdaloue. Pain d’abricots l’Orleans. Gelee aux liqueurs. Macedoine de fruits. Petits gateaux Portugais. Dames d’honneur. Choux grilles k la Chantilly. Petits fours varies. Petites caisses Napolitaines.BUFFET ET SOUPEB CHAUD BALL SUPPER. * FISH. Oyster patties. Mayonnaise of salmon. Smelts 4 la Napoleon III. Dressed crab, Parisian style. Lobster salad. Crawfish salad, Chambord style. Fillets of red mullet in aspic, decorated with crayfish. MEATS. Roast beef. Braised turkey. Fillets of fowl in snow. Fillets of ducks, Sultan fashion. Turkey in the Chatsworth style. Pigeons in the Sefton fashion. Game pies. Larks in the Parisian style. Grouse salad. Sandwiches. Pistachio cream. Maraschino cream. Orange cream. Jellies. Cakes. Fruits. Wines, &e. <§>ouper £>u $af. * SERVICE CHAUD. Consomme en tasse. Champignons frais sur croutes. Petites mousses de jambon, sauce Champagne. Aspic de crevettes. Pigeonneaux truffes. Becassines au cresson. Coquilles d’huitres. SERVICE FROID (Buffet). Pate de foie gras en croute. Galantine de faisans sur socle. Chaud-froid de mauviettes en Belle-Vue. Saumon de Canada 4 la tartare. Mayonnaise de homards. Sandwiches assortis. SOUPER DU BAL. * POISSONS. Pates des huitres. , Mayonnaise de saumon. Eperlans a la Napoleon III. Crabe k la Paris. Salade de homard. Salade de langouste 4 la Chambord. Filets de rougets en aspic, garnis aux eerevisses. VIANDES. Rosbif a l’Anglaise. Dinde braise. Filets 4 la neige. Filets 4 la Sultan. Dindon 4 la Chatsworth. Pigeon 4 la Sefton. Pates de gibier. Mauviettes 4 la Parisienne. Salade de gelinotte. Sandwiches. Creme de pistache. Creme de marasquin. Creme d’oranges. Gelees. Gateaux. Fruits. Yins, &c. WWWWmmm m BALL SUPPER MENUS. Soupers du Bal. * MENU. Dindons truffes 4 la Bechamel. Pate de gibier 4 la Fran<;aise. Galantine de chapon. Jambon d’York braise. Poulet roti au cresson. Langue de boeuf 4 l’ecarlate. Boeuf braise 4 l’epicure. Salade de saison. Gelee DESSERT. Madere. Bavarois rubanes. Glaces de fantaisie. Biscuits glaces. Petits fours. Fruits. Cafe. Gelee au marasquin. Chartreuse d’abricot. Gelee au fruit. Meringues 4 la Chantilly. mmmm #j§j§670 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK •l* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4” 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* cfo cto cto cfo cb s 'a sto s to c to cto '.to cto cto cto cto cto cto cto era cto cto era cto cto §OUPER DU ||AL. Consomme croute au pot. Mayonnaise de homard en salade. 2. Zephyr de foie gras. 3. Dindonneaux farcie a la moderne. 4. Pate de gibier a la Ffan^aise. 5. Hure de sanglier a la Itoyale. 6. Chapon rotis au cresson. 7. Langue de boeuf A l’epicure. 8. Jambon d’York it la gelee. 9. Faisan rotis froids. 10. Salade A la Frantjaise. A. Gelee A la Russe. B. Creme Nesselrode. C. Chartreuse d’abricot. D. CrAme aux fraises. E. Gateau c\ l’Imperiale. Dessert. PhRT CHROD. (12.30.) Poulet en casserole. ep C*S lip Cp Cj3 C*5 C*3 C*3 Cj5 Z>. 3 C|5 «..0 Zf 5 Cp C*5 Cp C-; 5 Oki Cp C{ 5 0)5 C; 3 C< 3 -jw .j. .j. .j. .j. .j. .j. .j. ^ .j. .j. WjV. .j. Buffet Bt ^ouper1 Chaud. SERVICE CHAUD. Consomme en tasses. Terrapins it la Maryland. Croquettes de chapons aux truffes Huttres A la poulette. Rillettes aux champignons frais. Canards canvas-back A la gelee de groseille SERVICE FROID. Dame de saumon ii la moderne. Homards A la Russe. Salade de homards a l’Americaine. Pate de foie gras de Strasbourg. Pate de faisans A la Perigord. Aspic de mauviettes en Belle-Vue. Salade Russe. Sandwiches varies. Canapes Polonaises. SUCRES. Gelee A la Macedoine. Mousse au cafe. Bavaroise aux pommes. Corbeille de glaces assorties. Gateau Malakoff. Dessert. Fruits. Chocolate. Cafe. ThA Punch. Limonade. Jlouper fcu (j$af. FROID (Buffet). Saumon garni, sauce verte. Homard, sauce remoulade. Filet de boeuf it la Parisienne. Galantine de chapons. Quartier d’agneau, sauce menthe. Boeuf a la gelee. Poulardes roties. Jambon et langue. Pate de faisans ii la Perigord. Sandwiches assortis. Salade Russe. Babas au rhum. Gateaux Bretons. Gelee macedoine aux fruits Bavarois panaches. Biscuits Punch. Cornets aux pistaches. Croque-en-bouche duchesse. CHAUD (Petites tables). Consomme aux pointes d’asperges Homard ii l’Americaine. Noisettes d’agneau aux petits pois. FROID. Dame de saumon aux coneombres. Salade de homard. Pate de faisans it. l’aspic. Poulet, langue et jambon. Galantine de chapons. Salade Italienne. Patisserie variee. Biscuits glaces. Gelee macedoine aux fruits. Charlotte Russe. Glace marbree. Soupe A, l’oignon. Jl&upper (Wtenu -hg-84- Prawns en aspic. Creme of chicken. Oyster patties. * Boned turkey with truffles. Game pie A la Fran^aise. Roast ham A la gelee. Ox tongue A l’ecarlate. Roast chicken with cress. Braised beef A l’epicure. Salade en saison. f Charlotte Parisienne. Gelee A la Russe. Trifles A la Chantilly. Gelee au liqueur. * \ Dessert.BUFFET ET SOU PER CHAU I) 671 e:rs. FRENCH. ENGLISH. Boucliees aux huitres. Mayonnaise de eeleri. Chateaubriand a la Scribe. Pommes Duchesse. Beignets de bananes. Oyster patties. Celery salad. Double fillet of beef, Scribe style. Duchess potatoes. Banana fritters. Omelettes au saumon. Croquettes de dinde. Salade de matrons. Crabe a la Diable. Oranges a la Napolitaine. Salmon omelet. Croquets of turkey. Chestnut salad. Devilled crab. Neapolitan oranges. Escalopes frites. Sauce tomate. Cotelettes de pigeon. Epinards a la creme. Pommes en Robe de Chambre. Denises Chesterfield. Compote de pruneaux. Creme au tapioca. Fried scallops. Tomato sauce. Pigeon cutlets. Creamed spinach. Baked potatoes. Chesterfield sandwiches. Stewed prunes. Tapioca cream. Anchovies. Olives. Caviare. Bloater Paste. Lobster salad, mayonnaise sauce. Turkeys. Pheasants. Roast Fowls. Tongues. Roast beef. Boiled beef- Hams. Game pie. Pigeon pie. Saddles of Mutton. Pressed beef. Meringues. Baba au rhum. Eclairs. Mince pies. Gelee, &c. Ices. Vanille Napolitaine a la fraise. Bananas. Pineapples. Oranges. Apples. Stilton. Gorgonzola. Cheddar. Cafe noir. Consomme en tasse. Saumon d’Ecosse grille, sauce Tartare. Poularde de Bresse it la gelee. Langue de boeuf. Quartier d’agneau, sauce menthe. Salade de saison. Bavaroise Rubanee. Gelee au champagne. Dessert. Natives. Consomme Royal en tasse. Filets de soles Cleopatre. Cote d’agneau aux petits pois. Pommes Parisienne. Poulet Cocotte. Salade de saison. Bombe pralinee. Petits fours. Champignons a la moelle. Dessert. Refreshments. MENUS FOR RECEPTIONS, CINDERELLAS, DANCES, CONVERSAZIONES, AT HOMES, HIGH TEAS, &c. Prices for such vary from 2 s. 6 d. to 7 r. 6 d. per head, according to the number of guests and the style of catering required. The quantity and quality of provisions supplied must, oj course, be regulated according to the price paid per head. This generally includes the hire of all plate, glass, linen, china, cutlery, and table plant. Table decorations and attendance are, as a rule, charged extra, unless the number of guests is large enough to enable the Caterer to provide the whole at an inclusive price. The following Specimen Menus will give an idea as to what can be done, leaving a fair profit to the Caterer. MENU at 2s. 6d. per head. Sandwiches : Ham, Beef, Lobster, Salmon, Anchovy, Watercress. Cold Roast Beef. Salad. Various pastries. Strawberry ice. Lemon water ice. White and brown bread and butter. Biscuits. Mineral waters. Tea and coffee. MENU at 3s. 6d. per head. Mineral waters. Tea and coffee. Brown and white bread and butter. Madeira, Sultana, and other cakes,, Dessert biscuits. Macaroons. Continental pastry. Cold ham and beef. Sandwiches, Lobster. Salmon. Ham. Tongue. Beef. Foie gras. Neapolitan ices.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 672 MENU at 4s. 6d. per head. Roast and boiled chicken. York ham. Ox tongue. Raised veal and ham and pigeon pies. Tomato salad. Vanilla cream. Lemon sponge. Fruit pies. Various pastries. Dinner rolls. White and brown bread and butter. Noyau jelly. Lemon jelly. Chartreuse of strawberries. Strawberry ice cream. Orange water ice. Biscuits. Tea and coffee. Fruits. MENU at 5s. per head (inclusive of all charges). Port. Sherry. Claret. Brandy. Irish and Scotch whiskies. Champagne and claret cups. Lemonade and soda water. Tea and coffee served with cream. Thin white and brown bread and butter. Pound cake. Madeira cake. Sultana cake. Rout biscuits. Wine biscuits. Dessert biscuits. French pastry. Macaroons. Meringues. Carlsbad plums. Crystallised fruit. Assorted sweets. Chocolate almonds. Champagne jelly. Macedoine fruit jelly. Sandwiches. Smoked salmon. Victoria. Ham. Beef. Tongue. Foie gras. Biscuit ices. Petits fours. Dessebt. MENU at 5s. 6d. per head (inclusive of all charges). Sandwiches. Langue. Anchois. Jambon. Pain bis. Concombre aux oeufs. Volaille. Cresson. A la Connaught. A la Rothschild. A la Regence. The et cafe. Brown and white bread and butter Gatekux varies. Madeira cake. Chambord. Bresilienne. Progres. Merveilleux. Macarons. Biscuits assortis. Petits fours. Brioches. Petits choux. Fondants. Glaces. Creme de fraises. Napolitaines. Creme 4 la vanille. Eau de cerises. Eau de citron. Champagne cup. Claret cup. Lemonade. Dessebt. MENU at 6s. 6d. per head. Blayonnaise of salmon. Filets de soles a la creme d’anchois. Oyster and lobster patties. Roast fowl. Ox tongues. Galantine of veal. York ham. Raised pigeon pies. Salads. Compote of apricots. Pineapple cream. Chocolate cream. Marasquin jelly. Lemon jelly. Various fancy pastries. Gateaux. Meringues. Brown and white bread and butter. Dinner rolls. Tea and coffee. Biscuits. Strawberry cream ice. Pineapple cream ice. Orange water ice. Carlsbad wafers. Fruits. MENU at 7s. 6d. per head (inclusive of all charges). Claret cup. Mineral waters. Tea and coffee. Thin white and brown bread and butter. Poundcake. Sultana cake. Venetian cake. Almond cake. Wine biscuits. Dessert biscuits. Rout biscuits. Macaroons. Chocolate almonds. Assorted sweets. Carlsbad plums. Crystallised fruit. Aspic of prawns en Belle-Vue. Aspic of dressed eggs. Sandwiches. Smoked salmon. Lobster. Tongue. Ham. Beef. Foie gras. Jellies. Sherry. Maraschino. Macedoine of fruit. Lemon a l’lmperiale. Strawberry cream. Charlotte Russe. Ices. Vanilla cream. Lemon water. Strawberry cream. Neapolitan ices. Petits fours. Consomme (at close of the evening).673 BUFFET DE RE'CEPTION BUFFCT DC ReCCPTION. Consomme de volatile en tasse. Petits pains a la Frangaise. Mazarines a la Neraci Cassolettes a la Nantaise. Friantines a la Nelson. POISSONS. Tronjons de truite saumonee a la Norvegienne. Filets de sole a la cendrillon. Medaillons de homard a la Mirabeau. Aspic de queues de crevettes. . -HIH- ENTREES FROIDES. Chaud-froid de volatile a la moderne. Filet de bceuf pique Renaissance. Supremes de langue a la Talleyrand. Mousse de foie gras Lucullus. CStelettes d’agneau en Belle-Vue. Zephir de caneton a la Rouennaise. Buisson de cailles en cerise. Aspic de pigeon a la Moscovite. -*8H- SAUCES FROIDES. GROSSES PIECES. Cumberland. Raifort. Mayonnaise. Verte. Dressing. Mint. Roast beef. Braised beef. Agneau froid. Langue. Jambon. Galantine. Terrine de volatile. Pate en croute. Poulardes decoupees. Salades assorties. Les Sandwiches. -HsIH- Charlotte Montpensier. Religieuse Pompadour. Bavaroise Venitienne. Creme de noix a la Duchesse. Pain d’ananas a l’Anglaise. Gelee au champagne. Macedoine de fruits rafraichi. Marmites de fraises au Porto. Gateaux pralines. Assiettes de patisserie assortie. Petits souffles glaces Russell. Gaufrettes. Corbeille de fruits. Hotel Russell, London : May 30, 1900. XXTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 674 Cold Collation & Ball Supper Menus. Ipcnu du |§oupcr. Cotelettes de saumon. Filets de soles. Aspic de crevettes A l’lndienne. Cotelettes d’agneau a la Strasbourg. Poulet au cresson. Petits pains a la Parisienne. Langue de boeuf en aspic. Jambon d’York. Chaud-froid de volaille Portugaise. Mauviettes farcies a la Perigord. Ballotines A la Renaissance. Mayonnaise de homard. Chaud-froid de cailles en Belle.Yue. Asperges a la Normande. Sandwiches varies. Gelees. Bavaroise. Patisserie. Macedoine de fruits. Savarin au Curasao. Pouding glace. BALL SUPPCR. jVTenu. Mayonnaise de homard. Supremes de sole froids, Cardinale. Aspic de foie gras A l’ancienne. Chaud-froid de poulet a la Perigueux. Langue de bceuf A la gelee. Jambon d’York. Boeuf roti, sauce raifort. Salade verte. Salade de tomate. Bavarois panache. Gelee au marasquin. Gateau meringue. Chartreuse de fruits. Petits fours. Consomme de volaille eri tasse. Glaces fantaisies. Dessert. - jVierm. - 1. Consomme de volaille. 2. Crevettes A l’lndienne. 3. Homard en Mayonnaise. 4. Bouchees aux huitres. 5. Soles A la Cardinal. £3aub. 6. Cotelettes d’agneau aux petits pois. 7. Bouchees A la Reine. 8. Pate de foie gras en aspic. 9. Dinde farcie A la Perigord. 10. Tete de sanglier A la chasseur. 11. Galantine de volaille. 12. Langue de boeuf A la printanifere. 13. Jambon A l’Anglaise. 14. Pate de faisan aux truffes. 15. Poulet roti. 16. Faisan roti. 17. Salade en varietes. a. Bonnes-bouches eclairs. b. Petits babas au kirsch. c. Creme aux fraises. cl. Chartreuse d’abricots. c. Petits fours gauffres. (Bface. /. Creme aux fraises, eau d’orange. Poulet grille A la Diable. O’CLOCK. Consomme Riche. AU DEPART.COLD COLLATION dc. MENUS Ball Supper given by the Duke of Northumberland. 2 Grosvbnor Place. menu du 7 3uin, 1894. ! Consomme printaniere. ENTREE CHAUDE. Cotelettes d’agneau aux pois. Pilets de saumon k la Regence. Caisses de homard 4 la Russe. Filets de soles a la Ravigote. Chaud-froid de cailles Imperatrice. Crimes de volaille a la Reine. Tablets de cailles 4 1’aspic. Petits pains a la Framjaise. Aspics de gibier a la chasseur. Poulets rotis dicoupes. Langue 4 l’ecarlate. Jambon en gelee. Sandwiches varies. ENTREMETS. Gelee au marasquin. Gelee macedoine. Suedoise de peches. Bavarois 4 la vanille et chocolat. Patisserie varies. #5 4 Menu du 'Soupcr. f CHAUD. Consomme aux pointes d’asperges. Cotelettes panees aux pois. FROID. Escalopes de saumon en mayonnaise. Kari de crevettes. Salades de homard. Cailles k la Strasbourg. Petites cremes de volaille aux truffes. Chaud-froid de poulets. Foie gras en aspic. Cotelettes a la /.ingara. Sandwiches k la Chesterfield. Poulets rotis decoupes. Jambon et langue. Galantine k la Perigord. Salades de tomates. Pate de gibier. Chapon k l’ecarlate. Macedoine de fruits en gelee Chartreuses aux peches. Bavaroise il la vanille. Savarin au kirsch. Patisserie. Fraises et creme. 61 && A ^ OK 4 «- Wk SOK AA m * 4 GARDEN PARTY, SYON HOUSE. Menu du I Juin, 1894. - SANDWICHES VARIES: De poulet. Au puree de gibier. Au puree de boeuf. Au jambon. A la Chesterfield. Saumon aux anchois. Galantine de poulet. Langue de boeuf. Salades de tomates et de eoncombres. Petits pains k la Fran^aise. Pains de gibier. Kari de crevettes. ENTREMETS: Gelees aux fraises. Gelees au noyau. Charlottes Russe 4 la vanille. Bavarois au chocolat.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 676 Copy of Bill of Fare of a Two Course Dinner as served in the year 1349. FIRST COURSE. Browet farsed and charlet, for pottage. Baked mallard. Small birds. Almond milk served with them. Capon roasted with the syrup. Boasted veal. Pig roasted “ endored.” Herons. A “ leche.” A tart of flesh. SECOND COURSE. Brewet of Almayne and Viand vial for pottage. Mallard. Boast rabbit. Pheasant. Venison. Jelly. A “leche.” Hedgehogs. Pomes de Orynge. ah ©inner irj ^7^0, The following is the Bill of Fare pro- vided in 1720 by an Englishman, who gave a dinner to his neighbours. The following was the menu:— A Westphalia ham with chicken. Carps and escalloped oysters. Soup with teal. A dish of sucking rabbits. Salads and pickles. A venison pasty. Boasted geese. A dish of gurnets. Umble pie. Boasted hen turkey, with oysters. For the second course :— A chine of salmon and smelts. Wild fowls of sorts. A tansy. Collared pig. A pear tart, creamed. Sweetmeats and fruits. Jellies of sorts. A dish of fried soles. Copy of one of the late King of Hanover’s Menus, as printed. Girot... Girot... Kortling Girot... Girot... Kortling Ebeling Kortling Kortling Bobby DiNER DU 27 SEPTEMBRE 1845. Un potage de perdreaux au chasseur. Un potage clair a la printaniere. Huitres au naturel. Sandets bouillis, sauce anchois. Une culotte de boeuf a la Flamande. Filets de poulets a la Marengo. Haricots verts garnis d’escalopes de mouton grilles. Levrauts rotis k la gelee de groseilles. Une compote de pommes k la Streilitz. Une fanchonette aux amandes. Glacesdepech.es. [This practice of appending the chefs’ names to the dishes, as prepared by them, was very popular at this period, and remained so for several years.]ANCIENT MENUS. GRAND DiNER^- Dans les Salons du Prince Charles de Hohenlohe-Kirchberg le 18 Mars 1771. Potages k la Russel, aux macrons, aux vermicelles, a la puree de racines. Croutes au pot, gratinees Poissons. Saumon, sauce Genoise. Carpe du Rhin k la Chambord. . Relevtis. Pieces de boeuf en surprise. Selle de chevreuil, sauce poivrade. Entries. Poulardes en petit deuil. Blanquette aux truffes. Haute de perdreaux fumes. Pate chaud it la Financibre. Yol-au-yent de turbot a la creme. Ris de veau pique, glace, sauce tomate. Filets de lapereau en gibelote. Cromesqui ii la Russe. Filets d’agneau piques, glaces, sauce Espaguole. Petits pates au salpicon. Ailerons de dindon au soleil. Chartreuse de tendrons de veau. Pieds d’agneau a la poulette. Pigeons k la Voltaire, sauce Hollandaise. Sorbets au rhum. Sorbets au Jcirsch. Grosses Pieces d'Entremets. Gateau monte. Rocher. Carpe au bleu. Buisson d’ecrevisses. Rots. Quartier de Pre-Sal^. Longe de veau de Pontoise. Becasses aux croutons. Faisans de Boheme. Salade de laitues. Salade de chicoree. Ldgumes. Petits pois au beurre. Asperges, sauce a la Portugaise. Choux-fleurs, sauce brune. Petites feves liees. Concombres k la maitre d’hotel. GHufs poches aux truffes k l’aspic. Entremets. Petits pots au cafd vierge. Gelee de marasquin. Gelee de citron renversee. Petits pains k la Duchesse. Glaces ii l’ananas, aux framboises. Dessert. Mer>ti of a QbristiDas Day Laocbeoi). Ye royal sir loyn of beef. Xe boar’s heade. Ye raised game pye. Ye galantyne of veel. Ye roasted cliykens. Ye boyled ham. Ye roasted fesant. Ye rounde of beef in gelee. Ye ox tongue. Ye saddle of ye mutton. Ye olde plumb pudding. Ye minced pyes.078 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Copy of a German Banquet Menu (3 Courses) served at Strasbourg in 1445 to the Duke of Rupprecht. au$ bent jathrfliin&erf. 3"' 3-al>r' H45 Atr *>cr3°g fiupV1t0)I »tn ’Siitljof lion ^trilfj&lirg u 110 hegt liber bae bei Dirfrr ffielrgtnbm obgcbollene /eflma(jl folgenber Smdlt oor: MENU DU DINER served to S.A. Hekri II d’Orleans, Due de Longueville, Prince de Neuchatel, HOTEL DE VILLE A NEUCHATEL, le 29 Juillet, 1657. ® Les huitres. Les citrons. DEUX POTAGES. Le riz a la pure'e de pois verts. Le potage printanier. DEUX HORS-D’CEUVRE. Les rissoles a la Russe. Les petits vol-au-vent aux huitres. UN RELEVE. Les beefsteaks garnis de petites pommes de terre tournees. CINQ ENTREES. Le salmi chaud-froid a la gelee. Les boudins a la Ricbebeu, sauce tomate. Le turbot garni de queues d’ecrevisses k la Flamande. Le sautes de filets de poulets au supreme, garnis d’un ragout a la Toulouse. Le pate ebaud de legumes k la Bechamel. UN PLAT DE ROTS. Les cailleteaux, le dindonneau, le veau. Deux salades. QUATRE ENTREMETS. Fromage Bavarois aux fraises. Beignets k l’Allemande aux abricots. Blanc-manger a la creme. Petits souffles au cafe. Fruits et Dessert. ROYAL ALBERT HOTEL, DUBLIN. March 28, 1881. £ieut.-Sen. Sir john Shute, C.g. MENU. First Course. Giblet and clear spring soups. ■ Flounder suche. Spitched eels. Stewed eels. Fried flounders. .Filets de truites a la Genevoise. Filet de soles a la maitre d’hotel. Salmon. Turbot. Whitebait. Croquettes de homards. Ris de veau a la puree de pois. Filets de cbevreuil, sauce poivrade. Quenelles de volaille aux champignons. Chickens A, la Macedoine. Noix de veau, sauce tomatoes. Pigeon pie. Roast chickens. Ham. Bacon. Beans. Chine of mutton. Second Course. Duckling. Leverets. Goslings Petits pois ii la Fran<;aise. Mayonnaise de homards. Souffle pudding. Gelee k la Macedoine. Bavaroise aux fraises. Creme a iltahenne. Gelee au vin. Compote de fruits au riz. Gateau a la Napolitaine. Meringue k la creme. Trifle pastry. Iced Pudding.679 ANCIENT MENUS. Bills of jfare of a Dinner ant) Supper Served in 1522 to the Emperor Charles V. and his suite when quartered in the City of London. *********** DYNER. The first course for dyner. Pottage. Boyled capon. Gr. sh. Young vele. Grene gese. Kyde 1. lambe. Custardes. Fruttour[sJ. SOPER. The second course. Jussel [broth]. Chykyns. Pejons. Rabettes. Tarte[s]. The first course, soper. Potage. Chykyns boyled. Jegges [gigot] of motton. Capons. Kyde 1. lambe. Dowcettes [custards]. The second course. Jelly, Ipocras [half white wine, half claret]. Pejons. Chykyns. Rabettes. Tarttes. H Bill or fare in tbe Plain old €naii$b style. Ye annuale Whytebaite Dinner of hyr Majestye’s Ministers on Wednesdaie, ye 14th August, 1858, atte ye Hostelrie yclept ye “ Shippe,” atte G-reenwiehe. This Bille of ye Fare is drawn in playne Englysh, without any cloake of Frenche or other foreygne tongue, for the sadde and sobere comforte of frendes, and that ye maye know what ye are asked to accept. Ye Bille of ye Fare. YE SOUPE.—Soupe made from ye Turtle, and alsoe Soupe made from ye Greene Fatte of ye same. YE FUSHE.—Ye Flounders curyously cooked, and Salmonne servyd inne lyke mannere. Ryssoles of ye Lobstere. Ye lyttel Soles, fryed. Ye Pudynges of ye Whyting. Ye Eles skynned and stewed inne ye riche wyne of Oporto. Ye Omelette of Crabbe inne ye style as servyd to ye Guardes of ye Blue Seale. Ye Troute from ye River Spey, grylled with ye sauce of Tartar. Salmonne inne collopes, with ye sauce inne ye Cyprus faslionne. Ye Whytebaite, befrizzled, and alsoe be-devylled. FLESHE AND FOWLE.—Sweetbreades, with ye Mushroomes added thereunto. Ye Haunche of ye Royale Bucke, with Haricotte Beanes servyd therewith. Ye Antient Hamme, from ye Citye of York, grylled inne wyne of Champagne. Ye Grouse from ye Northe Countree. Hogge Bacon and younge Beanes. YE SWEETES Ac.—Apprycottes flavoured with Noyau. Pudynges iced, after ye Nessel- rode mannere. Lyttle Cakes made with ye Cheese from Parma, inne Italie. Ye Ices flavoured with Oranges and Strauberres. Divers Fruytes which are your Desertes, and ye Wynes of Champagne and manie outlandysh countrees. Ye Dinner will be servyd after ye mannere of ye Russian people. Ye guestes are bydden to eate after ye Hungarie mannere. W. T. Bale, Mastere.680 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK flfoenu of a 1Ro\>al Banquet Served to H.M. KING GEORGE III. London : November 9, 1761. BILL OF FARE. King and Queen. Bach four services and removes. First Service. Consisting of turrenes, fish, venison, &c. Nine dishes. Second Service. A fine roast; ortolans, quails, knotts, ruffs, pea chicks, &c. Nine dishes. Third Service. Consisting of vegetable and made dishes, green pease, green morrells, green truffles, cardoons, &c. Eleven dishes. Fourth Service. Curious ornaments in pastry, jellies, blomonges, cakes, &c. Nine dishes. Eight of the Royal Family. Four on the right hand of the King and four on the left. Each four services before them as follow:— First Service. Consisting of venison, turtle, soups, fish of every sort, viz. dorys, mullets, turbots, bets, tench, soals, &c. Seven dishes. Second Service. Ortolans, teals, quails, ruffs, snipes, partridges, pheasants, &c. Seven dishes. Third Service. Vegetable and made dishes, green pease, artichoaks, ducks’ tongues, fat livers, &c. Nine dishes. Fourth Service. Curious ornaments in cakes, both savoury and sweet, jellies and blomonges in variety of shapes, figures and colours. Nine dishes. MENU OF A SUPPER Prepared and Served at Jhe JTbhaye den 2)irhuger], Tjctvaria, JANUARY 20, 1743. ■JPotages. Quenelles au Coulis de Gelinottes. Massepain au Lait d’Amandes. Quatre Releves. Marcassin en Daube. Esturgeons de la Baltique (Sauce au Fenouil). Jambons d’Ours Fumes. Rale d’Elan au Feu d’Enfer. Entrees. Sterlets du Volga au Caviar. Salmis de Coq de Bruyere au vin de Malaga. Vol-au-vent de Rouges-gorges. Filet de Sanglier, Sauce aux Prunes. Capilotade de Faisans gras a l’Estragon. Daintiers de Cerf au Beurre d’Ecrevisses. Langues de Veau a la Wallenstein. Puree de Becasses en Turban.681 ANCIENT MENUS. MENU OF A SUPPER—continued. Quatre R6tis. Daim entier. Brochettes de Grives de Gui. Brocard de Chevrette couche. Oies Sauvages aux Oranges Ameres. Entremets. Asperges au Beurre Fondu—Choux-fleurs Dores. Croquettes de Nouilles. Gateau Yiennois—Croute aux Fruits. Pudding de l’Abbaye. Pieces Montees. Cornets de Gaufres garnis de Creme. Napolitain Glace a 1’Ananas. Fromages—Desserts les plus varies : Fruits, Fondants, &c. Vins des Caves de l’Abbaye—Liqueurs assorties. 7Vlenu, 1788. HOTEL DE VILLE DE PARIS. MARECHAL DE RICHELIEU, * 'e 5 Fevrier. DEJEUNER. Une tete de veau en tortue. QUATRE GROSSES PIECES FROIDES. Buisson de truffes au vin de Champagne. Hure de sanglier. Pate de Pitliiviers. Des huitres fraiches. HUIT HORS-D’CEUVRE D’OFFICE. Quatre de Agues vertes. Deux de beurre d’anchois. Un de caviar Busse. Un de radis. SIX HORS-D’CEUVRE DE CUISINE. Pieds de pore la Sainte-Menehould. Cotelettes de mouton en crepinettes. Ailerons de dindons a la marechal. Attereaux de filets de merlans. Paupiettes de palais de boeuf. Boudins de faisan. DIX ENTREES. Saute de filets mignons de bceuf aux tomates. Carre de mouton en fricandeau. Filets de perdreaux k la Zingara. Grives au genievre. Yol-au-vent de legumes. Saute de filets de volaille supreme. Aspic de homards au beurre de Montpellier. Ris de veau glace, garni de choux de Bruxelles. DESSERT. Quatre corbeilles garnies de chasselas, poires et grenades. Douze tambours garnis de petits fours assortis. DEUX COMPOTES. Deux de poires. Deux de verjus. Une de marrons. Une d’epine-vinette. Quatre assiettes de fruit eonfits. Douze assiettes de fruits glaces au caramel.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 682 MENU, 1803.^- 32 DOVER STREET, LONDON: Samedi, 16 Mars. Sir H. Williamson. POTAGES A l’lmperatrice. A la Puree de pois verts. A l’Esturgeon A la Chinoise. POISSONS. Turbot A la Water. Truites k la Beaufort. Water-soucbet de Limandes. HORS-D’CEUVRE de Niochi au Parmesan. de White-Bait frits. RELEVES. Jambon aux epinards. Poulardes a la Chivry. FLANCS. Petite piece de Boeuf k l’Orleans. Selle d’agneau A la Royale. ENTREES. Boudins de homard cardinal. Ris d’agneau A la Toulouse. Chartreuse de cailles. Le vol-au-vent A la Nesle. Filets de canetons aux petits pois. Supreme de volaille, asperges. Noisettes de veau A, la Luynes. Cotelettes de mouton A la Dreux. SECOND SERVICE. ROTS. Levrauts. Oisillon. FLANCS. Spongada Napolitaine. Ramesquin en caisse. ENTREMETS. Pointes d’asperges au beurre fondu. Asperges en branches Petits pois A l’Anglaise. Petits pois A la Fran^aise. Aspic de homard sur socle Aspic en Belle-Vue sur socle. CEufs de pluviers sur socle. Buisson de praion sur socle. Gelee A la Montmorency. Gelee Macedoine. Charlotte d’ananas. Bavaroise au chocolat. Croquembouches A la Reine. GAteau de millefeuilles. Melon en nougat. Biscuit a la FlorentineANCIENT MENUS IWcnu or a Ball for 7,000 Persons. THIS MENU WAS SERVED AT THE PREFECT'S HOUSE (Prefecture de la Seine) Jn paris in December 1823. r POTAGES. Pates d’ltalie au blond de veau. Puree de pois aux croutons. Tapioca a la vert-pre. Riz au lait d’amandes. 100 GROSSES PIECES CHAUDES 25 turbots, sauce hollandaise. 25 roastbeef, sauce de Madere. I 25 saumons, sauce genevoise. | 25 dindes truffees, sauce k la Perigueux. 50 cotelettes de mouton sautees. 50 supremes de volaille aux truffes. ENTREES CHAUDES. I 50 grenadins de filets de bceuf, sauce de | 50 ballotines de volaille au riz. [Madere. 100 ROTIS. | 50 poulards. 200 ENTREMETS DE LEGUMES. 50 asperges en branches, sauce au beurre. I 50 petits pois a la frangaise. 50 artichauts k la lyonnaise. | 50 haricots verts. 200 ENTREMETS DE DOUCEUR CHAUDS. 50 gateaux de semouille au Malaga. I 50 puddings aux diplomates. 50 pommes parisiennes. | 50 poires au riz. .FROIDS. galantines sur socle, jambons a la gelee. buissons d’eerevisses sur socle. 25 pains de foie gras & la gelee, 25 salades de homards, sauce mayonnaise. 25 aspics garnis de filets de laperaux. 25 salades de filets de soles en mayonnaise. PIECES. I 20 buissons de truffes sur socle. | 20 longes de veau garnies k la gelee. | 20 noix de bceuf a la gelee sur socle. 200 ENTREES FROIDES. 25 chaud-froids de perdreaux, bordures de gelee. 25 salade russe surbordure d’oeufs. Laitues. 25 chaud-froids de poulets. 25 salades de volailles en bordure 200 ENTREMETS DE DOUCEUR. 25 gelees d’oranges, garnies d’oranges. 25 macedoines de fruits au champagne. 25 bavaroises de chocolat et vanille en rubans. 25 pains d’ananas, decores d’amandes. 25 gelees de cerises,, garnies de cerises. 25 gelees d’eau d’or, garnies de fraises. 25 pains d’abricots, decores d’amandes. 25 blanc-manger aux pistaches. 4 de foie gras. 12 GROS PATES TRUFFES.J 4 de volaille. 4 de gibier. 10 grosses brioches. 10 nougat k la parisienne sur socle. 10 biscuits de Savoie. 16 PIECES MONTEES. I 10 gateaux napolitains. 10 baba. | 10 croquembouches genoises sur socle. 20 genoises de pistaches. 20 tartelettes de pommes. 20 manons k la creme. 100 assiettes de sandwiches 120 ENTREMETS DE PATISSERIE. 20 marques au petit sucre. 20 condes fourres. 20 mirlitons. 100 assiettes de pain k la franchise. EXTRA. salades de legumes, servies dans des saladiers.684 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK . . BANQUET . . OF THE Royal Agricultural Society of Ei)glai)6. London, November 9, 1822. jVfertu. POTAGES: , HORS-D’CEUVRE: - RELEVES: ( ENTREES: \ Prinanier aux quenelles. Bisque d’ecrevisses. Bouquet de crevettes. Anchois. Olives. Truite saumonee, sauce genevoise et hollandaise. Filets de boeuf, piques 4 la Richelieu. Petits pates k la Montglas. Cotelettes d’agneau aux pointes d’asperges. Sorbets au rhum. Sorbets au Jcirsch. ROTS: ENTREMETS: Cailles bardees. Buisson de liomards. Salade romaine. Asperges en branches. Petits pois nouveaux l’Anglaise. Bavaroise aux fraises Bombes glacees a 1’orange. DESSERT: Corbeilles de fruits. Amandes. Biscuits. Corbeilles de fleurs. VINS: \ Sli.crry superieur. Chateau Yquem. Chateau Margaux. Champagne Clicquot, frappe. Oporto superieur. ^ DEJEUNER DE N0GE. Zundi, 2 Janvier 1812. HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON. Captain EMBLETON. MENU. POTAGES Madeira. k la Reine, Clear turtle Printanier. ENTREES. CStelettes de mouton ii la Jardiniere. Saint Emilion. Petites bouchees k la Reine. Galantine decoree. Jambon decore. Langue de bceuf ii la gelee. Pates de faisans. Pates de pigeons. Chambertin. Poulets rotis. Mayonnaise de homards. Aspic de filets de soles. Salade de saison. Sherry. Saint Julien. Haut Sauteme.685 ANCIENT MENUS DEJEdNER DE N06E —continued. Champagne frappe. Chateau Margaux. Cognac et Kirsch. ENTREMETS. Charlottes k la Parisienne. Gelee Macedoine. Gelee au marasquin. Blane-manger. Gateau de Chantilly monte. Gateau de Breton monte. Gateau Napolitain. Gateau de Savoie. Creme Bavaroise au ehoeolat. Creme religieuse au cafe. Croquembouches d’oranges. Nougat monte. GRACES. Two quart vanille cream. Two quart strawberry cream. Two quart orange water. Four dozen wafer. Six dozen rolls. Chablis. Chateau Rauzan. Arrac et Rhum. jfau 0/ a Dinner JULY 28, 1830. served to King Charles X. POTAGES. Biz a puree de navets. Chiffonnade de croutons. menu. ENTREES. . AT ST. CLOUD. RELEVES. Tete de veau au vin de Madere. Truite k la polonaise. Yol-au-vent de puree de perdrix a l’espagnole. Saute de filets de lapereau aux pois. Salmis de faisan au beurre et aux truffes. Petits pates d’oeufs k la creme de champignon. Ailes de poulet a la marechale. Saut6 de filets de saumon aux croutons k la venitienne. Cailles desossees farcies de salpicon k l’ecarlate k la gelee. Marbree de filets de poulardes aux olives. PLATS DE ROT. Perdreaux. Lapereaux. Poules de Caux. Levrault. ENTREMETS. Navets glaces. Concombre au blanc. Artichauts k l'estouffade. Creme au marasquin. Gelee d’orangps. Petits pois. Haricots verts k l’anglaise. Beignets d’abricots. MOYENS. Sultane. Nougat d’abricots. Meringues. Bouchees de feuilletage.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK *4!^ <^j^> <^io -4114* -4jj4> 4^14* <44> Btffe of ge <Catee. Comfptee. (patwe. Hub otber IRourifbments, ooobe for fuftatntnge of tbofe wbo baunce, & efee tbofe wbo boe not. Some Clear Soupe—warme, ’tis for one & alle. Small Ouail Birds from Egypt, therefore with Sauce LelTeps. Larks—they have no bones Argal'. Eat them fearlefllie. Ye Pigeons—cooked taftilie as in Caftille. Small Pieces of Lobfter, made toothfome in Jelly. Small Chickenettes in blankets—very goode. Teal—this is how theye doe theme in Strafbourg. Yc Goose Liver Pastry, ferved in tafty Savorie Jelly. Ye Pheafants—ye bird with ye taile. Yp Partridges—plump. Difh Pies with all fortes of Game in them. Chickens cooked in tempting fafchion. Hams from Yorkfhire, with Jelly ryghte fuftaininge. Chickens again, roafted and tender. Ye Turkeys or Bubleyjocks, with Truffles. Try them. Ye kindlie Ox—hys Tongue. Pheafants once more—cunninglie cooked. More Chickens—made toothfome by Galantine. And then fome Lobfter Salade. Likewyfe fome French Salades. And then come ye Sweetes, goode for all Men & Maydens. Some Wine Jelly. Some Jelly flavoured with Cura^oa. Apricots—made ryghte delectable. Yc Cake of Brittany. Ye Creams of Venice. And eke ye Strawberrie Creams. Ye Oueene Puddings—moft goode. Ruflian Creame & Jelly, & eke Italian Creame. Sweet Savorie Cakes, mayde colde with ice. Ye Smalle Baskets of Nougate, made toothfome. 4114* 414* 414* 414* 414* 414* 414*A ST. ANDREW'S DAY DINNER 687 0 St Qradreiu’s j 0i nnex. @8© BILL OF FARE. A wee drappie and a bit o’ snack. “ Some hae meat an’ eanna eat, An’ some wad eat that want it; But we hae meat, an’ we can eat, An’ sae the Lord be thankit.” KAILS AND BROTHS. Cookie leekie. Hotch potch. Glesca Punch. “ Sure we’ll sit doon an’ tak oor whitter Tae cheer oor hairt; An’ faith, we’s be acquainted better Afore we pairt.” FISH. Saumon. Finon baddies. . AE COORSE. Scotch eollops. Doo tairt. Sheep’s head wi’ champit tatties. Sma’ Paitricks gae an’ taistie. Stick tae whusky, lads. “ Many a nicht we’ve merry been, An’ many mair we hope tae be.” Baud yer wheest a wee ; here, it’s cornin’. “hail tae the chief.” HAGGIS. “ Fair fa’ yer honest sonsy face, vGreat chieftan o’ the puddin’ race, "Aboon them a’ ye tak yer place, Painch, thripe, or thairm.” A hauf o’ the best Boimheag lieig eile. “ In the hands of old kindred and friendship we met, And the hands they grew tighter the more they were wet.” THIRD COORSE. Man, sic a dinner ; Weet yer whussels. Roast beef. Roast mutton. Bubbly Jock Rostit. Chuckie an’ haum. Tatties. Curlies an’ neeps. ANITHER COORSE. Here’s tae ye. Tremlin Tam. Heather Jock. Green peas. Kail. Mashed tatties. LAST COORSE. Thepruif o’ the puddin’s the preein’ o’t. Plum pudding. Apple dumpling Tairts. Stewed grosets. Whangs o’ kebbuch an’ butter farls. DESSERT. Oranges. Bananas. Nits an’ raisins An’ ony ither thing ye can lay yer harms'on. “ Noo lustin pipe an’ sneeshing mull ■ Are haunded roun’ wi’ richt guid wull.” DEOCH-AN-DORUS. Just anither drappie to keep a’ doon. Seas atween us braid hae roared syn Auld Lang Syne. Tow Hall, Bombay.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Zhc Moisbtpful Company of Cooks. 1 fourth Centenary festival. CRYSTAL PALACE. the Xlth of July, mdcccxxxij. Wines. i. 7} ill of fare. Hors-d’oeuvre. Potage. Puree de legumes. Fausse tortue claire. Consomme a la Royale. * g)ocft0etm. Champagnes. ~ Qpafacet+ Q^ranfc. Crnesf 3rrog- * Poisson. Saumon a l’ecossaise. Turbot. Sauce homard et hollandaise. Anguilles etuvees. Filets de soles en matelotte normande. Blanchailles. Entrees. Petiies timbales a la milanaise. Ris de veau au puree de laitue. Pigeons en compote. Removes. Quartier d’agneau. Selle de mouton. Haricots verts. Salade. Chapons rotis. Langue h l’ecarlate. Poulet a la creme. Jambon braise aux fevres de marais. Cfaref. Cob J»+(gBfournef. &a (Rose. Rotis. Canetons. Cailles. Petits pois. Tomates Grillees. Entremets. Gelee aux raisins. Creme d’ananas. Suedoise d’Abricot. Macedoine de fruits glacis. Patisserie franchise. Dames d’honneur. Pouding glace. Glaees. Melon. Citron. Fraise. Framboise. Oft (port. T DESSERT.689 NOTABLE ANCIENT MENUS MENU OF THE DINNER GIVEN BY THE Corporalioo of London fo me Emperor Napoleon ill. APRIL 19, 1855. POTAGES. Potage de tortue clair. Bisque d’ecrevisses. Potage de nids d’oiseaux ehinois. Consomme de volaille. ENTREES CHAUDES. Cailles aux fines herbes. Cotelettes d’agneaux aux haricots verts. Buffs en caisses. Petites bouchees A la Beine. ENTREES FROIDES. Filets de truites A la ravigote. Foies gras de Strasbourg. Gateau de ptarmigan aux truffes. Chaud-froid de becassines. Mayonnaise de turbot aux laitues. Blanquettes des volailles A la gelee. GROSSES PIECES. Paonneaux A, l’Imperatrice. Hure de sanglier A la Boliemienne. Gros saumon A la Boyale. Dinde en galantine A la Parisienne. Cochon de lait a la Napolitaine. Jambon de Salisbury au vin de Madere. Baron of beef. ENTREMETS. Buisson de truffes de Perigord. Petits pois au naturel. Gelee aux fraises. Patisserie. Suedois d’abricots. Baba A la Polonaise. Buisson d’oeufs de pluviers. Asperges en branches. Creme a la vanille. Compote d’ananas. Brioche A la Saxonaise. BUFFET. Boast chickens. Boast lamb. Boast beef. Boast capons.UrtsTUt?*-' First Course y&uu &*o Third Course Ci^^c-dslsru? Second Course C^^T^Uy et**' <TcCZJ i& «%7. cFCfc \*d#****' czjc£^4^ Fourth Course, jcz^ C*C£/y ^ TDessert ^>S*U**y j£C\y , j&t*s*** - < ^ Skt^Afc '%<ry4U*~691 HUMOROUS MENUS humorous JVTenus. ft THEATRICAL BINNER Served at the FALCON HOTEL, WOLVERHAMPTON. * ’ Early. -Door,'through the Hedge, at 1.30 p.m. The covers will rise at 2 prompt. Anyone not having secured a seat will please rest on the mat. Act I. Soup and other Mysteries. Grand Gastronomical change to Act II. Whales on Biscuits. Sharks, Fish, Sea Serpents. Beef, Bullock, Cow. Cocks, Hens, Chickens, and other Feathered Songsters. Veal from Canterbury. Ham from the Pig. Vegetables. Everything in and out of Season. Act III. As this change will only occupy Three Seconds, the audience—particularly dead heads—are requested to keep their seats, and anything else available. (N.B.—Men are provided to look after the silver.) Cheese, chained. Cheese on the Loose. Salad and Cycle Oil. Sweet Lemons. Liquorice and Acid Drops. Members feeling coy after taking acid drops will be relegated to the Refrigerator. ft (BOLF DINNER. At a Dinner given last season by the New South Wales Golfers to Lord Hampden the following was the Bill of Fare :— The Drive Off. Oysters—halved in two. A Spoon Shot. Clear Turtle Soup. Out of the Water. Whiting—foozled. The Approach. V ol-au-vent—mashied. The Bunker. Saddle of Lamb—sliced. A Foul Shot. Spatchcock—on the green. A Dangerous Hazard Mayonnaise of Prawns. Dormy Two. Ice on the Ball. The last Hole. Gobble of anchovies. Dessert. Coffee. All down.692 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK JT JClorjcfyke JWerju. flDenu. BREAKFAST, DINNER, AND SUPPER. SOUPS. Esquimaux Head. ' Dog Bouillon. Baked Walrus, Iceland Moss. Frozen Seal. MEATS. Cold Polar Bear Steak. Bacon, Esquimaux style, cold. Bears’ Oil with Bacon, cold. Bacon, plain or breaded, quite chilly. Fried Mosquito Legs, served plain, or with mosquito bars, icy. VEGETABLES. Rare Herbs, Dried Yukon Roots. Minced Roots. Roots and Herbs Fricassee.. Boiled Roots. Roots, German fried. Roots that are not roots at all. Eggs are extra, five dollars each. “ Hu-chee Ku-chee Pass ” Oysters. PASTRY. Mountain Ice. Icicles. Ice Balls. Snow Balls.'' Old Base Balls. Rates : $40 per day in advance. Notice.—All nuggets and gold dust must be left with the manager. = * ©til of fate. = = Soups. Soup frae a Turtil. Broth made oot o’ a muckle sheep’s heid. Fish. Boiled skite wi’ shrimp gravy. Saumon strecht frae the Tweed. (A tithfu’ for the stammack’s sake.) Tit-bit o’ a wee sheepie wi’ Scotch green peas. Haggis. Great chieftain o’ the pudding race ! (Hauf-throu’ tak a drappie tae slocken ye.) Second Roun’. Bubly-Jock wi’ a slice o’ Soo’s leg sautit. Roastit goose. A cut frae the rib o’ a coo. Tatties biled an’ champit; bashed ingans an’ ithe gairdin reets (Anither wee drappie.) Spurgi girse as caul as ice wi’ real fine Kandy ream. Puddings. Plum puddin’ lowin. Trimlin Tammy, aiple tairt an’ cream. Farl’s o’ cake an’ a whang o’ kebbuck. (Jist anither drappie tae keep a’ doon. Plooms, aiples, nits an’ sweeties. Happy we a’ thegither, Happy we’ll be yen and a’, Eime shall see us a’ the blither Here we rise to gang awa’. Queen’s Hotel, Kandy. “Deoch—an—Dornish.”693 HUMOROUS MENUS BILL or TARE IN LEGAL EORM. 0. E. PARSONS AND CO., LIMITED. ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION. Incorporated (into our systems), Aug. 13, 1889. Directors. The Parson The Dean Soup... The Card Sharper ... The Inspector Notary Public 1 1 Article I. Canope d’anchovies aux olives. Still Ock. Article II. Soup. Clear turtle & la mal de mer. Milk punch. Article III. Poisons. Red mullet, Italienne. Fillet of soles d-la President. DRY SHERRY (One Button.) Entrees. Civet of leveret. Sweetbreads k la Canada. Lobster patties a la Niagara Falls. CHAMPAGNE. Oh! we are enjoying ourselves. 6/8 Slanders Vital Spark ... Biscuits Balls (foot) ... 1 share Removes. Saddle of mutton (Southdown). Gosling a la 5th Avenue. Boiled chickens and bakon aux Yankee Doodle. MORE CHAMPAGNE. Vive la Bollingere. Article VI. GRICE!!! Still more Phiz. Article VII. Cheese straws k la Chicago. Gargles various. (Button No. 2.) Article VIII. Sweets. Ice Pudden. Article IX. The Dessert. PORT, KRUSTED. Article X. Toothpix. Article XI. Poker. Eucre. Nap. GET! Cbe (arliDg (lab’s Banquet. (Sir Heron Maxwell in the Chair.) “A’ Here Men? Aye,A’ Here an’ fit.” BILL OF FARE. Tak your wull o’t. A pree to mak’ a Body Hungrisum. Rail Bru. “ Soop, Lads, Soop.” Mountain pecker an’ Cockie Leekie. A vera pat-lid. Fish. Guid Caller Fish. Saumon wi’ Firey Tang Salss. Sole Fleuks Baned and Stooit in oyl-dolie Bites i’ th’ Bygaun. Tacty whangs o’ Cheviot Hogrels wi’ Champit Tatties. Second Coorse. The Haggis. Weel are ye worthy o’ a’ grace, Great Chieftain of the puddin’ race. Just a drappie o’t Ca Cannie ! Bradit Meat. Beef an’ Greens, ne’er a Kowe ! Braidit Deukies frae Auchtermuchty. Confectouri. Plum Pudding. Tak what ye see o’t. Saft roes with Puddock-Stools, Kebbuck,. an’ ither things. Draw the Port. Effreuves an’ Coffee. Let them that want coffee hae coffee, but I’m for a glass of toddy.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 694 /eCTORS’ DINNER, Given at the ARLINGTON CLUB, PORTLAND_ U.S.A. March 11, 1899. = /Ifeemi. = Huitres. en demi-eoquille. “ Not one scale.”—Othello, I. iii. Chateau Yquem, 1809. “ Indeed perfection.”—Othello, II. ii. Consomme de volaille en tasse. “Boil thou first i’ the charmed pot.”—Macbeth, IV. i. Castellano sherry (solera especial). “ But one cup.” — Othello, II. ii. GEufs farcis it la Sarah. Anchois. Amandes sales. “ To give satiety a fresh appetite.”—Othello, II. i. Grenouilles it la Montpensier. Concombres. “ A most fresh and delicate creature.”—Othello, II. ii.' Chateau Yquem, 1809. “ Too much of joy.”—Othello, II. iv, . Terrapin losange, Chantilly. “ One that excels the quirks of blazoning pens.”—Othello, II. i. M,oet et Chandon, Brut Imperial. “And let me the canakin clink, clink, And let me the canakin clink ”—Othello, II. ii. AN “ APRIL FOOL ” MENU. When the guests of the Hotel Berkeley, Asheville, U.S.A., sat down to dinner on April 1 they were confronted with a menu of which the extract below is a fair sample :— ♦ + (tttenu + ALL EOOL’S-DAY’. tfif“ Enjoy Yourself nL qooj\rrtle, Qxauonles. osuoQmme Boyao. puj-xishso. sq£)jkins. oilg.eduii'Bg, on Tr’xuoouy hSaovy uce Poores Parisauuai. ucexxa'I. xed Pickij\lles. BooduQiled n, Egnug See. Boa ismbs oagj ef, ural GraiyBjqvy. oaast Turqp.wkey, ssiDreng. Everyone naturally turned it upside down to read, but even that way it wouldn’t work. Before the joke had worn out its welcome the waiters submitted “translated” menus.CLASSICAL BILL OF FABE QUOTATIONS &c. 695 Classical Bill of Fare Quotations and Mottoes for Menus. For some years past it has become the fashion for English and American hostesses to enliven their informal Dinners by having incorporated appropriate mottoes or quotations with the Menu. Those who wish to adopt the modern fad will find the following quotations of great help when compiling Menus for special occasions:— Introducton to Dinners, &c. “ Well, I promised you a dinner,” (Merry Wives of Windsor) saitli; “ Which shall have due course,” continues (Winter’s Tale) in frosty breath. “ Our most mutual entertainment ’ ’ (Measure for A Measure) lends “Pleasant jest and courtesy” (Labour Lost to Love) extends. Then “ draw nigh and take your places,” Urges (Titus Andronicus); And, bow low ! (All’s Well that Ends Well), “ Pray God’s blessing,” soft reminds us. See “ the white rose and the red ’’.rose. Blend, as (Richard III.) contrives ; “ Violets dim—but sweeter ’ ’ vying— (Winter’s Tale) for summer strives.—M. F. Brown. “ God sendeth and giveth both mouth and the meat.”—Tusser. “ Tell me whom you live with, and I will tell you what you are.”—Spanish Proverb. “ Cheerful looks make every dish a feast.”—Massinger. “ There may be the same vitiated taste in the choice of friends as of food.”—Bacon. “ You are welcome, worthy sir, as I have, words to bid you and you shall find it so in all that I can do.”—Shakespeare. “ Sit down and feed, welcome to our table.”—As You Like It, ii. 8. “ Now, good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both.”—Macbeth, iii. 4. “ Let’s see your list of the larder, then; I ask it as a favour. I always match my appetite to my bill of fare.”—She Stoops to Conquer. “ The landlord told him that his palate should be suited, for whatever the air, earth, and sea produced of birds, beasts, or fish, the hotel was abundantly supplied with.”—Bon Quixote. “ To the latter end of a fray and the beginning of a feast fits a dull fighter but a keen .guest.”—Henri/ IV. iv. 2. “ Come, let’s to dinner.”—Henry IV. iv. 2. “ If you have a loitering servant, send him of thy errand just before his dinner.”—Fuller. “ Coquetry whets the appetite; Flirtation depraves it.”—Ik Marvel. “ And there, merrily seated in a ring, Partook a choice repast.”—Massinger. “ A table richly spread, in regal modes, With dishes piled, and meats of noblest sort And savour.”—Milton. “ Let him have food and wine ; he has ridden hard, And lacks refreshment.”—Sir Henry Taylor. “ As he sat at his meal the musick play’d sweet, With the choicest of singing his joys to compleat.”—Percy Peliques. “ Man, Nature’s guest by invitation sweet, Receives from her both appetite and treat; But, if he play the glutton, and exceed, His benefactress blushes at the deed.”—Cowper. “ Tempus erat dapibus sodales; ” or “ Ede ut vivas,” “ Medio tutissimus ibis.”696 NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK “ Some hae meat, and canna eat, Some wad eat that want it; But we liae meat, and we can eat, And sae the Lord be thankit.”—Barns. “ When friends are met o’er merry cheer, And lovely eyes are laughing near, Then is our banquet crowned.”—W. Scott. “ Let me have the friends who eat my victuals, As various as my dishes.”—W. Scott. “Domestic food is wholesome, though’tis homely, And -foreign dainties poisonous, though tasteful.”—W. Scott. “ A cleare conscience to have well employed and industriously have spent the other houres,. is a perfect seasoning and savoury condiment of tables.”—Montaigne. " Mass and meat ne’er hurt any man.”—Old Saying. There are also many Latin and German mottoes which would be appropriate:— “Ouse virtus et quanta, boni, sit vivere parvo.” “Dona prsesentis cape lsetus horse et linque severa.” “Dum licet in rebus jucundis vive beatus.” “ Impune licebit iEstivam sermone benigno tendere noctem.” “ Dulce est desipere in loco.” “Vivitur parvo bene cui paternum Splendet in mensa tenui salinum, Nec leves somnos timor aut cupido Sordidus aufert.” “Bene est cui Deus obtulit Parca quod satis est, manu.” “Ein froher Gast ist Niemand’s Last.” “ Ein frohlich Gesicht, das beste Gericlit.” “ Bei einem guten Gange, Da wird uns niemals bange.” Hors=d’ceuvre. “ He was a bolcf man that first ate an oyster.”—Dean Swift, Conversation. “ Those oysters, too, that look so plump.”—Toni Hood. “ The treasure of an oyster.”—Antony and Cleopatra, i. 5. “Item—anchovies and sack.”—Henry IV. ii. 4. “ They call for eggs and butter.”—Henry IV. ii. 1. “Dishes alike delightful and appetising.”—Leigh Hunt. “ Send this treasure of an oyster ”— (Antony and Cleopatra); And, behold ! “ a lemon ” follows, (Labour Lost) is raison d’etre. (Henry Y.) adds “ cakes,” adds “wafers,” “ Piece of ice ”—(The Shrew in Taming); “ Courage mountetli with occasion ”— Ah (King John), the wine is blaming. “And this valour comes of sherries ”— (Henry IV.) part of the second; Then “ I prythee take the cork out ”— (As You Like It) thus hath reckoned.—M. F. Brown. Soup—Potage. “A hasty plate of soup.”—Winfield Scott. “ Soup of the evening, beautiful soup.”—Alice in Wonderland. “ Of all the things I ever swallow Good, well dressed turtle beats them hollow It almost makes me wish, I vow, To have two stomachs, like a cow.”—Hood. “ Spoon meat—bespeak a long spoon.”—Comedy of Errors. “ That’s meat and drink to me.”—Merry Wives of Windsor. “ Gravy ! gravy ! gravy ! ”—2 Henry IV. “ Twenty turtles.”—Merry Wives of Windsor, ii. 1. “ The imperious seas breed monsters; for the dish.”—Cymbeline, iv. 2 Ho, aha! “ I smelt sweet savors ” (Taming of the Shrew) exclaims; (Cymbeline) “ hath sauced our broths as Juno had been sick ’’—chef shames. “ I smell it! upon my life it will do well.”—Henry TV. “ Of two evils choose the least.”—Thomas d Kempis.CLASSICAL BILL OF FARE QUOTATIONS Sc. 697 Fish—Poisson. “ To change the cod’s head for the salmon’s tail.”—Othello, ii. 1. “ Groping for trouts.”—Measure for Measure, i. 2. “ Two white herrings.”—King Lear, iii. 1. “ From the banks of the Wye, and sandy-bottom’d Severn.”—1 Henry IV. iii. 1. “ Cry to it, as the Cockney did to the eels, when she put them i’ the paste alive.”—King> Lear, ii. 4. “ There’s no meat like them; I could wish my best friend at such a feast.”—Timon of Athens, i. 2. “ Amidst the tumult of fish, flesh, and fowl, And vegetables all in masquerade.”—Byron. . “ ‘ Master, I marvel how the fishes live in the sea.’ ‘ Why, as men do a-land ; the great ones eat up the little ones.’ ”—Shakespeare, Pericles. “ ’Tis very sweet and fresh, sir. The fish was taken but this night.”—Beaumont and Fletcher. “ I’ll fish for thee, and get ”—declares (The Tempest) in Act Two, Scene Five, “ The trout that must be caught ’ ’ forsooth “ By tickling ”—such in (Twelfth Night) thrive. “ Green herbs, red pepper, mussels, saffron, Soles, onions, garlic, roach, and dace, All these you eat at Terre’s tavern, In that one dish of bouillabaisse.”—Thackeray. “I’ll make for fish.”—The Tempest. “ Slice, I say ! slice ! that’s my humour.”—Merry Wives of Windsor. “ Oysters pickled and stewed and baked, Oysters in soups and pies, Oysters scolloped and curiously faked, And oysters in patties and frys.”—Tfackeray. Entries, &c. “Let them bring stomachs, there’s no want of meat, sir. Portly and curious viands are prepared To please all kinds of appetites.”—Massinger. “ How say you- a’ to a fat tripe broiled ? ” Taming of the Shrew, iv. 3. “ To swallow gudgeons ere they’re catched, And count their chickens ere they’re hatched.”—Butler, Hudibras. “ What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.”—Tom Brown. “ Fit for the Gods ”—“ strange dishes ” these ! Great (Julius Caesar) joins in speech The (Much Ado Nothing About) That golden silences should teach. “ A dish of apple-Johns ” enrich From (Henry IV.) the menu fine ; “ Midnight mushrooms ”—(The Tempest) names “ With champagne riched ” (King Lear’s) design. “ Some pigeons, Davey. . . . and any little tiny kickshaws, tell William cook.” 2 Henry IV. v. 1. “ Come, we have hot venison pasty to dinner.”—Merry Wives of Windsor, i. 2. “ Which is he that killed the deer ? ” “ Let’s present him to the Duke, like a Roman conqueror.”—As Toil Like It, iv. 2. ‘Epicurean cooks sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite.”—Antony and Cleopatra, ii. 2- ‘Who seeks for better of thee, sauce his appetite.”—Timon of Athens, iv. 3. ■ “You would eat chickens i’ the shells.”—Troilus and Cressida. “What, all my pretty chickens ? ”—Macbeth. “ The daintiest that they taste.”—2 Henry IV. “ What say’st thou to a hare ? ”—1 Henry IV. Removes—Releves. “ Serve the meat ”—(Merchant of Venice), “ Chines of beef” before “thou sleep” ; Word of (Henry VI.) demandeth, Thus at sating feast to keep. “ What is this, mutton? ”—Taming of the Shrew.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK ■698 “ It was a pity to kill him, So capital a calf.”—Hemslet. “ Young and tender, under a moon old, Guileless, as yet of the sty.”—Charles Lamb. “ There is a fowl without a feather.”—Comedy of Errors, iii. 1. “ A pound of man’s flesh is not so estimable, Profitable neither, as flesh of mutton.”—Shakespeare. “ Look to the baked meats, good Angelica, Spare not for cost.”—Borneo and Juliet. “ Your labouring people think, beyond all question, Beef, veal, and mutton, better for digestion.”—Byron. “ The strong table groans Beneath the smoking sirloin stretched immense.”—Thomson. Vegetables, Salads- Legumes, Salades. “ Good cabbage, good cabbage:”—Merry Wives of Windsor. “ You can eat a leek.”—Henry V. v. 1. “ Salad was born to do me good.”—2 Henry IV. iv. 10. “ Let the sky rain potatoes.”—Merry Wives of Windsor, v. 4. “ The roll! where’s the roll ? 2 Henry IV. iii. 2. “ An onion will do well is heard From (Taming of the Shrew)—first part, While ‘ break a biscuit ’ (Troilus And Cresida) invite with heart.” (Onion)—“ So near will I be that your best friends shall wish I had been further.” Julius Casa, (Salad)—“ Oh, green and glorious ! oh, herbaceous treat! ’Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat; Back to the world he’d turn his fleeting soul, And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl! ”—Sydney Smith. “ A fresh appetite ” with “ salad Born to do me good ” doth come ; Stern (Othello) reinforces (Henry YI.) in praise not dumb. And the Moor commands—“ Sow lettuce ” (Comedy of Errors) tells “ I have brought the oil ”—emollient— Skill a mixture rare compels. Sift “ the salt, too, which may season ”— (Much Ado Nothing About); “ Taste of what is here ! ” (The Tempest) • Asks to clear away all doubt.—M. F. Brown. “ To pick a salad.”—Henry VI. iv. 10. Roast—Roti. “ May roast your goose ” (Macbeth) declares And (Merry Wives of Windsor) “let The sky potatoes rain ”—quite pat! “This squash ” from (Winter’s Tale) you get. “ Item—a capon.”—Henry IV. ii. 4. “ The roasted ox with the pudding in his belly.”—Henry IV. ii. 4 “I can cut a caper.”—Twelfth Eight. “ And I can cut the mutton to it.”—Tv)elfth Night. “ Now is the woodcock near.”—Twelfth Night, i. v. “ A turkey cock—’tis no matter, There’s no sauce for it.”—Henry IV. “ I have a pheasant! cock or hen ! ”—Winter’s Tale. “ Why, here he comes, swelling like a turkey cock.”—Henry V. v. 1. “ O dainty duck ! ”—Midsummer Night’s Dream, v. f. (Antony and Cleopatra) Say “ His quails e’er beat mine ” own, But “ such toasts, and butter dressings ! ” (Henry IV.) doth thus atone.CLASSICAL BILL OF FARE, QUOTATIONS Sc. 699 (Henry YI.) supplies “ the partridge ” “Trimmed and dressed” by Richard II. ; And “the game was ne’er so fair ”—lorn (Romeo to Juliet) beckoned.—M. F. Brown, (Turkey)—“ Nothing in his life Became him like the leaving it.”—Macbeth. (Goose)—“We fat all creatures to fat us.”—Hamlet. “ Now goose and turkey come, and hare, And apple-pie and custard, And chicken and asparagus, And Yorkshire ham and mustard.”—Peter Pindar. “ Oh! the roast beef of Old England, And oh ! the old English roast beef.”—Fielding. “ Carve him for the gods.”—Julius Ccesar. “ What say you to a piece of beef and mustard ? ”—Taming of the Slvreio, iv. 5. “ Come you to seek the lamb here? ”—Measure for Measure. “I have a gammon of bacon.”— 1 Henry IV. ii. 1. “ Are there no young pigeons ? ”—2 Henry IV. v. 1. “A dish that I do love to feed upon.”—Taming of the Shrew,iv. 5. Sweets and Dessert. “ Puddings and flapjacks moreover.”—Pericles, Prince of Tyre. “My wife desired some damsons.”—Henry VI. ii. 1. “ The fig of Spain.”—Henry IV. iii. 6. “ Hang him, rogue, he lives on stewed prunes and dried cakes.”—Henry IV. iv. 1. “ You Banbury cheese.”—Merry Wives of Windsor, i. 1. “My Aqua Vita;.”—Merry Wives of Windsor, ii. 1. “ Things sweet to taste, prove indigestion sour.”—Shakespeare. “While tumbling down the turbid stream, Lord love us, how we apples swim! ”—D. Mallett. “ Wouldst thou eat, both eat thy cake and have it ? ”—(?. Herbert. “• Sir Toby. Dost thou think because thou art virtuous there shall be no more cakes and ale ? down. Yes, by Saint Anne! and ginger shall be hot i’ the mouth too.”—Twelfth Night. “ Sweetmeats, messengers ” to graces (Dream of Summer Midnight) weird— “ Taste of these conserved,’-’ inviteth (Taming of the Shrew) lip-smeared. “ Apple-tart ” it also offers ; “Cream”—(first part of Henry IV.): Then “we’ll drink another measure ” Hauntings from Macbeth implore.—M. F. Brown. “ A surfeit of the sweetest things.”—Midsummer Night's Dream. “ A piece of ice ? ”—Taming of the Shrew. “Trifles as light as air.”—Othello. “ There’s half-a-dozen sweets.”—Love’s Labour's Lost, v. 2. “The queen of curds'and cream.”—Winter’s Tale, iv. 3. “Hercules did shake down mellow fruit.”—Coriolanus, iv. 6. “ Peed him with apricots and dewberries ; With purple grapes, green figs, and mulberries.” Midsummer Night’s Dream, iii. 1. “There’s a medlar for thee, eat it.”—Timon of A f hens, iv. 3. “ Meaning thereby that grapes were made to eat, and lips to open.”—As You Like It, v. 1. Savouries—Bonnes=bouches. “ To make the matter savoury.”—Hamlet. “ We’ll mend our dinners here.”—Comedy of Errors. “ The daintiest that they taste.”—2 Hemp IV. “ Pretty little tiny kickshaws.”—2 Henry IV.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK -00 Wines. “ Claret is the liquor for boys ; port for men; but he who aspires to be a hero must drink brandy.”—Boswell, Life of Johnson. “ Let the health go round ” saith (Tinron) “ Till the wine o’erwells the cup,” • (Julius Csesar) royal ever" Bids the guests full freely sup. “Here—! turn my glass ’—per (Winter’s Tale) 1 For right for noble Burgundy,’ The sort (King Lear) enjoys full well'-— The time is now for choice entree.”—M. F.. Brotvn. “ If on thy theme I rightly think, There are five reasons why men drink : Good wine, a friend, because I’m dry ; Or least I should say by-and-by, Or any other reasons why.”—2T. Aldrich, Biog. Brit. “ Drink to me only with thine eyes, And I will pledge with mine; Or leave a kiss hut in the cup, And I’ll not look for wine.”—Ben Jonson, The Forest. “You cannot judge the liquor from the lees.”—Tennyson, Queen Mary. “ For in my youth I never did apply Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood.”—-I.s You Like It. “ I’ll warrant she’ll prove an excuse for the glass.”—Sheridan. “ And as he drains his draughts of Rhenish.”—Hamlet, i. 4. “ A cup of wine that’s brisk and fine.”—Merry Wives of Windsor. “Your excellent sherries.”—Henry IV. iv. 3. “Brave Burgundy.”—Henry IV. iii. 3. “ Why so very, very merry ? Is it your conscience, or your One-and-seven sherry ? ”—Bah Ballads. “ A little learning is a dangerous thing; Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring.”—Pope. “ I drink no more than a sponge.”—Rabelais. “ Now I praise the genial hostess Who prepares the toothsome dinner.” “ The best of the tables and the best of the fare.”—Clough. “ Coffee, which makes the politician wise, And see through all things with his half-shut eyes.”—Pope, Rape of the Loch. “Enough is good as a feast.”—Ray, Proverbs. “ Fate cannot harm me, I have dined to-day.”—Sydney Smith. “ He calls for wine; ‘ a health,’ quoth he.”—Taming of the Shrew, iii. 2. “ A good traveller is something at the latter end of a dinner.”—All's Well that Ends Well. ii. 4. “ Tea, thou soft, thou sober sage.”—Cibber. “ The sober berry’s juice the slaves bear round.”—Byron. “ Give me a cigar.”—Byron. “ I will make an end of my dinner. There’s pippins and cheese to come.” Merry Wives of Windsor “ Now, good digestion wait on appetite, and health on-both.”—Macbeth. “After dinner talk Across the walnuts and the wine.”—Tennyson, The Miller's Laughter..SPECIMEN MENU, WITH QUOTATIONS Specimen jtfenu, with Quotations. Dins: Chablis. Sant erne. Old Bast India. Madeira. Milk Punch. Old Royal. Hock. Johannisberg Castle (selected grapes). Royal Charter, 1884. George Goulet, extra quality, . extra dry, 1889. Ditto. Ditto. Deutz and Geldermann Gold Lack, Extra Sec, 1884, Magnums. Ditto. Ditto. GreeD Chartreuse (from Monastery). Curacao. Benedictine. Cognac, 1854. Sandemann’s Old Crusted, 1872. Claret. Chateau Lafitte, 1880 'bottled at Chateau). HORS-D'CEUVRE VARIES. “ Dishes alike delightful and appetising.”—Leigh Hunt. POTAGE. Tortue vert. Bisque d’ecrevisses. Consomme de volaille royale a la printaniere. “ Soup of the evening, beautiful soup.”—Alice in Wonderlan: POISSONS. Larues de saurnon bouilli, sauce mousseline. Pommes de terre nouvelies. Concombres. Filets de sole a la Old Royale. “ There's no meat like them ; I could wish my best friend at such a feast."—Timon op Athens RELEVE. Filet de boeuf pique a la Renaissance. “ What say you to a piece of beef and mustard ? ” Taming op the Shrew, entre'es chaudes. Supreme de volaille i la Victoria. Ris de veau a. la Perigueux. “ The daintiest that they taste.”—2 Henry IV. ENTREES FROIDES. Foie gras en belle vue. Aspic de homard. “ To please all kinds of appetites.”—Massinger. Ponche a la Romaine, et cigarettes. “ You, cannot judge the liquor from the lees.”—Tennyson. ROTIS. Aloyau de bceuf A 1’Anglaise. Quartier d’ agneau, sauce mentl: “Look to the baked meats, good Angelica ; Spare not for cost.”—Romeo and Juliet. VOLAILLE. Cailles de vigne sur canapes. Canetons it la Rouennaise. Pommes pailles. Petits pois nouveaux. “A table richly spread in regal modes, With dishes piled, and meats of noblest sort and savour."—Milt Asperges en branches, sauce Hollandaise. ENTREMETS. Pouding souffle la McConville. Gelee aux frouittes. Vacherin a la Chantilly. Gateaux a la Napolitaine. “A surfeit of the sweetest things.”—Midsummer Night’s Dre. Glace en surprise. , “ A piece of ice.”—Taming of the Shrew. SAVOUREUX. Petit souffle au fromage. Pailles au Parmesan. “ To make the matter savoury."—Hamlet. DESSERT. “ Partook a, choice repast.”—Massinger. Cafe noir et cognac. “ Coffee, which makes the politician wise, And see through all things with his half-shut eyes.”—Pope.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK CHAPTER XXXI. SERVICE DE TABLE (TABLE SERVICE). However able a chef de cuisine may be, his best efforts will not receive the full meed of praise which is their due if the dining-room service is not perfect. As that prince of gastronomic penmen, Monsieur Chatilon Plessis, has justly said, the dining-room is the gourmet’s theatre, the table his stage. Now if the ‘ play ’ is to be enjoyed the ‘ theatre ’ must be comfortable, the stage of adequate dimensions, the * scenic ’ accessories as complete and beautiful as circumstances will allow. The success of the dinner, as that of the play, depends largely upon the skilful ‘ staging.’ This means that a dining-room should be not only a comfortable but a cheerful room, furnished appropriately, while the tables should be laid or ‘ set ’ with a view not only to supply the needs of diners as each dish is brought on but with the direct design of pleasing the eye. All artistic productions require suitable framing. Snowy drapery, sparkling glass, bright silver and steel, with graceful flowers and foliage, are as necessary to the proper appreciation of a well-cooked meal as is an appropriate mounting to the setting off of a precious gem. The artistic folding of serviettes is another important item ; indeed it is an art in itself, and should be thoroughly understood by the maitre d’hotel as well as the waiter. Let it not be supposed that this is a mere triviality. The ‘ maitre d’hotel ’ fully knows how these £ trifles ’ tell in the general impression received by guests. Although rich materials make it easier to obtain good effects, the artistic soul may produce excellent results, even with humble articles, if properly utilised. The first principles in table laying are absolute cleanliness and systematic orderliness. Let us see how these two cardinal virtues apply to the subject in hand. First, then, the table must be carefully chosen : be it square, oblong, or round, it should be firm, of the proper height, and, whenever pos- sible, adapted to the occasion ; that is to say, having due regard to the style of the repast and the number of guests, it should be so placed that adequate light is afforded to every member of the party ; but this consideration presents no difficulties when artificial illumi- nants are to be used. We must now take into consideration the dressing of the table. The tablecloth should be of good damask, withSERVICE DE TABLE (TABLE SERVICE) 703 artistic but not too obtrusive a pattern. It is essential that it should be of a pure white, and, moreover, that it should be carefully ironed and neatly folded. A badly folded cloth invariably looks untidy ; but if the creases are long and the cross folds far apart greater smooth- ness is obtained. The elaborate coloured and embroidered centre- cloths have gone out of fashion ; and it is well that it should be so; but a judicious use of tinted satins, silks, and ribbons deserves to be encouraged. Such centre-pieces, however, should be strictly propor- tionate to the size of the table and the style of the floral decorations. Neither in texture nor in colour should they be too prominent. Another happy innovation of the last decade or two is that table decorations are kept low. On grand banquet occasions massive silver centre-pieces, with flowers and fruit, great candelabra, and so on, are admissible; but, as a rule, flowers and foliage are laid on the cloth, and single blossoms or small groups placed in miniature specimen glasses. Plants, except on big tables, are diminutive, the pots hidden in tiny silver or porcelain vases. The aim is that guests should always enjoy an unobstructed view. In the best houses flowers and fruit are placed on the table from the first. This certainly adds to the elegance of the general effect. Much ingenuity—and money — can be spent in working out a ‘ scheme of colour,’ a certain tint play- ing a dominant note, not only in the floral decorations, but even in the garnishing of dishes. But this is a matter for exceptional adoption. Menu cards may be plain or elaborate. If plain cards are used ; they are generally placed in silver frames or small holders, which sometimes take the form of china shells or mounds with slits in which the bottom of the card is placed. At informal meals a menu may be placed between two people, and this plan largely prevails in restau- rants ; but at formal dinner-parties individual cards are necessary. The name cards may be placed either on the napkin or in separate holders. At the better-class hotels and restaurants plain cards with monograms or armorial bearings are usual, elaborate cards being re- served for special occasions. Individual salt-cellars, preferably in cut glass, are provided in the best houses, with miniature cruets —pepper and mustard, or pepper, mustard, and vinegar—placed between every two guests. Oil and vinegar cruets and sauce cruets are only brought forward when neces- sary. It used to be the fashion to surround a guest’s place with a formidable battle array of forks, spoons, knives, and squads of glasses. This lavishness still prevails in some quarters, and, no doubt, when heavy dinners and quick service are demanded this practice may be excused. It is, however, now considered better style not to embarrass diners with too many articles ; so on carefully laid tables we generally find soup spoon, fish eaters, large and small forks and knives, and dessert spoon. If more forks and knives are required they are brought on with the clean plates. In the same way we now only see three glasses—sherry, champagne, and claret or tumbler—otherTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 704 glasses being added if required. Coloured glasses are no longer considered in good taste. White glass, plain or beautifully cut and engraved, is fashionable. The water carafe is now much in evidence. As regards bread small rolls are usual. They are placed in the napkin, and others handed when asked for. Many people, however, ■only take wholemeal bread or dry toast: these are cut in thin slices and placed on small plates on the left hand of the guests. Even when a room is lit by electricity or gas dwarf candlesticks or lamps are often used on the table, the lights being hidden by silk shapes of red or some other harmonising tint. As regards the menu over-elaboration is generally avoided. On 'Ordinary occasions oysters or hors-d’oeuvre, soup, fish, two meat dishes, vegetables and potatoes, game or poultry ; and perhaps a salad, a pudding, cheese, savoury, and coffee will suffice. The carte du jour in a good house will, of course, comprise a score or more dishes. HOW TO WAIT AT TABLE. Every one knows how much careful waiting at table adds to the success of any meal, so that I need not here dwell upon its importance, but shall at once deal with the practical part and give the needed instructions and rules. The style of waiting, whether for a private or public dinner, or other meal, is practically the same, although the method of execution in the service may differ somewhat. To begin with, the waiter must be well acquainted with the menu and its contents, for this will guide him as to the quantity of table service, &c., needed. An intelligent waiter can well manage to serve six guests properly. He must see that each person is served with bread, butter, beverages as often as these are needed, and they must be kept at hand. Waiters must pay strict attention to the following elementary but essential rules: — See that every plate, knife, fork, spoon, glass, cup, saucer, and dish placed before guests are properly clean. Make it a practice to wipe the bottom of every dish before placing it on the table, and when found necessary the edges of dishes should be wiped with a towel or napkin before presenting same at table. Plates and dishes must be cleared with as little noise as possible. Dirty plates, glasses, &c., should never be allowed to accumulate in a dining-room. Never place a spoon in a guest’s soup-plate, coffee or tea cup, or indeed into any liquid food, because it is the custom that the guest and not the waiter should have that privilege. When serving tea, coffee, milk, or any other kind of drink special care must be taken not to spill the contents, so that the under plate or saucer is clean and dry when placed on the table.SERVICE BE TABLE (TABLE SERVICE) 705 In filling glasses with water or wine do not fill them right up, and when putting in ice for cooling use a spoon and not the fingers. Waiters, when speaking to guests or when handing anything to them, should avoid having their face coming in too close contact with that of the guest, this being considered very objectionable. The following is the order of serving the various courses of a dinner:— Hors-d’oeuvre.—These, with the exception of oysters, are usually dished up on little china or glass dishes and placed on the table before the commencement of the meal. As soon as the guests are seated the hors-d’oeuvre is handed from the left-hand side of the guest. When oysters are served the same rule applies: these are accompanied with a plate of thinly cut bread and butter, and quarters of lemon, which must be handed round at the same time. The Removal of Plates must be effected from the right, and must be done as noiselessly as possible. Special stress must be laid upon this ; the rule should be strictly observed throughout the meal when the changing of plates takes place. The Soup.—As soon as the hors-d’oeuvre plates are removed the soup should be brought in, and unless served from the side-hoard or serving table the tureen containing the sou,p must be placed at the head of the table, with a ladle. The soup plates, unless a frappe or iced consomme is served, must be hot. The waiter handing the soup should take care to place it in front of the guest from a position on the right, though it must be remembered that all other dishes are presented to the guests from the left. Wine is served immediately after the soup. The removal of the soup plates should not be effected till every one has finished, when the changing of plates takes place. The Fish is next served with or without sauce, according to the style of dish described on the menu. Dressed fish or fish entrees are handed round in the dish, whilst whole fish or large pieces of boiled fish, &c., are frequently carved from the head of the table or from the side-board ; when such is the case the plates are served to the guests in the same way as the soup. It is usual to hand a dish of plain boiled potatoes with all boiled fish, and lemon with fried fish. The Fntfd.es.—As the fish plates are removed they must be replaced by hot or cold plates as the case may be. Chaudfroid entrees, cold mousses, &c., require cold plates, whilst for all other entrees the plates must be hot. The entrees in the order given on the menu are now served. The Joint and Vegetables.—The joint of roast meat is invariably carved in the dining-room, and the slices are placed on hot plates with a little gravy, and handed to the guests in the same order as before mentioned. Vegetables, usually two kinds, are served in their dishes and presented to the guests from the left side. z zTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 706 The JEtoast.—When a joint of meat is served the roast usually consists of a bird, poultry or game, accompanied by fried potatoes and salad. These are served and handed round in the same way as the joint. A separate plate (salad plate) is generally provided, and placed at the side of the large plate on which the salad is served. The Sweets.—The plates from the roast, knives and forks having been removed, small plates, so-called pudding plates, are put in front of the guests. For hot puddings or other hot sweets the plates must of course be hot. When two sweets are served the second dish is always cold. If the pudding is large it may be convenient to have it carved at the side-board, but it is more usual to have them handed round the same as the entree. The Savoury.—As soon as the guests have finished eating the sweets the plates must be changed for small hot plates upon which the savoury is served. Savouries are as a rule prepared hot, and in very small portions, bonnes-bouches, or mouthfuls. In addition to the plate a small fork should be placed at the side of each guest. The dish is handed round like the entree. Cheese.—The sweet plates are next changed for cheese plates, with a small knife placed on each. The cheese should be accompanied by dry biscuits and pulled bread and small pats of fresh butter. At this stage the table should be cleared of all glasses, spoons, &c.; the crumbs must be carefully removed with a silver scoop or napkin, after which the dessert plates aue put on the table. Dessert is next served. In addition to the dessert plate a dessert knife and fork and a finger" glass with perfumed water are placed before each guest. Clean wine-glasses are also served at this stage with the dessert wine. After this comes the coffee and liqueurs, which form the end of the repast. THE SERVICE OF WINES. The main thing, and one which needs special consideration, in serving wines at a meal is that they are at the right temperature when served out into the glasses. At many houses only one or, at the most, two kinds of wine are now served throughout .the meal, and these are either claret, or Burgundy and champagne, or champagne only. The ancient custom, which is still in vogue among epicures and gourmets of the old school, is that a different kind of wine should accompany each distinct course. Modern diners, however, have practically dispensed with the old custom, the present fashion for a recherche dinner being that a glass of good old pale sherry is served with the soup, after which champagne takes the lead, and continues to be served until the dessert, when port and old claret are placed upon the table.707 SERVICE DE TABLE (TABLE SERVICE) The following is the correct classification of wines as served with the various courses : — Chablis or Sauterne with Hors-d'oeuvre. Sherry or Marsala with Soup. Hock or Sauterne with Fish. Claret or Burgundy with Entrees and Removes. Champagne with Roast and Entremets. Port, Claret, or Madeira with the Dessert. The custom of serving at least six kinds of wine at dinner, that is, a'different kind with each course, was, until a few years ago, observed at the royal tables; in fact, His Majesty King Edward VII. used at one time to be very much in favour of a course of various wines at dinner, but of late years the number and kind of wines have been reduced to two, or three at the most. It is very probable that ere long a general custom will become a generally accepted rule, that only two kinds of wine are served at the recherche dinner-table. THE TEMPERATURE OF WINE. Respecting the proper temperature of the wines served the follow- ing table, compiled by a wine expert, gives the exact degrees of Fahr. various kinds of wine should be when being poured out to the guests:— Sherry and Marsala, 40 'degrees Fahr. Sauterne or other White Claret, 50 degrees Fahr. Claret, 65 degrees Fahr. Burgundy, 70 degrees Fahr. Chablis and other White Burgundy, 45 degrees Fahr. Champagne, 35 degrees Fahr. Port, 55 degrees Fahr. Madeira, 65 degrees Fahr. It is not considered correct ever to put ice in any kind of wine. Champagne and similar wines should, of course, be served cold, but the temperature must be lowered in bottle, not in glass. To cool champagne properly lay the bottle down in a basin, break up a handful of ice, put it on the bottle, and cover with a wet piece of flannel. This should be done an hour before the wine is served. To moderately cool Sauterne and Rhine wines brings out their bouquet and gives them an agreeable fresh flavour. Claret and Burgundy, on the contrary, should be drunk milk warm. This condition is secured by carefully setting the bottle in hot water and allowing it to remain long enough to gently heat the wine, or near a fire. This brings out its body and diminishes any tendency to astringency. Port, sherry, and Madeira being fortified wines, containing certain proportions of unfermented sugar, are usually termed hot wines, because the brandy heats the palate and produces a similar bodily sensation after drinking. These wines lose in body and flavour by being chilled. Port, through exposure to cold, acquires a harsh, thin,THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 708 acid taste, often akin to bitterness, and it is temporarily deprived of all its characteristic qualities. Old wines that have been bottled for any length of time should be carefully decanted by an experienced person, so as to avoid any un- necessary agitation of the bottle. On the Continent and in the best houses in this country a decanting basket is used. This is highly recommended, for it greatly simplifies the troublesome process of decanting. AN EPITOME OF GASTRONOMY, .BASEI? ON BBILLAT-SAVAKIN’S MAXIMS. The fate of nations on their food depends. Say what you eat—I’ll know your tastes and friends. Were there no life, the universe were naught; Life to sustain apt food must still be sought. Beasts feed, man eats; the man of cultured sense Alone gives eating its due eminence. Nature compels us all to take a bite, But softens with the bait of appetite Her iron rule; obedience she rewards With pleasures only known at dainty boards. Good livers show their judgment in their food. Why not prefer that which our taste finds good ? All ages, ranks, and climes enjoy good cheer— A recompense for other goods not here. The first long hour is doubly drear, except At tables where a knowing chef is kept. Who finds a planet out his race may wish To serve. He serves them who finds out a dish. A drunkard knows not how to drink ; ’tis meet To say a glutton knows not how to eat. First solid foods, then the more delicate. Mild wines the first; the heady should come late.CULINARY MEMORANDA.CULINARY MEMORANDA.CULINARY MEMORANDA.CULINARY MEMORANDA.CULINARY MEMORANDA.CULINARY MEMORANDA.CULINARY MEMORANDA.CULINARY MEMORANDA.GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY Abricote,/. Candied apricot, e. Masked with apricot marmalade. Ail (une gousse d’ail),/. Garlic; a clove of garlic, e. A la, /. A la mode de, after the style or fashion of; a la francaise, French style ; a la Reine, Queen . style ; a l’lmperatrice, Empress style; a la russe, Russian style, &c. &e. A la Broche, /. Roasted in front of the fire on- spit, or skewer. Albumine,/. Albumen (white of egg). Amalgamer, /. Amalgamate, e. To mix several substances. Anglaise (al’),/. English style. Affixed to a dish usually implies that it con- sists of something plain roasted or plain boiled, or that the dish is pre- pared in a style typical of this country ; it does not necessarily follow that it must be plain. Aromates,/. Yegetable herbs as used for flavouring. Aromatic herbs, such as thyme, bay-leaves, tarragon, chervil, &c. Aspic,/. Savoury jelly. A l’aspic, set in aspic, or garnished with aspic. Assaisonner, /. To season, tQflavour, to mix. Au gratin, /. A term applied to certain dishes covered with sauce, bread- crumbs, and browned in the oven or under a salamander; served in the dish on which baked. Au maigre, /. A French expression used for dishes prepared without meat. Lenten dishes. Au naturel, /. Food cooked plainly and simply. Baba (from the Polish word babka). A very light yeast cake. Substitute for tipsy-cake. Bain-Marie, /. The culinary water-bath, with a distinct set of. small saucepans where sauces, &c., are kept so that they are nearly at the boiling point without burning or reducing. Barbecue, /. The mode of cooking (roasting) an animal whoje ; a social entertainment in the open air; to dress and roast whole. Bearnaise, /. A word much used in cookery for a rich white herb sauce. Derived from the word Bearn, birth- place of King Henry IV., who was a great gourmand. Bechamel, /. French white sauce. Re- cognised as one of the four foundation sauces. The name of this sauce is supposed to come from the Marquis de Bechamel, an excellent chef, who acted as steward in the service of King Louis XIV. Beurre noisette, /. Nut-brown butter, e. Butter melted over the fire until it begins to brown. Bisque,/. Name given to certain soups usually made with shellfish. Blanchir, /. To blanche, e. To put . anything on the fire in cold water until it boils; it is then drained and plunged into cold water; to scald or parboil. Blanc-Mange, /. A white sweet food. A sweet cream set in a mould. Origin- ally a maigre soup, made of milk of almonds. It is wrong to add colour- ing matter to a blanc-mange; hence chocolate blanc-mange is incorrect. Blonde de Veau, /. A very rich veal broth, used for flavouring and enrich- ing white soups and sauces. Bon-Bon, /. Sugar confectionery; gene- . rally dainties for children. Bouchdes, /. Small puff-paste patties (petits pates), small enough to be a traditional mouthful only. Boudin, /. A delicately prepared entree10 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK usually in the form of sausages made from quenelle meat or fine mince. Bouillon, /. A plain clear soup. Un- clarified beef broth. Bouquet garni, /. A small bunch of savoury herbs, parsley, thyme and bay-leaves; a faggot. It is tied up, in order to facilitate its removal after use. Used in stews, stocks, broths, braises, sauces, &c., to impart a rich flavour. Bouquet of Herbs. Green onions, parsley, thyme, tarragon, chervil, &c., tied in a bunch. Braise or Braising, e. A slow cooking- process. Meat cooked in a closely covered stewpan (braising pan or braisiere) to prevent evaporation, so that the meat thus cooked retains not only its own juices, but also those of the articles added for flavouring. Cannelons, /., or Canelons. Small rolls of pastry stuffed with minced meat, &c. Caramel, /. Burnt sugar. A substance made by boiling sugar to a dark brown, used for coating moulds, and as a liquid for colouring. Carmine. Crimson colouring used in confectionery, &c. Caviar,/. Caviare, c. The salted roe of sturgeon or sterlet (fish eggs). Charlotte, /. Name of a hot or cold sweet dish. A corruption of the Old English word Charlyt, which means a dish of custard. Chartreuse. A mixed preparation of vegetables, of meat, or of fruit, served as entree or entremets. Chef de Cuisine, /. Chief of the kitchen, head cook. Compote,/. Usually applied to a deli- cately prepared dish of stewed fruit, or fruits and jelly. The word is also used for certain poultry or game entrees. Condiments. Highly flavoured season- ing, spices, &c. Consomme, /. Clear strong gravy soup, e. The clarified liquor in which meat or poultry has been boiled, or the liquor from the stockpot clarified. Cotelettes, f. Cutlets e. Small slices of meat cut from the neck of veal, mutton, lamb, or pork. Also thin slices of meat from other parts. Court-Bouillon, /. Name given to a rich fish-broth; a highly seasoned fish-stock or fish-stew. Crepes, /. French pancakes,, e. Cretes, /. Giblets of poultry or game. Croissant, /. Half-moon-shaped fancy bread. Croquettes, Friandines, and Rissoles. Names of small light entrees (pre- pared with minced meat, &c.). The words signify something crisply fried. Croustades, /. Shapes of bread fried,, or baked paste crusts, used for serving game, minces, or meats in or upon. Croutons, /. Thin slices of bread cut into shapes and fried, used for garnishing dishes. Cuisine, /. Kitchen, cookery. Faire la cuisine, to cook or to dress victuals. Cuisse, /. Leg, e. Cuisse de volaille, leg of chicken or fowl. Culinaire, /. This is applied to any- thing in connection with the kitchen or the art of cooking. A good cook is called ‘ un artiste culinaire.’ Curry, from the Hindu word khura (palatable, eatable). Kari, /. An Indian condiment; a stew of meat, fish, or fowl; a sharp spiced sauce. Dessert, /. The remains of a meal. Now indicating fruits and sweetmeats served after dinner. The ancient Greeks and Romans already knew this course, as being the custom -of prolonging banquets. Diable, /. Is applied to dishes with sharp and hot seasoning; a la diable, devilled. Dinde, Dindon,/. Turkey, e. Durcelles, /., or Duxelles,/., is the name given to a mixture of chopped mush- rooms, shallots, parsley, &c., used for flavouring sauces, purees, &c. Eclair, /. A French pastry filled with cream. Emince, /. Finely sliced or shred. Endive, /. A species of the genus succory; used as salads and some- times as vegetable. A native of China and Japan, but grown in Europe since the beginning of the sixteenth century. Entree, /. A course of dishes, or corner dish for the first course; the conventional term for hot or cold side dishes. Also defined as dishes- gene- rally served with a sauce. Entremets, /. Dainty dishes of dressed vegetables, hot and cold sweets, and after-dinner savouries served as second course.711 GLOSSARY OF TEEMS USED IN COOKE BY Escalope, f. Thin, round steaks of veal called ‘ collops.’ Obsolete, cascalope. Meaning thin slices of any kind of meat, usually egged, crumbed, and fried. Espagnole, /. A rich brown sauce ; the foundation of nearly all brown sauces, classified as the main grande sauce, or sauce mere. Fagot. A small bunch-of parsley and savoury herbs. A combination of culinary herbs. Faire Revenir, /'. A term often used in French cookery books; its meaning is to partly fry, meat or vegetables being slightly browned without actu- ally cooking them. Filet, /. Fillet, e. The under cut of a loin of beef, mutton, veal, pork, and game. Also the boned breasts of poultry, birds, the boned sides of fish are also called fillets. Flavouring, e. Seasoning. Certain ingredients consisting principally of spices, herbs, and essences, used in cookery to impart taste and flavour to food in order to render it more palatable. Foie Gras, /. Fat goose liver. Fond, f. Strong gravy, meat-stock, - bottom, as in fonds d' articliaut. Fondant, /. Melting, e. A kind of icing; French dessert bon-bons. Fondue, f. A preparation of melted cheese, originally made in Switzer- land. A savoury. Forcemeat, e. From the French. Farce, /., i.e. meat for stuffing. Fran9aise (a la), f. French style, c. Applied to a number of dishes of French origin. The term is used for dishes cooked in a simple manner as well as for those of the most elaborate finish. Frapper, /. Iced (used when cooling champagne, sauces, and creams). Fricassee, f.. Fricasseed, e. The word comes from the English ‘ freak,’ ‘ brisk,’ ‘ dainty.’ A white stew of chicken or veal. Fritter, e. Beignets, f. Anything dipped in batter, crumbed, or egged, and fried. Garnishing. As a culinary term, it means to decorate a dish with edibles of ornamental appearance. Gateau, f. A round, flat cake, gene- rally decorated. Essentially a cake made of a rich, well-beaten butter dough. Gelatine. A manufactured article, used for giving solidity to liquids. (See also Isinglass.) Girofle, f. Clove, e. A very pungent, aromatic spice, vulgarly called ‘ clou de girofle,’ because it has the form of a nail; native of the island of Ternate. Glace, /. Frozen, iced. Glaze, e. Glace de viande, f. Stock or gravy reduced to the thickness of jelly ; used for glazing meats, &c., to improve their appearance. Well made glaze adheres firmly to the meat. Also used for strengthening soups and sauces. Guava. A tropical fruit; native of the East and West Indies. The pre- serves of this fruit are highly esteemed in this country. Gumbo. The American term for okra soup or other preparations from okra, gumbo being the name by which okra is mostly known in South America. Chicken gumbo is a puree made from okra and chicken. Hache, /. Minced meat, finely sliced meat (see Hash). Hors-d’oeuvre, /. Appetisers. Small side dishes, dainty relishes, served cold, generally before the soup, in order to create appetite. Icing, e. Glasure,/., or glace. A cover- ing for cakes or pastry, made with fine sugar and white of egg, or sugar and water, flavoured and coloured to taste. Isinglass. Gelatine. The former is prepared from the sound, or swim- ming, bladder of the sturgeon and other similar fishes. Both isinglass and gelatine are used for giving firm- ness to liquids, but cannot be re- garded as an article of nourishment. Joint, e. Releve, f. The grosse piece or piece de resistance of a dinner. On the Continent the joint is usually served after the fish, whilst in this country it is served after the entrees. Krona pepper. A mild red pepper sea- soning of delicate aroma and coral-red colour, used for all kinds of savoury preparation. Lait, /. Milk, e. A a lait, prepared with milk, or in milk. Larder, /. To lard, e. A culinary term which means to insert with a larding-THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 712 pin (lardoire, /.) small strips of bacon (lardon, /.) into a piece of meat, poultry., or fish. Liaison, /. The mixture of yolk of eggs, cream, &c., used for thickening or binding white soups and sauces. Lit, /. Thin slices of meat spread in layers for culmary purposes. Lunch, e. Dejeuner a la fourchette,/. A repast between breakfast and dinner. The word is derived from the Welsh Llwne, lunching or hurrying. Robert Burns, in his Holy Friar, says, ‘ An’ cheese, an’ bread, frae women’s laps, was dealt about in lunches.’ Macedoine, /. A mixture of various kinds of vegetables or fruits, cut in even-shaped discs. The name is also applied to a collection of ripe fruit set in jelly in a mould, or a fruit salad flavoured with liqueurs and syrup. Maitre d’Hotel (ala),/. Hotel steward’s fashion. Also the name of a flavour- ing butter, mixed with chopped parsley and seasoned with lemon-juice, pepper, and salt. Served on grilled meats or fish. Maitre d’Hotel sauce is a white sauce with chopped parsley. Dishes thus generally signify quickly and plainly prepared food in which parsley is used as the principal flavouring. Mayonnaise, /. A cold salad, sauce, or dressing. It is said to have been in- vented by the chef to the Due de Richelieu, after the victory of Mahon (Mahonnaise). Menu, /. The bill of fare. Literally the word means minute detail of courses. A list of the dishes which are to be served at a meal. Menus were first used in 1541. Pronounce ‘ menu ’ 1 mennoo,’ so that the second syllable is sounded as something be- tween ‘ new ’ and ‘ noo.’ Meringue, /.- Light pastry, made of white of eggs and sugar, filled with cream or ice. Nougat, /. Almond rock candy. A sweetmeat made with sugar, honey, almonds, pistachios, &c. Panade, or Panada. A culinary paste of flour and water, or soaked bread, used in the preparation of forcemeat and stuffing. Panure,/., or paner, to crumb. Signifies anything that is bread-crumbed. Panurette. Finely grated rusks, pre- | pared a delicate red, used for/ crumb- ing and decorative purposes. Paprika. Hungarian red pepper. A kind of sweet capsicum of a brilliant scarlet colour; it is less pungent than the Spanish pepper. Parmesan. Name of an Italian cheese, largely used for culinary purposes. Parson’s Nose. This name is given to the exteme end portion of the tail of a fowl. Patd, f. A pie ; pastry ; a savoury meat pastry, or a raised pie. Pate de Foie Gras,/. A well known delicacy prepared from the livers of fat geese. Alsace is the most cele- brated coimtry where the so-called terrines de foie gras are made. This delicacy was first introduced by a cook named Close. Piping, e. The process of decoration by means of icing for ornamenting cakes, pastry, and small goods. Piquante, /. Sharp of flavour, stimu- lating, pungent or sour. Pistaches, /. Pistachios, e. Kernels of the nut of the turpentine tree, used for flavouring and garnishing gelatines, sweets, &c. Potage, /. Soup, e. A nourishing broth or liquor, forming the first course of a dinner. Pot-au-feu, /., is an economical and wholesome beef broth. It is the standard dish of all classes in France, and the origin of beef stock. Potpourri, A stew of various kinds of meats and spices ; a favourite dish in Spain. Potted. Fish or meat puree preserved in a pot. Profitrolles, /. Very small fried choux- paste balls, creamed inside, used for garnishing soups, &c. Puree, /. A smooth pulp; mashed vegetables; thick soups. The name is also given to meat or fish which is cooked, pounded in a mortar, and passed through a sieve. Quenelles, /. Forcemeat of different kinds, composed of fish, poultry, or meat, eggs, &c., shaped in various forms—balls, ovals, &c. They are used for garnishing for soups or entrees, or are served separately as entrees. Ragout, /. A rich stew of meat, highly seasoned. /GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY 713 Ramequin, f. Ramakin, e. A kind of cheese tartlet or ramakin. Relev£, /. The remove, e. A course of a dinner, consisting of large joints of meat, four-footed game, and some- times joints of fish. Relish, e. Gout piquant, /. A pleas- ing taste ; to give an excellent flavour. Remoulade, /. A cold sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs and mustard, used as salad dressing, &c. Renaissance, /. A word used for dishes of modern invention. Rissoles, /. A mixture of minced fish or meat enclosed in paste, half-moon shapes, and fried crisp in fat or butter. Roquefort, /. Rochefort, a highly es- teemed French cheese. Roti, f. The roast, e., indicating the course of a meal which is served before the entremets. ’ Roast meat, poultry, and game. Roux, f. A preparation of-'butter and flour, used for thickening soups and sauces. There are three kinds of roux, white, fawn, and brown. Royal. Name of an egg custard used for garnishing clear soups. Also the name applied to an icing (glace royale) made with whites of eggs and icing sugar, and used for coating and decorative purposes. Sabayon, f. Pudding sauce, composed of cream or milk, sugar, white wine, and eggs. Salmi, or Salmis. A compote of game set to finish cooking when half roasted. Salpicon. A mince of poultry or game, with ham, tongue, and mushrooms; used for croquettes, bouchees, rissoles, &c. Sauter (ee),/, To toss over the fire, in a saute or frying pan, in little butter or fat; anything that requires a sharp fire and quick cooking. Sherbet. A cooling drink consisting of water, lemon-juice, and sugar. The word 1 Sorbet ’ is derived from sherbet. Sippets. Small slices of bread cut into different forms, fried or toasted, served as garnishes with meat entries, or for borders of savoury dishes. Sorbet, /. An iced Turkish drink; also the name of a partly set water-ice, with fruit or liquor flavour; usually i served in goblets. Soubise, /. A smooth onion pulp, served with various kinds of meat entrees. The name is supposed to come from Prince Charles Soubise (born 1715, died 1787), who was a celebrated epicure. He served as field marshal during the reign of Louis XIV. of France. As a sur- name to dishes a la soubise is gene- rally applied when onions enter largely into the composition of the dish ; the term implies a strong onion flavour, or a garnish of onion puree. Souffle, /. Literally 1 puffed up.’ A very light baked or steamed pudding, an omelet. Also applied to light, savoury creams. Souffld Glace, /. A very light, sweet cream mixture, iced and served in cases. ■' Table d’Hote, /. The table at which ' the principal meals at an hotel or restaurant are served to guests; com- mtJft- table, for-guests ; an. ordinary. Tailler la Soupe, /. A culinary ex- pression. Thin slices or crusts of bread placed in a soup-tureen are called tailler. 1 Tremper la soupe ’ is the French term applied when the broth is poured over the slices. Tamis, f. Tammy, e. Silk or woollen canvas ’cloth which is used for strain- ing soups and sauces. Tartare, /. A cold sauce, made of yolks of eggs, oil, mustard, capers, gherkins, &c., served with fried fish or cold meats; also a salad dressing. Timbale, /. Literally, ‘ kettle drum ’ ; a kind of crusted hash baked in a mould. Tomber a Glace, /. To reduce a liquid until it has the appearance of a thick syrup. Trifles. A second-course dish of sponge cakes, biscuits, jams, &c., flavoured with cream, custard, and liqueur. Tutti-Frutti. An Italian expression for various kinds of fruits, or a mixture of cooked vegetables. Vanille, /. Vanilla, e. The fruit of a fragrant plant from which the most delicate of flavouring is produced. Veloute, /. A rich white sauce. Founda- tion sauce. Vol-au-vent, /. A light, round puff- paste crust, filled with delicately flavoured ragouts of chicken, sweet- bread, &c.ADVERTISEMENTS. 714 vcm Oram. DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING. Put a teaspoonful of Van Houten’s Cocoa into the cup, withdraw the spoon, pour on the boiling water, then stir and add the sugar to taste. To make larger quantities, put a teaspoonful for each cup required into a dry jug' which has been previously thoroughly warmed, pour on boiling water, then stir and serve into cups, adding sugar to taste. Most Cocoas require boiling in milk; but with Van Houten’s Cocoa this is not necessary. All that is required is to see that the water is boiling when poured on the Cocoa, as otherwise a perfect cup of Cocoa cannot be made. Adhere to these directions, and the result will be all that can be desired. EASY TO MAKE. EASY TO DIGEST. NUTRITIOUS, DELICIOUS. BEST & GOES FARTHEST.GENERAL INDEX Note.—All ftgwes preceded by ‘ p.’ or ‘pp.’ refer to pages, other figtires to the numbered recipe AbRICOTS (apricots) a la Colbert, 1604 dartois meringue, 1996 fritters, 1656 pains au marasquin, 1728 pouding froid (cold), 1718 suedoise, 1623 talmouses, 1993 Agneau (lamb), ballotine aux pois, 1207 canolettes a la Montgl’as, 681 carre (neck) a la bohfimienne, 1208 chartreuse a la gastronome, 696 chaudfroid de c6telettes, 1132 cOtelettes a la Bonaparte, 682 a la Cahors, 683 a la Danzig, 1128 ft la duchesse, 697 grilldes, 684 a la lion d’or, 686 a la Malmaison, 685 a la maltaise, 698 a la Mange, 687 a la moseovienne, 1129 a la Renaissance, 1131 a la Richelieu, 688 a la Villeroi, 689 6paule (shoulder) a la Chevet, 699 a la Montmorency, 700 a la paysanne, 701 fi la polonaise, 702 epigrammes a la bearnaise, 703 a la dauphine, 704 a la macedoine, 705 a la Soubise, 690 filets a la ^padacini, 691 a la venaison, 706 k la Villeroi, 707 langues a la Duxelle, 710 navarin en casserole, 692 noisettes a l’union, 693 poitrine a la turque, 708 farcie a la Vfiry, 709 queues 4 la russe, 694 ris a la Voltaire, 695 selle (saddle), to carve, 1251 fi la hollandaise, 1209 Ailerons de volaille a la ciAole, 971 Alcohol (fuel), p. 49 Allspice,^). 103 Almonds, to peel, 33 Amandes (almonds)— a la diable (devilled), 1931 creme, 1953 denises (frosted almond sandwiches), 1992 pfite (paste), 1954 and 1995 salees (salted), 1930 tartelettes, 2012 to peel, 33 American goose (see Tdtras), 1098 American menus, p. 659 Ananas (pine-apple), flan a la neige, 1624 fritters, 1658 meringue, 1723 parfait a la Tortini, 1625 salad, 1560 savarin, 1647 sorbet, 1807 Anchois (anchovies)— canapes a la Madras, 1837 fi la turque, 71 fi la norvbgienne, 56 a la Vatel, 1840 fi l’huile, 55 Eclairs, 1841 pfite (paste), crust for savouries, 1948 rosettes, 70 Ancient bills of fare, p. 676 Andouillettes de gibier en caisses, 1099 Angelica, p. 109 Angel cake, 1755 Anguille (eels), fi la tartare, 607 fi l’espagnole, 572 en aspic, 676 fritot, lAmoulade, 573 Anna potatoes, 1397 Appfitissants (maconnaise), 72 fi la su6doise, 78 Apple amber, 1619 Charlotte, 1639 Apples (see Pommes)716 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Apricots (see Abricots) April fool menu, p. 694 Aromatic herbs and plants, p. 106 basil, p. 107 bay-leaves, p. 107 bouquet garni, p. 106 burnet, p. 106 capsicums, p. 106 garlic, p. 108 marjoram, p. 107 mint, p. 107 onions, p. 107 parsley, p. 106 savoury herbs, p. 107 shallot, p. 108 tarragon and chervil, p. 106 thyme, p. 106 Art of cookery (the), p. 13 Artichauts (artichokes) a la barigoule, 1262 a la champery, 1263 k la lyonnaise, 1264 a la moelle, 1265 a l’italienne, 1274 beignets a la viennoise, 1266 bottoms, 1267 de Jerusalem a la ciAole, 1268 entiers k la chasseur, 1269 fonds a la Mornay, 1270 a la president, 1904 a la provenpale, 1275 a la reine, 1271 en cocotte, 1272 rissolettes, 1273 souffid a la lyonnaise, 1276 - Artichokes (see Artichauts) Asparagus (see Asperges) Asperges (asparagus) a l’Argenteuil, 1300 a la bernoise, 1293 a la hollandaise, 1283 a la nipoise, 1294 a la vinaigrette, 1285 a l’indienne, 1284 au beurre fondu, 1286 au veloute, 1295 croquettes de pointes, 1287 en branches a la Bechamel, 1296 a la Colbert, 1297 a la pi6montaise, 1298 en petits pois, 1299 how to prepare, 1282 milanaise, 1288 petites bouchees a la princesse, 1289 petits pains, 1290 points a 1 royale, 1291 p ' villienne, 1301 ragour ai.x pointes, 1292 sautees au beurre, 1302 Aspic a la tomate, 295 cream, 296 jelly, 293 mayonnaise, 294 Attereaux a l’imp^riale, 1926 I Attriotes de volaille a la vaudoise, 984 I Aubergines a la lyonnaise, 1303 au gratin, 1305 aux oeufs poches, 1304 farcies, 1306 Average degrees of heat for frying, p. 80 time for baking meat or birds, 17 JDABA au rhum, 1629 Bacon and macaroni, 1857 Bacon, guide for ordering, p. 33 Baking process, £>. 74 and boiling, Ac., difference between,^?. 74 meat or birds, table, 17 Ballons de saumon fume, 1848 Ballotines de pigeons a la financiere, 931 de volaille a la cardinal, 973 Ball supper menus, p. 669 Bananas {see Bananes) Bananes (bananas) bavaroise, 1682 beignets, 1660 blanc-mange, 1704 farcies aux fraises, 1726 glace a la creme, 1784 Banquet menus, p. 652 Barbue (brill) braisee a l’amiral, 525 filets a la grand due, 523 a la Madeleine, 524 1 Basil, p. 107 Batons gruyere, 1914 Batter, frying, 35, 1659, 1768 Bavaroise de bananes, 1682 it la Nesselrode, 1685 it la vanille, 1680 au caramel, 1683 au ehocolat, 1681 aux peches, 1684 frappee aux mille-fruits, 1686 Bay-leaves, p. 107 Becasses (snipe).aux huitres, 1234 capissantes aux truffes, 1059 farcies, roties, 1231 farcies a la Stockholm, 1060 filets a la Talleyrand, 1058 pat6 a l’anglaise, 1061 Beef (see Bceuf) Beefsteaks a l’anglaise, 789 a la Bardoux, 790 a la Brisse, 791 a la Godard, 792 a la Soyer, 793 Beignets (fritters) a la gruyere, 1910 a la Madras, 1855 a la torrijos, 1661 a la tyrolienne, 1663 a la venitienne, 1864 a la viennoise, 1266 au moka (coffee), 1662 d’abricot (apricot), 1656 d’ananas (pine-apple), 1658717 GENERAL INDEX Beignets (fritters) de bananes (bananas), 1660 de cervelles (brains), 1863 de choufleur (cauliflower), 1357 de eoncombres (cucumbers), 1359 de crepes, 1665 de fraises (strawberries), 1654 de groseilles vertes (gooseberries), 1653 de gruyere a la krona, 1491 de hareng fumd, 1843 d’huitres (oysters), 586 de pommes (apples), 1652 de reines-claude (greengages), 1655 souffles a la vanille, 1664 de tomates (tomatoes), 1469 Betterave (beetroot) a la bordelaise, 1311 sautees au beurre, 1310 Beurre (butter), 41 d’anchois (anchovy butter), 387 au cafe (moka), coffee butter, 1967 diable (devilled), 388 ecrevisses (crayfish or shrimps), 389 espagnol (Spanish), 390 homard (lobster), 391 jambon (ham), 392 Madras (chutney), 393 ’ maitre d’hotel, 394 v Montpelier, 395 paprika, 396 raifort (horse-radish), 397 ravigote (green), 398 ruisseau (watercress), 399 Beurres Composes (flavouring butters), forcemeats, &c.,p. 197 Bills of fare, how to compile, p. 624 Birds’-nests confectionery, 1994 Biscotins au fromage, 1908 aux peches, 1771 Biscuit glace aux fraises, 1788 Biscuits a l’africaine, 2024 de Bordeaux, 2019 cocoanut, 2023 de cognac, 2020 a la cuill&re, 2026 de fromage a la crUme, 1929 glacis a la turque, 1789 opera, 2021 au parmesan, 1928 water, 2022 Bisque or shell-fish soups,p. 89 Blanch, rice, to, 22 Blanchailles (whitebait), 581 Bloater fritters, 1843 Bloaters (see Hareng fume) Bosuf (beef) aiguillettes a la Brazza, 762 aloyeau a la Godard, 1193 boiled, 1200 braisd a la mode, 1201 Chateaubriand a la Chipolata, 794 a la cordon rouge, 795 a la marseillaise, 796 cdtelettes parisienne a l’ecarlate, 787 Bceuf (beef), entrecotes ala parisienne, 797 filqts a l’athenienne, 763 - a la Brillat-Savarin, 1194 a la Chateaubriand, 765 a la Claremont, 798 a la Colbert, 766 a la Conflans, 799 a la Cyrano, 1195 a la financiers, 800 a la Garfield, 801 a la Garibaldi, 768 a la Henri IV, 1196 ft la javanaise, 1136 it la Louis XV, 1197 a la Madrid, 1134 a la metropole, 1198 a la polonaise, 802 a la Reyniere, 769 a la royale, 803 a la sicilienne, 804 a la viennoise, 770 d la XerSs, 1199 cceurs a la Careme, 764 a la Rossini, 777 mignons aux bananes, 771 a la Beauffremont, 772 a la castelaine, 773 en chaudfroid, 1135 a la dauphine, 774 a la gSnoise, 775 a la Rothschild, 778 galantine, 1137 gullasch (Hungarian dish), 780 hachis a la bourgeoise, 818 how to choose, p. 23 mode of cutting up, p. 25 noix a la bourgeoise, 805 olives, 779 palais a l’Orly, 812 grille, 813 paupiettes a la Richelieu, 806 piece braisde a la vert-pre, 1202 Porterhouse steak a la Gouffe, 788 queues braisees a la polonaise, 814 Scotch collops, 819 sirloin, to carve, 1243 steak and kidney pie, 815 steak and oyster pudding, 816, tournedos a l’aix'oise, 781 a-la Colbert, 807 a la Madeleine, 783 a la moscovienne, 784 a, la Napoleon, 786 a la niqoise, 808 a la Seymour, 782 a la Quirinal, 776 Boiling process, p. 68 Bombes a l’alsacienne, 1169 de fraises a la moderne, 1724 glacdes A la sicilienne, 1792 a la venitienne, 1700 au chocolat, 1791THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 718 Bombes glacees a la milanaise, 991 a la Victoria, 1159 Bones and scraps of meat, how to use, p. 46 Boning poultry or game, 16 Bonne-bouche drops (biscuits), 2025 Bonnes bouches de crevettes a 1’ Avondale, 49 aux huitres, 1817 de sardines, 50 de veau a la moderne, 850 a la Washington, 1636 Bordure de faisan a la chasseur, 1039 de Agues a la ciAme, 1746 aux fraises a la Madrid, 1743 de fruits a la nationale, 1626 japonaise a la gel6e, 1765 de lievre a l’autrichienne, 1104 a la bergere, 1105 de marrons a la Chantilly, 1744 de noix et c61eri a la Monaco, 1530 Pierre le Grand, 1729 de poires a la reine, 1611 de pommes de terre (potatoes), 1490 aux prunes a la cr£me, 1745 de riz aux prunes, 1719 savarin, 1627 Bortsch polonaise, 192 Bouchees au caviar, 1822 a la reine, 992 a la princesse, 1289 a la suMoise, 594 Boudins de volaille a la Bichelieu, 985 Bouillabaisse, 496 Bouillon (stock)— aux ceufs, 92 de volaille a l’orge, 153 en tasses, 93, p. 84 Boules au parmesan, 1915 Bouquet garni, 2, and p. 106 Brains (see Cervelles) Braised beef, 1201 Braising process, p. 76 Bread, pulled, 2030 Bread sauce, 235 Breakfast dishes and savouries, p. 571 Brill (see Barbue) Brine (samure), 27 Brioche paste, 1963 Brissolettes de caviar, 63 Brochet (pike) a l’ancienne, 611 a la castelaine, 610 a la Cavour, 614 a la rtaioulade, 612 farci et grating, 613 Alets piques a la Colbert, 608 a la lyonnaise, 609 Broths,W>nsomm6s or clear soups, p. 87 Brown brefcd pudding, 1585 Brussels sprouts (see Choux de Bruxelles) Buffet refreshments, £>. 671 and supper mmius, p. 668 Burnet, p. 106 Butter, to clarify, 25 beans, 1371 Buying, p. 29 Cabbage (see choux) Cabillaud (cod) a la dieppoise, 615 a l’indienne, 526 a la maltaise, 527 a la portugaise, 616 darne, a la Sefton, 677 grille a la Colbert, 617 mousseline de, 528 reciApi (crimped), 529 Caf6 (coffee) frappe a la viennoise, 1810 parfait, 1809 Cailles (quails) a la cendre, 1070 a la mirepois, 1071 a la Moli&re, 1062 a la Tosca, 1063 chaudfroid a la Victoria, 1176 croustades a la champenoise, 1072 en caisses a l’aspic, 1178 en chemise, 1069 en feuilletage, 1067 en papillotes, 1068 farcies en caisses aux petits pois, 117' poglees a la parisienne, 1066 f Caisses a la Casanova, 84 Cake icing, pp. 607 and 608 Cakes and pastry, p. 603 Cakes, fancy (see Gateaux) Calendar of food in season, p. 36 Calf’s brain (see Cervelles de veau) feet (see Pieds de veau) head (see Tete de veau) Canap6s.a la capucine, 61 au caviar, 58 a la Madras, 1837 de sardines a la Soubise, 1835 a la Turbigo, 73 a la turque, 71 Canard (duck) a l’Orange, 1224 a la portugaise, 912 braise aux navets, 1222 en chemise, 914 diets & la castillane, 910 grille a la franqsusfe, 915 salmis, 911 < a la Montreuil, 913 to carve, 1257 Canard sauvage (wild duck) a l’americair.e, 1093 a la chasseur, 1094 diets aux truffes, 1095 zdphires a la metropole, 1092 Canary cream, 1701 Canetons (ducklings) a la bigarade, 919 a la Cambacer5s, 916 a la crapaudine, 917 a la Duclair, 920 a la rouennaise, 1227719 GENERAL INDEX Canetons (ducklings) a la Ste. Mand6, 921 braises a la Bourgogne, 1223 filets a la legumi^re, 918 a la Lorraine, 1174 rotis, 1226 salmis a la verjus, 922 Cannelons au florador, 1925 Canolettes a la Montgias, 681 Capon (see Chapon) Capsicums, p. 106 Caramel liquid, 26 Cardons en croutons a la veloutd, 1312 Carottes (carrots) a la Bechamel, 1318 a la berlinoise, 1313 a la bourgeoise, 1319 a la bruxelloise, 1314 a l’espagnole, 1320 a la lilloise, 1321 a la maitre d’hotel, 1322 a la poulette, 1323 farcies aux epinards, 1315 nouvelles a la flamande, 1316 soufflSes, 1317 Carrelet frit, sauce persil, 618 Carrot pudding, 1565 Carrots and turnips, p. 108 Carving, hints on, p. 429 Casserole de pommes au riz, 1616 Cassolette paste, 69 Cassolettes a lApicurienne, 68 a la Parmentier, 1407 a la princesse Alice, 986 Cauliflower (see Choufleur) Caviar a l’Andalouse, 1823 en Belle-Vue, 59 bouch^es, i822 brissolettes, 63 canapes, 58 k la capucine, 61 crapes, 1825 a la diable (devilled), 1824 aux 6crevisses, 60 palmettes, 1826 en salade, 64 petites tranches, remoulade, 57 tartines en ehaudfroid, 62 Cffleri (celery) a la demi-glace, 1324 , a la fermiere, 1326 a la g6nevoise, 1327 a l’italienne, 1328 au velout6, 1329 frit a la tomate, 1330 pur6e aux croutons, 1331 souffle, 1325 Central ranges with underground flues, p. 53 Cepes it la bordelaise, 1333 farcies au jus, 1332 Cerf (deer), filets piques a la diable, 1125 Cerises (cherries), charlotte, 1637 croquettes, 1650 pouding, 1580 Cerises (cherries), rissoles, 1649 salade, 1555 Cervelles (brains) de veau au beurre noir, 851 a la milanaise, 852 a la poulette, 853 beignets, 1863 Champagne jelly, 1708 Champignons (mushrooms) a la Bechamel, 1334 it la bordelaise, 1339 a la diable (devilled), 1336 a la Montgias, 1337 a la piemontaise, 1340 a la provenqale, 1341 aux fines herbes, 1342 au gratin, 1343 farcis, 1335 it la Napolitaine, 1344 stewed, 1338 (sweet dish), 1986 Chapon (capon) a la bourgeoise, 1019 a la Cavour, 1020 a la piemontaise, 1021 au gros sel, 1022 to carve, 1260 Charlotte de cerises (cherries), 1637 aux fraises (strawberries), 1732 de gaufrettes, 1733 glacee a la creole, 1803 a la florentine, 1802 a la princesse, 1801 de groseilles vertes (gooseberries), 1734 hollandaise, 1735 a l’imperiale, 1638 - de pommes (apples), 1639 russe aux pistaches, 1738 a la Plombieres, 1736 a la St. Jos6, 1731 a la suisse, 1737 Chartreuse de faisan it la Balmoral, 1180 de^>ommes it la princesse, 1730 Chaudfroid de cotelettes d’agneau, 1132 de cailles a la Victoria, 1176 de filets de mignons (beef), 1135 de foie gras en caisses, 1162 de perdreaux (pheasants), 1184 Cheese, guide for ordering, p. 35 cakes, 2017 croutes, 1911 diablotines, 1912 straws, 1922 Cherries (see Cerises) Chestnut amber, 1621 and celery with mayonnaise (salad), 1530 Chestnuts (see Marrons) Chevreuil (venison) braise it la Saint- Hubert, 1119 cotelettes it la turque, 1120 cuissot, sauce groseilles, 1241 escalopes a la chasseur, 1121720 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Chevreuil (venaison), longe a la puree de ' tomate, 1122 salmis a la sultane, 1123 tournedos a la milanaise, 1124 Chicken (see Volaille and Poulet) breasts, creole style, 971 curried, 979 farce, for pigeons a la royale, 936 fillets, Cecil style, 978 pillaff, 995 quenelles, 959 roast, 1220 to carve, 1260 Ghicoree (endive), salade au lard, 1514 Chocolate bavaroise, 1681 cake (gateau), 1761 icing, 1762 and 1969 mould, 1702 pouding (pudding), 1581 marrons, 2027 meringu6, 1582 sauce, 384 Choice of food, the, p. 21 Chopped parsley, 4 Choufleur (cauliflower) beignets, 1357 a la polonaise, 1355 augratin, 1356 Choux (cabbage) a la lilloise, 1351 de Bruxelles saute au beurre, 1354 farei au beurre, 1352 rouge (red) au petit lard, 1346 Choux de mer (sea kale) a la crAme, 1347 a la florentine, 1349 a la hollandaise, 1350 glace a la creme, 1348 Choux paste, 36 (for sweet dishes), 1951 Choux-raves, kohl rabis, a la creme, 1345 Christmas pudding, 1589 Cinnamon, p. 104 Clarification of stock, p. 88 Classical bill of fare quotations,^;. .695 Cloves, p. 103 Coals as fuel, p. 47 Cobourg trifle, 1703 Cochon, pieds a la Perigord (grilled stuffed pig’s feet), 909 Cookie leckie, 194 Cod (see Cabillaud) Coffee butter, 1967 fritters, 1662 guide for ordering, p. 35 icing, 1966 Coke and charcoal, p. 47 Cold apricot pudding, 1718 collation menus, p. 674 meat kedgeree, 817 meat, to warm up, 13 potatoes, how to use, p. 46 sweets, p. 533 vegetables, how to use, p. 46 Compote de fruits a la Chantilly, 1776 Compote de melon, 1558 de pigeon a Famericaine. 941 a la bourgeoise, 942 de pluvier a la Doria, 1088 de poires en surprise, 1794 de pommes a la crAme, 1748 Concombre (cucumber), hors-d’oeuvre, 45 a la creme, 1358 a l’espagnole 1362 a l’italienne, 1363 beignets, 1359 darioles a la Mena, 1360 farei (stuffed), 1361 purAe, 1364 salade, 1511 Confectioner’s custard, 1958 Consommes (see Soups) Construction of menus, the, p. 624 Cooking fuels and cooking stoves, p. 47 meats, hints on, 12 processes and their effects, p. 68 stoves, p. 49 terms explained, pp. 68 and 707 temperatures, p. 58 utensils, &c., p. 60 Copper moulds, to clean, p. 43 Coq de bruyere (grouse) roti, 1232 salmis, 1049 spatchcock, 1050 to carve, 1261 Coquilles a la suedoise, 1814 Cornets gAnevois, 1988 de nougat a la creme, 1751 aux petits pois, 1387 Cornichons (gherkins), hors-d’ceuvre, 43 Cornish cutlets, 822 Cosmopolitan menus, p. 666 Cosmopolitan or mixed soups, p. 89 Cotelettes de homard, 596 en aspic, 651 de saumon a la danoise, 500 ft l’indienne, 497 en surprise (cold sweet), 1773 Coupe glacAe a la royale (cold sweet), 1793 Court bouillon, 604 Crawfish (see Langouste) Cream, to whip, 31 soup (see Soups) Creams and filtered soups, p. 89 Creme d’amandes, 1753, 1953 brulee, 1669 canary, 1701 cuite a la suisse, 1691 A, la diplomate, 1694 de fraises a la chartreuse, 1689 frangipane, 1959 au frontage, 1919 a gateau fourre, 1961 de Pithiviers, 1960 a la gAnoise, 1690 de groseilles vertes (gooseberries), 1699 a l’imperatrice, 1695GENERAL INDEX 721 Creme aux mille-feuilles (iced), 1686 de mirabelles en surprise, 1696 a la Monaco, 1697 a l’orange, 1698 p&tissi&re (confectioner’s custard), 1958 renversee, 1688 a la romaine (sweet), 1693 au tapioca a la compote. de fruits, 1692 de volaille a la franqaise, 178 zabajone (Mexican custard), 1670 Crimes de faisan, 1181 a la Mulhouse, 1170 de veau a l’^carlate, 810 de volaille k l’Argenteuil, 993 a lAearlate, 1157 en tomates, 1155 Crepes, pancakes (batter), 1666 au caviar, 1825 Crepinettes de volaille aux truffes, 987 Crevettes (shrimps) bonnes bouches a l’Avondale, 49 petits pains, 1839 Cromeskies aux huitres, 587 aux ceufs, 1905 Croquettes de cerises (cherries), 1650 de jambon au riz, 1853 aux ceufs, 1905 de poisson (fish), 603 de pommes de terre (potatoes), 1454 a la dauphine, 1411 a la moderne, 1412 a la Parmentier, 880 a la rouennaise, 1455 de riz, 1651 de semoule, 1924 Croustades a la milanaise, 1146 de gibier a la Gambetta, 1100 a la Mddicis, 1850 de volaille a la Montpellier, 988 Croute au pot, 91 Croutes El la Colmar, 1838 aux 6'crevisses a la tartare, 67 au fromage, 1911 au jambon, 1854 de laitance de cabillaud (cod’s roe) a la Madras, 1827 au Mad5re, 1674 a la Normande, 1675 a la St. George, 1831 Croutons a l’espagnole, 65 Cucumber (see Concombre) Culinary pastes, p. 603r requisites, p. 60 Curry, p. 104 Custard for banana ice cream, 1785 Cuisses de volaille en papillotes, 976 Dames d’honneur, 2008 Darioles de foie gras en Belle-Vue, 1163 Dariolettes a la Chantilly, 1767 Darne d’esturgeon a la milanaise, 621 de saumon a l’amiral, 640 a la Chambord, 498 a la national, 499 Dartois aux abricots meringue, 1996 Dattes (dates) aux amandes (stuffed with almonds), 1741 Deer (see Cerf) Denises (sandwiches) aux amandes, 1992 a la jalousie, 1769 a la princesse, 51 a la turque, 52 D6s de foie gras a la strasbourgeoise, 1165 Devilled almonds, 1931 caviare, 1824 game, 1867 leeks, 1391 mushrooms, 1336 Diablotines a la gruyere, 1912 Difference between baking and boiling, &e., p. 74 Difference between sauces and gravies, p. 92 Digestion of food (table), p. 201 Dinde (Turkey) It la Chipolata, 1023 a la Godard, 1024 a la provenqale, 1025 a la Eeyni^re, 1026 blanquette aux morilles, 1027 cuisses farcies a la Garibaldi, 1028 farcie aux marrons (roast, stuffed with chestnuts), 1221 grillee a la diable, 1029 patds, 1149 to carve, 1256 Dishes, how to wash, p. 42 Dominos (confectionery), 2018 Draughts or slides, p. 54 Dressed fish and fish entrees (hot), p. 212 vegetables, p. 437 Dry pickling, 28 Duck (see Canard) Duckling (see Caneton) Easter cake, 1991 ] Eclairs d’anchois, 1841 au caf6, 2001 de sardines, 1833 Ecrevisses (prawns), caviar aux, 60 croutes a la tartare, 67 sauce, 219 Eels (see Anguille) Egg liaison, p. 93 Egging and crumbing, 34 Eggs, guide for ordering, p. 35 (see CEufs) Electric stoves, p. 56 Electricity, p. 48 Elementary methods, p. 110 rules for roasting, p. 73 Endive (see ChicoiAe)THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 722 English and French specimen menus, p. 630 Entries chaudes de gibier, p. 360 de viandes, p. 264 de volaille, &o.,p. 326 classification, 679 cold dishes, 680 fish (hot), p. 212 game (hot),y>. 360 meat (hot),y). 264 meat, poultry, and game (cold), p. 384 poultry, &c. (hot), _p. 326 quotations for menus, p. 697 rabbit, &c., p. 357 Entremets sucres (hot sweets), p. 501 Eperlans (smelts) en brochettes, 575 a la cdlestine, 576 au citron, 574 fareis a la Pouraine, 577 souffle, 578 Epigrammes de faisan a la jardiniere, 1042 Epinards (spinach) a la Bechamel, 1366 a la Colbert, 1367 aux ceufs a la vert-pre, 1368 friandines aux, 1369 ravioles, 1370 salade, 1521 souffles, 1365 et ceufs, salade, 1521 Escalopes de turbot a la dauphine, 513 Essence de gibier, 316a de volaille, 299a Essences of meat, Ac., p. 95 Esturgeon (sturgeon) a Panchois, 619 a la cardinal, 620 darne, a la milanaise, 621 papillotes, 620a Etuver process, p. 77 Extractives, water and salts, p. 17 Faisan (pheasant) 1044 a la bonne femme, aux choux, 1045 barde au cresson, 1230 bordure a la chasseur, 1039 brais6 aux choux, 1038 chartreuse a la Balmoral, 1180 a la Richelieu, 1046 en aspic, 1179 en coquette, 1040 en robe de chambre, 1041 epigrammes a la jardiniere, 1042 filets a la Talleyrand, 1047 fareis aux epinards, 1043 salmis a la bohemienne, 1048 Farce de champignons (mushrooms), 407 faisan (pheasant), 405 foie de veau (liver), 406 gibier (game), 404 Farce de poisson (merlan, whiting), 400 quenelle de poisson, 561" veau (veal), 402 godiveau (quenelles), 401 volaille (chicken), 403 Farinaceous dishes, p. 481 Fat for buttering moulds, Ac., 18 to clarify, 23 Feet (see Pieds) Feuilletage (puff-paste), 1944 Fieldfares (sec Grives) Figues (figs), bordure a la creme, 1746 Finger pudding, 1590 First menu used at table, p. 625 Fish (see Poisson) cutlets, 620a how to choose, p. 22 quenelle forcemeat, 561 quotations for menus, p. 697 soups, p. 89 stock for soupes maigres, p. 85 to carve, 1242 Fixed price table d’hote dinners, p. 649 Flageolets a la poulette, 1375 Flans de crapes aux epinards, 1860 Flemish menu, a, p. 667 Fleurettes de foie gras, 1166 Florador cannelons, 1925 Flounders ‘(see Limandes and Carrelet) Foie de veau a la Clermont, 859 a l’eehalote, 860 braise, 858 Foie gras a la diplomate, 1161 d la Dumas, 1851 chaudfroid en caisses, 1162 darioles en Belle-Yue, 1163 a la Vatel, 1164 d6s a la strasbourgeoise, 1165 fleurettes with mayonnaise, 1166 glace a la hongroise, 1167 pains a la Georges Sand, 1168 petites bombes a l’alsacienne, 1169 crimes a la Mulhouse, 1170 mousses a l’ancienne, 1171 a la reine, 1172 rissolettes a la Pompadour, 923 zSphires, 1173 aux truffes, 924 Fondant for masking cakes and gateaux, 1964 Fonds ala president, 1904 Fondue soufflee au parmesan, 1918 Food and its digestion (table), p. 201 Foundation sauces, p. 96 bechamel, white sauces, veloute, p. 97 brown, p. 98 cook’s duty regarding taste, p. 98 characteristic and seasoning,p. 98 espagnole and bechamel, p. 96 versus brown, p. 96 introduction of ham or bacon, p. 97GENERAL INDEX ’2 3 Foundation sauces, ordinary or plain, p. 98 over-cooking, p. 98 over-seasoning, p. 98 reduction, p. 99 time required for cooking, p. 97 Fraises (strawberries), beignets, 1654 bordure a la Madrid, 1743 charlotte, 1732 gateau surprise, 1749 en gel6e (in jelly), 1712 gelee (jelly), 1707 omelette, 1648 petites bombes a la moderne, 1724 petits pains, 1725 souffles, 1606 tivoli, 1727 Framboises (raspberries), tartelettes, 1999 French beans (see Haricots verts) dejeuner or French menus, p. 646 dishes in general, p. 628 Easter cake, 1991 menus, p. 646 salad dressing, 1554 Friandines de gibier, Perigueux, 1101 westphaiienne, 1852 Fricandeau pique aux epinards, 1210 Fricandelles de volaille, allemande, 989 Fricassee d’huitres (oysters), 590 d’oeufs (eggs), 1891 de volaille a la poulette, 956 Fried bread-crumbs, 1237 parsley, 3 Fritot de poireaux (leek fritters), 1393 Fritters (see Beignets and Fritot) Fromage, biscotim^p.908 biscuits a la ciAme, 1929 cr5me, 1919 petites croutes, 1911 Fruit compote, Chantilly, 1776 salad, 1556 Fruits a la princiere, 1806 Frying batters, 35, 1659, 1768 in fat or oil, 24 process, 78 temperatures, p. 59 Fuels, gaseous, p. 47 liquid, p. 48 solid, p. 47 Fumet (flavouring), p. 96 de gibier, 299 Galantine of beef, 1137 chicken, 1150 partridges, 1183 Galettes, ordinary, 1956 5,1a nantaise, 2004 Oame, devilled, 1867 Guide for ordering, p. 33 Garlic, p. 108 Garnishings and garnitures, p. 202 allemande, 408 Garnishings and garnitures, alliance, 411 alsacienne, 410 aneienne, 408a andalouse, 412 anglaise, 409 athenienne, 413 Bayard, 421 bayonnaise, 422 Beaufort, 414 belle vue, 416 bigarade, 417 Bignon, 419, bohemienne, 415 Bontoux, 423 bordeaux, 424 bordelaise for tournedos, 427 bourgeoise, 428 bourgogne, 425 Bourguignotte, 420 bretonne, 418 Brisse, 426 Cambacerds, 429 castelaine, 430 Cavour, 431 cepes, 442 Chambord, 432 Chartre, 433 chartreuse, 441 chasseur, 434 Chateaubriand, 436 Chesterfield, 437 chevaliere, 438 chipolata, 439 Clamart, 435 Clermont, 446 Conti, 443 crapaudine, 444 cressy, 445 ■ dauphine, 446a Dubouzet, 447 Duclair, 449 Dufferin, 448 Durance, 450 ecarlate, 451 6cossaise, 452 espagnole, 453 financi^re, 455 flamande, 454 franqaise, 456 gtaoise, 457 georgienne, 459 gitana, 461 Glengarry, 465 Godard, 463 Gouffe, 464 gourmet, 466 grecque, 462 gudewife, 467 irlandaise, 469 italienne, 470 jardiniere, 471 Joinville, 472 3 A 2724 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Garnishings and garnitures, Louis XV, 473 lyonnaise, 474 macedoine, 476 maitre d’hotel, 475 marengo, 477 milanaise, 476« Montebello, 478 napolitaine, 479 nivernaise, 480 palmeritaine, 481 parisienne, 482 paysanne, 483 pi6montaise, 485 polonaise, 486 princesse, 484 printaniere, 487 r6gence, 489 Richelieu, 488 Robson, 490 rouennaise, 491 Soubise, 492 St. Cloud, 440 St. George, 458 St. Germain, 460 St. Hubert, 468 tortue, 493 Valenciennes, 494 Windsor, 495 Garnishings, p. 87 Gas as cooking fuel, p. 47 Gaseous fuels, p. 47 Gas stoves, p. 55 Gateau des anges (angel cake), 1755 au chocolat, 1761 geaoise, 1979 millefeuilles, 1764 mousseline, 2003 de Paques, 1991 Pithiviers, 1995 a la portugaise, 1990 a la regence, 1758 a la reine (queen cake), 1750 russe, 2000 Savigny, 1752 Savoie a la Chantilly, 1754 St. Emilion, 1756 St. Honore, 1997 surpris aux fraises, 1749 trois fr&res, 1763 Gaufres a la suisse, 1987 Gelee a l’aspic (aspic jelly), 293 aux fraises (strawberries), 1707 au kirsch a la Nansen, 1715 au marasquin, 1709 mousseline napolitaine, 1714 a la polonaise. 1713 au punch, 1706 au rhum a la russe, 1711 au vin (wine), 1705 au vin de Champagne, 1708 General stock for good soup, 87 I Genoise au cafe (coffee), 1977 cake, 1979 au chocolat (chocolate), 1976 d6cor6e, 1978 paste, 1975 German menus, typical, p. 664 Gherkins (see Cornichons) I Gibelotte de lapin (rabbit), 1030 I Gibier (game), andouillettes en caisses a la franpaise, 1099 cotelettes a l’etoile, 1186 a la diable (devilled), 1867 croustades a la Gambetta, 1103 forcemeat for cailles a la Tosca, 1064 fricandines a la Perigueux, 1101 mousse 4 la lion d’or, 1102 petits pains a la chevalier, 1187 petites timbales a la Galmier, 1103 raised pie, 1192 terrine a la suisse, 1188 Gigot de mouton braise, 1205 roast (roti), 1206 to carve, 1252 Ginger, p. 109 : Gingerbread, 1983 I Glace (ices, &c.)— biscuits glacis aux fraises, 1788 a la turqu'e, 1789 bombe glacee au chocolat, 1791 sicilienne, 1792 charlotte glacee, 1801 compote de poires surprise, 1794 coupe glacee a la royale, 1793 fruits a la princes|«e^l806 mousse aux poire^~X795 en curapoa, 1796 en marasquin, 1797 nids d’oiseaux, 1799 parfait et sorbets, p. 569 pouding glace reine-claude, 1798 soufflb glace Joinville, 1900 au caramel, 1786 a la cr6me de bananes, 1784 fondante au caf6 (coffee icing), 1966 aux fraises a la parisienne, 1782 , a la grappe de muscat, 1780 la dame blanche, 1805 . au marasquin, 1779 au melon, 1783 au moka, 1787 napolitaine, 1778 Plombibres a la japonaise,1781 royal (royal icing), 1968 tutti-frutti, 1804 de viande (meat glaze), 247 Glossary of culinary terms, p. 709 Gnocchi a la russe, 1492 Godiveau quenelles, 401 | Golden buck, 1927 Gondoles a l’anchois, 1836 au parmesan, 1921 Goose (see Oie)GENERAL INDEX Goose, how to carve, 1258 Gooseberries (see Groseilles vertes) Gooseberry fool, 1700 Greengages (see Reines-claude) Green peas (sec Petits pois) Grilled duckling, 919 ham with cucumber puree, 1856 kidneys, 731 lamb’s cutlets, 634 Grilling process, p. 77 Grives (fieldfares) barddes a la chasseur, 1051 Groceries, how to buy, Ac., p. 43 Grondins (gurnets) farcis, etouttes, 564 a la Talleyrand, 563 Groseilles vertes (gooseberries), beignets, 1653 cream, 1696 Grouse (see Coq de bruyere) Guide for ordering bacon, p. 33 cheese, p. 35 coffee, p. 35 eggs, p. 35 lard, p. 35 poultry or game, p. 33 tea, p. 35 _ vegetables, p. 35 Guinea-fowl (see Pintade) Gullasch, 780 Gurnets (see Grondins) Hachis de boeuf a la bourgeoise, 818 Haddock (see Merhjghe) Ham (see Jambonp ; Hare (see Lieivre) Hareng fume (bloaters), beignets, 1843 Harengs (herrings) paupiettes, 1844 Haricot mutton, 760 Haricot beans, 1376 panaches a la poulette, 1372 Haricots verts (French beans) a l’Albion, 1373 sautbs, 1374 Hasty pudding, 1569 Heather cock (see Coq de bois) Herrings (see Harengs) Hints on boiling vegetables, 20 cooking meats, 12 Homard (lobster) a l’americaine, 595 a la Bechamel, 622 a la Gloucester, 624 a la suedoise, 623 bisque marinibre, 156 parisienne, 157 bordure d l’indienne, 654 cotelettes, 596 en aspic, 651 dormes a la crdme, 653 farci au gratin, 597 coquilles a la gauloise, 598 mayonnaise, 652 Homard (lobster), mousse frappee, 655 puree for soles a l’indienne, 540 et sole a la Salisbury, 599 souffld a l’aurora, 600 tartines a la St. Martin, 1847 Honey pudding, 1591 Hors-d’ceuvre (appetisers), p. 123 quotations for, p. 696 Horse-radish sauce (hot), 234 (iced), 288, (cold), 287 Hotel dinner menus, p. 650 How to choose fish, meat, Ac., p. 22 How to clean a close range, p. 55 How to compose menus, p. 624 How to mask or coat moulds,-37 How to use cold potatoes, p. 46 How to wait at table, p. 704 How to wash dishes, Acp. 42 Huitres (oysters), beignets (fritters), 586 bonnes bouches, 1817 r en caisses a la diable, 1815 sur canapes (on toast), 1820 chaudfroid, 678 coquilles a la subdoise, 1814 cromeskies, 587 croquettes, 1816 a la Dubarry, 588 fricassde, 590 au gratin, 1819 gratines en coquilles, 1812 aux macaroni (with macaroni), 1818 petites pates, 593 quenelles, 591 frites, 592 a la salamandre, 589 a la Tsar, 1813 a la Wellington, 1821 Humorous menus, p. 691 Hure de saumon a la Cambaceres, 645 a la moderne, 503 a la provencjale, 646 JciNG (fondant) for gateaux, &c., 1964 coffee, 1966 chocolate, 1969 royal, 1968 transparent, 1965 Ingredients for clarifying or clearing stock, p. 88 International menus, p. 666 Introductions to dinners, Ac., p. 695 Irish stew 761 Italian menu, an, p. 666 -I AMBON (ham) a l’anglaise, 906 d la basquaise, 1216 a la bayonnaise, 907 beignets a la Madras, 1855 braise au champagne, 1219726 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Jambon de careme, 1772 croquettes au riz, 1853 croutes, 1094 a la gelee, 1217 a la marguerite, 1218 a la neige, 1862 petites croustades a la milanaise, 1146 petits souffles, 1147 souffle, 905 a l’espagnole, 1148 to carve, 1248 to cook, 1212 York, 1213 Spanish, 1214 Westphalian, 1215 Japanese menu, a, p. 667 salad, 1528 Japonais a l’oriental (cold sweet), 1687 Jardiniere of vegetables, 824 Jellied strawberries, 1712 Jelly (see Gel6e) Jerusalem artichokes (see Topinambours) Jombalayah (American dish), 1868 ARI de volaille a la Madras, 979 Kedgeree au paprika, 1842 Kidneys (see Rognons) grilled, 731 Kirsch jelly, Nansen style, 1715 Kish au parmesan a la Pouard, 1880 Kitchen economics, p. 45 (the), its construction and manage- ment, p. 38 floors and walls, p. 39 furniture, p. 40 badly ventilated, p. 41 order and forethought in a, p. 41 Kromeskis (see Cromeskies) La DAME BLANCHE (ice), 1805 Laitance de cabillaud (cod’s roe), croutes Madras, 1827 harengs (herrings’ roes) a la broche, 1828 Laitues (lettuce) braisees au jus, 1377 pains de, 1378 salade, 1505 Lamb (see Agneau) how to choose and buy, p. 28 Langouste, escalopes a la cardinal, 656 Langues (tongues) a l’espagnole (petites), 1139 d’agneau a la Duxelle, 710 de boeuf au gratin, 810 a la parmesan, 811 a la romaine, 809 to carve, 1253 de chat, 1985 de mouton a la Dreux, 750 pannes, 751 ! Langues, petits souffles glacis a l’Scarlate, 1138 Lapereau (young wild rabbit), cotelettes, 1035 croquettes a la Maintenon, 1036 frit a la tartare, 1037 Lapin (rabbit), darioles a la reine, 1034 frit a la tartare, 1031 gibelotte (stew), 1030 4 la bourguignonne, 1033 petits souffles, 1032 to carve, 1247 Lard, p. 35 Larks (see Mauviettes) Latin menu, a, p. 667 Lax fum6 a l’huile aux coneombres, 86 Laying the fire, pi 54 Leeks (see Poireaux) Lemons,^. 109 Lenten dinner menus, p. 636 Lettuces (see Laitues) Levraut (leveret) frit a l’Orly, 1116 Liaisons, arrowroot, corn-flour, &e., p. 94 blood, p. 94 butter and cream, p. 94 egg, p. 93 in general, 92 kneaded butter, p. 94 roux.^j. 92 Lievre (hare), bordure a l’autrichienne- 1104 a la bergere, 1105 civet a la bordelaise, 1106 a la finnoise, 1109 cotelettes a 1’allemande, 1110 en gite, 1111 farci a la fermidre, 1112 6tou£f6, 1233 filets & la sicilienne, 1113 grenadins a la hanovrienne, 1107 pate a l’anglaise, 1189 a la Cumberland, 1114 a la franqaise, 1190 rable a la mode, 1115 turban a la bohemienne, 1108 Limandes (flounders) a la Janin, 521 en souchet, 522 Liquid caramel, 26 fuels, p. 48 List of cooking utensils, p. 60 Lobster (see Homard) London club dinner menus, p. 648 Longe de Mouton en chevreuil, 752 Long pepper, p. 105 Losanges a la Baltimore, 1849 Macaroni a la dieppoise, 1923 aux huitres, 1818 a la Rossini, 1493 Macaroon paste, 1952 Macaroons (tuilles), 2009727 GENERAL INDEX Mac e,p. 104 Macedoine de fruit a la gelee, 1710 Mackerel (see Maquereaux) Maconnaise, appetissants, 72 Madeleine paste, 1957 Madeleines d’Epernay, 1980 Madras fritters, 1855 Maids of honour, 2008 Management and care of stoves, the, p. 54 Maquereaux (mackerel), jp. 249 a la boulonnaise, 627 filets a la maitre d’hotel, 530 a l’indienne, 625 au vin blanc, 626 Maraschino jelly, 1709 Marinade, 29 pickle, 30 Marjoram, p. 107 Marketing, jo. 21 Marmalade pudding, 1592 Marmites (petites) a la parisienne, 90 Marquises (petites) a la suisse, 1913 Marions (chestnuts), amber, 1621 bordure a la Chantilly, 1744 au chocolat, 2027 glacis, 2028 au jus, 1379 au moka, 1742 pouding (pudding), 1583 it la creole, 1588 Mauviettes (larks) a l’aspic, 1182 a la Parmentier, 1053 a la Pompadour, 1054 a la rentiere,. 1055 farcies a la-Madrid, 1056 pit6 a l’anglaise, 1191 chaud, 1052 Mayonnaise, p. 100 sauce, 277 de tomates, 297 de cdleri et noix, 1520 Meat essences, p. 95 glaze, 247 how to choose, p. 22 pudding, 816 (as food), p. 18 Meats, hints on cooking, 12 Medaillons de volaille a la careme, 980 a l’imperiale (cold), 1153 de poularde a la reine, 948 Melettes (sprats) frites, 582, 583, 584, 585 Melon ice, 1783 Menus and bills of fare, p. 624 for all seasons, p. 635 for large dinners, p. 627 Meringuage sicilienne, 1635 Meringues (shells), 1971 aux amandes (almonds), 1973 au citron, 1972 aux'pistaches, 1974 k la Chantilly, 1775 Merlans (whiting) a l’italienne, 633 filets a la comtesse, 629 au gratin, 565 a la juive, 566 a l’Orly, 632 maitre d’hotel, 628 frits a la tomate, 630 tyrolienne, 567 a la franqaise, 631 souffles, 568 Merluche fume, talmouse, 1830 croutes a la St. George, 1831 Mexican custard, 1670 Mignonette pepper, p. 105 Milanaise eggs, 1893 Milk as food, p. 18 Mint, p. 107 Mirepoix, a, 10 ; pp. 76, 94 Mode of cutting up beef, p. 25 lamb, p. 28 mutton, p. 28 pork, p. 32 veal ,p. 31 Moka custard, 2002 icing, 1757 Mottoes for menus, p. 695 Moulds, fat for buttering, 18 how to mask or coat, 37 how to unmould, 19 Moules (mussels) a la Californie, 634 Mountain cock (see Coq de bruyfire) Mousse a l’alsacienne, 1598 au curagoa, 1796 aux framboises, 1597 de gibier a la lion d’or, 1102 au marasquin, 1797 aux poires, 1795 Mousseline de cabillaud, 528 de gelee napolitaine, 1714 Mousselines de saumon a la cardinal, 504 Mouton (mutton), boiled, 1200 broth, 195 carbonnades a la chartreuse, 732 k la nantaise, 711 carre (neck) braise aux nouilles, 1203 to carve, 1244 casserole a l’anglaise, 733 cervelles (brains) a la Dreux, 727 cotelettes a l’avignonnaise, 734 a la Bardoux, 735 a la bretonne, 712 a la Byron, 713 ft la Choiseul, 736 a la Dreux, 737 a l’italienne, 738 a la Madras, 739 a la Maintenon, 740 a la milanaise, 741 au naturel, 715 a la Nelson, 742 aus petits pois, 714THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 728 Mouton (mutton), cotelettes a la Pompa- dour, 717 a la prince de Galles, 718 a la princesse, 719 a la provenqale, 720 a la r6forme, 721 a la riche, 722 a la Soyer, 743 ft la Soubise, 716 a la strasbourgeoise, 723 a la Talleyrand, 724 a la Vallorbes, 1133 a la vicomtesse, 744 cutlets with green peas, 714 6paule (shoulder) a la St. Mbnehould, 745 farcie (stuffed shoulder), 1204 to carve, 1249 escalopes a la Chipolata, 746 filet a la Gascogne, 747 filets a la tyrolienne, 725 gigot (leg), to carve, 1252 brais6 a la bretonne, 1205 roti (French style), 1206 hachis a lAcossaise, 748 a la portugaise, 749 how to choose, p. 26 langues a la Dreux, 750 pan6es, 751 leg, to carve, 1252 longe en chevreuil, 752 mode of cutting up, p. 28 neck, to carve, 1244 petites timbales meridionale, 726 pieds a la rouennaise, 753 queues braisees a la francjaise, 754 ragout, 760 a l’irlandaise, 761 rognons a la chinoise, 728 a l’epicurienne, 755 a la franqaise, 756 a la Turbigo, 757 aux fines herbes, 758 grilles, 731 pan6s, 759 sautes en caisses, 729 au champagne, 730 saddle, to carve, 1251 shoulder, to carve, 1249 stuffed shoulder, 1204 Mullet (red) (see Bougets) Mulligatawny soup, 154 Mushrooms, to chop, 6 (see Champignons) Mussels (see Moules) Mustard, ^>. 104 Mutton (see Mouton) NaPOLITAINES a la suisse, 1774 Mid d’oiseau glac6 (cold sweet), 1799 Nids a la Chartres, 79 ^ Nids d’oiseaux (pastry), 1994 Niokes au gratin (gnocchi), 1909 Nougats and croquants, 1777 Nouille paste, 1946 Nouilles au gratin, 1494 Nutmeg,^. 104 UliUFS (eggs) a la Boston, 1895 a la Carnot, 1903 a la Cblestine, 1642 a la Colbert, 1869 a la Courtet, 1873 a la Dreux, 1892 a lAcarlate, 1872 a la Garfield, 1934 a la matelote, 1932 a la milanaise, 1893 miroire a la princesse, 1901 aux nouilles a la Carola, 1877 a la Parmentier, 1871 a la princesse, 1879 a la Suzette, 1878 brouilles aux anchois, 1897 aux pointes d’asperges, 1894 aux truffes, 1898 a la turque, 1899 cromesquis, 1906 croquettes, 1905 en chaudfroid, 1907 en surprise, 1740 farcis aux crevettes, 1902 fricassee, 1891 frits au beurre noir, 1870 a la fermi5re, 1874 garnis a la coquette, 1900 a la princesse, 1901 a la Volga, 1882 petits pains, 1881 pochbs a la tomate, 1875 au vin blanc, 1876 pyramide a la reforme, 1933 salade, 1522 sauce, 349 scrambled, 1896 vanilles a la neige, 1678 Oie (goose) a la Mont Vernon, 926 brais6e a la dauphinoise, 927 sauce au celeri, 925 rotie (farcie), 1225 to carve, 1258 Oil stoves, p. 56. Olives, 44 farcies, 80 a la gelde, 81 a la Madras, 82 sauce, 348 a la tartare, 83 de veau, 838 Omelette a la bernoise, 1886 a la bonne femme, 1883 a la C61estine, 1642GENERAL INDEX 729 Omelette a la Charentidre, 1885 a la Charlotte, 1641 aux fines herbes a la franqaise, 1884 aux fraises, 1648 a la mardchale, 1889 a la meringue (cold), 1722 a la Baphael, 1887 au rhum, 1646 aux poireaux (leeks), 1888 gratinees au parmesan, 1890 souffl^e, 1643 au chocolat, 1645 en surprise, 1644 sucree (sweet), 1640 Onions, p. 107 (stuffed), 785 to chop, 5 sauce, 350 Orange cr4me, 1698 tartelettes, 2010 Oranges glacees a la napolitaine, 1747 salade, 1559 Order and forethought in a kitchen, p. 41 Oreilles de pore (pigs’ ears), jpp. 323 and 324 Ortolans poches 4 la Delmonico, 1057 Oseilles (sorrel) puree, 1380 Ovens, various, p. 74 Overcooking stock, p. 84 Ox tongue, to carve, 1253 Oysters (see Huitres) Pailles au parmesan (cheese straws), 1922 a la Yarmouth, 1845 Pain d’epice (Frenel^^gerbread), 1983 perdu, 2029 pulled bread^030 de semou^^L la tomate, 1495 Pains d’abricots au marasquin, 1728 aux asperges, 1290 a la chevalier, 1187 de crevettes, 1839 de fraises, 1725 de foie gras a la Georges Sand, IP de laitues (lettuces), 1379 aux oeufs (eggs), 1881 de perdreaux a la Dauphine, 1086 de semoule a la tomate, 1495 de volaille a l’Argenteuil, 1160 a la creole, 975 Palais de bceuf grilles, 813 a l’Orly, 812 Palmettes de caviar, 1826 de volaille a la Gambetta, 990 Panade, 8 Pancakes, batter, 1666 French (pannequets), 1668 to fry, 1667 fritters, 1665 Paniers a la jardiniere, 1382 Pannequet au confiture, 1668 a la mancelle, 1620 Papillotes d’esturgeon, 620a rougets en, 635 Parfait au cafe, 1809 d’ananas, Tortini, 1625 glac6 (see Glaees) Parmentier croquettes, 880 eggs, 1871 Parmesan souffle, 1918 straws, 1922. gondoles, 1921 Parsley, p. 106 to chop, 4 fried, 3 Partridge (see Perdreau, Perdrix) Pate (pie) de b6casses a l’anglaise, 1061 de dinde (turkey) or chicken, 1149 de gibier (game), 1192 aux huitres (oysters), 593 de lievre (hare) a l’anglaise, 1189 a la Cumberland, 1114 a la franqaise, 1190 de mauviettes (larks) a l’anglaise, 1191 chaud, 1052 a la mirliton, 820 de perdreaux (partridges), 1078 de pigeons, 947 de poisson (fish) a l’americaine, 605 a la mariniere, 606 Boman, 821 de saumon a l’homard, 507 steak and kidney, 815 a la strasbourgeoise, 1175 veal and ham, 846 Pate (paste) d’amandes (almond paste), 1954 a la brioche (brioche paste), 1963 brisee a l’anchois (anchovy paste crust), 1948 a choux (choux paste), 36, 1951 a la duchesse, 1947 Feuilletage (puff paste), 1944 a foncer (short crust paste), 1943 a frire (frying batter), 35 madeleine, 1957 nouille (nouille paste), 1946 d’offiee, 1945 raised pie crust, 1949 tartelette crust, 1945 Pates d’of&ce (culinary paste), p. 603 Patisserie (French pastry, &c.),p. 603 Paupiettes de harengs, 1844 de saumon aux huitres, 641 a la regence, 642 de veau a la toscane, 839 Peaches (see Peches) Peches (peaches), bavaroise, 1684 biscotins, 1771 cream, 1684730 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Peches (peaches) a la Pompadour, 1739 1 au riz meringue, 1622 Peel almonds and pistachios, to, 33 Perdreaux (partridges) a la Beauharnais, 1081 aux champignons, 1073 a la crapaudine, 1236 a la Pompadour, 1082 celestines, 1074 chartreuse de, 1083 chaudfroid en, 1184 cotelettes, financiere, 1076 filets a la marechal, 1084 a la princesse, 1085 galantine, 1183 hodge-podge, 1077 pains a la dauphine, 1086 pate, 1078 rotis a l’anglaise, 1238 a 1’espagnole, 1235 salmis a la chasseur, 1087 souffle a l’anglaise, 1079 to carve, 1259, 1261 Perdrix (partridges) braisees au choux, 1075 Perdrix blanches (ptarmigan), salmis a la I regence, 1080 Persil frit (fried parsley), 3 hache (chopped parsley), 4 Petit sale (spare ribs), pi^montais, 908 Petits pois (green peas), 1383 a la basquaise, 1384 a la romaine (with lettuce), 1385 au beurre, 1386 au jambon a la franqaise, 1388 cornets de, 1387 de conserve, 1389 pur6e, 1390 salade, 1518 Petoncles, bisque de, 158 (scallops) au gratin, 580 a la provenqale, 579 Pheasant (see Faisan) Pickle for beef or pork, 27 Pickling, dry, 28 Pie (see Pate) Pieds (feet) de cochon a la Perigord, 909 de mouton a la rouennaise, 753 de pore a la Duxelle, 893 de veau a l’Horly, 861 Pigeons a la coquette, 928 a la Marigny, 939 a la polonaise, 934 a la St. Menehould, 929 a la villageoise, 930 ballotines a la financiere, 931 chartreuse a la rouennaise, 940 compote a l’americaine, 941 a la bourgeoise, 942 cotelettes a la niqoise, 932 a la princesse, 937 aux pointes d’asperges, 943 Pigeons, cotelettes au supreme, 944 en casserole a la beige, 933 a la royale, 935 en matelote, 945 en papillotes, 946 pate cliaud, 947 petites timbales a la supreme, 938 Pigs’ ears (oreilles de pore), p. 323 Pike (see Brochet) Pintade (guinea-fowl) rotie au cresson, 12 timbale a la marechale, 1185 Plain sweets, notes on, p. 501 Plucking birds, 15 Pluviers (plovers), compote a la Doria, 1088 cotelettes en eaisses, 1089 salmis a la chasseur, 1090 to carve, 1261 Poeler process, p. 77 Poireaux (leeks) a la diable, 1391 au gratin, 1392 fritot de, 1393 omelet, 1888 Poires (pears) a la princesse, 1766 bordure a la reine, 1611 compote en surprise, 1794 mousse aux, 1795 au riz a la marquise, 1612 Poisson (fish) croquettes, 603 pat6 a l’americaine, 605 a la marini5re, 606 Pommes (apples), amber, 1619 beignets, 1652 au beurre, 1613 casserole au riz, 1616 charlotte, 1639 chartreuse a la princesse, .1730 compote a la cr5me, 1748 a la Conde, 1605.-. a la duchesse, 1671, etouffees a la polonaise, 1617 grisette, 1618 k la Lexington, 1614 meringues a la creme, 1721 a la neige, 1615 a la portugaise, 1673 r&ties a la polonaise, 1672 Pommes de terre (potatoes) Anna, 1397 a la Bignon, 1400 a la bordelaise, 1430 a la bourgeoise, 1431 a la brabanqonne, 1432 a la bretonne, 1433 a la chancerelle, 1401 a la Chateaubriand, 1434 a la Colbert, 1435 a la comtesse, 1436 a la crapaudine, 1410 a la dieppoise, 1437 a la dauphine, 1411 a la duchesse, 1402 a la Garfield, 1438 a la gastronome, 1403731 GENERAL INDEX Pommes de terre (potatoes) a la hanovri- enne, 1439 a la hongroise, 1440 a l’impdratrice, 1441 a l’italienne, 1442 a la julienne, 1420 and 1443 a la maitre d’hotel, 1444 a la milanaise, 1443 a la navarraise, 1466 a la parisienne, 1399 a la paysanne, 1404 a la suddoise, 1447 a la turque, 1448 a la vaudoise, 1449 a la viennoise, 1450 a la villageoise, 1451 a la Worlitz, 1452 au gratin, 1453 aux tomates a la Savarin, 1405 boiled, 1394 Boivin, 1406 bordure, 1490 cassolettes a la Parmentier, 1407 chateau, 1408 chips, 1398 > crapaudine, 1410 croquettes, 1454 a la dauphine, 1411 a la moderne, 1412 a la rouennaise, 1455 crumbed, 1396 en copeaux (ribbon), 1413 dtouffdes a la Hague, 1418 farcies, 1414 flakes, 1415 frisies (curls or ribbons), 1457 gigolette, 1419 hachees au gratin, 1421 en puree a la Jackson, 1456 kromeskis, 1424 machdes, 1458 mashed, 1395 nouvelles a la hollandaise, 1417 sautees au beurre, 1416 pailles (straws), 1409 parisienne, 767 persilldes, 1459 quenelles, 1460 rissolees, 1429 salade, 1519 Saratoga (flakes), 1415 sautees a la parisienne, 1423 a la suisse, 1422 souffldes, 1426 a la St. Louis, 1425 timbale a la mirette, 1428 Parmentier, 1427 Pore (pork), to carve, 1246 cotelettes a la navarraise, 894 a la Robert, 891 h, la Soubise, 892 aux fines herbes, 895 j Pore (pork), cotes a la diplomate, 896 filets a la Perigueux, 890 how to choose, p. 32 leg or loin, to carve, 1246 oreilles en menus droits, 898 en vinaigrette, 897 frites, sauce tartare, 899 palais, gratind, 900 pieds, a la Duxelle, 893 a la Pdrigord, 909 de cochon, Sainte Mdnehould, 901 tdte a la mobile, 902 frite, sauce rdmoulade, 903 zampins fareis, 904 | Porterhouse steak a la Gouffd, 788 Potage (sec Soups) Potatoes (see Pommes de terre) Pot-au-feu (family soup), 89 Pouding abricot (cold), 1718 a l’autrichienne, 1561 de bananes (bananas), 1587 a la bardalouse, 1628 a la berlinoise, 1562 brown bread, 1585 a la Cambacdrds, 1563 a la Canelle, 1564 aux cerises (cherries), 1580 au chocolat (chocolate), 1581 meringud, 1582 Christmas, 1589 cold apricot, 1718 a la cressy (carrot), 1565 a la dresde, 1566 a la duchesse, 1567 finger, 1590 froid a la St. Cloud, 1716 gdnevois, 1609 glacd a la reine-claude (greengages), 1798 honey, 1591 a la Louis Napoldon, 1568 a la Marguerite, 1717 marmalade, 1592 au miel (honey), 1591 aux marrons (chestnuts), 1583 de marrons a la crdole, 1588 a la minute (hasty pudding), 1569 a la moelle (marrow), 1570 mousseline, 1599 de Noel (Christmas pudding), 1589 a la normande, 1571 aux nouilles, 1584 a l’Orient, 1572 a la paysanne, 1574 au pain noir (brown bread), 1585 primrose, 1593 prince George, 1586 prince Henri, 1594 a la Saxon, 1575 a la Schiller, 1576 Snowdon, 1595 a la St. Cloud, 1716THE NEW CENTTJBY COOKERY BOOK 732 Pouding a la St. Jean, 1577 souffle aux amandes, 1603 a l’ananas, 1600 aux fraises, 1606 aux framboises, 1602 a l’indienne, 1676 a la Parmentier, 1601 a la russe, 1677 steak and oyster, 816 transparent, 1596 a la Victoria, 1578 a la Wellington, 1579 Poularde (pullet) a la Saint Valentin, 950 medaillons a la reine, 948 soufflee a l’Ofloff, 949 rotie, 1229 to carve, 1260 Poulet (chicken, fowl) a la cardinal, 999 a la Chivry, 1000 a la duchesse, 952 a la hongroise, 953 a la livournaise, 1001 a la Montmorency, 1002 a la Vigo, 1003 braise aux fines herbes, 1004 en belle-vue (cold), 1151 en casserole, 951 en cocote, 954 epigrammes aux truffes, 1005 filets aux groseilles, 955 fricass6, 956 a la chevali5re, 1006 a la Havelock, 1007 a la reine, 1008 a la St. Lambert, 1009 frit a la dauphine, 1010 a la duchesse, 1011 a la tyrolienne, 957 a la viennoise, 1012 a la Villeroi, 958 grille A l’italienne, 969 quenelles, 959 a la Clamart, 960 saut6 a la bayonnaise, 1013 a la Marnaise, 1014 a la Cabello, 961 a la Carnot, 962 a la Cavour, 967 a la chasseur, 963 at la Duroc, 964 a la fermi&re, 1015 a la florentine, 1016 a la Godard, 1017 a la Marengo, 965 a la Plombi5re, 966 a la savoyarde, 968 timbales a la m6ridionale, 1018 to carve, 1260 Poultry and game, boning, 16 guide-for ordering, p. 33 for roasting, to truss, 14 pick or pluck, 15 Poussins frits a la lyonnaise, 970 Prawns (see ecrevisses) Preparations made from stocks,^?. 85 Primrose pudding, 1593 Prunes, bordure a la crkme, 1745 de riz, 1719 souffid, 1610 Ptarmigan (see Perdrix blanches) Puff paste, 1944 half, 1950 Pulled bread, 2030 Pullpt (see Poularde) Puree a la Duxelle, 298 de concombres, 1364 homard (lobster), 540 de navets au gratin, 1381 d’oseilles (sorrel), 1380 de pois verts (green peas), 1390 Purees and thick soups, p. 88 (see Soups for individual recipes) Pyramide d’oeufs a, la reforme, 1933 Quails (see Cailles) Queen cakes, 1989 Quenelles aux huitres (oysters), 591 frites, 592 au parmesan, 1916 de pommes de terre, 1460 de veau godiveau, 401 a la Marengo, 834 a la tyrolienne, 835 Queues d’agneau a la russe, 694 de boeuf, braise, a la polonaise, 814 de mouton, braise, a la framjaise, 754 de veau & l’alsacienne, 862 Quotations for menus, p. 695 Kabbit (see Lapin, Lapereau) Badis (radishes), hors-d’ceuvre, 42 Bagout a l’irlandaise, 761 de mouton, 760 de volaille a la gauloisienne, 981 Eaie (skate) au beurre noir, 602 a la bourgeoise, 601 Baised game pie, 1192 pie crust, 1949 Banges, central, with underground flues,p. 53 (close), how to clean, p. 55 coal, p. 49 to stand against a wall, p. 53 Baspberries (see Framboises) Bavioles aux epinards (spinach), 1370 a l’italienne, 1496 Bavioli farce, 149 Beception menus, p. 673 Bed mullet (see Bougets) Begimental dinner menus, p. 656 Beines-claude (greengages), beignets, 1655 pouding glace, 1798 Bemouillage (second stock), 88783 GENERAL INDEX Removes and roasts, 411 quotations for menu, p. 697 Rice, to blanch, 22 1 socle, 39 (see Riz) Ris de veau (sweetbreads) a l’americaine, 864 a l’amiral, 1145 a la Biarritz, 1144 a la Chartreuse, 866 a la Conti, 867 a l’indienne, 869 a la jardiniere, 870 a la Louis Philippe, 872 k la milanaise, 873 a la Montreuil, 876 a la Senn, 875 a la S6vigne, 1130 k la Toulouse, 871 a la Yilleroi, 874 aux epinards, 868 croquettes en caisses, 877 dormes feuilletes, 878 en attelets} 865 escalopes a la Parmentier, 879 mironton en cocote, 881 roulettes ft l’imperatrice, 882 timbale a la Mirabeau, 883 to blanch, 863 vol-au-vent, 884 Rissoles de cerises (cherry rissoles), 1649 a la reine, 1865 Rissolettes de foie gras a la Pompadour, 923 a la Solferino, 1861 Risotto for cailles a la Tosca, 1065 a l’italienne, 1497 Riz (rice) a l’espagnole, 1940 a la florentine, 1935 a la hongroise, 1499 a l’imp6ratrice, 1720 a l’indienne (curried), 1498 a la milanaise, 1939 a la piemontaise, 1938 a la polonaise, 1500, 1937 a la reine, 1942 ft la tomate (tomato rice), 1501 fl la turque, 1936 Rizzoletti, 1941 Roast chicken, 1220 duckling, 1226 goose (stuffed), 1225 grouse, 1232 guinea-fowl, 1228 mutton, leg, 1206 partridge, Spanish style, 1235 crapaudine style, 1236 English style, 1238 pheasant, 1230 snipe, 1231 tomatoes, 1484 turkey, served with chestnuts, 1221 venison, leg, 1241 Roast venison, saddle, 1240 Roast, quotations for menus, p. 698 Roasting process, p. 72 elementary rules, p. 73 Roes (see Laitance) Rognons (kidneys) aux oeufs brouilles, 885 de mouton a la chinoise, 728 a l’epicurienne, 755 a la framjaise, 756 a la Turbigo, 757 aux fines herbes, 758 grilles, -731 pan6s, 759 sautes en caisses, 729 au champagne, 730 Roman pie, 821 Rosettes aux anchois, 70 Rougets (red mullet) a la Francillon, 569 en filets a la juive, 570 en papillotes, 635 k la venitienne, 571 Rough puff or half-puff paste, 1950 Roulade a la norvegienne, 1142 Roumanian menu, p. 666 Roux, 9, p. 92 blonde or fawn (blond), p. 93 brown (brun),p. 93 fawn, p. 93 liaison, p. 93 white (blanc), p. 93 Royal icing, 1968 custard for consommes, 95 Royans a la bordelaise, 47 Rules for stock-making, p. 84 roasting a joint, p. 72 SADDLE of lamb or mutton, to carve, 1251 Salade (salad) a la Beauvilliers, 1531 a la Caroline, 1545 a la Carpentras, 1537 a la Caraanova, 1547 a la Colchester, 1541 a la contoise, 1504 a la Demidoff, 1516 a la dieppoise, 1546 a l’espagnole (Spanish), 1506 a la flamande (Flemish), 1548 a l’italienne, 1549 a la jardiniere, 1515 a la meuni5re, 1540 a la Monaco, 1530 a la Monte Carlo, 1509 it la polonaise (Polish), 1550 a la Rachel, 1525 a la Reyniere, 1503 a la reine (queen), 1551 a la St. Jaques (St. James’s), 1527 a la Villeroi, 1532 d’ananas (pine-apple), 1560 beige, 1553734 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Salade (salad), bordure dcnoix et c61eri a la Monaco, 1530 de canard (duck), 1535 de cardon, 1510 caviar en, 64 celery and cucumber, 1512 de cerises (cherry), 1555 de chicorfe (endive), 1513 au lard, 1514 chestnut and celery with mayonnaise, 1530 de concombres (cucumber), 1511 chicken, 1534 contoise lettuce, 1504 crab, 1542 cucumber, 1511 and celery, 1512 duck, 1535 egg, 1522 endive, 1513 with bacon, 1514 6pinards et ceufs, 1521 d’6t6 (summer), 1552 French dressing, 1554 fruit, 1556 in glasses, 1557 de gibier (game), 1538 green peas and beans, 1518 de homard (lobster), 1543 imperiale, 1536 italienne, 1523 japonaise (Japanese), 1528 jardiniere, 1515 de laitue (lettuce), 1505 contoise, 1504 lobster, 1543 in shells, 1544 mayonnaise de celeri et noix, 1520 mignonne, 1524 mirette, 1508 Murger, 1533 nut potato, 1502 aux oeufs (egg), 1522 oranges, 1559 oyster, 1541 and celery, 1540 de perdreaux a la Carpentras, 1537 de pois et haricots verts, 1518 pine-apple, 1560 pomme de terre (potato), 1519 russe (Russian) au maigre, 1526 de sardines a l’espagnole, 1539 spinach and egg, 1521 summer (d’6t6), 1552 suedoise (Swedish), 1529 de tomates (tomatoes), 1507 de volaille (chicken), 1534 walnut and celery, 1520 winter, 1517 Salades, notes on (salads), p. 485 Salami (smoked sausages), 46 Salmis de canard (duck), 911 Salmis de canard (duck) a la Montreuil, 913 de canetons (ducklings) a la verius, 922 de chevreuil (venison) a la sultane, 1123 de perdreau (partridge) a la chasseur, 1087 de perdrix blanche (ptarmigan) a regence, 1080 de pluviers (plovers), 1090 Salmon (smoked) rolls, 1848 , (see saumon) Salpicon, 11 Salsifis (salsify) a la Bechamel, 1461 au beurre fondu, 1462 a la Villeroy, 1463 Salsify (see Salsifis) | Salt, p. 103 Salted almonds, 1930 Sand tarte (tourte de sable), 1760 Sandwiches a la Bernhardt, 76 princess, 51 Swedish, 77 j Turkish, 52 I Sanglier (wild boar) carre a la russe, 1126 cuissot aux cerises, 1127 hure, 1239 Saratoga potatoes, 1415 Sarcelles (widgeons) a la moscovite, 1096 aux olives, 1091 bardees a la Westphalie, 1097 Sardines (hors-d'oeuvre), 48 bonnes bouches, 50 canapes a la Soubise, 1835 Eclairs, 1833 a la maire, 1834 salade a l’espagnole, 1539 au parmesan a la regence, 1832 Sauce abricot (apricot), 382 aigre douce, 265 airelles rouge (cranberry), 268 Albert, 226 allemande, 204 amiral, 302 anchois, 215 apple, 361 aspic cream, 296 jelly, 293 mayonnaise, 294 a la tomate, 295 aurora, 212a avignonnaise, 304 b6arnaise, 225 bechamel, 202 maigre, 203 beef marrow, 343 beurre noir or noisette, 244 bigarade, 260 black butter, 244 blanche, white, 209 blanquette, 205a boh5mienne, 30573 GENERAL INDEX Sauce bordelaise^ 249 bourguignonne, 306 bread, 235 bretonne, 305a brown chaudfroid, 291 gravy, 248 cafe, 3866 Cambridge, 270 capres brunes, 307 caramel, 386a cardinal, 218 Casanova, 308 celeri (celery), 227 champagne, 262 champignons blanche (white), 266 brune (brown), 267 chasseur, 242 royal, 212 Chateaubriand, 250 chaudfroid blanche, 290 blonde, 289 brun, 291 green or pink, 292 chevreuil, 256 chocolat, 384 citron, 386 cognac (sweet), 378 Colbert aux fines herbes, 253 concombre (froide), cold, 284 cornichons, 312 cranberry, 268 a la cr£me, 306a de raifort (cold), 287 de tomate, 272 Cumberland (cold game), 269 danoise, 213 demi-glace, 237 diable (devilled), 251 diplomate, 315 duchesse, 314 Dutch, 208 Duxelle, 313 puree, 298 echalote, 316 ecrevisses, 219 epicurienne, 286 espagnole, 236 essence de gibier, 316a volatile, 299a estragon, 318 fawn chaudfroid, 289 fenouil, 324 fermiere, 320 financfere, 323 fines herbes (Colbert), 253 flamande, 321 fleurette, 322 foundation, p. 96 fraises (sweet), 381a fumet of game, 299 Garibaldi, 327 game (gibier), 252 Sauce generale, 328 genevoise, 325 genoise, 245 maigre, 246 glace de viande (meat glaze), 247 Gloucester, 326 Gouffe, 231 gravy, 248 green chaudfroid, 292 mousseline, 280 ham (jambon), 334 hessoise, 329 - hollandaise (Dutch), 208 verte,33 Holstein, 331 homard, 333 horse-radish (hot), 234 N (cold), 287 (iced), 288 huitres (oysters), 211 hure de sanglier, 332 indienne, 261 italienne, 239 jambon, 334 Joinville, 229 jus (brown stock gravy), 248 jus d’orange, 259 kirsch (sweet), 379 lemon, 386 liqueur (sweet), 377 livournaise, 335 lobster, 333 lyonnaise, 336 madere (meat), 237a sabayon (sweet), 381 Maintenon, 222 maitre d’hotel, 233 Malaga (port wine), 340 maltaise, 337 marinade cuite, 257a marseillaise, 274 matelote blanche, 228 brune, 339 Maximilian, 341 mayonnaise, 277 de tomates, 297 meat glaze, 247 mint, 301 Mirabeau, 221 moelle de boeuf (beef marrow), 343 Mornay, 223 moules (mussels), 342 mousseline (viande), 224 (sweet), 385 (verte, green), 280 moutarde, 344 napolitaine, 345 nonpareille, 347 normande, 205 norvegienne, 346 oeufs, 349 oignons, 350736 THE NEW CENTUBY COOKEBY BOOK Sauce, olives, 348 orange, 258 (sweet), 383 jus d\ 259 Orient, tor pouding, 1573 oseille (sorrel), 351 oyster, 211 pain (bread), 235 parisienne, 353 pauvre homme, 357 pepper (poivrade), 263 Pdrigueux, 243 persil, 354 persillade, 355 pink chaudfroid, 292 piquante, 241 poivrade, 263 polonaise, 356 pommes, 361 Pompadour, 273 port wine, 340 poulette, 207 prince de Galles, 359 princesse, 254 provenpale, 358 punch, sirop, 380 raifort. chaude (hot), 234 f rappee (iced), 288 froide (cold), 287 ravigote (hot), 214 (cold), 363 reforme, 255 reine-Marie, 364 remoulade, 285 Ricardo, 365 Richelieu, 366 Robert, 238 romaine, 367 rouennaise, 264 russe (Russian), 257 ruisseau (watercress), 275 Sabayon (sweet), 381 salmis (game), 240 savoury cream, 296 Seville, 352 sicilienne, 368 sirop au punch, 380 Soubise, 232 Soyer, 369 Spadacini, 276 stragotte, 370 suedoise (cold), 279 supreme, 210 tartare, 278 texienne, 371 tomate (tomato), 271 aspic, 295 creme, 272 mayonnaise, 297 tortue (turtle), 372 universelle, 373 valentine, 283 Sauce, velo it6e, 206 venison or roebuck (ehevreuil), 256 ' venitienne, 220 verjus, 375 verte gl'ac6e, 281 mousseline, 280 vert-pre, 282 Victoria, 230 Villeroi, 374 vinaigrette, 300 vin blanc, 216 watercress, 275 white, 209 chaudfroid, 290 wine, 216 wine (sweet), 381 Xavier, 217 York, 376 Sauces, notes on, p. 169 and gravies, difference, p. 92 and their composition, p. 91 theory of, 91 various, p. 99 Saumon (salmon) a la Godard, 636 - a la Montmofency, 505 a la piemontaise, 638 a la Victoria, 637 a la matelot, 502 ballons fumes, 1848 eotelettes a la danoise, 500 a l’indienne, 497 dariole, moscovienne, 659 darne a l’amirai, 640 a la Chambord, 498 A la national, 499 a la ravigote, 660 en tranches a la meuniere, 643 escalope a la nantaise, 639 filet a la duchesse, 501 grenadins a la venitienne, 644 hure a la Cambaceres, 645 a la moderne, 503 a la provenqale, 646 mousseline a la cardinal, 504 papillotes, 506 pate a l’homard, 507 paupiettes aux huitres, 641 a la r£gence, 642 souffles a l’indienne, 661 tartelettes a l’ecossaise, 53 tranehettes en belle-vue, 662 Saumure (brine), 27 Sausages, smoked, 46 Sauter, or sauteing process, p. 80 Savarin a l’ananas, 1647 Savouries, quotations for, p. 699 Savoury cream, 296 custard for clear soup, 95 fritters, 1864 herbs* p. 107 jelly (aspic), 38737 GENERAL INDEX Savoury omelette, 1884 Scallops (see petoneles) Science of cooking, the, p. 16 Scotch collops, 819 Scrambled eggs, 1896 Turkish style, 1899 Scullery work, the, p. 42 Sea kale (see Choux de mer) Seasoning and flavouring, p. 101 angelica, p. 109 aromatic herbs and plants, p. 106 carrots and turnips, p. 108 ginger,^). 109 lemons, p. 109 mustard, p. 104 pepper, p. 105 salt, p. 103 spices, p. 103 sugar, p. 109 vanilla, p. 109 vinegar, p. 108 Semolina croquettes, 1924 Service froid (cold service), p. 384 of soups, p. 90 de table, p. 702 of wines, p. 706 Shallot, p. 108 Short crust paste, 1943 Shoulder of mutton, to carve, 1249 Sick-room soups, p. 90 Simmering versus boiling, p. 69 Simple dishes (hors-d’oeuvre), 85 Skate (see Eaie) Smelles, 2006a Smelts (see Eperlans) Smoking process, p. 81 Snipe (see Becasse) Snowdon pudding, 1595 Socle of rice for cold entrees, &c., 39 Sole a la Colbert, 552 a la normande, 553 au parmesan, 554 a la Bichelieu, 555 a la Trouville, 556 a la Vatel, 557 au vin blanc, 558 a la Xavier, 559 coquilles a la favorite, 668 escalopes a la Vernon, 647 filets a l’americaine, 541 en aspic, 669 aux aubergines, 531 a la Bovin, 532 a la cataleine, 533 a la capucienne (cold), 670 a la chasseur royal, 534 en chaudfroid (capucienne), 670 a la czarina, 535 a la dauphine, 649 a la Diocldtien, 536 en fers a cheval, 671 a la gastronome, 537 £ oles, filets a la grand due, 538 a l’indienne, 539 a la Ldzat, 542 a la Marcelle, 543 a la mayonnaise, 672 a la' Messaline, 544 a la Montpellier, 673 a la Montreuil, 545 a la Mornay, 546 ala Neuville, 648 a la piemontaise, 547 a la ramequin, 548 a la regenee, 674 a la royale, 549 a la Salisbury, 599 a la Sezet, 542 a la Suetone, 550 a la Victoria, 551 en zephires, 675 hatelets a la Villeroi, 650 paupiettes a l’empereur, 562 a la niqoise, 560 Solid fuels, p. 47 Sorbet d’ananas, 1807 a la romaine, 1808 Souchet of flounders, 522 Souffles d’artichauts, lyonnaise, 1276 aux carottes (carrots), 1317 de celeri (celery), 1325 d’fiperlans (smelts), 578 d’epinards (spinach), 1365 fondus au parmesan, 1918 aux fraises (strawberries), 1606 glace a la Joinville, 1800 glaces a l’ecarlate, 1138 de homard (lobster), 600 au jambon (ham), 1147 a l’espagnole, 1148 de lapin (rabbit), 1032 de merlan (whiting), 568 omelette, 1643 a l’orange, 1607 d’oranges a la Gilbert, 1608 au paprika, 1917 a la Panne (sweet), 1770 au parmesan (fondus), 1918 de perdreaux (pheasants) a l’anglaise, 1079 de pommes (potatoes), 1426 de pommes de terre a la St. Louis, 1425 aux prunes, 1610 d la tomate, 1476 au thon, 1846 de volaille en caisses, 982 Soups (bisques) d’ecrevisse, 160 de homard mariniere, 156 parisienne, 157 aux huitres, 159 de petoneles (scallops), 158 Soups (consommes) a l’andalouse, 118 ii la bouquetiere, 120 a la Brisse, 97738 THE NEW CENTUBY COOKERY BOOK Soups (clear), a la brunoise, 123 au riz, 124 a la Car£me, 99 a la Cdlestine, 112 a la chiifonnade, 100 a la Christophe Colombe, 141 a la Colbert, 116 a la Condd, 132 to clarify, 94 croute au pot, 91 eockie leckie, 194 a la Delisnac, 102 a la diplomate, 110 a la Dubarry, 108 a la Dubourg, 135 a la Fleuri, 125 a la florador, 143 a la florentine, 115 in general, 94 a la flamande, 130 de gibier, St. Hubert, 151 a la grisonne, 113 a l’imperiale, 136 a la jardiniere, 122 a la julienne, 119 au lait, 200 ala lilienne, 104 a la Madrid, 131 a la Mancelli, 129 mikado, 140 mulligatawny, 154 a la nantaise, 127 a la Napoleon, 145 a la Nemours, 107 a la Nesselrode, 134 aux nouilles, 147 aux p&tes d’ltalie, 144 a la paysanne, 121 aux petits choux farcis, 105 petites marmites, 90 a la portugaise, 114 pot-au-feu, 89 a la princesse, 126 printanier aux quenelles, 133 aux quenelles frites, 139 a la Ramboule, 109 aux ravioli, 148 Choron a la Richelieu, 106 des rois, 128 a la royale, 117 au sagou, 142 a la Solferino, 137 a la Sevigne, 103 a la St. Hubert, 151 a la Talma, 98 a la tortue s^che, 150 a la veneur, 111 de volaille, 96 frappe (iced), 101 & la Xavier, 138 Soups (potages, purees, creams, &c.), a la tortue, seche, 150 I Soups (potages, purges, creams, &e.), British polonaise, 192 de concombres a la reine, 184 creme d’orge, 167 Demidoff, 179 a la duchesse, 181 de faisan a la Diana, 182 faubonne, 165 fausse tortue, 162 haricot bean puree, 196 I a la Jackson, 166 de lapin a l’oseille, 161 lentilles pur6e, 198 a la MacMahon, 172 madeleine, 177 a la Metternich, 152 mutton broth, 195 a l’oseille, 174 de perdreaux, 164 a la grand due, 180 au potiron, 185 a la reine, 163 a la St. Germain, 191 tchi de soldat, 193 a la tomate maigre, 201 de tomate a la St. Louis, 170 veloute au riz, 176 a la Vitellus, 171 Soupe au lait, 200 j Soups, creams, <fcc., p. 158 to p. 168 j Soups (potages), notes on, p. 136 bisque or shell fish, p. 89 cosmopolitan or mixed, p. 89 creams, filtered, p. 89 fish, p. 89 garnishings, p. 87 in general, p. 85 purges and creams, p. 88 quotations for menus, p. 696 service, pp. 90, 384 sick-room, p. 90 Soups (purees) d’artichauts, 168 d’asperges, printani^re, 183 de edleri, 189 de chicoree au veloute, 190 de choufleur a la creme, 169 de chou? de Bruxelles, 186 de con,eombres a la reine, 184 crecy au riz, 173 chestnut a la chasseur, 187 haricot beans, 196 aux huitres (oyster), 155 de lentilles, 198 a la nivernaise, 175 de poireaux ala creme (leeks), 188 de pommes de terre (potato), 199 de topinambours, 197 de volaille, 163 Spatchcock of grouse, 1050 Specimen menus, p. 624 Spices, p. 103 allspice, £>. 103GENERAL INDEX 739 Spices, aromatic, p. 104 cinnamon, p. 104 cloves, p. 103 coriander, p. 104 curry, p. 104 mace,^>. 104 nutmeg, p. 104 turmeric, p. 104 Spinach (see Epinards) Sponge cakes, 1981 fingers, 1982 Sprats (see Melettes) Spun sugar, 40 Steak and kidney pie, 815 and oyster pudding, 816 to carve, 1254 Steaming process,^. 71 Stewing process, p. 75 Stock clarification, p. 88 making, rules for, p. 84 or marmite, p. 84 Stocks and soups, p. 82 Store-room and larder, p. 43 Stoves, cooking, p. 49 electric, p. 56 gas, p. 55 management and care, p. 54 oil, p. 56 Stuffed onions, moscovienne, 785 pig’s foot, 904 tomatoes, Dutch style, 1471 au gratin, 1920 Swiss style, 1473 Sturgeon (see Esturgeon) Sugar, p. 109 spun, 40 vanilla, 1970 works of art, 1679 Supreme de turbot a la royale, 518 de veau a l’aspic, 1143 Swedish sandwiches, 77 Sweetbread (see Ris de veau) to blanch, 863 Sweet entremets, p. 500 omelette, 1640 sauces, p. 194 Sweets and dessert, quotations for, p. 698 hot, p. 501 plain, p. 501 Swiss menus, p. 664 ABLE D’HdTE luncheon and dinner menus, p. 645 Table service, p. 702 showing average time required for baking meat or birds, 17 Talmouse de merluche fume, 1830 Talmouses a l’abricot, 1993 Tap in stock-pot, p. 88 Tarragon and chervil, p. 106 Tartelettes aux amandes (almonds), 2012 a la Balmoral, 2013 au chocolat (chocolate), 2005 Clarence, 2015 cracovienne, 1829 aux framboises, 1999 Granville, 2014 a la Lucullus (hors-d’oeuvre), 75 aux oranges, 2010 a la parisienne, 2011 a, la polenta, 1859 quillets, 1998 a la St. Cloud, 2007 a la St. Denis, 2016 de saumon (salmon) a l’ecossaise, 53 Tartines a la Baroda, 74 a la cardinal, 54 de caviar en chaudfroid, 62 a la Lucullus, 75 de homard a la St. Martin, 1847 de volaille en surprise, 1154 Tea, guide for ordering, p. 35 Temperature of wines, p. 707 Temperatures, on cooking, p. 58 Terms used in cookery, p. 709 Terrine de gibier (game) a la suisse, 1188 Tetras d’Amerique a la chasseur, 1098 The glace (iced tea), 1811 Theory of sauces, the, p. 91 Thon marine (tunny fish), 66 petits souffles, 1846 Thyme, p. 106 Timbale aux fruits a la m6tropole, 1632 Parmentidre, 1427 de pintade a la maiAchale, 1185 de pommes de terre a la mirette, 1428 a la Pompadour, 1630 a la sicilienne, 1633 a la St-Petersbourg, 1631 de semoule a la portugaise, 1634 de turbot a la russe, 658 turinoise, 994 Timbales de gibier a la Galmier, 1103 de mouton, meridionale, 726 de pigeons a la supreme, 938 Tivoli aux fraises, 1727 Tomates (tomatoes) a l’algerienne, 1156 a l’americaine, 1464 a la Bock, 1477 a la bouquetiere, 1465 a la Caroline, 1478 a l’espagnole, 1479 a la florentine, 1480 a la marseillaise, 1481 .a la napolitaine, 1466 a la renti^re, 1467 a la sicilienne, 1482 au gratin (farcies), 1920 aux champignons, 1468 beignets, 1469 en surprise, 1470 farcies a la flamande, 1471 3 B 2740 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Tomates farcies a l’italienne, 1472 a la reine, 1483 a la suisse, 1473 Okra, 1474 roties, 1484 salade, 1507 sautees, 1475 soufflees, 1476 Tomatoes (see Tomates), p. 475 Topinambours(artichokes) ala creme, 1277 a l’espagnole, 1278 a la Georgienne, 1279 a 1’indienne, 1280 au gratin, 1281 Tourte de sable (sand tarte), 1760 a la frangipane, 1962 Tranches de caviar a la remoulade, 57 a la neige, 1984 de saumon a la meuni&re, 643 Transparent (water) icing, 1965 Truffes (truffles) a la Borchardt, 1485 a Titalienne, 1488 a la perigourdine, 1486 au champagne, 1487 buisson a la royale, 1489 Truite (trout) a la Cambac6r5s, 508 a la divonnaise, 509 a la Malvoisie, 666 a la meuniere, 510 a la Nansen, 667 filets a la mayonnaise, 665 a la milanaise, 511 a la Mirabeau, 512 saumonee a la norvegienne, 663 a la Rothschild, 664 Trussing poultry, 14 Tschi de soldat soup, 193 Tuiles (dessert macaroons), 2009 Turmeric condiment, p. 104 Tunny fish (see Thon marine) Turban de lievre a la bohdmienne, 1108 de filets de volaille, 972 Turbot a la provenqale, 517 a la Victoria, 520 escalopes a la dauphine, 513 filets a la CaiAme, 51 a la Cussy, 515 a la fiorentine, 516 a la salamandre, 519 fleurettes, hollandaise, 657 supreme a la royale, 518 timbale a la russe, 658 Turkey (see pinde) Turkish menu, a, p. 666 Turnips, p. 108 Tutti-frutti glace, 1804 Twice cooking process, p. 81 Typical English menus, p. 632 Unmould, to, 19 Utensils, &o.,p. 60 Vanilla,^. 109 cream, 1680 sugar, 1970 Various kinds of sauces, p. 99 Veal and-ham pie, 846 (see Veau) Veau (veal) blanquette, 886 bonnes bouches a la moderne, 850 briscotines a la bouquetiere, 823 earre (neck), to carve, 1244 cervelles au beurre noir, 851 a la milanaise, 852 a la poulette, 853 choosing, buying, and cutting, p. 31 cotelettes a la Dreux, 847 a la fran^aise, 825 a la lorgnette, 848 (see Agneau) a la St. Cloud, 849 en Belle-Vue, 1141 froides, 1140 crimes (petites) a l’ecarlate, 840' escalopes, 826 a la russe, 827 a la savoisienne, 854 a la viennoise, 855 filets a la Colbert, 828 a la hongroise, 829 Talleyrand style, 830 a la Victoria, 831 foie a la Clermont, 859 a l’eschalote, 860 braise, 858 fricandeau a la regence, 856 pique aux epinards, 1210 fricassee a Tallemande, 857 grenadins a la jardiniere, 833 a la marchand de vin, 832 loin, to carve, 1245 noisettes a la princesse, 837 olives, 838 paupiettes a la toscane, 839 petites cremes a l’ecarlate, 840 soufflees a la minute, 841 pieds a l’Horly, 861 poitrine (breast) farcie, 1211 quenelles a la Marengo, 834 a la tyrolienne, 835 godiveau, 401 queues a l’alsacienne, 862 rognons aux ceufs b roubles, 885 roulade a la norvegienne, 1142 saute a la Marengp,.836 souffle, 842 soufflees (petites) a la minute, 841 supreme a l’aspic, 1143 tendrons a la jardiniere, 843 a la Palestine, 844 tete a la Cavour, 889 a la poulette, 888 a la vinaigrette, 888a.GENERAL INDEX 741 Teau (veal), tete en tortue, 887 head, to carve, 1255 timbales a la marechale, 845 Vegetable marrows, stuffed, 1308 with fine herbs, 1309 au gratin, 1307 Vegetables and salads, quotations for, p. 698 hints on boiling, 20 to blanch, 21 (legumes), p. 436 guide for ordering, p. 35 plain boiled, p. 437 and dressed, p. 437 their uses in stock, p. 84 Vegetarian dinner menus, p. 638 Venaison (venison), cotelettes aux puree de marrons, 1117 cuissot a la Richmond, 1118 haunch, to carve, 1250 selle (saddle) rotie, 1240 to carve, 1251 Venison (see Venaison and Chevreuil) Vinaigrette sauces or dressing, 300 Vinegar, p. 108 Volaille (chicken), ailerons a la creole, 971 attriotes a la vaudoise, 984 ballotine a la cardinal, 973 boudins 4 la Richelieu, 985 cassolettes a la prineesse Alice, 986 cotelettes a la gel6e, 1152 a la Montpensier, 996 a la Richelieu, 974 erkme a l’Argenteuil, 993 crimes en tomates, 1155 crepinettes aux truffes, 987 croustades a la Montpellier, 988 cuisses a la florentine, 977 en papillotes aux epinards, 976 filets 4 la C6cile, 978 fricandelles a l’allemande, 989 galantine, 1150 kari 4 la Madras, 979 medaillons 4 la Careme, 980 4 l’impdriale, 1153 pains a l’Argenteuil, 1160 4 la ertole, 975 palmettes 4 la Gambetta, 990 petites bombes a la milanaise, 991 4 la Victoria, 1159 bouch6es a la reine, 992 Volaille (chicken), petites crimes 4 l’4carlate, 1157 darioles 4 la Chartreuse, 1158 pillaff (pillau), 995 quenelles a l’italienne, 997 ragout a la toulousienne, 981 roast, 1220 souffle, 983 souffles en caisses, 982 supreme 4 la royale, 998 tartines en surprise, 1154 timbale turinoise, 994 tomates 4 l’algerienne, 1156 turban de filets, 972 to carve, 1260 Volapuk menu, a, p. 666 Vol-au-vent a la Chambord, 594a de ris de veau, 884 W AITING at table, p. 704 Warm up cold meat, to, 13 Water or transparent icing, 1965 Water, salt, and extractives,^). 17 Wedding breakfast menu, p. 684 Weights and measures, 1 Whip cream, to, 31 Whisk whites of eggs, to, 32 Whitebait (see Blanchailles) White stock (see rules for), p. 84 veal stew, 886 Whites of eggs, to whisk, 32 Whiting (sec Merlans) Widgeon (see Sarcelle) Wild boar (see Sanglier) Wine jelly, 1705 Wines, quotations for, p. 700 service of, p. 706 temperature of, p. 707 Woodcock, to carve, 1259 Wood fuel, p. 47 Works of art in sugar, 1679 Yeast batter, 1657 AMPINS farcis (stuffed pig’s foot), 904 Zepliires de canard a la metropole, 1092 a la Montglas, 1866 a la Parmentier, 1858'42 AD VER TISEMENTS. PROFESSIONAL BOOKS POE Cooks and others interested in the Art of Cookery. By CH. HERMAN SENN, Q.C.A. RECHERCHE SIDE DISHES. An excellent Collection of reliable Recipes for Hors d'CEuvre, Sandwiches, Salads, After-Dinner Savouries, Oriental Dishes, and Breakfast Dishes. The contents of this Book include over 550 Recipes for Preparing Dishes suitable as Side Dishes or Second Course Dishes for Dinners, Suppers, and Light Repasts, comprising 40 kinds of Savoury Sandwiches; 70 kinds of Cold Hors d'CEuvre of Fish, &c.; 66 Hot Savoury Fish Preparations ; 40 Hot Savoury Meat Dishes ; 75 Dishes of Dressed Savoury Vegetables; 70 distinct ways of preparing Eggs and Savoury Omelettes; 40 Farinaceous Dishes and Cheese Savouries ; 80 Salads and Salad Dressings : 36 Recipes for Oriental Dishes, Curries, &c., as well as 30 miscellaneous recipes: The price of this booh is 3s. 6d. ; post free, 3s. lOd. PRACTICAL COOKERY MANUAL. A Practical Guide Book for Household Cookery, containing a Valuable Collection of Recipes for Plain and Middle Class Cookery. The dishes treated are specially adapted for small families. This book is well printed, and bound in cloth cover. Price Is.; post free, Is. 2d. ICES AND HOW TO MAKE THEM. A New Treatise on Plain and Fancy Ices. The proper methods of Ice Making are fully described and simplified by means of Illustrations of • the Appliances necessary. The book includes chapters on Water Ices, Cream Ices, Ice Puddings, Souffles, Sorbets, Mousses, Cooling Cups, Punches, and other Iced Drinks. Price Is. 6d.; post free, Is. 8d. COOKERY FOR THE SICK AND CONVALESCENT. A useful little book, giving concise directions for the Preparation and Cooking of all kinds of Simple and Dainty Food and Drink, especially suitable for Invalids, &c. With Special Chapters on Beef Teas and Peptonised Food. Price 9d.; post free, lOd. YE ART OF COOKERY IN YE OLDEN TIMES. A daintily got-up brochure, illustrated and printed in the ancient style. It is full of Antiquated Recipes and Bills of Fare of Ancient Feasts ; a Biography of Cooks of the Olden Times is also included in this interesting volume. Price 7d., post free. SENN’S CULINARY ENCYCLOPEDIA. This is a Dictionary of Technical Terms used in Cookery ; the explanations given are brief, but to the point. It gives the names and explanations of most words used in connection with cookery and gastronomy, including condiments, auxiliaries, beverages, &c. Price Is.; post free, Is. 2d. It is the most useful addition to any Household Library, but it is specially designed for the use of Chefs, hotel and Restaurant Managers, Club Stewards, Cookery Teachers, as well as Housekeepers. i w///////////////////////////// SEND ORDERS, WITH REMITTANCE, FOR ANY OF THE ABOVE BOOKS TO The Food & Cookery Publishing Agency, 329 Yauxhall Bridge Road, London, S.W.I