BOOK OF RECEIPTS.\ LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Bateman A lokJ 30106023619181j5>d)ool iSoarti for £ontion. SCHOOL MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT. INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY. BOOK OF RECEIPTS. HAZELL, WATSON, AND VINEY, LIMITED, PRINTERS TO THE BOARD, 52, LONG ACRE, W.C. S B.—1807—4300—25-10-8!». Price, Stitched, 9d.; in Cloth Boards, IsII71. 49. Cake, Fruit ... ... 50 37 Fruit Pudding ... INDEX A. No. .of ‘ Receipt. 61. Apple Dumplings (baked) 99. Apple Sauce ... Page. ... 44 ... 65 B. 25. Baked Haddock 22 26. Baked Haddock (Second Receipt) ... 23 61. Baked Apple Dumplings 44 111. Baking Powder 71 io'o. Barley Water 65 *7. Beef Stew, Leg of 10 10. Beef Stewed, and Rice 13 17. Beef Tea, Quick 17 19. Beef, Ragout of ... ... 18 20. Beef Olives ... 19 81. Biscuits, Oatmeal 56 101. Bran Tea 66 46. Bread, To make 35 47. Bread, Whole Meal ... 36 48. Bread, Ginger 36 76. Bread Pudding (baked) 53 77.' Bread Pudding (boiled) 54 54.' thins, Hot Cross 40 55.' Buns, Rice 40 57. Buns, Soda 42 c. 33. Cabbage, Stewed 28 106. Cabbage, Red, To Pickle 68 No. of Receipt. Page. 50. Cake, Seed ... ... 37 51. Cake ... 38 52. Cake, Cornflour ... 38 23. Cakes, Fish ... 21 53. Cakes, Rock ... 39 56. Cakes, Yorkshire Tea ... ... 41 58. Cakes, Shrewsbury ... 42 40. Cauliflower (boiled) ... 31 73. Christmas Pudding ... 51 4. Chops or Steaks, To Broil 9 21. Cod, Savoury ... ... 20 91. Cocoa ... ... 61 89-90. Coffee ... 60 18. Cornish Pasties ... 18 86. Currant Juice ... ... 58 E. 93. Eggs and Bacon, To Fry .:. 62 94. Eggs Poached and Spinach ,,, ... 62 F. 63. Fig Pudding ... 46 22. Fish, To Fry in Batter ... 20 24. Fish, To Boil ... 22 23. Fish Cakes ... 21 14a. Flaky Paste ... ... 16 28. French Vegetable Soup or Marrow Soup 24 49. Fruit Cake ... 37 60. Fruit Pie ... ... 444 G. No. of No. of Receipt. Page. Receipt. Page. 87. Marmalade 59 48. Ginger-bread ... ... ... • .. . 36 88. Marmalade (Second Receipt) 59 15. Goblet Pie . 16 28. Marrow Soup 24 82 Gruel s . 56 9. Meat Pudding 12 16. Meat Pie 17 96. Meat Patties ... 63 84. Melted Butter 57 25. Haddock (baked) . 22 6. Minced Meat and Mashed Potatoes 10 26. Haddock (baked) (Second Receipt) .. . 23 98. Mint Sauce 65 44. Haricot Beans . 34 79. Mince Meat ... 55 45. Haricot Beans and Minced Onions .. . 34 3. Haricot Mutton . 8 80. Mince Meat (Second Receipt) 55 3. Mutton, Haricot 8 54. Hot Cross Buns . 40 27. Mutton Broth for Invalids ... • 24 75. Hunter Pudding . 53 I. 0. 2. Irish Stew 7 81. Oatmeal Biscuits 56 97. Onion Sauce ... 64 J. 105. Onions, Pickled 67 85. Jam ... . 58 86. Jam, Strawberry . 58 87. Jam—Marmalade 59 P. 88. Jam—Marmalade (Second Receipt) 59 78. Pancakes • • • 54 18. Pasties, Cornish 18 L. 96. Patties, Meat M. 63 7. Leg of Beef Stew 10 31. Pea Soup ... 27 102. Lemonade 66 11. Pie, Shepherd’s ... ... 13 32. Lentil Soup ... 27 12. Pie, Steak, with Veal Stuffing 14 92. Liver and Bacon 61 15. Pie, Goblet 16 16. Pie, Meat 17 I 60. Pie, Fruit 44 105. Pickled Onions 67 64. Macaroni Pudding .:. 46 106. Pickled Red Cabbage 68 112. Macaroni, Savoury ... 72 94. Poached Eggs and Spinach ... 625 No. of Receipt. Page. 35. Potatoes (boiled) ... 29 36. Potatoes (baked) ... 30 37. Potatoes (fried) ... 30 38. Potatoes, To Steam ... ... 31 39. Potatoes, New (Swiss way) ... ... 31 41. Potato Balls ... ... 32 42. Potato Pastry ... 33 43. Potato Soup ... ... 33 83. Porridge ... 57 9. Pudding, Meat ... 12 110. Pudding, Savoury ... 72 71. Pudding, Fruit ... 50 72. Pudding, Suet ... 50 73. Pudding, Christmas ... ... 51 68. Pudding, Teacup ... 48 69. Pudding, Semobna ... ... 49 70. Pudding, Rice ... 49 62. Pudding, Sultana and Crumb ... 45 63. Pudding, Fig ... ... 46 64. Pudding, Macaroni ... ... 46 65. Pudding, Sago ... 47 66. Pudding, Tapioca ... 47 67. Pudding, Yorkshire ... ... 48 74. Pudding, Roly-poly ... ... 52 75. Pudding, Hunter ... 53 76. Pudding, Bread (baked) ... 53 77. Pudding, Bread (boiled) ... 54 R. 1. Rabbit, Stewed ... 7 19. Ragout of Beef ... 18 10. Rice and Stewed Beef ... 13 55. Rice Buns ... 40 70. Rice Pudding... ... 49 No. of Receipt. Page. 5. Rissoles, Fried ... ... ... 9 53. Rock Cakes ... ... ... ... 39 74. Roly-poly Pudding ... ... ... 52 14. Rolls, Sausage ... ... ... 15 s. 107. Salad, To make ... ... ... 69 108. Salad, To make (Second Receipt) ... 69 109. Salad, Winter ... ... ... 70 110. Savoury Pudding ... ... ... 71 112. Savoury Macaroni ... ... ... 72 21. Savoury Cod ... ... ... ... 20 65. Sago Pudding ... ... ... 47 13. Sausages, To Fry ... ... ... 15 14. Sausage Rolls ... ... ... 15 97. Sauce, Onion ... ... ... ... 64 98. Sauce, Mint ... ... ... ... 65' 99. Sauce, Apple ... ... ... ... 65 59. Scones... ... ... ... ... 43- 69. Semolina Pudding ... ... ... 411 11. Shepherd’s Pie ... ... ... 13 58. Shrewsbury Cakes ... ... ... 42 100-4. Sickroom Drinks ... ... ... 65 28. Soup, French Vegetable or Marrow ... 24 43. Soup, Potato ... ... ... ... 33 28. Soup, Marrow ... ... ... 24 29. Soup, Vegetable, Good ... ... 25 30. Soup, Vegetable ... ... ... 26 31. Soup, Pea ... ... ... ... 27 32. Soup, Lentil ... ... ... ... 27 57. Soda Buns ... ... ... ... 42 4. Steaks and Chops, To Broil ... ... 9 12. Steak Pie, with Veal Stuffing ... 14 33. Stewed Cabbage ... ... ... 28Yorkshire Pudding ... ... 48 Tripe, Stewed, and Onions ... ... 63 95. 67. G No. of Xeceipt. Page. 1. Stewed Rabbit ... 7 7. Stewed Leg of Beef ... ... 10 10. Stewed Beef and Bice ... 13 34. Stewed Vegetable Marrow ... ... 29 95. Stewed Tripe and Onions ... 63 72. Suet Pudding ... 50 62. Sultana and Crumb Pudding ... 45 T. 66. Tapioca Pudding ... 47 17. Tea, Beef, Quick ... 17 101. Tea, Bran ... 66 56. Tea Cakes, Yorkshire ... 41 68. Teacup Pudding ... 48 8. Toad in the Hole ... 11 304. Toast and Water ... 67 V. No. of Receipt. page 12. Veal Stuffing and Steak Pie ... 14 30. Vegetable Soup ... ... ... 26 29. Vegetable Soup, Good ... ... 25 28. Vegetable Soup, French ... ... 24 34. Vegetable Marrow, Stewed ... ... 26 w. 100. Water, Barley ... 65 103. Wine Whey or Treacle Posset ... 67 Y. 56. Yorkshire Tea Cakes • • • ... 41INSTRUCTION IN COOKERY BOOK OF RECEIPTS. (i) STEWED RABBIT. Ingredients :—1 Rabbit. \ lb. Bacon, or Pork if liked. 4 Onions. Hot Water. 2 ozs. of Dripping. 1 oz. of Flour. 1 dessert-spoonful of Sauce. 1 teaspoonful of Salt. £ teaspoonful of Pepper. Method :—Cut rabbit in joints, wash them in warm water, dry them well, and sprinkle with a little flour. Put the dripping in a saucepan, when hot put in joints of rabbit, and brown them slightly. Peel, wash, and cut onions in rings, add to rabbit, and fry them. Drain off the dripping, add hot water to well cover the rabbit, and, if used, bacon or pork cut in strips; bring it to the boil, take off the scum and let it simmer 1 hour. Mix flour, salt, pepper and sauce in a basin, add a little water, make it into a paste, pour and stir this in with the rabbit, and let it simmer half an hour more; stir once or twice. Turn it nicely on a hot dish, and serve. One ounce of tapioca may be used, if liked, as an extra thickening. Time, 2| hours. (2) IRISH STEW. Ingredients :—1 lb. of Heck or pieces of Mutton. 2 lbs. of Potatoes, | lb. of Onions, | pt. of Cold Water. 1| teaspoonful of Salt. 2 teaspoonful of Pepper.8 Time, 2 hours. Method:—Cut meat in nice sized pieces; peel and cut onions in rings. Put meat, onions, | teaspoonful salt, pepper and water in a saucepan; bring it to the boil, take off the scum, let it simmer 11 hour. Stir sometimes. Parboil Potatoes:—Scrub and wash the potatoes, peel thinly, take out the eyes, and wash again. Put some cold water in a saucepan, add 1 teaspoonful of salt and the potatoes, boil gently five minutes, strain off the water, steam and dry the potatoes; put them on top of the meat. Let the stew simmer for half an hour more. Shake the pan sometimes, or it will burn. When done, put the potatoes round a hot dish, meat, onions, and the gravy in the middle. Serve very hot. Time, 2| hours. (3) HARICOT MUTTON. Ingredients :—1 lb. of Neck or pieces of Mutton. | pint of Ilot Water. 1 oz. of Dripping. 1 oz. of Flour. 2 Onions. 1 Carrot. \ Turnip, or 1 small. i teaspoonful of Salt. | teaspoonful of Pepper. Method:—See that the meat is fresh and clean, cut in neat pieces. Put dripping in an Iron saucepan. When melted, put in meat and fry brown ; move and turn it or it will burn. While frying the meat, peel the onions, cut in rings, add to meat and fry. Peel the turnip, scrape the carrot, wash and cut in small squares. Pour dripping from meat in a basin (keep it to use again). Add to meat, the flour, pepper, salt and vegetables; mix well, add warm water by degrees (cold water would sodden the meat after it is fried). Stir until it boils; simmer 1| hour. Stir often or it will burn. Turn on a hot dish and serve.9 Time, 1 hour. (4) TO BROIL CHOPS OR STEAKS. Ingredients ;—Chop or Steak. 1 oz. of Butter. A little Salt, Pepper, and Sauce. Method :—See that the fire is bright and clear. Grease the bars of the gridiron. Pepper the chop or steak on both sides, place it on the gridiron, and broil either before or over the fire from five to seven minutes, according to thickness. Turn once. There are two methods of turning Chops and Steaks, one only once, the other every minute. Put the meat on a hot dish, add butter, salt and sauce ; melt the butter before the fire, and serve very quickly. Time, | hour. (5) FRIED RISSOLES. Ingredients :—2 table-spoonfuls of chopped Meat (cooked). 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped Suet. 8 table-spoonfuls of chopped Parsley. \ table-spoonful of chopped Herbs (mixed). 2 table-spoonfuls of Bread Crumbs. 1 teaspoonful of Salt. | teaspoonful of Pepper. 2 Eggs. Bread Crumbs, Parsley, and frying Fat. Method :—Put some dripping in a saucepan to melt and get hot. Have ready some bread crumbs on a paper. Break one egg on a plate and beat it up. Mix the meat, suet, crumbs, parsley, herbs, pepper and salt in a basin ; beat up the other egg and add to the dry ingredients to bind them-tog ether. Divide it in small pieces, and roll them on a floured board into balls; then dip them in the egg and roll them in the crumbs. Put them, a few at a time, in the hot fat, and fry them a nice brown; take them up and drain well. Arrange the rissoles on a hot dish on paper, and garnish with fried parsley. Keep the fat to use again.10 (6) MINCED MEAT AND MASHED POTATOES. Ingredients :— 11 lbs. of Potatoes. 2 lb. of Cold Meat. \ oz. of Butter, or 1 table-spoonful of Milk. I oz. of Dripping. 1 dessert-spoonful of Flour. 1| teaspoonful of Salt. 5 teaspoonful of Pepper. 2 teaspoonfuls of Sauce. 1 gill or more of Gravy. Method:—Scrub and wash the potatoes, peel them thinly, take out the eyes, and wash them in fresh water. Put some boiling water and 1 teaspoonful of salt in a saucepan; add the potatoes, boil gently until they are tender, strain off all the water, steam dry and beat them up finely with a fork. Mix in half the pepper and the butter or milk ; turn the potatoes on a dish. Shape them like a wall; keep them hot. Put meat on a board, chop it finely. Put dripping and flour in a small saucepan; stir over the fire ; add the gravy, stir until it boils ; add rest of salt and pepper, the sauce and meat; simmer j of an hour; stir sometimes. Turn the meat and gravy into the middle of the potatoes. Serve hot. Time, 1 hour. (7) LEG OF BEEF STEW. Ingredients :—1 lb. of Leg of Beef. 2 Carrots. 1 Turnip. 2 Onions. 1 oz. of Dripping. 1 pint of Hot Water. 1 table-spoonful of Flour. 1 teaspoonful of Salt. | teaspoonful of Pepper.11 -Time, 1| hours. Method:—Cut the meat into small pieces; melt the dripping in a saucepan; skin and slice the onion and fry brown in the dripping; take it out of the saucepan; put it on to a plate ; fry the meat brown on both sides. Strain off the fat; return the onion to the saucepan; pour over the water; let it come to the boil; slum it well. Draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for four hours. Prepare the vegetables ; cut them into sq uares, and put them into the saucepan in time for them to stew with the meat for one hour before it is finished. Five minutes before serving, mix the flour, salt and pepper into a smooth paste with cold water, pour it into the saucepan, and stir it over the fire till it boils and thickens. Serve the stew on a hot dish. . \ * * Time, hours. (8) TOAD I1ST THE HOLE. Ingredients :—6 ozs. of Flour. 1 Egg. 1 pt. of Milk. 1 lb. of Beef or Mutton. A pinch of Salt. \ 07.. of Dripping. Method:—Mix the Hour and salt together; break the egg into a basin, put it in the centre of the flour; stir in enough milk to make the mixture a smooth batter; beat it well; add the rest of the milk. Cut the meat into slices, and lay it at the bottom of a greased tin or pie-dish; pour over the batter, and bake in a hot oven from one hour to one hour and a quarter. Batter is better for standing before it is cooked.12 Time, 3 hours. (9) MEAT PUDDING. Ingredients :—1 lb. Beef Steak, or Skirt and Kidney. | lb. Flour. 4 ozs. Suet. 1| gill Water. 1 teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 1| teaspoonful of Salt. i teaspoonful of Pepper. Method :—Put on a large saucepan of water to boil; dip the middle of a pudding cloth in boiling water, wring it, sprinkle with flour and have a string ready. Grease a 1| pint pudding basin. Put on a plate 1 dessert-spoonful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt and the pepper. Mix well. Cut meat in squares; dip in seasoning. Suet Crust:—Put flour, baking powder, and rest of salt in a basin. Mix all together ; take skin from suet; cut in small pieces and chop finely. A little flour prevents it sticking. Mix suet with flour; and make a light paste with the water, mixing it with a wooden spcon. Turn the paste on floured board. Cut off one-third for top. Boll out large piece, twice the size of top of pudding. Line basin with it; put in meat and some water for gravy. Roll out small piece; wet edge of basin. Put top on; tie cloth over the basin ; tie up corners. Put the pudding in boiling water ; keep boiling quickly, and well covered with water from 2 to hours. Take it up, remove string and cloth, turn it out very carefully on to a hot dish. Serve hot.(10> STEWED BEEF AND RICE. Ingredients:—\ lb. Beef Steak, or | lb. Leg of Beef. 1 oz. Dripping. 2 ozs. Rice. 1 large Onion. 1 pint Water. 1 teaspoonful of Salt. 1 teaspoonful of Mixed Herbs. | teaspoonful of Pepper. Method :—Cut the meat into squares, peel and cut the onion into rings. Put the dripping into a stewpan, when melted add the salt, pepper, herbs and onion, fry it over the fire for ten minutes, stir often to prevent burning. Wash the rice, add the meat with the water to ingredients in the stewpan, let all simmer for 1| hour. Then add rice, and simmer | hour more. Stir the stew often to prevent burning. Turn out on a hot dish and serve. Time, 2g hours. (11) SHEPHERD’S PIE. Ingredients :—1 lb. cold Meat. 2 lbs. boiled Potatoes. 1 oz. of Butter. 1 teaspoonful of Salt. | teaspoonful of Pepper. | teaspoonful Herbs, or 1 Onion. Gravy or Water.14 Method .—Cut meat in slices, sprinkle with the seasoning, and put in a pie dish. Add a little water or gravy. Mash the potatoes finely, mix in the butter and a little salt and pepper spread it over the meat to form a crust, smooth and shape it nicely. Bake in a hot oven about 1 hour. Brown the potatoes well. Serve hot. Time, 1| hour. (12) STEAK PIE WITH VEAL STUFFING. Ingredients :—k lb. of Flour. ^ lb. of Lard. 1 gill of Water. A little Salt. 1 lb. of Beef Steak. 2 table-spoonfuls of Bread Crumbs. 1 table-spoonful of chopped Suet. 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped Parsley. 1 teaspoonful of chopped Herbs (mixed). | teaspoonful of grated Lemon Rind. | teaspoonful of Salt. A little Pepper. 1 Egg. 1 dessert-spoonful of Flour. \ teaspoonful of Salt. I Seasoning. | teaspoonful of Pepper. J Method:—Cut the meat in strips or slices, mix the seasoning on a plate, dip the meat in it. Stuffing :—Mix the crumbs, suet, parsley, herbs, lemon, salt, and pepper in a basin. Break the egg in a basin, beat it and add enough to bind the stuffing together. Roll it into balls, put the meat and balls nicely in a pie-dish, and add a little cold water for gravy. Flaky Paste :—Mix the flour and salt in a basin, make it into a light firm paste with water (in warm weather rub in one-third of the lard before making the flour in a paste), put it on a floured board, flour it and roll it out thinly, divide the lard in three, spread 1 piece of lard15 on the paste, fiour it, fold it in three, turn it round and roll it out again : do this twice more, then roll it out a little larger than the top of the pie-dish, cut off some strips, grease the edge of the dish, lay the strips on, wet them, put the top on, press edges together, trim them round and notch up with a knife. Brush the pie over with the rest of the egg, ornament with leaves brush them over, bake in a hot oven 11 hour. Serve hot or cold. Time, 2| hours. (13) TO FEY SAUSAGES. Ingredients :—| lb. Sausages. Dripping. Method :—Prick the sausages to prevent them bursting. Melt some dripping in a frying- pan, before it comes hot put in the sausages, shake the pan to prevent them sticking, let them get hot through slowly, then brown them all over; they take from 7 to 10 minutes. When dono, serve on a hot dish on toast or mashed potato. If liked, a teacup of water, thickened with a little flour, may be poured in the pan with the fat. Stir until it boils, pour it over the sausages, and serve hot. Time, | hour. (14) SAUSAGE POLLS. Ingredients :—1 lb. Sausages or 1 lb. Cold Meat Seasoned. | lb. of Flour. | lb. of Lard. 2 ozs. of Butter. | teaspoonful of Salt. | teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 1 Egg or a little Milk. Water. Method:—Boil the sausages for two minutes, let them cool and take off the skin, cut each sausage in half.16 Time, | hour. / r (14a,) Flaky Paste:—Mix the flour, salt and baking powder in a basin, then cut the lard or butter in it in small pieces. Make it into a light paste with a little cold water, put it on a floured board, flour it and roll it out thinly, fold it in three, turn it round and roll it out, but not thinly, again; do this twice more, then roll it out thinly and cut it in pieces about 5 inches square. Put half a sausage (or seasoned meat) on each piece of paste, wet the edge and fold the paste over, bringing the join at the top, mark with the back of a knife, place on a greased tin, brush over with milk or egg. Bake in a hot oven about | hour. Serve hot or cold. This pie-crust is sometimes called “ Rough Puff Paste.” Time, 1| hour. (15) GOBLET PIE. Ingredients :—2 ozs. Meat (cooked or uncooked). 2 czs. chopped Suet. 2 ozs. chopped Apples. 2 ozs. chopped Raisins. 2 ozs. Moist Sugar. 2 ozs. Currants. | lb. Flour. 1| oz. Dripping. | teaspoonful Baking Powder. | gill Water. A pinch of Salt. Method :—Clean, stone and chop the raisins ; clean the currants; chop the meat and suet finely, peel, core and chop the apples. Mix all the ingredients well together; place them in a small pie-dish. Put the flour, baking powder and salt into a basin ; mix all together; rub in the dripping ; mix into a stiff’ paste with the water. Flour the paste board and the rolling pin ; roll out the paste | inch thick. Grease the edges of the dish, line with some narrow strips of paste. Wet the edge, put on the top, press it down. Trim ofF the edges and notch them with ! the back of a knife. Make a hole in the oentre. Bake i hour.17 Time, | hour. (16) MEAT PIE. Ingredients :—| lb. Beef Skirt, or 10 ozs. Beef Skirt and \ 2 ozs. Bullock’s Kidney. ( \ teaspoonful Salt. | teaspoonful Pepper. 1 table-spoonful Flour. | Seasoning. lb. Fleur. 2 ozs. Dripping. | teaspoonful Baking Powder. 1 pinch Salt. | gill Water. Method :—Cut the meat into small pieces ; mix the seasoning on a plate; dip the meat in it; place it in a pie-dish ; pour in a gill of cold water. Put the flour, baking powder, and salt into a basin; mix all together; rub the dripping into the flour; mix into a stiff paste with the water. Flour the board and rolling pin ; roll out ^ inch thick. Grease the edges of the dish ; line with some narrow strips of paste ; wet the edges; put on the top; press it down. Trim the edges neatly, and draw them up with the back of a knife. Make a hole in the top; ornament according to fancy. Bake about 1 hour. Flaky paste may be used. Time, 1| hour. (17) BEEF TEA (QUICK). Ingredients :—| lb. of Gravy Beef. | pint of Water. A little Salt. Method :—Take the beef and cut it up very fine, removing all the skin and fat. Put it in a basin with the water : let it stand | hour; pour it into a saucepan with the water and let it be twenty minutes in getting hot. Kemove it before simmering point, or the albumen will be hardened. Stir nearly all the time, then strain it off into a cup.> 18 (18) CORNISH PASTIES. Ingredients :—]- lb. of Buttock Steak. | lb. of Potatoes. 1 small Onion. | teaspoonful of Salt. A pinch of Pepper, i lb. of Flour. 3 ozs. of Dripping. | teaspoonful Baking Powder. A pinch of Salt. I gill of Cold Water. Method :—Cut the meat into small pieces. Peel, wash, and parboil the potatoes and peel the onion. Cut the potatoes into small pieces and mince the onion. Put the flour, baking powder and salt into a basin ; mix all together, rub in the dripping. Mix into a stiff paste with the water. Roll out ^ inch thick. Cut into rounds. Place a portion of meat, potato and onion on each round; sprinkle with salt and pepper. Wet the edges, press them together. Make a frill on the top. Place on a greased baking tin. Bake £ hour. Time, 1 hour. (19) RAGOUT OF BEEF. Ingredients :—1 lb. of Beef Pieces. | pt. of Cold Water. 3 large Onions. 1 teaspoonful of Salt. | teaspoonful of Pepper. 1 teaspoonful of Parsley (chopped). \ teaspoonful of Herbs (chopped). Method:—Peel and cut the onions into rings. Cut the meat in squares, put them in a stewpan, add all the other ingredients, and then the water; let all simmer for 2 hours; stirTime, 1| hour. ] 9' sometimes to prevent burning. Turn on to a hot dish and serve. The gravy may be thickened with a teaspoonful of cornflour, arrowroot or flour; whichever is used must be mixed into a smooth paste before being added to the gravy; it must then be boiled gently for 3 minutes and stirred all the time to prevent the flour burning or the gravy from being lumpy. Cold beef might be used; it takes less time to cook, but the gravy is not so nice. Half an ounce of rice or pearl barley makes a nice thickening for the Ragout. Either of these must be put into the stewpan with the other ingredients. Time, 2^ hours. (20) BEEF OLIVES. Ingredients :—14 lb. of Beef Steak. 2 ozs. of Suet. 3 ozs. of Bread Crumbs. 1 teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. | teaspoonful Mixed Herbs. \ teaspoonful of Salt. | teaspoonful of Pepper. A pinch of grated Nutmeg. 1 Egg. 1 dessert-spconful of Sauce. 1 pint of Gravy or Water. 1 dessert-spoonful of Flour. . Method :—Cut the meat into slices about | inch thick and 4 inches long, beat them flat with a chopper dipped in water. Chop up the trimmings from the meat and mix with the chopped suet, bread crumbs and seasoning; moisten with the egg and form the mixture into pieces the shape of a cork. Roll up each piece of beef, putting a piece of stuffing in the centre. Tie each round with a piece of fine string. Make the gravy or water hot; put in the olives and let them simmer 1 hour. Take] them out; remove the string and arrange them on a hot dish. Mix the flour with the '.sauce and a little water; add it to the gravy in the saucepan, and stir until it thickens; boil 3 minutes more. Add more salt and pepper if necessary, and strain over the olives.20 (21) SAVOURY COD. Ingredients :—1 or more lbs. of fresh Cod. i pt. of Hot Water. 1 table-spoonful of Vinegar. 1 dessert-spoonful of Flour. 1 teaspoonful of Parsley (chopped). \ teaspoonful of Salt. | teaspoonful of Pepper. 1 oz. of Butter. 1 Egg- Method :—See that the fish is fresh ; wash and dry it; cut it into nice-sized pieces, not too small. Put the fish into a saucepan and just cover it with the vinegar and water ; simmer very gently until the bone easily leaves the fish (about | hour). Take the fish up carefully put it on a dish, cover it, and keep it hot. Put the flour into a basin, add the pepper and salt, and butter; mix it well, and make it into a paste with a little water. Stir the paste into the liquor in which the fish was cooked and boil it gently three minutes; stir all the time. Let the sauce cool a little. Break the egg into a basin, beat it up and stir it carefully in with the sauce; add the parsley and pour it over the fish. For a change, the egg may be boiled hard and chopped finely, then added to the sauce. Time, ^ hour. (22) TO FRY FISH IN BATTER. Ingredients :—1 Plaice. | lb. of Flour. 1 gill of Water. Parsley. Frying Fat. Method :—See that the fish is fresh. Put plenty of dripping or lard in a saucepan to melt and get hot; when hot enough to fry fish in, it will be quite still and smoking a little. Put fish on a board, cut off fins, head and tail, remove inside and black skin, scrape white skin.21 Time, 1 hour. Cost varies. Cut fish in half down the middle; cut each half in 4 ox’ 5 pieces. Wash well in cold water; rub dry in a cloth; rub over with a little flour. The Batter :—Put the flour in a basin; make it into a smooth stiff batter with water. Dip one piece of fish at a time in the batter; put it in the hot fat (2 or 3 pieces fry together) ; fry for five or seven minutes. When a skewer goes in easily, the pieces are done; take up with a slice or skewer; then drain on paper; arrange on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley. To Fry Parsley :—Wash some parsley, shake it dry in a cloth, pick off large stalks, throw it into the hot fat, fry a few seconds, take up with a slice, drain on paper and put on fish. When the fat is done with, and a little cool, take out scraps of batter; pour fat in a basin, and keep it to use over and over again for fish. Time, -A- hour. , (23) PISH CAKES. Ingredients :—1 lb. of Cold Boiled Fish. 1 lb. of Mashed Potatoes. 1 oz. of Butter. 2 Eggs. -t teaspoonful of Salt. | teaspoonful of Pepper. Parsley. Frying Fat. Bread Crumbs. Method :—Put plenty of di-ipping or lax-d into a saucepan to melt and get hot. Put the potatoes, salt and pepper into a basin ; melt and stir in the butter ; break and beat up one egg; remove the skin and bones from the fish, bi’eak it in flakes, stir it in lightly with the potatoes add the egg to bind it (do not make it too moist); divide it into small poi-tions, shape with a knife on a floured board into cakes 1 inch think; break the other egg on a plate, beat it up ; have some bread crumbs on a paper; brush the cakes over with egg; shake them in the crumbs; fry in the hot fat about 5 minutes ; drain on kitchen paper. Arx-ange on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley.(24) TO BOIL FISH. Ingredients :—2 quarts of Water. 1 dessert-spoonful of Salt. Fish. Method :—Put the water in a saucepan to get warm. (Warm water should be used for all white fish; boiling water cracks the skin and spoils the appearance, although boiling water prevents the goodness being drawn from the fish. Salmon always goes on in boiling water to set the colour.) See that the fish is fresh ; scrape the skin to remove the scales; take out inside and eyes; cut off the fins. Wash the fish well and dry it; put it on a drainer; add the salt to warm water, and then the fish; boil very gently from 10 to 15 or 20 minutes, according to thickness. When the skin or the bones easily leave the fish it is done; take up, drain water from it, put on a hot dish, serve plain or with melted butter over it. Time varies. (25) BAKED HADDOCK. Ingredients :—1 Haddock. 2 ozs. of Dripping. 2 table-spoonfuls of Bread Crumbs. 1 table-spoonful of chopped Suet. 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped Parsley. 1 teaspoonful of chopped Herbs. ^ teaspoonful of Salt. A little Pepper and Milk. Bread Crumbs.23 Cost, 10c?. Time, 1 hour. Method :—Clean the haddock; wash and dry it. Put the dripping in a tin to melt. Put the crumbs, suet, parsley, herbs, pepper and salt in a basin; mix well, and add a little milk to bind it. Put the stuffing inside the fish and sew it up; tie the fish in a nice shape. Put it in the tin ; pour the dripping over it and sprinkle with a few crumbs. Bake in a hot oven | an hour; baste sometimes. Put the haddock on a hot dish; draw out the string and cotton; garnish with a little parsley, and serve plain or with melted butter. The haddock may be boned, stuffed, and rolled up for a change. Browned bread crumbs make it look nice. (26) BAKED HADDOCK. Second Beceipt. Ingredients :—1 Haddock. 2 ozs. of Suet. 2 ozs. of Dripping. 2 table-spoonfuls of Bread Crumbs. 1 dessert-spoonful of Parsley. 1 teaspoonful of Herbs (mixed). 1 FiQ-cr | teaspoonful of Salt. A little Pepper. Method:—See that the fish is fresh. Clean, scale, wash and dry the haddock ; cut off the fins. Mix the bread crumbs, suet, parsley, herbs, salt, and pepper into a basin, put it into the inside of the fish, sew it up, tie the fish round. Beat the egg on to a plate, brush the fish over with it, dip it into the bread crumbs. Grease the tin with the dripping, lay the fish in and bake for }, hour. When done remove the cotton and string. Serve on a hot dish with gravy or melted butter.24 (27) MUTTON BROTH FOR INVALIDS. Ingredients 2 lbs. of Scrag of Mutton. 3 pints of Cold Water. 1 dessert-spoonful of Salt. Method :—Cut the mutton into chops, and having carefully cut off any fat or skin, wash it in cold water to remove the dry blood. Do not let it soak, lest the goodness should be drawn out. Dry the chops in a cloth. Put the meat and water into a saucepan and set it on the fire to boil. Just before it boils, add the salt and skim it well. Let it simmer for 2)r hours; skim sometimes. Strain off the meat; let the broth get cold. Before heating it to serve, carefully take off any grease that may be at the top. Time, 2| hours. (28) FRENCH VEGETABLE SOUP or MARROW SOUP. Ingredients:—2 lbs. of Pumpkin or Marrow. 1 large Onion. 2 ozs. of Butter. 1 teaspoonful of Sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls of Salt, teaspoonful of Pepper. 1-J pint of Water. 1 pint of Milk. 2 table-spoonfuls of Flour.25 Method:—Peel and cut the pumpkin or marrow into large squares. Peel and slice the onion. Put the vegetables into a saucepan. Add the sugar, salt, pepper and butter; put cover on pan. Simmer the vegetables well.' Add the water; stew slowly for 20 minutes, or until the vegetables pulp, then add the flour (previously mixed into a smooth paste with a little of the milk); add the rest of the milk. Stir the soup until it boils, then let it simmer for 10 minutes. Stir frequently. Pour the soup into a basin, and serve with small squares of toast. If liked, the soup may be rubbed through a sieve before it is thickened. Time, 1 hour. (29) GOOD VEGETABLE SOUP. Ingredients :—3 Onions. 1 Turnip. 2 Carrots. 4 Potatoes. 2 ozs. of Butter. 6 sprigs of Parsley (chopped). 1 table-spoonful of Sago. 3 pints of Water, i pint of Milk. 1 dessert-spoonful of Salt, i teaspoonful of Sugar. / | teaspoonful of Pepper. Bread. Dripping. Method :—Prepare all the vegetables as for boiling ; cut them in small thick pieces. Put the butter into a saucepan, add the sugar, salt, pepper, parsley and vegetables. Shake them26 Time, 2i hours. over the fire for ,10 minutes. Add the water. Let the soup simmer for li hour or until the vegetables are tender. Stir often to prevent burning. Strain the soup through a wire sieve or colander into a basin ; rub all the vegetables through with a wooden spoon. Pour the soup back into the saucepan; add the milk; sprinkle in the sago, stir, and boil it gently a | hour Pour the soup into a hot basin and serve with toasted bread, .or squares of bread fried in dripping. Time, 3 hours. (30) VEGETABLE SOUP. Ingredients :—1 small Carrot. 4 small Potatoes. 1 small Parsnip. 1 small Turnip. 1 large Onion. 3 pints of Water. 2 ozs. Butter or Dripping. 1 strip of Celery. 1 teaspoonful of Salt. | teaspoonful of Pepper. Method:—Peel the potatoes, onion, turnip, and parsnip; scrape the carrot and celery. Wash all but the onion and cut into very small pieces. Put the butter or dripping into a sauce- pan ; add the vegetables, and simmer them well for 10 minutes; stir often. Add to the vege- tables the pepper, salt and water by degrees; stir until it boils; simmer li hour. Skim ofT the fat and serve. Or, strain the soup through a wire sieve or colander into a basin ; rub the- vegetables through with a wocden spoon. Pour the soup back into the saucepan; let it well boil for 10 minutes. Stir often. Pour the soup into a basin ; serve plain, or with fried or toasted bread. If liked, this soup may be served ivithout being strained.(31) . ' „ , PEA SOUP. Ingredients :—1 'quart of Split Peas. 2 quarts of Water. 2 Onions. 1 Turnip. 1 Carrot. 1 leaf of Celery. 1 teaspoonful of Salt. i teaspoonful of Pepper. Two pennyworth of cooked or uncooked Bones. Mint and Toast. Method :—Wash the peas; put them in a basin of cold water to soak one night; next morning pour off all the water ; put the 2 quarts of water and the peas in a saucepan; bring them to the boil. Peel the onions and turnip ; scrape the carrot and celery; wash all except the onions and cut them into small squares; add them and the bones to the peas. Let the soup simmer 2 hours. Skim sometimes. Take out the bones._ Strain the soup through a wire sieve or colander into a basin; nib all through with a wooden spoon. Pour soup back into the sauce- pan ; add pepper and salt; stir until it boils. Pour the soup into a hot basin ; serve with powdered mint and squares of toast. Time, 3 hours. (32) LENTIL SOUP. Ingredients :—1 pint of red Lentils. 1 Onion. 3 sticks of Celery. 1 oz. of Butter or Dripping. 3 pints of Water. 1 teaspoonful of Salt. 3 teaspoonful cf Pepper.28 Time, 1 hour. Method :—Wash lentils in cold water; grease inside of an iron saucepan with the butter or dripping ; peel and cut onion quarters; cut green tops off celery, wash and cut in pieces Put onion, celery, and lentils into saucepan; put over the fire for 5 minutes with cover on ; stir sometimes to prevent burning ; pour water in; stir well. Let the soup simmer from 1 to li hour; pour soup through wire sieve into a basin, rubbing the vegetables through with a wooden spoon; return soup to the saucepan; add pepper and salt. When the soup boils, stir, and pour it in a basin or soup tureen and serve. 1 carrot is an improvement. Time, 1| hour. (33) STEWED CABBAGE. Ingredients :—1 Cabbage or Savoy. 2 ozs. of Dripping. 2 teaspoonfuls of Salt, teaspoonful of Pepper. 1 dessert-spoonful of Flour. -1 pint of Water, Stock, or Milk. Method:—Cut away the outside leaves of the cabbage;'remove some of the stem; wash and drain it well; then cut it up like a lettuce for salad. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water add 1 teaspoonful of salt, then the cabbage; boil itj very quickly with the cover off the pan for 20 minutes. Strain the cabbage in a colander; press all the w0*<jr away with a spoon. Put the dripping into a stewpan; when melted, add the pepper and rest of the salt, then the cabbage; stir over the fire until it is nearly dry; then mix in the flour, and add by degrees the stock, water, or milk. Stir until it boils to prevent the flour being lumpy. Stew the mixture gently for a | hour; stir often to prevent burning, Pour it in a hot vegetable dish and serve.J>9 (34) STEWED VEGETABLE MARROW. Ingredients :—1 small Marrow. 1 small Onion. 1 oz. of Butter or Dripping. 1 teaspoonful of Salt. 5 teaspoonful of Pepper. Method :—Peel the marrow and onion; cut the marrow into small thick squares; take out seeds ; chop the onion finely. Put the butter or dripping, pepper and salt into a saucepan; when the butter is melted add the onion, shake it over the fire for 5 minutes without allowing it to brown; add the marrow, and let it cook slowly until it pulps; stir it sometimes to prevent burning; then turn it nicely into a hot vegetable dish. Serve with toast. Time 1| hour. (35) BOILED POTATOES. Ingredients :—1 pint of Water. 1 teaspoonful of Salt. 1 lb. Potatoes. Method:—Scrub and wash the potatoes; peel very thinly; take out the eyes; wash the potatoes again. Put some cold water into a saucepan, add salt (in the above proportion), and the potatoes; boil very gently from 20 to 30 minutes. Try with a skewer; if tender, strain off the water, keep the lid off, and shake the pan to let the steam escape from the bottom, then put a clean cloth on the top to absorb the remaining steam; put the pan near the fire for 5 minutes, and shake them over the fire until dry. Turn on a hot dish and serve. New potatoes are always scraped and put on in boiling water with salt in. They take about 20 minutes to boil, and are strained, steamed, and dried like old ones. A little mint boiled with them is an improvement. Time varies.30 Time, | hour. (36) BAKED POTATOES. Ingredients :—Large old Potatoes. Method:—Wash and scrub the potatoes till perfectly clean; dry them on a cloth. Place them in a hot oven, and bake about 1| to 2 hours. They should be turned occasionally. When cooked they feel soft. Time, 2| hours. (37) FRIED POTATOES. Ingredients:—1 lb. Potatoes. Frying Fat. Salt. Method :—Pare the potatoes thinly round and round like an apple; or cut them in slices or oblong pieces; dry on a cloth; throw them into a saucepan of hot fat. Take them out as soon as they are coloured; drain on paper and sprinkle with salt. They are sometimes parboiled before frying, but are then not so crisp. Fry only a few at a time, as they are watery, and lower the temperature of the fat. Cold potatoes a.e fried in a frying-pan, and small new potatoes in a saucepan.TO STEAM POTATOES. Ingredients:—2 lbs. of Potatoes. 1 teaspoonful of Salt. Method:—Choose potatoes as near one size as possible; wash and scrub them, peel them ery thinly and take out the eyes. Place them in a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water nd sprinkle them with salt. Put oti the lid and let them steam for half an hour, or until tender. Try them with a skewer, and if they feel tender they are done. Old potatoes only can be steamed. Time, | hour. (39) NEW POTATOES (SWISS WAY). Ingredients:—Wash and scrape the potatoes; wipe them quite dry. Have a saucepan of fat hot enough for frying. Put in the potatoes one by one, and fry slowly till they are a dark rown colour, about 20 minutes. Drain on paper; sprinkle with salt, and serve hot. When roperly cooked the inside of the potato should be dry and mealy. Time, | hour. (40) BOILED CAULIFLOWER. Ingredients:—2 qts. of Water. 1 large Cauliflower. 1 table-spoonful of Salt. 1 teaspoonful of Sugar.32 Time, 1 hour. Method .-—Take the cauliflower, cut off the stump and withered leaves, wash in cold salt and-water; place it head downwards in a saucepan of boiling water, with a table-spoonful of salt and the soda, or the sugar. Boil from 15 to 20 minutes. When the centre of the stalk feels tender it is done. Serve on a hot dish with melted butter. Time, | hour. (41) POTATO BALLS. Ingredients :—1 lb. Potatoes. 1 dessert-spoonful of Milk. 1 oz. of Butter. 2 Eggs. 1 dessert-spoonful of Parsley. 1 teaspoonful of Salt. | teaspoonful of Pepper. Bread Crumbs. Frying Fat. Method:—Boil and mash the potatoes smoothly. Add the seasoning and one egg well beaten and the milk. Flour your hands and shape the mixture into small balls. Brush them over with egg and cover with bread crumbs. Fry in a saucepan of hot fat about two minutes ; they should be a very pale brown colour. Drain on paper; put a small piece of parsley stalk in each and serve piled up on a hot dish, garnished with parsley.33 (42) • • POTATO PASTRY. Ingredients :—^ lb. of cold boiled Potatoes. | lb. of Flour. 2 ozs. of Lard or Dripping. A little Salt. | lb. Jam. A little Water. Method:—Mash the potatoes very finely; put them into [a basin, add the Hour and salt, then rub the dripping or lard lightly in with the fingers; make it into a paste with the water (very little required, as the potatoes are moist). Put it on a floured paste-board, roll it out thinly, line some tart-tins with it. Bake the pastry in a quick oven about | of an hour ; when done put in some jam. Serve hot or cold. The potato pastry can be also used for a meat pie and is much lighter than all flour pastry. Time, | hour. (43) POTATO SOUP. Ingredients :—4 large Potatoes. 2 Leeks or Onions. 2 ozs. of Butter. 2 qts. of Water. 1 pint of Milk. 3 table-spoonfuls of Crushed Tapioca. 1 dessert-spoonful of Salt. | teaspoonful of Pepper. Method : Put the water in a saucepan to boil. Peel, wash and cut the potatoes in slices ; cjit green tops off the leeks ; peel, wash and slice them or the onions. When the water boils,' add the potatoes, leeks or onions, butter, pepper and salt, and let all boil to a mash. Strain34 the soup through a colander or sieve into a basin, rub all through with a wooden spoon; pour the soup in the saucepan, add the milk when it boils, sprinkle in the tapioca, stir and boil it gently | hour (when the tapioca is clear it is done), i Pour the soup in a hot basin, and serve with or without toast. Time, 2A hours. (44) HARICOT BEANS. Ingredients :— 1 pint of Beans. 1 oz. of Butter. A sprig of Parsley. A little Dripping, Salt and Pepper. Method :—Soak the beans in cold water one night. Put them in a saucepan with the dripping and three pints of fresh cold water, bring to the boil, and boil gently 2 hours. Drain the beans in a colander, return them to the saucepan with the butter, pepper, salt and parsley (chopped). Stir over the fire 5 minutes, turn them on a hot dish and serve. Time, 2£ hours. (45) HARICOT BEANS AND MINCED ONIONS. Ingredients :—1 pint of Haricot Beans. 3 Onions. 1 gill of Brown Gravy. 1 teaspoonful of Flour. 4 teaspoonful of Salt. j teaspconful of Pepper, i oz. of Butter.OO Time, 4 hours. Method:—Soak the beans in cold water all night; put them in a saucepan with a little dripping and 2 quarts of fresh cold water; boil gently two hours ; drain the beans in a colander. Peel and cut the onions in small pieces; fry in the butter a light brown colour, stir in the flour, add the gravy, pepper, and salt, stir until it boils and thickens ; put in the beans, mix all well together, and serve very hot in a vegetable dish. Time, 2£ hours. (46)' • TO MAKE BREAD. Ingredients :—5 lbs. of Flour. 2i pts. of Water. 2 teaspoonfuls of Salt. 1 teaspoonful of Sugar. 1 oz. of German Yeast. N.B.—The better the quality of the flour the more water it will require. Method :—Put nearly all the flour in a large basin (the rest on a plate); mix in the salt; put yeast and sugar into another basin, work with a spoon to a paste, add the water (it must be tepid, i.e., one-third boiling, two-thirds cold); pour in middle of flour; make into a light dough, then knead it with the hand until smooth ; cover basin with a cloth; set near the fire ; let dough rise two hours. Put rest of flour with it and knead again. Turn the dough on a floured board, divide it into two or three; divide each piece in two, one smaller than the other, work both into balls ; put small ones on large, press together in the 'middle •; notch round with a knife. Place the loaves on, or in, floured tins; let rise | hour, bake in hot oven for about 1 hour. Smaller loaves take less time to bake. While bread is baking the oven must not be opened many times. When the bread is done it sounds hollow, and must be put aside to get cold.36 Time, 1 j hour. (47) ■ ;j 1 TO MAKE WHOLE MEAL BREAD. Ingredients :—2 lbs. Flour (Wheat Meal). 1 oz. German Yeast. 1 pt. Tepid Water. 1 teaspoonful Salt. Method:—Dissolve the yeast in the tepid water; mix in with the meal and salt with your hand; let rise near the fire for one hour, and make up into three loaves. Put in tins; let it. rise half an hour (it requires no kneading). Bake in brisk oven about J hour. Time, 2| hours. (48) GINGER BREAD. Ingredients:—1 lb. of Flour. 1 lb. Treacle or Golden Syrup. 6 ozs. of Butter. 2 ozs. of Sugar. 2 ozs. of Lemon Peel. 1 oz. of Ground Ginger. 1 teaspoonful of Carbonate Soda. 1 small teacupful of Milk. 2 Eggs. Method:—Put treacle, butter and sugar into a saucepan over the lire to dissolve. Break the eggs into a cup ; beat them up. Cut up the peel very finely. Dissolve the soda in the milk. Put the Hour into a basin, mix in the ginger and peel, then stir in the eggs, treacle, etc.; beat well. Pour in the milk and soda, and beat well again. Pour the mixture into a greased shallow tin, bake in a moderately hot oven about f hour. When done, turn it from the tin and cool on a sieve.37 (49) TO MAKE A CAKE (FRUIT). Ingredients:—| lb. of Flour. 5 lb. of Fruit (Currants or Sultanas). 2 ozs. of Dripping. 2 ozs. of Sugar. 1 oz. of Peel. 1 Egg. \ gill of Milk. 2 teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. A little Salt. Method :—Grease a oake-tin with dripping. Wash and dry the currants; rub in a cloth ; pick off the stalks. If sultanas are used, rub them in a cloth with a little flour ; pick off stalks. Cut peel in small pieces. Break egg into a basin, see that it is fresh ; beat up with a fork ; add milk. Put flour into another basin, mix in salt; rub dripping in Tightly; mix in with a wooden spoon the baking powder, sugar, fruit and peel; make into a very stiff paste with the egg and milk ; if not quite moist enough, a little water may be used. Turn into tin ; bake in a hot oven for one hour or more. To see if the cake is done, put a skewer into it; if it come out clean the cake is done ; then turn out of tin and put on its side to get cold. Time, 1| heur. (50) TO MAKE A CAKE (SEED). Ingredients :—10 ozs. of Flour. 2 ozs. of Dripping. 2 ozs. of Sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls of Caraway Seeds. 1 teaspoonful of Baking Powder. A little Salt. 1 Egg. A gill or more Milk.38 Method :—Grease a cake-tin. Break egg into a basin, see that it is fresh ; beat up with a fork ; add milk. Put flour into another basin ; add salt; mix it with the flour; rub dripping in lightly; mix in with a spoon the baking powder, seeds and sugar. Make it a very stiff paste with egg and milk. Turn it into a tin ; bake in a hot oven about 1 hour. When done, turn it out of tin, and put on its side to get cold. Cake should not be cut hot. Time, 1 j hour. (51) TO MAKE A CAKE. Ingredients :—1 lb. of Flour. 3 ozs. of Dripping. | lb. of Currants or Sultanas. | lb. of Sugar. ^ pint of Milk. ^ teaspoonful of Mixed Spice. 1 teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 1 Egg- Method :—Rub the dripping into the flour ; clean the currants; mix all the dry ingre- dients. Beat the egg and milk together, add it to the dry ingredients, beat it well; pour the mixture into a greased cake-tin. Bake 1 hour. Time, li hour. (52) CORN FLOUR CAKE. Ingredients:—| lb. of Corn Flour. 1 table-spoonful of Flour. | lb. of Castor Sugar. 2 ozs. of Butter. 1 teaspconful of Baking Powder.39 Method:—Put the butter into a basin, beat it to a cream with a wooden spoon; add the sugar and mix well; then break in the eggs, and beat well together. Now stir in lightly the flour and corn flour; add the baking powder, and beat briskly for five minutes. Pour the mixture in a greased cake-tin (do not let it be more than half full). Put it immediately into a hot oven, and bake for I an hour. When done turn the cake out of the tin, and cool on a sieve. If liked, the mixture could be baked in small patty pans, and will then take only from 10 to 15 minutes to bake. Time, 1 hour. (53) ROCK CAKES. Ingredients :— i- lb. of Flour. 2 ozs. of Dripping. | lb. of Currants. | lb. of Sugar. 1 oz. of Mixed Peel. 1 Egg- | gill of Milk. A little grated Nutmeg. A little Salt. Method:—Rub the dripping into the flour; clean the currants; mix all the dry ingre- dients together; beat the egg with the milk, add them to the dry ingredients; mix into a stiff paste. Take up the mixture with two forks and place on a greased baking-tin in little rough heaps. Bake 15 minutes.40 (54) HOT CROSS BUNS. Ingredients:—2 lbs. of Flour. 1 oz. of German Yeast. 2 Eggs. 1 pint of Milk. | lb. of Castor Sugar. 4 lb. of Sultanas or Currants. 1 oz. of Butter. 1 teaspoouful of Mixed Spice. Method:—But 1 ] lb. of flour into a basin ; warm the butter and milk over the tire; when lukewarm, mix into the yeast. Add to the fluor and beat well. Cover with a cloth, and set it to rise about 1 hour. Mix in the rest of the flour, the sugar, sultanas and the eggs beaten with the spice. Beat well, and let it rise another 4 hour. When risen enough, take up the dough with a floured spoon, and put it on greased baking-sheets in the shape of buns. Let them rise not too near the fire about 15 minutes. Bake in a quick oven 15 or 20 minutes. When half done, brush over with milk and sugar. Time, 24 hours. (55) RICE BUNS. Ingredients :—1 lb. of Ground Rice. ^ lb. of Flour. | lb. of Castor Sugar. G ozs. of Butter. 4 teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 1 teaspoonful of Essence of Lemon. A little Salt and Candied Peel. 3 Eggs.41 Time, 3 hours. Method:—Cream the butter, mix the sugar into it; break the eggs into a basin, one at a time; add the flavouring to them and beat well. Mix the rice and flour together; add to the butter the eggs, then the flour by degrees; mix and beat them well. At the last add the baking powder. Place the mixture in little rough heaps on a greased baking-tin ; put a little peel and castor sugar on top of each. Bake in a hot oven hour. Cool them on a sieve. Time, 1 hour. (56) YORKSHIRE TEA CAKES. Inyredients :—2 lbs. of Flour. 1 oz. of German Yeast. 4 ozs. of Butter. 1 Egg. 1 pint of Tepid Milk. i gill of Hot Water. Method:—Put the flour into a basin, melt the butter in the hot water, break the egg into a basin, beat it up; dissolve the yeast with ateaspoonfnl of sugar; pour on one gill of the milk; add the butter, water and egg. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, pour in the yeast, etc., stir in some of the Hour from the sides till it is of the consistency of cream ; sprinkle a little Hour over the top ; cover the basin, and set it to rise in a warm place about one hour; then knead it into a light dough, using the rest of the milk. Cut the dough across with a knife, cover it, and let it rise another hour (or until ttye surface cracks). Turn it on a Houred board, divide it into ten portions, roll these into cakes, put them on a floured baking-sheet, prick them with a fork and let them rise before the Are ten minutes. Bake in a moderate oven from j to 7T an hour. Cut them open and butter, and serve very hot.42 ' ' (57) SODA_BUNS. <1 I 1 Ingredients :—1 lb. of Flour. 6 ozs. of Butter. 6 ozs. of Castor Sugar. 2 ozs. of Mixed Peel. 3 Eggs. i gill of Milk. i teaspoonful of Baking Powder. | teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda. | teaspoonful of Salt. Method.—Mix the flour, salt and baking powder in a basin, dissolve the soda in the milk, divide the eggs, put the yolks in a basin (whites of 2 on a plate with a pinch of salt), beat them up and add them to the milk. Cut the peel in shreds. Rub the butter in the flour and mix in the sugar and peel, then mix it into a stiff paste with the eggs and milk. Whip the whites to a stiff froth and stir them lightly into the mixture. Shape the buns roughly with two forks. Put them on a greased baking-sheet, sprinkle with castor sugar, and decorate with a little peel. Bake in a quick oven | hour. When done put them on a sieve to get cold. Time, 1 hour. (58) SHREWSBURY CAKES. Ingredients: — 8 ozs. of Flour. 4 ozs. of Butter. 4 ozs. of Castor Sugar. 1 Egg. 1 teaspoonful of pounded Mace or Cinnamon, or 4 teaspoonful of Essence of Lemon. A little Salt.43 Time, f hour. Method :—Put the butter and castor sugar in a basin; beat to a cream with the hand or a spoon; then add the egg and spice, or lemon, and beat in lightly the flour by degrees (6 instead of 8 ozs. of flour makes the cakes richer). Turn it on a well-floured board ; flour it and roll it thinly; cut it in rounds. Put them with a knife on a greased tin and bake about ten minutes. They should be a very pale brown, and must be put on one side to get cold. Time, 1 hour. (59) SCONES. Ingredients :—1 lb. of Flour. 2 ozs. of Castor Sugar. 3 ozs. of Butter. ^ oz. of Cream of Tartar. | oz. of Carbonate of Soda. 4 pint of Milk. ^ teaspoonful of Salt. Method:—Rub the butter into the flour; add salt; mix the sugar and cream of tartar on a plate, and add to the flour and butter. Dissolve soda in milk and mix into a paste with the flour, etc.; roll it out 14 inch thick; cut into triangles. Bake on a greased baking-sheet I hom\ When half done, brush over with milk beaten up with sugar. When done, set aside to get cold.44 (60) FEU IT PIE. Ingredients:—1 lb. Fruit. 1 lb. Flour. 3 ozs. of Dripping or Lard. 2 ozs. of Sugar (moist). ■| gill of Water. i teaspoonful of Baking Powder (or not). 1 oz. of White Sugar. A little Salt. Method.—Prepare the fruit; put half in a pie-dish; add sugar and a little water; then the rest of the fruit. Short Crust:—Mix the Hour, salt, baking powder, and half the white sugar in a basin; rub in the dripping or lard; make them into a paste with the water. Turn paste on a floured board; roll it out a little larger than the top of the pie-dish. Cut off some strips of paste; grease edge of dish ; put strips on; wet them ; put top on. Press edges together; trim and notch them up with a knife. Bake the pie in a hot oven about half an hour ; when half done sprinkle it with water and white sugar ; finish baking; serve hot or cold. The fruit must boil well before the pie will be done. Trimmings of paste should be baked. Time, 1 hour. (61) BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. Ingredients:—$ lb. of Flour. ^ lb. of Dripping. ^ teaspoonful of Bakiug Powder. ^ teaspoonful of Salt. 6 Apples (Sugar and Cloves to taste). Water.45 Time, 2 hours. Method:—Peel the apples and core them, if possible, without quartering the apples. Short Crust:—Mix flour, salt, and baking powder in a basin, then rub in the dripping, add cold water to make it a light, firm paste. Put it on a floured board ; flour it, roll it out | inch thick ; cut it in rounds; put an apple on each round ; fill with sugar and two cloves; work the paste smoothly over the apples; place on a greased tin; bake in a hot oven from pi to | hour, according to size; when done put the dumplings on a hot dish with a slice, sprinkle with castor sugar; serve hot or cold. Turnovers may be made for a change. Time, 1^ hour. (62) SULTANA AND CRUMB PUDDING. Ingredients :—| lb. of Bread Crumbs. | lb. of Suet. 1 lb. of Flour. | lb. of Sultanas. 2 ozs. of Sugar. | teaspoonful of Grated Nutmeg. A pinch of Salt. | pint of Milk. 1 Egg. Method:—Have ready a saucepan of boiling water. Dip the middle of a pudding-cloth in the boiling water; sprinkle it with flour; have a string ready. Put the bread crumbs in a basin; mix in the salt and nutmeg. Rub the sultanas in a cloth with a little flour ; pick off the stalks. Break the egg in another basin ; beat up with a fork ; add the milk. Chop the suet finely. Mix the flour with the crumbs, and add the suet, sugar and sultanas. Mix thoroughly; make into a paste with the milk and egg. Turn the pudding into the cloth, tie up tightly in the shape of a ball; leave room for it to swell. Put the pudding into boiling water; boil quickly for 1| hour. Keep it well covered with boiling water. When done, turn the pudding from the cloth on to a hot dish. Less suet may be used.46 Time, 1| hour. (63) FIG PUDDING. Ingredients :—§■ lb. of Figs. ^ lb. of Bread Crumbs. | lb. of Suet. | lb. of Sugar. | lb. of Flour. 1 gill of Milk. 1 Egg. A little Salt. I teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Method :—Crumble some stale bread. Chop the suet and figs finely. Grease a basin or mould, and wet and flour a pudding-cloth. Put the crumbs into a basin; mix in with a wooden spoon the salt, baking powder, flour, sugar, suet, and figs. Beat up the egg and milk together, pour it on the dry ingredients ; make them into a rather moist paste. Turn the pudding into a basin ; tie the cloth over the top with a string ; steam or boil the pudding 4 hours, or if in a cloth, 2h hours. When done, remove the string and cloth, and turn the pudding on a hot dish. Serve plain or with lemon sauce. Time, 1^ hour. (64) MACARONI PUDDING. Ingredients :—j lb. of Macaroni. 2 ozs. Sugar. 1 Egg. 1 pt. of Milk. A little Grated Nutmeg. Method :—Break the macaroni into small pieces; place in a saucepan of boiling water; boil uncovered 20 minutes; pour off the water; add the milk; simmer very slowly about 15 minutes, or till the macaroni is tender. Draw the pan to the side of the fire to cool a little. Beat the egg and sugar together, stir it into the macaroni, pour it into a greased pie-dish, grate a little nutmeg over the top. Bake h hour.(65) SAGO PUDDING. Ingredients :—1 oz. of Sago. 1 pint of Milk. 1 Egg- 1 oz. of Moist Sugar. A little Grated Nutmeg. A little Butter. Method :—Wash the sago, let it soak one hour in A pint of cold water, strain off the water, put the sago into a saucepan with the milk, let it simmer gently until clear, stirring frequently. Let it cool a little. Beat the egg and sugar well together ; stir them into the saucepan. Pour into a greased pie-dish ; grate nutmeg on top; bake in a warm oven for 30 minutes. Serve hot. Time, 2 hours. (66) TAPIOCA PUDDING. Ingredients :—2 table-spoonfuls of Tapioca. 1 pint of Milk. 2 Eggs. A little Spice. 1 oz. Moist Sugar. A little Butter. Method:—Wash the tapioca in cold water; strain; put it into a saucepan with the milk and let it simmer slowly. Pour it into a pan to cool; add the sugar and eggs; beat all well together; pour it into a greased pie-dish ; grate nutmeg on the top. Bake in a warm oven about 30 minutes. Serve hot. Time, 1| hour. If liked, the milk may be flavoured with lemon rind or g-inch stick of cinnamon, to be taken out before the eggs are added. It will then require no spice on top.48 Time, | hour. (67) YORKSHIRE PUDDING. Ingredients :■—| lb. of Flour. 2 Eggs. 1 pt. of Milk. A pinch of Salt. Dripping. Method:—Mix the salt and flour together in a basin. Break the eggs in another basin, add to flour, and mix quite smoothly with a little of the milk; beat it well; let there be no lumps in it. Add the remainder of the milk by degrees. Put the pudding-tin under the meat to catch some of the dripping ; pour in the pudding, and bake in a hot oven for -1- hour. Time, 1 hour. (68) TEA CUP PUDDING. Ingredients :—1 dessert-spoonful of Corn Flour. 1 teaspoonful of Sugar. A few grains of Salt. i pt. of Milk. 1 Egg. A little Butter. Method :■—Mix corn flour and milk. Add the sugar and salt. Stir the mixture in a stewpan over the*fire for five minutes. Break egg in a basin; beat it up; add it to the milk, corn flour, etc.; beat up till well mixed, pour into a greased cup. Cover with a greased paper; steam i an hour. n Let it stand five minutes before turning it out.49 Time, 2| hours. (69) SEMOLINA PUDDING. Ingredients :—1 oz. of Semolina. 1 Egg. 1 oz. of Sugar. \ pt. of Milk. A little Grated Nutmeg. Method:—Put the milk into a saucepan over the fire; as soon as it boils, gradually shake in the semolina; stir it till it thickens. Draw it on one side to cool a little. Beat the egg and sugar together; stir in the semolina. Pour into greased pie-dish; grate a little mutmeg ovei- the top. Bake 15 minutes. Time, 25 minutes. (70) RICE PUDDING. Ingredients ;—1 1 1 2 _x 2 quart of Milk, teacupful of Rice, oz. of Suet. table-spoonfuls of Moist Sugar, teaspoonful of Grated Nutmeg. Method:—Wash the rice, either in a hair sieve or in a cloth put over a basin. Put it into a pie-dish with the sugar and nutmeg. Mix all together. Pour in the milk. Sprinkle the suet and grate a little nutmeg over the top. Bake the pudding in a moderate oven from 1A to 2 hours. Turn it in the oven two or three times. Serve hot or cold. The rice may be boiled first, if liked, and if it be, the pudding will take less time to bake.50 (71) FRUIT PUDDING. Ingredients:—1 lb. of Fruit (Apples or any Fruit in season). 1 lb. of Flour. 3 or 4 ozs. of Suet. 2 ozs. of Brown Sugar. £ teaspoonful of Baking Powder. A little Salt and Dripping. 1 gill of Water. Method :—Grease a pint pudding-basin with dripping; then sprinkle it with sugar. Prepare the fruit. Suet Crust:—Mix flour, salt and baking powder in a basin; chop the suet ; mix it with the flour; make it into a light firm paste with the water; put it on a floured board. Cut off one-third for the top ; roll out the large piece and line the basin. Put in half the fruit, the sugar, and a little water (according to kind of fruit). Then the rest of the fruit; roll out the small piece of paste; put it on the top ; damp it and draw the lining over it; flour it and tie a pudding-cloth over it. Boil for two hours in a saucepan well filled with boiling water. Take it up; remove the string and cloth; put in a hot dish over the basin; turn it upside down and lift it from the pudding. Serve hot. Wash the pudding-cloth as soon as possible. All puddings of this kind are best eaten hot. Time, 2| hours. (72) SUET PUDDING. Ingredients:—J lb. of Flour. 4 or 6 ozs. of Suet. 11 gill of Water. 1 teaspoonful of Baking Powder. | teaspoonful of Salt.ol Method:—Put a saucepan of water on the fire to boil. Dip the middle of the pudding cloth into it; wring and sprinkle it with flour; have a string ready. Skin, shred, and chop the suet finely (a little flour prevents it from sticking). Mix flour, salt, baking powder, and suet together in a basin; mix into a light paste v ith the water; knead a little; turn it into the pudding-cloth ; tie lightly, leaving a little room for it to swell; plunge into boiling water; boil quic ky 2 hours. When done remove the string and cloth, turn the pudding carefully on to a hot dish, and serve with roast and boiled meat or preserve. Time, 2i hours. (73) CHRISTMAS PUDDING. Ingredients :— 1 lb. Raisins. 1 lb. Currants. 1 lb. Sugar, i lb. Sultanas. ^ lb. Mixed Peel. | lb. Almonds (or not). ~ lb. Flour. | lb. Bread Crumbs. ■| lb. Beef Suet (or more). 6 or 8 Eggs. Milk (according to size of Eggs). Rind of 1 Lemon (chopped). ^ teaspoonful of Salt. 1 teaspoonful of Spice. Ginger, Cloves, Nutmeg, and Cinnamon. Method :—Grease some pudding basins or moulds, and, if liked, sprinkle with castor sugar; have ready pudding-cloths, strings, and pieces of white paper greased. Stone the raisins, wash and dry the currants, clean the sultanas, cut the peel into shreds, blanch and shred the almonds, make the bread crumbs, chop the suet finely. Break the eggs one at a time in a cup,52 Time, 2 hours. put them into a basin, beat well and add a little milk. Put the flour into a basin, mix in the salt, spice, crumbs, and lemon rind, then add the suet, sugar, almonds and fruit; when all is well mixed add eggs and mix all in a rather loose paste. Fill the basins to the top and cover with paper, then the cloth. Put the puddings in boiling water and boil from 6 to 10 hours, According to size. For serving, remove the cloth and paper, turn the pudding carefully on a hot dish, and sprinkle with castor sugar. Christmas pudding improves by being kept in a cool dry place. Time, 12 hours. (74) ROLY-POLY PUDDING. Ingredients :—| lb. of Flour. | lb, of Suet. ^ lb. of Jam. J teaspoonful of Baking Powder. \ teaspoonful of Salt. 1^ gill of Water. Method :—Mix the flour, salt and baking powder in a basin ; chop the suet finely; mix it with the Hour ; make it into a light firm paste with water ; put it on a doured paste-board ; flour it; roll it into a long thin piece; spread the jam over it, not too near the edge ; wet the edge ; roll up the paste; press ends together. Flour the pudding and put it (with the join down) in a dry pudding-cloth; roll the cloth round it, and tie at each end with string. Put it in a saucepan of boiling water. Boil for 1J hour. All puddings of this kind should be boiled quickly, and well covered with water all the time. When done, take it up ; let it steam ; and then turn it carefully on to a hot dish and serve.53 Time, hours. (75) HUNTER PUDDING. Ingredients :—| lb. Flour. | lb. Suet. 1 lb. Raisins, Currants, or Sultanas. 2 ozs. of Brown Sugar. I teaspoonful Baking Powder. | teaspoonful of Salt. II gill Water. Method .—Put a saucepan of water on the fire to boil, dip the middle of the pudding-cloth in the boiling water, flour it and have a string ready. Mix the flour, salt, and baking powder in a basin. Chop the suet finely, take away the skin, stone the raisins, wash and dry the currants, or clean the sultanas. Add to the flour the suet, sugar, and fruit. Mix well and make it into a light, firm paste with the water ; put it in the cloth, tie it up tightly in the shape of a ball (leave room for it to swell), put it in the boiling water, boil it quickly for U hour. Take it up on a plate, untie the string, turn it from the cloth on to a hot dish and serve. Time, 2 hours. (76) BAKED BREAD PUDDING. Ingredients :—1 lb. Stale Bread. | lb. Sugar. | lb. Currants. 1 oz. chopped Suet. 1 Egg- I teaspoonful Nutmeg or Spice. A little Salt and Dripping. Method :—Cut the bread into small pieces, put them into a basin with cold water to cover them. Let them soak until soft, then press all the water away; beat the bread with a fork. Wash and dry the currants. Break the egg into a basin, beat it up, add to the bread the currants, sugar, spice, salt and egg. Mix well, and if liked, half a pint of milk may be used. Turn it into a well greased tin and bake 1 hour. Serve hot or cold.54 Time, 1 hour. (77) BOILED BREAD PUDDING. Ingredients :—Pieces of Bread (about half a pound). Sour Milk (enough to cover the Bread). 1 Egg. 2 ozs. Sugar. 1 oz. Suet. 1 oz. Peel. A little Salt, Dripping and chopped Lemon Rind. Method :—Soak the bread in the milk until quite soft, then press all the milk away, leaving the bread like crumbs. Grease and sugar a tasin (1 pint size). Wet and flour a cloth. Add to the bread the sugar, salt, rind, peel and suet, mix well and beat in the egg, put it into the basin, tie the cloth over it, boil it from 24 to 3 hours. Take it up on a plate, remove the cloth, turn it carefully on to a hot dish, sprinkle with castor sugar. Nutmeg may be used as a change for flavouring. Time, 34 hours. (78) PANCAKES. Ingredients :—4 ozs. Flour. 1 Egg. 4 pt. Milk. | teaspoonful Salt. Sugar, Lard, and Lemon. Method :—Mix the Hour and salt in a basin, break the egg into a cup, put it in the middle of the flour and add a little milk at a time, stir from the middle until the flour is mixed smoothly and half the milk used, then beat it well and add the rest of the milk. (Let it stand, if possible, half an hour.) Put a small piece of lard in a small frying pan; when melted, pour in batter to cover the pan; let it set. Shake the pan, to prevent the cake sticking; fry about two minutes, then turn it, either by tossing or with a knife. Then fry it for one minute or until brown, turn it on a piece of paper, sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice, roll up, and continue to fry the batter in the same way. When all the cakes are made arrange them on a hot dish on paper and sprinkle with castor sugar. The cakes may have more eggs if wished richer.55 Time, 1hour. (79) MINCE MEAT. Ingredients :—\ lb. Apples (trimmed). 7T lb. of Plums. | lb. of Currants. | lb. of Tripe, i lb. of Sugar. •i lb. of Peel. ^ teaspoonful of Mixed Spice. Rind of 2 Lemons and Juice of 1. Method:—Chop the apples, plums, tripe and peel very finely; mix together all dry ingredients, including lemon rind. Pour over them the lemon juice. Press the mixture down tightly in a jar, and keep air-tight in a dry place. Time, 2 hours. (80) MINCE MEAT (Second Receipt). Ingredients :—i lb. Beef Suet. J lb. Apples. ■i lb. Currants. J lb. Raisins. | lb. Mixed Peel. | lb. Moist Sugar. | teaspoonful Ground Cloves and Cinnamon. Juice of 1 Lemon and J Rind grated. . Pinch of Salt. Method:—Skin, shred and chop the suet with the apples peeled, cored and sliced; stone the raisins, chop them and the peel finely. Wash and dry the currants. Mix all these ingredients in a jar with the spice, juice and rind of lemon, sugar and salt. Stir well together and keep closely tied down until required for use. 4 ozs. of finely chopped lean boiled meat can be added if liked for those who prefer a more solid mince meat.56 Time, 1 j hour. (81) OATMEAL BISCUITS. Ingredients :—7 ozs. Flour. 3 ozs. Coarse Oatmeal. 3 ozs. Lard or Butter. 2 or 3 ozs. Castor Sugar. 1 Egg. 5 teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda. A little Salt and Water. Method :—Put the lard or butter into a saucepan to melt. Mix all the dry ingredients in a basin with a spoon; break the egg into a cup, beat it up and add a table-spoonful of water; stir the butter or lard in with the dry ingredients, add the egg and make it into a paste. Put it on a floured board ; flour it; roll it thinly and cut in small rounds. Put the biscuits on a greased tin; bake from 15 to 20 minutes. Take from tin with a knife and put aside to get cold. Time, 1 hour. (82) TO MAKE GEUEL. Ingredients:—1 table-spoonful of Patent Groats or fine Oatmeal. 1 pint of boiling Water. Sugar or Salt (to taste). Methods :—Put one pint of water into a saucepan. Let'it boil. Put one table-spoonful of groats or oatmeal into a basin. Mix into a smooth paste with two table-spoonfuls of cold water. Then pour it into the boiling water in the saucepan, and stir with a wooden spoon. Let it come to the boil. Draw it to the side of the fire and simmer for 1 hour. Pour it into basin and flavour to taste. If liked, a | oz. of fresh butter may be added with the sugar or salt.Time, 10 minutes. PORRIDGE. Ingredients:—3 ozs. of Coarse Oatmeal. 1 pint of Water. | teaspoonful of Salt. Milk and Sugar. Method .-—Put the water into a saucepan; when boiling fast add salt; sprinkle in the oat- meal ; stir with a wooden spoon; boil gently for five minutes. Let it simmer for twenty minutes more; stir often, or it will burn. Turn on hot plates, and serve with Milk and Sugar. Time, 35 minutes. (84) MELTED BUTTER. Ingredients :—1 oz. of Butter. i oz. of Flour. | teaspoonful of Salt. h pint of Water. Method:—Put the butter into a small saucepan; when melted, add Hour; stir over the tiie one minute to cook the flour; add the water by degrees; stir until it boils and thickens : boil gently three minutes; stir all the time, or it will burn; stir only one way or it will curdle. Add the salt; pour into a basin ; or over the fish.58 (85) TO MAKE JAM. Ingredients:—1 lb. of Fruit. | lb. of Loaf Sugar. Method:—Prepare the fi’uit; put it and the sugar into a clean dry stewpan or saucepan over the fire. Keep stirring with a wooden spoon until it boils, or it will burn. Boil about of an hour; stir often, and take off the scum as it rises. When a little will set on a cold plate it is done. Pour it into clean, dry pots. When cold, cover the pots with clean white paper, brushed over with white of egg or gum. Keep it in a cool, dry place. Green gooseberry, black currant, strawberry and raspberry jam require an equal weight of sugar and fruit. Time, 1| hour. (86) STRAWBERRY JAM. Ingredients :—To every pound of Fruit allow, 1| lb. Loaf Sugar. 1 pint Red Currant Juice. Method:—Choose the strawberries not too ripe and of good colour. Pick off the stalks lay the strawberries in a dish and sprinkle over them half the quantity of sugar, which must be pounded. Shake the dish gently that the sugar may be equally distributed, and let it remain for one day. Currant Juice :—Put the currants into a jar; place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire; let it simmer until the juice is drawn from the currants; pour it off; put 1 pint ■nto a saucepan or stewpan, boil it with the remainder of the sugar until it forms a thin syrup, and in this simmer the strawberries and sugar until the whole is sufficiently jellied. Great care must be taken in stirring, as the fruit should be preserved as whole as possible.59 (87) MARMALADE. Ingredients:—1 lb. of Seville Oranges. 2 lbs. of Loaf Sugar. | pint of Water. Method: — Brush and wash the oranges well, then boil them until the rind can be easily pierced with the head of a pin, then take them up with a spoon on a dish. Put the sugar and water to soak, then pour it in a preserving pan, boil it gently about i an hour, or until it becomes a syrup; let it get nearly cold, or the chips will harden. Quartet' the oranges, take out the pips and centre pith ; put the pulp on a dish, then cut the rind into the finest possible shreds. Put shreds or chips with the pulp and add it to the syrup; boil it gently 1 hour; stir constantly; try a little on a saucer—it jellies when done. Pour it with a cup into clean, dry, warm pots; when cold, cover with thin paper dipped in the white of egg; label it and keep it in a cool dry place. Time, 4 hours. (88) MARMALADE (Second Receipt). Ingredients:—1 large Seville Orange. | lb. Loaf Sugar. \ pint Water. Method:—Wash and brush the orange; cut it in quarters; remove the pips and centre pith; cut it in fine shreds; place the shreds with the water in a large basin, let it remain one night. Pour water and orange into a preserving pan, add the sugar, stir until it boils. Boil it gently until itt( jellies ” (about 2 hours). Pinish as in first receipt. Time, after soaking, 4 hours.Time, 40 minutes. GO (89) TO MAKE COFFEE. Ingredients :—1 oz. of Coffee. 1 pint Boiling Water. Method:—Place the coffee in the top part of the coffee-pot after scalding the pot with boiling water. Press it down and pour on it one pint of boiling water; let it stand in a warm place about 5 minutes, or till the water has run through into the lower part of the pot. Serve with hot milk and sugar. Time, 10 minutes. (90) TO MAKE COFFEE IK A JUG WITH A LID. Ingredients:— 1 pint of Water. ' 1 table-spoonful of Ground Coffee. Method:—Fill the kettle from the tap and put it on the fire to hoil. Make a large jug hot with hot water; pour out the water and put in the ground coffee. Add the water when boiling. Put the lid on and let the jug stand five minutes for the coffee to draw. Clear it by pouring out a little into a cup and pouring it back again. Do this three times. Put the lid on again and let the jug stand in a place sufficiently hot for it almost to simmer for ten minutes. Serve it with sugar and hot milk.61 Time, | hour. (91) TO MAKE COCOA. Ingredients :—Boiling Milk and Water. From 1 to 2 teaspoonfuls of Prepared Cocoa (according to kind). Sugar. Method:—Put the cocoa in a breakfast-cup, add a little cold milk, and make it into a smooth paste; then stir in equal quantities of boiling water and milk, sweeten and serve. Care must be taken not to burn the milk. Nearly all kinds of cocoa are improved by boiling. Time, | hour. (92) LIVER AND BACON. Ingredients:—1 lb. Sheep’s or Calf’s Liver. \ lb. Bacon. 1 dessert-spoonful of Flour. 1 gill of Water. | teaspoonful of Salt. A little Pepper. Method :—Cut the bacon into thin slices; cut off the rind; cut the liver into slices about one inch thick; put a little flour on a plate; dip the liver into it; see it is well covered. Put the- bacon in a frying-pan ; fry about 4 minutes; turn it to prevent burning. When nicely browned, put it on a dish; keep it hot. Put the slices of liver in the pan and fry them about 10 minutes ; move them to prevent burning; turn only once (if liked a small onioh may be peeled, then cut in thin slices and fried with the liver). When done the inside should be a brownish colour then place the liver in the middle of the dish ; keep it hot. Mix the flour, pepper and salt in a basin; make it into a smooth paste with the water; pour this into the pan; stir and boil gently 5 minutes. Strain the gravy over the liver and serve very hot.02 (93) TO FRY EGGS AND BACON. Ingredients —Eggs. Bacon. Toast. Method :—Cut the bacon into thin slices, cut off the rind, put the slices into a clean dry frying-pan, and fry them a delicate brown ; move and turn them to prevent burning. Put the bacon on a hot dish. Break the eggs, one at a time, in a cup, pour them carefully in the hot fat, and fry about two minutes. See that they do not stick to the pan or burn ; take them up with a slice or spoon and place on the dish vitli the bacon, pour the fat round them cut the toast in neat pieces and put round the dish. Time, ^ hour. (94) POACHED EGGS AND SPINACH. Ingredients :—2 lbs. Spinach. 1 oz. of Butter. Eggs- Boiling Water. Salt. A little Lemon Juice. A little Pepper. Bread. * I Method :—Wash the spinach well in several waters; pick off the stalks ; put it into a large saucepan, with sufficient boiling water to keep it from burning ; sprinkle over a little salt; let it boil uncovered until tender. Press out all the water, cut it up very small, or rub it through a wire sieve; return it to the saucepan with the butter, pepper and lemon juice; stir until very hot. Toast a round of bread, cut into triangles, arrange them round a hot vegetable dish, put the spinach in the centre. To Poacli Eggs :—Put some water into a frying-pan, when it boils put in a little salt; draw the pan to one side, slip in the eggs, previously broken in a cup; simmer until the white is set. Take them out carefully with a slice, lay them on the spinach, and serve hot. Time, 1 hour.63 (95) STEWED TRIPE AND ONIONS. Ingredients :—1 lb. Tripe. 4 Onions. 1 pint of Milk. 1 dessert-spoonful of Elour. 7T teaspoonful of Salt. | teaspoonful of Pepper. | oz. of Butter. Method :—Put the tripe into a saucepan, cover it with cold water, let it boil up (this is to blanch the tripe), take it up, put it on a dish, cut it into pieces. Peel and cut the onions into small pieces; put the tripe, onions and milk into a saucepan, bring it to the boil, then simmer 11 hour. Take out the tripe, arrange it nicely on a hot dish; keep it hot. Mix the flour, salt, and pepper with a little cold milk into a thin paste; stir it and the butter in with the milk and onions, and let it boil slowly five minutes. Pour the sauce over the tripe and serve hot. Time, 2 hours. (96) MEAT PATTIES. Ingredients:—| lb. of Flour. | lb. Dripping or Lard. I lb. Beef Steak. 1^ gill Water. 1 teaspoonful Salt. ••v ? teaspoonful Pepper.Method:—Grease some patty pans. Mix pepper and nearly all the salt on a plate. Cut meat in small squares; mix well with seasoning. Short Crust:—Put flour and rest of salt into a basin. Mix together ; rub dripping or lard lightly into the flour with the fingers ; make into a light firm paste with the water, adding it by degrees; mix with a knife; turn paste on a floured board, and with a floured rolling-pin roll the paste a lil >ss than | inch thick. Cut paste in rounds; make two for each pan; put a round in each , . one dessert-spoonful of meat and a little water ; wet edge of paste ; put a round on the t , ' each ; press edges together ; notch with a knife. Make a hole in the top to let steam out Brush over with milk. Bake in a hot oven about | hour. Serve hot or cold. Time, 1| hour. (97) ONION SAUCE. Ingredients:—4 Large Onions. 1 oz. of Butter. ■I oz. of Flour. 2 pint of Milk. | teaspoonful of Salt. Method:—Peel the onions, put them into a saucepan, cover with water, and boil until quite tender in two waters to extract the strong oil. Strain off the water, put onions on a board, and chop finely. Put the butter in a saucepan and melt it; mix in the flour and stir over the fire for 1 minute to cook the flour; pour the milk in gradually, stir until it boils and thickens, put in the onions and salt, and simmer for a few minutes. Sei've hot.65 fICX I * (98) MINT SAUCE. Ingredients:—2 table-spoonfuls of Chopped Mint. 2 teaspoonfuls of Moist Sugai*. 1 gill of Yinegar. Method :—Wash the mint, pick the leaves oft’ the stalks and dry them, chop them up finely and put them in a tureen, add the sugar and vinegar, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. This sauce is better for being made 2 or 3 hours before wanted. Time, £'hour. (99) APPLE SAUCE. Ingredients:—6 Apples. ^ oz. of Butter. Sugar to taste. Water. Method .—Peel, core, and quarter the apples, put them in a saucepan with a little cold water; boil uutil quite soft. Beat them up, add sugar to taste, and stir in the butter. Pour into a tureen and serve hot. Time, f hour. - i (100) BARLEY WATER. Ingredients:—1 oz. of Pearl Barley. 1 quart of Water. Lemon Rind. Sugar to taste.Time, 20 minutes. Method:—Boil the pearl barley in one quart of water 20 minutes, sweeten to taste. A second quart of water boiled with the same barley is better than the first. A bit of lemon rind improves it. Time, 30 minutes. (101) BEAN TEA. Ingredients :—3 table-spoonfuls of middling-sized Bran. Sugar or Honey to taste. 1 quart of Boiling Water. Method .- — Pour one quart of boiling water on three table-spoonfuls of bran. Let it stand a quarter of an hour, sweeten with sugar or honey. Time, 20 minutes. (102) LEMONADE. Ingredients :—1 Lemon. \ pint of Boiling Water. Sugar to taste. Method :—Peel a lemon very thinly, remove all the white pith, put the rind into a jug with the lemon cut in slices ; pour over it the boiling water. Cover till cool. Sweeten to taste.67 (103) WINE WHET OR TREACLE POSSET. Ingredients :—\ pint of Boiling Milk. | gill of Wine or Treacle. Method :—Boil the milk, then pour in half a gill of wine or treacle. Let it stand 5 minutes, then pour off the whey. Time, | hour. (104) TOAST AND WATER. Ingredients :—A piece of Bread Crust. 1 quart of Cold Water. Method :—Take a piece of bread crust and toast it brown on all sides. Put it into a jug and pour on it 1 quart cold water. Let it stand with a cloth over it for ■} hour. Strain out the toast and the water is ready for use. The crumb of bread should not be used, as it would turn sour. Time, 35 minutes. (105) PICKLED ONIONS. Ingredients :—2 quarts of Onions. 1 quart of Vinegar. | oz. of Pepper Corns. Salt and Water,fi 8 Method :—Peel the onions, boil some strong salt and water, pour it over them, let them stand in this 24 hours, keep the vessel closely covered to retain the steam, after that time wipe the onions quite dry. Boil the vinegar, pepper and ginger together, pour over the onions. See that the vinegar entirely covers the onions. Cover them over tightly and keep for several weeks, when they will be ready for use. Time, 1 hour. (106) TO PICKLE RED CABBAGE. Ingredients 1 Cabbage (medium sized). 1 quart best Vinegar. 3 pieces whole Ginger (sliced), i oz. whole Allspice. | oz. whole Pepper. 12 Cloves. Salt. Method:—Remove the outer leaves ; quarter and cut out the thick stalk; with a sharp knife cut it thinly across into long strips. Reverse a plate in a large basin ; on to this put the shredded cabbage in layers, with a very light sprinkling of salt between each; cover with another plate, and on this put a weight to assist in pressing out the moisture. Let it remain thus for 24 hours; then squeeze it (without crushing it) in a thick cloth ; put it into jars or bottles. Boil the spices in } pint vinegar for 15 minutes (an enamelled or preserving pan should be used) ; pour, whilst boiling, on to the cabbage, enclosing the spices in a piece o! muslin. Boil remaining vinegar and pour over. When quite cold, tie firmly over with thick paper doubled. Will be ready for use in two days. Time, 3 days.09 (107) TO MAKE A SALAD. Ingredients :—1 Lettuce. 1 bunch Cress (Water or Mustard). \ bunch Badishes. 1 Egg. gill Vinegar. 2 teaspoonfuls Moist Sugar. Method:—Pull the lettuce apart, and wash it and the cress well in cold water; drain on a cloth and shred finely, placing it high in the centre of a dish or bowl. Boil the egg hard (10 minutes), take off the shell and cut it into quarters; remove the yolk ; rub this through a sieve or strainer over the top of the salad. Cut the roots olf the radishes, and leave on the top a small bunch of green; garnish the dish with these and the white of egg cut into smaller pieces. Stir the sugar well into the vinegar ; pour this round the salad, and serve whilst it is fresh and crisp. Time, ^ hour. (108) TO MAKE A SALAD (2nd Receipt). Ingredients :—Lettuce. Tarragon Vinegar. Eggs. Eschalots. Cress. Method :—Wash lettuce aiuLcress ; dry them thoroughly in a cloth. Break the leaves into convenient pieces. Put the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs into a basin, with a teaspoonful of dry mustard, pepper and salt to taste, aud one tablespoonful of oil. Work the mixture into a70 smooth paste, anti add gradually two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. When mixed to the con- sistency of cream, add one small eschalot finely minced, and the whites of the two eggs cut into dice ; then add the lettuce and a small handful of cress. When the sauce is thoroughly mixed with the vegetables, the salad is ready. Time, 1 hour. (109) WINTER SALAD. Ingredients :—1 medium sized Beet-root or Carrot (cooked and sliced). 3 sticks Celery. 3 small Potatoes (cooked and sliced or passed through a sieve). 1 bunch Water Cress when obtainable. 1 table-spoonful Onion or Parsley chopped very fine. 1 hard-boiled Egg. 2 table-spoonfuls pure Olive Oil. 1 table-spoonful of Tarragon or plain Vinegar. 2 teaspoonful made Mustard. i teaspoonful Sugar. £ teaspoonful Salt. 1 pinch Pepper. Method :—Peel the beet-root after cooking. Care should be taken not to pierce the skin before cooking, or it will lose its colour. Wash, dry, and slice the celery. Wash and dry the cress lightly ; separate into sprigs, cutting off the thick stalks. Mix carefully all the vegetables except the onion or parsley, in the centre of a dish or bowl. Sauce :—Take the white from the yolk of the egg, and chop the yolk small. Rub the yolk, sugar, salt, pepper and mustard smoothly together with a wooden spoon ; stir in the oil gradually, then the vinegar gradually, and add the onion or parsley. Pom- this over the salad, and sprinkle the chopped white on the top. Almost any vegetable may be used in a winter salad.n (110) SAVOURY PUDDING. Ingredients :—4 table-spoonfuls Flour or fine Oatmeal. 4 table-spoonfuls Bread Crumbs. 1 large Onion (boiled and chopped). 1 dessert-spoonful Sage. 1 pint Milk. 2 Eggs, or 2 ozs. Suet (chopped very fine). \ teaspoonful Baking Powder. Salt and Pepper to taste. 1-^ oz. Dripping or Butter. Method : Mix the flour, bread crumbs, and suet (if used), in a basin. If the eggs are used, break them in another basin, and beat them with the milk. When well beaten, add it Gradually to the flour, beating well. If no eggs are used, pour in milk on to the flour, bread crumbs and suet, mixing well. Put in the onion, sage, salt, pepper, and baking powder, beating well again. Melt the dripping in a pie-dish, pour the pudding in, and bake in a hot oven about one hour. Serve with brown gravy. 1. This is good eaten with cold pork, goose, or duck. 2. Parsley and thyme may be used instead of sage and onion, and eaten with any other meat. 3. Or any scraps of cold meat may be chopped, and put in the pudding. (Ill) TO MAKE BAKING POWDER. Ingredients :—j lb. best White Flour or Cornflour. ' | lb. Cream of Tartar. ^ lb. Tartaric Acid. 6 ozs. Bi-carbonate of Soda. Method :—Mix all the ingredients together and pass them through a sieve. Then put the powder into a bottle or canister, and keep it w'ell corked.72 (112) SAVOURY MACCARONI. Ingredients :—J lb Naples Maccaroni. 1 pint Milk. 2 oz. Grated Cheese oz. Butter. Salt and Pepper to taste. Method :—Put the maccaroni into a pan, with sufficient boiling water to cover it, and a pinch of salt. Let it simmer about half au hour, or until the water is absorbed. Then add the milk, and simmer 1 hour or until quite cooked. Put this on to a greased dish, mix with it half of the cheese, and season to taste. Sprinkle the remainder of the cheese on the top, put the butter in small pieces here and there, and place it in the oven, or before the fire, for a few minutes, to brown.