'wMMmIw//i W^mM//m fjsm ////' *i/irrft<t//t(t/r///////////////,'// - / • "'. ■; /; . \ ' - | • : ; ; I ; ' .;' # ,/ ■ .• y> .,- . /■ /LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Camden /) srn III 30106023331993M SC r t" * LUI IUUI I LJ orough of Camden Swiss Cottage Library S 88 Avenue Road LONDON NW3 3HA Tel: 01 278 4444 Extenju Book R§f>ew^tss<^21 l!T5aQging Library ^012 j This book is due for return on or before the date star^faed below. The period of loan can be extended if the book is not reserved (please ask for details of renewal facilities) Fines are charged on overdue books Lending Library hours Mon-Fri 9.30-8 Sat 9.30-5 ■Ol'K mmm < LI7 k- 3 r v few l - ■ r.. *■? .. p . :■*. . LA 105MARGARET SIM’S COOKERY.MARGARET SIM’S COOKERY. WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY L. B. WALFORD, AUTHOR OF “MR SMITH: A PART OF HIS LIFE,” “PAULINE,” AND “COUSINS.” HELENSBURGH: MACNEUR & BRYDEN. GLASGOW AND EDINBURGH: JOHN MENZIES & CO. LONDON: HOULSTON & SONS. 1879.^4-1- $ S/ fls] T^blO}>\CONTENTS. Introduction, Soups, Fish, Sauces, Fish Entrees, Meat Entrees, Poultry, ... Beefs, Yeal, Mutton, Lamb, Pork, Venison, ... Pies, Vegetables, Game, Salads, Sandwiches, Sundry Preparations, Savouries, ... Puddings, ... Jellies, Creams, Ices, Cakes and Biscuits, Jams and Jellies, ... Miscellaneous Recipes, Index, Page ix. 5 24 40 56 63 91 99 105 108 112 114 118 122 130 136 143 152 155 158 166 194 200 204 210 225 231 239Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21538062INTRODUCTION.‘ * Peace, and Plenty, and Repose, Slam the door on the Doctor’s nose.”THE FATHER OF THE FAMILY. ♦ ( “ Indigestion is the conscience of the stomach.”—Owen Meredith. It is a fact which no one will be inclined to dispute, that the whole household suffers, and is made to suffer, when the Father of the Family is out of sorts, out of spirits, or out of temper. From him generates the social atmosphere of the circle; around him—as their centre, their sun, their light, their heat,—his satellites revolve. Is he bland, genial, jocose ? They bask in sunshine. Is he surly, and mute ? They hang their heads, and cower before the anticipated storm. Above all things it is necessary to the happiness of their daily life, that his equanimity should be undisturbed; that his spirit should be at ease; not vexed by any adverse winds; not provoked to wrath, by any unreasonable irritations. Great is his position; absolute his authority. Heavens ! what a sceptre he wields ! Hasten to bow the knee before him, underlings. Propitiate the monarch with soothing flatteries, well-timed ministra-Introduction. X. tions. Thrust forth from his sight aught that would ruffle, or annoy. Father of the Family! It is a noble appellation. And within each mortal frame there dwells—exalted on this pedestal, exercising this prerogative—an invisible corporeal engine for good, or ill,—a power accessible to every outward influence,—yet, in himself, influencing more directly, and inflexibly, all the other members of the body. Has he been fatigued, or overtaxed % They pay the penalty. Has he been neglected, and despised % They smart. Has he been insulted with gross, unsuitable, ill-advised offerings % They reap in tears. Friends and readers, whatever else you have, and whatever you have not, each, even to the poorest among you, possesses (oft doth he wish he did not!), a stomach. It is this stomach who, “ monarch of all he surveys,” determines, more than any outward circumstance, more than literature, or science, or the fine arts, or riches, or fame, or beauty, or kinsfolk, or country, or climate, the content or uneasiness of your days as they pass. You want but “ daily bread;” and if you offer your inward potentate that bread, soaked in ill-nurtured compounds, sodden in grease, you had need beware! You desire to save your time,—a precious gift, it is true,Introduction. xi. when turned to good and useful purposes; but if you scrimp it from your hasty meals, gulping down the food before you, hot, reeking, and but half masticated, you had best beware ! You are anxious to keep a clear head during the day, and to enjoy well-earned repose subsequently; but if you defer your hour of dining till the weary brain is worn out, till the limbs fail, and you are so faint with fasting that you take no pleasure in the companionship of those dearest to you, no in- terest in their pursuits, are impatient even of their voices, you may well beware, if you never stood upon your guard until that moment. The heavy,long-sustained banquet may indeed stave off your ill-humour for the nonce, and render you less of a bear in your demeanour to those present, less snarling and sarcastic in your remarks on those absent, than you have been throughout the previous hours; but the Nemesis is at your heels, dogging every onward step. Trifle with your business, your property, your time, and your friends—trifle, I say, with all of these, if you are fool enough; but, fool or not, lend an ear to him who would warn you from trifling with your stomach. It is too weighty a matter, this. Your words, your actions, your very thoughts and motives come within his jurisdiction. Temper owns his sway; sleep is his subject. He prompts the bitter jest, the fretful com- plaint.Introduction. Xll. The letter, which was so much more indignant and reproachful than it need have been,—the sarcasm, which its recipient will never forget, since it pierced between the very joints of the armour, was due to his interven- tion. Presently you will yourself acknowledge that you wrote in haste, unadvisedly; that you said more than you meant; that you did not know what possessed you at the moment to be so wrathful. And by and bye, on this reflection, supervenes the memory of a headache, and the thought of that aching head suggests the very root of the matter, though it be only casually, and in parenthesis, that you observe that you “fancy some- thing had disagreed ” with you. Even so, friendships are blasted, opportunities are slighted, appointments are broken, and misunderstand- ings are rife,—yea, lives themselves, here and there, are marred throughout, from the seed sown by some tiny germ of indigestion—“ something having disagreed ” with the eater. Give heed, then, to these three precepts, sufferers: eat regularly, eat moderately, eat properly. Each of these rules is essential to keep the Eather of the Family in that state of health, and complacency, which shall diffuse joy and gladness throughout his lawful territory. Let four hours, as a customary thing, pass betweenXlll. Introduction. each meal, so as to permit the autocrat within leisure for repose, for recruiting his energies, and gathering in fresh vigour. His pleasant functions re-commenced, do not thrust these upon him all at once, in a motley crowd— an inharmonious rabble. Judge, discriminate, assort,with nice and deliberate observation; lest, hurt and over- charged, outraged and disgusted, he take his revenge straightway. And, lastly, with respectful and measured tread—slowly and as it were, reluctantly, let all who would approach his presence-chamber, enter therein. He loves not to have his privacy intruded upon, with indecent precipitation. Haste beseemeth not that sacred region ; tranquillity should reign there. In other words, confine the indulgence of your ap- petites to three meals a-day, forswear gluttony, and use your teeth for the purpose for which they were created. But, say some, all these precautions we have kept from childhood, and of what avail are they, when the food which is spread on our tables is unfit to be swallowed at all % The materials are simple and nutritious; but in the preparation not only are these attributes lost, but their other extremes are attained,—there is poison in the dish,—death in the pot. An ignorant, and un- witting hand is shortening our days. Now, we reply, is the time for the cookery-book. By diligent application, and repeated experiments, on the part of the servant who would fain do better herself,Introduction. XIV. but knows not how-—and by patience and forbearance on that of her master and mistress, a blundering kit- chen-maid may, and has not unfrequently been, turned into an excellent, skilful, and thorough-going chef-de- cuisine. In the volume now before us, Mrs Sim, who is housekeeper at Eossdhu (the seat of Sir James Col- quhoun, of Colquhoun and Luss, and now tenanted by his uncle, Mr William Colquhoun), gives, as the result of her own experience, a series of recipes which have the value of having been well tested, and approved of, by many a connoisseur. She aims at the discouragement of profuse expenditure, and multifarious ingredients in the art, and at the establishment of sound, wholesome, pala- table dishes, which can be made daily in any house of ordinary importance. Smart-looking, highly-spiced, vamped-up mixtures are easily producible, but sadly unsatisfactory. The compound, if it be a compound, should at no hazard be dependent on savoury season- ing, or show of finery, for its recommendation. These, if the groundwork be of solid excellence, may, to some palates, add an attraction, but if the basis be poor, they can never supply one. It is the watchful eye, the precise fingers, the con- centrated attention, which make the cook. A recipe hastily skimmed through, and only half followed, is best let alone. Many a youthful mistress, who cannot understand why the entree which she had so carefullyIntroduction. xv. selected for her third course, and which sounded so reliable when read aloud beforehand, should appear at table an uneatable mess,—would be at no loss, had she witnessed its manufacture. Her cook glanced at the page; it was too much trouble to send to the gardener for one seasoning, so she tried another. The time given for the pan to be on the fire was longer than she could afford; so she thought it no matter to dock off half-an-hour. They were short of eggs, so she con- sidered one less than was named in the recipe would be sufficient. And so on, with the result as stated above. Mrs Sim will have none of this. If she is not carefully studied, and exactly followed, the responsibility is off her shoulders. The spirit, as well as the letter of the law, must be adhered to in the admirable directions here issued. If she is not taken at her word, her decrees received without reservations, her rules carried out without alteration, she would prefer to be without disciples. L. B. WALFORD.SOUPS. Soup made from Dried Turtle. Soak one pound of dried turtle meat in cold water for twenty-four hours, cut up fourteen pounds of beef- hough and one fowl; place all the meat in a convenient- sized stock-pot, and fill it up with cold water, and place it on a hot plate or over a slow fire. Add two carrots, six onions, one stalk of celery, six cloves, two blades of mace, and a few pepper-corns; then add the turtle- meat ; boil the stock very gently for eight hours; re- move the pieces of turtle from the pot, wash them in lukewarm water, and place them between two flat dishes until they are wanted; strain the stock through a hair sieve, and let it stand in the larder until the next day, when it must be clarified. Remove every particle of fat from the stock; mince two pounds of lean beef, and mix it with the stock and the whites of four eggs beat up with their shells, a little parsley, green onions, sweet basil, sweet marjoram, a sprig of lemon-thyme, three blades of tarragon, and a handful of button-mushrooms. When the stock has boiled about a minute, draw the pot to the side of the stove; let it remain there for half-an-hour to clear and infuse the herbs ; then strain through a tammy sieve or cloth ;6 Soups. add the pieces of turtle, cut in nice square pieces without waste; fill a tureen with the soup, season slightly with salt, cayenne pepper, a little lemon juice, and a glass of Madeira wine. The remainder of the soup should be put in a stone jar, and kept in a cool place. When wanted, place the jar in a pan with cold water, and set it on the stove until the water boils. By that time the soup will he hot. Season with cayenne, lemon juice, and wine. Tomato Soup. Take a good-sized knuckle of veal, and cut it into pieces. Place them into a small stock pot; add three quarts of water, half-a-pound of split peas, three onions, one carrot, a small turnip, one stalk of celery, a blade of mace, a few white pepper-corns, and a little salt. Place the pot on the stove or a slow fire, and boil gently for about four hours. Then strain through a fine wire sieve, and remove the scum. Slice about a pound of ripe tomatoes; put them into a small stew- pan, with two ounces of fresh butter. Season with pepper and salt, and stew till tender. Then add them to the stock, and pour the soup into a clean pan. Boil for ten minutes, and skim it well. Ascertain that the soup is well seasoned. When about to dish, add a tea- spoonful of vinegar and a teacupful of sweet cream, then serve hot. Venison Soup. Take a deer’s head and neck, shank bones, and all the odd pieces of venison you can collect; wash them7 Soups. in cold water, then place them in a stock pot, with four carrots, two turnips, six red onions in their skins, two blades of mace, six cloves, two stalks of celery, a sprig of thyme, black pepper-corns, and a little salt; fill the pot up with cold water. When it boils skim off all the scum; let it boil slowly for eight or ten hours; then strain the stock through a hair sieve, and set it in the larder to cool. When quite cold and firm, remove the fat from the top of the soup, and dab it over with a clean cloth rung out of hot water. Mince up about a pound and a-half of lean, raw venison, and the whites of three eggs beat up with their shells. Let all be mixed together, and put into a pan and placed on the stove, and stirred until it boils; then draw it to the side of the stove to boil slowly for about ten minutes. Then strain it through a tammy sieve or cloth, into a clean pan. Season the soup with a table- spoonful of catsup, a little cayenne pepper and salt. Make a custard of three yolks of eggs and a breakfast cupful of boiling milk, seasoned with a little pepper and salt. Butter a pudding mould and pour the custard into it; place it in a pan with boiling water, but not on any account to boil after it is put in. When the custard is firm turn it out on a dish, and cut it in slices about an inch thick. With fancy tin cutter cut up all the custard into shapes, and add them to the soup, and serve it hot. Heron Soup. Skin and draw two herons, remove the fillets from their breasts, and place them in a saucepan with a pieceSoups. 8 of butter; stew until tender. Cut up the remainder of the herons in small pieces, place them in a soup-pan with a handful of green onions, small bunch of parsley* sprig of thyme, same of sweet marjoram, and basil; add one blade of mace and six cloves. Sprinkle over ■with white pepper and salt. Place the soup-pan on the stove, and brown the meat slightly. Then cover the meat well with boiling water. Place the cover on the pan, and allow it to boil for about three hours. Then strain the stock through a hair sieve. Pound the fillets in a mortar; rub through a hair sieve. Add the puree to the stock. Pour the soup into a pan. Allow it to boil for a few minutes. Remove the scum; add pepper and salt to taste. Serve hot. Clear Brown Soup. Take an ox hough about fourteen or sixteen pounds weight; cut it up in pieces along with the bones, and put it into a stock-pot; fill the pot with cold water ; then add two carrots, one turnip, one stalk of celery, one ounce whole black pepper, six red onions, one sprig of thyme, one sprig of sweet marjoram, a very small sprig of basil, and a little salt. Place the cover on the pot, and set it on the hot-plate or clear fire ; when it boils, remove the scum with a spoon; allow it to boil very slowly for eight or nine hours, taking care not to let it off the boil. If the process of boiling reduce it very much, a little boiling water must be added. After it has boiled the time specified, strain the stock through a tammy-sieve into large earthen jars or basins; put them away in a cool larder. When the soup is wanted,Soups. 9 skim off all the fat, and boil the soup; add a little catsup, cayenne pepper, and salt to taste. SECOND STOCK. Return into the stock-pot all the meat and bones that had been used for the first stock; cover the meat well with hot water; add a little salt, and boil the stock for six hours ; strain it through a hair sieve, and keep it in a cool place. When wanted, skim off all the fat. This stock is useful for making common soups, gravies, stews, and hashes. When it is wanted clear, mince some raw lean beef, and the whites of two or three eggs beat up with the shells ; mix all together with the cold stock, and pour it into a pan placed upon the hot-plate, and stir occasionally until it boils. Remove all the scum as it rises, then strain the stock through a tammy-sieve. It ought to be as clear as the first stock, although not so strong. Good fresh stock is the foundation of all soups. Almond Soup. Cut out the breast of a fowl, mince and pound it in the mortar; add the white of an egg ; then pound for five minutes, add another white ; go on pounding till it becomes smooth and tough. Form balls the size and form of almonds. Have a pan with boiling water on the hot-plate, add a little salt to the water; have the almonds seasoned with salt and white pepper to taste. Poach them for ten minutes ; boil some of first stock. Add the almonds, and serve. Spring Soup. Have a good stock prepared, as for brown soup. Take a bunch of asparagus; cut the green ends inSoups. IO small bits; a few green peas, with small sprigs of cauliflower, some small onions, one turnip, and one carrot; take a small cutter and scoop out some pieces from the turnip and pink of the carrot; boil these vegetables separately, and add to the soup. Macaroni Soup. Take a handful of macaroni, and soak in cold water for an hour; then boil it till tender, strain it, and let it cool; then cut in pieces a quarter of an inch thick, to appear like plain rings; add these to the first stock, and serve. Vermicelli, boiled for five minutes, is also used for brown soup. Ox-Tail Soup. Take two pounds of soup meat, and two ox-tails; put on in a pan with cold water; season as for brown soup; skim when it comes to the boil, and boil till the tails are thoroughly cooked; cut out some of the middle joints; strain the soup; set away to cool; when cold takeoff the fat; boil the soup; add the joints. You may add vegetables cut in stripes if liked. Clear Mock Turtle Soup. Take a calf’s head, see that it is very fresh, lay it in cold water, squeeze out ail the blood, take a large pot that will contain it easily, split the head in two, put it into the pot, cover it with cold water, set it on the stove ; then add one pound raw ham, two carrots, three onions, and also one onion stuck with six cloves, a head of celery, small sprig of basil, sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, common thyme, some parsley, spring onions, andtwo blades of mace, one ounce white pepper. When the pot boils take the scum off; boil slowly for two hours; if the flesh is boiled, remove it from the bones ; put the meat to the larder to cool; return the bones to the stock pot, and boil for another hour; then strain it through a hair sieve; let the stock become cold and take all the fat off. You must now begin and clear it; mince one pound and a half of lean veal; beat up the whites of three eggs with their shells; mix this with the cold stock, put it in a pan, set on the stove, and whisk it until it boils; strain through a tammy. The calf’s head must be cut into pieces an inch square, and be placed in the soup and allowed to boil a little until the pieces are done. Add half a pint Madeira, a pinch of cayenne, and squeeze of a lemon; serve. Thick Mock Turtle Soup. Make the stock for this the same as for clear turtle soup, with the addition of forcemeat balls and egg balls. For those parboil half-a-pound of veal and two ounces of ham, four ounces of beef suet, half a tea- cupful of bread crumbs, a little parsley, all minced up together, seasoned with grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Make this mixture into small balls the size of a marble; beat up two eggs; dip the balls in the egg and toss them in bread crumbs, and fry in boiling lard for five minutes; take them out of the lard and place them on clean white paper to drip. Then make the egg balls. Boil four eggs for fifteen minutes, put them in cold water for five minutes; shell them; pound the yolks in a mortar; drop in the white of oneSoups. 12 egg, a pinch of pepper and salt, the grating of a nutmeg; then pound for other five minutes ; form into small round balls the size of a nutmeg; poach in boiling stock for three minutes ; have the soup boiling; cut some pieces of the calf’s head two inches square, and boil in the soup. Then add all the balls, a table- spoonful of ketchup, pinch of cayenne, and a glass of Madeira wine when in the tureen. Grouse Soup, Clear. Take two brace of old grouse, cut the fillets from the breast, put away on a plate, take the carcases and break them a little with a chopper, put them in a pan and cover with cold water; add a little parsley, one sprig of thyme, four shallots, some black pepper-corns, and a little salt; set the pan on the stove to boil; when the scum rises, skim it off. Keep the pan boiling until the meat is thoroughly cooked; then strain the stock through a tammy-sieve; return the stock into a clean pan; the fillets must now be cut into thick shreds, and put into the soup, and boiled for half-an-hour; when the shreds of grouse are boiled enough and the soup to be used, add a glassful of port wine, and a pinch of red pepper. The soup is ready for use. Note.—Pheasants, partridges, larks, snipes, wood- cock, rabbits, prepared in the manner indicated for making grouse soup, will prove equally delicious. Grouse Soup, Thick. The remains of cooked grouse may do for this soup. Take all the remains of cold game you can collect, putSoups. i3 into a pan, cover with cold water or stock, add vege- tables and herbs same as for clear grouse soup, with the addition of a small piece of lean ham, and a little thickening made with three ounces of butter, and the same quantity of flour; put into a pan and stir on the fire till it gets into a thick paste ; then pour this into the stock with the other seasoning. Boil all together for four hours, and strain through a sieve; add fillets of grouse, season with salt, red pepper, and a little port wine, and serve. Potato Soup. Peel and slice a dozen good potatoes, and six onions ; cover with stock, second stock will do. Boil them until they are quite soft, then add a large teaspoonful of curry powder, same of curry paste, then rub through a hair sieve ; return it to the pan ; boil and skim ; season with salt; add half a teacupful of cream; and dish. Note.—For this a stock might be made of roast beef bones, marrow bones, or any scraps of fresh meat. Kidney Soup. Take two ox kidneys, cut them in pieces with two pounds of stewing steak. Put a small piece of butter into a stew-pan; put the beef and kidneys into the pan; add six onions, one carrot, one small turnip, one stalk of celery, one sprig of thyme, a little pepper and salt; put your pan on the stove, and stew slowly for half-an-hour; fill up the pan with boiling water, and let it boil for four hours. Then take out a few pieces of the kidneys, and cut them small. Strain the soup14 Soups. through a hair sieve ; return to the pan ; add the pieces of kidney, and boil. Eemove all the scum and fat that may rise to the top, and dish. Celery and Button-Onion Soup. Clean four heads of celery; cut them in pieces; boil in water for ten minutes, drain them ; place them in a soup pan with half-a-pint of button-onions, a little tarragon and chervil, a piece of sugar, and a pinch of pepper; fill up with game stock; boil gently until the celery is thoroughly done, and serve. Giblet Soup, Clear. Take two sets of geese giblets, thoroughly cleansed; place them in a stew pan with a little basil, marjoram, lemon thyme, parsley, carrot, and a stalk of celery, three onions, one of them stuck with six cloves, two blades of mace, and six shallots. Add four pounds of knuckle of veal; put the pan on the stove with the giblets, veal, vegetables, and herbs; fill up the pan with cold water, and set it on the stove to boil; remove the scum; boil the stock until the giblets are tender. Then take out the necks and gizzards; wash them in cold water; put them away until wanted. Now boil the stock an hour longer; strain it through a tammy sieve ; return it into a clean pan, and boil it. Add the pieces of giblets you have in reserve, and a tablespoonful of ketchup, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and a glass of Madeira wine, and serve.Soups. 15 Giblet Soup, Thick. Clean three or four sets of goose or duck giblets; put them in a pan with a scrap of mutton and some veal bones, with three onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, a teaspoonful of white pepper, a little salt, a few white mushrooms, and an ounce of butter mixed with a dessert- spoonful of flour. Boil this on the hot-plate for four hours ; take out the neck and some of the gizzards be- fore they are overdone : cut the necks about three inches in length, and the gizzards in small slices ; add these to the soup after the stock has been strained and seasoned with salt; boil it up, put half a teacupful of sweet cream in the tureen; pour in the soup and keep stirring it for a few minutes ; and serve. Hare Soup, Thick. Take one or two hares, and skin them; take out the inside without breaking it. Hold it over a basin,, and tear out the lungs; save the blood in the basin; cut up the hares in pieces and put them in a large pan; cover them well in cold water. Take two table- spoonfuls of flour and mix it with the blood; then pour it into the pan with the hares; put in one carrot, one turnip, one stalk of celery, sprig of thyme, six onions, half-an-ounce whole black pepper. Then set the pan on the fire, and with a long wooden spoon stir it one way until it boils; let it boil until the meat is boiled to pieces. Cut the fillets in pieces an inch and a half in length; brown them in a stew pan with a little butter. When the soup is boiled enough, strain it; add the fillets of hare; return it into the pan, andSoups. i6 let it boil for a short time; take off the scum, and season with two table-spoonfuls of ketchup, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and salt to taste. Hare Soup, Clear. This soup is made without the blood of the hare. Wash the hare in cold water, and cut it in pieces; put it in a pan with vegetables and sweet herbs, with the same seasoning as for thick hare soup. Cover it well with cold water; add salt and white pepper-corns. Put it on the hot plate; when it boils, skim it; let it boil slowly for six or seven hours; cut the fillets and stew them in a little of the stock; boil a stalk of celery; take the tender parts and cut them in pieces one inch in length. Now strain the stock through a tammy sieve, and put in a clean pan; add the pieces of hare and the bits of boiled celery; put it back on the hot plate, and let it boil for a short time. Skim, and add one table-spoonful of ketchup, a little salt, and a pinch of cayenne pepper; a glass of port wine may be added if liked. Mulligatawney Soup. Peel and slice up one dozen onions and put them into a stew-pan with four ounces of butter, and fry them on a slow fire; add six unpeeled apples cut in slices; as soon as these have been cooked, mix in six ounces of flour, two table-spoonfuls of curry paste, and one of curry powder; moisten with three quarts of good stock; stir over the fire until the soup boils, and then set it to continue gently simmering by the side of the fire,Soups. 17 to allow the grease to rise to the surface ; then rub the soup through a sieve. Put it back into the soup pot; add pieces of chicken, game, or veal, previously cooked and cut into square pieces; boil together for a few minutes, and serve with plain boiled rice in a separate dish. Mulligatawney Soup, Clear. Second stock will do to make this soup; mince a piece of lean beef, and add it to the cold stock after it has been freed from grease. For a tureenful of soup mix a dessert-spoonful of curry powder, the whites and shells of two eggs beat up and mixed with the soup. Put on the stove ; boil for half-an-hour; strain through a tammy, and serve with rice. Chestnut Soup. Scald, peel, and scrape fifty chestnuts; put them into a stew pan with two ounces of butter, an onion, two lumps of sugar, and a little pepper and salt, and simmer the whole over the fire for three-quarters of an hour. Then bruise the chestnuts in a mortar; remove the pulp into a stew-pan; add a quart of good brown stock, and having rubbed the puree through a sieve, pour it into a stew-pan; make it hot, and serve with fried crusts. This soup may be made with white stock instead of brown, with the addition of a little cream before it is dished. Vegetable Marrow Soup. Peel and core six vegetables—marrows; put them in a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, pepper and salt,i8 Soups. and a little nutmeg; moisten with a pint of white stock; boil gently for half-an-hour; rub the puree through a hair sieve; pour it into a soup-pot. Add a pint of good stock, and a little sweet cream; stir it over the fire until it boils, and serve with fried crusts. How to Make White Stock. Break up a knuckle of veal, with any trimmings of meat you have; one old fowl and one rabbit; the fillets might be cut out and kept for an entree; put all the meat into a pot; add one pound of lean ham or bacon, with four carrots, two turnips, two stalks of celery, a handful of parsley, bay-leaf, sprig of thyme, a handful of mushrooms, a blade of mace, six cloves, twelve white pepper-corns, and two ounces of salt. Allow your stock to boil very gently by the side of a slow fire for about five hours, skimming it occasionally, and then strain it off into clean pans for use as occasion requires. Duchess Soup. Mix two ounces of arrowroot in a little cold water, and pour this into a stew-pan containing a quart of good white stock; stir this over the fire until it boils about ten minutes, and then pour it into a soup-tureen. Add some neatly cut inch-long pieces of roasted or boiled poultry or game; skim the soup before it is dished. Rich White Soup. Take six pounds of veal and an old fowl, and cut in pieces, and put them in a pan filled with cold water.19 Soups. Then add one parsnip, one carrot, a small piece of celery, two onions, two carrots, a sprig of sweet marjoram, a blade of mace, some whole white pepper; boil slowly for five hours, and strain through a hair sieve. Then put away to cool in order to get all the fat off. When it is to be used, boil the stock and skim. Add pepper to taste ; beat the yolks of two eggs; add to them a tea-cupful of sweet cream; then pour both into the tureen. Take a ladleful of boiling soup; pour it in amongst the eggs and cream, stirring all the time; then pour in the whole, and stir a little longer, so as to mix them thoroughly and make the soup perfectly smooth. Palestine Soup. Peel and slice a peck of Jerusalem artichokes, four onions, one head of celery; place these in a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, and three pints of white veal stock. Season with nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Boil gently for an hour; rub through a sieve; remove the puree into a stew-pan; stir it over the fire till hot. Add a pint of cream, and serve with fried crusts separately. Victoria Soup. Wash half-a-pound of pearl barley, and put this into a stew-pan with three pints of good white veal stock, and simmer it very gently over a slow fire for an hour and a half, by which time the barley will be nearly dissolved; remove a third of it into a small soup-pot; rub the remainder through a sieve; then add20 Soups. it to the whole barley. Add half a pint of cream ; season with a little salt; stir it over the fire until hot, and serve. Cocky-Leeky. Boil a fowl in three pints of light-coloured stock. When done, cut the fowl up into pieces, and let these be kept in reserve between two plates to prevent them from becoming dried up. Next, add to the broth which the fowl has been boiled in, a dozen leeks cut into inch lengths; then add the pieces of chicken, a few stewed prunes, pepper and salt. Hodge-Podge. Take the neck and back ribs of mutton ; put them in a pan with a tea-cupful of pearl barley; fill up the pan with cold water, put it on the stove and boil it until the meat is done; take it out and put away for use. Strain the stock through a sieve; skim off the fat and return the stock into the pan; put it back on the stove. Wash a few carrots and turnips; peel them and cut them in dice; add to the soup a few young onions, cauliflower, two heads of lettuce, pease, beans, and a little parsley; boil all the vegetables till quite tender; then take some lamb, or mutton chops, and fry them a light brown colour, and then put them into the soup-pot; skim off all the fat; add a little salt to taste, and dish. Green Pea Soup. Prepare a quart of green peas, a handful of parsley, the same of green onions and mint; boil these inSoups. 21 three quarts of stock, and as soon as the peas are done, rub the whole through a hair sieve and pour the whole of the soup into a pan; put it on the fire to boil; take off all the scum; take a handful of very young peas; boil them in water; when done, strain and add them to the soup. Common Pea Soup. Soak a quart of split peas over night, and next day wash them in cold water, and put them in a pan with carrot, celery, onions, ham, or bacon bones, roast-beef, or mutton bones ; then add three quarts of water; set the pan on the fire to boil; then skim it and let it boil slowly by the side of the fire for three hours. Take it off, and rub through a hair sieve; return the soup to the pan, and skim it well; add pepper and salt to taste, and send to table with toasted bread cut in small squares, and bruised dry mint separately. Oyster Soup. Scald, drain, and beard four dozen oysters, reserving- their liquor in a pan; put four ounces of butter into a stew-pan to dissolve over the fire; mix in four ounces of Hour; moisten with a pint and a half of good white stock; season with nutmeg, a pinch of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of anchovy; stir over the fire during a quarter of an hour’s gentle boiling; and then, having cut the oysters each into halves, pour the hot soup over them in the tureen; add a little sweet cream, and serve. c22 Soups. Lobster Soup. First cut up very small the following ingredients:— one carrot, onion, celery, three shallots, bay-leaf, and thyme, and some parsley; fry these in a stew-pan with a piece of butter until they are slightly browned; then add six ounces of flour ; mix well; moisten with three pints of good stock ; stir over the fire, and when it boils set it by the side to simmer gently for half an hour. While this part of the preparation is going on, break up a fresh boiled hen-lobster; remove the meat from the tail and claws, and cut this into neat square pieces to be kept in reserve. The remainder of the lobster and shell, together with a little spawn, must be well bruised in a mortar, and stirred into the soup as it boils; and five minutes after, let the whole be rubbed through a sieve, poured into a soup pot, made hot, and skimmed; seasoned with a glass of sherry, a little Harvey, lemon juice, anchovy, and cayenne, and poured into the soup tureen already containing the cut-up lobster, and some small quenelles. Crab Soup. Boil half a pound of rice in a quart of white stock, with a little nutmeg, pepper, salt, and an ounce cf butter; while the rice is being very slowly simmered, break up a fresh-boiled crab, separating carefully all the white from the claws, which must be kept in reserve; pound all the yellow pith from the body shell, with the boiled rice; and, having mixed the whole with a quart of hot stock, rub it through a tammy; pour it into a soup-pot; add the white meatSoups. 23 from the claws; season with a small pinch of cayenne, a little anchovy, and a pint of cream; stir over the fire until quite hot without allowing it to boil, and serve. Eel Soup. Boil a pound of unskinned eels in a quart of water with a crust of bread, two blades of mace, a little whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs, in a stew-pan, closely covered, till they are quite broken; then strain off the soup, and pour it boiling on some toasted bread cut into dice.FISH. Boiled Salmon. If you wish to boil a whole salmon, break the gills and let it bleed; wash it in cold water; put on a fish kettle with a drainer in it; fill the pan with water, adding a handful of salt. When the water boils, lay the fish on the drainer, and put it into a pan; boil it for half an hour; skim the water when it boils. Do not leave the salmon in the water after it is boiled; take it out on the drainer; lay it across the pan to drip; dish it on a folded napkin, and serve with either of the following sauces:—lobster, shrimp, anchovy, or plain butter-sauce with parsley, and a little of the salmon water, with a little chopped parsley. Grilled Salmon. Cut one or more slices of salmon about an inch thick; rub them with salad oil, or fresh butter, and season with pepper and salt; place them on a gridiron over a clear fire to broil, carefully turning the slices of salmon every five minutes, basting occa- sionally either with butter or salad oil. When the salmon is done through, which will be accomplished in about half-an-hour—and may be ascertained byFish. 25 finding that, on a little pressure, the bone easily separates from the fish, place it on a hot dish with Italian sauce, or brown butter sauce, poured over it. Fillets of Salmon, a l’Indienne. Procure a pound and a half of salmon from the tail end, that part being cheapest; divide the fish from the back-bone by running the edge of a knife along the side of the spine; then remove the skin in like manner; cut the fish into neat square pieces about a quarter of an inch thick; dip these fillets in some beaten egg, and roll them in some bread-crumbs ; fry them to a light fawn colour in lard previously made very hot for the purpose; and when done, dish them up neatly and pour over them some Indian sauce; sprinkle over the fillets some finely shred green gherkins. Fillets of Salmon, a la Ravigotte. Trim the fillets of salmon in the form of squares or ovals; place them in a sauta-pan with a little clarified butter, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. Set them upon a slow fire until done on one side, and then turn them over; and when done through, drain and dish them up in a ring. Sauce over with ravigotte sauce. Salmon, Au Gratin. Take some pieces of cold boiled salmon; put them on a flat dish; season with pepper and salt, and a little ketchup ; grate a little parmesan cheese; sprinkle26 Fish. it all over the pieces of salmon. Take a frying pan, put it on a slow fire; put a small piece of butter into it; then put some fine bread-crumbs into the pan; make them light brown; pour a little butter sauce over the fish and cheese; sprinkle the brown bread crumbs on the top of the fish and cheese. Put it into the oven to heat it thoroughly, and brown it with a red-hot salamander. Salmon Cadgerre. Take half-a-pound of rice and boil it; dry it after- wards before the fire ; boil two eggs for ten minutes ; peel and mince them. Put a stew-pan on the stove, or on a trivet; put a small piece of butter into the pan ; make it hot; put in the pieces of salmon; then the rice and eggs. Season rather high with salt and white pepper; take a fork and mix it up lightly. Make it very hot, and dish it up. Trout. Boil the trout in water with salt; and when done, dish it up on a napkin in a dish; garnish it with picked parsley; and serve separately in a sauce-boat, any of the following sauces—Dutch, parsley, butter, shrimp, or anchovy sauce. Turbot, Plain Boiled. Wash the turbot; wipe it dry; rub it over with the juice of a lemon, and a little salt, and put it into a fish- kettle with water sufficient to cover it. Add a handful of salt; when the water boils, skim it. Boil the turbot for half-an-hour, more or less, according to the size ofFish. 2 7 the fish; when done, lift the turbot out carefully upon a drainer; slide it gently off on to the dish covered with a folded napkin; garnish it with picked parsley, and send to table with either lobster sauce, or Dutch sauce. Turbot with Cream, Au Gratin. Take some pieces of cold boiled turbot, and cut up the pieces into scallops; to these add some Bechamel sauce ; make the fish hot; pile it up neatly in a dish; shake over the top some grated parmesan cheese; pour a little cream over all; brown it on the top with a hot salamander. Fillets of Turbot. A small turbot may be purchased for this purpose; and after cutting out the fleshy parts from the four divisions intervening between the fins and the back- bone, divide these into square pieces, and place them in a sauta-pan with two ounces of butter, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice ; set them in the oven to bake for ten minutes. The fillets must be turned over, and made brown on both sides : when done, they must be dished up similarly to cutlets, and sauced over with Dutch, Indian, lobster, shrimp, or oyster sauce. Brill. This fish very much resembles turbot, and may therefore be treated in the same way, in all particulars. John Dory. Boil the fish in water with a little salt; it must be boiled very slowly to prevent it from breaking. When28 Fish. the dory is done, dish it up with care, and send it to table with lobster, shrimp, anchovy, or Dutch sauce. Dories may also be stuffed and baked, or grilled, and served with brown caper sauce. Sturgeon, a la Cardinal. Procure about two pounds of sturgeon ; remove the skin with a sharp knife. Tie the piece of fish neatly into shape with a string, and place it in a stew- pan with sliced carrot, onion, bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, a glass of vinegar, four cloves, salt, and a bit of mace, and water enough to cover the fish. Set this to boil gently until the sturgeon is done, which will take more or less time according to the size of the piece ; when done, dish up the sturgeon; garnish with a border of quenelles of whiting or crayfish placed alternately round it. Sauce it over with cardinal sauce. Sturgeon, Grilled, with Piquante Sauce. Procure a slice of sturgeon about an inch thick; rub it over with a little salad oil; season with pepper and salt, and broil it over a clear fire until done on both sides. Place it on its dish, and pour over it some piquante sauce in which there has been incorporated one ounce of fresh butter and a little anchovy. Cod, with Brown Oyster Sauce. Take a good cod and clean it; lay it in a good deal of salt for one night; cut off the head and shoulders, and skin it; roll it up neatly; cover with the skin, and cord it with a piece of twine. Have a fish-pan with29 Fish. cold water and two handfuls of salt; put in the fish. Skim carefully when it boils, and draw the cover a little to the side ; let it boil for half-an-hour; then take it off the fire ; lift up the drainer ; place it across the fish-pan, and cover with a clean cloth; cut away the cord. Take off the skin carefully; lay it on its dish. Make some brown oyster sauce, and pour it over the fish. Crimped Cod, with Oyster Sauce. Have some clean water ready boiling on the fire; place the slices of cod on a drainer; put them into a pan. Add a handful of salt; allow them to boil very gently for twenty minutes. The slices must be im- mediately dished up as soon as they are done ; garnish the slices of crimped cod with picked parsley, and some pieces of the liver which have been boiled separately, and serve oyster sauce in a sauce-boat. Cod, a ITndienne. Fry or grill some slices of cod; and when done, dish them up and pour over them some curry sauce, in which have been mixed a little anchovy, and about two ounces of butter. Serve plain boiled rice separately. Plain Boiled Rice for Curries. Wash the rice thoroughly in several waters. Put a pan on the fire with plenty of boiling water and a little salt; put the rice into the pan and boil it for twenty minutes; take it off and pour it into a drainer. Pour some boiling water over the rice in the drainer;Fish. 30 let it drip for a few minutes. Take a fork and put it back into the pan ; cover the pan with a clean cloth ; set it near the fire to dry for ten minutes; with a fork touch it up lightly, and dish it. Well-cooked rice for curries must be thoroughly done, and present a perfectly white and light appearance. Grilled Haddock. Wipe the haddock thoroughly dry, rub it over with oil, and then flour it; broil it upon a gridiron over a clear fire, and when done on both sides dish it up on a napkin, and serve separately in a sauce boat, either Dutch, shrimp, anchovy, or butter sauce. Fillets of Haddock. Clean the haddock and skin it; take out the bone; cut the fillets four or five inches in length; dip them in .beaten egg, and roll them in bread-crumbs. Have a pan of very hot lard, or dripping, ready; put them into the lard to swim; turn them over in the fat; when they get a nice brown colour take them out; put them before the fire on clean paper to free them from all grease ; dish them up on a napkin and garnish with parsley, and serve with Dutch sauce. Baked Haddock. Prepare the haddock as you would for boiling ; dust it over with flour; melt a piece of butter and mix with a little anchovy. Baste the fish with this ; put it into the oven to bake; when done serve with brown oyster sauce.Fish. 3i Soles, Boiled. Cut off the rough edge of the fins ; wash them clean, and boil in water with a little salt, and when done through, dish up the sole on a folded napkin with the white side upmost; garnish with picked parsley, and serve either of the following sauces in a sauce boat— anchovy, Dutch, or shrimp sauce. Soles, Fried. Skin the sole and dust it with a little flour, and then with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg ; moisten it all over on both sides and cover it well with bread- crumbs ; and fry it in very hot lard or frying fat, sufficient to swim it. When done through, drain the fish on a cloth to absorb all grease; dish it upon a napkin with some fried parsley, and serve either Dutch, shrimp, or anchovy sauce. Stuffed Soles. Bone a sole; stuff and bake it; when done dish it up ; reduce the liquor, and add to it some cardinal sauce. Pour this over the sole ; garnish it round with a border of quenelles of whiting, decorate it with truffle, and serve. Fillets of Sole. Skin the sole, and then lay it flat on the table, and with the point of a sharp knife make a deep incision along the back-bone, and then, insert the knife close to the head between the fillet and the fin bones, and pass the edge of the knife under the fillet up to the fins from head to tail; and thus having* filleted as many soles as may be required for your32 Fish. intended purpose, divide each fillet across the centre; trim the ends neatly, and place them in a sauta-pan containing about two ounces of clarified butter. Season with lemon juice, and a little pepper and salt; set the sauta-pan on the fire to cook the fillets, and in ten or twelve minutes, if thoroughly done, drain them upon a napkin to absorb the grease. Dish them up in a circular form; pour over them either of the following sauces :—ravigotte, Dutch, cardinal, white, matelotte, shrimp, Indian, Italian, mussel, or green ravigotte sauce. Fillets of Sole, Fried. When ‘the fillets of soles are trimmed, flour them over, and then dip each piece separately in some beaten egg; roll them in some bread-crumbs, and place them in a wire frying basket; and, having some hot frying fat, immerse the fillets in the basket in it. Allow them to fry about ten minutes, by which time they will have acquired a light brown colour; they must then be withdrawn from the fat, drained on a cloth, dished up neatly similarly to cutlets ; serve with Dutch or shrimp sauce. Fillets of Sole, a la Tartar. Bread-crumb the fillets of sole in the usual manner; fry them in two ounces clarified butter in a sauta-pan over a sharp fire; and when done of a light brown, drain them on a cloth and dish them up on some tartar sauce. Fillets of Gurnet. These may be prepared in every variety of form prescribed for dressing fillets of soles.Fish. 33 Boiled Gurnet. Fill the inside of the gurnet with some veal stuffing ; sew up the flaps; boil it in water with a little salt; and when done, dish it upon a folded napkin, garnish it round with picked parsley, and serve with white or brown caper sauce. Boiled Mackeral. Boil the mackeral in salt and water, and send to table with either fennel, parsley, or gooseberry sauce. Grilled Mackeral. Split the mackeral down the back; season with pepper and salt; oil it over; place it on a gridiron over a moderate fire; and when done on both sides, take it up on a hot dish, and fill the inside with cold maitre-d'hotel sauce round the base, and serve. Mackeral, Filleted. Skin and fillet mackeral same as haddock. Put a piece of butter in a sauta-pan ; make it hot; place the fillets in the pan; season with pepper and salt, lemon- juice, and chopped parsley. Set the pan over the fire for a quarter of an hour. When done, drain and dish them. Serve with ravigotte or Dutch sauce. Red Mullets, Stewed. Clean the mullets; place them in a sauta-pan, with a little brown stock. Season with pepper and salt, and a little port wine, with half a spoonful of thickening. When done, pour the sauce over them, and serve.34 Fish. Red Mullets, Grilled. Season the mullet with pepper and salt; rub it over with oil; place it on a gridiron over a clear fire; and, having grilled it on both sides, dish it up, and serve, with either piquante, tomato, or Italian sauce. Red Mullets, with Herbs. Place the mullets in a sauta-pan, with an ounce of butter, a little Harvey, anchovy, and a glass of port wine; bake them in the oven; and when done, remove the fish on to their dish, add to their liquor some finely chopped truffle mushrooms, parsley, a little shallot, nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, and a little flour. Stir these together over the fire for a few minutes; pour the sauce over the mullets, and serve quite hot. Whitings, Boiled. Boil the whitings in water, with a little salt, for ten minutes; then dish them on a napkin; garnish with parsley, and serve with butter sauce. Whitings, Fried. Skin the whiting, and then turn the tail through the eyes; flour it over; dip it in beaten egg; toss it in bread-crumbs; fry it in boiling lard or frying fat. When it turns a bright brown colour, take it out of the fat; drain it before the fire for a few minutes; then dish it on a napkin, and serve with Dutch sauce. Fried Whitings, a la Francaise. Wipe the whiting without skinning it; score it along both sides by making deep incisions with aFish. 35 sharp knife; dip the fish in a little milk on a plate, and, having well floored it over, fry it, in plenty of hot fat, of a light colour and perfectly crisp, and serve with anchovy or shrimp sance. Fried Smelts. Wipe the smelts ; cut off the fins; roll them in flour; dip them in beaten egg; roll them in bread-crumbs, and fry them in plenty of frying fat; and when done, dish them up with fried parsley, and serve with shrimp or anchovy sauce. Baked Smelts. Spread the bottom of a dish with butter, sprinkle thereon some raspings of bread, season with chopped parsley and shallots, pepper and salt, then place the smelts in a row, pour over them a little Harvey and anchovy sauce; repeat the butter, seasoning and rasp- ings, and having placed them in the oven for about a quarter of an hour, when thoroughly done, serve hot. Eels, Fried. Skin the eels, cut them two inches in length, dust them with flour, dip them in beaten egg, and roll in bread-crumbs, and fry them in boiling lard or frying fat; they will take eight minutes to cook; when done, put them before the fire on white paper to free them from grease; dish up the pieces of eel on some tartar sauce. Eel Pie. P repare the eels same as for frying, place them in a pie-dish, cover them with white stock, add a little Chili36 Fisk. vinegar, ketchup, and Harvey; bake in an oven for twenty minutes or half an hour, and serve hot. This pie can also be eaten cold. Baked Pike. First draw, scale, and wash the pike thoroughly; truss it in the form of an S; put it in a baking dish, with a little stock, a good piece of fresh butter, two table-spoonfuls of catsup, a little anchovy, and some chopped parsley, and shallot. Set the pike in the oven to bake until it is done, remembering it must be frequently basted with its own liquor, and that the heat of the oven must not be fierce, as in that case it Avould bum up the moisture, and spoil the fish. When thoroughly done through, lift the pike carefully on to the dish; strain the liquor it has been baked with into a stew-pan; thicken it with two ounces of butter, kneaded with two ounces of flour ; add a few sliced gherkins, and a glass of sherry. Stir the sauce over the fire for ten minutes; pour it over the fish, and send to table. Pike may be plain boiled, same as haddock, and served with plain butter sauce, anchovy, or Dutch sauce. Pike may also be filleted, egged, bread- crumbed, and fried, same as any other white fish, and served with Dutch or anchovy sauce. Souchet of Pike. Fillet the pike; pare off the skin; put the fillets to boil for ten minutes in a stew-pan, with some weak bright stock and a little chopped parsley, pepper and37 Fish. salt, and serve all together, with thin slices of brown bread and butter on a plate separately. Perch. Draw and wash the perch; skin them; then roll in melted butter \ dust them all over with flour; dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in bread-crumbs. Fry them in boiling fat; drain them on clean paper. Perch may be soucheted in the same way as Pike. Pouns3 Boiled. Scrape and clean the pouns; put them in a pan with cold water; boil them for ten minutes; dish them on a napkin, and garnish with parsley. Make plain butter sauce with a little made mustard in it, and serve with the pouns. Pouns, Fried. Egg and bread-crumb the pouns ; fry them in boiling fat; serve with anchovy sauce. Skate, Crimped. This fish is generally sold in cut stripes, and curled round with a piece of the liver in the centre. The ordinary way of treating this fish is to boil it in salt and water, and serve it with white or brown caper sauce, or with Dutch, shrimp, or anchovy sauce. Skate is also excellent when bread-crumbed and fried, and served with either of the sauces above named, and also with tomato or Indian sauce. D38 Fish. Crimped Skate, with Brown Butter Sauce. Boil the skate in salt and water, and a little vinegar; and when done, dish it up with some of the liver, and fried parsley; pour some brown butter sauce over it, and serve. White-Bait. Let the white-bait remain in ice till near dinner time; put some flour in a cloth; take the fish from the ice; put them on the cloth with the flour; toss them about in the cloth; place them on the back of a wire sieve; shake the damp flour from them, and fry them in a pan of boiling lard; four minutes will cook them. They should be of a silvery colour, and perfectly crisped; pile them on a napkin; garnish with parsley; serve with brown bread and butter, and cut lemon. Potted Herrings. Take herrings perfectly fresh, and clean them well, but do not wash them ; cut off the heads and fins, and take the bones out. Season them with pepper and salt; roll them up tightly; pack them in a baking dish, and pour over them in the proportion of an English pint of vinegar to two of water, with half an ounce of whole pepper. Tie over the dish a piece of paper, and bake them in a slow oven for an hour. Take ofl the cover when they are cold, and pour over them a little cold vinegar. To Dress Fresh Herrings. Scrape and clean the herrings, but do not wash them; rub them over with olive oil or a little melted butter; dust them with very little flour, and broilFish. 39 them upon a gridiron. Serve them with sauce made of fresh butter, pepper, vinegar, mustard, and salt. Pouns may be done in the same way as fresh herrings. Scolloped Oysters. Remove the beards from some dozens; strain the liquor into a stew pan; add thereto two ounces of but- ter kneaded with two ounces of flour, a little cream, anchovy, nutmeg, and cayenne; stir the sauce over the fire to boil, and reduce for ten minutes; then add a couple of yolks of eggs, and a little lemon juice, and some chopped parsley; add the oysters, cut up; stir all together over the fire for a few minutes, and fill some scollop shells with this preparation; cover them over with a thick coating of fried bread crumbs; place them on a baking sheet in the oven for five minutes, and serve them quite hot. If you have no scollop shells, the deep shell of the oyster, well washed, will serve the purpose. Scolloped Mussels. These are prepared similarly to oysters, and placed in scollop shells likewise. Both oysters and mussels being first prepared as described, may be served upon neatly shaped pieces of toast: this constitutes oyster toast, or mussel toast. Scolloped Cockles may be prepared the same as scolloped mussels, and ©pread on pieces of dry toast.SAUCES. Plain Butter Sauce. Take four ounces of butter; put it in a pan with the same weight of flour; put the pan on the stove or slow fire; melt and mix together. Then pour in some boiling water until it is the thickness of cream; boil it for ten minutes ; skim it. If you should find it lumpy, pour it through a strainer. This sauce may be served with boiled fish, and it makes a foundation for many other sauces. White Bechamel Sauce. Put four ounces of flour into a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter; knead these together smoothly by working them with a wooden spoon; next add an onion, a small carrot, half a head of celery, some parsley, a bay-leaf, and thyme, the vegetables cut small, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Moisten with a pint and a half of milk; stir the sauce over the fire while it boils sharply for twenty minutes ; then strain it through a pointed strainer into a basin; afterwards to be removed into a convenient sized stew-pan ready fo#use.Sauces. 4* Cream Bechamel Sauce. Put a pint of white sauce into a stew-pan with a few sliced mushrooms; reduce this by stirring it over the fire for ten minutes. Then add half a pint of cream; and, as soon as the sauce comes to the boil, strain it into a basin or stew-pan for use. White Sauce. Mix well in a stew-pan two ounces of flour, one ounce of butter, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt; to these add a pint of milk; stir over the fire for ten minutes, and strain off for use. Brown Butter Sauce. Put four ounces of fresh butter in a stew-pan on the fire, and keep stirring it until it becomes browned by frying. Then add a small glassful of tarragon vinegar, ditto of Harvey, a table-spoonful of chopped capers, a little anchovy, and either a gill of brown sauce or gravey. Boil this all together for five minutes, and serve with boiled skate or grilled mackerel. Cardinal Sauce. Put a gill of good white sauce into a stew-pan; add some lobster-spawn, a little anchovy, and Chili vinegar. Boil it all together, and strain. Genoese Sauce. This sauce is made by adding a pint of brown sauce, a glass of red wine, a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, a teaspoonful of anchovy, a small piece of42 Sauces. sugar, a little nutmeg, and some chopped parsley; boil together for five minutes, and then work in a pat of butter. This sauce is used for dressed fish. Tomato Sauce. Put into a small stew-pan six sliced shallots, a bay leaf, and thyme, and a glassful of vinegar; boil these gently for five minutes; then add about a quarter of a pound of tomato pulp, an ounce of glaze, a teaspoonful of anchovy, and a small piece of sugar; stir over the fire until the whole has boiled for five minutes; then pass it through a pointed strainer into a small stew-pan for use. Brown Caper Sauce. Put four ounces of butter in a stew-pan, with an ounce of flour, a little nutmeg, pepper and salt; knead these well together with a wooden spoon; add half a pint of stock, a teaspoonful of anchovy, two of Harvey, a little browning, a table-spoonful of capers; stir the sauce over the fire until it boils; pass it through a pointed strainer into a clean pan for use. White Caper Sauce. Four ounces of butter, two of flour, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, well kneaded together in a small stew- pan, add half a pint of white stock, stir over the fire till the sauce begins to boil; let it boil for five minutes, add the capers, and serve with boiled mutton. Piquant Sauce. Prepare of gherkins, capers, and shallots, all chopped fine, a table-spoonful of each; place these in a smallSauces. 43 stew-pan, with a little pepper and a wineglassful of vinegar; set this to boil for four minutes, add half a pint of good stock, an ounce of brown thickening, and a teaspoonful of anchovy; boil, skim, and pour into a small stew-pan for use. Italian Sauce. Put in a stew-pan a dessert-spoonful of very finely chopped shallots, an equal quantity of salad oil, a bay- leaf, and thyme; when the shallot is fried in a satis- factory manner, add thereto a good table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, a glass of sherry, table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, teaspoonful of anchovy, half a pint of stock, stir over the fire until the sauce boils; let it boil for ten minutes, skim it, and pour into a stew-pan for use. Maitre D’Hotel Sauce. Knead two ounces of fresh butter with one of flour f a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, chopped parsley, and juice of half a lemon. Place this mixture in a small stew-pan with a gill of milk; stir over the fire till it boils; add a bit more butter to smooth it, and serve. Ravigotte Sauce. Knead two ounces of fresh butter with two ounces of flour, a little nutmeg, pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. Put this mixture in a stew-pan with a gill of white stock; stir it over the fire till it boils ; skim it. Put a dessert-spoonful of tarragon, ditto of Chili vinegar, ditto of Harvey, and a teaspoonful of anchovy;Sauces. 44 these ingredients, being first boiled in a separate pan for five minutes, must be stirred into the sauce. Reform Sauce. Put some brown stock in a small pan; to this add a glass of port wine, half that quantity of Harvey sauce, a teaspoonful of anchovy, and two table-spoonfuls of red currant jelly. Boil together for five minutes, and pour into a clean stew-pan for use. Robert Sauce. Chop two onions very fine, and fry them with a piece of butter the size of a walnut in a small stew- pan until they get a light brown colour, then add a wine- glassful of vinegar and a good pinch of pepper, and boil these together for four minutes; next add a spoonful of flour; and half a pint of stock. Stir the sauce over the fire for twenty minutes; then add a table-spoonful of mustard, one of Harvey, and a teaspoonful of anchovy; mix well together over the fire, and serve quite hot. Lobster Sauce. Split a lobster; remove the pith, coral, and spawn, and pound them with an equal proportion of butter in a mortar, and afterwards rub through a hair sieve, on a plate; break the shell, and having removed all the meat, cut it into small square pieces; next prepare some melted butter; to this add the spawn and the pieces of lobster. Season with the juice of half a lemon, a teaspoonful of anchovy, and a pinch of cayenne pepper, and serve hot.Sauces. 45 Indian Sauce. Half a pint of tomato sauce, dessert-spoonful of curry paste, a bit of glaze, a little anchovy; boil together. Strain and serve. Shrimp Sauce. Prepare butter sauce; to this add a teaspoonful of anchovy, a small pinch of cayenne, a little lemon juice, and a bit of lobster butter to colour and flavour it; lastly, throw in the picked shrimps, and serve hot. Mussel Sauce. Put a quart of washed mussels into a stew-pan, with a gill of water and a teaspoonful of salt; place the lid on the pan; set the mussels on a brisk fire to scald. This will be effected in a few minutes, and may be ascertained by the separation of the shells showing the plump, white mussels. These should be instantly taken off the fire, their liquor strained into a basin, and the mussels removed from their shells upon a plate; next make some butter sauce ; beat three yolks of eggs; add to the liquor and mussels; heat all together; and add a little cream; and serve hot. Anchovy Sauce. To some butter sauce add a dessert-spoonful of anchovy butter, a pinch of cayenne, and some lemon juice. White Oyster Sauce. First scald and beard the oysters, and save their liquor; next mix one ounce of butter with one ounceSauces. 46 of flour, in a stew-pan. Add the liquor, a gill of cream or milk, a little nutmeg, cayenne, anchovy, and lemon juice. Stir over the fire until the sauce boils; then add the oysters, and serve hot. Brown Oyster Sauce. Prepare the oysters as in the foregoing recipe; boil down their liquor; add half a pint of brown sauce. Season with a little anchovy, cayenne, and lemon juice. Add the oysters; boil together for a few minutes, and serve hot. Egg Sauce. Boil two eggs hard, which will require six minutes ; remove the shells; mince the eggs, and put these into some well-made butter sauce, and serve hot. Parsley Sauce. Chop and parboil for three minutes a handful of parsley; drain free from water, and add this to some melted butter or any other white sauce; work in a pat of butter to smooth the sauce, and serve hot. The Prince of Wales’ Sauce. Four hard yolks of eggs, four anchovies, a handful of tarragon, chervil, burnet, chives (these to be par- boiled, and afterwards pressed in a cloth, to extract all the water), a table-spoonful of capers, the same of mustard, and three raw yolks of eggs; place all these in a mortar, bruise them together with a pestle, and then proceed to work in nearly half a pint of salad oil, and half a gill of tarragon vinegar by degrees; when47 Sauces. this is done, rub the sauce through a hair sieve. This sauce is used for broiled fish, also for all kinds of salads of fish, poultry, or -game, Dutch Sauce. Make some butter sauce rather thin, take the pan off the fire, stir in the yolk of an egg well beaten, a tea- spoonful of vinegar, pepper and salt, then add a little sweet cream; beat all together with a whisk, make it hot; be careful not to boil it after the yolk of egg has been added, as in that case it would curdle. Clear Tarragon Sauce. To a pint of good white stock add a small bunch of tarragon, the white of an egg whipped in a very little water, and a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar; continue whisking this over the fire until it boils, and then remove it to the side, there to remain boiling until the egg is thoroughly set hard, and the aspic is per- fectly bright; then strain it through a napkin into a stew-pan, and boil it down to the consistency of half glaze. This sauce is used for quenelles, and boiled fowls or chickens. Mayonaise Sauce. Take a round-bottomed basin, place therein three yolks of eggs, and with a wooden spoon proceed to work by stirring quickly, add about half a pint of salad oil, and half a gill of tarragon vinegar; these must be incorporated by degrees; and in order to produce the sauce in perfection, it must present the appearance of aSauces. 48 firm, creamy substance. This cold sauce is especially adapted for chicken and lobster salads. When made, pepper and salt must be added, also two table-spoonfuls of very thick cream. Soubise Sauce. Peel and slice eight large onions, and put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt; place the lid on, and set this to stew very slowly, until the onions are nearly dissolved; next add four ounces of flour, two fresh boiled potatoes, and a pint of white stock, half a pint of cream; stir over the fire for a quarter of an hour, and then rub through a hair sieve; keep hot in a covered stewpan until used. Cardinal Sauce. Put a gill of white stock into a small stew-pan, a very little flour and butter, add a lump of lobster spawn, and a little anchovy and Chili vinegar. Mustard Sauce. Add some butter sauce to a teaspoonful of mustard, a dessert-spoonful of Chili vinegar, and a little anchovy; make hot, and serve with broiled or fried herrings. Bread Sauce. Take two ounces of bread crumbs, and put them into a pan with a shallot, pepper and salt, half a pint of milk, and a pat of butter; boil and stir for five minutes; take out the shallot, serve hot.Sauces. 49 Matelotte Sauce. Make about half a pint of white sauce; scald and beard two dozen oysters; add them to the sauce with their liquor; also a little mushroom catsup; a tea- spoonful anchovy paste; the juice of half a lemon; stir and boil on the fire for a few minutes; beat the yolks of two eggs; mix them with half a gill of cream ; pour it into the sauce, and stir over the fire for a few minutes ; and serve with dressed fish. St Clair Sauce. Slice an onion into a stew-pan ; add a piece of but- ter ; fry quite brown; season with pepper and salt; add a wineglassful of water; the same of brown sherry with a teaspoonful of catsup ; place the lid on the pan, and let it stew gently for twenty minutes. Thicken it with a teaspoonful of flour made into a smooth paste with water; boil, strain, and serve up very hot with souchet, or boiled fish. Sauce for Trout. Put two pats of butter into a small stew-pan, add a table-spoonful of flour; mix it well, and make it hot; then add a little hot water, and boil the sauce to the thickness of thin cream; then add the yoke of an egg well beaten, a teaspoonful of vinegar, a little chopped parsley, and salt to taste. Green Gooseberry Sauce. Boil a pint of green gooseberries; drain off the water, and rub them through a hair sieve. Put thisSauces. 50 pulp into a stew-pan, with a wine-glassful of spinach juice; add a little piece of butter, a pinch of sugar, a little grated nutmeg; pepper and salt to taste. Make it hot, and serve with boiled or grilled mackerel. Fennel Sauce. Chop fine a handful of fennel, and parboil it for three minutes ; drain free from water, and add this to some plain butter sauce ; work in a small pat of butter to make it smooth, and serve hot. Port Wine Sauce for Wild Ducks. Add the juice of half a lemon to a glass of port wine, three shallots sliced, a pinch of cayenne pepper, a table-spoonful of Harvey sauce; boil for three minutes, and strain it into a sauce boat. Allemande Sauce. Put a pint of white stock into a sauce-pan; thicken it with two spoonfuls of flour, a few sliced mushrooms, or some mushroom juice. Reduce this by stirring it over the fire for ten minutes; then remove it from the fire for a few minutes; beat up the yolks of four eggs; mix them with half a pint of cream, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, a teaspoonful of pounded sugar, and the juice of half a lemon; pour it into the pan, stirring all the time. Now place the pan on the stove; keep stirring; make the sauce very hot in order to thicken it, but do not allow it to boil, as that would spoil the sauce. Now strain it off for use.Sauces. 5i Brone Sauce, Mix with a gill of salad oil in a basin, half a gill of vinegar, two ounces of brown sugar, the juice of an orange, and a tablespoonful of mustard. Mix well together, and serve. Salmis Sauce, Chop up small some trimmings of roast game, and put these into a stew-pan, with a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, and a tablespoonful of salad oil; fry the whole of a light brown colour, then add a glass of white wine, and half a pint of brown stock; boil gently on the corner of the stove for ten minutes; remove the grease and scum; strain into a stew-pan for use. Mushroom Sauce. One pint of mushroom buttons, salt to taste, a little grated nutmeg, one blade of mace, one pint of cream, two ounces of butter, and flour to thicken it; boil all together for ten minutes. This sauce should be the thickness of double cream, and is excellent for boiled fowls. Sauce for Boiled Fowls, Put some new milk in a pan with one ounce of fresh butter; mix two table-spoonfuls of flour in a little cold milk, pour it into the pan, put it on the stove, keep stirring until it boils; grate some ham or tongue, mix with the sauce, pour over the fowls. Horse-radish Sauce. Scrape, clean, and grate a stalk of horse-radish, and put it into a basin; add thereto half a gill of cream.52 Sauces. same of milk, a dessert-spoonful of made mustard, the same of pounded sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, and a table-spoonful of vinegar; mix well to- gether, and serve it cold in a sauce boat, with roast beef. Celery Sauce. Thoroughly cleanse four heads of celery, and slice them very thin ; put this into a stew-pan, with nutmeg, pepper and salt, and four ounces of butter, and an onion sliced. Put the lid on the stew-pan, and set it over a slow fire to stew very gently, until the celery is dissolved without acquiring any colour; then add four ounces of flour, and a pint of milk; stir again over the fire until the sauce has boiled twenty minutes, and then having rubbed it through a sieve, put it into a stew-pan to be used for boiled poultry or game. Shallot Gravy. Peel six shallots, and put them into a stew-pan, with a glass of vinegar, pepper and salt; boil for six minutes; add a gill of brown gravy, and boil a little longer; strain through a sieve; serve for broiled meat. Russian Sauce. Put a stalk of horse-radish, scraped, into a stew-pan, four sliced shallots, a bay leaf, and thyme, a little raw ham chopped, nutmeg, pepper and salt, a dessert-spoon- ful of sugar, a small glass of vinegar, table-spoonful of wine, and an ounce of butter. Put the lid on, and set this to simmer over a very slow fire for about twenty minutes; then add rather more than a gill of whiteSauces. 53 sauce, four yolks of eggs, and a gill of cream; stir this over the fire until it begins to boil, and then strain it through a tammy into a stew-pan, for use. Mint Sauce. Take twelve stalks of green mint; pick off the leaves, and wash them; mince them very small; take a tea-cupful of vinegar; add two table-spoonfuls of raw sugar, a cupful of water, and mix them well to dissolve the sugar; serve in a sauce tureen with roast lamb, either hot or cold. Apple Sauce. Stew some apples with a little sugar, a very little butter, and a wine-glassful of water; when ten* der, rub through a sieve, and serve with goose and roasted pork. Puff-Paste for Patties. One pound of flour, one pound of butter, one small egg well beaten; if the butter is fresh, add one tea- spoonful of table salt; and about half a pint of water. Place the flour on the pastry slab; spread it out in the centre so as to form a well, in which place the salt, a small piece of the butter, the egg, and two- thirds of the water required to mix the paste. With the tips of the fingers mix the ingredients, gradually adding a little more water if necessary. When the whole is thoroughly incorporated, sprinkle a few drops of water on it, and work the sponge to and fro on the slab for two minutes, after which it should be elastic, soft, and smooth to the touch. The paste E54 Sauces. thus far prepared must now be spread out with the bent knuckles of the right hand on the slab, and having pressed the butter in a cloth to extract any milk it may contain, place it in the centre of the paste, and partially spread it by pressing on it with a cloth. The four sides should then be folded over so as entirely to cover the butter. Shake a little flour over and under it. Shape the paste in a square form, measuring about ten inches each way; place this on a flat dish, put it way for ten minutes in a very cool place to keep it firm; roll it out on the slab with a rolling pin, and shake a little flour over and under the paste, to prevent it from sticking either to the rolling pin or slab. Roll the paste out to about thirty inches in length; fold it in three equal folds; press these together by running the rolling pin over the paste; turn it round and roll it out again the reverse way, in the same manner and length as before. Fold it in three equally, fasten these folds by running the rolling pin over them with pressure, and set the paste back in a cool place to firm for eight or ten minutes. At the end of this time give two other turns as just described, and having rested for other eight minutes, it must receive two more turns previous to its being cut out for baking. The next thing to be done is, when after the last turn has been given to the paste, and it has been rolled out to the thickness of the fourth of an inch, and has been allowed to rest in a cool place for five minutes, with a plain or fluted round tin patty cutter to stamp out as many patties as you require. Place these on aSauces. 55 taking sheet, egg over their surfaces, and with another plain tin round cutter, less in diameter than the one with which the patties have been stamped out, make a circular incision in the centre of the patty, and with ihe smaller cutter cut out some of the paste for tops to the patties. The tops of the cases and their lids must be brushed over slightly with a beaten egg. They must now be placed on a baking sheet, and put in a brisk oven, and baked about twenty minutes; and when done remove the tops and the crumbs from the interior with a small pointed knife. The patties being made according to the foregoing directions, are to be filled just before sending to table with prepared oysters, or shell-fish of any kind, game, or poultry.FISH ENTREES. Oyster Patties. To prepare oysters for patties, put fresh oysters in a pan with a small blade of mace, scald them, but do not let them boil; pick out the oysters and beard them; pour the liquor through a sieve. Put a little piece of fresh butter in a small stew-pan; add a little flour, half the weight of the butter; mix the two together, then pour in the liquor of the oysters, and boil it for a few minutes. Cut the oysters in two, add them to the sauce, season with pepper and salt, a little grated nut- meg, and a little thick, sweet cream. Make the cases very hot, then fill with the mixture; sprinkle a few fried bread crumbs on the top; put on their lids; dish them on a napkin, and serve them very hot. Frittered Oysters. Take some large, fresh oysters, dust them with a little flour, dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in fine bread crumbs; fry them in a pan, with boiling lard, to a light brown colour: three or four minutes will cook them. Pile them in the middle of an entree dish, shake fried bread crumbs on the top, and thicken their own liquor and pour it round them.57 Fish Entrees. Curried Oysters. Take fifty or more oysters, scald them a little, beard them, and strain their liquor in a basin; next put a piece of butter, and the same weight of flour in a sauta-pan; make it hot, and mix it well; then add one dessert-spoonful of curry powder, half that quantity of curry paste; boil all together. Add the oysters, and season with salt; let it simmer very slowly for ten minutes. Have some rice, plain boiled, and very well dried; make a wall of rice round the dish, take the pan with the curry from the fire, add a wineglassful of thick cream to the curry. Pour the whole in the middle of the dish, and serve very hot. A few sprigs of parsley might be put round the dish. Oyster Cutlets. Beard the oysters, and strain their liquor. Fry some bread crumbs with a little butter; add them to the liquor; mince the oysters with a little parsley; put all these in a small pan and boil for a little. Season with pepper and salt, add the yolks of two eggs, let it cool; shape the cutlets, egg and bread-crumb them. Fry in Foiling lard, garnish with parsley, serve hot. Oyster Croquets. Scald and beard two dozen oysters, cut each into four pieces, and set them aside on a plate. Next, with their liquor, make some oyster sauce; reduce the sauce by boiling down over the fire; add a bit of glaze, and Three yolks of eggs, a little cayenne, lemon juice, and anchovy, and having stirred the sauce again over theFish Entrees. 58 fire to set the eggs, add the cut-up oysters; stir these in to mix them with the sauce, and make the oysters hot through. The mixture must not be boiled after the eggs have been added. Spread it out on a dish, let it become cold, then form the croquets in the shape of small pears, balls, or corks. Again have them dipped in beaten egg, rolled in bread crumbs, placed in a wire frying basket, and fried in hot frying fat of a light colour, and dished on a napkin, with fried bread crumbs sprinkled over them, and garnished round about with fried parsley. Scolloped Oysters. Remove the beards from some dozens of oysters, strain the liquor in a stew-pan, add thereto two ounces of butter, mixed with two ounces of flour, a little cream,, anchovy, nutmeg, and cayenne; stir the sauce over the fire to boil, and reduce for ten minutes, then add a couple of yolks of eggs, a little lemon juice, and some chopped parsley. Add the oysters, cut each into halves;; stir all together over the fire for a few minutes, and fill some scollop shells with this preparation; cover them over with a thick coating of fried bread crumbs; place them on a baking sheet in the oven for five minutes,, and serve them quite hot. If you have no scollop shells, the deep shell of the oyster well cleaned will serve the purpose. Scolloped Mussels. These are prepared similarly to oysters, and placed in scollop shells likewise. ^59 Fish Entrees. Scolloped Cockles are done in the same way as mussels, and baked in oyster shells, or on a flat dish that will withstand the oven. Scolloped Lobster. Split a fresh boiled lobster into halves, by cutting it through with a strong knife from head to tail, take out all the meat without damaging the shell; trim the ragged edges of the two halves of the body-shell, and likewise the tail and claw pieces. Let all the meat be cut into small squares, and reserved in a plate. Pound the pith, coral, and spawn of the lobster in a mortar with a small bit of butter. Rub it through a sieve, and put this into a stew-pan, with a little white sauce, a little anchovy, nutmeg, cayenne, and lemon juice; and having stirred the sauce over the fire for a few minutes, add the lobster and the yolks of two raw eggs, stir again over the fire to make it hot, fill the prepared lobster shells with this, cover them over with fried bread crumbs, salamander them, and dish up on a folded napkin wfith fried parsley. Note.—Oysters and mussels being first prepared (as described for Scolloped Oysters) may be served on dry toast. This is called Oyster Toast, or Mussel Toast. Lobster Croquets. Take one or two lobsters as may be required. If alive, put them in boiling water and boil them for twenty minutes; when cold, break up the lobster, take all the meat carefully out of the shells, and mince it small; then put the bruised coral and spawn into aFish Entries. 6o sauta-pan, with two spoonfuls of white sauce, and three yolks of eggs, a little nutmeg, cayenne, and anchovy. Stir this over the fire with a wooden spoon to set the egg firm in the mixture. When this is done turn the croquet meat out on a plate, and set it to cool, and finish as directed for Oyster Croquets. Note.—Attention must be paid to the proper time required for boiling a lobster. If it is boiled too long the flesh becomes thready and disagreeable; and if not done enough the spawn is not red through. This must be obviated by great attention. Lobster Loaf. Boil a lobster, and take off the four large claws; break the shells without bruising the meat; put the meat of the claws away on a plate. Next take all the meat from the body and small claws, pound it in the mortar with an egg, and a little fresh butter; add a little chopped parsley, pepper, and salt to taste; then butter a jelly pot of a proper size to hold the mixture; put the mixture into the jelly pot, tie a piece of white paper over it, steam it in a flat pan with a little boiling water, put the lid close on the pan and steam for half an hour. While the loaf is steaming take a small sauta-pan, and pour in a little clear brown stock, thicken with a little arrowroot, season with a tea- spoonful of vinegar, pepper and salt to taste; then place the meat of the claws into the pan with the sauce, put the lid on the pan, stew very slowly for ten minutes, when the entree is to be served; turn out the loaf on the middle of the dish, put the claws round61 Fish Entries. it, pour sauce over all, place the shell of the head on the top of the loaf for ornament. Lobster Cutlets. When the lobster has been boiled and become cold, take out all the meat, mince it very fine, brown two ounces of butter with a table-spoonful of flour, and put in the mince; season with white pepper, a pinch of cayenne, one teaspoonful of lemon pickle, and two table-spoonfuls of white stock or gravy, and stir it over the fire until it is well mixed, and quite hot. If one lobster, beat up one egg; if more, two will be required. Add to the mince, and stir it a little; lay it upon a dish until it is cold, make them in the form of lamb cutlets, brush them over with beat yolks of eggs, and shake bread crumbs over them; have the frying pan ready with plenty of boiling lard or fresh drippings; fry them a nice light brown. Stick into the narrow end of the cutlet a joint of the small claw, place them upon a napkin round the dish, and garnish with parsley in the centre. Crab Cutlets are done in the same way as Lobster Cutlets. Bouches of Lobster. Take a fresh boiled hen lobster, break the shell and remove the meat, coral, and spawn. Steep four ounces of bread crumbs in warm milk, and wring it in a cloth to extract the moisture, and add it to the lobster. Pound it in a mortar, with four ounces of butter, two whole eggs, and two yolks; season with a teaspoonful of anchovy, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt.62 Fish Entrees. Pound and mix the forcemeat thoroughly; then make it up into balls about the size of a walnut, flatten them slightly to prevent them rolling, and place them in a pan with plenty of boiling water, seasoned with a little salt, and poach them for about ten minutes. Remove them from the pan, and place them on a hot, flat dish. Cover each bouch with thick white sauce. Dish them on a stand of puff-paste about half-an-inch thick; sprinkle over with a little of the lobster coral, and serve hot.MEAT ENTREES. Fillets of Beef. Take some slices of the middle of the fillet, retaining the fat an inch thick, and season with a little pepper and salt; melt a little fresh bntter on a plate, dip those slices in the butter, that the gravy may not drop out whilst broiling. Put the gridiron on a clear fire, make it hot, rub it with suet, then broil the fillets, turning them every minute; eight or ten minutes will cook them. When done a nice brown colour, dish them on a very hot dish; garnish with olives, and horse-radish scraped, and put in the centre of the dish in the form of a rose; serve with a little pure beef gravy, made hot, and poured round the dish. This dish may be garnished with potato ribands or chips. To make potato ribands, peel raw potatoes with a sharp knife; run it round the potato, cutting a long thin slice resembling a riband, two inches wide and five or more in length; put these in a frying basket, and fry in boiling fat till brown and crisp; cut the chips in thin slices, and fry them the same way. Beef Olives. Cut some thin slices of beef from the steak piece; prepare a force-meat of bread crumbs, minced suet, a64 Meat Entires, little chopped parsley, and one egg; mix well together, and put a little bit of the force meat over the steaks; roll and tie them up with tape. Make them so as to stand on thpir ends, when you are to dish them. Take a stew-pan that will just hold them; brown a piece of butter with flour; brown the olives well; add a little boiling stock, a few small onions, put on the cover close; stew them slowly for an hour. Add a little ketchup, and cayenne pepper; when they are cooked, take them up on a dish; cut off the string; have them all the same length. Strain the stock; free it from .grease; put it back into the pan, and also the olives, and make them very hot. Put some beat potatoes on the centre of the dish; stick the olives on their ends in the potatoes; garnish with pickled vegetables according to taste ; pour gravy round the dish. Rolled Beef Collops. Chop some mushroom, parsley, and shallots; fry these with an ounce of butter, season with nutmeg, pepper and salt, and lemon juice, add two yolks of eggs, stir over the fire until the herbs are thickened, and then divide this composition among the prepared collops of beef, and roll them up in the form of large corks, then place them in a sauta-pan, in some clarified butter, set them in the oven for ten minutes, and when done, drain and dish them up neatly, pour some brown oyster sauce over them and serve. Fillets of Beef with Mushroom Sauce. For this purpose, procure about a pound and a half of fillets of beef, pare off all sinew and excess of fat, cut65 Meat Entrees. the fillet in slices about half an inch thick, and season them on a plate with a little oil, pepper and salt; broil on both sides; pour some brown mushroom sauce over them, have ready boiled carrots, turnips, and beet-root; scoop them out with a small cutter, make them hot, and sprinkle over the fillets. Ox Palates, Brazed. The ox palates must be soaked in water with a handful of salt for several hours; they must next be parboiled in water, with salt, until the thorny skin which covers the roof part is easily scraped off. When thoroughly washed, they must be put in a stew-pan with carrot, onion, celery, a little parsley, six cloves, mace, pepper corns, a little salt, and three quarts of water or stock, and boiled very gently for four hours. When quite tender they must be put in press between two dishes until cold; then cut them in nice square pieces, or stamp them out with a circular tin cutter the size of a crown-piece, and put in a stew-pan with some of their own stock previously boiled down to half glaze, and simmered for ten minutes. Place them neatly round the dish; pour Italian, or any other brown sauce over the palates; place mushrooms, green peas, or asparagus peas in the centre of the dish. Ox Palates, Stuffed. Get four ox palates; wash them well with salt and water; put them on to boil slowly for one hour. Then take them out and skin them; let the water remain; reduce it to half a pint, and strain it. When the66 Meat Entries. palates are cold, trim them neatly; spread them over with plain stuffing. Roll them up and tie them with a piece of tape. Brown a piece of butter with flour. Brush the palates over with a beaten egg, put them in the stew-pan, and brown them; pour in the stock which has been strained, shake them till they boil, and let them simmer till wanted. Before dishing, add a teaspoonful of ketchup, cut off the tape, place them neatly round the dish, and pour the sauce in the centre. Ox Palates, Curried. Wash, parboil, and skin the palates; cut them as for brazing, put them in a stew-pan, and cover them with brown stock, two sliced onions, and a little salt, then add two teaspoonfuls of curry powder, one of curry paste, and a dessert-spoonful of flour in a little stock. Put all these ingredients into the pan with the palates, stir it occasionally to prevent it burning. When the palates are quite tender and ready to dish, add two table-spoonfuls of cream, and serve the curried ox palates in a border of plain boiled rice. Veal Cutlets. Cut some slices from the neck of veal, beat up one egg, mince a little parsley, lemon thyme, and season with pepper, nutmeg, and salt. Dip the cutlets into it, and bread crumb them, brown a piece of butter with flour, and brown the cutlets. Add a little stock, and let them stew for half an hour; add a little lemon juice, pepper and salt, dish them, and pour gravy over them.67 Meat Entrees. Veal Cutlets, a la Financiere. About six bones of the best end of a neck of veal will be required for this purpose. The chin bone must first be removed with a small saw, and also the upper part of the cutlet or rib bones, leaving the bones intended to form the cutlets only about three inches long. The cutlets must then be divided, trimmed, and closely larded; next overlay the bottom of a stew-pan with sliced carrot, onion, celery, parsley, and an onion stuck with four cloves. Place the larded cutlets on this bed of vegetables, moisten with stock or water, just enough to reach up to the edge of the larding. Set the pan on the fire to boil, and then put it in the oven to braze for about an hour and a half, basting them frequently with their own liquor; when they are cooked, and of a nice brown colour, dish up the cutlets, with the bones under, thus showing the larded part uppermost. Use the strained stock from the cutlets to make the sauce; pour the sauce round the dish; fill up the well in the centre with stewed mushrooms, or green peas. Veal Frincandelles, One pound of veal, half-a-pound of fat of veal chopped very finely together, the crumbs of a French roll well soaked in boiling milk, and then drained, mix it with the veal, add two eggs well beaten, season with pepper and salt, and a little nutmeg. Make this into balls the size of a walnut, dress them with egg, amd bread crumbs. Fry them in boiling lard, make bhem a light brown colour, take them from the lard,Meat Entrees. 68 drain them on paper. Stew them in good stock for half an hour; dish them, and pour the gravy over them. Veal Sweetbreads, with White Mushroom Sauce. Wash the sweetbreads, put them on to boil for half an hour; when cold trim them, cut off the pieces of fat, put them back into a clean pan that will just hold them ; cover them with white stock, stew them till tender; dish them on a bed of beat potatoes; pour white mushroom sauce over them. Take the half of a lemon and slice it, cut the slices in leaves, and ornament the dish. Sweetbreads Larded with Truffles. Parboil the sweetbreads; press and trim them. Cut each sweetbread in two, in the form of cutlets. Glaze them slightly; take some truffles, and slice them length ways, then cut them in chips, as you would cut almonds for a tipsy cake, and with a larding needle pull the chips of truffles through the sweet- breads, leaving half-inch lengths of truffles sticking up all over the sweetbreads. Then put the sweet- breads in a sauta-pan, with some good, clean brown stock. Stew them very gently until tender; dish them in a hot entree dish; mix a little arrowroot in cold water—add to the stock. Boil for a few minutes; season with pepper and salt; pour round the sweet- breads. Sweetbreads with White Sauce. Sweetbreads might be done in the same way as above, and served with white sauce. After the sweet-69 Meat Entrees. breads have been thoroughly cooked and trimmed, have some cream bechamel sauce ready; beat up the yolk of an egg; add it to a teacupful of the sauce; pour it over the sweetbreads; stick them with truffles ; make hot; pour sauce round them. Sweetbreads, a la Toulouse. Soak the sweetbreads in water for two hours to extract all the blood; parboil them for five minutes, just to firm them, and after being cooled in water, trim and lard them closely; place them in a deep sauta- pan on a thin bed of sliced carrot, onion, and celery; moisten with just enough stock to reach up to the commencement of the larding. Put them in a rather hot oven to braze for about twenty minutes, basting them frequently with their own liquor, and when done, salamandered, and glazed, pile them up on a bed of asparagus peas; strain the stock, thicken it a little, skim off the fat and pour it round the sweetbreads. To Dress Sweetbreads Plain. Boil and trim the sweetbreads, beat up an egg, season it with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Brush them over with the egg; roll them in bread-crumbs; fry them in boiling lard or dripping; put them before the fire to drain, and keep them hot. Have a dish of spinach, or boiled whole rice. Place it in the centre of the dish, and the sweetbreads round it, serve with beef gravy. Cutlet, a la Jardiniere. Take the best end of neck of mutton, cut some neat chops, lay them in a stew-pan, cover them with some FMeat Entrees. 7o good gravy, add onion and carrot; cut some sweet herbs, pepper and salt, stew them gently till tender; then take them ont and strain the gravy, add a little glaze, put the whole in the pan for a short time, and serve with onion sauce. Mutton or Lamb Cutlets, with Tomato Sauce. Cut the cutlets off the loin and back ribs and trim them; then dip them in the beaten yolk of eggs; have some parsley minced, a little nutmeg, the grating of a lemon, pepper and salt. Mix these together and dip the cutlets into it. Have a frying-pan, with plenty frying fat, fry them on both sides till they become a nice light brown; then put them before the fire upon clean paper to drain; dish them in a circle round the dish; pour some tomato sauce round them, and some whole tomatoes in the centre—when whole tomato is not to be had, green peas or asparagus peas may be sub- stituted, and also a macedoine of vegetables. To Prepare a Macedoine of Vegetables. Scrape two or more carrots clean and smooth, and peel a like number of sound turnips, and then with French vegetable scoops proceed to shape the carrots and turnips into the form of olives, filberts, almonds, or peas; boil these in water; when done, drain them dry and place them in a small sauta-pan with a like quantity of green peas, asparagus peas, nibs of cauliflower, and French beans cut in the shape of diamonds. All these vegetables must be previously cooked and well drained. Add two table-spoonfuls of7i Meat Entries. stock, a little pepper and salt, and a teaspoonful of sugar; toss the macedoine lightly together over the fire, and serve when required. Reform Chips. Boiled red parts of carrots, turnips, black truffles, lean part of boiled ham, hard-boiled whites of eggs, and the outer part of green gherkins. These must be neatly shred into strippets about an inch in length, and as narrow as they can be cut. These chips should be made hot in a basin in the screen, tossed lightly to mix them, and piled up in the centre of cutlets, a la Reforme. Mutton Cutlets, a la Reforme. Trim the cutlets, season them with pepper and salt, dip them in beaten eggs, and then bread-crumb them with equal parts of dried bread crumbs and finely- chopped lean cooked ham mixed together. The cutlets must then be fried on both sides, and, when thoroughly done, are to be dished up in a circle, the centre gar- nished with reform chips ; pour some reform sauce over the cutlets, and serve. Soubise Cutlets. Boil a loin of mutton till rather under done; when cold, cut it up in neat cutlets, season them with pepper and salt; have a small panful of soubise sauce ready, beat up the yolks of two eggs, pour some of the sauce to the yolks, add a little cream, the grating of a nut- meg, pepper and salt: when quite cold and thick, take a knife and spread a coating of this mixture onMeat Entrees. 72 one side of each cutlet, smooth it nicely with a knife; cut a few truffles in slices, and with a small tin cutter cut small stars or diamonds from the truffles, place one of these on each cutlet, bake them in the oven a nice brown colour; dish them in a circle, pour some plain soubise sauce round the cutlets. Mutton Cutlets, a la Vicomtesse. Trim, season, and fry the cutlets, and when done on both sides, add chopped mushrooms, a little cooked ham, parsley, and shallots; season with nutmeg, pepper and salt, the juice of a lemon, and a pinch of sugar. Add a tablespoonful of flour, moisten with half a pint of stock, and an ounce of glaze; stir the sauce on the fire until it has boiled for twenty minutes, and reduced to a proper thickness; about four raw yolks of eggs must then be added, and stirred in with the sauce over the fire to bind it. The cutlets and sauce should now be allowed to cool partially, and then each cutlet must be covered over with some of the sauce and placed flat on a dish to become cold and set firm, so as it may be properly egged and bread-crumbed. Place the cutlets flatly and in order in a frying basket; immerse them in boiling lard, and fry them of a light brown colour, dish them up with a small paper frill on the bone of each cutlet; garnish the centre with any kind of dressed vegetables. Pour some sauce round the cutlets, and serve hot. Lamb Cutlets may be dressed the same way as Mutton Cutlets.Meat Entrees. 73 Fillets of Mutton, Stewed. Remove the fillets from the spinal hones of a loin of mutton, and then, having pared away all the fat and sinew, divide it across in two equal parts; again sub- divide these lengthwise, each into four fillets. If properly cut they will not require trimming. Season the fillets with pepper and salt; put a piece of butter in a stew-pan, with a spoonful of flour; brown it slightly; put the fillets into the pan ; brown them on both sides ; add brown stock to cover them. Let th§m stew slowly until tender. When done, dish them in a circle upon a bed of beat potatoes, with a macedoine of vegetables in the centre of the fillets. Skim all the fat olf the sauce, and pour over the fillets, and serve the whole very hot. Tendons of Veal. That part of the calf which is called tendons con- sists of the gristly portion of the breast bone, which has not yet become hardened into bone. Divide the tendon or gristle part into square pieces, the size of a cutlet; place these in a stew-pan, on a bed of carrots, onions, turnips, celery, parsley, six cloves, a few pepper-corns, and a little salt; add sufficient stock, or water, to swim them. Put the lid on, and set them to braze very gently on a slow fire for about four hours. When the tendons are done through, which will be ascertained by their becoming almost transparent, and comparatively soft to the probe of a fork, they must be carefully removed, with a small skimmer, one by one; and placed between two earthen dishes, put inMeat Entries. 74 the larder to become partially cold, in order that they may be neatly trimmed, and placed in a sauta-pan with their own liquor previously freed from grease, and boiled down to glaze. Make them hot; roll them in their glaze ; dish them up in a circular row ; garnish the centre with dressed spinach; pour the remainder of their glaze round the base, and serve. Note.—Tendons of Veal may also be served with stewed peas, or any other vegetable garnish. Curried Tendons of Veal. Braze the tendons as directed in the preceding case, and use their stock to make some curry sauce; put the tendons in this to simmer for a while, dish them up with fried bacon between each tendon, pom the sauce over the entree, and serve plain boiled rice in a dish separately. Fillets of Chicken, Frittered. Skin a chicken, cut the fillets from the breast, cut the thick end of the legs in two, season them very slightly with salt and white pepper, dust them over with flour, have some frying batter ready, roll the fillets into the batter and fry them in boiling lard. They should be a light brown colour. When done, drain them on paper, dish them on a folded napkin, fry some gelatine in boiling lard for two minutes; the gelatine must be the colour of silver. When fried, garnish the fillets with the fried gelatine and serve hot.75 Meat Entrees. Frying Batter. To half-a-pound of flour, add one ounce of dissolved butter, a little salt, and the yolk of an egg; mix these together with a wooden spoon, pouring in at intervals about a breakfast cupful of tepid water. Let this batter be well worked with the spoon until it presents a smooth creamy appearance. It must be set aside for an hour or so, and, when about to use it, add lightly two whites of eggs previously whisked into a firm froth. Cream of Chicken. Skin a chicken, and cut all the meat off the bones, and pound it in a mortar; when well pounded, rub all the meat through a fine wire sieve; then season with salt, white pepper, and a very little nutmeg; then mix in some sweet cream with the puree of chicken. It should be the thickness of very thick cream. Then take a convenient sized mould, rub the inside with fresh butter, slice some truffles, and, with a very small tin cutter, cut out any ornament you like from the truffle, ornament the sides and bottom of the mould, pour the mixture into the mould, tie a buttered paper over the top, and place it into a pan of boiling water. Place a close cover on the pan. The water should not be allowed to boil after the mould has been put into the pan, but must be left on the stove to poach for about two hours. When wanted, turn it out on its dish and pour some white mushroom sauce round it, and serve hot.Meat Entrees, 76 Cream of Rabbit. This is prepared in the same way as cream of chicken, and may be steamed in a cassarole shape, and the centre filled with mushrooms, green peas, or asparagus peas, and mushroom sauce, or bechamel sauce, poured round it. Quenelles of Chicken. Skin the chicken, cut all the meat off the bones, pound it well in a mortar, add the white of an egg; pound a little longer, and add two more whites of eggs ; pound well after the last white is added, season with pepper and salt, and a little grated nutmeg; rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve, take a dessert spoon and dip it in cold water, fill the spoon with the mixture, smooth the top with a knife, wet your hand with cold water to prevent the quenelle from sticking to it; then drop the quenelle on to your hand and place it into a large stew-pan with plenty of boiling water, seasoned with salt. When all the mixture has been shaped into quenelles and placed into the pan of boiling water, the pan must then be placed on the stove and allowed to boil slowly for twenty minutes. They must then be lifted out carefully with a small fish slice, or vegetable spoon, and allowed to drip a little, and dished in a circle round the dish, and sauced over with good white sauce, and the centre garnished with pre- pared cocks’-combs, or with mushrooms, green peas, or asparagus peas. When cocks’-combs cannot be had fresh from the77 Meat Entrees. birds, they may be got in bottles; and they only require to be stewed in a little stock till tender. Quenelles made from Cold Roast Fowl. Take the white meat of a fowl, scrape free from sinews and skin, the same quantity of suet shred very fine; put it in a mortar and pound as smooth as possible. Take a little crumb of bread, wet in milk, and add it to the meat in the mortar; and also one whole egg and the white of another, season with pepper and salt, rub it through a fine sieve; take it out, and with a dessert spoon shape the quenelles, and put each into a stew-pan, with as much broth or water as will cover them. Ten minutes is sufficient to cook them. Serve with white sauce. White Sauce for above. Take chicken bones or veal, a little ham in small pieces, a few mushrooms, two onions, two or three cloves, a blade of mace, a little butter, a small sprig of thyme, and let all stew an hour and a-half. Mix some of the gravy with flour, and add a little cream; put this into the pan and boil a quarter of an hour, stirring it well; strain, and season with salt. Good rabbits may be substituted for fowls. Young rabbits are preferable to old ones. Cushions of Chicken. Cut up a raw fowl into small joints; take care not to tear the skin, make a force-meat of the scraps made like quenelle meat, mix it with a little herbs, then put it into the skin and sew it up with a needle andMeat Entrees. 78 thread. Stew them in a little water with salt; make a good white sauce, and ponr it over when dished. They must be served with vegetables cut with a very small cutter. Between each layer put the different vegetables, carrots, turnips, peas, or beans, and balls of yolks of eggs. Petite Chard Rabbit. Make a case of paste in a plain mould of flour and water, line the mould very smoothly with it, fill it up with dry flour, put into the oven to brown; when done, leave it in the shape till cold, then turn it out; first take out all the dried flour, egg all the outside over, make a few leaves of some of the uncooked paste and ornament the shape with them. Take a rabbit or two, and cut them into small joints, stew them in good gravy with a little onion, two or three cloves, and a little soup glaze until the gravy is quite thick; when ready, heat the case in the oven, and turn it all into the shape. Dish it on a napkin ; it makes a very good entree or lunch dish, and is nice for breakfast. Dry Curry. For veal, mutton, or rabbit, put two ounces of butter into a frying-pan with two onions and an apple, both minced small, and fried till quite tender; then add nice bits of meat, with a tablespoonful of curry powder, a little salt, and two or three spoonfuls of good cream; fry all together for five minutes, stirring all the time ; then put all into a small stew-pan with a cupful of boiling water, let it stew slowly by the side of the fireMeat Entries. 79 until the meat is quite tender. Before it is dished, a little Chutney sauce may be added, and a little lemon- juice ; put a wall of boiled rice round the dish, with the curry in the centre, and serve very hot. Chicken or Partridge, a la St Clair. Cut the birds in pieces, and put them in a stew-pan with as much stock as will nearly cover them. When tender, add a glassful of port wine, a dessert-spoonful of ketchup, a small onion chopped very fine, a teaspoon- ful of anchovy paste, pepper and salt to taste, and a teacupful of cream; serve very hot. Creme de Volaille. Pound the white meat of a fowl into a pulp; pass it through a sieve; put it back into the mortar, and work into it the yolks of three or four eggs, and a gill of cream; season with white pepper and salt and grated nutmeg, and, if liked, a little shallot. When the mixture is perfectly smooth and well mixed, butter a plain mould; arrange thin slices of truffles, cut in shapes, at the bottom; then put in the mixture, which should only half fill the mould; tie a piece of paper on the top; place the mould in a saucepan with boiling water ? and steam it for an hour and a half; serve with truffle or tomato sauce. Roman Pie. Boil a rabbit, or any white meat, such as chicken or veal; cut all the meat off in thin slices; boil three ounces maccaroni in water till tender: cut up, in small pieces, three ounces parmasan cheese, the least bit ofMeat Entrees. 8o shallot, minced very fine, salt, pepper, and a quarter pint of cream; mix all well together; butter a plain mould, and sprinkle with vermicelli; make a quarter pound of short paste; line the mould with this, and then fill with the mixture; put on the paste top; press the outer edge on it; bake one hour, turn it out, and pour clear brown sauce over and round it. Game Quenelle. Take the remains of cold grouse, or game of any sort; pound it in a mortar till very fine; add a little good stock, a few bread-crumbs, a little Harvey sauce, pepper and salt; beat up two eggs and add to the mixture; butter a mould; pour in the mixture; tie a piece of paper over the top of the mould; set it in a pan with boiling water to steam for half an hour; serve with brown gravy round it. Dutch Frieandean. Take some force meat, beat well in a mortar, and bind it with two eggs. Take a plain mould and line it with slices of fat bacon, fill up the mould with the force meat, press it down, steam it for an hour and a half; when turned out, glaze it all over; serve with brown sauce. Force Meat. Mince fine half a pound of veal or fowl, previously cooked, and four ounces of ham; add one teacupful of grated bread, and moisten altogether with an egg. Season with a little nutmeg, lemon, and white pepper.81 Meat Entrees. Rissoles. Mince very fine some cold fowl, chicken, or veal, a little suet, and lean ham; season with pepper and salt, the grating of half a lemon, and moisten a little stock. Make some paste of four ounces of flour, two ounces of lard, and a little salt; moisten with one egg, and a little water; roll it out twice. Cut with a round tin cutter five inches wide; egg them round the edge with a brush. Put a little of the mince in the centre of the paste, turn over the paste, bring the edges together, press it down, brush them with egg, and roll in bread crumbs. Fry them in boiling lard; dish on a napkin. Curried Chicken. Cut up a chicken in joints, and put them into a stew-pan, with a piece of butter, a little salt, and minced onion ; put a close cover on the pan, and set it over a fire to stew very slowly. When it has stewed about twenty minutes turn the pieces of chicken in the pan; put the lid on again. See that no steam escapes. Chop up the backbone, neck, feet, and gizzard; put them in a pan; cover them with cold water; boil them for stock. When the stock has boiled down to half its original quantity, strain and skim it. Put a small dessert-spoonful of curry powder, half that quantity of curry paste, and a dessert-spoonful of fine flour, in a basin; mix in some of the stock from the bones into a smooth thick paste, and pour over the pieces of chicken. Let all stew together for ten or fifteen minutes. When the chicken is thoroughly cooked, and the sauce a proper thickness, the latter should resemble82 Meat Entrees. thick cream. When yon are about to dish the entree, take a breakfast cnp, wet the inside with cold water; fill it with plain boiled rice; press this in the cup; then turn it out on the middle of the dish. Dish the curry round the rice, or put a wall of rice round the dish, and the curry in the centre. Serve very hot. Fricassee of Chicken. Skin and joint a chicken; put it into a stew-pan, with a pint of stock made of the neck, backbone, gizzard, and feet of the chicken. Season with white pepper and salt; add a blade of mace, sprig of thyme, and a little parsley. Let all boil slowly for twenty minutes; then strain it; take out the bits of chicken, skim, and add two table-spoonfuls of flour, with a little of the stock; put it into the stew-pan, and boil it. Add the joints of chicken, with a few button mush- rooms ; beat up the yolk of an egg, and mix it with a teacupful of thick, sweet cream. Pour it into the pan among the pieces of chicken, and shake till nearly boiling. Add salt to taste; arrange the joints in a pile on the dish; pour the sauce over them; garnish with cocks’-combs and truffles, cut in stars or diamonds. The whole should be served very hot. Fillets of Fowl, with Asparagus Peas. Trim the fillets of fowls, and finish them as in the preceding case; roll them in white mushroom sauce; dish them up with pieces of red tongue ; fill the centre with asparagus peas ; pour some of the sauce round it. Serve hot.Meat Entries. 83 Italian Pigeon Stew. Take three or four pigeons, skin and clean them, cut Out the fillets from the breasts; cut off the legs and lay them aside with the fillets ; then cut up the hack bones, with the necks and gizzards; put them into a pan with a pound of raw, lean beef; add a little pepper and salt, cover well with cold water, and boil for sauce. When the substance is abstracted from the bones, strain the sauce into a small stew-pan; put the legs and fillets of the pigeons into the pan with the sauce, stew them until tender; cut some macaroni in pieces, boil it in plenty of water, drain it on a sieve; grate some parmesan cheese, and strew a little on the bottom of the entree dish; then a layer of macaroni, then of cheese, then of macaroni, and a little of the sauce. Put the pieces of pigeon on the top. The sauce should be reduced to half glaze, and poured over the entree. Have two eggs hard boiled and skinned; take out the yolks without breaking them, cut each in two, and place a piece in each corner of the dish; cut the whites in small stars or diamonds, and ornament the dish with them, and serve up very hot. Salmis of Grouse. Take the remains of cold roast grouse, trim the fillets and legs; make some salmis sauce of the bones, rather thick; put the pieces of grouse into the sauce, season with salt and a little cayenne pepper, and a small glass of port wine. Mushrooms or truffles may be added, and the whole served very hot.Meat Entrees. 84 Salmis of all kinds of game are prepared alike, the trimmings being used for making the sauce. Grouse Cutlets, Glengarry. Young birds only are fit for this. They must be drawn, the legs cut off, the drumsticks tucked inside, singed and split, and cut in halves. They must then be seasoned with pepper and salt, and fried in a sauta- pan, with a piece of butter, until browned on both sides. Shake in a little flour, add a piece of glaze and a little Chutney sauce; simmer over the fire for ten minutes, and serve very hot. Note. — All kinds of young game form a most delicious dish when cooked in this way. Bonnes-Bouches. Take about half a pound of any kind of game, say the flesh of a grouse, partridge, woodcock, or snipes; cut this up in small pieces, and fry it with an ounce of butter, a little ham, chopped truffle, mushrooms, parsley, and shallot; season with nutmeg, pepper and salt; and when done, pound thoroughly in the mortar, together with a spoonful of sauce made from the bones of the birds ; rub it through a wire sieve, and place the game puree in a small stew-pan; add the yolks of three eggs, and four whites, whisked into a substantial froth; mix lightly, and with this preparation fill a dozen or more paper cases; egg over the tops with a paste-brush, dipped in beaten white of egg; put them in a moderately heated oven to bake for about twelve minutes; and as soon as done, dish up the Bonnes-85 Meat Entrees. Bouches on a napkin; garnish with fried parsley, and serve immediately. Vol-au-vent, a la Financiere. Have a pound of puff paste ready, roll it out to the thickness of two and a-half inches, and with an oval cutter or round lid placed on the top of the paste, with a sharp pointed knife cut all round the edge of the lid ; when the vol-au-vent is cut out, egg it over, without touching the sides, and with a knife, the point held slanting inwardly towards the centre, make a circular incision within an inch of the edge, and with the point of a knife press the inner dish away from the incision to prevent them from closing up again. Make a lid with paste to fit into the well of the vol-au-vent, brush the top with beaten egg, place the vol-au-vent and its lid on a baking sheet, put it in the oven, not too hot, to bake for half-an-hour or longer, according to the size. When the vol-au-vent has risen about two inches, place the hoop of an old sieve round it, and a piece of paper over it, and allow it to remain in the oven until done ; it then must be taken out, and the greasy centre care- fully taken out without damaging the case. Financiere Sauce. ^ Put a pint of good stock into a stew-pan, with an ounce and a half of thickening. Stir over the fire until it boils, and then add a glass of Madeira or sherry, a glass of mushroom catsup, and a small pinch of cayenne. Allow this to remain gently boiling by the side of the fire to clarify, for about a quarter of an G86 Meat Entrees. hour ; remove the scum ; boil it down for five minutes longer, and then add a piece of glaze ; and when this is dissolved, strain the sauce into a small stew-pan. Parboil two veal sweetbreads, three or four cocks’- -combs; cut them and add them to the sauce, along with a few truffles and mushrooms. Let all be thoroughly cooked in the sauce, and seasoned with pepper and salt. When about to send to table, make the case hot; place it on its dish, with a folded napkin under it. Fill the well of the vol-au-vent with the financiere sauce. Place the paste lid on the vol-au-vent, and send to table very hot. Vol-au-vents may be filled with oysters prepared as for oyster patties. This is called vol-au-vent of oysters. Calf’s Brains in Cases, Au Gratin. Put the brains in cold water, with a little salt to draw the blood from them; parboil them in water for eight minutes; take them from the water and cut them in small pieces; they must then be added to some well-seasoned bechamel sauce, with a little lean ham or tongue, truffle, and mushrooms, and rather highly seasoned with pepper and salt. Beat up an egg and ad^ to the mixture, and with this preparation fill some paper cases; strew fried bread-crumbs upon the tops, place them on a baking sheet, put them in the oven for ten minutes. Dish up the cases on a folded napkin; garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot.87 Meat Entries. Calf Feet, Fried. When the feet have been boiled and are cold, cut them in pieces the size of a small cutlet; dip each piece in batter, fry them in hot fat, and, when they become crisp, let them be drained on a cloth; dished up on a napkin, with or without fried parsley, and some tomato, piquante, or ravigotte sauce, served separately. Indian Pilau. Wash a pound of rice; parboil it; then place the rice in a stew-pan, with a fowl cut up into joints. Moisten with a quart of stock or water. While the fowl is stewing, cut four onions in slices, fry them in butter to a light colour, and keep them warm on a plate. Fry also a dozen slices of bacon. When the fowl is done, pile up the rice in the middle of the dish, then the joints of fowl. Next strew the fried onions over the top. Eub some tomatoes, with butter; bake them in the oven for five minutes; cut them in quarters. Garnish the dish with the tomatoes, rolls of fried bacon, and hard-boiled eggs, and serve hot. Croquets of Macaroni. Make a thick salmis sauce, then add three yolks of eggs, nutmeg, pepper, a little chopped shallot, a pinch of sugar, and the juice of half a lemon. Stir this over the fire to set the eggs in the sauce; then add a hand- ful of boiled macaroni, two ounces of roast game, one ounce of lean ham, truffles, and mushrooms. Mix these with the sauce, and when cold and firm, divide the preparation into equal small portions. Mould these88 Meat Entrees. in the form of eggs. Egg, bread-crumb, and fry them in hot lard. Dish up with fried parsley. Russian Kromeskys. Parboil half a pound of fat bacon for twenty minutes, and when quite cold, cut it into very thin shavings, an inch and a half square, and use these to envelop as many ordinary sized cork-shaped croquets as may be required for the occasion; set them on a dish in a cool place until it is time to serve them. The kromeskys are then to be separately dipped in batter, and fried in clean hot lard; and when done crisp, are to be drained on a wire sieve covered with paper, dished up with fried parsley, and served immediately. Kromeskys are made with all kinds of croquet preparations, whether of meat, fish, or shell-fish. Ringlets. Mince a small bit of cooked veal, rabbit, or fowl, and a little ham, season with pepper and salt, a little nutmeg, a table-spoonful of bread crumbs, moisten with a little good stock and an egg; take six small tin shapes, butter them well inside; take a few pickled French beans, cut them in small strips, cut also some slices of lean ham, or tongue, the same size, and all one length; stick round the tin or cup one strip of beans, and one of ham or tongue, alternately, at a small distance from each other. Fill them with the mince, cover them with a piece of clean paper, and set them in a stew-pan with boiling water two inches deep. Let itMeat Entries. 89 boil slowly, take care that the water dose not boil into the cups, cover them close. They will require half an hour to steam, have the dish you are to serve them on very hot. Turn them upside down and let them stand a little, draw off the shapes and pour white bechamel sauce round the ringlets. Rissoles, Mince very fine some cold fowl, chicken, or veal; a little suet and lean ham, season with the grating of half a lemon, pepper and salt; and moisten with a little stock. Make a paste of the following:—Four ounces of flour, two ounces of lard, a little salt, and moisten with one egg, and a little water to make it a proper stiffness. Roll it out twice, cut it with a round tin cutter five inches wide; egg them round the edge with a brush. Put a little of the mince in the centre of the paste, turn over the paste and bring the edges together. Press it down to make it stick, then brush them with egg, and strew over them some vermicelli, boiled and dried. Have the frying-pan with plenty of boiling lard; fry them to a nice light brown colour. Lay them on a sieve before the fire to drain; keep them hot, and when wanted, dish them upon a napkin, and garnish with parsley. Croquets. Prepare half a pound of rice, boil in milk instead of water, when it is very soft and thick let it stand till cold. Divide it in six portions. Roll each portion between your hands, and form it like a pear. Dust them all over with fine bread crumbs. Brush them90 Meat Entrees. over with beaten egg. Have plenty of boiling lard in a pan; pnt them in and brown them a very light brown, then place them on a sieve before the fire and cover with a piece of paper to keep them hot. Have ready a mince of veal or fowl, a small bit of ham, and snet pounded. Season with nutmeg, pepper and salt, a little grated lemon, and a table-spoonful of bread- crumbs. Take a small stew-pan and melt a bit of butter. Put in the mince, stir, and beat it with a wooden spoon for ten minutes. Add a little lemon pickle; when wanted, cut out with a penknife a small bit of the thick ends of the croquets and take all the rice out of their insides. The mince being hot, fill them by the end that was cut out. Brush the inside with egg, and stick on the bit cut out. Dish them upon a napkin, and garnish with fried parsley.POULTRY* To Roast a Turkey. Have a young fat turkey; pick, singe, and rub it well with a dry cloth. Cut off the head by the shoulders, leaving the front skin of the neck long. Cut off the points of the toes, and put the legs in the fire for a minute, and take the upper skin off them, then draw the fowl, taking care not to break the gall or the gut. If properly done it will not require to be washed. Put a little pepper and salt into the inside, and put the vent over the rump. Have a stuffing ready and put it in where the crop was taken out, sew it up, and put a large skewer through the wing, the under side of the thigh and the body, to the thigh and wing of the other side. Press down the legs and put another skewer through them, down the side of the vent. Have a piece of tape; put it firmly round the turkey, and fasten it on the point of each of the skewers to keep the skin of the bird from giving way. Fix a piece of paper over the breast of the turkey, roast it for an hour and a half. Baste it well while it is roasting; when about done, drudge it with flour, baste it with butter; dish and garnish with sausages, pour gravy round it, and serve bread sauce in a sauce tureen.Poultry. 92 Plain Stuffing. Mix four ounces of minced beef suet with a cupful of bread-crumbs, a little minced ham, parsley, pepper and salt, the grating of a lemon skin, and bind with one egg. This stuffing is used for fowls and veal. Chestnut Stuffing for Brazed Turkey. Mince four ounces of beef suet. Mix it with half a pound of bread-crumbs, pepper and salt, and the squeeze of a lemon. Boil about a dozen chestnuts in water until tender; free them from their husks, and pound them in a mortar. Add them to the suet and bread crumbs, beat up two eggs, and mix all well together, to be used for stuffing turkeys. Boiled Turkey. Draw and truss the fowl with the legs drawn in under the skin; and fasten them with tape round the joints, and tie it round the rump to prevent the legs from starting. Stuff the breast and sew it up. Put it in a pot that will just hold it, and cover it with cold water; add carrot, onion, celery, parsley, and salt, boil gently until done tender. Dish, pour good white sauce over it. It must be served with boiled ham or tongue. Brazed Turkey. Truss the turkey as for boiling; stuff it with chest- nut staffing; put it in a brazing-pan with two carrots, one turnip, three onions, one stalk of celery, a little parsley, four cloves, a blade of mace, and a few pepper- corns ; moisten with sufficient stock or water to cover93 Poultry. it, and set it to simmer very gently over a slow fire, or in the oven, for about two hours, taking care to baste it frequently with its own liquor. When done, drain it and place it in a baking dish; add the stock, boil it down, and free it from grease; season with salt, and set in the oven to be glazed by basting it often with its own essence; and as soon as it presents a bright glossy aspect, dish it up; thicken the liquor with a little flour, boil it, and pour it over the turkey. Boiled Turkey, a la Yorkshire. Cut the legs off a turkey; scald, trim, and set them aside; bone the turkey without removing the wings; nearly fill the inside with veal force-meat; thrust a trimmed boiled tongue down the middle of the force-meat, close the pouch of the turkey by sewing it up securely, and truss the turkey for boiling, inserting the feet in their natural position; give it as nearly as possible its original form; the turkey, thus far prepared, must be tied up in a cloth and boiled very gently in order not to burst it; it will take an hour and a half to boil, more or less, according to the size and age of the bird. When the turkey is done, dish it, pour bechamel or any kind of white sauce over it. When carving a turkey, a la Yorkshire, the slices must be cut from across the breast, so as to give to each guest a slice composed of equal parts of tongue, turkey, force-meat, adhering together. Turkeys dressed in this fashion, and sauced over with cream bechamel sauce, decorated with truffles and tongue, and garnished with aspic jelly, form an elegant dish for ball suppers.Poultry. 94 To Boil Fowls. Singe and draw the fowls; wipe them; stuff the breasts with plain stuffing; put them into a pan that will just hold them; cover them with cold water; add a little salt and a cupful of new milk; set the pan on the stove or slow fire; skim the water when it boils. If young fowls, three-quarters of an hour, if old, two hours’ boiling will be required. Have a boiled tongue, skin and glaze it; dish the fowls with the tongue in the centre; pour bechamel or any kind of white sauce over them, and serve very hot. To Roast a Fowl. Have a young tender fowl; clean and singe the fowl, and cut off the toes; draw and truss it; stuff the breast with plain stuffing; put a little pepper in the inside; fix a piece of paper on the breast of the fowl; put it before a clear fire to roast for three-quarters of an hour; baste it all the time with dripping, and before you dish it, shake a little flour over it. A spoonful of butter may be melted to froth it; dish, and pour a little gravy round it; serve with fried ham, or tongue, and bread sauce in a sauce tureen. To Roast Chickens. Pick, singe and draw the chickens. Cut off the points of the toes; put a little stuffing in the breasts, sew them up, skewer them as for roast turkey, put them before a clear fire, and baste them well with butter while roasting. They will require twenty minutes. Dish them, and pour a little rich gravy95 Poultry. round them, serve up with bread sauce in a tureen. Turkey pullets are done in the same way. Chickens and Tongue, a la Macedoine. Boil two spring chickens; and when done, place them in a dish with a boiled tongue, trimmed and glazed in the centre. Garnish with cauliflower or broccoli. Sauce the chickens and vegetables with white sauce, and serve. Note.—Chickens, or fowls, served with tongue, as above, may also be garnished with macedoine, jardi- niere, or any other dressed vegetables. Boiled Capon. Truss a capon and tie it up in a buttered cloth. Put it on to boil with carrot,.onion, and a small stalk of celery. Add stock enough to cover it, or it may be boiled in water, with a little salt. And when done, dish it up with cauliflower or broccoli. Pour white mushroom, bechamel, or any other white sauce over it and serve. Capon, Brazed. Truss, lard, and braze a capon as directed for brazing a turkey; and when glazed and dished up, sauce it over with the liquor it has been brazed in. The liquor must be freed from grease, and thickened with a little flour, and a few mushrooms, boiled and poured over the capon. Note.—Capons are also roasted the same way as fowls with plain brown gravy poured over them; and bread sauce served in a sauce tureen.Poultry. 96 To Roast a Goose. Singe and draw a goose, leaving the skin long enough to turn over the back; take the upper skins off the feet, turn them round upon the back, and cut off the wings at the first joint. Mince two onions, with four blades of sage, some bread-crumbs, pepper, and salt; mix them all together and put the stuffing into the goose. Put the vent over the rump to keep the stuffing from dropping out; pass the skewer through the wings and body, and fix a piece of paper over the breast. It will require one hour and a-half before a clear fire. Ten minutes before you dish it, take off the paper to let the goose brown. When dished, pour a little good brown gravy round it; serve with apple sauce in a tureen. Note.—A duck is dressed in the same manner, only one hour’s roasting will suffice. Brazed Goose, a la Jardiniere. Truss a goose and place it in a brazing pan, with two carrots, one small turnip, four onions, one head of celery, a little parsley, pepper and salt, with just enough stock or water to cover the goose. A blade of mace, six cloves, and a few pepper-corns must be added, and set to braze slowly for two hours, remembering that the lid of the pan should be covered with live embers, and that the goose must be frequently basted with its own liquor. When the goose is done, drain it and dish it up. Garnish it with spring vegetables; sauce it over with brown sauce, in which there has been incorporated the stock from the goose, previously freed from grease, and boiled down to half glaze.97 Poultry. N.B.—Everything that is brazed must be done thoroughly, and must be seasoned with spices, sweet herbs, and vegetables. Brazing is, in truth, a more scientific way of stewing. Brazed Swan. Pick, singe, and draw a young, well-fed swan. Truss it as you would a goose. Prepare the following stuff- ing, namely:—Chop and parboil, for a few minutes only, six large onions ; drain them on a sieve, and put them in a stew-pan, with four ounces of butter, the crumbs of two French rolls previously soaked in milk, chopped parsley, nutmeg, pepper and salt, two eggs, and twenty chestnuts boiled, skinned, and pounded in a mortar. Mix all together, and use it to fill the inside of the swan; place it in a brazing-pan, with carrot, turnip, onions, celery, mace, cloves, and pepper-corns. Cover it with stock or water; braze it for an hour and a half, or until it is done. Strain its liquor; remove the grease; and having boiled the liquor down to half glaze, add it to some tomato sauce or pulp, and pour it over the swan when dished up. Note.—Swans may be stuffed with bread crumbs, sage, and onions, and roasted before a brisk fire for about an hour and a half, and when done, dished up with good brown gravy, and served with apple sauce separately. Stewed Duck, with Green Peas. Truss a duck, and braze it in the usual way; and while this is going on shred a lettuce fine, and put it98 Poultry. in a stew-pan with a quart of peas, a few green onions, and parsley, an ounce of butter, pepper and salt, and a gill of water. Put the lid on the stew-pan, and set the peas to stew very gently over a slow fire for about twenty-five minutes, tossing them up occasionally to admit of their being done equally. When the peas are become soft and are done, should there happen to be too much moisture, boil down on the fire until reduced; add a little white sugar and a good pat of butter; mix these in with the peas, and use to garnish the duck. When dished up, sauce over all with the stock from the duck, previously boiled down to half glaze. Pigeons for a Remove. Take three or four pigeons; truss them as you would chickens for boiling. Season the inside with pepper and salt, herbs and pickles. Rub a little butter on their breasts ; drudge them with flour ; make thin paste and roll each in it separately. Keep them a nice shape, and tie each in a cloth; boil very slowly for an hour and a half. Remove the cloths from them ; place them on a dish; garnish with hard-boiled eggs. Pour rich brown gravy over them, and serve very hot. Turkey Stew. Take the remains of a roast turkey; cut it up in nice sized pieces ; boil the bones for stock, skim it, and put it into a stew-pan with the pieces of turkey. Season slightly with pepper and salt; add thirty oysters, a few chillies, and button onions, one glass of white wine. Stew for an hour, and serve hot.BEEFS. Roast Sirloin of Beef. A piece of beef, in order to have any chance of perfection when cooked, should not weigh less than fourteen or sixteen pounds. It will take about two hours and a half, or three hours, before a clear fire to roast. It must be kept at a distance of eighteen inches from the grate; baste frequently with nice fresh dripping, placed in the dripping pan; when the beef is roasted, remove it from the spit, and place it upon its dish; pour some good gravy round it; serve separately some scraped horse-radish, or some horse-radish sauce, in a separate dish, and a piece of Yorkshire pudding in a vegetable dish. Note. — The dripping-pan should be kept very clean; it should be washed and dried thoroughly every time it is used. When a large joint has been roasted, and the dripping removed from the pan, pour a little water into the dripping-pan; add a little salt, and strain it; allow it to cool, free it from fat, and heat it when required, as gravy for the roast. Roast Ribs of Beef. A piece of rib beef, intended for roasting, should consist of not less than three or four ribs; the chine-Beefs. IOO bone, and also the upper part of the rib bones, should be removed by sawing them off. The flat ends should be fastened neatly under with wooden skewers, and equally balanced on the spit; the ribs of beef should then be roasted in much the same manner as directed for sirloin of beef; browned potatoes are generally served with roast beef, and also Yorkshire pudding. How to make Yorkshire Pudding. Take four table-spoonfuls of flour, with a little pepper and salt, and mix it with a little cold milk. Have two eggs well beaten; mix them with the flour; then mix in half a pint of milk; stir it all well. Have a square tin pan greased; pour in the pudding, and set it in the oven for a few minutes; then place it under beef that is roasting; send it to table cut in square pieces, and dished on a napkin. Boiled Round of Beef. Procure a round of beef, well furnished with rich delicate-looking fat. Take out the kernels, and salt the round in the usual manner; rub in and all over it four pounds of salt, with half an ounce of saltpetre, turning it over in the brine, and rubbing It well with the salt every morning for about ten days. By this time the round of beef will be ready for boiling. Next, after removing the round from the brine, fold it into shape by pulling the flap-piece close to the buttock. Fasten it well with skewers in order to maintain it in proper shape while boiling. Bind it neatly, and tightly, all round with a piece ofBeefs. IOI tape, put it on in a large pot with cold water. It must never be allowed to boil fast, as this always spoils salt meat. When the round has boiled about five hours, take it up, and trim it. Stick in four silver skewers to keep it in shape, cut off the first slice. Pour round it some of its liquor, coloured with a little browning, and garnish with vegetables. Boiled Aich-Bone of Beef. Salt the aich-bone, and boil it with care as directed for Pound, and garnish it in the same manner. All other joints of salt beef are to be treated similarly. Spiced Beef. For fourteen pounds of beef, mix one pound of common salt, with half a pound of coarse brown sugar, a quarter pound of allspice, and half an ounce of salt- petre. Rub the beef well with this mixture. Turn it in the liquor every day for a fortnight. When about to use the meat, wash in cold water, and dry it with a clean cloth. Place it in a baking dish with beef suet under and over it, and bake in a moderate oven for about four hours, basting it frequently. When done, dish it with beef gravy under it, and serve hot. Pressed Beef. Pressed beef may be prepared with either briskets or flank of beef. The beef must first undergo curing in manner following, namely, to six pounds of common salt add one ounce saltpetre, half-a-pound of moist sugar, some bruised bay leaves, thyme, basil, marjorum,102 Beefs. half-an-ounce of cloves, same of mace and of pepper- corns, all mixed together and ponnded in a mortar. Rub it well into the piece of beef intended to be cured. The beef must remain in the brine for about twelve days, when it will be ready for use. When about to cook the beef, let it be rolled into and fastened in a cloth, which must also be sewed at opening, and otherwise corded with twine, in the form of a lobster. Put it in a pot with cold water to boil very gently for about four or five hours, according to weight and thickness. When the beef is done, let it be put in press between two dishes with heavy weights on the top. When the beef is perfectly cold, take it out of the cloth, trim and glaze it over, garnish with aspic jelly or merely with picked parsley, and serve either for breakfast, luncheon, dinner, or supper. Beef Steaks. Have the steak cut from the houghbone or ribs, have a clear fire and clean gridiron, let the latter become hot, then rub it with a little suet, lay on the steak, and with a pair of collop-tongs keep turning it con- stantly. Have the dish made very hot when the steaks are half done, sprinkle them over with salt, take them off and put them into a dish before the fire, and cover them with a hot cover. In the course of five minutes put them back upon the gridiron, turning them for other five minutes. When done, dish the steak with the gravy, and serve with horse-radish.103. Beefs. Minced Collops. Take whatever quantity of lean beef you want, add a little suet, and mince it very fine; take a piece of butter and brown it with a few onions chopped up, then put in the minced meat, and keep beating it until it becomes brown. Have some gravy ready, add it to the minced collops, and let it boil; then draw it aside, and allow it to stew for half-an-hour ; add pepper and salt to taste, and a little ketchup. Minced collops should be very thick, and garnished round with toasted bread cut in dice with poached eggs on the top. Ox Tongue. The tongue should be boiled very slowly for about two hours and a-half, and, when done, plunged in cold water, so as the furred coating of skin may be removed. It should then be placed, with the root end up, against a piece of board set close to the wall by the dresser, until set quite cold. The tongue must then be trimmed and glazed, and a piece of paper frill stuck on the root. How to Make Glaze. Take a whole hough of beef, an ox-foot, and an old fowl or a piece of veal, a little salt and a few pepper- corns, and put them into a pot; cover with cold water, boil slowly for ten or twelve hours ; then strain it, and, when cold, skim very clean. Put the stock into a sauce-pan, set it upon the fire, and let it boil slowly without a cover till it is reduced to a small quantity. When it is done sufficiently, dip a spoon in it, touch it with your thumb and finger, and if it cause them toBeefs. 104 stick together, it is ready. Put it into jelly-pots. When you are to use it, set the jelly-pot in hot water till it becomes liquid. How to Cook Tripe. Have the tripe well cleaned and soaked in cold water for some time; cut into pieces, and put into a pot with a marrow bone ; cover with cold water, and let it boil slowly for six hours. Skin some whole onions, and add to the tripe. Mix some flour with new milk, a little salt, and white ground pepper; add these, and let all stew together for half an hour longer; skim off the fat. When dished, place the onions on the top of the tripe. Fried Tripe. For this purpose the tripe should be previously boiled, and, when cold, each piece must be dipped separately in some frying batter, and fried crisp in some frying fat or lard. When done, dish up with fried parsley on a napkin. Serve with tomato sauce in a sauce-boat.Roast Fillet of Veal. Veal, to be in perfection, should, if possible, be pro- cured fresh killed, as it does not improve by being kept. Take out the bone from a good fat fillet, and with the bat flatten the udder; make a deep incision between the udder and the fillet with a knife, and fill it with veal stuffing. Sew it up with small twine. Wrap the udder tightly round the fillet, and secure its shape with skewers and twine. Spit the fillet in the usual manner; cover it with buttered paper; roast it for about two hours and a half. Just before it is done take off the paper, and after shaking some flour over it from a drudger, baste the fillet with a little fresh butter, and froth it; then dish it up. Pour round it some melted butter, coloured with a little browning, and lemon juice; and serve some boiled bacon with greens, separately. Loin of Veal, Brazed. Trim, stuff, and truss a loin of veal. Place it on a bed of sliced vegetables in a brazing-pan. Cover it with a fitting piece of thick white paper, previously rubbed over with butter; moisten with sufficient stockio6 Veal. or water just to reach the edge of the surface of the veal, and set it to braze in the oven, or very gently over a slow fire, with live embers on the lid of the pan. Take due care to baste it frequently with its own liquor during the time it is being brazed, in order that the meat, by continuously absorbing the stock, may be im- pregnated with the flavour of the vegetables. When the loin of veal has thus stewed, or brazed, for about three hours, let it be drained and placed on a baking dish; and after straining and boiling down its own liquor to the consistency of half glaze, add it to the meat, and set it in the oven, continuously basting it with its glaze, until it presents a light, glossy aspect. The loin of veal must then be dished up and garnished with cooked tomatoes, onions, and carrots, and sauced over with the liquor of the veal. Roast Loin of Veal. Take the best end of a loin of veal, weighing about eight pounds, with a fair proportion of the skirt on; trim it square, and place some veal stuffing in an incision made for that purpose in the flap or skirt. Wrap the skirt round the kidney fat, and secure the loin tightly with skewers and string. Envelop the loin well in greased sheets of clean paper, secured with string; spit it and roast it before a moderate fire for about two hours. When done, dish it up, and pour over it either some clear brown gravy, or some melted butter, coloured with a spoonful of mushroom catsup, and serve separately either ham, or tongue, or some bacon, garnished with some sort of vegetable.107 Veal. Loin of Yeal, a la Creme. Prepare and roast a loin of veal, and, about twenty minutes before it is done, put a clean dish under it, and baste it all over continuously with a pint of sweet cream; this, as the veal continues to turn round before the fire, will cause it to assume a bright, light brownish crust of a very delicate aspect. While removing the veal from its spit on to its dish, it must be carefully handled so as the crust may not be knocked off. Let the brown deposit, which has fallen from the veal during the time it has been basted with cream, be detached from the dish which has received it; with some white mushroom juice or water, add this to some white sauce and a little cream, and pour it round the veal.MUTTON. To Roast a Saddle of Mutton. Have the saddle neatly cut; take the skin off; then fix the skin on the mutton with a wooden skewer, and hang it before the fire to roast. It will require two hours before a clear fire. Fifteen minutes before you dish it, take off the skin, drudge it with flour, baste it with a little melted butter, pour brown gravy over it. Send up red-currant jelly in a sauce tureen. To Roast a Gigot of Mutton. Have the mutton cut in the form of a bacon ham; cut about three inches off* the point of the shank; spit it, and put it to roast before a clear fire for two hours. Before you dish it, melt a little butter, dust the roast with flour, baste it with butter, and when it froths up, dish it and put a rose of paper upon the shank. Pour gravy over it, and send up red currant jelly in a sauce tureen. Boiled Leg of Mutton. Place a trimmed leg of mutton in a pot, add enough cold water to cover it, and set it to boil. After skimming it well, add a handful of salt, a few carrots, turnips, and a couple of parsnips; and when the leg of109 Mtitton. mutton has boiled two hours and a half it will be done. It should then be dished up with a cut paper frill on the shank bone, garnished with mashed turnips mixed with a pat of butter, and a little cream, nutmeg, pepper and salt. Mould the mashed turnips in the shape of large eggs, with two table spoons, and place them in a circular row round the dish, with boiled carrots cut in shapes, and a little of the liquor poured over the mutton; and serve caper sauce separately. Brazed Leg of Mutton. Place the leg of mutton in a brazing pan with carrots, onions, turnips, celery, parsley, cloves, mace, and a few pepper-corns. Moisten with sufficient stock or water to cover the mutton, and set it to simmer very gently over a slow fire, or in the oven, for about three hours, taking care to baste it frequently with its own liquor. When done, drain and place it in a baking dish. Add the stock, and boil it down, and set it in the oven to be glazed by basting it often with its own essence. And as soon as it presents a bright glossy aspect, dish it up, garnish with carrots and turnips. Sauce over with the remainder of its glaze added to some brown sauce, and serve. Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton. Saw off the shank from a shoulder of mutton, remove the blade-bone with care. Fill the cavity caused by the removal of the blade-bone with veal stuffing. Sew up the opening (gathering up the sides of the meat), with a trussing needle and string. Next letMtitton. no the shoulder be nicely roasted, or brazed. Pour over it some piquante sauce and serve hot. Mutton Haricot. Have two pounds of chops or the lean parts of mutton cut into pieces the size of a chop, add a table- spoonful of flour, pepper and salt, onions and carrots cut into dice; pour in nearly a pint of cold water, stir it and put it on the fire or stove to stew slowly for half- an-hour, then add a turnip cut in dice; let the whole be stewed together for an hour; skim it well. When you dish it, put the mutton neatly round the dish, and pour the vegetables and sauce into the centre; serve it up very hot. Irish Stew. Take any thin pieces that have been cut off a loin or breast, and cut them in pieces, put them in a stew- pan and cover them with cold water, add two dozen whole onions, pepper and salt, put on the cover, draw the pan to the side of the fire and let it boil slowly for half-an-hour; wash and pare two dozen of potatoes, place them in the stew-pan on the top of the mutton, and let them stew till quite soft. When cooked, dish the potatoes in the centre, and the mutton and sauce round them; serve hot. Scotch Haggis. Clean the bag, and lay it in water with salt for a night. Parboil the pluck for half-an-hour, and when cold mince it very fine along with one pound of suet, one pound of oatmeal; add two minced onions, one table-hi Mutton. spoonful of mushroom catsup, and the same of Harvey sauce, season with pepper and salt, put it all into a basin, reduce the liquor that it has been boiled in to a pint-and-a-half, and mix it with the other ingredients; turn the bag with the plain side out, and fill with the mixture; sew up tightly, put it into a pot of boiling water, and keep pricking it with a sharp skewer for five minutes; let it boil slowly for four or five hours. Broiled Kidneys. Skin the kidneys, and make a deep incision in each,, rub them over with fresh butter, put a skewer through to keep them open, broil them on a gridiron over a slow fire; beat up to a cream two ounces of fresh butter with a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, add a little chopped parsley; put a teaspoonful of this mixture into each kidney, and shut them like a book.LAMB. Roast Forequarter of Lamb. Saw off the shank-bone and also the chine-bone by the fillet part of the neck, and with a saw partially sever the rib-bones; cover the forequarter with buttered paper, and secure it in an even position on the spit; roast it before a brisk fire for about an hour-and-a-half, and about ten minutes before taking it up drudge it with flour, and baste it over with a little dissolved butter; it must then be dished up with a cut paper ruffle on the shank-bone ; gravy must be poured under it, and mint sauce served separately. Boiled Leg of Lamb. Boil the leg of lamb in water with a table-spoonful of salt, carrot, celery, onion, and turnip; it will be done in about an hour-and-a-quarter, and should be dished up surrounded either with dressed spinach, spring carrots, and turnips, or with cauliflowers; a little white sauce should be poured over the lamb, and a cut paper ruffle placed on the shank-bone. Saddle of Lamb, Brazed. Remove all the bones from the saddle of lamb with- out injury to the upper part of the skin; let it be filledLamb. ii3 in with forcemeat, and securely fastened by neatly and carefully rolling up the saddle of lamb in a napkin spread with butter; and then, again, by tightly securing the ends with tied string. The saddle, thus prepared, must be brazed in white stock, with the usual complement of stock vegetables, for about an hour and a half. When done, and taken out of the braze, it must be left in the napkin, and pressed between two dishes, with a heavy weight on the top dish. The saddle must be allowed to remain in the napkin until it is quite cold. It must then be removed from the napkin, slightly trimmed, made hot in a little of the stock, without boiling, as that might deform it. Then, placed on its dish, the sauce must be made free from grease, slightly thickened with flour, and poured round the lamb, which may be garnished with any kind of dressed vegetables. Shoulder of Lamb, Grilled. When it happens that you have a cold shoulder, or part of a shoulder of lamb, left from a previous day’s dinner, take a knife, and cut two incisions into the bone; season with pepper and salt; grill it over a clear fire, turning it frequently, for about twenty minutes; and when done, dish it up with piquante sauce.PORK. Roast Leg of Pork. Make a deep incision jnst below the knuckle of a leg of pork, between the skin and flesh, and fill this with sage and onion stuffing, and sew up the opening with twine; score the pork all over by cutting the skin through, in narrow bands, with a sharp knife; then spit the joint, and roast it for about two hours, basting it frequently; and when done, dish it up with brown gravy, and serve apple sauce in a sauce-boat. Boiled Leg of Pork. Saw oft* the shank-bone, and put the leg on to boil in cold water, with carrots, turnips, and parsnips, intended to be served with it; and also a quart of split peas, previously washed and soaked over a night for the purpose. Let the peas be tied up loosely in a napkin, and put in the pot to boil with the pork, which will require two hours’ slow boiling. When the pork is done, take it up on its dish; garnish it round with the carrots, turnips, and parsnips cut into neat squares; pour some gravy over the pork, and serve the peas pudding on a separate dish. If the peas for the padding are put on to boil at thePork. *15 same time as the pork, they will be done in about an hour and a half. They are then to be taken out of the napkin, rubbed through a wire sieve, mixed with a pat of butter, two yolks of eggs, nutmeg, pepper and salt, and tied up, as any other pudding, in a napkin previously well buttered and floured, and again placed in the pot with the pork, to continue boiling until the pork is done. To Roast a Loin of Pork. Notch every joint in the loin; cut the skin in strips, and rub it over with a bit of butter, and some sage- leaves rubbed into a powder. Rub this into the pork before putting it to the fire. It will require two hours’ roasting. Serve with brown gravy and apple sauce in a sauce-boat. To Roast Sucking Pig. Fill the pouch of the sucking pig with stuffing pre- pared as follows :—Chop fine four onions and a dozen sage leaves; fry these with two ounces of butter over a slow fire for five minutes; then add half a pound of bread-crumbs, two yolks of eggs, pepper and salt, and thus the pig being stuffed and the pouch sewn up securely, roast it before a brisk fire for about two hours, basting it frequently by means of a paste-brush dipped in salad oil. When the pig is done dish it, and pour gravy round it. Serve with Italian, tomato, or apple sauce. Spare Ribs of Pork. These should be slightly sprinkled with pepper and salt the day before they are to be cooked. They mustPork. 116 then be broiled on a gridiron over a clear fire, and turned with steak-tongs. How to make Brone. Take a good-sized pig’s head, and a smoked beef tongue; put the two in a pot together; boil them till tender. They must not be boiled too much. When ready, the tongue must be skinned, and the head taken up and the meat taken quickly off the bones. The meat of the head and the tongue should be roughly and quickly minced together, and seasoned rather highly with pepper and salt, and a little mixed spice. It must then be put into the brone dish or mould, while it is still very hot; then place the lid on the dish, and a very heavy weight on the top of it. When the brone is perfectly cold and firm take a clean kitchen towel; put it into boiling water ; take it out and ring it hard; wrap it round the brone-dish, and dab the top. and bottom of the dish with the cloth. Take off the top, and turn it on its dish, and garnish with parsley. It should be very firm, and resemble Stilton cheese. Pork Sausages. Take two or three pounds of fresh pork, fat and lean together, without skin or gristle; chop it as fine as possible, season with a teaspoonful of ground pepper, two of salt, and three of sage shred fine, mix the whole well together. In the meantime have the sausage skins nicely cleaned, and fill them with the mince and fry them. Beef likewise makes good sausages.Pork. ii 7 To Cure Hams, as in Ireland. To each ham put one pound of coarse brown sugar, one and a-half of salt, two ounces of black ground pepper, two ounces of allspice, and half an ounce of saltpetre; mix all well together and rub the ham well with it. Turn and rub them daily with their own pickle for six weeks, and hang them up to dry. They are much improved by being smoked. iVENISON. Roast Haunch of Venison. Saw off the shank hone, remove the sinew; pare away the dark, dry skin from the skirt, and also the dried surface of the under part. Then cover the haunch with a large sheet of well-greased paper, and over that place a covering of fiour-and-water paste, about half an inch in thickness; envelop the whole with two large sheets of greased paper, securely tied on with string. Place the venison in a cradle spit, and set it down before the fire to roast for about four hours, more or less—the exact time depending upon the size and weight of the haunch. When about to take it up from the fire, the paste and paper should be removed ; then place the haunch on a very hot dish; pour hot brown gravy round it, cover it quickly with a hot cover, and send to table exceedingly hot. Serve red currant jelly and French beans separately. The following sauce is appropriate for roast venison: —To one pound of currant jelly add a gill of port wine, the rind of a lemon, and a small piece of cinnamon; stir over the fire, but do not boil it. Serve in a sauce- boat.Venison. 119 Venison Chops. The chops should be cut an inch thick, neither beaten nor trimmed of their fat; seasoned with pepper and salt, and placed in a frying-pan with a piece of butter. Keep turning them over every two minutes; twenty minutes will suffice to cook them. Dish them on a very hot dish, with a small pat of fresh butter under each chop. Stew a few mushrooms in a little brown gravy, add pepper and salt, and pour round the chops. Cutlets of Venison. Trim the cutlets as you would mutton or lamb cutlets; season them with pepper and salt. Melt a little butter on a plate, dip each cutlet in the butter, and dust them slightly with flour, then in beaten egg, and roll them in bread-crumbs. Fry them in hot lard for ten minutes; take them out of the lard and lay them on a flat dish covered with paper. Put them before the fire for a few minutes to free them from grease; dish them up, and pour financiere sauce round the cutlets. Haricot of Venison. Take a neck or shoulder of venison, or both, and cut the meat of the shoulder in pieces about two inches square, and the neck in thick cutlets. Fry these pieces with two ounces of butter in a stew-pan over a brisk fire until they are browned; then pour off all grease. Shake in a handful of flour, Stir together. Moisten with sufficient stock, or water, to cover the meat. Season with pepper and salt; and stir it over the fire until it boils. Remove it to the corner of theVenison. 120 stove to allow it to throw up the scum, which remove with a spoon. Wash and scrape three carrots, and with a vegetable scoop cut out all the pink of the carrots in round halls, and boil them in water for half an hour. Cut out some balls of turnip in the same manner, and boil for fifteen minutes. Strain the vegetables and add them to the stew with a glass of port wine, and two ounces of red currant jelly. When the meat and vegetables are thoroughly cooked and the stew well skimmed, dish it up very hot. The dish and cover should also be made hot. Heart of Red Deer, Roasted. Soak the heart in cold water for several hours, wash away the blood and dry it with a clean cloth. Stuff the heart with veal stuffing. Sew it up, rub it over with butter, cover it with flour-and-water paste. Wrap it in paper, tied on with string. Spit it, and put it before a clear fire to roast for two hours; baste it with fat all the time it is roasting. Remove the paper and paste about fifteen minutes before it is done. Drudge it with flour, melt some butter on a dish, and with a spoon baste the heart well with the butter. When it is nicely browned and thoroughly cooked, place it on its dish previously well heated. Pour venison sauce over the heart, and serve red currant jelly and French beans separately. Venison Liver, Fried. Take a red deer’s liver, wash it in cold water. Cut it in long slices about an inch thick. Shape them inVenison. I 2 I the form of veal cutlets. Season them with pepper and salt, dust them over with flour. Put a piece of butter in a, frying-pan, make it hot, then lay the pieces of liver in the pan; fry them a nice brown colour on both sides, they will take ten or fifteen minutes to fry. When done, dish them up with a piece of fried ham or bacon between each piece of liver; add the gravy in the frying-pan to a little venison sauce, and pour it over the liver and serve hot. Venison Puddings, Take three quarters of a pound of venison suet and mince it very fine. Add half a pound of oatmeal, pepper and salt, and mix well together. Put a little of this mixture in a small stew-pan and stir it over the fire for a few minutes to ascertain that it is well seasoned. If it is not, add a little more pepper and salt to the suet and oatmeal. Have some sausage skins well cleansed, fill them with the mixture; have a pot of boiling water on the fire; put in the puddings, prick them with a skewer to prevent them from bursting. Boil them for an hour; take them out and dish them upon a folded napkin, serve hot with oatmeal cakes and cheese.PIES. Venison Pastry, Cut a neck or breast into small steaks, rub them over with a seasoning of parsley, shallot, and a sprig of thyme minced very fine, add grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, roll the pieces of venison separately in the herbs, fry them slightly in butter, line the sides and edges of a pie-dish with puff-paste, place the pieces of venison in the pie-dish, add about half-a-pint of rich gravy made from the trimmings of the venison, add half a glass of port wine and the juice of half a lemon, cover the dish with puff paste, and bake it nearly two hours in a moderate oven ; when nearly done, open it a little at the top or side and pour in a little more gravy into the pie before serving it up. Beef-steak Pie, Cut up about two or three pounds of beef-steak into collops, trim away any unnecessary fat and sinew without waste, season with pepper and salt, place them in layers in a pie-dish, mince a little parsley and shallot together, and sprinkle it over each layer; fill the pie and shake a little flour over the meat, moisten it with stock or cold water; a few oysters may bePies. 123 added if liked; cover with puff paste and bake in a moderate oven from an hour to an hour-and-a-half. Veal and Ham Pie. Cut up a pound and a half of veal into collops twice the size of a crown piece, and also a pound of ham, chop a few mushrooms, some parsley, and shallot, and fry these with an ounce of butter in a small stew-pan; season with pepper and salt, a little Harvey sauce, a table-spoonful of flour, and half-a-pint of gravy or water; stir this sauce over the fire until it boils, add the juice of half a lemon, let it cool a little, and mix with the veal and ham; place hard-boiled yolks of eggs on the top, cover with puff paste, bake for an hour-and-a- quarter ; pour in a little gravy and sauce. Sheep-head Pie. Singe and clean a sheep’s head and feet, lay them in cold water for one night, wash and cover them with cold water, boil for three hours and a half; take them up and allow them to cool, and reduce the liquor; strain and allow it to cool also; skim off the fat, cut off the meat from the bones of the head and feet, pare off the fat and dark skin without waste; lay a few pieces of thin-cut beef-steak at the bottom of a pie-dish; season with pepper and salt; cut the meat in nice square pieces, and pack them in the pie-dish, with a few slices of ham and two dozen of raw oysters; fill the dish, shake in a little flour, moisten well with the liquor, cover with puff paste, and bake for an hour- and-a-half.Pies. 124 Pigeon Pie, Lay a few pieces of tender beef-steak at the bottom of a pie-dish; upon this place the halves of four pigeons; season with chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallot, pepper and salt, moisten well with gravy or water, and a table-spoonful of catsup, add the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, cover with puff paste, bake the pie in a moderate oven for an hour-and-a-quarter. Grouse Pie. Pluck and draw two or three young grouse; cut off the wings and legs. Tuck the drumsticks in through a slit made under the thigh; singe the birds with white paper; split them in halves, season them with pepper and salt. Place some pieces of very tender beef-steak at the bottom of a pie-dish; add chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shallot, and two teaspoonfuls of chutnee sauce. Sprinkle a little of this over the pieces of steak. Place the halves of grouse in neat order on the top; add a little more seasoning; moisten with sufficient gravy made from the necks, legs, and wings of the birds. Cover with puff paste, and bake for about an hour-and-a-half. Lark Pie. Cut about one pound of veal into small collops, with half a pound of ham; fry both together slightly, and place them at the bottom of a pie-dish. Then pluck and singe two dozen larks, from which the gizzards only have been removed. Chop up some parsley, shallot, truffle, and mushrooms; put two ounces of butter in a frying-pan, and fry the larks and herbsPies. 125 together for five minutes, and place them in the pie- dish with the steak. Shake in a little flour, moisten with gravy or water, cover with puff paste, bake for an hour-and-a-quarter, and serve. Blackbird Pie. These birds are only fit for the table during the months of November, December, and January. The birds must be stuffed with the following preparation, namely:—Soak the crumbs of a French roll in a little milk; put it in a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, chopped parsley and shallot, nutmeg, pepper and salt, and two yolks of raw eggs. Stir this over the fire until it becomes a stiff paste, and use it to fill the insides of the birds intended for the pie. Then line the bottom of a pie-dish with fried collops of beef, and place thereon the birds in neat order. Add hard- boiled yolks of eggs, and gravy over all; cover with puff-paste, bake the pie for an hour-and-a-quarter, and serve. Giblet Pie. Cleanse two sets of goose giblets; parboil them in water with salt for six minutes; then drain them on a sieve and place them in a stew-pan, with carrot, onion, celery, thyme, and parsley, pepper and salt. Moisten with stock or water; stew the giblets for one hour, then drain them on a sieve; cut them in pieces about two or three inches long. Place a few slices of beef in the bottom of a pie-dish, then pack in the giblets with hard-boiled eggs; sprinkle over with flour, strain and126 Pies. skim the gravy; add it to the pie, cover with puff paste, bake for an hour-and-a-quarter. Hare Pie. Cut the hare in joints ; take the head, ribs, and thin pieces of the hare, and chop them a little; put them into a pan and cover them with cold water. Add carrot, onions, celery, parsley, and a sprig of thyme. Boil this down for stock, and when reduced, strain it; wash the pieces of hare in cold water; dry them, and season rather high with pepper and salt. Lay a few pieces of ham in the bottom of a pie-dish, with the pieces of hare neatly packed. Pour in the stock that was strained; add a glass of port wine ; cover with a thick paste, and bake two hours in the oven. Rabbit Pie. Wash the rabbits, and cut them up in joints. Put a piece of butter into a stew-pan; add the joints, and brown them slightly on both sides, and place them in a pie-dish, with a few slices of ham or bacon. Put the head, shoulders, and thin pieces into a pan, with a piece of celery, carrot, and onion. Boil all the sub- stance out of the bones, and strain the stock. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley and flour over the rabbits. Season them with pepper and salt, and moisten well with the stock. Add a table-spoonful of catsup and one of vinegar. Cover the pie with paste, and bake for two hours. Beef-Steak Pudding. Line the pudding basin with suet-paste; mix three- quarters of a pound of flour to a quarter of a pound of127 Pies. suet, minced very fine, and sprinkle with a little salt. Beat up one egg, and pour it into the middle of the flour and suet. Pour in a little water, and mix the whole together into a stiff dough. Roll it out as with puff-paste. Fold it up, and roll it out a second time to the thickness of half an inch. Cut the steak in pieces, and season them well with pepper and salt. Cover the bottom of the basin with pieces of steak; sprinkle them over with minced parsley and shallot. Place a few button mushrooms and raw oysters on the top; then another layer of beef-steak; then of parsley, shallot, and oysters; and so on till the basin is filled up to the rim. Wet the edge of the basin with water; cover the top of the basin with paste. Butter a pudding cloth slightly, and drudge it with flour. Tie it over the top of the basin, and steam for two hours and a half. Turn it out of the basin with care, and serve it hot. Mutton Pudding. Collops or cutlets of mutton are used for this purpose. They must be fried in a sauta-pan with an ounce of butter, seasoned with chopped mushrooms,, parsley, and shallot, pepper and salt; and, when browned on both sides without being done through,, must be sprinkled over with a spoonful of flour, moist- ened with half a pint of gravy; and after being allowed to simmer over the fire for five minutes, are to be placed in neat order in the pudding-dish, already lined with suet-paste and some thick slices of potatoes, which have been scarcely half done, and placed in betweenPies. 128 the coll ops of mutton. Pour the sauce over all, cover in with suet-paste, steam or boil for two hours-and-a half, and serve. Kidney Pudding. Take about a pound and a half of sheep or lamb kidneys; cut into thin slices and put them into a basin; sprinkle them over with pepper and salt. Mince up three onions, a few mushrooms, and a little parsley; add to the kidneys; and, having lined a pudding- basin with suet-paste, fill it with the prepared kidneys. Cover it, and steam for an hour-and-a-half, and serve. Small Mutton Pies. Mince a quarter of a pound of suet very fine, and dissolve it in a stew-pan; when it boils, pour in half a pint of sweet milk ; let it come to the boil again ; then pour it through a hair sieve into one pound of flour and a little salt, and work into a smooth dough. Divide into six parts, and work each up into a round shape with your thumb to the height of three inches, which must be the size of the shape. Form the pie inside by pressing in a baking roller, a little smaller than the shape. Next cut up some lean mutton in small pieces ; put them into a sauta-pan with a small piece of butter, a little chopped parsley, and a few mushrooms; add pepper and salt, and a little gravy. Fill the pies with this preparation; cut out thin covers with the shape in which the pies were formed, and stick them on with u beaten egg; brush them over with the same, and bake in a quick oven. During the process keep the dough hot to prevent its getting hard while the pies129 Pies. are being formed. Pork pies are made in the same manner, only in seasoning add a little sage instead of mushrooms and parsley. Serve very hot. Take cold roast beef, mutton, or veal; cut it in ordinary-sized slices, and season it with pepper and salt. Cut some onions in slices and fry them in butter, with chopped parsley, and mix with the pieces of meat. Put the whole into a pie-dish. Collect all the roast meat, bones, and any trimmings of fresh meat that can be had; put them in a pan with carrot, turnip, celery, and a sprig of thyme, and cover with cold water. Boil until the substance is out of the bones ; strain and skim the stock; pour it over the meat. Have some potatoes boiled, and nicely beaten, add an egg well beaten, and a little milk; season with pepper and salt. Beat them up with a fork, cover the dish with the potatoes, smooth it all over with a knife, pinch it round the edge, and mark it on the top the same as paste. Bake it in an oven until the meat is very hot, and the potatoes a nice brown colour. Shepherd’s Pie.VEGETABLES. To Boil Cardoon. Cut away the coarse outside of the cardoon, wash it free from sand, lay it in cold water to harden; then boil it in milk and water until tender; drain it on the back of a sieve. Cut each stalk in two; place them in a vegetable dish, and pour white sauce over them and serve. To Cook Tomatoes. Take some whole tomatoes ; leave about an inch of the stalk to each. Take a flat-bottomed basin, rub it slightly with butter; place the tomatoes in the basin; put a pan with boiling water on the stove or fire; place the basin in the pan; let the water reach up to the middle of the basin. Cover the pan close, and let the tomatoes steam until quite soft. Ten minutes will do them. Dish them upon a napkin, and send them up hot. To Boil Globe Artichokes. Cut the stalks of the artichokes, and with a pair of scissors cut the thorns off the points of the leaves ; lay them in cold water for several hours. When wanted, put them in a pan of boiling water with salt, and a small piece soda about the size of a pearl button; boil for about an hour. When the leaves are soft at theirVegetables. I3i attachment, they are done. Drain them upon a sieve, and dish them on a napkin ; serve with game. Salsify. Scrape off the outside part until the vegetables become white, and put them in a dish with cold water with a little vinegar; then boil them with milk and water. When done, drain them on a sieve; place them in a vegetable dish; pour white sauce over them, and serve. White Beans. White beans, when new and fresh, must be put into boiling water ; if old and dry, they should soak for an hour in cold water before boiling them. Put them on in cold water, boil them very tender. Put into a stew- pan a piece of fresh butter, a little finely-minced parsley, some pepper and salt, and then the beans, previously well drained. Keep shaking the stew-pan, but do not touch the beans for fear of breaking them; serve very hot. Cauliflowers. If the cauliflowers are very large, cut them into quarters; if small, keep them whole. Put them in boiling water with a little salt; boil them for half-an- hour, less or more, until they are tender; drain them on a sieve without breaking them; place them on their dish, and pour white sauce over them, and serve. To Dress Jerusalem Artichokes. Wash and pare the artichokes in the form of pears —let them be all the same size (the small ones can be132 Vegetables. used for soup) ; boil the artichokes in water and milk for half an hour; drain them, place them in their dish, pour white sauce over them, and serve. American Yams. Wash and dry the yams ; bake them for two hours in a slow oven, or until they are soft to the touch. Then cut them into slices about an inch thick, and, with a round tin cutter about the size of a crown-piece,, cut up the yams without waste ; season them slightly with white pepper and salt; place them in a vege- table dish; pour over them some clear tarragon, Dutch, or plain white sauce, and serve. Vegetable Marrow. Pare a vegetable marrow and divide it into six or eight parts; put it into a pan with hot water, with a little salt and vinegar, and boil it for half an hour. Drain it on a sieve, dish it, and pour white sauce over it. To Boil Young Turnips. Peel them a nice round shape; boil them in water wdth a little salt; dish them, and pour butter sauce over them. They may be boiled in milk, and served with white sauce. Young Carrots. Wash and scrape a bunch of spring carrots; parboil them in water for a few minutes ; drain them and put them into a stew-pan, cover them with white stock; stew them for half an hour ; when done, place them in a vegetable dish, and thicken the sauce with a little133 Vegetables. flour; season with pepper and salt; pour it over the carrots, and serve. To Boil Sea-Kale. Trim the sea-kale and tie it into bundles, with the roots all one way; put it in boiling water with salt; boil it for half an hour; when done, drain it upon a sieve; put a slice of toasted bread into the dish. Place the kale upon the toast; pour white sauce over it, or plain butter sauce. Onions, with White Sauce. Skin as many large onions as you require; parboil them in water for ten minutes ; then place them in a stew-pan; cover them with white stock or milk; stew them for an hour until they are quite tender. Mix a little flour with milk, pour it into the pan, and boil for a little. Season with salt and white pepper ; dish the onions and pour the sauce over them. Celery, with Brown Sauce. Take five or six heads of celery with the roots— these being the best part of it; break off the coarse, outside stalks; lay them in cold water for some hours ; parboil them in water for ten minutes ; drain, and place them in a stew-pan, with as much stock as cover them. Add a small piece of glaze, pepper and salt, and a very little flour. Let all stew gently for about an hour. When done, dish up the celery; strain the sauce and pour it over the celery. Large onions may be stewed in the same manner, by using brown gravy instead of white. RVegetables. I34 To Boil Cabbages. Lay the cabbages in cold water with salt; put them in a pan of boiling water with salt; boil them sharply for half an hour; drain them, and sauce them over with plain butter sauce. To Dress Beet-Root. Wash the earth off the beet-root without breaking the skin; boil it for two hours or more, according to the size of the beet-root. When cold, skin it and cut it in thin slices. Beat the yolk of an egg with a spoon- ful of vinegar, half a teaspoonful of made mustard, and a wine-glassful of cream ; pour over the beet-root. To Boil Spinach. Get a good-sized basketful of spinach, and pluck off the stalks from the leaves, which throw in cold water as thus prepared; wash them in several waters; put them into a pan with boiling water, and boil for twenty minutes; then turn them into a sieve to drain, and place them into a clean cloth and wring all the water out of them. Melt a piece of butter in a stew-pan with the spinach, and make very hot; then add half a tea- cupful of cream, pepper and salt, and a pinch of sugar; stir well together, and dish it up very hot. To Boil Asparagus. Wash the asparagus in cold water, and scrape the bottom parts a little; tie them up in bundles; let them lie in cold water. When wanted, put them in a pan of boiling water to boil for ten or fifteen minutes;135 Vegetables. drain them on the back of a sieve, and dish them on toasted bread, and pour a little well-made butter sauce over them and serve. To Boil Green Peas. Put the peas in a flat pan with boiling water, a small stalk of mint, a little salt, and a pinch of sugar. If very young, ten or fifteen minutes will do them; if old, they will require half an hour. Drain and dish them ; mix a little butter with the peas.To Roast a Pheasant. Pluck, and singe the bird with white lighted paper. Cut a slit in the back part of the neck and remove the crop ; leave the head attached to the bird. Draw, and wipe the inside with a cloth; turn the head under the wing; run a trussing-needle and string through the wing and under part of the thigh through the body to the thigh and wing on the other side. Press the feet close to the body, and tie the string tightly. Next pass the needle with string through the hollow of the back, just below the thighs; thrust it again through the legs and body, and tie the strings tightly. Spit and roast the pheasant before a clear brisk fire for three- quarters of an hour, basting it frequently. Have a piece of toast slightly buttered; place it under the bird while it is roasting. Let the gravy drop from the bird on to the bread. When the bird is done cut the toast in four pieces; place them on a dish. Lay the bird on the toast, and put a wall of brown bread- crumbs round the dish. Serve with brown gravy, and bread sauce, in sauce-boats, and also potato ribands.137 Game. Potato Ribands. Peel the potatoes round and smooth with a sharp knife. Cut very thin shavings, about seven or more inches in length, and one and a half in width. Put them in cold water as thus prepared; lay them on a dry cloth; gather it up, and shake it to dry the rib- ands without breaking them. Put them in a deep stew-pan with boiling lard, and fry them for five minutes. Have them quite crisp, and of a pale brown colour. Drain them on paper, and sprinkle them with a little salt, and dish them on a napkin. To Roast Grouse and Black Game. Both these birds should be trussed in the same way as pheasants, and roasted before a brisk fire for half an hour and five minutes. Before taking them up they should be frothed with flour and butter. Dish them with toast under them, and a little brown gravy poured on the dish. Serve fried bread-crumbs and bread sauce in separate sauce-boats. To Roast Guinea-Fowl. These should be trussed in the same manner as pheasants, and covered with a layer of fat bacon, and roasted before a brisk fire for about twenty minutes. With their breasts slightly glazed, dish them up with gravy under them. Garnish with water-cresses. Serve bread sauce separately. Woodcock and Snipe. These birds must not be drawn, neither do they re- quire much trussing. Take the bone out of the neck,138 Game. leaving the skin and head attached to the body. Twist the skin of the neck round the wing, and put the bill through the wing and body instead of a skewer. Cover the birds with thin slices of raw bacon, tied on with string. Spit them, and roast them before a clear fire for about half an hour, frequently basting them with butter. Place some toasted bread under the birds while they are roasting, to receive the droppings from the trail; and when they are done, dish them up with a piece of toast under each bird. Serve plain butter sauce separately in a sauce-boat. Roast Larks. Cut off the heads and legs, and take out gizzards. Season their insides with chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and the grating of a nutmeg. Rub the larks over with beaten yolks of eggs; bread-crumb them, and moisten them with clarified butter. Roll them in bread-crumbs a second time; put them on a lark-spit, and tie it on a common spit, and roast for a quarter of an hour. Dish them, and serve with fried bread- crumbs and brown sauce, seasoned with cayenne pepper and lemon juice. Pea-Hens. These birds must be trussed in the same way as pheasants, and must be closely larded all over the breast, and roasted before a moderate fire for an hour and a half, frequently basted with butter; and when done the larding must be glazed slightly, and the birds dished up with rich brown gravy, and garnished with water-cresses, and bread sauce served in a sauce-boat.139 Game. Green Goose. Pluck the goose, and with a penknife pick off all the stubble feathers; dip the legs in boiling water, and rub off the skin with a cloth; cut off the head and neck, leaving the skin long enough to turn over the back, and twist the legs round so as to let the web of the feet rest flat upon the thighs. Run a trussing- needle with string through the wing and thigh of the right side through the body of the bird to the thigh and wing on the left, and tie it tightly at the back of the goose. Place it on a spit, and roast it before a brisk fire for an hour, basting it frequently. Froth it with flour and butter, and when done, dish it up. Pour brown gravy round it; garnish the dish with water- cresses and serve. Wild Duck. These must be trussed in the same manner as young geese, and roasted before a clear fire for twenty minutes, and served with brown gravy, seasoned with port wine and cayenne pepper. Roast Partridges. Pluck, singe, and draw the partridges; cut away the head and neck and the points of the toes ; truss them in the same manner as grouse or black game; place them on a spit and roast them before a clear fire for twenty minutes; place toasted bread under them while they are roasting. When done, cut the toast in four parts, and cut off the crusts. Dish the birds upon the toast; put brown gravy under them, and serve bread140 Game. sauce and brown bread crumbs separately in sauce- boats. How to Roast Quails. Pluck, draw and trass these birds as for pheasants ; cut some thin slices of fat bacon, large enough to cover the quails ; spread a vine leaf over each of the quails, and tie it on with string; run an iron skewer through the birds, fasten it on to a spit, roast them before a clear fire for twenty minutes; remove them from the spit, remove the vine leaves, and glaze the bacon slightly; place them on their dish, and garnish round with water- cresses. Pour some gravy under the birds and serve. Roast Pigeons. Clean and truss the pigeons, cover them with fat bacon and vine leaves, secure them with string and roast them twenty minutes; remove the leaves and bacon, and glaze them slightly. Serve with gravy and brown bread crumbs in a sauce-boat. Roast Hare. Skin and draw the hare, leaving the ears attached; dip them in boiling water, and scrape off the hairs; pick out the eyes, cut off the feet just above the first joint; wash the hare in cold water and dry it with a clean cloth, and cut the sinews at the back of the hind quarters and below the fore legs. Prepare some hare stuffing, and fill the inside with it; then draw the legs under, as if the hare were in a sitting position, set the head between the shoulders, and stick a skewer through them, running also through the neck to secure141 Game. its position; run another skewer through the fore legs, which should be gathered up under the haunch ; take a piece of string, double it, place the middle of it on the breast of the hare, and take both ends over the skewer, cross the string on both sides and fasten it on the back. Thus far prepared, spit the hare and roast it before a brisk fire for about an hour, frequently basting it with fresh dripping. Five minutes before dishing, drudge it over with flour, and baste it with some fresh butter. When this frothes up, and the hare has ac- quired a rich brown crust, take it up, remove the string and skewers, place it on its dish, pour some brown gravy round it, and send some red currant jelly in a sauce-boat to be handed round. Stuffing for Hares. Cut up the lights, liver, and heart, and fry them slightly, with the same quantity of ham or bacon ; add an onion, mushrooms, nutmeg, pepper and salt, and a very small sprig of thyme; pound all together in a mortar. Add two ounces of bread-crumbs and an egg; mix well together, and use for stuffing hares. Roast Rabbits. Skin and truss the rabbits in the same manner as hares; stuff them with hare stuffing; then spit and roast before a clear fire, frequently basting them with fresh dripping. Mix a teacupful of cream with the yolk of a beaten egg, a dessert-spoonful of flour, a little chopped parsley, nutmeg, pepper and salt. Mask the rabbits entirely with this, and, as soon as it has dried142 Game. on them, baste them with some fresh butter. This prevents them from becoming dry. Dish the rabbits with care, to avoid breaking off the crust formed upon them. Boil the livers, chop them fine, and put into a small stew-pan, with chopped parsley, a little brown sauce, pepper and salt, nutmeg, and a squeeze of lemon; stir this over the fire until it boils for a few minutes, and pour it under the rabbits.SALADS. Aspic Jelly, for Salads. Cut up about ten pounds of shanks of veal, two ox feet, or four calves’ feet, and an old fowl, with three carrots, one stalk of celery, small bunch of parsley, one bay leaf, one sprig of thyme, the same of sweet marjo- ram, six cloves, and eighteen pepper-corns, and about an ounce of salt. Put all the meat, vegetables, herbs,, and seasonings into a large pot; pour in as much cold water as cover them thoroughly; place the pot on the stove ; and when the water boils, skim it well and boil it gently for seven hours without reducing it much in quantity. Then strain the stock through a tammy- sieve into pans, and place it in the larder to cool till the next day. When the stock is perfectly cold and firm, with a spoon skim off all the oil and grease. Dip a clean napkin in boiling water; wring it out and dab it over the stock to free it from grease ; place the aspic in a proper-sized stew-pan, and set it on the stove to dissolve; lightly draw some pieces of white blotting- paper over its surface, to remove any remaining grease. Whip up four eggs with half a pint of cold water, and half a pint of French white wine, and a small wine-glass- ful of tarragon vinegar and a few egg-shells. Mix all up with a whisk, and continue whipping it until it begins. *Salads. 144 to boil. Draw it to the side of the fire, place the lid on the pan, allow it to simmer for an hour, then pass it through a jelly-bag or napkin. Keep it in a cool place ready for use. Oyster Salad. Open two dozen large oysters ; add their liquor to half a pint of dissolved aspic jelly, and the white of an egg beat up with the shell; mix in a small pan, place on the stove till it boils ; pass the jelly through a napkin. Take a casserole shape, and wet the inside with cold water; pour in as much jelly as cover the bottom of the shape; place the shape on ice until it is set quite firm; then place a row of oysters on the top of the jelly, distant about an inch from each other; and with a spoon pour a little of the jelly gently over the oysters. Let the shape remain on the ice, or in a cool place. Cut some thin slices of beet-root lengthways, and, with small fancy tin cutters, cut out some shapes of beet-root; lay them round in position as for oysters; sauce them over with the jelly, which must be cold but not set. Place alternate layers of oysters, beet-root, and jelly in the mould till it is filled. The jelly must be allowed to firm before any other layer is added. When set and quite firm, dip the shape in tepid water, and loosen it round the edges; turn it out on its dish with- out breaking it. Cut up two or three lettuces; add some mustard, and cresses, well washed and dried in a cloth; mix two table-spoonfuls of salad oil with two of vinegar, and a little pepper and salt. Sprinkle them over the lettuces, and mix them up lightly; place them in the centre of the aspic.145 Salads. Salmon Salad, Boil about a pound of salmon, and when cold cut it up into pieces about two inches long and an inch thick. Prepare two or three shred lettuces with a little mustard and cress; steep them in a basin with a little salad oil and vinegar, pepper, and salt, then drain them on a cloth; mix them up lightly with the pieces of salmon, place them on their dish, sauce the whole over with Prince of Wales’ sauce, garnish with boiled beet-root (cut with fancy cutters), and two hard-boiled eggs, their yolks cut in four parts, and the whites cut with cutters in small shapes. Genoese Salad. Fillet two soles, place them in a sauta-pan with a little butter, pepper and salt. When done, place them between two dishes until they are cold; then cut them in pieces two or three inches long. Season the fillets with pepper and salt, then roll them in stiff Genoese sauce, place them on a bed of shred lettuces; take the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs and pound them in the mortar with a piece of fresh butter, pepper and salt; rub them through a coarse wire sieve, put a border of the vermicellied yolks round the salad; cut the whites in small forms with small fancy tin cutters to ornament the salad. Robert Salad. Take, as a matter of economy, some pieces of turbot or brill left from a previous day’s dinner; season the pieces with pepper and salt, roll each piece of fishSalads. 146 separately in some cold, stiff Robert sauce, shred three or four lettuces, season them with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, place them on the back of a sieve to drip, put them on their dish, then lay the pieces of fish on the bed of lettuces, garnish round the base of the salad with a border of hard-boiled eggs (each cut in four), and some raddishes cut in shapes and placed between each quarter of egg. Lobster Salad. Take a boiled lobster, remove all the meat from the back and claws, cut it in neat pieces about two inches in length, season them slightly with pepper, salt, and vinegar; take a casserole shape, wet it inside with cold water, pour in some dissolved aspic jelly, about an inch deep, put it upon ice or in a cool place to firm. When quite stiff, place the pieces of fish in the mould upon the jelly, put some more jelly over the fish and let it firm. Take a small tin cutter and cut out fancy shapes from truffles, lay them in the mould on the jelly and cover it over with aspic; when set, cover with lobster and aspic alternately until the mould is full. Prepare some lettuce with a little mustard and cress, season with pepper and salt. When the aspic jelly is perfectly firm, dip the shape in tepid water to loosen it round the edges, give a shake and turn it out upon its dish. Place the lettuces, mustard, and cress in the well of the casserole shape, sauce it over with mayonaise sauce without touching the aspic. Sprinkle a little of the lobster coral over the sauce, garnish round the base with a few sprigs of parsley and serve.Salads. 147 Mayonaise of Chicken. Cut up a cold roast chicken into small joints, and remove the skins; season them with a little pepper and salt; take a casserole shape and wet it inside with cold water, pour in aspic jelly to about the depth of an inch, and put it away to firm. Have two eggs boiled very hard, cut them in halves; take a small cutter the size of a sixpence, and cut the whites up with this cutter, then take a smaller cutter, the size of a threepenny piece, and cut out the centre of the larger pieces, thus leaving a round ring of white of egg. Cut out some pieces of black truffle with the smallest cutter, and place this piece of truffle into the ring of the white of egg, thus forming an eye. Place the eyes on the top of the jelly about an inch apart. Take a spoon and pour some aspic jelly over the eyes in the mould, remember- ing that the jelly must be cold but not set. When the aspic is again firm, place the fillets of chicken on the aspic with jelly over them about an inch deep. Take a small vegetable cutter, scoop out some boiled beet- root in the form of eggs, place these on the jelly in the shape, cover them over with aspic, and allow it to firm. Then fill with chicken and jelly alternately, and allow it to firm. Then turn it out upon its dish. Take about two or three heads of lettuce, cut away the outside leaves, using the centre portions only. Cut them up rather small, with one stalk of celery (shred very fine), and a little water-cress, with the yolks of the eggs minced, seasoned slightly with pepper and salt, mix up the salad and place it in the centre of the shape of aspic, add a little thick cream to the mayonaise sauce, pour148 Salads. it over the lettuce, celery, and cress, without touching the shape of aspic, and serve. Note.—When aspic jelly is not very firm a little isinglass should be added. Mayonaise sauce may be used for lobster, salmon, turbot, or soles, and also for oyster salad. Galantine of Poularde. Pluck, singe, and bone a young turkey, or a large young fowl. Draw the skin, legs, and wings inside. Spread out the boned fowl upon the table; season with pepper and salt. Spread a layer of sausage-meat an inch thick upon this, and add some slices of tongue or lean ham, and a few small pieces of black truffles ; then a layer of sausage-meat, the seasoning, and the tongue or ham. Having filled up the galantine, sew it up with twine ; roll it in a buttered napkin ; fasten the ends with string, and set it to braze in some fowl or veal stock, for about an hour and a half. When done, the galantine must be allowed to become nearly cold in its own stock, in order to make it juicy. Then the galantine must be put in press between two flat dishes, with a heavy weight on the top ; and when quite cold and removed from the napkin, the string must be taken out and the galantine placed upon its dish, slightly glazed and ornamented with aspic jelly, and served for breakfast, luncheon, or supper. Galantine of Poularde, witli Cream Bechamel Sauce. Stuff, braze, and press the fowl as already directed. When placed upon its dish, sauce it over with cream149 Salads. bechamel sauce, with a little isinglass added to the sauce. Ornament it with aspic jelly. Pheasant Salad. Boil a pheasant in some white veal stock, and use the stock to make some highly-seasoned and stiffly- reduced Allemande sauce. Cut up the pheasant into small neat joints ; mask them all over with the sauce, and place them on a dish to become cold and set firm. Cut up some lettuces; season them with salad oil, vinegar, pepper and salt; then allow them to drip on a sieve. Place them on the centre of the dish; then put the joints of pheasant on the bed of lettuces. Garnish with roughly minced aspic jelly, and a few truffles cut in shapes, and prepared cocks’-combs. Grouse Salad. Cut up a roast grouse into neat small joints. Use the bones and trimmings to make some salmis sauce; reduce it stiffly, and mix it with a third portion of aspic jelly. Use this to mask the joints; and add a thick coating of the sauce, and set them on ice, or in a cool place to become set firm. Place seasoned shred lettuce on the centre of the dish, and upon this build up the joints of grouse. Garnish round with curled celery, and an outer border of quarters of hard eggs. Garnish the top with roughly minced aspic jelly. Russian Salad. Boil some carrots, beet-root, and parsnips. When cold, either pinch or scoop them out in shapes, or cutSalads. 150 them in dice. To these add gherkins; also a few capers with cut lobster, or prawns, or chicken and ham, cut up in small pieces, and sauced over with mayonaise sauce. Salad, a la Rachel. Shred the white stalks of two heads of celery in inch lengths, and put these in a dish with the whites of three hard-boiled eggs, also shred. Pile them up lightly, and pour over them some Prince of Wales' sauce. Place some slices of tongue or lean ham round the base of the salad. Put the yolks of eggs in a mortar; add a teaspoonful of anchovy paste, with a little pepper and salt. Pound and mix all well; rub through a coarse wire sieve; sprinkle it over the salad; also some black truffles shred fine ; then serve. Cucumber Salad. Peel, and then cut the cucumbers in thin slices. Season with salad oil and vinegar; add a few thin slices of pickled onions; sprinkle over with pepper and salt. Spanish Salad. Cut three or four tomatoes in slices, and dish them up in a circular row in a dish; fill the centre with French beans, Spanish peas, pickled button onions, green peas, haricot beans, and common gherkins cut in pieces, sprinkled over with pepper and salt. Mix a table- spoonful of thick cream with some mayonaise sauce, and pour it over the salad. Garnish the dish round with a little mustard and cress, and serve.i5i Salads. Potato Salad. Cut up some cold potatoes and boiled beet-root in slices. Season with pepper and salt, and mix them together in a dish; add a little thick cream to some mavonaise sauce, and pour it over the potatoes and beet-root, and serve. A little thick cream should always be added to mayonaise sauce when used for fowl and vegetable salads. Boil two ordinary sized beet-roots, and when cold cut them in slices. Boil one Spanish onion, and cut it in slices ; mix two spoonfuls of salad oil, one of vinegar, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt—pour over the beet-roots and onion. Beet-root Salad.SANDWICHES. Fish Sandwiches. Cut some thin slices of bread, and butter them; place thin scollops of any kind of cooked fish you may happen to have, on the bread so prepared; spread a little tartar sauce over the pieces of fish, and strew some shred lettuce-leaves, and a few shred gherkins, and hard-boiled eggs cut in thin slices; season with pepper and salt; place another slice of bread and butter upon this, and press it. Cut up the sandwiches in squares, and dish them upon a napkin and serve. The Prince’s Sandwich. Take the meat of roast pheasant, grouse, or part- ridge, and cut it into small, neat squares ; to this add a third portion of tongue and truffle, cut in the same manner. Make a stiff salmis sauce from the bones of the birds; add a small piece of good soup glaze, set it away to become cold and firm. All the meat, tongue, and truffle must be mixed with the sauce, and then be cut out in shapes to suit the slices of bread, which must be cut from small milk-rolls, and be spread with butter.153 Sandwiches. Irish Sandwiches. Toast some thin slices of bread; cut some slices of roast game of any sort; season with a little tartar sauce. Place the meat on the slices of toast, sprinkle over with a little cress and shred celery. Adelaide Sandwiches. Cut up some roast chicken in small square pieces, and one-third the quantity of ham. Make a little sauce from the bones of chicken; boil down to half glaze. Mix two spoonfuls of sauce to one of curry paste; and when it boils, add the chicken and ham. Cut some slices of stale bread; stamp out these with a plain, round tin cutter, the size of a crown-piece, and fry them to a light brown colour, in clarified butter; between two of these round pieces of toast, place a thick layer of the preparation, and, as soon as this is done, place them on a baking-sheet; then put upon fhe tops a round ball about the size of a walnut, composed of grated parmesan cheese and butter in equal parts, and kneaded into a paste. Put them in a brisk oven for five minutes, and dish them on a napkin. Egg Sandwiches. Boil two eggs very hard; mince very finely the whites and yolks separately. Toast two slices of bread; spread them with fresh butter, and over that spread a little curry paste. Cut away the crusts of the toast, and also cut the toast in pieces about five inches long and an inch and a-half wide; place a narrow row of white of egg in a slanting way on theSandwiches. 154 toast, then of yolk, then of chopped parsley, and so on until the piece of toast is covered; then dish on a napkin. Victoria Sandwiches. Cut thin brown bread, and butter it; and between two slices place alternate layers of thinly-sliced, hard- boiled eggs, a little American cress, and cleaned fillets of anchovies. Divide these slices into small square pieces, and dish them on a napkin.SUNDRY PREPARATIONS. Potted Lobster. Boil a lobster; remove all the meat, pith, and coral, and pound in a mortar until reduced to a smooth pulp; then add a teaspoonful of anchovy, a pinch of cayenne, a little pounded mace, and four ounces of clarified butter. Pound all together thoroughly, put it into pots; smooth over the surface, cover in with clarified butter, and keep it in a cool place. Potted Fowl and Ham. Roast a fowl and remove all the meat from the bones, and with these make a little stock, well seasoned with herbs and spice, and boil it down to a glaze. Chop the meat with six ounces of cooked ham, and pound both together in a mortar to a smooth pulp ; add the glaze, and four ounces of clarified butter. Pound all well together, and put in small, flat pie-pots ; cover these in with clarified butter, and keep them in a cool place. Potted Pheasant. Roast a pheasant, and, while hot, remove all the meat from the bones, and with these make a little stock. To this add four shallots, half a bay-leaf, small sprig of thyme, a bit of ham ; boil down to a glaze and156 Sundry Preparations. strain it into a basin; skim it well, and add two table- spoonfuls of catsup and two of sherry. First chop and then pound into a smooth pulp all the meat in a mortar; add the glaze, six ounces of clarified butter, pepper and salt. Pound all together and fill small pots with it; cover over with clarified butter, and keep in a cool place. Potted Spiced Beef. Take about three pounds of spiced beef and put it into a stew-pan with two quarts of water; add two roots of garlic, one bay-leaf, one small sprig of thyme, a very little basil, small sprig of mar- jorum, eight cloves, one blade of mace, twenty pepper- corns, and a teaspoonful of celery seeds. Cover the pan with a lid and set the whole to stew very gently over a slow fire for two hours ; strain the liquor into a basin; chop the meat, and then pound it in a mortar until reduced to a pulp. Add the liquor, previously boiled down, with three ounces of soup glaze, to half a pint; pound all together again, with half a pound of clarified butter added, and fill up in small pots, and cover them with clarified butter. To Clarify Butter. Put half a pound of butter (or any other quantity) into a small stew-pan. Let it dissolve slowly on the stove ; it must then be boiled for a few minutes. Re- move the scum as it rises; draw it to the side of the fire, and allow it to stand for a few minutes; then strain it through a piece of muslin into a dish, keeping backSundry Preparations. 157 the sediment. Allow it to cool, but not set. It may then be used to cover potted fish and meat. To Fry Parsley. Get a small basket of parsley, or whatever quantity may be required ; pluck off the stalks from the sprigs ; wash the sprigs in cold water, and place them on a dry towel. Gather up the edges of the towel, and shake it well to free the parsley from water. Place it in a wire frying-basket; then place the basket in a pan with boiling lard, or frying fat. Fry it for three or four minutes, until it gets crisp. When done, put it on paper to drain before the fire, and use for garnishing. Spinach Greening. Get a basket of spinach ; wash it in cold water ; put it dripping wet into a mortar. Pound it, and place into a flat pan. Stir it with a wooden spoon until all the juice is extracted from the leaves. Turn it out of the pan into a sieve. Allow the juice to drip into a basin. It is then ready for use.SAVOURIES. Savoury Eggs. Take any number of eggs; boil them hard, and skin them. When cold, cut off a piece from the small end; take out the yolks, and beat them in a mortar with an equal number of anchovies, a little catsup, a piece of butter, and a very small piece of ham or tongue. Season with pepper and salt, and squeeze of a lemon. Pound and mix the whole well together. With this composition fill the whites of the eggs. Cut a thin slice from the bottom of the whites, so that they may sit even on the dish. When the whites are all filled, place them on a dish with a folded napkin under them. Cut some chips of ham or tongue, and of whites of eggs, and place them on the top of the filled whites of eggs; and garnish the dish with sprigs of parsley. Roasted Oysters. Beard and lay three oysters on a piece of thin flat bacon, large, enough to cover them. Turn the bacon over them. Put a, skewer through the bacon, so as to keep the oysters quite covered. Put them on a tin before the fire to roast; turn them until the bacon is nicely cooked without being dry; then re-159 Savouries. move the skewers, place the bacon with oysters on a piece of buttered toast, and serve very hot. Cook as many oysters as may be required in the same manner. Black Puddings. Salt some hog’s blood as soon as drawn ; strain and mix it with a little milk; and stir in minced suet, oat- meal, pepper and salt, and minced onion, until pretty thick. Have some skins well cleaned, and fill them with the mixture; tie the ends together; prick the puddings, and put them into a pan with boiling water, and boil for about an hour. Serve very hot. Note.—These puddings will keep for months if laid in oatmeal. When about to use, warm them in hot water or broil them on the gridiron. Oyster Toasts. To four toasts made of a French roll take sixteen middle-sized oysters, three anchovies, boned and scraped, but not washed; chop the anchovies and oysters together; put them into a pan with a piece of butter, a teaspoonful of flour, and the oyster liquor, seasoned with pepper and salt; let it simmer over a slow fire for a little. The slices of French roll must be fried in butter; then place them on white paper, spread the mixture on the toasts, and dish them on a napkin; garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve very hot. Marrow Toast. Procure a marrow bone, and cut the marrow into pieces the size of a filbert, and parboil them in boilingSavouries. i6o water for one minute. The water must be seasoned with salt. It must then be instantly drained upon a sieve, seasoned with a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt, the least bit of chopped shallot, and the squeeze of a lemon. Toss lightly together, spread it out upon hot, crisp, dry toast, and serve immediately. Ham Toast. Make some toast and butter it hot; grate a little cooked ham or tongue, and sprinkle it over the toast; serve it hot. Tomato Cheese. Take as many ripe tomatoes as may be required ; cut a thin slice from the stalk-ends, and with a tea- spoon scrape out all the seeds and soft matter of the tomato, without breaking the skin; rub it through a hair sieve and put it into a small pan, with a piece of butter and a little grated parmesan cheese, and the beaten-up yolk of one or two eggs (according to the number of tomatoes) ; add pepper and salt to taste, make it hot, and fill the tomato skins with the mixture. Butter the bottom of a pie-dish, and place the tomatoes in the dish; sprinkle a little browned bread-crumbs on the top, and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Dish them on a napkin, and serve very hot. Savoury Omelette. Beat up three eggs; then add a teacupful of cream, a little grated ham or tongue, a little parsley and shallot, pepper and salt. Put a piece of butter in an omelette pan, make it hot, pour in the omelette; with161 Savouries. a wooden spoon stir it about in the pan till it thickens a little ; then smooth the top. When the under side gets a little brown, hold the pan before the fire until the top is brown ; roll it up and place it on a hot dish with gravy. Cheese Omelette. Take a small, flat dish that will withstand the oven ; cut small pieces of common cheese, about a quarter of an inch thick; set the pieces of cheese on their edge all round the dish, about half-an-inch apart from each other; sprinkle the bottom of the dish with brown bread- crumbs, and over that some thin slices of cheese ; drop three or four raw eggs on the dish; sprinkle a little pepper and salt over the eggs, a little grated cheese, and brown bread-crumbs ; then place a few small bits of butter on the top; put it in the oven to bake for ten or fifteen minutes. The eggs should be about as firm as when poached, but not hard. Send it to table very hot. Cheese Pudding. Take half a pound of mild cheese and grate it; beat two ounces of butter to a cream, and mix it with the cheese; add two spoonfuls of fresh cream; beat up two eggs very light, and mix them with the other ingredients; add the grating of a nutmeg, season with a little pepper and salt. Butter the inside of a basin ; pour the pudding into the basin, bake it -in the oven a light brown, turn it out on a dish ; serve exceedingly hot, with dry toast.Savouries. 162 Canapees of Ancliovy. Toast or fry some squares of bread, butter them slightly, and spread with anchovy paste. Cut up small some lettuces or mustard and cress, boil two eggs hard, pass the yolks through a wire sieve, chop up small the whites and put them upon the toast. Make them all different by putting a little yolk, then the cress, and then the chopped whites by the side of each other in strips, and dish them on a napkin and serve them cold. Cream Cheese Fritters. Whisk a quarter of a pint of cream, add the yolks of four eggs previously well beaten, six ounces of grated parmesan cheese, a pinch of sugar and cayenne pepper. Mix well together, and put the mixture into patty- pans and steam for ten minutes. Turn them out of the pans, and cut them out with a round cutter; then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in hot lard to a pale brown colour. Then dish them on a napkin and serve hot. Macaroni Cheese. Soak six ounces of macaroni in cold water for one hour; pour off the water and boil it in a quart and a- half of sweet milk, stir it occasionally to prevent the milk from burning. When the macaroni is very soft and milky, mix in lightly three ounces of mild cheese ; spread it on a flat dish, and sprinkle brown bread- crumbs over the top; brown it with a hot salamander or before a clear fire, and serve it very hot to be eaten with mustard.163 Savouries. Cheese Souffle. Take four ounces of flour and mix it with half a pint of new milk, add three ounces of fresh butter; boil it in a stew-pan, stirring all the time; when it has boiled about three minutes, and is quite thick, re- move it from the fire; beat up four eggs, yolks and whites separately, mix in the yolks with the latter, and three ounces of grated parmesan cheese; then mix in the whites of eggs ; the eggs must be very well beaten so as to make the souffle light. When all the in- gredients are mixed together, pour into a well-buttered souffle dish. Put it in a brisk oven and bake for about half-an-hour. It should rise very much and be nicely browned on the top, and sent to table the moment it is removed from the oven. Cheese Ramakins. Mix three ounces of flour with a breakfast-cupful of sweet milk and two ounces of fresh butter. Stir all together and boil for a few minutes. Take the pan from the fire and mix in lightly the yolks of three eggs, pre- viously well beaten; then mix in two ounces of grated parmesan cheese, and a very little pepper and salt. Have the three whites of eggs whipped to a snow, and mix in lightly with the other ingredients. Have some paper ramakin cases in readiness on a baking sheet; fill them three parts full with the mixture. Put the baking sheet in a brisk, oven; bake them from ten to fifteen minutes. They should be well risen and nicely browned on the top. Dish them on a napkin-and send them Ho table the moment they are removed from the oven.164 Savouries. Cheese Fritters. Beat up the whites of two eggs on a dinner plate, nntil they are very light and firm. Take two ounces of grated parmesan cheese; add a pinch of cayenne pepper, a very little salt, and a little grated nutmeg; mix all up slightly with a knife, and roll it together. Divide it into pieces the size of a nutmeg; roll each piece into a ball, and place them in a pan of hot lard or fat. Keep moving them about for a few minutes. When brown and well risen, dish them on a napkin. Cheese Straws. Take six ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, two ounces of cream, three ounces of grated parmesan cheese, the smallest grating of nutmeg, two grains of cayenne, a little salt and white pepper; mix and roll it out, and cut it in strips the thickness of a straw. They must be baked in a moderate oven, and should be quite crisp and of a pale colour. Serve very hot. Very Rich Cheese Straws. Take three ounces of flour, two ounces of butter, one ounce of cream, one ounce and a-half of grated parmesan cheese, one grain of cayenne, a little white pepper, and a little table salt; mix all together; roll it out and cut the straws. Bake them quite crisp and of a nice brown colour, and dish them hot on a napkin. Cauliflowers, with Parmesan Cheese. Boil and drain two or three cauliflowers, and keep them hot. Put a spoonful of white sauce into a stew- pan, with three ounces of parmesan cheese, one ounce165 Savouries. of fresh butter, the yolks of three eggs, a small piece of glaze, some lemon juice, nutmeg, and pepper and salt. Stir it over the fire until well mixed, without boiling. Pour it over the cauliflowers, and cover with bread-crumbs and grated parmesan cheese. Place them in the oven for about a quarter of an hour. When they are a nice yellow colour dish them, and garnish round with toasted bread cut in small diamonds. Large Truffles. Cleanse the truffles by brushing in water. Drain and place them in a stew-pan; pour some Italian sauce on them; place • some pieces of bacon on the top, and set them to boil on a slow fire for about three-quarters of an hour. Then dish them on a folded napkin. Send sauce separately in a sauce-boat. Mix a gill of the finest salad oil with a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, the juice of a lemon, pepper and salt, and two table-spoonfuls of the sauce that the truffles were boiled in, skimmed and boiled down to half glaze. Souffle Potatoes. Take six or more potatoes of a size; wash them with a brush in cold water, and dry them with a cloth. Bake them in the oven until they are quite soft. Cut a small piece off the tops of the potatoes, and with a teaspoon scoop out all the inside of the potatoes, leaving the skin quite whole. Put the pulp into a pan with a piece of butter, a little cream, and pepper and salt. Beat well with a fork; fill the skins; put the tops on; and put them back in the oven for ten minutes. Then dish them on a napkin, and serve hot.PUDDINGS. Paradise Pudding. Six ounces chopped beef suet, six ounces sultana raisins, chopped with six ounces of apples, six ounces of bread-crumbs, the grating of a lemon and juice, three eggs well whipped and mixed with the other ingredients, with six ounces of sugar. Butter the inside of a pudding mould; put the mixture into the mould; cover the top of it with a piece of cloth or paper; put it into a pan with boiling water, and steam it for four hours. Take care that the water does not boil into the pudding. When done, turn it out on its dish and pour wine sauce round it, and serve hot. Pompeiian Pudding. Put into a pan the yolks of four eggs, one ounce fresh butter, two ounces pounded sugar, the rind and juice of two lemons; stir it over the fire until dissolved and thick; it must not boil; then beat up the whites very stiff, and add to the other ingredients; then steam for half an hour; the water must be boiling before the pudding is put in, but not on any account to boil after it is put into the pan to steam; serve with apple jelly round it.167 Puddings. Fig Pudding. Mince very finely fourteen figs, half a pound of minced beef suet, a breakfast-cupful of bread-crumbs, a quarter pound sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and three eggs well beaten; mix all together; steam three hours; serve with wine sauce. Northumberland Pudding. To three .eggs, add their weight in flour, butter, and sugar; beat the butter and sugar together to a cream; then add the eggs, one at a time, and beat five minutes between each egg; then mix in, lightly, the flour, and two table-spoonfuls of brandy, and half a pint of sweet •cream; then butter the inside of a mould, drudge it with pounded sugar, and ornament with dried cherries and angelica cut in leaves; pour in the pudding, and tie a cloth over the top of the mould; put it into a pan with boiling water, taking care that the water does not boil into the pudding; boil it for one hour and serve with a custard, or wine sauce. Eve’s Pudding. Peel and core six good large apples, and mince them; add six ounces of grated bread, six ounces of currants, well washed, six ounces of sugar, a little salt and grated nutmeg, the juice and grated rind of half a lemon; beat up five eggs very light, and mix them with the other ingredients, and put it into a butter mould, and boil it for three hours, and pour brandy or wine sauce over the pudding, and serve hot.Puddings. i68 Prince of Wales’ Pudding. One pound of apples stewed with a little sugar and rubbed through a sieve. A quarter pound of fresh butter, and a quarter pound of pounded sugar, beat to- gether to a cream. Take four eggs, separate the whites from the yolks; beat both separately till very light, mix one table-spoonful of flour with three of cream, the grating and juice of one lemon, mix all the ingredients together. Thewhites of eggs must be added last. Have a pudding dish lined with puff paste; pour the pudding into the dish, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour or a little longer. The pudding should be well risen, and nicely browned on the top. Russian Pudding. Six ounces of sugar and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and a small glassful of sherry wine. Boil in a small sauta-pan for one minute; take four eggs and separate the whites from the yolks, beat both till light. Mix in the yolks with the other ingredients, and then the wdiites; line the baking dish with a thin paste,, spread it all over with orange marmalade. Bake it in a slow oven for about three-quarters of an hour, serve hot. Spanish Pudding. Put three table-spoonfuls of ground rice, one pint of cream, one quarter pound of fresh butter, into a stew- pan, boil all these ingredients on the fire, then take off. When cool add the yolks of five eggs previously well beaten, and a quarter pound of pounded sugar; beat the five whites of eggs to a snow, and add to the other169 Puddings. ingredients. Butter the dish and pour in the pudding, and bake it for nearly an hour, then remove it from the oven, turn it upside down on the dish with black currant jam under it. Cover the top with apricot jam. Care must be taken to bake the pudding light brown, to be eaten hot or cold as preferred. Raspin Pudding. Line a mould with puff paste, put a layer of apricot jam in the bottom, and fill it with a rich custard. Bake an hour in a moderate oven; turn it out on a dish, sauce it over with dilated apricot jam, serve it hot. Cups Pudding. Add one cupful of bread crumbs to one of flour, the same of suet, sugar and rasp jam, an egg, &c., a little salt, one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Steam for two hours. If the jam is dry, moisten with a little milk, use a little melted jelly as the sauce, and serve hot. Cocoa-nut Pudding. Beat four ounces of sugar with two ounces of butter to a cream, add the yolks of five eggs, one at a time ; beat five minutes between each yolk, have one break- fast-cupful of grated bread soaked in half-a-pint of boiling milk, grate the third part of a cocoa-nut, add it to the other ingredients, season wuth one glassful of brandy and the juice of half a lemon ; then mix in the five whites of eggs, previously beaten to a snow ; pour the pudding into a buttered mould, and steam it for two hours; mix a teaspoonful of arrow-root with thePuddings. 170 milk of the nut, add a little sugar, and three drops of cochineal; boil it for a few minutes, stirring all the time ; season with a glassful of sherry wine; pour the sauce round the pudding when dished, and serve hot. Chestnut Pudding. Peel and boil until tender forty chestnuts, rub them through a sieve, and place in a stew-pan with a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a few drops of vanilla, and a pinch of salt. Stir this over the fire until it thickens and detaches from the sides ; remove from the fire and add eight yolks and the whites of six eggs ; beat to a snow,, mix the whole well together, put it into a mould and steam for one hour and a half; serve with Eva’s sauce. Sauce for above. Put half-a-pint of cream and two glassfuls of maras- chino into a pan, place it on the stove; when it hae come to the boil, thicken with a little arrow-root; boil for a few minutes, and pour round the pudding. Caramel Pudding. Put about half a pound of lump sugar into a panr add as much cold water as will barely cover it; boil on the fire until it is reduced to half its first quantity; pour it into a pudding mould, and let the mould be thinly coated with it. Make a custard of ten yolks of eggs and one pint of cream, flavoured with a glassful of rum, and sweetened to taste; pour the custard into the mould, put it into a pan with boiling water to steam for about forty minutes.171 Puddings. Carrot Pudding. Boil two ordinary-sized carrots. When cold, grate them; add half a pound of currants, five ounces minced suet, three tablespoonfuls of flour, one table- spoonful of sugar. Boil in a shape for three hours. Serve hot. Marmalade Pudding. Mince very finely four ounces of beef suet; add four ounces of bread-crumbs, four ounces of sugar, and four ounces of marmalade. Beat up four eggs very fight; mix them with the other ingredients. Butter a mould slightly; ornament it with raisins; pour the pudding into the mould, and steam it for two hours. When dished, pour a little marmalade, mixed with sherry wine, round it for sauce. Serve hot. Lemon Pudding. Add half a pound of bread-crumbs to half a pound of chopped beef suet, a quarter pound of sugar, the juice and grating of a large lemon, and a pinch of salt. Beat up three eggs very light; mix with the other in- gredients. Steam for two hours. Serve with wine sauce. Wine Sauce for above. Beat the yolk of an egg with a spoonful of sugar ; add one ounce of fresh butter, and a teacupful of water. Put it into a sauce-pan and stir it till it boils, and add a glassful of sherry wine. Lemon Pudding, Baked. Put the rind and juice of three lemons into a basin, with four ounces of sugar, and four ounces of bruised172 Puddings. ratafia biscuits. Beat the whites and yolks of six eggs separately; beat the yolks with the other ingredients for five minutes; then mix in half a pint of cream and the whites of eggs. P our the mixture into a pie-dish lined with puff-paste. Bake in an oven for twenty minutes or half an hour. Orange Tart. Weigh two large oranges; boil them in water for half an hour. Put the juice and pulp of the fruit in a basin, with double their weight of sugar, and a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut, and beat all together. Line a very shallow dish with thin paste. Put in the mixtures, and cover the top with whites of eggs, beaten with a little sugar; then bake it. Mince Pies. Mince one pound of beef suet very fine, and one pound of tender beef, one „ tmund of stoned raisins minced with one pound of peeled apples, one pound of currants, half a pound of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, a little pounded ginger and cinnamon, and a teaspoon- ful of mixed spices; mix all these ingredients together, and put them into a stone jar; pour half a pint of brandy over it; tie it up closely with a piece of bladder; the mince used immediately,„but it is mugli improved by keeping it for some weeks. Wheh the pies^are to be made, have a puff paste ready; roll it out to about an inch larger than the dish, and half an inch thick; cover a flat dish with paste; brush the edge with egg; fill the dish withPuddings. 173 minced meat; then cover it over with paste; press the edges together, and notch it round with a knife; make incisions on the top, to let the meat appear; brush over the top with egg; bake in a quick oven for half an hour; serve very hot. Small mince pies are made in patty-pans the same way as above. Twenty minutes will bake them in a --quick oven. Dish them on a napkin, and serve hot. Plum Pudding. Mince one pound of beef suet; stone three-quarters of a pound of raisins; wash and dry the same quantity of currants ; to these add one pound of bread-crumbs,- and six ounces of flour, half a pound of moist sugar, a teaspoonful of ground ginger, and one of cinnamon, and two ounces of orange peel minced, and a teaspoon- ful of salt; mix all these ingredients together, and put them into a basin; add five eggs well beaten,- half a pint of milk, a glassful of brandy, and the grated rind and juice of half a lemon; mix thoroughly, and boil the pudding, either in *a cloth or in a basin, for five or six hours. When dished, make an incision oh the top with a knife ; pour a glassful of brandy over it; dip a spoon in flie brandy, hold it to a burning candle, touch the pudding with it, and send to table burning, if liked, or serve with brandy sauce.* Sauce for abeSfe. Mix a table-spoonful of arrow-ro(^pdthlialf a pint of water, two spoonfuls of sugar, a glass of brandy, about four drops of cochineal; stir this quickly over the fire until it boils, and pour round the pudding.174 Puddings. Cabinet Pudding. Butter the inside of a mould slightly, ornament the bottom and sides with dried cherries or raisins. Fill the mould with cut sponge-cakes, and ratafia biscuits. Then fill up the mould with a cold custard, made with six eggs, and a pint of boiled milk, with five ounces of sugar, a glassful of brandy, and a little lemon juice, all mixed together. Steam the pudding for an hour, and serve with wine sauce. College Puddings. Put sugar and butter, to the weight of two eggs, into a basin. Beat it to a cream, drop in the eggs one at a time. Beat five minutes between each. Mix in the same weight of flour, a few currants, and a table-spoonful of sherry wine. Butter the insides of small pans and dust them with pounded sugar. Fill them three parts full. Place them upon a baking sheet, and put them in the oven to bake for twenty minutes or half an hour. When done, dish them and pour wine sauce round them. Note.—These puddings may be eaten cold. The mixture may be put in a basin and steamed instead of baked. Custard Pudding. Beat up six eggs with four ounces of sugar. Boil one pint of milk with a stick of cinnamon, or two bay leaves; when it boils, remove the cinnamon or bay leaves, and pour the milk among the eggs, stirring them all the time. Butter the inside of a pudding-dish slightly, and pour in the custard. Bake for half an hour.Puddings. 17S Sprinkle a little sugar over it, and serve hot. (This pudding may be steamed instead of baked, and served with wine sauce.) Bread and Butter Pudding. Cut some slices of bread rather thin and butter them. Sprinkle slightly with sugar, and a few currants; cut each in four, and place them in a pudding dish. When full, pour boiling milk over the bread, and cover with a plate. Then beat up two or more eggsr according to the size of the dish, put them over the bread, let it stand for ten minutes to allow the eggs to mix with the bread. Then place it in the oven to bake for about half an hour. Serve hot with cream separately. La Perde Pudding. Cut two or three slices from a stale loaf; take oft the crusts; place them singly on a flat deep dish; pour boiling milk gently over them; cover the top with a dish. When the bread is well soaked with milk, it must be done on both sides with beaten egg, and placed in a frying-pan with a piece of fresh butter made hot, and fried pale brown on both sides. Dish it on a napkin. Sprinkle it with sugar, and serve hot. Jam Roll. Mix one pound and a quarter of flour with half a pound of chopped suet, a little salt, and one egg, and about half a pint of water. Roll the paste up into a ball; then roll it out with a rolling-pin, the same as*176 Puddings. puff-paste. It must be made square, and about a quarter of an inch thick. Take black currant or rasp- berry jam, and spread all over it, without allowing it to reach the edges of the paste. Then roll it up so as to fold the jam inside. Wet the ends of the pudding and press them together. Grease a cloth with butter ; dust it with flour ; and roll the pudding into it; tie the ends with string. Put it in boiling water. Boil for two hours, and serve with cream. German Puffs. Beat two ounces of butter, with two of sugar, to a cream; add the yolks of two eggs, and beat for five minutes. Mix two spoonfuls of flour, two ounces of pounded almonds, half a pint of cream, one teaspoon- ful of orange flower water, the whites of two eggs beat to a snow. Mix with the other ingredients. Bake them in small mince-pie pans; butter the pans well and fill them half full. Half an hour in a slow oven will bake them. Serve very hot with wine sauce. Duchess Loaves. Put half a pint of milk into a stew-pan, with five ounces' of flour, four ounces of butter, two ounces of sugar, two ounces of chopped almonds, a little orange or lemon juice. Place the pan on the fire, and stir it . until it boils for about three minutes. Mix in three eggs, one at a time. Divide the mixture into small round balls the size of a pigeon’s egg; place them on a baking sheet spread with butter, and bake of a light brown colour. When cold make an incision down177 Puddings. the sides and fill the loaves with apricot jam. Then dish them np on a napkin and serve. Cheese-Cakes. Beat six ounces of sugar with two ounces of butter; add four yolks of eggs, one at a time, and beat till light; add the grated rind of two lemons or oranges and a little salt. Mix eight ounces of pressed curd with two ounces of ratafia biscuits, crushed; mix in lightly four whites of eggs, previously well beaten. Next, line two dozen or more tartlet pans with puff paste; put a little of the mixture on the paste; place a strip of candied lemon-peel on the top of each. Put them on a baking sheet, and place them in the oven, at moderate heat. Bake of a light brown colour. When done, shake a little sugar over them. Dish them on a napkin, and serve hot. Almond Cheese-Cakes. Line about a dozen and a-half of tartlet pans with puff paste. Skin and pound four ounces of sweet almonds and one ounce of bitter, with five ounces of white sugar, passed through a fine wire-sieve. Beat the whites of four eggs to a snow; mix the almonds and' sugar lightly with the whites of eggs; add one teaspoonful of cold water. Fill the centre of the tartlet pans three parts full; place them on a baking sheet; put them in the oven, at moderate heat. Bake for about half-an-hour. Dish on a napkin, and serve cold.i ;8 Puddings. Conservative Pudding. Ornament a pudding mould with preserved fruit; then line the mould with thin slices of sponge-cake; put a layer of fruit between each layer of cake until the mould is half-full; then fill it up with custard, and steam it for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with whip sauce. Whip Sauce for above. Put two yolks of eggs into a small pan; add an ounce and a-half of white sugar, a glass of sherry, the rind and juice of half a lemon. Mix with a whisk on the stove until it thickens. When about the thick- ness of cream, pour it round the pudding and serve. Transparent Pudding. Put one pint of good milk into a stew-pan with three ounces of sugar; mix two spoonfuls of fine flour with one spoonful of arrowroot; mix with a little of the milk and pour it into the pan. Set it on the stove and stir it until it boils for about eight minutes; allow it to cool a little; flavour slightly with ratafia. Add the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, also the beaten whites; pour it into a mould, steam half-an-hour. Serve with wine sauce. Potato Pudding. Boil and skin two pounds of potatoes; pass them through a fine wire sieve; add six ounces of suet, finely minced, two table-spoonfuls of flour, six ounces of sugar, two ounces of lemon-peel, minced fine, four eggs,Puddings. 179 well beaten; mix all together; season with a glass of brandy, and bake in a quick oven. Serve hot. Tapioca Pudding. Put half-a-pound of tapioca into a stew-pan, with a quart of milk, a quarter pound of sugar, one ounce of butter, a pinch of salt, and a little grated lemon-peel; stir over the fire until it boils. When it has boiled about half-an-hour, remove the pan from the fire, and allow it to cool a little. Beat up four eggs ; mix with the tapioca, and bake for half-an-hour in a pie-dish. Pancakes. Beat up three eggs; mix three table-spoonfuls of flour with half a tea-cupful of milk; add to the eggs with a spoonful of sugar and a little salt. Then pour in half-a-pint of milk, and mix all well together. Put a bit of butter into a small frying-pan. Fill a small cup with the batter; pour it into the frying-pan; hold the pan over the fire until it fastens ; turn it over and sprinkle with a little sugar. Roll it up, and place it upon a hot dish before the fire; then put a bit of butter in the frying-pan; stir the batter, and pour a little of it into the pan, and go on till all the pancakes have been made. Dish them neatly, lengthways, upon the dish; sprinkle pounded sugar over them, and serve hot. Sweet Omelette. Take four fresh eggs; separate the yolks from the whites. Beat the yolks in a basin, with an ounce of pounded sugar, till very light; beat the whites to ai8o Puddings. snow on a dinner plate; mix lightly with the yolks. Heat about two ounces of fresh butter in an omelette- pan. Pour the omelette into the pan, and hold it over a clear fire until it fastens. Then hold the pan before the fire until it is well risen, and slightly browned on the top. Turn it out of the pan on to a hot dish, with a folded napkin under it. Double it over like a closed book. Spread raspberry jam between the folds. Then sprinkle it with pounded sugar, and serve hot with cream. Semolina Pudding. Add four ounces of semolina to a pint of milk, and boil till it thickens. Allow it to cool a little; add three eggs, sugar, and flavouring to taste; then bake or boil it. Louis Phillipe’s Pudding. Take six or eight apples all of the same size; pare them nice and round; scoop out the cores without breaking the apples. Put a piece of whole cinnamon in the centre of each apple. Take a flat-bottomed basin that will hold the apples; place them in the basin; pour a teaspoonful of brandy over each one. Put a piece of paper over the top of the basin, and set it in a pan with boiling water to steam. When they are soft, but not broken, remove the cinnamon, and put a teaspoonful of orange marmalade in the centre of each apple. When dishing, pile them up in the centre; whip up about half a pint of cream; season it slightly witii a few drops of ratafia and a little pounded sugar; put it over the apples. They must be entirely covered181 Puddings, with the cream. Sprinkle the top with bruised ratafia biscuits. Mince some orange or claret jelly; put it round the base, and serve cold. Crystal Palace Pudding. Mix a dessert-spoonful of Poison’s corn flour with a teacupful of new milk, and half an ounce of isinglass previously soaked with the milk; also half a pint of sweet cream, with sugar to taste. Boil all these in- gredients together for about ten minutes, stirring all the time. Take the pan off the fire, and stir in quickly the yolks of two eggs that have been well beaten. Stir until nearly cold. Pour the mixture into a tin mould that has been previously wet with cold water and ornamented with dried cherries and other sweetmeats, and serve cold, with a sauce of apricot jam and sherry wine, well mixed and pressed through a wire sieve. Pudding of Cream. Soak one ounce of gelatine in a .teacupful of cold water for a quarter of an hour; then put it into a small pan and stir it on the fire until it becomes quite liquid. Then stir it into a quart of cream sweetened with sugar and flavoured with a few drops of ratafia. Pour cream to the depth of an inch into a plain mould, and allow it to firm; then put stewed peaches, apricots, cherries, or plums, in the middle of the mould. They must be kept in from the edge, and piled up in the centre, and the creamy substance put around the sides. Fill the mould to the top and cover it all over with the cream. When set, turn out upon a dish and serve. N182 Puddings. Fruit Beverage. Take a little calf’s foot, or wine jelly, and dissolve it a little. Put it into a plain shape to about the depth of an inch. Place the mould on ice; take ripe straw- berries or cherries, cut them in halves, and place them on the top of the jelly in the mould; then pour in a little jelly, and allow it to firm. Dissolve some isin- glass, and mix it with as much cream as will fill up the shape. Flavour it with the juice of the fruit. Care must be taken that the cream is not too soft, as it might dissolve the jelly. When cold, turn out upon a dish. Strawberry Souffle. Remove the stalks from one pound of strawberries; pound them in a mortar and pass them through a hair- sieve. Add pounded sugar to taste, and a tea-cupful of cream ; mix a table-spoonful of potato fecula with a gill of milk and two ounces of sugar; stir it over the fire until it gets quite thick. Add the yolks of four eggs, previously well beaten, then the strawberry pulp; stir it well off the fire until it is quite smooth; then stir in quickly the whites of six eggs, previously whisked to a stiff froth; then butter the inside of a plain mould slightly, and pour in the mixture. Put it into the oven at once, and bake for twenty minutes. Serve quickly. Potato Souffle. Mix a large spoonful of potato fecula and of pounded sugar with half a pint of new milk; put it into a pan and stir it over the fire until it boils. Remove the pan from the fire and flavour the mixture with orange-183 Puddings. flower water, chocolate, or coffee; beat up the yolks of six eggs with a little sugar ; add them to the mix- ture. Mix in lightly the beaten whites, and bake for half an hour. Fruit Souffle. Remove the stones from a dozen ripe peaches or apricots; put the fruit into a stew-pan with half a pound of sugar and a tea-cupful of water; boil it over the fire until the fruit is dissolved, and then rub it through a sieve. Mix three ounces of potato fecula with half a pint of cream, and add it to the stewed fruit; mix the whole well together and boil it for a few minutes, stirring all the time. Remove the pan from the fire, and then work in five yolks of eggs, previously well beaten; beat the whites to a snow, and mix them lightly with the other ingredients. Four the mixture into a souffle-dish, and bake for about half an hour. Souffle of Oranges. Grate the rinds of two pounds of oranges in a basin; cut the oranges in halves, and press the juice through a sieve; mix it with the rind; add six ounces of pounded sugar. Beat up six yolks of eggs, and add it to the orange pulp; mix two table-spoonfuls of flour with a tea-cupful of cream; mix all these ingredients together. Then beat up the whites of six eggs, and mix up lightly with the other ingredients ; pour the mixture into a souffle-dish, and bake it in a sharp oven for about twenty minutes. It should be sent to table the moment it is removed from the oven.184 Puddings. Apple Charlotte. Line the bottom of a plain round mould with small, thin circular shapes of bread, stamped out with a tin cutter the size of a shilling. Dip these in clarified butter, and place them in circular order, overlaying each other until the bottom of the mould is completely covered. Next line the sides of the mould with thin oblong pieces of bread, cut an inch wide and the fourth of an inch thick, and of sufficient length for the depth of the mould. These must also be dipped in the butter before they are placed in the moulds. The mould must then be filled with well-reduced apple marmalade made as follows :—Peel, core, and slice about a dozen or more of apples; put them in a pan with about a tea-cupful of cold water, ten ounces of sugar, half a stick of cinnamon, and a piece of lemon-peel. Place the lid on the pan, and set it on the stove or clear fire until the apples are dissolved and reduced to a thick substance, bearing in mind that it must be stirred con- stantly while on the fire, to prevent its burning. Then the mould must be filled with the marmalade, and covered on the top with a thin round piece of bread, made to fit the inner circle of the fingers of bread. Then place the mould on a baking sheet, and set it in a brisk oven to be baked of a light brown colour ; and when turned out on its dish, pour some diluted apricot jam round the base, and serve hot, with cream separ- ately. Apple Fritters. Cut soft apples in thick slices ; scoop out the cores with a tin cutter; then pare off the rind, and place the185 Puddings. pieces of apples in a basin; add a small glassful of brandy and a spoonful of sugar, and let them steep in this for an hour. Next make a frying batter of half a pound of flour, a table-spoonful of salad oil, a pinch of salt, and two yolks of eggs. Mix these together with a wooden spoon until it presents a smooth, creamy appearance, pouring in at intervals about half a pint of tepid water. It must then be set aside for about an hour or so; and when about to use it add lightly three whites of eggs, previously whisked into a firm froth. Next dip the pieces of apple in the batter, and drop them gently one by one into a pan with hot lard; turn them over in this lightly with a fork; and when fried light brown remove them from the pan on to a dish covered with paper. Allow them to drain before the fire for a few minutes. Then dish them on a napkin. Sprinkle them over with pounded sugar, and serve hot. Orange Fritters. Skin the oranges, and cut them in quarters; use a sharp knife to pick out the septa and pips. Steep the pieces of orange in a glassful of brandy and a spoonful of sugar for an hour; and when about to fry them, dip them separately in batter, and fry them in the usual way, the same as apples. Apple Shape. Take some firm, green apples; pare and core them; throw them into cold water as they are done ; then put them to boil in a copper pan, with just as much water as keep them from burning. When tender, pass themi86 Puddings. through a fine wire sieve. To every pound of apple add three-quarters of a pound of pounded white sugar. Return the apple pulp into the pan and boil it very quickly, stirring all the time. When done, put it into a mould. When cold, turn it out upon a dish, and serve with cream. Apple Tart. Pare and core as many apples as will fill a pie-dish; cut them in quarters and pack them in the dish closely, and add sugar; heap the apples high in the centre of the dish, then add more sugar. Have a piece of paste ready, and, with a paste-brush, egg the edge of the dish. Set the pie-dish on the paste, and run the knife round the outside of the dish; take it off, and cut a small bit of paste the breadth of the border of the pie- dish ; lay it round the edge of the dish, and brush it with egg. Then lay on the cover, press it round the edge on the border, and nick it round the edge with a knife; brush it over with egg, and dust it with pounded sugar; bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. Serve hot or cold, as preferred. Shape of Rice. Boil two ounces of whole rice in one pint of sweet milk, until tender; dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in half a pint of milk, and add it to the rice with three ounces of almonds skinned and chopped fine, two ounces of pounded sugar, and nine drops of vanilla. Mix all well together; then add half a pint of cream, and stir the mixture till cold; pour it in to a shape. When set, turn it out and serve with jam.Puddings. 187 Shape of Sea Moss Farina. Mix two large tea-spoonfuls of the powder in half a pint of boiling milk; stir it until smooth; then put it into a pan with one English pint of new milk and an ounce of sugar, and slowly boil it, stirring all the time until quite melted. Then let it simmer by the fire until it is like thick cream; then strain it through muslin into a basin. Beat two eggs and add them to the mixture; then put it all into the pan and just bring it to the boil, and put it into a shape. When cold, turn out and serve it with plum jam round the dish, and cream, separately. Devonshire Cream. Put new milk into a pan; let it stand for twelve hours ; then put it on a slow fire or stove, in the same pan in which it has stood. Let it heat slowly until one can just suffer the finger in it; let it then stand in a cool place for other twelve hours, after which skim it. Stewed Prunes. Put about a pound and a quarter of prunes into a pan, with about a quarter of a pound of lump sugar. Add as much cold water as nearly cover them. Place the pan on a slow fire or stove, and stew the prunes slowly until tender; then remove the stones without breaking the fruit much. Place the prunes in a circle round the dish, the same as with cutlets. Break the stones, and pick out the kernels; dip them in boiling water and skin them. Place a kernel upon each prune. The juice of the fruit must be boiled down to a syrup.i88 Puddings. Strain through mnslin; colour slightly with cochineal; and pour it round the base. Whip up about half a pint of thick cream; heap it up in spoonfuls in the centre of the dish. Sprinkle a little pink sugar over it, and serve. Shape of Rhubarb. Take some rhubarb, cut off the pink ends, and put them into a brass pan. For every pound of rhubarb add one pound of white sugar, and as much cold water as will cover the bottom of the pan. Place it on a slow fire or stove ; stir it until tender ; then rub it through a hair sieve. To every quart of prepared rhubarb add one ounce of dissolved gelatine, and mix thoroughly. Pour it into a casserole shape. When firm, turn it out on a dish, and place whipped cream in the centre. Shape of Green Gooseberries. Place some green gooseberries in a brass pan; add their weight of sugar, and a little cold water. Boil them to a mash, and rub through a hair sieve. Add as much spinach juice as make it a nice green colour ; add one ounce of dissolved gelatine to a quart of the mixture. Pour it into a casserole shape. When turned out on its dish put whipped cream in the centre, and sprinkle over with pink sugar. Russian Charlotte. Take some finger biscuits; cut them with a tin •cutter into shapes—diamonds or squares; line the bottom and sides of a plain mould with them. They189 Puddings. must fit closely to one another. Soak one ounce of gelatine in a quart of cold water; add one pound of lump sugar, the rind and juice of four lemons, and the yolks of five eggs, all whisked up together. Put the mixture into a pan, and stir it over the fire until it is nearly boiling; then strain it through a hair sieve. Add a table-spoonful of brandy; stir occasionally until cold, but not set. Put it gently into the mould that has been lined with the biscuits. When firm turn it out upon a dish. Devonshire Junket. Put about a quart of new milk into a pan, and make it luke-warm. Pour it into a dish ; add a table- spoonful of rennet and the same of brandy. When thick pour over it half a pint of cream and a little grated nutmug. General Satisfaction Pudding. Dissolve one ounce of butter in a stew-pan ; add two ounces of flour, three of sugar, and half a pint of milk; then boil it in the pan until it becomes a thick paste. Mix in two ounces of chopped almonds, and the juice of half an orange or lemon ; add the yolks of four eggs, well beaten ; beat the whites to a snow, and mix them in lightly with the mixture. Line a pie-dish with puff paste ; spread some jam at the bottom ; then pour the mixture into the dish. Strew some chopped almonds on the top, and bake in the oven for about half an hour, or until it is well risen and of a nice brown colour. Serve either hot or cold.190 Puddings. Apple Marmalade. To a pint of water add twelve ounces of loaf-sugar ; boil till quite a syrup; pare and core two pounds of apples; add them to the syrup with the grated rind of a lemon; boil all together till quite stiff and transparent. Just before it is sufficiently done, add the juice of a lemon; boil and stir it over the fire until it is quite stiff, then pour it into a mould. When cold and firm, turn it out on to a dish. Blanch one ounce of sweet almonds ; cut them in thin chips like straws, and stick them all over the shape of apple marmalade. Pour custard round the base and serve. Meringues. Whisk the whites of nine very fresh eggs to a snow; sprinkle over it an ounce of pounded sugar, and whisk a little longer until they are very light and firm; then mix in lightly one pound of pounded white sugar. Take a baking sheet, and grease it very slightly with fresh butter, and dust it all over with sugar; put this mixture into a bag and pipe, or paper coronet. Drop the meringues through it in the form of a twisted shell. When all the mixture has been formed into meringues, place them in a very slow oven, and bake to a light fawn colour. When done, they must be carefully removed off the sheet; the white part of the inside must be scooped out with a teaspoon, and then nicely smoothed over. They must then be placed on their sides on the baking-sheet, and put back again in the oven to dry. When about to send the meringues to table, whip up some thick cream,191 Puddings. season it with a little pounded sugar and a few drops of the essence of vanilla, ratafia, or liqueur of any sort. Put a spoonful of this cream into each piece; join two together; dish them up in a pyramid on a napkin, and serve. Icing for Cakes. Beat the whites of four eggs with one pound of icing sugar, a few drops of tartaric acid, and about the size of a pin’s-head of indigo blue. Beat till very light; then ice and ornament the cakes. Compote of Apples. Peel and scoop out the cores from about a dozen of apples. Place them in a stew-pan, and cover them with syrup ; add the juice and rind of a lemon, a stick of cinnamon, and six cloves. Then cover with paper, and simmer very gently until they are soft. Then remove them from the pan, and reduce the syrup to half its original quantity; strain, and pour it over the apples. When about to dish the compote, place one in the centre, and surround it with the others. De- corate their surfaces with light designs cut out from preserved cucumbers or angelica, and bright jelly dis- solved and put into plates. When firm, cut out circular sheets and place one on each apple. Pears are used for making compotes. Follow, in all particulars, the directions for making compotes of apples. Syrup for Above. To three pounds of fine loaf sugar add a quart of cold water and the white of an egg. Whisk all together192 Puddings. in a stew-pan, and set it to boil gently for about five minutes, adding occasionally a spoonful of cold water. Then strain it through a piece of linen into a basin for use. Compote of Apricots. Peel the apricots, and put them into a stew-pan with syrup; simmer them about five minutes over the fire. Then drain them, and place them in a dish. Reduce the syrup, and pour it over the fruit. Compote of Chestnuts. Boil about forty chestnuts in a quart of milk, with half a pint of water. When tender, skin them and put them in a mortar. Put half a pound of white sugar into a small pan with a tea-cupful of water. Boil it till it pearls; then pour it over the chestnuts in the mortar; pound them to a smooth paste. Pile up half a pint of whipped cream in the centre of a dish. Place a coarse wire sieve over the dish, and rub the pounded chestnuts through the sieve on to the cream, keeping it high in the centre. Boil three oranges in water for half an hour; then put the rind, juice, and pulp into a pan; add the same weight of sugar, with a spoonful of maraschino; boil for ten minutes. When cold, put it round the chestnuts and serve. Compote of Cherries. Take large ripe cherries, all of the same size. Place them in a brass pan; cover them with syrup, and simmer them about five minutes. The half of the stalks should be cut off. When done, dish them with193 Puddings. their stalks upright. Reduce the syrup, and pour it round the cherries. Serve cold. Compote of Peaches. Divide the peaches in halves ; simmer them with a little syrup for about eight minutes; then drain them, and place them in the centre of a dish. Cover with whipped cream. Reduce the syrup with a little rasp- berry juice, and pour it round the base.JELLIES. Calf’s Feet Jelly. Clean and cut into pieces four calves’ feet; put them to boil in a gallon of cold water; boil gently for four or five hours, until the water is reduced to half its former quantity. Then strain the stock through a tammy or hair sieve into a basin, and, when it has become cold and set firm into a jelly, scrape off all the grease ; wash the surface of the stock with a little hot water, and dab it over with a clean cloth. Then put the stock into a brass pan with two pounds of lump- sugar, the juice and rinds of six lemons, half an ounce of whole cinnamon, twelve cloves, and twenty pepper- corns. Set the pan on the fire to dissolve the jelly, and then add the whites of six eggs, well whisked, with half a pint of water, and also the shells of eggs. Stir the jelly until it boils; then add a pint of sherry wine; allow it to boil again; and then pour it into a jelly-bag, previously wrung out of boiling water. Place a basin under the jelly-stand to receive the jelly as it passes through the bag; return the jelly through the bag until it passes quite bright and clear. Then fill the shape, previously wet with cold water. When a shape is wanted, dip it in warm water, and turn it out on a silver or crystal dish.Jellies. 195 When the jelly is required to be kept for a time, ox feet may be used instead of calves’ feet, with the addition of a large glassful of brandy. Put it into bottles, and cork to exclude the air. Wine Jelly. Soak two ounces of gelatine in a pint of cold water for twenty minutes ; then put it into a brass pan; add an English quart of boiling water, about ten ounces of lump sugar, the rind and juice of two lemons, eight cloves, twelve black pepper-corns, a stick of cinnamon broken into pieces, two eggs beaten with their shells and a tea-cupful of cold water. Mix all well together; place the pan on the stove or clear fire ; stir until it boils for about five minutes; then add three-quarters of a pint of Madeira or sherry wine. Pour through a jelly-bag previously wrung out of boiling water. Return the jelly to the bag until it is quite clear and bright; then pour it into shapes ; put them away in a cool place to firm. When wanted, dip the shape in tepid water and turn it out on its dish. Champagne Jelly. Soak one ounce of gelatine in half a pint of cold water for fifteen minutes; then add the juice of one lemon, two ounces of pounded sugar, and the white of an egg. Whisk all together over the fire until it boils. Add a spoonful of cold water; set it by the side of the fire for about five minutes ; then strain it through a piece of thick muslin previously wrung out of hot water. Put the gelatine into a basin;196 Jellies. ponr a quart of champagne over the gelatine; stir it well, and pour into a shape. When set firm, dip the shape in tepid water, and turn it out on its dish, and serve when wanted. Claret Jelly. Soak one ounce of gelatine in half a pint of claret for twenty minutes; then put it into a brass pan, and add a quart of claret, one pound of white sugar, the rind and juice of one large lemon or two small ones, and a teaspoonful of red currant or raspberry jelly. Mix well together ; then set the pan on a slow fire, and stir the jelly until it is nearly boiling; then strain through muslin into a basin, and stir it till nearly cold; then pour it into a mould. When set turn it out. Russian Jelly. The remainder of a broken shape of jelly will serve this purpose. Put the jelly in a basin ; place the basin in a pan of hot water. When the jelly is dissolved, pour some of it into a mould, and allow it to firm. Whip up the remainder of it into a white froth, and put all into a mould. When set firm turn it out upon a dish, and serve. Maraschino Jelly. To one pint of clarified syrup add a wine-glassful of maraschino, two ounces of clarified gelatine, and the juice of a lemon. Mix all together and pour into a jelly mould. Set on ice or in a cool place to firm. When wanted turn it out upon a dish, and serve.Jellies. 197 To Clarify Gelatine. Soak one ounce of gelatine in one pint of cold water for fifteen minutes; then pour it into a pan, and add the juice of half a lemon, and about half an ounce of white sugar. Stir it all together, and boil for about twenty minutes. Remove the scum as it rises, and strain it through muslin, previously wrung out of hot water. It is then ready for use. Rum Jelly. Soak three ounces of gelatine in a pint of cold water; add half a pound of sugar, the rind and juice of three lemons, half a stick of cinnamon, eight cloves, ten pepper corns, a little grated nutmeg, and a gill and a half of rum. Whisk all well together. Pour it into a brass pan, and stir it over the fire until it boils. Allow it to boil gently for a few minutes; pour the jelly through the bag several times until it runs bright. When all has run through, add a glassful of brandy, and pour the jelly into moulds. Set them on rough ice or in a cold place to firm. Clear Orange Jelly. Soak one ounce of gelatine in an English pint of cold water; add the juice of eight sweet oranges, half a pound of lump sugar, the whites and shells of three eggs. Whisk all well together in a brass pan, and stir it on the fire until it boils for a few minutes; then pour it through a jelly bag ; return it to the bag until it runs perfectly clear. Pour it into a mould, and when set, turn it out upon its dish. oJellies. 198 Thick Orange Jelly is prepared in the same manner, but without the use of eggs, and when the oranges are very sweet, a few bitter oranges may be used. Oranges filled with Jelly. Cut the oranges in halves, and then with the handle of a teaspoon work out all the juice and fibres of the fruit; then soak the skins in cold water for an hour. Drain them upside down upon a sieve. Pound some rough ice, and place it in a deep dish, and arrange the skins upon it, taking care to stop up any hole with bits of butter. Fill one half of the skins with jelly, coloured pale pink, with two or three drops of cochineal, and the remainder with white. When the jelly is set firm in the oranges, they must be wiped with a napkin. Cut them in quarters with a sharp knife, and build them up on a silver or crystal dish, with small geranium leaves between each quarter. The juice and pulp of the fruit may be used for the jelly. Lemon Jelly. Soak two ounces of gelatine in half a pint of cold water for fifteen minutes; then pour in one pint of boiling water, and put it into a brass pan; add half a pound of lump sugar, the rind and juice of four lemons, the whites of three eggs whipped with a gill of cold water. Mix all together, and whisk the jelly on the fire until it boils about three minutes. Then pour it through the jelly-bag, and when it runs clear, pour it into a mould, and set it on rough ice or in a cool place to firm.199 Jellies. Cherry Jelly. Pound in a mortar two pounds of ripe cherries, with one pound of red currants. Add half a pint syrup, and strain it through thick muslin, then add one ounce of prepared gelatine. Mix all well together, and pour it into a mould; when set turn out on a dish. Strawberry Jelly. Put one pint of strawberry juice into a brass pan with one pint of cold water, one wine-glassful of rasp- berry juice, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, the juice of a lemon, and one ounce of prepared gelatine. Mix all together. Stir it on the fire until it boils; then pour it through a jelly bag, and put it into a mould. When set turn it out. Grape Jelly. Pound two pounds of ripe grapes in a mortar, add the juice of two lemons, then strain it through a flannel bag, and mix with one pint of syrup and one ounce of prepared gelatine, and pour into a mould. When set turn it out. Peach and apricot jelly is made in the same manner, without the use of lemons. Lemon Sponge. Soak one ounce of gelatine in half a pint of cold water for fifteen minutes, then add a pint of boiling water. When cool, add half a pound of sugar, the juice of three lemons, and the whites of two eggs. Whisk it for half an hour; pour it into a shape. When dished, pour custard round it.CREAMS. Velvet Cream. Season a pint and a half of sweet cream with ponnded sugar to taste; then add a wine-glassful of maraschino or rum; or, season with a few drops of the essence of vanilla. Mix in one ounce of dissolved gelatine. Stir the cream all the time. Then pour it into a mould previously wet with cold water. Set it in a cool place to firm. When wanted, turn it out upon a dish. Peach Cream. Skin and extract the stones from about a dozen ripe peaches. To these add half a pound of white sugar, and half a pint of cold water. Stew the whole on the fire until the fruit is entirely dissolved, and then rub this pulp through a hair sieve into a basin. Add a pint of whipped cream, two ounces of dissolved gelatine, and a few drops of cochineal. Mix all well together, and pour the mixture into a mould that has been pre- viously wet with cold water. When firm, turn it out upon its dish. Apricot Cream. Skin and extract the stones from about a dozen ripe apricots. Crack the stones, extract their kernels, and201 Creams. put them with the apricots in a pan, with six ounces of white sugar, and half a pint of water. Stir them on the fire until the fruit is dissolved. Rub through a hair sieve into a basin; add a pint of whipped cream, and two ounces of dissolved gelatine. Raspberry Cream. Put about a pint of raspberries into a basin; add six ounces of pounded sugar, and a few drops of cochineal, then rub through a hair sieve into a basin; add a pint of whipped cream and two ounces of dissolved gelatine. Mix it well, and pour it into a mould. Set it away upon ice or in a cool place to firm. When wanted, turn out and serve. Strawberry Cream is made the same as above, by substituting strawberries for raspberries; and when fresh fruits cannot be had, diluted jam may be used instead. Orange Cream. Boil three sweet oranges in water for one hour. Cut them in halves, and pass the juice and pulp through a very clean hair sieve; add about half a pound of pounded white sugar; beat up the yolks of three eggs, and add to the orange pulp, with one table-spoonful of brandy. Boil one pint of cream, and pour it over the other ingredients. Stir the mixture all the time. Then add one ounce of dissolved gelatine, and stir till nearly cold. Then pour the mixture into a mould, and put away in a cool place to firm. When wanted, turn it out.202 Creams. Coffee Cream. Put about a breakfast-cupful of strong coffee into a pan with half a pint of boiled cream and half a pound of sugar. Beat up the yolks of six eggs ; to these add a pinch of salt; whisk the whole well together. Place the pan on the stove over a slow fire; keep stirring till it thickens and is nearly boiling, pass it through a hair sieve into a basin; then add an ounce of dissolved gelatine, and stir until it is nearly cold. Pour it into a mould, and, when set firm, turn it out. Chocolate Cream. Grate three ounces of chocolate, and put it into a stew-pan with half a pint of new milk and about three ounces of sugar; stir it over the fire until it boils, and pour it over the yolks of three eggs, previously well beaten; strain it through a hair sieve into a basin; allow it to cool a little; then add one pint of cream and one ounce of dissolved gelatine; whisk it for a few minutes, and pour it into a mould. When set, turn it out and serve. Italian Cream. Whisk a pint of rich cream and season it with sugar; add the juice of half a lemon and one glassful of curacoa. When light, pour it into a mould. Blanc-Mange. Soak one ounce of gelatine in half a pint of new milk for about twenty minutes; then put it into, a brass pan with one pint of im- half a pint of cream, and four ounces of sugar, two bay leaves, and203 Creams. a stick of cinnamon. Place the pan on the stove, and stir until it boils; strain it through a piece of thick muslin. Stir it occasionally until it is nearly cold; then pour it into a mould, and, when set, turn it out. Blanc-Mange, with Jelly. Take a casserole shape and wet it inside with cold water; fill it with blanc-mange; set it in a cool place to firm. Dissolve some calf’s-foot or wine jelly, and fill some china egg-cups with it; put them in a cool place. When set, dip them in tepid water and turn them out upon a dish. Turn out the jelly from the cups and place them in the well, in the centre of the blanc-mange. Mince some clear jelly, slightly coloured pink with cochineal; place it round the base of the shape, and serve. Custard, in Cups. Put a pint of milk and half a pint of sweet cream into a pan with four ounces of white sugar, a stick of cinnamon, and two bay leaves, with two ounces of flour of rice. Stir the whole on the fire until it boils ; pour it over five eggs, previously well beaten; strain, and return it to the pan; place it upon the stove, stirring all the time until it is nearly boiling. When cold, add a glassful of sherry wine, and pour it into custard cups. Custard made in this way may be used for many other purposes.ICES. Arrowroot Pudding, Ieed. Mix together six ounces of arrowroot, one pint of milk, ten ounces of sugar, the juice of one lemon, and half a gill of brandy. Stir the whole on the fire until it boils and becomes thick; then remove the pan from the fire, and mix in the yolks of ten eggs previously well beaten ; and when thoroughly cold, mix in lightly the whites of the ten eggs previously beaten to a snow. Pour the mixture into the freezing-pot in its pail, well surrounded with rough ice mixed with salt. Work the freezer round with the hand for about ten minutes, and then detach the set ice from the sides of the freezer with the ice spattle, and continue freezing and working the ice with the spattle, to give smoothness and body to the ice, until it forms a stiff, smooth, com- pact body. It may then be put into the mould, previously ornamented with strips of angelica and orange peel. It must then be imbedded in ice mixed with salt, until it is time to dish it. When it is wanted, remove it from the ice, and wipe the mould. Dip it in cold water for about a minute; wipe it; then turn the pudding out on its dish.205 Ices. Custard Pudding, Iced. Make a good custard, and when cold pour it into the freezing-pot in its pail, well surrounded with broken ice mixed with salt. Freeze it in the usual way, and when set firm add some crystallized cherries. Freeze again, working the pudding with the spattle. Put the pud- ding into an iced pudding-mould, and imbed it in ice for three or four hours. When wanted, turn it out upon its dish. Iced Souffle. Put half a pint of cold water into a deep stew-pan with the yolks of ten eggs; place the pan over a basin of hot water; whisk them until they are quite light and hot, then over ice till quite cold. Mix in a pint of whipped cream, half a pint of syrup, and flavour with vanilla, chocolate, or liqueur of any sort. If flavoured with liqueur soak some pieces of sponge cake in wine, and place them at the bottom of the souffle-dish, and pour the mixture in the dish, sur- rounded with a band of paper two inches higher than the dish; fasten with gum or pins. The souffle must be set in a freezing-cave when it is filled, and the cave covered over. Bury the whole in ice mixed with salt, for five or six hours. When about to send to table, strew some bruised ratafia biscuits over the top. Remove the band of paper which runs round it, and dish up on a napkin. Cream Souffle, Iced. Whip up one pint of thick cream till light; add a wine-glassful of syrup, beat the whites of four eggs to206 Ices. a snow, and mix them lightly with the cream. Then pour into a souffle dish; surround the dish with a band of paper two inches higher than the dish. It must be buried in ice and freezing salt for about five or six hours. When a freezing cave is not to be had, substitute a pan with a close cover that will just hold the souffle. Rub the inside edge and bottom of the pan slightly with butter to prevent the cover and souffle dish stick- ing to the pan. When about to send it to table, strew some light brown biscuit powder on the surface of the souffle. Remove the band of paper which runs round it, and dish upon a napkin. Iced Coffee. Put one gallon of cold water into a clean copper pan, half a pound of coffee, half a pound of lump sugar, and the whites of two eggs. Mix well together; place the pan on the stove or slow fire, and bring it gently to the boil. Strain it through a napkin. When cold, add one pint of milk that has been boiled, and half a pint of rich cream; then pour it into the freezer, which has a cover, and freeze with plenty of rough ice and salt for about four hours. Stir it from the sides every half hour. Coffee Cream Ice. Beat up the yolks of six eggs; add a large cupful of strong coffee, a pint of boiled milk, and about six ounces of sugar; stir over the fire until it thickens, and then strain it through a hair sieve into a basin. Add half a pint of rich cream. When cold, freeze and mould the ice.Ices. 207 Chocolate Cream Ice. Boil four ounces of chocolate in half a pint of sweet milk. Sweeten with sugar; then add one pint of cream ; mix well together. Freeze and mould the ice. Brown Bread Ice. Brown six ounces of bread crumbs, and dry them before the fire. Whip up a pint of thick cream; add four ounces of pounded sugar, and flavour with a wine- glassful of maraschino, Madeira, or sherry wine. Mix and mould, then freeze it in the usual manner. Raspberry Cream Ice. Bruise a pound of raspberries and half a pound of red currants, with half a pound of loaf sugar. Stir it in a pan on the fire until it begins to boil, and then rub the whole through a hair sieve. When cold, mix it with a pint of cream; then freeze and mould the ice. Grape Water Ice. Bruise one pound of fresh grapes ; to these add one quart of cold water, the juice of two lemons, and half a pint of syrup. Mix it well, and strain through a hair sieve. Pour the mixture into the freezing pot; place it in its pail, and surround it with plenty of rough broken ice, and freeze in the usual manner. Fill the mould and bury it in ice. When wanted, remove it from the ice, dip it in cold water, and lift off the ends of the mould. Push the ice out on the dish ready to receive it.208 Ices. Cherry Water Ice. Bruise about a pound and a half of ripe cherries in a mortar, and put them into a pan with about five ounces of sugar. Boil for a few minutes, and rub through a sieve into a basin. Then add a pint of syrup, and half a pint of cold water. Freeze and mould the ice. Raspberry Water Ice. Bruise one pound of raspberries and half a pound of red currants; add four ounces of sugar, and a gill of cold water; pour it into a pan, and stir it over the fire until it boils. Strain it through a hair sieve into a basin; add a pint of syrup, and freeze in the usual way. Strawberry Water Ice is made the same as above by substituting strawberries for raspberries. Orange Water Ice. To the juice of six oranges and two lemons add the rinds of three oranges rubbed with sugar, one pint of syrup, and half a pint of cold water. Mix all together, and strain through a hair sieve. Then freeze in the usual way. Lemon Water Ice. The juice of eight lemons, the rubbed rind of two, a pint of syrup, and a gill of cold water. Mix and freeze in the usual way. Note.—Bear in mind that while ices are being frozen they must be frequently well worked with the spattle, to render them smooth and give them consistency.209 Ices. Pine Apple Water Ice. Pound in a mortar one pound of pine apples; add one pint of syrup and a gill of cold water. Rub through a hair sieve; pour into the freezing pot, and freeze in the usual manner. Then mould it, and imbed it in rough ice with salt. When wanted, turn it out as directed for grape water ice.CAKES AND BISCUITS. Plum Cake. Ingredients Required.—One pound and a half of flour, one pound and a half of sultana raisins, one pound of soft sugar, one dozen of eggs, and one pound of butter. Place the butter and sugar in a large basin, and work it with a wooden spoon until it presents the ap- pearance of a creamy substance. Then add two eggs, and beat for five minutes; then other two, and so on until six have been added ; then shake in a handful of flour, and beat in the other six eggs the same way as the first. Add the flour and the raisins. A tin shap'e is required for baking it in. Its inside must be slightly buttered, and several flats of strong paper placed at the bottom and inside of the tin. Then brush it over with dissolved butter, and dust it with pounded sugar and a little flour. Then pour in the mixture, and bake it in a moderately-heated oven for about two hours. Seed Cake. Ingredients Required.—Three quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of raisins, half a pound of lemon and orange peel, two ounces of almonds, and four eggs.21 I Cakes and Biscuits. Put tlie butter and sugar into a basin ; work it with a wooden spoon until it presents the appearance of thick cream. Then add two eggs, and beat the mix- ture for five minutes; then the other two eggs, and beat a little longer. Add the flour gradually, and the fruits. Butter and paper the inside of a cake tin ; put the mixture into the tin and bake for about an hour and a half in a moderately-heated oven. Benekerry Cake. Ingredients.—Three pounds of currants, one pound and a quarter of flour, one pound of butter, one pound of citron peel, ten eggs, and one glassful of whisky. Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and beat it to a cream; then add two eggs, and beat for five minutes; then other two, and so on till ten have been added. Add the flour, then the currants, previously washed in cold water, and dried on a cloth before the fire. Mince the citron peel, and add it to the other ingredients. Then pour in the whisky. Butter the tin inside slightly. Put several folds of paper at the bottom and round the sides of the tin; dust it with a little sugar and flour; then put in the mixture, and bake in a sharp oven for about three hours. Put a piece of folded paper on the top to prevent it from burning. Diet Loaves. Ingredients Required.—Six ounces of flour, four ounces of pounded sugar, and nine eggs. Put the yolks in a basin, and the whites in a brass or copper pan. Add the sugar to the yolks, and beat tillCakes and Biscuits. 2 12 very light. Whisk the whites to a snow. Add a little of the flour to the yolks, and a little of the whites of eggs, alternately, until the whole has been mixed. Line three square tins with paper, previously brushed over with dissolved butter and sprinkled with sugar; pour in the mixture in equal quantities. Put two thin slices of citron-peel on the top of each, and bake in a slow oven for half an hour. Savoy Cake. Ingredients.—One pound of flour, one pound of fine pounded sugar, and one dozen of eggs. Put the eggs and sugar into a brass pan; beat up over a stove till very light and white; then remove the pan from the stove, and beat till cold; then mix in the flour. Grease a mould with dissolved butter, and dust the inside with sugar and flour. Pour in the mixture, and bake for about half an hour in a slow oven. Rice Cake. Ingredients.—Half a pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, six ounces of butter, four ounces of rice flour, six eggs, and a few drops of ratafia. Put the sugar and butter into a basin and beat to a cream; then add the eggs, one by one, beating five minutes between each. Mix the flour and rice flour together, and add to the other ingredients with a few drops of ratafia. Pour the mixture into a prepared tin, and bake in a slow oven for about three-quarters of an hour.Cakes aucl Biscuits. 213 Phantasy Cake. Ingredients Required.—One pound and a half of hour, one pound butter, one pound sugar, one half- pound citron-peel, one dozen eggs, and a glassful of brandy. Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and beat it to a cream; add two eggs, and beat for five minutes; then other two, and keep beating until six have been added; then shake in a handful of flour, and add the remaining six eggs. Then mix in the whole of the flour, with the citron-peel chopped fine, and half a pound of sweet almonds, skinned and chopped fine, a glassful of brandy, and two tea-spoon- fuls of baking powder ; mix well, and put the mixture into a cake tin, previously lined inside with paper, slightly brushed with dissolved butter, and dusted with sugar. Bake in a moderate oven for about three hours. Madeira Cake, Ingredients.—One pound and a quarter of flour, one pound sugar, twelve ounces butter, and ten drops of the essence of lemon. Put the sugar and butter into a basin, and work it with a wooden spoon until it presents the appearance of a creamy substance; then add the eggs, two at a time, and beat five minutes between every two. When all the eggs have been added and the mixture well beaten, pour it into a tin, previously lined with foolscap paper, brushed with dissolved butter, and sprinkled with sugar. Bake in a moderate oven for about an hour and a quarter. p214 Cakes and Biscuits. Sultana Cake. Ingredients Required.—One pound and a-half of sultana raisins, one pound flour, one pound sugar, three-quarters of a pound of butter, and twelve eggs. Place the butter and sugar into a basin ; beat it with a spoon for about half an hour; add two eggs, and beat for five minutes ; then other two, and so on until six have been added. Then add a handful of flour, and then the other six eggs. Keep beating the mixture all the time. Then mix in gently the flour and raisins. Then bake in a moderate oven for about two hours. Note.—The finest flour, dried in an oven, or before the fire, and passed through a hair sieve, should always be used for cakes and biscuits. Pounded white sugar and very fresh eggs should also be used. Petticoat Tails. Ingredients.—One pound of flour, six ounces of butter, and six ounces of sugar. Rub the butter into the flour, then the sugar, a pinch of salt, and a little water, and work it into a smooth dough. Divide it into two ; roll it out into two round cakes about the size of a dinner plate. Cut a round cake from the centre of each (with a cutter), four inches in diameter; then divide the outside into six. Prickle on the top, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Vinegar Cake. Ingredients.—One pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, six ounces of butter, four eggs, two table-spoon- fuls of vinegar, and a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda.Cakes and Biscuits. 215 Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; drop in an egg, and beat for five minutes; then another, and so on until the four have been added. Pour in half a pint of milk, and the carbonate of soda mixed with the vinegar, and half a pound of currants. Mix the whole of the ingredients together; put it into a pre- pared cake-tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour and a half. Snow Cake. Ingredients.—Half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of flour, the same of potato fecula, six eggs, a small glassful of sherry wine, and a teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; then add the eggs one by one. Beat five minutes between each egg; mix in the flour and potato fecula; then the wine and powder. Prepare a mould and pour in the cake, and bake it for about an hour and a half. Scotch Bun. Ingredients.—Two pounds and a half of currants, one pound and a half of patent flour, one pound and a ■quarter sultana raisins, half a pound orange peel, six ounces of almonds, and six ounces of butter, with half a pint of milk. Dissolve the butter and add it to the milk; pour it among the flour; make it into a dough; then add the currants and raisins. Mince the orange peel and almonds; add them to the other ingredients; put the mixture into a prepared cake-tin, and bake for about two hours in a moderate oven.Cakes and Biscuits. 216 Patent Flour. To four pounds of flour add two ounces of cream- of-tartar, and one ounce of carbonate of soda. Mix together. Note.—It will also make nice scones with the addi- tion of an ounce and a half of butter, and the same of sugar, and a little milk. Soda Cake. Ingredients. — One pound of flour, half a pound butter, half a pound of sugar, two eggs, a few carr a way- seeds, and a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda. Put the butter and sugar into a basin, beat it with a wooden spoon for about twenty minutes; add the eggs? and beat a little longer; then mix in the flour, carraway seeds, and soda. Put the mixture into a prepared tin^ and bake for about an hour and a half. Arrowroot Cake. Ingredients.—One pound of arrowroot, half a pound of butter, three ounces of sugar, two eggs, and a small glassful of brandy. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggsr and beat a little longer; mix in the arrowroot, then the brandy; stir it up lightly, and put it into a pre- pared tin. Bake in a moderate oven about an hour and a quarter. Note.—Biscuits may be made from the same prepa- ration as above. Butter a baking-sheet very slightly ; dust it with sugar; put teaspoonfuls of the mixture on the sheet, about an inch distant from each other*217 Cakes and Biscuits. When the sheet is full, place it in the oven to bake for about ten minutes. When the biscuits are of a light fawn colour, remove the sheet from the oven and lift the biscuits carefully off with a knife. Sponge Cake. Ingredients.—Half a pound of flour, half a pound -sugar, five eggs, and two table-spoonfuls of sherry wine. Put the sugar and eggs into a basin; whisk together for half an hour; mix the flour in lightly, pour in the wine. Do not stir it much. Put it into a pre- pared mould, and bake in a gentle oven for about half an hour. Large Sponge Cake. Ingredients.—One pound of flour, one pound ot sugar, one of eggs, and a few drops of the essence of lemon. Put the sugar and eggs into a brass pan, beat for about ten minutes; then place the pan upon the stove, and keep beating until the mixture is very light, and rather hot. Then take it off and beat till cold, and add a few drops of the essence of lemon; mix in lightly one pound of flour, previously dried in the oven and passed through a hair-sieve. Grease a tall mould with dissolved butter, and sprinkle it with pounded sugar and a little flour. Pour the mixture into the mould, and bake in a slow oven for nearly three-quarters of an hour. Small Sponge Cakes. Put four ounces of sugar into a pan with two eggs; beat together over the stove till light and hot; then2l8 Cakes and Biscuits. beat it off the fire until cold. Season slightly with lemon juice or essence. Mix in lightly four ounces of flour; put the mixture into small pans, previously prepared, and bake in a slow oven for about ten minutes. Gingerbread Cake. Ingredients.—One pound and a-half of flour, half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, the same of treacle, orange peel, three ounces of almonds, one ounce of ground ginger, teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, the juice of one lemon, and six eggs. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggsr two at a time—beat five minutes between each two. Next add the treacle, then the flour, orange peel, almonds (minced small), lemon juice, and carbonate of soda. Put the mixture into a prepared tin, and bake in rather a slow oven for about three hours. Note.—It is impossible to determine the exact length of time that this, or indeed any other, cake should remain in the oven before it is done. This will mainly depend upon the construction of the oven, and partly on the necessity there may be for occasionally opening it during the process of baking the cake. The best way to ascertain whether the cake is done is to run a skewer down the centre, and if, when withdrawn, the skewer is dry and free from any portion of the cake in an unbaked state, it will be safe to turn it out of the mould. Plain Gingerbread, Ingredients.—One pound and three-quarters of flour,, one pound of treacle, four ounces of butter, three219 Cakes and Biscuits. ounces of sugar, one and a-half teaspoonfuls of car- bonate of soda, the same of ground ginger and cinnamon, one of alspice and carraway seed, two eggs, and about a pint of butter-milk. Heat the treacle and butter in a pan, and pour it among the flour; then add the seasonings ; then pour in the butter-milk, and stir up the mixture. Beat the sugar and eggs together, and add it to the other ingre- dients, and mix in the carbonate of soda. When well mixed, line three tin shapes with buttered paper, put the mixture into them in equal quantities, and bake in a moderate oven. Plain Shortbread. For two pounds of flour add one pound of butter and six ounces of sugar. Mix together into a smooth dough; divide into the number of cakes required. Pinch round the edges, and prickle on the top; orna- ment wdth comfits and strips of orange peel. Put a piece of double paper under each cake, and place them on a baking sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. Note.—If liked, fruit may be added to this bread, in proportion four ounces orange peel, the same of almonds, two ounces of citron peel, all minced small and added to the above ingredients, with an ounce and a-half of carraway seeds. Small Rice Cakes. Ingredients.—The yolks of six eggs and the whites of two, six ounces of butter, the same of pounded sugar, eight ounces of ground rice, and two table-Cakes and Biscuits. 22a spoonfuls of orange flower-water, or the grated rind of a lemon. Beat the butter and sugar together in a basin for twenty minutes; then add the yolks, two at a time, until the whole are added. Then mix in the ground rice and the orange dower-water. Whisk the whites to a snow, and mix them in lightly with the other ingredients. Rub the insides of some patty pans with dissolved butter, dust them with sugar, and half fill them with the mixture. Bake the cakes in a quick oven. Passion Biscuits. Ingredients.—One pound of flour, two ounces of butter, a pinch of salt, and a little new milk. Rub the butter into the flour, then the salt. Moisten with the milk. Put it into the mortar, and beat the paste for twenty minutes; then cut it into pieces the size of walnuts. Roll into little balls; then roll in pieces as thin as a sixpence; prick them; then bake in a quick oven, watching them till of a light brown colour. Arrowroot Biscuits. Ingredients.—Eight ounces of butter, and the same of sugar, six ounces of flour, same of patent flour, six ounces of arrowroot, and five eggs. Put the sugar and butter into a basin; beat it to a cream ; add the yolks of eggs by degrees, and beat till the mixture is very light. Mix the flour, arrowroot, and patent flour together. Add it to the mixture. Whisk the whites of eggs to a snow. Mix it in lightly with the other ingredients. Drop the mixture from the point221 Cakes and Biscuits. of a table-spoon upon a prepared baking sheet, and bake in a brisk oven, for about ten minutes. Dean of Ripon’s Biscuits. Ingredients.—Three quarters of apound of flour, half a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, half an ounce of carraway seeds, and a little cream. Mix the butter with the flour ; then add the sugar and carraway seeds. Moisten with a little cream, and work it into a firm dough. Then roll it out as thin as a sixpence. Cut it in the shape of fingers or rounds, according to taste, and bake in a slow oven for about ten minutes. When done, they should be quite crisp, and of a light fawn colour. Queen Drops. Ingredients.—Nine ounces of sugar, eight ounces of butter, eight ounces of flour, six ounces of patent flour, seven eggs, and a few currants. Beat the butter and sugar together in a basin; then add the yolks of eggs by degrees. When quite light, add the flour, patent flour, and currants. Mix in lightly the whites of eggs, previously whisked to a snow. Drop the mixture from the point of a table-spoon on to a prepared sheet, and bake for about ten minutes in a sharp oven. Chocolate Biscuits. Ingredients.—Four ounces of flour, the same of butter and of sugar, three ounces of chocolate, the whites of five eggs, and the yolks of two. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; then add theCakes and Biscuits. 222 yolks and chocolate, and beat for twenty minutes; mix in the whites of eggs, previously whisked to a snow. Rub a baking-sheet with dissolved lard; cover it with white paper. It must also be brushed over with lard and sprinkled with sugar. Drop the mixture from a tea- spoon on to the paper, and bake in a slow oven for about ten minutes. Ratafia Biscuits. Ingredients.—Two pounds sugar, one pound ground almonds, two ounces rice-flour, nine whites of eggs. Prepare the baking-sheets with greased paper, as for above. Put the mixture into a bag, and pipe ; and drop the biscuits on the paper, about the size of a shilling. Bake in a slow oven for about ten minutes. Ginger Biscuits. Ingredients.—One pound of flour, twelve ounces of fresh butter, twelve ounces of pounded sugar, two ounces of ground ginger, and eight yolks of eggs. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the yolks by degrees, beating all the time; then mix in the flour and ginger. Roll it out to the sixth part of an inch, cut them about the size of a five-shilling piece. Pass a paste brush over them, dipped in cold water; sprinkle a little sugar over them, and bake in a slow oven until pale brown and quite crisp. Ginger Nuts. Ingredients.—One pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, the same of butter and treacle, four ounces ofCakes and Biscuits. 223 orange-peel, two ounces of almonds, two ounces of ground ginger, the rind and juice of half a lemon, a small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and one egg. Beat the butter and sugar together; add the flour and treacle, the peel and almonds, cut small, then the soda and egg. Work them into a firm dough; make it up in small balls the size of a walnut, flatten them with the hand, and place them upon prepared baking- sheets ; and bake light brown and quite crisp. This mixture may also be rolled out and cut into any shape or size. Ginger Cream Biscuits. Ingredients.—One pound and a quarter of flour, three-quarters of a pound butter, half a pound of sugar, an ounce of ground ginger, two eggs, and a little cream. Beat the butter and sugar for twenty minutes; add the eggs, and beat five minutes longer. Add the flour by degrees, then the ginger, and about a teacupful of cream. Stir the mixture, and roll it out till about the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Cut out with a small tin-cutter as many biscuits as the paste will produce, and place them on a slightly buttered baking sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Orange Biscuits. Put on some bitter oranges in cold water; let them come to the boil; change the water four or five times; the last time let them boil gently three-quarters of an hour. Remove them from the pan ; cut them in halves; take out all the pulp; chip the rind small with224 Cakes and Biscuits. a knife; then put it into a mortar and pound it well, and rub it through a hair sieve, and add it to the pulp. To one pound of the prepared orange add two pounds of pounded white sugar; mix it and let it lie all night; next day spread it out thin on dishes; allow it to stand for a few hours ; then cut them into shapes. When dry turn them, and allow them to dry on the other side.JAMS AND JELLIES. Peach Jam. Skin the peaches and extract their stones ; add to the fruit its weight of fine white sugar; boil in a brass or copper pan for about fifteen minutes. Remove the scum as it rises to the surface. Remove from the fire, and put it into jam-pots, and put away in a cool place for a day or two. When thoroughly set it must be covered with small rounds of white paper dipped in brandy or whisky, and tied down with another covering of paper, or of bladder. They may then be put away in a dry cool place. Apricot Jam. Cut up some ripe apricots ; break the stones; ex- tract the kernels, scald, and add them to the fruit. To each pound of fruit allow one pound of crushed loaf- sugar ; put it into a preserve-pan, and stir until it boils. Remove the scum; boil it for about twenty minutes, stirring it all the time; then put it into pots, and finish the same as peach jam. Cherry Jam. Pick the cherries off the stalks; extract the stones ; place the fruit in a basin ; then pour off their juice into226 Jams and Jellies. another dish. Have ready some red currant or rasp- berry juice; add the same quantity of it to the pre- pared cherries as that of their own juice. Allow equal quantities of cherries and pounded sugar. Boil it for about twenty minutes ; remove the scum carefully ; and put the jelly into pots. The juice of the cherries may be used for syrup or pudding sauce. Green Gage (Plum) Jam. Pick and extract the stones from as many green gages as may be required. To each pound of fruit allow one pound of crushed loaf-sugar. Put it into a preserving-pan with the fruit; add a little water ; place the pan on a clear, brisk fire. With a wooden spoon stir carefully. Blanch the kernels and add them to the jam. When it has boiled about twenty minutes skim it well, and put it into pots. Gooseberry Jam. Take as many ripe gooseberries as required. Allow equal weight of sugar for fruit; add a little raspberry or currant juice. To a pint of juice add a pound of sugar. Put the whole into a preserve-pan; place it upon the stove or clear fire, and boil for about twenty- five minutes. Skim it well and pot it. Black Currant Jam. Gather the currants when dry; pick them from their stalks. Allow a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit; and to every four pounds add a pint of red currant or raspberry juice, adding a pound of sugar toJams and Jellies. 227 every pint. Then put it into a brass pan and boil on a clear fire for about fifteen minutes; skim and put it into pots. Raspberry Jam. Gather the raspberries when dry. To each pound of fruit allow one pound of crushed white sugar. Place the pan on the stove, stir until it boils, remove the scum. When it has boiled about ten minutes, pot it. Strawberry Jam. To each pound of strawberries add one pound of pounded sugar. Put them into a preserve-pan with the sugar; place the pan on the hot plate; shake it occasionally to prevent the fruit from adhering to the bottom. Boil it sharply for about fifteen minutes; skim it well, and put it into pots, and finish as directed for peach jam. Rhubarb Jam. Take as much tender and full-grown rhubarb as required; cut off the ends, rub it with a cloth, and cut in pieces about an inch long. To each pound of rhubarb allow one pound and a quarter of sugar. Put layers of them alternately in a deep dish ; let it stand twenty-four hours. Pour the liquor into a brass pan and boil it for half an hour; then add the rhubarb, and boil for half an hour longer; remove the scum, and put the jam into pots. Rhubarb Jelly. Take some rhubarb while young and tender; wipe it with a cloth, cut it in pieces; put it into a pan, with228 Jams and Jellies. as much water as will just cover the bottom of the pan. Put it on the stove, and simmer slowly until the whole is dissolved into a pulp; then strain through a jelly-bag; and to every pint of juice add one pound and a quarter of crushed loaf-sugar. A few pieces of whole ginger may be added. Boil the jelly sharply for about twenty minutes; skim it well, and put it into pots. Whortleberry Jam. Take the berries when ripe, put them into a brass pan; add the same weight of sugar, as much water as will cover the bottom of the pan; stir it on the fire until it boils; remove the scum as it rises. Boil for about fifteen minutes, and put it into pots. Red Currant Jelly. Gather the currants when they are dry; bruise them with the hand ; put them into a brass pan ; place it on the stove. Stir the berries until they are hot, then pour into a jelly-bag. When the juice has all run through, put it into a preserve-pan. To every pint of juice allow one pound of crushed loaf-sugar. Place the pan on the stove or clear fire ; stir it all the time ; remove the scum as it rises. Allow it to boil for about two minutes, then put it into pots, and finish as directed for peach jam. Apple Jelly. Slice up some green, juicy apples; place them in a preserve-pan; add as much cold water as will nearly cover them, also a few pieces of whole ginger. Place the pan on the stove and boil the apples to a mash;Jams and Jellies. 229 pour it into a jelly-bag; place a basin under the bag, and allow all the apple-juice to pass through the bag. Allow a pound of sugar to every pint of juice. Boil it for about fifteen minutes, skim it, and put it into pots. Orange Jelly. Take four dozen bitter and one dozen sweet oranges; cut them in thin slices; take out all the pips ; add enough cold water to cover them ; then boil till quite soft. Strain through a flannel bag. Add one pound of crushed loaf sugar to every pint of orange juice, and let it boil for about twenty minutes. Kemove the scum and put it into pots. Parsley Jelly. Take a basketful of tender parsley, and wash it in several waters. Place it in a brass pan ; add as much cold water as will nearly cover it. Boil it on the fire for about half an hour, and pour it into a jelly-bag. Ke- turn the juice into the bag a second time. To every pint of juice, add one pound of lump sugar; then boil it for twenty-five minutes. Kemove the scum, and put the jelly into pots. Orange Marmalade. Cut some bitter oranges in quarters; use a sharp knife to cut out the pulp and remove the pips. Put the fruit into a basin, and the quarters of peel into a pan containing water. Boil them until they are nearly soft to the touch. They must then be drained and put into cold water, and afterwards put on sieves to QJams and Jellies. 230 drip. They must then be cut up in shreds.. Then weigh the shred-peel and the interior fruit kept in reserve. And to every pound of prepared fruit allow one pound of crushed loaf sugar, and the grated rind and juice of two or more lemons. Put the whole into a pan, and boil for about twenty-five minutes. Skim it well, and put it into pots. Transparent Marmalade. Grate the rind of some bitter oranges; cut them in quarters; put the juice and pulp of the fruit into a basin. Pick out the pips and septa. Put the latter into a little cold water; then strain, and add to the liquor and pulp. Tie the rind in a piece of cloth, and boil it in water for ten minutes, and add to the pre- pared orange. To every pint of the orange allow one pound of crushed loaf sugar. Boil for about half an hour. Skim it well, and put it into pots.MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. Elderberry Wine. Boil five gallons of water for half an hour, and let it stand till lukewarm'. Mince roughly twenty-four pounds of Malaga raisins; add them to the water. Let it remain for ten days. Stir it twice a day. Then strain the liquor through a hair sieve. Have ready about six pints of the juice of elderberries, extracted as for jelly. Mix it cold with the raisin juice, and put it into a cask. Let it stand in a warm place. Tilt the cask a little, and stir the contents well up from the bottom once or twice a-day. Any sediment that the wine may contain will be cast off at the lower side of the bung-hole. A little liquor must be kept in readi- ness for filling up the cask as occasion may require during the process of fermentation, which may last for two or three weeks, according to the size of the cask. When the wine has ceased to hiss, the cask may be edged up until the bung-hole is level. Then cork it tight, and let it remain in a cool, dry place for three months. It may then be put into bottles, and kept for any length of time.Miscellaneous Recipes. 232 Mixed Fruit Wine. This wine can be made from a mixture of small fruits. These, when ripe, should be gathered dry, and put into an earthen jar, and well stirred and squeezed with the hand once or twice a-day, in order to dissolve the fruits. When the liquor rises in the vessel, it must be strained through a hair sieve and put into a cask. To every gallon of liquor, add about three pounds and a half of crushed loaf sugar. Tilt the cask a little. Allow it to ferment the same as elder- berry wine ; and to every gallon add about a pint and a half of malt whisky. Then cork it up tight. Let it remain in the cask for about six months, and then put it into bottles. Cork and seal them. Bramble Vinegar. Put the fruit in a jar and cover with vinegar; let it stand for two days and nights; then strain through a flannel bag, and boil the same as jelly, with sugar, for twenty minutes. Let it stand till cold enough not to break the bottles; cork when thoroughly cold. It is then ready for use. Raspberry or Strawberry Syrup. Put twelve pounds of fruit, quite dry and ripe, into a vessel; pour into it twelve quarts of cold water, previously acidulated with five ounces of tartaric acid. Let it stand twenty-four hours; then strain off the liquid, taking care not to bruise the fruit. To each pint of clear liquid add one pound of loaf-sugar, finely pounded. When the sugar is dissolved, bottle theMiscellaneous Recipes. 233 syrup ; cork, and tie down with twine; then dip the corks in melted resin, and keep in a cool place. This liquid may be made into solid shapes by adding an ounce of dissolved gelatine to a quart of syrup; then put into a mould, and, when firm, turn it out. The whole process must be done cold. Preserved Cherries. Take Morilla cherries before they are over-ripe; prick them all over with a pin, and put them on the fire in a preserve pan; cover them with a thin syrup; allow them to come gently to the boil. Remove them from the fire, and set aside in an earthenware dish. Next day, put them on again; add a little more sugar to the syrup, and just bring them to the boil. Repeat this process three or four times. The last time, take out the cherries, and boil the syrup till pretty thick ; when cold, pour it on the cherries. Put them into a stone jar, and tie down with bladder. Brandy Cherries. Cut ripe cherries off the tree; let them drop, as they are cut, into wide bottles—brandy being first put into the bottles. When the bottles are full, and the fruit well covered with brandy, either seal them or put bladder on them. Keep them thus for six weeks; then open the bottles and pour out the brandy; add to it pounded white sugar, and, when quite dissolved, pour it back again over the cherries. Two ounces of sugar to a pint of brandy is the proper proportion. The bottles must be corked and sealed, or tied down vrith bladder.Miscellaneous Recipes. 234 Bottled Gooseberries. Gather some gooseberries when dry and in their unripe state; put them into bottles, and fill np with syrup ; cork the bottles tight, and tie them down with string. Place the bottles in a stock-pot; add cold water in sufficient quantity to reach up to the necks of the bottles; place the pot on a slow fire or stove ; put the lid on it, and, as soon as the water comes to boiling point, remove the pot from the fire ; let the bottles remain until the water becomes cold. Any of the corks which, in the course of scalding, may have been thrown out or become loosened, must be replaced and tied down afresh; and the top of each bottle must be dipped in hot bottle-wax, and then put away in a cold cellar, or buried in the earth. Preserved Cucumbers. Take some nice cucumbers, and put them in water with salt for one night. Next day, place them by the sixle of the fire, in the same brine ; cover them with vine leaves until they turn yellow; then wTash them in cold water; put them into a pan with fresh water and a small piece of alum ; cover with vine leaves, and simmer over a slow fire for a few minutes until they turn a nice green colour. Remove them from the pan and drip them on a sieve ; then cut them into six-inch lengths; scoop out all the seeds, put pieces of whole ginger into the insides of the pieces of cucumber, and tie it in with tape ; then boil in syrup for about fifteen minutes, or until the cucumbers are soft; then remove the pan from the fire. When cold, put the cucumbersMiscellaneous Recipes. 235 into a jar; boil the syrup with a little more sugar until pretty thick; when cold, pour it over the cucumbers. They must be completely covered with the syrup, and the top of the jar tied down with bladder. When about to dish the cucumbers, cut the tape and remove the ginger ; pour a little of the syrup over them. Bottled Currants. Gather the currants in dry weather; put them into clean, dry bottles; fill up with syrup; cork and tie down, as directed for gooseberries; place the bottles in a deep pot with cold water; put on the stove. When nearly boiling, remove the pot from the stove; when the water is cold, finish the bottles as directed for gooseberries. Bottle-wax must be melted with bees’-wax in the proportion of one ounce of bees’-wax to one pound of bottle-wax. Pickled Cauliflower. Cut the cauliflowers in small sprigs ; soak them in water with salt for one night; then boil in milk and water for four minutes. Lift them gently on a sieve and let them become cold. Boil them a second time, the same length of time and in the same manner. Re- move them carefully from the pan, and place them upon sieves to drip. Put them into jars or bottles; pour boiling vinegar, with mace and white pepper-corns over the cauliflowers. Cover tightly to exclude air. Small white onions may be done in the same manner.Miscellaneous Recipes. 236 Pickled Red Cabbages. Slice the cabbages into a colander, and sprinkle each layer with salt. Allow it to drain for two days ; then put it into a jar, and pour in boiling vinegar enough to cover the whole. Cover the top of the jar with bladder. Mushroom Catsup. Gather mushrooms when dry; break them into bits, and put them into a dish. Sprinkle each layer with salt. Let them remain for two days ; stir occasionally; strain the liquid through a hair sieve, and put it into a pan. Add mixed spices, the beat whites of two or more eggs. Boil for about five minutes ; then strain it through a napkin into a basin. When cold, put it into bottles; cork and seal them, and keep in a dry place. Cream Cheese. Place a piece of linen inside a round basin; pour therein about two quarts of thick sweet cream ; gather up the edges of the cloth, and tie with twine close to the cream; suspend it upon a hook or nail; place a basin under it to receive the thin cream as it passes through the linen cloth. When the cream ceases to run remove the twine nearer to the cream; then let it drip for twenty-four hours. Turn it upside down, and place a heavy weight on the top, with nettles under and over the cheese. And when about to serve remove the cloth; place the cheese upon its dish; garnish round the base with small nettle leaves, and serve with oatmeal cakes or hard biscuits.Miscellaneous Recipes. 237 Preserved Eggs. Get new-laid eggs while warm, and rub them all over with a cloth soaked in butter; then take a box or barrel, and put a lair of salt into it. Lay the eggs among the salt, and cover them over with it to exclude the air, and keep in a dry place. To Sponge Black Silk. Put a teacupful of whisky into a basin; add a table- spoonful of black soap, and a teaspoonful of honey. Mix well. Dip a sponge into the mixture, and rub on each side of the silk. Then dip the silk in two clean waters. Hang it on a screen to drip. When half dry, iron it on the inside. To Clean Hair Brushes. Spread a double sheet of newspaper upon a table, and place thereon two handfuls of flour. Take two brushes, and dip them into the flour. Bub the two together, and then shake out the soiled flour. Dip them again, and go on rubbing and dipping until they are clean. Eub them with a cloth. Brushes cleaned in this manner do not get soft. Wash for the Hair, Dissolve one ounce of borax and half an ounce of camphor in a pint of boiling water. When cold, dip a sponge or piece of flannel into the wash and rub it to the roots of the hair. Brush well afterwards.238 Miscellaneous Recipes. Pomade for the Hair. Take one pint of salad oil, three ounces spermaceti, six drams bergamot, one dram palm oil, and four drops otto of roses. Mix these together in a basin ; dissolve before the fire, and put it into pots. Gold-Coloured Ink. Eight ounces of water, one ounce of pale bronze, one ounce of gum-arabic, one dram of ox-gall, and one dram of honey. Mix them all well together. Put into a bottle, and shake frequently until dissolved.INDEX SOUPS. Soup made from Dried Turtle, Tomato Soup, . Venison Soup, .... Heron Soup, .... Clear Brown Soup, . Almond Soup, .... Spring Soup, .... Macaroni Soup, Ox-Tail Soup, Clear Mock Turtle Soup, Thick Mock Turtle Soup, Grouse Soup, Clear, Grouse Soup, Thick, Potato Soup, .... Kidney Soup, .... Celery and Button-Onion Soup, Giblet Soup, Clear, Giblet Soup, Thick, Hare Soup, Thick, . Hai'e Soup, Clear, Mulligatawney Soup, Mulligatawney Soup, Clear, Chestnut Soup, Vegetable Marrow Soup, White Stock, .... Duchess Soup, .... Bich White Soup, Palestine Soup, Victoria Soup, Cocky-Leeky, .... Hodge-Podge, .... Green Pea Soup, Common Pea Soup, Oyster Soup, .... Lobster Soup, .... Crab Soup, .... Eel Soup, . FISH. Boiled Salmon, Grilled Salmon, Fillets of .Salmon, a l’lndienne, Fillets of Salmon, a la Bavigotte, Salmon, Au Gratin, Salmon Cadgerre, Trout, . . . Turbot, Plain Boiled, Turbot with Cream, Au Gratin, Page Fillets of Turbot, ... 27 Brill, . . . . . 27 John Dory, .... 27 Sturgeon, a la Cardinal, . . 28 Sturgeon, Grilled, withPiquante Sauce, . w . . 28 Cod, with Brown Oyster Sauce, 28 Crimped Cod, with Oyster Sauce, 29 Cod, a l’lndienne, ... 29 Plain Boiled Bice for Curries, 29 Grilled Haddock, ... 30 Fillets of Haddock, ... 30 Baked Haddock, ... 30 Soles, Boiled, .... 31 Soles, Fried, .... 31 Stuffed Soles, .... 31 Fillets of Sole, ... 31 Fillets of Sole, Fried, . . 32 Fillets of Sole, a la Tartar, . 32 Fillets of Gurnet, ... 32 Boiled Gurnet, .... 33 Boiled Mackeral, . . . 33 Grilled Mackeral, ... 33 Mackeral, Filleted, ... 33 Bed Mullets, Stewed, . . 33 Bed Mullets, Grilled, . . 34 Bed Mullets, with Herbs, . 34 Whitings, Boiled, ... 34 Whitings, Fried, ... 34 Whitings, Fried a la Francaise, 34 Fried Smelts, .... 35 Baked Smelts, ... 35 Eels, Fried, .... 35 Eel Pie, 35 Baked Pike, .... 36 Souchet of Pike, ... 36 Perch, 37 Pouns, Boiled, ... 37 Pouns, Fried, .... 37 Skate, Crimped, ... 37 Crimped Skate, with Brown Butter Sauce, ... 38 White-Bait, .... 38 Potted Herrings, ... 38 To Dress Fresh Herrings, . 38 Scolloped Oysters, ... 39 Scolloped Mussels, ... 39 Scolloped Cockles, ... 39 Page 5 6 6 7 8 9 9 10 10 10 11 12 12 13 13 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 17 18 18 18 19 19 20 20 20 21 21 22 22 23 24 24 25 25 25 26 26 26 27Index. 240 PAGE SAUCES. Plain Butter Sauce, . . 40 White Bechamel Sauce, . . 40 Cream Bechamel Sauce, . . 41 White Sauce, .... 41 Brown Butter Sauce, . . 41 Cardinal Sauce, ... 41 Genoese Sauce, . . . 41 Tomato Sauce, ... 42 Brown Caper Sauce, . . 42 White Caper Sauce, . . 42 Piquant Sauce, ... 42 Italian Sauce, . . . . 43 Maitre D’Hotel Sauce, . . 43 Ravigotte Sauce, ... 43 Reform Sauce, ... 44 Robert Sauce, .... 44 Lobster Sauce, . . . 44 Indian Sauce, .... 45 Shrimp Sauce, ... 45 Mussel Sauce, ... 45 Anchovy Sauce, . . . 45 White Oyster Sauce, . . 45 Brown Oyster Sauce, . . 40 Egg Sauce, .... 40 Parsley Sauce, ... 40 The Prince of Wales’ Sauce, . 46 Dutch Sauce, . . . . 47 Clear Tarragon Sauce, . . 47 Mayonaise Sauce, ... 47 Soubise Sauce, ... 48 Cardinal Sauce, ... 48 Mustard Sauce, ... 48 Bread Sauce, .... 48 Matelotte Sauce, ... 49 St Clair Sauce, ... 49 Sauce for Trout, . . . 49 Green Gooseberry Sauce, . 49 Fennel Sauce, ... 50 Port Wine Sauce for Wild Ducks, 50 Allemande Sauce, ... 50 Brone Sauce, .... 51 Salmis Sauce, .... 51 Mushroom Sauce, ... 51 Sauce for Boiled Fowls, . . 51 Horse-radish Sauce, . . -51 Celery Sauce, ... 52 Shallot Gravy, ... 52 Russian Sauce, ... 52 Mint Sauce, .... 53 Apple Sauce, .... 53 FISH ENTREES. Puff-Paste for Patties, . . 53 Page Oyster Patties, ... 56 Frittered 0j7sters, ... 56 Curried Oysters, ... 57 Oyster Cutlets, ... 57 Oyster Croquets, ... 57 Scolloped Oysters, ... 58 Scolloped Mussels, ... 58 Scolloped Lobster, ... 59 Lobster Croquets, ... 59 Lobster Loaf, .... 60 Lobster Cutlets, ... 61 Bouches of Lobster, . . 61 MEAT ENTREES. Fillets of Beef, ... 63 Beef Olives, .... 63 Rolled Beef Collops, . . 64 Fillets of Beef, with Mushroom Sauce, .... 64 Ox Palates, Brazed, . . 65 Ox Palates, Stuffed, . . 65 Ox Palates, Curried, . . 66 Veal Cutlets, .... 66 Veal Cutlets, a la Financiere, 67 Veal Frincandelles, . . 67 Veal Sweetbreads, with White Mushroom Sauce, . . 68 Sweetbreads Larded with Truffles, .... 68 Sweetbreads with White Sauce, 68 Sweetbreads, a la Toulouse, . 69 To Dress Sweetbreads Plain, . 69 Cutlet, a la Jardiniere, . . 69 Mutton or Lamb Cutlets, with Tomato Sauce, . . 70 To Prepare a Macedoine of Vegetables, . . . 70 Reform Chips, ... 71 Mutton Cutlets, a la Reforme, . 71 Soubise Cutlets, . . . 71 Mutton Cutlets, a la Vicomtesse, 72 Fillets of Mutton, Stewed, . 73 Tendons of Veal, ... 73 Curried Tendons of Veal, . 74 Fillets of Chicken, Frittered, . 74 Frying Batter, . . . 75 Cream of Chicken, . . . 75 Cream of Rabbit, . . . 76 Quenelles of Chicken. . . 76 Quenelles made from Cold Roast Fowl, .... 77 White Sauce for above, . . 77 Cushions of Chicken, . . 77 | Petite Chard Rabbit, . . 78241 Index. PAGE Dry Curry, . . . . 78 Chicken or Partridge, a la St Clair, .... 79 Creme de Volaille, ... 79 Roman Pie, . . . . 79 Game Quenelle, ... 80 Dutch Frieandean, . . . 80 Force Meat, .... 80 Eissoles, 81 Curried Chicken, ... 81 Fricassee of Chicken, . . 82 Fillets of Fowl, with Asparagus Peas, .... 82 Italian Pigeon Stew, . . 83 Salmis of Gi'ouse, ... 83 Grouse Cutlets, Glengarry, . 84 Bonnes-Bouches, ... 84 Vol-au-vent, a la Financiere, . 85 Financiere Sauce, ... 85 Calf’s Brains in Cases, A u Gratin, .... 86 Calf Feet, Fried, ... 87 Indian Pilau, .... 87 Croquets of Macaroni, . . 87 Russian Kromeskys, . . 88 Ringlets, 88 Rissoles, 89 Croquets, . . . . 89 POULTRY". To Roast a Turkey, . . 91 Plain Stuffing, ... 92 Chestnut Stuffing for Brazed Turkey, . ... 92 Boiled Turkey, ... 92 Brazed Turkey, ... 92 Boiled Turkey, a la Yorkshire, 93 To Boil Fowls, ... 94 To Roast a Fowl, ... 94 To Roast Chickens, . . 94 Chickens and Tongue, a la Macedoine, ... 95 Boiled Capon, .... 95 Capon, Brazed, ... 95 To Roast a Goose, ... 96 Brazed Goose, aHa Jardiniere, 96 Brazed Swan, .... 97 Stewed Duck, with Green Peas, 97 Pigeons for a Remove, . . 98 Turkey Stew, .... 98 BEEFS. Roast Sirloin of Beef, . . 99 Roast Ribs of Beef, . . 99 Page How to make Yorkshire Pudding, 100 Boiled Round of Beef, . 100 Boiled Aich-Bone of Beef, . 101 Spiced Beef, .... 101 Pressed Beef, . . . .101 Beef Steaks, . . . .102 Minced Collops, . . . 103 Ox Tongue, .... 103 How to Make Glaze, . . 103 How to Cook Tripe, . . 104 Fried Tripe, .... 104 TEAL. Roast Fillet of Yeal, . . 105 Loin of Veal, Brazed, . . 105 Roast Loin of Veal, . . 106 Loin of Veal, a la Creme, . 107 MUTTON. To Roast a Saddle of Mutton, 108 To Roast a Gigot of Mutton, . 108 Boiled Leg of Mutton, . . 108 Brazed Leg of Mutton, . . 109 Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton, . 109 Mutton Haricot, . . . 110 Irish Stew, . . . .110 Scotch Haggis, . . .110 Broiled Kidneys, . , .111 LAMB. Roast Forequarter of Lamb, . 112 Boiled Leg of Lamb, . . 112 Saddle of Lamb, Brazed, . 112 Shoulder of Lamb, Grilled, . 113 PORK. Roast Leg of Pork, . . 114 Boiled Leg of Pork, . . 114 To Roast a Loin of Pork, . 115 To Roast Sucking Pig, . . 115 Spare Ribs of Pork, . . 115 How to make Brone, . . 116 Pork Sausages, . . . 116 To Cui-e Hams, as in Ireland, 117 VENISON. Roast Haunch of Venison, . 118 Venison Chops, . . . 119 Cutlets of Venison, . . . 119 Haricot of Venison, . . 119 Heart of Red Deer, Roasted, . 120 Venison Liver, Fried, . . 120 Venison Puddings, . . 121Index. 242 PIES. Venison Pasty, . . Beef-steak Pie, Veal and Ham Pie, . Sheep-head Pie, Pigeon Pie, .... Grouse Pie, .... Lark Pie, .... Blackbird Pie, Giblet Pie, .... Hare Pie, .... Babbit Pie, .... Beef-steak Pudding, Mutton Pudding, Kidney Pudding, Small Mutton Pies, Shepherd’s Pie, VEGETABLES. To Boil Cardoon, To Cook Tomatoes, To Boil Globe Artichokes, Salsify, White Beans, .... Cauliflowers, .... To Dress Jerusalem Artichokes, American Yams Vegetable Marrow, To Boil Young Turnips, Young Carrots, To Boil Sea-Kale, . Onions, with White Sauce, Celery, with Brown Sauce, To Boil Cabbages, . . . To Dress Beet-Boot, To Boil Spinach, To Boil Asparagus, To Boil Green Peas, GAME. To Boast a Pheasant, Potato Bibands, To Boast Grouse and Black Game, .... To Boast Guinea-Fowl, . Woodcock and Snipe, Boast Larks, .... Pea-Hens, . . . . Green Goose, .... Wild Duck, .... Boast Partridges, How to Boast Quails, Boast Pigeons, Boast Hare, . Page . 140 Stuffing for Hares, . . 141 Boast Babbits, . 141 SALADS. Aspic Jelly, for Salads, . 143 Oyster Salad, , 144 Salmon Salad, 145 Genoese Salad, 145 Bobert Salad, . 145 Lobster Salad, 146 Mayonaise of Chicken, 147 Galantine of Poularde, 148 Galantine of Poularde, with Cream Bechamel Sauce, 148 Pheasant Salad, , , 149 Grouse Salad, , 149 Bussian Salad, 119 Salad, a la Bachel, , , 150 Cucumber Salad, . , 150 Spanish Salad, , 150 Potato Salad, , 151 Beet-root Salad, 151 SANDWICHES, Fish Sandwiches, , 152 The Prince’s Sandwich, . 152 Irish Sandwiches, , 153 Adelaide Sandwiches, , 153 Egg Sandwiches, , , 153 Victoria Sandwiches, 154 SUNDBY PBEPABATIONS, Potted Lobster, 155 Potted Fowl and Ham, , 155 Potted Pheasant, 155 Potted Spiced Beef, 156 To Clarify Butter, , 156 To Fry Parsley, , 157 Spinach Greening, . 157 SAVOUBIES. Savoury Eggs, 158 Boasted Oysters, , , 158 Black Puddings, , 159 Oyster Toasts, , , 159 Marrow Toast, , 159 Ham Toast, , 360 Tomato Cheese, , 160 Savoury Omelette, , 160 Cheese Omelette, 161 Cheese Pudding, , 161 Page 122 122 123 128 124 124 124 125 125 126 126 126 127 128 128 129 130 130 130 131 131 131 131 182 132 182 132 133 133 133 134 134 134 134 135 136 137 137 137 137 138 138 139 139 139 140 140Index. 243 Canapees of Anchovy, , , Cream Cheese Fritters, . Macaroni Cheese, , , Cheese Souffle, Cheese Ramakins, , Cheese Fritters, , Cheese Straws, , , , Very Rich Cheese Straws, Cauliflowers, with Parmesan Cheese, , , , , Large Truffles, , , , Souffle Potatoes, , PUDDINGS, Paradise Pudding, , , Pompeiian Pudding, , Fig Pudding, , Northumberland Pudding, Eve’s Pudding, , Prince of Wales’ Pudding, Russian Pudding, , Spanish Pudding, , Raspin Pudding, , Cups Pudding, , Cocoa-nut Pudding, Chestnut Pudding, , , Sauce for above, Caramel Pudding, , Carrot Pudding, , Marmalade Pudding, , Lemon Pudding, Wine Sauce for above, Lemon Pudding, Baked, , Orange Tart, , , , Mince Pies, , , Plum Pudding, , Sauce for above, , Cabinet Pudding, , College Puddings, . Custard Pudding, Bread and Butter Pudding, La Perde Pudding, Jam Roll, , , German Puffs, , , Duchess Loaves, Cheese-cakes, , Almond Cheese-cakes, , Conservative Pudding, , Whip Sauce for above, , Transparent Pudding, Potato Pudding, Tapioca Pudding, Pancakes, , , Sweet Omelette, Page 179 Semolina Pudding, , 180 Louis Phillipe’s Pudding, 180 Crystal Palace Pudding, 181 Pudding of Cream, . 181 Fruit Beverage, , 182 Strawberry Souffle, , 182 Potato Souffle, 182 Fruit Souffle, , , 183 Souffle of Oranges, 183 Apple Chax’lotte, , , 184 Apple Fritters, , 184 Orange Fritters, , , 185 Apple Shape, , , . 185 Apple Tart, , , , 186 Shape of Rice, 186 Shape of Sea Moss Farina, 187 Devonshire Cream, 187 Stewed Prunes, 187 Shape of Rhubarb, . 188 Shape of Green Gooseberries, 188 Russian Charlotte, . 188 Devonshire Junket, 189 General Satisfaction Pudding, 189 Apple Marmalade, . 190 Meringues, 190 Icing for Cakes, 191 Compote of Apples, 191 Syrup for above, 191 Compote of Apricots, 192 Compote of Chestnuts, 192 Compote of Cherries, 192 Compote of Peaches, 193 JELLIES. Calf’s Feet Jelly, . 194 AYine Jelly, . 195 Champagne Jelly, . 195 Claret J elly, . 196 Russian Jelly, . . 196 Maraschino Jelly, . 196 To Clarify Gelatine, . 197 Rum J elly. . 197 Clear Orange Jelly, . 197 Oranges filled with Jelly, . 198 Lemon Jelly, . . 198 Cherry Jelly, . . 199 Strawberry Jelly, . 199 Grape J elly, . 199 Lemon Sponge, , 199 CREAMS. Velvet Cream, . 200 Pace 162 162 162 163 168 164 164 164 164 165 165 166 166 167 167 167 168 168 168 169 169 169 170 170 170 171 171 171 171 171 172 172 173 173 174 174 174 175 175 175 176 176 177 177 178 178 178 178 179 179244 Index. Peach Cream, Apricot Cream, Raspberry Cream, Orange Cream, Coffee Cream, ... . Chocolate Cream, Italian Cream, . . Blanc Mange, .... Blanc Mange, with Jelly, Custard, in Cups, ICES, Arrowroot Pudding, Iced, Custard Pudding, Iced, , Iced Souffle, .... Cream Souffle, Iced, Iced Coffee, .... Coffee Cream Ice, Chocolate Cream Ice, Brown Bread Ice, Raspberry Cream Ice, Grape Water Ice, , Cherry Water Ice, . Easpberry Water Ice, Orange Water Ice, . Lemon Water Ice, . Pine-Apple Water Ice, CAKES AND BISCUITS. Plum Cake, .... Seed Cake, Benekerry Cake, Diet Loaves, .... Savoy Cake, .... Eice Cake, . . . . Phantasy Cake, Madeira Cake, Sultana Cake, .... Petticoat Tails, Vinegar Cake, Snow Cake, .... Scotch Bun, .... Patent Flour, .... Soda Cake, .... Arrowroot Cake, Sponge Cake, . . Large Sponge Cake, Small Sponge Cakes, Gingerbread Cake, Plain Gingerbread, Plain Shortbread, , Small Rice Cakes, . Page 219 Passion Biscuits, 220 Arrowroot Biscuits, 220 Dean of Ripon’s Biscuits, 221 Queen Drops, . 221 Chocolate Biscuits, . 221 Ratafia Biscuits, 222 Ginger Biscuits, 222 Ginger Nuts, . 222 Ginger Cream Biscuits, . 223 Orange Biscuits, 223 JAMS AND JELLIES. Peach Jam, .... 225 Apricot Jam, 225 Cherry Jam, 225 Green Gage (Plum) Jam,. 226 Gooseberry Jam, 226 Black Currant Jam, 226 Raspberry J am, 227 Strawberry Jam, 227 Rhubarb Jam, , 227 Rhubarb Jelly, 227 Whortleberry Jam, 228 Red Currant Jelly, . 228 Apple Jelly, 228 Orange Jelly, . , 229 Parsley Jelly, . 229 Orange Marmalade, 229 Transparent Marmalade, 230 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. Elderberry Wine, 231 Mixed Fruit Wine, 232 Bramble Vinegar, 232 Raspberry or Strawberry Syrup, 232 Preserved Cherries, 233 Brandy Cherries, , 233 Bottled Gooseberries, 234 Preserved Cucumbers, 234 Bottled Currants, 235 Pickled Cauliflower, 235 Pickled Red Cabbages, 236 Mushroom Catsup, , 236 Cream Cheese, 236 Preserved Eggs, 237 To Sponge Black Silk, 237 To Clean Hair Brushes, 237 Wash for the Hair, . 237 Pomade for the Hair, 238 Gold-Coloured Ink,. 238 Page 200 200 201 201 202 202 202 202 203 203 204 205 205 205 206 206 207 207 207 207 208 208 208 208 209 210 210 211 211 212 212 213 213 214 214 214 215 215 216 216 216 217 217 217 218 218 219 ■ DUNN AND WRIGHT, PRINTERS, GLASGOW.