THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: (DO&fif f[ m 0106 01 04 5977* ,»» sDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21527209A LESSON IN COOKERY.189 4 <Jt (iHorlv of plant practical eHtilitp CHAMBER S’S COOKERY FOR YOUNG HOUSEWIVES EDITED BY ANNIE M. GRIGGS FIRST-CLASS DIPLOMEE SOUTH KENSINGTON SCHOOL OF COOKERY; AND DEMONSTRATOR, ETC. PRACTICAL SCHOOL OF COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING, EDINBURGH W. & R. CHAMBERS, Limited LONDON AND EDINBURGHPREFACE. The present work is designed entirely with a view to practical utility, for the use of young Housewives who study simplicity and economy in the preparation of food, and who require explicit directions for their guidance. Care has been taken to exclude costly dishes, and the use of expensive materials, or those which cannot easily be procured. The book is a Manned of plain directions to be used in the kitchens of the middle or less affluent classes; the endeavour being to show how tasteful and nutritious dishes may be prepared at little expense, in order to render home happy and attractive. UNIVERSITY LIBRARY LEEDSCHAMBERS’S COOKERY COOKERY. OOKERY is an. art upon which so much of our daily comfort and health depends, that it is of the highest importance that it be Avell done. Every housewife may not be able to procure the finest kinds of food, hut every one has it in her power to make the most of that which she By a certain degree of skill and attention, very may be dressed in such a manner that it will the more expensive dishes, both in savouriness housewife suffers nothing to he which a careless individual proper use, and by to table in a to a a brought can procure, humble fare almost rival and nutritiousness. A lost or spoiled. Merc scraps, would perhaps throw away, are put means of certain auxiliary seasonin new and attractive guise. Even if little or nothing be absolutely saved by these economical arrangements, the dressing of food in a tasteful manner is a point of some importance. When a dish has a slovenly appearance, is smoked, underdone, or prepared with rancid or unclean seasoning, both the eye and the palate arc offended, independently of the injury which may possibly be done to the stomach of the eater. In every respect, therefore, it is consistent with good judgment to prepare food for the table in the most tasteful and agreeable manner.6 COOKERY. One of the chief points to he attended to in cookery is cleanliness—scrupulous cleanliness in every department of the business of the kitchen. The hands of the cook, in particular, should be always clean—that is, washed every time after doing any kind of work which has soiled them, or before proceeding to handle meat for dressing. She should also be careful to have her hair always neatly trimmed up, so that no loose hairs may drop into the dishes. The next point is to keep all the saucepans and lids and other utensils perfectly clean inside and out; carefully washing with hot water, and scouring when necessary. If the cooking utensils are not kept thoroughly clean, they will be very apt to taint the food prepared in them, and will certainly detract from the agreeable taste of the dishes. It is the duty of every house- wife to see that these and all other rules affecting the clean- liness of the kitchen are attended to by servants, for she is understood to be responsible both for the wholesomencss and the tidy appearance of the dishes presented at table. Another essential point in cookery is attention. Many persons think they have done all that is necessary, when they have fairly started any particular process in cooking. They seem to imagine that they may safely leave a roast to roast by itself, or leave a pot with soup or broth to boil by itself, and that they have only to go back to the fire at a certain time, when they will find the food ready for dishing. Now, this kind of inattention is certain to spoil the best meat ever put to a fire. Some processes require much less attention than others, but none can be properly performed if left long to itself. A good cook is pretty frequent in her visits to the fire, to see how the operation of dressing is going on, and to seize the proper moment in giving her assistance. Perfection in the art of cookery is only attainable by lengthened experience, a careful study of the qualities of meats, and the application of sauces and seasonings. It is chiefly in knowing how to make and apply sauces that a cook shows her skill. We therefore recommend this branch of the art to very careful attention. The directions which are given under the head Sauces will convey sufficient information on the subject, and, along with a little practice and good taste, will enable the cook to impart the proper flavour to the dish she is preparing.7 MARKETING AND CHOICE OF MEAT. MARKETING AND CHOICE OF MEAT. A young and thriftily-disposed housewife "will, if possible, proceed to market herself, in order to lay in butcher-meat and other fresh provisions for her family. By this plan she will obtain two advantages—that of selecting the best pieces, and of getting them at the lowest price. If circumstances permit, it is advisable to purchase a whole week’s provisions at one time—at least the chief things which will be required during the ensuing eight days. We should recommend a house- wife to act upon a system in varying the kinds of meat which she buys, not only as they may be suitable to the seasons, but as calculated to promote the health of her family. It is of considerable consequence that food should be varied; sameness of diet will produce the most injurious effects, whatever be the quality of the food which is taken. Let the housewife, therefore, exercise a little ingenuity and judgment in her marketing expeditions, that she may present at table a succession of different descriptions of animal and vegetable food; as, for example, sometimes meat roasted, and sometimes boiled or stewed; sometimes fresh meat, and sometimes salted; sometimes butcher-meat, and sometimes fish; and so on, according to taste and other circumstances. It does not necessarily follow that, in thus varying the bill of fare, greater expense is incurred than if the same kind of articles were continually purchased. The best meat is moderately fat. If it be lean, or almost free from fat, it is an indication that the animal has been ill fed, and the meat will prove tough and tasteless. Avoid lean beef—it forms wretched fare, and will be dear at any price. The fat of good beef is slightly yelloAvish; the fat of good mutton is pure white. The flesh of both beef and mutton should be of a clear red colour. The mutton of blackfaccd sheep, or South-downs, is the most tender and sweet, and may be known by the shortness of the shank. Mutton is in per- fection at between four and five years, but is seldom to be had older than three years. Cow and bull beef are considerably inferior to ox beef. In choosing lamb, select that which has a delicate appear-MARKETING AND CHOICE OF MEAT. 8 ance and is perfectly fresh. Young veal has a dark and flabby look, and is tasteless when dressed. Yeal is best when the animal is between four and six months old. The flesh is then white and delicate, and firm in the fibre. Pork should be white and delicate like veal, and thin in the skin. Lamb, veal, pork, and all other young or white meat, should be fresh, and not bought long before being used. Powls, ducks, and other birds should be purchased young, and should all be firm and fleshy to the touch. The safest rule in choosing young feathered animals is to feel the breastbone, which should be soft and pliable like gristle. The age of game is of little consequence, as it is hung for a considerable length of time before dressing. All kinds of fish, except cod and turbot, should be pur- chased as fresh as possible. Freshness in all fish is indicated by stiffness in all parts of the body, a clear glittering appear- auce in the scales, and by the smell. The fish will have an offensive odour if it be in the least stale. Freshness of appearance in the eyes and gills is not to be trusted. It is very difficult to ascertain when eggs are perfectly fresh. There are different rules on the subject, but they are all liable to failure. One mode of judging is to hold the egg between the eye and the light of a candle, shading the eye with the hand; if the appearance is uniformly luminous, the egg is fresh ; if not, it is probably unfit for use. Butter may be easily selected by the taste and the smell; but in buying both eggs and butter, it is better, and will save much trouble, to deal only with a thoroughly reliable person. Good ham and bacon have a fresh savoury smell; the fat is white. If it be yellow, it will soon become rank and rusty. Flour for culinary purposes should be new and fresh. Old flour is liable to spoil and become full of animal life, in which condition it is unfit for use. The best kind of salt for the kitchen is that which is purchased in lumps, and cut down. This kind is less rank than the coarse scaly salt, and in England is not higher priced.CUTTING UP MEAT. 9 CUTTING UP MEAT. Butclier-meat is not cut up in the same manner in all parts of the country. There are two chief plans followed—the English and the Scotch—and consequently the pieces of meat in a carcase differ in number, size, and name in England and Scotland. This circumstance creates a certain degree of difficulty in giving directions for cooking; and to obviate this as much as possible, we subjoin the following drawings and explanations. These will assist a housewife in sending to market for what pieces of meat she requires. Eig. 1 represents a bullock marked for cutting up on the English plan. No. 1 is the loin or sirloin ; 2, the rump ; 3, the aitch or edge bone; 4, buttock; 5, hock; 6, thick flank; 7, thin flank; 8, fore-rib ; 9, middle-rib; 10, chuck- rib; 11, brisket; 12, leg of mutton piece; 13, clod, sticking, and neck pieces; 14, shin; and 15, the leg. From 1 to 7 is the hind-quarter, and from 8 to 15 is the fore-quarter. Nos. 1 and 2 on both sides, united, constitute what is called a baron of beef. Fig. 2 represents a bullock marked for cutting up on the Scotch plan. No. 1 is the sirloin or back sye ; 2, the hook bone; 3, buttock; 4, large round (3 and 4 together make the rump); 5, small round; 6, hough ; 7, thick flank; 8, thin flank; 9, nineholcs; 10 and 11, large and small runner; 12, spare or fore syc; 13, brisket; 14, shoulder Iyer; 15, nap or shin; 16, neck; and 17, the sticking piece.10 CUTTING UP MEAT. From 1 to 8 is the hind-quarter, and from 9 to 17 is the fore-quarter. According to the English plan, the meat is cut up more advantageously for roasting and broiling than by the Scotch plan. For instance, the rump and aitch bone, !Nros. 2 and 3 (fig. 1), are cut in such a manner that the meat affords a much better steak than when cut as in fig. 2. The Scotch plan, on the other hand, gives more pieces for boiling; Fig. 3.—English Plan. Fig. 4.—Scotch Plan. and thus each way seems suitable to the taste of the people who have respectively adopted them. Fig. 3 represents the English plan of cutting up mutton.11 CUTTING UP 51 EAT—KILLING FOWLS. No. 1, extending across and marked as a circle, is the shoulder; 2, is the scrag end of the neck; 3, breast; 4, loin; 5, leg; 6, best end of neck. The slanting line betwixt 4 and 5 is the division of the fore and hind quarter. Hie dotted line across the shoulder, shows where the neck is separated from the breast after the shoulder is off. Two loins united, form a saddle of mutton. Fig. 4 represents a side of mutton marked for cutting on the Scotch plan. No. 1 is the gigot, 2 the loin, and both together form the hind-quarter; 3 is the back-ribs, and 4 the breast, both forming the fore-quarter. Lamb is cut up in the same manner, when not sold in quarters. Yeal is usually cut up both in England and Scotland in a manner somewhat uniting the plans for cutting beef and mutton. A fillet, which is supposed to be the most elegant joint, is cut from the upper part of the hind-leg, being partly of the buttock and partly of the flank. The piece at the extremity of the loin is called the chump. KILLING FOWLS, &c. Fowls, rabbits, and some other animals, being sometimes purchased alive, and the beauty of their appearance when they are dressed depending in some measure on their being killed in a proper manner, it is necessary that a cook should learn how to kill them expeditiously and neatly. A turkey is killed by passing a small penknife into the mouth, and cutting it below the tongue, then passing the knife up through the head into the brain. After this, hang it up by the feet to let it bleed freely. All smaller fowls are killed by pulling and dislocating the neck at the head. In killing geese and ducks, commence by tying a string round the beak; then lix the wings by turning the pinions on the back to prevent fluttering. After this, make an incision or cut across the upper part of the neck, close to the head, and suspend by the feet, to bleed freely. A rabbit is killed by holding it by the hind-legs, letting the head hang downwards, and then giving it a smart blow with the edge of the hand behind the ears. All birds should be kept for a short time with their feathers on after being killed, and not drawn till they are to be used. Furred12 the Larder—keeping meat. animals should not be skinned till they are to be used, but should be paunched as soon as they are cold. THE LARDER—KEEPING MEAT. A larder should be cool and dry, with the outer air playing freely through it, and be placed in the shade. It should also be impervious to vermin or insects, particularly flies. Two or three shelves, a few strong iron hooks for hanging the meat, and some wire-covers for cold meat, arc the only furniture required. Beet and mutton are always improved by hanging some time after being killed before they are cooked. The length of time which they may be kept, depends on the state of the weather. When the atmosphere is cool, clear, and dry, beef and mutton should hang from four to ten days—mutton, if well managed, may hang a fortnight, or even three weeks. A moist thick atmosphere is the worst for keeping meat; under these circumstances great care must be taken with the contents of the larder. The meat should be wiped daily with a cloth, to free it as much as possible from the moisture that gathers upon it when kept for many days. In all cases, fresh meat should hang from a hook, and not be laid on a plate. Should meat contract mustiness by keeping, it may sometimes be restored by washing in vinegar or camomile tea. When in danger of becoming tainted, it may lie preserved by being partially boiled or roasted. Frozen meat should be thawed very gradually by being placed hi the kitchen for some hours before it is cooked. In most instances, fresh meat is cooked too soon after being killed, a circumstance perhaps arising from the general want of proper larders, and the dread of the meat being spoiled. The consequence is, that, instead of being tender and palatable, the meat is tough and disagreeable, and not so nutritious or so easily digested as it ought to be. While beef and mutton may, with great propriety, be kept some days to become tender, veal, lamb, and pork (being young or white meat), cannot be kept more than a day, or two days at the utmost. Game may be kept for two or three weeks, that which is feathered being kept with the feathers on, and hares being paunchcd. All kinds of fish, exceptTHE LARDER—KEEPING MEAT. 13 cod and turbot, arc best when cooked as soon after being caught as possible. A fowl will keep a week, and a turkey a fortnight. A goose will not keep above nine or ten days. Great care should be taken in picking feathered animals which have been kept, for their skin will in such a case be easily torn. Keeping cold Meat.—When newly-cooked meat is brought from table, and has to be set aside for after-use, put it on a clean dry dish, place it in the larder, and cover it with a wire cover; if any liquor or gravy be left about it, the meat is apt to become sour. Cold meat is always best when it has not been cut while warm, as in that case the juices have not run out, but remain to enrich the meat. Vegetables.—Vegetables of all kinds should be used as soon after being gathered as possible. They begin to ferment, and to lose both their flavour and wholesomeness, very shortly after being taken from the ground. When they have necessarily to be kept for a day or two, place them in a perfectly dry, dark, and cool situation, but not exposed to currents of wind. Keep also each kind of vegetable separate from another, to prevent contamination of flavour. They should never be washed or placed in water till immediately before being used. The vegetables in most common use are potatoes, cabbages or greens, turnips of a small size, carrots, and onions—which are to be procured nearly all the year round; also cauliflower, broccoli, green peas, leeks, rhubarb, French beans, parsnips, horse-radish, seakale, celery, lettuce or salads, spinach, aspara- gus, and parsley—which are to be had only in particular seasons. Turnips and carrots may be kept for several weeks after being pulled, by putting them in a box filled with dry sand. There is a class of vegetables called sweet herbs, which are used for seasoning certain dishes or preparations. The most common, and the best, are .mint, thyme, knotted marjoram, winter savory, and sage. If these be purchased fresh and green, they may be dried for future use, by being hung up in bunches in a dry situation.COOKING AND KITCHEN APPARATUS. 14 COOKING AND KITCHEN APPARATUS. Kitchen Eange.—The most important part of the cooking apparatus is the range or grate. In general, too little care is bestowed by young persons, when setting up housekeeping, on the choice of this article. The size of the range should be in proportion to the size of the kitchen and of the household. The close range lias almost entirely superseded the old- fashioned open one, and the kind in most general use has the fireplace in the centre, with an oven at either side, a high-pressure boiler being fitted at the back. Sauce and Stew-pans.—The choice of these vessels will depend on the requirements and judgment of the purchaser. Those generally used for ordinary cooking are made of iron, well tinned inside, and may be had of all sizes. It is con- venient to have one or two of the very smallest dimensions, made of block-tin, and also a few enamelled pans for delicate stews, &c. It is well also to have a few shallow saucepans, to be used for stews, or where only a small quantity of liquid is required. The following is a ‘list of utensils necessary in furnishing an ordinary middle-class kitchen : 1 clock. 1 kitchen table. 3 kitchen chairs. 4 iron stew-pans (assorted). 4 iron saucepans (assorted). 4 enamelled iron saucepans (assorted). 1 fish-kettle with drainer. 1 preserving pan. 1 gridiron. 1 frying-pan. 1 omelet-pan. 1 steamer. 1 large pot for stock. 2 kettles (one large, one small). 3 pot-rests. 1 baking-tin and stand for meat. 1 Yorkshire pudding-tin. 3 flat baking-tins. 3 cake-tins (assorted). 12 patty-pans. 2 jelly-moulds. 1 casserole-mould. 1 colander. 2 strainers (one flat, one pointed). 2 hair sieves. 2 wire sieves. 1 tin bowl. 2 dredgers (flour and sugar). 1 pint measure. 1 half-pint measure. 1 gill measure. 1 set skewers. 1 pair fish scissors. 1 paste-board. 1 rolling-pin. 2 round paste cutters. 2 oval paste cutters. 1 chopping-board. 1 chopper. 1 mincing-knife, | 1 meat-saw.COOKING AND KITCHEN APPAUATUS. 15 1 cook’s knife. 4 kitchen knives. 1 onion knife. 1 potato knife. 1 steel. 1 meat fork. 4 kitchen forks. 1 perforated spoon. 2 iron spoons. 4 wooden spoons. 2 table-spoons. 2 dessert-spoons. 2 teaspoons. 1 soup-lifter. 1 fish-slice. 1 egg-whisk. 1 pastry-brush. 1 toasting-fork. 1 tin-opener. 1 cork-screw. 6 disli-covers (assorted). 1 salt-box. 1 pepper-box. 1 spice-box. 1 grater. 1 girdle. 1 tea-caddy. 1 coffee-tin. 3 trays (assorted). 1 knife-box. 8 bowls (assorted). 2 rimmed bowls. 2 brown pans for stock. 8 dishes (assorted); 4 pie-dishes (assorted). 2 milk-dishes. 1 bread-pan. 1 butter-crock. 1 flour-tub. 6 jars with lids for groceries. 4 jugs ( assorted). 6 large plates. 6 small plates. 1 tea-pot. 1 coffee-pot. 4 cups. 4 saucers. 2 egg-cups. 2 tumblers. | 1 roller fixed on door. 1 pail. 1 tub for washing-up. 1 broom. 1 short brush. 1 dust-pan. 1 scrubbing-brush. 3 black-lead brushes. 1 pot-range. 1 shovel. 1 hammer. 1 large tub for refuse. 2 flat-irons. 1 poker. 1 pair of tongs. 1 coal-scuttle. 1 meat-screen. 1 bottle-jack with hooks, &c. 3 roller towels. 12 kitchen towels. 6 dusters. 3 dish-cloths. 2 washing-flannels. 4 pudding-cloths. 2 jelly-cloths. 6 fish-napkins. Scales and weights. The following are tables of the principal weights and measures, accord- ing to the imperial standard, now in use in all parts of the United Kingdom: WEIGHTS. 1 Ounce. 16 n 1 Pound. 224 „ 14 ii 1 Stone. 448 „ 28 ii 2 ii 1 Qr. 1792 „ 112 ii 8 n 4 M 1 Cwt. 35840 „ 2240 .. 1G0 „ 80 „ 20 „ 1 Ton 1 peck = 14 lb. 1 bushel = 56 ii 1 boll = 140 „ 1 sack = 280 n or 2h cwt.16 MEASURES—ORNAMENTING DISHES—ROASTING MEAT. MEASURES FOR LIQUIDS, ALSO CORN AND OTHER DRY GOODS. 1 Gill. 4 tr 1 Pint. 8 „ 2 II 1 Quart. 32 „ 8 „ 4 II 1 Gal. 64 M 16 „ 8 II 2 n 1 Peck. 256 n 64 „ 32 II 8 n 4 ,i 1 Bushel. 2048 „ 512 ii 256 ii 64 ii 32 M 8 M 1 Quarter The peck, bushel, and quarter are used for dry goods only. In Scotland, a pint is sometimes called a mutchkin, and a quart called a clwppin. ORNAMENTING DISHES FOR TABLE. Most dislies of meat have a hare appearance at table, unless they are decorated or garnished. In the following directions for cooking, the garnish used for different dishes is pointed out. When cold meat is brought to table, it is generally decorated with a few sprigs of fresh parsley. ROASTING MEAT. The best joints are selected for roasting, which should be done before the fire. Half an hour before the joint is to be put down, the dust should be raked from the grate, and the lire made up. The joint, which must be handled as little as possible, should be carefully wiped with a dry cloth, and weighed; a quarter of an hour being allowed for each pound, and a quarter of an hour over for brown meats; or twenty minutes for each pound, and twenty minutes over for white meats. The joint should be placed as close as possible to the fire, for the first six or eight minutes, after which it should be well basted, and withdrawn about sixteen or eighteen inches from the fire. It should be basted frequently the whole time it is cooking, and a clear, bright fire must be kept up. Another method of roasting, and one which is very useful for a small joint or a bird, is done in an iron saucepan large enough to admit of a small space around the joint. Rut into the pan enough butter or dripping to cover the bottom; when it is melted, put in the joint and cover with a close-fitting lid; turn and baste the joint from time to time over a slow fire. Allow the same time as for roasting before the fire.17 ROASTED BEEP—MUTTON—VENISON. TO ROAST BEEF. 10 lb. of beef. I 1 gill of hot water. Pepper and salt. I 1 stick of horse-radish. The best piece of beef for roasting is the sirloin. Roast according to the general directions given above, basting the joint with its own dripping. In dishing, lift the meat on to a hot dish, and pour away the fat, leaving the sediment; add the hot water, salt, and pepper. Place the tin containing these on the fire, stir until boiling, and the gravy is ready to pour round the meat. A well-roasted joint ought to have a nice rich brown tinge all over, and this is to be obtained only by careful basting, attention to the fire, and removing at the proper time. Garnish with scraped horse-radish. TO ROAST MUTTON. 1 leg of mutton. i 1 gill of hot water. Pepper. I Salt. The best pieces of mutton for roasting are the leg (called in Scotland the gigot), the shoulder, and the loin. Mutton for roasting may be kept longer than for boiling. Roast according to general directions, and baste with dripping. Gravy for roast mutton may be made the same as for beef. Most persons prefer mutton ‘ well done.’ In roasting the loin, take away the fat surrounding the kidney, otherwise the joint, on being brought to table, will, when cut up, be floated with oil. The back-ribs and loin of mutton ought to be well jointed or cut before being put to the fire. TO ROAST VENISON. 4 lb. venison. 3 oz. good fat or dripping. Red currant jelly. 1 table-spoonful port wine. h pint milk or cream. 1 gill of stock. Pepper and salt. Yeni.son is sometimes roasted in the same manner as mutton, but requires longer time at the fire. It is such a dry meat, that it requires great care in cookiug. Baste it18 ROASTED VEAL—LAMB. first with milk or cream, and when this is all absorbed or dried rip, add the dripping, and baste still very frequently. When cooked, lift the venison on to a hot dish; pour away the fat, leaving the sediment in the pan. Add to this the stock, pepper and salt, one teaspoonful of currant jelly, and the port wine. Stir all over the fire until boiling, then strain the sauce over the venison. Serve very hot with currant jelly. 4 lb. of veal. TO ROAST VEAL. I i bint melted butter. 1 lb. bread crumbs. 2 oz. chopped suet. 1 egg. STUFFING. 1 table-spoonful chopped parsley. Rind of £ a lemon chopped Pepper and salt. The best parts of veal for roasting are the fillet, the breast, the loin, and the shoulder. The fillet and the breast should be stuffed; the stuffing to be composed of the above ingredients. Yeal will require a longer time to dress than beef or mutton. The fillet of veal, which is the thick fleshy part of the hind- leg, should have the knuckle or bone cut out neatly, without disfiguring the joint; stuff the flap with the above ; roll it up firmly, and bind it with tape or string. Allow the stuffing in this, as in all other cases, room to expand in dressing. Cover the ends with buttered paper, and baste the veal frequently with butter. Take off the paper a short time before the meat is done. Lift the veal on to a hot dish, pour off the dripping, season, and add the sediment to the melted butter. Pour round the veal, and garnish with sliced lemon. TO ROAST LAMB. 1 quarter of lamb. I 1 gill of hot water. Pepper and salt. | 1 gill of mint-sauce. Lamb requires to be well roasted. It is usually dressed in quarters ; all parts, particularly the spinal bone, should be well jointed or cut by the butcher or cook; and the ribs of the fore-quarter broken across the centre for the convenience of the carver. In roasting, baste with its own dripping.19 ROASTED TORE—SUCKING-PIG. The gravy for lamb may be made in the same manner as for beef or mutton. Serve with mint-sauce in a sauce tureen. TO ROAST PORK. 4 lb. loin of pork. 1 gill of water. 1 pint of apple sauce. A little salad oil. 4 chopped onions. 1 table-spoonful sage. Pepper and salt. When stuffing is to be iised, it must be composed of chopped sage and onion in the above proportions, with pepper and salt. The outer skin should be neatly and well scored in regular stripes, to enable the carver to cut slices easily. Before putting the joint to the fire, rub the skin with salad oil, to prevent it blistering, and baste very frequently. When there is not enough dripping, the basting may be done by rubbing it with a piece of butter in a muslin bag. The gravy for pork may be the same as for other joints. Apjale sauce helps to overcome the richness or lusciousness of the meat, and imparts a slightly acidulous flavour. It should be served in a sauce tureen. TO ROAST SUCKING-PIG. 1 sucking-pig. I pint beef gravy. I pint apple sauce. 5 lb. bread crumbs. 3 oz. butter. 1 table-spoonful chopped sage. Pepper and salt. The animal being properly prepared and cleaned by the butcher, proceed to cut off the feet, and fill the inside with a stuffing composed of sage, crumbs, and butter in the above proportions, pepper, and salt; sew up the slit. No skewering is required. In roasting, baste with butter, as directed for pork. The time for roasting will be from two to three hours, according to the size. The skin should be crisp and nicely browned. Before bringing to table, split down the back from head to tail, and lay it flat in the dish with the skin side uppermost. Cut the head off, split it in two, take out the brains, and lay half the head at each end. Have the liver boiled, chop it and the brains, and mix these with the gravy in a small tureen. Apple sauce should also be served in a separate tureen.20 ROASTED RUDDOCK’S HEART—PIGEONS—FOWDS. TO ROAST BULLOCK’S HEART. 1 bullock’s heart. i J pint stock. 2 oz. dripping. | Red currant jelly. STUFFING. 4 table-spoonfuls bread crumbs. 1 table-spoonful chopped parsley. 2 table-spoonfuls suet. 1 egg. A little milk. Pepper and salt. chopped Wash the heart well, freeing it completely from blood. Then fill all the openings at the top or broad end with a stuffing composed of the above ingredients. Suspend with the pointed end downwards. Baste well with dripping, and roast for an hour and a half or two hours, according to size. Serve with gravy made the same as for roast venison, and currant jelly. TO ROAST PIGEONS. 2 pigeons. 4 oz. butter. 4 table-spoonfuls bread crumbs. Pepper and salt. 1 table-spoonful chopped parsley. s pint brown gravy. Pick, draw, and truss the pigeons, keeping on the feet. Make a stuffing of the livers chopped, crumbs, parsley, pepper, salt, and two ounces of butter; put this inside. Make a slit in one of the legs, and slip the other leg through it. Skewer and roast them for half an hour, basting them well with butter. Serve with brown gravy in a small tureen. Some serve roast pigeons as game, with toasted bread under them, and bread-sauce. TO ROAST FOWLS. 1 pair fowls. i i pint bread sauce, i lb. butter. I i pint gravy. First pick and singe the birds, then draw them. To draw a fowl, place it on its back, and make a slit lengthways in the skin of the neck from the body to the head; free the neck from the skin, and cut off the neck as close to the body as possible, then cut the skin, leaving a flap of at least three inches long hanging to the breast. Loosen the crop—a thin bag of skin in front of the neck—and the wind-21 ftOASTED FOWLS. pipe, and insert the first finger, keeping it close to the inside surface of the body; work it round, breaking all the liga- ments with which it conies in contact, thus loosening the contents of the carcase. Great care should be taken not to thrust the finger into the centre, for if the gall-bag should be broken, the liver, to which it is attached, will be unfit for use, and a bitter taste will be imparted to any part of the flesh which the gall may touch. Turn the bird, slightly enlarge the opening at the other end, insert the finger, and loosen the inside from the carcase at that end. Turn the bird again, and place it on its back ; press on the breast with the thumbs, and push out the gizzard by the hole at the other end. Take hold of it, and pull steadily, when the whole of the interior should be brought away entire. Look to see that this has been done, and then wipe the inside of the bird with a damp cloth. After having drawn the bird, proceed to truss it. Press down the breast-bone; break the legs in the middle of the first joint, and cut them off by the break. Carefully wash the liver, and dry it; open the gizzard, and take out the inside; place them in either wing. Then fold the loose piece of skin from the neck on to the back, and turn the pinion ends of the wings round under the back, which Avill keep the skin in its place. Then push the legs back close to the sides of the fowl; pass a long needle threaded with twine through the point of the wing and the upper part of the leg, then through the body, catching the leg and wing in the same way at the other side; tie the twine under the back; finally, tic the legs firmly together at the knees close to the tail. Fowls for roasting are not generally stuffed, but where this is done, bread crumbs mixed with butter, pepper, and salt, or else veal stuffing (page 18) should be used; insert the stuffing in the hollow place in front of the breast from which the crop, &c. was taken; then draw the loose skin over it, and secure it as above directed with pinion ends of the wings. A fowl will take from half an hour to an hour to roast, according to the size. Baste well with dripping until the last quarter of an hour, when butter should be used instead of dripping. Serve roast fowls with bread sauce and gravy in separate22 ROASTED TURKEY—PARTRIDGES. tureens. Before sending to table, remove all skewers and strings which may have been used in trussing. This, which should be done in all cases, is too frequently neglected, and shows slovenliness in cookery. Fowls and all other birds should be served with the breast upwards. TO ROAST A TURKEY. 1 turkey. i * pint bread sauce. 2 oz. butter. | i pint gravy. STUFFING. i lb. bread crumbs. 1 lb. sausage meat. 2 table-spoonfuls parsley chopped. A little nutmeg. 2 oz. minced suet or marrow. 2 eggs. Pepper and salt. Pick, draw, and singe the turkey well. Press down the breast-bone, and follow all the directions given for trussing fowls. Stuff the breast, and sew up the orifice or neck. Before putting the turkey to the fire, cover the breast with a sheet of writing-paper well buttered, to prevent it from scorching. Remove the paper a short time before taking it from the fire, to allow the breast to brown. Baste well with butter. A turkey will take from an hour and a half to two hours. Serve with gravy and bread-sauce. TO ROAST PARTRIDGES. 2 partridges. 2 slices of toast. 2 oz. butter. Pepper and salt. 1 gill bread sauce. 1 gill gravy. 2 table-spoonfuls browned crumbs. Pick, draw, and singe the birds, leaving the head on. Make a slit in the neck, and draw out the craw. Twist the neck round the wing, and bring the head to the side of the breast. The legs and wings may be trussed in the same manner as fowls. The feet should be left on, and crossed one over the other, as in fig. 5. Place half an ounce of butter, rolled in pepper and salt, inside each bird. Baste well with butter before a clear fire. When about Ids- 5- half done, dust a little flour over them to brown. A partridge will take from twenty minutes to half an23 ROASTED GOOSE—PHEASANT. hour. Serve on toasted bread, which may be dipped in gravy, and serve separately, gravy, browned crumbs, and bread sauce. Grouse and blackcock should bo dressed and served in the same manner; the head being trussed under the wing, and three-quarters of an hour allowed for cooking. Snipes and woodcocks are not drawn. TO ROAST 1 goose. i pint apple sauce. h pint gravy. Pepper and salt. i. GOOSE. J lb. bread crumbs or boiled potatoes. 1 table-spoonful chopped sage. 4 onions chopped. Pick, draw, and singe the goose. Cut off the head and neck. Take off the feet and legs at the first joint; also the wings at the first joint. Skewer the portions of the legs and wings that are left to the sides. Mix the potatoes (or bread crumbs), sage, and onions, and season; put this stuffing into the breast, and fasten the skin of the neck securely. Put a greased paper over the breast for a short time. A goose does not require so much basting as a fowl or turkey, for it is naturally greasy. It will require from two hours to two hours and a half in roasting. It ought to be thoroughly cooked. Serve with gravy and apple sauce in separate tureens. The liver, gizzard, head, neck, feet, and pinions of the goose form what is termed the giblets, and will make a good stew or pie. TO ROAST A PHEASANT. 1 pheasant. 2 oz. butter. 1 gill bread sauce. 1 gill gravy. 2 table-spoonfuls browned crumbs. Pepper and salt. Pick, singe, and draw the pheasant in the same manner as a fowl. Truss it by twisting the head round one of the wings, and turning both wings on the back. The legs should be fixed at each side in the same manner as a roast fowl, the feet being left on, as represented in fig. 6. Allow about three-quarters of an hour for roasting. Serve with beef gravy, brown bread crumbs, and bread sauce. Fig. 0.24 ROASTED DUCKS—HARE. TO ROAST DUCKS. 2 ducks. i pint apple sauce. h pint gravy. Pepper. i lb. bread crumbs. 1 table-spoonful sage. 4 onions chopped. Salt. Pick, draw, and singe the ducks well. Take off the heads. Dip the feet in boiling water to take off the outer yellow skin. Truss them neatly, turning the feet flat upon the back. Stuff as in the case of a goose, and serve with the same sauces. A duck requires about an hour to roast. TO ROAST A HARE. 1 hare. 1 oz. butter. Red currant jelly. i pint milk or cream, i pint gravy. 1 oz. flour. STUFFING. I lb. bread crumbs. Half the liver boiled and grated. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. 4 oz. chopped suet. 2 table-spoonfuls parsley. 1 a lemon rind grated. A little nutmeg. 2 eggs. Pepper and salt. A hare will keep with the skin on it, and paunched, for about three weeks in cold weather. It is then fit for roast- ing. First cut off the feet, and begin drawing off the skin at the hind-legs, proceeding along the body to the head. l!e careful not to tear the ears in skinning them. Soak and wash the hare well in several waters, and then wipe quite dry. Stuff the body, and sew the skin of the belly over it. Place the hind and fore legs flat against the sides, and fasten Fig. 7. with skewers. To make the hind-legs lie flat, the under sinews must be cut. Fix the head between the two shoulders, on to the back, by running a skewer through it into the body. In roasting, suspend head downwards. A hare should be25 baking meat—broiling. basted for the first twenty minutes with milk, and afterwards with butter, flouring it lightly. It will require from an hour and a half to two hours. The hare should be dished back upwards, as represented in fig. 7, and served with rich beef gravy and currant jelly. BAKING MEAT. Meat is prepared for baking in the same manner as for roasting. It should be placed in a deep dish and raised on a stand, to prevent the grease from soaking into it. Few joints are so good when baked as they are when roasted. The time allowed for baking meat should be the same as for roasting, and constant and careful basting is absolutely neces- sary. The sauce may be prepared in the same way as for roasting. BROILING. Broiling is the rapid cooking of any kind of animal fuod, either before or over the fire. The apparatus required in broiling is very simple, and consists only of a gridiron, which should have small bars, and be kept thoroughly clean, not only on the tops, but on the sides of the bars. Let it be heated on the fire for a few minutes before placing the meat upon it. If the bars, when warm, be rubbed with a piece of brown paper, and fat or suet, it will prevent the meat from sticking to them. The operation of broiling requires a clear strong fire, with no smoke. In almost all cases the meat ought to be frequently turned, which may be best done by means of a pair of small tongs; a fork should on no account be used, for it breaks the meat, and allows the gravy to run out. Broiling is applicable only to meat which is to be eaten immediately on being dressed. This is an advantage when expeditious cooking is-required, but a disadvairtage when there is any uncertainty as to the time at which the meat is to be eaten. Some cooks beat meat before broiling, as well as before frying, for the purpose of making it tender; this is of no26 BROILED BEEFSTEAK—MUTTON CHOPS. use when the meat has been sufficiently hung, and may do more harm than good, by expelling the juices. TO BROIL BEEFSTEAK. 1 lb. beefsteak. I 2 oz. fresh butter. Pepper. I Salt. A beefsteak is the most suitable of all kinds of meat for broiling, and is universally relished. There are several parts of beef used for steaks, but in every case it should not be too newly killed. The best steak is that cut from the rump (called in Scotland the henk-bone), because it is the most juicy and well flavoured. Steaks should be cut in slices of from three-quarters of an inch to an inch in thickness, and then into pieces of a convenient size for turning. Some persons dust the steaks with pepper before putting them to the fire, by which means the flavour of the pepper is infused through the mass. When placed on the gridiron, turn them very frequently. It is impossible to state any exact length of time to be employed in cooking a steak, for much depends on the tenderness and thickness of the meat, and on the strength of the fire. The taste of the individual who is to eat the steak must also regulate the length of time; some prefer steaks in a half-raw state, others like them well done. When they are cooked, place the steaks on a hot dish, with a little good fresh butter and fine salt on each. Beefsteaks should be carried to table immediately on being dressed, and eaten forthwith, in order to be in perfection. If they stand, they lose a portion of their flavour and juice. When sauce is required, either mushroom or oyster sauce may be used. TO BROIL MUTTON CHOPS. 2 mutton chops. | Salt. Mutton chops should be cut from the middle of the loin, and about the same thickness as steaks. They are broiled in the same manner as steaks, and require equal attention. No butter is to be used in dishing, as the chops are suffi- ciently fat in themselves. Sprinkle a little salt over them, and carry to the table immediately. Mushroom sauce may be used.27 BROILED FOWLS AND PIGEONS—FRYING. TO BROIL FOWLS AND PIGEONS. 1 fowl or pigeon. | Salt. 1 oz. butter. I Pepper. Clean and prepare the fowl or pigeon as for roasting; then split it down the back, laying it quite flat. Dust with pepper. Fowls and pigeons should he broiled more slowly than steaks or chops, being thicker, and requiring to he more thoroughly cooked. Rub occasionally with a little butter, to prevent the skin from cracking. In no case should the skin be taken oil' before broiling. On dishing, sprinkle with salt. FRYING. There are two distinct methods of frying—wet-frying and dry-frying. The former, which may be described as boiling in fat, should he employed for anything which can he cooked in three or four minutes, such as rissoles, filleted fish, fritters, &c., but, if a longer time is required, as for cutlets, &c., dry- frying must be resorted to. For wet-frying, place an iron saucepan three parts filled with clarified dripping (see page 69) over the fire, and allow it to melt and heat till a blue steam rises from it, and it is quite still, when it will be ready for use. Or, to test the fat, throw in a small piece of bread, and if a bubbling at once begins it is ready. Whatever is to be cooked, must be previously prepared by being tossed in flour, or covered in flour and water batter, or else first dipped in beaten egg, and then tossed in bread crumbs. When the fat is ready, drop into it a few of the prepared pieces (which should not be too large), when the outer coat will be at once sealed so that no grease can pass through; fry for three or four minutes to a nice golden colour. Lift the pieces with a perforated iron spoon on to porous paper; sprinkle with salt if they are savoury, or sifted sugar if they are sweet, and dry for a few minutes in the oven. Keep hot until the rest of the dish is cooked. If the fat is not sufficiently heated the outer covering will not become sealed, but will bo saturated with grease, and the appearance and flavour of the dish will bo entirely spoiled. After the fat has been used it should be allowed to cool for28 FRIED BEEFSTEAKS—MUTTON CHOPS—VEAL CUTLEl'S. a few minutes, and then be strained into a strong bowl, and set aside for future use. Dry-frying is done in a frying-pan. Place the pan over a clear fire with sufficient butter, lard, dripping, or oil in it to cover the bottom; when it is melted and quite hot, put in whatever is to be cooked, and fry first on one side for about five minutes to a pale brown; then turn it, and fry for about three minutes on the other side. Then drain as above described in wet-frying. The fat which has been used for dry-frying is seldom fit for use a second time. TO FRY BEEFSTEAKS. 1 lb. beefsteak. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Pepper. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. 2 table-spoonfuls water. Salt. Cut the steaks as for broiling, and, after they are put into the pan, with the hot butter or dripping, turn them fre- quently. Let them be browned all over, and placed in a hot dish when finished. Pour away the fat, and add the water with a little pepper, salt, and ketchup. Let these boil, and pour the gravy so formed into the dish with the steak. Serve immediately. If onions be required with the steak, cut them in thin slices, and fry them till they are soft. They should be fried after the steak, with part of the fat in which the beef has been cooked. TO FRY MUTTON CHOPS. 1 lb. mutton chops. I 2 table-spoonfuls ketchup. Pepper and salt. I 2 table-spoonfuls water. Cut the chops in the same manner as for broiling, and dress them according to the preceding directions for frying steaks. None of the grease which flows from the chops should be served with them ; the whole must be poured away before preparing the gravy. TO FRY VEAL CUTLETS. 1 lb. veal cutlet. 1 lb. bacon. 2 oz. lard. 2 table-spoonfuls ketchup. 2 table-spoonfuls water. Pepper and salt. Ycal cutlets form a delicate dish, and should be fried with lard. The best cutlets arc from the iillet, because they are29 FRIED VEAL CUTLETS—BEEF OR PORK SAUSAGES. free from bone; the fore or hind loin—that is, the hack-ribs or loin—may be used, but the bone must be cut away, which causes waste. Cut them half an inch in thickness. They require to be dressed slowly and thoroughly, and should be of a light-brown tinge when finished. Pour away the fat and fry thin slices of bacon ; lift them out of the pan when cooked, and add the water, ketchup, pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Boil and strain round the cutlets and bacon. Serve hot. TO DRESS VEAL CUTLETS. 1 lb. veal cutlet. 1 lb. thin bacon. 3 oz. lard, i oz. flour. 1 gill water. 2 eggs. ! lb. bread crumbs, i table-spoonful chopped parsley. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. 1 lemon. Pepper and salt. A more tasteful way of dressing cutlets is first to dip them in a beaten egg, mixed with the parsley, pepper, and salt, and then into crumbs of bread, after which put them in the pan, with the hot lard. Cook slowly to a nice brown colour. Lift the cutlets on to a hot dish, pour away the fat and fry the bacon; put it with the cutlets. Put the flour into the pan and stir until brown; pour on the water and ketchup; pepper and salt. Let this sauce boil and skim. Dish the cutlets in a circle with slices of lemon and bacon alternately. Strain the gravy round and serve hot. TO FRY BEEF OR PORK SAUSAGES. 1 lb. sausages. | Mashed potatoes. All sausages are fried alike, and require to be dressed very slowly. Before being put into the pan, they should be blanched and pricked in several places with a fine fork, to prevent their bursting by the expansion of the air within. It is common in England to bring fried sausages to table, neatly laid out on a flat dish on mashed potatoes. The sausages and potatoes are helped together. They may also be laid in links on toasted bread, and garnished with poached eggs placed round the dish. Fried sausages are sometimes used for garnishing roast turkey.30 FRIED LAMB CHOPS—PORK CHOPS—TRIPE—PARSLEY. TO FRY LAMB CHOPS. 1 lb. lamb chops. 1 oz. butter. Pepper. 2 table-spoonfuls water. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. Salt. Lamb chops should be cut from the loin, and may be either simply fried in the same manner as mutton chops, or dressed with egg and crumbs of bread (but with no parsley), as in the case of cutlets. Gravy should be made in the pan, as for fried steaks. TO FRY PORK CHOPS. 1 lb. pork chops. I 1 pint apple sauce. 1 oz. lard. I Pepper and salt. Pork chops should be cut rather thin, and be thoroughly well cooked. They may be either simply fried in the same manner as chops, or fried after being first dipped in egg, and then into crumbs of bread, mixed with a little sage and onion finely chopped. No gravy is expected with pork chops. If any sauce be used, it must be apple sauce. TO FRY TRIPE. 1 lb. boiled tripe. Pepper and salt. Pat for frying. I lb. flour. 1 egg. 1 gill milk. The tripe must be washed well, and boiled till tender. Take the thickest parts and dry them with a cloth. Make a thick batter of the flour, &c., seasoned with salt, and for those who wish it, a little minced onion. Dip the tripe into the batter so formed, after which fry to a pale brown colour, according to general directions given for wet-frying. Drain on porous paper. Serve on a folded napkin. Garnish with fried parsley. TO FRY PARSLEY. Fresh green parsley. | Hot fat. Parsley is fried only for garnishing. It must be thoroughly dried, and fried for about a minute in hot fat or dripping. Lift it from the fat, and lay it on a paper on a sieve before the’fire for the fat to drain from it.FRIED BACON—LAMB’s OR CALF’S LIVER—CALF’S FEET. 31 TO FRY BACON OR HAM AND EGGS. 6 slices of ham or bacon. | 3 or 4 eggs. The bacon should be cut very thinly in slices, not more than a quarter of an inch in thickness. The best bacon is that which is alternately streaked with fat and lean. No butter or dripping is required in the pan when frying bacon, but constant turning is necessary. When done, take the slices from the pan, and place them in a hot dish before the fire. Have the number of eggs required previously broken, each in a separate cup, and place them gently in the pan, so as to preserve them in a round flat shape. Let them remain in the pan till the white is set; take them out carefully with a slice, and place them on the bacon. The tasteful appear- ance of this dish is spoiled if the eggs be either broken or ragged, which is very apt to be the case if they are not first broken into cups. TO FRY LAMB’S OR CALF’S LIVER. 1 lb. liver. 2 oz. lard. * lb. bacon. 1 oz. flour. 2 gills water or gravy. Pepper and salt. Cut the liver in thin slices; dust them with flour, and fry slowly in lard or dripping; let them be thoroughly cooked. When done, lift the slices out, pour away the fat, and fry the bacon; put the bacon with the liver; add the flour mixed with the water to the pan, which turn round for a minute or two to boil; season, and pour over the liver in the dish. Serve hot. TO FRY CALF’S FEET. 2 calf’s feet. Pepper and salt. Pat for frying. 1 lb. flour. 1 egg. 1 gill milk. After being washed and well boiled, take the meat off the bones. Season and roll up small pieces very neatly, and dip them in a thick batter made with the flour, milk, and egg \ fry them in hot fat. Drain on porous paper. Serve on a folded napkin garnished with parsley. Brains and sweetbreads may be dressed in the same manner.32 BOILING—BOILED SALTED ROUND OF BEEF. BOILING. Boiling is cooking food in sufficient water to cover it well. First, wipe the joint with a dry cloth, and, if necessary, tie it into proper form; then weigh it and allow twenty minutes to each pound and twenty minutes over. Have ready a pan of water boiling over the fire, and plunge the meat into it; allow it to boil very quickly for four or five minutes, then throw in a little salt, and skim. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and allow it to simmer very gently for the rest of the time. The scum must be removed as it rises, and, if necessary boiling water must be added from time to time to keep the meat covered. The strings should be cut and removed before the joint is sent to table, and a silver skewer inserted if necessary to keep it in shape till it is cold. Directions for boiling salted meat and poultry are given under the receipts for those dishes. Boiled meat is considered to be more digestible than that which is roasted, baked, or broiled. All parts of mutton and lamb may be roasted, but only the leg, neck, and head should be boiled. TO BOIL A SALTED ROUND OF BEEF. 1 round of beef. I 4 carrots. 1 bunch of greens. I 2 white turnips. Weigh the meat, and put it into a pot with sufficient cold water to cover it well; bring it to the boil, and skim it; throw in a little cold water to put it off the boil; draw it to the side of the fire, and allow it to cook very gently for the rest of the time. Allow twenty minutes for each pound, and twenty minutes over, from the time the water boils. The appropriate garnishing for this and other pieces of boiled salt beef is carrot, turnip, and small greens; which should be added to the pot one hour before the meat is cooked. Put a little of the liquor in which it has been boiled, in the dish.BOILED LEG OF MUTTON—LAMB—CALF’S HEAD. 33 TO BOIL A LEG OF MUTTON. 1 leg of mutton. | J pint caper sauce. A leg of mutton should be kept for four or five days before it is boiled. Before putting it into the pot, bend round the shank, cutting the tendon at the joint if necessary, so as to shorten the leg. Some persons, to make the joint look white and tasteful, wrap it tightly in a cloth while boiling; but this spoils the liquor for broth. Vegetables should not be boiled with a leg of mutton, as they would flavour the meat. Dish the leg with a little of the liquor, placing the lower side uppermost, conveniently for carving. A good leg of mutton will soon yield sufficient gravy. The sauce used is finely-chopped capers in melted butter. Turnips, mashed or whole, are the appropriate vegetable to be eaten with this dish. TO BOIL A LEG OF LAMB. 1 leg of lamb. | l loin of lamb, i pint melted butter. I 2 oz. butter. A leg of lamb, when well boiled, is a delicate and excellent dish. When whiteness is desired, it should be wrapped in a cloth before boiling. Garnish with the loin cut into chops and fried. The sauce used is plain melted butter, or parsley and butter. TO BOIL CALF’S HEAD. 1 calfs bead. 1 table-spoonful vinegar. Pepper and salt. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. S gills of liquor. 2 table-spoonfuls chopped parsley. Glean and split the head, and take out the brains. Lay the head in cold water for two hours, to whiten it. Then tie it in a cloth, and boil for two and a half hours. Boil the brains in vinegar and water for twenty minutes. Put one half of the brains into the sauce. Skin the tongue) put the remainder of the brains round it in a separate dish, and serve at the same time with the head. Pour the sauce over the head, and serve very hot. Sauce. Melt the butter in a small pan. Add the flour, C34 BOILED VEAL—TURKEY. and when well mixed, pour on the liquor from the head; stir until boiling. Season and add the parsley and brains. Any portions of the head left will make a good dish, cut in slices, heated, and served in a rich piquante sauce. Calf’s head served in this way is the famous Tate da Veau of the French. See Sauce Piquante. TO BOIL VEAL. 4 lb. knuckle of veal. I 2 lb. ham or bacon. i pint parsley sauce. Yeal is seldom boiled, being too insipid for that mode of dressing. The only part which should be cooked in this manner is the knuckle, which thus requires long boiling, in order to soften the sinews. It is eaten with boiled ham or bacon. The sauce used is parsley and butter. 1 turkey. TO BOIL A TURKEY. | 1 pint parsley sauce. STUFFING. i lb. bread crumbs. } lb. butter or chopped suet. Pepper and salt. 2 table-spoonfuls chopped parsley. 2 eggs. A little milk. Boiled turkey is one of the most delicate and excellent dishes which can be brought to table, and should be dressed with as much care as possible. Clean the turkey from all feathers, and singe the hair with burning paper, being careful not to blacken the skin. Clean it well inside by drawing and wiping with a damp cloth. Cut off the legs at the first joints, and draw out the sinews; then pull down the skin and push the legs inside. Put the stuffing into the breast, leaving room for it to swell; after which draw the skin of the breast over the opening, and sew it neatly across the back, so that when the turkey is brought to table with its breast upper- most, no stitches will be seen. Place the liver in one wing, and the gizzard in the other, turning the pinions on the back, and fixing the wings to the sides with a skewer. The turkey being now ready for the pot, put it into a cloth and boil it gently until it is cooked. A small youug turkey will not require more than an hour and a half; an old and larger oneBOILED FOWLS—RABBITS—HAM. 35 will perhaps take two and a half or three hours. Let the water be hot when it is put in, and of sufficient quantity to keep the turkey always covered. When the turkey is sufficiently cooked, place it in a hot dish, pour a little sauce over the breast, and put the remainder in a sauce tureen. Various sauces may be used, such as parsley and butter, celery, or oyster sauce. One of the most delicate and agreeable sauces is that which is made of melted butter, boiled macaroni, and milk. TO BOIL FOWLS. 1 pair fowls. I 1 pint parsley or egg sauce. A fowl is to be prepared for boiling in the same manner as a turkey, except that stuffing is not used. It may be boiled with or without a cloth. Small fowls will require from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour; and large fowls from an hour to an hour and a half. Serve, egg sauce, or parsley and butter poured over the fowls. TO BOIL RABBITS WHOLE. 2 rabbits. I 1 pint onion sauce. Wash the rabbits well, and let them lie in warm salt and water for half an hour. Truss by cutting the sinews under the back-legs and bringing them flat to the side, and fasten them there by a skewer. Bring the head round to the left side and fix it there by a skewer passed through the right fore-leg and the body on to the head. Tie a piece of string round the skewers under the rabbit so as to keep it in shape while cooking. Place in boiling water, and boil slowly for an hour. When two rabbits are dished together, lay the head of one in a contrary direction to that of the other, and smother in onion sauce. TO BOIL A HAM. 1 ham. | Bread raspings. Greens or cabbage. If the ham has been cured long, it may require soaking in cold water to soften it, for from twelve to twenty-four hours before cooking. Put it in a large boiling vessel with plenty ot cold water, and let it simmer slowly from two to fourBOILED LEG OF PORK—TONGUE—TRIPE. 3G hours, according to the size. Skim it frequently, to remove the grease which is constantly rising to the top. When done, skin it, and strew bread raspings over the upper side; then place it before the fire to dry and brown. Garnish with greens or cabbage. TO BOIL LEG OF PORK. 1 leg of pork. | Peas pudding (page IOC). Pork requires to be particularly well boiled. Place it in the pot with the skin side uppermost, with a plate below it, for pork is very apt to stick to the bottom of the pot. Peas pudding is generally served separately with this dish. TO BOIL A TONGUE. 1 bullock’s tongue. | Greens. If hard, soak the tongue in water all night before using. Boil it for from two hours and a half to three hours. Skin it before dishing. Garnish with greens or cabbage. TO BOIL TRIPE. 4 lb. tripe. 6 onions. 1 oz. butter. Pepper. 1 pint milk. 1 oz. arrowroot or oswego. Salt. When tripe is purchased from the butcher in a raw state, it requires to be cleansed and boiled for a very long time, to be thoroughly soft and tender. The length of time will depend on the age of the animal from which it has been taken. Sometimes, for young tripe six or seven hours will be suffi- cient, while old tripe will perhaps take ten or twelve. In all cases, the tripe should be well washed and scraped, put into a saucepan with cold water, brought to the boil; throw away that water and wash the tripe again in pure cold water. Return to the saucepan with plenty of cold water, and boil or rather simmer it very slowly until tender; for quick boiling hardens it. A small piece of soda added to the water will help to keep the tripe a good colour. It should be cut into moderately-sized pieces for helping at table. When to be served plain, carry to table jn a hash dish, with some of37 BOILED COW-HEEL—STEWS—HASHES. the water in which it has been boiled, and onions cooked with the tripe for the last two hours. A tasteful way of serving tripe is to take it from its liquor after it has been boiled, and stew it for about ten minutes in a saucepan with milk, thicken with arrowroot or oswego; just before serving add the butter, and season with pepper and salt. This makes a delicious and cheap dish. TO BOIL COW-HEEL. 1 cow-heel. I i pint parsley sauce. Wash, scrape, and cut the heel into pieces. Cover with cold water and let boil, throw away that water and wash the heel well again; put it into the saucepan with enough cold water to cover it, and simmer or boil slowly for five or six hours, or till the bones will slip out. Serve with parsley sauce. STEWS, HASHES, AND RE-DRESSING COLD MEAT. Stewing is a method of preparing meat by slow simmering. This is a much more savoury mode of cookery than boiling; any part of the juices of the meat which may have been drawn out in cooking being preserved and served in the liquor, which should be highly seasoned. Generally, much more can be made of meat by stewing, than by roasting, broiling, or frying, because nothing is lost in the process of dressing. It also possesses the decided advantage of being a convenient way in which meat may be dressed for a person whose time of dining is uncertain. A stewed steak, for instance, will keep warm and in good condition for an hour, but a broiled or fried steak cannot be kept a minute after dressing. An iron pan is best, as it takes a longer time for the heat to penetrate. Stews which are highly dressed, and are composed of various parts prepared in a different manner, are called made dishes. A highly-seasoned stew forms what is termed a ragout.38 STEWED BEEF—SHOULDER OF MUTTON. TO STEW A PIECE OF BEEF, 6 lb. beef. 1 oz. bvitter. 3 onions. Pepper. 1 pint hot water. OR MAKE BEEF BOUILLI. 1 oz. flour. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. 1 carrot. I turnip. Salt. Take a piece of beef; the brisket or rump, or any other piece that will become tender. Melt the butter in the stew- pan, and when it is hot put in the meat, and partially fry or brown it all over. Then take it out, and lay two or three skewers in the bottom of the pan; after which replace the meat; by which means it will be prevented from sticking to the pan. Next, put in the hot water, and onions sliced, and cover the pan. Stew slowly till done. Two hours are enough for a piece of beef weighing six or eight pounds. When ready, take out the meat, and thicken the gravy with the flour mixed with the ketchup, pepper, and salt. Cut down into shapes the boiled carrot and turnip, and add them to the liquor. Boil all together for a few minutes, and serve in a hash dish. TO STEW A SHOULDER OF MUTTON. 1 shoulder of mutton. I 5 pint hot water. Pepper and salt. I i oz. flour. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. STUFFING. 4 oz. bread crumbs. 1 oz. chopped suet. 1 table-spoonful chopped parsley. I table-spoonful chopped thyme. 1 egg. Pepper and salt. Take a shoulder of mutton, and cut out the blade-bone without injuring the form of the meat, or upper skin. Make a stuffing of the above ingredients, and lay this in the place from which the bone was cut; then roll it up, and skewer or bind it firmly with tape. Bub the bottom of a stew-pan with suet, and brown the mutton. When sufficiently brown, lay two skewers in the bottom of the pan, and return the meat to it; add stock or boiling water, and let it stew for an hour and a half; thicken the gravy with the flour, add the ketchup,, and season with pepper and salt. Skim the gravy before serving, to remove the fat.STEWED STeAKs—HaRicoT of mutton—ox tail. 39 TO STEW STEAKS. 1 lb. beefsteak. £ pint hot water. £ oz. flour. Pepper. 1 small carrot. £ small turnip, i table-spoonful ketchup. Salt. Cut the beef in thin slices. Put them in a stew-pan, with the water. Add the carrot grated, the turnip cut in small squares, pepper, and salt. Stew for an hour, or till tender, Skim if necessary. Thicken with the flour and ketchup, Two ounces of macaroni or vermicelli, boiled from ten to twenty minutes with the stew, may he substituted for the flour. HARICOT OF MUTTON. 2 lb. mutton chops. 1 oz. fat or dripping. £ oz. flour. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. £ table-spoonful Worcester sauce. 1 carrot. £ white turnip. 1 onion. 3 gills hot water. Pepper and salt. Cut the mutton chops thin from the neck or fore-loin. Remove the outside skin and fat. Fry in fat till of a light brown. Take out the chops, and fry the onion sliced. Pour away the fat, and return the chops to the pan with half the carrot grated, pepper, salt, and water. Cover tightly, and simmer slowly for two hours. Thicken with the flour mixed with the ketchup and Worcester sauce. Boil for a few minutes and skim. Garnish with boiled carrot and turnip cut into shapes. TO STEW OX TAIL. 1 ox tail. 1 oz. beef dripping. 1 oz. flour. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. 1 pint water. 1 carrot. £ white turnip. 1 onion. Pepper. Salt. Procure a good fleshy tail. Cut away any superfluous fat. Divide it at the joints. Put the dripping into the stew-pan, and when hot, add the onion sliced, and fry with the pieces of tail dipped in flour, browning them on both sides. Then add the water and the carrot and turnip cut in small pieces. When the vegetables are sufficiently done, thicken with a little flour and ketchup. Serve hot.40 STEWED OX TALATES—VEAL. TO STEW OX PALATES. 4 ox palates. 1 pint broth or stock. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. i table-spoonful vinegar. 1 onion. i cai'rot. Small piece of turnip. Pepper and salt. Procure good ox palates. Wash in plenty of cold water and rub well with salt, and let them lie for some hours in warm salt and water, rubbing them occasionally to draw out the mucus. Then rinse thoroughly, and put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them. Let the water heat slowly, but on no account boil. When hot, scrape off the tough horny skin from the palates. If the water boils this will be difficult to remove. Put them in a saucepan with the stock, and the vegetables cut into small pieces. Leo them stew very slowly for at least two hours till they are quite tender. Then season with pepper and salt, ketchup, and a little vinegar. Serve hot. TO STEW VEAL. 3 lb. fillet or breast of veal. I lb. bacon. 1 pint water; 2 hard-boiled eggs. 1 lemon. STUFFING. } lb. bread crumbs. 2 table-spoonfuls chopped parsley. 1 table-spoonful chopped thyme. Pepper. 2 oz. suet. 1 egg. A little lemon-juice. Salt. The best parts of veal for stewing are the fillet and breast. Remove the bones neatly, without disfiguring the meat. Flatten the joint, and season it in the place from which the bones were taken with white pepper, salt, and lemon- juice. Lay on the sliced bacon, the stuffing, and hard-boiled eggs. Roll neatly up and bind with tape; dust well with flour. Rub the bottom of a large stew-pan with butter; lay in the veal, and brown it on all sides. When sufficiently brown, put in the water, and stew it slowly for two hours, or two hours and a half. Before it is to be dished, pour off the gravy, and if not thick enough, brown a little butter, and flour, and add to it. Season with cayenne, salt, and the squeeze of a lemon; skim the sauce, and pour it over the meat before dishing. Garnish with slices of lemon.STEWED BEEF KIDNEYS—CALF’s SWEETBREADS—PIGEONS. 41 TO STEW BEEF-KIDNEYS. 1 ox kidney. 1 oz. flour. 2 table-spoonfuls ketchup. 1 table-spoonful vinegar. 1 pint stock. 2 onions. Pepper and salt. Cut the kidneys into slices, carefully removing all the tubes or passages; wash them and dry them; dust them with flour, and place them in a stew-pan with beef gravy, flavoured with minced onions, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Stew slowly for three hours, and add mushroom ketchup before dishing. Serve hot. TO STEW CALF’S SWEETBREADS. 1 pair calf’s sweetbreads. 1 pint good stock. A little ketchup. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. Pepper and salt. Wash the sweetbreads, and blanch them, by putting them into a saucepan with cold water and letting it boil; throw away the water; again wash the sweetbreads and pick away all pieces of skin and fat. Break them into conveniently- sized pieces. Toss them in flour. Melt the butter in a stew- pan, and fry the sweetbreads to a pale brown colour; add the stock and seasonings. Stew slowly for one hour. Turn on to a hot dish, and garnish with green peas. When a white stew is desired use milk instead of stock. Lamb’s sweet- breads are small, but very good, dressed in this manner. TO STEW PIGEONS. 2 pigeons. 1 pint stock. 1 oz. flour. 3 oz. butter. 4 table-spoonfuls bread crumbs. Pepper and salt. Pick and wash the pigeons well, and truss them in the same way as fowls for boiling. Mix two ounces of butter with the bread crumbs, pepper, and salt, and put half into the breast of each pigeon. Dust them with flour, and brown them in a covered stew-pan with a good piece of butter; put in a little flour for thickening; add the gravy or hot water. Season highly, and let them stew slowly for twenty minutes or half an hour. In serving, a piece of toasted bread may be put under each pigeon.42 STEWED RABBITS JUGGED HARE—IRISH STEW. TO STEW RABBITS. 2 rabbits. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. Pepper and salt. 4 large onions. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. 1 table-spoonful vinegar. 1 pint hot water. Wash the rabbits well; cut them in pieces, and scald them for a few minutes. Melt the butter, and fry the rabbits for a short time. When slightly browned, dust in the flour; then add the hot water. Put in the sliced onions, ketchup, vinegar, pepper, and salt to taste. Stew slowly for two hours. JUGGED HARE. 1 hare. 1 dessert-spoonful arrow- root. 1 pint water. Ketchup. 1 onion. Bunch of sweet herbs. Pepper and salt. After having skinned, cleaned, and washed the hare, cut it into pieces, and put it into a jar with the onion, herbs, water, and seasoning. Cover the top of the jar closely, so that as little steam as possible may escape, or the hare will be dry. Place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water (the water must not come to the top of the jar), and keep it constantly boiling for from three to four hours. When done, put the pieces of hare into a hash dish, skim off any fat from the gravy, and thicken it with the arrowroot. Put it into a saucepan, and let it boil; pour it over the hare, and serve with red currant or rowan jelly separately. TO MAKE IRISH STEW. 2 lb. mutton. Pepper. Salt. 8 potatoes. 4 onions. 3 pint hot water. Take a piece of loin or back-ribs of mutton, and cut it into chops. Put them into a stew-pan alternately with parboiled potatoes, sliced onions, pepper, salt, and hot water. Cover closely, and let it stew slowly for an hour; shake the pan occasionally, to prevent the stew from sticking to the bottom. Serve very hot. When properly made, and well seasoned, this is a most savoury dish.STEWED GIBLETS—ENGLISH STEW—HASHED MUTTON. 43 STEWED GIBLETS. 2 sets giblets. 2 onions. A pint water. I slice of toast. J oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. Pepper and salt. Cut the gizzard, neck, and liver into pieces; melt the butter in a stew-pan, and fry the sliced onions to a pale brown colour; add the giblets and the water; bring to the boil, and skim thoroughly; season to taste, and stew gently, keeping the pan closely covered, for an hour and a half; carefully blend the flour and the ketchup, add them to the stew, and boil five minutes. Serve in a hash dish with sippets of toasted bread. TO MAKE ENGLISH STEW. 1 lb. cooked meat. 2 table-spoonfuls pickled cabbage or walnuts. Pepper. 1 cupful water. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. 1 table-spoonful vinegar. Salt. Cut the meat into thin slices; sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and lay them in a dish. Chop the pickles and sprinkle them over the meat. Then take the water; add to it a table-spoonful of vinegar from the pickles, the ketchup, and any gravy that may be set by for use. Stir all together, and pour it over the meat. Set the meat before the fire with a tin behind it, or put it in a Dutch oven, or in the oven of the kitchen-range, as may be most convenient, for about half an hour before dinner-time. This is a cheap and simple way of dressing cold meat, which is well deserving of attention. TO HASH COLD BEEF OR MUTTON. 2 lb. cooked beef or mutton. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. 1 onion. 1 table-spoonful flour. Water, pepper, and salt. Cold beef or mutton may be dressed as a hash in the following manner. Cut the meat from the bones into small pieces, and lay them aside. Put the bones in a stew-pan with a little water and sliced onion. After stewing for an hour, take out the bones and thicken the gravy with flour, season, and stir until boiling. Let cool a little before adding44 HAM TOAST—COLD BEEF—COLD VEAL. the meat, then heat very slowly, hut on no account boil after the meat is added. When perfectly hot, dish the hash, and decorate with small triangular pieces of dry toasted bread round the inner edge of the dish. HAM TOAST. 2 oz. cooked ham. 1 oz. bread crumbs. Mustard and pepper. 1 egg. 1 table-spoonful cream. 1 slice buttered toast. Mince the ham very finely; mix with bread crumbs, mustard, and pepper; moisten with cream and the yolk of an egg. Heat in a stew-pan ; spread the mince rather thickly over a slice of buttered toast. Serve hot. TO DRESS COLD BOILED BEEF, OR MAKE BUBBLE AND SQUEAK. Slices of boiled beef. I 2 oz. dripping. Cooked cabbage. I Pepper and salt. Cut the beef in slices of about the third of an inch in thickness. Melt the dripping in a frying-pan, and fry the beef till browned. Then place it on a warm plate before the fire, to keep hot. Fry the cabbage, which has been pre- viously chopped; stir this about for a short time in the pan, and season with pepper and salt. Heap the cabbage in the centre of a hot dish, and place the meat around it. Serve hot. TO MINCE COLD YEAL. 1 lb. cooked veal. 1 lb. cooked ham. i oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-spoonful chopped parsley. 1 lemon. A pint water. Pepper and salt. Cut the veal from the bones, and mince it with the ham in small square pieces, and lay them aside. Put the bones in a stew-pan with the water, to make a gravy. After stewing for an hour, strain. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and when well mixed pour on the gravy; stir until boiling. Draw the pan to the side of the fire to cool a little. Season with parsley, pepper, salt, grated lemon- rind, and a little of the juice. Then add the veal, and whenCROQUETS—RISSOLES—IRISH STEW OF COOKED MEAT. 45 quite hot, dish with small pieces of toasted bread round and poached eggs on the top. TO MAKE CROQUETS. £ lb. cooked meat. 1 oz. fat. 1 lb. cooked potatoes. Rice or bread crumbs. Pepper and salt. 2 eggs. 1 table-spoonful chopped parsley. J table-spoonful chopped lemon-rind. Bread crumbs. Fat for frying. Mince the meat and fat very finely; mix with it the parsley, potato, lemon-peel, salt, pepper, and yolk of an egg. Mix all thoroughly, and moisten with gravy. Form the mix- ture into balls; dip them into a beaten egg, then in crumbs of bread, and fry to a light brown colour. Drain on porous paper. Serve on a folded napkin, and garnish with parsley. TO MAKE RISSOLES. I lb. cooked meat. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. i lb. flour. 3 oz. dripping. Pepper and salt. 1 table-spoonful chopped parsley. 1 egg. Bread crumbs. Fat for frying. Mince the meat, and season with ketchup, pepper, and salt. Rub the dripping with the flour until there are no lumps. Add a pinch of salt and enough cold water to mix a dough. Roll out very thin and cut it in pieces of an oval shape. Wet round the edges of the paste, and put a small quantity of the meat on one half; fold the other part of the paste over, and secure by pinching round the edges. Dip into a beaten egg and the crumbs of bread, and fry to a pale brown colour; drain on porous paper. Serve hot on a folded napkin, and garnish with parsley. We recommend croquets and rissoles as excellent methods of preparing and using up cold meat. IRISH STEW OF COOKED MEAT. 6 potatoes. | 4 pint hot water. 1 lb. cook©d mutton. I 4 onions. Pepper and salt. ^ Boil the onions and steam the potatoes for half an hour. Cut the mutton in slices, also the onions and potatoes. PutMEAT AND POTATO PUDDING—POTTED HEAD. 46 first a layer of potatoes, then one of onions, then one of meat in a saucepan, and so on until all the materials are used. Add pepper and salt, half a pint of warm water, and simmer until all is warmed through, dish, and serve very hot. TO MAKE MEAT AND POTATO PUDDING. 2 lb. potatoes. £ pint milk. 2 eggs. 1 lb. cooked meat. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. Pepper and salt. Boil the potatoes, rub them through a colander, and make them into a thick batter with the milk and eggs. Lay some chopped and seasoned meat in a dish, then some batter; repeat, and let the last layer be of the batter. Bake to a light brown colour and serve hot. TO MAKE TOAD IN A HOLE. 1 lb. beef. h oz. dripping, i lb. flour. Pepper and salt. 1 pint milk. 2 eggs. Prepare a batter as for Yorkshire pudding. Place in the centre of a greased baking-dish a round piece of beef, seasoned to taste. Pour over sufficient batter to cover it. Bake in a moderately-heated oven for about an hour. This may be done with cold meat in slices, but then it will not require so long to bake. TO MAKE POTTED HEAD. J bullock’s head. i Water. 1 ox foot. I Pepper and salt. Take the head and cleanse it thoroughly ; soak it in warm water, with the foot, for two or three hours. Then boil both together until they are tender and the bones can bo easily removed. Next strain and cut the meat from the bones. Return the bones and liquor to the pan, and boil for two hours. Strain and set aside until it is cold, so that the fat may be easily skimmed. Put the meat and liquor into a saucepan, and boil for half an hour; season to taste. Pour it into basins, or earthenware shapes, and stand in a cool place. When quite cold, it forms a jelly, and should be turned out on a dish for use. If it does not come out easily, dip the shape in hot water, and the beat will immediately loosen it. Garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley.47 SOUPS AND BROTHS. SOUPS AND BROTHS. No middle-class kitchen should he without a stock-pot, which with ordinary care and attention will, by the proper selection and use of scraps and hones, supply the stock without which no soup, sauce, or stew can he satisfactorily prepared. Into the stock-pot should he put all hones from roasted or boiled joints broken up, the carcasses of poultry and game, if not too high, gravy, and scraps in general; if necessary, a few pounds of hones can he bought and added. Cover these well with water, or the liquor in which a joint has been boiled ; bring it to the boil; throw in a little salt and a few flavouring vegetables, and allow to simmer gently for five or six hours. Then strain the liquor into a basin, and set aside to get quite cold. Remove the fat from the top before using. In warm weather this stock must he reboiled eveiy day, and in winter once in three days. The stock-pot must he washed and well scoured, rinsed, and dried each time after use. Another and very nutritious stock may be made from fish bones and trimmings, except those of mackerel, herring, and dried fish. Put them into a pan, with sufficient water to cover them, and a small piece of the various flavouring vegetables, twelve peppercorns, and a blade of mace. Cover and simmer for two hours, skimming carefully and frequently. Strain through a sieve and allow the stock to cool. Then remove the scum from the top, and it is ready for use. This stock forms the foundation for many fish soups. A cod’s head may he used instead of bones and trimmings, or the liquor in which a turbot has been boiled. The stock for the more elaborate soups, such as brown, clear, and white soups, must he specially made from fresh meat. It is better flavoured-when made from different kinds of meat. If brown stock is wanted, brown meat must pre- dominate ; if a paler stock, brown and white meat in equal quantities; and if white stock, white meat only must be Vised,48 BROWN OR GRAVY SOUP—KIDNEY SOUP. TO MAKE BROWN OR GRAVY SOUP. 4 lb. shin of beef. 2 small carrots. 1 turnip. 1 stick of celery. Sprig of parsley. Sprig of thyme. 2 onions. 20 peppercorns. 8 cloves. 1 blade of mace. 1 teaspoonful salt. 4 quai’ts water. Cut the beef from the bones into small pieces; take the marrow from the bone, and lay it on the bottom of the saucepan. When it is melted lay in the meat and bones to brown. Turn occasionally, and take care that it does not burn. When browned, add the cold water and salt; let boil and skim thoroughly; then add the vegetables sliced, and the seasonings. Let the soup boil slowly for about five hours. Then strain it through a liair-sieve, and set it aside to get cold. When it is quite cold remove every particle of fat, by means of a heated metal spoon, and finally dip a clean cloth into boiling water, and carefully draw it over the top of the soup. It should now have a clear bright look, with a brownish tinge. It is best made the day before using, that it may be effectually skimmed of fat. Serve very hot, with toasted bread cut in small squares on a separate dish. KIDNEY SOUP. 1 ox kidney. 3 pints water. 1 table-spoonful flour or oatmeal dust. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. \ teaspoonful pepper. 1 onion. 1 carrot, j turnip. 2 oz. butter or dripping. Wash and dry the kidney. Remove all fat and skin; then cut the kidney into small square pieces. Mix the flour, pepper, and salt on a paper, and toss the kidney well amongst them. Melt the butter in an iron pan, and when quite hot throw in the kidney, flour, &c. Stir over the fire until all are nicely browned. Add the water, let boil and skim well; then put in the vegetables, and let all simmer slowly for two hours. Take out the vegetables, add the ketchup and serve hot. The vegetables may be cut into small square pieces and served in the soup, but should this be done another pint of water must be added.49 PIGEON SOUP—OX-TAIIi SOUP—HARE SOUP. PIGEON SOUP. 2 pigeons. A small piece of onion. 2 pints stock. A small piece of carrot. 1 oz. butter. A small piece of turnip. 1 oz. flour. A sprig of parsley. Truss the birds as if for boiling, and season them inside with pepper and salt; dust them over with flour, and brown them with a little butter in a saucepan. Pour on the stock, add the livers, gizzards, and vegetables ; simmer slowly for one hour. Take out the pigeons, and cut the meat from the breasts into small pieces. Bruise the bones, and return them to the soup, and boil for half an hour. Mix a little butter and flour with the livers, and stir them into the soup to thicken it. Strain the soup, return it to the saucepan with the pieces of pigeon; boil very gently for ten minutes, skim- ming if required, and serve in a tureen, very hot. OX-TAIL 2 ox tails. 5 pints water or stock. 3 oz. butter or dripping. 2 oz. flour. 1 blade of mace. SOUP. 1 onion sliced. h carrot, i turnip. 24 peppercorns. Separate the tails at the joints, and dust them with flour. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and brown the pieces of tail with the sliced onion. Pour over the stock or water, lot it boil and skim thoroughly; add the vegetables and condiments, and let the soup boil till the meat is tender, but not till it comes from the bones. Strain the soup; reserve the pieces of tail. Remove all fat from the soup, and return it to the saucepan, with the ketchup ; boil for live minutes and skim thoroughly. Add the pieces of tail, and serve them in the soup, very hot. HARE SOUP. 1 fresh hare. 1 oz. arrowroot. 3 quarts water. 1 sprig of parsley. 1 sprig of thyme. 1 blade of mace. 2 Spanish onions. 1 small carrot. 1 head of celery. 20 peppercorns. 6 cloves. 2 sweet bay-leaves. lake a fresh hare, and, when skinned, wipe it well with a cloth. Cut it open, and take out the inside, taking great DMOCK-TURTLE SOUP. 50 care not to lose any of the blood, which must be put aside for future use. Cut the body into pieces, and put them in a saucepan with the water. If the bare he poor, two pounds of beef may he added. Let it boil, and skim ; then add the vegetables and seasonings, and let all boil for an hour and a half. Take out the meat from the back and upper joints of the hind-legs, and lay them aside. Let the soup boil for two hours longer. Then cut the remainder of the meat from the bones, and pound it in a mortar. Return the soup to the saucepan; stir until boiling, and then pass as much as possible of the meat with the soup through a hair-sieve. Put the soup into the saucepan with the pieces of hare which were laid aside, cut into dice, and also the arrowroot mixed with the ketchup. Boil this for five minutes, stirring continually. Let cool a little, and then add the blood, and stir always one way until the colour changes, and the soup is thick, but not boiling. Season to taste, and serve with the pieces of hare in the tureen. MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 1 calf’s head. 2 lb. hough beef. 2 lb. knuckle of veal. Peppercorns. Celery, cloves, mace, i lb. butter. 1 lemon. Cayenne pepper. 4 onions, 2 carrots, 1 turnip. Thyme, basil, parsley. 2 oz. flour. 4 table-spoonfuls ketchup. Salt. 4 wine glasses of sherry. EGG-BALLS. 4 hard-boiled eggs. I Salt. Cayenne pepper. I 2 raw whites of eggs. Fat for frying. It is best to get the head scraped and clean from the butcher, but with the skin on. Split the head, clean the nostrils thoroughly, and take out the brains. Put them in a basin of salt and water. Put the head into a saucepan with considerably more water than will cover it. Skim frequently, and let it boil gently for two hours. Take out the head, and cut the meat off into pieces of about an inch square. Scrape and cut the tongue in the same manner. Lay all these aside. Return the bones to the saucepan with the beef and veal cut into pieces, and the bones broken. Add the vegetables and seasonings, and boil for four hours. Boil the brains in vinegar, salt, and water for ten minutes.CARTtOT SOUP—ARTICHOKE SOUP. 51 Pound them, and add them to the soup, and let it simmer slowly for another hour. Strain it, and when cool, take off the fat. Melt the butter in a stew-pan; add the flour, and let it brown, stirring all the time; add one pint of the soup; boil for a quarter of an hour; strain it through a sieve. Put this, with the pieces of meat and the soup, into the saucepan, and boil it for half an hour. Add the ketchup, the juice of a lemon, Cayenne pepper, and salt to taste. Just before serving add the sherry. Have ready in a hot tureen two dozen egg-balls. Egg-balls.—Take of the hard-boiled eggs the yolks, and beat them in a mortar, with salt, Cayenne, and the white of one or two raw eggs to form a paste. Roll this into balls the size of small marbles, flour them, and fry them a pale brown, being careful to keep them whole and separate. Drain on porous paper, and they are ready for the soup. CARROT 6 large red carrots. 2 onions. 1 head of celery. Pepper and salt. SOUP. 1 lump of sugar. 2 quarts broth or stock. 1 lb. ham. 2 oz. butter. Put the butter with the carrots, celery, and onions, thoroughly cleaned and chopped, into a saucepan. Toss them over the fire until well mixed; add the ham cut into pieces, and the stock, let all boil from three to four hours, or until the carrots are quite soft. Press the vegetables with the soup through a sieve, and return to the saucepan. Season, and let boil a few minutes, and if any scum appears, remove it. Serve very hot, with toasted bread cut in dice separately. 2 lb. artichokes. 2 leeks. 2 pints water. 1 pint milk. ARTICHOKE SOUP. 1 oz. butter. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 gill cream. Pepper and salt. Wash and clean the artichokes and leeks, and boil them in water and milk, with the butter. When sufficiently soft, press through a sieve. Put the soup into a clean saucepan, season to taste. Beat the eggs and cream together. Pour the hot sou]) on to them, stirring all the time, return the soup to the saucepan, and pour at once into a hot soupOYSTER SOUP—MULLAGATAWNY SOUP—GIBLET SOUP. r>9 tureen. Milk may be used instead of cream, but it will not be so rich. OYSTER SOUP. 2 pints white stock. 1 pint milk. 1 oz. corn-flour. 1 gill cream. 2 dozen oysters. Cayenne pepper. Salt. i teaspoonful lemon-juice. Add the liquor and beards of the oysters to some good white stock in a saucepan. Mix the corn-flour and the milk free from lumps, add this to the saucepan, and stir until boiling; boil for five minutes and skim thoroughly. Season with Cayenne pepper and salt. Scald the oysters in the cream, pour these into a hot soup tureen; strain the soup over them, and add a little lemon-juice just before serving. MULLAGATAWNY SOUP. 4 lb. knuckle of veal. 2 oz. curry powder. 2 oz. butter. 4 onions, 4 apples. 1 teaspoonful salt. i lb. rice. 1 carrot, 1 turnip. Parsley and thyme. 3 quarts water. 1 lemon. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and when quite hot, fry the onions sliced. When nicely browned, add the curry powder, chopped apples, and two ounces of rice (well washed). Stir until the butter is all absorbed. Break the bones, and cut the meat into small pieces; add these to the saucepan with the tvater, and the vegetables and seasonings. Boil for three hours, stirring occasionally to prevent burning. Rub as much as possible of the meat, vegetables, &c., through a wire-sieve, and return the soup to the saucepan with a lump of sugar-, a little lemon-juice, and salt to taste. Boil for five minutes, and serve hot. Some persons use rabbits instead of veal.—Rice boiled as if for curry should be served in a separate dish. GIBLET SOUP. 4 sets of giblets. 3 onions. 2 pints stock. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. Pepper and salt. Giblets consist of the head and neck, the feet, the pinions of the wings, the liver, gizzard, and heart. The pinions of the wings, and skin of the neck, require to be scalded, toPEAS SOUP. 53 free them from the bits of feather; the feet must be scalded and skinned, and the liver and neck cut into two or three pieces. The beak, which is not used, should be taken from the head, and the skull split When all the pieces are thoroughly cleaned, put them into the stock, and let them boil until they are tender. Then take them out, and cut the meat from the bones into small pieces. Strain the liquor; return it to the saucepan, and thicken with a little kneaded flour and butter. Season with pepper and salt, add the pieces of giblets, and boil for five minutes. Serve hot. PEAS SOUP. This is an excellent soup, if well made, and is one of the cheapest. It may be prepared from cold meat or marrow bone, or the liquor in which any piece of meat has been boiled; or it may be made only with water, without meat, bones, or stock. PEAS SOUP WITH MEAT OR BONES. 1 lb. split peas. 3 onions, 1 carrot, 1 turnip. 1 head of celery. 3 quarts water. 6d. worth of bones. 1 lb. ham. Parsley. 1 teaspoonful salt. Break the bones, and put them into a saucepan with the cold water. Wash the peas, and put them with the bones; add the salt, and let boil. Skim thoroughly before adding the vegetables, all cut into small pieces. Boil with the lid off the pan for half an hour, skimming as required. Then put the lid on the pan and let all boil for four hours, stirring frequently, as the soup is very apt to burn. When the peas are quite soft, put the soup, peas, and vegetables through a sieve. Return to the saucepan, and stir until the pulp is mixed with the soup. Add salt, a lump of sugar, and pepper, to taste, and boil again for a few minutes. Serve hot with toasted bread cut into small square pieces separately. PEAS SOUP 2 lb. split peas. 4 quarts water. 1 lb. dripping'. WITHOUT MEAT OR BONES. Pepper. 4 onions, 2 carrots, 1 turnip. Salt. Put the peas well washed into a saucepan with the dripping, toss them over the fire for five minutes, add the water. Boil and skim thoroughly • cut the vegetables small54 LI5NTIL SOUP—TO Mato soup. and add them to the soup. Season to taste. Boil for two hours or more until the peas are quite soft and the soup thick and pulpy. If the soup become too thick, add a little boiling water. The peas may be boiled the evening before being used, and the longer they boil the smoother and more mellow the soup will be; but do not put in the vegetables until the day the soup is to be used. By this plan the soup docs not require straining, or passing through a sieve. 1 pint red lentils. 2 onions. 1 carrot. 5 turnip. LENTIL SOUP. 2 quarts water. 2 oz. butter or dripping'. 1 teaspoonful salt, s teaspoonful pepper. This soup is very nourishing, and to be well made requires a great deal of attention. Wash the lentils through several waters until clean ; soak them in the cold water for a night. Put the lentils, water, and salt into a large saucepan, let them boil without a lid on the pan and skim thoroughly; unless this be well done the soup will have a rough and coarse taste. Cut the vegetables into small pieces, add them to the lentils, and boil for three hours, skimming frequently. Press through a colander, season to taste, and serve very hot with toasted bread cut into dice separately. TOMATO SOUP. 2 lb. fresh tomatoes or 1 can of tomatoes. 2 onions. 2 oz. ham. 1 lump of sugar. Juice from half a lemon. 1 red carrot. J head celery. 2 pints stock. Pepper and salt. 1 table-spoonful crushed tapioca. Tomatoes are valuable as a wholesome article of diet, and when they cannot be procured fresh, can be had preserved in tins. Put into a stew-pan the butter, ham, sliced onions, carrot, celery, and tomatoes cut into pieces. Put the lid on the pan, and shake the contents over the fire for about five minutes. Add the stock, pepper, and salt, and let all simmer for an hour and a half. Pass all through a hair-sieve, keeping back the skin and seeds; return to the saucepan with the tapioca. Stir till it boils ; add sugar and lemon-juice, and boil for ten minutes. Serve hot.VEGETABLE SOUP— BROTH MAIGRE. 55 LEEK SOUP LEEK SOUP. 2 quarts stock. I 1 roll. 2 dozen leeks. I Pepper and salt. Use very little more of the leeks than the white, and cut them into pieces about an inch long. Pour boiling water over them, and let them stand for ten minutes; throw away the water. Put the leeks into a saucepan with the stock, and boil for four or five hours, skimming now and again. When the leeks are quite soft and the soup thickened with them, season to taste, and pour into a hot soup tureen, containing the roll cut into slices and previously dried in the oven. Serve very hot. VEGETABLE SOUP. 6 onions. 3 carrots. 1 turnip. 2 lettuces or 1 cabbage. 2 leeks. 3 oz. dripping. 6 pints water. 4 oz. broken bread. Pepper and salt. Prepare the vegetables, and cut them all very small; wash and dry them. Melt the dripping in a large saucepan ; add the vegetables, put the lid on the pan, and toss the contents over the fire until all are well mixed. Pour on the water; let it come to the boil without a lid; add seasonings, and skim well. Boil for half an hour, skimming at intervals as required. Cover, and let simmer for one hour or until the vegetables are thoroughly cooked. Put the broken bread into a hot soup tureen, and pour the boiling soup over it. Cover, and send to table very hot. BROTH MAIGRE. 4 onions. 2 potatoes. 1 cupful of rice. 2 oz. dripping. 1 carrot. J turnip. 2 quarts water. Pepper and salt. Slice the onions and put them into a stew-pan with the dripping, and fry them until they are quite soft and have a rich brown tinge. Then put in the cold water, with the carrot, turnip, and potatoes sliced, and also the rice well washed; boil for an hour; after which add more boiling water if required. Boil until all the vegetables are soft and56 FISH SOUP—SCOTCH DISIIES—SHEEPS HAGGIS. pulpy, and stir until the soup is of a uniform thickness. An easy method is to pass all through a sieve or colander. Season with pepper and salt, and serve very hot. FISH SOUP. 1 quart fish stock (page 47). 1 table-spoonful rice flour. 1 pint new milk. 1 filleted haddock cut in small pieces. Cayenne 1 oz. butter. .1 table-spoonful finely- minced parsley. Juice from half a lemon. Salt, pepper. Put the stock into a saucepan, and let it get quite hot; throw in the pieces of fish, and boil for three minutes, remov- ing any scum that may rise. Break the rice-flour with the milk; add this with the butter to the stock, and stir until boiling; add Cayenne pepper and salt to taste, and just at the last, the lemon-juice and parsley. Serve at once. If a richer soup is wished, heat well together a gill of cream and the yolks of two eggs; put them into the soup tureen, and pour on to them the boiling soup, stirring the whole time. Serve at once. SCOTCH DISIIES. The Scotch have a number of dishes which are peculiarly their own, for the preparation of which they have obtained some degree of celebrity. We give recipes for some of these below. Perhaps the most distinctively Scotch are sheep’s head and broth, and the Haggis, of which there are two varieties—sheep and lamb. SHEEP’S HAGGIS. 1 sheep’s pluck. 1 lb. beef suet. 2 teacupfuls oatmeal. Stomach bags. 4 onions. Pepper and salt. Procure the large and one of the small stomach bags of a sheep with the pluck. Wash the bags well in cold water; then plunge them into boiling water, and scrape them, taking care not to break them; let them lie all night in cold water with a little salt in it. Wash the pluck ; put it into a panlamb’s HAGGIS—BROTH. 57 of boiling water, letting the windpipe bang over tbo side of the pan that all impurities may escape; allow it to boil for an hour and a luilf; then lift it from the pan, and let it get cold. Cut away the windpipe -and any fat or gristle that may be attached to it. Grate a quarter of the liver (the rest of the liver will not be required for the haggis), and mince the heart, lights, and suet; parboil the onions and chop them; dry or toast the oatmeal before the fire; mix all thoroughly well together, and add black pepper and salt, and half a pint of the liquor in which the pluck was boiled. Fill the bags rather more than half full (if they be too full they will burst in boiling), and sew them up with a needle and thread. Put them into a pan of boiling water, and boil for three hours, pricking the bags occasionally with a large needle to allow the air to escape, and prevent them bursting. Serve in a folded napkin on a hot dish, without garnish or gravy, as they are sufficiently rich in themselves. The materials used vary a little; for instance, a little minced tripe is sometimes added, but the above is the usual method of making haggis. LAMB’S HAGGIS. 1 lamb’s fry. 1 lamb’s pluck. 1 large bag. \ lb. suet. 1 teacupful oatmeal. Pepper and salt. This is a much more delicate dish than sheep’s haggis, but is less frequently made. The fry is composed of the sweet- breads, kernels, &c. Prepare the bag, as in a sheep’s haggis. Cleanse thoroughly every other part; parboil and chop all finely with the suet. Mix with dried oatmeal, salt, and pepper, and sew the mixture in the bag. Boil and attend to it in the same manner as a sheep’s haggis. Serve hot. BROTH, OR ‘KAIL.’ 3 lb. neck of mutton or runner of beef. £ cupful pearl barley. Salt. 2 quarts water. 3 leeks. 2 carrots. 1 small turnip. £ cabbage. Broth is made from beef or mutton. In winter salted mutton, steeped for a short time in cold water before using, is often substituted for fresh meat; and where meat cannot58 hotcii-potch—cockie-leekie. be obtained, it is not unusual to make the broth with butter or dripping kneaded with a little oatmeal. Put the meat and cold water into a saucepan with the pearl-barley, and let it boil. Skim thoroughly and add the salt. Allow it to boil gently for an hour, skimming occasion- ally. Then add one carrot grated, half a turnip cut in squares, the leeks shred, a few pieces of carrot and turnip, and the cabbage chopped, parboiled, and drained. When cabbage cannot be procured, the same quantity of greens should be used. Boil for an hour after the vegetables are put in. If necessary, a small quantity of hot water should be added to compensate for the loss in boiling. The broth is now ready. Season, and serve in a tureen. The meat should be served in a separate dish, garnished with the uncut pieces of turnip and carrot, and a little of the broth as gravy. HOTCH POTCH. 3 lb. lamb. 2 pints green peas. 1 lettuce. 6 spring onions. 1 pint beans. 5 young carrots. 3 young turnips. 1 small cauliflower. Parsley. 2 quarts water. This dish can only be obtained in perfection when green peas are in season. Trim the joint from all superfluous fat, and put it into a clean saucepan with the boiling water, two or three carrots cut into squares, and two grated, the turnips cut in squares, the cauliflower and a lettuce cut small, the onions shred, the parsley chopped, and about a pint of peas shelled and a pint of beans shelled and skinned. Boil for an hour and a half, then take out the meat, and after cutting it in chops, lay it aside. Add another pint of young peas, season with pepper and salt; when these peas are cooked, put in the chops. Heat for a few minutes, and serve the whole in a tureen. COCKIE-LEEKIE. 1 fowl. I 18 leeks. 2 quarts stock or water. I Pepper and salt. Prepare the leeks by removing the root and green parts, cut them in slices, and cover with boiling water for five minutes. Drain, and put the leeks with a large fowl trussed as if for boiling into a saucepan with the stock, pepper, andSHEEP’S HEAD—SHEEP’S-HEAD PlE. 50 salt. Cook very slowly for about two hours. Cut the fowl in pieces, and place it in the tureen; pour over them the soup, which should be quite thick with leeks. SHEEP’S HEAD. 1 sheep’s head and trotters. Pepper and salt. 2 carrots. 1 turnip. 1 pint parsley sauce. After the head has been singed, soak it for some time in warm water, and then scrape it until it is perfectly clean. Then split the head and remove the brains. Take out the eyes, and scrape and clean the nostrils; after which wash the head again, and let it lie in warm water and salt for a short time. It is usual to procure the trotters with the head, and to subject them to similar treatment. The head and trotters being clean, put them, Avith sufficient water to cover them, into a saucepan, and let them boil till the skin is soft and tender, which may be in about three hours. Boil the brains in salt, vinegar, and water for ten minutes; drain and chop them. Place the two halves of the head flat upon a dish, cover with parsley sauce—garnish with the brains on the head—and the trotters, carrot, and turnip round it. Sheep’s head is seldom thus prepared without broth being afterwards made of the liquor in which it was boiled. Let the liquor get quite cold ; then remove all fat from it, and put it into a saucepan with one small cupful of pearl barley, well washed; let it boil for half an hour; then add two carrots and two turnips cut into small dice, three onions sliced, and a little parsley; boil slowly for two hours, and season with salt only. Serve hot. SHEEP’S-HEAD PIE. 1 sheep’s head and trotters. A little powdered mace. A little powdered ginger. h lb. rough puff pastry. J lb. bacon. 3 eggs. Pepper and salt. After the head and trotters have been properly cleaned, simmer slowly for five or six hours. Whilst warm, remove the bones, and cut the head and feet neatly into small pieces. Have ready some bacon and hard-boiled eggs sliced. Place a layer of sheep’s head in the bottom of a pie-dish. Sprinkle60 lamb's head and PLUCK. over it a mixture of pepper, salt, mace, and ginger ; then put a layer of bacon and eggs. Repeat till the disli is Idled. Add a cupful of the liquor in which the head was cooked. Cover with paste (page 93); bake an hour and a half. Oysters may be substituted for the eggs; this is the true Scotch method. TO DRESS A LAMB’S HEAD AND PLUCK. 1 lamb’s head. 1 table-spoonful parsley chopped. 2 oz. flour. 1 onion chopped. Bread crumbs. 2 oz. butter. 3 eggs. A little milk. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. Fat for frying. Lamb’s heads are procured skinned. Take the head with the neck attached; split the forehead, take out the brains, and put them aside in salt and water. Wash the head carefully, rubbing the nostrils well with salt, take out the eyes; put it on to boil with the heart, half the liver, and the lights, leaving the lid of the pan partly open, that the gases may escape; let all simmer for an hour and a quarter, and then take them out; dry the head and neck with a cloth; brush it over with a beaten egg, strew crumbs of bread seasoned with pepper and salt over it, put small pieces of butter on the top, and lay it in a dish before a clear fire, to brown lightly. Mince the lights, heart, and liver, and mix them with the onion, parsley, pepper, salt, ketchup, and a little flour ; add some of the liquor in which the head was cooked to make a gravy. Let these simmer by the side of the fire for half an hour. Wash the brains; boil them for ten minutes in hot salt, vinegar, and water. Drain the water from them, and beat them with two eggs, two table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, a little flour and finely-chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and milk, if necessary, to form a thick batter. Have ready a pan of hot fat or dripping, and fry the batter in small round cakes to a nice brown. Cut the remainder of the liver in slices, dust it with flour, and fry it. Place the head upon a dish with the hash round it, and lay a slice of liver and a brain-cake alternately on the hash all round. Care must be taken to have all the parts of this dish hot and ready to serve at the proper time.61 DRESSED VEAL PLUCK—MINCED COLLOrS. TO DRESS A VEAL PLUCK. 1 calf’s pluck. 1 onion. 2 oz. flour. 2 table-spoonfuls ketchup. J lb. bacon. Dripping. STUFFING FOR HEART. 2 oz. bread crumbs. 1 oz. suet chopped. 1 egg. 1 table-spoonful parsley- chopped. Pepper and salt. Wash the pluck and dry it. Stuff the heart in the opening at the top with a stuffing made of the above ingredients, and sew it up. Then roast it for from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour according to the size. Parboil the lights and half the liver; mince them finely, and stew them for half an hour in a little of the liquor in which they were boiled, with a chopped onion, pepper, salt, ketchup, and a little flour. Cut the remainder of the liver in slices, toss them in flour, and fry them with the slices of bacon. Place the heart in the centre of a hot dish, with the hash round it, and a slice of liver, and one of bacon alternately on the hash all round. Another way.—Parboil, and then mince the heart and lights with seasonings as above. Stew for half an hour with a little of the liquor in which the heart and lights were boiled. Cut the liver in slices, toss them in flour, and fry them with the slices of bacon. Pour the hash into a deep, hot dish, and garnish on the top with the liver and bacon. To make collops, take a slice of lean beef (steak from the round is best), remove all fat and skin, and mince finely. Put the butter into a stew-pan, and, when it is melted, add the collops and the onion sliced. Beat well with a spoon or beater until the collops are separated; then add the bread crumbs, water, ketchup, pepper, and salt. Cover closely, and allow all to simmer gently for one hour, stirring occasionally. Pour on to a hot dish, and garnish with toasted sippets. MINCED COLLOPS. 1 lb. beef collops. 1 small onion. Pepper. Salt. Toasted sippets. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. 3 table-spoonfuls water. 1 table-spoonful bread crumbs.G2 POTATO SOUr—OATMEAL PORRIDGE—SAUCES. rOTATO SOUP. 6 potatoes. 3 leeks or onions. 1 carrot. Pepper. Roast meat bones or 2 oz. dripping. 3 pints cold water. Salt. Take any bones of cold roast meat, a marrow-bone, or, failing these, a piece of dripping, put them into a saucepan with the cold water, and let them boil for one hour. Have ready the potatoes and leeks or onions parboiled and thinly sliced, and the carrot grated. Strain the stock from the bones on to these. Return to the saucepan, season with pepper and salt, and boil for one hour. Stir and skim occasionally. Break the vegetables by the side of the pan so that the soup may be thick and pulpy. Serve hot. The best oatmeal for porridge is that which is of medium coarseness in the grains or particles. Put a saucepan on the fire with water proportionate to the quantity of porridge required. Salt it to taste. When the water boils, begin sprinkling in the oatmeal with one hand, while you stir with a stick with the other. Endeavour to calculate what quantity of meal will be necessary to produce the desired thickness, and sprinkle it in as quickly as possible, so as to let it all boil equally. A common error is to continue putting in meal to the last. After all the meal is in, continue boiling and stirring for about ten minutes, taking care that no knots or lumps are formed. When sufficiently boiled, pour the porridge into dishes. This is genuine Scotch porridge, which is eaten when partially cool, with sweet milk. Take the stems from the mushrooms (medium-sized ones are best for ibis sauce), and peel them. Break them in OATMEAL PORRIDGE. SAUCES. MUSHROOM SAUCE. 24 mushrooms. 2 oz. butter. 1 gill water. Pepper and salt.SAUCE PIQUANTE—MELTED BUTTER—CAPER SAUCE. G3 small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with the butter, pepper, and a good sprinkling of salt; shake them over the lire for a few minutes; then add the water, and simmer gently for about half an hour. To thicken this sauce, add a little butter and flour kneaded together, and cook all for five minutes. Serve very hot. SAUCE PIQUANTE. 1 onion, i carrot. 3 pickled gherkins. 1 gill vinegar. i pint stock. i table-spoonful ketchup. 1 table-spoonful capers. Cayenne pepper. Salt. Put a table-spoonful of chopped onions and carrot into a saucepan with the vinegar, and let it boil till the vinegar is reduced to one table-spoonful; then add the stock and ketchup, and season highly with Cayenne pepper and salt; allow all to boil together till the onions are quite dissolved. Then add the gherkins cut small, and the capers, and boil again for five minutes. Serve very hot in a sauce-boat. This sauce, which is highly flavoured, is a great improve- ment to many dishes. MELTED BUTTER. 1 oz. butter. I i pint water or milk. ! oz. flour. I Salt. Melt the butter in a clean saucepan, then add the flour; draw the pan to the side of the fire, and mix thoroughly together with a spoon until there are no lumps. Pour on gradually the cold water or milk, stirring all the time; and continue to stir until the sauce boils for four or five minutes. Season to taste and serve hot. This sauce is the foundation of a number of other sauces, various additions being made to it. CAPER SAUCE. 1 oz. butter. i oz. flour. Pepper. i pint liquor. 1 table-spoonful capers. Salt. Make the sauce as above directed for melted butter, using half a pint of the liquor in which the meat was boiled64 I>ARSLEY —CELERY—ONION—EGO SAUCE. instead of water, and when the sauce lias boiled, stir in the capers finely chopped. Let it boil for a minute, to take off the crispness of the capers. If preferred, the capers may be added whole. PARSLEY SAUCE. 1 oz. butter, j oz. flour. I pint water. 2 table-spoonfuls parsley chopped. Pepper and salt. Take some parsley, and after having removed the dead leaves and stalks, wash it thoroughlyand dry it in a cloth. Then chop it very finely, and stir it into melted butter made as above. CELERY SAUCE. 1 head of celery. 1 oz. butter, i oz. flour. 1 pint milk. 1 gill cream. Pepper and salt. Cut the celery into pieces an inch long, and boil them in water. Melt the butter and make the sauce as above. Put the cooked celery into this; season with salt and white pepper. Add the cream, let boil, and serve at once, as it is apt to curdle if it stands. ONION SAUCE. 4 onions. I i oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. I 1 pint milk or broth. Pepper and salt. Skin the onions, and boil them in plenty of water. When they are soft, take them from the water, and chop them very fine. Make the sauce as directed above for melted butter, and stir in the onions, seasoning with pepper and salt. Serve as required. EGG SAUCE. 2 eggs. 1 oz. butter. i oz. flour. 1 pint milk. j teaspoonful mustard. Pepper and salt. P>oil the eggs till they are quite hard. Peel and chop them, and then stir them into melted butter made as before directed. Season with mustard, pepper, and salt.SWEET—WHIPPED—LOBSTER—IIOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 65 SWEET SAUCE FOR PLUM-PUDDING, &c. 1 oz. butter. 1 glass sherry. £ oz. flour. I * glass brandy. 1 gill of water. I 1 oz- sugar. Lemon-peel or nutmeg. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and water, and when it lias boiled add the sherry, brandy, sugar, grated lemon-peel or nutmeg. Ho not let it boil after the spirits are added. WHIPPED OR GERMAN SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS. 1 wine-glassful sherry. | 1 table-spoonful powdered 2 yolks of eggs. I sugar. Put the above ingredients into a jar, and place it in a saucepan of boiling water. Whisk the contents of the jar until thick and frothy looking, but on no account allow the sauce to boil. Serve immediately. Pour it over the pudding, or serve in a tureen. LOBSTER OR CRAB SAUCE. 1 lobster or 1 crab, 2 oz. butter, i oz. flour. £ pint milk. 1 table-spoonful cream. £ lemon. Cayenne pepper and salt. Pick out the meat from the boiled lobster or crab; chop it, and put it into a sauce of the butter, flour, and milk, made as before directed. Season with Cayenne pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. If the lobster be procured raw, with spawn on the outside, this should be taken off previous to boiling, pounded with a little butter, and added to the sauce after the lobster. When it has boiled for a few minutes, the sauce will become a bright red. This is an improvement on common lobster sauce. Add the cream just before serving. HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 gill cream. Salt. 1 oz. butter. 1 lemon (juice only). Cayenne pepper. Put all into a small saucepan or a jar placed in another saucepan of boiling water, and whisk the eggs, &c., until a thick sauce is formed. Pcmovo it immediately from the fire; turn into a hot sauce tureen and servo quickly. E6G OYSTER—BREAD—APPLE—MINT SAUCE. OYSTER SAUCE. 24 oysters. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 pint milk. 1 lemon. 1 table-spoonful cream. Cayenne pepper. Salt. Take the liquor which runs from the oysters when they are opened, and scald the oysters in it. Pick out the oysters, heard them, and lay them aside. Prepare the sauce with the butter, flour, and milk, as above directed; add the liquor strained. Boil for three minutes, draw the pan to the side of the fire, put in the oysters, and season with salt, Cayenne popper, and lemon-juice. When hot, but not boiling, add the cream and serve at once. BREAD SAUCE. 1 pint milk. s pint bread crumbs. 2 oz. butter. 1 onion. 6 cloves. 1 teaspoonful salt. Skin and scald the onion, stick the cloves into it, and put it in a saucepan by the side of the fire, with the milk and salt. Let stand for half an hour, or until the onion has slightly flavoured the milk. Take out the onion and cloves. Add the bread crumbs gradually, stirring all the time; next add the butter. Let the sauce simmer for five minutes for the bread to swell, stirring until it is smooth and thick. APPLE SAUCE. 6 large apples. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-spoonful water. 2 table-spoonfuls moist sugar. A little grated nutmeg. Pare and cut down good baking apples, being careful to remove the cores. Put them in a saucepan to stew, with the sugar, butter, and water. Stew them till they are quite soft and reduced to a pulp. If they appear too moist, pour the water away. Then beat them to a smooth pulp, and serve hot. MTNT SAUCE. 2. table-spoonfuls chopped mint. 1 gill vinegar. 1 table-spoonful brown sugar. 1 teaspoonful salt. Take the leaves of fresh green mint. Wash them, and after drying, chop them very fine. Mix them with the vinegar, salt, and sugar. This sauce is best when freshly made,67 TOMATO—SALAD—MAYONNAISE SAUCE. TOMATO SAUCE. 4 large tomatoes. 1 small onion. 1 small red carrot. 1 gill stock. i teaspoonful salt. Small lump of sugar. J lemon. Cayenne pepper. Procure ripe tomatoes. Remove the stems, cut them into slices, and put them in a pan to stew with the onion, carrot, and stock. Boil till they are quite soft. Then pass them through a hair-sieve. Season with the Cayenne, sugar, lemon- juice, and salt. Serve hot, either in a small tureen or in the dish with the meat. SALAD SAUCE. 2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful salt. 3 teaspoonful mustard i teaspoonful fine sugar. 3 table-spoonfuls salad oil. 1 table-spoonful Tarragon vinegar. 1 table-spoonful white vinegar. Boil the eggs quite hard. When cold, take out the yolks and bruise them with a spoon, with the salt, mustard, and fine sugar. Stir till a smooth paste. Then add drop by drop the salad oil; when these ai’e well mixed pour in the vinegars slowly, stirring all the time, until the mixture has the appearance of thick cream. Let it stand in a cold place for an hour. It is then ready to use. MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 4 eggs. Pine salt. Mustard. 2 table-spoonfuls Tarragon vinegar. 1 pint salad oil. 3 table-spoonfuls white vinegar. J table-spoonful Chili vinegar. Cayenne pepper. It will, be found impossible to make a good mayonnaise sauce without a considerable amount of patience and per- severance ; the careful and thorough blending of the ingredi- ents used is the secret of perfect success. Put the yolks of the eggs into a small round-bottomed basin, with the salt, Cayenne pepper, and mustard; mix them well with a wooden spoon or Dover whisk ; add half the oil drop by drop, stirring briskly the whole time; next stir in gradually the Tarragon and Chili vinegar; then add the68 FISH—BOILED FISH. remainder of the oil drop by drop, and lastly the white vinegar. Let the sauce stand for half an hour before using. Serve over cold fowl, salmon, or salad, or separately in a sauce-boat with hot salmon, trout, &c. The appearance of this sauce may be varied by the addition of a little finely- chopped parsley or Tarragon stirred in just before serving. FISH. Fish is dressed in a variety of ways, according to the kind and freshness of the fish, or to suit the taste of individuals. It may be boiled, broiled, baked, stewed, or fried, but the most common methods of cooking it are boiling and frying. Great care must be given to the preparation and cooking of fish. When properly prepared and well cooked, it is a pleasant and nutritious article of food; but if badly prepared and underdone, it not only has a most unpleasing appearance, but is more liable than any other kind of food to cause indi- gestion and other bad effects. White-fleshed fish is considered to be the most delicate, and the red-fleshed and oily kinds the most nourishing. To cleanse Fish.—Fresh-water fish should be cleaned as soon as they are caught, salt-water fish just before they are to be used. Make a slight incision in the side, and take out the inside; carefully remove the thin black membrane lining the cavity, as it is apt to impart a bitter flavour to the whole fish if it is left. Scrape from the tail towards the head to remove the scales; take out the eyes; wash the fish in plenty of water with a little salt in it, and dry it carefully. Handle the fish as little as possible, and do not allow it to lie in the water, or the flavour will be washed away before it is time to cook it. TO BOIL FISH. If a whole fish is to be cooked, prepare it as above directed; have ready a fish-kettle containing sufficient cold water to cover the fish, with salt in the proportion of about two ounces to each half-gallon of water; place the fish on a drainer, and put it into the fisli-kettle; bring it to the boil, add69 PRIED FISH. about a table-spoonful of cold water, and skim; then draw the kettle to the side of the fire, and simmer slowly till the fish is cooked. If the fish has been cut, have ready over the fire a fish- kettle of water boiling rapidly, containing enough water to cover the fish and salt in the above proportionj place the fish on a drainer, and put it into the water; allow it to boil rapidly for three or four minutes; then skim, draw the fish-kettle to the side of the fire, and allow it to simmer very gently till the fish is cooked. The time required depends entirely on the freshness and thickness of the fish, and varies so much that to give any rule would be practically useless; experience is the only guide. We give, however, three reliable tests by which it can be ascertained whether it is sufficiently cooked; first, if the fins can be easily removed; second, if the skin of the fish is cracked; or, third, if a skewer passes easily when run into the fish close to the bone. Fish should always be put into the water in which it is to be cooked; if the water is poured upon it, it is apt to become broken. It should not be allowed to remain in the water after it is ready; if it has to be kept hot it should be taken up upon the drainer, placed across the fish-kettle over the hot water, and covered with a soft cloth or flannel folded several times. TO FRY FISH. White fish, such as whiting and haddocks, should be fried whole if they are small; they must first be washed and skinned, and then the tail should be passed through the eye sockets. Soles and plaice, if larger than medium size, and also large whiting and haddocks, should be filleted, and the fillets cut into conveniently-sized pieces, the bones and trimmings being used for fish stock (see page 47). When the fish is so far prepared, washed, and dried, dust it well with flour to absorb any remaining moisture; then dip it into a well-beaten egg seasoned with pepper and salt, and toss it in a paper with plenty of bread crumbs, turning it if necessary with a fork or skewer, but not with the fingers and thumb. As each piece is prepared, lay it upon a sieve or piece of paper, until it is time to cook it. Heat in a70 BOILED SALMON—SALMON STEAKS—KIPPERED SALMON. saucepan enough clarified fat to fill the saucepan about three- quarters when it is melted; when it is ready (see page 27) put in a few pieces of the prepared fish, and fry them for three or four minutes until they are a nice golden brown. Lift them with a perforated spoon on to a piece of porous paper to drain, and keep them hot in the oven or before the fire until the rest of the fish is cooked. Ascertain that the fat is quite hot again before any more fish is put into it. When all is cooked, serve hot and crisp on a folded napkin or fish-paper, and garnish with parsley. BOILED SALMON. Prepare and boil according to general directions. Serve on a hot dish with a drainer, and place a folded napkin under the fish; garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Send to table with it, in a sauce-boat, melted butter, parsley, mayonnaise or hollandaise sauce, and a dish of sliced cucum- ber, prepared with a little white vinegar, salad oil, pepper, and salt. Some of the water in which the fish was boiled may also be served with it in a sauce-boat. SALMON STEAKS. Cut thick slices of salmon; wash and dry them; rub them with oil or oiled butter, and sprinkle over them a good pinch of pepper and salt. Heat a gridiron and grease it well, place the salmon steaks upon it, and broil them over a very clear fire for from ten to fifteen minutes according to the thickness, turning them frequently. Serve very hot, with pats of fresh butter. KIPPERED SALMON. 2 slices salmon. I Lemon-juice. Writing paper. I Butter. Cayenne pepper. Cut neat square slices of salmon; wash them thoroughly in cold water, and dry them. Butter a sheet of thick writing paper well inside and out; lay a piece of the fish upon one side, and put upon it a small pat of butter, a pinch of Cayenne pepper, and a squeeze of lemon-juice; fold the other half of the paper over, and secure it neatly round the fish,71 Fried trout or herrings—boibed turbot. so that it is tightly enveloped in it. Prepare the other slice of fish in the same way, and place both on a hot, well- greased gridiron; cook the salmon lor four or five minutes, turning it constantly that it may be thoroughly heated through. Serve in the papers on a hot dish, and garnish with parsley. FRIED TROUT OR HERRINGS. 6 trout or herrings. I Oatmeal or flour, i lb. dripping. I A little milk. Pepper and salt. Trout of a moderate size should be dressed whole, and are best fried. Clean the fish, scale, and wash them. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them, and toss them in oatmeal or flour; melt the dripping in a frying-pan, and let it get quite hot; then put in the fish, and fry them for six or seven minutes, turning them that both sides may be browned. Lift them on to a piece of porous paper to drain, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin under them. BOILED TURBOT. Turbot is considered to be the finest flat fish, and requires care both in the preparation and in cooking. It is best to choose a medium-sized fish, which should be thick in the middle, of a cream-coloured white, and elastic to the touch. Before it is to be cooked, alloiv it to lie for ten minutes in strong salt and water, and then rub it well with the hand to remove the slime. Wash it carefully in fresh water, and dry it. Leave the fins on, and make an incision in the black side to prevent the white skin from cracking; rub the white side with lemon-juice and a little salt to preserve the colour. See that the fish-kettle is roomy and scrupulously clean; then boil according to general directions for from twenty-five to thirty minutes, skimming very carefully when necessary. Serve with the white side uppermost, on a hot dish, with a folded napkin under the fish. Garnish with crimped parsley, cut lemon, and lobster spawn. Serve separately in a sauce-boat, lobster, hollandaise, or butter sauce.72 BAKED TURBOT—BOILED HALIBUT—COD. TO BAKE TURBOT. 1 small turbot. 3 oz. butter. 1 teaspoonful salt, i teaspoonful pepper. 1 egg-. i table-spoonful vinegar. 1 table-spoonful parsley chopped. 3 table-spoonfuls bread crumbs. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. Fillet the turbot and cut the fillets into pieces about three inches long. Wash and dry each piece, and dip them into a beaten egg and then into a mixture of crumbs of bread, parsley, pepper, and salt, in the above proportions. Place them in a well-buttered dish, with a piece of butter on each piece of fish, and bake in a moderately hot oven for about half an hour, basting frequently. When cooked, lay the pieces in a hot dish, and pour the ketchup and vinegar into the dish in which the turbot was cooked. Season and boil the sauce, and pour it round the fillets. Serve hot. Oyster or lobster sauce may be served, when liked, with fillets prepared in this way. BOILED HALIBUT. This fish is far inferior to turbot, but it may be prepared and boiled in the same way. Serve hot, with egg, parsley, or butter sauce, in a sauce-boat. BOILED COD. Prepare and boil according to general directions. Serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin under the fish, and oyster, egg, parsley, or butter sauce separately in a sauce-boat. TO DRESS A COD’S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. 1 cod's bead and shoulders. Browned bread crumbs. 1 egg. 1 pint oyster sauce. 2 oz. butter. Vinegar. Pepper and salt. Wash the head, clean it thoroughly, and let it lie in salt all night. Next morning, skin it, and bind it with tape to keep it firm. Put it in a fish-kettle, back upwards, with plenty of cold water, a handful of salt, and a little vinegar. Let it heat slowly, and boil for about half an hour. Then73 DRESSED MIDDLE CUT OF COD—HADDOCKS. drain it across the top of the kettle. Place it back upwards, on the dish in which it is to be served, cut and draw away the tapes very carefully. Brush it over with beaten egg, strew bread crumbs, pepper, and salt over it, and place pieces of butter on the top. Set it before a clear lire or in the oven to brown. Pour the oyster sauce, highly seasoned, around the lish, but not over it. TO DRESS A MIDDLE CUT OF COD. 2 lb. cod. 2 eggs. 3 table-spoonfuls bread crumbs. 2 oz. butter. 1 table-spoonful chopped parsley. 1 onion. Wash and dry the fish thoroughly. Make a stuffing with two table-spoonfuls bread crumbs, the parsley, onion, pepper, salt, and butter moistened with egg. Put this into the open part of the fish, and fix it with skewers. Then brush the fish over with beaten egg, and strew crumbs of bread, pepper, and salt well over it. Place the fish in a deep dish well buttered; put a few pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a moderately hot oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Baste occasionally. Serve hot in the dish in which it was cooked. BOILED HADDOCKS. Prepare and boil according to general directions. Serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin under; garnish with parsley, and serve butter or parsley sauce in a sauce-boat. TO DRESS AND BAKE A HADDOCK. 1 haddock. 1 table-spoonful chopped parsley. Egg. Dripping. Bread crumbs. Pepper and salt. This is a delicious dish when well prepared. Take a medium-sized haddock, clean and wash it well. Cut off the tail and fins, and dry it thoroughly. Make a stuffing ot the parsley, bread crumbs, dripping, pepper, and salt, and moisten it with an egg. Put this into the inside of the fish; sew the flaps over, and form the haddock into the shape of74 IUZZAUD HADDOCKS—POTTED SOLES. the letter S by drawing a string through the head, the middle of the body, and the tail. Place this on a greased baking- tin, brush it over with melted dripping, cover it with bread crumbs, and bake in the oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Carefully lift the fish on to a hot dish, draw away the string, and serve with dry toast and fresh butter separately. RIZZARD HADDOCKS. 4 fresh haddocks. | \ lb. butter. This way of dressing haddocks is suitable only where they are to be had perfectly fresh. Take haddocks of a medium size ; cleanse and wash them thoroughly ; rub them with salt, and allow them to lie in salt for one night. Next day, pass a thick wire through the eyes, and hang them up for two days in the open air outside a house, where the sun will not touch them. To dress the haddocks, take out the backbones, and skin them. Broil them over a clear fire on a gridiron, previously rubbed with fat. When they are cooked place them on a hot dish, rub a good pat of butter over each fish, and serve very hot. POTTED SOLES. 2 soles. 1 lemon. 2 eggs. 1 oz. gelatin. Parsley. Cayenne pepper. 2 table-spoonfuls anchovy sauce. A little nutmeg. 1 pint water. Billet the soles, and season each fillet with a little lemon- juice, parsley, Cayenne, nutmeg, and salt. Roll them up and tie with pieces of fine string. Have a pint of stock made of the fish-bones; strain, and lay the pieces of sole in a saucepan with it; stew gently for half an hour. Lift the fish out on to a plate to get cold; then remove the string. Strain the stock on to the gelatin, and stir until it has dis- solved ; add two table-spoonfuls of shrimp or anchovy sauce. Boil it for a minute. Lay the pieces of sole in a mould lined with hard-boiled eggs sliced, and some shred parsley; add the liquor, let it stand till cold, and then turn out in a dish. Garnish with parsley and, when convenient, fresh shrimps,75 OYSTER OMELET—FISH PIE. and serve salad sauce separately. This is a nice cold lunch or supper dish. When soles are not in season, haddocks or any other white fish may be used, all the bones being care- fully removed. 3 eggs. 18 oysters. Lemon-juice. OYSTER OMELET. 2 oz. butter. Cayenne pepper. Salt. Beat the eggs very lightly. Beard the oysters; stir them into the beaten eggs, and season highly with Cayenne, sail, and lemon-juice. Melt the butter in a clean omelet-pan, skim away all froth, and pour in the egg mixture before the butter becomes coloured. Hold the handle, and keep the pan moving over the fire until the omelet mixture looks of the consistency of thick cream; let the pan then rest over the fire for about a minute. Swiftly slide a broad pliable knife or a slice under one half, and fold it over the other half to form an oval. Trim the edges neatly, and tilt the pan, so that the lower side of the omelet may become of a golden-brown colour; it will then be ready. Reverse the pan over a hot dish, and serve quickly with the brown side uppermost. The omelet should be brown and firm on the outside, but soft and creamy inside when broken. Hover turn an omelet, as this makes it heavy. FISH PIE. 2 haddocks. 3 oz. butter. 18 oysters. 1 lemon. 1 egg. 1 gill milk. Bread crumbs. Pepper and salt. Clean, skin, and fillet the haddocks. Butter a flat dish and put into it first a layer of bread crumbs, then a layer ot haddock, cut in pieces; next oysters, lemon-juice, and seasonings; then another layer of bread crumbs, with small pieces of butter. Repeat this until all the fish is used up. Pour over the oyster liquor mixed with the beaten egg and milk. Cover the top with bread crumbs and a few pieces of butter ; bake for about half an hour in a good hot oven. Serve hot.7 G MACKEREL—FISH AND SAUCE—STEWED EELS. MACKEREL. Mackerel may lie boiled or broiled, but never fried. It is a very delicate and easily-disfigured fish, and must be handled as little and as lightly as possible. Fennel sauce should be served with boiled mackerel. BROILED MACKEREL. 1 mackerel. I Butter. Pepper. | Salt. Fennel or parsley. Wash the mackerel well, split it open, and carefully remove the backbone; season it with pepper and salt; place it on a hot, well-greased gridiron, and cook it for about seven minutes over a clear fire, turning it frequently and carefully; lift it on to a hot dish, sprinkle over it a little chopped fennel or parsley, put upon it a good pat of butter1, and serve at once. FISH AND SAUCE. 2 haddocks. 1 onion. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-spoonful parsley. 1 oz. flour. 1 pint water. Pepper and salt. Thoroughly cleanse the fish, and let them lie all night among salt. Next day skin them, and cut off the heads, tails, and fins. Boil these trimmings for three-quarters of an hour in water. Brown the flour and butter in a stew-pan. Add the liquor strained, then the sliced onion, and other seasonings. Boil and skim thoroughly for about fifteen minutes. Cut the fish in pieces, add it to the sauce, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes. Lift the fish into the centre of a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve hot. TO STEW EELS. 2 eels. Flour. 2 oz. butter. 2 table-spoonfuls ketcliup. Water. Parsley. Clean and skin the eels; cut off the heads, fins, and tails, and divide the bodies into pieces of four or five inches long. JDust each piece with flour. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, and brown the pieces of fish all over; pour on as muchbaked HERRINGS—BOILED SALT FISH—FRIED OYSTERS. 77 hot water as will just cover them, and add a few leaves of parsley, pepper, and salt. Simmer for about a quarter of an hour. Then take out the pieces of eel on to a hot dish, and thicken the sauce with a little flour and ketchup. Boil for a few minutes; strain the sauce over the fish, and serve in a hash-dish, with pieces of toasted bread round the edges. TO BAKE OR PICKLE HERRINGS. 12 herrings. 1 large onion. I pint vinegar. 12 sweet bay leaves. Pepper and salt. 1 gill water. Clean the herrings, and wipe them with a damp cloth to take off the scales. Do not wash them. Cut off the heads, tails, and fins, split down the middle, and take out the centre bones. Lay the fish flat, season with pepper and salt, and roll them up with the back outwards. Place them neatly in a pie-dish, with a bay-leaf and tiny piece of onion between each. Mix the vinegar and water, and pour them over the fish; cover the top of the dish with greased paper, and bake in a moderately hot oven for from two to three hours. Serve hot or cold. TO BOIL SALT FISH. 2 lb. salt fish. | 1 lb. parsnips, i pint egg sauce. Cut the fish in pieces, and steep it in cold water for several hours. Then put the pieces into a saucepan with cold water, and boil them for about twenty minutes. Serve with egg sauce and boiled parsnips, in separate dishes. TO FRY OYSTERS. 24 oysters. J lb. flour. 1 white of an egg. 1 table-spoonful salad-oil. Salt. 1 gill liquor and water. Cayenne pepper. Fat for frying. Make a batter with the flour, a pinch of salt, the oil, and one gill of the liquor from the oysters and water (added to make the full quantity). When these are well mixed and free from lumps, add lightly the white of egg whipped to a stiff froth. Dip the oysters separately into this batter, cover well, and drop them into hot fat; fry for about three minutes.78 SCAELOPED OYSTERS—STEWED OYSTERS—CRAR PIE. Lift from the fat, with a perforated spoon, on to porous paper to drain. Serve hot on a folded napkin or paper. Garnisli with parsley and slices of fresh lemon. Mussels may he dressed in the same manner, but several should be dipped together in the batter. TO SCALLOP OYSTERS. 24 oysters. 2 oz. butter. J lemon. Bread crumbs. Pepper. Salt. Beard the oysters, and scald them in their own liquor. Butter some scallop shells, or tins; strew crumbs of bread mixed with pepper and salt at the bottom of the shells, then some oysters, more crumbs, and so on, finishing with crumbs. Moisten the whole with the liquor in which the oysters tvere scalded highly seasoned, and put pieces of butter thickly over the top. Place the dish before the fire or in the oven for from ten to twenty minutes, according to the size of the shells. TO STEW OYSTERS. 3 dozen oysters. 1 oz. butter. Cayenne pepper. Lemon-juice. | pint milk. $ oz. flour. 1 table-spoonful cream. Salt. Beard the oysters, melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, mix well, and pour on the milk ; stir until boiling, add the oyster liquor, and boil for five minutes. Season with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice; add the oysters, and simmer for five minutes; pour in the cream, and serve in a hash-dish, with pieces of toasted bread laid around. TO MAKE A CRAB PIE. 2 crabs. Butter. Cayenne pepper. Bread crumbs. 1 table-spoonful vinegar. Salt. Put the crabs alive, in a pan of boiling water, with some salt. Boil them for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, according to the size. When cold, pick the meat from the claws and body. Chop all together, and mix it with crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, butter, and a little vinegar according79 LOBSTERS—COLO FISH—SOUSED MACKEREL. to taste. Put all this into the shell, place a few pieces of butter on the top, and brown before the fire or in the oven. A crab shell will hold the meat of two crabs. LOBSTERS TO BE EATEN COLD. 2 lobsters. I Water. Parsley. I Salt. Procure the lobsters alive. Hen lobsters are the best, as they have spawn in and about them. Put them in boiling water, with some salt, and boil for from half to three-quarters of an hour, or more, according to the size. When cooked, take them out of the water and wipe the shells. Before they are quite cold, rub the shells with a buttered cloth. Take off the large claws, and crack the shells carefully, so as not to bruise the meat. Cut the bodies and tails length- wise, into two pieces. Place the whole of the pieces neatly on a dish, and garnish with parsley. COLT) FISH RE-DRESSED. COLD FISH. Some cooked fish. | 1 gill mayonnaise sauce. 1 beetroot. I Parsley. Cut the fish into square pieces, and lay them neatly in a flat dish; then cover them with mayonnaise sauce. Garnish with sliced beetroot and parsley. White fish or salmon may he dressed in this way. SOUSED MACKEREL. 2 mackerel. & pint vinegar. A few bay-leaves. 1 gill liquor in which the fish was boiled. Pepper and salt. After the mackerel have been boiled, remove the heads and skin, split them open, and take away the backbones. Lay one of the fish into a deep dish, and season it well with pepper, salt, and bay-leaves ; lay the other fish on the top of it, and season again. Mix together the liquor and vinegar; pour them over the fish, and set the dish aside in a cool place.80 SALT-F1STT FIE—EISTI PUDDING—KEDGEREE. This is an excellent luncheon or supper dish, and will keep good for many days. SALT-FISH PIE. i lb. cold salt fish. 1 egg. 2 oz. butter. 1 lb. potatoes. 2 gills milk. Pepper. Break the fish into flakes, and mash the potatoes. Butter a pie-dish; put into it first a layer of potatoes, and then one of fish; sprinkle over them a little pepper and a few tiny pieces of butter; repeat till all the fish and potatoes are used up, finishing with a layer of potatoes. Beat the egg, add to it the milk, and pour these over the fish and potatoes, put a few pieces of butter on the top, and bake in the oven or before the fire. Serve hot. FISH PUDDING. 6 oz. white fish. i 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. mashed potatoes. I Pepper and salt. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, break it into small pieces, and mash it with butter or dripping into a smooth paste, with the potatoes. Season to taste. Place the mixture in a shallow dish, putting some on the edge as a border. Smooth it on the top, with a broad knife dipped into hot water, and score it across. Bake in an oven, or before the fire, to a light brown. KEDGEREE. i lb. fish. } lb. rice. Pepper. 2 oz. butter. 2 hard-boiled eggs. Salt. Boil the rice as if for curry. Shred the fish finely, and mix it with the rice, seasonings, and butter, in a saucepan; stir with a fork until hot. Boil hard one or two eggs. Cut the eggs into small pieces, mix them with the fish and rice in the pan lightly, not to bruise the rice. Send to table hot, heaped lightly in a dish. This dish is most appropriate for breakfast, luncheon, or supper.FISH WARMED WITH GRAVY—CURRIES—CURRY POWDER. 81 FISH WARMED WITH GRAVY. 1 lb. white fish. .5 pint brown sauce. Pepper and salt. 6 potatoes mashed. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-spoonfuls milk. Cut the fish into moderately-sized neat pieces, free from skin and bone; put them into a stew-pan with some highly- seasoned brown sauce, and set them by the side of the fire to get hot. Mash the potatoes with the butter and milk, and make a firm wall round a dish. When this is neatly done, place the fish and gravy in the centre. The attractiveness of the dish depends on the neatness of the wall of potatoes. Serve hot. CUEEIES. Almost any kind of food, cooked or uncooked, can be curried, cold cooked beef being perhaps the only exception. Uncooked meat will of course take longer in stewing than that Avhich has been previously cooked, and it should be first tossed in butter over the fire till it is of a pale golden colour. All skin, bone, and fat should be removed from whatever is to be curried, and it should then be cut up into small square pieces. Boiled rice (page 137) should always be served with or around curry. Curry powder can be bought from any chemist or Italian warehouseman, but for the benefit of those who prefer to make their own we give a genuine Indian recipe, which has been thoroughly tested. CURRY POWDER. 1 oz. cummin seed. 6 oz. coriander seed. 3 oz. whole rice. h oz. cinnamon stick. 1 oz. black pepper. i oz. cardamom seed. 6 oz. turmeric. i oz. allspice, i oz. Cayenne pepper. Toss the cummin seed, coriander seed, whole rice, cinnamon stick, and cardamom seed over the fire in a pan, or put them in the oven on a baking-tin, till they are crisp; then add the other ingredients, and reduce the whole to a powder; pass the powder through a hair-sieve; bottle it, and keep the bottle tightly corked. F82 AN INDIAN CUIUIY—CURRIED FISH. AN INDIAN CURRY. 1 oz. butter. 1 small onion. 1 apple. 1 lemon, i cocoa-nut. 1 teaspoonful chutney. 4 pint good stock. i lb. cooked fowl, rabbit, or veal. 1 dessert spoonful curry powder. 1 teaspoonful rice flour. Melt the butter in an iron saucepan, prepare the onion and chop it finely, peel ancl core the apple, and chop it also; fry these together in the butter for five minutes, stirring occasionally with a metal spoon. Grate the cocoa- nut; mix the curry powder and the rice flour with the milk from the cocoa-nut and the lemon-juice; add the stock; pour this into the saucepan and stir till boiling; then add the cocoa-nut and chutney with the meat, and let all simmer very gently for fifteen minutes. Just before serving add one table-spoonful cream and a little salt. Serve on a hot dish, with rice in a avail around it, or separately. If fresh cocoa-nut cannot be obtained, one table-spoonful of desiccated cocoa-nut may be used instead. Skin and fillet the haddocks, cut the fish into neat pieces, and put the bones in a saucepan with half a pint of water and a little salt to make stock. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and fry the onion and apple chopped, with the curry powder and rice Hour, for a few minutes; pour on the fish stock strained, stir until boiling, skim, and simmer until the onions are soft and pulpy. Lay in the pieces of fish and cook gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Add the cream and lemon- juice. Lift out the fish,, being careful not to break it, on to a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. Serve with a wall of boiled rice (page 137) around it. TO CURRY FISH. 2 haddocks. 1 onion. 1 apple. 4 pint fish stock. 1 dessert-spoonful curry Salt. 1 lb. rice. 1 oz. butter, i oz. rice flour. 1 table-spoonful cream. Lemon-juice. powder.83 CURRIED OYSTERS—EGGS—DRESSING VEGETABLES. TO CURRY OYSTERS. 25 oysters. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-spoonful curry powder. 1 small onion. J gill white stock. 1 apple. Lemon-juice. Salt. 2 oz. rice. Blanch and heard the oysters, leaving them in their own liquor. Mince the apple and onion, and brown them in a stew-pan, with the butter and curry powder. Then add the stock and the oysters with their liquor, and keep the pan moving over the fire until the oysters are covered in a thick sauce. Season with salt and lemon-juice. Turn them on to a hot dish, and serve with rice separately. Any fish may be curried in the same manner, if cut in moderately-sized pieces. TO CURRY EGGS. 6 eggs. 2 oz. butter. 1 apple. 2 onions. ?, pint stock. 1 dessert-spoonful curry \ gill cream. powder. 1 dessert-spoonful rice flour. Boil the eggs hard, and put them aside to become cold. Put the butter and curry powder into a stew-pan, and shake them over a clear fire for a few minutes; throw in the onions and apple finely minced, and fry them gently till tolerably soft; add to them by degrees the stock, and stew slowly till they are reduced to a pulp. Mix smoothly the cream and rice flour; stir this into the curry, and simmer for five or six minutes. Cut the eggs into slices, and lay them in the sauce for a few minutes to get hot. Lift them carefully on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over and serve hot, with boiled rice (page 137). DRESSING VEGETABLES. All vegetables ought to be cooked as soon after being gathered as possible, and, excepting spinach and potatoes, should be boiled in a large quantity of water, to carry off any rankness of flavour. They should be served as soon as dressed, and not permitted to lie a moment in the water81 GREEN VEGETABLES—GREEN PICAS—ASPARAGUS. after they arc ready for dishing. The time required for boil- ing vegetables depends on their age, freshness, and size. Pass a fork through the stem, and feel if they are soft. Potatoes ought not to be dressed in a saucepan used for any other purpose. A potato saucepan discolours everything dressed in it. TO BOIL GREEN VEGETABLES. Wash the vegetables thoroughly, and remove all decayed leaves, or discoloured parts. Cut into quarters, take out the hard stalks, and let the pieces lie in cold water with a little vinegar for half an hour. This will remove any insects, caterpillars, &c. Wash again in fresh cold water, and at once plunge into boiling salt and water; let the water boil rapidly without a lid on the pan until the -vegetable falls; it should then be cooked. Drain immediately, and serve very hot. The green colour is preserved by the rapid boiling of the water; slow cooking produces a dull colour and dry insipid flavour in most green vegetables. TO BOIL GREEN PEAS. 1 peck peas. I 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 oz. butter. I 1 lump of sugar. Peas should not be shelled until just before they are to bo cooked. Wash them in cold water, when the decayed peas will rise to the top; take them away, and put the good ones into a saucepan containing sufficient boiling water to cover them, with the salt and sugar. They will require about twenty minutes to cook. When done, strain the water through a colander, and put the peas into a vegetable dish with the butter; stir gently till the butter is melted, and serve hot. TO DRESS ASPARAGUS AND SEAKALE. 50 beads of asparagus. | h pint melted butter. 1 slice toasted bread. I Salt. Scrape the white part of the asparagus, and throw them into cold water; bind them in small bundles of about twenty, placing the green heads together, and cut them evenly at the other end, leaving them about five inches long. Then put them into boiling water with salt, andBOILED CARROTS—TURNIPS—JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 85 boil quickly without a lid, till the heads are tender. Dip the toast into the water the asparagus was cooked in, and place it in the dish on which the asparagus is to be served. Untie and place the asparagus on the toast, with the heads together. Serve melted butter in a separate dish. - Seakale is dressed in the same manner, except that there is no toast laid under it. TO BOIL CARROTS AND PARSNIPS. Carrots. I Salt. Boiling water. Carrots must first be washed and then lightly scraped, and boiled till they are soft. The length of time required for boiling carrots depends on their age and size. Small carrots are served whole, but large ones should be cut in four pieces lengthwise, and about an hour should be allowed for cooking them. Parsnips should be scraped and prepared in the same manner. TO BOIL TURNIPS. 4 turnips. I Pepper and salt. 2 oz. butter. I Boiling water. Old turnips require to be pared much deeper than young ones. There is a woody fibrous substance extending to about the eighth of an inch below the skin, which must always be cut away. When very small, peel, but do not cut them; and after boiling, serve whole, with a little butter in the dish. Large turnips should be cut in pieces before being put into the pot, and after being boiled, should be drained and served in these pieces, or mashed with butter, pepper, and salt. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 2 lb. artichokes. I 1 pint milk. Salt. | 2 pints water. 1 table-spoonful vinegar. Wash the artichokes, and peel them thickly to remove the outer fibrous coating with which they are surrounded; then pare or scrape them to a round or oval shape, and as each is prepared throw it into a basin of cold water with the vinegar,SG BOILED FRENCH BEANS—IIAUICOT BEANS—SPINACH. to preserve the colour. Have ready boiling over the fire a saucepan containing the milk and water with a little salt. Wash the artichokes in fresh cold water, and throw them into the boiling milk and water; put on the lid and cook very fast for from twenty to thirty minutes. Drain, and serve in a vegetable dish covered with white sauce. TO BOIL FRENCH BEANS AND SCARLET RUNNERS. 2 lb. beans. I Salt. 2 oz. butter. I Boiling water. Cut off the tops and tails, and strip the strings from either side of the pods. Then cut the pods in thin pieces slantingly acrossj let them lie in cold water for a few minutes, strain, and put them into boiling water with salt. Boil rapidly with- out a lid on the pan for about half an hour, or until they are soft; strain through a colander, and serve in a hot vege- table dish with the butter. Scarlet runners are prepared and cooked in the same manner. TO BOIL WHITE HARICOT BEANS. J pint beans. 3 oz. butter. Pepper and salt. 1 onion. 1 table-spoonful chopped parsley. Wash the beans and soak them for twelve hours in cold water. Put them into a clean saucepan, with two quarts of cold water, the onion, and a small piece of butter. Boil slowly for about three hours. Drain the water from them; take away the onion ; add a little salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and about two ounces of butter. Place over the fire, and stir for a few minutes till thoroughly hot. Serve in a vege- table dish. TO BOIL SPINACH. A pailful of spinach. i Salt. 2 oz. butter. I Slice of toast. Vinegar. Pick each leaf from the stem or root, and wash in several waters. Drain it, and put it into a saucepan with a tea- spoonful of salt, and if old a piece of washing soda the sizeBOILED BEETROOT— POTATOES. S7 of a split pea; put the lid on the pan and boil until soft, stirring occasionally. Then strain the water through a sieve, and pour cold water over the spinach. Squeeze the water from it, chop it, and put it into a stew-pan with a little vinegar and butter. Stir over the fire till hot, put the buttered toast on a Hat dish, place the spinach on this, and mark it in squares with a knife, cutting it quite through, that it may be easily helped at table. If for a supper dish, some poached eggs may be put upon it. TO BOIL BEETROOT. 1 beetroot. I Pepper. 1 gill vinegar. 1 Salt. Wash and brush the beetroot quite clean, being careful not to break off the top or any of the projecting fibres, as any opening made in the skin will allow the juice to escape, and thereby spoil the colour of the root. Boil for an hour or more, according to size. When done, skin and trim it, and serve in a vegetable dish. If cut in slices, when cold, and covered with vinegar, pepper, and salt, beetroot makes an excellent pickle, and will be ready for use in twelve hours. BOILED POTATOES. Potatoes Boiled in their Skins.—Wash and brush the potatoes well, taking care not to break the skins. When they are quite clean, pack them tightly into a saucepan, and cover them with cold water; add about half a teaspoonful of salt, put the lid on the pan, and place it on the fire; bring it slowly to the boil, and allow the potatoes to cook gently till they are soft. Ascertain that they are ready by running a skewer into them, and then pour off the water; return the saucepan to the side of the fire; put the lid on again, but not quite closely, and allow all the remaining moisture to pass off in steam; when the potatoes are quite dry, serve hot in a hot vegetable dish. Place a small plate by the side of each person for the skins. Potatoes Peeled and Boiled.—-Wash the potatoes well, and with a very sharp-pointed knife peel them as thinly as possible; take out the eyes, and as each potato is prepared88 MASHED POTATOES — FRIED POTATOES. throw it into cold water to preserve the colour. Then pack the potatoes tightly into a saucepan, cover them with cold water; add a little salt, put the lid on the saucepan, and place it on the fire; bring it to the boil, and allow to boil very gently till the potatoes are nearly cooked. Then pour away the water, and cover the potatoes with a clean cloth ; put the lid on the saucepan again, and return it to the side of the lire for about fifteen minutes, to finish cooking the potatoes, and that the moisture may be absorbed by the cloth. Serve hot in a hot vegetable dish. Potatoes that are to be boiled together should be as nearly as possible of the same size. Peel the potatoes, and pass them through a sieve, or mash them till they arc free from lumps; add a pinch of pepper and salt, and mix them with a little milk till they are quite smooth ; heat the mixture if necessary, and then pile it on a hot vegetable dish. The potatoes can either be served as they are, or they may be smoothed with a knife, and browned in the oven or before the fire. TO FRY SLICED POTATOES, POTATO RIBBONS, OR CHIPS. 3 potatoes. I Fat for frying. Pepper. I Salt. First wash and peel the potatoes. Then for sliced potatoes, cut them in slices a third of an inch thick, and throw them into cold water. For ribbons, cut slices half an inch thick and peel round and round the slice, so forming a ribbon. For chips cut thin slices into chips or straws lengthways. As the potatoes are prepared throw them into cold water, until the pot of fat is ready. Then drain and dry them by shaking them in a cloth. Put them into the fat a few at a time, and stir gently until they are a pale brown colour. Lift with a perforated spoon on to some porous paper, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and dry in the oven or before the fire. Serve very hot. The fat must be hot, otherwise MASHED POTATOES. Boiled potatoes. Milk. Pepper. Salt.89 SAUTED POTATOES—A LA MAITRE u’lIOTEL—BALLS. the potatoes will he greasy; if too hot, they will become black. SAUTED POTATOES. 2 potatoes. I 1 table-spoonful chopped 2 oz. butter. I parsley. Pepper and salt. Cut the potatoes into small long-shapecl pieces like the divisions of an orange. Put them into a saucepan with cold water and salt; as soon as the water boils pour it away, and dry the potatoes. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, and when it is quite hot, put in the potatoes, and fry them to a pale brown colour; then add the parsley, pepper, and salt, and toss until all are covered with parsley. Lift with a slice on to a hot dish, and serve at once. This is a favourite method of cooking potatoes in France. They should be hot and crisp. POTATOES A LA MAI THE D’HdTEL. 2 potatoes. 2 oz. butter. Lemon-juice. Chopped parsley. Pepper. Salt. This is another favourite method of dressing potatoes in France. Boil the potatoes with salt in the water, and peel them, being careful not to break them. Cut them in slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Place them in a vegetable dish, and pour over them the butter melted, and mixed with the finely-minced parsley, seasoned with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice to taste. Great care must be taken that the potatoes arc not broken. Serve hot. POTATO BALLS. 1 lb. mashed potatoes. 1 oz. butter. Bread crumbs. 2 eggs. Pepper and salt. Pat for frying. Take boiled and mashed potatoes, and season them with white pepper and salt. Beat very smoothly with the butter and yolk of one egg, and form into round balls about an inch and a half in diameter. Dust the balls with flour, and brush them over with a beaten egg. Toss well in bread crumbs, and fry in hot fa't to a pale brown colour. Drain on porous paper. Serve hot, garnished with parsley.90 ROASTED POTATOES—BAKED POTATOES—SALADS. BOASTED POTATOES. 12 potatoes. | Roasted joint. Parc the potatoes, and put them raw into a flat dripping- pan, below the meat while it is roasting before the fire. Turn them so that they may he browned equally all over. Tf the meat be very fat, take out a portion of the dripping, to keep the potatoes from being greasy. Serve hot with the meat, in a separate dish. BAKED POTATOES. 6 potatoes. I 3 oz. butter. Salt. I Pepper. Choose potatoes all as nearly of one size as possible, with good clear skins; wash and dry, but do not cut them ; roast them slowly in an oven, or before the fire in a Dutch oven or despatch. Turn them frequently until they feel soft on pressure. They should be nicely browned, but not burned. Serve hot on a clean folded napkin with cold butter, pepper, and salt separately. These make an excellent supper dish when cooked properly. This may be called the natural way of cooking potatoes; it brings out the flavour of the vegetable better than any other method of cooking them. SALADS. Salad is a general name for certain vegetables prepared and eaten raw. It is very wholesome, and may be partaken of freely. Salad is chiefly composed of lettuce, endive, radishes, green mustard, land and water cresses, celery, and young onions. All or any of these should he as fresh as possible; but if they have to be kept, let them lie in a dark cool place on stone or brick. When the salads are to be pre- pared, wash them well but lightly, and let them lie for a quarter of an hour in cold water containing a little vinegar, liinse them thoroughly in fresh cold water, handling them as little as possible, and shake the water from them in a basket sold for the purpose, or failing this in a clean cloth. Then place them prettily in a salad bowl; the lettuce is generally cut in pieces lengthwise, and put round the dish; the celery, also divided into four pieces, placed in the centre, or served91 DRESSED SALAD—PIES AND TARTS. in a celery glass half filled with water; and the small salads, such as cresses and radishes, are placed loosely between the other salads or on a separate dish. After the salad is well washed and shaken as above directed, cut all into small pieces, mix in a salad bowl with a salad dressing or sauce (page 67), and garnish with the hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, and, if liked, a little beetroot. If the salad is not to be eaten at once, it is better to serve the sauce separately. If it is allowed to stand for more than a few hours after the sauce has been added, it becomes dark and discoloured, and in this state not only loses its fresh, crisp appearance, but is most unwholesome. Pies are of two kinds—meat pies and fruit tarts, and each has its respective kinds of paste. A thorough knowledge of pastry-making is indispensable to the economical housewife and cook. To succeed in pastry-making, certain rules must be remembered and implicitly carried out. Stand in a cool place, so that the air that is worked into the paste may be cold. The hands should be washed very clean, and care taken to have the board for working upon smooth, clean, and dry. Should this prove difficult, place a stout sheet of white paper on the board, and work over that. Handle the ingredients lightly. Use a heavy rolling-pin, but never go over the edges while rolling, as by so doing the air bubbles, already formed in the paste, are apt to burst. A marble slab is better than a board, but few can command this, and a board is more frequently used. The flour should be of the best quality, perfectly dry and sound, and the butter, whether fresh or salt, free of taint, or any rankness of flavour. It is very necessary to give this direction, for A DRESSED SALAD. 2 lettuces. 1 endive. 1 bunch cress. 6 spring onions. 1 bunch radishes. 2 hard-boiled eggs. PIES AND TARTS.92 RAISED PORK PIE. many persons seem to imagine that butter of any kind, however bacl, is good enough for paste. Dripping, when clarified, or lard, will answer as a substitute for butter, and make good paste. When no baking-powder is used, paste may be made one day, wrapped in a cold wet cloth, put aside in a cool place, and cooked next day. This gives the starch of the flour time to swell and burst before cooking, and thus the paste is rendered lighter and more easy of digestion. Groat care and attention must be given in cooking the paste. When baking-powder is used too much alacrity cannot be displayed in making and baking the paste, for as soon as the flour, &c., containing the baking-powder is wetted, effervescence begins, and unless the paste comes in contact with heat while this is going on, and the paste is rising, the air will escape and the paste fall, and no amount of heat or trouble will make it rise again. The amount of success will also greatly depend upon the heat of the oven. If it is too hot, the top will become scorched before the centre is warmed. If too cold, the paste will become heavy and sodden. It is best, therefore, to keep the pastry out until the oven is of the right temperature; experience is the best guide, but a good plan is to try the heat of the oven first with a small piece of paste; the heat should be strong enough to cause the cold air in the paste to expand and so make it rise, and then set in the form given by this expansion of the air. Another test is to throw a little dry flour on to the oven shelf, if it becomes nicely browned in a few seconds the heat is good, but if it becomes charred it is too hot. Do not open the oven door for some few minutes after putting in the paste, and when you do so shut it again as gently as possible, so as not to send in a current of cold air, which would chill the paste and cause it to fall. i gill stock. Put the water and lard in a saucepan over the fire, and let them boil. Mix the flour and salt in a basin, pour the RAISED PORK PIE. 1 lb. flour. 1 gill water. 1 lb. fresh lean pork. Pepper. 4 oz. lard. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful powdered sage.AN ECONOMICAL PASTE FOR COVERING MEAT TIES. 93 boiling water and lard into it, and mix the whole well together with a spoon. After this, turn the paste upon the board, and knead it till it is smooth and there are no cracks. Cut a piece off to form the cover, and put it in a warm place, while you mould and knead the remainder quickly with the hands into the form of an oval or round box-like mould, hollow in the centre and about half an inch thick in all parts. Bear in mind that the paste must not be allowed to get cold, or it will become hard. Have ready prepared the meat cut into small pieces, and dip each piece first into water and then into a mixture of sage, pepper, and salt to taste. Put this into the paste shape. Roll out the piece that was put aside for the top; and, after wetting the edges of the sides, place on the cover. Press it firmly round the edges to make it unite, and pare it neatly, and ornament the rim with pastry pincers or the thumb and finger. Make a hole in the centre of the top, and brush over the whole pie with a beaten egg. Roll out the trimmings thinly, cut leaves for decoration and stick them on the pie in any form you may desire. Place the pie on a floured tin, and put it into a moderately hot oven for about two hours. Raised pies need soaking heat, therefore should have rather a slow oven, as great heat 'would scorch the glaze and so spoil the appearance of the pie. When it is cooked, pour about half a gill of stock made from bones through a funnel into the pie, and set it aside to become cold before serving. AN ECONOMICAL PASTE FOR COVERING MEAT PIES. 6 oz. dripping. 1 teaspoonfiil baking- powder. 1 lb. flour. Cold water. Salt. Rub the dripping well amongst the flour, salt, and baking- powder, with the tips of the fingers and thumbs, so as to incorporate them thoroughly, and add as much cold water as will make a thick paste. Knead it quickly on a slightly- floured board, and roll it out flat with a rolling-pin, to about half an inch in thickness. Wet the edges of the dish, and place some strips cut from the ends of the paste neatly round on the edges, as a foundation for the cover. Then, after94 ROUGH TUFF PASTE. putting in the meat, lay the cover on the dish, pressing down the edges closely to keep all tight. Make a hole in the top and trim the edges neatly. Mark round according to taste, lioll out the trimmings, out or stamp ornaments, such as leaves, and place these as a decoration on the cover. On taking a pie from the oven, and while quite hot, brush over the top of it with a beaten egg, and return again to the oven for a few minutes to dry the glaze thus formed. ROUGH PUFF PASTE. 1 lb. flour. | Some cold water. A pinch of salt. I i lb. butter. Juice from half a lemon. Carefully rub the flour with the hand to ascertain that there are no lumps; if it feels thick and heavy pass it through a sieve. Wash the butter in cold water, then press it free from moisture in a soft cloth, put it into the flour, and break the butter, when it is covered with flour, into pieces about the size of a shilling; mix the salt with these, and add the lemon-juice with enough water to mix to a smooth paste. Make the whole of it into one ball without leaving any pieces sticking to the sides of the basin. Turn this on to a slightly-floured board, and with a good heavy rolling-pin, also, slightly floured, roll the paste to the length of two feet, taking care not to let the roller fall over the edges, and lift up the paste from time to time to make sure it is not sticking to the board. Whenever any flour is sprinkled upon the board or paste, pass the hand lightly over it, so that there may be no patches of flour left on either. When the paste has been rolled to the desired length, fold it into three, as evenly as possible both at the sides and ends. Half turn it, so that the sides may become the ends, and roll again to the same length; fold again as before, and continue to roll and fold four times. If at this stage the butter should still be visible, the paste must be rolled again. The last time let the paste be rolled rather larger than the dish it is to cover, and not more than half an inch thick. This is a better kind of crust commonly used for meat pies.BEEFSTEAK—VEAL AND HAM—LAMB—MUTTON TIES. 95 BEEFSTEAK PIE. 1 lb. beefsteak. £ teaspoonful salt. } teaspoonful pepper. 1 sheep’s kidney. 1 dessert-spoonful flour. £ gill water. Cut the beef into slices, about two inches long and one broad; and the fat into small pieces. Mix the flour, pepper, and salt together, dip eacli slice of beef into it, and roll it up with a piece of fat inside; then lay them lightly in the pie-dish. Cut the kidney free from skin and i'at into small pieces, and place them in the dish alternately with the beef. Pour in the water. Cover with rough puff paste, and bake in an oven for about an hour. VEAL AND HAM PIE. 1 lb. fillet of veal. 1 dessert-spoonful parsley chopped. £ lemon-rind chopped. 2 hard-boiled eggs. A little lemon-juice, i lb. ham. £ teaspoonful salt. I teaspoonful pepper. £ gill stock or water. Cut the veal and ham into pieces not more than half an inch square. Remove the shell from the eggs, and cut each in quarters. Mix all these in a basin with the parsley, lemon-rind, lemon-juice, pepper, salt, arid stock, so that the seasonings may be thoroughly mixed. Put all lightly into a pie-dish, raising the meat, &c., higher in the centre than at the sides. Cover with rough puff paste, and bake for more than an hour, as veal requires to be well cooked. LAMB PIE. 11 lb. lamb. | 1 gill stock. £ teaspoonful salt. | £ teaspoonful pepper. Take chops from the back-ribs, or slices from the leg, and lay them flat in the dish. Season with pepper and salt, add a little gravy or water. Cover, and bake for an hour. MUTTON PIES. 1 lb. cooked mutton. i l gill stock. 2 cooked potatoes. I £ teaspoonful salt. £ teaspoonful pepper. Mutton pies are sometimes made in the same manner as lamb pies, but they are greasy when made of fresh mutton.9G riGEON—ROOK—HARE PIE. Fios made of cold meat, cut in small thin slices, mixed with cold potatoes, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little stock, and covered as already directed, are very good. PIGEON PIE. 2 pigeons, i lb. beefsteak. Butter. 2 hard-boiled eggs. Pepper and salt. Stock. Pick and clean the birds well. Cut off the heads, truss them by turning the wings on the back, and cut them in halves. Put a piece of butter, and a little pepper and salt, inside each half bird. Place the beef in the bottom of the dish. Lay the birds on tbe meat, with the gizzards, livers, and slices of hard-boiled eggs, round them. Add the stock or water. Cover. Place the legs of the pigeons with the feet upwards in a hole made in the centre of the crust of the pie. Bake for an hour and a half. HOOK PIE. 3 rooks. | J pint melted butter. i lb. minced beef. I Pepper and salt. Pick and clean the birds. Cut off the heads and feet, and take out and throw away the backbones. After this steep them in cold water and salt for several hours, to extract all rankness of flavour. Season with pepper and salt, and place them in the pie-dish on a layer of minced beef. Pour over them some melted butter. Cover, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. HARE PIE. 1 hare. I lb. ham. Salt. 1 gill cream. Pepper. 1 quart water. Cut the hare in joints; divide the back into six pieces, and take out the largest bones. Put the thin pieces and the ribs into a saucepan with the water, and boil them with a little salt and pepper, till all the strength is extracted; when reduced to an English pint, strain it. Wash the pieces of hare well in cold water; dry, and season them highly with pepper and salt. Lay them with the ham in a pie-dish;97 RABBIT—GIBLET—EEL PIE. pour over the stock prepared as above, and tho cream. Cover with a thick paste. It will require two hours to bake. RABBIT PIE. 1 rabbit. I lb. bacon. 1 gill stock. Parsley. Pepper. Salt. Skin, clean, and wash the rabbit. Cut it in pieces, and blanch—i.c. put tho rabbit into cold water over the fire, let the water boil, and then lift the rabbit into cold water. Season with pepper and salt. Place slices of bacon at the bottom of the pie-dish, lay on the rabbit and sprinkle the parsley over. Pour on the stock. Cover, and bake for an hour and a half. GIBLET PIE. 3 sets of giblets. i i lb. beef. 1 pint water. I Pepper and salt. Procure goose giblets, and prepare them as directed for making giblet soup. Stew them in water, pepper, and salt, for about an hour. Take the giblets from the liquor, and let them cool. When cold, lay the beef at the bottom of tho pie-dish, and the giblets above. Season with pepper and salt. Add a little flour to the liquor, and pour it in. Cover, and bake for about an hour and a half in a moderately hot oven. EEL PIE. 2 eels. 1 oz. flour. Pepper. i pint water. 1 dessert-spoonful parsley. Salt. Skin the eels cut off their heads, tails, and fins, and clean them. Cut them in pieces, and lay them in the pie-dish, seasoning with pepper and salt. Make a gravy to pour over them, by boiling the heads, tails, and fins in the water, pepper, and salt, for half an hour. Strain, and when cool thicken with flour, and pour it on the cols. Cover, and bake for about an hour. G98 SIIOnT CRUST—ICINO FOR TARTS—APPLE TART. SHORT CRUST. 1 lb. flour. The yolk of 1 egg. Juice from half a lemon. 0 oz. butter. 2 oz. powdered sugar. Some cold water. This paste is generally preferred to any other for covering fruit tarts, and is considered to be the most easily digested; the butter and flour are so thoroughly mixed before any moisture is added, that when it is exposed to the heat of the oven, the starch cells of the flour burst, and are absorbed by the melted butter. When the flour is perfectly dry and free from lumps, put it into a basin with the butter, and rub dexterously with the thumb and lingers until they resemble bread crumbs; do not touch the butter unless covered with the flour, or the heat of the hand will partially melt it and so spoil the pastry. Beat the sugar and egg together, pour them into a hole in the centre of the flour, and then add enough water to mix all to rather a soft paste; turn it on to a slightly floured board, handling the paste lightly, and as little as possible, and roll it out to the thickness required. ICING FOR TARTS. 1 white of an egg. | 1 oz. castor sugar. After tarts are baked, they are sometimes iced on the top, to improve their appearance. Whip the white of an egg until it is a stiff froth, then mix the sugar lightly with it. Spread some of this on the top of the tart, and then dredge white sifted sugar upon it. Return the tart to the oven for about ten minutes, to dry and become slightly browned. Sift sugar over it again before serving. APPLE TART. 2 lb. apples. I I lb. brown sugar. 4 cloves. | 1 table spoonful water. Pare and take out the cores of the apples, and cut each apple into four or eight pieces, according to their size. Lay them in a pie-dish, season with the sugar and the cloves or any spice (such as cinnamon), or grated lemon-peel. A little quince marmalade gives a tine flavour to the pie. Add a little water, and cover with short crust; make a small hole with a skewer, just above the rim at either end. This allowsGOOSEBERRY—RHUBARB—CBANBERRY TART—FLAKY PASTE. 99 the hot air from the boiling sugar and fruit to escape; other- wise it would boil over and spoil the appearance of the tart. Fruit tarts should not be decorated with leaves, &c. Bake for about an hour. GOOSEBERRY TART. 2 pints gooseberries. | 4 lb. brown sugar. 4 gill water. Pick the heads and stems from unripe or hard gooseberries, and rub them with a towel to clean them. Fill the dish with them, and add the brown sugar, with a very little water. Cover, and bake for about an hour. RHUBARB TART. 6 stalks rhubarb. | 4 lb. sugar. 4 lemon-rind. I 4 gill water. Take away the leaf, and strip off the skins from the rhubarb. Cut the stalks into pieces of an inch long: Fill the dish high in the centre, add the sugar and flavouring with the water. Rhubarb tarts may be flavoured with great variety—-for instance, with lemon-rind, cloves, cinna- mon, ginger, &c. Cover and bake for half an hour. Some persons stew the rhubarb before making the tart; the advantage of this is, that more can be put into the dish, for it shrinks considerably in cooking. CRANBERRY TART. 4 lb. cranberries. | 4 apples. 6 table-spoonful3 sugar. | 4 lb. prunes. Wash the cranberries, and pick them from the stalks • peel, core, and slice the apples; stone and wash the prunes; put all these with the sugar into a saucepan, and stew them till soft, or for about half an hour. Put the mixture into the pie-dish, and allow it to cool. Cover with short crust, and bake for about half an hour. FLAKY PASTE. 10 oz. flour. Whites of 2 eggs. A little lemon-juice. 6 oz. butter. A pinch of salt. Cold water. For this paste, secure dry and fine flour, and pass it through a sieve before using. Beat the whites of egg to a stiff froth100 MINCE-PIES—OPEN TARTS. with 11 jc salt. The easiest method of doing this is to put them upon a clean plate, and to beat them with a broad long knife quickly. Pour these on to the flour, and with the addition of a little water form a soft paste ; turn it on to a floured hoard, and knead lightly until smooth. Wash the butter in cold water, wring it in a cloth, and then divide it into six parts. Roll the paste about sixteen inches long, then put on one-sixth of the butter in small dabs, fold in three, half turn it, and roll again.; add another portion of the butter, fold, half turn, and roll again; and so on until all the butter is rolled in. At the seventh time of rolling, sprinkle over the paste a little lemon-juice, fold it again, and roll to whatever size and thickness you may require. This paste is generally used for mince-pies, patties, fish pies, &c. MINCE-PIES. 1 lb. beef suet. 1 lb. sultanas, li lb. apples. 4 lemons. 2 nutmegs. } teaspoonful cinnamon. 11 lb. brown sugar. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 lb. raisins. 1 lb. currants. 1 lb. figs. J lb. almonds. 1 teaspoonful allspice. \ teaspoonful ground ginger. 1 gill rum. 1 gill brandy. 1 lb. candied peel. Mince the suet, stone and chop the raisins, chop the sultanas, clean the currants, peel and chop the apples, chop the figs, cut the candied peel into small pieces, blanch and pound the almonds, grate the lemon-rind, squeeze the juice free from pips, and grate the nutmeg. Mix all the ingredients well together; then put the mince-meat into a jar, cover it, and keep it for at least one month before using. Cut a round of paste; wet it round the edges, place a spoonful of mince- meat in the centre, and cover with another round of paste. Make a hole in the top with a skewer, and bake in a hot oven to a pale-brown colour. Sift powdered sugar over the pies while hot. OPEN TARTS. Those are tarts without covers, made in flat dishes. Cover the bottom of the dish with a common paste; then cut a strip of flaky paste and lay round the edge of the dish. Fill101 FISH PIE—PUFF PASTE. in the centre with any jam or preserved fruit. Decorate the top of the jam with narrow crossbars of flaky paste, or stamped leaves. Bake for half an hour. A FISH PIE. Lemon-juice. Flaky paste made with 10 oz. flour. Salt. Skin and fillet the sole; half cook the fillets, let them get cold, and cut them in small pieces; cut the eggs in small pieces also, and mix together the fish, eggs, Cayenne pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Boll the paste to a square, and trim the edges; wet the corners, and place the fish, &c. in the middle; bring all the corners of the paste to the centre, making them overlap each other; brush each section of the pastry with beaten egg, but do not touch the edges. Put the pie on a flat baking-tin, and place it in a brisk oven for about half an hour. Serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and garnish with parsley or curled cress. PUFF PASTE. i lb. flour. | i lb. fresh butter. Lemon-juice. This paste is more extravagant than those given before, and is seldom used except where a very light rich paste is required, as for oyster patties, &c. Pass the flour through a hair-sieve, and dry it; put it into a basin; add the juice of half a lemon strained, and enough cold water to mix to a damp paste; turn the paste on to a floured board, and work it heavily with the palms of the hands till it is quite smooth; then flour a heavy rolling-pin, and roll it out in any direction to about a quarter of an inch in thickness. Take the butter, put it into a clean, soft cloth, and press all the moisture from it; lay it in the middle of the paste, and cover it over tightly so as to seal the butter into the paste; then roll it out to about half a yard in length, being careful not to roll over the edges or to let the butter appear. Fold the paste evenly in three, place it on a floured paper or sieve, and put it aside in a very cool place for fifteen minutes; then bring it to the board again, and roll it 1 sole. 2 hard-boiled eggs. Cayenne pepper.J02 OYSTER PATTIES—PUDDINGS, CUSTARDS, JELLIES. twice in the same manner, folding each time in three, and turning it lialf-way round; put it aside for fifteen minutes, and then give it two more turns; put it away for fifteen minutes, and, finally, give it two more turns, making seven turns in all. After rolling it for the seventh time, rub it over with a little lemon-juice, fold it evenly in three, let it stand for a few seconds, and then roll it to the size and thick- ness required OYSTER PATTIES. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 2 dozen oysters with their liquor. Salt. Cayenne pepper. The juice of half a lemon. 1 table-spoonful cream. Puff paste. Roll the paste to half an inch in thickness, cut it in rounds about three inches in diameter, mark on the tops with a smaller round, and bake in a brisk oven. Melt the butter in a saucepan; add to it the flour, and when these are thoroughly mixed, pour on to them the liquor from the oysters, and enough milk to make up a gill; stir till they boil, and the flour is thoroughly cooked. Beard the oysters; cut them in halves, and add them to the contents of the saucepan, with salt, Cayenne pepper, and lemon-juice to taste ; lastly add the cream and mix well. Take the patty-cases, remove the small rounds from the top, and take out all the loose paste from the inside, leaving the cases hollow; fill them with the oyster mixture; put the lids on again, and serve hot on a hot dish with a folded napkin on it; garnish with curled parsley. PUDDINGS, CUSTARDS, JELLIES, &c. Care should be taken in making puddings to have the suet and eggs perfectly fresh. After cutting the suet into slices, and picking it free from fibrous matter, chop and roll it well —indeed, so thoroughly that it may be so incorporated with the flour as to be invisible. Break each egg separately in a tea-cup, for one bad egg would spoil all in the dish. The cloths used for puddings should be tolerably fine. Let them.103 PLUM PUDDING—CURRANT PUDDING. be carefully washed after using, and laid by in a dry state, ready for the next occasion. Before putting the pudding into the cloth, dip the cloth in boiling water, wring it, spread it over a basin, and dredge it with flour; then put in the pudding, gather up the corners of the cloth, and tie it, leaving a little room for the pudding to swell. Evei’y pudding should be boiled in plenty of water, so as to allow it room to move freely, and it must be kept constantly boiling, and covered with water. It is a general saying that a pudding cannot be too well boiled, and it is certain that there is much more danger of boiling it too short than too long a time. When preferred, the pudding may be boiled in a basin. The basin should be first well greased, and after the pudding is put in, a floured cloth must be tied over it to keep the water out; then plunge the pudding into a pan of boiling water, and boil as above directed. When the pudding is taken from the pot, let it stand for a few seconds, remove the cloth, and lay the face of the dish upon the pudding; turn the whole upside down, lift off the basin, and leave the pudding standing. A lb. suet. ■z lb. raisins, i lb. currants, i nutmeg grated. 4 eggs. A gill brandy, i lb. almonds. PLUM PUDDING. 1 lb. stale bread crumbs. 2 oz. flour. A lb. brown sugar. 2 lb. apples chopped. i lb. candied peel. 1 teaspoonful ground ginger. J teaspoonful salt. Chop the suet finely, stone the raisins, clean and pick the currants, blanch and chop the almonds, cut the candied peel in thin shreds, peel, core, and chop the apples. ' Mix all very 'veil together. Turn into a well-greased basin, cover with a cloth, and boil for four hours. Serve with brandy or sweet sauce. CUR11ANT PUDDING. i lb. suet. A lb. bread crumbs, j lb. flour. Milk. } lb. currants. Cinnamon. Nutmeg. Salt. Mix the minced suet with the bread crumbs, the flour, the currants washed and picked, a little powdered cinnamon,104 SUET DUMPLINGS—BREAD PUDDING. grated nutmeg, and a very little salt. Add as much milk as will make a soft dough. Beat all together, tie in a cloth prepared as directed, and hoil for three hours. Serve with caudle, or any simple sweet sauce. SUET OR PLAIN DUMPLINGS. 1 lb. flour. I l teaspoonful salt. £ lb. suet. I Water. These are sometimes served with boiled salt beef. Mince the suet very fine; mix it with the flour and salt; and moisten with water to the consistency of dough. Divide it into ten pieces, and roll them into round dumplings, put them into boiling water, and boil for an hour and a half, taking care that they do not stick to the bottom of the pot. To prevent this, a plate may be placed in the pot. BREAD PUDDING. 1 pint milk. 2 eggs. :i lb. currants, j lb. candied peel. 2 cupfuls stale bread. 2 oz. butter or minced suet. 3 oz. sugar. Cinnamon. Boil the milk, and pour it over the broken bread in a basin. Cover it for ten or fifteen minutes, to allow the bread to swell. Then beat or mash it up to make a fine pulp, and stir in the suet or butter. Beat the eggs, with a little cinnamon, grated lemon-peel, and sugar to taste. Stir all together; and add the candied peel cut into small pieces, and the currants cleaned and picked. The pudding may be either steamed or baked. If to be steamed, put it in a well-buttered pudding shape or basin, with a buttered paper fastened over it. Put the basin in a saucepan with boiling water to come about three parts up the basin; put a tightly-fitting lid on the pan, and let the Avater boil around the pudding for an hour, adding more Avater if required, but do not let the Avater cover the basin. Serve Avith sweet sauce. If to be baked, put the pudding into a buttered baking-dish, and bake in an oven for about half an hour. Sift sugar over it, and serve hot or cold.105 IUCE—CUSTARD—BREAD AND BUTTER BUDDING. RICE PUDDING. 2 oz. rice. 1 pint milk. 1 oz. butter or suet. 1 oz. sugar. 2 eggs. Cinnamon or nutmeg. Wash the rice. Put it into a saucepan, with enough cold water to cover it; place the pan over the fire, and as soon as the water boils pour on the milk. Stir frequently to prevent burning, and boil until the rice is quite soft. Then put it into a basin, stir in the butter, or the suet minced. When cool, add the eggs beaten, ivith a little ground cinnamon, grated nutmeg or lemon, and sugar. Mix well together. It may be either steamed or baked, as directed for bread pudding. CUSTARD PUDDING. 4 eggs. I 2 oz. sugar. -A pint milk. I 1 oz. butter. A little grated nutmeg. Take the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, beat them well with the sugar and seasonings, and pour on the milk, stirring all the time. The pudding may be either baked or steamed. If steamed, it will require half an hour; if baked, about twenty minutes in a moderately hot oven, and the dish must not be moved after it is put into the oven, until the eggs are set, or the custard is apt to become curdled. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 4 slices bread and butter. 1 pint milk. } lb. currants. 3 eggs. 2 oz. sugar. Cinnamon. Butter a pudding-disli, and put in a layer of bread and butter, then one of currants; then another layer of bread and butter, and another of currants, and so on till the dish is three parts lull. Beat the eggs, with a little ground cinna- mon or nutmeg, and some sugar. Add the milk to this, pour it over the bread, and allow it to stand for a time to soak. It will now be ready to be either baked or steamed, as directed for bread puddings.TAPIOCA—SAG0—BATTER—PEAS PUDDING. 106 TAPIOCA PUDDING-SACO i lb. tapioca. 1 quart milk. 4 pint water. PUDDING. 3 eggs. 2 oz. sugar. 2 oz. butter. Put the tapioca into a basin with the water, and let it stand for some hours to swell. Add the milk, and put all into a saucepan over the fire to boil slowly for about an hour. Stir it frequently, and be careful that it does not burn. Then pour it into a basin, stir into it the butter and eggs well beaten • pour it into a buttered pudding-dish, and bake for about half an hour; or, after adding another egg, steam it in a basin or mould for an hour. Sago pudding may be made in the same manner. BATTER OR YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 4 lb. flour. I 2 eggs. 1 pint milk. I Salt. Put the flour and salt into a basin, add to it half the milk, and mix very smoothly, then add the eggs, and mix all well together. Pour on the rest of the milk, and let it stand for half an hour. Grease a deep baking-tin with dripping from the meat, and pour the batter into it. Place the tin either under roasting meat before the fire, or in the oven. When done, turn the pudding into a dish to be carried to table. The usual custom is to cut the pudding in squares. It should have a nicely-browned appearance. When it is cooked before the lire, either turn the pudding, or place the tin for a short time over the fire, or in the oven, to brown the under side. PEAS PUDDING. 4 lb. split peas. I A pinch of sugar. 1 egg. I 1 oz. butter. Pepper and salt. Remove all discoloured peas or shells. Wash the peas and tie them loosely in a cloth, leaving plenty of room for them to swell. Boil them for about an hour, till they are soft. Take the pudding from the water and put it into a basin ; drain away all the water. Open the cloth, and bruise or mash the peas very smoothly with the butter, pepper, salt, sugar, and beaten egg. Then tie it up tightly in a clean cloth,SUET CRUST—BEEFSTEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING. 107 put it into a pan of boiling water, and boil for half an hour. When it is ready to serve, turn it out of the cloth into a vegetable dish. SUET CRUST. 1 lb. flour. I i lb. suet. I teaspoonful salt. I About 11- gill water. This crust is generally used for boiled puddings. Remove all skin and fibre from the suet, and chop it very finely (sometimes a little flour sprinkled over the suet will aid in speedy chopping). Mix this thoroughly with the flour and salt in a basin, and add enough water to form a stiff paste; work them together with the hand, and turn the paste out of the basin neatly in one lump on to a floured board; roll out once with a floured rolling-pin to the thickness required. This crust may be made with half a pound of flour and half a pound of fine bread crumbs, instead of using all flour, and it is then considered by some people to be much lighter and more digestible. BEEFSTEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING. Suet crust. 1 table-spoonful flour. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 gill stock or water. i teaspoonful pepper. 1 lb. good stewing steak, ox kidney. Grease a pudding-bowl with dripping. Roll out the suet crust to half an inch in thickness, line the bowl rvith this, cut off the edges with a sharp knife, and roll out the trimmings to the size of the top for a cover. Flatten the steak, and cut it into strips about three inches long and one broad ; divide the fat into small pieces. Remove all skin and fat from the kidney, and cut it into dice. Mix the flour, salt, and pepper on a plate or piece of paper, toss each piece of steak in this, lay upon it one piece of fat and one piece of kidney, and roll it up; put each roll as it is ready into the pudding, and when all are prepared pour over them the cold water or stock. Wet the edges of the lining, and cover with the paste already prepared. Press the edges very tightly together to prevent the gravy from escaping while the pudding is cooking. Dip a pudding-cloth into boiling water, flour the centre of it where it will be in contact with the pudding,108 FRUIT PUDDING—ItOLEV-POLKV. place it over the basin, and tie it with a piece of string about half-way down the basin; lift the cloth to ascertain that it is firm, and tie the opposite comers over the bowl to form a handle. Plunge the pudding into a saucepan of boiling Avater Avith a little salt in it, and let it boil for three hours. Take care that the pudding is kept covered with boiling Avater. A good plan is to have a kettle full in readiness to replenish the Avater as it evaporates. When the pudding is ready, lift it from the saucepan and let it stand for two or three minutes. Remove the cloth carefully in case it should stick to the pudding. Reverse the IjoavI on a hot dish, and lift the basin sloAvly off, and serve hot. This pudding may be varied in the seasonings used; for example, an onion parboiled and finely minced, mushrooms, parsley, or a little ketchup may be added, or a few oysters may be substituted for the kidney. FRUIT PUDDING. Rhubarb, gooseberry, apple, or any boiled fruit pudding may be made according to the directions in the preceding receipt, using prepared fruit, with sugar to taste, in place of meat and seasonings. ROLEY-POLEY. Suet crust. I Jam. This favourite pudding is made with suet crust prepared as above directed, and rolled out to an oblong shape, rather thinly. Wet the paste round the edges, and spread evenly upon it some jam, steAved fruit, or minced and seasoned cold meat, to Avithin half an inch of the edges; roll it up, pressing the edges Avell together, and roll it firmly into a pudding-cloth Avliich has been dipped into boiling Avater and floured. Tie each end with string, and cook in boiling Avater, Avith a little salt in it, for two hours or more according to the size of the pudding. Lift the lid from the saucepan, and move the pudding occasionally to prevent its sticking to the bottom ; or else place an old plate or saucer in the pan. Be sure that the pudding is kept covered Avith boiling water the Avhole time it is cooking.SEA-PIE—BISCUIT—TREACLE PUDDING. 109 SEA-PIE. 4 lb. beefsteak. 1 carrot. 2 onions. $ teaspoonful salt. 4 teaspoonful pepper. 4 teaspoonful baking- powder. 4 turnip. 4 lb. flour. 4 lb. suet. Water. Cut the steak in small pieces, and lay it in the bottom of a stew-pan. Add the vegetables, cut in slices; season with salt and pepper. Pour in half a pint of cold water. Cover, and let heat while the crust is being prepared. Make a stiff paste with the flour, suet, baking-powder, salt, and as little water as possible. Poll out exactly the size of the stew-pan. Fit closely above the vegetables. Simmer for two hours, keeping the lid of the pan closed. Serve the meat and vege- tables in a bot dish, pour the gravy over, and lay the crust cut into four pieces on top. BISCUIT PUDDING. 1 cupful broken biscuit or cake. 4 pint milk. 2 eggs. 1 oz. butter. Sugar to taste. Frequently there is an accumulation of biscuits and cakes in the house. The whole of these, provided they are not musty, may be made into light puddings. Break the calces into a basin, and pour the boiling milk on them. Sweeten and flavour to taste. When cool, add the beaten eggs. Put into a shape, and steam for half an hour. When ready, turn the pudding into a dish, and pour sweet sauce around it. Serve hot. TREACLE PUDDING. 4 lb. bread crumbs. 4 lb. flour. 4 lb. suet. 1 teaspoonful ground ginger. 4 lb. treacle. 4 teaspoonful carbonate of soda. 4 teaspoonful salt. 2 eggs. Chop the suet finely, beat the eggs, warm the treacle, and mix all the ingredients to the consistency of porridge. 'Butter and paper a shape, pour the pudding into it, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for about two hours.110 RICE RISSOLES—MACARONI PUDDING. This makes an excellent cake, if put into a well-buttered tin shape, and baked for two hours in a slow oven. RICE RISSOLES. I lb. rice. 1 oz. butter. Cinnamon. Pat for frying. 1 pint milk. 2 oz. sugar. 2 eggs. Bread, crumbs. Wash the rice and boil it in the milk. Stir frequently to prevent burning. When the rice is soft, stir in the butter, sugar, cinnamon, and the yolk of one egg. Cook over the fire for a few minutes, then turn on a plate to cool. Roll small portions into a round shape, like a sausage. When quite smooth and free from cracks dip each rissole into a beaten egg, then toss it in bread crumbs until thoroughly covered, and fry in hot fat for about three minutes to a pale- brown colour. Drain on porous paper. Serve hot on a folded napkin, or clean dish paper. Sweet sauce, made with one table-spoonful of raspberry or currant jelly, dissolved in half a gill of hot water, may be served separately. MACARONI PUDDING. 2 oz. macaroni. 1 pint milk. A little nutmeg. 2 eggs. 2 oz. sugar. 1 oz. butter. Wash and break the macaroni in small pieces, put it into a saucepan with hot water and salt to cover it, and boil for ten minutes. Pour off the water, add the milk and cook slowly until the macaroni is tender. Add the butter and sugar, and turn it into a basin to cool. Peat the eggs to a stiff froth. Mix all thoroughly, and put it into a greased pie-dish. Grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake in a moderately hot oven for about twenty minutes, to a pale- brown colour. This may be served hot or cold. Macaroni boiled in milk, with a little sugar, and thickened with an egg, makes a nice and simple pudding. When merely boiled in milk, and placed in a tin shape like a ring, it forms a pretty boundary to hashed meat or mince of any kind.Ill SEMOLINA—FIG PUDDING—APPLE CHARLOTTE. SEMOLINA PUDDING. 1 lb. semolina. 2 oz. sugar. 2 eggs. 1} pints milk. A oz. butter. Flavouring. lloil milk in a saucepan; add the semolina, and boil for five minutes, stirring constantly; put in the sugar and butter, and mix the whole. Let these ingredients stand in the sauce- pan to cool, heat up the eggs, and stir them amongst the semolina, adding a flavouring of orange or lemon. Pour the pudding into a buttered mould, cover it with a buttered paper, and steam for an hour. Ground Pice may be treated in the same way. FIG PUDDING. A lb. figs. \ lb. apples. 1 lb. suet. 2 eggs. 1 oz. flour. 6 oz. sugar. 6 oz. bread crumbs. \ teaspoonful salt. \ teaspoonful nutmeg. A little milk. Chop finely the figs, the apples pared and cored, and the suet. Mix these with the sugar, bread crumbs, flour, salt, and nutmeg; beat the eggs until light, add them with enough milk to moisten the other ingredients; press the mixture into a buttered shape, and boil for four hours. Serve hot with sweet sauce. APPLE CHARLOTTE. 2 lb. apples, i lb. sugar. 1 lemon. 1 gill water. Thin bread. Butter. Take good cooking apples; peel, slice, core, and place them in a stew-pan with the sugar, water, and the rind of the lemon, and stir until boiling; let them simmer for an hour or so, until they are reduced to about one half the quantity. Remove the stew-pan from the fire and take out the lemon- rind. Now take a thin slice of the crumb of bread, and cut it into quarters. Dip these pieces in melted butter, and put them at the bottom of a tin mould. Line the sides of the mould inside with thin bread dipped into the melted butter. Rut the apples in the centre of the mould, and cover with a round of bread dipped in butter. Bake in a hot oven until the bread is brown and crisp. Turn the charlotte out on to a hot dish, and serve hot.112 COILED CUSTARD—CALF’S FOOT JELLY. BOILED CUSTARD. i pint milk. I 3 eggs. J stick cinnamon. I 1 oz. sugar. Boil the milk, cinnamon, and sugar together. Beat the yolkk of three eggs with the white of one, anil strain them into another dish. When the milk boils, take it off the fire, and pour it on to the eggs, stirring all the time. Return these to the saucepan, and set it on the fire, stirring constantly until the custard thickens, then turn it immediately into a basin, and stir until it is cool and thick. When time permits, the milk, eggs, &c., may be put into a jug or jar placed in a saucepan of hot water over the fire, and the contents of the jar stirred until thick; then the jar should be taken from the hot water, and the custard stirred until it is nearly cold. When it is ready it should be of the consistency of thick cream. Pour it into custard glasses. When they are fdled, grate a little nutmeg over them. STOCK FOR CALF’S-FOOT JELLY. Take two calf’s feet, break them in pieces and cut between the toes. Wash them well, and put them into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover them; let it boil, then throw away the water; wash the feet again, and scrape them. Return them to a clean saucepan with five pints of cold water; put it on the fire, bring it to the boil, and let it simmer very gently for six or seven hours, or until the water is reduced to half the quantity, skimming constantly. Then strain the stock into a basin, and set it aside to get quite cold. Add more water to the bones, and boil again for three or four hours to make second stock. One ox foot may be used instead of two calf’s feet, and must be treated in exactly the same way. CALF’S-FOOT JELLY. 21 pints stock. 4 oz. loaf-sugar. 3 lemons. Whites and shells of 2 eggs. 1 glass sherry or i glass brandy. When the stock is quite cold, remove all the. fat with iron spoons dipped in hot water; then dip a soft cloth in hot113 BLANC-MANGE. water, and wipe the top of the stock with it. Put into a saucepan the stock with the sugar, the yellow rind and the juice of the lemons, carefully keeping back the white pith and the pips. Then wash the eggs, and add to the stock, &c., the whites and shells. Place the saucepan over the fire, and whisk briskly till a froth is formed on the top. Remove the whisk, and let the jelly boil. Move the pan carefully and steadily to the side of the fire, and allow it to stand quite still with the lid on for twenty minutes. Reverse a kitchen chair on a table near the fire, and out of any draught, cover the four legs with a clean linen cloth of a loose make, and tie it securely round each leg. When the jelly has stood for twenty minutes, pour boiling water through the cloth two or three times; take the water away; put a heated basin under the cloth, and pour the jelly quickly into the cloth; remove the first basin, put another underneath, and return the jelly in the first basin to the cloth. Repeat this till the jelly passes through clear, which it will generally do the second or third time. When the jelly has all passed through, add the sherry or brandy. Have a mould standing filled with cold water; pour away the water and pour in the jelly; let it stand in a cool place till it sets, which will be in about ten hours unless it is put on ice, when a much shorter time will suffice. To turn out the jelly, dip the mould into tepid water, reverse it on a crystal dish, shake it, and remove the mould. In hot weather, the stock must be boiled for an hour longer, or half an ounce of gelatin may be added when the jelly is made. Put the milk, or cream, with the isinglass, lemon-rind, and sugar, into a saucepan. Stir over the fire until the isinglass is dissolved. Take the skins off the almonds and pound them to a paste with a little orange-flower water. Mix this with the milk, and strain through a sieve. Let it settle, and then pour it into the mould, previously dipped into cold BLANCMANGE. 1 pint milk or cream. 1 oz. isinglass. 12 sweet almonds. 2 oz. loaf-sugar. 3 bitter almonds. 1 lemon (rind only). H114 ARROWROOT—RICE —MOSS BLANC-MANGE. water, keeping back the sediment. Turn out when cold, as directed for calf’s-foot jelly. ARROWROOT BLANC-MANGE. 1 quart milk. | 3 table-spoonfuls arrowroot. 2 oz. sugar. I Nutmeg or lemon. This is a jelly closely resembling the above, and is made with much less trouble. Put a pint and a half of milk into a saucepan, with the sugar and seasoning. Mix the arrow- root smoothly with the half-pint of milk. When the milk on the fire boils, pour in the arrowroot, stirring quickly. It will become thick immediately. Let it boil for two or three minutes. Wet the mould with cold milk, and pour the arrowroot into it. Let it stand till cold, and turn out as directed for calfs-foot jelly. Oswego, which makes a good blanc-mange, should lie treated in a similar manner. RICE BLANC MANGE. I lb. rice. I 1 pint milk. 1 oz. sugar. I Cinnamon. Wash the rice, and boil it in milk till quite soft, stirring frequently to prevent burning. Sweeten and season to taste. Pour into a previously wetted mould, and, when cold, turn out as directed for calf’s-foot jelly. It may be garnished with red or black currant jelly. MOSS BLANC MANGE. 1 oz. moss. I li pint milk. 2 oz. sugar. I Cinnamon. There is a moss of a peculiar kind, found on the seashores of Iceland, Ireland, and other places, which is of a glutinous nature like isinglass, and, when boiled in milk, forms a nice smooth white jelly. The moss is called Iceland or Carrageen Moss; it is sold by druggists and grocers, and resembles dried seaweed of a yellowish colour. Pick all gritty or sandy particles from the moss, and soak it in cold water for about twelve hours, drain it, and place it in a saucepan on the fire with the milk. Let it boil for half an hour, stirring occasionally, to prevent its burning. Sweeten to taste,GOOSEBERRY FOOL—TRIFLE. 115 and flavour with cinnamon or any other spice. When the moss is dissolved, leaving nothing but a few thready fibres, strain it through a sieve into a mould. When cold, it will turn out easily, and have all the appearance of a firm blanc- mange. It is inexpensive, and is also agreeable to the palate, and very nutritious. GOOSEBERRY FOOL. 1 quart unripe gooseberries. I I lb. sugar. 1 cupful water. I i pint cream. This is a simple way of preparing gooseberries, and very wholesome for children. Take full-grown unripe gooseberries. Top and tail them, and put them into a saucepan with the water. Cover them, and let them heat very slowly. When the gooseberries are soft, but not broken, strain the water from them, put them in a dish and bruise them to a fine pulp, Avith sufficient sugar to sweeten. Let them stand till cold, and then mix the cream with them. Serve in a hash- dish, or large bowl. TRIFLE. 1 pint cream. 1 lemon (juice only). 12 ratafia biscuits. Raspberry jam. Nutmeg. 6 penny sponge-cakes. 1 gill sherry. 1 pint boiled custard. 3 oz. sifted sugar. 2 oz. candied peel. Take the cream, and put it in a basin, with the sugar and lemon-juice. Whisk them well, and as the froth rises, lift it off Avith a flat spoon or fish-slice, and lay it in an unbroken state on the bottom of a hair-sieve turned up. Set a plate beloAV to catch the drip from it. Continue to whisk till no more froth rises. This should be done a feiv hours before the cream is to be used. Next, place in a trifle bowl the sponge-cakes, grated nutmeg, and candied lemon-peel cut small. Upon these spread some raspberry jam, then pour in the Avine and let it stand for a short time to soak the cakes, then pour over all the custard. It is iioav ready for the froth to be piled neatly on the top. Garnish the edge Avith the ratafia biscuits, and the top Avith some thin shreds of candied peel or some pink crystallised sugar.lie JAM-MAKING. JAM- M AKIN G. Home-made jam, when properly and carefully prepared, is much cheaper and superior to that which is offered for sale. When making jams or preserves, great care and attention must he given to carrying out the following rules. (1) Let the fruit be sound, dry, free from dust, and if possible gathered under a morning sun. (2) Preserve the fruit upon the same day that it is gathered, and as soon after gathering as convenient. (3) Let the sugar be of the finest quality, whether white or brown. Good loaf-sugar, or the large crystallised white sugar, we consider the best for delicate fruits such as strawberries, apricots, &c., and for making syrups, but the raw brown sugar may be used for ordinary jam. Sugar that is extracted from the beetroot and other vegetables does not easily solidify, and so frequently causes jam made with it to ferment. There is no economy in using inferior sugar: it throws up a great deal of scum, which has to be removed, and a large proportion of the jam is thus wasted. (4) Never stir with iron or pewter spoons, as they are liable to spoil the colour of the fruit; use a wooden spoon or spatula for the purpose. (5) If you do not possess a brass preserving pan, sub- stitute a porcelain-lined saucepan, but do not use an iron or tin-lined pan. Take care that the pan is scrupulously clean. Do not let it rest immediately on the fire, but fix it at least two inches above; the fruit and sugar are very apt to burn when close to the fire. (6) Skim away all froth as it rises, and continue to do this until no more comes. (7) If you wish to preserve the colour and flavour of the fruit, boil quickly and stir almost constantly, until the syrup will solidify when a little is dropped upon a cold plate. Then pour the jam at once into dry and sound jars, and set it aside for twenty-four hours to become cold and firm.GOOSEBERRY—RASPBERRY JAM—CURRANT JELLY. 117 (8) Cut some rounds of tissue-paper a size larger than the jars, dip each piece into good sweet oil, and place it imme- diately on the top of the jam, or cut some writing-paper in the same manner, dip it into brandy and cover the jam witli this; then securely fix over the mouth of the jar some gummed paper to keep out the air. Store in a dry and cool place; if it is the least damp the jam will turn mouldy. By careful attention to these rules, jam may be kept good for any length of time. GOOSEBERRY JAM. 6 lb. gooseberries. | 6 lb. preserving sugar. Pick, top, and tail red gooseberries, thoroughly ripe. Boil them for twenty minutes, skimming frequently as required. Add the sugar. Boil for half an hour after the sugar is added. Skim well, and pour hot into earthenware jars. Cover and store as directed. If it be wished that the goose- berries should remain whole, dissolve the sugar in a little water or currant juice, and as soon as the sugar is melted and clear, put in the gooseberries. Shake the pan to prevent the jam burning. If it is stirred, the fruit may break. RASPBERRY, STRAWBERRY, BLACK CURRANT, AND APRICOT JAMS. These are made in the same manner as gooseberry jam. For apricot jam, take out the stones, crack them, return the kernels; do not remove the. skins from the apricots. RED, WHITE, OR BLACK CURRANT JELLY. 3 pints fruit-juice. | 3 lb. sugar. Pick the fruit free from all stems. Put it in a pan over the fire, and when hot, take it off; bruise the fruit and strain the juice through a hair-sieve, letting it drip till the fruit is dry, but not pressing it in any way. Return the juice to the saucepan, and for every pint allow a pound of lump sugar. Let it boil for twenty minutes, skimming it when necessary. If the fruit has been gathered in rather a wet state, it must boil half an hour longer, or perhaps even more. Pour it into jars, and cover as directed when cold.118 ROWAN JELLY—ORANGE MARMALADE—APPLE JELLY. MOUNTAIN-ASH BEllllY OR ROWAN JELLY. 6 pints liquid from the i 6 lb. lump sugar. berries. The mountain-ash berry, called in Scotland the rowan berry, makes an excellent jelly which, being a little bitter, may be eaten with game. The berries should be gathered when red, but not too ripe. Wash them well, and put them into a preserving pan, with cold water sufficient to cover them. Boil till the water is red, and the berries soft. Strain the liquor from the berries through a hair-sieve or jelly-cloth. Throw away the pulp and return the juice to the pan with the sugar. Now boil fast for half an hour, skimming thoroughly. Pour hot into the jars, cover and store like jam. ORANGE MARMALADE. 8 lb. bitter oranges. | 8 lb. lump sugar. Pare off the yellow skins of the oranges, taking as little of the white skin beneath as possible. Cut the parings into small strips or chips, and then across again, which will make them still smaller. Put them in a pan, with as much water as will cover them. Boil until quite soft, strain the water through a sieve, and lay the chips aside. Next, quarter the oranges, scrape out the pulp and juice into a dish, throwing away the white skins, films, and seeds. Put the pulp, juice, and chips into the pan, with the sugar, and stir until boiling. Let boil for half an hour; skim thoroughly, and pour the marmalade into jars. When cold, paper the jars, and set aside for use. The above is called chip marmalade; when the marmalade is wanted smooth, the skins must be boiled and then pounded, instead of being cut into chips. Some people add the juice and pulp of sweet oranges, to give mildness to the marmalade. APPLE JELLY. 6 pints apple-juice. | 6 lb. lump sugar. 6 lemons. Wash, dry, and slice the apples. Boil them with a little water till they are in a soft and pulpy state; then strain them through a hair-sieve, and use the juice which runs119 HINTS TO NURSES, AND INVALID COOKERY. through. Put the juice and sugar into the preserving pan and boil it for twenty minutes, skimming as required. The juice and rind of one lemon to every pint of juice may be added with the sugar, when the apples are not very good. HINTS TO NURSES, AND INVALID COOKERY. The preparation and cooking of food should be thoroughly understood by a good nurse, so that should any dish be sent from the kitchen imperfectly prepared, directions may be given as to how this can be remedied. Food should never be prepared or cooked before a patient. Invalids’ food and the manner of giving it is most important, and this latter depart- ment falls exclusively to the nurse. Endeavour to give the food most appreciated by the sufferer (when not injurious), and present it in a kind and sympathetic manner; offer only a small portion at a time, and in a scrupulously clean vessel, so that it may appear tempting, and when the patient has partaken of as much as he is able, let the dishes be at once removed from the room. Do' not let the patient see you taste the food which is to be given to him, and never take your own meals before a patient. Keep all food out of the sick room, but close at hand. Be especially careful not to use milk that has stood in the room, or by the side of an invalid, for milk quickly absorbs any impure germs that may be floating in the atmosphere. Assume a quiet and cheerful manner at all times before your patient. Many diseases are controlled more by diet than medicine, and frequently the doctor in attendance, imagining that you know how to prepare all foods, gives his orders, and leaves the patient in your hands. Should a patient then be injudiciously fed, neither nursing nor medicine can remedy the ill effects. The effects of food tell on the body and on the blood ; therefore what is to be aimed at in sickness is to obtain the largest amount of nourishment with the least trouble to the patient. This in acute cases can be most safely supplied and easily digested in a liquid form. Get exact and minute instructions from120 BEEF-TEA, the doctor as to the kind and quantity of food to be adminis- tered, or in mistaken kindness you may occasion much sufler- ing and increased illness. Ascertain whether food or sleep is more important; act strictly according to instructions, and give food, like medicine, at regular intervals, for much may depend upon the nourishment being given at the right time. BEEF-TEA. 1 lb. lean beef. | 1 pint cold water, i teaspoonful salt. Choose freshly-killed beef, for after it has been hung the meat becomes dry and will not yield so much juice. Remove all skin and fat, and cut the beef into small pieces. If you have plenty of time at your disposal, a still better plan is to scrape or shred the beef; this breaks it more thoroughly down and allows the water to mix better with it, but as it takes a long time it is not generally adopted. Have a stone jar with a tight-fitting lid; into it put the beef with the water and salt; cover it, and set it aside for ten minutes. This soaking in cold water and salt helps to draw out the juices. As soon as it has stood for a sufficient time, place the jar in a saucepan with water boiling around it, and allow it to cook thus for one hour. If the water in the pan boils away, add more. The reason the beef-tea is put into a jar and not into the pan itself is to prevent it boiling. Beef- tea should be cooked at a temperature of about 170 degrees Fahrenheit. When the beef-tea has been cooking for half an hour, open the jar, and with two forks separate the beef, which is apt to cake into lumps, re-cover the jar, and return it to the saucepan. When the tea is sufficiently cooked, pour it off from the meat; do not strain it through a fine strainer, as that would keep back the sediment, which is a valuable part of the tea. Pour the tea into a basin, pressing the meat with the back of a spoon so as to get out all the juice. If there is a suspicion of any fat floating on the top, remove it with porous paper, or better still, let the tea get cold, and remove the fat with a heated spoon. Serve hot, with thin dry toast cut into small dice upon a separate plate, and only three parts fill the cup in case any should spill over.121 BEEF ESSENCE—BEEF-TEA—INVALIDS* SOUI\ BEEF ESSENCE. 1 lb. lean beef. I 4 teaspoonful salt. Cut the meat into very small pieces, sprinkle the salt well over it, put it into a jar, and cover the jar with a lid, or unporous paper, such as writing-paper, or greased kitchen paper, and place it in a saucepan of boiling water or a moderately hot oven for about five or six hours • then press the beef, pour off the liquid, remove the fat with a piece of porous paper, and serve a teaspoonful at a time. To hurry the process of preparation a table-spoonful of water may be poured over the beef, when two hours will suffice to draw out a good deal of the juice from the meat. RAW BEEF-TEA. 2 oz. beef. | Salt. 2 table-spoonfuls cold water. This should be made in small quantities, administered in a coloured glass, and given only by the doctor’s orders. Scrape the beef very finely, free from fat or skin, and then weigh it. Sprinkle the salt upon it, and pour over it the cold water; cover it, and let it stand for ten minutes; stir it, pour off the tea, and it is ready. BEEF-TEA QUICKLY MADE. i lb. lean beef. I | teaspoonful salt. 1 gill cold water. This method should only be adopted when beef-tea is required in a hurry. Cut the beef into small pieces, pour on the water and salt, cover it, and let it stand for ten minutes. Put all into a saucepan, and beat with two forks over a slow fire until the meat changes colour; do not on any account allow it to boil. Pour off the tea, remove the fat, and serve. INVALIDS’ SOUP—I. 1 pint beef-tea. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 gill milk or cream. 1 oz. rice, sago, or crushed tapioca. 4 pint water. Wash well the rice, and cook it in water until it is quite tender, stirring frequently. Drain the rice, and add it to the122 invalids’ soup—invalids’ cnop—mutton broth. beef-tea; stir over the fire until quite hot. Strain (lie eggs, well beaten with the milk or cream, into the beef-tea, and stir until it is thick and hot. Do not allow the soup to boil after the eggs are added, or they will curdle. INVALIDS’ SOUP—II. 1 lb. lean beef or veal. $ head fresh celery. Salt. I lb. pearl-barley. 1 quart water. 1 slice toast. AVash the barley, put it into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, let it boil, throw away the water, and wash the barley again. Put it when thus prepared into a saucepan, with the beef cut into small pieces, the water, and salt. Let all boil, and skim thoroughly. AVash and cut the celery small; add it to the soup, and simmer all slowly for from five to six hours; then rub as much as possible of the soup, &c. through a hair-sieve. Heat as much as will be required at one time, and serve with it dry toast cut into dice. INVALIDS’ CHOP. 1 loin chop. I Salt. Pepper. I 1 slice toast. Trim the fat from the chop, and toast it quickly before the fire with a dish underneath to catch the gravy. AArhen it is cooked, remove the meat from the bone. Chop it small, and pound it in a mortar. Put the meat with the gravy, pepper, and salt into a saucepan to get hot, and serve on a shoe of toasted bread. MUTTON BROTH. 1 lb. mutton. I It pints water. i teaspoonful salt. I 1 table spoonful rice. This should, if possible, be made the day before it is required. Cut the mutton into small pieces, take away all fat and skin, put it into a clean saucepan, with one pint of cold water and the salt; cover it with a lid, and place it by the side of the fire; allow it to come slowly to the boil, and then skim it carefully ; let it simmer for two hours, skimming from time to time. AAkisli the rice, add it with the remaining half-pint of water to the broth, and let all simmer again for one hour. Strain the broth and put it aside to become cold,MRLEY-WAtEft-^-GRUEL—OATMEAL GRUEL. 123 when any fat that may be upon the surface can be easily removed by means of a heated spoon. Do not heat more than will be required at one time, and keep back all the sediment. Serve very hot, with thin dry toast cut into strips. The flavour of the mutton broth may be varied by the addition of a small carrot, a piece of onion, or a few herbs. Pearl-barley may be substituted for the rice, or either may be omitted, and the broth made perfectly clear. BARLEY-WATER. 2 oz. pearl-barley. I h lemon. 1 oz. loaf-sugar. I 1 quart water. Wash the pearl-barley in cold water, throw away the water, and put the barley into a saucepan with some boiling water; after boiling for a few minutes, throw this water away also, and wash the barley again. Put the barley into a saucepan, with the water, sugar, and lemon-rind, bring to the boil, and continue boiling until there is only one p'int left. Strain, and add the lemon-juice. Serve when cold. GRUEL. 2 table-spoonfuls prepared groats, i oz. butter. 1 pint water. 1 gill milk. Sugar or salt. Put the groats and water into a saucepan, and let them boil for at least one hour. Add the milk, and strain through a hair-sieve. Season with butter and sugar, and serve hot. OATMEAL GRUEL. 3 table-spoonfuls oatmeal I 1 pint milk. (medium). I Sugar to taste. Small piece of butter. Put the oatmeal into a basin with the milk, and let it stand for half an hour, stirring occasionally. Strain the milk into a saucepan, pressing the oatmeal as dry as possible, stir over the fire until boiling, and boil for ten minutes, still stirring. Pour the gruel into a basin over the sugar and butter, and stir until the butter is melted. Serve hot.124 LEMONADE—TOAST WATER—WHITE WINE WHEY. LEMONADE. 2 lemons. | 2 oz. loaf sugar, i pint boiling water. Put the thin yellow rind of the lemons into a jug with the sugar. Squeeze on the juice, but keep back the pips. Pour over them the boiling water, cover, and set aside to become quite cold. Strain and bottle. Serve two or three table- spoonfuls in a tumbler, and till it up with potash, soda, or fresh cold water. TOAST WATER. 1 slice bread. | 1 quart cold water. Take the upper crust of a stale loaf, about an inch and a half thick. Toast it very brown and dry before the lire, but do not burn it. Place it in a jug containing the cold water. Cover for one hour, strain through muslin, and serve. Toast water should be made fresh every day. WHITE WINE WHEY. J pint milk. I 2 glasses sherry. Sugar. This is a drink which is used to cause perspiration, in cases of cold, or other ailments where there is no inflamma- tory tendency in the patient. Put the milk on the fire in a saucepan, and directly it boils, add the white wine, with a little sugar dissolved in it. A light floating curd will be instantly seen. Boil for a few minutes; then strain it through a hair-sieve, so that the whey may run from the curd. Serve the whey hot. Throw away the curd, for it is exceedingly indigestible, and should not be eaten. CAKES. Having decided to make and bake a cake, first look to the oven, for often a great deal of trouble and time may be spent in making a cake which turns out a failure, this being more often than not the fault of the oven. Ascertain that it is perfectly clean, make up the fire, and close the oven door. For small cakes you will require a hot, brisk oven, and125 OAKES. for largo cakes a moderately hot oven. The temperature of the oven should not he increased after the cake is put in, but, if possible, kept at a uniform heat, and the oven door must not be opened more often than is absolutely necessary. A good method of testing tlie heat of the oven is to sprinkle a little flour on the hottest part. Should it become a golden brown in a minute or two, the oven may be considered in a fit condition, and the cake may be put in; should the flour turn black, the oven is too hot; should it only dry with- out colouring, the oven is too cold, and in this condition would spoil any cake, making it slack and doughy. After the cake is nicely browned, put it into a cooler part of the oven to ‘soak,’or get baked thoroughly to the centre. To ascertain when it is sufficiently cooked, thrust a thin -wooden skewer into the centre; if it is quite clean and dry when drawn out, the cake is ready, and should be turned out of the tin, placed upon a sieve until cold, and then stored in a covered tin or earthenware crock; on the other hand, should the skewer be in the least damp when it is removed, the cake should be returned to the cool part of the oven to finish cooking. Select a tin sufficiently large to allow of the cake rising, and grease it thoroughly with oil or suet. For a rich cake a greased paper should be placed between the cake and the tin. Good beef dripping will be found excellent for making ordinary cakes, and is far better than inferior butter. Always have all the ingredients in readiness before you begin to mix the cake. Let the currants be well washed and dried, with all the stalks and stones picked out. Have the flour quite dry and free from lumps; cut any candied peel in thin slices; grate the yellow rincl only of lemons. Wash salt butter in cold water, wring it in a cloth, and then beat it to a cream. In cold weather the butter may be [warmed, but should never be allowed to melt. Break each egg separately in a cup or small vessel; in many cases it is necessary to beat the yolks and whites separately. When raisins are used they must be cut in halves and the stones taken out; sultanas need only have the stalks removed. Cakes made from yeast will not keep good so long as those made with eggs and baking- powder. A small portion of baking-powder will be found a great improvement to nearly all cakes, except where sour126 SHORTBREAD—PITCAITIILY BANNOCK—TEA-CAKES. cream, sour milk, or buttermilk is used, and then a small quantity ol bicarbonate of soda will suffice in conjunction with the acidity of the milk. A good deal of labour is neces- sary to make a good cake, for unless a tolerable amount of air be beaten into the dough before it is placed in the oven, no heat or after attention will make it light and wholesome. SHORTBREAD. i lb. flour. | j lb. rice flour. i lb. butter. I J lb. powdered sugar. Mix the above ingredients together with the tips of the fingers and thumbs, until a soft dough is formed. Shape it into a round or square cake. Pinch neatly round the edges. Prick on the top with a fork, place it on a flat baking-tin, and bake in a moderately hot oven for about fifteen or twenty minutes. Let cool on the tin; it is apt to break if removed while hot. Caraway comfits or strips of citron-peel may be strewed on the tops of the cakes before they are baked. PITCAITHLY BANNOCK. | lb. flour. 10 oz. butter. 4 oz. sugar. 2 oz. almonds. 2 oz. candied peel. 4 oz. rice flour. Blanch and chop the almonds, and cut the candied peel into small pieces. Mix the flour, butter, sugar, and rice flour well together; add the fruit, and form by working with the hands into a soft dough. Roll this to a round or square cake, about an inch thick. Strew some flour on a paper on a tin, and place the cake on it, with a band of paper round to keep it in shape. Prick the top with a fork. Bake in a moderately hot oven. Cool on the tin. SMALL TEA-CAKES. 1 lb. flour. 1 teaspoonful baking- powder. I teaspoonful salt. 1 oz. butter. Sugar. Milk. Rub the butter, sugar, salt, and baking-powder with the flour, and mix to a stiff dough with milk; turn the dough on to a floured board, knead a little, and then form it into127 SODA—CREAM—DROPPED SCONES. cakes the size and shape required. If thin, they may bo baked over the lire on a thin iron plate or a girdle lightly floured, or they may be placed on a floured balcing-tin, and baked in a moderately hot oven for about twenty minutes. Serve hot. SODA SCONES. 1 lb. flour. Nearly a teaspoonful car- bonate of soda. i teaspoonful cream of tartar. A teaspoonful salt. Buttermilk. Rub the soda and salt till they are quite smooth, and mix them thoroughly well with the flour; add sufficient butter- milk to form into a lithe dough. Turn the dough on to a floured board, and knead it a little; then form into two rounds half an inch in thickness, cut each round into four scones across and across, and bake on a floured girdle not too hot. CREAM SCONES. 1 lb. flour. 1 teaspoonful salt. 2 eggs. 2 oz. butter. 1 teaspoonful baking- powder. Cream. Rub the butter into the flour, salt, and baking-powder. Beat the eggs to a froth, add to them a gill of cream, and stir these into the flour; if necessary, add a little more cream to form the mixture into a stiff dough; then turn the dough on to a floured board, roll it out to the thickness of three-quarters of an inch, and cut it into small rounds. Prick them on the top with a fork, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. Serve hot. DROPPED SCONES. 2 breakfast-cups of flour. i breakfast-cup of sugar. A piece of butter the size of an egg. i teaspoonful carbonate of soda. \ teaspoonful cream of tartar. Buttermilk. Rub the soda, cream of tartar, and salt together till they are quite smooth, then mix them with the flour, and rub into them the butter. Next add sufficient buttermilk to make a thick batter, and beat well with a wooden spoon. Have ready over the fire a hot girdle, and rub it all over with128 SEED CAKE—GINGERBREAD. ft piece of fat or suet; place upon it a spoonful of hatter for each scone, leaving about two inches between the spoonfuls. When air-bubbles have risen and burst, and the scones look slightly firm, slide a flat knife under them, and turn them; cook and brown on the other side. Grease the girdle again before putting more batter upon it. Serve very hot. To eleem the Girdle.—Sprinkle over the girdle when hot some coarse salt, and rub it well with a thick piece of paper. This will effectually remove any burned particles that might be sticking to it from the last time of using. SEED CAKE. J lb. flour, j lb. rice flour. 6 oz. sugar. 1 teaspoonful baking- powder. 6 oz. butter or dripping. 2 eggs. 1 table-spoonful caraway seeds. About 1 gill milk. Rub the butter with the flour, sugar, rice flour, and baking- powder until there are no lumps. Add the caraway seeds. Beat the eggs until frothy. Mix all to a stiff consistency. Turn into a well-greased tin, and bake for about an hour. GINGERBREAD—I. 1 lb. flour. A- lb. treacle. I lb. lard. 1 lb. sugar. 2 eggs. i cupful of water. I oz. carbonate of soda, j oz. ground ginger, i oz. ground cinnamon. Pinch of Cayenne pepper. Melt the lard with the treacle and water. Mix all the dry ingredients. Beat the eggs to a froth, and add them to the flour, &c., with the treacle. Beat all for a few minutes, and turn into a deep baking dish, previously well greased. Cook in a slow oven for about an hour. GINGERBREAD—II. 2 cupfuls of flour. 1 cupful sugar. 1 cupful oatmeal. 1 cupful treacle. h cupful water. 1 table-spoonful caraway seeds. 2 oz. dripping. 1 teaspoonful ground ginger. 1 teaspoonful carbonate of soda. 1 egg. Warm the treacle and water. Mix all the dry ingredients in a basin, and rub the dripping well amongst them. Beat129 CURRANT — OAT—SHREWSBURY CAKES. the egg; add it with the wator and treacle to form a soft dough. Bake in a slow oven for about an hour. Note.—Buttermilk may be substituted for the egg and water; in this case warm the treacle alone. A PLAIN CURRANT CAKE. 1 lb. flour. \ lb. dripping' or butter. J lb. currants or sultana raisins. 1 egg. About i pint milk. 6 oz. sugar. 1 teaspoonful carbonate of h grated nutmeg. soda. -1 teaspoonful tartaric acid. Mix the flour, sugar, dripping, and currants well together. Warm the milk, pour it on to the soda and tartaric acid, stir until they effervesce, and mix quickly with the egg and dry ingredients. Turn at once into a greased tin, and bake for about an hour. OAT CAKES. 1 lb. oatmeal. I 4 teaspoonfuls melted fat. Warm water. I 1 teaspoonful salt. Mix the oatmeal, salt, and dripping with warm water to make a dough. Knead until smooth. Spread some oatmeal on a board, press the dough into a round cake, about half an inch thick, and then roll out thin. Divide into cakes ; bake on a hot girdle until they are firm. Take them off, rub them with meal, and toast before the fire till they curl up. SHREWSBURY CAKES. i lb. butter. i 1 lb. flour. J lb. powdered sugar. | 2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful cinnamon or 1 table-spoonful caraway seeds. Beat the butter and sugar together until they are of the consistency of thick cream. Then add the eggs well beaten, and the flour. Mix thoroughly well, and if desired add flavourings, or roll out plain to about half an inch in thick- ness. Cut into squares or any fancy shapes, place on a greased paper on a tin, and bake in a quick oven to a pale brown colour. Let cool on the tin, and then dust well with powdered sugar. I130 GINGER CAKES—WAFER BISCUITS—PICKLES. GINGER CAKES. 2 lb. butter. i lb. sugar (powdered). 1 egg. 1 lb. flour. 1 oz. ground ginger. Milk. Mix well together the flour, sugar, ginger, and butter. Heat the egg to a froth, and add it with enough milk to form a stifl paste. Roll very thin on a floured board, cut into shapes, and hake in slow oven. WAFER BISCUITS. 1 lb. flour. | A teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful sugar. I 2 oz. butter. 1 teacupful water. Put the butter, salt, and sugar into a basin, pour over them the boiling water, and as soon as the butter is melted add the flour and mix to a stiff dough. Beat it well with a rolling-pin. Roll it very thin, cut into shapes, and bake in a quick oven. The biscuits should be of a pale-brown colour. PICKLES. In the preparation of pickles the greatest care must be taken as to the utensils used. Avoid, if possible, using any metal, except iron, or preferably silver, as the acid of the vinegar will act upon the lead used in tinning saucepans, and also upon copper or brass, producing upon the latter two the rust known as verdigris, which is poisonous. Porcelain- lined saucepans are liable to be cracked if used for heating vinegar. It is probably inattention to these details which so often causes pickles to disagree with delicate digestions. In preparing pickles the best and strongest vinegars should be used. When it is necessary to heat the vinegar, put it into an iron saucepan, or into a stone jar placed in a saucepan with hot water around it. As soon as the vinegar reaches boiling-point, remove it from the fire, as the heating process very much diminishes both the strength and flavour of the vinegar. Pickles, like preserves, must be carefully excluded from the air, and stored in a dry place to ensure their keeping for any length of time. Pickles should be kept in stone jarsPICKLED CABBAGE—MISCELLANEOUS PREPARATIONS. 131 or bottles. Never use glazed jars, as the salt and vinegar in the pickles will dissolve the small amount of lead which is used in glazing. A wooden spoon Avith holes in it is the best instrument for lifting the pickles from a large jar, and a small quantity for immediate use should always be kept in a separate vessel, so as to avoid opening the jars too often. Be careful to keep all pickles covered with vinegar, or they will become dry and unfit for use. PICKLED CABBAGE. 2 sound red cabbages. i oz. whole pepper. 1 quart vinegar. i oz. bruised ginger. 1 oz. long pepper. } oz. cloves. Salt. Remove all the decayed and outside leaves from the cab- bages. Cut them into quarters, take out the stalks from the middle, and shred the cabbage in slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Place these upon a deep dish in layers, and cover each layer with salt. Put another dish on the tdp with a weight on it, and let it stand for two days. Pour off the liquid, shake the cabbage in a cloth to dry it, and then put it into a stone jar. Boil one pint of vinegar with the above spices, allow it to cool closely covered, and add another pint of vinegar; pour all over the cabbage, and if this is not suffi- cient to cover it, add more vinegar. Tie tightly down and keep for at least six weeks unopened. A little bruised cochineal added to the cabbage with the vinegar will keep it a good colour, as the acid of the vinegar is liable to draw out the red from the cabbage. Cauliflowers may be pickled in the same manner; they must be picked into small pieces and not sliced. MISCELLANEOUS PREPARATIONS. TO BOIL EGGS. The boiling of eggs is a very simple operation, but it is frequently ill performed. The following is a good method. Put the egg into a pan of hot water, just off the boil. Lift the pan from the fire for an instant or two. This will allow132 rOACTTED—BUTTERED EOCS—OMELETS. the air to escape from the shell, and so the egg will not be cracked in boiling. Set the pan on the fire again, and boil for three minutes or more, if the egg is quite fresh, or two minutes and a half, if the egg has been kept any time. Eggs to be boiled hard for salads and other dishes should be put into cold water, boiled for a quarter of an hour after the water comes to the boil, and then at once thrown into cold water. The shells should not be taken off till the eggs are cold. TO POACH EGGS. 3 eggs. i l table-spoonful vinegar. 1 pint water. I l teaspoonful salt. 3 pieces buttered toast. Take a shallow saucepan or frying-pan, about half-full of water, perfectly clean. Add the vinegar and salt. Break each egg into a separate teacup, and, when the water is boil- ing rapidly, slip it gently from the cup into the water. There is a knack in doing this so that the egg may not spread or become ragged. A good way is to allow a little water to enter the cup and get below the egg, which sets it to a certain extent, before it is allowed to lie freely in the water. About one minute is sufficient to cook the egg, but the eye is the best guide; the yolk should remain in a liquid state, lying in the centre of the white. Have buttered toast prepared on a dish, and cut in pieces rather larger than the eggs; then take up the eggs carefully with a small slice, pare off any ragged parts from the edges, and lay them on the toast. They may be laid on slices of fried bacon, or on spinach when preferred. BUTTERED EGGS. 2 eggs. I 1 oz. butter. Pepper and salt. I 1 slice buttered toast. Put the butter in a saucepan, and melt it; add the eggs well beaten with pepper and salt to taste, and continue stir- ring till the eggs are sufficiently cooked—about two minutes. Serve on buttered toast. OMELETS. This light and simple dish requires much practice before it can be prepared to perfection. An omelet should never be133 A PLAIN OMELET. cooked until just before it is required, and should then be served at once on a very hot dish. The mixing ot an omelet is indeed simple enough, but not so the cooking. Be most particular about the pan; do not use it for anything but omelets, and always keep it scrupulously clean. A bright and clear lire is also very necessary. Have the dish hot before commencing to cook the omelet. Do not break the eggs until you are ready to use them, and then beat them briskly with a fork for a few minutes, so that the yolks and whites are thoroughly broken and mixed together. The flavourings which may be given to omelets are varied and numerous, and whatever herb, vegetable, meat, or fish be added to the eggs, gives its name to the omelet. Do not use more or less than two eggs when first attempting to make an omelet, and never use more than six or seven; it is better to make two omelets with five eggs each, than one with ten eggs. Never add milk or liquid to the eggs, as it is liable to make the omelet tough, heavy, and flat. A PLAIN OMELET. 1 oz. butter. I 3 eggs. 3 teaspoonful salt. | \ teaspoonful pepper. Break the eggs into a basin, beat them briskly, and add pepper and salt to taste. Place a small omelet-pan over the fire, put in the butter and allow it to melt without becoming coloured; remove the scum quickly, and pour the beaten eggs into the hot butter. Hold the handle and keep the pan moving over the fire until the mixture looks thick; let the pan then rest over the fire for about a minute, swiftly slide a broad pliable knife or a slice under one half, and fold it over the other half to form an oval shape, trim the edges neatly, and hold the pan so that the lower side of the omelet may become of a golden-brown colour, and it will then be ready. Keverse the pan over a hot dish, and serve quickly with the brown side uppermost. The omelet should be brown and firm on the outside, but soft and creamy inside when broken. All omelets should be thick in the centre, consequently the size of the pan must be regulated by the number of eggs to be used.PANCAKES—FRITTERS—MEAT PANCAKES. 134 PANCAKES. 1 lb. flour. 1 pint milk. 2 oz. lard. 1 lemon. 1 egg. Salt. Sifted sugar. Put the flour and salt into a basin, add half the milk, and heat- well with a spoon until there are no lumps ; next add the egg and beat well, and then add the remainder of the milk. Let the batter stand for at least half an hour. Set a clean frying-pan on the fire, and put a piece of lard into it, about the size of a walnut. When it is quite hot, pour in batter enough to cover the bottom of the pan. Let the pan stand over the fire quite still until the batter is set, slide a knife round the edges, and shake the pan to prevent it sticking. When the under side is of a light brown, turn the pancake and brown the other side. Then turn it on to a paper with some sifted sugar upon it. Sprinkle a little lemon-juice over it, and roll it up quickly. Pancakes should be served very hot, and the thinner they are the nearer they approach perfection. 5 oz. flour. 3 large apples. Sugar. FRITTERS. 1 table-spoonful salad oil. 2 whites of eggs. 1 gill warm water. Make a batter with the flour, oil, and water. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly into the batter. Peel, core, and cut the apples in slices, sift sugar over them, and dip each slice separately in the batter. Drop each one thus prepared into a pot of hot fat to cook for about three minutes. Lift them with a perforated spoon on to porous paper, sift sugar over them, and serve hot on a folded napkin. Fritters may be made with oranges or apricots in the same manner. Serve all fritters with sugar sprinkled over them. MEAT PANCAKES. \ lb. flour. 1 egg. Pepper and salt. J pint milk. 1 lb. cooked meat. 2 oz. lard. Mince finely any meat which has been previously cooked, and season it. Make a batter as directed for pancakes, meltCHEESE TUDDING—WELSH RABBIT—TOASTED CHEESE. 135 a fourth part of the lard in a small frying-pan, pour in a fourth of the batter, and cook it on both sides. Place a fourth part of the mince in it, and roll it up neatly, and keep hot while you cook other three. This forms an inex- pensive and pleasant little dish for luncheon or supper. CHEESE PUDDING. 1 oz. flour. 3 oz. cheese. 3 eggs. Salt. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill milk. Cayenne pepper. Mustard. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add tbe flour, stir both to- gether free from lumps, and pour on the milk. Stir until it boils, and the panada is well cooked; remove the pan from the fire, and add the seasonings, cheese, and yolks of eggs; mix well. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, and stir these lightly into the mixture. Turn all into a well-greased baking- dish, and bake in a brisk oven for about ten minutes. Serve at once, and very hot. WELSH RABBIT. i lb. cheese. cupful milk. Pepper. 1 slice toasted bread. 1 teaspoonful mustard. Salt. Put the mustard, milk, and salt into a saucepan, and when hot add the cheese. Place it over a brisk fire, and stir until the cheese and milk are thoroughly mixed, but not boiling. Pour it on a slice of nicely-toasted bread, and serve hot. TO TOAST CHEESE. 1 slice bread. | 1 slice cheese. Cheese for toasting should be rich, and perfectly sound, and cut a quarter of an inch thick. The bread should be about half an inch thick, and toasted. Remove the crusts, and then place the cheese, which should not be quite so large as the bread, upon it. Place this in a cheese-toaster before the fire. When the cheese begins to melt, stir it upon the bread to prevent a skin forming on it. I)o not allow it to become brown. As soon as all the cheese is melted, it is ready. Serve immediately.13G TOASTED BREAD—STEWED 011EESE—SANDWICHES. TO TOAST BREAD. Bread is seldom properly toasted. A very common error m to toast it hurriedly, burning the outsides of the slices, and leaving the insides soft and moist. Whether toasted bread is to he used with various dishes mentioned in the preceding pages, or to be served by itself, cut slices from a stale loaf, about the third of an inch, or at most half an inch, thick. Toast these with a toasting-fork before a clear fire, constantly moving the bread, in order to brown it slowly and nicely all over. Toast it thus on both sides, making it crisp. If it is to be served as dry toast, set the slices upright to cool, then cut them in halves and put them into the toast-rack. STEWED CHEESE. 2 table-spoonfuls grated cheese. 4 table-spoonfuls cream. Cayenne pepper. i teaspoonful salt. 1 slice buttered toast. 1 egg. 1 oz. butter, i teaspoonful mustard. Let the butter melt in a saucepan, stir in the cream, then the cheese, and lastly the egg well beaten, with the season- ings. Simmer till the mixture is smooth, but not boiling; serve on toast very hot. TO BLANCH ALMONDS. This means to take the brown skins from almonds, and is done by pouring boiling water upon them. In a few minutes the skins become loose, and if rubbed with a cloth will slip off easily. SANDWICHES. Slices of bread and butter, j Cold meat! Mustard. | Pepper and salt. Cut thin slices of bread and butter; then chop the meat, with a mixture of fat and lean if possible, season as may seem suitable, and place the chopped meat between slices of the bread, the buttered side being next the meat. Press them together, pare off the rough edges, cut them into neat squares, and place them in a dish on a folded napkin so thatCHESTNUTS—RICE FOR CURRY—HOMINY PORRIDGE. 137 they may be easily lifted. Sandwiches should not be cut longer than an hour before they are to be used. When to be taken on a journey, they may be cut a little thicker, and layers of salad or mustard and cress put between the bread and butter and the meat; this helps to keep them moist. TO DRESS CHESTNUTS. 25 chestnuts. I 1 pint water. Select good sound chestnuts. Cut a small piece of the skin off each, to prevent them from bursting. Put them in a saucepan with cold water, bring it to the boil, and boil for a quarter of an hour. Drain the chestnuts, and wipe them dry ; roast them over the fire in a small frying-pan, or in the oven for ten minutes. Serve in a napkin to keep them hot. Chestnuts may be cooked without the previous boiling, but they take a longer time, and require much more attention to prevent them from burning. TO BOIL RICE FOR CURRY. When rice is required for this purpose, it should not be soft or pulpy as when boiled for puddings; each grain should retain its perfect individual form, though swelled to nearly its fullest size. After washing the rice, put it into boiling- water, and let it boil quickly for about twelve minutes, or until it is tender, stirring occasionally with a fork. Just before it is ready, put in a table-spoonful of salt. Drain the rice in a colander; then shake it gently out upon a doubled cloth, and lay it before the fire for a few minutes, with a fold of the cloth over it. By this means the water from the rice will be absorbed, and it will be ready for use. Pour it lightly into a separate dish, or place it like a wall round the curry. HOMINY PORRIDGE. Hominy. | Water. i pint milk. | Sugar. Hominy porridge is a staple breakfast dish in America, and is recommended for those who lead a sedentary life, or who are dyspeptic. Hominy is a fine kind of Indian corn,138 CLARIFIED FAT. ground roughly like Scotch oatmeal. In order to make the porridge, the hominy should be soaked in cold water all night, and boiled for half an hour in the morning, stirring frequently to keep it from burning. It can be served and eaten with milk and sugar, or with skim-milk and golden syrup. TO RENDER DOWN OR CLARIFY FAT. Any pieces of beef, mutton, or bacon hit may be used; also the shimmings from stock, &c. Cut the fat into small pieces, removing all burnt or discoloured scraps. As it is cut up, put it into an iron stew-pan, with enough cold water to cover it, place it over the fire without a lid, and let it boil; stir with an iron spoon occasionally, and skim away the froth or scum as it rises to the surface. Let it boil fast until all the water has evaporated or passed off in steam. The pan must then be drawn to the side of the fire that the fat may melt gradually. During this operation stir fre- quently, to prevent it from burning and sticking to the bottom of the pan. When each piece looks shrivelled, the fat is ready. Lift the pan from the fire on to a pot-rest, and let it stand for a few minutes to cool; for if the fat be put into an earthen vessel while too hot, it will be liable to crack, if not to break it. When it has stood for about five minutes, strain the fat through a piece of muslin or an old sieve; let it get cold, and it will be ready for use. When cold, it should be quite white and hard. Fat thus clarified will keep good for many months. The dried scraps may be used to flavour pea or lentil soup. They should be put in a piece of muslin, thrown into the soup while it is cooking, and removed before it is served. They impart a crisp and slightly-burnt flavour. Another method of utilising these scraps is to return them to the saucepan with a handful of oatmeal, pepper and salt to taste; they should then be stirred over a brisk fire until the oatmeal is parched, and served with bread. This method is often adopted in the north during the cold months, and an appetising dish, and one which is much liked by children, is thus prepared at little cost. The chief and most valuable use of clarified fat is for wet-frying. Lard, oil, and dripping are also used for this purpose, but it is more economical to utilise scraps thanPREPARED BREAD CRUMBS FOR COVERING FISH. 139 to buy Lard. Oil is only good for frying small articles, such as whitebait, for if it be kept up to the tempera- ture requisite for frying for over three minutes, it will acquire a burnt flavour, and then is not fit to use again. Clarified fat will remain sweet, and fry to a good colour, for a long time, if care and proper attention be paid to it. Immediately after the articles fried in it are removed, take the pan away from the fire, throw in a little salt, stir the fat up, let it stand for five minutes, and pour off the fat into a strong earthen vessel, keeping back any sediment which may have sunk to the bottom. Never allow the fat to remain in the pot to cool, for the particles from whatever may have been previously cooked will fall to the bottom of the pan, and on the second heating will discolour the fat, and spoil the appearance of the next thing fried. If the fat from constant use becomes of a dark colour, it should be re-clarified. To do this, melt it and pour it into a quart of warm water; add a handful of salt, and a small piece of washing-soda; mix all these well together, and allow them to cool; then remove the cake of fat from the top of the water, and scrape off any discoloured matter that may be at the bottom. The fat will not become quite white again, but will be sufficiently clean to fry to a golden-brown colour. Fish, vegetables, savouries, or sweets may bo cooked in the same fat, without imparting the least flavour to each other; but a good housewife will have three sets of fat going, reserving No. 1 for sweets, No. 2 for savouries and vegetables, and No. 3 for fish; keeping always the freshest and cleanest fat for No. 1, and passing it on as it becomes necessary. TO PREPARE BREAD CRUMBS FOR COVERING FISH, RISSOLES, ETC. The crumbs should be very fine and dry. It is best not to make them with a bread-grater, but to rub the bread through a colander or wire-sieve. An economical way, and one not to be despised, is to take scraps and odd pieces of bread; dry them slowly but thoroughly in an oven or before the fire, pound them in a mortar, and sift them through a colander; these will keep good for a long time if put into a bag and hung up in a warm place, or if kept dry in a tin. Crumbs thus prepared arc useful in many recipes.140 MINCED PARSLEY—TEA—COFFEE—COCOA. TO MINCli PAltSLEY. First wash the parsley well, pick away all the stalks, and wring it in a cloth until quite dry. Then chop it with a sharp knife; toss it upon some porous paper, and it is ready for use. TEA. Fill a well rinsed out kettle with freshly drawn cold water, and put it on a brisk fire to boil. Meanwhile have the tea- pot warmed, by rinsing with hot water, and put in the dry tea. When the water is thoroughly and unmistakably boil- ing, do not lift the kettle off the fire, but bring the teapot to it, to ensure that the water may be poured bubbling on to the dry tea. After giving the tea a stir with a spoon, set the tea-pot on a woollen mat under a closely-padded tea- cosie, and allow it to infuse for not less than fifteen minutes. Only such teas should be bought as will produce, after fifteen minutes’ infusion, a clear bright-coloured liquor that is pleasant to the palate and refreshing to the system. COFFEE. It is well to buy ground coffee in small quantities, as it is best when freshly ground. Put a table-spoonful of ground coffee in a jug or coffee-pot, add about half a pint of Avater Avhen boiling, and let it stand five minutes to draw. Clear it by pouring a little into a cup, and pouring it back again. Do this three times. Put the lid on, and let the jug or pot stand in a sufficiently hot place for it almost to simmer for ten minutes. Serve Avith sugar and hot milk. Cafe- au-lait is made by taking a pint each of hot clear coffee and boiling milk; serve hot in the coffee-pot. COCOA AND CHOCOLATE. Put cocoa to taste in a breakfast cup, add a little cold milk, and make it into a smooth paste; then stir in equal quantities of boiling Avater and milk; SAveeten and serve. Another method is to simmer it gently for about five minutes, Avhich improves it. Chocolate is simply cocoa ground up Avith sugar and flavoured. It is more used as a sweetmeat141 BOSTON CREAM—SALTING AND CURING—PICKLE. than as a drink. To make chocolate for six persons, take six table-spoonl’als of scraped chocolate, or three of chocolate and three of cocoa, dissolve them in a pint of boiling water, and boil hard for fifteen minutes. Add one quart of rich milk, let it scald, and serve hot. BOSTON CREAM. This is a refreshing summer drink. Take three quarts of water, boil it, and then allow it to get cold. Beat up the whites of two eggs, and take one and a half pounds of white sugar, two ounces of tartaric acid, one and a half teaspoonfuls of lemon essence, and stir them amongst the water. Then bottle the mixture and put it aside for use. When required, half fill a tumbler with water, add half a salt-spoonful of carbonate of soda, and stir them together; then about a glassful of the cream, when effervescence will at once begin, and it is ready. SALTING AND CUEING. The best vessels to be employed for salting meat are brown earthenware pans, with lids of the same material. Wooden vessels are apt to become tainted, and if they once acquire a taint, it is difficult to remove it. The proper seasons for salting are spring and the end of autumn, when the tempera- ture of the air is moderate—neither too hot nor too cold. The articles employed in salting are common salt, bay salt, sal prunelle, saltpetre, and brown sugar; in some cases, spices are also used. Those articles which are in lumps should be bruised. PICKLE FOR MOST KINDS OF MEAT. 2 gallons water. I J lb. brown sugar. 3 lb. salt. I i oz. saltpetre. Let all these ingredients boil gently together for half an hour. Strain, and when cold it is ready for use. This will keep good several months if it is boiled every month, and skimmed while boiling.142 SALTED BEEP—HAM—KIPPERED SALMON. TO SALT BEEF. i lb. bay salt. 1 lb. common salt, i lb. brown sugar. i oz. saltpetre. 3 oz. pepper. 1 oz. allspice. All the fleshy parts of beef may be salted; but those generally used are the round and the flanks. Mix all the above ingredients well together, and rub the meat with the mixture every day for a fortnight, turning it each time; the mixture will in a short time become a liquid, but the rubbing must still be continued, and the air must be excluded from the pan during the process of lying in salt. When ready, the beef may either be boiled at once, or hung up and dried. Smaller pieces of beef may be treated in the same manner, using a proportionate quantity of the same ingredients. Select a short thick leg of a well-fed hog or pig. Rub into it three ounces of salt, and let it lie for a couple of days in a pan, closely covered. Then make a mixture of six ounces of common salt, half a pound of bay salt, half a pound of coarse sugar, two ounces of Jamaica pepper, two ounces of black pepper, half an ounce of saltpetre. The mixture should be pounded finely, and rubbed into the ham for about an hour, leaving no part unrubbed, and an opening should be made at the shank bone, and some of the mixture rubbed in there. Then lay the ham in a clean pan with all the last mixture or brine about it, and cover it up as before. It should be turned every day, and the brine rubbed into it, a fresh supply of brine being added if required. The ham may thus lie in salt for about a month, after which it should be hung up in the kitchen to dry. It may then be smoked with smoke from wood where there is the means of doing so. Salmon is kippered or cured in the following manner: Take a large-sized salmon in good condition ; cleanse and scale it thoroughly, but do not wash it. Then split it, and take out the backbone. Rub it with a quantity of salt and sugar and a little saltpetre, according to the size of the fish, all mixed TO SALT A HAM. TO KIPPER SALMON.CARVING AND HELPING AT TABLE. 143 together. Allow it to remain with this briny mixture about it for two days, pressed tightly between two boards; after which, open it, and stretch "it out flat with small pieces of wood. Then suspend it from the roof of the kitchen to dry, or, if convenient, smoke it with wood. CARVING AND HELPING AT TABLE. Considerable experience is required to make a good carver, and this also requires considerable knowledge of joints, that the guests may be helped to the best pieces, and that all may be served equally. The young housekeeper should accustom herself to carve with neatness and expedition any joint of meat, fowl, or other dish that may be placed before her at table so that she may have no difficulty or distrust of her powers when she is called upon to carve before company. The following are a few of the leading rules to be attended to by all carvers : The knife should be moderately long, also sharp and pointed. The fork should have a guard. Place the dish conveniently before you, not too far off, to cause stretching. If you are too low in sitting, elevate your seat. The carving is not to be done with any appearance of exer- tion, nor by mere strength in wielding or wrenching the knife; it must be effected with quietness and neatness. Care must be taken, also, not to cause any spluttering of gravy upon the tablecloth. To avoid doing this is one of the chief difficulties in carving; therefore do not let much gravy be put in the dish, but rather serve it in a sauce tureen. Cut everything smoothly, so that it may not have the appearance of being torn or ragged. Help the slices or pieces as they are cut, so that they may not lie to cool in the dish. Distribute equally among your guests what may be con- sidered the delicacies or best pieces of the joint. Unless otherwise requested, put a portion of fat upon each plate. Proceed with the carving in such a manner, that in theCARVING AND HELPING AT TABLE. 144 event of a portion of a joint being left, it will have a neat appearance when cold; a mangled cold joint or piece of meat has an offensive appearance, and is unfit to be brought to table again. Endeavour to carve and help fish without breaking or dis- figuring the flakes. In carving salmon, give a piece of the thick and thin—the latter is the richest. In carving a turkey, cut slices lengthways from the breast, beginning from the outside, and helping with each slice a portion of stuffing. Exhaust the breast before proceeding to the legs or wings. A goose is carved in a similar manner, but should be begun from the breastbone. In carving fowls, if they are large, first cut a slice from each side of the breast; then take off the wings and the legs; and next, the merry-thought. Pheasants and partridges are carved in the same manner. Pigeons are cut in two pieces, being divided from head to tail through the breastbone. In carving a sirloin or rib piece of beef, cut it in thin slices, drawing the knife from the spine-bone to the thin edge where the ribs project. Cause the knife to go down to the rib-bones beneath, and also close to the spine-bone, getting as large and even a slice as possible. The brown or outside cut should be laid aside, unless asked for. Boiled beef should be cut rather thinner than roast meat, and the dry outside piece always laid aside. When a fore-quarter of lamb or mutton is to be carved, begin by taking off the shoulder, which is done by slipping the knife below it, and cutting it from the ribs. Next divide the ribs from the brisket. You will now be ready to serve from the shoulder, the ribs, or the breast. In carving a hind leg or gigot of lamb or mutton, cut into the thick or the most fleshy side, thus helping slices cut across the grain. Saddle of mutton is cut across the ribs, from the tail towards the long ribs. Pieces of fat from the edges of the flap should be served along with the slices. A ham is carved by beginning to cut across about three or four inches from the shank, cutting down to the central bone. Cut the slices very neatly and smoothly, and as thin as the knife.145 CARVING AND HELPING AT TABLE. A tongue is cut across the middle or thick part, without going quite down to the bottom. Cut it in thin neat slices. In carving and serving a pie, begin by cutting the cover or paste in triangular pieces from the centre to the sides. Cut only two pieces before taking out and serving the meat. Serve a piece of paste, and also a little gravy, with each piece of meat. In carving roast hare, cut slices from the back on each side from head to tail; then take off the shoulders and legs; divide the legs into two. If more be required, cut the remainder of the body across in two or three places. Serve a portion of stuffing with each piece. Plum-pudding should be cut in slices from top to bottom, cutting always from the centre. Cheese should be served in small thick pieces. j146 PROPER METHOD OF CLEANING KITCHEN UTENSILS. DIRECTIONS FOR SERVANTS. THE PROPER METHOD OF CLEANING KITCHEN UTENSILS. The proper and thorough cleaning of all utensils used in cooking is, as we before remarked, of the utmost importance; we therefore give directions for cleaning the principal of these. All pans should of course he kept scrupulously clean, but this remark applies especially to the fish-kettle, for if the smallest particle of the fish remains in the corners of the kettle, the flavour of the fish next cooked in it is apt to become tainted. To obviate this, it is always better before using a fish-kettle to place it over the fire for a few minutes with a little boiling water in it; the water should then be poured away, and the kettle well rinsed before it is used. To clean Iron Saucepans.—First wash the saucepan well inside and out with plenty of ljot water and soda, and then with a pot-range (a bunch of stiff twigs tied tightly together and cut evenly across) scour it thoroughly with hot water, fine sand, and, if necessary, a little soap. When the pan is quite clean and bright, rinse in fresh hot water, and set by the side of the fire to dry. Then put away in the proper place, turning it up so that the air may get in. Clean the lid of the saucepan in the same manner. If onions have been cooked in the pan, fine ashes may be used instead of sand; they will help to remove the disagree- able odour. A saucepan that is clean on the outside will cook more quickly than one which is dirty.PROPER METHOD OF CLEANING KITCHEN UTENSILS. 147 Enamelled Pans.—Clean as directed for iron saucepans, using broken egg-shells instead of sand. Should the enamel have become slightly burned, this will be removed by the use of the egg-shells. Frying-pans.—These should be washed in hot water and soda, without sand or soap, and then rinsed, dried thoroughly, and kept in a dry place. Copper Vessels.—The bright linings of copper vessels are best cleaned with the tips of the fingers, or soft rag. Rub well with soft soap, using just -sufficient warm water to moisten it. When the inside is quite bright and clean, rinse, and then clean the outside by rubbing it with half a lemon dipped in powdered bath-brick, until all stains are removed. Rinse the vessel, dry it carefully, and put away. The skins of lemons from which the juice has been squeezed may be kept for cleaning coppers. Tins.—First wash the tins in very hot water and soda. Moisten some whiting with water, dip a piece of flannel into it, and rub the tins all over with the mixture, taking care to go into all the corners; let the whiting dry on the tins, and then rub it off with a duster; polish with a chamois leather. Cake-tins.—A cake-tin should never be washed or polished inside. After it has been used, and while it is still hot, it should be rubbed first with a twist of paper, and then with a dry cloth. If it is wetted, the next cake which is baked in it will be apt to stick, and break on being turned out. To scrub Tables, Shelves, Boards, fyc.—First brush or sweep away all dust, &c.; then wash the table with a flannel wrung out in hot water, sprinkle a little fine sand over it, soap a scrubbing-brush, and scrub with the grain of the wood (this will keep it smooth), until it is quite clean. Care- fully rinse away all the soap and sand, and dry the table with a cloth. Wood ash is sometimes used instead of sand, and is supposed to help to keep the wood white.148 TO SET A DINNER-TABLE. TO SET A DINNER-TABLE. A neatly-laicl, well-appointed dinner-table adds so materially to the comfort of a household, that we propose to give here a few directions for the guidance of the tablemaid in preparing for and serving this meal. The tablemaid should pay special attention to this part of her duties, and should begin to set the table about an hour before dinner. Every dining-table should bo provided with a closely-fitting baize cover, which should be spread over it and fastened securely at the corners by means of tapes or strings. After this has been put on, spread the damask cloth (which should always if possible be kept in a linen press when not in use) evenly and smoothly upon the table. Then place upon it the flowers or other decoration, aiming at uniformity in the arrangement. Next proceed to place the silver and knives, giving to each person, as far as possible, everything which he Avill require during dinner, and arranging them in the order in which they will be used—i.e. the spoon for soup must be on the outside, next the fish knife and fork, and so on. In setting a table, care must be taken that all articles are quite straight, and that each place on one side is directly opposite the corresponding place on the other. The soup- ladle must be placed in front, and the carvers by the side of those who are to help the respective dishes. Next, place the glass upon the table; for a family party a tumbler and two wine-glasses are generally put for each person, the tumbler being nearest the knives and forks, with the sherry- glass almost behind it, and the claret-glass at the side forming a triangle. When the dinner is more elaborate, water-bottles and glasses are generally placed at the corners of the table, and three wine-glasses (for sherry, champagne, and hock) are placed by the guests. If more glasses are required, as for Chablis or Sauterne, they are served with the course for which they are to be used, and removed with the plates. Then place the salt-cellars, one at each corner, and, if possible, down the sides also, so that there is one for every two149 TO SET A DINNER-TABLE—WAITING AT TABLE. persons. If there is only one waitress, the other castors must also he placed on the table by the side of the salt- cellars ; a large cruet-stand is now seldom used. Then fold the table-napkins in some pretty form, placing one at each place with a dinner-roll or piece of bread in it. Direc- tions for folding serviettes will be found on page 153. A table-napkin ring should be put beside each place where clean serviettes are not provided for each meal. Finally, put a chair in front of each place. The bright appearance of a table depends very much on the way in which the glass and plate are kept. Directions for cleaning and keeping these are given on page 151. Have ready on a side-table dessert-plates, with a d’oyley, a dessert knife and fork, and a finger-glass with a small quantity of cold water in it, for each. All wine-glasses which will be required for dessert, with an ornamental glass jug or water-bottle, and two glasses should also be in readiness upon this table. Next proceed to arrange the sideboard. Spread upon it a long, narrow cloth, and on this arrange prettily some spare knives, forks, and spoons, the sauce-ladles, spoons for vege- tables, the decanters, &c.—in fact, everything that will be required during dinner; the tablemaid should never leave the room during dinner except to bring in the dishes. Have at hand also a small tray or salver on which to hand anything which may be asked for. A butler’s tray should also be in the room, on which should be placed the vegetables, and the knife-box, into one division of which the knives should be put when they are removed from table, and into the other the silver. A plate-basket or pail is also a convenience; into it.the plates should be put as they are taken from table. WAITING AT TABLE. It is the tablemaid’s duty to see that the plates for the hot courses are heated; they should be hot, but not so that they cannot be handled with comfort. The first course must be placed on the table before dinner is announced, the dish and plates being in front of the person who is to help it. A bell or gong is sometimes sounded to intimate that dinner150 WAITING AT TABLE. is ready, or else the tablemaid should open the drawing-room, door and announce ‘ Dinner waits.’ She must then retire, and wait by the dining-room door until the party has entered, when she should come into the room, close the door, and take her place beside her master or mistress ready to remove the dish-cover. In handing the plates, the tablemaid should begin with the principal lady, who is generally seated on the host’s right hand. She should then begin with the lady on the host’s left, and go straight round, serving ladies and gentlemen as they sit, the host being helped last. Every- thing should be handed from the left of the person to be helped, and when any one has finished, the plate must be at once removed, the knife and fork being put into the knife- basket, and the plate into the plate-basket or pail. At a family dinner, all the courses are as a rule placed on the table except entrees and cheese, which are handed by the servant after a plate has been placed before each person. Where the dinner is more elaborate, the carving is done at a side-table by a servant. After the last course, the glasses, salt-cellars, and every- thing upon the table except the decoration must be quickly and quietly removed on trays. Then any pieces of bread which may be left should be taken away with a fork, and the crumbs lifted with a brush or crumb-scoop on to a salver. Then place a clessert-plate before each person, and by their right side two or three wine-glasses according to the wine that is to be offered. Opposite the mistress place the water- jug and glasses, and then proceed to hand the dessert, first cutting up the fruit if necessary into conveniently sized pieces. Lastly, hand the wine, asking what each person will take, and, after it has been handed, put the stoppers into the decanters, and place them before the master of the house. If the tablemaid has had assistance, the assistant should in the meantime have removed the plate-basket, knife-box, butler’s tray, &c.; if not, the tablemaid must remove them, after which she should leave the room, closing the door after her. While waiting, a good servant will avoid making any unnecessary noise, she will never speak except when her duties oblige her to do so, and she will take no notice of anything that is said unless it is addressed to herself. She151 TO CLEAN PLATE-^TO WASH GLASS OR CRYSTAL. must be active, but quiet, and never flurried or in a bustle. She must be observant, and, as far as possible, anticipate the wants of all at table. TO CLEAN PLATE. All silver when it is brought from table should be carefully washed in a wooden bowl of hot water with a little soap. It should then be rinsed in clean water, dried with a cloth, and polished with a chamois leather. Once every week the whole of the plate which is in use should be thoroughly cleaned. To do this, spread over each article a thick coating of Spanish whiting moistened with a little water or spirit. Let the articles stand for about ten minutes until the whiting is dry, and then plunge them into a sink or tub of boiling or nearly boiling water. In this allow them to remain until the water is sufficiently cool to admit of the hand being put into it; then lift out the silver articles one by one, washing them while so doing, dry them with a cloth, and polish with a chamois leather and, if necessary, a plate-brush. Fish and dessert knives and forks must not be treated in this way unless they are made in one piece; if they are put into water they are apt to start at the handles. To clean them, first wash the blades and prongs carefully in hot water and soap; then rub the knives and forks all over with Spanish whiting moistened with a little spirit or water; brush them with a little dry whiting, and polish with chamois leather or soft plate-brush. Silver should be kept in a baize-lined cupboard or drawer, all articles of one kind being laid together. TO WASH GLASS OR CRYSTAL. Wash the glass or crystal in warm water with a small piece of soda or a little soap powder dissolved in it, rinse thor- oughly in fresh cold water, dry with a glass cloth, and polish with a piece of tissue paper. To clean the inside of water-bottles, decanters, &c., put into them small pieces of brown paper, or of raw potato chopped small, add a little water, and allow them to stand for a short152 TO CLEAN KNIVES—TO WASH A CHAMOIS LEATHER. time; then rinse thoroughly, drain, and dry them with a solt bottle-brush. Tumblers and wine-glasses should be turned down when they are put away, so that the dust may not get into them, and decanters and water-bottles which are not in constant use should be put away with a little whisky in them; this will keep them sweet. TO CLEAN STEEL KNIVES. Plunge the blades of the knives into very hot water and soda, wash them well, and then dry them. Scrape a little bath-brick on to a knife-board, and rub the knives quickly backwards and forwards till they are clean, being careful not to press too heavily towards the front of the knife, as the leather of the board is apt to cut. If the knives are stained, it may be necessary to rub them with a little powdered bath-brick moistened with water. When they are quite clean, wipe them carefully with a dry cloth. Should the ivory handles of the knives become discoloured, cover them with a coating of whiting moistened with lemon- juice or white vinegar; allow them to stand for eight or ten hours, and then rinse them in cold water, and polish them first with lemon-juice, and then with a soft cloth. TO WASH A CHAMOIS LEATHER. Dissolve some boiled soap in warm water, and wash the leather in it, pressing it with the hands, but not rubbing it; change the water several times until the leather appears clean, then rinse in clean water, and dry in the sun or by a fire, pulling and rubbing it until it is nearly dry.153 THE AFRICAN CROSS. THE FOLDING OF SERVIETTES. THE AFRICAN CROSS. Take a perfectly square serviette, and fold the four corners into the centre as shown in fig. 8. Again fold the corners to the centre, and press firmly down. Turn the serviette, and for the third time fold the corners to the centre. Turn it again, and once more fold the corners to the centre, this making four times. Turn the serviette, and it should resemble fig. 9. Pull up each corner, opening it as you do so, as shown in fig. 10. When all four corners are opened, turn the serviette, and the cross should be formed (fig. 11)’ and ready to receive the bread or roll in the centre.154 THE STANLEY BOW. THE STANLEY BOW. Fold the serviette in three (or, if it is very large, in four), lengthways; then turn over one single thickness about an inch wide, and continue to fold this over and over until a band is formed lengthways in the centre of the serviette, as in fig. 12. lurn the serviette, and fold one end over about four or five inches; fold it over again, and then turn it neatly backwards and forwards underneath, when it should be as in fig. 13. Press all firmly together, and then bring down the centre of the upper fold, and tuck the corner under the band in the middle. Repeat this at the other end, and the bow is formed as in fig. 14.155 IIDEX. PAGE Almonds, to blanch 136 Apple charlotte Ill Apple jelly 118 Apple sauce 66 Apple tart 98 Apricot jam 117 Arrowroot blanc-mange 114 Artichoke soup 51 Artichokes, Jerusalem 85 Asparagus, to dress 84 Bacon and eggs, to fry 31 Baking Meat 25 Bannock, Pitcaithly 126 Barley-water 123 Batter pudding 106 Beef, to boil a salted round of 32 Beef, to dress cold boiled 44 Beef, to hash cold 43 Beef, to roast 17 Beef, to salt 142 Beef, to stew a piece of 38 Beef bouilli 38 Beef essence 121 Beef-kidneys, to stew 41 Beef sausages, to fry 29 Beefsteak and kidney pud- ding. 107 Beefsteak pie 95 Beefsteaks, to broil 26 PAGE Beefsteaks, to fry 28 Beefsteaks, to stew 39 Beef-tea 120, 121 Beef-tea quickly made 121 Beetroot, to boil 87 Biscuit pudding 109 Black currant jam 117 Black currant jelly 117 Blanc-mange 113 Boards, to scrub 147 Boiled custard 112 Boiling 32 Boston cream 141 Bread, to toast 136 Bread and butter pudding...105 Bread crumbs for covering fish, rissoles, &c., to pre- pare 139 Bread pudding 104 Bread sauce 66 Broiling 25 Broth 57 Broth for invalids 122 Broth maigre 55 Broths 47 Brown soup 48 Bubble and squeak 44 Bullock’s heart, to roast 20 Butter, melted 63 Cabbage, pickled 131INDEX. 156 PAGE Cakes 124 Cake-tins, to clean 147 Calf’s feet, to fry 31 Calf's-foot jelly 112 Calf’s-foot jelly, stock for....112 Calf’s head, to boil 33 Calf’s liver, to fry 31 Calf’s sweetbreads, to stew.. 41 Caper sauce 63 Carrot soup 51 Carrots, to boil 85 Carving and Helping at Table 143 Cauliflowers, to pickle 131 Celery sauce 64 Chamois leather, to wash a 152 Cheese, stewed.... 136 Cheese, to toast 135 Cheese pudding 135 Chestnuts, to dress 137 Chocolate 140 Cockie-leekie 5S Cocoa 140 Cod, to boil 72 Cod, to dress a middle cut of. 73 Cod’s head and shoulders, to dress a 72 Coffee 140 Cold meat, re-dressing 37 Collops, minced 61 Cookery, Observations on : 5 Cooking apparatus 14 Copper vessels, to clean 147 Cow-heel, to boil 37 Crab pie 7S Crab sauce 65 Cranberry tart 99 Cream scones 127 Croquets 45 Crystal, to wash 151 PAGE Curing 141 Currant cake, a plain 129 Currant jelly 117 Currant pudding 103 Curries 81 Curry powder 81 Custard pudding 105 Custards 102 Cutting up meat 9 Dinner-table, to set a. 148 Directions for Servants.146 Dropped scones 127 Ducks, to roast 24 Dumplings, suet or plain 104 Eel pie 97 Eels, to stew 76 Egg sauce 64 Eggs, buttered 132 Eggs, to boil 131 Eggs, to curry 83 Eggs, to poach 132 English stew 43 Eat, to render down or clarify 138 Fig pudding Ill Fish 68 Fish, to boil 68 Fish, to curry S2 Fish, to fry 69 Fish and sauce 76 Fish pie 75 Fish pie, a 101 Fish pudding 80 Fish Re-dressed, Cold 79 Fish soup 56 Fish warmed with gravy 81 Flaky paste 99 Fowls, killing 11 Fowls, to boil 35157 INDEX. PAGE Fowls, to broil 27 Fowls, to roast 20 French beans, to boil 86 Fritters 134 Fruit pudding 108 Frying 27 Frying-pans, to clean 147 German sauce for puddings.. 65 Giblet pie 97 Giblet soup 52 Giblets, stewed 43 Ginger cakes 130 Gingerbread 128 Glass, to wash 151 Goose, to roast 23 Gooseberry fool 115 Gooseberry jam 117 Gooseberry tart 99 Gravy soup 48 Gruel 123 Haddock, to dress and bake a 73 Haddocks, to boil 73 Haddocks, rizzard 74 Halibut, to boil 72 Ham, to boil a ,35 Ham, to salt a 142 Ham and eggs, to fry 31 Ham toast 44 Hare, jugged 42 Hare, to roast 24 Hare pie 96 Hare soup 49 Haricot beans, to boil white. 86 Hashes 37 Herrings, to bake or pickle.. 77 Herrings, to fry 71 Hollandaise sauce 65 Hominy porridge 137 Hotch-potch 58 PAGE Icing for tarts 98 Indian curry, an 82 Invalid Cookery 119 Invalids’ chop 122 Invalids’ soup 121, 122 Irish stew 42 Irish stew of cooked meat.... 45 Jam-making 116 Jellies 102 1 Kail ’ 57 Kedgeree 80 Kidney soup 48 Kitchen apparatus 14 Kitchen utensils, the proper method of cleaning 146 Knives, to clean steel 152 Lamb, to boil a leg of 33 Lamb, to roast 18 Lamb chops, to fry 30 Lamb’s haggis 57 Lamb’s head and pluck, to dress a 60 Lamb’s liver, to fry 31 Lamb pie 95 Larder, the 12 Leek soup 55 Lemonade 124 Lentil soup 54 Lobster sauce 65 Lobsters to be eaten cold.... 79 Macaroni pudding. 110 Mackerel, soused 79 Mackerel, to boil 76 Mackerel, to broil 76 Marketing 7 Marmalade, orange 118 Mayonnaise sauce 67 Measures 16158 TNDEX. TACtt Meat, choice of 7 Meat, cutting up 9 Meat, keeping 12 Meat and potato pudding.... 46 Meat pancakes 134 Mince pies 100 Mint sauce 66 Miscellaneous Prepara- tions 131 Mock-turtle soup 50 Moss blanc-mange 114 Mountain-ash herry jelly.... 118 Mullagatawny soup 52 Mushroom sauce 62 Mutton, haricot of 39 Mutton, to boil a leg of 33 Mutton, to hash cold 43 Mutton, to roast 17 Mutton, to stew a shoulder of 38 Mutton broth for invalids.... 122 Mutton chops, to broil 26 Mutton chops, to fry 28 Mutton pies 95 Nurses, Hints to 119 Oat cakes 129 Oatmeal gruel 123 Oatmeal porridge 62 Omelet, a plain 133 Omelets 132 Onion sauce 64 Open tarts 100 Orange marmalade 118 Ornamenting dishes for table 16 Ox palates, to stew 40 Ox tail, to stew 39 Ox-tail soup 49 Oyster omelet 75 Oyster patties 102 PAOR Oyster sauce 66 Oyster soup 52 Oysters, to curry 83 Oysters, to fry 77 Oysters, to scallop 78 Oysters, to stew 78 Pancakes ...134 Pans, to clean enamelled 147 Parsley, to mince 140 Parsley, to fry 30 Parsley sauce 64 Parsnips, to boil 85 Partridges, to roast 22 Paste, flakey 99 Paste for covering meat pies, an economical 93 Paste, puff 101 Peas, to boil green 84 Peas pudding 106 Peas soup 53 Pheasant, to roast 23 Pickle for most kinds of meat 141 Pickles 130 Pies and tarts 91 Pigeon pie 96 Pigeon soup 49 Pigeons, to broil 27 Pigeons, to roast 20 Pigeons, to stew 41 Pitcaitldy bannock 126 Plain dumplings 104 Plate, to clean ...151 Plum pudding 103 Plum pudding, sweet sauce for 65 Pork, to boil a leg of 36 Pork, to roast 19 Pork chops, to fry 30 Pork pie, raised 92 Pork sausages, to fry 29INDEX. 159 PAGE Porridge, oatmeal 62 Potato balls 89 Potato soup 62 Potatoes a la maitre d’ hotel. 89 Potatoes, mashed 88 Potatoes, sauted 89 Potatoes, to bake 90 Potatoes, to boil 87 Potatoes, to fry 88 Potatoes, to roast 90 Potted head 46 Puddings, Custards, Jellies, &c 102 Puff paste 101 Puff paste, rough 94 Rabbit pie 97 Rabbits, to boil whole 35 Rabbits, to stew 42 Raspberry jam 117 Raw beef-tea 121 Red currant jelly 117 Rhubarb tart 99 Rice blanc-mange 114 Rice for curry, to boil 137 Rice pudding 105 Rice rissoles 110 Rissoles 45 Roasting meat 16 Roley-poley 108 Rook pie 96 Rowan jelly 118 Sago pudding 106 Salad, a dressed 91 Salad sauce 67 Salads 90 Salmon, kippered 70 Salmon, to boil 70 Salmon, to kipper 142 Salmon steaks 70 Salted round of beef, to boil.. 32 l’AGE Salt-fish, to boil 77 Salt-fish pie 80 Salting and curing 141 Sandwiches 136 Saucepans, to clean iron 146 Sauce piquante 63 Sauces 62 Scarlet runners, to boil 86 Scones, dropped 127 Scotch Dishes 56 Seakale, to dress 84 Sea-pie 109 Seed cake 128 Semolina pudding Ill Servants, Directions for. 146 Serviettes, the folding of 153 Sheep’s haggis 56 Sheep’s head 59 Sheep’s-head pie ... 59 Shelves, to scrub 147 Shortbread 126 Short crust 98 Shrewsbury cakes 129 Soda scones 127 Soles, potted 74 Soups 47 Spinach, to boil 86 Stews 37 Stock for calf’s-foot jelly 112 Strawberry jam 117 Sucking-pig, to roast 19 Suet crust 107 Suet dumplings 104 Table, carving and helping at 143 Table, waiting at 149 Tables, to scrub 147 Tapioca pudding 106 Tarts 91 Tarts, icing for 98 Tarts, open 100160 INDEX. pagh Tea 140 Tea-calces, small 126 Tins, to clean 147 Toad in a hole 46 Toast water 124 Tomato sauce 67 Tomato soup 54 Tongue, to boil a 36 Treacle pudding 109 Trifle 115 Tripe, to boil 36 Tripe, to fry 30 Trout, to fry 71 Turbot, to bake 72 Turbot, to boil 71 Turkey, to boil 34 Turkey, to roast 22 Turnips, to boil 85 Veal, to boil 34 PAGE Veal, to mince cold 44 Veal, to roast 18 Veal, to stew 40 Veal and ham pie 95 Veal cutlets, to dress 29 Veal cutlets, to fry 28 Veal pluck, to dress a 61 Vegetable soup 55 Vegetables, Dressing 83 Vegetables, to boil green 84 Venison, to roast 17 Wafer biscuits 130 Weights 15 Welsh rabbit 135 Whipped sauce for pudding. 65 White currant jelly 117 White wine whey 124 Yorkshire pudding 106 THE END Edinburgh: Printed by W. & R. Chambers, Limited.MELROSE’S TEAS FAMED FOR THREE-QUARTERS OF A CENTURY ANDW MELROSE & CO. were the first to abolish all intermediate profits between the grower and consumer, when more than fifty years ago they began to import their Teas direct from China to Scotland. In addition to China as a source of supply, they now have at their command the selection of the produce of the finest Tea Gardens in India and Ceylon. This enables them to continue selling Teas of the old-fashioned style that delighted a former generation. Within recent years increasingly large quantities of strong, bitter, and harsh Teas have been imported, chiefly from Assam and Ceylon. The use of these is highly injurious, and should be guarded against. Teas of this character find no place in Melrose’s stock, their reputation having been made by supplying the delicately flavoured Teas, which are the cheapest to buy as well as the most delightful to use. Price Lists on Application. And™ Melrose & Compx, 93 George Street, By Special Warrant, EDINBURGH. Appointed m 1837—the First Year of Her Majesty's reign, Tea Merchants to the Queen; and in 1863, to H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.Nine Prize Medala at different International Exhibitions. JOHN MACKAY & CO.’S CELEBRATED PREPARATIONS. FLAVOURING ESSENCES.—From Spices, Fruits, and Vegetable*, in general use for flavouring Jellies, Puddings, Creams, Ices, Biscuits, Cakes, &c. Used in Her Majesty’s Household. BAKING POWDER; or, Artificial German Yeast Powder.—For Baking Bread, Pastry, Currant Cake, &c. This is the best and cheapest substitute for Dried Yeast ever introduced. In 6d., is., and 2s. Bottles. REPINED GELATINE.—Unequalled for strength and purity. In 6d., is« is. 6d., and 2s. 6d. Packets. CALVES’ FEET JELLY.—It has a brilliancy and delicacy of flavour quite its own, and distinct from the ordinary Jellies in the Market. GENUINE ESSENCE OF RENNET.—For making Curds in a few minutes. In 6d., is., and is. 6d. Bottles. CONCENTRATED BROWNING.—For Soups, Sauces, and Made Dishes. In 6d., is., and is. 6d. Bottles. MANUFACTORY, CANNING STREET, EDINBURGH. GELATINE WORKS, PEGGY’S MILL, CRAMOND. DR CLARKE’S DUPLEX CRATE. HIGHEST AWARD, EDINBURGH, 1886. Prevents Cold Currents and circulates Heated Air. Effectually prevents Waste of Fuel and Loss of Heat. Consumes all Cinders. No Dust. Avoid Imitations. All genuine Grates are stamped and numbered. Prices from £2, I Os. Write for Illustrated Lists and Testimonials. “Mr David Noble. The Cockburn Hotel, Edinburgh. “Dear Sir—The Duplex Grates, I am pleased to say, continue to give me entire satisfaction. Their heating power is greater, while, in consumption of fuel, they are much more economical than any other Grate I have yet tried. Sole Maker, John Macpherson. DAVID NOBLE, Ironmonger and Stove Maker, 136 HIGH STREET, EDINBURGH. Opposite Cockburn Street. Established 181/1.ECONOMIC COOKERY. Besides being the most Perfect Food that has yet been produced, VIMBOS, because of the very large proportion of nitrogenous properties it contains, is most valuable as an adjunct to Soups, Entrees, Gravies, &c. “ Far more nutritious than Beef Tea. In all respects Vimbos is a Fluid Beef of the highest order. ” Dr Stevenson Macadam. ASK FOR CONCENTRATED “VIMBOS.” INDISPENSABLE IN the HOUSEHOLD. TO PRODUCE THE WHITEST, LIGHTEST, AND MOST DELICIOUS BREAD YOU SHOULD USE TRIED ONCE, USED ALWAYS. YEAST. GUARANTEED PURE. MADE EVERY DAY. Unequalled for Small Goods. ASK FOR D.C.L YEAST AND ENCOURACE HOME MANUFACTURES. Small Sample for Family use sent Post Free on receipt of Fourpence in Stamps, with instructions and address of nearest agent. USED ALL OVER THE KINGDOM. only by THE DISTILLERS CO., LTD., EDINBURGH. The Largest Distillers in the World.FRATER’S PATENT STEAM WASHINC MACHINE. The Best Practical Household Washer that has been made. Has been in use for many years. ONCE USED, WILL ALWAYS BE USED. Description and prices on application, from 63s. to £12, 12s. A trial given. SOLE MANUFACTURER— DAVID FOULIS, SMITH AND FURNISHING IRONMONGER, 61 GEORGE STREET, EDINBURGH. PUBLISHED BY W. & R. CHAMBERS, Limited. HOME-NURSING. By Rachel A. Neuman. A Work intended to help the inexperienced and those who in a sudden emergency are called upon to do the work of Home-nursing 1/6 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. Food, Clothing, the Dwelling, Health and Sickness, Income and Expenditure. 104 pages, cloth 10d. HYGIENE. A Manual of Health, Food, Water, Ventilation, the Dwelling, Clothing, Cleanliness, &c. By T. London, Member of the Sanitary Institute of Great Britain. 176 pages, cloth 1/6 HOME WORK AND DUTIES. By Mrs Henry Sandford. 224 pages, cloth 1/6 CHAMBERS’S JOURNAL VOLUME FOR 1893, CONTAINING THE BURDEN OF ISABEL, by J. Maclaren Cobban; POMONA, by the Author of Rose and Lavender, Laddie, Miss Toosey’s Mission, &c. ; and numerous Short Stories and Essays by eminent writers, papers on Modern Travel, Popular Science, and other topics of current interest 9/ 47 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON; and 339 HIGH STREET, EDINBURGH.A. BLACK & CO., Brushmakers, 30 ST ANDREW SQUARE, EDINBURGH, Have a lar^e selection of Household Brushes of every variety for the Kitchen, Pantry, Scullery, and Laundry—viz. grate, blacklead, shoe, and scrubbing brushes, plate, jug, fish, and pastry brushes; flue, lamp, bottle and decanter brushes; paint, whiting, laundry, bath, and W.C. brushes. Hard and wooden ware, and many odd articles necessary lor the complete equipment of the culinary department. A. B. & CO.’S BROOMS AND BRUSHES, for every purpose give thorough satisfaction, in mansion and cottage alike. Amongst other select brushes are Curtain and Picture Dusters, Bed Lrooms, \\ all Brooms, Furniture Brushes, Floor-polishing Brushes, &c. The New Close Range or Oven Top Brush for all kinds of Cooking Stoves. BLACK’S PATENT. Of all Carpet Sweepers, the St Andrew X is the best. A large choice of Fancy Brushes, Chamois Skins, Sponges, Door Mats, and Baskets. Lists or Orders sent to all parts of the Country. A. BLACK & CO., Brushmakers, 30 ST ANDREW SQUARE, EDINBURGH. THE PERFECT WHEAT FOOD. “ PAROL A is immeasurably superior to arrowroot, corn flour, sago, &c. With milk it forms exquisite puddings, and in the nursery it will prove a valuable variety which children will take with avidity.”—LiverpoolMedico-Chirurgical Journal. “Marlborough House, Pall Mall, S.W.—Colonel Clarke, Private Secre- tary to the Princess of Wales, writes to inform Mr James Marshall that FARO LA has been ordered for use in the Household.” Awarded Gold Medals at the two important International Exhibitions held in 1886—Edinburgh and Liver- pool—-two years before any imitations were in the market. Pamphlets with Cooking Recipes post free. “ An ideal form of giving farina- ceous food with milk."—A London Physician. A highly refined preparation of wheat which conserves all the nutri- tive elements and fine flavour of the grain, while irritating and indigest- ible matter has been carefully re- moved. It will satisfy a robust ap- petite, but it is specially suited for invalids and children. JAMES MARSHALL, 25 EAST CUMBERLAND STREET, CLASCOW.339 HIGH STREET, EDINBURGH. BOOKS SUITABLE FOR PRESENTATION PUBLISHED BY W. & R. CHAMBERS, Limited. BLANCHE. The New Story for Girls. By Mrs Moleswobth, Author of Robin Redbreast, The Next-Door House, &c. With eight Illustrations. 5/ POMONA. By the Author of Laddie, Rose and Lavender, Zoe, Baby John, &c. With eight Illustrations. 5/ ROBIN REDBREAST : a Story for Girls. By Mrs Moleswortii, Author of Imogen, The Next-Door House, The Cuckoo Clock, &c. With six original Illustrations by Robert Barnes. 3/6 THE CHILDREN OF WILTON CHASE. By L. T. Meade, Author of Four on an Island, Scamp and I, &c. With six Illustrations by Everard Hopkins. 3/6 BLACK, WHITE, AND GRAY : a Story of Three Homes. By Amy Walton, Author of White Lilac, A Pair of Clogs, &c. With four Illustrations by Robert Barnes. 2/6 OUT OF REACH: a Story. By Esme Stuart, Author of Through the Flood, A Little Brown Girl, &c. With four Illustrations by Robert Barnes. 2/6 THROUGH THE FLOOD, a Story of an Out-of-the-Way Place. By Esme Stuart. With Illustrations. 2/6 WHEN WE WERE YOUNG. By Mrs O’Reilly, Author of Joan and Jerry, Phoebe’s Fortunes, &c. With four Illustrations by H. A. Bone. 2/6 THE NEXT-DOOR HOUSE. By Mrs Moleswortii. With six Illustrations by W. Hatherell. 2/6 IMOGEN, or Only Eighteen. By Mrs Moleswobth. With four Illustrations by H. A. Bone. 2/6 ROSE AND LAVENDER. By the Author of Laddie, Miss Tooscy’s Mission, &c. With four original Illustrations by Herbert A. Bone. 2/6 GOOD AND GREAT WOMEN: a Book for Girls. Comprises brief lives of Queen Victoria, Florence Nightingale, Baroness Burdett-Coutts, Mrs Beecher-Stowe, Jenny Lind, Charlotte Bronte, Mrs Hemans, Dorothy Pattison. Numerous Illustra- tions. 2/6 EMINENT WOMEN, and Tales for Girls. Illustrated. 2/ ‘The lives include those of Grace Darling, Joan of Arc, Flora Macdonald, Helen Gray, Madame Roland, and others; while the stories, which arc mainly of a domestic character, embrace such favourites as Passion and Principle, Love is Power, Three Ways of Living, Annals of the Poor, Sister of Rembrandt, and others equally entertaining and good.'—Teachers' Aid. 47 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON ; andTHE “SAFE BOILING” STOVE MAT. (patent.) MILK, OATMEAL, and other Foods cooked on this Mat WILL NOT BOIL OVER. WILL NOT BURN. Price 9d. each. THE 74 DEMON BEETLE TRAP, (PATENT.) Acknowledged to be the Only Real and Effective Trap in existence. Millions of Beetles have been caught in these Traps. Price Is. The “ Griffin ” Tea and Coffee Infuser. For making a Single Cup of Tea or Coffee economically and without trouble. Saves at least 75 per cent in Tea or Coffee. Price Is. The “BOSS” Carpet & Rug Beater. VERY STRONG AND WELL MADE. The 'Boss’ will take the dust out of Carpets, Rugs, Mats, &c., much better and wit less trouble.than any other beater on the market. Price Is. the above useful articles can be had of all Ironmongers. If any difficulty i obtaining, write to BENHAM & FROUD, Limited, Charing Cross, London, W.CSSsl.thb new simplex TNoP216ne CLOSE A.NT> OPEN RANGES, FITTED WITH ALL THE LATEST PATENTED IMPROVEMENTS. Decidedly the best Range in the market; no other can compete with it, cither for Perfection in Heating or for Saving Coal. A Certain Cure for Smoky Vents. All sizes kept in stock. Full information as regards Tanks, Hot Water, Heating, &c. ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE. gllVENTILATOal PATfiNT- ROBERT ADAMS & SON, Furnishing Ironmongers, 14 EAST MAITLAND STREET, EDINBURGH.i