22101450112 ** 1 11 I I VU\JI\II T,THE OCKLYE COOKERY BOOKTHE OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK A BOOK OF RECIPES BY A LADY AND HER COOK „ ZTE^ N kl/w so , /> H. WILKINS THE LIBRARY, CROWBOROUGH, SUSSEX 1909WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call Nr. ar ALL RIGHTS RESERVEDPREFACE These recipes have been collected from many sources in the course of many years. The publication of them has often been suggested by friends who wished for copies of one or another, but nearly all required some alteration to ensure a satisfactory production. It is owing to the painstaking assistance of my cook, Annie Hobden, that their publication has been made possible. Their present form is the result of the most careful practical revision; superfluities have been elimi- nated, directions simplified, and it is believed that many of the dishes will prove more economical and more whole- some, yet not less palatable, than those made from other recipes for the same things, while many, it is hoped, will have the charm of novelty as well. Some of the richer ones are obviously only intended for festive occasions, but they are all given exactly as they are used in our small household, where they have been found so invaluable that I cannot help hoping they may be equally useful to others. The proof of the pudding is in the eating ! ” Ocklye, August, 1909. Eleanor L. Jenkinson.CONTENTS SOUPS * • • i FISH FOR BREAKFAST AND DINNER MEATS AND ENTREES . SAUCES, ETC PUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS VEGETABLES AND SAVOURIES JAMS, ETC BREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRY LIQUEURS AND BEVERAGES PAGE I • *9 . 29 60 • 65 102 . 121 . 128 • 150OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK SOUPS A gill of soup should be allowed for each person. (A gill is a quarter of a pint.) Clear Soup is made with raw meat and vegetables, see Consomme or Clear Soup. Second Stock is made with bones and scraps, in exactly the same way. If required for clear soup, take rather more than half a pound of raw beef to two quarts of stock, pass it through the mincing machine or mince it very finely, mix it with a very little cold water in a basin, and stir it into the stock in a stewpan ; whisk it well over the fire until it boils. Let it stand at the side of the stove for twenty minutes or half an hour, and strain it through a clean, scalded soup-cloth; it should be perfectly clear. A few more vegetables freshly fried in the stewpan before the stock is added improves the flavour. The white of an egg, slightly whipped, and the crushed shell may be added with the raw meat to help to clear it, but a little extra meat is much to be pi efcrred, as the white of egg and the shell always take away some of the flavour and goodness of the soup. PUREE OF ASPARAGUS Ingredients Fifty heads of asparagus. One pint and a half of milk. One ounce of butter. One ounce of flour. One gill of cream. Salt. A gill of liquor. B2 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK Put the asparagus into boiling water, add salt, and boil, for about three-quarters of an hour, until tender; strain it through a fine hair sieve, saving about a gill of the liquor, and rub the asparagus through the sieve; melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, add the puree, about one pint and a half of milk, and the gill of liquor; bring it gently to the boil, add the cream, and serve. Fried croutons should be handed with it. BARLEY CREAM Ingredients Four pounds of lean veal. Half a pound of Scotch barley. Four quarts of cold water. Salt. Wash the veal well, put it into the cold water, and set it on the fire. As soon as the scum rises, skim it well; then add the barley, having first washed it in two or three waters, and salt to taste; simmer gently, stirring it often, till the meat is boiled to rags and the liquor is as thick as cream; then rub the whole through a hair sieve. This is excellent for invalids. BEETROOT SOUP Four beetroots. Three pints of stock. Two large onions. One carrot. One turnip. Half a head of celery. Parsley. Two blades of mace. Ingredients Six peppercorns. Half a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Two table spoonfuls of pounded sugar. Salt and cayenne pepper. One pint of cream or milk. A few drops of cochineal. Boil the beetroots for three hours, peel and chop them very fine, then have ready in a stewpan three pints ofSOUPS 3 good stock, the onions, carrot, turnip and celery, all cut into small pieces, a small bunch of parsley, mace and peppercorns ; add the beetroot, let all simmer until quite tender, then pass it through a tammy or hair sieve. Put the soup back into a clean stewpan, add the lemon juice, sugar, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and salt to taste; stir it over the fire until it boils, add one pint of boiling cream, a few drops of cochineal, and serve. Or the cream may be handed cold. PUREE OF CHESTNUTS Ingredients One pound and a half of One gill of cream, chestnuts. Salt. One pint of milk. One teaspoonful of castor sugar. Slit the chestnuts at one end, put them into boiling water, and boil quickly for half an hour, squeeze them out of the husks, and rub them through a fine hair sieve j weigh the puree, and to three-quarters of a pound of Puree allow one pint of milk and a gill of cream. Put the purde into a clean stewpan, add the milk, season with salt and sugar, stir it over the fire until boiling, add the cream, and it is ready to serve. CONSOMME OR CLEAR SOUP Ingredients Three pounds of gravy beef. Three leeks. Four quarts of water. Three onions. One large carrot. Two turnips. Half a head of celery. A bunch of herbs. One blade of mace. Twelve peppercorns. . Cut the meat into sma11 pieces, put it into a saucepan, with four quarts of cold water, and bring slowly to theOCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 4 boil; as soon as the scum begins to rise, skim it well, and continue until the liquid is quite free from it; add salt to taste. Having well washed all the vegetables and cut them into slices, add them with a bunch of herbs—such as three sprigs of tarragon, two of thyme and parsley, two bay leaves—and the mace and peppercorns. Let this simmer gently for eight or nine hours, then strain it through a clean scalded soup-cloth; it should be perfectly clear. Carefully remove all fat with kitchen paper, when hot, before using. It is undesirable to clear soup with egg shells, as they take away the flavour and goodness also. Truss the fowl as for boiling, and put it in a stewpan, with six pints of water ; bring it to the boil, and skim well. Add three leeks and some salt, and boil slowly for about three hours; then take it out, cut off the breast, put the fowl back into the stewpan, and let it simmer well for three or four hours longer; strain off the soup, and let it stand for twenty-four hours ; then take off the fat, put it into a clean stewpan, with a handful of rice, put the lid on, and stand it on the stove to simmer gently until the rice is cooked ; have ready a dozen stewed prunes, cut four or five leeks into julienne shreds, and boil for ten minutes, add them to the soup, with the prunes and the breast of fowl, cut into small pieces; bring it to the boil, and add a gill of cream or milk. COCK A LEEKIE Ingredients One old fowl. Leeks. Rice. Prunes. One gill of cream. Salt.SOUPS 5 CRECY OR CARROT SOUP Ingredients Three large red carrots. Bay leaves. One onion. Two ounces of butter. One turnip. Half a pint of water. Two ounces of lean ham or One ounce of flour, bacon. Two pints of stock. Parsley. Salt and sugar. Peel and slice the onion and turnip, cut up the ham, and put them, with a few sprigs of parsley and two bay leaves, into a stewpan with the butter, and fry a light yellowish colour. Then wash and scrape the carrots, shave them into very thin slices, not using the centres, and add them, with half a pint of water; let them stew until quite tender; then mix in the flour smoothly, add the stock, season with half a teaspoonful of salt, and one teaspoonful of sugar, and stir it over the fire for about a quarter of an hour until it boils; then pass it through a tammy or hair sieve, put it back into the sauce- pan, and again stir it over the fire until it boils; no cream must be added, as this soup ought to be of a red colour and not too thick. Serve with plainly boiled rice, or fried croutons handed separately. CROUTE AU POT One carrot. One turnip. One leek. One parsnip. Ingredients Celery. One onion. One quart of stock. Bread. Having washed and cleaned the vegetables, cut up as much as you require of each of them in small dice, and boil them till tender; stamp out some rounds of bread with a small cutter, and fry them a golden brown in6 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK clean lard; boil up the stock, add the vegetables and croutons, and serve at once. This soup should be made with the stock from a piece of brisket of beef. See “Pressed Beef.” V FISHWIFE’S SOUP Two ounces of butter. Three ounces of flour. One pint of milk. One quart of good stock. One large lemon sole. Two cloves. Half a blade of mace. Ingredients One bay=1eaf. Half a teaspoonful of sauce. Half a teaspoonful of sauce. A pinch of cayenne. One gill of cream. anchovy Harvey Put the butter into a stewpan, and when melted add the flour; stir it well together over a slow fire for a few minutes; when cool add the milk and stock, and stir over the fire until it boils; fillet the sole, add the bones and trimmings to the soup, with the cloves, mace, bay leaf, anchovy and Harvey sauce, cayenne, and a little sugar and salt if required; let the whole boil quickly for ten minutes, keeping it well skimmed; cut each fillet of sole into five or six pieces, and put them into another stew- pan with a dessertspoonful of parsley picked small; pass the soup through a hair sieve into the pan, boil again for ten minutes, add the cream, and it is ready to serve. FLEMISH SOUP Ingredients One turnip. One carrot. [shredded Half a head of celery. I fine. Six green onions. One lettuce (cut up small). A quarter of a pint of asparagus tops. Chervil. A quarter of a pint of peas. Two ounces of butter. The yolks of four eggs. Half a pint of cream. Salt and sugar. Two quarts of stock.SOUPS 7 Stew the vegetables in the butter and a teacupful of stock for one hour; then add the rest of the stock and simmer for another hour. Boil the cream, then mix the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, with it and strain it. Take the soup off the fire, put the eggs and cream into it, then bring it just to the boil, stirring well all the time. Add sugar and salt to taste, and it is ready to serve. PUREE OF GREEN PEAS Ingredients One quart of peas. One gill of cream. One quart of water. Salt. A small bunch of mint. One teaspoonful of sugar. One pint and a half of milk. Put the water on to boil. When boiling add the salt, mint, and peas; boil until the peas are quite tender, strain the water away from them, keeping back about a gill; pass this with the peas through a fine hair sieve; put the puree into a clean stewpan, add the milk, sugar, and a little more salt if required; bring it to the boil, add the cream, and serve with fried croutons. A handful of the peas-cods boiled with the peas, and rubbed through the sieve, improves the flavour. HARE SOUP Ingredients The remains of a roast or jugged hare. Two ounces of butter. Two ounces of flour. Two large onions. A bunch of herbs. A blade of mace. Six peppercorns. Salt. Two quarts of second stock. A wineglass of sherry or port wine. Slice the onions into a stewpan, with the butter and herbs, and fry them for about a quarter of an hour;OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 8 stir in the flour, add the remains of the hare, the stock, mace, peppercorns, and salt to taste. Let it simmer gently for about four hours, then strain it through a hair sieve, rubbing through as much of the pulp as possible; put it into a clean stewpan, bring it to the boil, add a wineglass or more of sherry or port wine, and serve. If it is made of the remains of a roast hare, the blood which was saved should be added at the same time as the stock. Cut two pounds of fresh scrag of mutton into small pieces; put them into a stewpan, with the cold water and salt; set it upon the fire, and when boiling place it at the corner to simmer, keeping it well skimmed; let it simmer for an hour, then add the carrot, turnips, and onions, cut into small dice; cut up the lettuces, add them and the peas, and let all simmer until quite tender, about five hours altogether; skim off the fat, and serve either with the meat in the soup or separately. The peas should be rather old; if young peas are used, they must only be added half an hour before the whole is sufficiently cooked. HOTCH POTCH Ingredients Scrag of mutton. Three quarts of cold water. One tablespoonful of salt. One large carrot. Two large onions. Two turnips. Six cabbage lettuces. One quart of green peas. IA1PERIAL SOUP Ingredients One quart of clear soup. CUSTARD TO SERVE IN THE CLEAR SOUP Ingredients Two eggs. One tablespoonful of cream. One tablespoonful of stock. A little salt and nutmeg.9 SOUPS Beat up the eggs, add the stock, cream or milk, a very little nutmeg, and a pinch of salt; mix well, strain it into a plain mould well buttered, cover the top with a piece of kitchen paper, stand it in a saucepan containing a little boiling water, draw it to the side of the stove, and steam it gently for twenty minutes; cut it into fanciful shapes a quarter of an inch thick, put these into the tureen, and pour in the boiling clear soup. MOCK TURTLE Ingredients The remains of a calf’s head. One pound and a half of gravy beef. Four quarts of stock. Two carrots. Three onions. One turnip. Half a head of celery. Take one and a half to two pounds of the cold head, separate the glutinous part, and cut it into neat pieces about one inch square; put the remainder into a stew- pan, and add the beef chopped very finely; add the stock the head was cooked in, and bring it gently to the boil, taking off all the scum as it rises; when it is thoroughly skimmed and boiling, add the vegetables, all well washed and cut into slices, herbs, spices, and a little salt if re- quired ; put the lid on the stewpan, and let it simmer gently for about three hours and a half; strain it through a soup cloth, put it into a clean stewpan, add the glutinous pieces, and let it boil gently for about ten minutes; add the sherry and serve. This soup should be very nearly clear. If wanted absolutely clear, the remainder of the head should be omitted, two pounds of gravy beef used, SOUP Two leeks. Thyme and parsley. Marjoram and baydeaf. Six cloves. One blade of mace. Twelve peppercorns. One gill of sherry.10 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK and the slightly whipped white and crushed shell of one egg should be added with the stock. MULLIGATAWNY SOUP Ingredients Two ounces of butter. Two ounces of flour. Two onions. One small carrot. One turnip. One apple. One teaspoonful of chutney. One tablespoonful of curry pow- der. A few drops of lemon juice. Bones of chicken or rabbit. Two pints and a half of veal, chicken, or rabbit stock. Melt the butter in a stewpan, slice in the onions, carrot, turnip, and apple, and fry them for about twenty minutes; then stir in the flour, curry powder, and chutney; add the stock and the bones, and simmer it gently for four or five hours ; then rub it through a hair sieve, put it into a clean stewpan, add the lemon juice, and some small flakes of the white part of the chicken or rabbit, if you have it; bring it to the boil, and serve. Boiled rice should be handed with it. CLEAR OXTAIL SOUP Ingredients One oxtail. One large carrot. One turnip. Two onions. Half a head of celery. One leek. Twelve peppercorns. One blade of mace. Four cloves. Parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf. Two quarts of water. Salt. A wineglass of sherry. Two ounces of butter. Divide the oxtail into joints and cut off all the fat; melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the pieces of oxtail, the ■ vegetables well washed and cut into slices, herbs and spices. Fry these all together for a quarter of an11 SOUPS Two ounces of flour. Twelve peppercorns. hour, pour off the fat, add the water, and about half a teaspoonful of salt; bring it gently to the boil, skimming it well, and let it simmer for five hours. Take out the pieces of oxtail carefully, strain the soup through a clean scalded cloth, take off all the fat, put the soup into a clean saucepan with the oxtail, bring it to the boil, add the sherry, and serve. This should be quite clear, but if desired, half a pound of gravy beef cut into small pieces may be added when the water is put in, in which case, or if the oxtail is very large, rather more than two quarts of water should be used. The larger joints may be kept back and served as an entree on another occasion, with good brown gravy, and mashed potato in the centre. Divide the oxtail into joints and cut off all the fat. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the pieces of oxtail, the vegetables well washed and cut into slices, the herbs, spices, and a quarter of a pint of water. Set it over a sharp fire, stirring occasionally until the bottom of the pan is covered with a thickish brown glaze; then stir in the flour, add the two quarts of water (or a little more if it is a large oxtail) and nearly half a tablespoonful of salt; stir until boiling; skim it well, and let it simmer for about five hours, until the meat is very tender; then THICK OXTAIL SOUP Ingredients One oxtail. One large carrot. One turnip. Two onions. Half a head of celery. One leek. One blade of mace. Four cloves. Parsley, thyme, and baydeaf. Two quarts of water. Salt. Two ounces of butter.OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 12 take it out, remove the fat from the soup, and pass it and the vegetables through a fine hair sieve; put it into a clean saucepan, add the oxtail, bring it to the boil and serve. Second stock may be used instead of water. PALESTINE SOUP Ingredients One ounce of lean bacon. One onion. One turnip. Celery. Two ounces of butter. One pound of artichokes, weighed after peeling. One pint and a half of white stock. One ounce of flour. One gill of milk. Half a teaspoonful of salt. One teaspoonful of sugar. One gill of cream. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the bacon, onion, turnip, and a bit of celery, all cut up into thin slices; stir them over a sharp fire for twenty minutes, or until a whitish glaze forms at the bottom of the stewpan; then add the artichokes, cut into thin slices, with half a pint of the stock, and stew them till tender; mix in the flour quite smoothly, add the rest of the stock, the milk, salt, and sugar, and keep it stirred till boiling; then rub it through a hair sieve, put it into the saucepan again, and boil it up; add the cream, and serve with fried croutons. PARSNIP SOUP Ingredients Three large parsnips. One pint of milk. Two ounces of butter. A gill of cream. Pepper and salt. Put the butter in a stewpan to melt; add the parsnips thinly sliced, not using the centre, and pepper and salt; let them stew very gently until tender, rub them throughSOUPS 13 a hair sieve, put the puree into a clean stewpan, add the milk and stir over the fire until it boils; add the cream, and serve with fried croutons handed separately. Turnip soup can be made in the same way. POTATO SOUP Ingredients One pound of potatoes. Salt and pepper. A quarter of a pound of onions. Fried bread. Half a pint of milk. One gill of cream. One pint of stock. Wash the vegetables, cut them into thin slices, put the stock into a stewpan, and add them; place the stew- pan on the fire and boil slowly until the vegetables are tender; then rub it all through a hair sieve; put the soup back into a saucepan, add the milk, and a little salt and pepper; when boiling add the cream, and it is ready to serve. Croutons should be handed with this soup. TOMATO SOUP Ingredients One pint and a half of stock. One pound and a half of tomatoes. One small onion. A little celery. One eschalot. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the ham, and the onion, eschalot, and celery, cut into thin slices; fry them for five minutes, then add the tomatoes sliced, pepper and salt, and let them simmer till well cooked; mix the flour with the stock and add it; when boiling pass it through a fine hair sieve, put it into a clean saucepan, give it a boil up, add the cream, and serve with fried croutons. One ounce of butter. One ounce of flour. One ounce of lean ham. Salt and pepper. Half a gill of cream.14 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK PUREE OF TOMATOES WITH MILK Ingredients Two pounds of tomatoes. Two ounces of flour. Two pints of milk. Pepper and salt. Two eschalots. A gill of cream. Two ounces of butter. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the eschalots and tomatoes, sliced, season with pepper and salt; let them simmer gently, and when cooked stir in the flour; add the milk and bring it to the boil; pass it through a fine hair sieve; put it back into the saucepan, give it a boil up, add the cream, and serve with fried croutons. CLEAR TURTLE SOUP Ingredients A quarter of a pound of sun dried turtle. Two pounds and a quarter of gravy beef. Three quarts of water. A little celery. One large carrot. Two turnips. Two bay leaves. Two onions. Two leeks. Thyme and parsley. A blade of mace. Eight peppercorns. Three cloves. Salt. A wineglassful of sherry. Soak the turtle in cold water for three or four days, constantly changing the water. Cut the meat into small pieces, put it into a stewpan with the turtle, cover it with the cold water, and bring it gently to the boil, removing the scum as it rises; when it is thoroughly skimmed and boiling, add the vegetables, all well washed and cut into slices, the herbs, spices, and salt to taste. Let it simmer gently for about ten hours, keeping the stewpan closely covered all the time. Strain it through a clean soup cloth into a large basin; take the pieces of turtle from the vegetables, and rinse them in a littleSOUPS 15 warm water; then cut them into pieces about an inch square, and put them into the soup. Take off the fat with kitchen paper. When required, boil up and add a wineglass or more of sherry. It should be made the day before it is used. PUREE OF VEGETABLES Ingredients Three onions. Two turnips. Two carrots. Three potatoes. Two leeks. One lettuce. Two bay leaves. Thyme and parsley. Two ounces of butter. Tarragon. Salt and sugar. Two pints and a half of milk. One tablespoonful of flour. A gill of cream. Wash, peel, and slice the vegetables into a stewpan, with the bay leaves, a sprig of thyme and parsley, two or three sprigs of tarragon, and a little salt and sugar; add the butter, put the lid on, and let it stew well for twenty minutes to half an hour; then stir in the flour, add the milk, and let it cook very gently for about an hour; then rub it through a hair sieve, put it into another stewpan, stir over the fire until it boils, add a gill of cream, and serve with fried croutons. This soup can also be prepared with stock instead of milk. VEGETABLE MARROW SOUP Ingredients One vegetable marrow. One ounce of flour. One quart of white stock. Pepper, salt, nutmeg, and sugar. One ounce and a half of butter. A gill of cream. Peel a moderate sized marrow, remove the seeds, cut it into pieces, and boil it in a quart of white stock; whenOCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 16 quite tender pass all through a fine hair sieve. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour and gradually add the pulp and liquor; stir carefully until boiling, season with pepper, salt, a little grated nutmeg, and a small lump of sugar, and lastly add a gill of boiling cream, or a raw egg beaten up in a gill of good milk. Fried croutons to be handed with it. WATER SOUCHET Half a pint of water. Two flounders. Half a pint of broth. A piece of horse radish. Ingredients A carrot. Whole pepper, salt, and sugar. Thirty sprigs of parsley. Put the water and broth into a saute-pan, with the horse-radish, carrot, parsley, and a little whole pepper, salt and sugar; let it boil for one minute. Then take four pieces off each fish, without any bones, and stew them in the liquor for ten minutes. Put them into a deep dish, or soup tureen, and pour the liquor over them, adding a few shreds of the carrot. The trimmings of the fish should be stewed separately, and the broth added to the souchet. Thin bread and butter, brown or white, should be handed with it. Any flat fish may be used, but flounders are the best. WHITE SOUP Ingredients One knuckle of veal. Three quarts of water. Ground rice. A blade of mace. Twelve peppercorns. Cayenne and salt. Three onions. Half a pound of lean ham. Twelve sweet almonds. Half a pint of cream. Two yolks of eggs.SOUPS 17 i Put the knuckle of veal into a saucepan; add the water, and bring it gently to the boil, taking off the scum as it rises; then stir in a little ground rice, the onions cut into slices, bacon, mace, peppercorns, salt to taste, and a little cayenne; let it simmer very gently for about six hours, until the meat is done to rags; strain it off, and set it by till cold; then take off all the fat, and put it into a clean saucepan; blanch the almonds, and beat them into a paste in a marble mortar; add the yolks of eggs boiled hard and pounded; mix them smoothly to- gether, stir in the cream; then add it to the boiling soup and serve. OF WHITE LENTILS Ingredients lentils. Salt. One pint and a half of water. One pint and a half of milk. Half a pint of cream. One ounce and a half of butter. One ounce of flour. Wash the lentils well in several waters; put them into a saucepan with the water, celery, mace, parsley, onion, and peppercorns, and let them boil for an hour and a half till they are quite tender. Put them through a hair or fine wire sieve, rubbing the pulp through with the back of a wooden spoon. Put the butter and flour into a clean saucepan, large enough to hold all the soup, mix them together smoothly, stir in the punk:, and add the milk gradually; season it with salt; keep it stirred over the fire till it boils, add the cream, and serve with fried croutons. C PUREE Half a pound of German Two sticks of celery. Two sprigs of parsley. A small blade of mace. One onion. Six white peppercorns.18 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK WHITE SAGO SOUP Ingredients Two pints of good stock. A gill of cream. Two tablespoonfuls of small sago. Put the stock into a saucepan and let it come to the boil; then add the sago, and let it boil gently for about a quarter of an hour, stirring it occasionally; add the cream and serve. Clear soup may be used, but good white stock is best.19 FISH FOR BREAKFAST AND DINNER DRESSED CRAB Ingredients One crab. Mustard. Breadcrumbs. Two teaspoonfuls of Chili vinegar. Pepper and salt. Two teaspoonfuls of common One tablespoonful of cream. vinegar. Butter. Pick out all the meat from the shells and put it into a basin with a few breadcrumbs, six grains of cayenne pepper, a little salt, cream, a bit of butter the size of a walnut, a very little mustard, Chili vinegar, and common ■vinegar; mix all well together. Clean the crab-shell, and put the mixture into it with a thick layer of breadcrumbs and small bits of butter on the top; place it on a baking- tin, and cook in a quick oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve very hot. FILLETS OF SOLE WITH ANCHOVY Ingredients Two lemon soles. Two teaspoonfuls of anchovy sauce. Two ounces of butter. One ounce and a half of bread= crumbs. One teaspoonful of Harvey sauce. Clean and fillet the lemon soles, and place the fillets on a buttered tin; mix the butter, breadcrumbs, anchovy and Harvey sauce into a smooth paste, and spread some20 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK of it on each fillet; place a buttered paper over them, and cook them in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Plaice and whiting may be dressed in the same way. FISH CAKES Ingredients Threequarters of a pound of cooked fish. Three=quarters of an ounce of butter. One ounce and a half of flour. Half a pint of milk. Two teaspoonfuls of anchovy sauce. One small teaspoonful of Harvey sauce. One egg. Breadcrumbs. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and mix wrell together; then add the milk, and stir it over the fire until it thickens; add the anchovy and Harvey sauce. Then take the stewpan off the fire, and add the fish, broken in small pieces, removing all skin and bone. Turn it out on to a plate, and when cold roll it into balls with a little flour; egg and breadcrumb them, shape them into little round cakes with a palette knife, and fry them in boiling lard a nice golden colour. Serve with fried parsley. TIMBALES OF FISH Ingredients Cooked fish. Parsley sauce. Cream. Chili and Tarragon vinegar. The white of one egg. Put the fish through a wire sieve, and mix it with some cream and the whipped-up white of egg; fill small buttered tins, and steam for twenty minutes. Serve with parsley and butter, with a little Chili and Tarragon vinegar, and pepper and salt added to it.FISH 21 TIMBALES OF FISH (another way) Ingredients Six ounces of cooked fish. Four ounces of breadcrumbs. Three ounces of butter. One egg. Three tablespoonfuls of milk. Pepper, salt, and ground mace. Half a teaspoonful of anchovy essence. White sauce. Pass the fish through a wire sieve, then put it into a basin and mix with it the breadcrumbs, milk, butter, yolk of egg, a little pepper and salt, a pinch of mace, and the anchovy sauce; beat it all well together, then add the white of egg stiffly whipped. Put it in small buttered moulds, and steam for twenty minutes; turn them out, and serve with white sauce. FISH PUDDING Ingredients One pound of cooked fish. Pepper and salt. Eschalot. Parsley. Mushroom. Fat bacon. Two eggs. Forcemeat. Two tablespoonfuls of cream. Brown fish sauce. Break the fish up into small pieces, and season it with pepper, salt, a little finely chopped eschalot, parsley, and mushroom if you have it. Line a mould with thin slices of fat bacon placed downwards; then mix the fish with two eggs well beaten, and add the cream. Have ready some nice forcemeat, and put a layer of fish and a layer of forcemeat alternately into the mould until it is full. Cover it with fat bacon, and bake it in a moderate oven for about an hour and a half; turn it out and pour brown fish sauce over it. It is better to put the mould into a dripping pan containing water, as it dries it less in the22 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK FISH SOUFFLE Ingredients Three whitings (about twelve One gill of fish stock, ounces). Three eggs. One ounce of butter. One gill of cream. Two ounces of flour. Tarragon and Chili vinegar. Put the butter into a stewpan; when melted, stir in the flour, add the fish stock, a few drops of Tarragon and Chili vinegar, and stir till it thickens and the flour is cooked. Put the raw fish, carefully skinned and boned, into a mortar, and pound it well; add the panada, the eggs (one at a time), pepper and salt, and pound all well together; pass it through a hair sieve, add the cream half whipped. Pour it into a buttered mould, cover with a buttered paper, and steam gently for quite an hour. SAUCE FOR FISH SOUFFLE Ingredients One ounce of butter. One teaspoonful of Harvey sauce. One ounce of flour. One dessertspoonful of capers. One gill of stock. One small eschalot. One gill of fish stock. Put the bones and trimmings of the whiting into a stewpan with half a pint of water, one small eschalot, and a little salt; boil slowly till all the goodness is out of them. Melt the butter, add the flour, and stir it over the fire for ten to fifteen minutes, till it is a nice brown colour; add by degrees rather more than a gill of stock, the gill of fish stock, and the Harvey sauce; stir it over the fire till it boils; add the capers, boil it for five minutes, pour it round the souffle, and serve. KEDGEREE Ingredients Half a pound of cooked fish. Half a gill of cream. Two eggs. Pepper and salt (Nepaul pepper) One ounce and a half of butter. Two tablespoonfuls of rice.23 FISH Put the rice into boiling water and boil it for twenty minutes. Put the butter and cream into a stewpan ; when the butter is melted add the fish and rice, and stir it occasionally till thoroughly hot; beat up the raw eggs, and add them; season it with pepper and salt, stir it again, and when it is very hot turn it out on a hot dish and serve at once. LOBSTER CUTLETS Ingredients One lobster. Pepper and salt. One ounce of butter. One egg. One ounce of flour. Breadcrumbs. Cream. Parsley. Pick out all the meat from the lobster; put the shells into a saucepan with three-quarters of a pint of water, and let them boil for an hour until reduced a good deal. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and mix well together; stir in a gill of the strained liquor that the shells have been stewed in, and a little cream (but not too much, as the sauce must be kept very thick). Chop the lobster, add pepper and salt, mix well with the sauce, and put it on a plate to cool. When cold, shape them into cutlets, flour them lightly, egg and breadcrumb, and fry a golden brown. Garnish with fried parsley. MACKEREL WITH BLACK BUTTER Ingredients One mackerel. Parsley. Pepper and salt. One tablespoonful of common Two ounces of butter. vinegar. Split the mackerel open at the back, making it quite flat, season with a little pepper and salt, and butter if24 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK all over; lay it upon a gridiron over a moderate fire, turning it when half done, for about a quarter of an hour; then place it upon a dish without a napkin; put the butter into a stewpan, place it over a sharp fire until the butter becomes black, but not burnt, then throw in about twenty leaves of picked parsley, fry till crisp, and pour over the fish; put the vinegar into the stewpan, boil for half a minute, season with pepper and salt, and pour this also over the fish; put it into the oven for five minutes, and serve very hot. « STEWED MACKEREL Ingredients Three mackerel. Blitter. One teacupful of water. One dessertspoonful of finely chopped eschalot. One dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley. One blade of mace. Salt and pepper. One dessertspoonful of anchovy sauce. Breadcrumbs. The yolks of two eggs. Take off the heads, fins, and tails, open the fish and dry them with a cloth, dredge them lightly with flour, and place them in a stewpan, with a lump of butter the size of a walnut to each fish. Put into a basin the water, eschalot, parsley, mace, a little salt and pepper, anchovy sauce, and one dessertspoonful of light brown grated breadcrumbs; pour these over the fish and stew them for twenty minutes; then have ready the yolks of eggs, pour them into the pan, and shake it to thicken but not to curdle the eggs; shake a few breadcrumbs over the whole to give it a rich brown look, and dish it up as hot as possible.FISH 25 PLAICE IN BATTER Ingredients One plaice. One tablespoonful of salad oil. One dessertspoonful of Tarragon Pepper and salt, vinegar. Fillet the plaice, cut each fillet in half, lay them in a shallow dish, pour the oil and vinegar over them, season with pepper and salt, and let them stand for several hours; when wanted, dip each piece in batter, and fry in boiling lard. Serve with fried parsley. THE BATTER Ingredients Two ounces of flour. Salt. One egg. One dessertspoonful of salad oil. Half a gill of water. Mix the flour and water smoothly together; add the salt and yolk of egg; mix well. Pour the salad oil on the top and let it stand for an hour or more; whip the white of egg to a stiff froth and stir it in lightly just before using. RED MULLET EN PAPILLOTE Ingredients Foolscap paper. Red mullet. Salt and pepper. A little oil. Eschalot. Wipe the fish and cut off the fins, but do not clean them. Cut a sheet of foolscap paper into the shape of a heart, lay it on the table and oil it; put the mullet on one side of the paper, season with salt, pepper, and chopped eschalot; fold the paper over and turn the edges in twice; broil on a slow fire for twenty minutes, turning carefully now and then; serve without a napkin; they are excellent done thus and require no sauce.OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 26 SCALLOPS Ingredients Half a dozen scallops Half a pint of water. A gill of milk. Half a blade of mace. One ounce of butter. Breadcrumbs. Cayenne. Half a gill of cream. One ounce of flour (or rather Salt, more). Wash the scallops free from sand or grit and take off the beard and black piece. Put the scallops into a stew- pan with the water, and let them stew gently for five minutes. Then take them out, put the trimmings, mace, and salt into the liquor, and let it boil gently for about ten minutes; then strain it. Melt the butter in a stewpan, mix in the flour, add a gill of liquor, the milk and cream, stir it over the fire until it boils, and add the scallops; then put them into a buttered fireproof dish, cover them with fine breadcrumbs, with a few bits of butter on the top, and set them in the oven to brown for about twenty minutes. Boil the scallops in a quarter of a pint of water until they are quite tender; chop them up finely, also the shrimps, and add about four tablespoonfuls of thick white sauce, made of butter, flour, milk or cream, a little of the liquor the scallops were boiled in, and seasoned with a little onion, nutmeg, anchovy sauce, pepper, salt, and cayenne. Mix it all well together, with a few drops of cochineal to colour it, spread it on a plate, and put SHRIMP AND SCALLOP CUTLETS Ingredients Four scallops. Half a pint of shrimps. White sauce. One egg. Breadcrumbs, Seasoning of onion, nutmeg, anchovy sauce, salt, pepper, and cayenne.27 FISH it in a cool place. When quite cold, shape it into cutlets with a cutter, put a little bit of pipe macaroni in the end of each to suggest the bone, egg and breadcrumb them carefully, fry in boiling fat, and dish up with fried parsley in the centre. SOLE AU QRATIN One large sole. Butter. One onion. White wine. Brown sauce. Breadcrumbs. Ingredients Stock. The juice of half a lemon. Mushrooms. Parsley. Anchovy sauce. Sugar and cayenne pepper. Cut off the fins and make an incision in the back; then butter a saute-pan and put one teaspoonful of chopped onion in it, with a wineglass of white wine ; lay in the sole, cover it with six tablespoonfuls of brown sauce, and sprinkle some breadcrumbs over it, with a few small pieces of butter; place it in a moderate oven for twenty minutes, take it out of the pan, and dish without a napkin; then put four tablespoonfuls of stock in the saute-pan, boil it for five minutes, keeping it stirred, add the lemon juice, chopped mushrooms, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, a little sugar, and cayenne pepper; pour the sauce round the fish, place it in the oven for a quarter of an hour, pass a red-hot salamander over it, and serve very hot. SOLE AUX FINES HERBES Ingredients 0ne Four tablespoonfuls of gravy. One eschalot. Psrsley. A wineglass of sherry. Harvey sauce. One ounce of butter. Anchovy sauce.OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 28 Put a teaspoonful of finely chopped eschalot into a saut^-pan with the sherry and butter, place the sole in it, pour the gravy over it, and sprinkle it with finely chopped parsley; cover it with a buttered paper, and place it in a moderate oven for half an hour; take the sole out of the pan, place it upon a dish without a napkin, reduce the sauce that is in the pan over a sharp fire, add a little Harvey sauce and anchovy, pour it over the sole and serve very hot. White sauce can be used instead of gravy. Boil and mash some potatoes and mix with them a small piece of butter, a little cream, pepper, salt, and the yolk of egg. Take the remains of a turbot which has been cooked, make a good creamy sauce, and put the pieces of fish into it; if you have any lobster sauce, use that. Make a border of the mashed potato in pyramids, with a bag and half inch pipe, on the dish you are serving up in; put the fish in the middle, sprinkle a little grated cheese and a little chopped parsley over it, and lobster coral if you have any. Put it in the oven for about twenty minutes to brown. If necessary, finish with a salamander. TURBOT AU GRATIN Ingredients Potatoes. Butter. Cream. Pepper and salt. The yolk of an egg. The remains of a turbot. Parmesan cheese. Chopped parsley.29 MEATS AND ENTREES When broiling or boiling meat, it should be cooked for a few minutes before adding the salt, or the juice will be drawn from it and the flavour spoilt. HOMELY BACON PUDDING Ingredients Six ounces of suet. Eschalot and sage. Twelve ounces of flour. Pepper and salt. Bacon. Make a good suet crust with the suet finely chopped, flour, and a pinch of salt. Mix to a stiff paste with cold water, roll it out flat, cover it with thin slices of bacon, season with finely chopped eschalot and sage and a little pepper and salt; roll it into the shape of a bolster, fasten the edges securely, and put the pudding into a floured cloth; tie it at both ends, put it into boiling water and let it boil well for two hours. FILLETS OF BEEF DEVILLED Ingredients One pound and a half of fillet of beef. One ounce of butter. One ounce and a half of flour. One pint of stock. One tablespoonful of cream. Two tablespoonfuls of Worcester sauce. One large teaspoonful of made mustard. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and stir it over the fire till it forms a brown roux; add the stock,30 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK and stir it till it boils. Trim off all the fat and skin from the fillet, cut it into neat slices about half an inch thick, and put them into the sauce; cook them gently for about two hours. Mix the mustard, Worcester sauce and cream together, and add it a few minutes before it is done. Arrange the fillets on a hot dish and pour the sauce over them. This sauce is good with any hash. RELISHING FILLETS OF BEEF Ingredients The undercut of a sirloin of beef. Horseradish. Parsley. Butter. One teaspoonful of Chili vinegar. One saltspoonful of salt. One saltspoonful of sugar. One teaspoonful of common vinegar. Gravy. Potatoes. Cut the beef into round pieces half an inch thick; make a mixture of minced horse-radish, a little chopped parsley, butter the size of a walnut, Chili vinegar, salt, sugar and common vinegar. Spread the mixture on the cutlets before grilling or frying them. Serve hot, with good brown gravy, and fried chip potatoes in the centre. BEEF GOBBETS Ingredients Beef. Salt. Mace. Turnips and carrots. Cloves. Herbs. Pepper. Bread. Celery. Cut any piece of beef, except the leg, into pieces about the size of a pullet’s egg and put them in a stew- pan ; cover them with water, let them stew, skim themMEATS AND ENTREES 31 clean, and when they have stewed an hour take a little mace, cloves, and whole pepper tied loosely in a muslin bag, and some celery cut small; put them into the pan with some salt, turnips, and carrots pared and cut in slices, a little parsley, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a large crust of bread (you may put in an ounce of barley or rice if you like it), cover it close and let it stew till it be tender. Take out the herbs, spices and bread, and have ready a French roll cut in four. Dish up all together and send to table. Veal stuffing. Cut thin slices off the fillet, and beat them out with a chopping-knife wetted in cold water; put some veal stuffing on each slice, roll them up, stick a skewer through them, and stew them very gently in rich brown gravy for one hour. Serve hot. BEEF OLIVES Ingredients Fillet of beef. Good gravy. PRESSED BEEF Ingredients Brisket of beef. Two carrots. Three onions. Half a head of celery. Two leeks. Half a parsnip. Two turnips. Four cloves. Ten peppercorns. One blade of mace. A bunch of herbs. Salt. Take about nine pounds of fresh brisket, bone it, and tie it up in a cloth; put it into a stewpan with the bones and cover it with l •OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 32 and cut into slices, the herbs, spices, and a little salt; boil it gently for about five hours and a half; then take it out of the cloth and put it to press between two dishes with a weight on it till quite cold; then glaze it. When the stock is quite cold, take off the fat and boil down nearly a pint of it to make the glaze. The remainder of the stock makes excellent croute au pot soup. Put the finely chopped eschalot into a saucepan, with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and stir it over the fire till it is lightly browned; stir in a dessertspoonful of flour, add the meat, and as much good stock as will make it moist. Boil it gently for a few minutes, season with pepper, salt, and sugar, stir the yolk of egg in quickly, and pour it into a dish to get cold; then divide it into pieces the size and shape of half a sausage; egg and breadcrumb them twice, and fry them a nice golden brown. Drain them on a sieve, and serve hot, with rich brown clear gravy. They can be made with fresh or cooked meat, but fresh meat is much the best. BOUDINS Ingredients Half a pound of finely chopped beef. A little stock. Pepper, salt, and sugar. The yolk of one egg. Egg and breadcrumbs. Good clear gravy. One eschalot. A bit of butter. A dessertspoonful of flour. BRAWN Ingredients Half a pig’s head. Two pig’s feet. Salt and pepper.MEATS AND ENTREES 33 Soak the head in cold water for two hours to get out all the blood, then put it into a saucepan with the feet, cover it with cold water, bring it to the boil, and add a little salt. Boil it until the meat leaves the bones easily. Take out all the bones and chop up the meat, season with pepper and salt to taste. Put it into a mould and press it. BREAST OF LAMB BRAISED AND BROILED Breast of lamb. Two onions. Half a carrot. Half a turnip. Salt and pepper. Ingredients Three pints of water. Thyme and parsley. Two bay leaves. One egg. Breadcrumbs. Cut the onions, carrot, and turnip into thin slices; put them into a stewpan with the bay leaves, parsley, and thyme; add the water and a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. Lay in the breast and let it simmer till it is tender and the bones come out easily. Then take it from the pan, pull out all the bones, and press it between two dishes. When cold season it with salt and pepper, egg and breadcrumb it lightly, and broil it gently over a moderate fire to a nice light brown colour, turning it very carefully. Serve with gravy. Tomato sauce or mint sauce may be handed with it. BOILED CALF'S HEAD Ingredients Half a calf’s head. Parsley and butter sauce. Put half a calf’s head into cold water for two or three hours; when ready to cook it remove the brains, tie the head up in a cloth, and put it into a stewpan with DOCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 34 enough cold water to cover it; bring it slowly to the boil, remove the scum as it rises, add a little salt, put the lid on the stewpan and boil it gently from three to three and a half hours, according to the size. In the meantime wash and skin the brains and boil them in a little saucepan for about ten minutes. Bone the head, place it on a dish; skin the tongue, cut it in pieces and arrange it alternately with the brains round the head. Sent hot to table with parsley and butter poured over it. Half a pint of button mushrooms. One small lemon. Cleanse the head as in the recipe for boiled calf’s head. Put it into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover it, and bring it to the boil, removing the scum as it rises; add a little salt, put the lid on and let it boil for two hours and a quarter; then let it cool and bone it entirely; take the skin off the tongue and replace the brain, lay the head in a stewpan and simmer it gently in rich gravy for an hour. Half an hour before it is dished up, add the button mushrooms and a few sprigs of basil; thicken the gravy if necessary with flour and butter, and serve with plenty of forcemeat balls round the head. If no mushrooms or basil are at hand, the thin rind of a small lemon may be boiled in the gravy, and the strained juice added at the instant of serving. BRAISED CALF’S HEAD Ingredients Half a calf’s head. Cold water. Rich gravy. A few sprigs of basil. Flour and butter. Forcemeat balls.MEATS AND ENTREES 35 CALF’S HEAD CUTLETS Ingredients Half a calf’s head. One egg. Breadcrumbs. Salt and cayenne. A very little grated lemon peel. One dessertspoonful of savoury herbs, chopped fine. Brown sauce. One dessertspoonful of lean cooked ham, chopped very fine. Prepare the calf’s head as for a galantine; put it into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover it; bring it to the boil, removing the scum as it rises; put in a little salt, and boil it gently for three hours. When done, take it up, remove the tape and cloth, and when it is quite cold cut it into slices about half an inch thick; flour them lightly, and brush them over with the beaten egg; dip them into the breadcrumbs, seasoned with the salt, lemon peel, herbs, and ham, and fry them in butter. Serve with good brown sauce poured round them. Take the brains and tongue from the head and remove the bones carefully with a sharp-pointed knife. Then wash the head and dry it in a clean cloth; roll it up tightly into the shape of a galantine, and bind it round with a piece of tape; fasten it up in a clean cloth and put it into a saucepan, with enough cold water to cover it; bring it to the boil, skim it well and add a little salt; put the lid on the stewpan and let it boil for three hours; then take it up and remove the cloth and tape; have ready some warm brown breacjcj-qip]^ mixed well with butter, and A GALANTINE OF CALF’S HEAD Ingredients Half a calf’s head. Water and salt. Brown sauce. Brown breadcrumbs. Butter.OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 36 put a thick layer all over the head. Put it into a quick oven for twenty minutes, then dish it up, pour a good brown sauce round it, and send it hot to table. The tongue may be boiled at the same time as the head, the brains blanched for ten minutes, and both sent up arranged round the galantine. HASHED CALF’S HEAD Ingredients A pound of cold calf’s head. One pint and a quarter of stock. Two ounces of flour. Lemon juice. Two ounces of butter. Half a wineglass of sherry. One onion. Forcemeat balls. Put an ounce and a half of the butter into *a stew- pan ; when melted, add the flour, stir round for about ten minutes, till it becomes a brown roux; stand it off the fire to cool. Chop the onion fine, put it into a small stewpan with the rest of the butter, and stir over the fire till it is a pale brown; stir it into the roux, add rather more than a pint and a quarter of stock, and stir over the fire till it boils; add the sherry, a few drops of lemon juice, the slices of calf’s head, and the forcemeat balls; let it cook gently for about half an hour, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with sippets of fried bread round it. CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE Ingredients One ounce of butter. Four or five mushrooms. One chicken. Two ounces of rice. One bay leaf. Pepper and salt. One pint of stock. Glaze. One carrot. One onion. One turnip. One pint and a half of water.MEATS AND ENTREES 37 Put the butter in an earthenware casserole, add the mushrooms cut up in small pieces, let them fry on the stove for a few minutes, then add the chicken cut up in nice pieces, rice, bay leaf, pepper and salt to taste; add the stock, and a small piece of glaze if you have it, and let it all cook gently for an hour in a moderate oven, adding more stock as that in the pan reduces. In the meantime put the bones of the chicken in a stewpan with the sliced carrot, onion, turnip, and water; simmer it gently for two hours, when it should be reduced to half the quantity; let it cool and then add it to the casserole; put it away in a cool place; when cold it should be set in a jelly. CROQUETTES Ingredients Six ounces of veal or chicken. Three=quarters of an ounce of butter. One ounce of flour. One gill of milk. Half a gill of thick cream. Pepper and salt. Ham or tongue. Puff pastry. One egg. Vermicelli. Melt the butter, mix in the flour, add the milk and cream, and stir it over the fire till thick and boiling; add the veal minced fine, season with pepper, salt, and a little finely chopped ham or tongue, mix all well together, turn it out on a plate, and put it away till quite cold; then roll out the puff pastry very thin, cut it out in rounds about the size of a teacup with a plain cutter, put a small piece in the middle of each, wet it round with beaten egg, fold it over, press the edges together, and roll them up a little; egg and vermicelli them, and fry in hot lard. Serve with fried parsley.OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 38 CROUSTADES Ingredients Bread. Chicken, game, or meat. Dripping. * Cut some pieces of bread about the size of small tea- cups ; cut round the inside of them about two inches deep. Fry them in good dripping; then take out the middles and fill up with nicely minced chicken, game, or meat, placing on the top a crisp slice of the removed centre. Serve hot. CURRIED LENTILS Ingredients Two tablespoonfuls of lentils. Salt, sugar, and pepper. One teaspoonful of curry powder. A dessertspoonful of chopped Stock. eschalot. Butter. Flour. Soak the lentils in cold water for an hour or more; mix the curry powder with a little stock, and stir it into a pint of stock in a saucepan; add butter the size of a walnut, salt, sugar, pepper, eschalot, and a little flour to thicken it. Stew the lentils in this till they are quite tender. Serve hot with a border of boiled rice. DUCK A LA MODE One duck. Butter. Flour. Stock. Ingredients Red wine. One anchovy. One eschalot. Herbs and lemon juice. Cut up a duck into nice joints, put them into a stew- pan with a bit of butter and fry them a pale brown; then pour off the fat, dust flour over them, and put in half a pint of good stock, a little red wine, anchovy,39 MEATS AND ENTREES eschalot, and a small bundle of herbs. When the duck is cooked enough, take out the herbs and let the sauce be as thick as cream; dish it up, squeeze lemon juice over it, and serve hot. FRICANDEAU OF VEAL Ingredients Three pounds of fillet of veal. Streaky bacon. Larding bacon. Parsley, thyme, and bay leaf. Half a pint of stock. Salt, pepper, and sugar. One onion. Mace. One carrot. One clove. Trim the veal and lard it closely with fine strips of larding bacon; lay three or four thin slices of bacon in the bottom of a stewpan and place the fricandeau on them; cut the onion and carrot in slices and place them round it, with a bouquet of parsley, thyme, and bay leaf, an atom of mace, and a clove; add about half a pint of stock, but do not let it cover the larding; if you have no stock at hand, use water and a little salt; cover it with a buttered paper, set it on a moderate fire, let it stew gently for about two hours, basting the fricandeau with the gravy occasionally; the more slowly it cooks the better. When done, put it on a baking sheet in the oven for five or ten minutes to crisp the lardons; in the meantime, strain the stock, free it from grease, re- duce it to half glaze; take the fricandeau out of the oven, dish it up, glaze it, and pour the remainder round it. Tomato sauce may be served with the fricandeau, or mushroom sauce made thus : MUSHROOM SAUCE Ingredients Twelve tablespoonfuls of thin brown sauce. Six or eight mushrooms. A little sugar. A little cayenne.OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 40 Put the brown sauce into a small stewpan to boil; then have the mushrooms well cleaned and washed, chop them fine, place them in the sauce and boil for five or ten minutes; add a little sugar and a little cayenne if liked. TO ROAST AN OLD FOWL Ingredients One old fowl. Good gravy. Veal stuffing. Prepare the fowl as for roasting, stuffing it with veal stuffing as you would a turkey; put it in a steamer and steam it for two hours and a half; then take it out, dredge it over lightly with flour, and roast it before a brisk fire for half an hour, basting it constantly. Dish it up, and serve with good gravy poured round it. HAM ROLL Ingredients Two pounds of ham. Three eggs. One pound of raw veal. Pepper and salt. Half a pound of breadcrumbs. Glaze. Mince the veal and ham finely; mix in the breadcrumbs and the eggs well beaten, season it with pepper and salt, stir it all well together, roll it like a bolster, tie it up in a pudding cloth, and boil it for an hour and a half; let it get a little cool, then take it out and glaze it. Beef may be used instead of veal, but the latter is to be preferred.MEATS AND ENTREES 41 TO ROAST A HARE Ingredients One hare. Gravy. Veal stuffing. Red currant jelly. Having stuffed and trussed the hare, tie a piece of fat bacon over the back; then cover the whole hare with well greased paper, and roast it in front of a brisk fire for one hour, taking the paper off for the last quarter of an hour; baste it constantly with plenty of dripping all the time it is roasting. Take off the bacon, dish it up with a good gravy, and hand red currant jelly with it. The blood should be saved to use in the hash next day. JUGGED OR HASHED HARE Ingredients One hare. The blood of the hare. One onion. One carrot. One turnip. A bunch of herbs. One wineglass of claret. Two ounces of butter. Three ounces of flour. One quart of second stock. One tablespoonful of red currant jelly. Forcemeat balls. Cut a fresh hare, or the remains of a roast hare, into neat pieces; slice the vegetables into a stewpan with the herbs, add the butter, and fry them for about a quarter of an hour; then stir in the flour and add the stock, a quart or a little more, and the blood; put in the head and trimmings, and let it all simmer gently for about two hours; then rub it through a hair sieve. Put the pieces of hare into a stewpan, add the sauce, red currant jelly, and forcemeat balls; let it simmer for about two hours and a half, or, if the hare is already cooked, one hour will be sufficient. Add the claret just before serving. Hare done in this way is quite as good as if cooked in the old fashion of jugging it in a jar in the oven.OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 42 HOT POT Ingredients Mutton chops. Stock. Onion. Kidneys. Twenty oysters. Pepper, salt, and sugar. Potatoes. Lay some nicely-cut chops at the bottom of a pie-dish, a little good stock flavoured slightly with onion, then a layer of kidneys, and next about twenty oysters, a little pepper, salt, and one small teaspoonful of sugar; cover it all over with potatoes cut out like rock, and set it in the oven to stew for two hours. Cut your meat into pieces the size and thickness of a crown; cover both sides of each piece with curry powder; then put them on a skewer, with a very thin slice of bacon and of onion between each slice of meat; lay them on a baking tin with a piece of dripping on the top, and put them in the oven, basting them well till they are done. They should be almost crisp; then take them off the skewers, place them in little piles on a hot dish, and serve with good brown gravy. They may be made of cooked or raw meat. KABOBS Ingredients Part of a leg of mutton. Onions. Fat bacon. Curry powder. Good gravy. KIDNEYS Ingredients Three or four kidneys. One ounce of butter. Salt and pepper. Half a teaspoonful of flour. Half a small wineglass of sherry. One gill of broth.MEATS AND ENTREES 43 Take the skins off the kidneys and cut them in slices, being careful to cut out all the sinewy parts. Put the butter into a saute-pan, and when it is melted and nearly brown, add the kidneys, with a little salt, pepper, and the flour. Mix well together, add the sherry and broth; simmer it for a few minutes, and serve very hot on squares of nice crisp toast. MINCED BEEF AND POACHED EGGS Ingredients One pound of raw beef. One ounce and a half of flour. Three=quarters of a pint of good Pepper and salt, stock. Poached eggs. Mince the beef very finely with a knife, taking away every atom of gristle; put it into a stewpan, stir in the flour, add the stock, season it with pepper and salt, and stir it over the fire till the meat is cooked. Turn it out on a hot dish, serve with sippets of toast round it, and poached eggs on the top. The flavour may be varied by a little finely chopped eschalot being fried in a little butter before the meat is put into the pan. MINCED VEAL Ingredients Veal. Bacon. Onion. Cream. Carrot. Stock. Parsley. Salt and pepper. Take a very small onion and a little carrot and parsley; chop them finely and fry them in butter; dredge them with flour and stir till they are brown. Then add your meat and a little piece of bacon finely minced, and asOCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 44 much stock and cream as is necessary; season with pepper and salt and serve with sippets of bread. Force- meat balls may be added. MUTTON CHOPS A LA Ingredients MARINIERE Six mutton chops. Rutter. Half a glass of sherry. One cup of broth. Six small onions. Bacon and vinegar. Carrot and parsnip. Thyme and parsley. Take the chops from a loin of mutton, trim them neatly, put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter the size of a walnut; stand them on the stove and watch them till they are browned; wet them with the sherry and broth, add the onions, and stew them over a gentle fire for half an hour; then add a little bacon, a bit of carrot, parsnip, thyme, and parsley, all minced very fine, a little salt and pepper, and a dessertspoonful of vinegar. Stew till the chops are very tender and the sauce reduced. Lay the cutlets neatly on a dish, put the onions in the centre, and pour the sauce, minced bacon, and roots over them. It takes about two hours to do them. MUTTON CUTLETS EN ROBE DE CHAMBRE Ingredients Cutlets. Salt. Rroth. Herbs. Eschalot Mushrooms. Veal. Beef suet. One egg. Pepper. Parsley. Breadcrumbs. Stew the cutlets slowly in broth, with a little salt and a bunch of sweet herbs. When tender, take them out,MEATS AND ENTREES 45 skim off the fat, pass the broth through a sieve, set it on the fire again and reduce it to a glaze. Glaze your cutlets and set them to cool. Mince very fine a bit of veal, some beef suet, parsley and eschalot or mushrooms. Mash them all well together, and moisten with an egg and a little cream; pepper and salt to taste. Roll each cutlet in this mixture, cover them with breadcrumbs, and lay them on a baking tin in the oven till they are a fine brown colour; the oven must not be too hot. Serve with a nice clear sauce. SAVOURY MUTTON CUTLETS Ingredients Best end oi neck of mutton. Parmesan cheese. One egg. Macaroni and stock. Breadcrumbs. Gravy. Cut and trim the cutlets, egg and breadcrumb them and dip them in grated Parmesan cheese; egg and bread- crumb them again, and fry them in clean boiling lard. Stew the macaroni in stock for two hours and a half, cut it into small lengths, arrange the cutlets in a dish, with the macaroni in the centre, pour the brown gravy round them, and serve. MUTTON A LA VENAISON Ingredients A loin of mutton. A bouquet of herbs. One quart of water. One onion. Three cloves. One pint of port wine. Mace. Bone, and skin the loin of mutton, and roll it up like a galantine; put the bones into the water, with the cloves, sliced onion, herbs, a very little mace, and a pinch of salt; let it stew until it is reduced to a pint; strain itOCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 46 and let it stand till cold; then take off the fat. Put the mutton into a stewpan with the gravy and port wine, and let it stew for two hours. It is better made the day before it is wanted; half an hour will make it hot. This is sufficient for a good sized loin. NECK OF LAMB A LA JARDINIE'RE Ingredients Neck of Iamb. One small carrot. One turnip. Twenty button onions. One ounce of butter. Half a teaspoonful of sugar. One gill of brown sauce. Half a gill of broth. Parsley and bay leaf. Plain roast the neck. Cut the carrot and turnip into small dice, wash them and the onions in cold water, put them in a small stewpan with the butter and sugar, and leave it on the fire till no liquid remains; then add the brown sauce and broth, a small bouquet of parsley and a bay leaf; as soon as it boils, set it to simmer at the corner of the stove; skim off all the fat. It should be a nice brown colour, and the sauce must adhere lightly to the back of the spoon. Pour it into a dish, place the lamb on it, and serve. Green peas, French beans, or other vegetables may be added. OX CHEEK A LA POMPADOUR Braise the cheeks till they are very tender; press them, trim them, and mask them with the following : ATELETS SAUCE Ingredients Two ounces of raw ham. Pepper. Half a bay leaf. Stock and white sauce. A sprig of thyme. The yolks of six eggs. One eschalot. Butter and lemon juice.MEATS AND ENTREES 47 Cut the ham into very small pieces, put it into a stew- pan with the bit of bay leaf, thyme, eschalot chopped, and a little whole pepper; moisten it with a few spoonfuls of stock, set the whole to simmer for ten minutes, and add a small ladle of white sauce; then mix in the yolks of egg- and a pat of butter, and finish with a squeeze of lemon juice over the cheeks. The bones make very good stock. The cheeks should be well soaked in cold water before they are used. OX TAIL Ingredients One ox tail. One onion. One small carrot. One turnip. Three cloves. One small blade of mace. Six peppercorns. Two bay leaves. Two sprigs of thyme. One ounce and a half of butter. One ounce of flour. One teaspoonful of salt. Divide the tail at the joints and fry them brown in a stewpan, with the butter and sliced onion; take out the pieces of tail, stir in the flour, and allow it to brown; put them back, and cover them well with water; cut the carrot and turnip into slices and add them, with the cloves, mace, peppercorns, bay leaves, thyme, and salt; bring it slowly to the boil, and let it simmer gently for three or four hours, till the meat is tender and leaves the bones easily; skim off any fat, arrange the pieces of tail on a hot dish, and strain the sauce over them. The flavour may be varied by omitting the bay leaf and thyme, and adding a tablespoonful of lemon juice at the finish, instead.4S OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK BRAISED PHEASANT Ingredients One pheasant. Half a pint of gravy or stock. Two small onions. One ounce of butter. One small carrot. Truss the pheasant with the wings over the back and the legs drawn in. Melt the butter in a stewpan, slice in the carrot and onions, and let them fry for a few minutes; place the bird on the top of the vegetables and keep turning it until it is nicely browned; add the gravy and let it braise gently for an hour. Dish up the bird, strain the gravy round it, and serve. A PHEASANT PIE One pheasant. Six slices of ham. Some fat bacon. Forcemeat. One onion. Twenty peppercorns. Ingredients A little allspice. Three slices of lemon (without the peel). Gravy or stock. Aspic jelly. Take out the bones of the pheasant, and fill it up with the slices of ham, the same amount of fat bacon, and as much forcemeat as is needed to make it into its proper form; put it into a stewpan with enough cold water to cover it, bring it to the boil, and rinse it with cold water to take off all the scum; then put it into another stew- pan just large enough to hold it, with very thin slices of fat bacon both under it and over it; add the sliced onion, peppercorns, allspice, slices of lemon, and as much gravy or broth as will keep it stewing without covering it, adding more to it as it boils away; stew it for an hour and a half till quite tender. Put it into a raised pie- crust or a mould, and pour savoury jelly or a good gravy over it.MEATS AND ENTREES 49 PIG’S FEET AND EARS Ingredients Four feet and two ears. Breadcrumbs. One egg. Boil the feet and ears slowly; when done, leave them to get cold, then halve the feet, and cut the ears into very narrow strips; egg and breadcrumb them, and fry them in boiling lard a light brown; then have ready : SAUCE ROBERT Ingredients One onion. Half an ounce of butter. One small tablespoonful of com= mon vinegar. Half a pint of brown stock. A gill of good broth. Half a teaspoonful of mustard. One small teaspoonful of Tarra* gon vinegar. Sugar and salt. Peel and cut up the onion into very small dice, put it into a stewpan with the butter, and stir it over the fire till rather brown; add the common vinegar, let it boil, add the stock and broth, and let it simmer at the corner of the stove for ten minutes; skim it well, then stir it over a sharp fire till rather thick, add the mustard, Tarragon vinegar, and a very little sugar and salt. The feet spit very much in frying, and it is a good plan to cover the frying-pan with a flat stewpan lid. POTATO RISSOLES Ingredients One pound of peeled potatoes. Eschalot and parsley. Half an ounce of butter. Chicken and ham. Pepper and salt. Two eggs. Boil the potatoes, pass them through a wire sieve, put them back into the saucepan and mix with them the butter and a small dessertspoonful of finely chopped50 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK parsley, a small quantity of chopped eschalot, two good tablespoonfuls of chicken, and a little ham, all finely minced; pepper and salt to taste, and the raw yolk of one egg to bind the mixture; stir all well together, turn out and let it remain till cold; then make it into small balls, roll them in flour, egg and breadcrumb, and fry them in clean boiling lard till a nice golden colour. Dish them on a napkin or dish paper, and serve with fried parsley in the centre. The chicken and ham may be omitted. QUENELLES Ingredients Three=quarters of a pound of fillet of veal. Two ounces of suet. Three ounces of panada. Salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Two eggs. One tablespoonful of cream or white sauce. Second stock. Cut up the veal into small pieces, removing the fat and sinewy bits; pound it well in a mortar, and rub it through a wire sieve; chop the suet finely and pound it; add three ounces of panada to the suet, and pound them well together; add the veal, and cream, or white sauce, and season with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg, and pound again; add the eggs one at a time, pounding thoroughly. Then take two dessertspoons, fill one with the mixture, dip the other into hot water, and with it remove the mixture from the first spoon, placing them in a well-buttered sautd-pan; then cover them with second stock, and poach them for ten minutes; arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour some good white sauce over them, and serve with mashed potatoes, spinach, or peas in the centre. Before making them up, it is a good plan to poach a little piece in boiling water, to make sure that it is firm and well flavoured.MEATS AND ENTREES 51 PANADA Ingredients One gill of water. Two ounces of flour. Half an ounce of butter. Put the water and butter into a stewpan; when it boils stir in the flour; keep it moving- till it forms a smooth and toug-hish paste; when cold, use it as directed. RABBIT PIE Ingredients Two rabbits. Onion. Two ounces of macaroni. Half a pint of cream. Two ounces of Parmesan or other Salt. cheese. Puff pastry. Boil the rabbits, cut off all the meat as thin as possible; boil the macaroni till it is very tender; grate the cheese. Line a pie-dish with pastry and fill it with alternate layers of rabbit, macaroni, and cheese; flavour with a little chopped onion and salt, and add the cream; cover it with pastry and bake it for one hour in a moderate oven. STEWED RABBIT Ingredients One rabbit. One onion. Half an ounce of butter. Stock. Cut up the rabbit, place the pieces in cold water to draw out the blood; brown the butter and onions in a stewpan, add the rabbit, let it brown rather slowly on one side, then turn the pieces, and let them brown on the other; this will take about half an hour; have ready some nicely browned thickened stock, add this to the rabbit, cover the pan, and stew it gently for an hour and a half.52 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOIC STEWED RABBIT (another way) Ingredients Two rabbits. Pepper and salt. Four moderate = sized Spanish Ham or bacon, onions. Take a stewpan, or any earthenware pipkin having a tightly fitting cover; cut the onions in thin slices and the rabbit into neat pieces; season them with pepper and salt; put a layer of onion at the bottom of the pan, then a layer of rabbit, then a second layer of onion, and so on alternately; on the top of the last layer of rabbit put a few thin slices of raw ham or bacon, and the remaining pieces of onion on the top of all; put the cover on, and stew the whole very gently for two hours; then turn it out into a hot dish, and serve immediately. English onions answer very well, and should the gravy, of which a large quantity is produced, be required to be slightly thickened, add a teaspoonful of flour to the seasoning. No water must be used, and the pan must not be placed over the fire, or the meat will be burnt and spoilt. RAGOUT OF MUTTON Ingredients Two pounds of neck of mutton. Four saltspoonfuls of salt. Two ounces of butter. Four saltspoonfuls of sugar. Two tablespoonfuls of flour. Six sprigs of parsley. One saltspoonful of pepper. Turnips. Take the scrag of neck, or other part, with as little fat as possible, and cut it into pieces about two inches square. Put the butter into a stewpan; when melted, add the flour, and stir with a wooden spoon until it forms a brown roux; add the meat, stir it round for twenty minutes; add a little water, but not enough to cover the53 MEATS AND ENTREES meat; add the pepper, salt, sugar, and parsley, stir it till boiling, and set it to simmer; cut the turnips into thirty dice, fry them until rather brown; take them out and put them into the stewpan with the meat; when it is done, which will be in about an hour and a half from the time it was put on, and when ready to serve, take out the meat and turnips, squeeze the parsley and throw it away, skim off the fat; if too thick add a little more broth or water; if too thin boil it a little more. Place the meat in a circle with the turnips in the centre, pour the sauce over it, and serve very hot (if not hot it is spoilt). Onions, carrots, peas, etc., may be used instead of turnips. RISSOLES Ingredients Six or seven ounces of chicken, rabbit, or veal. Three=quarters of an ounce of butter. One ounce of flour. One gill of milk. Half a gill of thick cream. Pepper and salt. Thyme. Bacon. One egg. Breadcrumbs. Melt the butter in a stewpan, mix in the flour, add the milk and cream, and stir over the fire till it boils; add the chicken minced fine, season with a small quantity of finely chopped lean cooked ham, a little chopped thyme, pepper, and salt; stir all well together; turn the mixture out on a plate and leave it in a cool place; when quite cold and firm roll it into little balls, with a little flour; egg and breadcrumb them twice, and fry in boiling lard. Serve hot with fried parsley.OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 54 ROMAN PUDDING Ingredients Two ounces of macaroni. Half a teaspoonful of salt. Two eggs. A little piece of ham or bacon. One gill of cream. Pepper. Eight ounces of pheasant, Good brown gravy, chicken, veal, or sweetbread. Simmer the macaroni in plenty of water, with the salt, till quite tender; strain and cut it into short pieces. Mince the pheasant, chicken, veal, or sweetbread and the ham very fine; add the macaroni, cream, pepper, and yolks of egg; mix all well together, then add the whites, whipped; put the mixture into a buttered mould and steam it for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with the gravy. Half roast the partridge, cut it up into neat joints, and skin them. Put a bit of butter into a stewpan, with a small tablespoonful of flour, stir it over the fire, with a little gravy or stock, eschalot, a little parsley, thyme or bay leaf. Boil it fast for half an hour, add the lemon juice, put in the partridge, and make it all hot together. Dish up the partridge, strain the sauce over it, and garnish with sippets of fried bread. SALMIS OF PARTRIDGE Ingredients One partridge. Butter. A tablespoonful of flour. Gravy. One eschalot. Parsley and thyme. The juice of half a lemon.55 MEATS AND ENTREES SAVOURY HASH Ingredients Cold mutton. Flour. Gravy. Apple sauce. Duck stuffing. Take some slices of cold mutton, dip each piece into flour, put them into a fire-proof dish, with a little stuffing between each layer of meat; add enough gravy to keep it moist; put on the lid, and cook it gently in a moderate oven. If necessary, colour it with a little browning when finished, and serve very hot in the same covered dish. Apple sauce to be sent in separately. Pepper, salt, and cayenne. Boil the calf’s head till tender in as much water as will cover it; take it up, draw out the bones, and boil them again in the liquor till it is very much reduced ; strain it off, and let it stand till cold, when it will be a jelly. When all is cold, cut the meat into slices, slice the eggs, put some in the bottom of a pie-dish, then slices of meat, tongue, and brains, which must be previously boiled; season with pepper, salt, cayenne, and chopped parsley. A few thin slices of bacon may be added if liked. Repeat the layers till the dish is full. Melt and pour in some of the stock it was boiled in, cover with flaky or puff paste, and bake. When taken out of the oven, it should be filled up with more of the stock, melted. Put away till next day, then turn it out on a dish ; run a knife round under the crust if necessary. Half a calf’s head makes a good-sized pie. SCOTCH PIE Ingredients Half a calf’s head. Three eggs. Chopped parsley. Flaky or puff paste.OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 5G WHITE SCOTCH COLLOPS Ingredients Veal. Butter. Flour. Half a pint of strong veal broth. A gill of cream. Lemon juice. Forcemeat balls. Oysters or mushrooms. Two blades of mace. Nutmeg. Cut your veal into collops the size of a crown piece and not much thicker. Butter the bottom of the pan, and lay each piece in separately, having shaken a little flour over the butter; add the mace and a little grated nutmeg, and toss it over the fire till it is very white; then add the broth and cream, toss the whole, and, when simmered enough, let them just boil; add a little lemon juice, force- meat balls, oysters or mushrooms. If necessary, thicken the sauce with the yolk of an egg, but do not let it boil afterwards. Three turnips. Having well washed the head, put it into a saucepan, and cover it with lukewarm water, adding the pepper- corns ; boil it gently for one hour and a half, skimming it from time to time; then add the onion, peeled and quartered, the turnips, celery, a sprig of parsley, and some salt, and let it simmer very gently for another hour and a half. Wash and skin the brains, and boil them in muslin for a quarter of an hour. Bone the head, lay it on a dish, with the brains and the tongue, cover it with parsley and butter sauce, garnish it with fried SHEEP’S HEAD Ingredients A sheep’s head. One dozen peppercorns. Half a head of celery. One onion. Parsley. Salt.MEATS AND ENTREES 57 croutons of bread or toast, and serve very hot. The liquor should be kept for broth. SHEEP’S HEAD AND TROTTER PIE Ingredients Two sheep’s heads. Pepper and salt. Four feet. ™ Paste- Six eggs. Scald and clean the heads and feet, and put them to soak in cold water for twelve hours, changing the water often; then put them into a saucepan, with enough cold water to cover them, bring them gently to the boil, skim- ming them well, throw in some salt, and cook them till tender; then take them all out, bone the heads, put some of the bones back into the liquor, and let them stew for several hours. When the meat is cold, cut it into pieces of different sizes ; skin the tongues, and cut them into squares. Boil the eggs hard, and cut them in slices. Put the pieces of head, trotters, tongue, and egg into a pie-dish, season with pepper and salt, fill up with the liquor, cover with puff paste, and bake for about an hour and a half. SHEEP’S TROTTERS Ingredients Sheep’s trotters. Cream. White sauce. One tablespoonful of Tarragon Chopped parsley. vinegar. Scald the trotters in boiling water to remove the hair, then stew them until quite tender and bone them. Make a white sauce from the stock the trotters were boiled in, add a little chopped parsley, cream, and Tarragon vinegar.OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 58 STEWED PIGEON Ingredients Pigeons. Good brown gravy. Larding bacon. Truss as for boiling, put forcemeat in their crops, lard their breasts and fry them brown; stew them in strong brown gravy for three-quarters of an hour, thicken the gravy with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and serve hot. Red cabbage may be served with them. Forcemeat. Butter and flour. STEWED VEAL AND PEAS Ingredients Breast of veal. Peas. Salt and pepper. Sugar. Two cabbage lettuces. Eight hours before dinner put a breast of veal into a stewpan, with a little salt and a cup of water; when of a light brown colour turn it upwards, and keep adding a little water to prevent it burning. Put your peas in raw, and allow three hours for them to stew very gently. Add pepper, salt, and sugar to taste. Cut two cabbage lettuces in quarters and boil in water; add them when you put in the peas. Be sure to keep the stewpan very closely shut all the time. STUFFED LEG OF CHICKEN Ingredients Chicken legs. Gravy. Veal stuffing. Take out the bones from the legs and stuff them with veal stuffing. Roast them and serve with good clear gravy.MEATS AND ENTREES 59 TIMBALES OF MUTTON Ingredients Mutton. Pepper and salt. Butter. Breadcrumbs. Gravy. One egg. Parsley and thyme. Pound your mutton very fine in a mortar, with a small bit of butter; add a little good gravy, a little parsley and thyme, pepper and salt to taste, some breadcrumbs, and the egg well beaten. Beat it all well together and cook in moulds, which must be buttered and floured. Steam them for half an hour. Turn out and serve hot with a good brown gravy. VEAL CREAMS Ingredients Half a pound of veal cutlet. Two eggs. Three ounces of panada. Pepper and salt. Four tablespoonfuls of thick Truffles, cream. Take half a pound of raw veal, freed from skin and gristle; cut it into small pieces, pound it fine, add the panada, and pound again; break in the eggs, add a little pepper and salt, and pound it all together in the mortar; rub it through a wire sieve, and mix in the cream. Butter some small moulds, line them with bits of truffle, fill them with the mixture, place them in a saucepan with boiling second white stock, or water, and boil them very gently for twenty minutes. If water is used, it should not cover the moulds. Serve with sauce supreme poured over them.60 ETC SAUCES, DUNPHAIL MUSTARD Ingredients Two tablespoonfuls of mustard. One teaspoonful of common vinegar. One teaspoonful of Tarragon vinegar. One teaspoonful of Harvey sauce. One teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup. A little pounded sugar and salt. Mix all together and use at table instead of ordinary mustard. GREEN TOMATO PICKLE Ingredients Five pounds of green tomatoes. Salt. One quart of vinegar. Three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Half a pound of sliced onions. A quarter of an ounce of cloves. Half a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. A quarter of an ounce of cinna- mon. A quarter of an ounce of pepper- corns. Slice the tomatoes, sprinkle them with salt, and let them stand one night; strain them, add them to the other ingredients, and simmer all gently till tender. Keep in an airtight jar. VEGETABLE MARROW PICKLE Ingredients One large marro>v. One ounce of turmeric. Salt. A few chillies. Two quarts of common vinegar. A little cayenne pepper. One pound of loaf sugar. A few eschalots.SAUCES, ETC. 61 Peel and cut the marrow into pieces as large as a walnut; sprinkle it with salt, and let it stand for twelve hours; then drain it free from liquor. Take the other ingredients and boil them together for twenty minutes; then put in the marrow and boil it for two minutes. Bottle when cold. SALAD DRESSING Ingredients The yolk of one hardboiled egg. One small teaspoonful of sugar. One teaspoonful of salad oil. One small teaspoonful of salt. Half a teaspoonful of mustard. To be well mixed with a wooden spoon. Then add : Three tablespoonfuls of cream. One teaspoonful of Tarragon One and a half tablespoonfuls of vinegar, vinegar. SAUCE FOR BEETROOT SALAD Ingredients A small quantity of vinegar. A little mustard. A smaller quantity of Tarragon Pounded sugar. vinegar. Two tablespoonfuls of cream. Mix, and pour it over the sliced beetroot. DUCK SAUCE (Sir Alexander Gordon Cumming’s) Ingredients Two tablespoonfuls of port wine. A small pinch of salt. Two tablespoonfuls of gravy. A very little anchovy and Harvey A little mustard and Chili vinegar. sauce. Serve very hot.62 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK DUTCH SAUCE Ingredients The yolks of four eggs. One tablespoonful of lemon juice Two ounces of butter. or common vinegar. One tablespoonful of Tarragon Cayenne pepper. vinegar. Cream. Two blades of mace. Put the yolks of egg, butter, Tarragon vinegar, lemon juice or common vinegar, mace, a small pinch of cayenne pepper, and a little cream into a stewpan; set it in a bain marie, or another saucepan of boiling water, and let it cook until it is the thickness of custard. It must be stirred all the time. BROWN FISH SAUCE Ingredients One ounce of flour. One ounce of butter. Half a pint of gravy or stock. Two tablespoonfuls of fish stock. Harvey sauce. One small eschalot. Two mushrooms. Browning. Melt the butter, and fry the finely chopped eschalot and mushrooms for about five minutes, without letting them brown; then stir in the flour, add the gravy, fish stock, two or three drops of Harvey sauce, and a little browning; let it simmer for about twenty minutes. WHITE FISH SAUCE Ingredients Gravy. A blade of mace. Half a teaspoonful of anchovy Cream. sauce. The yolks of two eggs. Take a little strong gravy, mace, anchovy sauce, and some thick cream. Boil these together. Mix up theSAUCES, ETC. 63 yolks of egg with some cream (cold) and add it to the rest when boiled. This sauce is good with fillets of lemon sole, etc., tied in curls, and boiled; remove the thread, dish them up, and pour the sauce round them. SAUCE FOR GREY MULLET Ingredients One glass of port wine. Cinnamon. Three mushrooms or truffles. Brown sauce. Parsley. « Make a brown sauce; add the port wine, the mush- 'rooms or truffles finely chopped, a sprig of parsley and a taste of cinnamon. Simmer for half an hour. MAYONNAISE SAUCE Ingredients The yolks of two eggs (raw). Two tablespoonfuls of salad oil. One dessertspoonful of Tarragon Salt and pepper, vinegar. Chives and mustard. Put the yolks of egg into a basin, with a pinch of salt and a little pepper; stir this well with a wooden spoon, dropping the oil in carefully, drop by drop; when this is as thick as butter, add the Tarragon vinegar, half a saltspoonful of mustard, and a little chives cut very small. This sauce should be quite thick. SAUCE SUPREME Ingredients One ounce of flour. Half a gill of cream. One ounce of butter. Lemon juice. One gill and a half of good veal Salt, or chicken stock.OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 64 Put the butter into a stewpan, and when melted add the flour; stir it over a slow fire for ten minutes, taking care it does not brown; add the stock, and stir till it is well boiled and very smooth; add the cream, a few drops of lemon juice, a pinch of salt, and it is ready for use. This is the foundation of all good white sauces; if it is not perfectly smooth after the stock has been added, it should be passed through a tammy before adding the cream. VEAL STUFFING Ingredients Four ounces of beef suet. Six ounces of breadcrumbs. Two eggs. One small tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Half a teaspoonful of chopped thyme, and marjoram. A small quantity of grated lemon peel. Salt and pepper. Chop the suet very fine, put it into a basin, add all the other ingredients, mix well together and use.F 65 PUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS To steam pudding's, place them in a saucepan of boiling water, sufficient to come half way up the mould or basin, and draw it to the side of the stove; the water must be kept just below boiling point, but it must not be allowed to boil, or the pudding will be spoilt. Peel and core the apples, slice them into a pie-dish, shake some sugar over them, spread a thin layer of orange marmalade over them, and put some little slices of fresh butter on the top. Mix the arrowroot smoothly with the milk, add enough sugar to sweeten it, stir it over the fire till it boils and thickens, pour it over the apples, and bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. If the apples are hard, stew them first, and let them get quite cold before adding the marmalade and arrowroot. Stewed apple rings may be used. APPLE CAPAN Ingredients Three apples. Orange marmalade. One ounce and a half of arrow= Butter. Castor sugar. One pint of milk. root. APPLE CHARLOTTE Apples. Bread. Sugar. Ingredients Half a wineglass of sherry. One egg. Breadcrumbs. Lemon peel.66 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK Well butter the inside of a plain mould or basin, then cut out some small rounds of bread the size of half a crown, dip them in clarified butter, and lay them in a circle at the bottom of the mould; cover them with a piece of bread not thicker than a penny. Now line the sides with very thin strips of bread dipped in clarified butter, laid one overlapping- the other. Have ready some apples cut in thin slices and stewed with sugar to taste, a little lemon peel and half a wineglass of sherry; egg and breadcrumb the inside of your mould of bread, and put in your stewed apples; place another piece of bread (well egged and breadcrumbed) over the apples and bake until well browned. If not quite crisp when turned out, sugar and salamander the top. BAKEWELL PUDDING . Ingredients Puff paste. A quarter of a pound of butter. Orange marmalade. The yolks of four eggs. Apricot or plum jam. The whites of two eggs. A quarter of a pound of castor Two ounces of pounded ratafias, sugar. Two ounces of breadcrumbs. Cream the butter and sugar together until quite white, add the yolks of the eggs, ratafias and breadcrumbs, and mix well together; whip the whites to a stiff froth and stir in lightly. Line a pie-dish with puff paste, cover the bottom of the dish with a thin layer of orange marmalade and another of jam; fill up the dish with the above mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a quarter.PUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS 67 BANANA TRIFLE Ingredients Six bananas. Custard. Strawberry jam. A gill of cream. A gill of brandy or sherry. Peel and split the bananas, cutting- each half in two; spread them thickly with the jam, press them together, and put them in a glass dish; pour the brandy or sherry over them, and let them stand for an hour; then pour the custard over them, and put the whipped cream on the top. BLACK CURRANT FOOL Ingredients One pound of black currants. Half a gill of water. Six ounces of sugar. Half a pint of cream. Put the currants, sugar and water into a pan, and stew them for a few minutes till well cooked; rub them through a hair sieve, and when cold, whip the cream and stir it in. Fingers of Genoese pastry should be handed with it. BLANCMANGE Ingredients One quart of milk. A quarter of a pound of sugar. One ounce of isinglassine. A little grated nutmeg. A quarter of an ounce of cinna= The peel of half a lemon. mon- One bayleaf. Put all the ingredients into a saucepan, and simmer over a slow fire, stirring till the isinglass is dissolved; strain through a tammy or cloth into a basin, and when nearly cold pour into a mould. This can be made of any colour or flavour that will not curdle the milk.OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 68 BROWN PATTIES Ingredients Two ounces of butter. Half a pint of milk. Two ounces of flour. Two eggs. Two ounces of sugar. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, add the sugar and milk, and stir it over the fire till thick; take it off, and let it stand till nearly cold; then beat the eggs in well, the yolks and whites together. Butter some mince-pie tins, pour the batter into them, and bake for twenty minutes. The oven must not be too hot. CABINET PUDDING Ingredients One ounce of almonds. A wineglass of brandy. Muscatels. One pint of milk. Four sponge cakes. One ounce of castor sugar. Six ratafias. Three eggs. Well butter a good-sized mould. Blanch the almonds and halve them, stone the raisins and lay them alternately with the almonds round the mould. Break the sponge cakes in pieces, put them into the mould with the ratafias, and pour the brandy over them. Put the eggs into a basin with the sugar, whip them lightly, stir in the milk by degrees; pour this mixture over the cakes in the mould; cover the mould with buttered paper, and steam for about an hour. Turn the pudding out carefully; serve with sweet sauce made with cream and half a wineglass of brandy in it. CARAMEL CREAM Ingredients Eight ounces of pounded sugar. The yolks of eight eggs. The grated rind of two lemons. Salt. One pint and a half of cream. One ounce of clear isinglass.PUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS 69 Put two ounces of the sugar into a stewpan, with the grated lemon peel, and stir it over a slow fire until it begins to colour; then pour in a pint of the cieam, add the rest of the sugar, the yolks, and a little salt; stir the whole over a slow fire till the eggs are set; then strain through a tammy or sieve into a large basin, whip the rest of the cream, stir it in, and add the isinglass dis- solved. Pour the cream into a mould. In summer time it should be embedded in rough ice. CARAMEL PUDDING Ingredients One pint of milk. Two ounces of loaf sugar. Three eggs. Half a gill of water. One tablespoonful of castor sugar. Put the loaf sugar and water into a stewpan, boil it quickly till it is a rich brown colour, and pour it quickly into a thoroughly dry tin or mould; let it get quite cold before putting in the custard. Make the custard thus : break the eggs into a basin, whisk them slightly, add the sugar; warm the milk and pour it on to the eggs and sugar, stir, and strain it into the mould, and steam gently for about an hour and a half. Turn it out care- fully on to a dish and send to table. If required to be served cold, it should be kept in the mould until it is wanted. CASTLE PUDDINGS Ingredients Four ounces of butter. Four ounces of flour. Four ounces of sugar. Two eggs. Work the butter and sugar together in a basin with a wooden spoon for ten minutes; then add the yolks of70 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK the eggs one at a time, beating each one in thoroughly; add half the flour; whip the whites to a stiff froth, and add them, and the remainder of flour, by degrees; bake in little buttered tins for twenty minutes. Serve with wine sauce. REAL CHEESECAKES Ingredients Half a pound of curd. Two ounces of macaroons. Half an ounce of almonds. Two ounces of castor sugar. Three eggs. A little grated nutmeg. A quarter of a pound of butter. Two ounces of currants. A little brandy. Puff paste. Pound the almonds and beat up the eggs. Put the curd into a basin, add the macaroons, almonds, sugar, eggs and nutmeg; beat well together; then add the butter, currants and brandy, and mix well; line some patty pans with the puff paste, fill them with the mixture, and bake in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. CHOCOLATE FOOL Ingredients One large stick of chocolate. Castor sugar. Half a pint of thick cream. Puff pastry. Grate the chocolate, put it into a stewpan with a little hot water, mix it to a paste, boil a minute or two to make it like essence, and let it cool; sweeten the cream with a little castor sugar, whip it up stiff, and add it to the chocolate; mix lightly together, put it into a glass dish, and serve, handing fingers of puff pastry with it.PUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS 71 CHOCOLATE PUDDING Ingredients One quart of milk. One pint of breadcrumbs. Three ounces of grated chocolate. Four eggs. Castor and icing sugar. The juice of half a lemon. Put the milk and chocolate into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire until the chocolate is all dissolved and mixed with the milk; sweeten and flavour to taste. Put the breadcrumbs into a basin, pour the milk and chocolate over them, and mix well together. When it is a little cool, stir in the yolks of the eggs; pour the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake for half an hour in a moderate oven. Beat the whites of the eggs with a tea- cupful of castor sugar and the lemon juice, till quite thick; spread this over the pudding, dust it with icing sugar, and put it in a cool oven for about half an hour, till it is a delicate brown. Serve cold. COLD MARMALADE CUSTARD Ingredients Three=quarters of an ounce of gelatine (Half an ounce in cold weather). One pint and a half of milk. Three eggs. Seven lumps of sugar rubbed on a lemon. Two tablespoonfuls of marmalade. Make a custard with a pint of the milk and the eggs and sugar. Put the remainder of the milk into a cup, break the gelatine into it, and stand the cup in a basin of hot water till the gelatine is dissolved. Strain the custard and gelatine into a basin, add two tablespoonfuls of orange marmalade, mix well together, and when it is beginning to set, pour it into a mould; when sufficiently firm, turn it out and serve.72 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK COLD PUDDING Ingredients Six ounces of pound or sponge cake. One pint of cream or milk. One ounce and a half of castor sugar. Three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine. Three eggs. Custard. Make the cake into crumbs and put them into a basin; boil the cream or milk and pour it over them; let it stand till nearly cold, then add the yolks of the eggs; put the mixture into a stewpan, place it over the fire, and keep stirring it till nearly boiling, but do not let it boil; add the sugar, and let it stand till quite cold. Dissolve the gelatine in a little milk, whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, work the gelatine very quickly into the pudding, then stir in the whites very lightly; pour it into a mould, and let it stand for four hours; turn it out as you would a jelly, and serve with custard round it. CREME,; BRULEE* Ingredients One pint of cream. Pounded sugar. The yolks of four eggs. Beat the yolks in a basin, and having boiled the cream for a very short time, pour it on them; put it all into the saucepan, and let it come to the boil as before, stirring it all the time; pour it into the dish in which it is to be sent to table, and allow it to become quite cold; then strew a thick crust of pounded sugar over it, and brown it with a red-hot salamander. The sugar should make a hard surface like light brown ice all over the top, about an eighth of an inch thick. Serve cold. * It is amusing to remember that this recipe, which came from a country house in Aberdeenshire in the 'sixties, was offered toPUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS 73 CURATE’S PUDDING Ingredients The weight of one egg in moist sugar. The weight of nearly two eggs in flour. The weight of nearly two eggs in fresh butter. The weight of nearly two eggs in marmalade. The yolks of two eggs, and the white of one. A gill of milk. Beat the butter to a cream; beat in the sugar, then the yolks of eggs, the flour, and marmalade; having whipped the white of egg, add that and the milk; put it into a buttered basin or mould; boil it for six hours, and serve with brandy or sweet sauce. DRUMLANR1G PUDDING Ingredients. Bread. Cream. Stewed fruit. Line a basin with bread, cut into rather thin fingers; fill it with any stewed fruit, and cover it with a round slice of bread the size of the basin. Let it stand for some hours, till the bread is well soaked with the juice; turn it out, and spread whipped cream all over it—or the bread may be cut in pieces like sponge cakes, and the fruit piled over it in a glass dish, but care must be taken that the bread is thoroughly soaked. Raspberries and currants, stoned cherries, gooseberries,, plums, &c., are good done in this way; and Canadian tinned raspberries answer very well when fresh fruit is not to be had. the kitchens of Trinity College, Cambridge, by an undergraduate, and rejected with contempt. When the undergraduate became a Fellow, just thirty years ago, he presented it again ; this time it was accepted as a matter of course. It speedily became one of the favourite dishes of the May week.OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 74 DUNDEE PUDDING, ICED Ingredients One pint of milk. Half a pint of double cream. One lemon. One pound of orange marmalade. The yolks of six eggs. Boil the milk with the rind of lemon, adding sugar to taste; then stir it into the yolks of the eggs, replace it on the fire, and keep stirring it till the custard is formed. When cold add the cream, the juice of lemon, and the marmalade passed through a sieve, and freeze. FIVE=CUP PUDDING Ingredients One cupful of milk. One cupful of jam. One cupful of suet. One cupful of flour. One cupful of breadcrumbs. Brown sugar to taste. Mix the ingredients well together, put all into a buttered basin, tie a floured pudding cloth over it, and boil for two hours. Serve with sweet sauce. FRENCH CANNELONS Ingredients Puff pastry. Lard. Apricot jam. White of egg. Roll out the pastry very thin and evenly, and cut it into pieces six inches long and two inches wide; place on each a spoonful of apricot jam, wet the edge all round with white of egg and fold the paste over twice, press the edges together to prevent the jam escaping. Put them gently into a pan of boiling lard; as soon as they begin to brown draw the pan to the side, so thatPUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS 75 they may not take too much colour before the paste is done quite through. Ten minutes will fry them. Drain them well on kitchen paper; dish them up on a dish, paper or napkin, placing one layer across another, or merely pile them high in the centre; sift pounded sugar over them and serve. They should be a nice golden colour when cooked. GATEAU GENOISE Ingredients Genoese pastry. Whipped cream. Jam. Chopped almonds. Cut out three rounds of pastry with a fluted cutter, about five inches across. Slice each round in half hori- zontally; cut out all the centres but one with a smaller cutter; spread a good layer of jam on the whole round, place a ring upon it, cover that with jam, then another ring and more jam, till all are used; the jam should show at the edges; fill the centre with whipped cream and pile it on the top. Sprinkle it all over with chopped almonds. The centres may be cut in half and used with jam on top of the rings before the cream is put on, or they make a pretty dish if each little round is covered with clotted or whipped cream, with half a preserved apricot laid in the middle, in the semblance of a poached egg- GENOESE PASTRY Ingredients Half a pound of butter. Four eggs. Half a pound of sugar. One small teaspoonful of baking Half a pound of flour. powder. Cream the butter in a basin with a wooden spoon till quite white, then add the sugar, and cream again for ten76 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK minutes; then mix in by degrees the eggs and flour, adding one egg and about one tablespoonful of flour at a time, and lastly the baking powder; put the mixture into a buttered saute-pan, or shallow tin, and bake for about thirty minutes; turn out of the tin, and cut it into any shapes required. It should be about one inch thick. GINGER PUDDING Ingredients Six ounces of breadcrumbs. Four ounces and a half of flour. Seven ounces and a half of finely chopped suet. One tablespoonful and a quarter of treacle. A gill of milk. One tablespoonful and a quarter of ground ginger. One teaspoonful and a quarter of baking powder. Mix all the ingredients well together, put into a buttered basin and boil for two hours and a half. Serve with treacle, or sweet sauce round it. HARROGATE PASTRY Ingredients Puff paste. Apricot jam. Take some good puff paste, roll it out an inch in thickness, cut it into strips a quarter of an inch thick and nearly four inches long, lay them flat on a baking tin, leave plenty of room between each for them to spread, and bake them in a hot oven. Put two together, with a layer of apricot jam between them; they may be sent to table either hot or cold. If served cold, a little clotted cream may be spread on each.PUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS 77 JANE SIMPSON’S PUDDING Ingredients Three eggs. The weight of the eggs in butter, A few dried cherries and other sugar, and flour. Apricot jam. A few ratafias. fruits. A few sweet almonds. A wineglass of sherry. A gill and a half of cream. Beat the butter and sugar well together, then add the eggs one at a time; when well beaten, stir the flour in gently, and pour the mixture into a baking tin, which must be lined with foolscap paper and well oiled; bake for half an hour in a hot oven, and turn out flat on a board. Next day take a round cutter and cut out about four pieces, and with a smaller cutter cut each piece again, leaving the rings about half an inch thick. Place a thin whole round of cake on the dish it is to be served on, and the rings one on the top of the other. Cover the cake all over, inside and out, with apricot jam, first passed through a wire sieve; put four ratafias well moistened with sherry inside, then one or two dried cherries and other fruits; then a thin slice of cake, a tablespoonful of cream and a little sherry; then more ratafias, fruits, and almonds, and another thin slice of cake, and so on till the cake 's full. Serve with whipped cream on the top. I ut the calf s feet into a saucepan, with enough cold water to cover them, and bring them to the boil; then take CALF’S FOOT JELLY Ingredients Two calf’s feet. Four lemons. Half a pound of loaf sugar. One inch of cinnamon. A wineglass of sherry. The whites and shells of two eggs.78 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK them off, wash them well, and put them on again in a clean saucepan, with water to cover them—about six pints; let them boil well for eight hours, till the water is reduced to about half; strain off, and put away till next day; then take off all the fat with kitchen paper. To a quart of the jelly add the juice of the four lemons, the grated rind of two, the cinnamon, sugar, the egg shells, crushed, and the whites slightly whipped; whisk it well over the fire until it comes to the boil; stand it at the side with the lid on for about a quarter of an hour, and then pass it through a hot scalded jelly bag; if not perfectly clear, pass it through again; add the sherry, pour into moulds and set. A cowheel makes equally good jelly; any that is not used may be made into aspic, or savoury jelly. LEMON JELLY Ingredients Eight lemons. Three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar. One ounce and three-quarters of leaf gelatine. One inch of cinnamon. One quart of water. The whites and shells of two eggs. One wineglass of sherry. Put the juice of the lemons, the grated rind of four, the sugar, cinnamon, gelatine, and water into a basin, and let it stand all night. Put it into a stewpan and bring it to the boil; take it off and let it cool; then stir in the whites and crushed shells of the eggs, and whisk it over the fire till it boils; strain it through a hot scalded jelly bag, and if it is not perfectly clear pass it through a second time. It can be made in a day, but the colour of the jelly will be improved by its standing the night before.PUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS 79 ORANGE JELLY Ingredients Half a pint of water. Two ounces and a half of loaf Half an ounce of isinglassine. sugar. Eight oranges. Put the water, isinglass and sugar into a clean stew- pan. (If it is wanted a darker colour, the zest or rind of two of the oranges may be rubbed upon the sugar, but it is apt to make it bitter.) Squeeze the juice from the oranges and strain it into an earthen pan. Directly the water with the isinglass boils, take it off the fire, and strain it into the already strained orange juice; then pour it into your mould, which should have been stood in cold water for an hour. WINE JELLY Ingredients One pint and a half of water. Half a pint of sherry. A gill of lemon juice. The grated rind of two lemons. Half an inch of cinnamon. Two cloves. One ounce and a half of leaf gelatine. Six ounces of loaf sugar. The whites and shells of two eggs. Put all these ingredients into a stewpan, whisk over the fire until boiling, then draw it to the side; let it boil up again twice, strain through a hot scalded jelly bag, and pour into a mould to set. JUBILEE PUDDING Ingredients Two ounces of butter. Raspberry jam. Two ounces of sugar. Cochineal. Two ounces of breadcrumbs. A gill of cream. Two eggs.80 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK Rub four large tablespoonfuls of raspberry jam through a hair sieve. Cream the butter and sugar to- gether with a wooden spoon until quite white; beat in the eggs one at a time, add the breadcrumbs, two table- spoonfuls of the jam, and a few drops of cochineal; mix it all lightly together, put the mixture into a well-buttered basin or mould, and steam for two hours. Put the remainder of the jam into a saucepan with about a table- spoonful of water, make it hot, and pour round the pudding. Whip the cream, and pile it on either side, at the moment of sending to table. LEMON CHEESECAKES Ingredients Two ounces of castor sugar. One lemon. One ounce of butter. Puff paste. Two yolks and one white of egg. Melt the butter; put the yolks and white of egg into a basin, and whisk them slightly; add the sugar and butter, the juice and grated rind of the lemon, and mix together. Line some patty pans with thin puff paste, nearly fill them with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. LEMON CHEESECAKE MIXTURE (to keep) Ingredients Three ounces of butter. Two lemons. Six ounces of sugar. Three eggs. Put the sugar, the grated rind and juice of the lemons, the butter, and three yolks and two whites of the eggs into a small saucepan; stand it in a larger saucepan containing boiling water, and stir it over thePUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS 81 fire till it thickens. Pour it into a jar, and when cold tie it down till wanted. It will keep a month or longer. LEICESTER CLUB PUDDING Ingredients Half a pound of sultanas. Half a pound of breadcrumbs. Half a pound of fine!y=chopped suet. A quarter of a pound of candied citron peel. Six ounces of brown sugar. A quarter of a pound of preserved ginger. Half an ounce of bitter almonds. A pinch of salt. Four eggs. Chop the ginger, almonds and citron fine, and mix them in a basin with the sultanas, breadcrumbs, suet and sugar; beat up the eggs, add them, and mix all together thoroughly; put it into a well-buttered mould, and boil it for four hours. Serve with warm custard round it. BAKED LEMON PUDDING Ingredients Three pieces of bread. The yolks of two eggs and the A gill of cream or milk. whipped white of one. The grated rind of one lemon, Two ounces of sugar, and the juice. Three ounces of butter. Soak the bread in boiling cream or milk, beat it up, add the other ingredients, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. BOILED LEMON PUDDING Ingredients One lemon. A quarter of a pound of sugar. A quarter of a pound of suet. One egg. Half a pound of breadcrumbs. GOCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 82 Chop the suet fine, mix it with the breadcrumbs and the sugar; add the grated rind and juice of the lemon, and the egg, well beaten; mix all well together, put it into a buttered basin, and boil for an hour; turn out, and serve with wine or sweet sauce poured round it. Two or three apples chopped fine may be added if liked. LEMON RICE PUDDING Ingredients Three ounces of rice. Two ounces of butter. One pint of milk. One lemon. Three ounces of sugar. Two eggs. Boil the rice in the milk till quite soft; add half the sugar, the butter, grated lemon peel, half the juice, and the yolks of the eggs; put in a pie-dish, and bake for about half an hour. Beat up the rest of the sugar, with the whites of the eggs and the other half of the lemon juice, till it is quite thick; spread it over'the pudding, sprinkle a little sugar over it, and set it in a cool oven for about twenty minutes till it is crisp and slightly browned. LISSINGTON PUDDINGS Ingredients Two ounces of butter. Two spoonfuls of sherry. A gill of water. Two ounces of flour. Sugar. Two eggs. One lemon. Wine sauce. Put the water into a saucepan, with the butter, thin peel of the lemon, the juice of a small half, the sherry, and sugar to taste; when boiling, stir in the flour very smoothly, let it stand till cool, then add the eggs well beaten. Butter some timbale tins, nearly fill with the mixture, and bake for twenty minutes. Serve with wine sauce.PUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS 83 MADAME SOUFFLE Ingredients Five eggs. Three lemons. Half a pound of loaf sugar. Half a gill of water. Three=quarters of an ounce of One pint of cream, gelatine. Put the yolks of the eggs into a saucepan, with the loaf sugar which has been rubbed on the rinds of the lemons, add the juice, and stir it over the fire till it thickens like a custard; then add the gelatine, previously dissolved in the half-gill of water. Whip the whites of the eggs and the cream separately while the custard is cooling; then mix all lightly together, and when it begins to thicken, pour it into a souffle dish, with a band of paper round the outside; when firm, take off the paper and serve. MAIDS OF HONOUR Ingredie?its Half a pound of dry curd. Six ounces of butter. The yolks of four eggs. A wineglass of brandy. Six ounces of castor sugar. One cold baked potato (very floury). One ounce of sweet almonds. One bitter almond. The grated rind of three lemons. The juice of one lemon. Grated nutmeg. Puff paste. Put the curd and butter into a basin and mix them well together; put the yolks of eggs into another basin, with the brandy; add the sugar, the potato well beaten, the sweet and bitter almonds pounded, the grated rind of the lemons, the juice of one, and a little grated nut- meg ; mix these well together, and add them to the curds and butter; stir all well together; line some tartlet tins, previously buttered, with puff paste; place a good tea-84 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK spoonful of the mixture in each tin, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. TO MAKE HALF A POUND OF CURD Place about a quart of new milk on the fire, and pour into it three or four tablespoonfuls of butter milk; as soon as the milk turns, strain the curd on to a hair sieve, and let it drain well before using. MARMALADE PUDDING Ingredients Six ounces of fine breadcrumbs. Four eggs. Three ounces of castor sugar. Marmalade. A quarter of a pound of butter. Cream the butter and sugar together with a wooden spoon, until quite white; beat up the eggs, and add them and the breadcrumbs gradually; well butter a mould, and line it with marmalade; put in the mixture, and steam it gently for a good two hours. Turn it out, and pour round it two tablespoonfuls of marmalade made hot, with a little water and a lump of sugar. This pudding is very good baked for one hour, instead of being steamed. It should be turned out in the same way. MINCE MEAT Ingredients One pound and a half of currants. Half a pound of raisins. One pound of moist sugar. One pound of suet. Three quarters of a pound of candied peel. A quarter of an ounce of ground mace. One pound and a half of apples. A quarter of an ounce of grated nutmeg. The juice and grated peel of two lemons. A gill of brandy. A gill of port wine.PUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS 85 Chop the currants, raisins, suet, apples, and candied peel separately, all very fine, mix all the ingredients well together, and keep it in a covered jar. MOCHA PUDDING Ingredients Four eggs. One teaspoonful of baking Four ounces of castor sugar. powder. Four ounces of flour. Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar for ten minutes; whip the whites to a stiff froth, and add them and the flour gradually, a little of each at a time, then add the baking powder. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty-five to forty minutes. Turn it out and leave it to get cold. COFFEE BUTTER Ingredients Almonds. One large tablespoonful of very Six ounces of fresh butter. strong coffee. Twelve ounces of icing sugar. Blanch the almonds, cut them in strips, and put them on a tin in the oven till they are a light brown. Cream the butter and sugar together with a wooden spoon, gradually working in the coffee at the same time. Cut the cake in slices nearly an inch thick, spread them with the coffee butter, and lay them one on top of the other in the original shape; cover the cake all over with the butter, and stick it thickly with the almonds.86 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK MOCK CABINET PUDDING Ingredients Half a pint of breadcrumbs. A gill of cream. One pint of milk. Almonds and raisins. Sugar. Wine sauce. Three eggs. Boil the breadcrumbs in the milk for a few minutes; then flavour it with a little grated nutmeg, and sweeten to taste. When it is quite cold, mix in the eggs well beaten; a gill or less of cream, if at hand, is an im- provement. Put this mixture into a basin that has been well buttered, and lined alternately with stoned raisins and split almonds. Steam for one hour and a half, and serve with wine sauce. MOUSSELINE PUDDING Ingredients Two ounces of fresh butter. Two lemons. Two ounces of castor sugar. Two ounces of fine flour. Put the butter into a basin, with the lemon peel chopped fine, beat it to a cream with a wooden spoon, then add the sugar, and beat again for about five minutes; add the flour by degrees, the yolks of the eggs, the strained lemon juice, and a few drops of vanilla essence; mix well together for about ten minutes; whip the whites to a stiff froth, and put them into a buttered charlotte mould, dust it over with castor sugar, then put in the mixture and steam for an hour and twenty minutes; turn it out, and serve with a little warmed apricot jam poured round it. Five eggs. Vanilla essence. Apricot jam.PUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS 87 OATMEAL PUDDING (after the New England manner) Ingredients Half a pint of oatmeal. Two eggs. One pint of boiled milk. Two ounces of currants. A quarter of a pound of suet. Two ounces of stoned raisins. Nutmeg. Sugar. Salt. Steep the oatmeal in the boiled milk over night. In the morning take the finely chopped suet and mix it with the oatmeal and boiled milk, some grated nutmeg, a pinch of salt, the eggs well beaten, raisins, currants, and as much sugar as will sweeten it; stir it all well together, put it into a buttered basin, tie it very closely and boil it for two hours; turn it out and serve with wine or sweet sauce. ORANGE CREAM Ingredients One pint of milk. Half an ounce of leaf gelantine. Four ounces of sugar. Half a pint of cream. Half a pint of orange juice. Put a gill of the milk into a saucepan, and dissolve the gelatine in it; put the rest of the milk into a saucepan, with the thinly cut peel of three oranges, and boil it for two or three minutes; add the sugar, and when it is dissolved strain it into the gelatine; let it get quite cold, then stir in the orange juice, and when it begins to thicken and get firm, stir in the cream, stiffly whipped, and pour it into a mould to set. In hot weather a little more gelatine must be used. ORANGE FOOL Ingredients Half a pint of cream. Sugar. Two oranges. To the juice of the oranges add the rind of one, cut very thin; sweeten to taste, and boil for one minute.88 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK lake out the rind, and when quite cold mix the juice into the cream, which has been whipped stiff, and serve. CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING Ingredients Two pounds of currants. One pound of brown sugar. Two pounds of raisins. Two pounds of suet. Half a pound of candied peel. One pound of flour. One pound of breadcrumbs. Sixteen eggs. One nutmeg. Half an ounce of mixed spice. The grated rind of two lemons. Half a pint of brandy. One gill of milk. A little salt. Chop up the suet very fine, wash and dry the currants, stone the raisins, cut the peel up fine; put the suet, flour, breadcrumbs, currants, raisins, peel, sugar, salt, and mixed spice into a basin; grate in the nutmeg and the rinds of the lemons, and mix well together. Break the eggs into another basin, and add the brandy and milk; pour this into the fruit, &c., and mix all together thoroughly. Well butter some basins and fill them with the mixture; tie a pudding cloth tightly over the top of each, place them in boiling water, and boil well for seven or eight hours. This quantity will make four good-sized puddings. PLUM PUDDING (without sugar) Ingredients Two pounds and a quarter of stoned raisins. Two pounds and a quarter of currants. Six ounces of finely-chopped can- died peel. Thirteen eggs. One pint and a half of milk. One teacupful and a half of breadcrumbs. One pound and a half of flour. One pound and a half of finely- chopped suet. Three wineglasses of brandy. Two wineglasses of rum.PUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS 89 Mix these ingredients well together, put into buttered basins, and boil for fourteen hours. This quantity makes two large puddings. OUR SUNDAY PLUM PUDDING Ingredients Four ounces of flour. Two tablespoonfuls of brown Four ounces of finely=chopped sugar, suet. One egg. Four ounces of stoned raisins. Mix the dry ingredients well together, add the egg beaten up, and just a little water; put into a buttered basin and tie it down securely with a pudding cloth; put the basin into boiling water, and boil well for five hours, keeping it well covered with boiling water. BRANDY BUTTER Ingredients A quarter of a pound of butter. One tablespoonful of brandy. Two ounces of castor sugar. Cream the butter and sugar together till quite white, add the brandy, and mix well. Put it away in a cool place till quite firm, and serve in a sauce boat. Serve with plum pudding. PLYMOUTH PUDDING Ingredients Half a pint of cream. One tablespoonful of brandy. Half a pint of milk. One tablespoonful of sherry. Six eggs. Sugar to taste. Whip the whites of three eggs stiffly; beat the re- mainder of the eggs in a separate basin, add the milk and cream to them, the brandy and sherry, and sweeten toOCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 90 taste; mix, and stir in the whites; butter a mould, and steam gently for one hour. FOR THE SAUCE Ingredients Two tablespoonfuls of red currant One wineglass of port wine, jelly. Make this hot and pour it round the pudding. PRINCE ALBERT PUDDING Ingredients One large teacupful of vermicelli. Three tablespoonfuls of jam. One pint of milk. Castor sugar. Three eggs. Sweet sauce. The grated rind of one lemon. Boil the milk, add the vermicelli, and cook it until it is quite soft; then add the eggs well beaten, and the grated lemon-peel; sweeten with castor sugar; butter a mould, pour in the mixture, and just before putting the pudding into the saucepan drop the jam into the middle of it, taking care not to beat or mix up the jam with the mixture. Steam it an hour and a half, and serve with sweet sauce. PRUNE MOULD Ingredients One pound of prunes. Two large tablespoonfuls of red Three ounces of sugar. currant jelly. A quarter of an ounce of leaf One pint of cold water, gelatine. Cream. Boil the prunes in the water with the sugar till they are quite soft; then take them out, put the red currant jelly into the saucepan with the syrup and stand it on the stove until the jelly is dissolved. In the meantime,PUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS 91 stone the prunes and blanch the kernels; dissolve the gelatine in a little water and put it into the saucepan when the jelly is melted; add the prunes and kernels. Pour it into a mould that has a space in the middle. Let it stand in a cool place until set; then turn it out and serve with whipped cream in the centre. In hot weather more gelatine would be required, and if no currant jelly is used, double the quantity. THE QUEEN OF PUDDINGS Ingredients Half a pint of breadcrumbs. One pint of milk. Two ounces of moist sugar. Two eggs. One lemon. One ounce of butter. Marmalade. A teacupful of castor sugar. Hundreds and thousands. Put the breadcrumbs, milk, moist sugar, and butter into a saucepan, with the yolks of the eggs and the grated rind of the lemon; stir it over the fire till the butter is melted; then put it into a pie-dish and bake a light brown; when done spread a layer of marmalade over the top; beat the whites of the eggs with the castor sugar and the juice of half the lemon till quite thick; put it over the top of the pudding, sprinkle it with hundreds and thousands, and place it in a very slow oven for about half an hour to set it. It may be served either hot or cold. raigmore pudding Ingredients The yolks of three eggs and the Two tablespoonfuls of flour. white of one. Grated lemon peel. One pint and a half of milk. Ratafias. Four tablespoonfuls of pounded Pounded cinnamon, sugar.92 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK Beat up the eggs, add the milk gradually; mix the flour and the sugar together, with some grated lemon peel, and stir in the milk and eggs by degrees. Boil it over a slow fire, stirring it till it thickens to prevent its burning. Put some ratafias at the bottom of a shallow glass dish, and pour the cream through a sieve on to the cakes. This dish is served cold, and should be made the day before, as the cakes ought to lose all consistency before it is sent to table. Dust some very fine cinnamon over it. RAISIN PUDDING Ingredients One quart of milk. Three ounces of castor sugar. A quarter of a pound of bread= One lemon. crumbs. Raisins. Three eggs. Put the milk into a saucepan, with the thinly cut peel of the lemon; when boiling pour it on to the bread- crumbs, and let it stand for twenty minutes; then take out the peel, add the sugar and well beaten eggs. Butter a pie-dish, line it with split raisins, put it in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. RICE CREAM Jngredients One pint and a quarter of milk. A quarter of an ounce of leaf Three ounces of rice. gelatine. One ounce and a half of sugar. A bit of vanilla. Half a pint of cream. Wash the rice in cold water, drain it, put it into a saucepan with the milk and a small bit of vanilla, and cook it very gently until it is quite soft; add the sugarPUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS 93 and the gelatine dissolved in a very little milk; mix well together, turn out into a basin, and when it is nearly cold, stir in lightly the whipped cream, and pour it into a mould; when set turn it out, and serve with a compote of fruit. RICE CROQUETTES Ingredients Four ounces oi rice. A small piece of cinnamon. One pint and a half of milk. Apricot jam. One ounce of sugar. Lard. Well wash the rice and drain it on a sieve; put it into a clean stewpan with the milk and cinnamon, stir it over the fire till it boils, draw it to the side of the stove and let it simmer very gently until it is quite soft and thick and firm; stir in the sugar, and leave it at the side for ten minutes longer; turn it out on to a flat dish, put it away until quite cold, when it should be very stiff. Make it into balls, press a hole in the middle of each one with the thumb and put in a small portion of apricot jam; close the rice well over it, flour and egg and bread- crumb them, put them into boiling lard and fry them a nice light brown. Serve very hot. SAUCER PUDDINGS Ingredients Half a pint of milk. One ounce of sugar. Two dessertspoonfuls of flour. Two eggs. One ounce of butter. Lemon peel. Put the butter into a saucepan; when melted, stir in the flour and sugar; add the milk gradually, and stir over the fire till it thickens; then take it off, and beat94 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK in the yolks of the eggs; flavour with a little grated lemon peel; whip the whites to a stiff froth, and stir in lightly; put the mixture into four well-buttered saucers, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. SEMOLINA PUDDING (with Caramel Sauce) Ingredients One pint of milk. Two teaspoonfuls of cream. Four dessertspoonfuls of semo= Sugar. lina. Vanilla essence. Two eggs. Two ounces of loaf sugar. Two ounces of butter. Put the milk into a saucepan, set it on the fire; when it boils, add the semolina, and stir till thick; then take it off, and stir into it the eggs lightly beaten, the butter, cream, and sugar to taste; add a few drops of vanilla or lemon essence if liked. Put two ounces of loaf sugar into a copper or tin saucepan, with enough water to cover it, and boil till it is a rich brown colour, then pour it into the tin or mould; when it is quite cold, put in the mixture, and steam for an hour and a half. SIR WATKIN’S PUDDING Ingredients A quarter of a pound of butter. One ounce of candied peel. A quarter of a pound of castor A quarter of a pound of flour. sugar. Three eggs. Three ounces of raisins. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, work in the eggs and flour by degrees, add the fruit, mix it, and put it into a well-buttered mould; boil it gently for three hours.PUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS 95 FOR THE SAUCE Dissolve a couple of lumps of sugar in a little water in a saucepan, add two tablespoonfuls of marmalade, make it hot, and pour round the pudding. SPANISH PUDDING Ingredients Four oranges. One tablespoonful of welFdried Half a pound of castor sugar. flour. The yolks of six fresh eggs. • Dissolve the sugar in the yolks of the eggs, add the juice of the oranges, and stir in the flour. Put it in a veil-buttered mould, and bake it in a moderate oven for rather more than half an hour. SPONGE PUDDING Ingredients Four sponge cakes. Candied peel. "*ne- Three eggs. ^u^ar' A gill of cream. Soak the cakes in wine and sugar. Butter a small basin, decorate it with the peel cut in thin slices, and lay the cakes in it. Beat the eggs, yolks and whites separately, add a quarter of a pint of cream or milk, and pour it on to the cakes. Steam for one hour, and serve with thin wine sauce. STEAMED PUDDING Ingredients Two ounces of butter. Two ounces of flour. Four eggs. One pint of milk. Sugar. Ginger syrup, wine, or sauce. fruitOCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 96 Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, add the milk gradually, and stir over the fire till it thickens; then take it off, and when it is a little cool, add the yolks of the eggs one at a time; then beat the whites to a stiff froth and add them, with a little sugar, and any flavouring liked. Put it into a buttered mould, and steam for one hour; turn out, and serve with wine or fruit sauce. This pudding is very good with a little finely chopped preserved ginger in it, and warmed ginger syrup poured round it. SWISS CREAM Ingredients Half a pint of cream. A little cream or milk. Two ounces of sugar. Sponge cakes. The rind of half a lemon. Wine. One teaspoonful of flour. Put the cream, sugar and the thinly-cut lemon-peel into a saucepan; set it over a slow fire till it boils; mix the flour smoothly with a little cold cream or milk, and add it; let it boil for a few minutes, stirring it carefully. Lay the slices of sponge cake, previously soaked in wine, in a glass dish, and put the hot cream over them with a spoon. The cake ought not to rise. SWISS ROLL Ingredients Two eggs. Two ounces of sugar. Two ounces of flour. Put the yolks of eggs into a basin with the sugar, and beat them well together. Whisk the white of eggs to a stiff froth and add them; whisk the mixture forPUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS 97 ten minutes. Stir the flour in very lightly; spread the mixture on a greased and papered baking sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Turn it on to a board; have ready some warmed apricot jam, spread it over the surface of the pastry, and roll it up like a bolster. Dust it over with castor sugar and serve. THATCHED PUDDING Ingredients One ounce of butter. Two ounces of flour. Half a pint of milk. One lemon. Melt the butter in a stewpan, mix in the flour and a little cold milk very smoothly, and pour the rest of the milk in boiling hot; add the grated rind of the lemon and half the juice, with sugar to taste; stir well to- gether until it boils; take it off the fire, and when cool, stir in the yolks of the eggs; whisk the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly. Put the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, with a few slices of red currant jelly on the top, and bake in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. Sugar. Two eggs. Red currant jelly. TREACLE PUDDING Ingredients A quarter of a pound of butter. One dessertspoonful of castor sugar. A quarter of a pound of flour. One egg. Two tablespoonfuls of milk. One small teaspoonful of baking powder. A quarter of a pound of golden syrup. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the egg, and beat again; then add the flour, milk, and treacle H98 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK by degrees, and lastly the baking powder; mix all well together, put it into a buttered basin, and boil it for two hours, not allowing the water to cover it; serve with golden syrup, made hot and poured round it. The sugar may be omitted. It may be made with bread- crumbs instead of flour, in which case it must be steamed, not boiled. VANILLA SOUFFLE Ingredients One ounce oi butter. Half a pint of milk. One ounce and a half of flour. Three eggs. One ounce and a half of sugar. Vanilla essence. Put the butter on in a saucepan to melt, stir in the flour, add the sugar and milk, and stir it over the fire till it thickens. Then take it off and add the yolks of the eggs, one at a time, beating all well together. Put a pinch of salt to the whites, whip them to a stiff froth, and stir it lightly into the mixture; add three or four drops of vanilla essence, pour it into a well-buttered souffld tin, tie a band of buttered paper round the tin, coming three inches above it, and bake for thirty minutes. This requires a pint and a half souffle tin. VELVET CREAM Ingredients Half an ounce of isinglassine. One pint of cream. Half a pint of white wine. Sugar. The rind and juice of one lemon. Put the isinglassine into a saucepan with the wine, and the rind and juice of the lemon. When the isinglassine is dissolved strain it into a basin, stir the cream into it, add sugar to taste, and pour it into a mould to set.99 PUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS STEAMED VERMICELLI PUDDING Ingredients One ounce and a half of vermL Two eggs. ceIli. One ounce of sugar. Three=quarters of a pint of milk. Wine or sweet sauce. One ounce of butter. Boil the milk, and add the vermicelli; stir it over the fire for about ten minutes, till the vermicelli is cooked; then take it off, add the butter and sugar; when cool, beat up one of the eggs and the yolk of the other to- gether, and stir in; add the other white whipped to a stiff froth, mix it all lightly together, put it into a well- buttered mould, and steam for one hour and a quarter. Turn it out and serve with wine or sweet sauce. VICTORIA SOUFFLE Ingredients Three ounces of breadcrumbs. Half a pint of milk. Three ounces of castor sugar. Two eggs. One ounce and a half of butter. _ Put the sugar, breadcrumbs, and butter into a basin, oil the milk and pour it over the dry ingredients, add the yolks of the eggs, and stir all well together; let it soak for about twenty minutes; beat the whites to’ a stiff roth and stir lightly into the mixture. Spread a layer of jam at the bottom of a soufflb mould, pour in the mixture, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. WAFER PUDDINGS Half a pint of cream. The yolks of three eggs. One tablespoonful of flour. Ingredients A teaspoonful of sugar. A very little grated lemon peel, or four drops of vanilla essence.loo OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK Mix the flour smoothly with about half the cream; stir in the egg's, whip up the rest of the cream, and add it and the flavouring. Bake in mince-pie tins for about twenty minutes. WHIPPED SYLLABUBS, OR WHIPS Ingredients A wineglass of sherry. One lemon. Half a wineglass of brandy. Two ounces and a half of loaf Half a pint of cream. sugar. Rub the sugar on the lemon, pound it, put it into the cream, and add the lemon juice, brandy and sherry. Put it all into a deep basin, whip it till it thickens, put it into custard glasses, and let them stand for some hours before serving. YEOMANRY PUDDING Ingredients The yolks of three eggs. One tablespoonful of breadcrumbs. One teaspoonful of sugar. Nine sweet almonds and one bitter (pounded). Put the yolks of eggs into a basin, add the bread- crumbs, sugar and almonds; mix them into a smooth paste with a little cream, then stir in the milk. Line a pie- dish with thin puff paste, put a layer of jam at the bottom, pour in the mixture, and bake for about an hour. Cream. One pint of milk. Puff paste. Jam. BLACK CURRANT ICE CREAM Ingredients One pound of black currants. One gill of water. Seven ounces of sugar. Half a pint of cream.PUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS 101 Put the currants, water and sugar into a saucepan; set it on the fire, and when they have boiled a few minutes, pass them through a fine hair sieve; when the pulp is quite cold, partly freeze it, whip the cream, add it, and finish freezing. Custard may be used instead of cream, or equal parts of both. Serve in a glass dish, or in ice glasses, ice wafers being handed with it. RASPBERRY ICE CREAM Ingredients One pound of raspberries. Half a pint of cream. Six ounces of castor sugar. Rub the raspberries through a tammy or fine hair sieve; mix in the sugar, and partly freeze it; whip the cream, add it, and finish freezing. Serve in ice or custard glasses; ice wafers should be handed with them. Strawberry and red currant ices may be made in exactly the same way.102 VEGETABLES AND SAVOURIES ADELAIDE SANDWICHES Ingredients Itread. Butter. Chicken or game. Ham or bacon. Two tablespoonfuls of white sauce. Parmesan cheese. Cut some rounds of stale bread the size and thickness of a crown piece, fry them in clarified butter a light golden colour. Mince some chicken or game with a little ham or lean bacon, stir the white sauce in a stewpan, when it boils stir in the mince; put a thick layer between two of the pieces of bread. Mix equal parts of butter and grated cheese, put a piece the size of a small walnut on each sandwich, and bake for about ten minutes in a hot oven. Three ounces of parmesan cheese. Anchovies. Cream. Make a puff paste of the Hour, butter, cheese, salt, pepper, mustard and nutmeg; roll it out very thin, cut it into biscuits, and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Whip a little cream very thick, seasoning it with pepper, ANCHOVY BISCUITS (Cold Savoury) Ingredients Three ounces of flour. Three ounces of buffer. A liftle salt, pepper, dry mustard, and nutmeg.VEGETABLES AND SAVOURIES 103 salt and nutmeg; put a thick layer on each biscuit when cold; bone some anchovies and lay them lengthways across the cream. FRIED ARTICHOKES Wash and peel the artichokes. Cut them into very thin round slices, keep them in salt and water till ready to cook, then dry them carefully in a cloth, fry them in boiling lard until they are light brown and crisp, drain them on kitchen paper, sprinkle a little salt over them and serve. GLOBE ARTICHOKES Cut the stems off quite close and wash the artichokes well in salt and water; throw them into plenty of boiling water, with a little salt and a tiny pinch of soda to keep their colour; let them boil till the leaves pull out quite easily, and send them to table on a napkin, with melted butter in small china ramequin cases, one for each person ; the butter may be either simply clarified, or ordinary melted butter sauce, according to taste. One artichoke should be allowed to each person, as they are difficult to divide. If artichokes are quite young an hour or less will be long enough to boil them ; if full grown or old they will take an hour and a half to two hours. As they are not very commonly met with nowadays, it may be as well to add that when served the leaves are pulled off, dipped in the melted butter seasoned with pepper and salt, and the soft ends sucked; when the centre is reached the choke is taken out, and the bottom, which is the chief delicacy, is eaten with the rest of the butter. A glass of cold water, directly after the artichoke is eaten, has a delicious flavour.104 OCICLYE COOKERY BOOK STUFFED ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS Ifigredienls Globe artichokes. Cold chicken. White sauce. parsley. Buttered toast. Cooked ham or tongue, and Boil the artichokes till tender—about an hour and a half; pull off the leaves and remove the choke, taking care not to break the bottoms; have ready the chicken minced fine, mixed with some good white sauce, and made thoroughly hot, and fill up the bottoms with it; place them on small rounds of hot buttered toast, sprinkle a little finely chopped lean ham or tongue and parsley over each, and serve hot. The juice of half a lemon. To prepare the jelly, set the calf’s feet on the fire, in enough cold water to cover them; bring it to the boil; then take it off the fire, and wash the feet thoroughly; put them into a clean saucepan, with fresh cold water enough to cover them well, about five pints; and add the sliced vegetables, spices and salt; let them boil for six or seven hours; then strain the liquid off into a basin, and let it get quite cold, when it should be a stiff jelly; remove every particle of fat from the top with kitchen paper; put it into a perfectly clean stewpan, with the vinegar, lemon ASPIC JELLY Ingredients Two calf’s feet, or one cowheel. Half a pint of common vinegar. Two onions. One carrot. One turnip. A little celery. Two or three sprigs of tarragon. Twelve peppercorns. A blade of mace. Salt. Thyme, parsley, and bayleaf. The whites and shells of three eggs. Five pints of water.VEGETABLES AND SAVOURIES 105 juice, and whites and shells of the eggs, whisk it over the fire until it boils, and pour it through a hot jelly bag till it is clear. ASPIC JELLY (with Gelatine) Ingredients Two quarts of second stock. Half a pint of common vinegar. Two onions. One carrot. One turnip. A little celery. Two or three sprigs of tarragon. The juice of half a lemon. Twelve peppercorns. A blade of mace. Salt. Thyme, parsley, and bayleaf. Four and a half to five ounces of leaf gelatine. The whites and shells of three eggs. Slice the vegetables, put all the ingredients into a stewpan, and whisk it over the fire until it comes to the boil; then place it by the side of the fire to simmer for a quarter of an hour; let it settle, and pour it through a scalded jelly bag until it is quite clear; put it in a cool place to set. BECHAMEL EGGS Ingredients Two eggs. Pepper. ®uher. Essence of anchovies. Parsley. White sauce. Boil the eggs hard, cut them in half, take out the yolks and add to them a little butter, pepper, chopped parsley and essence of anchovies; beat all well together; make the mixture up into little balls and replace them in the whites. Put them into a hot dish, pour some good white sauce over them, and garnish with small fried croutons.10G OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK CANAPES A LA ROSAMOND Ingredients Tomatoes. Salad oil. Vinegar. One egg. Anchovies. Bread. Salt and pepper. Cut some small rounds of bread, and fry them in lard or butter; skin some tomatoes, cut them in slices, and put one slice on each crouton, season them with a little salad oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Take a hard boiled , pass the yolk and white separately through a wire sieve, and place a little of both on each crouton, with a strip of anchovy down the middle. Two ounces of parmesan cheese. Cauliflower. Boil five tablespoon fuls of white sauce with a little chopped onion for a few minutes, add two ounces of parmesan cheese; when boiling, add the yolk of egg and two or three grains of cayenne pepper; mix quickly, lay a little on a dish, and put the cooked heads of cauliflower on it, pour the remainder of the sauce over it, and strew some breadcrumbs and grated cheese on the top. Put it into the oven for half an hour; it must be a nice yellow colour. Serve hot. CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN Ingredients White sauce. Onion. The yolk of one egg. Cayenne pepper. CHEESE FRITTERS Ingredients One tablespoonful of flour. Two tablespoonfuls of grated parmesan cheese. Three tablespoonfuls of milk. Two eggs. Cayenne pepper and salt to taste.VEGETABLES AND SAVOURIES 107 Mix the flour and milk smoothly together in a basin, add the yolks of the eggs, cayenne pepper, salt, and grated cheese; mix well, and lastly, stir in lightly the stiffly whipped whites. Take a dessertspoonful at a time, and drop it into boiling lard, fry them a golden brown, dish them up, and sprinkle a little grated cheese over them. Serve at once. CHEESE OMELET Ingredients Four eggs. Four tablespoonfuls of cream. Two ounces of grated parmesan Salt and pepper, cheese. Gravy. Break the eggs into a basin and whip them till well mixed; then add the cheese, cream, a little pepper and salt, and mix all well together. Put two ounces of butter into an omelet pan, and when it is quite hot, pour in the mixture, lightly moving it about with a wooden spoon; when the mixture is just set, turn it over quickly into the shape of a half moon, and let it remain for half a minute, so that it becomes a good colour; turn it on to a hot dish and serve with rich brown gravy. CHEESE PASTRY Ingredients Three ounces of butter. Two large tablespoonfuls of Four ounces of flour. grated parmesan cheese. Salt and cayenne pepper. Put the flour into a basin, with a pinch of salt and a few grains of cayenne pepper, make it into a stiff paste with a little water, roll it out on a floured board, place the butter in the middle and fold the paste over it; put away in a cold place for half an hour; then roll it out four108 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK times as you would puff pastry, the fourth time sprinkle the grated cheese over half of it, fold it over and roll it out once more; put it away for half an hour for the cheese to penetrate; then roll it out three times, and put it aside for half an hour again; roll it out thin, and cut in lengths of four or five inches long and three-quarters of an inch wide, put them on a greased baking-sheet, and bake in a hot oven from ten to fifteen minutes, dish them up in a pile, sprinkle a little grated cheese over them, and serve hot. CHEESE SOUFFLES Ingredients Three eggs. Two ounces of grated parmesan A gill of cream. cheese. Pepper and salt. Beat up the eggs in a basin, add the cream, pepper, salt, and grated cheese, mix all well together. Put the mixture into small buttered moulds, and steam them care- fully for a quarter of an hour. Turn them out of the moulds and let them cool, then egg and breadcrumb them, and fry them a light brown in boiling lard; serve very hot. If kept waiting they must stand in the oven. CHEESE TARTLETS Ingredients The yolks of two eggs. Two dessertspoonfuls of parmesan Three dessertspoonfuls of cream. cheese. Cayenne pepper and salt. Puff pastry. Put the yolks of eggs, a little cayenne pepper, salt, and finely grated parmesan cheese into a basin with the cream; mix well into a smooth paste; line some patty pans with puff pastry, fill them with the cheese mixture,VEGETABLES AND SAVOURIES 109 and bake for about twenty minutes; they should be a light golden colour. CRAIGIE TOAST Ingredients Two eggs. Pepper and salt. One ounce of butter. Buttered toast. Two tomatoes. Skin the tomatoes and chop them fine, or pass them through a hair sieve; beat up the eggs, melt the butter in a stewpan, add the tomatoes, eggs, and pepper and salt, stir it over the fire until it thickens, and pour it on to buttered or fried toast. CREAM CHEESE Take half a pint or less of sour cream, lay a piece of muslin on a plate, pour the sour cream upon it, gather up the edges and tie it with a piece of string; hang it over a basin to drip, and leave it there for a week; then take it out of the muslin, make it up into a square, or round, and send to table on a plate without a napkin. CUCUMBER AU GRATIN Ingredients White sauce. Breadcrumbs. Parmesan cheese. Cucumbers. Butter. Butter a fireproof dish, boil the cucumbers till very tender, cut them down the middle, and in lengths to suit >our dish, pour a little white sauce over them and strew110 OCIvLYE COOKERY BOOK it with grated parmesan cheese; then drop over it a little clarified butter; add another layer of cheese, and cover the whole with very fine breadcrumbs. Moisten these with more clarified butter, and set the dish in the oven for about twenty minutes; if not brown enough use a red-hot salamander. CURRIED EGGS Ingredients Four eggs. Three=quarters of an ounce of Two onions. flour. One ounce of butter. Half a pint of stock. One dessertspoonful of curry Half a gill of cream, powder. Rice. Lay four nicely poached eggs on a hot dish, with or without little rounds of hot buttered toast under them. Pour the following curry sauce over them, and serve with a border of plain boiled rice : Chop the onions very fine and fry them in the butter for about five minutes, till a golden brown; add the flour, curry powder, and stock, and stir it over the fire till boiling; put the lid on, draw it to the side, and let it cook gently for about half an hour; then add the cream and use. CURRIED SARDINES Ingredients One teaspoonful of curry powder. Sardines. A little cayenne pepper. Buttered toast. Roll the sardines in the curry powder and cayenne pepper; lay them on a buttered baking tin, with a buttered paper over them; put them in a moderate oven for ten minutes, and serve on fingers of buttered toast.111 VEGETABLES AND SAVOURIES FONDU Ingredients Half a pint of whipped cream. Six eggs. Four ounces of grated parmesan Pepper and salt, cheese. Mix the whipped cream with the grated cheese; stir gently into this the yolks of the eggs. Whip the whites to a stiff froth and mix them in lightly; season well with pepper and salt. Butter a souffle dish, and fix round it a band of buttered paper so as to stand two or three inches above the edge of the dish, pour in the mixture, bake ten or twelve minutes and serve immediately. MACARONI Ingredients Two ounces of ribbon macaroni. One ounce and a half of flour. One ounce of butter. Half a pint of milk. A gill of cream. Half a teaspoonful of made mustard. Pepper, salt, and cayenne. Two ounces of parmesan cheese. Boil the macaroni in water till tender, then drain it on a sieve for one minute; melt the butter in a stewpan, stir m the flour, add the mustard, milk, and cream, and stir it over the fire until it boils; add the cheese, and a little pepper, salt, and cayenne; boil it up again, add the macaroni, let it get thoroughly hot, and serve. Ribbon macaroni can be got at any good Italian warehouse; the light-coloured, thin, much crinkled kind is best. It should not be boiled until just before it is wanted, or it will lose its flavour. If no cream is at hand, a little more milkOCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 112 MACARONI WITH SPANISH SAUCE Ingredients Two ounces of macaroni. One ounce of butter. One ounce of flour. One ounce of ham or lean bacon. One small carrot. Two eschalots. Two sprigs of parsley. One small bayleaf. One small sprig of thyme. Six peppercorns. Half a blade of mace. One clove. Two gills and a half of good brown stock. Parmesan cheese. Put the macaroni into a saucepan of boiling water with a pinch of salt, and boil it wrell for rather more than two hours. While it is cooking, put the butter into a stewpan, add the bacon, and the eschalots and carrot cut into thin slices; fry them for about five minutes, add the flour, and stir it over a gentle fire till it is a golden brown; add the stock, herbs and spices, and let it simmer gently for half an hour; strain it, skim off the fat, put it into a clean saucepan and add the macaroni; let it get thoroughly hot and serve. Grated cheese to be handed with it. MACARONI AND TOMATO Ingredients A quarter of a pound of macaroni. One ounce of grated parmesan Onion. cheese. Parsley. Tomato sauce. Boil the macaroni with a bit of onion and a little parsley for two hours; put it in a hot dish, sprinkle the cheese over it, adding pepper and salt. Have ready a good tomato sauce and pour over it all. Serve very hot.VEGETABLES AND SAVOURIES 113 MAGDALEN COLLEGE BUTTER Ingredients Parsley. Two ounces of butter. Two anchovies. Boil a bunch of parsley till it is quite soft, press the water from it, and let it get cold; add two anchovies, well washed, boned, and pounded, and two ounces of butter. Mix these ingredients well together, and pass them through a hair sieve; shape it into little balls, garnish with parsley, and serve on a cold dish. Freshly made dry toast should be handed with it. MEAL PUDDINGS (a Breakfast Dish) Ingredients One pound of oatmeal. Pepper and salt. Ten ounces or more of suet. Skins. Raw onions. Chop the suet and onions fine, separately, and mix with the dry meal, add pepper and salt, fill up the skins, and boil them for an hour; they must be boiled until a fork can go through them easily; they will then keep a week m winter. When wanted, boil them for half an hour, toast them over the fire on a gridiron, or fry them, until the skin is a nice brown, and serve for breakfast. They require to be highly seasoned with pepper, salt, and onions; a little may be done in a frying-pan to try the taste of it before filling the skins. CEUFS PERDUES Ingredients Three new=Iaid eggs. Half a pound of sausage meat. One egg. I Breadcrumbs. Good brown gravy.OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 114 Boil the three eggs hard, take off the shells, roll them in flour, and cover each egg carefully and evenly with the well-seasoned sausage meat. Egg and breadcrumb them, and fry them in boiling lard; drain them on kitchen paper; cut a little off the ends of each egg, so that they may stand well; cut them in half, set them on fried croutons on a hot dish, and pour the gravy round them ; or they may be served on squares of hot buttered toast without gravy. Any remains of the sausage meat may be made into small balls, fried in the same way, and used as a garnish. POTATO CHIPS Take some large potatoes, wash and peel them, cut them round and round in thin long shavings, as you would a lemon, and put them to soak in cold water for some hours; then dry them well in a cloth, and fry them in lard over a quick fire. As soon as the lard boils, put in the chips, and keep moving them till they are crisp, dry them on kitchen paper, and sprinkle a little salt over them. POTATOES A LA LYONNA1SE Ingredients Cold potatoes. Three ounces of butter. Three sliced onions. The remains of cold potatoes may be used thus. Put the butter in an omelet pan, add the sliced onions, and fry them white; put on the potatoes, cut in thin slices about the size of half a crown, and shake them now and then until they are a nice yellow colour; add a spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and the juice of the Parsley. Salt and pepper. One lemon.VEGETABLES AND SAVOURIES 115 lemon, shake it well, so that all is thoroughly mixed, and serve very hot. Excellent with chops, steak, or any joint. PRINCE OF WALES’S CANAPES Ingredients Two ounces of veal, turkey, or fowl. Two ounces of ham. Mayonnaise sauce. Mince the veal, turkey, or fowl, and the ham, not too fine. Have ready a little mayonnaise sauce, and mix all well together; put the mixture on some rounds of fried bread or buttered toast, cut some lettuce into fine shreds, and place a little on the top of each round. PRINCE OF WALES’S SARDINES Ingredients Half a wineglass of claret. Six sardines, or three Cornish Half a wineglass of Worcester sardines, sauce. Skin and bone the sardines and put them into a sauce- pan, with the claret and Worcester sauce; let them cook until all the liquid is soaked up; serve hot on buttered toast, or in paper cases, handing thin bread-and-butter with them. RED CABBAGE Half a red cabbage. Broth. A small bit of butter. Ingredients Flour, pepper, and salt. A wineglass of vinegar. Lean bacon, or bone. Cut the cabbage into thin slices, and throw it into salt and water for a short time; then put it into a clean116 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK saucepan, with a little broth, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut rolled in flour; add pepper and salt, the vinegar, and a small piece of lean bacon or a bacon bone. Let it stew well until tender, for two hours or longer, adding a little more broth as that in the pan reduces. Take out the bacon, and serve hot. This is excellent with pork chops, roast pork, or stewed pigeons. SARDINE TOAST Ingredients Two or three sardines. A small teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. A small teaspoonful of Harvey sauce. Pepper. One egg. Butter. Half a teaspoonful of flour. Bone the sardines and break them into pieces; add the anchovy sauce, Harvey sauce, pepper to taste, the egg well beaten, a tiny bit of butter, and the flour. Put the mixture into a saucepan and keep stirring till it is very hot; it must not be left or it will burn; spread it on buttered toast and serve. SAVOURY OMELET Ingredients Four eggs. Pepper and salt. Four tablespoonfuls of cream. Two ounces of butter. Parsley and thyme. Good gravy. Eschalot. Break the eggs into a basin, add the cream, pepper and salt, a teaspoonful of parsley, a very small piece of eschalot, and a small pinch of thyme, all chopped finely. Beat it slightly with a whisk or fork; melt two ounces ofVEGETABLES AND SAVOURIES 117 butter in an omelet pan, put in the mixture, and stir it quickly with a wooden spoon; when it is just set, push it together to the outside of the pan in the shape of a half-moon, let it remain half a minute to colour, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve with clear brown gravy. SCALLOPED ARTICHOKES Ingredients Jerusalem artichokes. Breadcrumbs. White sauce. Butter. Boil as many artichokes as are required, till they are very soft; then cut them up in pieces the size of a large pea; make a good white sauce with flour, butter, milk, and cream; season with pepper and salt, mix in the artichokes; butter some scallop shells and nearly fill them with the mixture; cover them with breadcrumbs, put a few bits of butter on the top of each, and bake in a hot oven for a quarter of an hour. SEMOLINA CHEESE SOUFFLE Ingredients Half a pint of milk. One ounce and a half of par= Two dessertspoonfuls of semo= mesan cheese. lina. Two eggs. One ounce of butter. Pepper and salt. Put the milk and semolina into a saucepan and stir it over the fire till it boils; let it cook for about ten minutes; take it off, stir in the butter, the yolks of the and the grated cheese, and season with pepper and salt. Whip the whites to a stiff froth and add them. Butter a souffld dish, pour in the mixture, and bake in a118 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve immediately. SOUFFLE POTATOES Ingredients A gill of cream. The whites of three eggs. A quarter of a pound of butter. Eight potatoes. Pepper and salt. Cut the skins through, round each potato about an inch from one end, or in an oval on one side, and have them roasted half an hour before dinner; then take off the piece you have cut round and take out the insides, being careful to preserve the skins; pass the insides through a fine wire sieve, and put it in a stewpan, with the butter and cream, adding salt and pepper to taste; beat it well together over the stove; have ready the well whisked whites of eggs, and stir them in just before you fill the skins with the mixture. Put them into the oven directly. A quarter of an hour will bake them; if the tops are not brown enough use the red-hot salamander. SPINACH AND EGGS Ingredients Two pounds of spinach. Pepper and salt. Two ounces of butter. Poached eggs. Two tablespoonfuls of cream. Sippets of fried bread. Pick the leaves from the stalks, wash them well in several waters till perfectly clean and free from grit; throw them into a saucepan containing a little boiling water, with salt and a tiny bit of soda; let them boil well for ten minutes, pressing them down with a spoon; strain off the water, squeeze it nearly dry in a cloth, and rubVEGETABLES AND SAVOURIES 119 through a wire sieve. Put it into a clean saucepan, with the butter, cream, and a little pepper and salt; stir well till it is thoroughly hot. Serve with poached eggs on the top, and sippets of fried bread round it. TOASTED CHEESE (the Bewitched Dish) Ingredients Gloucester cheese (new). Nutmeg. Dry toast. Ground ginger. Beer. Brown sugar. Cloves. Take some Gloucester or other moist cheese and slice it thinly into a chafing dish ; having put boiling water in the under part, put in the red-hot heater, and as soon as the cheese begins to oil send it bubbling to table, with a rack of dry toast and a jug of hot spiced ale. The cheese is helped on to the toast, some of the beer poured over it, the rest handed to drink with it. To a pint of beer put two cloves, a teaspoonful of brown sugar, a quarter of a teaspoonful of ground ginger, and a little grated nutmeg; bring it to the boil, and strain it into the jug in which it is to be handed. TOMATOES ON TOAST Ingredients Tomatoes. Toast. Butter. Cut them in two, horizontally; place them skin side down on a baking sheet; put little bits of butter on the top of each, and a little pepper and salt; lay a buttered paper over them, and place them in a hot oven for aOCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 120 quarter of an hour. Serve on squares of hot buttered toast. VEGETABLE MARROW WITH CHEESE Ingredients One marrow. The yolks of three hard-boiled eggs. An ounce and a half of butter. Half a French roll. Cream. Parsley. Pepper and salt. One ounce of parmesan cheese. Half a raw egg, and one raw yolk. Having par-boiled the marrow, cut it in two length- ways, scoop out the middle, and fill it with this preparation : Put the hard-boiled yolks into a mortar and pound them, add the butter, the crumb of the roll or some breadcrumbs soaked in cream, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and the grated parmesan ; pound them all well together, then add the raw egg and fill the marrow; bake it in the oven till quite tender, and serve with a rich brown gravy. It may be braised instead of baked.121 JAMS, ETC. BLACKBERRY JELLY Ingredients Blackberries. Sugar. Put the blackberries into a jar and let it stand in the oven all night to draw. Strain the juice through a cloth or muslin, add three-quarters of a pound of sugar to each pint of juice, and boil together till it is well set,' which will be in about half an hour from the time it boils. BULLACE CHEESE Ingredients Bullace plums. Sugar. Put the bullaces into a jar and let them stand in the oven all night. Rub them through a hair sieve, and to every pound of pulp add three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar; boil it slowly for an hour. It may be put into small fancy pots for dessert. CHERRY JAM Ingredients Black cherries. Sugar. Stone the cherries, weigh them, and put them into a preserving pan ; add three-quarters of a pound of sugar122 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK to each pound of fruit, and let them boil well for an hour, stirring- them occasionally and taking off all the scum as it rises. Put into pots and let them stand for a day before they are covered. To each pound of fruit allow six ounces of castor sugar. Put the cherries into wide-necked bottles, shaking them gently down, so that the bottles may be full, leaving just room for the sugar; put the corks in lightly, set them in a pan with clean straw at the bottom, and fill it with cold water up to the necks of the bottles. Let it remain on the stove after it has begun to simmer for twenty minutes; then take the pan off and let the bottles stay in the water till they are quite cold. Beat the corks in tight, and tie a piece of bladder over each; or they may be sealed. Three tablespoonfuls of water. Put the sugar, butter, water, and vinegar into an enamelled saucepan, and mix them well together with a spoon; stir it over the fire until it boils; then let it boil without stirring until it becomes a light brown colour; take a little out with a spoon and drop it into some cold TO BOTTLE CHERRIES Ingredients Cherries. Sugar. COCOANUT TOFFEE Ingredients One pound of castor sugar. One ounce of butter. Two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Dessicated cocoanut.123 JAMS, ETC. water; if it forms into small balls it is done; if not, boil it a little longer; then pour it into a buttered tin or dish and sprinkle dessicated cocoanut on the top before it sets. CRAB APPLE JELLY Ingredients Two gallons of crab apples. Four cloves. An inch of cinnamon. Put the crab apples into a preserving pan and cover them with cold water; add the cloves and cinnamon, and boil them slowly till they become a soft pulp. Pass it through a jelly bag, previously scalded, and to each pint of juice add one pound of good loaf sugar; boil it gently for about an hour, skimming it well all the time. It should be quite clear and a rich colour. Loaf sugar. Water. DAMSON CHEESE Ingredients Damsons. Loaf sugar. Put the damsons without water into an earthen jar, cover it closely to keep in the moisture, place it in a saucepan of boiling water, and allow it to boil for two hours, or until the fruit is soft enough to rub through a sieve; crack the stones, add the kernels to the pulp, and to every pound of pulp allow one pound of loaf sugar; boil it for one hour and a half, stirring it all the time to prevent its burning. The jar may be put in a cool oven to bake, instead of being boiled, if more convenient.124 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK FRUIT CAKE Ingredients Fruit. Gelatine. Pounded sugar. Pass currants, raspberries, gooseberries, or any other fruit liked through a hair sieve. Weigh the pulp and allow one pound and a quarter of finely powdered sugar and a quarter of an ounce of gelatine to every pound of pulp. Put the pulp into a preserving pan and boil for twenty minutes; then add the sugar, first making it very hot in the oven, and the gelatine, previously dissolved in a little water; then bring it to boiling heat, but do not let it boil up, or it will be spoilt. Pour it on to large fiat dishes and put in the sun to dry. When set sufficiently, cut into squares or other shapes; turn them every day until perfectly dry, when they may be packed in tins for winter use. Put the dishes in a nice sunny room while they are drying and keep the windows shut. GREEN TOMATO JAM Ingredients Four pounds of tomatoes. Three pounds of preserving One lemon. sugar. Slice the tomatoes into a preserving pan, boil them for one hour, then add the sugar and grated lemon peel to taste; boil for half to three-quarters of an hour. MEDLAR JELLY Ingredients Ripe medlars. Loaf sugar. Water. Wash the medlars and put them into a preserving pan with enough cold water to cover them. Let them simmerJAMS, ETC. 125 slowly till they become quite a' soft pulp; then strain them through a jelly bag till clear. They will be a long time dropping, but they must not be pressed, To every pint of juice put eleven ounces of sugar. Boil it carefully for two hours and a half; it must be watched all the time lest the colour be injured. It is very like guava jelly in appearance and taste. ORANGE MARMALADE Ingredients Twelve Seville oranges. One quart of boiling water. Five quarts of cold water. Eight pounds of preserving sugar. Slice the oranges thinly and remove the pips; pour the cold water over the oranges, put the pips into a separate basin and pour the boiling water over them; let all stand for twenty-four hours; then boil the fruit and water very fast for two hours, allowing it to reduce a great deal; strain the juice and jelly from the pips, add it to the fruit with the sugar, and boil all together for an hour and a quarter; the juice of a dozen sweet oranges is a great improvement. ORANGE MARMALADE JELLY Ingredients Twelve Seville oranges. Twelve sweet oranges. Five quarts of cold water. Six pounds of preserving sugar. One quart of boiling water. Cut the oranges into rough pieces, taking out all the pips; put the oranges into a basin with the five quarts of cold water; put the pips into another basin, and pour126 OCICLYE COOKERY BOOK the quart of boiling- water over them; let them all stand for twenty-four hours; then put the oranges into a preserving pan and boil well for two hours; strain them through a fine hair sieve, put the juice back into the preserving- pan, add the sugar, and strain the water and jelly from the pips into the pan; then add the strained juice of the sweet oranges and boil well for one hour and ten minutes, taking off all the scum as it rises. It should be perfectly clear. RASPBERRY JAM Ingredients Raspberries. Castor sugar. To one pound of raspberries allow one pound and a half of sugar. Mash the fruit thoroughly with a silver fork; put it on the stove or in the oven till thoroughly hot all through, but not boiling. Proceed in exactly the same manner with the sugar in a separate pan, and when both are perfectly hot (without boiling) mix thoroughly, put it into hot jars and tie them down immediately. N.B.—Castor sugar must be used. This proportion makes it very sweet, but the jam will keep for two years. For immediate use one pound and a quarter of sugar is better. Strawberry jam made in the same way is delicious, but they should not be mashed. RASPBERRY JAM (another way) One pound of sugar to one pound of fruit. Boil it hard for five minutes, no longer; do not skim it.JAMS, ETC. 127 RED CURRANT JELLY Ingredients One pound of loaf sugar to one pint of juice. Strip the currants and put them in a pan over the fire to draw the juice from them; after the juice is all strained, measure it and put it on the fire. Just before it comes to the boil, add the required quantity of loaf sugar, which should first have been made hot in the oven, and then boil it rather quickly for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, stirring it all the time and skim- ming it carefully. Half red currants and half white makes the best colour. RED CURRANT JELLY (made without any fire) Squeeze your raw currants; to every pint of juice add one pound of castor sugar; stir it for twenty minutes, and put it in jars. Cane sugar must be used. WHORTLEBERRY JAM Ingredients Whortleberries. Sugar. To each pound of fruit add three-quarters of a pound of sugar; boil for one hour, taking off the scum as it rises.128 BREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRY Only experience can teach judgment as to the temperature of the oven, and ovens vary very much in manner of heating; but so much depends upon the heat of the oven being just right for the particular kind of cake, etc., about to be bake’d, that it is very important to study the subject. The handle of the oven door is generally a good guide to the heat inside, but with some ovens it is quite misleading, in which case a few breadcrumbs on a tin will show by the time they take to colour if it is brisk or moderate, until the experience has been gained which can tell by putting the hand inside for an instant. CREAM BISCUITS Mix three-quarters of a pound of flour with rather more than half a pint of cream; add a pinch of salt, knead it lightly, roll it out thin, prick it, cut it into pieces any shape, so that there is no waste, and bake them in a quick oven for four or five minutes. WATER BISCUITS Ingredients One gill of water. Four tablespoonfuls of flour. Butter the size of a walnut. A pinch of salt.BREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRY 129 Boil a gill of water with the piece of butter in it, and pour it into a basin on the flour and salt; mix it, knead it, and pound it in a mortar or thump it with a rolling- pin, till cold. Flour your board, roll the paste out very thin, cut it into rounds, prick it and bake in a quick oven; about two minutes does them. The scraps should not be used up, as they always get harder, but the paste may be cut into any rough edged shapes, instead of rounds, and then there will be no scraps. BOHEMIAN CAKE Ingredients Four ounces of butter. Two ounces of grated chocolate. Four ounces of sugar. One lemon. Six ounces of flour. Half a teaspoonful of baking Three eggs. powder. Sift the flour, cream the butter and sugar together until quite white, add the grated rind and juice of the lemon and the grated chocolate; then add the yolks of the eggs and half the flour; whip the whites to a stiff froth, stir them in lightly with the remainder of the flour, and add the baking powder. Put the mixture into a cake tin lined with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour and a quarter. BREAD Ingredients Two and a half gallons of flour. Two ounces of salt. Two ounces of yeast. One gill of warm milk and water. Five pints of lukewarm water. One teaspoonful of castor sugar. Put the flour into a bread-pan; put the yeast and sugar into a small basin and mix smoothly with the warm milk JOCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 130 and water; make a hole in the flour and pour in the yeast; stand the pan in a warm place for a quarter of an hour, then sprinkle in the salt, add the warm water, mix it into a stiff dough, and knead it well for half an hour; set it in a warm place again to rise for one hour and a half; then knead up lightly and make into cottage loaves or any other shape desired, and bake in a hot oven for rather more than one hour. This quantity makes eight good-sized loaves. WHOLE MEAL LOAF Ingredients Half a pound of wholemeal. One ounce of butter. Half a pound of flour. Salt. Nearly half an ounce of yeast. Half a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Rub the butter and flour into the meal, and a pinch of salt; cream the yeast in a basin with the sugar, add about half a gill of tepid water, make a well in the flour and pour in the yeast; let it stand for a quarter of an hour covered over with a cloth, then mix it well with nearly half a pint of tepid water; let it stand for rather more than an hour, make it up in any shape required, and bake it in a moderate oven for one hour. CHOCOLATE FINGERS Ingredients Four ounces of flour. Four ounces of grated chocolate. Four ounces of castor sugar. Three eggs. Four ounces of butter. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the chocolate, and beat it in for ten minutes; add the eggs, beating each in separately, and then the flour by degrees,BREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRY 131 beating- it well; spread it on a greased and papered tin, and bake in a quick oven for about half an hour; when cold cover it with chocolate icing and cut it into fingers. CHRISTMAS CAKE Ingredients Two pounds of butter. Two pounds of castor sugar. Three pounds of flour. Two pounds and a half of currants. One pound of sultanas. Half a pound of raisins. Half a pound of candied peel. Twelve or fourteen eggs. Two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. One wineglass of sherry. One wineglass of brandy. Half an ounce of mixed spice. A saltspoonful of salt. Stone the raisins and chop them fine, clean and pick the sultanas and currants, and cut the peel up fine. Cream the butter and sugar together until quite white, mix in by degrees the eggs and sifted flour, beating it well with the hand all the time; then add the salt, spice, fruit, brandy, and lastly the baking-powder; mix all together, put it into cake tins well lined with oiled paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about four hours and a half. This quantity will make three or four cakes. MISS HUSTLER’S CHRISTMAS CAKE (Rich) Ingredients Two pounds of butter. Two pounds of castor sugar. 1 wo pounds of currants. Two pounds of sultanas. One pound and a half of raisins. Half a pound of candied peel. Half a pound of almonds. Two pounds of flour. One glass of brandy. Twenty eggs. Clean and pick the sultanas and currants, cut the peel up fine, stone the raisins and chop them fine, blanch132 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK the almonds and cut them in fine strips, and beat up the egg's in a basin. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar, and beat again until quite thin and white; then mix in by degrees the eggs and flour, a little of each at a time; add the fruit and brandy, and mix all well together. Put the mixture into a cake tin, greased and lined with three or four thicknesses of oiled paper. Bake in a moderate oven for about six hours, placing the tin on sand, as you would a wedding cake. CHRISTMAS CAKE (Children’s) Ingredients Half a pound of butter. Half a pound of castor sugar. Three-quarters of a pound of flour. A quarter of a pound of currants. Half a pound of sultanas. A few cherries and almonds. Two ounces of finely-chopped mixed peel. The grated rind of one lemon. Vanilla essence. Four eggs (five if small). One teaspoonful of baking powder. Work the butter and sugar to a cream with a wooden spoon, add the flour and eggs gradually, then the fruit and a little vanilla essence, and the baking powder last. This makes a medium-sized cake. Bake in a very moderate oven for two hours and a half. COCOANUT PYRAMIDS Ingredients Six ounces of desiccated cocoanut. Two dessertspoonfuls of corn- Three ounces of castor sugar. flour. The whites of two eggs. Wafer paper. Mix the sugar, cocoanut and cornflour together; whip (he whites of egg to a stiff froth, mix it in lightly withBREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRY 133 the dry ingredients. Form the mixture into small pyramids on wafer paper, and bake them in a slow oven until they are a pale brown colour. DRIPPING CAKE Ingredients One pound of flour. Two or three eggs. Six ounces of dripping. Half a pint of milk. Six ounces of sugar. One teaspoonful and a half of Six ounces of sultanas or currants. baking powder. Sift the flour; cream the dripping and sugar together in a basin for ten minutes, then mix in by degrees the flour, eggs, and milk; mix well together, add the fruit and baking powder; put the mixture into a greased and papered cake tin, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours and a quarter. EGYPTIAN CAKE Ingredients Five breakfastcupfuis of flour. One breakfastcupful of treacle. One breakfastcupful of sugar. One breakfastcupful of butter. One breakfastcupful of cream. Half a pound of stoned raisins Half a pound of currants. Two eggs. One ounce of ground ginger. Two teaspoonfuls of common vinegar. Two teaspoonfuls of carbonate of soda. Stone the raisins and clean the currants; put the flour, sugar, ginger, and carbonate of soda into a basin; rub in the butter very smoothly, and add the raisins and currants; beat up the eggs, warm the treacle, stir these with the cream and vinegar to the dry ingredients, and mix all thoroughly together. Put the mixture into two cake tins lined with buttered paper, and bake in a slow134 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK oven for two hours. This quantity makes two good-sized cakes. GINGER BISCUITS Ingredients Three-quarters of a pound of Half a pound of treacle. flour. Half an ounce of ground ginger. A quarter of a pound of butter. Three tablespoonfuls of brandy. A quarter of a pound of sugar. Put the flour, ground ginger, and sugar into a basin, rub in the butter very smoothly, add the treacle and brandy, and mix well together into a stiff paste. Roll it out on a floured board until fairly thin, cut into rounds, put them on a greased baking sheet, glaze them over with a little milk, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. This quantity makes rather more than seventy biscuits. TRANSPARENT GINGERBREAD Ingredients Half a pound of treacle. Half an ounce of ground ginger. A quarter of a pound of sugar. One dessertspoonful of brandy. Six ounces of butter. A little grated lemon peel. Half a pound of flour. Rub the butter smoothly into the flour; add the sugar, ginger, lemon peel, treacle, and brandy, and mix it all together thoroughly. Spread it thinly over a tin, bake it in a slow oven, cut it into squares while hot, and roll them over a stick, leaving them to get cold, flhey must be kept in a tin in a dry place. If wanted for a dinner sweet, they may be rolled on cornet tins, and filled at the moment of serving with whipped cream flavoured with a little brandy.BREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRY 135 GINGERBREAD LOAF Ingredients One pound and a half of treacle. Two ounces of candied orange One pound and a half of flour. and lemon peel. Half a pound of butter. One teaspoonful of carbonate of One ounce of ground ginger. soda. Three eggs. Sift the flour and carbonate of soda into a basin, add the ground g'inger, rub in the butter, and add the chopped peel. Beat up the eg-gs, and add the treacle. Mix these with the dry ingredients. Put the mixture into a cake tin, lined with buttered paper, and bake in a moderately slow oven for two and a half hours. SOFT GINGER CAKE Ingredients One breakfastcupful of butter. One breakfastcupful of brown sugar. One breakfastcupful of golden syrup or treacle. One breakfastcupful of milk (better sour than fresh). Three breakfastcupfuls of flour. One tablespoonful of ground ginger. One teaspoonful of mixed spice. One teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Three eggs. Mix all the dry ingredients together (except the carbonate of soda); melt the butter and syrup together, and pour them over the dry ingredients; then add the eggs (well beaten); dissolve the carbonate of soda in a little of the milk, warmed, and add, with the rest of the milk; mix well and pour into a greased tin lined with paper; bake in a moderate oven. This quantity makes two moderate-sized cakes. It must be very well mixed and baked slowly.OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 136 LUNCHEON CAKE Ingredients One pound of flour. Three eggs. Six ounces of butter. One teaspoonful and a half of Six ounces of castor sugar. baking powder. Six ounces of sultanas. Half a pint of milk. Sift the flour; cream the butter and sugar together in a basin until they are white; add the eggs one at a time, beating in each one thoroughly, and stir in gradually half the flour; then add the milk and the remainder of the flour by degrees; mix well together; stir in the fruit and baking-powder; put the mixture into a cake tin lined with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours and a quarter. MACAROONS Ingredients The whites of two eggs. One dessertspoonful of orange A quarter of a pound of ground flower water. almonds. A few whole almonds. Five ounces of castor sugar. Beat the whites very stiffly; mix the ground almonds and sugar together, and add the whites and orange flower water. The mixture must not be too soft. Put small spoonfuls on wafer paper, with two halves of almonds on the top of each; dust a little icing sugar over them, and bake in a moderate oven. They should be kept in a tin to retain their toughness. MADEIRA CAKE Ingredients Four ounces of flour. Four ounces of sugar. Six ounces of butter. A small half ■ teaspoonful of Three eggs. baking powder. Two slices of citron.BREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRY 137 Sift the flour on to a sheet of paper; cream the butter and sugar tog-ether until they are quite white; then mix in by degrees the eggs and sifted flour, and add the baking powder last; put the mixture into a small cake tin lined with buttered paper, and lay the pieces of citron on the top. Bake in a moderate oven for about one hour. MADEIRA CAKE (another way) Ingredients Half a pound of flour. One small dessertspoonful of A quarter of a pound of butter. demon kali, or a small tea= Half a pound of castor sugar. spoonful of baking powder. Two slices of citron. Five eggs. Beat the butter and sugar together with a wooden spoon until they are quite white; then add the eggs, one at a time, beating in each one thoroughly, adding a table- spoonful of flour with the fifth egg to prevent curdling; when the eggs are well beaten in, add the remainder of the flour by degrees, and lastly the lemon kali. Put the mixture into a cake tin lined with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about one hour and a half. One tablespoonful of brandy may be added if the cake is to be kept. OAT CAKES Ingredients One pound of oatmeal. A saltspoonful of salt. Two ounces of butter. Rub the butter into the oatmeal, add a good salt- spoonful of salt, and mix into a dry paste with cold water; roll out rather thin, sprinkling well with more of the meal as you roll. Cut it into square or round pieces,OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 138 and bake on a tin floured with oatmeal in a very moderate oven till quite dry. They should be kept in a tin in a dry place. ORANGE CAKE Ingredients Four ounces of butter. The grated rind and juice of two Six ounces of sugar. oranges. Ten ounces of flour. One teaspoonful and a half of Four eggs. baking powder. Cream the butter and sugar together until quite white; add the grated rind of the oranges, then the eggs one at a time, beating each one in thoroughly; stir in the flour by degrees, then add the orange juice, and lastly the baking powder; put the mixture into a cake tin lined with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour and twenty minutes; when it is quite cold cover it with orange icing. FOR THE ICING. Half a pound of icing sugar. Two tablespoonfuls of orange Pistachio nuts. juice. Put the icing sugar and orange juice into a stewpan, and stir it over the fire until the sugar is dissolved and it is just warm; pour it over the cake and decorate it with chopped pistachio nuts. FLAKY PASTRY Ingredients Six ounces of flour. Two ounces of lard. Two ounces of butter. Salt. Put the flour and a pinch of salt into a basin, and mix it into a stiff paste with cold water. Divide the fat intoBREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRY 139 three equal portions; then roll the paste out thin; lay one portion of lard and butter upon it in little bits, sprinkle a little flour over it, fold it in three; turn it with the rough edges towards you and roll it out; repeat this twice till the fat is used up, when it is ready for use. Put the flour into a basin, make a well in the centre, put in the lemon juice, a pinch of salt, and enough cold water to make it into a stiff paste—it should be as nearly as possible the same consistency as the fat; squeeze the butter in a cloth to absorb the moisture; roll the paste out to a quarter of an inch in thickness, put the butter and lard on half the paste, fold the other half over it, cover it entirely and press the edges together. Put it away in a cool place for half an hour; then roll it out four times, each time folding it in three, and turning the rough edges towards you. Put it aside again for an hour in the cool and repeat the four rollings as before. It should then be put away for another hour before it is used; or it can be made the day before if kept in a damp cloth. One pound of flour. Half a pound of butter. Half a pound of lard. PUFF PASTE Ingredients Salt. One dessertspoonful of lemon juice. PASTRY Ingredients One pound of flour. Twelve ounces of lard. Two ounces of butter. The yolk of an egg. A breakfastcupful of water. Salt. Half a teaspoonful of baking powder. A few drops of orange juice.140 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK Rub the butter and the lard well into the flour, add the baking powder and a pinch of salt. Mix the yolk of egg with about a breakfastcupful of water, and add that and the orange juice to the dry ingredients; mix into a stiff paste; roll it out the same number of times as puff pastry, and finish in the same way. SHORT CRUST Ingredients Four ounces of buffer. The yolk of one egg. Eight ounces of flour. One ounce of castor sugar. Put the flour and sugar into a basin; rub the butter into the flour with the hand until smooth; make a hole in the centre, put in the yolk of the egg, and enough cold water to make it into a stiff paste. Roll it out on a floured board and use for fruit tarts, etc. QUEEN CAKES Ingredients Two ounces of butter. A little candied peel. Two ounces of castor sugar. Two eggs. A quarter of a pound of flour. Half a teaspoonful of baking Two ounces of sultanas. powder. Sift the flour and baking powder together on to a piece of paper; cream the butter and sugar together until they are white, and beat in the eggs one at a time; stir in the flour gradually; add the fruit (cherries can be used instead of sultanas and peel), and beat all well together. Put the mixture into small buttered queen cake tins, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes.BREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRY 141 RASPBERRY BUNS ‘ Ingredients Half a pound of flour. Two ounces of butter. One teaspoonful of baking One egg. powder. Half a gill of milk. Two ounces of sugar. Raspberry jam. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar and baking powder, and mix well; beat up the yolk of the egg with the milk, and add it and the white, beaten separately, to the dry ingredients; mix it into a light paste; roll it out half an inch thick, cut it into small rounds, put a very little jam on each, and pinch it up into a ball. Bake them in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. RICE CAKES Ingredients A quarter of a pound of flour. A quarter of a pound of butter. A quarter of a pound of ground Five ounces of castor sugar, rice. Four eggs. Work the butter to a cream with a wooden spoon; beat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar together for ten minutes, and add them by degrees; then the ground rice, the whites whipped stiffly, and lastly the well-dried flour, stirred in lightly. Bake them in buttered patty pans in a hot oven for about a quarter of an hour. ROCK CAKES Ingredients One pound of flour. Six ounces of butter. Six ounces of sugar. t>ix PWJJCes of currants Two eggs. One teaspoonful and a half of baking powder. A gill of milk.142 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, currants and baking powder. Beat up the eggs, add the milk to them, and stir it into the dry ingredients in a basin; mix well together. Put the mixture upon a greased baking sheet in small heaps, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. SCONES Ingredients One teaspoonful of carbonate of Two breakfastcupfuls of flour. soda. One breakfastcupful of butter* One teaspoonful of cream of milk, or milk, tartar. A pinch of salt. Put the flour and salt into a basin, rub in the soda and cream of tartar very smoothly, mix lightly with the butter-milk; roll it out on a floured board, about three- quarters of an inch thick, cut it into round cakes, and bake on a girdle. BREAKFAST SCONES Ingredients One pound of flour. One good tablespoonful of baking Two ounces of butter. powder. Half a pint of milk or cream. Salt. Rub the butter in the flour till it is as fine as the flour; add the baking powder and a pinch of salt; mix it into a light dough with about half a pint of milk, roll it out half an inch thick, and cut it into small rounds or diamond shapes. Bake in rather a quick oven for twenty minutes. If made with cream use a little less butter. Sour cream rnakes them lighter, but must be well sweetened.BREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRY 143 CREAM SCONES Ingredients A quarter of a pound of castor sugar. Two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. A gill of milk. A quarter of a pound of butter. One pound of flour. One egg. One teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Rub the butter into the flour, add the castor sugar, cream of tartar, and carbonate of soda; mix into a light dough, with the well-beaten egg and about a gill of milk. Roll it out about half an inch thick, cut it into three-cornered pieces, or in small rounds, with a pastry cutter; brush them over with egg, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. If liked, a few sultanas or currants may be added when mixed. TEA SCONES Ingredients One pound of flour. Two teaspoonfuls of baking One ounce of butter. powder. Two ounces of lard. A little salt. One egg. Half a pint of buttermilk. Rub the butter and lard into the flour, add the baking powder and salt, beat up the egg, and add it with the buttermilk, mix it up into a light paste, roll it out about half an inch thick, cut it into half squares, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. SEED BISCUITS Ingredients A quarter of a pound of butter. A few caraway seeds. A quarter of a pound of flour. One tablespoonful of cream Three ounces of castor sugar.144 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK Rub the butter, flour, and sugar together, then add the seeds and cream; work it into a stiff dough, roll it out thin, cut it into rounds with a cutter, and bake in a moderate oven. SEED CAKE Ingredients Half a pound of butter. Half a pound of castor sugar. One pound of flour. Four eggs. Half an ounce of caraway seeds. One gill of milk. One teaspoonful and a half of baking powder. Cream the butter and sugar together in a basin until it is quite white; add the eggs one at a time, beating each one in thoroughly; stir in half the flour as lightly as possible; pour in the milk and add the remainder of the flour; then add the seeds and baking powder; mix it all well together, put the mixture into a cake tin lined with buttered paper, and bake it in a moderate oven for two hours and a quarter. SHREWSBURY CAKES Ingredients One pound of flour. Two eggs. Half a pound of butter. A small tablcspoonful of milk or Six ounces of sugar. cream. Sift the flour into a basin, add the castor sugar, rub in the butter; make a hole in the centre, into which break the eggs; add the milk, and work it into a flexible paste; roll it out to the thickness of a penny piece, and cut it into small cakes with a round cutter; bake them in a moderate oven.BREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRY 145 SNOW CAKE Ingredients Half a pound of buffer. The whites of seven eggs. Half a pound of sugar. Essence of lemon. One pound of arrowroot. A little baking powder. Beat the butter to a cream with a wooden spoon, add the sugar, essence of lemon and arrowroot, beat it well for a quarter of an hour; whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add to the other ingredients, and beat it all thoroughly for half an hour. Add a little baking powder, and bake in a very moderate oven for one hour and a half. SODA CAKE Ingredients Half a pound of butter. Half a pound of castor sugar. Half a pound of currants or sultanas. One pound of flour. Three eggs. One teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. A small quantity of mixed spice. Two ounces of candied peel. A cup of warm milk. Cream the butter and sugar together with a wooden spoon until it is quite white; therPwork in by degrees the e§’§’s) flour, and milk with the soda dissolved in it, beating it well all the time; add the spice, candied peel, and sultanas, and mix all together thoroughly. Put it into a greased and papered cake tin, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours and a quarter. SWEET CAKE Ingredients Half a pound of butter. One pound of flour. One pound of sultanas. Fourteen ounces of brown sugar. Half a pound of lemon peel. K One teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Half an ounce of mixed spice. Four eggs (well beaten).OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK 146 Sift the flour on to a piece of paper, cut the peel up fine and pick the sultanas; cream the butter and sugar together with the hand or a wooden spoon for ten minutes, add the mixed spice, then the flour and eggs, gradually mixing them well in, then the fruit, and lastly the carbonate of soda. Put the mixture into a tin lined with three or four thicknesses of buttered paper, and bake in a moderately slow oven for three and a half hours. TEA CAKES Ingredients One pound of Hour. Two eggs. A quarter of a pound of sugar. One gill and a half of milk. A quarter of a pound of butter. One teaspoonful of baking pow der. Rub the butter into the flour, mix in the sugar and baking powder; beat up the eggs and add them and the milk; mix it into a light dough, make it into five or six tea cakes, and bake in a hot oven for about half an hour. YORKSHIRE TEA CAKES Ingredients One pound of flour. Salt. One ounce and a half of butter. Half a pint of milk. One ounce and a half of lard. One teaspoonful of sugar. Half an ounce of German yeast. Put the flour and a pinch of salt into a basin, rub the butter and lard in smoothly, make a well in the centre of it, mix the yeast and sugar with a gill of lukewarm milk, and pour it into the well, sprinkle a little of the flour over it, cover the basin with a cloth, and stand it in a warm place for about half an hour; then add the other gill of lukewarm milk, and knead it intoBREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRY 147 a light dough; cut it crossways on the top, cover the basin again, and leave it for an hour to rise. Then turn it out on to a floured board, divide it into four portions, shape each piece into a ball, and roll it out lig'htly into round cakes about three-quarters of an inch thick; place them on a floured baking tin, set them to rise for about ten minutes, and bake them in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. 'When cold, cut each cake into three slices, toast each slice and butter them well, lay one on the top of the other, cut them into quarters, and serve hot in a muffin dish; or they may be cut and buttered when fresh out of the oven. If no yeast is at hand, a little baking powder may be used instead, but yeast is to be preferred. WEDDING CAKE Ingredients Two pounds of butter. Two pounds and a half of flour. Two pounds and a half of currants. One pound and a half of raisins. One pound and a half of candied peel. One pound and a half of dried cherries. One pound and a half of sultanas. One pound of almonds. One pound and a half of castor sugar. Half a pint of brandy. Half an ounce of mixed spice. Sixteen eggs. Six oranges. Four lemons. Four nutmegs. One teaspoonful of baking powder. Stone the raisins and put them through a mincing machine; blanch the almonds and cut them into fine strips; chop the peel very fine; clean the sultanas and currants; cut the cherries into small pieces, and mix all the fruit together, except the raisins; grate the rinds of the lemons and oranges; grate the nutmegs, and add to the mixed148 OCKLYE COOKERY BOOK spice; whisk the eggs well in a basin. Cream the butter and sugar together in a basin with the hand, until it is quite white; add the grated lemon and orange peel, spice and nutmegs, and beat them in well; then add the flour and eggs gradually, beating well all the time; add the minced raisins, and work them in well; then the mixed fruit, brandy, and lastly the baking powder; put the mixture into greased tins, lined with four or five thick- nesses of greased paper, and bake in a fairly hot oven at first, but cooler afterwards, for six hours. When baking a cake this size, it is a good plan to stand it in the oven on a deep baking sheet, thickly covered with dry sand, to prevent its burning. Salad oil is a good thing to grease the tin and paper with. It takes nearly three quarters of an hour to mix this cake properly. This quantity is sufficient for a three-tier cake. ROYAL ICING Ingredients Two and a half pounds of icing One dessertspoonful of orange sugar. flower water. The whites of seven or eight Lemon juice, eggs. Sift the sugar through a fine hair sieve into a basin. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth; make a well in the sugar, put the whites into it with a wooden spoon; add a few drops of lemon juice and the orange flower water; beat the icing well until it is quite white. If it is too stiff add a little extra lemon juice; if too thin put in a little more icing sugar. It will take twenty minutes to mix.BREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRY 149 ALMOND ICING Ingredients Two pounds and a half of ground almonds. Three pounds and three=quarters of icing sugar. The whites of eight eggs. One teaspoonful of orange flower water. One teaspoonful of vanilla. Pass the sugar through a hair sieve, add the ground almonds, flavourings, and whites of eggs; work it into a stiff, dry paste, and use.150 LIQUEURS AND BEVERAGES ATHOL BROSE (a Highland drink) Ingredients Two parts of honey. Six parts of cream. One part of whisky. Mix the honey and whisky together in a bowl, add the cream, stir it, and ladle it into wine glasses. It makes a very good sweet, served in custard glasses, with a spoonful of whipped cream on the top. BARLEY WATER Ingredients Two ounces of pearl barley. Sugar. The peel of one lemon. Three pints of boiling water. Wash the barley in plenty of cold water, till the water that comes off it is quite clear; put it into a jug with the lemon-peel, cut very thin, without any white, and one lump of sugar; pour the boiling water on it, let it stand till cold, then strain it off, and it is ready for use. It should be clear and a pale green colour. BLACKBERRY GIN Ingredients Four pounds of ripe blackberries. Two pounds of loaf sugar. One bottle of gin. Put the blackberries into a jar with the sugar; let it stand on the stove or in the oven all night, till all theLIQUEURS AND BEVERAGES 151 juice is drawn from the blackberries. Strain it through a piece of muslin, mix it with the gin, and bottle. This quantity will make quite three pints. blackberry vinegar Ingredients Ripe blackberries. Vinegar. Sugar. Over a jar of good ripe blackberries, pour as much vinegar as they will take, and let them stand twenty-foui hours; strain it, and to every pint of juice put thiee quarters of a pound of sugar. Boil for a quarter of an hour. CLARET CUP Ingredients The rind of half a lemon. One bottle of claret. Two bottles of soda water. Slices of cucumber, borage, and Two large tablespoonfuls of woodruff. sugar. Two glasses of sherry. Two tablespoonfuls of brandy. Pour the sherry, brandy, and claret into a jug, add the sugar, the lemon-peel cut thin, two or three slices of cucumber, and a little borage and woodruff. Stir it well and leave it for half an hour. Add the soda water just before drinking. GINGER BEER Ingredients Five gallons of water. Five pounds of loaf sugar. Three and half ounces of bruised Half a tablespoonful of yeast, ginger. Five lemons. Put the water, sugar, and ginger into a boiler, and boil it for one hour; strain it off into a large pan, andOC.KLYE COOKERY BOOK 152 let it stand until it is nearly cold; then add the yeast and put it into a cask, with the juice of the lemons and the rind of one and a half. Leave it for a fortnight, bottle it off, and tie down the corks. Be sure that the cask is quite clean and wholesome. Stone bottles are far better than glass ones for the purpose. GOOSEBERRY WINE (sparkling) Ingredients Green gooseberries. Gin or pale brandy. Water. Isinglass. Loaf sugar. Put the gooseberries into a tub, with one gallon of water to every four pounds of gooseberries. Mash them well, and let them stand for three days, stirring them two or three times each day. Strain them off, and to each gallon of liquor put three pounds of loaf sugar; when it is dissolved, put it into a barrel, with a bottle of gin or half a pint of brandy to every five gallons. Do not stop the cask until it has done fermenting; then put in some isinglass, a quarter of an ounce to the above amount, and let it stand for six months before you bottle it, putting two lumps of loaf sugar into each bottle. It should be made when the berries are at their sourest, just before they turn colour. LEMONADE Ingredients Sixteen lemons. Nine quarts of boiling water. Loaf sugar. Slice the lemons into four large jugs, four lemons in each; pour four and a half pints of boiling water into eachLIQUEURS AND BEVERAGES 153 jug; sweeten to taste; cover them over with a cloth and let them stand for about four hours, stirring it occasion- ally; strain it off and .it is ready for use. ORANGE BRANDY Ingredients Three quarts of good pale brandy. One quart of boiling milk. Three pounds of loaf sugar. Twelve Seville oranges. Put the brandy into an open vessel with a cover, add the sugar, the juice of the oranges, the rinds of eight, and the boiling milk; let it stand for eight days, stirring it every day; then run it through a jelly bag and bottle it; it is ready for use immediately. If it is at all thick, pass it through the bag a second time; it ought to be clear. RASPBERRY VINEGAR Ingredients Raspberries. Vinegar. Loaf sugar. Fill a jar with raspberries; pour in as much vinegar as it will hold. In a few days strain the pulp and seed away. To a pint of juice add three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, boil it for a quarter of an hour, skimming it well. When cold, bottle it and keep it in a cellar. It will keep for years. SLOE GIN Ingredients One gallon of sloes. Three pounds of loaf sugar. One gallon of gin. Put all together in a stone jar, leave it for a year, then strain it off and bottle it.154 OCICLYE COOKERY BOOK TANGERINE GIN Ingredients Half a gallon of gin. The rinds of three dozen Tan- Two pounds of sugar. gerine oranges. Cut the rinds of the oranges very thin, put them into a large-mouthed jar, with the sugar, and pour the gin over them. Let it stand for three days, stirring it three or four times a day; strain it off and bottle it. It should be kept a year or more before it is used.155 INDEX SOUPS Asparagus, i Barley cream, 2 Beetroot, 2 Chestnut, 3 Clear, 3 Cock a leekie, 4 Crecy or carrot, 5 Croute au pot, 5 Fishwife’s, 6 Flemish, 6 Green pea, 7 Hare, 7 Hotch-potch, 8 Imperial, 8 Mock turtle (clear), 9 Mulligatawny, 10 Oxtail (clear), 10 (thick), 11 Palestine, 12 Parsnip, 12 Potato, 13 Tomato, 13 ; (with milk), 14 Turtle (clear), 14 Vegetable, 15 marrow, 15 Water souchet, 16 White, 16 lentil, 17 sago, 18 FISH Dressed crab, 19 Fillets of sole with anchovy, 19 Fish cakes, 20 timbales, 20 (another way), 21 pudding, 21 souffle, 22 Kedgeree, 22 Iiobster cutlets, 23 Mackerel, with black butter, 23 , stewed, 24 Plaice in batter, 25 Red mullet in papillote, 25 Scallops, 26 Shrimp and scallop cutlets, 26 Sole au gratin, 27 aux fines herbes, 27 Turbot au gratin, 28INDEX 15G MEATS AND ENTREES Bacon pudding, 29 Beef, fillets of, devilled, 29 ■, relishing, 30 gobbets, 30 , olives, 31 , pressed, 31 Boudins, 32 Brawn, 32 Breast of lamb, braised and broiled, 33 Calf’s head, boiled, 33 , braised, 34 , cutlets, 35 — , galantine, 35 , hashed, 36 Chicken in casserole, 36 Croquettes, 37 Croustades, 38 Curried lentils, 38 Duck a la mode, 38 Fricandeau of veal, 39 Fowl, to cook an old, 40 Ham roll, 40 Hare, roast, 41 , jugged, 41 Hot pot, 42 Kabobs, 42 Kidneys, 42 Minced beef and poached eggs, 43 veal, 43 Mutton chops a la Mariniere, 44 , en robe de chambre, 44 , savoury, 45 a la venaison, 45 Neck of lamb a la jardiniere, 46 Ox cheek a la Pompadour, 46 Ox tail, 47 Pheasant, braised, 48 pie, 48 Pig’s feet and ears, 49 Potato rissoles, 49 Quenelles, 50 Rabbit pie, 51 —, stewed, 51 (another way), 52 Ragout of mutton, 52 Rissoles, S3 Roman pudding, 54 Salmis of partridge, 54 Savoury hash, 55 Scotch pie, 55 scallops (white), 56 Sheep’s head, 56 and trotter pie, 57 trotters, 57 Stewed pigeon, 58 veal and peas, 58 Stuffed leg of chicken, 58 Timbales of mutton, 59 Veal creams, 59157 INDEX SAUCES, etc. Brandy butter, see Plum Pudding, 89 Dunpliail mustard, 60 Panada, see Quenelles, 50 Pickle, green tomato, 60 , vegetable marrow, 60 Salad dressing, 61 Sauce for beetroot salad, 61 atelets, see Ox cheek, 46 , duck, 61 Sauce, Dutch, 62 , fish, brown, 62 , , , with capers, see Fish souffle, 22 , , white, 62 for grey mullet, 63 , Mayonnaise, 63 , Robert, see Pig’s feet, 49 supreme, 63 Veal stuffing, 64 PUDDINGS AND COLD SWEETS Apple capan, 65 Charlotte, 65 Athol brose creams (see under Liqueurs, p. 160) Bakewell pudding, 66 Banana trifle, 67 Black currant fool, 67 Blancmange, 67 Brown patties, 68 Cabinet pudding, 68 Caramel cream, 68 pudding, 69 Castle puddings, 69 Cheese cakes (real), 70 Chocolate fool, 70 pudding (cold), 71 Cold marmalade custard, 71 pudding, 72 Creme brulee, 72 Curate’s pudding, 73 Drumlanrig pudding, 73 Dundee pudding, 74 Five cup pudding, 74 French cannelons, 74 Gateau genoise, 75 Genoese pastry, 75 Ginger pudding, 76 Harrogate pastry, 76 Jane Simpson’s pudding, 77 Jelly, calf’s foot, 77 , lemon, 78 , orange, 79 , wine, 79 Jubilee pudding, 79 Lemon cheesecakes, 80 cheesecake mixture (to keep), 80 Leicester club pudding, 81 Lemon pudding (baked), 81 (boiled) 81 rice pudding, 82 Lissington puddings, 82 Madame souffle, 83 Maids of honour, 83 Marmalade pudding, 84 Mincemeat, 84INDEX 158 PUDDINGS AND GOLD Mocha pudding, 85 Mock cabinet pudding, 86 Mousseline pudding, 86 Oatmeal pudding, 87 Orange cream, 87 fool, 87 Plum pudding (Christmas), 88 (without sugar), 88 (Sunday), 89 Plymouth pudding, 89 Prince Albert pudding, 90 Prune mould, 90 Queen of puddings, 91 Raigmore pudding, 91 Raisin pudding, 92 Rice cream, 92 croquettes, 93 Saucer puddings, 93 Black currant cream, 100 SWEETS {contmued) Semolina pudding with caramel sauce, 94 Sir Watkin’s pudding, 94 Spanish pudding, 95 Sponge pudding, 95 Steamed pudding, 95 Swiss cream, 96 -— roll, 96 Thatched pudding, 97 Treacle pudding (steamed), 97 Vanilla souffle, 98 Velvet cream, 98 Vermicelli pudding (steamed), 99 Victoria souffle, 99 Wafer puddings, 99 Whipped syllabubs, 100 Yeomanry pudding, 100 ICES | Raspberry cream, 101 VEGETABLES AND SAVOURIES Adelaide sandwiches, 102 Anchovy biscuits, 102 Artichokes, fried, 103 , globe, 103 bottoms (stuffed), 104 Aspic jelly, 104 (with gelatine), 105 Bechamel eggs, 105 Canapes a la Rosamond, 100 Cauliflower au gratin, 106 Cheese fritters, 106 omelet, 107 pastry, 107 Cheese souffles, 108 tartlets, 108 Craigie toast, 109 Cream cheese, 109 Cucumber au gratin, 109 Curried eggs, no sardines, no Fondu, in Macaroni, 111 with Spanish sauce, 112 and tomato, 112 Magdalen College butter, 113 Meal puddings, 113INDEX 159 VEGETABLES AND CEufs perdues, 113 Potato chips, 114 Potatoes a la Lyonnaise, 114 Prince of Wales’s canapes, 115 sardines, 115 Red cabbage, 115 Sardine toast, 116 Savoury omelet, 116 SAVOURIES (continued) Scalloped artichokes, 117 Semolina cheese souffle, 117 Souffle potatoes, 118 i Spinach and eggs, 118 Toasted cheese, 119 Tomatoes, 119 Vegetable marrow with cheese, 120 Blackberry jelly, 121 Bullace cheese, 121 Cherry jam, 121 Cherries, bottled, 122 Cocoanut toffee, 122 Crab-apple jelly, 123 Damson cheese, 123 Fruit cake, 124 Green tomato jam, 124 JAMS, etc. Medlar jelly, 124 Orange marmalade, 125 jelly, 125 Raspberry jam, 126 (another way), 126 Red currant jelly, 127 (another way), 127 I Whortleberry jam, 127 BREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRY Biscuits, cream, 128 , water, 128 Bohemian cake, 129 Bread, 129 , whole meal, 130 Chocolate fingers, 130 Christmas cake, 131 , rich, 131 , children’s, 132 Cocoanut pyramids, 132 Dripping cake, 133 Egyptian cake, 133 Ginger biscuits, 134 Ginger-bread (transparent), 134 Ginger-bread loaf, 135 cake (soft), 135 Luncheon cake, 136 Macaroons, 136 Madeira cake, 136 (another way), 137 Oat cakes, 137 Orange cake, 138 Pastry, flaky, 138 , puff, 139 (another way), 139 , short, 140 Queen cakes, 140 Raspberry buns, 141INDEX 160 BREAD, CAKES, AND PASTRY (continued) Rice cake, 141 Rock cakes, 141 Scones, 142 —-—, breakfast, 142 , cream, 143 , tea, 143 Seed biscuits, 143 cake, 144 Shrewsbury cakes, 144 Snow cake, 145 Soda cake, 145 ! Sweet cake, 145 Tea-cakes, 146 -, Yorkshire, 146 Wedding cake, 147 Royal icing, 148 Almond icing, 149 LIQUEURS AND BEVERAGES Athol brose, 150 Barley water, 150 Blackberry gin, 150 vinegar, 151 Claret cup, 151 Ginger beer, 151 Gooseberry wine, 152 Lemonade, 152 Orange brandy, 153 Raspberry vinegar, 153 Sloe gin, 153 Tangerine gin, 154 Printed by’ Cassell and Comp/ 0., La liKLI.E SAUY’AOK, LONDON, E.C. UBRARY