22101425221Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive in 2014 https://archive.org/details/b20399947THE HOUSEWIFE'S REFEREE)^^U!Jll'i'l'I'l'l'5 lU' ?15 in Hill nil I! n u I" m =♦= =♦= =♦= =♦= =♦= =♦= FOR eOOD COOKERY USE LIEBIG COMPANY'S EXTRACT 1^ ill A pure concentrated essence of the finest beef, its |j use in the preparation of gravies, soups, sauces, ij meat pies, and all savoury dishes, imparts to them §3 the essential features of good cookery—appetising |1 flavour, nourishment and digestibility. Nothing can |j take its place. ^0^ it® ERIOR SU iiiimiiiiniiiitiiititinTHE HOUSEWIFE'S REFEREE. A TREATISE ON CULINARY AND HOUSEHOLD SUBJECTS. Authoress of '^Savouries a la Mode," Entrees a la Mode" " Oysters a la Mode" Soups and Dressed Fish" Dressed Vegetables " "Game" " Sweets and Supper Dishes," " Cakes and Confectionery Dishes" " Puddings and Pastry " " Tempting Dishes for Small Incomes" "Drinks a la Mode" Floral Decorations a la Mode," " National Viands" " New Laid Eggs" ** Household Wrinkles and Notions," " Dogs and their Ailments, " Gardening a la Mode." •' Nothing lovelier can be found for woman than to study household good."—Milton. BY MRS. DE SALTS. LONDON.: HUTCHINSON & CO, PATERNOSTER ROW 1898.Supersedes Raw Suet, Lard, and Cooking Butter, for Puddings, Cakes, Mince Meat, Pie Crust, Frying and Cooking. Made from best English Beef Suet only ! Saves trouble of Chopping ! One Pound goes as far as two pounds of Raw Suet. Always sweet! All grocers and provision dealers sell it, or can get it for you, but if you send 8d. in stamps to the Sole Makers, MTJGON Sc Co,, r>tfl., Pentlleton, MABfCMESTEK, they will send you a One Pound Sample Package, and the name of the nearest dealer. SPECI/VLLY ADAPTED FOR HOT CLIMATES.INTRODUCTION —>— Housekeeping has become such an art that fashions in cooking and entertaining* are as necessary as modes in furniture and glass or china, and with very little care, forethought, and savoir /aire, most charming little dinners and luncheons can be given and served in a simple yet dainty fashion, without any very large expenditure. In these Jin de siccle days so many gentlewomen have made themselves mistresses of the art of cooking that there is every reason to hope that domestic cooks, by the good example of their mistresses, will become more adept in their art. The dearth of cooks, however, is one universal complaint, and it does seem extraordinary that there should be such a paucity. From personal experience I could relate the most ludicrous yet reprehensible anecdotes of mistakes made by cooks, many often wilful ones. Now, if young girls would only make cookery one of their accomplishments (and I really think the rudiments of cookery ought to form part of every woman's education), I feel sure the usual everyday household cooking would be much improved, as they then couldvi INTRODUCTION instruct and show their servants the best road to good plain cookery. In days of yore every gentlewoman was supposed to understand enough cookery to instruct her handmaidens, and generally did the pickling and preserving herself. Why should not we follow the good example of our great grandmothers, and revive this good old custom in this Victorian era ? Besides the advantage of it, I know there are now many women of gentle birth who, from unfortunate monetary losses, have to gain their living for themselves, and have taken up the culinary art and are able to obtain a very fair livelihood by going out to cook dinners and ball suppers, and also by giving demonstrative cookery lessons. The silly ignorance of so many gentlewomen is astounding. Let me give an example : I was present at a lecture a short time since at one of the recent cookery exhibitions, where Miss Young was teaching- pastry making, when a lady among the audience asked, Must we put our bare hands into the dough ? " " Certainly," replied the teacher; " you cannot make it otherwise." " Oh, then," remarked the questioner, " perhaps that is the reason why I failed when I made my last tart; my gloves did seem in the way ! " I consider this a very good example of the terrible ignorance which prevails regarding the knowledge of the cuisine. Cookery schools and classes, and the innumerable cookery books are, however, doing much to help.INTRODUCTION vii I must conclude these few introductory remarks by impressing on my readers that it is the duty of a cook, according to the celebrated De la Regni^res, to be always able to exemplify the truth of that proverb so characteristic of a nation of cooks, " Uapp^tit vient en mangeant" ; and by mentioning that this volume has been written with the hope of helping gentle- women in their homes. The recipes are culled from several foreign gastronomic works and private MSS., recipes given me by foreign chefs and from other sources. I have not gone into plain so much as fancy cookery, as there are so many good cookery books which treat of simple joints, etc. Having some thousands of cookery recipes foreign and otherwise, well indexed, I shall be pleased to hear from my readers who may desire recipes of dishes not given here. HARRIET DE SALIS. Hampton Lea, Sutton.[1 THE HOUSEWIFE'S EEFEKEE PAET I THE HOUSEHOLD THE KITCHEN " An ounce of example is worth a pound of precept." The kitchen, like any other apartment, may be well or badly furnished, perfectly or imperfectly fitted. But among the multitude of things necessary to make a house comfortable and happy, a well-arranged and well-appointed kitchen is necessary, and it should be as well kept as any other apartment in the house; therefore I will attempt to describe my own idea of a perfectly well-arranged and well-managed kitchen, upon which, no doubt, my readers will be able to make improvements. The floor should be of finished hard wood, without seams or cracks, and the walls papered with a varnished tile paper, which is easily kept clean with a damp cloth or sponge; of course, where it can be afforded, there is nothing so good as glazed tiles, for they are easily washed, and help to make the kitchen sweet and healthy. Where the walls are papered it is a good plan to have a wicker-pattern oil-cloth dado round the kitchen, reaching to the tops of the chairs, for servants have a way of tilting back their seats and leaning against the walls, making greasy marks and holes in them. It is a good plan to have a three-inch piece of wood laid along the floor against the wainscot, for this prevents the chairs and tables from2 THE HOUSEWIFE^S HEFEltES marking the walls. Linoleum should be laid all over the kitchen floor, instead of oil-cloth; it is very much warmer. Where money is no object, tesselated pavement could be used as an impervious floor ; it is preferable to wood, for vermin and insect pests cannot make their dwelling there. Large red tiles for the flooring are likewise good, with linoleum placed over, leaving half-a-yard margin all round. The dresser should be of unpainted wood, and therefore capable of being constantly scrubbed. Where a kitchen-maid is kept, an open dresser always looks best, but where there is only a cook I advocate that the lower part, or pot-board, should not be open, but have sliding doors to keep out dust and dirt from the stew-pans, omelet-pans, etc. Saucepans should be kept in the scullery, inverted on one of the iron stands made for the purpose, which hold saucepans from the largest to the smallest size, the covers laid on the top. Besides the dresser there should be one or two side tables (according to the size of the kitchen), and chairs according to the number of servants. A very convenient thing to have is a plain cupboard along the wall (where there is room for it), about five feet from the ground, with sliding doors to protect the various moulds and patty pans; by the side of the range should be a salt box, and a small shelf on which the pepper, sugar, and flour castors should be placed; there should also be hooks attached to the shelf to hang spoons and skimmers on, for the use of the cook engaged over the range, which saves much time and trouble, especially in a large kitchen, where the table may be some distance from the fire. One of the tables should have a back or shelf, covered with a thin sheet of tin (if tiles cannot be afforded), and on it all saucepans and basins in use should be placed, thus keeping the centre table always clear. In most kitchens there is, or should be, a cupboard, in which the cook keeps her stores, such as sauces, rice, sugar, etc. In the kitchen table, which occupies the centre of the kitcihen, there is always a drawer in which all fancy knives and vegetable cutters, larding needles, corkscrews, etc., should be kept. I read in the JVew York Times a paragraph on Kitchen Tables " which I think is worth quoting ; it says : " Mt a sheet of tin on the table and perforate the edges for tacking; the tin should cover the thickness of the board top, that it may be tacked on the underside of the table.3 THE KITCHEN A table so covered needs no scrubbing, and is impervious to hot kettles." I saw a very convenient apparatus at a friend's house—a lift from the cellars to the kitchen. It was a country house, where, of course, there were under- ground cellars in which all meat and food were kept during the hot weather. It was thus constructed: there was a closet at one side of the kitchen, and an opening was made through the floor, the size of the closet; within the closet were a series of shelves, fitted to upright pieces. The whole hung on pulleys placed in the top; at each side of the closet cords passed from the side pieces up over the pulleys, which were long enough to reach down to the bottom of the cellar when the shelves were in position above the kitchen floor; and at the ends of these cords were attached heavy weights. My friends made it from a description they had read. With regard to the range, which is the most important point in the kitchen, there are now so many very first-rate ones that it is difficult to choose between them ; but for myself, I consider the best are the Eagle and the Thorncliffe. They both combine every necessary requirement, and though they are rather expensive in the first instance, they are the most economical in the end, as they both consume ever3^hing and anything ; but my preference is given to the Eagle : it has many advantages and suits every house, as with it a small or large fire may be kept up as required; the fierce draught of the fire can be stopped and the con- sumption of fuel is very small. An open bright fire can also be obtained, requiring no alteration or regulation of dampers. Before the cooking of the day is commenced, or after it is finished, by a very simple arrangement the range can at once be altered from a close to an open fire. A loop is pulled and the range opens, pushed and it closes, and the fire can be changed from an open to a close one in two seconds. Another great advantage is that the size of the fire can be increased or diminished at pleasure. For instance, if the range is required for roasting in front of the fire (as well as for oven and hot-plate cooking), the grating is covered, until a fire sufficiently large is obtained; but when used for heating the ovens, hot plates, or boilers (and not for roasting in front), the grating is raised so that the fire is brought up close to the hot plate. A very small fire in this position is quite sufficient for cooking on anyTHE HOtiSEWIFE^S BEFEKEE 4 part of the hot plate, roasting or baking in the ovens, or supplying hot water for baths, etc. The adjustment of the bottom grate is very simple, and is instantly raised even whilst the fire is burning. The clearing of the boiler is also a very simple matter; it is only necessary to remove one small loose plate to expose the boiler lid. The flues, also, are very easily kept clean, though it is always most necessary that they should be thoroughly cleaned at least once a week, if not twice; unless this is done the fire will not draw properly, and it will be impossible to get the oven really hot. I think a gas stove is essential to almost every kitchen, however small, even if only a small Fletcher's patent gas twin burner is used, as it is so much more convenient to cook all the dainty little dishes with, especially for the use of gentlewomen, who are, I am delighted to see, beginning to turn their hands to the better class of cookery. Moreover, it is cleaner, and with skill and care far superior to a coal fire, labour and dirt are absent, and the waste and loss in cooking, beyond comparison, less. Few gentle- women would, I think, be without some kind of gas stove in their kitchens if they only knew its great convenience. There is both an Eagle range and a small gas stove in my kitchen, but I prefer to use the latter whenever I am making a dish of the haute cuisine. The instant command, day and night, of a gas fire is a luxury that almost any one can indulge in. Great cleanliness is necessary with gas, however small the stove; the burners must be kept clean inside for the same reason, and also for the sake of sweet flavours in the food. My own preference is decidedly in favour of gas as a cooking medium, as I find it, under proper conditions, more economical than coal; and to many this is a great point. There should be no draught in the kitchen, but plenty of good ventilation, which can be obtained by inserting a bit of wood, the width of the window and about four inches deep, between the lower sash and the window-frame, the opening between the two sashes afibrding sufficient ventilation. At the top and bottom of all doors to cupboards, there should be a narrow sliding panel for a ventilator, kept always open, except when sweeping or making up the fire— this secures a free circulation of air, which keeps the contents of the cupboard free from rust and mould.5 THE KITCHEN All knives, forks, spoons, cutlet-cutters, skewers, etc., should be kept in the kitchen-table drawer. The kitchen utensils should always be kept scrupulously clean and in perfect order, for there must always be a certain un- pleasant smell if pans and other culinary utensils are put away without first washing them. With a servant who does her duty this would be avoided, as she would put boiling water (without soda) into the saucepans, and leave them to soak until she was ready to clean them. All this would minimise labour, as it prevents grease, etc., adhering to the sides of the pans. A chopping-board should always be scrubbed before putting away: it is better to use salt than sand or soap, and it is best to scrub with a hard brush and then rinse the board, first in hot and then in cold water. The oven should be occasionally limewashed ; it keeps it sweet, and the oven can be looked into more clearly. The scullery must now be noticed. This, of course, should lead out of the kitchen and should have a large sink with hot and cold water laid on. Where the sink is flush with the wall—which is so often the case in small houses—a piece of oil-cloth nailed all along at the back prevents the wall getting splashed; though where it can be aflbrded it is best to have it tiled to about two and a half feet in height and the same in width, or some cement might be put on to form a small slope, so that the drips from the taps or any splashings roll off into the sink. There is an appliance called the " Kensington," which I am sure every house- holder will be glad to know of, and which one should insist upon having fixed in the house before one becomes a tenant. It is for the collection and easy removal of grease from sinks, and so contrived that it is impossible for the foul air from the drains to enter the house through these waste-pipes. They are made for outside and inside use. The Langford Fat Trap, another useful contrivance, is a well-glazed and very strong trap, made in two pieces, so that the direction of the inlet and outlet can be varied to suit every possible case. Its object is to prevent grease from passing into the drain until it has become so far decomposed that it falls in clots towards the bottom of the trap, in which state it will be washed through the drains without adhering to them. The scullery table should also have a sloping back to6 THE housewife's REFEREE prevent grease or dirt marking the wall, or should be backed with oil-cloth. There should be a board or galvanised mat to stand in front of the sink, a dish and plate rack on the wall, and over, or close by, the sink a couple of shelves on which to keep pans and basins. One shelf should be kept entirely for the basins. The saucepan rack should also be kept there. Only fish-kettles and gridirons should be kept in the scullery. On the scullery door there should be a roller with a round towel on it, and a small horse or rail on which to hang the kitchen cloths and rubbers, unless there is a regular airer. All clean cloths should be kept in a drawer in the kitchen-dresser. It seems almost superfluous to give a list of the necessary kitchen utensils here, as Store Books and Ironmongers' lists give such full accounts of them. However, I will describe a few of the pans which I use myself and enumerate a few useful patent articles which I consider very valuable adjuncts to the kitchen in every way, and not so well known as they deserve to be. Frying-pans are best made of steel or of fireproof china. There are four kinds of frying-pans:—the flat-bottomed one which is generally used; the omelet pan, the bottom of which is round; the German frying-pan, with several cavities made to hold an egg in each; and the Danish, made with seven small compartments for producing small omelets and pancakes at the same time. The number of frying-pans depends, of course, upon the size of the establish- ment. I always use the seamless steel pans. I find them rust proof, if kept clean, and they do not break like the ordi- nary iron ones. They can be cleaned without any sand or corrosive matter; it is only necessary after using them to place them into hot water and clean with a cloth, then dry, and finally wipe with a cloth that has been dipped into coarse flour, which is quite sufficient to bring back their usual bright- ness. A great advantage of steel pans is that when the inside is worn they can be re-tinned at a very trifling cost. Aluminium saucepans are charming to use ; they are so light to handle and heat so quickly—if anything, too quickly —but they must never be washed with soda or they turn black; they only require rinsing and wiping with a cloth and they look like silver. I have three of them in use and like them immensely.THE KITCHEN There should be several sieves in a kitchen, of all kinds and dimensions, with three or four very small strainers. Also three jelly bags—one for sweet jelly, one for soup, and one for aspic. Mine are made at home of hath flannel. I am a great advocate for the French fireproof china, as so many appetising dishes can be cooked and sent up to table in them : for instance, macaroni-cheese and sole an gratin are never so good as when cooked in one of these, and for souffles, the round, white, fluted dishes are excellent. A marble slab for making pastry is a necessity, and can be obtained very inexpensively from a stonemason, as they often have pieces left, which they are glad to sell cheaply. Every cook should be provided with a set of special knives, wide at the base of the blade and ending in a point; the larger ones for cutting, and the smaller for quick peeling and picking. There is a very useful knife with a notched blade which is very handy, not only for peeling, but for cutting up potatoes, turnips, apples, etc. The French filtering spoons are useful for carrying ofi" the grease from gravy, etc. A palette knife is also necessary for making dishes with chaudfroid sauces, and for icing cakes, etc. In foreign kitchens the cooks always use the cercle a plat (dish hoop), which is used when dishing up, to keep the edges of the dishes free from splashes. The zest knife is another useful article, which one seldom finds in an English kitchen; it has a screw blade by means of which the zest can be removed without a particle of pith. The cuillere degrais- sense is another article always used abroad. All gravies are put in the sauce-tureen through it, and it is made to retain the fat, whilst the pure gravy goes into the tureen. KITCHEN FIEES So many people think that by constantly heaping coals on a kitchen fire, they keep the place warm, and never think of the unnecessary extravagance consequently entailed. If cooks would only make up a good fire, and then insist that all the servants going in and out of the kitchen should shut the doors after them, it would be found that the temperature would be much more even than it would be by keeping a blazing fire, and allowing all the heat to escape through the open doors. The coal dust should always be burnt,8 THE housewife's EEFEKEE mixed with lumps, and if mistresses would insist on this there would not be found so much wasted coal in the cellar. The dust is most useful in backing up fires by damping it and placing it on the back of the fire. Whenever the flames roar in passing through the back flue of the range, it is very certain that coal is being wasted. Poking the fire is a great mistake, and a kitchen fire hardly ever re- quires it; it is a most wasteful habit, not only burning out the poker, but turning the coals into cinders, and no fire lasts so long when it is constantly being stirred. A cook can prevent the accumulation of soot in the chimney by making a brine of a few pennyworths of com- mon salt and pouring it over soft coal, and the under parts of the stove in which it is used will be kept clean. In lighting a kitchen fire, or indeed, any fire, the back of the grate should be swept daily, and once a fortnight a long-handled sweep's brush should be passed up the chimney. Any kind of paper will do, except brown, to light fires with; but all paper should be rolled into balls the size of an orange, then the wood should be put in and a few lumps of coal, and all the cinders which have been sifted from the day before. A good cook studies her range and learns everything respecting its draughts and dampers, and tries to economise the fuel as much as possible. Coal- dust is most necessary, as a little can always be used with the lumps of coal. The best plan for using it is partly to fill some large-sized vessel with it and gradually mix water until it is moistened enough to press into balls, but not enough to prevent its adhering together. Then place these in the cellar till required. THE LARDER " Peace hideth herself under the lid of the well-managed pot." The larder should be the picture of cleanliness, and large enough to hold all the meat and provisions, cooked and uncooked, in the house; it should Ibe well ventilated and airy, but perfectly dry, with a window covered with wire to keep out flies and smuts.9 THE LARDER To have a perfect larder it should be tiled with glazed tiles or slates, so that it can be sluiced down constantly; but, of course, tiled larders are not often to be found. There should be plenty of strong iron hooks in the ceiling, and separate wire safes for vegetables and fruits. The hooks should be placed at sufficient distances apart to prevent the hanging meat or poultry from touch- ing, and everything on the shelves should stand on dishes with wire covers over them to keep the contents free from the depredations of mice and flies, the latter of which are such scourges that often the meat and other condiments get tainted and fly-blown from them. The Crimean plan to catch the flies is about the best I know of. Half fill a tumbler with strong soapsuds, cover the top with a piece of paper well smeared with treacle or honey, and in the centre make a small hole just large enough for the flies to crawl in; the gas from the soapsuds draws them down and the glass soon becomes thick with them. The larder floor is best made of bricks, and should be washed twice a week at least and dusted with sanitas powder; it is also well to have one of the sanitas perforated boxes hung up, as it keeps the atmosphere pure and free from the smells which emanate from raw meat. Besides, if the atmosphere of the larder in which meat is kept is impure, it is well known that severe gastric poisoning is the result. Meat, poultry, game, and various kinds of fish become poisonous by their own decomposition when kept too long, and as an article in the Hospital says : "It does not seem to be generally understood that meat and other articles that are usually stored in pantries and larders give off exhalations, which settle down upon walls, floors, ceilings, and any tables or vessels that may be present, and also, at the same time, charge the larder with concentrated poison !" It is therefore most necessary to keep meat and other things perfectly wholesome, that the floors, walls, and ceilings, as well as tables, shelves, and utensils, should be kept scrupulously clean, and whitewashed with quicklime once a year, and that fresh air should be admitted night and day.THE housewife's EEFEKEE 10 RULES AND HINTS FOR THE KITCHEN " Wilful waste makes woeful want." If a thing is worth doing at all it is worth doing well, and to be " fervent in spirit" denotes the tone that should be taken by the mistress of her home. N'ecessary adjuncts are punctuality, regularity, and exactness. If the mistress is punctual herself, she will be more likely to have exactness and punctuality in the house. How often one notices in visiting one's friends that punctuality is conspicuous by its absence! And where there is no punctuality in a house there is no order, and every one will be an hour behind time. Fixed hours for meals should be rigidly adhered to, and every mistress of a house should enforce cleanliness by surveillance in the kitchen, and insist that cleanliness should be the god of the kitchen, the sink kept free from slops and grease, and no covert places allowed where old rags, bones, etc., can lie hidden. Every morning all the taps and W.C. plugs should be allowed to run for ten minutes, and once or twice a week diluted carbolic acid or a strong solution of Scotch soda, should be poured down all sinks and drains. If the carbolic be used, the mistress should superintend that herself, to avoid any danger, and keep it locked up. This sluicing should be insisted on in every household, as keeping the kitchen sink and drains in a perfectly clean state is necessary for the health of the household. It is a very good plan to test the drains from time to time. This is very easily done, by getting from the chemist a small quantity of very strong oil of peppermint, and having shut up all the doors and windows, and poured the pepper- mint down a drain inside the house, go outside, and if you can smell the peppermint there is reason to believe the drainage is wrong, for where the smell of peppermint can penetrate, so can sewer gas. It requires a few minutes to elapse for the peppermint to come from the house. The dust-bin is another harbour for bad smells. Nothing but ashes should be thrown into it; all other refuse should be burnt in the kitchener every night, when all cooking is finished. Disinfecting powder should be sprinkled in daily. All tubs and pails should be scalded once a week withRULES AND HINTS FOR THE KITCHEN 11 hot soda-water, and if directly after using, water is put into and left in each, they will not warp, nor crack, nor fall to pieces, which they often do when left dry. All sink brushes should be washed out with soapsuds once a week. All food must be kept covered when not in use. The insides of frying-pans should never be scraped, as any preparation fried in them afterwards is liable to catch or burn the pan. If the pan has a black inside it should be rubbed with a hard crust of bread and washed in hot water with sapolio. Copper utensils must be washed in very hot water with a little soda dissolved in it, then scoured with soft soap and fine sand, or with sapolio rubbed on with a soft cloth. If there is green in any part from verdigris, vinegar and salt will remove it. Brass should be scoured with vinegar and salt and rinsed in hot water ; Propert's paste is very good for that purpose, Putz pomade, or Presto polish. Sieves should be scrubbed with a soft brush in hot water, and then thoroughly dried. Jelly bags must be thoroughly scalded and perfectly dried. To clean the china fireproof saucepans, fill them with hot water, put in a teaspoonful of powdered borax, and let it boil. If this does not remove all the stains, scour well with a cloth and sapolio. All zinc is best cleaned with hot, soapy water, then polished with kerosene. If a tin kettle has become blackened from constant use over the fire, it is best to wash it with strong soda-water, then scour it lightly with silver sand, and rub it all over with a paste made with methylated spirit and whiting. When dry, polish with whitening and a leather, or saturate a piece of rag in kerosene oil and dip it into whitening and rub it on. All crusts and odd pieces of bread should be carefully saved and made into puddings for the servants, and also put into the oven and then rolled into crumbs with the rolling pin and put aside in a clean, dry bottle, well corked, when bread crumbs for dressing cutlets, etc., will be always ready. Lemons which have been used should be put to dry on the rack, then grated, and put into bottles for flavouring purposes. Dish washing is most essential in a kitchen, whether it be by scullery-maid, kitchen-maid, or by the cook in small12 THE housewife's EEFBKEE families where only one is kept in the kitchen. Perfect drying is very important. The water should be very hot. The proper way to wash dishes and plates* is to scrape oft* all the food; then carefully wash each piece by itself. Kinse thoroughly with clean cold water and use dry cloths to wipe them with. Crockery should never be washed together, as the pieces so often get chipped and cracked. Pudding, pie and tart dishes in which food has been baked should be soaked carefully before washing, and if very much stained, a little salt added to the water will remove it. A few drops of Scrubb's ammonia in the water, or Hudson's soap, brightens both glass and china, and where the dishes are very greasy a dish mop is useful for these purposes. Meat should never be put directly on ice, as it helps to draw out the juices, but placed on a dish and then set on the ice. Every scrap of meat and bones left from roasts, broils, and bacon rinds should be saved for the stock-pot. Trimmings from ham, tongue, mushrooms peelings, etc., should be saved, as they can be turned into so many uses in flavouring sauces and purees. Bacon fat should be clarified and kept by itself, for it makes capital pastry. Fowl fat, if kept by itself, is very good for delicate frying. Every particle of soup, sauce, and gravy should be saved, as a small quantity of either adds a great deal of flavour to many little dishes. Tea, coftee, and sauces should never stand open or un- corked, as they lose their strength. Vegetables left from the table should not be thrown away, as they would warm up again ; and many a piece of meat that cooks might throw away would make a good hash or soup. The mistresses of small establishments should all notice these things, as servants have a way of causing money to be spent needlessly—for example, they use towels for iron holders and leave cheese and ham to get mouldy— besides having a happy knack of letting plates and dishes * There is a capital little utensil that can be bought at any iron- monger's which effectually scrapes grease off dishes and plates.HULES AND HINTS FOR THE KITCHEN 13 faU, saying: They fell out of my hand, ma'am," or " They came to pieces in my 'ands, ma'am." All the scraps from plates that cannot be utilised should at once be placed on the kitchen fire, unless poultry is kept, when the scrapings of the plates and dishes should be put by for them. Scraps of bacon left on the dishes should be put into the stock-pot, as they add greatly to flavours. Egg shells should go straight into the fire, except when there is much clear soup required, when they will be wanted for clearing. Tea leaves should also be burnt when quite done with, and never put into the dust-bin, though, when first taken out of the teajDots, they may be put aside for the housemaid for cleaning carpets and water bottles. If butter becomes rancid, to each pint of it add one tablespoonful of salt and one of soda and mix well, then add one pint of cold water and set on the fire till it comes to boiling point. Put away to cool and then take off the butter in a cake, wipe dry, and put away for cooking purposes. Stale cake may be made into cabinet and other puddings. Jelly should never be boiled too long or the colour will be spoiled. Pickles may be kept from becoming mouldy by laying a little bag of mustard on the top of the pickle jar. Sharp knives should never be put into grease, as it blunts them. Salt should never be put into milk preparations till the dish is prepared, or it will curdle them. A dish of charcoal placed in the meat larder will keep all provisions sweet and wholesome, almost as well as ice. If anything happens to catch fire, either whilst cooking or otherwise, throw salt upon it at once to prevent any disagreeable smell.* Beat up the whites of eggs with a pinch of salt; it helps to froth them quickly, for salt cools, and cold eggs froth rapidly. The quicker food of all kinds cools the longer it keeps. Apple jelly can be made from apple parings. The * A bag of cedar shavings is a good thing to keep for throwing on the stove when there is a disagreeable odour.THE HOUSEWlFE^S IlEFEKEE 14 parings should be saved and placed in a refrigerator till there is a sufficient quantity, then wash them over with water and boil quickly for an hour. Strain through a jelly bag, add half the quantity of white sugar, and boil quickly for two hours. Flavour with vanilla and pour into heated glasses. Kever cook by guesswork, but weigh out all ingredients ; never slam the oven door when baking, as it makes pastry and puddings fall and become heavy; never use stale fat for frying, and don't use more skewers than can be helped; wipe all cooking utensils after using; never let the water boil up twice for making tea. Prepare everything in good time so that there need be no flurry at the last moment. A knife with a handle different from those in common use should be kept for peeling onions, to prevent any flavour from them being imparted to anything else. To cool a hot dish quickly, place the dish in a vessel full of cold salt water, and it will cool rapidly. Boiling hot liquid may be safely poured into a glass jar or tumbler, by first putting a metal spoon in it; but care must be taken that no draught of cold air strikes the vessel whilst hot. A small box filled with lime and placed on a shelf in a damp closet will absorb dampness, and keep the air in the closet dry and sweet. Never send potatoes to the table in a covered dish. They will re-absorb their own moisture and become sodden. In selecting flour, look to the colour : if it is white with a straw-coloured tint, it is good; if it is white with a bluish shade, or with black specks, do not purchase it. Next, examine its adhesiveness. Wet and knead a little of it between the fingers; if it works soft and sticky, it is poor: squeeze some tightly in the hand; if it retains the shape given by the pressure, it is good. Milk which has turned a little may be rendered fit for use again by stirring in a little soda. When the grate is cracked, take wood ashes and salt in equal proportions, reduce them to a paste with cold water and fill in the cracks when the stove is cool, and it will soon harden. A basin of salt should always be found near the sink, asEULES AND HINTS FOR THE KlTCllEi^ 15 salt removes egg stains and tea stains from china cups and dishes. A small piece of charcoal placed in the pot when boiling greens and cauliflowers, helps to prevent any disagreeable smell. Dust of Lebanon sprinkled on the stove also re- moves unpleasant odours. Tough meat can be made tender by placing it a few minutes in vinegar. To preserve meat.—When ice is not easily procured, meat, game, poultry, and fish can be kept perfectly fresh for several days, by being hung in a draught, and kept free from damp. As soon as there is the slightest faintness in the smell of meat, scald it in boiling water for ten minutes, then wipe and sponge it, tie it up in a meat- cloth, and hang it up again. With poultry and game, take out the entrails and fill up the space with crushed soft paper covered with frigiline; tie each bird in a clean cloth, and put them into an earthenware pan well covered down. This is for plucked birds. When in their feathers let them hang by their heads in a draught. Small birds may be kept fresh by packing in boxes filled with millet seed. To keep frozen meat.—When the thawing commences, the juices of meat dribble away, leaving the solid portion in a limp condition; but these fluids may be preserved in it by hanging the knuckle end downwards as it thaws. To tell the age of eggs.—Dissolve two ounces of salt in a pint of water. If a new-laid egg is placed in the liquid thus obtained, it will descend to the bottom and stay there. One laid on the previous day will float a short distance from the bottom. An egg three days old will swim half-way down the vessel. And an older one still will float on the top, and will project more and more above the surface as its age increases. To preserve lemons.—Put a layer of fine dry sand, an inch in depth, at the bottom of an earthenware jar. Place a row of lemons upon this, stalk downwards, and be careful that they do not touch one another; cover them with another layer of sand fully three inches in depth, lay on it16 THE HOtJSEWIFE^S REFEREE more lemons, and repeat till the jar is full. Store in a cool dry place, and they will keep preserved for months. To preserve lemon juice.—Squeeze the lemons, strain the juice, and put it into a clean lined saucepan. Bring the liquid to the boiling point, and put into bottles quite dry inside, but made hot by placing them into hot water, or into the oven. Cork tightly with new corks, then dip the ends of the bottles in melted resin to exclude all air, and keep in a dark, dry place. The liquid should reach up to the corks. To destroy flies.—Use Christy's Myocum or fly glue, by covering lengths of string with it, and hanging it about the kitchen and larder, and especially on the gasalier. A piece of flannel saturated with turpentine and put on a plate will keep flies away. To destroy cockroaches.—Cut a cucumber into strips, and put them in places where ants and cockroaches revel, and it will spoil their fun by driving them away. To poison mice.—This is a very simple way. Take a deal cartridge box, such as gunmakers send out with one hundred cartridges, remove the lid, turn the box bottom upwards, and bore two or three little holes in it. Put a little bread or corn under the box for a few nights; the mice will go down through the holes and eat it, and then they become used to being fed. Spread some thin bread and butter with Battle's vermin killer. The poisoned mice will be unable to return through the holes, and will be found dead underneath ; then burn the bodies at once. But be careful the cat or other animal does not lick those boxes. To choose meat.—In buying meat, choose that which is reddish, neither too dark nor too pale; it should have a marble-like appearance, produced by layers of fat interposed between the fleshy fibres, possessed only by good meat. Good meat should be elastic to the touch, and should not be clammy or moist; a very pale colour is a sign the animal was poor in blood, and therefore the meat would be want- ing in nutritive qualities. The cause of the bloodlessness may have been some serious disease. A deep reddish -purple colour shows the animal has not been killed, but that it died a natural death. Ox beef is best. The fat of raw beef should be light yellow, like butter; but in mutton,EULES AND HINTS FOPv THE KITCHEN 17 white. In lamb and veal the lean should be pale, evenly- tinted and free from mottling; while the fat in both should be very white and nearly translucent. In pork, a thin rind is a great merit. Salt meat is more difficult to select than fresh meat, and one must be guided by the extreme hardness and toughness, and the shrivelling of the meat, as sometimes the meat has been bad when salted, and then it looks paler than it ought to be, and is often slightly greenish in colour, with a peculiar odour. In buying poultry, choose a male. You can tell a bird's age by the size of its feet and leg joints. If the legs appear covered with thick scales, the bird is of the grandfather order. The feet should be flexible and the eyes brilliant. When a bird is plucked the flesh should be very elastic. Thin necks and violet thighs in a fowl are signs of age and toughness. The same violet tinge appears in turkeys. Geese and ducks' ages can be told by their beaks, as, when young, they can be easily broken. For hares and rabbits, look at the claws and ears; if the claws are sharp and the ear tears easily, the animal is young. In purchasing fish, freshness is the necessary desideratum. The chief points to notice are fulness of the eye, pinkness of the gills, and brightness of the skin. In plaice and flounders, the spots on the skin are bright orange when the fish is fresh, but are dull if stale. Fish, if in good condition, will keep firm under pressure of the finger, and the smell, though fishy, is not unpleasant; but this cannot be depended on, as the use of ice may cause deception on that point. In purchasing cod, the freshness may be known by the bluish tinge of the flesh, and the slightly iridescent hue of the part cut. If the flesh be yellow, do not buy it. Flat fish should be selected by their thickness. Plaice is very often sold to the uninitiated for brill or turbot; but the former may be known by the red spots on the back, whilst the others have none. Lobsters and crabs should be chosen by their weight in proportion to their size, and the width of their tails. An old lobster, well crusted with lime, will be heavy, but there will not be much meat in it. 2THE housewife's EEFEREE 18 USEFUL ADJUNCTS TO THE KITCHEN A Patent Carbon Safe is a great desideratum in every household; but still more so where there is difficulty in procuring ice, as this safe requires neither ice, prepara- tion, nor attention. Carbon, which is a disinfectant and deodoriser, is used in these safes, so that all air is effec- tually filtered and rendered innocuous before reaching the contents; thus preserving them for days, even in the hottest weather, in their natural state, and free from all signs of taint or decay. Meat and even chops will keep good a foitnight. Everything is kept sweet in these safes; and they are especially necessary to those who live in India or the tropics. The Safe Boiling Stove Mat is a sine qua non in kitchens. Milk, soup, jellies, and porridge will not boil over or burn when this is used. It is very compact and has an outside rim of metal with a little ring attached to it to hang it up when not in use. It is quite flat, and where the saucepan touches it is made of asbestos, which arrests the direct heat of the flame, thus rendering the boiling slow but sure. An Asparagus Saucepan which I can thoroughly recom- mend is one much deeper than usual, and deep enough to hold any bundle of asparagus in an upright position. The interior is fitted with a movable wire holder, which is divided into four compartments so as to keep the stalks from falling out. The water should reach half-way up the bundle and be rapidly kept boiling. By this means the tops are steamed to a nicety, and the branches retain their original shape. The Patent Domestic Draining Table is one of the latest patents, and is a most convenient appliance. It is a table and rack combined, and consists of a grooved table top supported on four legs with an upright rack at the back, and four little brackets at the sides all made in wood. The table top slopes towards the front, and all the water runs down the grooves into a channel in the front edge, and thence runs out into a basin placed to catch the drips. The19 USEFUL ADJUNCTS TO THE KITCHEN rack will hold eighteen plates or saucers, each fitting into a groove in a bar, running lengthwise of the table, so they rest securely; the brackets hold decanters. It takes up no IN USE. FOLDED. room, for the table is made to fold up into such a compass as will allow it to hang on a hook in the wall. The legs close up as the rack folds down. The brackets turn under. A complete set of tea things for six persons can be drained on this small table. Decanters, and every kind of wine glass may be safely drained on it, and ladies can wash their old bric-a-brac in safety and comfort. The price is five shillings, and it should be in every house. The Sectional Saucepan is a capital culinary f appliance, for how often cooks grumble at one saucepan monopolising the whole fire for boiling, etc. ! To solve this difiiculty a twin saucepan has been invented which will be found a great convenience. The Sectional Saucepan is a saucepan split in two, each distinct from the other, and cooking a separate vegetable, etc., but both fitting together tightly, and occupying no more space on the fire than the old round pan. The pans can be used separately, and for use over open fires ; they have this decided advantage—they can be dropped right down on the surface of the coals, and the contents brought to boil much quicker than in the fidl-sized pans which cannot usually be dropped below the bars. The two fit into one cooking hole on the modern kitchener, and are made with wells for such use, when desired, for greater steadiness. They are also used together over a single round burner on gas stoves, a decided economy for those who use20 THE housewife's KEFEREB gas cookers. Two wire frying baskets are necessary, and stewpans that will fit them. Daw's-Tatent Drying Rack is a most usetul contrivance for drying crockery. It is designed with the intention of superseding the wiping-cloth, and apart from the considera- tion of the expense of clean cloths, it is welcome as alto- gether abolishing any possibility of the use of dirty rags. It is made to hold china and glass, from the largest dish in the dinner service, to the smallest liqueur glass. It is a rack five feet high, occupying a square foot of ground, but is capable of drying one hundred pieces. The drainer is so ar- ranged that one piece cannot drip on another. I like this system of draining instead of wiping. If plenty of clean water is handy, the wiping-cloth, when clean, is useless, and when dirty, as is often the case, simply undoes the work. In the usual old drying racks, the dishes and plates are sluiced well in cold water in the sinks, and put into the racks pell-mell, but this invention not only allows each piece its own niche, but allows the cups and glasses to be treated in the same way. It effects a great saving of time and obviates the risk of breakages. It is very cheap, which is also a great recommendation. Dickson's Reversible Toaster and Griller is also a very advantageous article, as it will hold food of any thickness, for the holder can be placed at any distance from the fire for slow or quick cooking; and when fixed before the fire the surface can be changed without removing the toaster. The dripping is caught in the pan, as it moves backwards and forwards with the holder, and is always under it. It is made in separate parts and can be readily cleaned. The Desideratum Strainer is a little article which cooks will find very useful for draining vegetables, especially cabbages, spinach, French beans, etc., which so often are sent to table imperfectly drained. This strainer cannot be too highly commended to housekeepers, who will certainly admire the compact and ornamental shape into which it presses cabbage or spinach for the table. Most iron- mongers sell it. The Safety Oyster Holdfast is an appliance which quite predudes the possibility of accident to the person using it.21 USEFUL ADJUNCTS TO THE KITCHEN The oyster is placed in the bowl of the hoklfast, and the lid closed so as partly to cover it. Being gripped between the teeth arranged in the lid and the bowl, it can be safely opened with any ordinary oyster knife. There is a guard on the lid which saves the hand from a cut should the knife slip, and there is also a hole in the middle of the bowl which allows the escape of the liquor. Taylor's " Perfect" Egg Poacher is an admirable little arrangement. It holds four eggs and has a telescopic movable centre. It is quite worth buying, is mry inexpen- sive, and can be obtained at any ironmonger's. The Automatic Egg Cooker is also worthy of attention ; neither fire nor spirit is required. It is merely a double vessel; boiling water is poured into the upper vessel, and as soon as it is run through into the lower the eggs are cooked; it is made in tin, Britannia metal, and electro-plate. A Slicing Machine is a most useful addition to a kitchen, one great advantage being that an ordinary table knife can be used as a cutter. Any thickness of slice may be cut with it by a regulating, adjusting screw. Cucumbers, beetroots, onions, apples, may be speedily cut with it. I have also in use a potato-chip machine, which is a great boon, as so few cooks can cut potato chips well. Hancock's Patent Potato Washer and Peeler is a capital invention for large families, where large quantities of potatoes have to be washed and peeled daily. The machines are fitted with a revolving brush, underneath which is a trap door. The revolving brush peels the potatoes, and they fall through into a tub below. The machines are fitted with an arrangement by which a stream of water runs through during the operation, and they are made in sizes; the smallest will wash and peel from one to four pounds at one operation in two minutes. The Yankee Idea is a capital stove as an extra to have in a kitchen; it is constructed on scientific principles, giving concentrated heat with steam pressure, making an im- portant factor in household economy. A dinner of fish or soup, meat, two vegetables, and a pudding can be cooked22 THE housewife's KEFEREE with it. The food cannot burn or boil over ; it requires no watching or stirring, occupies only one space on range or gas stove. The whole dinner may be cooked at once, without in the slightest degree mingling the flavours. Each com- partment is fitted with a steam check-valve, by closing which, any portion of the dinner is prevented from being overcooked, but is kept hot by steam in the pipe and compartment above and below it. There is a whistle which gives warning when water in the boiler is getting low. Another advantage is its most wonderful cheapness. The Eapid Patent Cookery Steamer is a most useful little thing, and is more than worth its price of one shilling. It is a circular piece of metal rising to a cone, and at the top of the cone is a little ball. It can be placed into any saucepan: steam is generated first under the cone, and as the water becomes heated to a temperature of about 150°, it is forced from under the cone, leaving about an inch of water. This steamer boils much more rapidly than that outside the cone, and quickly generates steam, which, confined to the cone, lifts the ball at the top, and a large continuous volume of super-heated steam issues from under the ball, which is hotter and drier than in any other cookery steamers. It saves fuel, and cooks with dry instead of moist heat. Most ironmongers keep them. Day's Air-tight Cover.—A capital little invention under the above name will be a most useful item in the household. It consists of a metal ring, into which is fixed a thin sheet of rubber; by placing this over the top of the jar to be covered, and depressing the centre of the rubber, it adheres to the rim of the vessel and hermetically seals it. If eggsUSEFUL ADJUNCTS TO THE KITCHEN 23 are broken into a tumbler and this cover be placed over it, a few sharp shakes up and down will beat them perfectly. These covers are also useful to place over a cup of tea, and keep it warm, and have the merit of allowing it to be carried about without spilling. Marston's Fish-kettle Strainer is a great improvement on the usual one. It consists of a corrugated plate made to fit any ordinary fish-kettle; its transverse grooves, which run to the edge on either side, permit the water to drain ofi" perfectly, and the fish can thus be made to slide off on to a dish by merely tilting the strainer. The Lucky Kettle is one of the best kettles ever manu- factured, and on its merits should take the place of the usual domestic kettle. The opening for filling it is at the rear of the handle, which causes it to be very easily filled, and prevents all chance of scalding the hand by issuing vapour; the handle is of a tripod shape, which renders it absolutely steady whilst the water is being poured out. The Plate and Dish-Washing Machine is a great help in very large households, for it washes and rinses plates and dishes quickly, without fear of breakages and chipping. These machines, by removing the brush, can be used as ordinary washing sinks, which is another item in their favour, and they can also be fitted into any sinks or troughs without alteration; but they are only advisable in large families, to save the labour of servants. The Electric Whisk ought to find a place in every well- regulated kitchen, as it is a first-rate article for making mayonnaise and other thick sauces as well as for whisking purposes generally. It is composed of corrugated blades turned alternately inwards and outwards, thus enabling them to rub and incorporate the ingredients to be mixed in a superior manner to those in general use. The Signal Egg Saucepan is a novel vessel for cooking eggs, of which three or six can be cooked at a time; the eggs are placed in the holders and barely covered with water, which is so legulated as to generate sufficient steam to sound the whistle in the cover at the exact time the eggs are done. This is most effective.24 THE housewife's REFEREE Clarke's Grilling Pan for chops and steaks is cleaner than a gridiron, and has a cut in it which prevents the grease running over the fireplace. A clear fire is not essential, as anything cooked in this pan cannot get smoked; it has a raised bottom so that the meat does not fry in its fat, contracting thereby a disagreeable flavour; in fact, the meat cooked in this grilling pan preserves its proper flavour, just as though it were cooked on a clear fire. Even the lean part of bacon becomes crisp. The Octopus, a galvanic and hygienic anti-incrustator, is a necessity in every house; it prevents kitchen-boilers ex- ploding, purifies and softens the water, saves from twenty to eighty per cent, in fuel, and prevents deposit of fur in boilers and pipes connected; smaller ones are useful to keep in a kitchen kettle. The New Milk-Boiler is a very useful appendage to the kitchen; with it, boiling over is quite impossible. It con- sists of a sort of chimney or cylinder, at the base of which is a collar shaped like a parapet, which has four holes in it. A second cylinder slides over the vertical one, and is provided with a lid to facilitate cleaning the apparatus. The appliance is placed with its cone-shaped base on the bottom of the saucepan, and so provides the boiling milk with another place in which to travel than outside the pan into the fire. The cylinder is telescopic and can be made shorter at will. The Gourmet Boiler should be a sine qua non in every house. It consists simply of a glazed stoneware vessel containing the food required to be cooked, which stands inside an ordinary saucepan half-filled with slightly salted water. It requires no watching nor stirring, and does away with the possibility of burning by maintaining a uniform simmering, however much the water in which it stands may boil. I have all my soups and hashes made in one. They are made in every size, and the small ones are so useful for sauces. Perrault's Machine Americaine is a capital utensil for making real strong consommes. The meat is cut up and put into the china vessel with vegetables and seasoning.USEFUL ADJUNCTS TO THE KITCHEN 25 The water must boil up to the screw, indicated in the apparatus ; and it takes five hours to make the best and strongest consommes. It is made in various size?, holding from one pound of meat upwards. The Clueen's Boiler.—This is a most delightful pudding- boiler, consisting of the usual white earthenware basin, to the top of which fits a tin cover, which fastens on to it tightly by two spring wire hoops, thus preventing the use of a pudding-cloth, and through which water cannot possibly enter; it has a handle by which it is lifted in and out of the saucepan. These basins are made in different sizes. The directions given by the Atmospheric China Co., in New Bond Street, where they can be procured (though all iron- mongers and stores keep them), are to fill the basins in the usual mode, and to place a sheet of greased paper over the top to avoid sticking. If the pudding has to be kept in the basin, which is often the fate of plum-puddings, a well- fitting piece of butter-muslin should be twice folded over each, so that the contents may not come in contact with the tin. The Perfect Strainer.—This strainer, brought out by Perry & Co., of Wolverhampton, is made of perforated porcelain encased in tin, and is a great improvement on the metal ones. It is cleanly in use and not subject to corro- sion like an all-metal strainer; it is made in two grades with fine and coarse perforations, and will outwear two or three of the old kind. The Shield Chimney Cowl and Ventilator is the best one for smoking chimneys; it is one of the most effective and economical in the market, is absolutely noiseless, and there is no obstruction to the sweep's brush. The steel spindle works in oil, and is entirely protected from soot and dirt. They are made in zinc and galvanised iron, fireproof. The hot cover lift called *'The Cook's Friend," is a simple little invention to prevent the cook burning her fingers in taking hold of a hot saucepan ; it is merely a kind of fork with a hooked end of bent wire, which is placed under the strap handle of a saucepan cover, drawn tight, and then the lid can be lifted without trouble. When a cover is fitted with „ a knob as with kettles, the lifter is reversed,26 THE housewife's KEFEKEE the Y-shaped part of the lift being placed under the knob. They are made of galvanised wire fitted with a strong wooden handle and can be hung up close to the stoves. The Enterprise Meat-chopper is one well adapted for family use. It is very simple, and chops half-a-pound of meat, etc., per minute with ease. Its great merit is that it chops, and does not grind nor tear the meat, and it is im- possible for any sinews, fibres, or gristle to pass through without being chopped fine and even, the meat coming out in a continuous stream. It is very easily cleaned, as it can be taken to pieces without any trouble. The knives have cutting edges, and can be sharpened should they get blunt. The Self-closing Bread-bin is particularly useful for large families. It is formed of two cylinders of triple thickness of tin plate; the inner cylinder revolves upon centres fixed upon it and the inside of the outer cylinder; it is so weighted as to shut automatically. This bread- bin keeps bread, cakes, etc., quite fresh, and it is not apparent that the bread is a day old. There is sufficient air space to allow the escape of superfluous moisture without allowing the bread to get stale; and there is no fear of breaking it, or having the lid left off as in the earthenware bread-pan, which servants so often do. The Cinder Basket and Coal Saver is another most useful thing for the kitchen; it is a wire basket made to go under the grate, where it will catch the cinders falling from the fire. A slight shake causes the dust and ashes to pass through and the cinders remain for consumption. It does the work itself, and cannot get out of order; it materially lessens the coal bill, and keeps the hearth clean and tidy. It is made in several sizes, and can be procured at most ironmongers. Note.—There are a great many labour-savers and novelties I have not space to mention here, such as the automatic baster, the cherry and plum stoner, etc.; but at any time I shall be glad to hear from my readers who require useful novelties. Measures for Cooks Ten usual-sized eggs weigh one pound.27 THE STORE-ROOM Butter the size of an egg weighs one ounce. One quart of well-heaped flour weighs one pound. Two well-heaped tea-cups of coffee weigh one pound. Two well-heaped tea-cups of granulated sugar weigh one pound. Two well-heaped tea-cups of butter weigh one pound. Two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar or flour weigh one ounce. Four teaspoonfuls equal one tablespoonful. One heaped-up tablespoonful of coffee or sugar equals one ounce. A medicine-sized teaspoon holds a drachm. Four tablespoonfuls make half a gill. One tumbler makes half a pint. One wine-glass makes half a gill. One tea-cup holds one gill. One claret-glass holds two ounces. One tablespoonful is equal to half an ounce. Sixty drops make one teaspoonful. Four teaspoonfuls make a tablespoonful. Four tablespoonfuls make one wineglassful or two ounces. Sixteen tablespoonfuls make half a pint. Eight tablespoonfuls make one gill. One pint of loaf sugar weighs one pound. One tablespoonful of butter weighs one ounce. Two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar or flour weigh one ounce. THE STORE-ROOM This is a most important department in a household, and should be a general warehouse of everything required, especially to those who live in the country, and oft- times some miles from a village. A store-room should be very dry and well ventilated, with a fairish amount of light. A most necessary thing is to look to all the cracks in a room and stop them up with plaster-of-Paris, to check the inroads of mice and insect pests. There cannot be too many shelves fixed round the walls. A table ought to28 THE housewife's KEFEBEE find a place in it, so that a pair of scales should stand on it, to weigh out the comestibles. A. brush and pan should find a corner, so that all crumbs and scraps may be brushed up and removed. The shelves are best graduated, so that the larger things may be placed on the lower ones, and the smaller on the higher. Every jar should be carefully labelled, so that there need be no loss of time in hunting for what is wanted. It is a good plan to have all kitchen requisites in divisions by themselves, and the things which are required for housework apart in others. Soap should be bought in large quantities, as soap that has been some time in the house hardens and does not waste like fresh soap. It should be cut in square pieces, and stacked on a high shelf, with a space of an inch between the pieces. Spices, such as cloves, peppers, allspice, cinnamon, mace, and seasoning herbs, are best kept in well-corked bottles. Candles, macaroni, barley, rice, tapioca, sugar, etc., are best kept in tin canisters, or even large tin biscuit-boxes where economy is strictly necessary. Amongst the articles there should be a store of tea, coffee, Cadbury's cocoa, flour, cornflour, rizine, oatmeal, macaroni, barley, split peas, meat extracts, sauces, essences, vinegars, jams, marmalade, pickles, chutney, mustard, salt, capers, salad oil, baking and egg powders, currants, raisins, candles, beeswax, furniture polish, lamp wicks, emery paper, blacking, night lights, matches and vestas, house-flannel, hearth-stones, and blacklead; also bottles containing the dregs of port wine and sherry, which are most useful in cooking. The bacon should hang on hooks in the ceiling. It is well also to have a pair of scissors hanging on one of the shelves ; string, kitchen, and lining papers, dessert papers, souffle cases, cutlet and ham frills should be kept in a drawer. Crueteen as a kitchen seasoning stands unrivalled among sauces, as it is the perfection of condiments and contains no herbs. It dispenses with the use of spice in small home-made dishes, which are often spoilt by the use of too much spice. It is a very necessary adjunct to the kitchen, as it is the most economical and convenient formTHE DAIRY 29 of seasoning, and is a complete cruet of itself; it should also be found on the shelves of all store-rooms. Tabasco Sauce or Liquid Pepper is a preparation manu- factured in the United States and ought to become very popular, as it is an article that should be in every house- hold. It is the produce of a plant whose red fruit, when ripe, is put up into tiny bottles; and a little goes a long way, a few drops being sufficient to fortify a tureen full of soup; a mere suspicion will enhance the flavour of dishes made with cheese, whilst its action as a digestive stimulant is decidedly wholesome. Ghoorka, Tuscany, Worcester and Yorkshire Kelish should also be among the sauces. An Emergency Cupboard.—In every household there should be a cupboard assigned in the store-room to medicine, etc., for emergencies, and I will give a list of what I think should be kept in readiness in case of accidents, sudden ill- ness, etc., whilst waiting for medical aid. A small tin can of flour and mustard mixed in equal parts to make into a paste for a mustard plaster, a tin of mustard leaves, a box of old linen and cotton rags, pieces of flannel, court plaster, camphorated oil, vaseline, glycerine, ammonia, olive oil, diachylon plaster, hazeline, sal volatile, castor oil, linseed meal, carron oil, three thermometers, Condy's fluid, and Calvert's carbolic fluid, gutta percha tissue, an enema, an India-rubber hot-water bottle, Epsom salts, Eno's fruit salt, liquorice powder, bandages of all sorts, a spatula, rhu- barb, quinine, chlorodyne, Elliman's embrocation, homocea, syringes, a feeding cup, medicine glasses with measure- ments, a bed pan, medicated cotton wool, and a fumigator. THE DAIRY " ' Where are you going to, my pretty maid ? ' I'm going a-milking, sir,' she said." A BOOK on household matters will be hardly considered complete without a few words respecting the dairy. There- fore, I write a chapter on the subject which may, I hope, be of use to my readers. A dairy should be a model of cleanliness, purity, and neatness. The situation, if possible,30 THE housewife's EEFEEEE should be away from stable, cowsheds or refuse heaps, as milk rapidly absorbs all gases and bad odours. Cool- ness and ventilation are two other necessary aids for successful dairy operations ; the walls, if possible, should be of white tiles, as they are easily washed down and keep the dairy cool and free from vermin. The flooring should be of red tiles or small fluted flooring tiles, the windows should have fine gauze stretched over them to exclude all flies, etc. The sink should be lined with glazed tiles, and shelves of slate should surround the walls. In many dairies the shelves are made portable, or they have portable stands, so that they can be changed about, to allow the floor to be com- pletely cleaned. To these portable stands or shelves, re- volving discs can be attached ; the pans can then be turned round and the cream skimmed without disturbing the pans. The table is best made with a marble top. All dairy utensils must be constantly scrubbed and scalded, and should be of the best materials. Bowls, spatulas, and the butter prints should never be dried in the sun or by a fire, as it causes them to crack. The door should have a good lock and key, and have a sliding panel in it so that when necessary a thorough draught may be carried through it. Scrupulous cleanliness should reign everywhere, as the slightest carelessness on this essential point might spoil a whole pan of milk, and even taint the whole contents of the dairy. The churn must be constantly scalded, and the lid handle and dasher in separate parts; when done with, and before using, the churn must always be scalded, by pouring water over the inside till every part is wet. Then the cover must be put on and the handle turned briskly in order to thoroughly saturate the wood; afterwards pour out the boiling water and fill the churn with clean cold water, turn- ing the handle round again briskly till the churn is quite cold. The cover must then be put on again so that no dust may get into it. The socket of the churn handle requires especial care, as the butter from the last churning is very apt to lodge there. It is well to have a small glass churn (in addition to the usual one), in which from half a pound to three pounds of butter may be churned in a few minutes, as it is mostTHE DAIRY 31 useful where fresh butter is required daily. The milk bowls should be of brown ware lined with yellow glaze, and the cream crocks should be of the same ware. Zinc pails are now generally used; the old-fashioned wooden ones are hardly ever seen except in primitive villages which have not marched up to date ; but the best are white wood with steel hoops and lined with white china-ware. Wooden bowls should be kept in plenty. Butter boards for shaping the butter should be a foot long, half an inch thick, and eleven inches wide; besides these there should be a long board ^bout five feet long, on which to lay the butter when it is made up. Of course, I am only now speaking of what is requisite for quite a small dairy. Other necessaries are wooden spatulas, box prints for the pats (often there is one small print with the family crest on for the dining-room use). There are very pretty designs to be had in butter prints; a swan is a very favourite one, and so is a stem of wheat. The scrubbing brushes should be kept separately, one for the use of the churn, one for the shelves and one for the brick floor. A broom to sweep ceiling and walls, house-flannel, and scouring cloths of course; a mop is also a necessity to mop the floor with, two very large wooden spoons, a cream-pot, a hair sieve^ strainers of hair and of cloth, skimmers to skim the cream off the milk—these are best made of enamel ware—and one or two large washing tubs in which every dairy requisite should be thoroughly washed, as everything that has been used should be cleaned at once and every utensil well scrubbed with sand, soda, and boiling water; the pails should be washed out after each time of using and set to dry every time. They must be rinsed out with cold water, except in winter, when tepid water should be used. The cows' teats should be bathed to cleanse them from all dirt or gritty substances. A very excellent article I once read on the subject of the dairy, in mentioning the sus- ceptibility of milk and butter, said that they will take any disagreeable flavour or strong odour, even at some distance off*, and that no cigar or pipe should be allowed inside a dairy, nor an oil lamp. The straining cloths must be washed in hot and then cold water, and always dried out of doors. Indeed, unless the strictest cleanliness is enforced, the results of the32 THE housewife's REFEKEE dairy proceeds will be spoilt. The cream and butter will turn sour; even if a drop of milk is spilt it should be wiped up at the very moment. Milk should always be strained through both a wire and cloth strainer as soon as it is brought into the house or dairy. Milk-pans and pails should be thoroughly washed and scalded before using. The cream separators are now mostly used, where a quantity of butter has to be made, as it makes 20 per cent, more, and is more economical in every way. All firing for heating skim milk for calves is saved, as the separated milk is warm and sweet. Since it is separated the moment it comes from the cow, filling, skimming, emptying and clean- ing pans are dispensed with. The Victoria hand-power cream-separator is one of the best, it is so simple to use and keep clean, and is made in several sizes. The machine should always be warmed before using, so as not to chill the milk. The handle should be turned very slowly, and the directions with it strictly attended to. In large dairies there should be always refrigerators to cool the milk. When the milk has a turnip flavour, to get rid of it, put the milk, immediately after milking, in a water bath at from 135° to 140°, which will completely destroy the turnip flavour, and which will also cause the cream to rise better if set in shallow pans, and thus increase the amount of butter. The way to give the water bath is to set the pail into a larger pail containing water, allowing the watei* to circu- late under the vessel containing the milk by raising it on two thin bars of iron. The milk will then be heated by hot water and cannot be scorched. To make butter the cream must never be left to stand too long, and a dairy thermometer should be kept, for it is most necessary that the cream be brought to the right temperature before it is put in the churn. If the cream is too cold, when churning time comes add a little warm water, if too warm, add cold water. When the butter is about the size of wheat grains, stop churning and draw ofl* the butter-milk and pour into the churn some clear, cold water. Turn the churn slowly several times to free the granules of butter from the butter-milk. Be careful not to overdo this, and gather the butter»HE DAIRY 33 together in lumps, then squeeze the butter in a cloth and return it to the churn. Put in more cold water and churn for a few minutes to wash the butter, then lift the butter with the " hands " on to a wooden bowl to be salted. To salt the butter, take some table salt—see there are no lumps in it—rinse the hands well and spread out the butter. Sprinkle a little salt over the butter and work it well in (about one ounce of salt to a pound of butter). This must be continued till the butter is salted according to taste. If the butter is to be made into rolls or prints, it should be allowed to get cold enough to stay in shape when re- worked ; but it should be remembered that butter is injured in quality every time it is reworked. The grain becomes broken and soft, when it is apt to adhere to the beaters of the churn owing to being churned at too high a temperature. Unless the weather is exceedingly cold, cream should never be churned at a higher temperature than 60° Fahr., and at this temperature butter should be brought in the course of an hour or an hour and a quarter. When butter is very white it is due to the over-heated cream. To make butter pats, pour boiling water over the grooved side of the wooden hands; sprinkle with coarse salt and rub together, so that the ridges clean the grooves; rinse and place in water for five minutes. Cut off a piece of butter firm into flat cakes and balls; or beat out to a thin, flat piece, and then curl up. By scooping out butter with large and small spoons, roses may be represented; baskets or nests may be made by rolling out the butter in three long thin rolls and plaiting them together, then forming them into a round, fill- ing them with little egg-shaped balls of butter, and stretching a long thin roll over for a handle. To represent a nest, press the butter through a dairy strainer and it will come out in feathery portions; remove them very carefully, lay them round the edge of the basket, and fill in with butter eggs, but no handle. Chemical preservatives are much used for keeping the butter sweet; but borax or frigiline are the only kinds I can recommend. Abroad, or even in one or two of the English counties, heat is the only preservative used. The milk is put into air-tight bottles, and warmed to a certain point under 212° Fahr., then re-heated to boiling point, 3THE housewife's KEFEHEE 34 and kept boiling for ten minutes, cooled off, and not opened till required for use. To clarify butter, place it in an enamelled pan, and stand it in another pan containing boiling water. When the butter has become perfectly liquefied, remove the scum from the top. Then leave the butter to get perfectly cold and firm, when it can be taken out and the butter-milk, water, etc., will be found at the bottom of the pan, and any foreign matter may be scraped oft. To prepare Butter for Storing.—Wash the butter till the water leaves it clear and free from milk, mix one pound of loaf sugar, two pounds of fine table salt, and one pound of powdered saltpetre, and work into the butter. All jars should be well scalded, dry and cold; and when the butter is firm, pot it. The proper quantities are one ounce of the powdered mixture to one pound of butter. EULES AND HINTS FOE THE DAIEY A DAIRY in every part of it, ceiling included, should be well swept, and free from cobwebs and well scrubbed. In summer the floor should be watered three times a day with pure cold water, and during winter the tempera- ture should not go below 50° Fahr., nor in summer rise to much above 55° or 60°. Where there is a dairy maid, daily churning should be the rule, as fresh-churned butter is a luxury that can then be indulged in; but where the cook undertakes the dairy this would be impossible. Great attention must be paid to the cream pots; as each one becomes empty it should be scalded; the cream must always be changed, at least, twice a week in summer, into a fresh scalded and cooled pot, and once a week in winter. The hair sieve should be cleaned with a small wash brush to brush out any of the curd that might remain sticking to it. The skimming dish should be well scalded to remove any cream that may adhere to it. Butter keeps better on a cool dry dish than in water. Where butter is too salt it should be washed in clean35 THE DAIRY cold water, renewing the water several times after kneading the butter well in it with the hand. Never let milk stand more than twenty-four hours before skimming. Three or four days' cream should be kept in a cream crock, in some cool place before churning; but every time fresh cream is added the whole should be well stirred. Thick cream from pan-setting must be diluted with skim milk before churning, otherwise it will not churn into gran- ular form, but will come into a large compact mass, which cannot be freed from butter-milk without spoiling the grain and flavour by overworking. When salting press the salt in with a ladle; but do not give the ladle a wiping motion as it injures the grain. To sweeten rancid butter, break it up into small pieces, put it into a basin containing new milk, leave it for an hour, then pour off the milk and wash it in salted water. If not sweet, work in a saltspoonful of borax to half a pound of butter ; then place and leave it for a couple of hours in the milk bath. On Churns The New Era Disc Churn is a very rapid churn. At present it is not much known, but will, I think, be very popular in time. It consists of an oval box with a circular bottom; in- side is a plain disc of wood, which is made to revolve at great speed by a multiplying gear. Over the disc is placed a hood. Cream being of a sticky nature adheres to the disc, which, being revolved at great speed, dashes the cream into the hood and against the sides of the churn. This aerates the cream, and when the churn is opened at the top all bad gases escape at once, instead of being re-churned into the butter. When the cream gets quite thick and the butter globules are almost ready to break, a little water is added and a few turns of the handle are given. The buttermilk is turned off and the churn is then filled with cold water half-way between the top of the disc and the axle. About two minutes' fast churning both ways is given, the water is then thrown off and the butter grains are ready for brining, which is conducted on the same principle as the washing. The head is removed and swilled out with cold water, the churn is filled up with cold water and the butter is takeaTHE HOtiSEWlFE^S KEFEREE 36 out with a butter scoop. From twenty to twenty-five minutes is occupied from the time of putting the cream into the churn and of placing it on the table for working, the whole operation of churning, washing and brining being completed ; and the washing is so good that little or no butter-milk is found on the table; which absence of butter- milk is most conducive to the keeping quality of the butter. They are made of all sizes, small ones for hand work or large ones for factory operations. The Atmospheric Churn is one that is very popular and much to be recommended; the butter being produced by atmospheric action, the air being forced in continuous currents into the midst of the milk or cream contained in the cylinder. This churn makes butter from fresh milk in ten minutes. It is extremely simple, with no machinery to get out of order, and is easily cleaned. The Royal Triangular Concussion Churn is also a very good churn and very much in use; but, really, there are so many good ones it is difficult to praise or recommend them all. A visit to the dairy shows, where everything relative to the dairy can be found, will enable people when they see them in operation to judge for themselves which they consider best. THE PANTRY A PANTRY should contain all that is requisite for the men- servants, or for the parlour-maid, where a man-servant is not kept. This apartment looks best with glazed tiled- pattern paper, as it can then be constantly washed down, and linoleum is the best covering for the floor. A pantry sink should be supplied with hot and cold water, and ought to be enclosed, so that when the lid is down it makes a useful table. There is generally a small cupboard under- neath with shelves where the blacking brushes and dirty knife-box is kept. The knife machine and, if there is one, the boot-cleaning machine should stand in the pantry. There should also be placed close to the sink the decanter drainer, some hooks for the pantry cloths and a jack towel on theTHE PANTEY 37 door, a shelf for lamps, and a table, with drawer for brushes, on which all cloth clothes should be brushed. If possible, there should be a safe for the plate, and if not, a cupboard, the shelves of which should be lined with baize. This cupboard should have a Chubb's lock. Another necessary adjunct to the pantry is the china and glass closet; if there is not room in it for a cupboard one should be erected as near to it as possible, as it is most important that such tender things as glass and china should be well housed and cared for. I consider a requisite in every pantry one of those knife- washing boxes, which are so made that the handles do not touch the water, as it ruins the handles, besides dis- colouring them and eradicating the black from the crests or monograms. Where persons have an immense variety of china and glass, and room can be found for it, it is a good plan, if there be not space in the pantry itself for it, to have closets put up in a passage close hj, and enclosed with doors, making a kind of separate room; but, if large enough, it is best to have it kept in the pantry itself. In that case, shelves with glass doors should be arranged on one side of the pantry, the shelves should be lined with baize, and the different services arranged together, so that there would be no difficulty in finding them. Certain com- partments must be reserved for glass and others for china. In one large house where I visit, the glass and china room is quite a show place, visitors being taken to the pantry to see the different specimens; and very beautiful and costly they are. A very important thing is to season glass and china, so that they will remain sound after exposure to heat and cold; this can be done by placing the articles in cold water and gradually bringing it to boiling point, and then allowing it to cool very slowly, leaving the articles in till the water is quite cold. This is most essential with lamp- chimneys. China which has any gilding on it, should never be rubbed with a cloth, but just rinsed first in warm water and then in cold, and left to drain till dry. Occasionally, but only once in a way, it may be rubbed with a soft wash- leather and a little fine dry whiting. When plates, etc., are put away in the china closet, pieces of paper should beTHE housewife's REFEREE 38 placed between each, to prevent scratches on the glaze or painting. The china closet should always be in a dry situ- ation, as a damp closet will soon tarnish the gilding of the best crockery. In a common dinner-service, it is a great mistake to make the plates too hot, as it invariably cracks the glaze on the surface of the plate itself; for when the glaze is once injured, every time they are washed after the water soaks into the interior, swells the porous clay and makes it rotten, causing it to absorb grease, and, therefore, when exposed to further heat the grease causes the dishes to discolour. Thus, never put plates and dishes in the oven to warm; it is best to heat them by water or steam, where there is not a plate-warmer. Glass should always be washed in cold water, as warm water prevents their looking bright. After glasses, decanters, etc., have been allowed to drain, they should be wiped with a fine glass-cloth, and then polished with a soft chamois leather, or selvyt cloth, which should be marked " Glass," and kept for nothing else. Wine-glasses should never be held by the stem when being polished or wiped, but by the base, and then held so lightly that they can be twisted round in the action of wiping, as it is the tight grip on the stem which causes so many glasses to be broken. " It broke in my hand, ma'am," would not then be so often heard. Hichly cut glass must be cleaned and polished with a soft brush upon which a very little fine whitening is put, which preserves its brilliancy. I think the reason there is so much glass and china broken in families is that the servants have too many things out for daily use. I know it is a great trouble to have out only sufiicient for daily use^ and to put out more as it is required; but it is wonderful the check it has on servants' breakages. I like pretty and good glass and china to be used every! day, and not to keep extra for entertaining; but, of course, in many large families that cannot be done, and it would come very costly on account of the breakages. I keep a very strict account of what I put out when I have friends, and insist on having things returned to me directly they are done with. It is a very good plan to have several sets of glasses; by sets, of course, I mean sherry, port, and claret, for afterTHE PANTKY 39 dinner, so that there may be a diffeirent set for each person, a hint which I took from Mrs. Beeton; and which is very economical, as if any are broken, it is not necessary to buy a complete service. In every household there should be a book with the list of glass and china, which should be gone through quarterly ; also when servants leave and arrive, it should be gone through with them; and should be signed by them and dated. As I have mentioned before, in speaking of kitchen utensils, there are so many lists of glass and china necessary for a house, that it seems needless to mention what is re- quisite here, especially as families differ so much in their wants. But I will just give a list of what is necessary for a small family with a well-appointed house, who entertain a little. Glass.—Sherry and port decanters, claret decanters for dinner and for dessert, claret jugs for cup, sherry glasses for the dinner-table, sherry, port, and claret for dessert, dinner claret glasses or tumblers, tumblers for ale, cham- pagne glasses, hock glasses, sorbet glasses or cups, liqueur glasses, liqueur decanters, soda-water tumblers, grog tumblers, finger bowls, various glass conserve dishes of different sizes and shapes, carafes, small water-jugs and tumblers, jug and tumblers for dessert, various coloured water-jugs, ice plates. Of course, there are many other adjuncts in glass, such as vases for floral decoration, fancy vinegar and oil-cruets, etc.; but, these are extras, which can be found in great variety at the glass and china emporiums ; so that all can have their peculiar tastes gratified. There is a new finger- glass brought out by Osier & Co., which, no doubt, will become very popular. It is a bowl of double make, the bowl itself being set in another of fluted shape, and ar- ranged so as to contain both water and a few flowers, form- ing a pretty and scented edge to the bowl. The glass is made in the chrysolite and a delicate lemon colour. China.—Dinner service, breakfast service, tea and coffee service (afternoon), small cafe noir services, dessert service, small bonbon dishes in china or of salviate glass, jugs of all sizes and shapes, cream jugs, hot-water plates, bedroom tea service for mornings, invalid's luncheon-tray, marmalade andTHE housewife's KEFEKEE 40 honey-jars, a china dumb waiter for breakfast and luncheon, kitchen services, china asparagus dish, strawberry dish, cucumber dish, luncheon plates divided for cheese, butter, and biscuits. Necessaries for the Pantry.—Plate brushes (two shapes, curved and plain), corkscrew, leathers and selvyt cloths, baize apron, blacking and brush box, varnish for polished boots, clothes and hat brushes, glass and china tubs, de- canter brushes, bottle brushes, decanter drainers, sink brush, knife washer (a tin into which the blades only are put), knife machine, a drawer or receptacle to keep the cloths in. NAPKIN FOLDING *' Sweet scented napery from the old oak chest." It is very much the fashion that the table napkins should be folded in all sorts of designs. In some houses a different device is placed to each guest, but I do not, myself, think it is good form, and object to the very elaborate style; but still, tastes differ, and therefore I will describe how to fold a few kinds. It must be borne in mind that they require great nicety in the manipulation. The serviettes should be exactly square, and not too large, and they must be starched and folded when damp to make them keep their position; every fold should be creased in its place with a clean hot iron—a small box iron is best to use. Society waiters say that napkin folding should suit the style of the table and the character of the guests present; but this is not so in the best society. The Sentry Box, Fold a napkin in three parts length- wise and turn the two sides down to meet in the centre as fig. 1, and then turn back the right side marked c d to the edge a. Repeat the same with the left hand, e f, turning it back as in fig. 2. Next turn up the two ends by the dotted lines, x x, on both sides, then let the twoNAPKIN FOLDING 41 outside edges, x x, be turned towards each other till they stand perpendicular on inside edges, x x. Then pull the Fig. 1. Fig. 2. Fig. 3. whole towards you, when the napkin will be found standing erect like fig 3. Place the bread in the hollow recess. The Mitre. Fold the napkin in three by folding one third over, turn it hachwards and so make the three folds, then fold both ends to meet in the middle; take the left- hand corner, A, and fold it across in a right angle. Now take the opposite corner, b, on the left hand at the top and Fig. 1. Fig. 2. Fig. 4. Fig. 8. fold it across in the same manner. Turn the napkin over and fold it in halves lengthwise, open the points and it will be like fig. 3. Bend the point d to the right and tuck it in the groove, turn the point backwards towards the right hand and tuck it in. CardinaVs Cap. Fold a napkin in half lengthwise, then turn down the top edges four inches as in fig. 1 ; next turn up the edge a a within one inch of the top edge, b b, thus producing fig. 2. Turn this over to the right and the top plait will now be underneath as in fig. 3. Turn over the right- and left-hand top corners A and b by the dotted linesTHE housewife's REFEKEE 42 till they meet in the centre, then turn up the bottom edge, c D, to dotted line, x x, and reverse it back to form a plait n—\ L 1 Fig. 1. Fig. 2. one inch, which must be turned up to one inch from top point A forming fig. 4. Next turn down corners A and b by dotted lines until they meet in the centre, as in fig. 5, Fig. 3. Fig. 4. Fig. 5. then turn up in a band the bottom edge, a a, by cross line, X X, and turn the whole over, tucking one side into the other ; then you will have the cardinal's cap. The Escutcheon. This is a very favourite form of fold- ing serviettes, and to my thinking the best style, except Fig. 1. Fig. 2. Fig. 3. Fig. 4. perhaps the mitre, which is the most in use. The serviette is first folded in four lengthwise, fig. 1; then, keeping theNAPKIN FOLDING 43 whole of the fold at the top and edges at a A and b b, roll up the ends at b to A, one at a time as in fig. 2. But roll them over, not under; when both are rolled close up to the dotted lines, e, with a twist of the hand bring the rolls, B, to the point as shown in fig. 3. Then lay this flat on the table and set up the fold, that appears of a diamond shape, with the hand, and it will appear as in fig. 4. Now slip into the hollow a roll; and, if desired, a few flowers can be arranged inside also. The Cocked Hat. Fold the serviette first in half one way, then in half the other way, fig. 1, and once more in h^lf lengthwise, fig. 2, then make a fold again lengthwise, turning one one way and one the other, but not quite to the top, fig. 3. Lay the serviette flat on the table and the centre crease, fig. 3, corresponds with top of Fig. 1. Fig. 2. Fig. 3. Fig. 4. right-hand corner. The lines in fig. 3 are the folds to be made lengthwise, but not quite to meet at the top, the hemmed edges upwards. In fig. 4 it is supposed to be doubled in half again with the hems outside on each side of it. First fold one side as in fig. 4, then the other, and iron or press down the crease ; next partly unfold one Fig. 5. Fig. 6. side as in fig. 5. The dotted lines show the creases in the unfolded part, and how the piece in fig. 4 is turned down. The piece raised is now folded down again, the dotted line creased, passed over the other side, the ends tucked in and pressed down flat; it should then resemble fig. 6. Arch it nicely over the roll and place a spray of flowers in the top. The Water Lily, This makes a very pretty serviette to serve up potatoes or chestnuts in. Open the napkin outTHE housewife's REFEREE 44 fully upon the table and turn all four corners into the centre as in fig. 1, repeat this with corners, turning them by dotted lines over to the points in the centre. Turn the four corners for the third time to the centre, and turn the whole thing over, which represents a plain Fig. 1. Fig. 2. fig. 3, square. Then turn the four corners to the centre for the last time. Place a glass on the four points to keep them down flat, and pull up from underneath the four points all round, then again the next four points, and again the third lot of points, and fig. 3 will be the result. The Marquis, Fold a napkin in half cross-ways as fig. 1. Turn the points right and left (marked A and b) to top point, c, by dotted lines, when fig. 2 is produced. Then turn up the point A about two inches wide till it resembles fig. 3. Fig. 1. Fig. 2. Fig. 3. Fig. 4. The whole must now be turned right over tucking the points right and left one in the other; stand it up and it will form fig. 4. The point must be separated at the top and the bread inserted in the hollow. The Imperial. Take the serviette and turn the four corners to the centre, repeat the same with all corners to the centre again, and then turn the serviette over, when it will be a reduced square. Turn the four corners again tol^ME LINEN CUPBOAED 45 the centre, crease them well down and turn over again for the last time, when there should be two sets of points visible. Now turn the topmost corners back, when the other four points can be plainly seen. Tui-n these back as the last, when it will resemble the illustration. This is used for meat, pies, pastry, etc. THE LINEN CUPBOARD This is very important in the household, and the care of it requires much nicety. Some people keep their linen in one of the old oak chests, but I think they are very inconvenient, as one has to dive about for the different articles unless there are lifting shelves in it, and they are so heavy; to my mind there is nothing like a good large cupboard with lock and key. A book should be kept with a list of the linen, and checked at least once in every three months. It is a good plan to make up the quantity of linen whenever a deficiency occurs. All linen should be marked carefully with the name and date and quantity of each on it. Each shelf should be appropriated to certain articles : such as one shelf for sheets and pillow-cases for the family ; another for those of the servants; another for best towels —bath or otherwise; another for servants' towels and all household cloths; another for the family table linen; another for that of the servants, and a shelf for extra blankets. I have sewn on all my household cloths a piece of broad tape with the name of the service they are for marked46 THE HOUSEWlFE^S KEFEREB on them, and for what they are to be used. For instance, on the glass cloths: Initial or Name. 1864. No. 12. Pantry. Glass. I think for the best sheets, towels, pillow slips, table cloths, and table napkins an embroidered monogram is nicest. Pasted on to the middle of each shelf I have the name of the sorts written on a piece of foolscap paper, such as on the towel shelf, " Towels "; on that for the servants, " Servants' towels," and so on. The very top shelf I keep for old linen for mending and patching, or for rags, as the case may be. Little bags of muslin filled with lavender make a linen cupboard smell sweet and they give the linen a pleasant perfume. I will just add to this little article the number of linen re- quisite in an ordinary-sized house :— Linen sheets for double beds, linen sheets for single beds, fine twilled longcloth sheets for double beds, fine twilled longcloth sheets for small beds (there are many people who object to linen sheets, and it is well to have both and ask visitors which they prefer), calico sheets for servants, fine linen pillow-slips, longcloth pillow-slips for servants, linen shams for pillows and sheets with frills or lace, and embroidered with monogram, damask table- cloths of all sizes, kitchen table-cloths, table-napkins, breakfast napkins (smaller), round towels for kitchen and pantry, fancy diaper towels, huckaback towels, servants' towels, bath towels, servants' toilet covers,* fine dusters for bric-a-brac, common dusters, glass cloths, tea cloths, kitchen, pantry and plate cloths, lamp cloths, basin cloths, slop cloths, house cloths, kitchen rubbers, knife cloths, dish cloths. * Toilet covers for the best rooms are seldom used now. Art muslins with fringes to match are mostly used where there is no marble top to the toilet tables.HIOTS FOE HOUSEMAIDS 47 It is a good plan to have all the dusters of different patterns ; that is to say, the housemaids two different kinds, the kitchen different, the pantry again different. Servants are so fond of using these articles indiscriminately. Close to the linen closet it is well to have a large box or chest, in which the eider-down quilts can be put away in the summer with plenty of moth powder in between; there should also be a receptacle for muslin window-curtains, unless one shelf in the linen closet is appropriated to them. HINTS FOR CARE OF LINEN Sheets, pillow-cases, table-cloths should not be hemmed until they have first been shrunken; but before shrinking each one must be made into its proper length, so that they may fold evenly when ironed, which otherwise would not be. Sheets and pillow-cases should be torn by a thread; table- cloths and napkins cut by the thread. To take Scorch from Linen.—Put into a pan five ounces of fullers' earth, one ounce of soap, the juice of three large onions, and three-quarters of a pint of vinegar, and boil all these together till the mixture becomes thick as paste; then lay this paste on thickly to the scorched linen, and the stains will disappear after it has been allowed to dry on and the damaged places washed once or twice. HINTS FOR HOUSEMAIDS The housemaid or housemaids should be well supplied with brushes, brooms, good dusters, cloths and pails. The following list may perhaps be some guide, but, of course, mistresses must judge for themselves according to what their establishments consist of :— Hair brooms, bass brooms, whisk brush, double banister brush, scrubbing brushes (hair and bass), feather brush, furniture brush, carpet broom and Brussels sweeper, W.48 THE housewife's REFEKElfi brushes, crevice brush, wardrobe sweeper, Pope's head broom with jointed pole, jug brush, dusting brush, kneeling mat, housemaid's gloves, two pails (one for slops), house- maid's box, set of black-lead brushes. Hearth brush, and sweep's brush. If floors are polished there must be a floor polishing brush. To sweep and turn out Rooms.—All small, movable articles, ornaments, bric-a-brac, etc., should be gently dusted and removed from the room mry carefully^ the smaller furniture should be thoroughly dusted and removed, and the rugs taken up and shaken. Cover the piano and other pieces of furniture, the mirror, etc., which are not removable, with dust cloths. Fasten all curtains out of the way, and then the windows should be widely opened and the sweeping commenced at the farthest corner from the door, and continued in that direction, and all brushed into the dustpan and burnt at once, as, if dust is left in the pan, it will blow back into the room. After the dust is settled, take off all the dust cloths. Then take a pail of warm water and put in a little kitchen salt; wring a soft leather out of this and wipe over the surface of the carpet, which brightens it up wonderfully. After this clean the paint, putting a few drops of Scrubb's liquid ammonia into the water, and then see to the insides of the windows; after which the small furniture and ornaments can be brought back. There are a great many sweepers now used which are most useful for every day's sweepings, but for the weekly turn-out there is nothing like a good broom, as the sweepers do not reach the corners or sides. A corner or crevice brush should be possessed by every housemaid, as then there would be no excuse for dirty corners, either in the rooms or on the staircase. In every house there should be plenty of dusting-sheets, made of unbleached calico, unless there are plenty of old and unused sheets in the house. There ought to be one very large one to cover the bed entirely. How to lay a Carpet.—Lay down the carpet as it is folded, the way the widths are to run. It should be gradually un- folded, and when it is opened out the centre width must be perfectly straight from one end to the other, and tacks putHINTS FOR HOUSEMAIDS 49 at each end to keep it in place, and all other widths should be laid in the same way. When one of the widths is thoroughly stretched out and quite straight, it must be tacked down. When the first end has been firmly fastened down, let one side at right angles to the first nailed be tacked, and when the side and end at right angles have been tacked down, the other side and end must be tacked down according to the first. When bright steel fire-irons have become rusty, rub the rust spots well with glycerine over night, and next day bring some very fine emery paper into use, and the rust will soon disappear. In putting them away for the summer grease them with mutton fat and wrap them in old news- paper. All fine, bright-metal goods when not in use should be lightly rubbed over with glycerine or kerosene, as it keeps them bright. The Draught Excluder is the most perfect one I have ever met with, for it can be fixed inside the door as well as outside. It is simply a roller covered with plushette, the ends being covered with felt and therefore quite noiseless; they are supported in slotted brackets, which have merely to be screwed to the door and the roller rises and falls along its whole length. If the floor be uneven this draught excluder accommodates itself to the unevenness, and if a mat be in its way it will rise and pass over it. Any one can put it up. Dust and Dirt Shields.—These are shields made three- cornered in shape, which fit closely and neatly over any corner, preventing the accumulation of dust and dirt; they are most useful on staircases, and are made of lacquered brass or nickel plate, but may be painted over to match any colouring. They are also most useful for corners of wardrobes, cupboards, presses and boxes. They require but little fixing as they are designed to fit perfectly on all sides, and a great advantage is that they are very cheap. Safety Folding Window-Cleaning Chair. This is a chair which is secured to the window-sill by a strong steel rod, which passes through two screw eyes screwed into the silL on which the chair is seated firmly, and the cleaner has 4THE housewife's REFEREE 50 both hands free to use. When done with, the steel rod is drawn out of the screw eyes and the back folded over upon the seat, the chair can then be easily moved and packed away in a small compass. Another of these appliances is an ingenious arrangement of bolts on the top and bottom sashes by which the windows are brought right into the room. These are called N. A. P. windows. There is still another kind, called the Victoria Safety Appliance, which consists of a kind of portable balcony made in iron to fit the windows, and secured by a couple of iron bars resting against the inside of the window, while the frame itself is supported by the window-sill, making danger impossible. They are made in two heights—one to use when sitting to clean windows, the other higher, so as to protect the cleaner when standing. They are easily adjusted, and I consider every house should be supplied with one or other of these appliances. Kerosene—Its Uses.—Oil-cloth is much brightened if rubbed with kerosene. Iron and polished steel, knives, etc., may be kept from rusting by wiping them over before putting them away with a cloth which has been soaked in a little kerosene. Kerosene brightens silver. Lamp chimneys cleaned with newspaper which has been dipped in kerosene look much clearer than when washed in any other way. In washing clothes a tablespoonful of kerosene greatly helps the rubbing. Kusty flat irons should be rubbed with kerosene. Dirty paint is best cleaned by rubbing with a cloth wetted with kerosene. It is also good for sore throats: pour some on flannel and wrap the throat round with it. It also heals cuts and chilblains. FIRE " To be forewarned is to be forearmed." In every household there exists a possibility that a fire may take place from one cause or another, and it is most necessary that every house should be prepared for such a fearful catastrophe; consequently there should alwaysFIRE 51 be means at hand to procure the safety of the household and inmates in case of fire. One thing is most indis- pensable, and that is every one should try to exhibit presence of mind. It should be remembered that all doors and windows must be kept shut so as to exclude air, and thus retard the progress of the flames. Where there is much smoke, a person may breathe freely by crawling on the hands and knees and keeping the mouth near the floor, or by placing a wet towel, handkerchief, or sponge, over the nostrils and mouth. Grenades should be kept on every floor, or what is better still an extincteur. Before giving an account of one or two portable fire- escapes, I must say a few words respecting asbestos, and advise all householders to have asbestos putty and cement wherever their gas fires and gas pipes are joined, and, wherever it is possible, to have asbestos paint on staircase, etc., or for coating any inflammable material. All the stores now sell an asbestos rope as the means of escaping from windows or balconies in a fire, and these are necessary in a house where none of the escapes I am about to describe are used. There is no doubt all fires could be easily extinguished at once if appliances were only at hand. A very simple fire-escape, where people will not go to the expense of one of the many fire-escapes now to be had, is a piece of rope long enough to reach the ground, with a strong hook at one end to let down a basket, and a £[-shaped piece of iron on the other end to attach to the window-sill. An excellent Domestic Fire Escape which, I think, comes within the scope of most people's means, consists of a light, very strong clothes basket, to which is fixed a strong rope, the coil being safely hidden under a wooden cover. With these baskets are supplied a pin and volute hook, which are fastened to the floor and wainscotting, immediately under the bedroom windows. This apparatus when not in use serves as a clothes basket, and in the event of fire, the linen can be turned out, the rope either passed through the volute hook and over the pin, or round the bed-post, and the basket pushed out of the window.THE housewife's EEFEKEE 52 The person having got into the basket is either lowered from above, or can lower himself or herself, by holding the slack rope in one hand and letting it run through the volute hook, steadying the basket with the other hand. When the rooms are a great height from the ground, an iron bar in the shape of a chevron can be fixed to the window-sill, and the rope passed over it. The nursery fire-escape is also a most useful thing for a house where there are children, and where the windows are barred, as is generally the case in the children's apart- ments. An opening is made in the outer wall of the room, above the level of the floor, and a canvas chute escape is provided with a wrought-iron, hinged frame; a weatherproof receptacle with inward and outward opening is provided into which the escape folds when not in use. Fire Alarm.—There is a first-rate patented alarm for use in bedrooms in case of fire, or for any other place in which it is desired that an alarm shall be given when a certain temperature is exceeded. The alarm is arranged to ring when the temperature reaches a certain point. The apparatus requires no adjustment, and to set it in action it has only to be wound up, by means of the fly winder over the bell. THE LAUNDRY Where washing is done at home it is quite necessary that the mistress of the house should understand all that is required, for laundry maids are apt to put in all kinds of cleansing powders, which are most deleterious; and if ladies would take the trouble to superintend their home laundries, no doubt they would reap the benefit of having their washing better done, and the things would last much longer. Washing by hand is now rarely done, as machines are so generally used, and save so much time and labour. Where machines are not used, the clothes are steeped over night, and in washing there are four essential rules to53 THE LAUNDRY remember—good water, good soap, good air, and good rubbing. To steep the clothes, the tub should be half filled with water in which should be put a handful of soda and a little soap. Each garment being put in separately, any very dirty bit or stains should be soaped. Starched things should be steeped in plain, cold water. If the clothes are soaked over night, a tablespoonful of pure ammonia in each tub of water will much diminish the labour of washing. The next morning all the clothes should be wrung out and put into fresh hot water, with plenty of soap to make a good lather. Each garment should have a thorough rubbing in order, if possible, to remove all stains. The clothes are next put into the copper with cold water and a little soap, and all boiled for about ten minutes, except dusters, pantry cloths, etc. Two rinsings are necessary; the second rinsing must have a little blue in before the clothes are put in, but they must be thoroughly wrung out before they are put into the rinsing tub with cold water. To bleach, put the articles through tepid water after boiling them, and then lay them on grass and let them lie all day, and water them with tepid water whenever they become dry. In the evening turn them over and lay them on their other side all night and part of next day. A small quantity of starch for all cottons and linens should be put in the water, but when they are intended to be really stiff, a little more starch should be mixed in the water. It is very important that no garment, etc., should go into the rinsing tub before it imperfectly clean. Boiling once in three or four weeks is quite enough for ordinary garments, but all kitchen cloths, servants' clothes, etc., require boiling every week; a little Hudson's soap put into the water cleanses these thoroughly. Where machines are used, the soap has always to be prepared beforehand, by cutting it up into small pieces the day before and putting them into a large earthenware jar. Pour over the pieces of soap a quart of water to a pound of soap ; then put this into the oven, and stir occasionally till it is melted; leave it all night and in the morning it will be jellified. The clothes are soaked in the same way as for hand washing—the day before. Next morning put the linen intoTHE HOUSEWIFE^S BEFEREB 54 the machine (each machine has instructions with it of how many articles it will hold), strew some of the soap jelly amongst the clothes, cover with hot water and turn the machine for about twenty minutes to half-an-hour. Then the clothes can be taken out and passed through the wringer, when they are put into the copper and boiled for about twenty minutes, and then thrown into the rinsing tubs as in hand-washing. Soda should not be used for coloured goods, a little salt should be put into the water with them. Shirt fronts, collars, cuffs, and skirts should be dipped in starch whilst dry. Thin muslins and laces are dipped in starch whilst dry, and then clapped with the hands till in the right condition to iron. Unbleached cottons, etc., follow the white clothes through the same waters, but must never be washed with them, as they discharge a portion of their colour, and so discolour the white clothes. A spoonful of ox-gall to a gallon of water will set the colours of most things soaked in it previous to washing. Vinegar in the rinsing water for pink or green calicoes will whiten them. Pearlash for purples and blues. Crimson is the most difficult colour to wash : a good plan is to put in a little bran in a saucepan and let it come to boiling point, then pour the water off the bran, and when it is cool use it to wash the crimson article. Before the wash begins all the bed linen and underclothing should be placed by themselves, the table linen and tea towels put into another pile, the flannels in another, and all the coloured clothes put aside to wash last. Ironing.—For this purpose a thick blanket about one and a half yard square must be laid on a deal table, over which place a clean calico cloth. Then spread the article to be ironed very smoothly on the cloth, steady it with the left hand, and pass the hot iron quickly and firmly over it without making any creases; it must be then folded and hung up on the clothes horse to dry. A small board covered with flannel should be used for shirt fronts, and a larger board tapering at one end for skirts. Embroidery should be ironed on the wrong side inTHE LAUNDRY 55 order that the work may be raised. The irons should be scrupulously clean, and smooth, and rubbed with beeswax and salt. They should always be wiped with a handker- chief before using. Starching.—Allow a teaspoonful of good starch to each shirt and collar, use just enough cold water to wet the starch. Stir till it is free from lumps, and add a little more, and stir it again. Add for each shirt a piece of sperm or white wax as big as a pea, and a quarter of a spoonful of clean salt to three spoonfuls of starch and a teaspoonful of glycerine, pour on boiling water, stirring slowly all the time, boil hard for fifteen minutes without scorching, skim and strain whilst hot; to do this, dip the strainer in cold water while the starch is in the bag, and squeeze it immediately, before it becomes hot. Wet the shirt fronts, collars, and cuffs in hot water, wring them dry, and starch them whilst damp ; rub the starch well in and wring in a dry towel and remove all starch left on the outside, spread out evenly, rub down with a dry cloth and roll tightly together. Let them lie two or three hours and then iron, and the shirts will have a perfect gloss on them. It may be interesting to know that starching originated in 1564, when Madame Van der Plasse came with her husband from Flanders to London for their greater safety," and there professed herself a starcher. The whiteness of the " Dutch linen," as it was called, soon attracted attention, and the ladies sent their ruffs to be starched, which she did so excellently that it became a saying that if any one sent her a ruff made of spiders' web, she would be able to starch it. Fashionable dames actually took lessons of her in the art of starching, for which they paid a premium of four or five pounds, and for the secret of seething starch a further sum of twenty shillings. Clear Starching.—^Miss L. Smith, the instructress of Forsyth College Laundry Class, says that this branch of laundry work is the most difficult, and I think her directions will be best to follow ; therefore I will quote them in these pages. The first thing to be done is to collect collars, cuffs, and shirts, put them into luke-warm water and rub the collars, wristbands, and all dirty parts vath a little soap, and let them soak all night. The next morning the articles should be wrung out of the water in whichTHE housewife's KEFEBEE m they have soaked and placed in a basket. Pour away the dirty water, and fill the tub with hot water. The articles should then be put into the pan, and each one rubbed separately with soap. Loose cuffs should be doubled and both edges rubbed at once, to save time. Borax soap should be used if possible. After the clothes have been rubbed they should be put into a bag kept for the purpose and tied round with a piece of tape, a small opening being made so that they may keep under the water while boiling. Before they are put into the copper half a packet of Californian Borax soap powder should be dissolved in the water. Whilst boiling, the things should be stirred occasionally with the copper stick. When the clothes have boiled for ten or fifteen minutes they should be taken out, placed in a basket and allowed to drain, then rinsed in cold water, and afterwards passed one by one through blued water. A square of blue should be placed in a flannel bag and tied firmly round the top, but not in a knot; great care must be taken in rinsing the clothes in the blue water, so that it does not settle in patches, and they should be wrung out and laid on a dish. The articles must now be dried; of course in the country they should be dried out of doors, but for those living in towns they should be put on a clean clothes horse before the fire. As soon as they are all dry they should be starched. While the hands are still clean from the wash, take two ounces of starch and borax, and pour over them without stirring fully half a pint of cold water. Mix all together, taking care the borax is thoroughly dissolved or it will leave shiny patches on the collars and cuffs, and keep a little borax water by your side to add to the starch should it get too thick. This amount is sufficient for one dozen collars and six pairs of cuffs. The articles must be dipped, one at a time, into the basin of starch and well rubbed between the hands, so that the starch gets well into them. Then they must be wrapped in a clean cloth, laying them very straight, and allowed to remain in a cool place all night. " Before commencing to iron next day, an ironing blanket must be spread on the table, and a clean sheet over it, and fastened firmly down. The iron-holder should have a middle lining of leather and the irons must be hot. Have a clean, old handkerchief beside you, and pass it backwardsTHE LAUNDBY 57 and forwards over each article before ironing it, then pass the iron Hghtly over the surface of the cuff or collar on the wrong side and then on the right until it is perfectly stiff and dry, and ready to wear. When all the articles have been ironed, take each one separately, pass a wet flannel over first on the right side and then on the wrong, then pass a piece of dry linen over it exactly in the same way, and proceed to use the polishing iron, which must be heated ve7*y hot and passed quickly and firmly with strength over the surface of the article on both sides till the required polish is obtained. This process completed, each collar and cuff should be taken separately, held in the left hand and turned round with the iron pressed to the right, which will form it to the circular shape of the neck or wrist. They should then be put into an oven, or on an old dish placed near enough to the fire for the heat to reach them. " To starch a shirt, the front should be taken by the hands and gathered into plaits from either side, handling it in such a way as to prevent all other parts of it coming in contact with the starch. The fronts and cuffs having been dipped in the starch, they should be rubbed between the hands to press the starch through the linen. The band of the shirt must not be starched. After the shirts have all been starched, the bodies must be damped, the sleeves laid straight and each one rolled up singly, then laid in a basket and put in a cold place till next day. They must then be ironed. Fold the shirt down the centre of the back, and iron on both sides smoothly; double the fronts in the same way, and iron them without touching the starched parts. Next, iron the yoke without creasing the body of the shirt, then the band, now the wristbands and sleeves, and finally the front, which must be ironed over a shirt board or a piece of felt. The cuffs and fronts must then be wet and polished as described before." To Wash Blankets.—The water should never be above luke-warm. If there are any greasy spots on the blankets use a little benzine, or any soiled spots, rub a little soap on them. Wash all old blankets first, then prepare fresh water for the new ones, as they contain oil and must be perfectly rinsed. Blankets must be soaked in abundance of luke-warm soapsuds, in which there are two table-58 THE housewife's EEFEREE spoonfuls of ammonia to every gallon of water. They must be covered whilst soaking, and when the dirt has been loosened from the wool, the blankets must be moved up and down in the water to thoroughly clean them. They must then be taken from the suds and put into fresh suds and worked up and down again. They should not be rubbed much, but very dirty places may be scrubbed with a small scrubbing brush; after this the blankets must be thoroughly wrung through a wringer, which has been screwed up rather loosely, and rinsed in three waters. The blankets must be wrung lightly through the wringer as before from one rinsing water to the other. Then the blanket should be wrung in the same way out of the rinsing water into a clothes basket, and then carefully hung on the line to drip; it should not be hung in the strong sun, else it will shrink and harden. Counterpanes.—Counterpanes should be soaked in a great quantity of strong soapsuds in luke-warm water and then removed to a tub of warmer suds, where any very dirty marks may be rubbed out. Then the counterpanes should be removed to a boiler of cold water in which two or three tablespoonfuls of kerosene and a pint of jellied soap have been mixed. They then should be brought to boiling point, and boiled for a couple of minutes in the suds, afterwards being removed into clean, cold, rinsing water. They must then be wrung from this water into a second, and then into a third water, which should be delicately blued, and then they must be hung out where the sun will bleach them, and if they are at all of a yellow colour, let them be left on the grass for two or three days. Washing Woollens.—Wash flannels and woollens in cold, soft water with a little borax in it; the temperature of the water should be the same as the surrounding air; after washing they should be squeezed and pressed till clean. To Wash Stockings.—All stockings, especially coloured ones, should be washed by hand and quiclily dried. Silk Handkerchiefs.—Wash them in luke-warm water and rinse two or three times in clear, cold water, without any blue. Wring them out, fold and roll them tightly in59 THE LAUNDEY a cloth, taking care to iron them before they are quite dry or else they will not be smooth. Gall soap preserves the colour. Pocket Handkerchiefs.—Thevse should be washed in a hot soap lather, after the usual soaking in cold water, and then rinsed in cold water into which the blue bag has been very lightly squeezed; dry them either by hanging them out or rolling them tightly in a cloth, then hold the two parallel corners in each hand, pull the handkerchief into shape, fold it in half, right side out, taking care that the sides correspond exactly, sprinkle them with water and roll them in a clean cloth ready for ironing. Flannels.—Flannels should always be washed with jellied soap, prepared as I have described in machine washing. When flannels have been washed before, half a pound of soap will be sufiicient; but if new, double that quantity must be used. Two tubs of water are necessary ; into one the soap liquid must be poured till the water is a thick lather. Each article should be taken separately, steeped and shaken well in the lather, and rubbed lightly all over ; then each article should be wrung out of the soapy water and rinsed in the other pan filled with hot water, after which it must be taken out and passed through the Avringer, or wrung tightly with the hands, and rolled in a clean cloth ; after which it must be taken from the cloth, shaken well, and hung before the fire to dry, and whilst drying, the flannels should be shaken and stretched occasionally to prevent shrinking. Whenever the water becomes cold or dirty, it should be changed and more soap jelly added, as the good colour of the flannels depends much on this. After drying, the articles should be folded and pressed with a moderately hot iron. Combinations and jerse3^s do not require ironing; but should be folded straight and passed through the mangle twice. To wash coloured flannels of brilliant shades, a wineglass of vinegar should be added to each water to preserve the colour. Hanging out to dry.—In hanging linen the thickest part of the article should hang down, as it will take the longer to dry ; the pegs should be arranged so that the weight of60 THE HOUSEWIFE^S REFEKEE the article banging is evenly distributed, otherwise the garment may be torn or pulled out of shape. To Wash Black Silk Stockings.—Wash in strong salt water, then dry them, and wash again in another solution, finishing in clean water. Scorched Linen.—If the scorch is not too bad, dipping the article in soapsuds and hanging it in the sun for some hours will be likely to remove it. Scorched spots that are very bad can be restored by repeated dipping in a saturated solution of borax. The saturated solution consists of as much crystal as the water will dissolve; if the borax stands undisturbed in the bottom of the bottle, the full- strength solution is there. Repeated dippings and ex- posures to sun or fire-light will generally remove almost Ziopeless cases. Another way is to peel and slice onions and extract the juice by pounding and squeezing; and add to the juice half an ounce of fine white soap cut small, two ounces of fullers' earth, one half-pint of vinegar; boil all together, and when cool spread on the linen and let dry, Wash the articles as usual, boiling well. To Shrink Flannel.—Pour hot (not boiling) water on it, allow it to soak for some time; then take it out of the water to drip. If it can be mangled it should be run through, but it must not be left to get dry without. It should never be wrung out with the hands or ironed. If folded smoothly before pouring the water on it, and care is taken in the hanging of it out, it will not crease at all. To Make Gum-Starch.—Pound two ounces of fine white gum arabic to powder, put it into a jug and pour on it a pint of boiling, water, according to the tenacity required; cover the jug and let it remain for the night. Next day pour the liquid carefully from the dregs into a clean bottle, cork it, and keep it for use. A tablespoonful of this stirred into a pint of starch will give a fine gloss to collars, cuffs, and shirt fronts. To Wash Woollen Socks.—Have ready a bowl of warm soapsuds, into which press and squeeze the socks gently till they look clean. Then they can be rinsed in other light suds and hung up to dry without wringing.THE LAUNDRY 61 Merely the slightest squeezing and rinsing up and down in the suds are all that is required; they should never be wrung. Then they should be hung up by the tops and allowed to drip till almost dry, when they may be taken down and gently pulled with the hands and shaped, care being taken not to stretch them out of form. To Clean Lace.—Fill a bottle with cold water, draw a stocking tightly over it, securing both ends firmly. Place the lace smoothly over the stocking and tack closely, put the bottle in a kettle of cold water containing a few shavings of soap, and place over the fire to boil; rinse in ^several waters, and then drain and dry. When dry, remove and place smoothly in a large book, and press with weights. Black lace, which has become rusty, may be restored by soaking in ammonia and water, or by washing in milk and water, or gin. It is a good plan to use gum arabic for stifiening all laces and fine muslins, as it leaves no smeared surfaces and makes the articles look like new. To Wash Lace Curtains.—They should soak for twenty- four hours in cold water ; then press the water from them, and, if very much soiled, repeat the soaking with several changes of water. They can then be washed in the usual way—gently pressed and rubbed with hands, then boiled. They must be thoroughly dry before starching. Clear, well-boiled starch should be used. They should be rather limp than stiff. After starching they must be hung care- fully over the line and should remain there till a little more than half dry. Place a sheet on the floor and tack it down carefully, with no wrinkles in it; when the curtains are nearly dry lay each one on the sheet and pin the hemmed ends carefully to one end of the sheet: leave no wrinkles, and pin down the sides first, going from those to the centre, keeping an even line : all this must be most carefully and very evenly manipulated, and they then must be left to dry. Lace curtains should never be ironed. Mildew on Linen.—E.ub soap on the mildewed spots, scrape chalk over it thickly, and lay in the sun; repeat this till the spots disappear. Most stains will disappear if the cloth is held in milk that is boiling over the fire.62 THE housewife's REFEREE LAUNDHY HINTS A teaspoonful of kerosene in a quart of starch will prevent irons sticking. Equal parts of ammonia and turpentine will remove paint marks, if it is often applied. To set delicate colours in embroidered handkerchiefs soak them ten minutes before washing in a pail of water, in which a dessertspoonful of turpentine has been stirred. To Clean Rusty Flat Irons.—Take a piece of yellow beeswax tied in a coarse cloth : when the iron is almost hot enough to use, rub it quickly with the beeswax, and then with a clean coarse cloth. To Remove Ink Stains.—Dip the part in hot tallow, or wash in new milk. NECESSAEIES FOE THE LAUN^DEY A washing machine, two wringers (a large upright one with wooden rollers acts as a mangle, and the small one with indiarubber rollers screws on to the rinsing tub and is very useful for the smaller articles), clothes baskets, tubs, an expanding horse (on which, when spread out to its full compass, a large quantity^of clothes can be aired, and which, when closed, takes no more room than the usual folding horse), a copper, irons, flat and box. A clothes drier which is a most useful adjunct to the laundry is the one in which an arrangement is fixed to the ceiling and can be moved up and down by means of a rope and pulley. I have seen these in use in ordinary kitchens. The best box irons to use are those with the heating iron, made with an opening at the rear and an internal recess, so that a key-shaped holder has only to be inserted, given a quarter turn, and the iron is held with perfect security. To loosen it a quarter turn of the key in the opposite direction is needed only, and the key holder may be at once withdrawn, leaving the heater in the fire, or the iron as may be. An ironing stove where several (say, six or eight) irons are required hot at the same time is very useful and quite inexpensive. A capitalMEDICINAL HINTS 63 contrivance for those who have an ordinary cheap little gas stove, is a cone-shaped tin case with three flat sides. It fits on to the gas stove, and being hollow becomes perfectly heated by the flame of the gas burning inside, and forms a first-rate iron heater keeping the irons quite clean. There must also be a skirt board, a shirt board, a blanket and ironing sheet, gofering irons, Italian iron, an egg-shaped iron, a sad or smoothing iron, iron stands, soap, borax soap, Hudson's soap, salts of lemon, soda, ox-gall, pearlash, vinegar, and clothes pegs. MEDICINAL HINTS Prevention is better than cure." I WILL not go very deeply into this subject, as it is best to send, in case of accident or illness, as soon as possible to a medical man. There are, too, so many books on the sub- ject, that I will only give here a few hints on disinfectants, and what medicinal aids should always be handy in a household. Disinfection.—The sick person should be isolated as far as possible ; the sick-room should be well lighted and ventilated, as sun and air are great disinfectors. All curtains, cloth- ing, cloths, and cushions should be removed, and as much furniture removed as possible. Outside of the door a sheet should be hung right over it, which should be kept wet with Sanitas fluid. Sanitas fluid should be sprayed over the room constantly. There are plenty of good disinfectors and fumilgators to be had now. All evacuations from the patient should be disinfected with carbolic acid. All paper and refuse from the sick-room should be burnt, and all utensils rinsed in Sanitas fluid. No dogs, cats, or birds should be allowed in the room, as they can carry infection about. The attendants or nurse should not go near the rest of the household, and should constantly wash their hands with disinfectant soap; and when they leave the room for rest should have a loose garment over them well dusted with aTHE housewife's REFEREE 64 disinfectant powder. All soiled linen should be rinsed out in a disinfectant before it is sent to the wash, and put separately in a box ; and the laundress should be informed of the sickness, and the box destroyed each time. The china and glass in a sick-room should be different to that of the rest of the house, and be washed in Condy's fluid first, and then in cold water. They should be rinsed before they are sent out of the room. On recovery, the sick-room should be fumigated, and, in cases of scarlet fever or small-pox, the walls and ceilings must be re-papered and whitewashed, and all the old paper scraped off, the floors scoured with disinfectant soap, the paint washed with a disinfectant, the blinds re-calendered, and every scrap of paper, lining drawers and wardrobes, burned. Where there are books and toys they should go down to some of the sanitary fumigating establishments; there is a very large one at Mitcham, but as a rule the Local Health Authorities take all this in hand. Another thing to be remembered in infectious diseases, is that it is best to use small pieces of fine linen or soft rag instead of pocket handkerchiefs, as they can be burnt in a furnace—not in the fire, as the smoke of a fire when burning anything infected is an aid to spread the infection. After an infectious illness it is best to have the room fumigated at once with sulphurous acid gas, and experts should be sent for to conduct fumigation, after which re- papering, etc., may take place. To Prevent Unpleasant Odours in the Sick-Room.—Thin rags soaked in aromatic vinegar and suspended near the door, so as to be agitated by the draught, will prevent unpleasant smells and purify the air. Antidotes to Poisons.—When a poison has been swallowed, send directly for the doctor, and in the mean- while administer a tablespoonful of ground mustard in a tumbler of warm water, followed by more warm water till vomiting occurs. Common salt will also answer. If an alkali, like washing soda, is taken, give vinegar and water and follow up in a short time with an emetic. Ivy Poisoning.—Boil wood ashes to make a strong lye, and wash the poisoned parts in this; let it remain a fewMEDICINAL HINTS 65 minutes and wash off in soft luke-warm water. When dry, anoint with vasehne. Kepeat this process as the poison develops itself; two applications are generally enough. Hay Pever.—Warm some olive oil and a small lump of camphor gently together for several hours, and then apply it to the inside of the lower part of the nose. Sleeplessness.—Hot applications to the spine are ex- cellent for this. Long rubber bags can be obtained, which may be filled with very hot water and placed against the sp^ne, or long bags of salt heated in the oven are also very efficacious. Neuralgia.—Bruise horse-radish and apply as a poultice to the wrist. Sulphur Pastilles are capital things to keep in the house as a ^' disinfectant " and a deodorant." Their application to the sweetening of sick-rooms recommends them to every one, and their convenience is also one of their many merits. The usage of them is so simple; one of the pastilles is placed on a plate or saucer, and a light applied to the top. For preventing infection, fumigate night and morning. They are made in two sizes. To disinfect body- or bed- clothes, they should be hung on a screen in a close room and exposed to the fumes from a burning sulphur pastille. Tainted meat, fish, etc., will be divested of smell; and fresh meat may be kept much longer in the warmest weather, without the slightest injury to its taste or quality by burning one of these pastilles in the larder every evening. Table for Measuring Medicines 1 teaspoonful 1 dessertspoonful 1 tablespoonful 1 wine-glass full 1 teacupful 1 breakfast-cup full 1 tumblerful 1 fluid drachm. 2 fluid drachms. 4 fluid drachms, or half a fluid ounce 2 fluid ounces. 5 fluid ounces. 8 fluid ounces. 10 fluid ounces or half a pint. The most agreeable way of taking powders and nasty medicines is in cachets. A cachet is composed of pure rice starch, which is spread out in folders, and the contents put inside a kind of cup with a lid, which is wetted and folded 5THE HOUSEWIFE S BEFEREE 66 over, and when pressed together it can be taken after dipping it into a little water and then placed on the tongue and swallowed like a pill. Table for Regulating doses of Medicines For 1 year , 2 years 3 4 7 14 20 „ 20 to 60 years. full dose. Diaphoretics, diuretics, and purgatives should be given in the proportionably larger doses to children, whilst anodynes and narcotics must be in comparatively smaller quantities, and are in many cases even inadmissible. ON ENTERTAINING Dinner Table Appointments Their table was a board to tempt even ghosts To pass the 8tyx for more substantial feasts. I will not dwell upon ragouts or roasts, Albeit all human history attests That happiness for man—the hungry sinner— Since Eve ate apples, much depends on dinner." Byron. Tell me what jou eat and I will tell you what you are." Brillat Saverin. A HOSTESS should bestow much attention on her menu. Long dinners of many services are no longer de rigueur, and in most cases it is considered enough to give soup and fish, one entree, a piece de resistaTice (though this latter is seldom given now; two entrees being preferred), poultry or game, a dressed vegetable, one or two sweets, and a savoury.ON ENTERTAINING 67 Every dish should, of course, be cooked perfectly, and look appetising. The wine should be sans reproche, and cham- pagne given throughout dinner as soon as the entrees are served. One servant to wait on three is necessary for a well- appointed dinner. Cold dishes are very much on the in- crease. Desserts have grown smaller by degrees and beautifully less ; therefore it is amusing to come upon a description of what they used to be long years ago. I read of a table described in the year 1709. " The whole, when ranged in its proper order, looked like a very beautiful winter-piece. There were several pyramids of candied sweetmeats that hung like icicles, with fruits scattered up and down, hidden in an artificial kind of frost. At the same time there were great quantities of cream beaten up into a snow, and near them, little plates of sugar-plums disposed like so many heaps of hailstones, with a multitude of congelations in jellies of various kinds." At desserts up to date the fruit is seldom put on the table ; just a couple of dishes, with the fruits in season, handed round, or arrayed in mixed fashion; but all the year round one dish should be either grapes or pine- apple. The arrangement and floral decoration of the table are great features, and pretty glass, china, napery, and cutlery are now moderate in price and within the com- pass of nearly every one's purse, so that there is no excuse for a badly appointed table service. There are persons who consider beauty is obtained by the use of odd pieces of china and glass; but I do not quite agree, though I rather like to see different plates for each course. I remember that at one house where I dined the soup plates were of Worcester ware; the fish, hexagon-shaped, cream colour, with the crest on ; the third course all comic hunting subjects; the next old Chelsea; then crown Derby; after that a series of hand- painted animals, and finishing with groups of subjects in red Autotype Company's colourings, and so on ; but I cannot recollect all. This fashion may be to a certain extent an economy, as it would be needless to buy a whole service, when a grand smash takes place. The dinner glass should always match, with the exception of the Hock glasses, which are generally old gold or paleTHE housewife's KEFBKEE 68 yellow, and quite a different shape to the rest. The greenish Nuremburg hock glasses are very much to the fore just now; but though the shapes are lovely, I do not quite care for their sombre tints. For sorbet glasses the colouring is perfect. Salviati's Venetian glass, which is fashioned in all sorts of quaint shapes, has been very much used; but I think it is less so now, except for sweetmeat dishes. Champagne glasses of crackled gold glass are among the novelties, but they will not take in the best society; exquisite jewelled glass is very much in vogue, also glass with gold monogram and crest on it. The old-fashioned, double-diamond, cut glass now used is a worthy rival of the old specimens one meets with now and again; but it is impossible to go on describing the fads and fashions of the present moment, as they are changed as often as ladies' dress fashions. To my own taste there is nothing better than very thin glass of classical shape, with just the crest or monogram, or else the old-fashioned, diamond, cut glass— those just mentioned in the quaint old shapes of a hundred years ago. The great thing at the present time is variety; at most houses where there is much entertaining change is the order of the day, and, coming after the stereotyped table decorations of yore, it is really a great charm. The electric light is much used, now that it can be so easily adapted to every kind of lamp or candle, as by the new method of supplying the fin de Steele light it is not necessary to have any wires at all, and therefore no marks are left on the cloth. For myself, I think there is nothing like wax candles for lighting a dinner table, with shades on them to match, or contrast with, the floral arrangements ; the sides of the dining-room should also be well lighted by candles in sconces fixed high against the wall, or by care- fully shaded lamps on side tables. Napery should always be of the best, and the table-cloth laid with as few creases as possible. The monogram worked at the corners, and the serviettes to match, always look well. White linen is superseding coloured napery, which delights me; for though often lovely effects are produced with crumpled up silk and brocades, yet one has often seen tawdry, tinselling things placed down the centre of the table, which have quite spoilt its harmony.ON ENTEKTAINING 69 After the ladies leave the dining-room, it is the fashion at dinners for cigarette boxes and cigar lighters to be placed on the table, also little old pocket honhonnieres filled with either violet or rose cachous for gentlemen to take before joining the ladies, so that they may not be annoyed with the smell of tobacco. The paraphernalia for fumants is so varied, and such lovely things are made, that it will be impossible to describe more than one or two, which strike me as very charming. A cigar lighter in the shape of a hot-potato oven, with a little muffineer and knife attached ; a gondola fitted up with the requisites for the smokers ; the facsimile of a four-in-hand, fitted up with every convenience required for smokers is a very favourite arrangement; also a silver organ-grinder with monkey—the organ holds cigarettes, the handle of the organ a tobacco pin, the monkey smokes a pipe, forming the lighter, the man's hat opens for fusees and matches, and the monkey's sword is a cigar cutter, a grindstone to hold matches, and to strike a light the handle is turned. Another very fascinating one has two kittens holding a skipping rope between them, over which a mouse is jumping; the lighter is in one kitten and the matches in the other. One of the nicest conceits for the smokers, where lemon squash and cobblers are in request, is the straw and rummer all in one, the straw made in silver, the end terminating in a trefoil leaf to stir with. The cafe noir cups and saucers are now made very small. Those in plain white Worcester china are great favourites, and the liqueur bottles and glasses sent in with the coffee are most delightful; those made of the reeded glass with silver rims are the favourites, and the little Sevres china coffee spoons are little gems of art. Carving.—The carving of fish requires great care, or the flakes will fall to pieces. A piece of the back and belly of salmon ought to go to each portion. The head pieces of all fish are considered the most delicate. Where there is roe or liver a piece should be given. Fowls must be held firmly, breast up, and the wings and legs should be removed with a sharp knife without turning the fowl. A piece of the breast should be attached to each wing. The breast- bone should be cut in such a way as to leave it covered with70 THE housewife's EEFEEEE white meat and the brown skin. The side bones are next removed, the carcass divided in two from the neck, and the part cut off to form another portion. A sirloin of beef should be cut in thin slices, and cut with the grain of the meat to keep the gravy in. A leg of mutton should be cut across the middle bone proceeding towards the thick end. Mutton should not be cut too thin. Hams should be carved by cutting long thin slices through the thick part to the bone. Sometimes thin slices are cut from the knuckle up- wards. Tongue should be cut very thin ; a piece of fat from the root should be given with each portion. Loins of veal are cut from the small end ; a piece of the kidney and fat should be given. A haunch of venison should be carved in slices down to the bone from the broad end upwards. A saddle of venison should be cut in thin slices from the tail upwards, each side separately. Poultry Carving^.—An expert carver ought to be able to divide poultry without removing the fork from the breast bone, or turning the bird on the dish ; but a beginner will do well to have a small fork at hand, for the purpose of laying out portions aside as the carving progresses. Turn the bird so that the carving-fork can be held in the left hand, and firmly fixed in the breast bone, and use a sharp knife. First cut off both drumsticks at the knee-joint and then remove the second joints. Next cut off the first joints of the wings and the pinions, and then the joints nearest the body. After the wings are removed, cut off the merry- thought or wish-bone, and then the wing side-bone which holds the breast to the backbone ; then carve the breast in medium thin slices, and serve the bird giving gravy and dressing on each plate. The joints of all birds are similarly placed, so nearly identical in point of junction that one is a guide to all others. The different terms used in carving various joints are curious; in an ancient cookery book we are told to "dis- member " a hern, " string " a lamprey, " wing " a partridge, lift" a swan, " border " a pasty, and so forth.71 FLORAL DEOOEATIONS FLORAL DECORATIONS. " Bring hither the pinke and purple columbine, With gilliflowers; Bring coronations and sops in wine, Worne of paramours." Spenser. The Shepherd's Calendar {April, 1579). For tlie actual decoration of the dinner-table, flowers are always used. These of course vary, according to the season and means of the family; but there are very few people who do not have some little floral decoration. The tiny ferns, threepence or even twopence each, sold in their small pots and placed in white china or artistic pots, are always obtainable, and give a cheerful and pretty effect; and with care these little plants will last an immense time. For every night arrangements, little glass bowls and baskets are the most useful, and always look fresh and pretty. Many persons possess old silver wine-coolers and stands, which come in very useful for floral decoration. The latter being quite low, a bowl of flowers may be placed in them, with a few fronds of fern gracefully arranged over the edge; or the stands may be mossed, and the flowers and ferns stuck in this. Wet moss does not hurt gold or silver plate, but sand often scratches it. For a change, a coloured centre- cloth could be used, and the honhonnieres and silver fruit spoons placed on it, with a small palm or bowl of flowers in each corner. One of the prettiest decorations for a table for fourteen or sixteen is a pale yellow silk (surah for preference) pufled down the centre of the table; the candelabra placed on it; also silver honhonnieres, but no fruit. There should be light sprays of asparagus fern to edge the silk, and small bouquets of (not more than three of small blooms) safrano roses with their beautiful tinted leaves laid lightly in the puffs of the silk ; one rose for each gentleman, and two for each lady. The sweets to be red and yellow. Yellow is undoubtedly the most becoming shade for a dining-room decoration; it lights up well, and if the furni- ture is of dark wood it is by far the most effective colour. Next comes pink, and, indeed, few dinner-tables are more72 THE housewife's KBFEREE lovely than those arranged with Rothschild, La France, Catharine Mermet, or Captain Christie roses. These are all lovely roses in their way, and with large blooms and good foliage laid carelessly on the cloth, a few make a handsome decoration. Banks of moss in the centre of the table with pink and red carnations, maidenhair fern, and gypsophylium, arranged in it as if growing, are also very lovely. Irises of different shades mixed with feathery ferns, make a charming table. But I could go on giving descrip- tions ad infinitum of the many lovely table decorations I have seen, did space allow me. I may here mention before I leave the floral subject, that for the home, break- fast, and luncheon-table, four small palms, one at each corner are generally sufficient. Smilax looks remarkably well where there is plenty of silver on the table, as it allows itself to twine round everything, and can be festooned in loops from the centre-piece to the candlesticks and then gracefully trailed along the cloth. Those who have not silver candlesticks can substitute very pretty ones by making them of wire, and then entirely covering them with moss and flowers. Suggestion for a Dinner Table in the Spring.—Place in the centre of the table three large horse-shoes made in tin, arranged so that the toes almost touch, and slightly raised so as to incline downwards to the open ends. Fill them with spring flowers, primroses and violets with fern, except at the top, where daffodils and ferns, if well arranged, look very charming. Two horse-shoes can be placed at each end of the table, and down the sides small-sized horse-shoes alternately made with primroses and violets into which the menus can be placed. Wedding Reception.—Place the wedding cake in the centre of the table, and flank it on either side by small orange trees—the cake standing, metaphorically speaking, in a bed of white flowers. Silver baskets filled with white blooms and white china slippers filled with white bonbons may be placed about the table. There is a growing fashion of using floral slippers to throw after the happy pair instead of old white satin shoes, which is a very pretty and appro- priate idea.PAET II COOKING RECIPES AND MENUS PLAIN COOKING " True economy in the household has Heaven for its banker." Large joints are only suitable for large families, as freshly cooked meat is lighter and more digestible than that which has been recooked and warmed up. Of course cold meat with salad is very nice for a change, but no one cares to feed on such cold comfort day after day. How many young housekeepers, ay, and older ones too, are utterly helpless when called upon to order meat for a small household. Their ideas take the form of legs and shoulders of mutton and ribs and sirloins of beef, with hashes and minces to use up the remains. With a little thought and ex- perience all this may be avoided, and the aim of a good housewife is to have but few scraps beyond what should go into the stockpot. The best plan is to cook small portions of joints at a time, and to avoid purchasing those joints which cannot be divided. A sirloin of beef may be divided into three parts— the upper cut, the under cut, and the lump at the end. The under cut can be made into fillets, and is really the best beefsteak one can have, as it is so juicy and tender. The upper cut of the sirloin can be roasted, and makes a good cold joint after ; and then what is left can be minced, hashed, curried, or made into rissoles. The bone from this may be either thrown into the stock-pot, or grilled for breakfast. The piece at the end of the sirloin can be made into a pie with the addition of kidneys or pigeons, or into a steak pudding, or it might be salted and boiled. 78THE housewife's BEFEKEE 74 A top-side of beef can be divided into two, one half roasted or stewed, the other half put into salt and boiled ; the remains of salt beef make a good potato pie. Besides the more expensive joints, there are many inferior parts which, if properly cooked, make very appetising dishes where economy is an object, and these are especially liked by country servants. Sheep's head and pluck, pig's fry, ox- cheek stew or pie, bullock's heart, sheep's heart, liver, tripe, etc. Of course they require nice cooking. The cheapest food becomes wasteful if not eaten, and care should be taken to ascertain which of these dishes are liked before having them cooked. The cheapest roasting joint is the top-side ; the principal thing is to rather under-cook it, otherwise it will be dry and stringy. More and richer gravy runs from this joint than from any other. The next most economical joint is the middle rib. One of the best ways to cook this, where only a small joint is required, is to cut the joint in half, salt the ends and roast the chine. One rib is rather an uncom- fortable joint to cut, hence it is a good plan to take out the bone and roll it, and put the bone into the stockpot. A rib rolled and tied round in a cloth, salted or pickled, makes also a pretty little boiling joint; but it should not be cut till it is cold, and then a silver skewer should be run through it. For boiling, the silver-side is perhaps the cheapest, as there is little or no bone. A loin of mutton is very useful in a small family. It will either make two little joints, or else one half can be divided into chops, and the half which cannot be jointed can be kept to roast, or it may be boned and served up with a thick brown sauce. A neck of mutton can be divided so as to form several dishes—cutlets, Don Pedro pie, Irish stew, haricot mutton boiled mutton, curry, Scotch broth, mutton pies, etc. The scrag end makes a very good Irish stew, and it can be eaten boiled with caper sauce. A leg of mutton can be divided into three parts—the knuckle end for boiling ; the middle part which makes a capital steak; and the thick end which can be either roasted as it is, or what is better, boned, stuffed and rolled. The basis of all cookery consists of roasting, boiling,PLAIN COOKING 75 simmering, stewing, broiling, frying, and baking. We will consider now the means of performing these functions. Roasting is done either in front of the fire, or in the oven of a close range. For myself I prefer roasting in front of the fire with good basting, as I consider the flavour of roast meat is so much better, and besides, the gravy from meat cooked in the oven yields more grease. Meat roasted in the oven requires an immense amount of care; the oven should be very hot and twenty minutes to the pound of meat should be allowed. There should be a double dripping- pan with hot water placed in the lower compartment and the meat should be laid on a trivet. The wrong side should be placed upwards at first and the meat turned over when it is about half done. Place it on the hottest part of the oven for five minutes, so that the outside may harden to prevent the juices going into the gravy; then it should be removed to the middle of the lower compartment, if fairly hot, and basted constantly. When the outside is browned, cover with greased paper, which must be removed just before serving and the joint frothed. In cooking poultry or game in a close range place them breast downwards in the pan itself, not on the trivet; cover the breasts with dripping an inch thick, and place a large lump of it in their insides; the birds will then go up to table juicy and tender. To roast with an open range, the first thing necessary is to have a good and clear fire, which should be kept up during the process; but care must be taken in putting on fresh coals not to knock any into the dripping pan. Place the dripping pan (into which a little melted fat has been put to begin basting with) under the meat to catch the dripping. Hang the meat on the bottle jack, the biggest part downwards, and wind up the jack. The joint should be placed close to the fire at starting, and basted with hot fat; in a quarter of an hour it should be drawn back a little, but the meat must be constantly basted; for the more it is basted, the better it will be. The average time for cooking beef or mutton is a quarter of an hour for every pound of meat. The smaller the joint or bird, the quicker it should be roasted. Lamb requires twenty minutes for each pound, pork and veal half an hour. The colour of the joint must76 THE housewife's EBFEKEE be noticed before dishing up; if too pale, put it nearer the fire. To make the gravy, leave the joint hanging, and take up the dripping pan; carefully pour off all the fat into a basin till you come to the discoloured dregs, which make the gravy. Pour into the pan a pint of boiling water (or stock) and wash and rub the dripping pan with a spoon in it. Rub all the brown specks (which are the dried-up gravy), then strain the whole through a fine strainer into a sauce- pan, skim off* any grease there may be and place the saucepan on the side of the fire to keep hot. Then take down the joint, and when it is dished pour the gravy into the dish but not over the meat. Boiling.—How often in ordinary kitchens does the cook put a piece of meat into the saucepan, placing it over the fire and boiling it rapidly, when instead it should have been boiled slowly, and the water, instead of being allowed to boil very fast, should have merely simmered, because the first process makes it tough and stringy, whilst the second renders it tender and succulent? Joints of fresh meat do not require more than twenty minutes to a pound. Salt meat should have as long again ; but, of course, the cook must use her judgment according to the size of the joint. A large piece of beef, such as the top-side, having more surface exposed to the heat of the fire, takes less time to cook than a leg of mutton of the same weight. Boiling is the more economical plan of cooking, as meat loses less weight in boiling than roasting, and the liquor it is boiled in can be utilised for soup. In boiling, the great thing is not to let the meat boil. Few people understand the difference between stewing, simmering, and boiling. Stewing and simmering, though similar, are yet very different, and the difference is that meat simmered has to be eaten by itself— that is, that the water or stock in which it is simmered is required for something else, and the meat taken out when sufficiently cooked—and that meat stewed is when both meat and liquor are to be eaten together. When the water in a saucepan bubbles at the top and steams, it is boiling. Simmering is keeping the water nearly boiling: little tiny bubbles every now and then appear at the edges, and in this state it should remain.PLAIN COOKING 77 When boiling a leg of mutton, it should be put into fast boiling water and allowed to boil five minutes to make the outside hard and prevent the juices escaping. Then sufficient cold water should be added to reduce the temperature, it should be brought gently to the boil; when it is on the point of boiling it must be skimmed most carefully, drawn to the side of the stove and allowed to simmer slowly. The saucepan should be just large enough to hold the joint easily, and the meat only just covered with water. It takes from fifteen to twenty minutes to each pound of meat, after the water has boiled. Puddings should be plunged into plenty of boiling water and kept boiling till quickly done. Salt meat should be put into cold water, which should be brought up slowly to simmering point. All white fish should be placed in boiling water and then allowed to simmer gently, and the water carefully skimmed. Pork, ham, and bacon should be boiled in cold water, and brought slowly to simmering point. All large white fish must be put into cold water (with a tablespoonful of salt to every half-gallon of water), and brought gradually to boiling point and then allowed to simmer. The white side of the fish should be rubbed with lemon before putting into the water, and then kept uppermost. All scum must be skimmed off. White fish cooks more quickly than meat. Small fish should be put into warm water, salmon and trout into boiling water, which will take the water off the boil when they must be let simmer till done. Ordinary- sized fish are cooked within a few minutes from the time the water boils. Turkeys, fowls, rabbits, etc., should be placed in warm water and then simmered. Vegetables require boiling fast, meat only simmering. Frying.—The French unquestionably take the palm in roasting, but the Italians are the most accomplished friers: and any one who has travelled in Italy and tasted even in the humble trattoria there the delicate frittura will acknowledge that the art of frying in England is very much under the mark. Yet English cooks prefer frying, and if possible they will use the frying-pan instead of the gridiron for steaks, chops, and kidneys, which when fried are black78 THE housewife's REFEEEE and hard on the outside and sodden and tasteless on the inside. The Italian fritto misto is worth eating, and any- one can test its deliciousness at Prevaliti's, the Cafe Koma, and the Hotel de Florence. In Italy a batter is always prepared to dip the meat in and then it is cooked to a turn. In frying, the first requisite is to have a clear, bright fire (not a fierce one), and to see that the fr}dng-pan is perfectly clean. Frying is immersing in very hot fat and it is most necessary that the fat should cover that which is being fried. I prefer a stewpan to a frying- pan, as the fat can be deeper. The pan should be hot enough to fry a piece of light brown bread the instant it is thrown in ; whilst the fat is hissing, nothing should be put in till it leaves off and smokes. In frying fish, the fish must be thoroughly dried and well floured. An egg, yolk and white, must be well beaten up and breadcrumbs, dry and fine, passed through a sieve. Flour the fish, brush it well over with the beaten egg with a paste brush, and cover it with breadcrumbs; when the fat is properly boiling (which is easily ascertained by putting one drop of cold water into it, and if it makes much hissing the fat boils) then quickly immerse the fish into it and a very short time serves to cook it. Fat crackles when it is first put on the fire because there is generally water in it. This water sinks and becomes converted into steam, and these bubbles of steam escaping up through the fat make the hissings. When anything is fried which has to be egg-and-bread- crumbed it should be done about two hours before, and fried meat should be constantly turned and shaken during the process. When parsley is fried, it should be quite dry; in frying rissoles, croquettes, etc., a wire basket should be used, and everything fried should be drained directly it is taken out of the fat on a wire sieve, or what is still better, blotting paper; but except in very large families, that is considered too expensive to use daily. All frying drip- ping and butter should be clarified before they are used : this may be done by placing the dripping in a saucepan on the fire, and when it boils pouring it into a basin in which half a pint of cold water has been previously placed, and stir up well together for a few minutes. When cold, cut round the edge with a knife and remove the cake of dripping, scrape off all79 PLAIN COOKING sediment adhering to the bottom of the cake and wipe it dry with a clean cloth. To clarify butter, put it in a saucepan on the fire, and when boiling remove the scum from the top and pour the clear butter gently into the pan which is required for use. Stewing, the most economical style of all cooking and, if properly managed, one of the most delicious, is much favoured by foreign cooks. The advantage of this mode is that pieces of meat which in any other form would be tough and tasteless become tender and nutritious. The French are perfect past-masters of the use of the stew- pan ; and it has been observed that as all cookery is but an aid to digestion, the operations of the stewpan resemble the action of the stomach very closely. " The stomach is a close jar in which solids and fluids are mixed together, macerated in the gastric juices, and dissolved by the aid of heat and motion occasioned by the continual contraction and relaxation of the coats of the stomach during the action of digestion. This is more closely resembled by the fche process of stewing than by any other of our culinary methods." The plan is to put the meat to be stewed into cold water and to set it on a good fire till it simmers. It must never get beyond simmering or it will spoil. In all good stewing none of the water should be thrown away, as it contains as much nourishment as the meat itself. In stewing there should be only just enough water to cover the meat: the lid should fit very tight, and if possible should never be removed. It is a sure but slow process and extends to many hours and even to days. I have read of an old-fashioned French country way of stewing and think it must be perfect. They put what is to be stewed in an earthenware jar with a tight-fitting lid and very little water, they then place it in the hot ashes of a wood fire, where it can be left for hours. The loss of meat in stewing is twenty per cent., chiefly water, and the meat being cut up and constantly moistened with its own juices, makes it a very economical way of cooking. Buckmaster, the great authority on cooking, says stewing is a gradual simmering, and he says, " Bring the water to the boil, remove all scum and let the contents simmer till the flavour of the meat is absorbed in the liquor.80 THE housewife's REFEREE Kemove all the fat. All and every kind of meat will do for a stew. They may be used together or separately. The better the meat the better the stew." Braising is a species of stewing. In the process the meat is raised above its liquor and basted with, instead of being immersed in it, and the temperature above and below the stewpan is equal one to the other. A Brasiere or closed stewpan should be used, so that live embers can be held in the cover, and the heat necessary for cooking equalised above as well as below, and as there is no evaporation the meat imbibes the flavour of the vegetables, etc., with which it is cooked. The meat or birds to be cooked should be wrapped in slices of fat bacon or else larded with plenty of rich gravy to stew it in. When cooked it should be taken out and kept hot, the gravy strained and freed from fat entirely, then boil up quickly till very thick. To get the fat off quickly, plunge the basin which contains the gravy into cold water, and the fat will settle on the top. In broiling and grilling care should be taken to grease the bars of the gridiron before placing the meat or fish on it, and season with pepper and salt whilst broiling. The fire should be hot and clear, and the gridiron should be put down close to the fire at first, and gradually raised as cook- ing proceeds, so as to diminish the heat. The rapid heat required for broiling produces a greater degree of change in the affinities of raw meat than roasting, and generates a higher flavour, so that broiled meat is more savoury than roast. The surface becomes charred and a dark-coloured crust is formed, which retards the evaporation of the juices, and, if properly cooked, broils may be as tender as roasts, but it requires most minute attention. The fire must not be too fierce or the meat will be scorched and blackened; but it must be quick and clear, so that the meat may be properly browned, and also to prevent the gravy escaping, which it would do over a sluggish fire. Chops or steaks should be from half to three-quarters of an inch in thickness; if they are thicker, the outside will be done before the inside can be properly cooked. The chop or steak should be constantly turned with the steak tongs; a fork should never be stuck into it. The best way to tell81 PLAIN COOKING whether a chop or steak is done or not is to press it with a spoon; if it feels spongy it is not cooked, but directly it ceases to feel spongy it is done. Mutton chops and rump steaks are generally liked rather underdone, but lamb and pork and every kind of fish should be most thoroughly done. A separate grill should always be kept for fish. Fish should be wrapped in oiled or well-buttered paper before being broiled. Steaming.—This process is especially adapted to delicate preparations. The ingredients for boiling should be pre- pared as for boiling, and then placed in the steamer, with the lid tightly closed over a saucepan full of boiling water, which should be kept boiling, and fresh water added as it boils away. If there be no steamer at hand, make one by turning a plate upside down in a saucepan, and surround it with three inches of fast-boiling water, and place the mould or basin containing the mixture on the plate. Cover the saucepan closely and keep the water simmering round it, so that it will produce continuous steam. It is a good plan in cooking a pudding to place a weight on the top of the mould to avoid the condensed steam getting into it. I think all potatoes and puddings should be steamed. Boning.—It requires great practice and nicety to bone. The first thing necessary is to have a sharp boning-knife, then cut the head and pinions of the bird off as close to the body as possible, and the feet cut off at the first joint. Then cut out the crop at the neck, but do not make too large an opening; then cut the flesh off the breast bone, keeping the knife with the point as near the bone as possible. Remove the merry-thought, then sever the wings at the joints. The bird must constantly be turned round and round whilst boning; and the utmost care is needed not to break the skin. The legs are then disjointed with the thumb by pressing them in. Larding.—Larding like everything else requires practice; but the result is such an improvement to the dish, that it is quite worth practising to do it. It is necessary to have two larding needles, one for large lardoons and one for the small ones. Lardoons are strips of fat bacon : larding or French bacon is sold on purpose for this; though one can lard with fat bacon if the other is not handy. The bacon should be 6THE housewife's REFEREE 82 cut into strips of equal length and thickness according to the sizes required. For poultry and game they should be two inches long by a quarter of an inch broad; but for fillets of beef and loins of veal, two inches long and the third of an inch square. Put one of these lardoons into the larding-needle, then pass it through the meat, taking up as much of the flesh as will hold the lardoon firmly, letting the lardoons project about half an inch, which must be done as straight as possible and at equal distances. There are two ways of larding, first super- ficially only, in which the point of the needle is brought out about one inch from where it was put in, and pulled very gently through. A finger should be kept on the projecting part of the lardoon, so that it does not break off. Another way is to lard so that the lardoons are cut long enough to go right through the meat, leaving about a quarter of an inch at top and bottom. It is well to lay the lardoons on ice before putting them into the needle. Vegetable cooking is very often defective beyond any other. Cooks are not careful enough to see whether the water really boils, and not what the generality of cooks call boiling, which makes all the difference in the cooking. Vegetables require, as a rule, to be cooked quickly and thoroughly, and to be eaten as soon as possible when the cooking is completed. It is a desideratum, of course, that all vegetables that require to be cooked, should be as fresh as possible. They should be well washed, except those that can be safely used without washing, as allowing vegetables to remain soaking in water for a long time tends to injure them. They must be clean, for the removal of dirt and grit are not the sole reasons for washing; it is necessary to get rid of earwigs, caterpillars, and slugs. Spinach may be washed in tepid water more quickly and more completely than in cold. Cauliflowers and cabbage are the happy hunting-grounds for vermin, and should be thrown into a bowl with a lump of salt and plenty of cold water, and if necessary a little hot water, and then when the vegetables are thrown in the occupants will soon wriggle out. A great thing in cooking green vegetables is to send them to table with a fresh and beautiful colour, and for this there should be put into the water two table-83 FLAl^^ COOKING spoonfuls of salt to the gallon, and a small quantity of soda. The fire should be sufiicient to let the saucepan boil up quickly from the moment the vegetables are im- mersed, and they should be well drained from their ablution water, and only put into the pot when the water is quite boiling, which process must be kept going, the vegetables being constantly pushed down to keep them covered; but there should be no lid on the saucepan, as that ruins the colour and appearance. As soon as they are cooked, which is when they are quite tender, and have not begun to fall to pieces or to mash, turn them out and drain them ; * and those vegetables which require it must be pressed. The medicinal value of vegetables is great. Celery is said to be very beneficial to the nervous system, and to be a cure for rheumatism and neuralgia. Spinach has a direct effect upon the kidneys, and tomatoes act upon the liver; asparagus purifies the blood; beans nourish and strengthen; beets and turnips are excellent appetisers, and onions are much recommended for insomnia; all housekeepers should therefore provide plenty of vegetables for the table, as it signifies health in the family. In cook- ing cauliflower, asparagus, stringed beans, and any other vegetable which may sometimes have a slightly bitter flavour, it is well to put a lump of loaf sugar into the water. Vegetables should never be cut after they have been sliced. Potatoes take half an hour to boil, unless small, when they take rather less; peas and asparagus twenty to twenty-five minutes; cabbage and cauliflower twenty-five to thirty minutes; carrots and turnips forty-five minutes when young, but an hour in winter; beets one hour in summer, and one to two in winter ] onions, medium size, one hour. To make sauces well is a great thing, and yet how few cooks really take the trouble to make them properly! They hurry over them, and consequently send up to table a sort of paperhangers' paste, or a thin butter-and-water mixture. To make good sauce takes a little time, but not very long, and as sauces and gravies constitute the perfection of entries, even for a simple mince or hash, it is very necessary to make them properly. In the first place, cooks often roll butter and flour * See drainers in first part of the book.84 THE housewife's REFEREE together in any haphazard manner, fry it quickly, then put in the other ingredients and boil till thick, and never dream of straining it. It takes them about five minutes and they think *'it will do." ISTow, T am well aware that many cookery books and good cooks advise the rolling of fiour and butter together and then frying, and no doubt it can be done so, and well too; but since cooks as a rule hurry so over their cooking, I will explain my way of making sauces, which I have taught all my cooks to do, and the result is the sauce is invariably smooth. All sauces derive from two sorts, brown sauce and white sauce, and the flavourings make the numerous sauces which are used in cookery. The first thing in making a white sauce is to take a tablespoonful of flour (this will make a good tureen full) and mix it in a basin with a little milk till it is a smooth paste; whilst doing this have a small stewpan on the fire, with a piece of butter the size of a plum in it; when the butter is melted and very hot add the smooth paste, give it a good stir round, and then add a little salt, more milk, and whatever white stock or flavouring is required; stir over the fire till it thickens and the mixture leaves the sides of the stewpan and coats the spoon. If it becomes too thick, add a gill of cold water and boil up again, and then pass through a fine strainer into the tureen or dish it is to be served in. If cooked some time before it is wanted, and there be no bain-marie to keep the saucepan in, I put it into a larger saucepan of boiling water and let it stand on the stove till required; but it must never be allowed to boil up again. The " gourmet boilers " are capital things for keep- ing sauces, etc., warm and simmering; they are made in earthenware and put inside a stewpan of hot water. You may leave them for hours and they will never boil. I use them constantly myself, and for those who do not possess a bain-marie they are a sine qua non. Brown sauces are made exactly in the same way as white. The only difference is that the flour is mixed first with cold gravy or stock, instead of milk, and added to the boiling butter in the same way. Of course where oysters, button mushrooms, shrimps, pieces of lobster, etc., are used in the sauces, the sauce must be strained, and these put in afterwards.85 SOUP MAKING Cooks may say, " This is all extra trouble " ; but it is no trouble, and only takes two or three minutes longer than their usual rough fashion, and certainly the sauce repays this extra outlay of time, for unless some care be taken, a successful result is impossible. SOUP MAKING I CONSIDER that a portion of cooked meat makes soup more highly flavoured than when raw meat only is used. The lean shin of beef, knuckle of veal, and gristle, etc., are the best things for the foundation; but meat trimmings, and odds and ends, give the strength and flavour. A variety of ingredients is necessary in making the best soup; but fat should never find its way into the stock-pot. One of the essential things to remember is that the great art of soup making is to keep the flavours equal, and not allow any particular one to predominate. Salt is always best added just before taking up the soup, as it is apt to harden meat, and confine the juices and soluble substance. In soup making the stock should be always made the day before it is required, the meat and bones should be simmered for quite eight hours, and then strained through a hair sieve into a basin, so that the fat can be skimmed off next day, when it can be returned to the stock-pot, or digester, with the addition of the flavourings, which must consist of sliced vegetables, such as onions, carrots, turnips, leeks, remains of sauces, peppercorns, and different herbs tied in bunches. In making clear soup great care must be taken, as the generality of cooks are so fond of boiling fast, not under- standing, or else refusing to understand, what simmering is. And they are idle over the skimming, which is another necessity; for unless it is simmered and constantly skimmed the soup will never be clear. After the vegetables and condiments have been put in, it must be again boiled, then simmered for about two hours, and cleared. If a delicate consomme is required, beat up the whites of a couple of eggs with a teacupful of cold water, and put them with the crushed shells of the eggs into the stock.86 THE housewife's REFEBEE with lialf a pound of raw neck of beef chopped fine, whilst boiling fast; then whisk for one or two minutes all together, and let all boil quickly for some minutes; the saucepan must then be drawn to one side of the stove, and allowed to remain there for about twenty minutes, after which it must be strained through an old fine dinner napkin, which has been wrung out in hot water. Many persons advise a felt jelly bag, but I prefer the napkin. There is another detail in soup making which is very important and that is the difierence between bouillon and consomme broth and double broth. Bouillon is a beef broth, the consomme is also a beef broth which has been doubled with veal and fowl, the former to give it gelatine, the latter to give it flavour. In concluding this part I must remind my readers that every particle of fat should be removed. Soup should never be greasy; the best plan is to make the stock beforehand, and to make sufficient for a couple of days; when the broth cools the fat will cake on the surface, and may then be easily removed. After it is removed a damp hot cloth should be passed over it so as to absorb every particle of fat, and care should be taken to cut off the piece at the bottom of the basin where any sediment is likely to be found. SOUPS "Spoon-meat, . . . bespeak a long spoon."—Comedy of Errors. Alma Mater Soup.—Take a sheep's head and pluck; fry it, then boil it in a gallon of water till it is reduced to two quarts; add to it a small teacupful of pearl barley, two large onions, carrots, and turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, and four cloves; season with pepper and salt to taste. When sufficiently boiled put in two spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, thickened with flour and butter; cut the best of the head into small pieces, and add to the soup a glass of Marsala and some force-meat balls. The head should be boiled or fried as long as the other parts. Andalnsian Soup.—Take two quarts of fish stock and keep it boiling. Mix together in a basin three tablespoon- fuls of onion puree, and the yolks of three eggs. Make a87 SOUP MAKING force-meat with four ounces of whiting, four ounces of tomato puree, and a pinch of red pepper. Make little quenelles of this; poach them, and when drained put them into the soup tureen ; and after skimming the stock, thicken with the onion and tomato pm^ee^ and pass it through a sieve into the tureen over the quenelles^ If the tomatoes are not a good colour, add a little cherry red or cochineal to it. Antwerp Soup.—Take two quarts of good veal stock, put in a small handful of sliced spinach and sorrel, and let it boil till it is tender; season it with salt, and while it is boihng (but about two minutes before serving) stir into it one pint of cream previously well mixed with the yolks of six eggs. . ^, ; Asparagus Soup.—Take a large bundle of asparagus, and one quart of white stock, one pint of milk, and half a pint of cream, three tablespoonfuls of butter, the same of flour, one onion, salt and pepper to taste; cut the tops off half the asparagus and cook them twenty minutes in salt water just covered. The rest of the asparagus cook for twenty minutes in the stock; put the onion in, cut in thin slices, and fry in the butter for ten minutes, taking care not to burn it; then add the asparagus which has been boiled in the stock. Cook for five minutes, stirring constantly; then add the flour and cook for five minutes longer. Turn this mixture into the boiling stock, and simmer for twenty minutes, then put through a sieve; add the milk and cream which should just have come to the boil, and also the asparagus heads. Season to taste with salt and butter, and serve. Barley Cream Soup.—Put half a pound of Eobertson's pearl barley into a stewpan with a quart of water, an ounce of butter, salt and pepper to taste; bring this to the boil, remove the pan to the side, and stir the barley well all the time. Then after it has simmered for an hour, add three pints of clear white stock, and let all boil for an hour at the side of the fire; after passing through a sieve, let it boil up again ; add a little sugar and a quarter of a pound of Nudeln paste, which has been previously boiled and cut into inch pieces. Then add three yolks of eggs which haveTHE housewife's EEFEREB 88 been mixed with a couple of tablespoonfuls of Parmesan, and moistened with a gill of cream, and thicken the soup with this ; but it must not boil. Brlinoise Soup.—^Take some young carrots, small turnips, and some small onions ; cut them into dice, and blanch them in boiling water for five minutes; then put them into a stewpan, and cover them with two quarts of good brown stock, or white stock. Season with salt or pepper, and let the whole boil gently for about an hour. Calf's Tail Soup.—Have two tails, cut them into pieces about one inch long, put them into a stewpan with two quarts of water and half a pint of stock; boil up slowly, and simmer gently for an hour and a half ; skim off all fat. Take out the pieces of tail, put them into a basin, cover it over and place it in the oven to keep hot. Thicken the soup as follows :—Beat the yolks of the fresh eggs, and stir in, add a teaspoonful of salt, the strained juice of half a lemon, a small wineglassful of madeira or good sherry, and a quarter of a pint of good fresh cream; put the pieces of tail into the tureen, pour the soup over, and send it to table at once. Calf's Tail Soup a la Eichelieu. Fotage aux Queues de Veau a la Richelieu.—Cut up two calves' tails into pieces one and a half inch long, place these in a stewpan with a carrot, an onion stock, four cloves, a couple of celery sticks, parsley, bay-leaf, thyme, and four shallots; pour on two quarts of stock and boil very gently for about an hour and a half. The pieces of tail being now done, must be strained from the stock and set aside, whilst the stock must be placed in a stewpan with six ounces of white thickening, stirred over the fire till it boils, and then removed to side of fire to throw up the grease, which must be skimmed. Next, strain it into the saucepan again, and put in the pieces of calf's tail, and a few quenelles of force-meat. Just five minutes before it is to be served, stir gently into it a liaison of four yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, a glass of sherry, and a dust of nutmeg; a small teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoon- ful of white pepper, and an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese. Stir all over the fire for five minutes and serve. Celery Soup.—Boil some celery heads in water with aSOUP MAKING 89 little salt, a small onion, and a little white pepper. When perfectly tender, strain from the water and pass all through a sieve ; then add the required quantity of good white stock. Put into the stewpan again and heat up, adding a lump of sugar; when hot, beat up the yolk of an egg, in a gill of cream, and put into it, off the fire. Serve with small crail- tons of fried bread. Celery and Onion Soup.—Clean four heads of celery ; cut them in pieces; boil in water for ten minutes ; drain them ; place them in a soup-pan with half a pound of onions, a little tarragon and chervil, a piece of sugar, and a pinch of pepper; fill up with game stock. Boil gently until the celery is thoroughly done ; and serve. Clam Soup {Philadelphia),—Chop up twenty-five small clams, and put them into a colander to drain; peel three potatoes, chop them rather fine, and put them to boil in a double kettle, with one quart of milk ; that is to say, stand the vessel containing the milk and the potatoes in a sauce- pan full of water, after the fashion of a bain-marie, and let them boil for a quarter of an hour. Meantime rub to a cream a small teacupful of butter with two large table- spoonfuls of flour; stir it into the milk, and let it simmer for eight minutes. To this add one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and after three minutes add the clams strained from all their liquor ; let the soup boil up once quickly, and serve hot. Cockie-leekie.—Boil a fowl in three pints of light-coloured stock. When done, cut the fowl in pieces and let these be kept in reserve between two plates to prevent them from becoming dried up. Next add to the broth which the fowl has been boiled in a dozen leeks cut into inch lengths: then add the pieces of fowl, a few stewed prunes, pepper and salt. Comish Porridge.—Boil a large onion till soft, thicken a bowl of water with flour, add salt, pour the thickened water over the onions and let all boil up again and serve hot. Cottage Soup.—Time four hours. 2 oz. of dripping, ^ lb. of any solid fresh meat in dice 1 inch square, \ lb. of onions, I lb. turnips, 2 lbs. leeks, 3 oz. celery, | lb. rice, 1 teaspoon-THE housewife's REFEREE 90 fill of salt, |oz. brown sugar, 6 qts. of water. Put the meat, sugar, dripping, and onions into an iron saucepan, stir them till lightly browned, add turnips, celery, and leeks. Stir ten minutes. Mix well with one quart of cold water and rice, add five quarts of hot water, and salt to your taste, stir occasionally till it boils. If to be kept, stir gently till the soup is nearly cold; let it simmer three hours. Crab Soup.—Take two tablespoonfuls of flour, and fry it in lard till the flour is well browned. Add a chopped onion, a chopped potato, thyme, parsley, salt, and red pepper. Fry these for a few minutes, put in eight crabs scalded and cleaned, add three pints of boiling water and boil the whole for half an hour. When ready to serve, rub a tablespoonful of powdered sassafras leaves to a paste in a spoonful of butter. Stir this in the soup until well mixed, then pour in tureen and serve with rice. Crayfish Soup.—Boil three dozen crayfish with one glass of sherry and a little stock. When cooked strain their liquor to a sauce made of a carrot, onion, celery, four shallots, bay- leaf, thyme, and parsley, fried in a stewpan with a piece of butter till browned, adding six ounces of flour; mix well. Moisten with three pints of good stock, stir over a fire, and when it boils let it simmer gently for half an hour. Pick the tails from the shells and clear all the pith from the bodies without breaking them and put this aside. Pound shells, pith and claws, add this to the sauce, rub through a tammy and pour the soup into a small soup pot. Fill the body of the shells with force-meat and bake on a baking sheet in a hot oven for six minutes. Make the soup hot, skim it, season with cayenne, lemon juice, a few drops of anchovy, one glass of sauterne, and pour it into the tureen with the tails and bodies of the crayfish and serve very hot. Cream of Rice Soup.—Two quarts of chicken stock (the water in which fowl have been boiled will answer), one tea- cupful of rice, one quart of cream or milk, a small onion, a stalk of celery, and salt and pepper to taste. Wash rice carefully and add to chicken stock, onion, and celery. Cook slowly for two hours (it should hardly bubble). Put through a sieve; add seasoning and the milk or cream, which hasSOUP MAKING 91 been allowed to come just to the boil. If milk, use also a tablespoonful of butter. Crecy or Puree of Carrots.—Procure five or six large carrots as red as possible, which will scrape, then shave them into very thin slices, taking off all the exterior red, but not using the centre. Then peel and slice a large onion, a turnip, and a quarter of a pound of lean ham, a few sprigs of parsley and two bay leaves, put them into a stewpan with four ounces of butter, fry the whole of a light yellowish colour, then add the carrots with one pint of water and let them stew until perfectly tender. Mix in two ounces of flour quite smoothly, and add five pints of stock ; season with a little salt and sugar, and stir upon the fire until boiling a quarter of an hour, when pass it through a tammy, warm up, and serve. 'No cream, however, must be added. This soup ought to be of a red colour. Boiled rice, or fried croittons may be served in it. Cucumber Soup.—Peel a cucumber, and let it steep for a little while in cold water, then lay it in a pan with two ounces of butter, half a teaspoonful of sugar, one onion and a gill of water. These proportions are for one pound of cucumber. Stew till perfectly tender, then press all through a sieve, replace it in the pan and add one pint of milk to one pound of cucumber. Put in a dessertspoonful of corn- flour to the milk and mix it smoothly before putting the cucumber to it, and let the whole boil for a few minutes, vjatching it the whole time. It is ready when it is of the consistency of good cream. Esmeralda Soup.—Take a teacupful of barley, and one of whole groats, and put them into three pints of water; and after bringing to the boil, let all simmer slowly for two hours and a half. Then add a teacupful of Patna rice, and let all cook till the grains are soft. Hub all through a tammy sieve, and after add to it white stock sufficient to make the necessary quantity. Season to taste ; and when taken from the fire, stir in the whisked yolks of two or three eggs. Fat Brose.—Two ounces of oatmeal, one and a half of dripping, two gills of boiling water, a pinch of salt, a pinch of pepper, and one onion, mixed and boiled. Put the oat-THE housewife's REFEREE 92 meal and dripping into a bowl, stir in gradually the boiling water; add the salt, pepper, and onion. Boil for ten minutes. Fish Broth.—Fry an onion with butter and oil in equal parts; a carrot, some celery, and a little parsley, all well pounded. Put into this mixture any suitable fish ; adding salt to taste. Let the fish brown a little, then put in some tomatoes cut in pieces, dried mushrooms cut up fine ; a*nd by degrees pour in as much boiling water as required for the soup. When the fish is thoroughly cooked, and almost in shreds, take the saucepan off the fire, and let it cool a little ; then strain the broth, and pass through a sieve the re- mains of the fish, etc., in the saucepan; put this into the strained broth, and put it on to the fire to boil another half hour. Add toasted bread cut in dice, and serve grated Parmesan cheese with the soup. Fish Soup a la Faysanne.—Take any kind of fish, wash it well and set it on the fire with enough cold water to cover it; add a small stick of celery, an onion or two, a few sprigs of parsley, a bay leaf, six cloves, and a spray of ginger; cover close and leave to simmer for an hour; then add sufiicient water for the quantity of soup required. Let all boil up together; add a cup of cream, and salt and white pepper to taste. Fry as many eggs in butter as there are people at table; lay them in the tureen, pour over the soup, and serve with small fried sippets of bread. This soup may be made brown by leaving out the cream, and using black pepper; and adding browning made in a stewpan with butter, sliced onion, and flour. Fish Soup a la Florentine.—Take three pounds of fresh grey mullet, sprinkle a little salt over; then put six ounces of olive oil in a stewpan with one pound and four ounces of finely chopped onions, and sufficient salt; put on the fire till the onions are partly browned, then add a handful of washed parsley and the same of mint, both chopped fine, and fry them a little together with the onions; then add a pint of the best wine-vinegar and two or three pints of hot or cold water, and boil it for twenty or thirty minutes ; then pass the liquor through a sieve into another saucepan, and place the fish in it; let it simmer till the fish is done; then93 SOUP MAKING take it out and extract all the bones; cut the fish in pieces and put them in the tureen. Pass the liquor again through a cloth into a stewpan; then put into a basin the yolks of three or four eggs, the juice of one or two lemons, half a teacupful of water coloured with two drachms of saffron; beat up all together, and add it gradually to the liquor. Set on a moderate fire for ten or fifteen minutes, stirring it all the time with a wooden spoon, and without letting it boil. Then pour it over the fish, sprinkle a little cinnamon, and a pinch of cayenne pepper, and serve. Florenza Soup.—Put three pints of white stock in a stewpan to boil; mix the yolks of three eggs and a gill of cream together in a basin; pour them into the stock with a little salt, and stir till the eggs are cooked. Then draw off the fire, and add two ounces of cooked macaroni cut up in pieces half an inch long, one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, and a tiny dust of cayenne. The soup must not boil after the cheese is in. Galles, Soup de.—Take a pig's head, set aside the cheeks (which may be cured), partly boil the rest; then cut up the meat into neat square pieces, and put the bones to stew in three quarts of second stock, well flavoured with vege- tables, herbs, pepper, and salt; then strain and set by to cool. The next day take off all the fat from the stock; heat it in a stewpan; thicken with flour and butter, and add the pieces of meat with force-meat and egg-balls. The meat should be first simmered in the stock for a quarter of an hour before the force-meat balls are added, and the egg-balls should only be put in just before sending to table. Make the force-meat balls of finely chopped suet, bread- crumbs, a little veal and ham, or tongue, finely-chopped sweet herbs, pepper, and salt; bind all together with a little yolk of egg ; make up into small balls with a sprinkle of flour, and boil them well for a few minutes before putting in the soup. For the egg-balls, take the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs, and half the yolk of a raw egg. Mix together ; rub through a wire sieve; make it into a paste, with a sprinkle of flour; form into small balls, and boil two or three minutes in water. Flavour the soup with a little mushroom ketchup or Old English Sauce, a squeeze of lemon and a little sherry or Marsala.THE housewife's REFEKEE 94 Giblet Soup.—Having well washed and picked four sets, parboil, then simmer them gently in two quarts of good stock till quite tender. Put into a stewpan a quarter of a pound of butter, a few shallots and onions, a bunch of lemon thyme, knotted and sweet marjoram, a very little basil, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, some parsley, and one pint of good stock; let this simmer gently on a stove for an hour ; then thicken with flour or white roux^ and add this to the stock, in which the giblets have been cooking ; put in a pint of Madeira, let it boil a few minutes, then strain it; but put back some of the pieces of giblet. Squeeze into the tureen a small Seville orange; add a little sugar and cayenne. Gravy Soup, Clear.—Time seven hours. Eight pounds of beef, three quarts of water, two teaspoonfuls of salt, half a large teaspoonful of peppercorns, six cloves, two blades of mace, a bunch of savoury herbs, two carrots, one head of celery, half an ounce of sugar, one dessertspoonful of soy, two of Harvey's sauce, and a little vermicelli. Cut off four or five pounds of the meat from the shin of beef, and divide the knuckle, that the whole may lie closely in the stewpan. Pour in three quarts of water, and when it has been brought slowly to boil, skim it well, and add an ounce and a half of salt, the peppercorns, six cloves, two blades of mace, a bunch of herbs, two carrots, and a head of celery cut into pieces; and three turnips in about one hour after. Put it over the fire and allow the whole to boil very slowly, until the beef is done to rags and the vegetables tender. Strain the soup and let it stand till the next day; then skim ofi" the fat, and when thoroughly heated, add a little walnut ketchup, and send it to table with toasted bread cut into dice, with- out the crust. This soup can be varied by adding vermicelli, vegetables, etc., and the sediment can be used for hashes or gravies. Green-Pea Soup.—Make a little good gravy from a knuckle of veal and part of a neck of mutton; take half a peck of young green peas, boil and beat them to a pulp in a marble mortar; then add a little of the gravy, and strain through a hair sieve to take out all the pulp; put all together with a little salt, whole pepper, and a quarter of a pound of butter, let it have a boil; then95 SOUP MAKING put into your tureen, and have ready a gill of young peas boiled to put in. Green Pea Soup {dried peas).—Soak some dried green peas for twenty-four hours in cold water, drain and put them on to boil in fresh water for four hours, then add a handful of spinach; when this is tender rub all through a sieve, add to the pulp a sufficiency of well-flavoured stock ; re-heat, and serve with strips of custard made of rice-flour, boiled in a little stock mixed with the yolk of an egg and steamed in small moulds. Hare Soup (The Gentlewoman),—Cut the flesh from a hare and pound it with half an ounce of butter to half a pound of meat; chop up the carcass and bones, put them in a stewpan with an ounce and a half of butter, a carrot, turnip, three onions, a leek, a strip of celery, a few pepper- corns, a bunch of herbs, and two or three mushrooms. Fry them for about twenty minutes, then mix in three ounces of cornflour and four quarts of good brown stock (made from game bones if possible) ; let all boil up. Skim and simmer gently for a couple of hours and rub through a fine sieve, add the pounded meat to it, re-heat and serve with profiteroles; add a glass of port wine just before serving. Hare Soup, Thick.—After opening the hare, be careful to reserve the l3lood in a basin. Cut the meat into small pieces, and put it on to boil with three or four pints of water, half a pound of onions, one carrot, and twelve black peppercorns. Let it boil for four hours, strain and add the blood, stirring it till it comes to boiling point. Let it remain on the fire for twenty minutes, adding a few leaves of celery to flavour, and potatoes if liked. His Excellency's Soup.—Take some chicken giblets and put them into a stewpan of boiling water for five minutes to blanch. Next put them into white stock with two onions, one carrot, one turnip, one bouquet garlic, two cloves, and some mignonette pepper; let the whole boil for two hours, skimming occasionally. Mix a tablespoonful of flour with a little of the cold stock; put it into a clean stew- pan with an ounce of butter and let it cook for a few minutes, then add the stock in which has been put a dust of cayenne, &ix drops of a lemon, and a dessertspoonful of96 THE housewife's REFEREE O. R. sauce ; let the whole boil up, and then strain into the tureen. Hotch-Potch [Scotch Recipe).—Put three or four pounds of a neck of mutton, six carrots, six turnips, cut in dice, half a peck of peas, half a peck of beans, pepper and salt to taste, into four quarts of lukewarm water and boil very slowly for three hours. An hour before serving add six small mutton chops carefully trimmed, another half-pint of peas, two carrots grated, a handful of finely chopped parsley, two or three chopped onions, and any other vegetable at hand, skim constantly, then take out the neck of mutton before serving. The broth should be made the day before. Hunters' Soup.—Take a large white cabbage and pour boiling water over it, brown it by frying in a good dripping, add some thin stock, then a piece of ham or bacon, a lean piece of mutton, parsley, an onion, two shallots, and a rabbit cut up, or part of a hare. Boil all together over a slow fire for four hours. Toast some pieces of bread, cut them up into sippets, and place at the bottom of the soup tureen. When this is done, strain the gravy and pour over the sippets ; add pepper and salt, and serve very hot, with a sufficient quantity of cabbage to give the proper thickness. The ham, rabbit, etc., should be minced, thickened with flour, and fried in the shape of balls with the addition of two yolks of eggs to make them firm. Italian Soup.—Take the flesh left from the cow-heel or calves' feet that jelly has been made from; cut it into dice. Eoil two tablespoonfuls of sago, well washed until it is clear, either in water or inferior stock, and warm just to boiling point some soup stock. Just before dinner put the pieces of meat into some boiling stock until warmed through ; then put them at the bottom of the tureen, also the sago and a large tablespoonf ul of grated Parmesan cheese, and pour the boiling stock upon these and send to table. Kidney Soup.—Parboil an ox kidney, mix it with two or three slices of liver and bacon, and fry in clarified dripping tiM nearly browned. Now pour on a pint of stock, season with pepper, salt, a tablespoonful of Worcester sauce, and a dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup; make a brown07 SOUP MAKING thickening (not too thick), and boil all up together; add a small glassful of claret. Lobster Soup.—First cut up very small the following— viz., a carrot, onion, celery, four shallots, bay leaf, and thyme and some parsley. Fry these in a stewpan with a piece of butter until they are lightly browned, then add six ounces of flour, mix well, moisten with three pints of good stock (or water if for meagre soup), stir over the fire, and when it boils set it by the side to simmer gently for half an hour. While this part of the preparation is going on, break up a fresh-cooked hen-lobster ; remove the meat from the tail and claws, and cut this into neat square pieces, to be kept in reserve; all the remainder of the lobster and shell, together with a little spawn, must be well bruised in a mortar and stirred into the soup as it boils ; and five minutes after let the whole be rubbed through a tammy, poured into a soup- pot, made hot and skimmed, seasoned with a glass of sherry, a little Harvey, lemon juice, anchovy, and cayenne, and poured into a soup tureen already containing the cut-up lobster and some small quenelles. Madras Soup {Grace Johnstone).—Cut an onion into thin rings, chop one or two cloves of garlic very fine, and fry these a golden brown in two ounces of good salt butter, with twenty-four cloves and twenty-four peppercorns. Now add a good heaped-teaspoonful of best curry powder and two quarts of stock; stir well. Then stir in two packets of Edwards's brown desiccated soup and one pound of tomatoes sliced, or, better still, one pound of tomato conserve, three bay leaves, and salt to taste. Let this simmer gently for quite two hours, then strain through a wire sieve, passing all the ingredients you can into the liquor. Serve with fried bread cut into dice. This is a delicious soup. Maigre Soup.—Two quarts green peas, two onions sliced, two quarts hot water, one bunch fine herbs ; stew for half an hour; add mashed potatoes or boiled rice, and pass through a tammy. Season with pepper, salt, and sugar (a tablespoonful), add a pint of new milk, stir till the mixture is smooth, and then warm. Serve croutons of bread fried in butter. A similar soup is made with roots; but as they require unequal time, observe the following rules—viz.,THE housewife's KEFEtlEE 98 carrots, two hours ; celery, one hour; turnips, half-hour ; shallots, quarter-hour. Mullagatawny {Salt Fish\ Grace Johnstone,—Cut up an onion into thin rings, fry it in two ounces of butter, with twenty-four cloves, a delicate brown \ add one tablespoonful of curry powder, stir, and fry a minute ; then pour in three pints of good fish stock; cut up two Yarmouth bloaters into nice-sized pieces, put them into the soup; add two cloves of garlic chopped, the seeds of twelve cardamoms, three bay leaves, a few leaves of tarragon and chervil, four tomatoes, if in season, and if not, two tablespoonfuls of tomato conserve; let it simmer gently for an hour : just before serving add a tablespoonful of tamarinds pulped in warm water; strain and serve. If required, thicken. Pea flour is the best to thicken it with ; ordinary flour deadens the flavour. Serve with rice, as before. This is a most appetising and delicious soup. Mushroom Soup.—Take some knuckle of beef, break up the bones and cut the meat into large pieces, allow to each pound a little less than a quart of milk, season with salt and pepper. Boil till the meat falls to pieces, then strain into a clean stewpan. Have ready a quart of mushrooms peeled with their stalks removed, and put them into the soup with a quarter pound of butter divided into pieces and rolled in flour; boil till the mushrooms are tender, add a little mushroom ketchup and keep the cover well closed. Onion Soup.—Take four or five large onions, peel, and boil them in milk and water till tender, changing the water three times in the boiling, then beat them in a marble mortar to a pulp, rub them through a hair sieve and put them into good gravy, fry a few slices of veal and lean bacon, beat them in a mortar as fine as force-meat, and put into your kettle with the gravy and onions, then boil them; mix a spoonful of flour with a little water and put it into the soup to keep it from running ; strain it through a cullender, and season it to your taste; put into your dish a little spinach stewed in butter, and a little crisp bread; serve it up hot. Oyster Soup.—Scald, drain, and beard four dozen oysters, reserving their liquor in a pan; put four ounces of butterSOtlP MAKING 99 into a stewpan to dissolve over the fire; mix in four ounces of flour ; moisten with a pint and a half of good white stock ; season with nutmeg, a pinch of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of anchovy; stir over the fire for a quarter of an hour; boil gently and add the liquor. Cut the oysters in half, pour the hot soup over them in the tureen ; add a little sweet cream and serve. Oyster Soup, a rAmericaine.—-Take one tablespoonful of butter and one of flour; rub them well together;, boil two quarts of milk and, when thoroughly boiling, dissolve the butter and flour in it; add two or three blades of mace well broken up, half a teaspoonful of whole black pepper, two or three sprigs of parsley chopped fine, and salt to taste. When all has been stirrred and is boiling, drop in fifty or sixty oysters; let them boil once, or say for two minutes, or till the oysters begin to swell up ; and the soup is ready for use. Before putting the oysters in to boil, strain all the liquor from them. Parmesan Soup.—Put into a stewpan celery, turnips, carrots, green leeks or onions, and young cabbage leaves, all cut in strips, with a piece of butter and a little sugar; cover close and leave to stew in their own steam over a slow tire. Shake them occasionally till soft and yellow. If the vegetables are not quite young they must be previously parboiled, or they give too strong a flavour to the soup. Boil the vegetables thus prepared in good gravy soup, and then strain them away. Take slices of stale roll, and with a small round cutter no bigger than a shilling, cut out little cakes, dip them in hot butter, and roll them in grated Parmesan cheese. Bake them a bright yellow, and throw them into the soup at time of serving. Parsnip Soup.—One pound of sliced parsnips; two ounces of butter ; salt and cayenne to taste; one quart of stock. Put the parsnips into the stewpan with the butter, which has been previously melted, and simmer them till quite tender. Then add nearly one pint of stock, and boil together for half an hour. Pass all through a fine strainer, and put to it the remainder of the stock. Season, boil and serve immediately. Time two hours. Seasonable from October to April.THE HOtJSEWIFE^S KEI'EREE 100 Peasant Soup.—Chop cabbage, carrots, onion, and celery; boss them in butter a pale brown, add a little stock and simmer very gently for three hours ; now add some water in which haricot beans or lentils have been cooked, simmer another half-hour, now add some very finely chopped sorrel and lettuce; let it all come to a boil, and pour it into the tureen over some fried sippets. Pease Brose.—Take two ounces of ground pease, a pinch of salt and one and one-half gill of boiling water. Put the pease and salt into a bowl, stir in gradually the boiling water. Boil this for five minutes and serve hot. Pescatore, Consomm^ al.—Take some small fish moulds, and butter them well, and fill them with lobster quendle ; steam them and then turn them out, and serve them in good clear soup. Ploughboy Soup.—Take a couple of onions, two carrots, two small turnips, a head of celery, one leek, two lettuces, some winter cabbage, a bottle of preserved French beans and six potatoes. The onions and leek must be minced and fried, with some fat bacon chopped small, till of a nice colour; then add the other vegetables chopped except the lettuces and potatoes, then boil the latter and add half a pound of tongue and also some stock. Let all boil up for about half an hour, and then add the chopped potatoes, and when they are nearly cooked shred in the lettuces and a little parsley; remove the tongue and serve up the soup. Polish Soup.—Fry an onion in butter, and mix in two tablespoonfuls of flour, and fry for two minutes, adding gradually two quarts of broth. Stir till it boils, then let it stand by the side of the fire and add a raw chicken, and let all simmer. When the chicken is cooked, skim the soup, pass it through a sieve and let it boil up again. Have ready some carrots, parsley, and celery, cut up in lengths half an inch long and a quarter-inch wide, and cook them in a little thin stock. Then, just before serving, mix in these vegetables, and thicken the soup with sour cream mixed with the yolks of three eggs; pass through a sieve; then chop a little fennel finely and scatter it in. Pot-au-Feu.—Put in a saucepan six pounds of beef (bonesSOUP MAKING 101 included) cut into two or three pieces; three-quarters of a pound of mixed vegetables, such as onions, carrots, turnips, leeks, white cabbage, etc., celery with its leaves left on, all cut in good-sized pieces, three small spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper and one of sugar ; add eight pints of water, let it boil gently three hours, remove the fat, add crusts of roll or slices of bread, either previously toasted or plain, and serve. Potage a la Cussy.—Slice and fry six Spanish onions in butter, with a dredge of castor sugar till they are of a pale gold colour. Then put them into a stewpan with as much boiling milk as will make the required quantity of soup, and after it has come to the boil, season with pepper and salt, let it simmer for half an hour, pass the soup through a sieve, and serve with little croictons of fried bread, dipped into grated Parmesan cheese. Royal Soup.—Mix the yolks of six eggs, with rather less than one gill of cold water and a pinch of salt; strain the mixture and divide it into three equal parts; colour one with some cochineal, the other with spinach greening, and leave the third plain. Put them into three small plain moulds, previously buttered, and set these in a pan of hot water, place on the fire to boil just long enough to set the mixture. When the water in the saucepan has become quite cold turn out the contents of each mould on to a wet napkin, and you will have three small cakes of firm custard, respectively green, red, and yellow. Cut them into small dice and, handling them in the gentlest possible manner, spread them out on a plate to be kept till wanted. At the time of serving put a clear and well-flavoured consomme into the soup tureen; slip in carefully the custard dice and serve at once. Scotch Broth.—Take some middle cutlets from neck of mutton; trim them ; then take the trimmings and put them into a stewpan, with some of the scraps and small pieces of knuckle of veal; moisten well with good boiling broth, and season with some sticks of celery, leeks, parsley, a very large onion stuck with two cloves, a few slices of turnip cut into dice, and one or two carrots also cut into dice. Let this broth boil gently for three hours, season with salt and pepper, and skim off the fat, When it becomes a good flavour102 THE housewife's EBFEREE drain it over the chops, which must be put in a large enough stewpan to contain the soup. Have some well-washed barley which has been boiling for a long time, and put it into the soup with the chops to boil for one hour. Skim before sending to table. Chop a little parsley very fine and add just before serving. Scotch Broth {Scotch Recipe).—Wash well a teacupful of barley and put it in with four pounds of neck of mutton into four gallons of luke-warm water; bring to the boil and skim thoroughly, then stew gently for one hour. Take three or four leeks, an onion, two large turnips, and three carrots; cut them up and add them to the soujy and let all boil quietly till the vegetables are thoroughly done; for if allowed to boil hard, the meat becomes tough. Any vege- table in season may be added, such as lettuce, cabbage, peas, and beans. Second day's broth'' is always better than the same first day. Siberian Soup [Foreign Recipe).—Kub a piece of fresh sturgeon well with seasoning, and let it soak half a day in white wine with aromatic herbs. Stew it with wine, bacon, ham, and vegetables. When done let it cool in the liquor, and then strain. Remove all grease, cut up some parsley roots, small peel, six pickled gherkins, scrape out the centre and slice them. Brown a chopped onion and stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour, let it cook for two minutes, add two quarts of fish stock and the liquor in which the sturgeon was cooked, stir till it boils, then simmer one hour. Just before serving stir in gherkins and parsley and the fish cut into dice. Thicken with a glass of smitane ; sprinkle with fennel, and serve. Solferino Soup.—Four eggs, half-pint of cream, two ounces of fresh butter, salt and pepper to taste, a little flour to thicken, and two quarts of bouillon. Beat the eggs, put them into a stewpan, and add the cream, butter, and seasoning, stir in as much flour as will bring it to the consistency of dough ; make it into balls, either round or egg-shaped, and fry them in butter; put them in the tureen and pour the boiling bouillon over them. Time one hour. (Seasonable all the year.) Tomato Soup.—Boil a good-sized carrot and grate it; add103 SOUP MAKING it to three quarts of beef stock, that has been boiled with vegetables, and a small piece of bacon. Flavour according to taste with fresh tomatoes previously stewed in a little butter ; season with a little ketchup, cayenne, white pepper, and salt. Boil the soup and skim it; when ready to dish up, add the squeeze of a lemon. When fresh tomatoes are not to be had, substitute preserved ones. Turtle Soup {Dried Turtle),—Soak one pound of the turtle for three or four days in cold water, changing the water constantly. Then it must be put into three quarts of good and ivell-Jlavoured stock; add leeks, carrots, turnips, a dessertspoonful of turtle herbs (which can be bought already prepared), peppercorns, and salt. The soup should simmer gently for twelve hours, adding a little stock from time to time, when the turtle should be found quite tender. Now strain it and, when cold and all the fat taken off, clarify it with white of eggs and raw meat in the usual mode. It must then boil up and simmer for about two hours, when it should be strained through a fine table-napkin. Cut some of the turtle into small pieces and serve in your soup ; a slice of green fat should be added, which can always be bought at the stores and larger Italian warehouses. Before serving, a little cayenne, some lemon juice, and a glass of sherry should be added. Vegetable Marrow Soup.—Four young vegetable marrows, or more if very small; half a pint of cream, salt and white pepper to taste, two quarts of white stock. Pare and slice the marrows, and put them in the stock boiling. When done almost to a mash, press them through a sieve, and at the moment of serving, add the boiling cream and seasoning. Time, one hour. Seasonable in summer. Victoria Soup.—Wash half a pound of pearl barley, and put this into a stewpan with three pints of good white veal stock, and simmer it very gently over a slow fire for an hour and a half, by which time the barley will be nearly dissolved; put a third of it into a small soup pot, and the remainder through a sieve, then add to it the whole barley. Add half a pint of cream, season with a little salt, stir it over the fire until hot, and serve. Watercress Soup.—To one pint and a half, or quart, of104 THE housewife's EEFEEEE mutton broth add half a pound of potatoes, which have been boiled and mashed ; season the latter with pepper and salt, and add thereto the leaves of three or four bunches of watercress. The stalks should be chopped finely and put into the soup. Toast sippets should be sent to table with it. FISH " From the sands of the sea, where the tide ebbs and flows, I'll make for fish."—Tempest. Bouillabaisse.—For eight or ten persons, take six pounds of different kinds of fish—sole, haddock, bass, mackerel, etc. Twenty or thirty little-necked clams, six onions cut in quarters, two tomatoes strained through a sieve, two dried bay leaves, two slices of lemon, a little dried orange peel, four cloves, salt and pepper to taste, a little saffron, a pinch of chopped parsley, one pint of white wine ; put all in a large saucepan. After having cut in pieces the fish, the onions, laurel and lemon and orange peel and cloves are tied up in a little muslin bag; add half a pint of salad oil and water enough to cover the whole. Let it boil hard for forty minutes, cut slices of bread for each person, toast and place on a platter; pour on the fish and sauce, and serve at once. Brill a la Duglere ; Barbue a la Duglere {Bardel).—Cut a brill into four or six pieces and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Have some fine round tomatoes, dip in boiling water, remove the skin and chop in small pieces; also chop some parsley fine. Melt a large lump of butter in a stewpan, add the tomato and parsley, place the slices of brill on the melted butter, tomato, and parsley, and pour some more of the same over them. Cover the stewpan as tightly as possi- ble, and place it on a hot plate, and heat up the cover with red hot cinders; stew thus from twenty to thirty minutes, according to the size of the brill. Warm the dish and take out the brill, arranging the pieces to their natural shape. Pour the sauce over it, which should be thick (reduce it over a rapid fire if too thin). Serve very hot. Lemon and red pepper may be served round with it.105 FISH Cod fish en tranches frits.—Cut the middle or tail of the fish into slices nearly one inch thick; season them with salt and white pepper and cayenne; flour them well and fry them of a clear equal brown, on both sides ; drain them on a sieve before the fire and serve them on a well-heated napkin, with plenty of crisped parsley round them, or dip them into beaten egg, and then into fine crumbs, mixed with a seasoning of salt and pepper (some cooks add one of minced herbs also) before they are fried. Send melted butter and anchovy sauce to table with them. Eight to twelve minutes. This is a much better way of dressing the thin part of the fish than boiling it, and as it is generally cheap, it makes an economical, as well as a very good dish. If the slices are lifted from the frying-pan into a good curried gravy, and left in it by the side of the fire for a few" minutes before they are sent to table, they will be found excellent. Cod roes in Tomato Sauce.—Take one or two cods' roes, wash well and be careful not to break them. Boil till quite soft, drain from the water, and when cold cut into slices about half an inch thick. Take one ounce of butter, warm it over the fire in a stewpan, stir into it the yolks of two eggs beaten, half a teaspoonful of salt, a little cayenne, a grate of nutmeg, and two dessertspoonfuls of tomato sauce; mix well, and stir over fire to thicken. Put in the slices of roe, and let them soak for a few minutes; have some slices of toast ready, put the cods' roe on them, pour the sauce over, and put in the oven for a few minutes and serve very hot. Crappit Heads.—Take three haddocks' heads, two haddocks' roes, and livers, quarter-pound of oatmeal, one dessertspoonful of breadcrumbs (browned), the same of chopped parsley, two minced and parboiled onions, one teacupf ul of milk, one-quarter teaspoonful of pepper and one teaspoonful of salt. Brown the oatmeal by placing it in a dish in the oven, stirring it occasionally ; cleanse the heads, wipe them dry, and remove the eyes; mince the roes, livers, parsley, and onions, adding the pepper and salt. Make them into a stiff paste with the milk. Stuff the heads with this mixture and sew them up. Melt the dripping and brush the heads over with it and sprinkle them with bread- crumbs. Bake for an hour and a half or boil for three- quarters of an hour,THE housewife's BEFEEEE 106 Crayfish a la Bordelaise.—Fry the crayfish in their shells a nice brown in butter. Cut some carrots and onions into small dice, add some parsley and a bay leaf, some thyme, and stew in sauterne. Add the crayfish, and allow to boil for a quarter of an hour; thicken with fresh butter, and season with a little cayenne pepper. Crayfish a la Parisienne ; Ecrevisses a la Parisienne.— {Noel).—Butter the moulds, and line them with salmon force-meat, put in the interior some sliced crayfish tails mixed with a little allemande sauce ; fill up the moulds with the force-meat and poach; serve up with a cardinal sauce and a ragout a la Normande. Eel a la Tartare; Anguille a la Tartare.—Take a freshly killed eel, tie a piece of string tightly below the head and skin the fish. Clean it, and scald it in boiling water for three minutes, so that the second skin comes off easily. Remove all the fins, cut the fish in pieces, and boil it gently in stock for twenty minutes; then let it cool, and dry it in a cloth. Beat up two eggs with a few drops of oil and a few drops of water ; dip the pieces of fish into this; then breadcrumb and fry brown; serve with tartare sauce made with the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs chopped with some shallot, parsley, and chervil; pound them well together, stirring into them some good salad oil, and add vinegar, mustard, salt, and pepper to taste. Eels a la Bourguignonne; Meurette a la Bourguignonne. —Cut up two small eels, slice an onion finely and put in three cloves of garlic, a leek, thyme, bay leaf, pepper- corns, and three cloves; put these in a gourmet boiler, or Trench earthenware saucepan, with a pint of light claret; then put in the fish and a little salt, and let all stew for ten minutes, and thicken with some fiour and butter; stew again for three or four minutes, and stir in a little melted butter very gradually. When this has all amalga- mated with the stew, dish up the fish on toast, having rubbed the toast with a soupc^on of garlic; strain the same over the fish and serve as hot as possible. Eels An Vin Blanc, Matelote of.—Take two good-sized eels, skin and chop ithem in the usual way, mince some small onions, and some mushrooms, and melt some butter107 FISH in a saucepan, put some chablis into a saucepan; put in the melted butter, mushroom, onions, and the eels ; add pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Let it boil for a few minutes, then put in two spoonfuls of flour and a little lemon juice, and let all boil up together; take out the eel, tammy the sauce, and pour it over the eels. Finnon Haddock.—Take a finnon haddock, half an ounce of butter, one pint of milk, one quarter of a teaspoonful of flour. Wipe the haddock with a damp cloth, cut it in quarters, roll the pieces in the flour. Place them in a stew- pan with the milk and butter. Bring to the boil very slowly, and allow them to simmer gently for five minutes; serve with the sauce in which the fish was cooked. Finnon Haddock with Poached Eggs.—Make a large pie-dish hot, place the haddock in it and cover it with boiling water ; put a dish over and allow the fish to soak for eight minutes, when the haddock will have swollen to double its size. Drain it from the water, skin downwards place it in a Dutch oven before the fire with several lumps of butter on the top, also pepper, and a dust of cayenne. Then it must remain before the fire till of a golden brown colour, and the tin should be turned so as to colour equally. When cooked place on a hot dish, and cover the top with poached eggs. Fische Pastete (Fish Pie).—Take some small, neat shaped fish, cut ofi" the heads, split them down the back, remove the large bone, stuff them with force-meat, close them and lay the fish thus prepared in couples, or separately, on a piece of pastry large enough to fold over like a turnover, and well-lined with strips of bacon. Bake about two hours, and serve. Fish Quenelles.—E-emove the skin and bones from any cold fish, pound about five ounces till fine, then put the bones in a stewpan with a little water, pepper and salt to make stock ; when cooked strain, and when cool soak in it two ounces of breadcrumbs, squeeze it out and stir over the fire in a small pan till dry; then turn into a basin and beat into it the yolk of an egg. When cold mix the fish into it, adding a small piece of butter, salt, pepper, and grate of nutmeg, and one whole egg. Shape the mixture into ovalsTHE housewife's REFEREE 108 like eggs with two tablespoons and poach them in boiling water. Haddock, Salt, Stuffed.—Get a good-sized salted and smoked haddock; trim it neatly, and stuff it with the mixture given below; then tie it round with tape (string cuts it), shape it nicely; put it in the oven to bake, and baste with melted butter, in which a little curry powder has been mixed. Serve with a garnish of chopped parsley, and slices of tomato and lemon. This can be eaten with a pillau, rice, or with mashed potatoes. Stuffing for Haddock.—Boil four eggs hard, shell them, chop them fine. Cut up an onion in thin rings; fry—in two ounces of butter with twelve cloves—a delicate brown; add a tablespoonful of curry powder; stir, then add the chopped eggs, the seeds of five cardamoms, a few leaves of tarragon, one bay leaf, two beads of garlic—chop these very fine—one tablespoonful of tomato conserve, a little salt to taste, and the grated peel of a small lemon. Fry till very nearly dry, but not quite so, and stuff the fish. Haddocks en Pyramide ; Merlins en Pyramide.—Take a dried haddock, flake the meat off, and pass it through a wire sieve. Have some fried croiUons ready, about three inches in diameter and a quarter of an inch thick. Make a puree of this tammied haddock with a little cayenne pepper and butter. Spread each croitton with this mixture, and place on it an oyster, seasoned with one drop of lemon juice and cayenne. Then take some more of the haddock puree and completely cover the oyster, and pile it up to the shape of a pyramid. Pour a little melted butter over each and cook for three and a half minutes in the oven; sprinkle lobster coral over all, and stick in a small watercress leaf or a spray of chervil in each. Herring Roes and Oysters.—Cut some pieces of bread three inches long, one inch wide, and half an inch deep; hollow out the centre and fry quite crisp. Fill with soft bloater roes with three oysters on each, which must be sauted in butter for a couple of minutes; add a squeeze of lemon, a sprink- ling of cayenne, and serve very hot. Herrings a la Yarmouth; Harengs a la Yarmouth.—Clean and wipe four fresh herrings ; cut off their heads and tails.FISH 109 but do not wash them. Make three incisions slantwise on either side of each fish; rub them all over with a mixture of mustard mixed in tarragon vinegar, a clove of garlic scraped fine, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Place the fish in a china baking-dish with two ounces of butter broken over them, and a glass of claret, and set in the oven for ten minutes; turn the fish, baste them with their own liquor, and sprinkle over a handful of bread- crumbs, and replace in oven for ten minutes, and serve. Lobster Baskets; Corbeilles d'homard.—Take some hard- boiled eggs and cut them into halves longways ; take out the yolks and pound them in a mortar with the flesh of a hen lobster; when well mixed fill the eggs with the mix- ture. Take some of the feelers and put them across to look like a basket handle. Garnish with small salad and aspic. Oysters can be dressed the same way, substituting parsley stalks for the lobster feelers. Lobster en Beignets.—Divide a lobster into as nice pieces as possible, and dip each into good frying batter ; adding to it a little cayenne pepper, and a few drops of essence of anchovies. Fry quickly and serve very hot. Lobster Nests; Nids d'homard {Mrs. M7Zer).—Make some puff paste with six ounces of flour and six ounces of butter; line some nest moulds with this, filling them with rice and baking them a light golden colour. When cooked remove the rice, brush the tops of the nests over with white of egg, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. Pound some lobster in a mortar with a little butter, pepper, salt, and lobster coral; and shape this mixture into little eggs. Chop up fine a little more lobster, and stir over the fire in some good white sauce till quite hot; half fill the little nests with this sauce, and lay in the lobster eggs, allowing five or six to each nest. Serve very hot. Lobster Souffle; Souffle d'homard.—Put an ounce of butter into a stewpan, with two ounces of Vienna flour; mix well, and add gradually a gill of milk ; stir until perfectly smooth and thick, when remove from the fire and season with pepper, nutmeg, and salt. Take half a pound of cooked whiting, pass it through a sieve, and add this to the sauce. Pound well in a mortar, and add the yolks of110 THE housewife's EEFEHEil three eggs, one at a time; then six oysters which have been blanched and cut into halves or quai-ters; and next stir in a gill of whipped cream, and the whites of the eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture in a well- buttered mould ; cover with paper, and steam for thirty-five minutes. Serve with white sauce or cucumber sauce round it. Mackerel, Fried {French Recipe),—After the fish have been emptied and washed extremely clean, cut off the heads and tails, split the bodies quite open and take out the backbones j wipe the mackerel very dry, dust fine salt and pepper (or cayenne) over them, flour them well, fry them a fine brown in boiling lard; drain them thoroughly, and serve them with the following sauce:—Dissolve in a small saucepan one and a half ounce of butter, smoothly mixed with a teaspoonful of flour, some salt, pepper, or cayenne; shake these over a gentle fire until they are lightly coloured; then add by slow degrees nearly half a pint of good broth or gravy, and the juice of one large lemon ; boil the sauce for two minutes and serve it very hot; or, instead of this, add a large teaspoonful of strong made mustard, and a dessertspoonful of chili vinegar, and some thick melted butter, and serve it with the fish. A spoon- ful of Harvey's sauce, or of mushroom ketchup, can be mixed with this last at pleasure. Mackerel Bones, Grilled.—Take the bones of a boiled mackerel, dust them with salt and cayenne pepper, and broil over a quick fire till crisp, but not l3urnt. Serve with hot toast and butter; a mackerel bone for each guest. Mussels a la Provencale.—Wash the mussels several times, changing the water; put them to dry in a saucepan over a hot fire till the shells open. Take off one valve of the shell only. Put into a saucepan half a glass of oil, parsley, cloves, mushrooms, truffles, half a clove of garlic, all chopped very fine ; put on the fire; moisten with a glass of chablis, a spoonful of broth, and half the quantity of liquor from the mussels. Boil this sauce, and when it is nearly reduced to half, add the mussels with a spoonful of gravy; let the whole boil a few minutes, then add a spoon- ful of lemon juice, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and serve.FISH 111 Another way is, having well washed and scraped their shells, drain them and dry them in a stewpan upon a good fire. Then take them out of their shells one by one, picking off the beards, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter, parsley, and scallions shred small. Shake them over the fire, and put a little flour, moistening them with broth. When the sauce is consumed, put in the yolks of three eggs beat up with cream. Thicken over the fire, and add afterwards a dash of lemon or vinegar. Mussels anx fines herbes.—Open the mussels and detach them from the shells ; then arrange each mussel in half a shell, and arrange them in a pie dish ; keeping them level and steady in a laj^er of salt. Sprinkle them with finely chopped onions, shallots, mushrooms, parsley, and chervil, and then with breadcrumbs; then pour a little oiled butter over, and bake in the oven for eight minutes. Oysters a la Normande.—Butter the oyster moulds and decorate them with trufiles and lobster coral chopped very finely, fill up with a souffle of whitings flavoured with oyster essence. Poach them and turn out, and serve up on a border, the centre of which garnish with oysters previously poached and fried a la Yilleroy and serve with sauce Normande. Express moulds mast be used for these. Oysters, Devilled, a la Creole.—Place a layer of oysters in a shallow baking pan, spread with breadcrumbs, bits of mustard, butter, and vinegar ; season with salt and pepper, put in the pan in alternate layers ; put breadcrumbs and butter on the top. Squeeze over a little lemon juice and bake. Oyster Kromeskies a la Royale ; Kromeskies d'huitres a la Royale.—Blanch a dozen oysters, remove the beards and cut into small pieces. Have ready half a pound of cooked chicken (or veal), which has been finely minced, two mushrooms, and a small slice of lean bacon; add the oysters and pound all together. Then mix one ounce of butter and one ounce of flour together in a stewpan, and add sufficient milk to make a thick paste. Stir till it leaves the sides of the pan, and turn on to a plate to cool; add the oysters, etc., to this paste; season with a littleTHE HOUSEWIFE^S EEFEREIl 112 pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon juice. Divide the mixture and roll into pieces, rather smaller than an ordinary wine cork; dip each into light batter and fry in a wire basket. Garnish with fried parsley. Oyster Salad.—Take a quart of oysters and one large bunch of celery. Mix and cover with mayonnaise. Crisp small leaves of celery should be used as garnish. Oysters, Scalloped.—Open the oysters carefully, give them a scald in their own liquor, wash them in it free from grit and beard them neatly. Butter the scallop shells and shake some fine breadcrumbs over them; fill them with alternate layers of oysters, crumbs of bread, and fresh butter cut into small bits, pour in the oyster liquor after it has been strained, put a thick smooth layer of breadcrumbs on the top ; moisten them with clarified butter, place the shells in a Dutch oven before a clear fire, and turn them till the tops are brown all over, and a rich golden brown all round. Serve very hot. Pike a la Izaac Walton.—Stuff a pike with oysters, anchovies, and sweet herbs, with a little spice; tie it up with tape and plug the spare spaces in its belly with butter, bathe it in orange juice and baste with claret. Serve hot. Piquda.—This is a fish of the pike order. Fried in batter made with cornflour and eggs, it is very tender, and much eaten in Teneriffe. Prawn Curry.—If prawns are very expensive, the Baratarea tinned ones answer very well. Empty a tin of them into half a pint of white stock, with four tablespoonfuls of cream and a dust of mace. Mix one teaspoonful of curry powder with the same quantity of flour, and one ounce of fresh butter. Stew these very slowly altogether for an hour. Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, add a little salt and a quarter of a teaspoonful of brown sugar and serve in the centre of a ring of rice. Patna rice must be used and boiled in the usual way of curry rice, which should be arranged round the dish like a wall; then take a small- sized egg cup, fill it with rice, press it in and turn out on the top of the wall. One of these should be put at regularFISH 113 distances all round and the curry poured into the middle of the ring. Red Mullet.—If you get red mullet fresh from the sea, dress them as is done with woodcock, retaining the trail; but inland this is not a safe proceeding. They can be wrapped in buttered paper, baked in the oven, and sent up in the buttered paper ; about half an hour is the time in a fairly heated oven; or they can be broiled or fried ; Italian sauce should be served with them. Chopped shallot or onion, chopped mushroom, chopped fine herbs, mixed in brown sauce and diluted with a glass of chablis wine. Red Mullets k la Navarino ; Rougets a la Navarino.— Place the mullets in a stewpan with butter, stock, and a tablespoonful of chablis and bake them in the oven slowly for ten minutes. Then take them out of the pan, strain off the liquor, add to it some truffles, mushrooms, parsley, shallot, lemon juice, and flour. Stir all together over the fire for eight minutes, then add a liaison of three well-beaten yolks of eggs and a spoonful of cream. Take two sheets of grease-proof paper, butter them, lay the mullets on them and spread an equal proportion of sauce over each. Then fold the papers over them and roll the edges together and fasten them. Broil over a slow fire, enough to brown them on both sides and warm them through, but not to burn the paper. Red Mullets a la Toscana.—Make a mixture with tomatoes and mushrooms, three parts of the former to one of the latter, pepper and salt to taste, stuff some red mullets through the gill openings, and then roll the mullets in some salad oil and wrap them up separately in greased paper, and broil them over a moderate fire, and send them very hot to table. Red Mullet and Tomatoes; Rougets aux Tomates.— Butter a baking dish ; lay in the red mullets ; sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and minced parsley ; add half a bottle of tomato sauce; cover the dish with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for half an hour. Salmon a la Boulanger.—Take some slices of small sal- mon (grilse), boil them and let them get cold. Arrange 8114 THE housewife's EEFEHEE them, one overlapping the other, straight down the middle of the dish. Take a lobster, cut it very small, add a few drops of essence of anchovy, and a dust of cayenne ; and mix well with thick cream and plenty of lobster spawn, which has been rubbed through a fine sieve. Mask the top of each slice of salmon thickly with this mixture; then sprinkle some finely chopped aspic over each, and decorate with two or three chervil leaves. Around the salmon arrange a wreath of cucumber shred into julienne strips, with mayonnaise poured over it. Here and there place a spray of chervil. Salmon a Demain.—Salmon, two tablespoonfuls of liquor, one tablespoonful of salad oil, one dessertspoonful of chili vinegar, one dessertspoonful of cucumber vinegar, one tea- spoonful of minced capers, one teaspoonf ul of anchovy sauce, breadcrumbs. Separate the salmon in flakes, and lay them in a sauce, made of all the above ingredients mixed together (except the crumbs) to soak for about two hours. Take them up separately and lay them in a scallop tin. Mix the sauce with enough breadcrumbs to give it consistency; cover the fish with it, and make it hot in the oven. Salmon a I'ltalienne.—Take a middle-sized salmon, draw and scale it, drying it inside and out with a cloth. Then take fine grated breadcrumbs, currants, a little butter, flavouring of nutmeg and sweet marjoram, and make it into a pudding with new milk, which must be thrust in at the gills till the belly is well stufled. Lay in a baking tin, and baste first with a little salt and water, then vinegar and sugar, and lastly with claret and butter beaten up together. When done enough, serve hot with a garnish of whole spice and anchovy sauce. Salmon a la Montpelier.—grilse makes the best looking dish. Scrape away all the scales, and wrap the fish in a piece of the grease-proof paper, and place it into boiling water, which should have a carrot, onion, a bunch of herbs, a few peppercorns, and a little salt, and a few drops of vine- gar. After letting it come to the boil, draw the pan to the side of the fire and let it simmer^ allowing ten minutes to each pound of fish. Leave the fish in the water till it is cold then remove the paper and arrange the fish on aFISH 115 block of aspic jelly, or a rice socle about an inch high. Colour a little liquid aspic with greening, and brush the fish over with it, or mask it with green mayonnaise. Garnish the fish with Montpelier butter with a large forcing bag, and a rose pipe. Place chopped aspic all round the dish, and orna- ment with small sprigs of chervil and red chillies. Set with aspic jelly. Salmon a la Salisbury.—Take a small salmon, scrape away all scales and wrap the fish in a piece of greasy paper, and place it into boiling water, with a carrot, a little salt, onion, a bouquet of garni, a few peppercorns, and a few drops of vinegar. After letting all come to the boil, draw the pan to the side of the fire and let it simmer, allowing ten minutes to each pound of fish. Leave the fish in the water till it is cold, then remove the paper, and arrange the fish on a block of aspic jelly, or an aspic cream socle about an inch high. Colour a little liquefied aspic green, and brush the fish over with it, or mask it with green mayonnaise. Decorate the fish with Montpelier butter, with a large forcing bag and a rose pipe in pretty scrolls and designs. Garnish with chopped aspic, sprays of chervil, and red chillies set with aspic. Salmon a la Trafalgar.—Cut some half-pound steaks of salmon, grill them in buttered paper, and serve with a hot piccalilli sauce round it. Salmon Cassolettes.—Eoll some good paste very thinly, and line some dariole moulds with it; fill these with rice and bake. When done remove the barley, and let the pastry cases get cold. Cut some kippered salmon into six thin slices ; on each slice spread a little chutney and French mustard. ISTow roll up the slices of kippered salmon each in greased paper and bake for ten minutes; remove the papers and let the fish get cold. Place a roll of salmon into each pastry case; melt half a pint of aspic jelly, and pour enough over the fish in each case to cover it, and let it get cold. Lay little strips of cucumber across on the top of each, with a little chopped aspic. Salmon Cream; Creme de Saumon {Gentlewoman).—Flake some cold boiled salmon from bones and skin; pound it in a mortar with two or three washed and boned anchovies, aTHE housewife's REFEEEE 116 lump of butter, a dash of cayenne, and a little veloute sauce; when fine pass it through a sieve, and add enough whipped cream to make the mixture soft and light. Coat some small moulds with aspic jelly; when set, fill them with the cream. Cover with aspic and leave till firm. When turned out, dish them round a thinly-si iced cucumber salad. Salmon Fritters, Beignets de Saumon.—Take some cold salmon, and with a fork pull it into flakes. Sprinkle over some salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, with just a dust of cayenne pepper. Make a batter the consistency of thick cream, into which dip each piece of salmon when boiling. Fry a nice brown; drain, and serve up garnished with cucumber. Salmon Puddings; Boudins de Saumon.—Take some cold boiled salmon from the skin, pound it with a lump of butter then pass it through a sieve, add about half the quantity of breadcrumbs soaked in milk and squeezed out, add pepper, salt, and eggs ; the yolks should be worked in first, then the whites whisked to a froth; butter some small moulds, fill three parts full with the mixture, and steam in a saucepan of boiling water. Salmon Puddings ala Romaine ; Boudins de Saumon a la Eomaine {Hot).—Line a mould with salmon force-meat, then put in the centre a salpicon composed of prawns, truffles, and mushrooms cut up into dice, and mixed with allemande sauce. Fill up the mould with the force-meat and poach ; and dish up on a quenelle border and pour over cardinal sauce. Salmon Pudding, Boudins de Saumon a la Romaine {Gold). —Line the mould with aspic jelly; put in a layer of chaud- froid sauce, half a lobster, and half a tomato. Garnish with a salpicon of lobster and anchovies, mixed in a mayonnaise of aspic jelly and cream. Cover with chaudfroid sauce. Salmon Roll.—Take some salmon, remove the bones, and cut it fine ; salt, pepper, parsley, thyme, a teaspoonful of butter, the juice of a lemon, an egg, and add one third as many breadcrumbs as fish. Mould it into a roll; smear with the yolk of an egg ; dust with fine breadcrumbs; cover117 FISH with buttered paper, and bake from three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Garnish with peas, and serve with caper sauce. Salmon, Spiced.—Put into a fish kettle one pint of water, two quarts of good vinegar, half an ounce of black pepper, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves. Cut the salmon into neat slices, and put it into the liquor; when it boils allow it to simmer till well done; then take it out and let it cool. When the fish is cold put it into the covered dish in which it is to be kept. Strew bay leaves and a peppercorn between each piece. Send to table garnished with fennel and cucumber. It will keep for a month in the hottest weather. Salmon Trout a la Suedoise.—Boil a good-sized salmon trout and let it get cold. Make a sauce by chopping a cucumber small and passing it through a sieve, add some salad oil and cream to it with pepper and salt to taste. Mix thoroughly, then add to it half a pint of aspic jelly, coloured green; it must be mixed in the cool, but still in the liquid state. Put the sauce on ice, and when nearly firm and smooth entirely mask the fish with it; put it on ice again, and before sending it up to table garnish with whipped green aspic round and stick prawns down the back, or put in three hdtelets, on each of which stick two or three prawns. Sama TenerifFe.—Salt fish served in oil, vinegar, chopped parsley, and green chillies ; eaten with boiled potatoes in their skins. Saumon au Beurre Montpelier.—Boil a nice-sized salmon whole, and when cold dish it up lengthways, and garnish it with three stripes across its back at three inches apart to be placed on the salmon as saddles. These stripes should be made of Montpelier butter made very stiff with aspic jelly, and coloured a good green, and should be orna- mented with little kite-shaped devices of hard white of egg, and rose aspic stars. Two silver hdtelets should be placed upright across the middle of its back, piercing truffles and crawfish; fennel and chopped aspic should be arranged round as a garnish. Irlandaise sauce should be served with it.118 THE housewife's KEFEKEE Shrimp Vol-au-vents; Petits Vol-au-veuts de Crevettes {French Recipe).—Take a quart of shrimps, pick them from their shells, and put them in a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter and a dessertspoonful of Vienna flour. Then stew them, and constantly shake them; but care must be taken not to allow the butter and flour to get brown. Next add, drop by drop, a gill of milk, and after a tablespoonful of butter in little bits ; add a little pepper, and a trifle of salt. Then keep tossing the shrimps, and put at the same time a tablespoonful of thick cream, and then fill up the little vol-au-vent cases, which should be kept very hot in the oven. Skate k la Milanese.—Take some fillets of skate, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry them in butter. Dish en couronne, and pour round them a sauce made of a small onion, three mushrooms, and a bouquet garni; chop them all up together and fry them for a few minutes; add two wineglassfuls of vin de grave ; reduce ; then add half a pint of brown sauce, boil up, skim and pour round fish. Soles a la Bacclms.—Take some soles and divide them into two fillets only; roll each fillet over a long-shaped potato, so that when rolled the fillet just laps over; boil them in a little lemon, salt, and fish liquor, and when done, leave them to get cold; then take out the potatoes and fill the fish with iced anchovy cream. The soles should look like small barrels. Have some very stifl* red aspic jelly, cut it into very thin strips, and arrange 9,t one end three rows and the same at the other end, to give the eflect of a barrel. Garnish with chopped aspic and chervil leaves. Soles a la Dauphin.—Take eight fillets of soles; shape them a little narrow at one end, and before cooking them, bend them into a shape resembling a dolphin. Mash them with lobster cream into which aspic has been mixed and coloured with lobster coral. Put a little spot of truffle for each eye, and place a lump of uncrushed lobster coral just above where the nostrils would be, and cut a little piece of the lobster tail and put on at the end and at the sides for fins. Ha^ve ready a pyramid mound of white aspic jelly made with fish stock ; stand the dolphins up against it, the heads downwards; fill in between them with green salad. TheFISH 119 base should be composed of prawns, on the top of the jelly mound a coronet of prawns should be made by sticking them into the jelly. Place little white china shells round the dish and fill them with mayonnaise sauce sprinkled with coral. In between the china shells cut cucumber in thin corrugated slices and folded up like a leaf; place small radishes cut like rosebuds inside. Soles a la Menuisiere.—Cut the fins off a sole, and with a knife make four incisions across it on each side; then rub well into it half a tablespoonful of salt and chopped onions ; dip it in flour and broil over a slow fire. Have ready two ounces of fresh butter, mixed with the juice of a lemon and a little cayenne pepper, which rub over the sole, previously laid in a very hot dish without a napkin. Turn the fish over once or twice that it may be well covered. Put it into the oven for a minute and serve very hot. Sole a la Normande.—Take a large sole, and free the bones entirely from the flesh. Season the sole with pepper and salt, and moisten it with sauterne; whilst the sole is cooking make a white sauce, of which the stock should be the water in which mussels have been boiled. The sole must be put in the oven just five minutes before serving, and should be dished on an oval silver dish, well buttered and daintily powdered with finely minced and blanched onions. The garnish should consist of some of the mussels, oysters, mushrooms, fried smelts, and fried sippets of bread. Sole a la Tirhoot.—Take some fillets of sole, dip them into egg and flour, and fry them in salad oil; then roll and allow them to get quite cold. Then cover them with the following sauce :—Add to a gill of good cream the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, rubbed smooth, with a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce; when well mixed with the cream add gradually a tablespoonful of a lemon. Sole a rUtopia, Filets de.—Take a pair of fair-sized soles, fillet them and skin them and cut them into narrow, kite-shaped pieces, about five inches long, and put them into buttered paper; then take their bones, and put them in a saucepan with some milk, peppercorns, salt, an onion, and a good dessertspoonful of anchovy sauce; boil for about half an hour; strain and pour this fish stock into one of the120 THE HOUSEWlFE^S KEFBBEE French china fireproof pans; lay the fillets into it and squeeze the juice of a lemon over all and put in the oven till quite cooked, when they must be taken out of the stock and their papers, and be allowed to get cold. In the meantime let the stock they have been cooked in get cold also. Melt some butter in a saucepan, and mix some flour and milk together; pour the boiling butter over it and then add the fish stock, and half a pint of cream and half a pint of pale aspic cream ; let all boil up, and when thickened, strain. Colour one half a pretty pink with cochineal, and leave the other white. When nearly cold, mask four of the fillets with the white, and four with the pink sauce and put them on ice till quite stiff. Make a pillar with milk and gelatine (half a pint of milk to two and a half ounces of white leaf gelatine); it should be formed narrow at the top and put into the refrigerator, and when it is cold and firm, cover it all over with cress, and then place the fillets alternately round. Ornament the fillets with designs in trufile, and run pale aspic jelly between each. Place aspic all round the base and sprinkle lobster coral lightly over the aspic. On the top place a bed of aspic jelly, and on that arrange a small basket made in a basket mould of gelatine and milk and stick it on with gelatine; fill the basket with some of the macedoine vegetables that are sold in bottles, sprinkle a little cut aspic here and there, and garnish with chervil sprays; also decorate the base here and there with a chervil leaf. Soles au Gratin.—Cut ofi* the fins of a fine fresh sole, and make an incision in the back; then butter a stewpan and put into it a teaspoonful of finely chopped onions and a wine-glassful of white wine ; then place the sole in the pan, cover it with six spoonfuls of cullis and sprinkle fine breadcrumbs over it, and stick a few small pieces of butter about it. Put it now into a moderate oven, for twenty minutes or half an hour ; remove it carefully from the stew- pan and keep it hot while you make the following sauce:— Put into the saucepan four spoonfuls of stock, let it boil five minutes, stirring it all the time; add the juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, one of minced parsley, one ^of essence of anchovy, a little sugar and cayenne pepper; beat all together, and pour it round the121 fish in the dish on which it is to be served, and which should be a silver one. Put it again into the oven for a quarter of an hour, pass the salamander over it and serve very hot. Sole, Filets de, a la Dieppoise.—Take the fillets of two good-sized soles and place them on a buttered dish. Moisten with a glass of vi7i de graves, add salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, and put all into a moderately heated oven. When the fillets are cooked, take off the moisture, and replace by a spoonful of port wine. Add a piece of butter, and then arrange the fillets in the middle of the dish. Garnish with mushrooms and scallops which have been cut up; put the dish into the oven to glaze the sauce and serve. Sole, Filets de, en Mayonnaise.—Bake the fillets in a well-buttered baking dish with a squeeze of lemon, white pepper, and salt for ten or twelve minutes; press the fillets till quite cold, then dip in a thick mayonnaise, and when this has set, dish the fillets e7i couronne, filling the centre with Russian salad garnished with julienne strips of red chillies, French gherkin, etc. Sprats a la Rochelle.—Steep the sprats in oiled butter and lemon juice, cayenne, and a soupc^on of shallot; then roll each in breadcrumbs, next in beaten egg, then again in breadcrumbs, and fry a nice gold colour. Terrapin.—When a pot of water is boiling hard, drop the live terrapin in, and boil from one-half to three-quarters of an hour or more, until the skin can be pulled off their feet and the upper and lower shells are coming apart. Then take them out of the pot and set them to cool (they must be fairly warm or they will not pick apart well); reserve a quart of water in which they have boiled. Open the shell of the terrapin and quickly pull off the head and remove the two livers; the largest liver contains the gall in a small round sac, which must be care- fully cut loose and removed without breaking (hold it off^ some distance from the terrapin, for the least drop will spoil everything), wash the livers and cut them up in medium-sized pieces, then all the rest of the terrapin, entrails included, is good. Cut the latter in pieces an inchTHE HOUSEWIFE^S EEFEKEE 122 long. Kemove the two sand bags (small bladders adhering to the top shells) and throw them away. Skin the feet, and throw away the skin and toe nails. All the meat on the neck is good ; also the bones. Put the quart of water they were boiled in into a saeepan; when it boils, add half a pound of butter mixed carefully with three heaped tablespoonfuls of flour, salt to taste, half a saltspoonful of powdered mace, the same of red pepper, and keep stirring till it thickens; then pour in the terrapin, and let it boil up once, then set the saucepan on one side of the fire, when it must be kept hot but not boil. Next take a frying-pan, put in one teaspoonful of good butter and tAvo tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, and stir quickly and without ceasing till it is a dark brown colour (almost black), but must not burn; then add two tablespoonfuls of water, still stirring. Then take one dessertspoonful of this and stir it into the saucepan of terrapin, which must be hot; then take it off the fire, and add half a pint of best sherry, and serve at once. Trout, Turban of.—Take two small trout, fillet and flatten them so that they will fit a plain round mould, season them with a little salt, and sprinkle half of them on one side with lobster spawn, and the other half with chopped parsley. Butter the mould, and line it with buttered paper; arrange the fillets of trout alternately round the mould like Savoy biscuits in a Charlotte Eusse mould. Put over these a lobster farce, and smooth it well, pressing the farce close against the fillets; fill up the centre with some cucumber cut into slices and cooked in white sauce. Place the mould in a stewpan with suflicient boiling water to come half-way up the mould; when the water reboils draw the pan to the side of the fire and put the lid on, and let it steam for nearly an hour. When ready turn out the mould, pour the sauce round, and garnish the top of the turban with lobster quenelles and pieces of chopped cucumber. Serve caper sauce with it, fiavoured with chablis. Turbot a la Bearnaise.^—Choose a small firm turbot, fillet and lay the fillets for an hour to soak in marinade of oil, lemon, minced onion, parsley, pepper, and salt. Drain them ; then dip in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, brush them over with clarified butter, and grill them on both sides. Serve with cut lemon and Bearnaise sauce.123 FISH Turbot a la Normande.—Butter a fire-proof china fish dish, strew it with chopped onions. Season the turbot with pepper and salt; lay it on the dish, and cover it with sauterne or chablis, and bake. When done, add a little white sauce to the liquor, reduce it, and add the yolk of an egg. Put a few cooked mushrooms and half a dozen oysters round the turbot, pour the sauce over, and make hot again in the oven without browning it. Turbot a la Koyal.—Prepare a turbot in the usual mode, and dish it up with a circle of fried smelts round it. Then garnish si:^ hdteleis with small flat quenelles, breadcrumbed and fried a pale colour ; then put on each a small ring of fillet of sole piqued with gherkins, and on that place a truffle and then a crayfish. Serve in a sauceboat, champagne sauce mixed with a little butter, a little anchovy, sliced truffles, and some oysters boiled in their own liquor. White Bait.—In season, July, August, and September. This delicate little fish requires great care to dress it well. Do not touch them with the hands, but throw them from your dish or basket into a cloth, with three or four handfuls of flour, and shake them well, doing a few at a time. Then put them into the frying basket, and immerse it into a pan of boiling fat for about a minute and a half; then turn them out reversed on to a sieve to drain, and cover with kitchen paper. After drying them for a minute or two before the fire sprinkle a little salt on them, and send them at once to table. To devil them after they are cooked, place them in the frying basket again and plunge into the fat, and make it reboil for a minute till they are crisp; turn them out and dust them quickly with cayenne, tossing them lightly together, and serve at once.THE housewife's REFEREE 124 ENTREES HOT AND COLD " For I no dishes place before my guests At random ; but, while all things compound, I regulate the whole, and will divide The whole as best may suit in fours or fives. And will consult each separate division And satisfy each party.— Greeli Comedy by Damoxenus. Ash Jow {Indian recipe).—Barley one pound, meat two pounds, onions half-pound, nineteen grains each of garlic and cloves. Boil the barley three successive times in a small quantity of water, the fourth time, add a little more than on the former occasions and continue boiling. Cut some meat in pieces and mix with one tablespoonful of curry powder and dress it. When the meat is tender, strain the gravy and add the meat to the boiled barley. Now put into a clean saucepan, with some ghee, the sliced onions, garlic, and a little spice; let the onions brown, and then add the barley, meat and gravy; the whole should be covered and should remain about five minutes on the fire, shaking and repeating the same process three successive times. Bear's Paws.—Wash the bear's paws, wipe, salt, and put them into a basin ; cover them with cooked marinade, and let them macerate for two or three days. Spread a stewpan with trimmings of bacon and ham and sliced vegetables; place the paws over them, and moisten with a mixture of thin marinade and broth (half and half). Cover them with thin layers of bacon, and boil them for seven or eight hours on a slow fire; adding broth as the stock reduces. When the paws are tender, leave them till nearly cold. Drain, wipe, and divide each of them in four pieces lengthwise; sprinkle over cayenne pepper; roll them in melted lard and breadcrumbs, and broil them for half an hour over a slow fire ; then dish them up. Pour on the bottom of the dish some piquant sauce flavoured with two tablespoonfuls of red-currant jelly. Beef, Aspic of, a la Britaniere.—Have a nice piece of brisket of beef nicely stewed and pressed. It should be about eight inches long and five wide; cut it very neatly and125 ENTRIES sharply all round. Glaze it with some good aspic jelly. Have ready some good aspic, and before it is quite cold stir into it with a small whisk half a tin of vegetable macedoine, and whisk so that the vegetables are well scattered in it; then line a square baking tin about the size for a half quartern loaf with some of it, and when set, put in the beef and then fill in with more of the macedoine jelly. Stand on ice till set, then turn out and serve with chopped aspic all round and aspic formed into devices on the top. Beef Heart Roasted.—Soak it over night, and then wash and clean it very well. Take out all the white thick skin, and fill it with stuffing of a savoury description, having a larger proportion of marjoram than usual; make a strong gravy, and serve it up with currant jelly sauce. It should not be spitted, but hung from an upright jack; the better way is to bake it for four or five hours in a slow oven, and either lard it profusely, or baste it frequently with butter. Its appearance and flavour may be much improved by dividing it in half, covering it with slices of fat bacon ; laying the force-meat over it, rolling it round and dressing it in either way as above. The other half will make excel- lent beef a la mode. It is a good plan to dress beef heart in this way a day before roasting or baking a hare, as when cold, and hashed together, they can scarcely be dis- tinguished from each other. When there is no hare, hash the heart the same way by cutting it in slices, warming it in gravy, with a glass of port wine and melted currant jelly. Beef Olives with Anchovy Force-meat.—Cut some slices of fresh meat, or from an under-done cooked joint. Make a force-meat as follows :—One hard-boiled egg, three an- chovies washed and boned, a little parsley and lemon peel, all chopped fine; a heaped tablespoonful of grated bread- crumbs, the same of chopped suet; bind with an egg. Spread a layer of the force-meat on each slice of beef; roll it up, and wrap the beef in a thin slice of fat bacon, and stew gently. Serve with gravy and baked tomatoes. "Beef "PeLSty (Cornish Dish).—Take half a pound of beef- steak, mince it rather small; season well with pepper and salt. Take six moderate-sized potatoes, peel them. Make some ordinary puff pastry, which divide in half (each halfTHE housewife's KEFEKEE 126 should consist of a " lump " rather larger than an orange). Eoll it out to a quarter of an inch in thickness, in the shape and size of a tea-plate. Turn the pastry over when rolled out, so that the floury side shall come in- side the pasty. Chip two of the potatoes in irregular bits on to the middle of the pasty ; place a layer of the chopped steak over them ; then chip one potato over that; sprinkle in some salt, moisten the edges all round, and fold the paste over till the edges meet, press them together, the shape then represents a half moon. The oven should be fairly hot, and it will take an hour to bake. It should be allowed to " soak " well. Beef-steak Rolled and Stuffed.—Take about two pounds of steak, and a couple of ounces of tongue, four ounces of suet, the grated rind of a lemon, a bouquet of garlic, six ounces of breadcrumbs, one dozen oysters, and two eggs. Cut the steak rather thin, and lay on a stufling made of the materials above named. Koll up the steak and skewer it to- gether, and stew till tender, and serve brown sauce flavoured with Ghoorka sauce, which is to be bought from most grocers. Boeuf a la Mode a la Sunbeam.—Braise a good-sized piece of beef in the ordinary way. When it is cooked, let it get cold; then cut it up in equal-sized slices. Take two plain moulds (oval ones) one larger than the other : the smaller one having a fancy device on the top, such as an animal. Line the device with a mayonnaise aspic, and fill the inside with a Russian salad. Both moulds should be decorated with small carrots and onions. Clarify the liquor in which the beef has been braised, and to which a little gelatine has been added, and fill up the moulds with it and the beef slices, which should be arranged in circular rows. When the moulds are full they should remain on ice, till the jelly is perfectly set; then turn them out and put the smaller one on the top of the other, with a wreath of endive and whipped aspic, at distances at the base. Boeuf a la Sutton, Filets de.—Take two pounds of the fillet of beef, cut it into neat round slices; lard them, and slit them nearly in half. Make a farce of horse-radish sauce and macaroni, and place some of this mixture into127 ENTK^ES each fillet. Stew and glaze them. Serve them arranged in a circle, with potato straws in the centre ; and a good rich brown, sharp sauce round. Boeuf, Filets de, a la Bearnaise.—Take a piece of the undercut of the sirloin, cut it into neat pear-shaped pieces, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and cook them with a little butter in a tin in the oven, but not too much, add a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, and when dissolved turn the fillets over in it. Cut potatoes into small balls, fry in butter till of a golden shade. Heap the potatoes up in the middle of the dish, and arrange the fillets around; savice it with the following:—Put four shallots and a little garlic into a saucepan with a tumblerful of water and half that quantity of tarragon vinegar, let the whole boil till reduced to one tumblerful. Strain the liquor and let it get cold. Strain the yolks of three eggs and mix gradually with the liquor ; add salt and two ovmces of butter. Stir over a slow fire till it thickens; add a little finely minced tarragon. Boeuf, Filets de, a la Geneve.—Cut the fillets into neat rounds and lard them alternately with bacon, gherkins, and truffles ; and serve them on a potato border, made by boiling a pound of potatoes and rubbing them through a sieve on to the raw yolk of an egg and an ounce of butter. Season the potato with pepper and salt, and a dust of nutmeg. Mix all together in a ball, and when cold, roll it in the form of a border, using a little flour. Put it into a greased tin, brush it over with whole beaten-up egg, mark the sides in designs with a pointed knife, and bake in a moderate oven till a pale gold colour. Serve horse- radish sauce with the fillets. Boeuf, Filets a rOthello.—Take two pounds of fillet of beef, and stamp it out in rounds of an inch thick and three inches in diameter; trim them neatly. Saute them in butter over a clear, quick fire, season them with pepper and salt. Glaze them over as quickly as possible, and place them on scalloped out rounds of fried bread already prepared. Place on the top a slice of pate de foie gras (Phillippe's make is one of the best), which must be cut round and smaller than the fillet, and over all put a thin slice of truffle. Arrange them on the dish and pour over a sauce made with highly flavoured espagnole sauce. Add some of Alworth's tomaito catsup—THE housewife's REFEEEE 128 about a tablespoonful—boil up, and add a teaspoonful of Madeira whilst boiling. Brazilian Stew.—Take three or four pounds of lean beef, cut it into neat pieces, and put it into a stewpan with two carrots, two turnips, and two onions, cut up in small pieces. Add a bouquet of herbs, a little pepper and salt, and one gill of vinegar, or a little more if that is not enough to almost cover the contents of the stewpan. Cover the stew- pan, shut the lid down tightly and let it simmer gently for about four hours. Bubble and Squeak.—Cut fresh pork in strips, and fry a nice brown; pour off half the fat (which keep to thicken with flour and gravy). Put in the pan with cold boiled potatoes and cabbage, well mashed together. This should turn out whole, and be served in the middle of the dish, with pork and gravy around it. Calf's Brains in Cases au Gratin.—The brains after being cleansed, boiled, and cut into small collops, must be added to some well-seasoned allemande, bechamel, ravigotte, or maitre d'hotel sauce, previously made hot; mix them gently in this, and with the preparation fill some paper cases, strew fried breadcrumbs upon the tops; push in the oven for a few minutes; dish up the cases on a napkin with fried parsley, and serve hot. Note.—Ham, tongue, truflles, mushrooms, or any kind of pickles may be added in small quantities. Calf's Brains on Toast.—Beat three eggs light; add salt, pepper, and parsley. Take some brains after they have been soaked for a quarter of an hour, and drop them into boiling water, into which a little salt and vinegar has been put. The brains should be boiled hard for ten minutes, and then thrown into iced cold water. When well cooled, break them up, and stir in the eggs and seasoning. Have ready two ounces of butter in a frying-pan, pour in the mixture, and stir rapidly for two minutes until it looks like stirred eggs. Have ready six or eight rounds of fried bread, and heap the brains on them. Calf's Head Fritters.—Cut some slices from cold calf's head, and mask them with tomato sauce; dip them in batterENTRIES 129 and fry a nice golden brown colour. Serve crisped parsley with them as garnish. Chicken a I'ltalienne ; Polio alia Italiana {Italian).—Cut up a fowl and cook it in a saucepan with a little butter and salad oil till brown; then add six tomatoes, three chillies chopped very fine, a very little garlic, and two tablespoonfuls of very good gravy. Cook slowly for two hours, keeping the stewpan tightly closed. Serve very hot. Chicken, Blanquette of.—Put half a pint of white sauce in a stewpan, with six tablespoonfuls of broth, or milk ; let it boil; having cut up about one pound of the remains of any kind of poultry, put it in the sauce, warm it, and add two spoonfuls of liaison to it. Season with a little salt, pepper, and the juice of half a lemon ; stir, and serve. Do not let it boil, or it will curdle, and be unsightly and unpalatable. A little cooked ham or tongue is good in it, also oysters ; serve with bread sippets round, and a little chopped parsley sprinkled over. Chicken en Surprise.—Take a chicken, remove the skin from the breast and take away all the meat, removing any gristle there may be, and place it in a mortar. Have by your side half a pint of good cream, and begin by pouring half the quantity of it over the fowl; pound well to- gether for a few minutes, and then rub it through a clean wire sieve. When passed, put it back into the mortar and pour on gradually the remainder of the cream, stirring it round so that they blend together perfectly, add a little salt and dust of cayenne pepper. Fill a mould with this mixture, and twist a bit of buttered paper rovind the top, then fold a sheet of paper several times, place it in the stewpan, put in boiling water halfway up the mould, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Turn this out, and mix with it half a pint of pale aspic jelly. Have some bright red aspic, and a pretty jelly mould, pour a little of the red aspic into the mould, to the depth of an inch. When this is cool, put in the chicken and more aspic mixture, place on ice, and when properly stiff turn out, and garnish the top with a wreath of chervil leaves; serve chopped aspic in little mounds round the base alternately with little moulds of salad. 9130 THE housewife's REFEREE ChickenEntombe; PouletEntombe.—Boil afowl, and mask it with bechamel sauce in which half a pint of aspic jelly has been mixed; cut truffles into tiny rings, crescents, and trefoils, and decorate the chicken highly with them. Take a square tin mould, pour in a layer of good, pale, clear aspic; and when it is quite set, place the fowl breast downwards on it; then fill it up gradually with the aspic, and put on ice. Turn out, and decorate the base with truffles, and red chopped aspic. The first layer of aspic should be deep enough, so that when the whole is finished, the fowl shovild be quite in the centre. Chicken Grilled a la Napolitaine; Poulet Grille a la Napolitaine.—Grill a fowl in the ordinary fashion. Boil some large Italian macaroni cut into pieces about an inch long, for fifteen or twenty minutes; strain and season with Parmesan cheese, butter, and pepper; add enough cheese and butter to make them thoroughly stringy. Place the fowl on a dish, put the macaroni at either end, and the remainer of the stew around it, with a few slices of truffles, cockscombs, etc., on the top. Serve hot. Chicken Medallion; Medallion de Volaille a la St. James {The Gentlewoman),—Cut the breast from a raw chicken in thin slices, then cut them again with a small cutlet cutter; lay the pieces in a baking tin with a very little stock, pepper, and salt. Cover with buttered paper, and put in a slow oven till done (a few minutes will be sufficient). Cut some cold tongue into the same-sized pieces as the fowl, and spread them with green butter. When the chicken is quite cold, lay a piece of tongue on each piece of chicken. Dish on a rice socle with salad in the centre. Chicken Pie : Pate de Ponlarde a la Francaise.—Make a ' y raised pie case. Cut up a couple of young fowls into nice pieces, removing the breast and all other large bones. Blanch, and free from skin a couple of sweetbreads; hard-boil six eggs, and cut up the yolks into quarters ; take a small bottle of truffles and mushrooms and cut them up. Also make one and a half pound of force-meat. Now put a layer of force-meat all round the inside of the case; then lay in the chickens, sweetbreads, truffles, and mushrooms, till the case is filled to the top; put on the lid; ornament, and bake in a moderateENTE^ES 131 oven for two or three hours. When done, remove the top and fill up with some good gravy. Chicken Pie a TEmpereur.—Take a couple of small chickens, and cut them into small joints with layers of sweetbreads and ham placed alternately ; make a force-meat of veal and ham nicely flavoured, and place in the bottom of the lining of a china raised pie dish, the layers of ham and sweetbread on the top ; season with chopped mushrooms, truffles, and some white sauce in which some aspic jelly has been mixed, and then place the chicken on the top, and wherever there is a cavity place a plover's egg, if in season ; if not, either a bantam's, or half a hen's egg. Place some more white sauce on the top, and bake for an hour and a half. When cold, chop aspic and lay on the top, and garnish round with alternate slices of cucumber and lemon ; sprinkle a little coralline pepper over all. Chicken Pilau.—Have ready a good quantity of stock, melt half a pound of butter in a saucepan; fry in it a handful of onions very finely sliced lengthways; when brown remove them, and fry in the same butter the pieces of chicken which have been previously boiled and divided into neat pieces. When the chicken is slightly fried take it out, and to the same butter add eight ounces of dry rice, and fry it a little. The rice must be washed and well dried before frying. As the butter evaporates, add the broth, and boil the rice in it, adding ten cloves, ten cardamoms, ten black peppercorns, a blade of mace, a dessertspoonful of salt, a little turmeric or a pinch of saffron, a slice or two of ginger, and two ounces of raisins. When the rice is nearly boiled, put it on the side of the fire, put in the chicken, and warm all together; if the rice be at all hard, add a little water till sufficiently cooked. To serve it up, pile the rice high in the dish over the pieces of chicken, garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg, and almonds blanched and cut fine, with the shreds of fried onions. Chicken Tartlets en Surprise; Tartelettes de Volaille.— Line some patty-pans with puff paste. Pound the remnants of a cold chicken with some veloute sauce, pass through a sieve, add a small quantity of cream, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; put a part of the mixture in each little132 THE housewife's REFEREE pan, cut the remains of the paste into thin strips, and lay them across the chicken ; lay Devonshire cream on the top. When baked, turn them out of the tins and arrange prettily on a dish. Cockscombs a la Dresden; Hahnenkamme; Cretes de coq {German).—Cut off the outside tips of the cockscombs, place them on the fire in cold water, but so that it only gets luke-warm; they should be frequently stirred round with the hand and slightly pressed through the fingers, so that the blood is all squeezed out till they become white. Now put them into fresh water, place them again on the fire, and when the water begins to get hot rub each cocks- comb over with salt to remove the outside skin; then put them into luke-warm water for a few hours, which should occasionally be changed. Then boil them till tender in fat stock seasoned with salt and lemon juice. Corn Rolls.—Take the chopped meat of a good-sized boiled fowl, six hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, half a pound each of raisins and olives stoned and chopped, and the pressed juice from a dozen sweet red peppers boiled soft. Mix with these ingredients (except the eggs) one pound of dried Indian corn boiled soft; season with salt and stir over the fire for fifteen minutes, and then stir in the chopped eggs. Meantime lay smooth the soft inner husks of corn, and tear some strips for tying ; lay upon two of the husks as much of the tomato paste as they will contain; wrap them about it, and tie each roll with the stripped husks ; drop these rolls into boiling salted water, and boil them for an hour. When the tomatoes are done, tie them with red and yellow ribbons in place of the strips; and serve them piled upon a napkin laid on a hot dish. Salad should be eaten with them. Cornish Dish.—Take some streaky bacon, cut it into slices a quarter of an inch thick, put them into a very hot frying- pan and brown delicately on both sides. The rind is not cut off, but must be notched here and there to prevent its shrivelling. When the bacon is cooked put in some cold, boiled potatoes. Chop these till quite fine, season with pepper and salt, and when perfectly hot through pile them up in the centre of the dish, with the slices of bacon round.133 ENTKl^ES Cotelettes a Tecarlate.—Make a stiff force-meat from the breast of a fowl. Cut out of a good red tongue twelve pieces in the shape of a cutlet. Pound and pass through a sieve the remainder of the tongue, and mix with the force- meat ; season with a little cayenne pepper and essence of mushrooms. Butter and fill little cutlet moulds, and steam them in an oven; then withdraw the force-meat cutlets from the moulds, and place upon a baking sheet, glaze them over and replace in the oven for a few seconds. Dish up, alternating a cutlet of tongue with a cutlet of force-meat. Sauce the whole over with a demi-glaze. Creme de Volaille; **Trente et ftuarante" (Drogan.)— Make a force-meat of the breast of a chicken with two yolks of eggs and a pint of cream, passing all through a fine hair sieve. Procure some card moulds from Jones Brothers, Down Street, Piccadilly; butter them, and decorate them so as to resemble cards—trufiles, for clubs and spades, tongue, for hearts and diamonds; which are cut with special cutters forming the card pips. Place the moulds on ice for a few moments, then fill them up with the force-meat; steam for five minutes ; turn them out, and dish on a border of force-meat, with asparagus points, or green peas, in the centre. Serve up with supreme sauce. Curry, Hindostanee.—Boil two pounds of any meat in a pint and a half of water till half done; then take it out and skim the broth, and put to it six cloves, a blade of mace, a small piece of cinnamon, and a few cardamom seeds. Cut the meat into small, square pieces, roll them well in four tablespoonfuls of curry powder, and fry them a nice brown in butter. Cut up two onions and a root of garlic, and fry also till brown, but separate from the meat; then add the whole to the broth with two tablespoonfuls of cocoa-nut milk or a little good cream, and ten blanched and pounded almonds. Cover the pan closely over, and let it stew gently over a slow fire until well mixed and very hot, and just before serving squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Curry Puffs.—Make a puff paste in the usual way, roll it out as for jam turnovers, fill it with the following force- meat, and make it in the shape of jam tarts; fry them in butter till they are a pale golden brown, put them onTHE housewife's EBFEKEE 134 paper to drain the fat off, and serve with fried crisp parsley. Force-meat for the above. Half a pound of beef passed through a machine; cut up an onion into thin rings, fry a nice colour ; add a tablespoonful of curry powder and then the meat, seeds of twelve cardamoms, twelve cloves, two cloves of garlic chopped fine, and salt to taste. Cutlets a la Melpomene.—Make a sauce with the liquor of fowls or rabbits which have been boiled; free it from all fat, add a small carrot scraped and cut in slices, half a leek, a bouquet garni, a bay leaf, and a couple of cloves, salt and pepper to taste. Boil this till it is reduced one half, and keep it well skimmed, thicken with fresh butter and fine flour, or one of Groult's farina preparations, then add some good cream, gradually stirring the liquor all the time, but do not let it boil after the cream has been added. Dissolve half an ounce, or an ounce of gelatine or isinglassine (according to the quantity of the liquor) in milk, and strain it into the same. Divide this mixture into four equal parts: colour one with beetroot juice and cochineal; a second orange, with carrot grated and strained ; the third green, with spinach ; and leave the fourth white. Have ready some little cutlet pans, and when the mixtures are all nearly set, half fill the cutlet pans, some with one colour, some with the others, and fill up the cutlet pans with chicken and rabbit cream. Mount a salad high in the centre of the dish, turn out the cutlets, brush them with aspic, decorate each cutlet with a device in truffle, and arrange them round the salad. Cutlets, His Excellency's.—Take a plain round mould, place an inner mould inside it (a tumbler or gallipot will do). Chemise the inside of the outside mould with pale clear savoury jelly, putting a layer of it at the bottom of the mould to the depth of half an inch. Have ready some small neck of mutton cutlets nicely and neatly trimmed, the bone being cut to half an inch of the meat; lay these en couronne all round, one just overlapping the other; place on ice, and when firm take out of ice and put in a little more savoury jelly, then another row of the cutlets, but reversing them so that each row is different; when cool add a little more liquid savoury jelly, and embed the mouldENTRIES 135 in ice for two hours. When it is ready to be turned out, the inner mould must be taken out by pouring hot water into it and instantly removing it, and then quickly putting the mould on ice again, after which, dip the mould in hot water, and turn out. The centre of the mould should be filled with salad a la russe, and the outside decorated with chopped aspic and little round cherry tomatoes placed at equal distances. Cutlets, Hyderabad.—Parboil a nice joint, remove all bone, skin, and sinew ; pound the flesh in a mortar, mix with it a small cupful of fine breadcrumbs that have been passed through a sieve, two packets of Edwards's tomato soup, one dessertspoonful of best mild curry powder, an onion, and one clove of garlic (chopped very fine); add salt to tavste, bind the mixture with two well-beaten eggs, form them into cutlet shape, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry a nice colour; drain, on a sieve before the fire, of all super- fluous fat. Dish neatly on a stand of mashed potatoes, and decorate with green parsley. Tomato sauce may be served with these cutlets, but most people prefer them as they are. Cutlets with Curry Mixture.—Prepare some rather thick veal cutlets, cut each cutlet nearly through horizontally, lay in between the flabs of the cutlets a layer of curry mixture, and fasten the edges of the meat closely over the mixture. Egg and breadcrumb the cutlets, fry and serve round a pyramid of curry rice. The curry mixture is made of one teaspoonful of curry powder, one of curry paste, one of finely chopped gherkins, one red chilly finely chopped, and enough butter to mix all into a stiff* paste. Dolma.—Mince mutton with onions and rice; with this stuff" cucumbers, gourds, or vegetable marrows. Mix some broth with the yolk of an egg and lemon juice; pour this over the Dolmas for sauce. Dominoes a la Don Caesar {Drogan).—Prepare a stiff'force^ meat with the breast of a fowl, two yolks of eggs, and a gill and a half of cream. Take one third of the force-meat and a quarter-pound of truffles ; pound, and pass through a sieve and season. Lay this preparation on a buttered baking sheet in a thin layer, place it in an oven for a few minutes136 THE housewife's REFEKEE to allow it to set; then cut it in pieces the size of the domino mould. (The domino moulds are to be procured at Jones Brothers, Down Street, Piccadilly.) Butter the moulds, place a small shred of truffles in the space at the bottom; then form the dominoes with pieces of truffle stamped out with a domino cutter. Take the remaining two-thirds of force-meat, add a little cream, and season; fill up the moulds about three parts full with this preparation, then take the pounded truffles and fill up the moulds, press firmly together, poach in an oven for a few minutes. Dish up on a force-meat border, with a finaiiciere ragoM in the centre, and send up supreme sauce with it. Duck, Devilled {Indian).—Take a pound of onions, a piece of green ginger, and six chillies; reduce them to a pulp, then add two teaspoonfuls of mustard, pepper, salt, cayenne and chutney, two tablespoonfuls of ketchup, and half a bottle of claret. Cut up the duck and put it into the sauce, and let it simmer for a long time. The duck must have been previously roasted. Ducks, Wild, Salmi of.—Eoast two wild ducks, and when they are cold, cut them up; take off the skin, trim the pieces, and put them in a glazing stewpan. Put in another stewpan two onions, four cloves, one faggot, half a bottle of claret, four shallots, the bones and trimmings; reduce the wine, and pour in a pint and a half of espagnole sauce; simmer for twenty minutes ; skim, and strain through the pointed strainer into a stewpan, and reduce till the sauce coats the spoon; pour one-fourth of this sauce over the pieces of duck; warm them, without boiling, put them on a dish, pour over the remainder of the sauce, and garnish round with croutons of bread fried and glazed. Filets de Volaille a la Valenciennes.- Take a fowl, bone and boil it, and cut it into fillets, shaping them as far as possible to look like cutlets; mask them with supreme sauce in which half a pint of aspic jelly has been mixed ; ornament them with star-like devices of tongue and truffle ; put little frills on the ends, and arrange them cross-wise fashion, two at a time over one another; place chopped aspic all round for garnish. Foie Gras, Chartreuse of Pate de.—Line a mould overENTRfeS 137 with liquid aspic (cold), to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and decorate it with fancy designs in truffle, dipping each piece into liquid acid to make it adhere. Cut some truffles into squares like a draughtboard, very thin; also make some white cream aspic and cut into squares the same size; arrange these alternately round the mould like a draughtboard; but before doing this mask the mould with aspic. Fill the mould entirely with pate de foie gras, and then put on ice. When quite cold and firm, turn it out by dipping it into hot water for a second or two, and garnish with chopped aspic and cherry tomatoes. Foie Gras, Escalopes de, a la Bute (Corblet).—Take two large, raw goose livers weighing one pound and a half each. Make a good mire 2^oix with white wine : let it get cold. Prepare some paste with flour and water, cut the paste in two, make it flat, and put on half the quantity of mire poix, placing the liver in the centre. Put the rest of the mire poix on the top, then cover the liver with the paste and put them in the oven for about half or three-quarters of an hour. When they are cooked, put them in a cold place for one day. Remove the paste and mire poix covering, clean the foie gras with a small brush oiled, and cut them into neat slices, allowing one to each person. Dish on fond of aspic jelly, dress the foie gras as if it were entree and garnish with cut aspic jelly. Foie Gras Fritters.—Have ready some good batter, which should be made some hours previously, then have a frying- pan of boiling fat, and some pieces of foie gras about half an inch thick, and two inches by one and a half in size, seasoned with salt, lemon juice, and a dust of cayenne. Dip each piece of the foie gras into the batter, then into the boiling fat; turn them over lightly with a fork, and when fried crisp, and of a light colour, drain and dish them up on a napkin. Fricandellans {Indian).—Mince the lean of cold lamb very fine. Soak the crumb of a large slice of bread in milk, mash it, and mix with the minced meat a beaten egg, some chopped parsley and thyme, a little grated lemon-peel, pepper, and salt. Make them into little flat cakes and fry in butter. Serve dry, or with a rich gravy.THE housewife's EEFEKEE 138 Fritto Misto.—Take some lambs' fry, roll it in egg and breadcrumbs, fry, and arrange prettily round the dish. Egg and breadcrumb some brains, cooked in white sauce, and roll into balls and place in the centre. Serve a thick brown piquant sauce with it. Ham and Eggs.—Fry some slices of ham with a little butter; when done, take them out and dress them on a hot dish, then break an egg into some of the fat of the ham, taking care not to spoil the yolk. Let it be done on both sides like a poached egg. There should be the same number of eggs as slices of ham. Place an egg on each slice, pour over the boiling fat, put a little vinegar into the pan, heat it, pour upon the eggs, and serve very hot. Hare a la Pantaisie; Lievre a la Fantaisie.—Take the fillets from a fair-sized hare. Cook them in butter for a few minutes over a quick fire; take them off, strain ofi* the butter, and let them get cool; lard them and sprinkle them with pepper and salt. Koll each fillet round a middhng-sized onion, joining the ends with a very small skewer. Place these fillets wdth large slices of bacon beneath and above them in a stewpan. Cut two carrots in slices and a bouquet garni. Moisten with a cup of clear broth, and let it cook for three hours. When done take out the fillets, and arrange them en couronne on a dish. Strain the sauce and skim it, and pour it over the fillets just before serving. Hare en Champagne; Lievre en Champagne. —Cut a hare into fillets, and stew it with a hash of chickens' livers, truffles, shallots, moistened with a coulis and champagne. Hare, Fillets of, aux Cerises; Filets de Lievre aux Cerises.—Lightly stew some fillets of hare, then place in a stewpan with sufficient brown sauce and a good handful of glace cherries, and let them stew gently till done. Dish on a thick crouton of bread fried, with little heaps of the cherries in between en couronne with the sauce over and round them. Hash au Diable.—Cut some slices of cold beef, removing gristle and fat; stew them gently for half an hour in the following sauce:—Mix together one ounce of flour, one ounce of butter, half a pint of stock or broth, a few pepper-139 BNTKl^ES corns, salt to taste, one dessertspoonful of made mustard, one of red currant jelly, one of chili vinegar, one of claret, and one of Tuscany sauce. Mix all together, boil till thick; then add the meat and stew, and serve within a potato wall. Indian Chicken Cutlets.—Parboil a nice plump chicken, take off all the flesh, remove the skin and sinews, beat it well up with a chopper, mix with it a teacup of finely grated breadcrumbs, a small onion chopped up very fine, the grated peel of half a lemon, a little parsley, tarragon, and chervil (also chopped). Nepaul pepper to taste, or a little chopped green chilli, a saltspoon of salt; bind the mixture with a well-beaten egg, shape into nice-sized cutlets, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in boiling butter a delicate golden brown. Serve with crisped parsley and fried sippets of bread. An ordinary tasty brown or tomato sauce goes well with them, if liked. These cutlets can also be made quite plain, with only pepper and salt; and they can also be poached instead of fried, and served with a delicate white sauce. This dish is very much appreciated by Anglo-Indians. Some people like it made with rabbit instead of chicken. Indian Venison Chops.—Cut a nice loin of venison into chops, trim neatly, and rub them well over with the juice of green ginger. Make a savoury batter thus :—Well beat an egg, mix with it a tablespoonful of flour that has been made about the consistence of cream, with a little milk; add to it a dessertspoonful of very finely chopped onion, two heads of garlic chopped, two chillies chopped, and about a saltspoonful of mixed ground spice ; salt to taste. Dip the chops in this, and fry in butter a golden brown. Serve on a dish, paper neatly, and decorate with fried green parsley. The decoration is purely English, for it is not served thus in India. Italian Chicken.—Cut up a fowl, and cook it in a stewpan with a little butter and salad oil till light brown ; then add six tomatoes, three chillies chopped very fine, and two table- spoonfuls of good gravy. Cook slowly for two hours, keep- ing the stewpan tightly covered, adding a very little garlic. Jambonneaux a I'Espagnole {Noel).—Pound up a truffle with ateaspoonful of some kind of force-meat, and one of Sauce Espagnole, and pass through a sieve. Butter the moulds.140 THE housewife's EEFEREE and place a thin layer of the above preparation in the part representing the skin of the ham. Garnish the remaining surface of the mould with a layer of rather stiff force-meat of chicken. Pound up one pound of the lean part of cooked ham, and add a tablespoonful of Sauce Espagnole. Pass through a sieve, and fill up the moulds with it, leaving sufficient space to cover this with a layer of force-meat of chicken, joined at the edges with the first layer. Then steam in a bain-marie without allowing to boil. Withdraw the entrees from the moulds, and fix a small feather-bone of a chicken (decorated with a frill), and dress each upright on a bed of spinach set with Sauce Espagnole. Serve with Madeira sauce. Jellied Meat (Virginia).—Take a large shin of beef, one set of pigs' feet well scraped and soaked. Put them on to boil in separate vessels, using very little water— just enough to cover the meat. Boil till the meat slips from the bone; lift the meat from the pot, draining it well; lay it on dishes to cool, and set the vessel with the liquor aside till next day. It is better to take the bones from the pigs' feet while warm. Kext morning skim the grease from the liquor of the pigs' feet, which has now become a stiff jelly. Cut the meat of feet and shin into small bits, leaving out all gristle and tough portions. Put it with the pigs' feet jelly and melt all together. When it comes to a boil, add pepper, salt, one half of a teaspoonful of ground cloves, the same of allspice, stir well and pour into a mould. Kidneys a la Brochette.—Four kidneys, one ounce of butter, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley and onion, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, pepper, and salt. Cut the kidneys nearly in halves, put them on a gridiron (well greased) to grill. When they are quite done have ready a piece of butter mixed with the chopped parsley and onion, and a little lemon juice, pepper, and salt. Put this in the kidneys at the moment you send them to table. (Time—six to eight minutes). Kidneys a la Tartare.—Broil three kidneys, put them on a hot dish, and serve the following sauce:—Beat the yolk of an egg for several minutes, add gradually three orENTEl^ES 141 four teaspoonfuls of oil, and then one of tarragon vinegar. Beat the mixture thoroughly till the oil is of the consistence of cream, then add a little salt, a dust of cayenne pepper, a dessertspoonful of made mustard, three gherkins, three shallots, all mixed, a teaspoonful of chopped chervil, tarragon, and burnet, and half a teaspoonful of chili vinegar. Lamb Cutlets a la Duchesse.—These are prepared in the first instance, and are to be dipped in Duxelles sauce; and when this has become firmly set upon them, let them be egged, crumbed, fried, and dished up on a vegetable border, the centre to be garnished with a puree of green peas, on a jardiniere, and some supreme sauce poured round the base. Lamb Cutlets a la Ravissante.—Take some very small but thick lamb cutlets, shape them nicely, the bone of each very short, and stew them. Dip them into tomato aspic jelly, and arrange them in a plain round mould in two tiers, each cutlet overlapping the other, the first tier lying one way, and the upper tier the other. Place a tumbler in the centre, putting a weight in it to keep it in its place, then fill up the mould with tomato jelly. Place on ice when ready to turn out. Take out the weight, and fill the tumbler with hot water for a second or two, then dislodge it, and put the mould on ice for half an hour longer, when it can be turned out. The centre should be filled with a macedoine of peas, mixed with green mayon- naise sauce. White chopped aspic and chervil leaves should garnish the dish. The tomato aspic is made with the strained juice of tomato, flavoured with a little cayenne and shallot put into aspic jelly, and a few drops of cherry red colouring. Lamb Cutlets in Aspic.—Take the best end of a neck of lamb, cut it, and trim it into small, neat cutlets. Season with pepper and salt, place them in a stewpan, and lightly fry them. Put them to press between two plates, and when cold mask them over thickly with white sauce, into which two tablespoonfuls of aspic and one of mint sauce have been mixed. Garnish each one with the hard boiled white of egg cut into little star shapes. Dish up in the form of a crown, with chopped aspic round, and truffles cut into ball shapes arranged here and there. In142 THE housewife's REFEREE the centre put some cucumber, small, in the shape of peas, which have been soaked in green mayonnaise sauce. Larks, Croustade of.—Bone and stuff eighteen larks with foie gras. Cook them in the oven, basting well with Espagnole sauce. When cooked, have ready a croustade of bread glazed with egg, and mount the larks on it in two rows, one above the other, glazing them over with demi- glaze. In the centre serve brown mushroom sauce, or a macedoine of vegetables, or whole tomatoes. One of the small cherry tomatoes put on the top of every other lark makes a very pretty garnish. Medallions a la Toxophilite.—Get some target moulds, and in the outer circle place some aspic jelly, coloured green; put on ice, and when set put into the second circle some chicken cream, mixed with aspic jelly. Put on ice, and when set place in the third some truffle cream made with truffle peelings mixed with aspic jelly. Place on ice as before; then mix some Parmesan cheese into a paste with cream and aspic, and colour it blue, and repeat as before in the fourth circle. For the fifth, have either lobster cream or tomato aspic, with a little carmine added; proceed as before, and in the centre place some hard-boiled yolk of egg ; put on ice and then turn out and serve with salad and chopped aspic. The target moulds can at present only be procured through the authoress. Also the blue colouring. Mutton, Breast of, Grilled.—A breast of mutton, yolk of one egg, some breadcrumbs, a bunch of sweet herbs, a sprig of parsley, one onion, four pickled cucumbers, one tablespoonful of capers, half a pint of gravy, a piece of butter rolled in flour. Half boil a breast of mutton, score it and season it with pepper and salt, rub it over with the yolk of an egg, and sprinkle it with breadcrumbs and sweet herbs chopped fine. Put it over a clear fire, and broil it gently till it is of a fine brown colour, or set it before the fire in a Dutch oven and do the same. Chop a sprig of parsley, one onion, four pickled cucumbers, and a spoonful of capers; boil them five minutes in half a pint of gravy, thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour; lay the mutton on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it. (Time—One and half hour.)143 ENTRIES Mutton Chops a la Monte Carlo.—Cut up twelve chops from a loin of mutton, flatten them lightly, and trim neatly. Season with salt and pepper, and dip them in oiled butter, and then into breadcrumbs. Broil the chops over a moderate fire, and dish them en couronne or in a circular form. Garnish the centre of the dish with a puree of French beans, cooked in salted water, drained and passed through a fine hair sieve; season to taste; add a small pat of batter and a spoonful of hechamel sauce, and warm up. Mutton, Roulades of.—Remove the fillet from a loin of mutton; trim away all skin and fat. Flatten the fillet with a cutlet bat, and cut it lengthways into slices as thin as possible. Divide these into neat pieces three inches long, sprinkle each with pepper, salt, and finely chopped parsley; roll them up tightly; dip into beaten egg, and then breadcrumbs mixed with an equal quantity of flour, and highly seasoned with pepper and salt. Place the roulade on a skewer (three or four on each skewer), and cook them in one ounce of butter in a frying-pan. Noisettes a la Rossini.—Roast a fowl, and mince it rather coarsely. Make a good sauce with the butter, good stock, a little flour, and the yolk of an egg. When this is nearly cold, mix the chicken in it, and season with salt and pepper. Cut some caul of a pig into rounds about four inches in diameter; in the middle of each of these rounds put a small quantity of the chicken preparation; fold the skin well over, making it quite round in shape. Beat two eggs up, salt and pepper them, roll the noisettes in, and then into fine breadcrumbs. Throw them into boiling fat for about five minutes, and serve very hot. Serve dished in pyramids and garnish with parsley. Ox-tail, Haricot of.—Divide the ox-tail at the joints, which are indicated by a semi-transparent spot on the sinews which connect the joints; parboil them in water for ten minutes, and trim away all asperities, so as to give the pieces a smooth, rounded appearance. Put them in a stewpan, with carrot, celery, faggot of parsley, an onion stuck with six cloves, a bit of mace, twelve peppercorns, a spoonful of salt, and two quarts of water. Boil very gently for two hours, and when the pieces have becomeTHE housewife's EEFEEEE 144 quite tender, take them up on a dish, and set them aside. Strain the stock into a stewpan, remove all grease from its surface, stir in four ounces of brown thickening; add about half a pound of shaped carrots, the same of turnips and eight middle-sized onions; season with pepper and salt. Allow the whole to boil very gently until the vegetables are done, and then remove them carefuly into a stewpan already containing the pieces of ox-tail. Skim the sauce; boil it down if too thin; add a lump of sugar; strain it to the ox-tail, etc. Allow the haricot to simmer for ten minutes over the fire, and serve neatly in its dish. Perdreaux aux Choux.—To make this, truss a brace of partridges as fowls are trussed for boiling, mince about a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, put it into a saucepan on the fire, and when it is quite hot put in the birds and toss them in this till well coloured all over; meanwhile blanch a small cabbage or a savoy in salted water, drain it, squeeze all the water from it, chop it up and put it into the saucepan with the birds; add pepper and salt to taste, a bundle of sweet herbs, and two or three pork sausages, moisten with a little stock, and let the whole simmer for two hours. Kemove the bundle of herbs, and serve with the cabbage, and the sausages, each cut in two, round the birds. Pig, Roasted.—Half a pint of melted butter, two ounces of fresh butter, three-quarters of a pint or one pint of sage and onion force-meat. When the pig is well cleaned, make a force-meat according to previous directions, or a veal stuffing force-meat, if preferred. Sew it up, with a strong thread. Truss it as a hare is trussed, with its forelegs skewered back and its hind legs forward. Dry it well and rub it with a little flour, set it before a clear, brisk fire, with a dripping pan underneath it to catch the gravy. Baste it with a little pure olive oil, or with its own gravy, rubbing it occasionally (when you do not use oil) with iDutter. When it is done, which it should be in from one and a half to two hours, cut off the head, and split it into halves. Divide the pig with a very sharp knife, down the centre, lay the backs together, put the ears on each side, and the halves of the head at each end of the dish. Pour a little of the gravy of the pig mixed with thin melted butter and a squeeze of lemon juice over it ; send some of145 ENTRIES the same gravy and melted batter (seasoned with a little cayenne) to table in a sauce tureen. Sauces to be eaten with it:—Bread, tomato, or apple sauce as prepared. Pigeons a la Becasse.—Clean and truss two pigeons, cut a slice of bread, toast and butter it; then chop up six mushrooms and six anchovies finely and mix them together; pepper and salt it and then spread it on the toast thickly, and put it under the pigeons while they are roasting. Pigeons a la Grecque.—Cut some pigeons in halves, add three pints of stock, and simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. These should be cooked in the morning and put between two plates with a weight on the top to flatten them. The sauce is made of two ounces of butter, the same of chopped ham, two shallots, one small onion, one bay leaf, and two tomatoes fried together ; then add a gill of sherry, pepper and salt, and simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour, and pass through a sieve. Pour this mixture over the pigeons in a stewpan, and simmer for a quarter of an hour. Place the pigeons in a dish, garnish with olives and spinach, and add the sauce. Pigeons en Compote.—Put one-quarter of pound of lean bacon cut into small dice into a stewpan, with half ounce of butter, and fry a few seconds over the fire; then have three pigeons trussed with their legs turned inside, place them on the stewpan breast downwards, set them over the fire until they are of a light brown colour, and move them round occasionally; add a tablespoonful of flour, work it well in with a wooden spoon, until it becomes browned, when it must be moistened with one pint of water; then add a good bunch of parsley with a bay leaf, and about thirty button onions; season with a little pepper and salt. Let the whole simmer for three-quarters of an hour, keeping it well skimmed; then dress the pigeons upon a dish with the bacon and onions round, reduce the sauce to a proper consistency, take out the parsley and bay leaf, sauce over and serve. Polpettone.—No. 1. Cut the meat oflfa joint and hash it up with sage, parsley, a little mashed potato and a very small lump of butter, some grated cheese, salt and pepper. Add to this the yolks of two eggs, and a little milk. Mix all well together, then make it into the shape of a very lai^ge croquette; 10146 THE HOUSEWIFE^S KEFEKEE roll it in breadcrumbs, and put it into a buttered tin pan with a little dripping, turning it over now and then till it is baked. It can be served with sauce or without. No. 2. Mince cold meat almost into a paste, with an anchovy, a tiny scrap of parsley and a goodish lump of butter (Italians use oil), then add some salt, red pepper, and the juice of a lemon. This makes delicious sandwiches. Pork a TAllemande; Schweinscarre mit Kirschensauce; Carre de Pore a TAllemande.—Boil till tender a loin of pork, cutting off all superfluous fat. Koast it with the trimmings in the oven, and three onions, a couple of sliced carrots, salt and pepper; it must be continually basted. Care must be taken that it should not colour, and therefore some stock should occasionally be added, after which it should be taken up, and put on a deep dish; strew over the top some fine brown breadcrumbs and sprinkle over with oiled butter, then strew again with brown breadcrumbs into which pounded cinnamon should have been sprinkled. Twenty minutes before serving the carve should be put into a moderate oven and baked a light brown ; a thick cherry imree should be served with it. Pork, Loin of, a TEspagnole.—This is prepared and dressed in the same manner as la Portugaise, but, when ready for dressing, sprinkle the meat with sweet herbs chopped, wrap it in bay leaves, add the juice of two Seville oranges to the wine, which must be strained, and bake it in an oven. Poularde a la Royale.—Bone the fowl and stuff it with sweetbread, liver, and mushrooms well seasoned and made into a ragoHt. Sew up the fowl ; cover it with thin slices of lard or bacon, and either tie paper over it and roast it, or put it to braise ; if roasted, take off the lard and paper before serving, to brown it. Send it up on a puree of chestnuts. A turkey poult may be dressed in the same way. Cluails a la Rosalie.—Bone some quails and fillet them into kite-like shapes; squeeze some lemon over them with a little salt, put buttered paper over them and cook them in the oven for about ten minutes, then place them between two plates with weights on the top to press them. Leave them so for two or three hours; then mask the under side with pate de foie gras, and the upper side with a rich chaud-147 froi^ sauce coloured a pretty rose colour. Decorate them with little round spots of truffle in the form of a lozenge, and mount them on a white aspic cream socle. Run chopped aspic jelly between each cutlet, and arrange chopped aspic all round the dish, with here and there a spray of chervil leaves. ftuails, Trophee of, in Aspic {Food.)—Put a vine leaf inside each quail and a spoonful of veal force-meat. Truss them, blanch the legs and claws in boiling water, remove the nails, wrap each claw in fat bacon carefully, and truss it into place. Stew the birds in champagne ; when done, drain the birds, remove the fat from the claws, and lay them on a sieve. Have some aspic just warm. Decorate the top of a tall mould (similar to those in which sponge cakes are made) with olive truffles, chillypods, etc. (these must be well drained). Set them in the aspic and fill up the first tier of the mould and set firm. Lay two birds in, back downwards, and nearly cover with almost cold aspic. Next, chop the whites of hard-boiled eggs, and wash them well in cold water to make sure no yellow remains on them. Drain very dry and form into a sort of rock for the birds to rest upon, with some of the Indian pickles here and there, truffles, etc. Set and repeat, taking the white ground right down to the edge of the mould. At the bottom set sprays of endive, the edge of the leaves only, and not more than one inch round the edges of the mould and amongst the rocky white of egg. Make a handsome garnish of green round, decorate with slices of lemon halved and semi-quartered with a chilly at the juncture of the quarter, or a curl of parsley. Rabbit, Dressed (Economical way).—A rabbit, half a pound of pickled pork, one onion, one and a half ounce of butter; a little flour and some force-meat balls. Divide and cut the rabbit and pork into slices, shred the onion fine, and fry the whole a nice brown. Then put them into a stewpan, with just sufficient water to cover them. Season it highly with pepper and salt, and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour, or twenty minutes. Then thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour. Add a few force-meat balls, and let it again simmer until the gravy is the consistency of thick cream. It takes about an hour altogether.148 THE housewife's KEFEREE Rabbit en Matelote ; Lapin en Matelote.—Cut a rabbit into four pieces, and fry with butter, mushrooms, onions; powder with flour and imoisten with vin de graves and meat gravy. When it is half cooked, add an eel chopped into little pieces, capers, minced anchovies, and fried croiltons. Salmi {Madame Lebour-Faussett),—Put into a stewpan three ounces of butter with one good spoonful of flour, let them melt together stirring till they become a nice brown, add gradually half a tumbler of very good stock, two whole shallots, a full bouquet, pepper, and a little salt; and put in the bones and carcass of the bird from which all the limbs and meat have been detached. Let all this boil together not too fast for half an hour, then pass it through a colander and put the gravy alone back into the stewpan on the fire, and just when on the point of boiling, put in all the pieces of the bird. Take the stewpan off" the fire, add a little lemon juice, put the lid on and leave it on the side of the fire for another half hour without even simmering. Toast a round of bread not too thick ; cut it into four pieces and lay them at the bottom of a very hot dish. Arrange all the pieces of the bird artistically and pour over them all the gravy, which ought not to be either too thick or too thin. Decorate with small pieces of lemon all round and over the the dish, scalloping the rind. Sauerbraten {Pichled Beef).—A piece of beef must be placed in a deep vessel and a cupful of vinegar poured over it, and it must remain soaking for three days, turned and basted daily, after which it must be wiped quite dry. Cut fat bacon in narrowish strips and season well with salt, pepper, and pounded cloves. Make holes in the meat with a large skewer and put in the pieces of bacon. Melt some butter in a stewpan just large enough to hold the beef, lay it in, and place it over a quick fire, letting the steam escape to hasten the browning; dredge with flour and turn as soon as one side is browned. Then add a pint of hot stock, a couple of carrots quartered lengthwise, a large onion sliced, two bay leaves, a teaspoonful of whole pepper, a little mace, a piece of lemon peel, and some salt. Cover closely and let all steam together for two and a half to three hours, adding a little salt now and then. When it149 ENTRIES is done, take it up and keep hot, skim the fat off and strain the gravy. Garnish the dish with the carrots and add either lemon or vinegar to the gravy. Thicken with flour and boil up. Pour some of the gravy over the meat and send some to table in a sauce boat. Sauerkraut.—The cabbage should boil very slowly with the necessary stock and good beef dripping for five or six hours. A few minutes before serving add some good hock. This dish should be very tender and dry. A few pounds of fresh pork boiled with the kraut is an improvement. Scotch Haggis.—Boil a sheep's heart and two pounds of liver till quite tender; when cool, mince it very fine with one pound of suet and two good-sized onions, add a large teacup- ful of oatmeal and a little pepper and salt. Mix all together with the liquor the liver was boiled in to the thickness of thin batter. Have the sheep's stomach ready cleaned and pour the mixture in, but do not fill it, sew closely up, then drop it into a pot of boiling water, boil it slowly for two hours. Prick it constantly with a skewer for the first hour it boils to prevent its bursting. The sheep's stomach should be soaked for from twelve to sixteen hours in salt and water to cleanse it, and then scraped clean and allowed to soak for twenty-four hours, the water being constantly changed. Spatchcock.—Cut a chicken in half and season the inside of the bird with pepper and salt, finely chopped shallots, a bouquet garni, then brush the bird over with oiled butter, then grill it in front of a fire for a quarter of an hour, basting it well the whole time. When it is taken from the fire it should be well sprinkled with browned crumbs; return it to cook before the fire for ten minutes more, and serve the following sauce with it:—Chop up finely a shallot and put it into a stewpan with two bay leaves, a sprig of thyme, a little pepper, and four tablespoonfuls of French vinegar ; boil all together till the vinegar is reduced to half the quantity, then mix with it three-quarters of a pint of brown sauce and a teaspoonful of Liebig's extract of meat and boil together for ten minutes, pass through a tammy and add a couple of large gherkins, a dessertspoonful of capers, and half a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. Make the sauqe thoroughly hot and use,THE housewife's REFEKEE 150 Squab Pie,—No. 1. Take the remains of any cold meat (pigs' feet or bits of pork), four large apples, two Spanish onions, a teaspoonful of pepper, and a dessertspoonful of salt. Put all together in a large pudding dish, add half a pint of water to make gravy and cover over with a suet crust. No. 2. Cut up equal quantities of apples, onions, and potatoes; add some good-sized pieces of mutton, and plenty of salt and pepper. Put all together in a deep pudding dish, cover with plain pastry, and bake thoroughly. No. 3. Take some meat, cooked or raw, and cut into small pieces ; cut half a dozen apples into thin slices; one tablespoonful of dried currants, onions, salt, and pepper. Mix well, cover with paste, and bake. Supreme de Volaille LucuUus Chicken; (Corblet),— Pemove the fillets from two chickens and take away the skin. Cut each fillet in two, put on a wet board, and make them in the shape of a cutlet; place them in a buttered stewpan, season with a little salt and lay a buttered paper over them. Cook them for ten minutes in a moderate oven, mask them with a good supreme sauce, dish on a border of force-meat, decorated with truffles and very red tongue. Place a little round of truffle between each fillet, and serve with truffles in the centre and sauce supreme round. Sweetbreads a la Toulouse {Gouffe).—Take some scallops of foie gras, truffles, whole button mushrooms, cockscombs and lambs' sweetbreads. Boil the truffles in glaze and chablis, cook the mushrooms in butter and lemon juice. The cockscombs can be bought already prepared; boil the livers and fry the sweetbreads. Place all these ingredients in the middle of the dish and cover with veloute sauce and in the centre put some calf's sweetbread that has been braised and glazed. Sweetbreads, plain, To dress.—Boil and trim the sweet- breads ; beat up an egg, season it with pepper and salt, and nutmeg. Brush them over with the egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, fry them in boiling lard or dripping, put them before the fire to drain, and keep them hot. Have a dish of spinach or boiled whole rice; place it in the centre of the dish and the sw^atbr^ads round it, Serve with b^ef gravy.enteiSes 151 Teal Fillets with Anchovies; Filets de Sarcelles aux Anchois.—Cut cold roast teal into neat cutlets, fry in butter and boil up in a little good brown gravy. Arrange the fillets neatly in a dish, previously buttered and dusted with grated Parmesan. Upon each fillet of teal place a fillet of anchovy, then place a little consomme on each and sprinkle over all more Parmesan and breadcrumbs. At the moment of serving, add a little champagne or white wine. Toad-in-a-hole may be thought a very humble dish, but if well dressed is very good. Make a common batter of eggs, flour and milk, but rather thicker than usual, and put in the centre of it a fowl boned and stuffed with force-meat; let it be entirely covered with the batter, then bake it. Two pounds of beef or any kind of meat may be seasoned and dressed in the same manner. Tomates a I'Algerienne.—The tomato moulds can only be procured at Jones Brothers, Down Street, Piccadilly, and they make a charming dish. Line the two halves of the mould with a puree of tomato and a little aspic, then fill them up with the following preparation :—Pound, and pass through a sieve the flesh of a cold, cooked fowl, then add two tablespoonfuls of veloute sauce, the same quantity of aspic, and half a pint of whipped cream. Close the two halves together, press firmly, taking care that the marks on each part of the mould are opposite to one another. Place on ice for half an hour, then turn them out, and serve on chopped aspic. These moulds can be used for jellies and creams. Tongue and Tomatoes, Boiled.—Select a fresh tongue, wash, trim and scrape it, and cook it for three-quarters of an hour in cold water. Put it in a pot, cover with hot water, and cook till tender. Then take it out of the water, peel off the skin, lay it on a hot plate, and pour over some tomatoes prepared as follows :—Peel some tomatoes, slice them thin, and put wifch them some fine dry crumbs, enough to thicken them. When done, put them in a stewpan and cook gently, stirring frequently. Add to them half a small onion and five or six cloves, and add a large spoonful of butter, pepper, and salt. Have this ready when the tongue is done, and pour round it when ready to serve.152 THE housewife's EEFEKEE Tongues, Sheeps', with Cucumbers; Hammelzungen mit Gurken; Langues de Mouton aux Concombres.— Peel several large gherkins, quarter them lengthways, take away the inside kernels, and cut the other part into squares; blanch these, and cool them in cold water; then pour off, and add four ounces of butter; steam them over a brisk fire, frequently shaking the pan. Let them steam till the superfluous liquor is reduced, and in the meantime prepare a bechamel sauce and mix with the gherkins. The tongues should be boiled, then cut up, and covered with a warm glaze, and served on the gherkins. Tripe a la Lucca; Trippa alia Lucchese.—Cut the tripe into strips, having pressed it well with a cloth to get out any water remaining in it. Put it into a saucepan to cook with butter, salt, and a little chopped onion. Let it cook for about half an hour and then sprinkle generously over it grated Parmesan, with more butter, pepper, and a little cinnamon; stir it well and leave it to cook for a few minutes longer. Tripe, Glasgow.—Cut well-cleaned tripe into strips, roll them and tie with a thread; then put a marrow bone with the tripe into a stone jar with a close-fitting lid. Add sufficient water to cover the tripe and place the jar in a pan of boil- iag water, and let it boil eight to ten hours, and when the meat is removed from the fire season it and set it away in a cool place; the liquor will then jelly. This makes a nice luncheon dish. Truffles with Champagne.—After having selected the best truffles, and washed and cleaned them from the sand which is apt to accumulate in their cavities, trim a stewpan with slices of bacon ; put the truffles into it with a bunch of parsley and green onions, well seasoned with thyme, bay leaves, cloves, basil, etc.; moisten with a spoonful of good consomme, two glasses of champagne, some salt and pepper, and if you have a goodipdelee from fowls, put in some of it, fat and liquid together; set them to boil gently for one hour. Let this cool in the stewpan after tossing those which are at the bottom up to the top, to give them an equal flavour. When you wish to serve up, warm them again, and drain them in a very clean serviette. Serve themENTREES 155 up in a cloth, and save the bacon and the liquor in which they have been braised, which will serve well for either fowl or turkey, or to moisten a salmi, and in fact to improve a great many dishes. Turkish Tawntatalet.—Dilute half a pound of rice flour with three glassfuls of cream. Pass the preparation through a sieve into a stewpan, and stir well over the fire, making a smooth pap. At the first bubbling add to it half a pound of castor sugar, and let the pap reduce for twenty minutes on a very moderate fire. Meanwhile take the breast meat of two small chickens, remove the skin, pound them in a mortar to a paste, add the grated zest of half a lemon, and lastly seven yolks of eggs. Take the paste and pass it through a sieve, and put it into a stewpan. When the pap is quite smooth, pour it over the poultry, working the preparation hard. Let it boil up but once, then immediately pour it into a deep dish or silver pan. Adorn the surface with a few drops of caramel, which let fall at intervals, and then stir to and fro with the point of a knife, to imitate marble. Veal, Breast of, Stewed.—Cut a breast of veal or a portion of it in pieces, fry them with a little butter, an onion, and a cabbage lettuce shred small. When browned, add a little flour ; shake it well together, then add a small quantity of broth or water. Let it stew gently. When the veal is three parts done, take one quart of peas, put them in water, and handle them with a little butter, so that they adhere together. Take away nearly all the gravy from the veal, and put in the peas. When both are done, add pepper, salt, and a little pounded sugar. Thicken the peas with flour and butter, dish up the veal, and pour the peas over. There should be very little sauce with the peas. Cut a handsome piece, put it into a stewpan with a piece of butter, a pint of water, an onion, a stick of celery, and some white pepper and salt. Let it draw gently for some time, then cover it with hot water and allow it to stew until perfectly tender. Remove any skin that may be about it, and thicken a part of the stock with cream, flour, and butter. Cover it with the sauce and serve it up. Mushrooms, pickled white, may be added to the sauce, or stewed celery.154 THE housewife's REFEEEE Veal Cutlets.—Cut from a leg of veal the cutlets of a neat size and shape, and beat them flat; strew over them a little black pepper and salt. Beat up an egg with a little minced parsley and shallot; dip the cutlets into this, and then into breadcrumbs, and fry them a good brown. Serve with shallot gravy or sauce piquante. Veal Cutlets a rHindostan.—Prepare and cook veal cutlets in the ordinary way. Dish them en couronne^ and fill in the centre with the following sauce :—Have some good stock ready; boil some onions in butter; pass them through a sieve; then add to them one tablespoonful of curry paste, a teaspoonful of chutney, a dessertspoonful of desiccated cocoanut, a few drops of the strained juice of a lemon, a tablespoonful of flour, and some butter. Boil all together till thick and place inside the cutlets and serve. Veal Cutlets a la Morny.—Take about two pounds of veal cutlet, and cut into rounds the size of a five-shilling piece. Lard with quarter-inch strips of fat bacon. Put the cutlets into a stewpan, with three-quarters of a pint of sauce a la Morny, with buttered paper. Close the lid, and place over the fire till the cutlets are done; then drain and press them between two dishes; then warm them up, and arrange in a circle, pouring the Morny sauce on to the cutlets. Serve tomatoes in the centre, with grated Par- mesan over. Morny sauce is ma.de with white sauce, and grated Parmesan and gruyere cheese in it. Veal, Fricandelle of.—Take the remains of cold veal or any other meat, breadcrumbs, half an ounce of butter, one egg, half a pint of gravy, seasoning, pepper and salt to taste. Chop some veal or any other cold meat, fat and lean together; season it with pepper and salt to taste; put grated breadcrumbs to it in proportion to the quantity of meat, about a teacupful generally sufiices; add one ounce of butter, one egg, and a little good gravy. Mix these ingredients well together, and press them firmly into a basin or mould which must be previously buttered; boil it for half an hour, turn it out of the mould, and send it to table with a little brown gravy over it.155 ENTRIES Veal, Knuckle of, en Eagout.—Take a knuckle of veal, one head of celery, one bunch of savoury herbs, one onion, one blade and a half of mace, four or five young carrots, two dessertspoonfuls of ketchup, two of tomato sauce, juice of half a lemon, a piece of butter, a little flour, pepper and salt, and one glass of white wine. Cut the meat from the veal into slices, season them with pepper and salt, and fry them lightly. Chop the bone, and put it into the bottom of a stewpan with the head of celery, savoury herbs, carrots, and one and a half blades of mace. Put in the slices of veal, pour in a pint of water, and set it over a moderate fire, to simmer slowly for about two hours. Then take out the veal, strain the gravy through a hair sieve; add a piece of butter rolled in flour, the ketchup, sauce, lemon juice and wine. Boil it for a few minutes; then put in the slices of meat and the vegetables, and when hot serve it quickly. Veal Olive Pie.—Cut the remains of a dressed fillet of veal into thin slices and cover these with pieces of bacon, spread force-meat upon them and roll them firmly. Place in a pie dish piled high in the middle and intersperse among them about a dozen force-meat balls the size of marbles, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, cut into halves, and a few stewed mushrooms. Pour over a good, highly flavoured, thick gravy flavoured with lemon juice. Line the edges of a pie dish, cover it in the usual way and bake in a good oven for an hour, or an hour and a half. Veal Olives.—Scrape half a pound of uncooked veal and one ounce of lean ham; clean and pound one anchovy ; mix well together and season with the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, a quarter of a grain of cayenne, a saltspoonful of white pepper, a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a dessertspoonful of Oswego flour, one ounce of veal suet finely chopped, and a well- beaten egg. Cut some slices of veal oflf the fillet as thin as possible, and trim them into pieces four and a half inches long and three inches wide (six will be required); roll these flat with, the rolling pin ; have the same number of pieces of fat bacon, cut so thin that they are almost transparent ; divide the force-meat into six parts, roll one part in each piece of veal^ £|,nd over th^t the bacon, bind them roundTHE housewife's EEFEKEB 156 with tape, put the six ohves into a small stewpan with a teacupful of good gravy, and simmer for two hours; baste the olives constantly with the gravy; take them out, remove the tape, carefully; put them neatly on a dish; skim and strain the gravy, add half a wineglass of marsala and the strained juice of a lemon; pour it over and serve. Veal, Tendons of, and Spinach.—That part of the veal which is called tendons consists of the gristly portion of the breast bone which has not yet become hardened into bone; this is situated towards the thick edge of the breast of veal. After having removed the meat from the tendons, cut them straight along the end of the rib bones, leaving the f3ap of meat on to the ribs; next slice off such portion of the breast bone as may have become formed into bone, divide the tendon or gristle part into square pieces the size of a cutlet; and place in a stewpan a bed of carrots, onions, turnips, celery, garnished faggot of parsley, six cloves, a few peppercorns, and a little salt; moisten with sufficient stock or water to let them swim; put the lid on and set them to braise very gently on a slow fire for about four hours. When the tendons are done, which will be when the gristle has become almost trans- parent and comparatively soft to the probe of a fork, they must be carefully removed with a small skimmer one by one, and being placed between two china dishes, set in the larder to become partially cold in order that they may be neatly trimmed, then place in a stewpan with their own liquor (previously freed from grease and boiled down to glaze). Make them hot, roll them in their glaze, dish them up in a circular row; garnish the centre with dressed spinach; pour the remainder of their glaze round the base and serve. Tendons of veal may also be served with stewed peas or any other vegetable garnish. Woodcock a la Gortais ; Becasse a la Gortais.—Sprinkle a woodcock with brandy, add salt and pepper to taste with a grate of nutmeg. Stuff it with farce made of foie gras, truffles, and veal; line a tureen with slices of very thin bacon, spread over it some of the foie gras farce, pepper and salt. Put in the woodcock and fill up all intersticesSAVOUBIES 157 with foie gras and truffles, place more foie gras on the top and cover with bacon. Place a layer of dough round the joint of the tureen and the cover of it. Cook for an hour in a moderate oven. SAVOURIES " Pretty little tiny kickshaws."—Henri/ IV. Artichauts Souffles a la Lyonnaise.—Butter the moulds, then line them with a souffle of chicken lightly coloured with some spinach to represent the green leaves of an artichoke. Garnish the inside with a puree of mushrooms, fill up the remainder with souffle of chicken, poach them; then turn out on to some small artichoke bottoms previously braised. Serve with supreme sauce. Artichokes a la Reine.—Line the halves of the small artichoke moulds with a thin coating of aspic jelly, and place on ice to set. Then fill in with a mixture of equal parts of puree of artichokes well reduced, and cream of chicken, veal, or game. Next press the halves together and place on ice for half an hour, when they will be ready to be turned out. Dish them on some small paste tablets and garnish each with a ring of chopped aspic. Artichokes, Stuffed; Carciofi Ripeni.—Peel the arti- chokes, taking off the outside leaves and the upper sprouts ; cut them in half, longwise if they are small, or if large in three or four slices j next put them into fresh water. Then put some mushrooms into hot water with a little bread, two cloves, and a piece of parsley; mince all together very finely, and put them in an earthenware saucepan. Add to this mixture an egg, grated Parmesan cheese, salt, and spices, and mix all into a good paste. Then take the artichokes out of the water, drain them on a cloth, place them in a pan in which some oil has been poured, then have some rasped bread and spread this mixture over it and put it in the oven to cook. Asparagus a la Sevillienne; Pointes d'Asperges a la Sevillienne.—Take some asparagus heads (previouslyTHE fiOUSEWliFE^S REI^EHEfi 158 cooked) the size of the flutes of small asparagus moulds, stand them upright and line the mould with a coating of white aspic, fill up the mould with a mayonnaise in which a little aspic has been added, so that it can stand firm when served; place round a dish and garnish in centre with a salad of artichoke bottoms. Asparagus Cream; Creme d'Asperges.—This dish can only be made in one of Jones Brothers' artistic moulds. Cook two bundles of green asparagus; when ready, separate the heads and pass through a fine sieve mixing in two table- spoonfuls of veloute sauce thinned down. Prepare the white part of the asparagus the same way. Pound up, and pass through a sieve two breasts of fowls ; divide into two equal portions, and into one of these slowly mix the green puree with the addition of a gill of whipped cream; then with the second portion, add the white puree and the same quantity of cream. Butter the mould, and place in half the green puree to fill one-quarter of the contents. Mix the remainder with half the white portion (thus giving a neutral tint), with which fill the mould to three-quarters; afterwards pour in the rest of the white portion. Steam this prepara- tion in a pan for half an hour without allowing it to boil. Withdraw from the mould, and serve up the entree with sufficient asparagus heads to garnish the centre. Asparagus Peas.—Take a bundle of green asparagus; when cut, it should produce a pint and a half of peas; clear the points and stalks of small leaves; break the asparagus and cut it in pieces a quarter of an inch long; if very large, slit the asparagus in two. Boil the peas in an untinned two-quart stewpan full of salted boiling water (four ounces of salt to a quart of water); when done, drain on a cloth; put the peas in a stewpan with two gills of melted butter, one teaspoonful of pounded sugar, and one pinch of salt; thicken with two yolks of eggs, one ounce of butter, and half a gill of cream; toss over the fire till the butter is melted, put in a dish and serve. Asparagus, To boil.—Scrape the stalks clean, wash them in cold water, tie them up in bundles of about twenty-five each, cut off the stalks even at the bottom about four inches from the green part; put them into a stewpan of boiling159 SAVOUBIES water with a handful of salt in it; let it boil rather quickly and skim it. From twenty to thirty minutes should be enough to do them ; but as soon as they are tender take them out of the water, or they will be spoilt. While they are boiling toast a round of a quartern loaf about half an inch thick brown on both sides ; lay it in the middle of the dish with the asparagus over it; serve with them melted butter in which you have beaten up the yolk of an egg, but separately in a boat, or else oiled butter. In France, asparagus is much liked cold as salad, and eaten with the following sauce:—Vinegar, one tablespoonful; oil, two; quarter of a teaspoonful of salt; half that of pepper. Mix well together, and add a little minced parsley. Where asparagus dishes are used, it is not necessary to send up the toast. Asperges, Moule a Creme d'.—Take about a pound of the flesh of a chicken, pass it through a mincing machine and pound in a mortar with four ounces of butter, two whole eggs and a gill of cold white sauce. Season to taste, and pass through a wire sieve. Then work the force-meat in a basin with a wooden spoon, adding gradually half a pint of double cream; pound, also, a handful of asparagus (spruce), previously cooked with a few leaves of spinach; pass the puree through a hair sieve and mix it with half of the force-meat. Having buttered the asparagus mould, place in each cavity at the bottom a head of cooked asparagus, then half fill the mould with some of the green force-meat, and finish the filling up with the white force-meat. Beets, Stewed.—Parboil, pare, and cut the beets in slices, then put into a saucepan, with half the quantity of small onions parboiled, a tiny shred of red pepper pod, two or three slices of okra, a shred of basil and parsley, a shred of celery, salt to taste, a lump of sugar, and a piece of butter. Cook in rich cream or white stock, and, just before serving, stir in a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Brussels Sprouts, Fried.—When boiled and drained fry them in butter for a few minutes, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. Carrots a la Poulette.—When the carrots are scraped, washed, and scalded, cut them into slices; boil them till160 THE housewife's KEFEREE eooked with a lump of butter; when cooked, drain them. Blend over the fire some butter and flour, together with pepper and salt; add some white stock, two yolks of eggs, and a squeeze of lemon. Toss the carrots in this, but do not let them boil, and serve. Celery, Fried.—Cut the white pieces of celery into lengths about four inches long, and dust with salt and pepper, dip them in whipped eggs, then in dry breadcrumbs, and fry quickly in smoking hot fat. Drain, and serve very hot with roast turkey. Celery, Fried, a ritalienne.—Divide a few sticks into equal pieces, and cook them gently in a saucepan with gravy, lard, a little piece of ham or bacon, salt, and pepper. When they are cooked, take them off the fire and let them get cold, then dip each piece into egg and breadcrumbs, and fry the whole ; when arranged in a dish preparatory to serving, pour tomato sauce on the celery. Celery, Stewed.—Wash and trim off the outer leaves, put it on to boil; when it is tender, take it out and squeeze it well; then place it in a stewpan with some good veal broth, and simmer it over a gentle fire. When reduced enough, thicken the sauce with a bit of butter the size of a walnut rolled in flour; add a few drops of vinegar or a squeeze of lemon, and serve. Celery with Gravy.—Take six heads of fresh celery, cut ofl" the tops, leaving each head six inches long, trim the outside leaves and cut the roots to a point; wash, then blanch them for ten minutes in boiling water, cool, and wash them again; carefully tie the heads together in two bundles, and put them in a stewpan with three gills of broth, two gills of water, one gill of stock-pot fat or clean dripping, one faggot, one small carrot, say two ounces, one small onion, say two ounces, one pinch of salt, and one small pinch of pepper. Put a round of paper over the whole and close the stewpan, simmer for two hours; when done, drain and put the celery on a dish—three heads at the bottom, then two, then one. Prepare a sauce as follows :—Put one ounce of butter and one ounce of flour in a stewpan, stir over the fire for three minutes; add a pint and a half of household gravy, stir till reduced to one pint; strainSAVOUKIES 161 through the pointed strainer, pour over the celery, and serve. Chartreuse a la Variete.—Oil well a plain round mould, cut some truffles into pieces an inch square, and one eighth of an inch thick. They must be very evenly cut. Make some savoury custard in which aspic jelly has been mixed, and cut it into pieces the same size. Place these evenly and alternately like a chess-board all round the oiled mould, then paint very thinly all over with aspic jelly just before it quite sets, and place on ice for two or three hours. Then fill the centre with pate de foie gras, or any kind of force-meat, and put on ice again ; then turn out, and serve red aspic jelly, chopped fine, round the base. Cheese Balls.—The whites of two eggs, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheeese, salt, and a dust of cayenne. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth; stir in the cheese, salt, and pepper. Shape the mixture into balls the size of marbles, and drop them into boiling lard. Fry them for about five minutes till a golden brown, drain well, and serve with grated cheese. Chendool Curry.—Either pound, or pass through a machine, one pound and a half of meat; mix with it one small onion very finely chopped, two beads of garlic ditto, one teaspoonful of mixed ground spice, one or two chopped chillies, and a little green ginger ; salt to taste; add just a very little flour, and bind the mixture with a well-beaten egg. Make into little balls, and fry a nice golden colour in butter, and put them on one side. Cut up an onion into very thin rings, chop one bead of garlic small, and fry these a golden brown with twelve cloves and the seeds of eight cardamoms in two ounces of butter; then add one table- spoonful of best mild curry powder (such as may be got at Stenbridge's, in Leicester Square, or Cook's, in Prince's Street, Oxford Circus); fry this a minute also, and then add one teaspoonful of Armour's beef extract dissolved in one small cup of water; let this simmer gently for about an hour, then add one tablespoonful of cream; salt to taste, and a tablespoonful of very finely grated cocoanut, also a squeeze of lemon juice; then add the little balls, warm through, and serve very hot, with a separate dish of plain boiled rice.162 THE housewife's BEFEREE China Chilo.—Mince a pound of raw mutton with two ounces of salt pork. Put three ounces of butter into a saucepan with two small onions minced small, three young lettuces, salt, pepper, parsley, and a pint of green peas. Stir over a gentle fire for ten minutes, add the meat and enough stock to cover. Stir thoroughly, and then let all simmer very slowly for two hours. Serve with steamed rice. Colcannon.—Chop an equal quantity of boiled cabbage and potatoes, add two ounces of butter, pepper, and salt, and fry them together ; some onions or carrots may also be added, if liked. The cabbages should be boiled in two waters, and the water skimmed; cook for about one hour. Cucumber, Fried.—Peel some large cucumbers, slice and sprinkle with pepper and salt, dip them in beaten egg, sift over with breadcrumbs, and fry to a brown. Cucumber Fritters {Anna Cameron),—Peel and grate full- grown tender cucumbers. Press all the juice from the pulp, and add to one quart of pulp half a teacupful of good cream, half a pint of flour, one gill of melted butter, salt and pepper to taste. Beat four eggs separately very light, and add to the batter, which should be very thick. Have ready a saucepan of boiling lard and drop in one large spoonful at a time, removing as soon as crisp or brown. Serve as for fried oysters. Cucumber Mayonnaise.—Put the beaten yolk of an egg in a bowl, with very little salt, pepper and cayenne, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice; mix these to a cream and then add the best salad oil, a few drops at a tinle, and well stir till thick. Grate a freshly peeled cucumber till there is about three tablespoonfuls of it and beat this into the mayonnaise. Pry filleted sole, or brill in egg and bread- crumbs, and serve the mayonnaise with it. Cucumbers a la Poulette.—After they are boiled and drained, put them in a saucepan with a little cream, or white sauce, or milk; simmer for five or ten minutes, and then take out the cucumbers. Thicken the sauce with yolks of eggs; season with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, and serve over the cucumbers.163 SAVOUEIES Concombres a la Sutton.—Boil a large cucumber till quite tender, drain and remove all the green rind, cut into little rounds about half an inch thick, take out the seeds and arrange neatly on a hot dish with a wall of mashed potatoes round ; fill each case with a highly seasoned mince ; put into the oven for a few minutes to get thoroughly hot, and pour round the dish a thick brown gravy seasoned with tarragon vinegar. Sprinkle a little very finely chopped parsley over each little round of mince, and serve. Eclairs a la Venetienne.—Prepare some choux paste, and make twenty eclairs three inches and a half long and half an inch in diameter, brushing them over with beaten-up egg. Bake them in a moderate oven for about half an hour, when they should be of a nice golden colour. Let them get cold, split them down one side and fill with the following :— One dozen anchovies pounded in a mortar with two table- spoonfuls of hechamel sauce and a little Nepaul pepper. Pass the paste through a fine sieve, and put it into a stew- pan ; make it warm and mix with it two whites of eggs which have been whipped very stifi" with a pinch of salt. Take a forcing bag with a plain tin pipe, put the cream inside and fill each eclair with it. Bake in a moderate oven for eight minutes, and serve very hot. Egg Cheese; Eierkase Eierzieger.—Whisk up eight whole eggs, with a pint and a half of cold milk, a few drops of lemon juice, an ounce of sugar, and a very little salt; pass two or three times through a hair sieve; then stir over a slow fire till they begin to curdle. As soon as they do this they must be taken off' the fire at once. Continue to stir for a minute, and then pour into a mould, and let it stand to get cold. Now make a cream sauce, and let it stand till cold. Turn out the first mixture and pour over it the cream sauce. The cream sauce is made with one pint of cream, in which three ounces of sugar, a small stick of cinnamon, and the peel of a lemon have been boiled, mixed with the yolks of four eggs. The eggs should previously have been stirred with the point of a knife full of rice flour, and a tablespoonful of cold milk. Egg Cutlets.—Chop six hard-boiled eggs very small, add to them a teaspoonful each of mushrooms, truffles, and164 THE housewife's EEFEREE parsley, a little salt, and pepper. Mix these ingredients together, and when cold make them into nice-shaped cutlets. Dip them into egg and breadcrumbs, and fry a nice golden brown. Place each cutlet on a round croilton of bread fried a light colour, and dish them arranged in a ring, with peas in the centre. Serve with rich white sauce, in which the yolks of two eggs have been mixed. Egg Plant, Fried.—One fine egg plant, two eggs, half a cup of milk, a little salt, flour for thin batter, and lard or dripping for frying. Slice and pare the egg plant, and lay in salt and water one hour. Wipe perfectly dry, make a batter as directed above, dip each piece in it, and fry it to a fine brown. Drain, dry, and serve on hot, flat dish. Egg Souffles, Savoury.—Butter some little china souffle cases, break a fresh egg into each, season with pepper, salt, grated tongue, finely minced parsley and chives, and set it in the oven for a few minutes. Eggs a la Baldwin.—Boil four or six eggs till quite hard, cut the whites into very small pieces. Make a rich white stock, add a little chopped parsley, a dust of cayenne, a little salt, a tablespoonful of cream; put in the pieces of white of egg and boil all up for one minute, and have ready the yolks rubbed through a coarse sieve; place the white mixture into a dish, cover with the tammied yolk, and brown slightly with a salamander. Eggs, Zurich.—Beat up four eggs, and add three spring onions with some parsley to them, all finely minced. Season with pepper and salt; then mix well into them two ounces of melted butter, and the same of grated Par- mesan cheese. Fry slightly, and brown with a salamander. Enchiladis, or Pepper Tortillas {Jewson),—The tortillas are pancakes made of equal parts of Indian corn-meal and wheat-flour, seasoned with salt and mixed with cold water to a thick paste. They are then baked upon a griddle dusted with corn-meal. Have ready, chopped fine, equal parts of olives, raisins, and cheese, and mix together. Make some Spanish sauce by bruising some green garden peppers to get ofl* the skins, and peel some tomatoes, and two large onions, chop all fine; and also a red pepper sauce by165 SAVOURIES blistering red garden peppers in the oven just tender enough to permit the juice being squeezed out by wringing in a cloth. Dip the tortillas in the pepper sauce, put the olive mixture on the pancakes and roll them up, place them on a dish to heat in the oven, and cover them with the sauce. Endive with Gravy.—Take twelve heads of endive; wash, blanch, and chop them as directed for garnish. Put in a two-quart stewpan one ounce of butter, and half an ounce of flour ; stir over the fire for five minutes; add one pint of good plain gravy; simmer for half an hour, stirring occasionally; take off the fire; add one ounce of butter, and when it is melted, dish up the endive, and garnish with croutons in the same way as spinach. Milk may also be substituted for gravy. Endives, Dressed.—Pick to pieces three endives; wash them well in three different waters ; drain them; throw them into boiling water with a handful of salt, and boil them on a quick fire till they are very tender. Put them to drain in a colander, and squeeze out all the moisture. Chop them very fine ; place them in a saucepan, with one ounce of butter, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; stir them over the fire for about twenty minutes; add a little cream, and dish them up with fried sippets. French Beans a la Maitre d'Hotel.—Have ready two pounds of French beans ; two ounces of butter ; pepper and salt, nutmeg, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley parboiled, and the juice of half a lemon. Pick and string the beans, cutting each bean into three or four strips. Wash them well in cold water, drain them, and put them into a sauce- pan. Cook them, adding the above ingredients. Gnocchi.—Boil one pint of milk and sprinkle gradually in half a pound of semolina, stirring steadily all the time and keeping the mixture as light as possible ; put in a pinch of sugar and a pinch of salt. Draw the saucepan off the fire and, still stirring, add three or four well-beaten eggs, and half a tumblerful of cold water. Pour the paste on to a marble slab, slightly wetted; spread the layer to the thickness of half an inch and put it to cool on ice. Cut the iced paste into rounds or otherwise arrange them in a buttered166 THE housewife's REFEKEE dish; sprinkle each layer with grated Parmesan cheese and« melted butter. Let it gratiner and serve in the same dish. Ham and Savoury Custard.—Prepare some cro'dtons and put on little slices of ham the same size and shape as the croutons and keep them hot. Make a custard with the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, with a gill of pale stock, pepper, and salt, and pour it into little cups or small gallipots, set them in a pan of boiling water, and keep boiling for fifteen minutes. When quite firm turn out and place one on each croiiton^ the custard flavoured well with shallot is an improvement many people think. Indian Cheese Savoury {Mrs. Grace Johnson).—Well mix two tablespoonfuls of Coombe's Eureka flour with enough milk to make it the consistency of cream, add the yolks of four eggs well beaten, three ounces of Parmesan cheese, some chopped parsley, and one chopped green chilly ; salt to taste. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff" froth, mix it with the rest gradually, pour it into a well-greased souffle dish, and bake in the oven till set and of a nice golden brown colour. Send it to table directly, as it falls when cool. Leeky Pie.—Cut up a dozen leeks, put them to boil with enough water to cover them. When boiled strain off* the water, season with salt and pepper to taste, put them in a pudding-dish, pour over one half-pint of buttermilk and a beaten egg. Cover with ordinary paste and bake. Macaroni a la Capellita {Italian). The macaroni used by the natives is in irregularly shaped chips, and is cooked in beef stock with the addition of cheese or tomatoes. An onion is browned in the fryiug-pan to impart to the macaroni that sowp^on of flavour which is scarcely per- ceptible. Take one pint of flour and two well-beaten eggs, mix these together with the measure of one-half an egg-shell full of cold water, the shell cut across the middle as near as possible; sprinkle in a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. The dough should be dry and stiff". Roll out thin, almost as thin as the blade of a knife. From this dough cut out pieces a little larger than a five-shilling piece (the top167 SAVOURIES of a small tin box will answer). Have ready a small half- bowlful of rich game or meat chopped fine. A mixture of meats is best, and must be well cooked and well chopped. Beat into it one whole egg, and one tablespoonful of grated cheese. In the centre of each capellita of dough put half a teaspoonful of meat; gather it up bag fashion with the left hand, and with the right give the dough a twist so as to enclose the meat safely. Then flatten at the edge like the brim of a hat, and leave it on the moulding board till all the dough has been used. Then take some well-seasoned and rich soup just coming to the boil, drop in the cup- shaped macaroni carefully one by one, so that the twisted parts are uppermost and the flat rims downwards. They must not jump about or touch each other in the cooking. Twenty minutes ought to cook the dough. If required cold, let them cool in the dish in which they are cooked, and if hot, let them be heated. Macaroni a la Creme Aigre.—Take a pound of macaroni and boil in salt and water, and let it boil for twenty minutes, pour off* the water and cool with cold water; have ready eight ounces of butter which has been fried, with a tablespoonful of flour of a light colour, add a pint of sour cream, boil it up and mix, whilst continually shaking it add eight ounces of grated Parmesan cheese and season with pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Macaroni a la Napolitaine.—Take about one pound of trimmings of beef, as much fat bacon, all cut into dice, an onion cut in dice, then thrown into cold water and squeezed dry in a cloth, add a clove of garlic; then put the whole into a saucepan and let it remain on the fire, stirring it occasionally till the onion is almost melted away, and add parsley, marjoram, thyme, pepper, and salt. Take a piece of tomato pulp (procured only at Dr. Luggo's, Idol Lane, E.G.), cut it in pieces the size of a pea, put in the pieces a few at a time, always stirring the contents of the saucepan. When sufficient tomato pulp or conserva has been put in moisten with water a spoonful at a time. Let the whole simmer for ten minutes, then strain, remove superfluous fat, and dress the macaroni with it, and plenty of Parmesan cheese.168 THE housewife's KBFEREE Marrow Toast.—Take a large shin bone and split it, taking out the marrow in one piece. Cut the marrow into slices nearly an inch thick and set aside. Mix in a hot dish a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, the same of lemon juice, half a teaspoonful of salt, a grain of cayenne, and several drops of onion juice. Have in the oven some squares of toast, crisp and browned evenly. Boil the marrow quickly for a minute and a half in a quart of salted water, drain thoroughly when done, and mix it with the seasoning in the hot dish ; spread on the toast and serve mry hot. Mushrooms, to cook {Mrs. H. Reeve).—Button mushrooms nearly of a size are the best. Put them in a stewpan with butter, fine herbs, and chibbals—i.e., onions no larger than a pea. Warm for a few minutes, add a little flour and broth enough to moisten the whole; stew till no sauce remains. Then make a liaison with the yolk of an egg and a squeeze of lemon, into which stir the mushrooms. Fry a round slice of bread, if the centre is to be garnished, and dress on that. Mushroom Croustade a TEspagnole; Groustades de Champignons a I'Espagnole.—Line some oval tartlet pans with very short paste, butter them well to keep them from burning, and place in each a piece of stale bread to preserve the hollows whilst baking. Cut up some button mushrooms into dice, about one dessertspoonful for each croustade. Warm the mushrooms in some Espagnole sauce flavoured with a little marsala, and keep warm till wanted, when the croustades should be filled and sent to table at once. Mushroom Hash; Hachis aux Champignons {Br. M. C. Cooke).—Take two dozen mushrooms; dry, and put them in a pan with a piece of butter. As soon as the butter has melted, stir in a tablespoonful of flour, two glasses of beef gravy, salt, pepper, and a bay leaf. Cook till nearly reduced by one half, and then pour it over hashed mutton. Mix well, and serve with small crusts of fried bread. Mushrooms a la Delmonico; Champignons a la Delmonico. —Chop an onion finely, fry it in butter to a pale brown colour, stir carefully, and then add a quarter of a pound of169 SAVOURIES finely chopped mushrooms. Simmer till the mushrooms are two-thirds cooked. Soak two anchovies, pound them in a mortar with a teaspoonful of French mustard, three tea- spoonfuls of brown sauce, and add to the mushrooms. Boil together for two or three minutes and fill a croustade case with it. Mushrooms a la Montglas ; Champignons a la Montglas. —Jones' Brothers mushroom moulds must be used for this entree. Prepare a Julienne composed of equal parts of fillet of chicken, tongue, truffles, and mushrooms, and mix with it a chaud-froid sauce of a night-light colour. Line the parts of the moulds with a nice clear aspic. Fill them up with the above preparation, join the two halves together, press firmly, and place on ice for twenty minutes. Turn out, and serve on chopped aspic. Mushrooms a la Russe.—Clean and wash mushrooms ; wipe dry, and cut in half. Put into a saucepan, with a lump of fresh butter, some chopped parsley, green onion, and fennel. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Cook slowly till the mushrooms are tender. Five minutes before serving take out the mushrooms, strain the liquor in which they have cooked and return it to the saucepan, with two coffee-cupfuls of rich bechamel sauce, and one of good sour cream. Add salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste, and put in the mushrooms. Boil up once ; put in a pinch of chopped fennel, and serve. Mushrooms au Gratin; Champignons au Gratin.—Skin, wash, and wipe dry some fresh cup mushrooms, cut the stems to within a quarter of an inch of the head, and fill the cups with a force-meat made of a quarter of an ounce shredded bacon, the same of shallot, a sprig of chopped parsley, a tiny piece of thyme, and pepper and salt to taste. Simmer for five minutes in butter and add the yolk of an egg. Well dredge them with bread raspings in a buttered baking dish, and bake in a moderate oven. When done pile on a hot dish, serve rich brown sauce round. Mushrooms au Gratin a la Russe.—Clean and wipe the mushrooms, cut off the stems, rinse and wipe them care- fully ; salt them lightly, and roll them in arrowroot; fryTHE housewife's BEFEREE 170 to a pale brown in butter. Put into a deep dish; pour over them a rich bechamel sauce made with sour cream, and flavoured with a pinch of chopped fennel. Cover with rolled breadcrumbs; stick little bits of butter among them ; put into the oven, and bake to a light brown, and serve very hot. Mushrooms, Broiled.—Choose large flaps, cut off the stalks about half an inch from the gills, and peel the tops. If very gritty wash in water acidulated with vinegar, and dry immediately. Place them on a gridiron over a clear fire, stalk downwards, for about three minutes, then turn them and place a small morsel of butter in the centre of each, and let them cook till done. Place upon a dish, stalk- side upwards, in front of a bright fire, place on more butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve very hot with a few drops of lemon-chili vinegar and Worcester sauce. Mushrooms; Croute's aux Champignons.—Select fresh, fully expanded mushrooms that are not large enough for boiling. Cut off the stalks about half-way down, but do not peel the tops. Place in a baking tin with a liberal supply of butter, and cook in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, and serve piled on a dish. Mushrooms en Croustade; Champignons en Croustade.— No. 1. Line the top parts of some mushroom moulds with a fine paste of macaroni, bake them a nice, light brown colour. Then fill up the bottom parts with a puree of mushrooms, join the two parts together, and serve up very hot. Send tomato sauce separately with them. No. 2. Chop an onion very finely, fry it in butter to a pale brown colour, stir carefully and then add a quarter of a pound of finely chopped mushrooms. Simmer together till the mushrooms are two-thirds cooked. Soak two anchovies, pound them in a mortar with a teaspoonful of French mustard, three teaspoonfuls of brown sauce, and add this to the mushrooms. Boil together for two or three minutes, and fill a croustade with it. Mushrooms en Ragout; Champignons en Ragout {Lady SL Clair),—Slice some mushrooms, toss them in melted171 SAVOURIES butter seasoned with salt and pepper, add a little minced parsley, moistened with broth and a spoonful of coulis (brown sauce), and serve piping hot with a squeeze of lemon. Olives; Croutes aux Olives.—Fry some neat croiltons a golden-brown, and spread them rather thickly with anchovy butter. Pour a little melted aspic over this, and in the middle of each croilton set an olive turned, the stone being replaced by a fillet of anchovy. Omelette a la Vieille Noblesse.—Take some eggs, soft fish roe, fresh truffles, cockscombs, and kidneys. Dust a roe, or two roes as the case may be, with flour and stew in clarified butter. Mix the first ingredients together and keep warm ; then make an omelette in the usual way. Place half the stew in the omelette, roll it up, turn over the two ends and place remainder of stew round it, with a few slices of truffles and cockscombs on the top, and serve very hot. Omelette, Russian.—Prepare the eggs as for an ordinary omelet, adding a little cayenne. When nearly done put some caviare in the centre, fold over in the usual way, and serve hot, and quickly garnished with fried parsley. Onions a I'Etoile.—Take a large Spanish onion, core it with the column cutter, then cut it down within two inches of the bottom in divisions like an orange, so that it has somewhat the appearance of a star. Make a mince of beef or mutton in the usual way, flavour it highly and fill in the onion with it, tying the onion round to cook it, to prevent the mince falling out. Make a hole in the centre of the mince and put in a macedoine of carrots and turnips, cut in Julienne strips, made with a good brown sauce in which isinglassine has been mixed. When it is cooked cut the string and dish it up with a mushroom puree round it. Onions al vino.—Slice and peel two large Spanish onions, cut them into rings, stew them in butter for five minutes over a very clear fire, drain them and put them into enough chablis to cover them; next add an ounce of fresh butter rolled in flour. Sprinkle upon them a little cayenne pepper, and salt and cook them slowly, and serve with little sippets of toast under them.172 THE housewife's REFEKEE Onions, Stewed Portugal.—Peel four large onions and put them into one quart of strong broth, with three-quarters of a pound of fine white sugar, and a pinch of salt. Put this into a stewpan, cover it close, and set it in the oven. They will require from six to eight hours' cooking. The broth should be reduced to quite a glaze. Parmesan Creams.—Take some little dariole moulds, chemise them with aspic. Cut some truffles in small shapes and in different devices, and arrange them in the jelly. When cold put in the following mixture:—Four ounces of Parmesan grated finely, a dust of cayenne, salt to taste, and stir all in half a pint of rich double cream. Fill the moulds with this, stand on ice, and when cold turn out and serve, garnished with the cherry tomatoes. Peas a la famille.—Wash and shell the peas, and without draining them put them into a stewpan with broth, a sliced onion, parsley, salt and pepper, some little pieces of ham, and some oil. Put on the lid of the pan and let all cook over a moderate fire, turning them from time to time to prevent the peas burning. Petits Pates aux Champignons.—Take some French rolls and with a round cutter, four inches long, cut out the crumb, but leave a bottom to them. Butter these inside and out, and fill them with a mince made with mushrooms peeled and mixed up roughly. Put them in a stewpan with some butter, the juice of a lemon, and a little mushroom ketchup. Let them cook till the mince becomes thick ; fill the little bread cases, and bake till cooked. Place a cooked cherry tomato on the top of each with a spray or two of parsley. Roll the cases before filling them in a little dried and finely chopped parsley. Petits Talmouses au Parmesan.—Line some tartlet pans with puff paste. Take two ounces of cream curd, one ounce of butter and beat them smoothly together; add two ounces of flour, one and a half ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and not quite a gill of milk, and cook over the fire till the mixture does not cling to the sides of the pan. Take off fire, and beat well in two and a half eggs (or three small ones), one at a time, and fill the cases with this mixture.173 SAVOUKIES Plovers' Eggs a la Balfour.—Pound and press through a fine wire sieve the flesh of three fine anchovies, boned and skinned. Kemove the shells from six plovers' eggs, halve them longwise, take out the yolks and pound into a paste with the third of their weight of fresh butter. Then add the anchovies, a grate of nutmeg, a little Nepaul pepper and salt to taste, beat altogether thoroughly and fill the whites of the eggs neatly with the mixture; this must be done very carefully so as not to break the white. Lay the eggs in little square-shaped paper souffle cases, put on each a scalded fillet of anchovy, and fill up the corners with chopped aspic jelly. Surround the dish with thin rolled bread and butter and tufts of watercress. Plovers' Eggs a la Careme.—Shell some plovers' eggs, cut some truffles in the shape of tiny kites, the same in beetroot, and ornament the eggs alternately with these, sticking them on with a little aspic jelly; line a mould with aspic jelly and place two tiers of eggs in it; put it on ice or in the refrigerator to get firm, then pour in a little more nearly set aspic jelly (the mould should have a pipe in it), put on ice again, and when properly iced turn out and fill the interior with an iced vegetable macedoine and mayonnaise sauce, garnish the top with prawns or cray fish and make a thick hash of sprays of chervil round the base and beyond that chopped aspic. Potato Balls.-—Mash some floury potatoes quite smooth, season with pepper and salt, add fresh butter until sufiiciently moist, but not too much so, make into balls, roll them in vermicelli crumbled, or in breadcrumbs—in the latter case they may be brushed with the yolk of egg— fry them a nice brown ; serve. Potatoes a I'ltalienne ; Pomi de Terra all'Italiana.— Boil some potatoes in salted water; when quite cooked, after removing the skins, throw them into a pan and cover them with grated Parmesan cheese, stirring all well together. Form the mixture into balls about the size of potatoes and dip them into the white of an egg, and then into flour. Fry them till they aie crisp and of a pale gold colour, drain carefully from fat, sprinkle a little salt over them, and serve quite hot.174 THE housewife's REFEEEE Potatoes a la Macon.—Take cold boiled potatoes and cut up into very thin slices. Put some butter and cream into a saucepan, and when hot add the potatoes. Salt delicately, and let cook till the potatoes have absorbed the cream and butter, stirring very carefully so as to prevent breaking the slices and burning them. Put into a hot dish, dust with pepper and serve with broiled steak. Potatoes a la Milanese {Italian).—Take as many potatoes as required; choose the largest; bake them well, and cut off the tops, and scoop out the insides. Pass the potatoes through a sieve, and add a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan and gruyere cheese, mixed pepper and salt. Melt a good tablespoonf ul of butter (or more) in a stewpan ; put in the potato mixture and make it hot, then fill the skins of the potatoes with it. Put them in the oven for a few minutes, and serve up very hot. Prairie Oyster.—Put into a wine-glass half a teaspoonful of vinegar, break a new laid egg into it, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle it with vinegar and one drop of Worcester sauce. Punjab Hot Pot.—Take two quarts of white stock, a little curry powder, a small lobster, half a pound of veal quenelle force-meat, six onions, and a little butter. Slice the onions ; put them into a stewpan ; fry lightly ; add the curry powder; then, a few minutes after, add the stock and a little salt. Cut the lobster into small, diamond- shaped pieces; poach the quenelles, to which have been added a little curry powder and some lard about the size of half a teaspoon. Serve with lobster and quenelles placed in tureen. Red Cabbage.—Remove the outer leaves of the cabbage, cut it in two, take away all the stalks, and cut the cabbage up with a cucumber slice, at the same time put into a pan some good dripping with one or two onions finely cut up and fry a nice white colour; to this add the sliced red cabbage, which must have first been seasoned with salt and pepper; pour over a little vinegar, and stir it about occasionally, and let it simmer over a gentle fire for three hours. Should the cabbage become too dry during175 SAVOURIES the stirring, wine or stock can be added. It should have a shiny appearance, and be of a blue red colour, and taste very savoury. Red Cabbage, To Stew.—Strip the outer leaves from a fine and fresh red cabbage, wash it well, and cut it into the thinnest possible slices, beginning at the top, put it into a thick saucepan in which two or three ounces of good butter have just been dissolved, add some pepper and salt, and stew it very slowly indeed for three or four hours in its own juice, keeping it often stirred and well pressed down. When it is perfectly tender add a tablespoonful of vinegar, mix the whole up thoroughly, heap the cabbage on a hot dish, and serve broiled sausages round it; or omit these last, and substitute lemon juice, cayenne pepper, and a half-cupful of good gravy. The stalk of the cabbage should be split in quarters and taken entirely out in the first instance. Three to four hours. Rice a la Marseillaise.—Cut up roughly a large cauli- flower ; wash, drain, and place in a stewpan with basil, two cloves of garlic, two or three cloves, and a piece of butter. Let this cook over a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, then moisten it with fish stock, and let it boil till the cauliflower is perfectly cooked. Next cook the rice in stock, and before taking it from the fire add some grated Parmesan with a few spoonfuls of essence of anchovies. Riso e Piselli; Rice and Green Peas.—Take half a pound of Italian rice, well washed and dried, put it into a stew- pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, stirring it until it is of a bright golden colour ; but great care must be taken not to burn it. Then add a teacupful of good stock with half a pint of fresh green peas, stirring the whole together till the rice and peas are tender; add salt and pepper to taste, and serve hot. The rice must always be in grains. Salad a la Duke of York.—Take some white celery-heads, and mince them very small, also a Spanish onion minced, and press through a sieve, mix them well together, and put them aside; then take some watercress leaves and pound in a mortar with two boned anchovies, after which pass176 THE housewife's REFEKEE through a sieve, take some beetroot, chop it very fine and pass it through a sieve. Make some mayonnaise sauce in which half a pint of aspic jelly has been melted, divide it into three parts, and mix one part with each of the three mixtures. To the green mixture add a little green colouring to the mayonnaise, and a little carmine to that used with the beetroot. Have ready a round mould and pour in first some of the red puree, then the white, then the green, and then white again and place on ice. The mould must be placed on ice with each different layer, to get firm before another layer is added. Salad Barbe de Capucine.—Take fresh harbedeCapucine, washed, picked, and pressed dry ; oil, salt, pepper, vinegar, a dozen fresh violets, three saltspoonfuls of orris root rubbed up with salad oil. Salad, Plain Vegetable.—Boil separately equal quantities of young carrots, cauliflower, French beans, peas, asparagus tops, and potatoes, and half the quantity of young turnips. Drain them thoroughly, cut up the carrots, turnips, potatoes, and cauliflowers; place all in a salad bowl, and dress with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, or, if preferred, a mayonnaise sauce. Salad, Potato (Hot).—Boil and mash six potatoes, season with a teaspoonful of salt, half a tea spoonful of pepper, a tablespoonful of butter, and nine tablespoonfuls of milk. Boil hard six eggs, chop the whites fine, mash the yolks, and season with a teaspoonful of mustard (French), four teaspoonfuls of vinegar, and half a tablespoonful of butter or oil. Mix the whites and yolks together, then put the potatoes and eggs in layers, the last being potatoes, spread butter thickly over the top and brown in a hot oven. Salad, Sardine.—Drain the oil from a small box of sardines, laying them afterwards on brown paper so that no trace may remain of the oil. Bemove the skin and bones, and pour a little lemon juice over them, lay them on a bed of lettuce, pour a plain French dressing over them, and garnish with two hard-boiled eggs which have been chopped fine. Salad, Tomato, a la Ben-trovato.—Chop up some tomatoes,177 SAVOURIES flavour with a bead of garlic, and a shallot chopped up and rubbed through a sieve, which must be mixed in with the tomatoes; add four tablespoonfuls of whipped aspic jelly, and mix into a 'puree. Decorate a mould with hard-boiled eggs, stamped out in rounds or stars, and arrange them in tiers one above another. Between each layer of eggs place a little chervil leaf and a sprig of tarragon alternately; fill the mould with the tomato purecy in which a little aspic jelly should be mixed, and place on ice, and when ready turn out. Garnish with small salad mixed with mayonnaise sauce round the base. Arrange watercresses prettily on the top and sprinkle red aspic jelly all over it. Salad, Tomato, a la Duchess of Fife.—Chop up some tomatoes quite small, flavour them with a bead of garlic and mix in with a shallot, chopped and rubbed through a sieve; add four tablespoonfuls of aspic jelly and mix into the puree with the same quantity of mayonnaise sauce. Decorate a mould with hard-boiled eggs, stamped out in fancy rounds and stars, and arrange them in tiers one above another. Between each layer of egg place a leaf of chervil and a sprig of tarragon alternately; fill the mould with the tomato puree, place on ice, and when sufficiently iced turn it out. Garnish with small salad mixed with mayonnaise sauce; arrange watercress prettily on the top, and sprinkle, chopped, all over. Sandwiches en Surprise.—Jones Brothers sell some sandwich moulds for this dish. Flatten some fillets of chicken equal to the size of twelve moulds on a buttered baking sheet. Moisten the top with white of egg, cover with a layer of thin lean ham or tongue, and again moisten with white of egg. Another layer of fillets of chicken is then to be added. Cook lightly and press when done. Garnish the bottom of the mould with aspic jelly, cut and trim the fillets to nearly fill the mould, and finish with aspic. Sandwiches, Italian.—Mince some cold meat to a paste with an anchovy, a little parsley, and a good-sized piece of butter. Add pepper, salt, and lime juice, spread on buttered bread. The meat, if put in a covered jar and kept in a cool placej will keep a considerable time. 12THE housewife's UEFBREE 178 Sandwiches a rAngouleme.—Take some fresh herring roes—about four—one large tomato, and two mushrooms ; pound them together into a paste, saute the paste in butter for a few minutes, then spread on buttered bread in the usual manner. Oyster Sandwiches.—Take two dozen deep-sea oysters, scald them in their own liquor, then pound them in a mortar with a little lemon juice and a dust of cayenne. Cut some slices of brown bread and butter, place the oyster paste on the slices, and make into sandwiches in the usual way. Sweet Spinach.—Boil spinach in slightly salted and buttered water (boiling), to which a little soda has been added; then drain and beat to a pulp, and press through a sieve; add a tablespoonful of corn flour blended in milk, cook for five minutes and put into a hot covered dish, then sweeten with sugar flavoured with vanilla, and serve with powdered sugar and cream. Tomato Canapes.—Out some croHtons of bread, and fry them a pale colour, and spread them with cold Parmesan cheese. Dip small tomatoes into hot water, skin them, and put one on each croHton, Arrange some finely minced parsley around, and grated Parmesan on the top of each. Tomato Chartreuse.—Make a good jpuree of tomatoes, in which some shallot has been minced, and mix with it three well-beaten eggs, a little salt and cayenne. Have a plain double mould, which must be well buttered. Pour some tomato furee into the outer mould, and pour into the inner some rich white sauce, in which two whole eggs have been beaten up, and some small button mushrooms, cream, pepper, and salt. Tie the mould in a cloth, and steam it like an ordinary custard pudding. It should be kept quite upright, and then turned out on the dish. Pour round some tournee sauce, and sprinkle a little finely dried parsley over the top. Tomato Chutney {Australian Recipe).—Slice ten pounds of green tomatoes into an earthenware dish. SprinkleSAVOURIES each layer of slices with salt, and let them remain all night. The next day put into a preserving pan two quarts of vinegar, two pounds of brown sugar, one pound of sliced onions, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, half a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of peppercorns. Drain the tomatoes from the salt, and simmer them with the vinegar, sugar, onions, etc., till tender. Then put into small pickle bottles, and cork well. The tomatoes must be picked just before turning red. Tomato Cream.—Cut some tomatoes in slices; oil a plain mould, and arrange the tomatoes all round in circles ; and at the bottom of the mould have ready a white puree of mushrooms, which has been cooked and allowed to cool, and in which half a pint of aspic jelly has been stirred in. Put this puree into the centre of the mould, and set on ice for some hours. Turn out and serve, with a little chervil and tarragon salad round, and arrange aspic jelly and green butter cut into devices on the top. Hard-boiled eggs in quarters should be placed at equal distances on the chervil salad. Tomato Cutlets.—Cut some tomatoes in two roundways^ egg and breadcrumb them, introducing a little grated parsley and Parmesan cheese in the breadcrumbs. Fry in clarified butter till of a pale colour. Dish in a circle with a broiled mushroom between each. Serve egg, or mayonnaise sauce in the centre. Tomato Jelly.—Take two pounds of tomatoes, half a grain of cayenne pepper, and two shallots. Put them in a stewpan, and boil till quite soft. Melt fifteen sheets of the thin French gelatine, and pour it into the mixture. Then pass all through a sieve, and mould. Serve with chopped aspic jelly. A little grated Parmesan sprinkled over it is an improvement. Tomato Ketchup.—Bake some tomatoes in a jar till tender, strain and rub them through a sieve. To every pound of juice add a pint of chili vinegar, an ounce of shallots, half an ounce of garlic (sliced), quarter of an ounce of salt, and a quarter of an ounce of fine white pepper.180 THE housewife's REFEREE Boil the whole till all is soft. To every pound add the juice of three lemons, boil it again to the consistency of cream. When cold bottle it, put a small quantity of sweet oil on each, tie bladders over, and keep in a dry place. Tomato Mustard {American),—Take some tomatoes in their green state, slice them very thin, and thickly sprinkle with salt. Let them stand all night, and next day squeeze them out, slice two or three onions and lay them in a saucepan alternately with the tomatoes, add a quarter of a pound of mustard and cover them with vinegar. Boil for one hour, and pack it away in jars. Tomato Omelette.—Mix two or three tablespoonfuls of flour with a very little water. Add six well-beaten eggs with salt and pepper; peel and chop very fine three or four tomatoes. Stir these ingredients together, and fry in the usual way; it may be folded over but not turned. Tomates a rAlgerienne.—Line two halves of tomato moulds with a piece of tomato and a little aspic, then fill them up with a mixture made thus:—Pound and pass through a sieve the meat of a cold roast fowl, then add two spoonfuls of veloute sauce, the same quantity of aspic, and half a pint of whipped cream. Close the two halves to- gether, press firmly, taking care that the marks on each part of the mould are opposite to one another, place on ice for twenty minutes, then turn them out and serve up with a little curled parsley. These moulds are only to be procured at J ones Brothers, Down Street, Piccadilly. Tomatoes a la Francesco.—Take some small, bell-shaped tomatoes; peel and core them with a column cutter, and fill up the inside with three or four anchovies cut very small, and stirred in mayonnaise sauce. Have some melted aspic jelly just beginning to set in a deep basin. Pass with a trussing needle a piece of string through the top of each tomato, so that they may be dipped into the basin of aspic till they are well soaked with it. Lay them on ice and remove the string. When quite cold, cut little fancy rounds of aspic and lay on the top of each, and on this place aSAVOURIES 181 sprig of chervil which has been dipped into mayonnaise. Cut hard-boiled eggs in quarters and lay round the toma- toes, and garnish with chopped aspic and chervil leaves placed at equal distances on it, or arranged in a wreath of the chopped aspic. Tomatoes, Baked.—Cut some tomatoes in halves ; sprinkle them with breadcrumbs, salt, pepper, and little bits of butter. Place them in a baking pan with the cut side upwards, and bake in an oven for an hour. Serve with curled parsley. Tomatoes, Fricasseed.—Wash some tomatoes, and cut them in two, but do not peel them. Put them into a pan with half a teaspoonful of butter. Season them with pepper and salt, and flour them. Cover with a plate, and cook them for ten minutes, stirring them once. Pour in half a teacupful of cream just as they are done. Let them boil up, and dish them while hot. Turnip Turnovers.—Peel a number of turnips and cut in thin slices ; pepper and salt them; put in a small bit of bacon. Koll out any scraps of pastry there may be, fill with the mixture, turn over and bake. May be eaten hot or cold. Vegetable Marrow a TEspagnole.—Slice a Spanish onion and two good-sized tomatoes and fry them in about half an ounce of butter. Then cut a vegetable marrow into neat square pieces; add a little hot stock and peppered salt. Let all simmer together till the marrow is cooked, and serve very hot. Vegetable Marrow a I'ltalienne.—Take a couple of vegetable marrows as nearly the same size as possible, slice them as thin as a cucumber is sliced, dry them on a cloth, and fry them in very hot butter, with pepper and salt, and serve. The fat must be very hot as they are cooked in a minute. A little Parmesan cheese shaken over them whilst frying is an improvement.182 THE housewife's EEFEREE FISH SAYOUEIES. Anchovies a la Millionaire; Anchois a la Millionaire.— Make some toast, cut it into neat square pieces, butter it, then spread thickly on it the following mixture:—Stir in a gallipot (placed in a saucepan over the fire) the beaten yolk of one egg, one ounce of butter, two teaspoonfuls of anchovy paste, a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, six olives finely chopped, and a gill of cream, until it becomes the thickness of rich custard; it must not be allowed to boil. Whip a gill of cream to a froth, let it drain a little while on a sieve; then pile it up on each piece of toast over the anchovy custard. Take some filleted and boned anchovies which have been soaked in milk, cut the fillets into halves, lay the four strips against the piled-up cream on each square of toast, the ends meeting at the top. Place in the refrigerator, and serve cold. Anchovies a la Seville; Anchois a la Seville.—Make some little square croiltons of bread, and fry a pale colour. Make some anchovy cream, and spread on the croiltons, place on this a stoned olive with a fillet of anchovy rolled round, in the centre and in two corners pile up some lobster spawn, and in the other two the fmelj chopped yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Anchovy Creams; Cremes d'Anchois.—Take some of Cunningham and Fourrier's pdte cUanchois. Mix it with some thick cream into which half a pint of aspic jelly has been mixed, add some carmine till the mixture becomes a pretty salmon colour; wet some little dariole moulds, into which lobster coral has been sprinkled, put in the anchovy mixture, and let it stand on ice for a couple of hours; turn out and garnish with chopped aspic and chervil leaves. Anchovy Mayonnaise ; Mayonnaise d'Anchois.—Get a small tin of haricots verts, place the beans on a sieve, and pour over them sufficient warm water to free them from the liquor in which they have been preserved. When properly drained arrange them on a dish and cover themFISH SAVOUEIES 183 with mayonnaise sauce, then place some filleted anchovies in the centre of the beans, so that they form a star shape. Anchovy Tartlets; Petits Pates d'Anchois.—Fry some pieces of bread about three inches long, one inch broad, and a quarter of an inch thick, in butter. When baked drain them and lay on them small strips of boned anchovies in lattice form, put them round a plate in the shape of a crown. Pound hard-boiled eggs, cucumber, and parsley together; put this mixture in the centre, and sprinkle the whole with oil and vinegar. Buisson de Poisson.—Take a stale loaf, trim away the crust and cut the crumb to a square block. Take four lobsters, and hang one on each side of this with the tail rest- ing on the top of the block, and the head in the dish ; cover the empty spaces with parsley and lay crayfish and prawns upon it. Place parsley and prawns round the group and fasten three or four crayfish on the top of it with silver hdtelets. Canapes a la Battenburg.—Cut little rounds of bread, fry them a delicate gold colour; curl some boned anchovies round on them, dust them with Nepaul pepper, and pour over them some whipped cream which has been flavoured with two or three drops of essence of anchovy. Crawfish a la Parisienne; Ecrevisse a la Parisienne.— Line the mould with aspic jelly. When the jelly is set, put in a layer of chaud-froid sauce, coloured with lobster butter, and fill them up with crayfish tails mixed with aspic mayonnaise. Dried Cod's Roe; Laitance de Morue fume.—Slice some dried cod's roe, pound it with some butter in a mortar, and season with a little cayenne. Fry some croittons and place this mixture thickly on them, buttering the croHtons first with egg-butter. Iced Crab Souffle.—Pound the white meat of the crab, moisten with cream, add the rich part, whip up some aspic jelly, mix all together, pile high in a souffle tin, and ice; or the crab mixture can be placed in the centre, and the jelly round and over it.184 THE housewife's EEFEEEE Lobster a la Boulevard; Homard a la Boulevard.— Line some small walnut moulds very thinly with aspic jelly, and when cold, mask it over with a little brown chaud-froid sauce ; let it set, then fill up the moulds with a puree of lobster made with cream and a few drops of anchovy, close the moulds, and put them on ice till cold, then dip into hot water and turn out. Garnish with finely shredded crisp celery, seasoned with a little salad oil and a little fine chopped tarragon. Lobster a la Varenne; Homard a la Varenne.—Make a panada with lobster, an egg, some cream, and a table- spoonful of liquefied aspic jelly; rub all through a sieve and put aside, then make a savoury custard with eggs and cream, flavoured with shallot, and put on ice to make firm. Take a plain round mould and fill one-third of it with the lobster panada, and let it stand on ice till firm; then fill the mould up one-third more with the savoury custard, set on ice again, and put in a final layer of lobster panada. When sufiiciently iced turn out and serve with shred cucumber in mayonnaise sauce, garnish the top with chopped aspic sprinkled with coralline pepper, and here and there arrange a chervil leaf. Lobster and Cucumber, Chartreuse of; Chartreuse de Homard au Concombre.—Slice a cucumber very thinly leaving the rind on, butter a plain charlotta russe mould, and arrange the cucumber in tiers round it, dipping each piece of cucumber in aspic jelly; fill in the centre with lobster cream, and put in the refrigerator. When set, turn out and place some whipped cream on the top, flavoured with essence of anchovy, and sprinkle over all some powdered lobster coral; round the base serve a green mayonnaise sauce, and garnish with aspic croiltons and a wreath of chervil sprays. Pieces of lobster claw or prawns arranged round the top makes a very eflfective garnish. Lobster, Aspic of, a la Poisson Rouge; Homard en aspic a la Poisson Rouge.—Make a pint of aspic jelly entirely of the best white gelatine, a little salt and white vinegar, clarify it carefully. Procure some of the small fish moulds and pre- pare some lobster as for making cutlets. Make some lobster butter with the spawn and coral of the lobster with a very185 FISH SAV0U15IES little of the aspic added to it, line the moulds with this to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and fill in the lobster panada and place the moulds on ice for two hours. Have ready an oval-shaped mould and put some of the already- prepared liquid aspic at the bottom, stand on ice a few minutes; take the lobsters out of their moulds, and place two of the fish as if swimming into it, and fill in with a little more aspic ; let this cool and then put in two or three more fish, turning them in the contrary direction in the mould ; fill in with more aspic, and so on till the mould is full; place on ice for two hours, turn out and garnish the base with whipped aspic, in which a little apple-green colouring has been mixed. Lobster Creams a la Bismarck; Cremes de Homard a la Bismarck.—Mix a gill of aspic jelly when nearly cold with the finely chopped meat of a lobster, season with cayenne, salt, and a small teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and stir in a gill of whipped cream. Pour the mixture into some oiled dariole moulds, and when set, turn out and decorate each cream with aspic jelly. Serve with a garnish of small salad sprinkled with a little oil and tarragon vinegar. Lobster Creams a la Metropole ; Cremes de Homard a la Metropole.—Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in half a pint of milk, season with cayenne, salt, and a small teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. When nearly cold add the meat of a lobster, finely chopped, and just before it begins to set stir in a gill of whipped cream. Pour the mixture into some tiny moulds (well oiled), and when set, turn ovit, and decorate each cream with chopped aspic jelly. Serve with a garnish of watercress lightly dressed with a little oil and tarragon vinegar. Lobster Medallions : Medallions de Homard.—Take some little fluted tartlet pans, line them with white aspic cream very thickly, place on ice, and when firm turn them out, brush them over lightly with aspic jelly, and fill them with the following mixture : —Mince some lobster very small; add a few drops of anchovy sauce, a table- spoonful of cream, and a dust of Nepaul pepper. Stand on ice till firm; then mask them over with green mayon- naise, in which some aspic has been mixed, Then cut outTHE housewife's REFEEEE 186 some hard white of egg into kite shapes, and arrange as a trefoil in the middle. Sprinkle a very little lobster coral over all. Mount in aspic, en couronne^ with a small lettuce placed in the middle, which has been soaked in mayonnaise sauce. Lobster, Scallops of, a la Norvegienne; Coquilles de Homard a la Norvegienne.—Line some shell-shaped moulds with a fine Julienne, composed of truffles, gherkins, mush- rooms, and white of egg, mixed with a little fish jelly. Place in the centre of each mould a nice escallop of lobster, then fill the coquille with a lobster cream mixed with aspic jelly. Place them on ice for twenty minutes. Turn out on a dish, in the centre of which place a very firm lobster cream. Lobster Timbale a la Vitellius; Timbale de Homard a la Vitellius.—Pound the meat of a lobster with the coral, four sardines, four anchovies, and three hard-boiled eggs all together in a mortar, and add a desert spoonful of olive oil. When this is smooth, rub it through a tammy, and place on ice. When cold stamp it into the shape of lobster cutlets, inserting small pieces of the claw at each end. Line a plain mould with savoury aspic to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, put some of the cutlets at the bottom of the mould, cover with a little aspic, then stand the cutlets in a wreath round the mould and set with jelly. Take a dozen prawns, a teaspoonful of capers, two hard-boiled eggs, and some sliced anchovies; cut them up in pieces, fill up the centre of the mould with them, and pour over some red mayonnaise sauce in which some aspic has been mixed. Put on ice, and when ready turn out on a dish, and garnish with whipped aspic, truffles, and beetroot. Oysters a TAmbrosia; Huitres a I'Ambrosie.—Take three dozen oysters, beard them, and cut them into dice (very small dice); make some white sauce by taking some of the oyster liquor and the beards of the oysters and passing through a sieve; put this with a little cayenne and a gill of milk into a basin, then put an ounce of butter into a stewpan to cook over the fire; take a tablespoonful of flour and mix it into a paste with a little of the oyster liquor, and then add the strained liquor to it; pour into the sauce-187 n^n SAVOURIES pan with the boiUng butter, and cook it over the fire till thick ; then stir in off the fire the juice of half a lemon, add to this half a pint of liquefied aspic jelly, and then stir in the minced oysters very lightly and a gill of cream ; turn out on a plate, and place on ice till cold and firm. When it is so, shape it into round balls of equal size, about the size of Tangerine oranges; smooth them over with a knife dipped into hot water, and place on ice; or mould them in ball moulds. Have ready some stiff aspic jelly flavoured with a few drops of chili vinegar and when it is in a semi-liquefied state and beginning to set, dip each oyster ball into it. This is best done by running a thread through each ball and dipping into the jelly, or lining ball moulds with aspic and filling in with the oyster mixture. Some should be coloured red, green, yellow and white, and arranged in a pile like cannon shot; shred celery, sippets of lemon, and chopped aspic as garnish. Oysters a la Cardinal; Huitres a la Cardinal (Jones Brothers), Take some oyster moulds, and line them with a very clear fish aspic, mixed with chervil and tarragon picked small. Place in each mould a fine poached oyster, finish to fill up the mould with a puree of lobster of a deep red colour and aspic ; place on ice to set; then turn out and serve up on a border, and garnish the centre with a shrimp salad. Oysters served on Ice; Huitres glaces {E. Farker).—Take a thick, clear block of ice weighing about ten pounds. With a red-hot iron mark out a space, leaving a wall of ten inches. Melt out the centre from this, empty out the water and fill the space with oysters. Place on a flat dish, garnish with sliced lemon and bunches of fresh parsley. Prawns in Jelly; Aspic de Crevettes.—Divide a pint of aspic jelly into three. First lay three boiled crayfish, backs downwards, into a mould which has been well soaked in cold water. Pour over these a third of the jelly, and when set lay in a dozen large, skinned prawns in rows. Pour more jelly over these ; when set put in another dozen of prawns and the remainder of the jelly. Turn out carefully when quite cold. Garnish with little mounds of skinned shrimps, and tufts of parsley between each. Salmon, Kippered,—Wash the salmon carefully and then188 THE housewife's EEFEREE cover it with steaming boiling water, and let it stand for five minutes, when the water should be poured off and more added, and let it stand five minutes more. The fish should be covered whilst steaming. Then the fish must be drained ; break the fish with a fork into small bits; put into a hot dish with plenty of butter, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs. Sardines en papillote.—Scrape dry and remove the bones of the sardines ; fill them with a cold, brown gravy sauce, a little herb and chopped mushroom, and wrap in paper, taking care to pinch over the paper so that the sauce may not escape. Heat in the oven and serve at once. Shrimp Cassolettes: Cassolettes de Crevettes.—Stamp out some small fluted rounds of bread, press out the middle with a smaller-sized cutter without making a hole right through. Fry these rounds a pretty golden colour, fill them with shelled shrimps which have been mixed with a gill of cream, a piece of butter the size of a plum, the juice of half a lemon, a little coralline pepper and a quarter of a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and heat all together for a quarter of an hour. Shrimp Timbale a la Irving; Timbale de Crevettes a la Irving.—Line a mould very thinly with aspic jelly; cut up in strips of about two inches long pieces of lobster, some boned fillets of sardines, anchovies, and beetroot; and arrange these alternately round the mould, and fill up the centre with picked shrimps and anchovy cream, in which a little aspic has been mixed. Place on ice, and when turned out garnish with whipped aspic round the mould and very small tomatoes. SAUCES " 'Tis the sauce as does it." Agro-dolce Sauce; Sweet sharp Sauce.—Fill half a wine- glass with castor sugar, and pour over it two-thirds of vinegar, place in a small stewpan one pound of pine kernels (to be189 SAUCES procured at Corazza's in Wigmore Street: if pine kernels are not obtainable split sweet almonds, and use them instead), the same quantity of currants, and half a cup of ground chocolate; add the vinegar and sugar and place it on the fire till it boils. Bearnaise Sauce.—Put four eggs with one ounce of butter and a little pepper on the fire, and stir them till they begin to thicken ; then take them off the fire, add a second ounce of butter, and stir them over the fire for two minutes more. Take them ofi" again and add another ounce of butter, and again for the fourth time and proceed as before. Lastly, add a tablespoonful of chopped tarragon, or one of ravigote and a teaspoonf ul of tarragon vinegar. When only a small quantity is required, half the above proportions. Bottled Mayonnaise Sauce.—Put the yolks of four eggs into a basin, beat them smooth with a wooden spoon, and when smooth add, drop by drop, half a pint of best salad oil, one teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of French or white wine vinegar, one wineglassful of sherry, or half the quantity of brandy (this causes the sauce to keep in the hottest weather), and a tablespoonful of lime juice, or the juice of a lemon; stir all this in by degrees and keep the mixture smooth. It must not be stirred too quickly or it will curdle. Careme Sauce is a compound of the yolks of eggs, butter, onion, parsley, salt, pepper, lemon juice and chablis ; every- thing should be so well amalgamated that nothing pre- dominates. Chateaubriand Sauce {Baron Brisse).—Melt some meat glaze in a little white wine; stir in some sauce espagnole, and thicken with maitre. d^hotel sauce just before serving. Currant Sauce.—Clean one ounce of currants, boil them in half a pint of water for a few minutes, pour the whole over a teacupf ul of breadcrumbs ; let it soak, and then add a piece of butter rolled in flour, four or six cloves and a glass of port wine ; beat it a little, and stir it over the fire until it is quite smooth. Dutch Sauce.—No. 1. Scrape half a stick of horseradish, and pour over this some white wine vinegar ; let it soak forTHE HOUSEWlFE^S KEFEMEJ 190 ten minutes, then make some bechamel sauce: make it hot, add two yolks of eggs, a piece of butter, two tablespoonf uls of cream and the horseradish vinegar; whisk all well together and stir over fire, as if for custard to set the eggs, but not boil; strain and put in a stewpan and make it hot by putting the stewpan into another which contains boiling water. No. 2. Put four tablespoonf uls of vinegar in a stewpan on the fire with a quarter of an ounce of mignonette pepper and a quarter of an ounce of salt; reduce to one tablespoon- ful, strain into another stewpan, and add four tablespoon- fuls of water, eight yolks of eggs, and a quarter of a pound of butter. Stir with a wire whisk. No. 3. For meat or fish. Put six spoonfuls of water, and four of vinegar into a saucepan; warm, and thicken it with the yolks of two eggs. Make it quite hot, but do not boil it, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and strain it through a sieve. Grill Sauce.—One tablespoonful of cream, one of vinegar, one teaspoonful of mustard, one of Harvey's sauce, a little cayenne and salt; warm in a saucepan, and pour over the grill. Horseradish Sauce for cold meat or game.—Mix well together one ounce of grated horseradish, half an ounce of salt, one tablespoonful of made mustard, and three dessert- spoonfuls of moist sugar, the same quantity of vinegar and milk or cream, to make it of the consistence of good cream , or thicker if preferred. Iced Champagne Sauce.—Break into a saucepan one egg, one tablespoonful of cream, a little sugar, and a tumblerful of champagne. Place round the saucepan outside broken ice and freezing salt; whip all the ingredients as quickly as possible. This sauce is equally good warm, with hot sweets ; only it must be whipped on the stove while it heats, instead of on ice. Indian Sauce.—Take eight ounces of sour apples, pared and cored, eight ounces of tomatoes, the same of salt, brown sugar, and stoned raisins each, four ounces of cayenne, the same of powdered ginger, two ounces of garlic, two ounces of shallots, three quarts of vinegar, and one ounce of lemon191 SAUCES juice. Mix all together, and put in a covered jar in a warm place, stirring daily for a month. Strain and place away in clean bottles. Lemon Sauce for Black Game, etc.—Take one lemon and one small orange, remove every particle of white, cut it into little dice-shaped pieces, and bring to almost boiling point in water to cover. Add a glass of either port or claret, a tablespoonful of brown sauce, a pinch of salt and cayenne pepper, and finally the juice of another orange and lemon. Mint Sauce.—Select the brightest and most delicate leaves from twelve to fourteen stalks of mint. Mince them very finely; dissolve three tablespoonfuls of sugar in half a teacupful of boiling water, add the juice of a lemon, and then make the liquid up to a pint with malt vinegar, put over the mint in the sauce tureen, stir up well and serve. Mustard Sauce.—Make a white sauce with two ounces of butter, a good spoonful of flour, and a little cold milk; add to it a desertspoonful of mustard, and add sufiicient vinegar to a tumbler of boiling water to give it a flavour, and pour it on the butter, stirring all the time. Piquant Sauce.—Take a couple of ounces of butter, one carrot, six shallots, one bunch of savoury herbs, parsley, half a bay leaf, two slices of lean ham, two cloves, six peppercorns, three allspice, four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, half a pint of stock, one lump of sugar, half a saltspoonful of cayenne, and salt. Slice the carrots and shallots and put with the butter in the stewpan ; add the herbs and minced ham, and simmer over a slow fire. Stir and put in the remaining ingredients. Simmer for a quarter of an hour, skim, strain through a sieve, and serve very hot with cutlets, etc. Ravigote Sauce a la Provence.—Take half a pint of clear stock and make it hot, and add to it a head of garlic, a bouquet of mixed herbs, a dust of white pepper; let it reduce, then strain it from the garlic and herbs, add a quarter of a pint of tarragon vinegar, and the same quantity of meat glaze; put on the fire again and reduce, pass through a tammy, stir in some chopped tarragon and192 THE housewife's REFEREE chervil, a piece of butter the size of a pigeon's egg, and serve. Remoulade Sauce.—Take parsley, chives, capers, anchovies, and a head of garlic, and mince them all together; add a little mustard and salt, stir into salad oil, and beat till the sauce is quite thick. Sauce, Robert.—Dissolve a piece of butter the size of a walnut in a saucepan, and fry in it two moderate-sized onions finely chopped. When they are lightly coloured, pour over them a wineglassful of vinegar, and simmer for four minutes. Stir into it a tablespoonful of flour, half a pint of stock, a few drops of bovril or Liebig's extract, a sprinkling of pepper, and a saltspoonful of salt. Stir the sauce over the fire for twenty minutes, add a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, one of Worcester sauce, the same of essence of anchovy; finally add a spoonful of port wine. Soubise Sauce or Puree.—Put some onions to soak for ten minutes in boiling water. Peel them, cut them in halves or quarters, put them into a small saucepan with a lump of fresh butter; simmer very slowly together until the onions are quite cooked; add salt to taste, thicken with flour, or flour and fine breadcrumbs, and add cream or milk. Pass through a sieve and serve with anything liked. Must be quite thick and smooth; some people like a pinch of sugar added. Tartare Sauce a la Francaise.—No. 1. Take some bechamel sauce, stir it into the yolks of two eggs, a little salt, pepper, and one grate of nutmeg. Mix well, then add drop by drop some salad oil until the sauce is quite thick; flavour with a few drops of tarragon, and add a little finely chopped chervil, tarragon, and shallot. No. 2. Take the yolks of two eggs and stir them slightly. Add a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and a tablespoonful of French vinegar. Pour in, drop by drop, a gill of salad oil. When all is well mixed stir in a teaspoonful of ready-made mustard or tarragon vinegar. Take a small bunch of parsley and put into a small sauce- pan of boiling water for two seconds. Dry it thoroughly, and then chop it finely. Also chop up finely a few capers or gherkins, put into the sauce, and mix well.193 SAUCES Tomato Sauce.—IsTo. 1. Take tomatoes when perfectly ripe, bake them quite tender, skin and rub them through a coarse sieve; to every pound of pulp add one quart of chili vinegar, one ounce of garlic, and one ounce of sliced shallots, a quarter of an ounce of white pepper finely sifted, and half an ounce of salt; if the chili vinegar is not strong, add an additional half an ounce of pepper; boil the whole together till every ingredient is tender ; rub it through a sieve, and to every pound of fruit add the juice of three lemons; boil the whole again till it becomes of the thickness of good cream ; when quite cold bottle it, cork it well, and tie a bladder over it, and keep it in a cool and dry place. No. 2. Take a dozen tomatoes and put them into a saucepan with four onions sliced, a little parsley, thyme, one clove, a little cayenne, three shallots, and a quarter of a pound of butter. Set the saucepan on the fire, stirring occasionally for three-quarters of an hour. Strain and bottle, or use. Sauce for Wild Fowl.—One tablespoonful of Worcester sauce, one of mushroom ketchup, one of water, one of lemon juice, one slice of lemon peel, one shallot, and a trifle of cayenne. Simmer this mixture over the fire for five minutes, strain, and serve. Sauce Verte.—Boil some slices of ham or veal in equal quantities of chablis. When cooked let all simmer over a slow fire till the sauce is reduced, and then pass it through a tammy sieve. Pound some fresh herbs, and parsley, and an anchovy in the mortar; then pass through a sieve, and season with salt, pepper, and lemon juice; thicken with the yolks of eggs, and colour with a little of Breton's green colouring. White Lemon Sauce.—Make a good white or cream sauce, flavoured with about two inches of lemon rind when cooking. When the sauce is done, take out the lemon rind, take the flesh of the lemon, after the white pith has been peeled off", cut into small pieces the size of a green pea. Mix this with the white sauce. Heat it up, and pour into the tureen. Note.—Driessen's foundation sauces are great aids in cookery, and every housewife should keep a stock of them ; any flavouring can be added to them.THE housewife's EEFEKEE 194 SWEETS " Here we wander in illusions."—Comedy of Errors. Apple and Kice.—Boil a quarter of a pound of rice in one quart of milk till done; add two or three eggs, sugar to taste, and three or four pounded macaroons. Peel and core five apples; boil in a very little water and sugar some lemon peel and one glass of wine till tender, but they must not break. Lay the rice one inch thick at the bottom of a dish, the apples on the top; fill the holes left by the core with preserved cherries, and send to table warm. Apple Charlotte {Mrs. Eichenlauh).—Line a round pudding dish with buns one day old in finger-thick slices, cut into heart-shaped pieces; then dip in melted butter. Line the dish so that the point of the pieces reaches the middle of the bottom, and the broad side of the bread the broad side of the dish. They must fit very closely. Line the sides the same way, but with square pieces. After it is all fitted perfectly fill the form with sweet stewed apples, raisins, currants, and blanched almond. Bake about half an hour in not too hot an oven, turn over on a plate, sift sugar over it, and brown it with a salamander. Apple Mns.~—Make a mus with fifteen large apples, peeled and cored very carefully, and let them boil in a stewpan with wine ; flavour it with vanilla and a liqueur glass of Kirschwasser. Whilst still hot, stir in four pre- served peaches, the same of apricots, a quarter of a pound of mixed candied peels all chopped moderately fine. Hollow out a large sponge cake, and fill in with the fruit mixture; when cold, sprinkle the cake with powdered chocolate, bake it in a hot oven for five minutes, and then serve hot. Apple Trifle.—Ten large apples; the rind of half a lemon ; six ounces of pounded sugar ; half a pint of milk; half a pint of whipped cream ; and two beaten eggs. Peel, core, and cut the apples into slices, put them into a saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of water, sugar, and minced rind. Boil all together until quite tender. Then pulp the apples through a sieve and add more sugar if re-SWEETS 195 quired. Lay at the bottom of a dish in a thick layer. Stir together cream, milk, and eggs, with a little sugar over the fire. Let the mixture thicken, but it must not reach boiling point. When thick take it oft' the fire, let it cool a little, and then pour it over the apples. Whip some more cream with sugar, lemon juice, etc., such as is always used for trifles, and heap it high over the custard. Banana Fritters {Oriental).—Peel some large bananas (not too ripe), cut them lengthwise in thick slices, make a smooth, thin batter with well-beaten flour and eggs and a small pinch of salt. Have ready some very hot butter in a frying-pan, dip the slices in the batter, and drop them immediately into the butter, fry them brown on both sides, and serve hot with sugar and cinnamon over them. Banana Salad.—Cut half-a-dozen bananas in slices; also half-a-dozen oranges; mix them well together; over all squeeze the juice of a lemon, and sprinkle well with castor sugar. Banana Sponge.—Soak one ounce of gelatine in a pint of cold water, add the juice of one lemon, and half a pint of castor sugar; set over the fire till dissolved; it must not boil. Strain through a wire sieve, and let it get cold. Take three bananas, whip them to a fine cream with an egg beater, whip as stiflly as possible the whites of two eggs, add to them the banana pulp and beat again till well mixed; now put in the gelatine if cold, and add it to the rest a little at a time, beating all the while with an egg-beater. It takes about a quarter of an hour. Set in a cool place till wanted, and serve custard sauce with it. Bananas and Cream.^—Slice bananas quite thin, dust with sugar, and serve with beaten cream. It is improved by the addition of strawberries. Bananas an Rhum.—Peel six large bananas cut in halves, place into a basin, and sprinkle over them a little Scotch whiskey and a little chopped lemon peel. Sprinkle castor sugar over this, and let them remain in an hour. Dip each piece in frying butter, and fry till a golden colour. Hemove them from the pan, drain and dust them over with icing sugar and put in the oven to glaze ; when done sprinkleTHE housewife's KEFEEEE 196 with finely chopped pistachio kernels over them, and serve very hot. Batter Pudding.—One quart of milk; sixteen table- spoonfuls of flour, four eggs beaten very light; salt to taste. Stir until the batter is free from lumps and bake in two buttered pie plates, or very shallow pudding dishes. Bavaroise with Strawberries and Cream; Eromage bavaroise aux fraises.—Pass two pints of ripe wood-straw- berries through a fine hair sieve; sweeten with half a pound of pounded sugar. Mix in three ounces of gelatine dissolved in a few tablespoonfuls of sherry. When cool, mix with it two pints of whipped cream. Beignets Souffles.—Put in a saucepan two gills of water, a very little salt, a full tablespoonful of sugar, and the same quantity of butter, also a small piece of grated lemon peel; when nearly boiling remove from the fire, and add enough flour to make a light paste. Stir quickly with a wooden spoon till smooth; let it cool, add one tablespoonful of vanilla, and break an egg into and stir quickly; then another egg, and if necessary, add still one more to make it of the right consistency to drop slowly from a spoon. Then add the white of one egg, beaten to a stiff" froth. Put aside for two hours, drop a small spoonful at a time into boiling lard. They should puff" up light and large, and when golden brown remove from^ the fat. Koll in powdered sugar and serve hot. Benedictine Jelly.—Take one pound of lump sugar, two ounces of gelatine, half a pint of water, the juice of two lemons, and half a pint of Benedictine liqueur. Put the sugar with a pint of the water into a stewpan, and boil gently for ten minutes by the side of the fire, carefully removing the scum as it rises. Simmer the gelatine in the other half-pint of the water, and skim it carefully. Strain the lemon juice, and add it with the clarified gelatine to the syrup; put in the Benedictine, and bring the whole to boiling point. Let the saucepan remain covered by the side of the fire for a few minutes, then pour the jelly through a bag; put it into a mould, and set the mould on ice till required.SWEETS 197 Bird's Nest.—Take a bird's nest mould (a quart size), and put in some liquefied wine jelly, coloured green, and stand it on ice, turn out when cold, and fill the inside with cream eggs, made either in egg moulds, or if there are no egg moulds handy, good-shaped eggshells may be used, thus : Cut off a top at the broad end of the egg, rinse the shell out with cold water after emptying it, and fill it with ivory cream; or pierce a hole at one end of the egg, and let the contents out, aud then fill it with the cream. Ivory cream is made with good double cream, into which is stirred one ounce of gelatine soaked in sherry or brandy, and dissolved over a gentle fire, and then poured into the egg moulds, and after being set, placed in the nests, and the dish decorated with foliage and flowers. Biscuits a la Creme.—Take the whites of eight eggs, beat them to snow, mix with them ten ounces of powdered and sifted sugar, a spoonful of orange-flower water, and a quart of very thick cream, whipped as thickly as possible. Stir this with one hand, whilst Avith the other dredge in six ounces of dried flour. Bake as small biscuits. Bisqiiet Glace.—Take the juice from a can of pineapple, sweeten to taste, colour pink with cochineal, add one tea- spoonful of gelatine dissolved in a little of the pineapple juice, and a teaspoonful of boiling water, add the beaten white of an egg. Freeze this first and line a melon mould with it an inch thick, and pack in ice. For the filling, whip one pint of rich cream that has been sweetened and flavoured with vanilla or wine, add the beaten whites of two eggs, freeze, and then fill the mould ; pack in ice and salt for two hours. Boules de Noel.—Take some mincemeat, divide it into equal portions, make them into balls, and roll them in a mixture of egg, ratafia crumbs, castor sugar, and crushed almonds; fry till of a pale brown colour in lard. Arrange them piled up in an entree dish, and scatter castor sugar over them. Serve hot brandy with them. Brioches Varies aux Confitures.—Make a batter as for brioche^ butter some madelaine tins, fill them half-full of hrioche, put in a spoonful of preserve ; then add more brioche, dust with sugar, and bake. Serve hot, sprinkled with stoned raisins.THE housewife's KEFEREE 198 Brown Bread Pudding.—Get ready the following ingre- dients :—A quarter of a pound of dry brown breadcrumbs, six ounces of pounded sugar, half a pint of whipped cream, some grated lemon peel, pounded cinnamon, one pound of Morella cherries and eight eggs. Mix these ingredients together in a basin ; remembering that the whites of eggs must be whipped firm. ISText, grease smoothly the inside of a plain round mould, strew some brown breadcrumbs therein, fill the mould with alternate layers of the preparation and Morella cherries; bake the pudding on a baking sheet, in a moderate heat, and when done, turn out on a dish, shake some cinnamon sugar over it, pour some cherry sauce round it and serve. This pudding can be eaten cold. Burnt Cream.—Make a rich custard of cream and eggs, boiling lemon peel in it but no sugar. When cold pour it over the gateau de pommes, sift a good deal of sugar over, and brown the top with a salamander. Chocolate Puffs.—Make a light crust, cut into shapes and spread on them a mixture made with one egg beaten as lightly as possible, and sufficient grated chocolate to render the mixture of a thickish consistency, cover with crust, pinch the edges, and bake. Claret Jelly.—No. 1. Dissolve a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar in a gill of water, and when the water is boiling add half an ounce of French gelatine in it and a quarter of a pot of red currant jelly. When it is cool, add a table- spoonful of brandy, a few drops of cochineal, half a pint of claret, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice; then mould, put on ice, and turn out. No. 2. One ounce of isinglass, half a bottle of claret, half a lemon, one cupful of raspberry juice, one table- spoonful of brandy, half a pound of loaf sugar, half a pint of cream, half a saltspoonful of vanilla. Boil for a few minutes one ounce of Swinburn's isinglass with half a bottle of claret, the juice and rind of half a lemon, a small teacup- f ul of raspberry juice, a tablespoonful of brandy, half a pound of loaf sugar. Pour into a mould and put aside till the following day. When it is to be used, serve with a garnish of whipped cream flavoured with vanilla.199 SWEETS Cocoanut Pudding, Cold.—Melt over a slow fire two ounces of fresh butter and four ounces sifted sugar. Pour out after boiling two minutes, and add two ounces of desic- cated cocoanut, one ounce of finely shred citron, the grated rind of half a lemon and four eggs. Beat all these well together and then add the strained juice of the half lemon, put the mixture into a mould and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour ; turn out and leave to get cold, then ice it over and ornament it with different coloured fondants and grated pistachio nuts. Cocoa Cannelons.—Mix three ounces of Cadbury's Cocoa (which is the best for cooking purposes as well as to drink) with four ounces of castor sugar and a dessertspoonful of flour, and add the whisked white of an egg to make a paste. Take pieces the size of a walnut and roll them out very thinly; place them on a buttered tin and bake in a moderate oven for thirteen minutes. While they are hot turn them over a ruler to shape them, and slip them on to a sieve to dry. Coffee Auflauf; KafFee Anflauf.—Mix together six ounces of flour, ten ounces of sugar, a pinch of salt, two ounces of butter, half a pint of strong coffee, and half a pint of cream : stir this quickly over the fire till it boils; then add in the whites and yolks of eggs and bake as in fruit auflauf given later. Compote of Chestnuts.—Boil twenty chestnuts in a pint of milk with a gill of water. When tender, skin and pound them. Put four ounces of white sugar into a small sauce- pan with half a teacupful of water. Boil till it is a syrup, then put it over the chestnuts in the mortar, and pound them to a smooth paste, whip up half a pint of cream, and place it in the centre of the compote dish. Place a coarse wire sieve over it, and rub the pounded chestnuts through the sieve on to the cream, keeping it high in the centre. Boil three oranges in water for half an hour : put the rind, juice, and pulp into a pan ; add the same weight of sugar with a spoonful of maraschino. Boil for ten minutes ; when cold, put it round the chestnut compote, and serve. Compote of Guavas.—Pare and halve some not quite ripe guavas, scoop out the insides, wash them, and slightly boil them; weigh the fruit before it is boiled and an equal200 THE housewife's REFEREE quantity of sugar used. Make a syrup with the sugar, throw in the fruit, and let it boil gently till the mixture has thickened to a proper consistency; serve cold or warm. Compote of Pears.—Take some pears and drop them first into cold and then into hot water, with a sufiicient amount of sugar, a piece of cinnamon, and the thinly grated rind of a lemon. Bring slowly to boiling point, taking care to remove the pears before they become soft. Boil the syrup again, skim the surface and pour over the pears, adding a wineglassful of claret. Conservative Pudding.—Four ounces of sponge cake, half an ounce of ratafias, one ounce and a half of macaroons : put them into a basin, and pour over half a gill of rum and a gill of cream ; add six well-beaten eggs; beat for ten minutes. Butter a pint mould, stick it tastefully with pre- served cherries ; put in the pudding, tie it over with writing paper spread with butter, and steam over fast-boiling water for an hour and a half. Turn out carefully, and serve with clarified sugar (flavoured with almond) in the dish, but not poured over the pudding. Three ounces of loaf sugar, a laurel leaf, and half a gill of water, boiled ten minutes, will make the sauce. Conserve a la Richelieu.—Peel and cut six ripe apples and the same number of oranges, and place them in a basin with one pound of castor sugar; let them cook slowly till they become quite liquid, when they must be strained. Make some flaky paste, and cut it into oblongs and triangles, and spread some of the conserve over, fold over and bake. Corbeille d'Oranges a la Creme.—Put half a pound of lump sugar and a quarter of a pint of water into a small sauce- pan, and boil them Liil the sugar becomes brittle. Peel four or five oranges, remove as much of the white skin as possible. Divide them into their natural sections, fcake out the pips, then dip each section into the sugar, holding them on the point of a thin skewer. Oil a mould and arrange the pieces cf orange at the bottom and sides quite closely together; when firm turn out the shape very carefully, and fill up the centre with whipped and flavoured cream.SWEETS 201 Cream Puddingy.—One pint and a half of milk, three eggs, three ounces of butter, one and a half tablespoonfuls of arrowroot or cornflour, two ounces of sugar, a little lemon or other flavouring. Mix the arrowroot with a little cold milk till quite smooth, flavour with a few drops of lemon essence or juice and stir the butter into it. Bring the rest of the milk to boiling point in a lined saucepan, and add the sugar, then pour it into the arrowroot, stirring well together. Beat the eggs thoroughly, stir them into the other ingredients and pour the whole into a pie dish. This pudding should be baked in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. It may be served with stewed fruit. Cream Wafers.—Beat together two ounces of Vienna flour, four ounces of castor sugar and two eggs, then roll out at once. Kub a baking sheet with wax and place it in a quick oven. Cut out six circles and curl up when hot, fill these with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla. Arrange in a circle on a dish, and serve cold. They look alternately one white and pink. Dampf Nudels (German Recipe).—Mix three tablespoon- fuls of German yeast with five of warm cream and one ounce of sugar; mix with one pound of flour and six yolks of eggs one after the other. Work it well, and add two ounces of butter nearly melted. Put this paste into a warm place to rise. When it has risen about an inch, put it on the table, and cut pieces the size of an egg. Then let it rise again, and about twenty minutes before they are wanted, put them into a stewpan, with about half a pint of hot milk, a little butter and sugar; put them on the stove or a moderate fire, cover the stewpan all the time. Send them up with custard sauce. Devon Pancakes.—Whisk three eggs (whites and yolks separately), stir into them by degrees one dessertspoonful of Vienna flour and the same quantity of sifted sugar. When quite smooth mix in half a pint of whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla, pour into tin saucers that have been buttered, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Arrange the pancakes one on the top of another, on a hot dish, with a layer of preserved cherries in syrup between each. Sprinkle sugar over before serving.THE housewife's EEFEKEE 202 Devonshire White Pot.—Take a pint of cream, and strain four eggs into it. Put in a little salt and a little grated nutmeg, and season freely with sugar. Take a penny loaf of white bread sliced very thin, and put it into a dish. The cream and eggs being put to it, then take a handful of raisins and a little sweet butter and bake it. Diplomatic Pudding.—Decorate a mould with chopped pistachio nuts and desiccated cocoanut, set in clear jelly and put on ice. Make a custard with the yolks of four eggs^ one pint of milk, sugar to taste, and a few drops of some flavouring essence. Stir into this custard when cold two ounces of sponge-cake crumbs, two ounces of dried cherries, two ounces of ratafias, and the same of angelica and citron cut up very finely, one gill of whipped cream, and half an ounce of isinglass dissolved in a gill of water. Mix well, and pour into the mould, and put on ice to set. Fairy Toast.—Toast slices of stale sponge cake, and cut them into pieces two inches square; put half a tumblerful of apple or any light-coloured jelly into a basin, and whip it slowly and continuously till very light; then mix in care- fully the beaten white of one egg. Spread this over the squares of toast, and place a preserved cherry in the centre of each square. Serve cold with cream. Fig Pudding.—Take three-quarters of a pound of bread- crumbs, and six ounces of finely chopped suet (Hugon's Atora " beef-suet is highly recommended) • mix together; add half a pound of chopped figs, three ounces of moist sugar, two eggs beaten, and half a cup of milk. Boil five hours. French Apple Pudding.—Peel and core some large apples, and cut them into quarters. Put the peels and cores in a stewpan and cover them with water, and let them stew for half an hour ; strain, and pour over the sliced apples enough juice to cover them. Add a piece of lemon peel, two cloves, and sugar to taste. Boil until reduced to pulp. Pour out into a basin and stir in two well-beaten eggs to a quart of pulp, and an ounce of fresh butter. Butter a pie dish, put in the apple, strew thickly on the top with breadcrumbs, and add little pieces of butter. Brown nicely in the oven and serve either hot or cold. Send to table203 SWEETS with it a plain baked custard, made with four eggs to a quart of new milk, sweetened and flavoured to taste. Fromage a la Princesse.—Take a pint of cream, three- quarters of a pint of milk, a pinch of salt, some grated lemon rind, a little cinnamon and three ounces of castor sugar. Boil till reduced by one-half. Take off the fire, and when luke-warm stir in some rennet; strain, and stand it over some hot cinders. When it has curdled, turn it out into a small wicker basket that all the watery part may run out, and serve with fresh cream and vanilla sugar. Fruit Glace.—Boil one pint of granulated sugar and one cup of water till brittle. Have oranges peeled and divided into quarters; carefully dip each piece in a portion of the syrup, and set in a cool place to dry. Do not stir the syrup. Pineapples, bananas, etc., can be prepared in the same way. GaufFres (Jula).—Place eight ounces of flour, four ounces of powdered sugar and a pinch of salt in a basin; then add the yolks of eight eggs, a pounded stick of vanilla, and a glass of curagao. Mix these well together gradually adding a pint of whipped cream just before using the batter, add the whipped whites of the eggs, and mix them in lightly so as to incorporate them with it. These must be baked in irons made for the purpose, and which must be moistened with clarified butter. Fill one side of the irons with some of the batter, handling it gently with a spoon ; close the irons, and then turn them upside down that the batter may run into the opposite side, and set them over a fire. The irons must be carefully heated, and the superfluous heat be allowed to go off before filling them. When done shake vanilla sugar over them. Gelee Danoise.—Take half a pint of claret, and a quarter of a pint of canary sack, a tablespoonful of brandy, a quarter of a pint of cherry syrup, two ounces of castor sugar, the juice and peel of one lemon, and one ounce of gelatine which has been soaked in a gill of cold water. Mix these ingredients well, boil and strain into a mould. Place on ice, and turn out. Gelee de la Mer a la Brighton.—Take a tall plain mould and decorate the bottom and sides with angelica cut into the shape of stalks and leaves and crystallised cherries, toTHE housewife's BEFEREE 204 represent anemones. Fish are made in little fish moulds of ivory cream with silver foil paper mixed in artistically, then turned out and placed in the jelly. The mould filled with clear pale jelly. The whole should be garnished with little shells of pale jelly, and sprays of maidenhair fern. Greengage Mould.—Remove the stalks from one pint of greengages; then simmer them with about a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar. Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of isinglassine into two tablespoonfuls of boiling water, stir into the fruit, and pour the whole into a mould. Honore of Green Gooseberries {E. Garth).—Make a stifi* paste with flour, butter, eggs, and water ; roll it out and cut it into a round, and place on a baking sheet. Then for the choux paste, put half a pint of water into a stewpan with four ounces of butter and two ounces of castor sugar; let it boil, then mix in five ounces of fine sifted flour, stir well together and stand on the stove, and when cool mix in, one by one, three whole eggs, and a few drops of vanilla essence; put the mixture in a forcing bag with plain pipe, and force it out in a roll round the paste; on another baking sheet press out some balls about the size of large walnuts ; bake in a moderate oven; then stick the balls with white of egg quite close together on the roll of paste; place in the centre some nicely stewed gooseberries, and over them a layer of whipped cream flavoured with vanilla. Ice a TAmericaine ; Glace a TAmericaine {Gentlewoman). —E<emove the stones from a quart of damsons; crack some of the stones and pound the kernels; then pour a quart of boiling water on the fruit, and add half a pound of castor sugar and the pounded kernels; bring up the colour with a little carmine; pass through a sieve; add a wineglassf ul of Kirsch liquor, and pour it into a mould, with a cavity in the centre, and freeze. Pound one pound of Barcelona nuts with a few almonds or walnuts; whip up a pint of sweetened cream flavoured with noyeau; stir in lightly the nuts and a quarter of an ounce of dissolved isinglass : turn out the mould of ice, pile the cream in the centre, and place it in the ice case till wanted. Ice Cream {New Orleans Recipe).—Tdike six cream cheeses and the cream that comes with them ; two tins of condensedSWEETS 205 milk, four cups of powdered sugar, fifteen eggs, whites and yolks, beaten separately; add one quart of cold water ; beat all together. Flavour with vanilla and add the whites last. Freeze. Iced Maraschino Souffle.—Take ten yolks of fresh eggs and the whites of five, two ounces of castor sugar, a table- spoonful of maraschino syrup, and a few drops of brandy. Put these into a stewpan and whip them together; then put the pan into a larger one containing boiling water, and continue whipping till the mixture is tepid. Kemove the pan from the boiling water and continue whipping for about twenty to twenty-five minutes till the mixture is stiff, cold, light, and frothy; then add half a pint of whipped sweetened cream. Afterwards pour the mixture into the souffle dish with a band of paper round standing two and a half inches above the edges of the case; place it in the ice and let it freeze for about five hours. When firm remove the paper carefully and place it on the dish it is to be served on, and ornament with some pink, stiffly whipped cream, in which shredded pistachio kernels have been sprinkled. Sometimes an iced fruit macedoine is sent to table with it. In and Out Pudding.—Take one-half pound of flour, one- half pound of suet (by preference Hugon's ^'Atora " beef- suet), half a teaspoonful of salt, one-quarter of a teaspoon- ful of pepper. Mix with a little milk, and stir in four apples finely cut up. Boil for two hours. Jelly Cake.—Beat one egg thoroughly, add four ounces of sifted sugar, half an ounce of butter, five ounces of flour, and a little milk; to this put a quarter of an ounce of carbonate of soda dissolved in milk, and last of all, half an ounce of cream of tartar, also dissolved in a little milk. Pour the mixture into shallow round tins well-buttered, and bake in a quick oven. "When cold pile the cakes one on the top of the other, with any sort of preserve between each. The top of the cake should be iced. Junket.—One pint of milk, two dessertspoonfuls of brandy or Scotch whisky, one dessertspoonful of prepared rennet (Crosse & Blackwell's), whipped cream or Devon- shire cream, grated nutmeg or glaced cherries. Make the milk hot, put it in a dish with brandy or whisky, sugar, and206 THE housewife's KEFEKEE rennet. Stir it together and cover it until it is set; then spread the cream over the top and finally decorate with glaced cherries or grated nutmeg and serve. Kirschen Auflauf; German Souffle.—Take a quarter of a pound of creamed butter, the yolks of six eggs, and the crumbs of two rolls soaked in milk, a quarter of a pound of blanched and pounded almonds, the grated peel of a lemon, half a teaspoonful of grated cinnamon, and six ounces of sugar all well stirred together. Whisk the white of the eggs to a stiff snow ; add it to the mixture, and then stir in as many cherries as it will take. Butter a mould, line with as much breadcrumbs as will hang on, and bake it without delay. Ladies' Custards.—Pare and core four sharp apples, put them in a saucepan with a little water and boil till soft, then strain and rub the pulp through a sieve; grate the rind of half a lemon, and add to the apples with the strained juice of it; add one ounce of dried breadcrumbs pounded and sifted, and two ounces of castor sugar; then add three ounces of melted butter and three eggs well beaten. Place in tartlet pans lined with puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Lemon Biscuit Cream.—Three lemons, one heaped up cup of sugar, one cup of hot water, six eggs. Pare the lemons very thin; pour the hot water on to the peel; when it is cold strain and add the sugar, and heat till dissolved. Beat the eggs well, whites and yolks separately, and add to the other ingredients; also the strained juice of the lemons, beating all the time. Pour into a jug and set over boiling water, and cook until thicker than boiled custard. E^emove from the fire, and beat one minute; pour into small paper cases, and put in the freezer and half freeze. Lemon Sponge.—Half an ounce of isinglass, one pint of water, half a pound of pounded sugar, two tablespoonfuls of brandy, two lemons. Simmer half an ounce of isinglass in one pint of water three-quarters of an hour, and when cold add half a pound of pounded sugar, the rind of one lemon grated, and the juice of two, two tablespoonfuls of brandy, and the white of one egg previously beaten to a froth. Whisk all the ingredients well together; pour into a mould, and do not turn out till next day.SWEETS 207 Lemon Tartlets.—Reduce to powder half a pound of savoy biscuits, sift and add three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar; grate and add the rind of two lemons and the juice strained. Add now three-quarters of a pound of melted butter, a little cream, six eggs, and a small nutmeg grated ; put in patty-pans lined with puff paste as before directed, and sift a little powdered sugar over them. This will make a large quantity. Little Indian Gems [Mrs. Grace Johnstone, Anglo-Indian). —Boil one pint of milk, and mix three ounces of fine Florador into a thin paste with a little milk. As the milk in the pan comes to the boil stir in the Florador, taking care it does not get lumpy; boil for about five or six minutes, till the mixture is quite thick. Now add two ounces of castor sugar, stir well, keep it on the fire one minute; remove, and mix with it about three ounces of desiccated cocoanut (unsweet- ened). Well grease a dish, and pour the mixture on to it. Let the dish be a good size, and the mixture nearly an inch thick ; set it on ice. When quite cold stamp out in rounds about the size of a top of a wineglass; chop finely some good, richly coloured guava jelly; heap it in the middle of each round, that it may look like a little heap of garnets. Put half a pint of stiffly whipped cream into a forcing bag and tube, and surround each heap of jelly with the cream ; then sprinkle the cream with very finely chopped pistachios. Macedoine of Fruits.—Take some strawberries, rasp- berries, red and white currants, cherries, grapes, apricots,and peaches cut in quarters, the juice of pineapples, melon, and bananas. Free them from their stalks, then put them into a rich syrup flavoured with maraschino and brandy. Colour the syrup with a little cochineal and arrange on the dish so that the colours harmonise prettily. Whipped cream should be served with it. This is for summer; in the winter it must be composed of oranges, Tangerine oranges, brandy, cherries, apples, pears, bananas, and grapes. Maple Cream.—Mix two pounds of maple sugar, one- fourth of a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and a cup of water, and boil till a little of the syrup will form a soft ball when tried in water. Set it away in the kettle till almost cold, and then work it with the paddle till it becomes creamy208 THE housewife's KEFEKEE or cloudy, then pour directly into a shallow tin pan. When cold turn the pan upside down, and the cream will drop out; then divide into blocks. Mountain-ash Berry Jelly {Scotch Recipe),—Gather the berries in September, when they are red and juicy. To two quarts of berries put three quarts of water. Boil them till one-half the water is boiled away. To each pint of juice add one pound of loaf sugar well broken ; when it comes to a boil take off any scum that rises ; let it boil for half an hour, fill small pots with it, but do not put paper over it for two or three days. Mousse an Banana.—Kub three ounces of loaf sugar on the rind of half a lemon ; then pound three bananas and put with the mixture, which has been rubbed through a sieve, and place in a stewpan; beat up the yolks of five eggs; add them to the mixture, and stir over the fire till it just thickens. Whisk the white of the eggs to a stiff froth, and when the banana mixture is cool, stir them in lightly; then turn out of the pan on to the glass dish it is to be served in. This sweet should not be made more than an hour before it is required. Naples Tartlets.—Scald half a pint of cream or milk; pour this over four sponge cakes or a quarter of a pound of savoy biscuits; let it stand till cold ; then add a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, two ounces of flour, a little orange- flower water and a little nutmeg grated, then add three eggs well beaten, and a few'drops of essence of almonds. Line some tartlet pans with pufF paste, place some of the mixture on, dust over with sugar, and then bake in a moderate oven. Nesselrode Pudding.—Put into an enamelled saucepan one ounce of the best isinglass, five ounces of loaf sugar, two inches of stick vanilla, and one pint of new milk; boil gently for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of six fresh eggs, and stir into the milk while hot, but not boiling ; stir over the fire till at boiling heat, then strain into a basin. Cut the following fruits into half-inch squares:—Four ounces of preserved pineapple, one ounce of angelica, two ounces of candied apricots without stones, two ounces of candied cherries, two ounces of orange peel, and one ounce of ginger;209 SWEETS pour, over the fruit, either maraschino, eura9ao or brandy, a wineglassful, and let it stand half an liour. Beat one pint of double cream to frothy stir it into the custard when nearly cold, put in the fruit, and stir the mixture rapidly for five minutes. Kinse a mould in cold water; put in the pudding, and place it in a pan surrounded by rough ice ; stir till it begins to set, so as to prevent the fruit sinking to the bottom. Let it remain till quite firm ; then turn it on to a glass dish, and serve immediately. Note.—The quantity given is sufiicient to serve to a party of twelve or fourteen. Ifeun-Loth Pudding.—Take four and a half ounces of fiour and four and a half ounces of castor sugar, and stir in half a pint of milk. Melt four and a half ounces of butter in a stewpan and half a pint of milk. When the butter is melted and the milk is hot, stir in the milk, flour, and sugar. Stir over the fire till it boils and thickens; then turn it out to cool. Stir in the yolks of nine eggs, four and a half ounces of pounded almonds, and the nine whites beaten to a stiff froth. Stir all together; butter a mould, and pour in the mixture; boil for one and a half hours. The water must never be allowed to stop boiling. White wine sauce; must be served with it. Iforthumberland Pudding.—To three eggs add their weight in fiour, butter, and sugar; beat the butter and sugar together to a cream, then add the eggs, one at a time, and beat for five minutes between each egg; afterwards mix in lightly the flour with two tablespoonfuls of brandy and half a pint of sweet cream. Butter the inside of a mould, dredge it wdth pounded sugar, and ornament with dried cherries and angelica cut in the shape of leaves; pour in the pudding, and tie a cloth over the top of the mould; put it into a pan with boiling water, taking care that the water does not boil into the pudding. Boil it for one hour, and serve with a custard or wine sauce. Orange Cream.—Boil the rind of a Seville orange very tender; beat it fine in a mortar; add to it a spoonful of the best brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, four ounces of loaf sugar, and the yolks of four eggs. Beat all together for ten minutes \ then, by degrees, pour in one pint of boiling 14THE housewife's EEFEREE 210 cream; beat it till ijb is cold; put it into custard cups or glasses ; set them in a deep dish or pan of boiling water to stand till cold. If preferred in a mould, half an ounce of isinglass dissolved in a very little water must be added with the cream. This is excellent. Orange Custards.—Take half the rind of a Seville orange, boil it very tender, beat in a mortar ; add its juice and the juice of two sweet oranges, a tablespoonful of brandy, three ounces of loaf sugar, and the yolks of four eggs well beaten. Beat all for ten minutes; then by degrees pour in a pint of boiling-hot cream. Serve in glass cups when cold. If preferred solid in a mould, put half an ounce of Nelson's gelatine to soak in a little milk for three hours, and after pour the hot cream on to it before mixing in the other things. Orange Jelly or " Whip."—The juice of sixteen oranges, and the rinds of eight. Boil one pound of sugar in half a pint of water with the skin of eight oranges and a small quantity of isinglass or gelatine for an hour; strain this into the juice of sixteen oranges, whiskiDg well all the time until cool. Strain into moulds. Orange Sponge.—One ounce of isinglass, one pint of water six large oranges, two Tangerine oranges, seven ounces of sugar. Dissolve the isinglass in one pint of water for two hours ; then mix with it the juice of the large oranges and that of the Tangerine and the finely powdered sugar. Whisk well together until it becomes a sponge. Put into a mould. Orange Tartlets.—Bub the rinds of six oranges on three- quarters of a pound of sugar, then cut the oranges in two, squeeze out the juice and clear them of the seeds ; then boil in a little water till tender. Pound them in a mortar with the sugar; then add the juice and a quarter of a pound of melted butter. When quite cold add the yolks of twelve eggs and the whites of six, beaten to a froth. Mix the whole well together; then add a quarter of a pound of ratafias in powder. Put in patty pans as for lemon patties. This will make a very large quantity. Oranges Bewitched.—Soak half an ounce of gelatine in a teaspoonful of milk for half an hour; then put it into a milk211 SWEETS saucepan with half a pint of cream. Stir till the gelatine is melted, then sweeten to taste. Pour equal portions of the cream into four cups and flavour one with raspberry syrup, another with essence of coffee, a third with some essence of lemon, and the fourth with vanilla, and colour red with carmine colouring. Have ready the cases of four oranges cut in halves. To do this, slit round the middle of each orange with a sharp knife, cutting the peel only and pass the handle of a teaspoon carefully between the orange and the peel, so as to detach each half without breaking. Fill each of the halves with the different creams, and when quite set, cut into quarters and arrange with green leaves on a silver dish. The pulp of the oranges will serve to make jelly with the addition of a little lemon juice. Peches Flambantes a la Bretonne.—Choose twelve peaches not quite ripe ; dip them into boiling water in order to peel them easily without injuring the flesh ; then divide them into two, and take out the stones. Make a rich syrup, which will be ready when, in taking some in the spoon and letting it drop, it will fall into little balls. Put in the peaches, and continue to fill up the interstices with the syrup. Let them simmer for ten minutes; then take the saucepan ofl* the fire, and put in it three tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mix all up together ; then take out the peaches, and dish en pyramide, adding at last a little more brandy, which is ignited just before handing round. Piiaumen Mns.—Eub plums with a cloth; stew them with the stones as they retain their juice so much better when treated in that way. Stew them slowly till tender in a few tablespoonfuls of water, rub them through a sieve; stew thus with sugar and cinnamon to taste, and a little orange or lemon peel. Throw in at the last moment either small squares of bread fried in butter, or grate the same over the Mus. Pineapple Jelly.—Peel and cut into slices three-quarters of a pound of fresh pineapple; put it into a skillet, with ten ounces of loaf sugar and one pint of cold water ; boil up, skim, and simmer for twenty-five minutes; then strain off the juice. Dissolve one and a quarter ounces of isinglass in half a pint of cold water, mix this with the juice ; add aTHE housewife's EEFEREE 212 wineglassful of rum and strain through a jelly bag. De- corate the top of a mould with thin inch pieces of pine, pour in the jelly, and let it stand in a cool place till firmly set. Note.—If not sufficiently coloured add a few drops of burnt sugar. Pineapple Pancake.—Beat two eggs well together with a dessertspoonful of rose water, two of rice flour, two of castor sugar, and then add a gill of cream. Put into a stewpan a piece of butter, the size of a bantam's egg, and when boiling pour in the batter so as to cover the pan thinly; fry a light brown; then take it and drain well; have ready some long slices of pineapple, and roll one in each pancake. Take the whites of two eggs, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, and a teaspoonful of rose water; beat for twenty minutes with a knife, and divide it into two parts and fry separately, but be careful not to turn it, so that it leaves the pan like a handful of snow; lay these across the pancakes. This quantity will make four cakes and two snowballs. Pistachio Cream.—Whip a pint of thick cream till it is stiff; add to it a quarter of a pound of pounded blanched pistachio kernels, a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, and half an ounce of isinglass dissolved in a gill of water. When all the ingredients are mixed, add a little green colouring, but mix it in well; then pour the cream into a mould. Ponding a 1'Alsace.—Make a nice paste with flour and water as for a usual boiled pudding; work it in to the shape of a large dumpling ; lay it in a saucepan; cover with boiling water; place on it half a pound of French plums, and a quarter of a pound of moist sugar ; sprinkle on it some desiccated cocoanut and some citron cut finely. Cover the pan and cook slowly for two and a half hours. Serve the dumpling with the plums in it, and the sauce round. Prince of Wales's Pudding.—One pound of apples stewed with a little sugar rubbed through a sieve, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar, beat together to a cream. Take four eggs ; separate the whites from the yolks; beat both separately till very light ; mix one tablespoonful of flour with three of cream, the grating and juice of one lemon; mix all the ingredients213 SWEETS together. The whites of eggs must be added last. Have a ptidding dish lined with puff paste ; pour the pudding into the dish and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour or a little longer. The pudding should be well risen and nicely browned on the top. Punch's Pudding.—Take a pint of cream, and boil for a quarter of an hour with sugar and a little lemon peel to tasfce. Mix a small spoonful of flour with some butter, and stir over the fire a few minutes; then add the cream to it and beat up three eggs, a dessertspoonful of brandy, the same of Marsala, and pub into the mixture; pour into a mould stuck round with dried cherries, and boil it. Serve with fruit sauce. Pyramids {copyright).—Get some ball moulds and fill them with different-coloured jellies—blue, green, pink, white, black, red, brown, yellow, and orange. Arrange them on a border of frozen cream. Each ball must be of a different flavour. Raspberry Sponge.—Soak one ounce of gelatine in half a pint of cold water for fifteen minutes; then add a pint of boiling water. When cool, add half a pound of sugar, half a pint of raspberry juice, the juice of two lemons, and the whites of two eggs. Whisk it for half an hour, and pour into a mould. Roches de Poires a la Gaillard {Caterer).—'Fw.t into a stewpan four yolks of eggs, with six ounces of castor sugar; work well with a wooden spoon, and dilute the mixture with a pint of milk flavoured with vanilla ; stir over the fire till it thickens, without letting it boil. Add three boiled and mashed pears, and rub through a hair sieve. Add half a glass of liqueur, and set to freeze. When properly frozen, take a spoon, and mould some of the ice into the shape of a pear; cut it open with a knife, introduce into the centre a little apricot jam, mixed up with a few dried currants to imitate the pips, and attach a piece of angelica to imitate the stalk. Make a pistachio cream ice; rub it through the sieve to imitate moss, and dish the pears on it. Rothe Griitze.—Take equal quantities of raspberries and currants; pick the latter from their stems and put them214 THE housewife's KEFEKEE with the raspberries into a bowl; crush the fruits well, and then strain through a cloth. To two-thirds of the juice, one-third water; sweeten to taste, and then set on to boil. Have ready some cornflour mixed with water, and when the juice boils pour it in carefully, stirring quickly all the time to prevent it from getting lumpy. It must not get too thick. When cold it should be of a jelly consistency and must be eaten iced, with milk or cream. Savoury Almonds.—Split, scald, blanch, and skin half a pound of sweet almonds; put them into a tin ; add a lump of butter the size of a walnut; place them in a hot oven, seeing that each almond gets well oiled; let them remain there till all are perfectly brown and dry. Send to table with a little of the finest salt sprinkled over them. Semolina Pudding.—One and a half pints of milk, sugar to taste, three tablespoonfuls of the best Indian semolina, a few drops of any flavouring, two or three eggs. Boil the milk with the sugar, then add the semolina, and stir over the fire till it becomes tolerably thick. Pour into a basin, and when cool mix in the egg, well beaten, and the flavouring. Put the whole into a buttered pudding dish, and bake for about one hour in a moderate oven. Small Orange Ice Souffles {Drogan).—Take five yolks of eggs, two ounces of castor sugar, half a pint of thick cream whipped, and three whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Beat the yolks and the sugar with a wineglassful of water over hot water. When this batter becomes quite light, remove and beat till it is cold; add the cream and the whites of the eggs beaten stifi*; mix lightly. When liqueurs, juices, or syrups are used the water must be omitted; therefore, in orange souffles, the juice of the oranges must be used instead of water. Fill small paper cases with the mixture, placing bands of foolscap paper round them to rise two inches above the edge of the souffle papers. Sponge Cake Pudding.—Six penny sponge cakes, one packet of Bird's Custard Powder, three ounces of white sugar, some jam, and one pint of new milk. Cut the sponge cakes into slices, spread each slice with jam (rasp- berry, strawberry, or currant jams are preferable), and place in a dish. Make the custard with the milk and sugar.SWEETS 215 and pour while hot into the dish. Let it stand until quite cold, and turn out. If preferred, the sponge cakes, after being sliced, may be soaked in a little sherry or raisin wine. After being turned out, the pudding will be improved by being surrounded with custard as described in the recipe on each packet. Strawberry Fritters.—Mix a tablespoonful of salad oil with a little flour and the grated peel of half a lemon. Whisk the whites of three eggs ; stir them in, and add only sujQ&cient white wine to make a very thick batter ; then mix in some fine ripe strawberries, and drop the mixture from a spoon about the size of a walnut into a pan of boiling fritter with a strawberry in each fritter. When done take them carefully out, drain them on a sieve and serve, with sifted sugar over them. Strawberry Short Cake.—Beat thoroughly the yolks and whites of three eggs; add a cup three-quarters full of castor sugar, and the juice of a lemon. Beat again and add a teaspoonful of boiling water; continue beating, adding slowly a cup of flour well dried and sifted. Beat quickly and pour into jelly cake tins. Bake for ten or fifteen minutes, and when done spread with well-sweetened strawberries, and put two cakes together; serve with whipped cream when cold. Strawberry Sponge.—Soak half an ounce of leaf gelatine in half a pint of water for a couple of hours; put into a saucepan the thin rind of half a lemon and the strained juice of a pound of strawberries ; add five ounces of loaf sugar, and stir over the fire till it has boiled up for five minutes. Strain when cold, but not set. Whip up with a whisk till it becomes quite light and frothy ; then put it into a damped mould, and turn out. A little cochineal improves the colour. Sucre a la creme {Canadian).—To every pound of maple sugar, allow one pint of fresh cream; break the sugar into small pieces, and put it with the cream into a white-lined saucepan. Put the latter on a fresh fire, and boil the cream and sugar together for an hour; stir constantly in one direction. When the boiling is over take the saucepan ofl* the fire, and continue the stirring until the mixture cools216 THE housewife's KEFEREE and begins to thicken. Then pour it into buttered soup plates or flat dishes, and put it to harden. Butternuts chopped into small pieces and mixed in during the boiling are a great improvement. Walnuts can also be used. Surprise Sweet for Children's Christmas Party.—Make some puff paste; put it into a basket mould, and bake it. When cooked turn it out, and fill it with a number of little puddings the size of greengages. Make a meringue mixture and place on the top, sprinkling over a few hundreds and thousands " ; round the handle twist long pieces of citron, culminating with a sprig of red-berried holly on the top. Talmoiises aux Pistaches a la creme.—Line some tartlet pans with puff paste and bake; when done take a savoy bag with a plain small tube, fill it with well-beaten, sweetened and flavoured cream, and lay in rings round the tartlet cases already baked; then put in the centre a pyramid of pistachio conserve, dust sugar over and serve. To make the pistachio conserve, blanch, dry and pound up a quarter of a pound of pistachio kernels in a mortar; put a quarter of a pound of sugar and one gill of water into a stewpan and boil up ; add one ounce of butter to the pounded kernels, with some essence of Tangerine orange, a few drops of apple-green colour. Then beat up the whites of three eggs, and add to the mixture on the fire; stir till it thickens, when it is ready for use. Taste and Come Again Pudding.—Pare and core some apples, and fill the centres with butter, sugar, and candied peel. Mix sugar and water and brush over the apples, and sprinkle grated and sifted breadcrumbs over that have been previously rolled in butter, which is done by putting the crumbs in a pan with bits of butter and set in a hot oven, turning them every now and again till the crumbs are brown. Bake the apples, and baste them whilst cooking with some sugar and water kept in a cup on the stove. Serve with custard and powdered sugar. Tipsy Cake.—Mix a tumblerful of sherry and a wine- glassful of brandy. Line a glass dish with sponge cakes, and saturate them w^ith the above mixture. Then cover with a layer of macaroons, and saturate them. Cover with apricot jam ; then a layer of custard ; then strawberry jam. Finally217 SWEETS place whipped cream on the top. A souffle dish may be used instead of a glass dish. Trifle.—One quart of good cream, three wineglassfuls of sherry or other wine, six ounces of powdered sugar, lemons, jam, six sponge cakes, ratafia biscuits, sweet almonds, custard, two eggs, small candied fruits. The night before the trifle is required prepare the " whip " as follows :— Put into a large basin the whites of eggs, well beaten (the yolks can be used in the custard), the cream, sugar, one glassful of sherry, and juice of one or two lemons as liked. Whisk the mgreclients well and when formed into a stiff froth, put to drain on a hair sieve. In the morning, put into a large, deep glass dish six sponge cakes, and soak them with sherry; put here and there about them a few ratafias, and sweet almonds which have been blanched and split. Over these spread a layer of jam or jelly. Place over this a good custard about two inches deep, and then heap in the form of a pyramid the whipped cream, and garnish with candied fruits. Venus Pudding.—Butter a quart mould, and ornament with candied ginger. Make a custard of eight yolks of eggs and the whites of four, three-quarters of a pint of cream with sugar to taste; dissolve three-quarters of an ounce of isinglass in sufficient milk to fill up the mould. When cold add a glass of rum, put the ingredients into the mould and place on ice to set. Before adding the isinglass put aside a little of the custard for sauce, to which add some ginger syrup, and serve round the pudding. Vinegar Peaches.—Eemove the down from the peaches by dropping a few at a time in cold water. To every four pounds of fruit, take two pounds of sugar and half a pint of vinegar ; make a syrup of the sugar and water, drop in the peaches and let boil twenty minutes, till they look clear; drain them from the syrup ] add the vinegar, and boil a few minutes longer. Eemove from the fire, and seal while hot. Weymouth Cheese Cakes.—To a pint of luke-warm milk add a dessertspoonful of rennet; after it has stood in a warm place for one hour and the curd is properly formed, strain it through a sieve, and get the curd as dry as possible. Then put it in a mortar, and pound it well withTHE housewife's KEFEKEE 218 two ounces of butter, a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, half an ounce of ground sweet almonds, and a couple of ground bitter almonds, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the juice of the same strained. Add one sponge cake rubbed fine and sifted, a dust of nutmeg, a little cream and two well-beaten eggs ; when this is well mixed, put in tartlet tins lined with pufF paste, and bake in a moderate oven. A thin slice of almond may be put in the centre of each. White Nougat.—Blanch a pound of almonds and chop. Pour four ounces of white honey in a new cup, set the cup in a kettle of water,'and boil until it will roll into a ball; to this add an ounce of castor sugar, and the stiffly beaten white of an egg; cook till stiff, and stir in the almonds. Take from the fire, and pour in a little tray lined with paper; press down firmly and let stay till cold. Then cut into thick, small, square blocks, and dust with powdered sugar which has been flavoured with vanilla and dried. White Puddings {Scotch),—To two parts of Hugon's " Atora " beef suet, the same of oatmeal previously toasted before the fire (eight ounces of each is a good proportion), add an eighth of an ounce of salt, and the same of ground black pepper. Mix these ingredients thoroughly with water, and tie hard up in a cloth. Boil slowly for an hour and a half in an open saucepan; keep it always under water, which must be boiling when the pudding is put in. Zambaglione.—Dissolve one and a half ounces of sugar in two sherry glassfuls of Madeira, stir into this the yolks of four eggs. Put a vessel containing this mixture in a bain- marie and whisk it till it is frothy, flavour with Maraschino or other liqueur and serve in glasses. This can be eaten hot or cold. In Italy it is generally preferred luke-warm. CAKES AND CONFECTIONS " Oh, Heavens ! what stuff is here ? "—Shakespeare. Angel Cake.—Beat the whites of eleven eggs, add one and a half tumblers of sugar which has been sifted three times, add then two teaspoonfuls of vanilla essence, a tumblerful of Vienna flour which has been sifted five times,219 CAKES AND CONFECTIONS and a teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Measure the flour after sifting; a level tumblerful is the amount required. Stir all together very lightly, and then pour into a new un- greased tin and bake in a moderate oven for forty minutes. After it has been baked for twenty minutes, a sheet of paper should be placed over the top to prevent its becoming too brown. When the cake is cooked, it must not be removed from the tin, but turn the tin upside down and rest the edges on two plates; care should be taken not to shake it, or it will become heavy. It should be eaten the day it is baked. Anis Brod.—Take half a pound of castor sugar, three whole eggs, four yolks, four whites, and a quarter of a pound of flour. Stir the eggs, yolks, and sugar for twenty minutes, then add the beaten whites, and lastly stir in the sifted flour and one teaspoonful of caraway seeds. Bake in a slow oven to a golden brown. Apricot Layer Cake.—Beat half a pound of butter to a cream, add half a pound of powdered sugar, beating all the while; then put in the yolks of five eggs and, after, the whites well beaten, six ounces of flour, two ounces of corn- starch, and a teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat well; add a quarter of a teaspoonful of mace, a teaspoonful of vanilla, and two tablespoonfuls of sherry. Grease three round tins and pour in the cake, and bake in a moderately quick oven for fifteen minutes. When done remove carefully, and stand the cakes on a cloth to cool for a few minutes. Pare some apricots, and slice them thinly. Beat the whites of two eggs lightly, and add four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and beat till stiff enough to stand alone. Put a layer of this over the top of one cake, then a layer of sliced apricots; stand another cake on the top; put the remainder of the white beaten eggs over the top of this cake; then another layer of apricots. Place the remaining cake on the top of this; press down lightly, and dust the top over with powdered sugar. Arme Ritter.—Take a plain roll two days old and cut it into one-inch slices ; put these on flat dishes and pour over them one pint of cold milk w^ell mixed with three eggs, a little salt, and a little cinnamon or lemon flavouring.THE housewife's KEFEREE 220 When the bread has soaked in all the liquid, fry it in half butter and half lard to a nice golden colour on both sides. Serve on a hot^dish ; sprinkle sugar over, and hand stewed fruit with it. Baden Cakes.—Make some short pastry with half a pound of flour and six ounces of butter, and line some tins with it. Then put an ounce and a half of castor sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, four tablespoonfuls of cream, and the yolks of three eggs in a stewpan, and stir till it becomes the consistency of cream; then add a tablespoonful of almonds which have been previously blanched and finely cut up, and the whisked whites of the three eggs. Pour the mixture into the tins, and bake for about twenty minutes. When they are cold, ice the tops (the icing is made by mixing one tablespoonful of icing sugar with one white of an egg); sprinkle some finely-chopped pistachio nuts over them, and serve cold. This makes ten cakes. ButterkiLchen {Westphalian Recipe).—Sift three pounds of flour into a basin which has been slightly warmed ; make a well in the middle, and put in two cupfuls of castor sugar, seven eggs, the peel of one lemon, and half a pint of milk in w^hich two ounces of yeast have been dissolved. Warm a pound and a half of butter, and add it gradually to the other ingredients; then beat all together briskly. Butter thinly a baking sheet, spread the paste on it to the thick- ness of three-quarters of an inch, and set it in a warm place to rise. Butter the upper surface of the cake; sprinkle it with coarsely pounded sugar, and bake quickly. It can be varied after the dough has risen, by sprinkling it with a mixture of half a pound of coarsely pounded sugar, three ounces of chopped almonds, and some powdered cinnamon; and put small lumps of butter all over at regular intervals. Prick it well to avoid blisters rising. When taken from the oven, sprinkle it with half a cupful of rose water. It should be eaten fresh, and is generally cut into pieces two inches broad and five long. Coffee Cake {German Recipe),—Take half a pound of sugar, the same of butter, four eggs, some grated lemon, a good pinch of salt of ammonia, and the requisite quantity of flour to make a good dough. After it has rested a short time,221 CAKES AND CONFECTIONS it is rolled out square and thin, and then cut out with a wheel into strips of three-quarters of an inch broad and three inches long. Brush these over with egg, and dust with a mixture of coarsely cut almonds, sugar, and cinnamon; or press into a mixture of three ounces of almonds, six of hard sugar, and a teaspoonful of cinnamon. Lay the pieces on a baking tin, syringe with water, and bake. Coffee Cakes; Sahnekringel.—Take a pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound of butter, and ten tablespoonfuls of thick, sour cream. Cut the butter into small pieces, and knead it into the flour. Gather it into a heap on the board; make a hole in the middle, into which pour the cream ; then work it into a light paste. When this is ready divide it into smaller pieces; roll out in lengths of six or seven inches, and twist into the shape of the figure 8. When all the paste has been used up, brush the kringels with the yolk of an egg, sprinkle with castor sugar and powdered cinnamon, • and bake quickly in a hot oven. Dinner Finger Bread.—These are made of a dough like that used for French bread. The dough is cut into long strips, and gradually rolled out till quite thin with the hands, and then sprinkled with a little rough, dry salt before putting them into the oven, which should be a moderately cool one, and should be baked for a long time till the biscuits are dry and crisp. Easter Bread.—One yeast cake, two cups of flour, two cups of water; mix, and set to rise overnight. In the morning take six cups of flour, two cups of milk, one and a half cup of currants, the same of raisins, half a cup of sugar, butter the size of a good-sized hen's egg rubbed in cold, one teaspoonful of salt. Mix and let it rise till light. Then mould, and put in pans until light; then wet the top with melted butter, and bake one hour. German Cake.—Take half a pint of milk, five eggs, half a pound of butter, half an ounce of yeast, a quarter of a pound of currants, a few sultanas and large raisins, a little sugar, and a pinch of salt. Warm the milk, and mix the yeast in it; put the flour in a basin, and make a hole in it, and niix in the yeast and milk, having a ring of flour all222 THE housewife's EEFEEEE round. Let it rise, melt the butter, and mix it in the eggs, and beat these for twenty minutes. Batter the mould, throw in some breadcrumbs and almonds, and put in a hot oven for half an hour. Ginger-bread Cake.—Rub a quarter of a pound of butter to a pound of flour, add a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, one ounce of ground ginger, one ounce of caraway seeds, a little candied peel and a few chopped almonds; then one pound of golden syrup and two well-beaten eggs; lastly, a quarter of an ounce of carbonate'of soda ; dissolve in a small cup of warm water. Butter a cake-mould, pour in the mixture, and bake for an hour in rather a brisk oven. Before baking, decorate the top of the cake with blanched almonds. This mixture must not be touched with the hand, but beaten with a wooden spoon. Gingerbread Nuts, To make.—Six ounces of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of treacle ; boil them together, and a quarter of a pound of oatmeal nicely sifted, one and a half ounce of grated ginger, half a pound of flour, adding citron or orange as you like; mix all well together into a stiff paste, roll it out and cut into nuts the size you like. Twenty minutes will bake them. Karlsbad Wafers.—Beat the whites of ten eggs to a stiff" froth ; add one pound of castor sugar, half an ounce of cinnamon, and three-quarters of a pound of sifted flour. Lay a tablespoonful of it on a greased baking tin, each spoonful two inches from the other apart, smooth them out with the round side of a teaspoon to the thickness of a knife blade, the shape to be round. Bake in a quick oven. Have ready a finger-thick, round, smooth stick of wood. Boll each one of the cakes around it, like the outside leaf of a cigar; press it on the wood a little, and pull the stick out. Kenlonrakia ; Tea Cake.—To one pound of flour add four ounces of butter, a pinch of salt, one of sugar, and one small teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Mix the powder, salt, and sugar in the flour in a dry state; then rub in the butter. Add half a pint of tepid milk to make it into a dough, but it must not be kneaded much ; make it into small rings and place these on the baking tin at a little distance from one223 CAKES AND CONFECTIONS another, to prevent them sticking; egg them over with a brush, and put them at once into a hot oven and bake. Kirschen KtLchen ; Cherry Cake {German).—Soak half a pound of shced bread in as much cold milk as it will absorb, press it out; add six well-beaten eggs, two ounces of pounded almonds, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of creamed butter, and a small teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. When these are well mixed, stir in one and a half pound of cherries. Butter well an inch-deep tin : fill with the mixture ; strew sugar and cinnamon over the top, with a few sliced almonds, and bake slowly in a moderate oven. Moscow Buns.—Dissolve one ounce of encore yeast in a pint of warm milk, beat up two eggs and two ounces of cas- tor sugar together, and add the milk ; then rub a quarter of a pound of butter into two pounds of flour and a saltspoonful of mixed spice. With these make a well, and add the above mixture ; make it into soft dough ; mould round, and put on baking tins, well buttered, nearly close together ; wash over with milk, bake in a sharp oven; wash over again with milk directly they come out of the oven. Norfolk Eusks.—Take one and a half pound of flour, two ounces of butter, two ounces of lard, two dessertspoonfuls of baking powder, one saltspoonful of salt; all of which mix thoroughly together. Add one egg beaten up with as much milk as will make it into a stifl* paste ; roll out to about the thickness of two inches, and cut into rounds with the top of a tumbler, previously dipped into flour to prevent the mixture sticking to it. Bake in a brisk oven until they are of a light brown colour; then take them out, and pull them each in half, and put them into a slow oven to dry. E'udeln (German),—Take half a pound of flour, three whole eggs, and a very little salt. The eggs and salt must first be beaten up with a knife, and then worked together with the flour to a firm and smooth paste. Should the paste not be firm enough, a little flour may be added. Divide the paste now into three or four pieces, each piece being again worked till smooth with the hands, and then immediately rolled out as thin as paper; they are then cut in strips five inches wide— these lay over each other—and then cut with a very sharp224 THE housewife's KEFEEEE knife into strips, which must not be thicker than the knife. These must now be thoroughly dried for some hours, till quite hard, and then put into boiling salt water and allowed to boil for ten minutes, after which pour off and pile them in a dish, and strew over with fried breadcrumbs and serve with oiled butter. Orange Cake {The Queen).—Put six eggs into a saucepan, add a small teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, the finely chopped rind of three oranges, ten ounces of castor sugar and a little saffron-yellow. Whip the mixture over boiling water till just warm, then remove from the fire and continue whipping the mixture till it is cold and as thick as whipped cream, then add six ounces of Vienna fiour which has been warmed and passed through a sieve, stirring the mixture whilst doing so with a wooden spoon as lightly as possible ; brush a plain mould with warm butter, line it with buttered paper, and dust the paper with flour and sugar mixed in equal quantities ; pour the mixture into the mould, but only half full; then bake the cake in a moderate oven for an hour and a quarter. Cover with orange glace when cold. Potato Cakes.—R-ub two tablespoonfuls of butter into two pounds of mashed potatoes, add two pounds of flour, a little salt, and milk enough to make a stifl* batter; add half a cupful of yeast, set the mixture to rise; stir it steadily for a few minutes before baking in a quick oven. To be eaten buttered, either hot or cold. These rolls, a day old, are delicious for making sandwiches. Rathanen KtLchen.—Take half a pint of milk, five eggs, half a pound of butter, half a pound of yeast, a quarter of pound of currants, a little sugar, and a pinch of salt. Warm the milk and mix the yeast in it; put the flour into a basin and make a hole in it, and mix in the yeast, having a ring of flour all round; let it rise and melt the butter, mix it in the eggs, and beat these for twenty minutes. Butter the mould, throw in some breadcrumbs and almonds, and put in a hot oven for half an hour. Sables Normands; Normandy Short Cakes.—Take three eggs, half a pound of sugar, and half a pound of butter, and mix all these together with a wooden spoon; then, with the hands, add half a pound of flour, little by little,225 CAKES AND CONFECTIONS till the paste gets thick and firm. Roll it out, and cut into small rounds with pastry moulds, and bake in a brisk oven in buttered tins, or on oiled paper. Scones.—No. 1. Take half a pound of flour, half a tea- spoonful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, one-quarter of an ounce of cream of tartar, and a pinch of salt. Mix these thoroughly, taking care there are no lumps in the soda or tartar. Add half an ounce of butter; rub it well into the flour; make a hole in the centre, and pour in a gill of sour milk (butter-milk slightly sour is preferable). Mix quickly and lightly but do not knead it. Place the dough on a floured board, roll out to a quarter of an inch thick, cut into small rounds, and place on a hot griddle, when they should begin to rise at once. Turn them once or twice, and draw back to a cooler part of the griddle when nearly done. Ten minutes is sufficient time. No. 2. Put a pound of dry flour into a basin, and add to it one heaped tablespoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, free from all lumps, and a large pinch of salt. Then mix all well together, and with a knife stir in by degrees enough butter-milk to make a soft but not too wet dough. Turn this out on the baking- board ; take a third of the dough, and roll it out on the board, which must be previously well-floured to about half an inch in thickness, cut into four pieces, and bake on a hot griddle, turning the cakes when risen and of a pale brown colour on the one side. They must be baked moderately quickly, but on neither a slow nor a fierce fire. They should rise to fully double their thickness. Schlirze-Bendel {German).—Take half a pound of sugar, four eggs, a good-sized piece of butter, some rose water (or rum), and as much flour as will make a paste. Roll out rather thin, and cut into long, narrow strips, and shape into knots or bows. Fry in plenty of hot fat, after which, roll in sugar and powdered cinnamon. Shortbread.—Take three-quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of ground rice, half a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a pinch of salt. Rub the butter and flour well together, then add the sugar, salt, and rice. Knead it thoroughly with the hand, and cut it 15226 THE housewife's REFEREE into cakes. Bake in a slow oven for about twenty minutes; but of course when it is done must be judged by the heat of the oven and appearance of the cakes. Shortbread) Scotch.—Put two pounds of butter in some warm place overnight where it will become gradually soft without melting. Take two quarterns of flour and mix with half a pound of castor sugar; add these to the butter, and knead the whole till it appears like a dough; then add a tablespoonful or two of yeast. Again knead it, and roll it into cakes the proper size and thickness. Ornament the edges with comfits, having previously pricked the cakes with a fork. Silver Cakes.—One and a half cupful of butter, three of sugar, one and a half pint of pastry and sifted flour, the whites of fourteen eggs, a teaspoonful of soda, and two of cream of tartar. Flavour with almonds. Slim Cakes (Scotch).—Take a quarter of a pound of butter to one of flour, and as much hot milk as will make the above into a dough of suitable consistency; to this add two eggs well beaten. Handle the paste very lightly, work it quickly, roll it out, and cut it with any small basin or fancy shape. Bake on a griddle. Serve the cakes hot at once, buttered and placed one on the top of the other. Slim Cakes of Old Scotland.—Take three ounces of butter, one pound of flour, one well-beaten egg, and as much sweet milk as will make a dough. Mix quickly, roll out and cut in shape, and bake quickly on a griddle ; serve hot, with plenty of butter. Sponge Cake.—No. 1. Seven eggs, saving two whites, (whisk them to mix together); three-quarters of a pound of lump sugar, one gill of water (half rose water and half plain); boil and skim it, and put it to the eggs, beating them well for three-quarters of an hour ; add a few caraway seeds or grated lemon peel, then add half a pound of flour dried and salted. Paper your pan, and put it in a quick oven, but not too hot. Three-quarters of an hour will bake it. No. 2. Take two ounces of flour, a quarter of a pound of sugar, two eggs, and seven drops of essence of lemon.227 CAKES AND CONFECTIONS Beat the yolks up, then add the sugar and the lemon, then the whites beaten to a froth, and put the flour in by degrees, mixing it all well up. Bake an hour in a slow oven. Sweet Potato Cakes.—Boil one pound of sweet potatoes ; peel, mash, and press them through a sieve whilst warm, sweeten them to taste, add two tablespoonfuls of butter, one teacupful of milk, the yolks of three eggs, some powdered cinnamon, vanilla, orange flower, and the juice of a lemon. Tea Bretzels {German Recipe).—Take half a pound of butter, a dessertspoonful of sugar, and six eggs; stir to a froth ; mix one-third of an ounce of cinnamon with it, three- tenths of an ounce of grated lemon peel, a pinch of salt of ammonia, and as much fine flour as will make a good dough; make it into the shape of cakes, squeeze them flat with the hand, lay them in coarse sugar for a few moments, and bake. Thee Kranze {German).~M.iK to a firm paste one table- spoonful of thick cream, two ounces of castor sugar, a pinch of cinnamon, and a tablespoonful of orange-flower water. Boll out quite thin (less than a quarter of an inch), then cut the paste into rings, which is done by patty cutters. Have a saucepan of boiling water on the fire; put the rings in ; when the water boils up, add some cold ; draw the pan to one side, and as soon as the rings float on the surface remove them with a strainer and put them on a cloth. When dry place them on a floured tin, brush them over with yolk of egg, and bake in a moderate oven until they are a light yellow colour and quite hollow. Tremont House Orange Cake.—Mix one pound of butter to a cream and one pound of powdered sugar ; add ten well- beaten eggs, one pound of flour, and one pint of white wine* Bake in prepared pans in thin sheets; remove the brown crusts with a sharp hnife, and cut each sheet in two equal parts; spread with a layer of orange cream, and place a layer of sliced oranges on the cream; then the other half on the top, and frost with orange frosting. Orange Cream is made with two ounces of sugar, four eggs, half a pint of white wine, half a pint of water, and a228 THE housewife's KEFEKEE tablespoonful of cornflour; stir over a slow fire till it thickens. Orange Frosting.—The juice of two lemons and two oranges; mix till stiff enough to spread with powdered sugar. Walnut Cakes.—A cupful and a half each of sugar and butter, two of flour, three-fourths of milk, the whites of four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of yeast powder, one large cupful of English walnut meats chopped coarsely. Zwieback.—Make a paste of one and a half pound of flour, half a pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, and milk so that it can be rolled. K-oU very thin, cut into any shape, and bake on waxed tin. BREAKFASTS. " A bit in the morning is worth more than all day long." Thomas Tusser. Few people seem to pay much attention to breakfasts. It seems to be regarded as a mere meal to fortify one for getting through the day ; indeed, many persons despise the morning meal, of which in the artificiality of modern life there are few, even amongst the sterner sex, who sit down to breakfast with a really good appetite. A cup of tea and an egg, perhaps now and then a kidney, or a cup of coffee and a slice or two of dehcately thin slices of bacon, are supposed to be enough to satisfy the inner man till luncheon time. A contemporary asks the question, " Whether breakfast is most enjoyed in solitude or in company, and whether few pictures are fairer or more suggestive of the peace and orderly comfort of an English family than that afforded by i a country house breakfast table in summer ? The mother is there behind the tea and coffee cups, the father behind his newspaper; the children chattering together of their own affairs; the girls each with a button-hole in her dress, look as clear and fresh as the morning dew. The day is planned out and little informal arrangements made," etc. On the other hand a bachelor's breakfast has its own charms. There is no occasion to jangle about reading the newspaper first, as he alone is King ; no inquisitive eyes toBREAKFASTS 229 give curious glances at the letters on his plate, and no one to object to the matutinal pipe. At breakfast it is now general in country houses where there are many guests for each to have a tiny milk jug, butter dish, and sugar basin placed in front of him. Fern pots made in beaten silver are much used; the milk jugs, in the shape of an ordinary milk can, made in silver, are very novel. But perhaps I am wandering a little from the subject of The Housewife's Keferee ; yet as I consider the dining-room so very closely allied to the cuisine, I feel I must have a little say on the subject, before giving a few breakfast dishes. So few English cooks can make a good breakfast omelette that scrambled " eggs, with or without chopped ham, mush- rooms, or tomatoes make a very good substitute. They require but a few minutes to cook, but the various substances added must be separately cooked first. Minced tongue, ham, or truffles, can be stirred into the frying-pan, if finely chopped, but mushrooms and tomatoes must be stewed or fried first to soften them. Heating a little cream, and mixing it with eggs, forms a favourite variety. Any remains of fish left from the previous evening's dinner make capital little breakfast dishes, such as kedgeree, scallops, fish cakes, and balls. Grills of every description require but little time and make most palatable dishes. These grills can be changed ad infinitum by adding different condiments, such as curry powder, some Worcester sauce, Hoe's sauce piquante, or a teaspoonful of brandy with a lump of butter. In making a dry grill, but a small quantity of butter is used; the pieces should be first warmed through and then well covered by the mixture, after which they can be cooked in the frying-pan, and some more mixture poured over them, or done on the gridiron. No game should be grilled; a salmi is the only way in which they should be rechauffed; but as they take too much time for the early breakfast they are best eaten cold. Fillets of sole a VOrientale is a delicious dish. Dip some fillets in egg and flour, and fry them in salad oil, then roll and allow to get cool: then cover them with a sauce made with a gill of fresh cream, adding two teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovy; well mix, and then add, drop by drop, the juice of half a lemon and two teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovy.THE housewife's REFEKEE 230 Mix well, and then add, drop by drop, the juice of half a lemon. Chicken Croquettes.—Mince the remains of any cold fowl or game, and add half its weight in minced ham or tongue, and the same of mushrooms. Make a sauce with one ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, with a gill of milk or stock (or half of each), some finely minced parsley, a few pieces of finely grated lemon peel, pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste, with a little grated thyme; stir these together over the fixe till smooth, then stir in the chicken and cook over the fire; when cooked, turn it out to get cool, and when perfectly cold shape it into balls or cutlets, using flour to prevent the hands sticking, then brush the balls over with beaten egg and roll in fine breadcrumbs, and fry in plenty of Jriture to a golden brown; drain on blotting paper, and serve very hot garnished with fried parsley. Cold Salmon.—Put the remains of any salmon left from the day before on a dish, and cut it into neat pieces and cover with mayonnaise sauce; garnish with cray fish and parsley. Grillade of Fowl.—Score deeply the legs of a cold roast fowl and cover with the following sauce :—Two teaspoonfuls of salad oil, one of Chutney, a teaspoonful of Brand's anchovy paste, a teaspoonful of French mustard, and a dust of cayenne; let the fowl remain covered with this from half an hour to an hour, then grill it over a good, bright, clear fire. Kidneys and Bacon.—^Skin the kidneys and cut them a little, but not quite in half; lay them open with a small skewer and place them on a gridiron, the cut side downwards first; turn them whilst cooking several times, and cook at same time.in the frying-pan a slice of bacon, cut thin, for each kidney ; have the dish they are going to be served in quite ready and hot; put a lump of butter in, lay the kidneys on it, remove the skewer, and have ready to place in the middle of each kidney a little butter, with chopped parsley in it, into which squeeze a few drops of lemon; put this inside each kidney, with pepper and salt, and curl a slice of bacon over each. Send to table as hot as possible.DESSEET 231 Kidney in Bacon.—Cut six thin slices of bacon about six or eight inches long. Mix up a teaspoonful each of chopped onion and parsley, with an ounce of breadcrumbs ; add a pinch of nutmeg, pepper, and grated lemon rind. Sprinkle the bacon with it, put a kidney on each slice and roll it round them, tie with a piece of string and bake in a hot oven, or heat in a frying-pan for a few minutes. Serve very hot. Petits Morceaux a ravir.—Take some croHtons and cut them of an octagonal shape; fry them a pale brown, and sprinkle each with a little Nepaul pepper; have ready to place on each croUton some pieces of tongue the same size as the croHtons; put in the oven on a small plate, with a tiny bit of butter and a few drops of claret, and let them get thoroughly hot. Have ready some poached eggs nicely trimmed, place a piece of tongue, and then an egg on the top of each croHtoriy and serve quickly. This is also very good with bloater paste spread on the croitton^ and then placing an egg on the top of it. Tossed Shrimps.—Put a little butter into a frying-pan and add two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley. Take half a pint of shelled shrimps, dip them into flour with which pepper, salt, and a dash of cayenne should previously have been mixed; then throw the shrimps into the frying-pan, shake them about till they have absorbed all the fat, and serve very hot, with buttered toast. I have only given these few dishes, because space will not allow me to give more; besides, there are so many excellent little books published on breakfast dishes alone, which will give a greater variety than I can do here. Wyvern's and Mrs. Allen's are most excellent and easily followed. DESSERT Pretty Dessert Dishes can be made by cutting a melon in half and filling with tutti frutti cream. Oranges may be divided in halves, the pulp taken out and the skins filled with orange ice; and banana skins can be used in the same way for filling with banana cream, the skins being held in position by a bow of ribbon or gold cord.232 THE housewife's EEFEREE To make Ice Cream.—These are best made from fresh uncooked cream ; but then the cream should he chilled before freezing as it is more quickly frozen. Many persons consider the cream should be cooked before freezing, as they maintain it gives it greater body and richness. When the cream is cooked, it is best placed in a gourmet boiler, and that placed inside a saucepan of water. The cream should be constantly stirred till the water boils in the saucepan, when it should be removed from the fire, and the sugar and flavour added and stirred till the sugar is dissolved, when it should stand for a few minutes; strain, and cool when it is ready to freeze. If fruit juices are used to flavour with, they should be mixed with the sugar and stirred till a clear syrup is obtained, and stirred into the cream just before freezing. Sometimes the fruit itself, such as pineapple, peach, and apricot, is worked into the cream by cutting it into dice-like shapes, and lightly mixed with the sugar and then mixed into the frozen cream. Strawberries, rasp- berries, and currants must be mashed and sugared, and mixed without beating into the frozen cream. All directions for freezing are given with the freezers, so it is not necessary to enter into that part of the manipulation here. For evening use the cream should be cooked in the morning, and frozen by the middle of the day, as it takes several hours to harden and ripen; for this purpose all the brine should be emptied away, and fresh ice and salt should be added and placed over the top covered with a blanket which has been well wetted with the brine. It should be left for a couple of hours, and then the freezer should be opened again, the cream scraped down and beaten again, and packed down with fresh ice and salt, keeping the blanket wet with brine. To mould cream, fill the mould solidly in every part, tightly heap it a little above the brim, and press the cover down hard, bind with a buttered cloth or greased paper over the top and the point; and bury it in the ice and salt. To turn out, wash the mould with cold water to remove the salt mixture and wipe the mould dry; lift off the cover, and turn the mould over on a plate, and if the room is warm it will slip off the cream in a few seconds. Warm water should never be used to turn out creams or ices.HINTS FOR TEA AND COFFEE MAKING 233 HINTS FOR TEA AND COFFEE MAKING So many fail in making good tea, of which the grand secret is to have the water freshly boiled. If the kettle has been steaming away for ever so long the water becomes hard and is not fit for making tea. In order to extract the full aroma from the leaf the water should not have boiled more than one minute. Another important matter to remember is that tea should never infuse for more than three minutes or five at the outside. One large teaspoonful for each of the company is the proper allowance in making tea, and one for the pot. Before making the tea pour half a pint of boiling water into the teapot, and let it stand for two minutes. Pour it out and immediately put in the tea, close the lid, and let it remain for a minute to heat; then pour upon it sufiicient boiling water to fill the teapot and the tea will be ready for use. Unless the water is really boiling the tea will not be fit to drink. Where tea is required in large quantities, such as for garden parties, balls, etc., the tea should be made in a large urn or kettle and after standing sufficient time should be poured into a large urn or teapot without the leaves. Cafe an Lait.—Make strong, clear cofiee. Pour it into the cup with an equal quantity of boiling milk, and sweeten to taste. Cafe Noir.—This should be exceedingly strong, and should be made in the same way as breakfast coffee, allowing a cupful of freshly-ground coffee for every four cupfuls of boiling water. It should be slightly sweetened, but no milk or cream taken with it. Cocoa.—Put one teaspoonful to a breakfast cup and put a little warm milk to it, and when quite smooth add either boiling water or boiling milk, and add sugar to taste. Chocolate.—Break a piece of a cake of chocolate and let it soak eight hours in the milk, then gradually warm it up, and melt it all with a notched stick passed through a hole in the lid of the chocolatiere, then pour on a little boiling234 THE housewife's EEFEREE water; add some sugar, and pour in some boiling milk with one hand slowly, and beat it to a froth with the other. Coffee.—How rare it is to get a. really good cup of coffee in England, which seems so strange, for it is so very easy and simple to make. The best mixture is half Java and half Mocha. The great secret is it should always be freshly ground, and if possible freshly roasted. The berries should not be too finely ground, and they should be put into the oven to heat for five or six minutes, which helps to bring out the flavour. Allow half an ounce of coffee or one table- spoonful to each person, with half a pint of water; the water should be poured^ on very gradually. Never boil coffee, but pour the boiling water on it in the same manner as for tea. The celebrated Mrs. Penfeather gives the following recipe for making coffee. Let the coffee be half Mocha and Java, the berries should be freshly roasted and freshly ground ; do not let them be too finely ground. To make a quart, take a quart of water with a large tablespoonf ul of the best condensed milk, and a small pinch of salt, and bring the milk and water to boiling point; as soon as it begins to bubble add four large tablespoonfuls of ground coffee ; let it catch the bubble, but do not allow it to boil. Instantly shut down the lid, put the pan on a cool part of the stove, and let the contents settle." The discovery of coffee is very curious. It was towards the end of the fifteenth century a poor Arab was travelling through Abyssinia, and finding himself weak f and weary from fatigue, he stopped near a grove. Then, being in want of fuel to cook his rice, he cut down a tree which was covered with dead berries. His meal being cooked and eaten, the traveller discovered that he had burned berries that were very fragrant. He collected a number of these, and on crushing them he found the aroma increased; then, by some accident, he let fall some of the ground substance into his water can, in which was a scanty supply of almost putrid water; but to his astonishment the water was instantly purified. He drank some of it and found it fresh and agreeable, and after drinking it the traveller had so far recovered his strength as to be able to resume his journey. The Arab gathered as many berries as he could, and when he arrived at Arden, in Arabia, he informed the Mufti of hisHINTS FOE TEA AND COFFEE MAKING 235 discovery. That divine, who was an inveterate opium smoker, and had been a sufferer for many years from the baneful influence of that poisonous drug, tried an infusion of the toasted berries, and was so delighted at the recovery of his own vigour that he called the tree cahuah (which in Arabic signifies force) out of gratitude. And that is the way in which coffee was discovered. Frozen Coffee.—Take a quart of clarified sugar and boil it in a pint of water till it becomes a syrup; then pour it over a quarter of a pound of mixed coffee, such as Java and Mocha; then strain through muslin, and add the whites of two eggs and freeze. Serve with whipped cream. Iced Coffee.—Make a quart of strong coffee (the Distil essence of coffee is best for it, about a bottleful to a quart of boiling water) ; add three tablespoonfuls of castor sugar and a pint of cream. It should be made eight hours before it is required. Put into a refrigerator for an hour or two, and twenty minutes before serving put in a big lump of ice. Iced Tea and Lemon.—Make tea as usual, and after letting it stand for ten minutes, sugar it slightly and take out the leaves, and let it stand in the refrigerator for eight hours. Serve it in punch bowls, in which slices of lemon and lumps of ice should be put. In ladling it out, each person should receive a piece of lemon and a piece of ice. To make good Chocolate.—Grate up three ounces of the very best chocolate very finely, and put it into a basin; then have a quart of boiling water, and pour on sufficient to cover the grated chocolate. Put a plate over the basin, to preserve the aroma and to aid the melting ; then take a silver spoon, and work it into a very thin, smooth, creamy paste. Next pour on the remainder of the boiling water, which must have been kept boiling on the stove, and let it all boil up once; then directly remove the pan to a cooler part of the stove, drop in the third of a tin of condensed milk; stir thoroughly; return the pan to the fire and let the contents boil up again, and then stand it to simmer for at least twenty minutes. To Roast Coffee.—Picard, in the Strand, sells a capital coffee roaster. The proper quantity of berries is put into236 THE housewife's KEFEREE the cylinder, light the spirit lamp underneath, and turn the handle of the roaster evenly. The process takes about twenty minutes. The contents ought to be roasted to perfection. When the berries are done, turn them into a wooden bowl to cool rapidly in the open air, after which they must be shut up in a light tin canister with a tight- fitting lid. It should be ground as required. THE WINE CELLAR " Sure the gods of old were a goodly crew. For they knew the use of wine; They sipped of naught but Olympian brew, The immortal juice of vine." Wine-drinking at dinner has been decreasing for the last ten years, according to Mr. Ohauncey Depew, who says that he has noticed during the last two seasons at the dinners that claret and champagne only are served, to the exclusion of others, excepting dry sherry after the soup. He observes: " The amount of wine which is consumed per head is con- stantly diminishing at all dinners, and the number of men who abstain altogether is decidedly on the increase. The sparkling mineral waters are largely performing the functions formerly filled by the stronger beverages." Never- theless, it is quite necessary, whether wine is drunk or not, to understand something about them and the management of the cellar; and though in most houses the gentleman sees to the cellar department, yet, in many families, the lady undertakes it; therefore a few words about it in The Housewife's Referee may not be out of place. How to Keep a Cellar Cool.—Ventilation has for its object the keeping of cellars cool and dry, but often by this means the cellar is made both warm and damp. A cool place should never be ventilated, unless the air admitted is cooler than the air within. The warmer the air, the more moisture it holds in suspension, therefore the cooler the air the more this moisture is condensed and precipitated. Windows of cellars should only be opened at night and quite late, then the cool air enters the apartments during the night and237 THE WINE CELLAR circulates through it. The windows should be closed before sunrise in the morning, and kept closed and shaded through- out the day. A peck of fresh lime placed in an open box will dry a damp cellar. Wines, spirits, and beer should not be kept in the same cellar, as the latter are kept best in a temperature under 50° Fahr., and the former in a temperature from 50° to 65° Ventilation is most necessary, but draughts should be avoided. Sudden variations of temperature are extremely injurious. It is a good plan in hot weather to water the floor daily, and in winter have gas burning, and the temperature may then be raised to any required degree. A damp cellar reduces the strength of spirits, and a dry one their volume or quantity. When spirits are required to be mellowed and matured speedily, a damp cellar is best, and the smaller the cask, the quicker it will mature. Whiskies should not be kept after eight years, as then they have reached the zenith of perfection. Good brands of brandies may gain in delicacy and flavour if kept fifty years. After delivery, all wines, whether in bulk or bottle, require rest. Port wine is very sensitive to atmospheric changes, and should never be removed in frosty weather. Sweet wines require a lower temperature than dry wines, but for all alike a dry cellar is most necessary, if only for the preservation of the cork alone. Champagnes should be taken out of the cases and their straw envelopes, and buried in a cool, dry place, lying so that the liquid shall be always on the cork. Yizetelly, in his " History of Champagne," says, that champagne of fine quality should never be mixed with ice ; neither should it be placed below a temperature of 50°, as the natural lightness of the wine is such as not to admit of its being diluted without utterly spoiling it; and, at the best, excessive cold destroys alike the fragrant bouquet and its delicate vinous flavour. Wine Decanting.—It is best always to decant wine through a strainer, and for port always use fine cambric in the strainer, which should always be taken out and hung up to keep it fresh, or it would get musty and impart a bad flavour to the wine. To ice wines and cups it is only necessary to put theTHE housewife's REFEREE 238 bottles or jug in the refrigerator, as the temperature can be regulated by the length of time they remain there; but on first taking the cooled liquid from the refrigerator, a wet cloth wrung out in salt and water should be wrapped round the bottle, and it will then keep cool till required. The ice-ioell champagne decanters keep the champagne deliciously cool. Where the refrigerator is required for cooling other things, one of Ritchie's wine-warmers is a capital thing for icing wines, as cold salt and water or freezing salts can be put into them instead of hot water; but to ice wine much is a great mistake, as it takes away the aroma. Sherry, hock, moselle, champagne, and cups are the only wines that should be put into ice. Champagne of fine quality should never be mixed with ice, nor iced below a temperature of 50° Fahr. All other white wines should be served as cold as possible without the aid of ice, but red wines show to most advantage with the " chill " taken off. There is much diversity of opinion whether sparkling wines should be decanted or not. Most judges, and those who sip wine and really enjoy it, agree that the flavours of champagne and other sparkling wines is best secured by the process of decanting. The wine cellar should be kept clean, dry, and at as even a temperature as possible, about 60°. A gas jet should be in every wine cellar, as by that means the temperature can be perfectly regulated. Sparkling wines should be kept in the coolest part of the cellar, with the cork downwards. The order of serving wines is that when there are oysters as hors dJoeuvres^ chablis is the proper accompaniment* After soup, sherry or madeira. During the service of fish, sauterne, barsac, or hock should be handed. With the entrees, the choice of champagne or claret should be offered. With the entremets, etc., champagne. After the sweets^ Amontillado sherry. After ices, liqueurs are handed; and with the dessert, port, claret, or Burgundy, and two kinds of sherry, Amontillado or Yino di Pasto, and good old East India brown; but now it is very general to have the sherries and claret only in the spring and summer seasons* With the cafe noir, liqueurs and champagne fin.THE WINE CELLAR 239 Wines.—The great epicure Baron Busse always gave the following order for wines to be handed during dinner :— After the Soup, Madeira and Yermouth. With the Fish, Burgundies: eithei* Beaune, Voluay, or Pommard. Clarets: either Mouton, Bothschild, Scoville, Larose, Pichon-Longueville, Clos d'Estournel or Monrose. Between the Entrees and the Game, Iced Punch, Chateau Yquem, or Rhine wine, and only slightly iced. With the Roasts and Dressed Vegetables, Burgundies: Komance, Conti, Clos Yougeot or Chambertin. Clarets : Chateau Lafitte, Margaux, Latour, or Hautbrion. With the Sweets, Sherry. During Dessert, Sweet wines such as Malmsey, Muscatel, or Tokay. The Baron also prescribes well-iced, dry, and sweet champagne during the whole of the dinner. After this Chateau Lafitte, and next comes Chateau Marguax, which are A considered the best red wines of the world, and the pride of the Me doc. Claret once in bottle and well corked goes on improving up to a certain limit, but great care must be taken in de- canting it without shaking. In all pantries there should be a small basket, in which the wine bottle can rest whilst it is being decanted ; but should there not be one at hand, the bottle should be carefully lifted from a horizontal to an upright position some four hours previous to its being drunk. The side of the bottle which has laid uppermost should be marked and, in decanting, the wine poured out from that side, as it is sure to be free from crust. Claret is better for a little warmth, and it is a good plan to place the wine where it may feel the fire. It is also a good plan to warm the decanter before pouring in the wine, to prevent a shock of contact with the cold glass. Clos Yougeot is considered the king of all French wines. The Clos Yougeot vineyards are not large, and in ages past this vintage was reserved for the joint use of the Pope, the Duke of Burgundy, and the Abbot of Citeaux ; and it is a historical fact that Pope Gregory XI., being discontented with his share one year, when the vintage was especially choice, presented to the Abbot of Citeaux cf the dayTHE housewife's EEFEREE 240 a Cardinal's hat in exchange for thii'ty hogsheads of the wine. This was also the favourite wine of Louis XIV. and Napoleon Bonaparte; it possesses all the soft richness of Pommard and the perfume of Chambertin, without the cloying quality of the one or the headiness of the other. For wines such as port and claret, which always require a little warming to enjoy their flavour properly, there is nothing so good as Ritchie's Patent wine-warmer. It brings claret and port to a temperature for the table without the risk of overheating, every bottle being of the same tempera- ture. It is a tin can with a double lining into which hot water is poured and the bottles are placed in the centre. It is made in different sizes to hold from one bottle to four. Another way of warming these wines is to dip them in hot water for a few seconds after decanting, or wrapping a cloth, wrung out in hot water, round the decanter for a short time. BALL-SUPPER AND GARDEN-PARTY BEVERAGES *' One sip Will bathe the drooping spirit in delight Beyond the bliss of dreams." I HAVE given only a few recipes here, as there is not space to give an extended number ; but in my little volume of " Drinks a la Mode a greater variety will be found. Ananas Bowl.—Slice some pineapple thinly, put it into a punch bowl with alternate layers of sugar, pour over the whole a glass of old brown sherry, cover, and let it stand for twenty-four hours; then pour over as many bottles of Rhine wine as will be needed and one bottle of red wine. Cardinal.—Cut three Tangerine oranges in slices; add three drops of essence of cinnamon, three bruised cardamom seeds; and four ounces of barley sugar dissolved in one pint of hot water. Cover and let the mixture simmer for half an hour, strain and clear; add a bottle of champagne, and warm up.BALL-SUPPER AND GARDEN-PAETY BEVERAGES 241 Claret Cup.—One bottle of claret, one of seltzer water, one of sparkling lemonade, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, one pound of chipped ice, a large wineglassful of kiimmel, and three teaspoonfuls of sifted sugar. Float a little borage on the top for an hour, then remove it: a strawberry floating in it is a great improvement. Claret Cup (Cambridge).—One bottle of claret, half a bottle of sherry, a gill of port, a gill of cherry brandy, and two slices of lemon; add cucumber and verbena to flavour; put in some broken Wenham ice, and three bottles of seltzer water. Claret Cup (Oxford).—Pour out two bottles of claret, one pint of sherry, one wineglass of brandy, one of noyeau, and sweeten to taste ; add a little extract of borage, one pint of ice shavings. When ready to serve, add two bottles of seltzer water, and one of champagne. Champagne Cup.—One bottle of champagne, two of sherry, one liqueur glass of maraschino, two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar, the thin peel of half a cucumber, three pounds of chipped ice. Stir all together, and before serving take out the cucumber, and pour in two bottles of iced soda water. Cider Cup.—Take one bottle of cider (the Suffolk cider is first rate), one glass of ginger brandy, one of sherry, twelve lumps of sugar, a little borage, and some chipped ice. Just before serving, add two bottles of salutaris water ; sometimes a bottle of ginger beer is added. Hock Cup.—Mix together one bottle of Hockheimer and one bottle of soda water, and add one or two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar, three large slices of pineapple, and three pounds of chipped ice. Lemon Squash.—Fill a soda-water glass with chipped ice, the juice of a whole lemon, one and a half teaspoonful of powdered sugar; fill up the glass with soda water, stir well, ornament with fruits in season, and serve with straws. Milk Lemonade.—Pour a pint of boiling water on six or eight ounces of loaf sugar, add a quarter of a pint of lemon 16242 THE housewife's REFEREE juice and half the quantity of good sherry, and a tablespoon- fui of brandy to keep it. Then add three-quarters of a pint of cold milk, and strain the whole to make it nice and clear. Moselle Cup.—Put a large slice of pineapple at the bottom of the jug with a teaspoonful of powdered sugar pour over it a half pint of claret, insert a large lump of ice, and just before serving add a bottle of sparkling Moselle. Vauxhall Punch.—Get a bottle of Burnett's Punch, put it in the punch bowl, add six slices of cut lemon, and two quarts of boiling water. If Burnett's Punch cannot be pro- cured, get a bottle of Burnett's pineapple rum, put it into a bowl with a claret glass full of curagao, twelve lumps of sugar, six slices of cut lemon, and two quarts of boiling water. Entree is a made dish served after the fish, and precedes the rots or roast meat. Entremets are sweets or puddings. Hors d'ceuvres consist of radishes, olives, caviar saucisson de Lyons, all manner of salt and smoked fish, oysters, sar- dines, anchovies, and a variety of unlimited dainties, and are eaten before soup. Releve answers to the word remove " and consists of a dish replacing another, a doubling, so to speak, of the same course before going on to the next. Origin of the Expression " Cordon Bleu."—Louis XIV., having a holy horror of woman cooks, would never allow that they could cook anything fit to eat, until when he was dining with Madame du Barry one day, and was served one after the other with eight of the most elaborate, appetising and delicious dishes, all cooked a quatre points. The King was so delighted that he asked to see the cook, and was very much horrified when a woman presented herself before him. However, he consented, at the request of her mistress, to ennoble her, conferring on her the title of Cordon Bleu," and thus " Cordon Bleu " is always used to describe a first-rate female cook.243 MENUS " Montrez-moi ton menu et je te montrerai ton coeur." ''Dishes alike delightful and digestible." The Caterer some time ago had a paper respecting which was right, " bill of fare " or menu. Now they neither mean quite the same thing. The menu is the fare, the bill of fare tells what the fare consists of; the menu is the " lay- out," the bill of fare is the itemised description of the " lay out." People meet and discuss the menu, but they do not discuss the bill of fare. Nevertheless, either word may be chosen with propriety; Tmnu is thought to be the smartest of the two, and is generally preferred to head the dinner list. The origin of having menus, it is said, emanates from Germany. There is a story that the Duke of Brunswick, when sitting at one of those sumptuous feasts connected with the German E-eichstag, was noticed to look attentively at a long slip of paper by the side of his plate ; and when his neighbour, Couat Montford, asked what he was so intently studying, the duke answered, " the master of the kitchen " had drawn up for him and his stomach's benefit a list of all the dishes, just to enable him to reserve his apetite for the best things. The other guests were so well pleased with this idea that the habit of writing out bills of fare instantly spread in Germany. This dinner took place at Regensburg, in 1541. It may not be out of place to remark that cuisine also has a double sense, meaning both cooking and kitchen. La cuisine is the kitchen, but when it is said that any- body is famed for the excellence of the cuisine it implies cooking.244 THE housewife's REFEREE Dinner for Eight or Ten Persons January Potage Consomme a la E-achel. Poisson Filets de sole a la Clementine. Entrees Cotelettes de volaille a la Bivona. Chaudfroid de mauviettes en petites caisses. Releves Poiilarde a la Cannes. Rot Perdreaux au cresson. Entremets Petites crimes au caramel. Sauce au bois. Croutes a la Jubile. Melon a la frangaise. Dinner for Sixteen or Eighteen Persons January and February Hors d^oeuvres Huitres au citron. Potages Tortue Claire. Bonne Femme. Poissons Turbot, sauce hollandaise. Eperlans, sauce tartare. Entrees Zephyrs a la princesse. Bis de veau financiere. Filets de boeuf a la Jussienne. Sorbet a la grecque. Rot Becassines sur croutons. Salade de homard. Bombe a la Fedora. Zephyrs a la Maude. Croutes Mephisto. Glaces rhum. Amandes diables.MENUS 245 Luncheon Huitres au naturel. Pates a la Reine. C6telettes de mouton a la Carnot. Dinde a la Bechamel. Terrine a la Rochefort. Langues de Kennes. Salade verte. Faisan roti aux marrons. Pommes de terre a la E;uban. Gelee d'oranges. Patisserie d'abricofcs. Poiidin aux raisins a I'Anglaise. Mince pies. Large Ball Supper Buffet The, cafe, limonade, orangeade, cafe a la creme glace, sandwiches assorties, gelees, macedoine aux fruits, paniers de mandarines a la gelee, Bavaroise panach^e, gelee a rOrientale, baba a la Montmorenci, glace vanille, glace aux fraises, glace Napolitaine, gateaux, etc. Claret, claret cup, champagne cup, consomme apres le souper. Menu de Souper, Saumon garni sauce remoulade, mayonnaise de homard, filets de sole en cendrillon, buisson de crevettes, hure de sanglier, dinde a I'lmperiale, bceuf presse, langue fumee, jambon a la gelee, galantines de chapons k la LucuUus, terrine de foie gras, becassines au cresson, salade Venitienne, biscuits aux noisettes, cougloff a la Viennoise, gelee a rOrientale, cr^me panachee, corbeilles de nougat aux fruits, fanchonnettes a la creme. Petites Tables Mayonnaise de homard, darne de saumon a la tartare, chaudfroid de mauviettes, galantines de perdreaux aux truffes, poulet froid, langue et jambon, pate de foie gras a la gelee, profiterolles au chocolat, gelees d'oranges, pains d'abricots, mousse a la cardinale.2:46 THE housewife's REFEREE Dinner from Eight to Twelve Persons February Potages Consomme a la royale. Poisson Filets de sole a la Rouennaise. Entrees Chartreuse de pigeons a la Sarah Bernhardt. Cotelettes de mouton a la reforme. Releve Filet de bceuf a la Conde. Sorhet Sorbet aux pommes. Rot Canards sauvages. Entremets Macaroni a la Milanese. Bavaroise aux pistaches. Omelette au rhum. Laitances d'harengs au caviar. Dinner for Fourteen or Sixteen Persons Potages Tortue claire. Consomme a la Dufferin. Poissons Filets de barbue a la Jubile. Saumon a la sauce marinade. Entrees Escalopes de ris de veau a la financiere. Petits Levrauts a la Belgrave. Releve Quartier d^agneau. Sorhet Sorbet aux cerises.247 MENUS Rot Becassines. Entremets Artichaoits au Moelle. Aspic de foie gras a la royale. Timbale a la Maltaise. Filets de harengs a la Fleusburg. Glaces. Menu du Souper Service Chaud Consomme a la Julienne. Cotelettes aiix champignons. Perdreaux rotis, sauce perigueux. Chapons aux cressons. Buffet Froid Saumon au beurre Montpelier. Salades de tomates. Buisson d'ecrevisses. Salade de homard. Mayonnaise de soles. Hure de Sanglier a la Romaine. Poulardes a la Bichelieu. Galantine de dinde aux truffes. Jambon en surprise. Langue en aspic. Pate de foie gras au naturel. Chaudfroid de faisan. Salade E-usse. Cailles en aspic. Tartines variees. Creme au homard. Oreme aux huitres. Chartreuse d'alouettes. Biscuits glaces a la Sarah Bernhardt. Biscuits au chocolat. Gateaux d'ananas. Patisserie variee. Gelees variees. Charlotte R-usse. Creme tutti frutti. Cr^me d'abricots. Baba au rhum. Savarin moka. Bombe a la cardinale. Petites Tables Huitres au citron. Salade de celeri et betterave. Chaudfroid de becassines. Galantine de faisan a la gelee. Mauviettes en Belle Vue. Poulet froid. Creme aux pistaches. Gelee au champagne. Gelee au liquid sunshine. Creme de Frontignac.THE housewife's KEFEREE 248 Dinner for Eighteen or Twenty Persons March Consomme aux profiteroUes. Creme a la Keine. Whitebait. Saumon bouilli. Sauce hollandaise. Kis de veau aux epinards en caisses. Cotelettes d'agneau aux haricots verts. Poulets a la frangaise. Langue de boeuf. Sorbet aux pommes. Canetons au cresson. Asperges en branches. Gateaux d'Artois. Bombe a la vanille. Koyals au fromage. Menu du Souper Chaudfroid de cailles a Tempereur. Celestines de volaille. Croustades de poulet a la geronne. Cotelettes de saumon. Salades de homard a la turque. Creme de fraises. Gelees au vin et fruits. Petits pains a la duchesse. Patisserie assortie. Macedoine de fruits. Sandwiches en surprise. Sandwiches de foie gras. Sandwiches a la Wyndham. April Hors dJoeuvres Smoked salmon. Anchovy salad. Soup Clear turtle. Fish Salmon trout. Sauce hollandaise. Entrees Quails a la Souvaroff. Lamb cutlets k la jardiniere. Potatoes. Kissoles. Mayonnaise of lobster. Roast ducklings. Salad.MENUS 249 Entremets Plovers' eggs in aspic. Asparagus frappees. Sauce remoulade. Liqueur jelly. Bombe pralinee. Menu du Souper Consomme Saumon a la maintenon. P^te de foie gras. Crevettes en croiites. Chaudf roid de cailles a la Perigord. Cotelettes d'agneau aux pois. Mayonnaises de homard. Poulets a la pompadour. Sandwiches de saumon f umee. Gelees variees. Patisserie divers. Cremes assorties. Bombe Napolitaine. Menu du Diner May Potages Consomme aux pluches k la royale. Soupe tortue liee. Poisson Salade de saumon. Turban de filets d'anguilles, sauce perigueux. Entrees Cotelettes de poulets a la Busse. Bis d'agneau pique a la macedoine a la creme. Releve Quartier d'agneau. Rdts Cailles bardees. Petits pois aux laitues. Entremets Ananas a la Creole. Madeleines glacees. Canapes aux homards. Glaces Orange Tangerine. Creme aux bananas.250 THE housewife's BEFEKEE Menu for Twelve Persons May and June Ho'^s d'ceuvres Saucisson de Lyons. Anchois. Soups Consomme a points d'asperges. Bonne Femme Fish Saumon a la Suedoise. Entrees Lamb cutlets a la menthe. Petites cremes de volaille. Filets de boeufs a la financiere. Rot Cailles au naturel. Entremets Asperges, sauce irlandaise. Bavaroise aux pistaches. Iced gooseberry fool. Zephyrs au parmesan. Menu for Twelve to Fourteen Persons June Anchois. Laitances dliareng et saucisson de Lyons. Soupe a la Tosca. Saumon a la Yanderbilt. Medallions de volaille a St. George. Filets de cailles a la Demidorff. Cotelettes d'agneau k la menthe et concombres. Claret granito. Petites gelees d'arlequin. Cremes en surprises a la cygne. CEufs de pluviers en corbeilles de caviar. Glaces Crimes de fraises et frontignac panachees. II Sardines aux tomates. Olives farcies. Consomme aux pointes d'asperges. Creme Chesterfield. Darne de saumon a la provengale.251 MENUS Blanchailles a la diable. Croustade a la Bontoux. Pintade sauce Piemontaise. Hanche de mouton aux haricots verts. Jambon de Hambourg au Madere. Epinards aux profiterolles. Pommes mousseline. Caille de vigne sur Canope. Salade. Pains de poires en dominos. Baba a la Polonaise. Biscuits. Glaces. Dessert. Menu for a Luncheon Summer Filets of sole with quenelles of anchovy cream. Friandeau of veal. Salad. Chicken curry. Lobster patties. Fruit Salad. Maraschino jelly. Strawberry bavaroise. Cheese souffle (hot). II Mayonnaise of salmon. Paised pie. Yeal cutlets. Piquante sauce {hot). Spiced beef. Salad. Chartreuse of strawberries. Fruit tart. Eclairs au chocolat. Macaroni a I'ltalienne. Dinner July Consomme a la royale. Creme d'asperges. Whitebait. Filets de Truites froides en souchet. Cotelettes d'agneau Duchesse. Chaudfroid de cailles aux truffes. Poulardes aux pruneaux. Filets de boeuf piques froids. Sauce Cumberland. Salade Pusse et tomates. Ortolans sur canapes. Pois a I'anglaise. Bavaroise k la Montreuil. Souffles de fraises. Croustades aux fromages*THE housewife's REFEREE 252 Small Dinner Potages Consomme a la Leopold, Poissons Whitebait. Filets de saumon k la suedoise. Entrees Cotelettes de caUles k la Montrose. Ballettes k I'imperiale. Releve Selle d'agneau froid en aspic. R6t Canetons au cresson. Entremets Chartreuse de fraises. Souffle glace de groseilles. Petites cremes a I'estragon. Luncheon Saumon en mayonnaise. Agneau roti a la gelee. Chaudfroid de pigeon a TAmericaine. Kromeskies a la Polonaise. Petites mayonnaises de homard k la Pusse. Petits pois k la France. Pommes de terres nouvelles. Mousse aux fraises. Bavaroise aux pistaches. Croutes a la Versailles cafe noir.MENUS August Potage Puree de tomates. Poissons Saumon en soiichet, eperlans frits. Entrees Quenelles de Merlan a la er^me. Curry de homard. Releves Omelettes aux champignons. Tomates au gratin. Aspic d'ecrevisses. Entremets Souffle au caf6. Laitance d'harengs. Glace Creme de fraises. Dessert. Small Dinner Potage Printanier a la royale. Poisson Darnes de truite a la Falmouth. EnPree Supremes de volaille k la Dreuse. Releve Filet de boeuf a la Moldave. Rot Cailles roties. Salade Hollandaise. Asperges, sauce mousseuse. Entremets Croquambouche. Au riz glace.254 THE housewife's EBFEEEE Large Dinner September Hors dJmuvre Salade d'anchois. Potage Potage a rAmericaine. Poissons Saumon en souchet. Filets de sole a Torly. Entrees Anges en cheval. Supreme de volaille aux champignons. Bouchees a la Montpelier. Sorbet Sorbets d'abricot k la Sefton. Releve Haunch of venison. Salade a la frangaise. Rots Perdreaux. Entrenfiets Suedoise de mures. Gelee a la E,usse. Tomates a la couronne. Dinner Huitres au citron. Consomme a la royale. Creme a la Palestine. Filets de sole a la Yenitienne. Cotelettes de homard a la Victoria. Chartreuse de perdreaux. Hanche de Mouton. Becasses. Salade. Pommes pailles. Timbale glacee au chocolat. Neiges au parmesan. Dinner for Eight Persons October Potage de lievre. Sole a la rouennaise. Poulets macedoine en aspic. Filets de bceuf a la bearnaise. Faisans. Gelee d'or. Creme aux abricots. Beignets aux huitres a I'epicure.MENUS 255 Dinner. Consomme a la Sarah Bernhardt. Poissons E-ougets grilles a la bearnaise. Cr^me d'anchois froide. Entrees Turban a la princesse. Aiguilettes de faisan aux oranges. Releve Selle de mouton. Pommes de terre a la Louise. Epinards a la creme. Rot Perdreaux au cresson. Entremets Fonds d'artichauts a la creme. Timbale k la maltaise. Baba chaud aux abricots. Petites bouch^es a la frangaise. Menu du Dinner November Potages Potage tortue k I'Americaine. Consomme de gibier aux quenelles. Poisson Saumon au Bhin. Sauce aux crevettes. Entrees Filet de bceuf a la Napolitaine. Poulardes a la bearnaise. Rdt Faisans rotis. Cresson salade. Entremets Charlotte Busse au Marasquin. Gelee au rhum. Glaces.THE housewife's KEFEEEE 256 Menu for Twenty or Twenty-Four Persons Hors dJmuvre Appetit sild a la Yictoria. Fotages Consomme a la Leopold. Puree de li^vre. Poissons Rougets. Sauce commodore. Filets de sole a la Josephine. Entrees Supr^mes de volaille a Tivoire. Mauviettes en surprise. Releve Filet de bceuf a la Lorraine. Rdt Becasses sur croutes. Eni/remets Chartreuse d'oranges. Mousse au marasquin. Caviar ^ la diable. Supper Huitres. Tete de sanglier aux pistaches. Galantine de dindon aux truffes. Pates de gibier. Poulets a la chanceli^re. Poulardes braisees. Dindonneau roti. Galantine de veau a la gelee. Boeuf braise a la benoise. Coqs de bruy^re rotis. Perdreaux rotis. Faisans rotis. Jambon de York. Langue fumee. Cotelettes a la macedoine. Pate de foie gras. Salade de homard. Salade Fran^aise. Sandwiches assortis. Gelee au maraschino. Gelee au Kirsch.MENUS 257 Gelee aux fruits. Creme de chocolat. Creme de banana. Creme au cafe. Baba aux cerises et au rhum. Gateau Napolitain. Meringues glacees a la creme. Glaces. Fruits. December Oysters. Consomme Duchesse. Creme marigny. Filet de sole a la Joinville. Tal mouse de foie gras moderne. Roux de veau. Puree champignons. Stuffed sucking pig with cranberry and apple sauce. Flageolets maitre d'hotel. Lyonnaise potatoes. Pheasant. Salad. Jelly mandarine. Pistachio cream. Laitance de hareng a la diable Dinner for a Banquet Petits Fribourgs a la Polonaise. Truites a la E-usse. Filet de bceuf printanier. Supreme de volaille perigueux. Cotelettes de homard a la Victoria. Filets de canetons a la castillane. Chaudfroid de becassines en belle vue. Faisans de boheme trufFes. Pate de Strasbourg a la gelee. Asperges sauce mousseline. Cardon a la Moelle. Abricots glaces a la Dame Blanche. Babas au rhum. Gelee Californienne. Napolitains sur socle. Chateaubriand. 17THE ilOiySEWll'E^S RE^'EBEE Wedding Breakfast Escalopes de saumon en mayonnaise. Salades de homard. Oailles farcies a la Strasbourg. Coquilles de volaille aux truffes. Chaudfroid de cotelettes a I'Esmeralda. Bouchees a la Shah. Sandwiches varies. Jambon de York. Langue. Asperges glaces. Salade de tomates. Salade a la Kusse. Pate de gibier a la perigord. Chartreuse de fraises. Patisserie variee. Gelees de fruits. Cremes a I'ananas et a la vanille. Gelee nid de fruits. Glaces varies. Menu for Hunt Breakfast Jambon de York a la gelee. Poulets rotis decoupes. Mayonnaise de volaille. Langue de boeuf. Terrine de perdreaux. Pate de gibier. Faisans rotis. Perdreaux rotis. Homard a la varenne. Sauce suedoise. Galantine de gibier. Salades de fantaisie. Salade de tomates. Sandwiches de toute espece. Sole a la Bacchus. Petits nougats a la creme. Eclairs au chocolat. Gelee d'oranges et du vin. Cremes de vanille. Petits choux d'abricots. Shooting Lunch Irish stew. Potato pasty. Pork pies. Mutton broth. Cold pressed beef. Claret. Whisky. Sherry. Orange and cherry brandy. Sloe gin. Cake and gingerbread.MENUS 259 Picnic Dishes It is always a little difficult to cater for a picnic party, so perhaps a few ideas on the subject may not be out of place here. It is a good plan to have two or three small hampers, instead of those very large ones which offer so many difficulties in getting to the trysting point. Hampers should always have straps or handles. One hamper ought to be put aside for the crockery and cutlery, all of which should be plenteously wrapped up in newspapers to prevent breakage. Small brioche rolls filled with force-meat or salmon salads are very desirable. These are hollowed out inside, and then the force-meat is filled in. After filling they can be masked with chaudfroid sauce or mayonnaise aspic. Mayonnaise dressing is best carried in a soda-water bottle. Kaised game pies, boiled and roast chicken cut up in joints, cold stewed beef, all kinds of sandwiches, tongue, slices of ham, pickled salmon, galantine of veal, rolls stuffed with cucumber and salmon, salad, and dressing in a bottle, cold cabinet pudding, tartlets, fruit turnovers, fruits of all kinds, cakes, biscuits, iced tea, soda water, claret, sherry and bottled beer, bread, butter, and the cruets not forgotten, constitute a really good picnic.261 ENGLISH AND FRENCH TERMS USED IN COOKERY A Ahaisse. Rolling in paste. Aspic. A savoury meat jelly. Assiette, Small entrees, not more than a plate will contain. Assiette Volant. A dish handed. Au bleit. Fish dressed to have a bluish appearance. Au gras. Dressed with meat gravy. Au Jus. In the natural gravy. Au naturel. Plainly cooked, or sent up in its natural state. B Baha. Yery light cake. Bain-marie. An open pan in which boiling water is put, and into which vessels are placed to keep them hot. Barde. A thin slice o£ fat bacon placed over birds or meat requiring the assistance of fat without larding. Batterie de Cuisine. A complete set of cooking utensils, etc. Bavaroise a Veau. Tea sweetened with syrup of capillaire. Bavaroise au lait. Made in the same way, but with equal quantities of milk and tea. Bechamel. A rich white French sauce. Beignet. A fritter or pancake. Bisque. A soup made of shell fish. Blanc. A rich white broth or gravy. Blanch: Blancher. To whiten by boiling several times in water.262 THE housewife's BEFEREE Blanquette. A fricassee made of thin slices of white meat, with white sauce thickened with egg yolk. Bligner, To fritter anything covered in eggs or butter and fried. Boudin, A rich compound of various viands. Bouilli. Boiled beef. Bouillie. A French dish similar to hasty pudding. Bouillon, A thin broth or soup. Bouquet. Herbs, such as parsley, thyme, etc., tied together. Bouquet garni. The same, with the addition of cloves, etc. Bourguignote. A ragoUt of truffles. Braiser. To stew meat slowly in a closely covered stew- pan with bacon, herbs, etc. Brasiere. A saucepan with ledges to the lid to put fire on the top. Brider, To truss poultry with needle and thread. Brioche, A sponge cake of the bun order. Brochettes. Silver or iron skewers. Buisson. A cluster or bush of anything piled high in the dish. C Callipash. The glutinous portion of the turtle found in the upper shell. Callipee. The glutinous meat of the turtle's under shell. Cannelons. Small rolls of mincemeat or chicken, or of rice and pastry with fruit. Capilotade. A hash of poultry. Caramel. Burnt sugar. Casserole. A crust of rice filled with a fricassee of white meat; it is also a saucepan. Cassis. That part which is attached to the tail end of a loin of veal. Chapelure. Bread crumbing. Chemiser. To line a mould. Civet. A hash of game or venison. Compiegne, A sweet French cake with fruit. Compote. Stewed fruits served with syrup. Confitures. Sweetmeats, fruits, syrups, etc. Consomme, Strong, clear stock or gravy.ENGLISH AND FRENCH TERMS USED IN COOKERY 263 Coulis. A rich, brown gravy used for flavouring and thickening. Couronne, En, To dress cutlets or quenelles in the form of a crown. Croquettes. Savoury mince of various meats or poultry, made with sauce rolled into balls and fried. Croustades. Fried forms of bread to serve minces and hashes in. Croiltons. Sippets of bread. Cuisine masquee. Viands disguised. Cuisson. The liquor in which meats have been boiled. D Dariole. A sweet pdte baked in a mould. Dauhe. Meat or fowl stewed in sauce. Dauhiere. An oval saucepan in which daubes are cooked. Degorger, To rid the meat of blood. Desosser. To bone. Dover, To brush pastry with beaten yolk of egg. £ Echauder, To dip in very hot water. Emincer. To cut in slices. Emonder. To skin almonds. Entrees, The dishes served after the fish course. Entremets. Dishes of sweets and savouries. Esccdopes. Thin round slices of meat or fish. Etamine. A tammy. Etouffer : Etuver, To cook in a closed saucepan. F Fagot. A small bunch of parsley and thyme tied up with a bay leaf. Faire Fevenir. To semi-fry. Farce. Force-meat. Farcir. To stuff with force-meat. Feuilletage. Pufi* paste. Financiere. A highly flavoured vagodL264 THE housewife's EEFEREE Flamher. To singe fowl, etc. Flan. A French custard. Flancs. Side dishes. Foncer, To line the bottom of a saucepan with bacon veal, vegetables, etc. Fondue. A preparation of cheese. Fontaine, The hole made in flour used for pastry. Fremir. To shake well before anything boils. Fricandeait. Made from boned pieces of veal cut from the thick part of the fillet, about two to three pounds in weight. Fricassee. Chickens, etc., cut in pieces, dressed in a white sauce, with truffles, mushrooms, etc. Friture. Butter for frying. Fritter. Anything cased in batter and fried. G Galette, A broad, thin cake. Gateau. A pudding or baked cake. Gauffres. A spongy kind of biscuit. Glaze. Stock boiled down to the thickness of jelly. Glacer. To glaze meats; to ice pastry and cakes with sugars. Godiveaux. Yarious kinds of force-meat. Gras. With meat. Gratin. Breadcrumbs made crisp in butter; anything cooked that sticks to the bottom of the pan. Gratiner. To crisp and cook like a grill. H Haricot. A thick stew dressed with vegetables. Hdtelet. A small silver skewer. Hors d^oeuvres. Small dishes of anchovies, caviare, oysters, etc., served before soup. L Lard. To pierce the meat with bacon. Lardiniere. Vegetables stewed down in their own sauce, Lardon. A strip of bacon used in larding, ,ENGLISH AND FRENCH TEEMS USED IN COOKERY 205 Liaison, A mixture of egg and cream to thicken white soups, etc. Lit. Thin slices in layers. Luting. A paste to fasten lids on pie pans for preserving game. M Macerer. To leave things in cold liquid to extract certain juices from them. Madeleines. Small cakes. Maigre. Without meat. Marinade. The liquor in which fish or meat is steeped. Mariner. To soak ; to steep. Mask : Masquer. To cover meat, etc., with thick gravies or force-meat; to cover sweets with cream and sugar. Matelote. A rich fish stew with wine. Mayonnaise. A salad dressing. Mazarines. Ornamental entrees of force-meat, and fillets of fish, game, poultry, etc. Menu. The bill of fare. Meringued. To cover sweet dishes with whipped whites of eggs, and whipped cream beaten up with sugar. Mijoter. To cook very slowly on a very small fire. Miroton. Small thin slices of meat the size of coUops made into ragoitts, and dished in a round. Mouiller. To moisten whilst cooking. N Nougat. Almond candy. Nouilles, Strips of paste made of eggs and flour P Paillasse. A grill made over hot cinders. Panada. A mixture made to use with force-meats. Paner. To cover with breadcrumbs. Panure. Bi'eadcrumbs. Papillotes, En. Greased pieces of paper fastened round cutlets or fish slices, and in which they are cooked Parer, To trim.266 THE housewife's REFEREE Passer. To strain. Pdte. A small pie. Paupiettes. Eolled slices of meat. Petits Fours. Small fancy biscuits. Piece de Resistance. The principal joint of the dinner. Pieces Montees, Elaborate high dishes of sweets. Pilau. A dish of meat and rice. Piquer. To lard with strips of bacon, tongue, truffle, etc. Plafond. A round or square tin dish without high edges. Poelee. Stock used instead of water for boiling turkeys, sweetbreads, etc. Potage. Soup. Printaniers. Spring vegetables. Profiterolles. Light pastry creamed inside. Puits. The hollow in the centre of things arranged in a high, round shape in a dish. Puree. All meats and vegetables reduced to a palp. a Quenelles. Minced poultry or meat mixed with egg, cream, etc., and formed into egg-shaped balls and poached. R Ragoitt. A rich stew or hash. Refacimento. Meat dressed a second time. Releves. Kemove dishes. Remoulade. Salad dressing. Rissole. Pastry made of light pufF paste and filled with mince. Rivenir. To semi-fry. Roti. Koast meat. Roux. A mixture of butter and flour used for thickening soups and gravies. S Santon. To dress with sauce in the saucepan by keeping it in motion. Sasser. To stir and work a sauce with a spoon. Salmi. A hash of game cut up and dressed when only half roasted.ENGLISH AND FRENCH TERMS USED IN COOKERY 2G7 Sauce Piqvxinte. A sharp sauce in which the flavour of lemon or vinegar predominates. Sauter. To dress in a stewpan, repeatedly moving it about. Serviette, A la. Served in a serviette. Sing en. To dust with flour. Sippets. Fried bread cut in small shapes and used for garnishing. Souffle. A light pudding. Stock. The broth of which soups are made. T Tamis, Tammy. A strainer. Timhale. A straight mould like a saucepan without a handle. Tornedos. Yery small fillets of beef cut thicker at one end than the other. Tourte. A tart baked in a shallow dish. Tourner. To stir a sauce ; also to pare and cut vegetables, roots, etc. Travailler. To reduce a gravy to the required consistence. Trifle. A sweet dish made of macaroons, sponge cake, jams, and wines. Trousser. To truss. Turbans. See Mazarines. V Vanner. To make a sauce well up with a spoon by lifting it up and down and letting it fall quickly. Veloute. Material used to heighten the flavour of made dishes. Vol-au-venf. A light puff* paste, cut round or oval, inclosing ragoilts, fricassees, etc.INDEX A Agro-dolce Sauce, 188. Almond Savoury, 214, Alouettes a la Minute, 142. Ananas Bowl, 240. Anchovy Creams, 182. — Mayonnaise, 182. — Tartlets, 183. Anchovies a la Millionnaire, 182. — a la Seville, 182. Anis Brod, 219. Antidotes to Poisons, 64. Apple and Rice, 194. — Charlotte, 194. — Jelly, 13. — Mus, 194. — Trifle, 194. Arme Ritter, 219. Artichokes a la Reine, 157. — Souffles, 157. — Stuffed, 157. Asbestos Fire Escape, 50. Ash Jow, 124. Asparagus a la Sevillienne, 157. — Cream, 158. — Mould, 159. — Peas, 158. — To Boil, 158. Aspic of Beef a la Britanniere, 124. — of Crevette, 187. — of Lobster, 184. B Ball Supper, 240. Banana Fritters, 195. — Mousse, 208. — Salad, 195. — Sponge, 195. Bananas and Cream, 195. — au Rhum, 195, Barley Cream, 87. Batter Pudding, 196. Bavaroise of Strawberries and Cream, 203. Bear's Paws, 124. Beef and Anchovy Force-meat, 125. — Aspic a la Britanniere, 124. — Heart Roasted, 125. — Filets a la Bearnaise, 127. — Filets a la Geneve, 127. — Filets de, a I'Othello, 127. — a la Mode, 126. — Olives, 125. — Pasty, 125. — a la Sutton, 126. Beefsteak Rolled, 126. Beets Stewed, 159. Beignets Souffles, 196. Benedictine Jelly, 196. Beverages, 241. Bird's Nest, 197. Biscuits a la Creme, 197. — Glaces, 197. Black Silk Stockings, To Wash, 00. Blankets, To Wash, 57. Bleach, To, 53. Boil, To, 76. Boiler, Gourmet, 24. — Queen's, 25. Bone, To, 81. Bonnes Bouches, 127. Borax, 33. Bouillabaisse, 104. Boules de Noel, 197. Braise, To, 80. Brasiere, 80. Brazilian Stew, 128. Bread Tins, Self-closing, 26. Breakfasts, 228. Brill a la Duglere, 104. Brioches Varies, 197. Broil, To, 80.INUKX 269 Brooms, Care of, etc., 47, 48. Broth Fish, 92. Brown Bread Pudding, 198. Brussels Sprouts, Fried, 159. Bubble and Squeak, 128. Buisson de Poisson, 183. Burnt Cream, 198. Butter, To Make, 31, et seq. — To Clarify, 34. — Pats, 33. — To Preserve, 34. — Rancid, 13, 35. — To Store, 34. — Kiichen, 220. C Cachets, 65. Cafe au Lait, 233. Cafe Noir, 233. Cakes, Angel, 218. — Apricot Layer, 219. — Baden, 220. — Cherry, 223. — Coffee, 220. — German, 221. — Gingerbread, 222. — Normandy, 224. — Orange, 224, 227. — Potato, 224, 227. — Silver, 226. — Slim, 226. — Sponge, 226. — Walnut, 228. Calf's Brains, 128. On Toast, 128. Calf's Head Fritters, 128. Calf's Tail Soup, 86. Canapes a la Battenburg, 183. Carbon Safe, 18. Carpets, To Lay, 48. Carrots a la Poulette, 159. Carving, On, 69. Casserole de Crevettes, 188. Cassolettes of Shrimps, 188. Celery, Fried, 160. — a ritalienne, 160. — Stewed, 160. — Stewed with Gravy, 160. Cellar, To keep, cool, 237. Chartreuse of Lobster and Cucumber, 184. — a la Variete, 161. Cheese Balls, 161. Chestnut Compote, 199. Chicken, Blanquette of, 129. Chicken Entombe, 130. — Grillade of, a la Napolitaine, 130. — a ritalienne, 129. — Lucullus, 150. — Medallions, 130. — Pie, 130. — Pie a I'Empereur, 131. — Pilau, 131. — Tartlets, 131. — en Surprise, 129. China Chilo, 162. — Closet, 39. — and Glass to Season, 37. — Household, 39. — List for a Household, 39. Chocolate, To make, 233, 235. — Puffs, 198. Churns, 30, 34, et seq. — Atmosjjheric, 36. — Triangular Concussion, 36. Cinder Basket, 26. — Saver, 26. Claret Jelly, 198. Clos Vougeot, 240. Coal Saver, 26. Cockscombs a la Dresden, 132. Cockroaches, To Destroy, 16. Cocoa, 233. Cocoanut Pudding, 199. — Cannelons, 199 Codfish, Fried, 105. Cod's Roe, Dried, 183. — Roes, To Make, Sauce, 105. Coffee, 234, et seq. — Discovery of, 234. — Making, 235. — Auflauf, 199. — Frozen, 235. — Iced, 235. — To Roast, 235. Colcannon, 162. Compote of Chestnuts, 199. — of Guavas, 199. — of Pears, 200. Conservative Pudding, 200. Conserve a la Richelieu, 200. Cook's Friend, 25. — Measures, 26. Cooking, Plain, 73, et seq. Copper Utensils, 10. Coquilles de Homard, 135, 181. Corbeilles d'Oranges, 200. Cordon Bleu, 242. Corn Rolls, 132. Cornish Dish, 132. Counterpanes, To wash, 58»INDEX 270 Cowl, Chimney, 25. Crab Souffle, Iced, 183. Crayfish a la Bordelaise, 106. — a la Parisienne, 106, 183. Cream, Ice, 204. — Lemon Biscuits, 206. — Maple, 207. — Orange, 209. — Pistachio, 212. — Pudding, 201. — Separator, 32. — Wafers, 201. Creme de Volaille, 133. Creppet Heads, 105. Cretes de Coq, 132. Crevettes in Aspic, 187. Croquettes, Chicken, 230. Crueteen, 28. Cucumber, Fried, 162. — Fritters, 162. — Mayonnaise, 162. — a la Poulette, 162. — a la Sutton, 163. Cuilliere degraisseuse, 19. Curry, Chendool, 161. — Hindostanee, 133. — Puffs, 133. Cups, Cardinal, 240. — Champagne, 241. — Cider, 241. — Claret, 241. — Hock, 241. — Moselle, 242. Custards, Ladies', 206. — Orange, 210. Cutlets, Curried, 135. — a I'Ecarlate, 133. — His Excellency's, 134. — Hyderabad, 135. — Melpomene, 134. D Dairy, The, 29, et seq. — Hints, 34 et seq. — Rules for, 34 et seq. DampfNudels 201. Day's Air-tight Cover, 22 Decorations for Table, 66, et seq. Dessert Dishes, 231. Devon Pancakes, 201. Devonshire White Pot, 202. Dinner Table in Spring, 72. — Tables, 66, et seq. Dish Washing, 11. Machine, 23. Disinfection, 63. Dolmas, 135. Domestic Drying Table, 18. Dominoes a la Don Csesar, 135. Drains, To Test, 9. Draught Excluder, 49. Drinks, 241. Drying Rack, 20. Duck, Devilled, 136. — Wild, Salmi of, 136. Dust Bins, 10. — Shields, 49. Dutch Sauce 189, 196. E Easter Bread, 221. Eclairs a la Venitienne, 163. Eels a la Bourguignonne, 106. — a la Tartare, 106. — au Vin Blanc, 106. Egg Cheese, 163. — Cutlets, 163. — Plant Fried, 164. — Poacher, 21. — Souffle, 164. Eggs, To tell Age of, 15. — a la Baldwin, 164. — Scrambled, 229. -- Zurich, 164. Electric Whisk, 23. Emergency Cupboard, 29. Enchiladis, 164. Endive, Dressed, 165. — and Gravy, 165. Entertaining, On, 66. Entree, 242. Entremets, 242. F Fairv Toast, 202. Fat Brose, 91. Filets de Volaille a la Valenciennes, 136. Finger Bread, 221. Finnon Haddock, 107. — with Poached Eggs, 107. Fire, On, 50. — Alarm, 52. — Escapes, 51. Asbestos Rope, 51. ■ Domestic, 51. Nursery, 52. — Grenades, 51. — Irons, 49.INDEX 271 I^ire, Kitchen, 7. Fish, To Choose, 10. — Broth, 92. — Kettle, 23. — Quenelles, 107. — Pie, 107. — Savouries, 182. — Soup, 92. Flannels, To Wash, 59. — To Shrink, 60. Flies, To Destroy, 9, 16. Floral Decorations, 71 et seq. Flour, To Choose, 14. Fly Catcher, 81. Foie Gras Chartreuse, 136. Escalopes, 137. Fritters, 137. Fowl, Grilled, 137. — Grillade of, 230. French Beans, Maitre d'Hotel, 165. Fricandellans, 137. Frigiline, 33. Fritters, Strawberry, 215. Fritto Misto, 138. Fromage a la Princesse, 203. Frozen Meat, 13, 15. Fruit Glace, 203. Frying, 77. — Pans, 6. G Garden Parties, 241. Gauffres, 203. Gelee Danoise, 203. — de la Mer a la Brighton, 203. Gingerbread Nuts, 222. Glass Closet, 37. — "Cut," To Wash, 37. — List for a Household, 39. — To Season, 37. Gnocchi, 165. Gourmet Boiler, 24. Grate, Cracked, 14. Greengage Mould, 204. Grenades, Fire, 49. Grill, To, 80. Grilling Pan, 24. Guavas, Compote of, 199. Gum Starch, 60. H Haddock en Pyramid, 108. — Stuffed, 108. Ham and Eggs, 138. Ham and Savoury Custard, 166. Hare en Champagne, 138. — a la Fantaisie, 138. — Fillets au Cerises, 138. Hash au Diable, 138. Hay Fever, 65. Herring Roes and Oysters, 108. — a la Yarmouth, 108. Hints for the Dairy, 34. Housemaids, 47. Laundry, 47. Honore of Gooseberries, 204. Hors d'oeuvres, 242. Housemaids, Hints to, 47. Hunt Breakfasts, 258. I Ice a I'Americaine, 204. — Cream, 204. To Make, 232. Iced Maraschino Souffle, 205. Indian Cheese Savoury, 166. — Chicken Cutlets, 139. — Gems, 207. — Venison Chops, 139. Ink Stains, 62. Ironing, 54. Irons, To Clean, 62. Italian Chicken, 139. J Jambonneaux a I'Espagne, 139. Jellied Meat, 140. Jelly Apple, 13. — Benedictine, 196. — Cake, 205. — Danish, 203. — de la Mer a la Brighton, 203. — Mountain Ash, 208. — Orange, 210. — Pine Apple, 211. Junket, 205. K Karlsbad Wafers, 222. Kenlourakia, 222. Kensington Fat Trap, 5. Kerosene, Its Uses, 50. Kettle, Lucky, 23. Kidneys and Bacon, 230. — in Bacon, 231. — a la Brochette, 140. — a la Tartare, 140.272 INDEX Kirschen Auflauf, 206. Kitchen, Adjuncts for, 18. — Description of, 1. — Dresser, 2. — Fires, 7. To Light, 7. — Hints for, 9, et seq. — Range, 3. — Rules for, 9, et seq. — Tables, 2. Knife, Machine, 36. Knives, Cookery, 19. L Lace, To Clean, 61. — Curtains, To Wash, 61. Laitances de Morue, 183. — Fumes, 183. Lamb Cutlets en Aspic, 141. a la Ravissante, 141. a la Duchesse, 141. Langford Fat Trap, 5. Larder, 8. Larding, 81. Larks, Croustade of, 142. — a la Minute, 142. Laundry, The, 52, et seq. — Hints, 62. — Requisites, 62. Leeky Pie, 166. Lemon Biscuit Creams, 206. — Juice, 16. — Sponge, 206. — Squash, 241. — Tartlets, 207. — To Preserve, 15. Linen, Care of, 47. — Cupboard, 45, et seq. — Drying, 59. — List of, 146. — Mildew on, 61. — To take Scorch from, 47, 60. Lobster Aspic, 184. — Baskets, 109. — en Beignets, 109. — a la Boulevard, 184. — and Cucumber Chartreuse, 184. — Creams a la Bismarck, 185. a la Metropole, 185. — Medallions, 185. — Nests, 109. — Scallops, 186. — Souffle, 109. — Timbale of, 186. a la Varenne, 184. M Macaroni alia Capellita, 166. — a la Creme Aigre, 167. — a la Napolitaine, 167. — Quenelles, 167. Macedoine, 207. Mackerel, Fried, 110. — Bones Grilled, 110. Marrow Toast, 168. Meat Chopper, Enterprise, 26. — To Choose, 16. — To Preserve, 15. — Tough, 15. Measures for Cooks, 26, 27. Medallions a la Toxophilites, 142. Medallions of Lobster, 185. Medicinal Hints, 63. Medicine, Doses, 66. — Measures, 65. Menus for Dinners, Ball Suppers, etc., 243, et seq. Mice, To Destroy, 16. Mildew on Linen, 61. Milk Boiler, 24. — Lemonade, 241. Moscow Buns, 223. Mouldy Pickles, 13. Mousse au Banana, 208. Mushrooms, To Dress, 168. — Broiled, 170. — Aux Crofites, 170, 168. — en Croustade, 170. — a la Delmonico, 168. — au Gratin, 169. — Hash, 168. — a la Montglas, 169. — en Ragout, 170. — a la Russe, 169. Mussels a la Provengale, 110. — aux fines herbes, 111. Mutton, Breast of, Grilled, 142. — Chops a la Monte Carlo, 143. — Roulades of, 143. N Napkin Folding, 40, et seq. Neuralgia, 65. Noisettes a la Rossini, 143. Norfolk Rusks, 223. Nudeln, 223. O Octopus, 24. Odours, Unpleasant, To remove, 64.INDEX 273 Olives, Croiltes aux, 171. Omelet, Russian, 171. — Tomato, 180. — a la Vieille Noblesse, 171. Onions a I'Etoile, 171. — al vino, 171. — Stewed, 172. Orange Cream, 209, 227. — Custards, 210. — Frosting, 228. — Jelly, 210. — Sponge, 210. — Tartlets, 210. Oranges, Bewitched, 210. Oxtail, Haricot of, 143. Oyster Holdfast, 20. Oysters a 1'Ambrosia, 186. — a la Cardinal, 187. — Devilled, 111. — Iced, 187. — Kromeskies a la Royale, 111. — a la Normande, 111. — Salad, 112. — Sandwiches, 178 — Scalloped, 112. — Stewed, P Pancakes, Devon, 201. — Pineapple, 212. Pails and Tubs, 10. Pantry, The, 36. — Description of, 36. — Necessaries for, 40. — Sink, 36. Parmesan au Creme, 172. Partridges au choux, 144. Peaches, Flambantes, 211, — in Vinegar, 217. Pears, Compote of, 199. Peas a la Famille, 172. Pepper Tortillas, 164. — Liquid, 29. Perdreaux aux choux, 144. Perrault's Machine, 24. Petits Morceaux a Pavir, 231. Petits P^tes a Champignons, 172. — Talmouses au Parmesan, 172. Pflaumen Mus, 211, Pickles, Mouldy, 13. Picnic dishes, 259. Pig, Roasted, 144. Pigeons a la Becasse, 145. — en compote, 145. — a la Grecque, 145. Pike a la Isaac Walton, 112. Piquda, 112. Plates, To preserve, 37. Plover's Eggs a la Balfour, 173. a la Careme, 173. Pocket handkerchiefs. To wash, 59. Poison Antidotes, 64. Poisoning, Ivy, 64. Polpettone, 145. Pork a I'AUemande, 146. — a I'Espagne, 146. Poularde a la Royale, 146. Potato Balls, 173. — Washer and Peeler, 21. Potatoes a I'ltalienne, 173. — a la Milanese, 174. — a la Macon, 174. Poultry Carving, 70. Powders, To Take, 65. Prairie Oyster, 174. Prawn Curry, 112. Prawns in Jelly, 187. — and Oysters, 174. Puddings, Alsace, 212. — Brown Bread, 197. — Conservative, 200. — Cocoanut, 198. — Cream, 200. — Diplomatic, 202. — Fig, 202. — French Apple, 202. — In and Out, 205. — Neun-Loth, 209. — Nesselrode, 208. — Northumberland, 209. — Pineapple, 217. — Prince of Wales, 212. — Punch, 213. — Pyramids, 203. — Taste and Come Again, 216. — Semolina, 214. — Sponge Cake, 214. — Venus, 217. — White, 218. Punch, Vauxhall, 242. Punjab Hot Pot, 174. Q Quails a la Rosalie, 146. ! — Trophy of, in Aspic, 147. ! Queen's Boiler, 24. j I R ; Rabbit, Dressed, 147. — Rabbit en Matelote, 148. Rancid Buttfjr, 13. 18INDEX 274 Rapid Cooking Steamer, 22. Raspberry Sponge, 213. Rathanen Kiichen, 224. Red Cabbage, 174. To Stew, 175. — Mullet, 113. a la Navarino, 113. a la Tomato, 113. a la Toscana, 113. Releve, 242. Rice a la Marseillaise, 175. — and Peas, 175. — Spanish, 178. Roasting, On, 75. Roches de Poires, 213. Rooms, To Sweep, 48. Rothe Griitze, 213. S Salad, Sables Normandes, 224. — Barbe Capucine, 176. — a la Bentrovato, 176. — a la Duke of York, 175. — Potato, 176. — Sardine, 176. — Tomato, 176, 177. — Vegetable, 176. — Salmis, 148. Salmon a la Boulanger, 113. — Beurre Montpelier, 117. — Cassolettes, 115. — Cold, 230. — Cream, 115. — a Demain, 114. — Fritters, 116. — a ritalienne, 114. — Kippered, 187. — a la Montpelier, 114. — Puddings, 116. — Roll, 116. — ^ la Romaine, 116. — a la Salisbury, 115. — Spiced, 117. — a la Trafalgar, 115. — Trout a la Suedoise, 117. Sama Teneriffe, 117. Sandwiches, Italian, 177. — a I'Angouleme, 178. — Oyster, 178. — en Surprise, 177. Sardines en Papillotes, 188. Saucepan, Sectional, 19. — Asparagus, 18. — Signal Egg, 23. Saucepans, Aluminium, 6. Saucepans, Fireproof, 10. Sauces, 188. — To make, 83. — Bearnaise, 189. — Careme, 189. — Champagne, 190. — Chateaubriand, 189. — Currant, 189. — Dutch, 189, 190. — Horseradish, 190. — Grill, 190. — Indian, 190. — Lemon, 191, 193. — Mayonnaise, Bottled, 189. — Mint, 191. — Mustard, 191. — Piquante, 191. — Ravigote, 191. — Remoulade, 192. — Robert, 192. — Soubise, 192. — Sweet Sharp, 188. — Tartare, 192. — Tomato, 193. — Verte, 192. — Wild Fowl for, 192. Sauerbraten, 148. Sauerkraut, 149. Sausages, Italian, 178. Savoury Almonds, 214. Scones, 225, 228. Scotch Haggis, 149. — Shortbread, 226. Scullery, 5. Table 5. Schiize Be'ndel, 225. Shield Chimney Cowl, 25. Shooting Lunch, 258. Shortbread, 225. Shortcake, Strawberry, 215. Shrimps, Tossed, 231. — Cassolettes, 188. — Vol-au-vents, 118. — Timbale, 188. Silk Pocket Handkerchiefs, To wash, 58. — Stockings, To wash, 60. Skate k la Milanese, 118. Slab for Pastry, 19. Sleeplessness, 65. Slicing Machine, 21. Socks, Wool, To wash, 60. Soles a la Bacchus, 118. — a la Dauphin, 118. — a la Dieppoise, 121. — au Gratin, 120. — en Mayonnaise, 121.INDEX 275 Soles a la Menuisiere, Hi). — a la Normande, 119. — a rOriental, 229. — a la Tirhoot, 119. — a rUtopia, 119. Souffle, German, 206. — Orange, 214. Soups, 86. — Making, 85. — Alma Mater, 86. — Andalusian, 86. — Antwerp, 87. — Asparagus, 87. — Barley Cream, 87. — Briinoise, 88. — Calf's Tail, 88. — Celery, 88. and Onions, 89. — Clam, 89. — Cockie Leekie, 89. — Cornish Porridge, 89. — Cottage, 89. - Crab, 90. — Crayfish, 90. — Cream of Rice, 90. — Cressy, 91. — Cucumber, 91. — Esmeralda, 91. — Fat Brose, 91. — Fish, 92. - Florenza, 93. — Galles de, 93. — Giblet, ^4. — Gravy, Clear, 94. — Green Pea, 94. Thick, 95. — Hare, 95. — His Excellency, 95. — Hotch Potch, 96. — Hunters, 96. — Italian, 96. — Kidney, 96. — Lobster, 97. — Madras, 97. — Maigre, 97. — Mullagatawny, 98. — Mushroom, 98. — Onion, 98. — Oyster, 98, 99. — Parmesan, 99. — Parsnip, 99. — Peasant, 100. — Pease Brose, 100. — Piscatore, 100. — Ploughboy, 100. — Polish, 100. -- Pot au Feu, 100. Soups, Potage a la Cussy, 101. — Royal, 101. — a la Richelieu, 88. — Scotch Broth, 101, 102. — Siberian, 102. — Solferino, 102. — Tomato, 102. — Turtle (Dried), 103. — Vegetable Marrow, 103. — Victoria, 103. — Watercress, 103. Spatchcock, 149. Spinach, Sweet, 178. Sponge, Strawberry, 215. Sprats a la Rochelle, 121. Squab Pie, 150. Squash Pie, 150. Starch, Gum, 60. Starching, 55, 57. — Clear, 55. Steaming, On, 81. Stewing, On, 79. Stockings, To Wash, 58. Storeroom, The, 27, et acq. Stove, Yankee Idea, 21. — Mat, 18. Strainer, Desideratum, 20. — Perfect, 25. Sucre a la Creme, 215. Sulphur Pastilles, 65. Sweet Spinach, 178. — Surprise, 216. Sweetbreads, To dress, 150. — a la Toulouse, 150. T Table for Regulating Medicines, 66. Talmouses aux Pistaches, 216. Tartlets, Naples, 208. — Orange, 210. Tawntatalet, Turkish, 153. Tea Pretzels, 227. — and Coffee, Hints for, 233. — Iced, 235. Teal Fillets with Anchovies, 151. Terms used for Carving, 14. — in English and French Cookery, 201. Terrapin, 121. Thee Kranze, 227. Timbale of Lobster, 186. — Shrimps, 188. Tipsy Cake, 216. Toad-in-a-Hole, 151. Toaster and Griller, Reversible, 20.INDEX 276 Tobasco Sauce, 28. Tongue, Sheep's, with Cucumber, 151. — and Tomatoes, 151. Tomatoes a I'Algerienne, 151, 180. — Baked,^ 181. — Canapes, 178. — Chartreuse, 178. — Chutney, 178. — Cream, 179. — Cutlets, 179. — a la Francesco, 180. — Fricassied, 181. — Jelly, 179. — Ketchup, 179. — Mustard, 180. — Omelet, 180. Tough Meat made Tender, 15. Trout, Turban of, 122. Trifle, 217. Tripe, Glasgow, 152. — a la Lucca, 152. Truffles with Champagne, 152. Tubs and Pails, 10. Turbot a la Bearnaise, 122. — a la Normande, 123. — a la Koyale, 123. Turnip Turnovers, 181. Turnover, Turnip, 181. Turtle, Dried, 103. V Vauxhall Punch, 242. Veal, Breast of. Stewed, 153. — Cutlets, 154. — a la Hindostan, 154. Veal a la Morny, 154. — Fricandelle, 154. — Knuckle of, en RagoM, 155. — Olive Pie, 155. — Olives, 155. — Tendon and Spinach, 156. Vegetable Marrow a I'Espagnole, 181. a ritalienne, 181. Vegetables, To Cook, 82. Vinegar Peaches, 217. W Wedding Breakfasts, 258. — Reception, 72. Weymouth Cheese Cakes, 217. Whisk, Electric, 23. White Bait, 123. — Nougat, 218. Window-cleaning Safety Chair, 49. Wines, 239. — Cellar, 236, et seq. — Decanting, 237. — To Warm, 240. Woodcock a la Gortais, 156. Woollens, To Wash, 58. Y Yankee Idea Stove, 21. Z Zambaglione, 218. Zinc, To Clean, 10. Zwieback, 228. Planted by Hazell, Watson, & Viney, Ld., London and Aylesbiuy."k imm KENEDY" For Chafed Skin, Bruises, Piles, Scalds, Neuralgic and Rheumatic Pains, Chapped Hands, Chilblains, Sore Eyes, Earache, Cuts, Sunburn, Throat Colds, Ringworm, and Skin Ailments generally, is . CALVERTS ' - i CflRBOllCmOlNTAlENll Large Pots Is. 1|d. each, at Chemists', or Post Free for value. Private Report from Limassol, Cyprus, says:—"I have never found anything to come up to it for Neuralgic and Rheumatic Pains." W. C. Fitzgerald, Chemist, Wellington, New Zealand, M^rites :—"It is, without exception, the best healing Ointment I have ever used." CARBOLIC TOOTH POWDER AND TOOTH PASTE Have the largest sale of any Dentifrices, most effective for preserving the Teeth and strengthening the Gums. Useful to prevent infection by inhalation. 6d., IS., and is. 6d. Tins ; 6d., is., and is. 6d. Pots. CARBOLIC TOILET SOAP AND PRICKLY HEAT SOAP. Pure Antiseptic Soaps for the Skin and Complexion, and help to prevent contagion. After cycling and other out-door exercise they are especially beneficial, is. 6d. 3-Tablet Boxes; 6d. and is. Bars. PREVENT FEVERS BY USING CALVERT'S CARBOLIC POWDER to destroy all noxious or infectious odours from Closets or oiTensive refuse. The Powder is guaranteed to contain 15 per cent, of Calvert's No. 5 Carbolic—the STRONGEST Disinfectant known—and is sold in 6d., is., and is. 6d. Dredgers. Can 1)6 obtained at most Chemists', Stores, &;c., or Is. worth and upwards post free for value. BUYERS ARE WARNED against inferior imitations, wfiicfi are numerous. ILLUSTRATED DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET ON APPLICATION. F. C. CALYERT, & CO., Manchester. AWARDED 76 GOLD AND SILVER MEDALS AND DIPLOMAS.London: HUTCHINSON & CO., 34, PATERNOSTER ROW. Cbe RouseDold Orack. EDITED BY ALFRED H. MILES. In large crown 8vo. 600 pp., cloth gilt, with numerous Illustrations, price 3s. 6d. A Popular Referee on all subjects of Household Enquiry, including, among many others :— HOUSE BUILDING AND BUYING. Soils, Aspects, Plans, Drainage, Warming and Ventilation, Decoration, etc. W. H. WOOD, Esq., M.R.I.B.A. HOUSEHOLD LAW. Landlord and Tenant, Master and Servant, Rates and Taxes, Will and Bequests, Matrimonial Causes, etc. R. J. GRIFFITHS, M.A., LL.D. L. D. POWLES, Esq., Barrister-at-Law. HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE. Food and Feeding, the Bath and Bathing, Infants and Children, Nursing the Sick, Common Ailments, Common Injuries, Accidents, etc. H. CAMERON GILLIES, M.D. THE HOME FARM. The Care and Treatment of Fowls, Ducks, Geese, Turkeys, Pigs, etc., and household pets. Cats, Dogs, and Birds. GORDON STABLES, M.D., R.N. THE GARDEN. A Calendar of Work to be done for the Year in the Plower Garden, the Kitchen Garden, and the Orchard. W. E. EARLY, of The Gardeners' Chronicle. HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, with Hundreds of Recipes for Soups, Fish, Entrees, Joints, Game, Sweets, Vegetables, and Vegetarian Cookery, by various writers, including A. G. PAYNE, Author of "Common-sense Cooking." OUR ENGLISH TONGUE: Treating of the Rules of Speech, Grammar, Spelling, Common Errors of Conversation, Origin and Derivation of Words. HOUSEHOLD SUBJECTS, too numerous to epitomise, including " Etiquette," "Household Amusements," "Family Life," "The Calendar," "Table of Weights and Measures," " Tables of Interest," " Ready Reckoner," etc. HOUSE FURNISHING : Dealing with Furnishing and Decoration, room by room, with Prices of all important articles, and numerous Illustrations. PLAIN AND FANCY NEEDLEWORK, with Instructions for Cutting Out, and numerous Illustrations of Patterns, Stitches, etc. HOUSEKEEKING, including Household Accounts, the Duties of Servants, the Storing of Provisions, the Direction of the Food Supply, etc.London: HUTCHINSON & CO., 34. PATERNOSTER ROW. A FEW PRESS OPINIONS ON "THE HOUSEHOLD ORACLE." QUEEN. " This is one of the most wonderful three-and-sixpence worths published. It is a regular encyclopaedia, and seems remarkably well done. The cookery receipts are good." LADY'S PICTORIAL. " An invaluable compendium, and when it has been consulted once or twice by the members of a busy household, it will be found to deserve its name of ' House- hold Oracle.' No household should be without this well-edited and useful Oracle." HEARTH AND HOME. "This large and remarkably cheap book. In something over a thousand columns it deals with everything.'' DUNDEE ADVERTISER. " A wonderful book indeed is ' The Household Oracle.' As a book of reference on all subjects of household management, from the building of a residence to the carving of a chicken, the volume will become an authority." YORKSHIRE POST. " No young housekeeper could receive a more useful gift than ' The Household Oracle.' It is full of good advice and general information." BIRMINGHAM GAZETTE. " A most comprehensive work, containing information upon all subjects. This is one of the most complete books of its kind published, to be recommended to all housekeepers wishing to have a fund of knowledge at their finger ends." DAILY GRAPHIC. " Contains sufficient condensed knowledge to make a whole library of books of reference superfluous. To say what it does not contain would be easier than to say what it covers." LITERARY WORLD. " A veritable ' apply within for everything ' for information on all pertaining to house and garden, land and farm. An extremely useful book." EASTERN MORNING NEWS. '' Mr. Miles has compiled one of the best works of household reference we have yet seen." LIVERPOOL MERCURY. " It would indeed be difficult to find a subject connected with the home which is not treated on in this comprehensive volume, which is a marvel of cheapness. 'London: HUTCHINSON & CO., 34, PATERNOSTER ROW. BEAUTY CULTURE. By H. ELLEN BROWNING. In crown SvOj doth gilt^ 35". dd. This work contains valuable and interesting information on the procurement and preservation of health and beauty. The authoress is a most successful lecturer on the subject, and her literary ability has been displayed in her successful work, A Girl's Wanderings in Hungary." CONTENTS— On Beauty as a Science. On the Science of Personal Beauty. On the Art of Dress as an Aid to Beauty. On good circulation as an Aid to Beauty. On sound nerves as a source of Beauty. On the functions of the Skin with regard to Beauty. On Diet as a means of Beauty. On Happiness as a Beauty Philtre. Practical Hints for Personal Beauty. THE ART OF COOKERY. Past and Present. By Mrs. H. DE SALIS. In crown 8-vo, cloth^ -is.