DAINTY . . . NUTRITIOUS AND : • -I. v:-. „■ ■ ■ ECONOMICAL DISHES . . . FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 3 International Plasmon, Limited >415 LONDON PRICE . . . SIXPENCE ragLEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Camden P\ - Q L A 30106023338188London Borough of Camden Swiss Cottage Library Tel: 01 278 4444 88 Avenue Road Extensions: LONDON - EUU'k’TaTi&Wais ouz I NW3 3HA Lending Library 3012 This book is due for return on or before the date stamped below. The period of loan can be extended if the book is not reserved (please ask for details of renewal facilities) Fines are charged on overdue books Lending Library hours Mon-Fri 9.30-8 Sat 9.30-5 KA sc IV1 LA 105PLASM ON COOKERY BOOK. DAINTY, NUTRITIOUS AND ECONOMICAL DISHES EOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD. Xon&on: INTERNATIONAL PLASMON, LIMITED, 56, Duke Street, Grosvenor Square, London, W. 1-ACIOkY AND WAREHOUSE, 66a, Farringdon St., K.C. [Entered at Stationers' IIai.l.Jr335?86 '’■•w . . f\ (mse)ENTS MON IS \ >r> t?t Preface Introduction—SL What Plasmon Jurors’ Report How to Use Plasm Plasmon Weights a Soups ... Fish, Meat, and Vegetable Dishes Sweets... Savouries Cakes, Biscuits, and Bread Invalid Cookery and Diabetic Food Sauces... Plasmon Preparations and Prices Index ...Digitized by the Internet Archive • in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21538098PREFACE. CONSIDERABLE interest attaches to the collection of recipes which we now present to the reader. The Plasmon Exhibit, consisting of a large variety of Plasmon dishes, Plasmon pastry, cakes and bread, shown at the Food and Cookery Exhibition, held at the Royal Albert Hall in April, 1903, was awarded the highest certificate of merit. International Plasmon, Limited, 66a, Farringdon Street, LONDON, E.C.Recipes. In issuing this New Edition (1903) we have added a number of Ordinary Household Recipes, ECONOMICAL AND EASY TO MAKE, For Daily Use.7 INTRODUCTION. Report on the Culinary Value and Possibilities of Plasmon in “Food and Cookery,’’ August, 1903. Edited by C. Herman Senn. SINCE the science of dietetics has become more intimately allied with the art of cookery, it has been recognised that the so-called “rich foods” are not always the most nourishing. That is to say, there are many substances which, while most useful as stimulants and producers of fat, are practically devoid of all flesh-forming and waste-repairing properties. Such foods taken in excess are positively harmful, loading the human system with substances difficult to eliminate and which induce disease. At the other end of the scale are starchy and watery foods, of less nutrient value. Of course, the aim in planning a dietary or cooking a meal must be to properly choose different foods, so as to provide a well- balanced ration. But with the modern exigencies this is not always easy to do, and hence has arisen the necessity for prepared foods. These are, as a rule, associated with the feeding of the young, the aged, and the ailing. There are certain preparations, however, which have a far wider application. Take Plasmon as an instance. Plasmon is a white granulated substance, devoid of scent or flavour ; so it can be easily manipulated, and when used in cookery does not alter the taste of any dish. It is, therefore, safe to use. Now let us consider the advisability of using it. Well, Plasmon is the scientifically prepared albumen of pure fresh milk. It is an albumen which is in no way altered, so that it possesses all the nourishing qualities of the albumen of meat, white of egg, or milk, without the bulk of water. Unlike the casein of cheese, the albumen in this preparation is chemically unaltered ; consequently it is quite digestible and easily assimilated. As albumen is the chief requisite8 of the human system for the restoration of waste of muscle, nerve, bone, etc., etc., the importance of this substance will be at once recognised. As Plasmon possesses no flavour or scent, it can be safely added to any dish, with the surety that it will add enormously to its nourishing properties, and, moreover, assist in making it light and digestible. In practice it is found that Plasmon can be used in endless ways, and that, if properly handled, it adds to the lightness of cakes, bread, and sweets, and gives a rich, smooth character to savoury and vegetable dishes. As a mere enricher, it can be sprinkled over a dish like salt, but for cookery purposes it requires a little skilled preparation. The following recipes have been compiled to serve as a guide for the numerous ways in which Plasmon can, with profit and advantage, be used in cookery. These dishes, and the directions given to show the best way to prepare them, will amply prove all that is claimed for Plasmon. The hints given will be found useful. This, added to the know- ledge gained by experience, should help to make all dishes in which Plasmon is used—and there are but very few indeed where it cannot be employed—more nourishing, and there- fore more profitable. Variety in food often offers difficulties. There are not many varieties of meat, but few species of fish, and not too many vegetables. How, then, can one obtain variety ? This is answered by Plasmon, which will prove an excellent aid to bring about variety, by taking the following recipes as a basis for a number of other dishes by merely substituting the chief ingredient for another. Variety, it is often said, not only charms the palate, but frequently it is the means of creating an appetite in those to whom the mere thought of food has been distasteful. Good cooking does not always mean expensive cooking, and as a rule the best cooks are the most economical. The use of Plasmon spells interior economy, because when properly blended and treated upon correct culinary lines, food thus prepared fulfils that important mission of making it more wholesome, more varied, more pleasurable, and therefore more profitable in the end. We are indebted to the August and September (1903) numbers of “ Food and Cookery,” edited by Mr. C. Herman Senn, for a number of the recipes appearing in this book.9 WHAT PLASMON IS. I The name PLASMON distinguishes our preparations of Milk Albumen or Casein from the analogous preparations of all other Manufacturers, and is our Registered Trade Mark. PLASMON is the albumen of pure fresh milk in the form of a dry, soluble, granulated cream white powder. Albumen (termed proteid) is the nourishing principle contained, in varying quantities, in all foods—whether animal or vegetable. It is the principal substance in the food which is absorbed by the system for forming and feeding all the com- ponent parts of the human body (blood, muscles, nerve, bone, brain, etc.), and for renewing the waste which is continually taking place in the system. Flesh-forming albumen is only present in very small quantities in most foods; it results, therefore, that a large bulk of food is eaten without perfect nourishment being obtained. The albumen (proteid) in fresh milk is the very nutriment itself provided by Nature, and is therefore the most perfect form of food. But the milk albumen (proteid) is liable to speedy changes, which render it insoluble and indigestible. The methods used by casein or proteid manufacturers in the drying of the casein or proteid of milk alter the nature of the albumen, and any addition of a free alkali (carbonate of soda, potash, etc.), however minute in quantity, to the dry casein, renders the proteid worthless as a nutrient, and probably harmful to the digestive system. It has been the aim of science to overcome this difficulty,10 and to preserve the albumen (proteid) of milk in its natural unaltered condition. Plasmon is the result of prolonged investi- gations. It is the albumen (proteid) of pure milk, containing its most important original salts, prepared by a process which does not alter its vital and physical properties or in any way lessen its nourishing effects. The albumen (proteid), as in fresh milk, remains absolutely pure and soluble, though in a dry granulated form, and retains its properties unchanged for an indefinite period. Plasmon added to any food—no matter how poor such may be in albumen (proteid) substance—at once raises the nourish- ing value of the food, a teaspoonful of the Plasmon powder being equal to the nutriment contained in | lb. of prime fillet of beef. It is flavourless and odourless. Plasmon, owing to its high nutritive qualities and the perfect way in which it is assimilated, invigorates the digestive system, so that other foods taken with it, or after it, are more easily digested. Although it increases the weight, it does not do so by inducing an undue accumulation of fat—in fact, owing to the ease and rapidity w'ith which it is assimilated, Plasmon not only gives strength to the digestive system, but speedily rectifies all abnormalities in nutrition ; while semi- starvation from imperfect digestion becomes impossible, so do the many evils which result from the morbid absorption of fat and the use of non-nourishing foods. A feature which demonstrates the strengthening qualities of Plasmon is that when it is taken regularly the craving for alcoholic stimulants—even among confirmed inebriates—is subdued. Plasmon, being free from flavour and smell and perfectly soluble, is an ideal food-enricher for all classes of the com- munity, applicable, therefore, to all descriptions of foods.Twelfth Universal Cookery & Food Exhibition, London. REPORT ON THE PLASMON COMPETITION. WE were agreeably surprised by the high order of excellence which characterised the greater number of the dishes sent in by the many competitors. Indeed, so good was the general level of culinary ability that we had some difficulty in coming to a decision as to the order of merit after the first three or four in the two classes had been selected. Thanks to the liberal prize list, however, this difficulty had no practical effect on the task of the jurors. There was a great diversity in the character and style of the dishes exhibited, so that the display afforded practical demonstration of how universally Plasmon may be employed in the preparation of food. Every recipe sent in by the competitors was carefully perused, and it was found that in each case a considerable percentage of Plasmon had been included. Plasmon had in some cases been incorporated in its natural (dry powder) form, in others it was first converted into a jelly or a whipped cream. The high percentage of Plasmon used, and the diversity of the dishes exhibited (some of which were of a most delicate nature), enabled us to verify the claim that Plasmon is without individual flavour or odour. We found that in no case were the characteristic flavours and aromas of meats, vegetables, fruits, or aromatics, altered or masked by the addition of12 Plasmon. This applied to all dishes, from soups to sweets and savouries. The soups submitted for competition were of the puree and mixed vegetable order, both with and without meat foundation. In all cases Plasmon, while not interfering with the flavour, gave a most agreeable impression of strength and velvety softness. High marks were accorded for the gastro- nomical value of the soups. Entrees of various kinds were sent in; the addition of Plasmon had apparently facilitated the work of the cooks, at all events the results were excellent. Cutlets dipped in a kind of batter formed chiefly of Plasmon and egg, then crumbed and fried, proved delicious; while the croquettes possessed a creamy interior. Plasmon as an addition to the vegetable dishes also proved a success. But we regret to say that the avowedly “ Vegetarian Cookery ” dishes did not attain so high a level, either as regards appearance, originality, or flavour. Nevertheless, we think that this was accidental, as we are decidedly of opinion that if Plasmon were judiciously used it would tend consider- ably to enhance the dietetic and gastronomic value of vegetarian cookery.HOW TO USE PLASMON. * DIRECTIONS AND RECIPES. 1. Plasmon may be taken either in a dry form or in solution. In a dry form it may be sprinkled over the food at the table (any kind of food—stews, puddings, porridges, etc.), in the same way as sugar or salt, and mixed up with the food. But large numbers of people find it preferable to add Plasmon to foods in the form of Plasmon Stock, which is more universally digestible. It may also be added to the flour and mixed up with it, and then kneaded in the usual way for making bread or pastry—1| oz. of Plasmon to i lb. of flour. MOIST PLASMON. 2. Put three teaspoonfuls of dry Plasmon into a large cup, and add gradually | pint (x gill) of tepid (not hot) water, and stir to a thick paste. In this state it may be added to milk, soups, beef tea, etc., and boiled for two minutes. Quantity for each person—one to two teaspoonfuls of this moist Plasmon. (One teaspoonful of moist Plasmon equals half teaspoonful of dry Plasmon.) HOW TO DISSOLVE PLASMON: thus making PLASMON STOCK. 3. Put i oz. of Plasmon into a saucepan. Add gradually half a pint of lukewarm water, stirring continuously. Place over the fire, and boil for 2 minutes. When cold this stock should have the appearance of a thin semi-transparent14 jelly. Plasmon Stock is the foundation of many dishes, and is referred to in a number of the recipes. If used for whipping into a nourishing cream, it hiust be quite cold (and is best made overnight for the next day’s use); but for adding to milk, coffee, soups, and certain other dishes, it may be used hot as soon as made. Stock will keep a day or two if treated as milk. *■ Note.—If the saucepan be rinsed with cold water it prevents burning. PLASMON CREAM. 5. Is made from Plasmon Stock (No. 3) as follows :—Put two or three tablespoonfuls (nor more at a time) of Plasmon Stock into a large cup or one pound jar, whisk briskly a few minutes, when a thick cream will result. Add sifted sugar and vanilla or other flavouring to taste, whisk quickly again for half a minute. This cream can now be used for tea, coffee, cocoa, stewed fruits, etc., or may be eaten alone. A “ Dover ” wheel whisk gives the best results, namely, Plasmon Clotted Cream; the longer it is whisked the thicker it becomes. Note.—To have this Cream in perfection, it is essential for the Stock to be quite cold. A WHITE STOCK FOR SOUPS AND SAUCES. 5. To 4 tefispoonfuls of Plasmon Powder add gradually 1 pint of tepid water, stir till it boils, and while boiling add 2 saltspoonful of salt to restore the white colour. If used for soups, vegetables, rice, barley, etc., can be added, and any additions of flavouring used. FOR INFANTS’ FOOD. 6. To 1 teaspoonful of Plasmon Powder add 1 gill of tepid water, mix it thoroughly and boil for 2 minutes. The above quantity to be divided and given in the food during 24 hours. Dry Plasmon Powder should on no account be given to young children.•5 imr FREE DEMONSTRATIONS HOW TO USE PLASMON are given daily at 56, Duke Street, Grosvenor Square, (near 415, Oxford Street & Bond Street Tube), London, W.| LADIES ARE SPECIALLY INVITED; ItIT IF ENABLE TO COME, THEY MAY SEND THEIR MAIDS. Visitors from the country should not fail to call.16 PLASMON WEIGHTS & MEASURES with Quantities for Daily Use. One Ounce of Plasmon Powder is equal to 3 large or 4 small teaspoonfuls, heaped; or to 1 tablespoonful, heaped; or to 15 tablespoonfuls of Plasmon Stock. 1 teaspoonful of Dry Plasmon is equal to 2 teaspoonfuls of moist Plasmon. 20 ounces of water equal 1 pint. 1 gill of water equal | pint. Quantity of Plasmon which may be eaten daily during 24 hours, with other food Minimum amount for adults, 3 teaspoonfuls; Maxi- mum, 6 teaspoonfuls. Children half the above quantities. Infants, 1 teaspoonful during 24 hours. (Seepage 14 No. 6.17 PART I.—SOUPS. 1. PLASMON MEAT STOCK FOR SOUPS AND SAUCES. —In making ordinary or so-called general stock use about a pound of meat and bones, 4 to 6 ounces of soup vegetables (carrot, onion, turnip, and leek or celery) to every quart of water. Do not add the vegetables until the liquor has first boiled up and the scum has been removed. Season with salt and pepper (peppercorns and bayleaf should be added). Boil gently from 2\ to 3 hours, and strain. Stir into 2 tablespoonfuls of Plasmon powder a pint of tepid water, re-heat it whilst stirring it over the fire, and add it to a quart of general stock as soon as it boils. Use the stock as directed. Note.—All stock is better made overnight for use on the following day. In the first-named stock care must be taken to remove all the fat which is on top before it is used. s“d l 2 lumps sugar ■ /,«„ i,„ f " ‘ ■ UasPoonful celery Hock; , ozjour gi,! „,uykkaf•' 1 ** wh& butter and stea^C Uie%egetab!es^ in^jt striPs\ Mel‘ the ^n”th0Ck WM1•* » boiling or unt'i the vegetables^... „ on,IP—Ingredients : i li- st PARMENT1ER CREAM ■ plasmon stock, sloes ; 2 oz. butur. , MUspoonful ground rue, „ ■ 1 ■hint milk , I Pinl r . , rrnutons. potatoes; . ^ taklespoonful grouna nee, No. 2 ; i pint nnlk , / d bnad cr0utons. salt, pepper, and nutmeg , J oes> slice them. Peel Method.—Wash an P butter in a stewpan, p and slice the onions. Melt ini8 potatoes and onion, and fry a little without browning. Add the water and milk, boil up and skim. Stir in the ground rice, and cook gently till the vegetables are tender. Rub all through a fine sieve. Return to the stewpan, add the Plasmon stock, season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and re-heat. Serve with small croutons of fried bread. This soup may be made still richer by adding, a few minutes before serving, one yolk of egg mixed with half a tablespoonful of cream. 4. LENTIL SOUP.—Ingredients: i pint lentils; i small onion ; x stick of celery; 2 oz. blitter; 1 gill Plasmon stock (recipe No. 2) ; 2 quarts water; salt and pepper to taste. Method.—Wash the lentils, and soak them in cold water for 3 or 4 hours. Put the butter in a saucepan ; add the lentils, onions (peeled and finely sliced), celery (cleaned and chopped small), stir over the fire for about 5 minutes, then add the water, boil up, skim, and cook gently till the lentils are soft. Pass all through a sieve; add Plasmon, salt, and pepper; re-heat, and serve with bread cut in dice. Note.—Peas, haricots, beans, etc., can be used in the same way as lentils. 5. GAME SOUP.—Ingredients : The remains of one or two small birds (roast partridge or grouse'); \ onion; 2 oz. dripping; 2 '>z. oatmeal; 1 quart Plasmon stock No. 1 : 6-8 mum, 6 teaspoonfuls. Children half the above quantities. Infants, 1 teaspoonful during 24 hours. (See page 14 No. 6. -uiusmw>ii5,xm imO CmOc, ana me 6an^ u.xcto WhlOl vvtuc placeu aside. Season with salt and pepper, and serve with croutons. Note—This soup is greatly improved by adding a small wineglassful of sherry, port, or Marsala a few minutes befoie SeWeSare indebted to “Food and Cookery” (August and September, 1903) for above recipes,19 6. CREME PRINTANIERE.—Ingredients : i pint veal broth; 2 teaspoonfuls Plasmon; yolks of 2 eggs; \ gill cream ; carrots, turnips, green peas, asparagus ; seasonings— pepper and salt. Method.—Cut the carrots and turnips into fancy shapes, boil in water sufficient to cover them for half an hour, then add the asparagus and peas and cook till they are tender. Mix the Plasmon with the stock; season to taste, and boil a few minutes ; add the vegetables; let cool slightly, and add the well-stirred yolks of the eggs. Heat up, but do not allow to boil, and serve. 7. HOLLANDAISE SOUP. — Ingredients : 1 pint Plasmon stock; \ oz. butter; \ oz. flour; yolks of 2 eggs; 1 gill cream; b gill cooked peas; b gill cut cooked carrots; b gill cut cooked cucumber; seasonmg. Method.—Trim the carrots and cucumber with a round vegetable scoop to the size and shape of peas, and cook them in boiling water. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and Plasmon stock, and stir until it boils; pour it on to the liaison of eggs and cream ; return to the saucepan and cook slowly without letting it boil; add the vegetables, previously cooked. Season to taste. 8. VEGETABLE SOUP.—Ingredients : 2 carrots; 2 turnips; 1 leek; 1 onion; 1 h oz. butter; 1 teaspoonful celery seed; 2 lumps sugar; 1 bay-leaf; 1 pint Plasmon white stock; 1 oz. flour; 1 gill milk. Method.—Shred the vegetables into thin strips. Melt the butter and steam the vegetables in it for 10 minutes; add Plasmon stock while it is still boiling. Cook for 20 minutes or until the vegetables are tender. Add the flour and milk blended together. Boil for another 15 minutes and serve nicely seasoned. 9. POTATO SOUP. — Incredienis : 1 pints white stock; 5 or 6 potatoes; ^ pint Plasmon stock; 1 onion; \ oz. small sago ; 2 tablespoonful milk ; pepper and salt. Method.—Boil the potatoes and rub them through a sieve ; pour both the stocks into a saucepan and bring to the boil;20 mix the potatoes and milk together and pour into a saucepan ; when boiling add the sago; when this is transparent the soup is ready. (Sufficient quantities for six persons.) 10. POTAGE A LA YOLAILLE.—Ingredients : pints ivhite stock; | pink Plasmon stock; \ gill cream ; i dessertspoonful flour ; seasoning—salt, pepper, lemon juice. Method.'—Put the chicken stock into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Blend together the flour and' sufficient Plasmon stock to form a smooth paste. Pour into saucepan with the remaining Plasmon stock and stir until thick. Remove the pan from the fire and add cream very carefully. Season to taste, place saucepan on fire and bring to boil, and serve hot. (The above quantities are sufficient for six persons.) 11. BEEF PLASMON SOUP (made with Meat Stock). —Ingredients: i pint meat stock; 2 teaspoonfuls Beef Plasmon. Method.—Pour a pint of ordinary meat stock (in which a few vegetables have been boiled) on to 2 teaspoonfuls of Beef Plasmon. Stir and boil for 2 or 3 minutes. 12. BEEF PLASMON SOUP (made with Yegetable Stock). —Ingredients: 4 onions; 1 carrot; 1 turnip; 1 leek ; 3 sticks celery ; a sprig of parsley ; 2 bay-leaves ; x blade mace ; 3 teaspoo7ifuls Beef Plasmon ; pepper and salt; i| pints water. Method.—Boil all the vegetables in i| pints of water for 45 minutes. Strain this on to 3 teaspoonfuls of Beef Plasmon ; season with pepper and salt. Stir and boil for 2 or 3 minutes.21 PART II.—FISH, MEAT, AND VEGETABLE DISHES. 13. FISH PUDDING.—Ingredients : f lb. cooked while fish ; 6 oz. cooked potatoes; 2 os. butter; i teaspoo7iful chopped parsley; i dessertspoonful Plasmon powder; ^ gill water; i zuhole egg ; 2 yolks of eggs ; salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Method.—Butter a plain pudding mould, sprinkle it with brown crumbs, and boil for 2 minutes. Free the fish from skin and bones and chop up small. Rub the potatoes through a sieve. Melt the butter, put in the fish and potatoes, and let it get hot, then add the liquid and Plasmon, the parsley and the eggs. Mix well and season to taste. Put the mixture into the prepared mould, shake it down well, and bake in a moderately heated oven for 25 minutes. Turn out on a hot dish and serve. Note.—This pudding will be found lighter if the white of egg is whisked stiffly before it is added to the mixture. A tablespoonful of cream will also be found an improvement.—• “Food and Cookery,” August, 1903. 14. OYSTER OMELET.—Ingredients: 6 large oysters; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon stock No. 2 ; 1 oz. butter ; 3 eggs ; salt and pepper. Method.—Cook the oysters in their own liquor, drain them and remove the beards, and cut into small dice, beat up the eggs, and add the Plasmon stock, season to taste with salt and pepper ; then add the oysters. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan, pour in the egg mixture and stir over a quick fire till the eggs begin to set. Fold over and shape neatly (cushion shape), allow the omelet to take colour, and turn out into a hot dish.—“ Food and Cookery,” September, 1903.22 15. FISH PIE.—Ingredients : i lb. cold fish; i| lb. cold potatoes; i oz. dripping or butter; 2 tablespoonfuls Plasmon stock. Method.—Mash the potatoes and pass through a sieve ; melt the dripping or butter in a saucepan ; add the mashed potatoes and Plasmon stock, and mix all well together. Shred up the remains of any cold fish; season with anchovy sauce or salt and pepper; put into buttered pie dish, and cover with the mashed potatoes ; smooth over, and bake | of an hour. 16. PLASMON MOULD OF KEDGEREE (Breakfast Dish) .—Ingredients: 2 k teaspoonfuls Plasmon ; 5 pint fish stock ; 1 lb. cold boiled fish ; 1 teacupful Carolina rice ; 1 oz. butter; 2 hard-boiled eggs ; salt, pepper, and cayenne ; \ pint aspic or savoury jelly, to mask the mould; parsley and hard- boiled egg for decoration. Method.—Rinse a mould with cold water and mask it with a little aspic or savoury jelly; ornament it with sprigs of parsley and pieces of hard-boiled egg ; cover the ornamentation with a little more aspic jelly, and allow it to set. Boil the rice as for a curry, and when done place it in a basin and stir into it the butter. Have ready the boiled fish, freed from bones and skin, and the hard-boiled eggs chopped in fairly large pieces; add these to the rice and mix well together, with sufficient salt, pepper, and cayenne to season it nicely. Have ready | pint fish stock, made from the bones and skin of the fish, and pour it gradually upon 2g teaspoonfuls of Plasmon, stirring it well to keep it quite smooth ; place this Plasmon jelly in a double saucepan and boil for 4 minutes, keeping it well stirred. Season it nicely with pepper and salt, and when slightly cooled add to it the rice and fish, etc. ; stir it well in, place the mix- ture in the prepared mould, and allow it to set; when quite firm dip the mould in hot water and turn out. Garnish with parsley and hard-boiled egg. 17. PLASMON IRISH STEW. —Ingredients : 1 lb. scrag of mutton ; 11 lb. potatoes; 6 oz. onions; ig gills Plasmon stock, No. 1 ; salt and pepper to taste. Method.—Gut the meat into neat pieces, trim off some of the fat, put it in a saucepan with \ pint of cold water, and25 24. CHICKEN SET IN PLASMON JELLY.— Ingredients: i pint Plasmon jelly; i to i g pints chopped chicken ; pepper, salt, and celery for flavouring; cress for garnish. Method.—Take i pint Plasmon jelly and flavour with celery essence. Pour a small quantity into a mould and let it set. Sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a spoonful of chopped cold boiled or roast chicken; then add a little more cool jelly, and when set again sprinkle with pepper, salt, and chopped chicken. Continue this until the mould is full. When quite firm dip in hot water and turn out. Garnish with small cress. Ham, tongue, lobster, prawns, etc., may be used in the same manner. / 25. TURKISH PILAFF. (The old Maison d’Or recipe.)— Ingredients : i chicken ; \ pint Plasmon stock ; teacupful veal or chicken broth; | lb. well-washed Carolina rice; 3 tomatoes; 3 tablespoo?ifuls cooked chopped ofiiofi ; 1 tablespoonful veal suet; 2 oz. butter ; sprig of thyme ; 2 bay-leaves ; nutmeg ; salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne. Method.—Divide the chicken into pieces and saute it very slowly in part of the butter, with the chopped onions, thyme, and bay-leaves. When it is of a deep yellow colour, add the rice, Plasmon stock, seasoning, herbs, and tomatoes (which should be par-boiled and cut in dice). The whole must now stew very gently till the broth is absorbed and the rice thoroughly cooked. This will take about an hour and a half from the time the rice was put in, and during this time the rest of the butter, the veal suet, and the teacupful of stock should be added to the Pilaff, bringing it to a state neither dry nor moist. To serve, heap the rice upon a hot dish and place the chicken on top. 26. COLD MEAT SHAPE.—Ingredients: % lb. cold veal; \ lb. cooked ham ; 1 tablespoojful parsley; 1 onion; g pint Plasmon jelly ; pepper and salt. Method.—Chop finely f lb. cold veal, | lb. cooked ham, 1 tablespoonful parsley, and 1 well-cooked onion ; season with pepper and salt. Stir into this \ pint cool (not set) Plasmon jelly. Pour into a mould, and when firm dip in hot water and turn out.26 27. COTELETTES DE MOUTON (froid).—Ingredients: i lb. neck of mutton ; i egg; i tablespoo?iful Plasmon ; 2 table- spoonfuls breadcrumbs ; frying fat. Method.—Carefully cut the meat into even-sized cutlets and trim well; mix the Plasmon and breadcrumbs and beat up the egg; brush over the cutlet with the egg, dip into the Plasmon, and fry in hot fat. 28. SAVOURY CUTLETS.—Ingredients : \ lb. cooked chicken (or other meat) ; g pint Plasmon stock ; a little parsley, breadcrumbs, a?id white of an egg. Method.—Mince finely | lb. of cooked chicken (or any other meat), add a little chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; mix into \ pint of Plasmon stock. Cook well, let it get cold, egg-and-breadcrumb and fry; serve for breakfast, etc. 29. PLASMON YORKSHIRE PUDDING.—Ingredients : 6 tablespoofisful flour; 1 oz. Plasmon; 2 eggs; 1 pint milk ; 1 saltspoonful salt. Method.—Put the flour, Plasmon, and salt into a basin, and mix together. Make a well in the centre, add a little milk, and work all into a smooth, stiff batter; gradually add the remainder of the milk, also the eggs (well-beaten first), and stir briskly for a few minutes. Pour into a well-greased pan, and bake 20 minutes. 30. PLASMON STEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING.— Ingredients : 1 lb. flour ; 2 oz. Plasmon powder ; 6 oz. suet ; salt; 1 \ lb. steak ; g lb. kidney ; seasoning. Method.—Put the flour, Plasmon, and salt in a basin, add the suet (finely chopped), and mix all with cold water into a stiff dough. Line a basin with half the paste; cut the steak and kidney in nice pieces, season to taste, and put in basin till nearly full, adding a little water for gravy. 1 hen cover oyer with remainder of the dough, join the edges round the basin, and trim off neatly. Wring your pudding-cloth out in boiling water, tie it over the basin, allowing room for the dough to swell. Put the pudding in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil 2 hours.29 38. SAYOURY VEGETABLES.—Ingredients: ^ lb. cooked spinach ; b pint Plasmon sauce ; a little cheese ; 6 eggs. Method.—Take b lb. of spinach, cooked, and pass through the sieve ; cover with Plasmon sauce mixed with cheese. Serve in little cases with a poached egg on top. 39. STUFFED TOMATOES.—Ingredients -.4 or 6 tomatoes; 2 02. grated cheese ; 2 teaspoonfuls Plasmon ; 5 tea- spoonful salt; little pepper; 1 egg. Method.—Cut the centres out of the tomatoes ; mix all the ingredients together, fill in the tomatoes with the mixture, piling high. Bake in a moderate oven for 10 minutes. 40. POTATO CROQUETTES. —Ingredients : 8 or 10 potatoes (not new) ; 2 eggs; 1 heaped tablespoonful Plasmon ; 2 oz. butter; 1 teaspoonful flour; 1 saltspoonful salt; some fine cracker crumbs. Method.—Boil the potatoes in their skins, peel and grate them, or pass them through a Victoria nut mill; beat the butter to a cream, add the eggs, flour, salt, and Plasmon gradually, beating the mixture all the time. Form into croquettes about three inches long, brush with egg, and boil in fat at a temperature of 380 degrees. 41. LETTUCE WITH PLASMON.—Ingredients : 3 lettuces ; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon ; 1 02. butter ; seasoning ; fried croftets of Plasmon bread. f Method.—Cook the lettuce with a little water and butter till it is tender ; drain it well and pass it through a sieve ; re- heat with some butter, seasoning, and Plasmon. Serve very hot heaped upon the crohtes. Garnish with hard-boiled yolk of egg, and croutons of fried bread.30 PART III.—SWEETS. 42. PUFF PASTRY.—Ingredients: 4 oz. butter; 4 oz. flour ; 4 to 5 drops lemon juice ; 1 tablespoonful Plasmon stock ; sufficient cold water to make into a stiff paste. Method.—Sieve the flour on to a baking board, add the water and Plasmon stock. Roll out to a long strip. Place the butter in the centre, fold in three, roll out, fold in three again, set aside for 10 or 15 minutes; repeat this six times, allowing the pastry to stand between every second rolling. The pastry is then ready for baking. It must be put into a very hot oven. 43. SHORT PASTRY.—Ingredients : g lb. flour; 2 tea- spoonsful Plasmon; g a teaspoonful baking powder; 5- oz. butter: 1 dessertspoonful castor sugar; 1 egg; pinch salt. Method.—Put g lb. flour, 2 tablespoonsful Plasmon, g tea- spoonful baking powder, and a pinch of salt through a sieve. Rub 5 oz. butter lightly in, add dessertspoonful castor sugar, and mix all to a stiff paste with a little beaten-up egg and water. Roll out, and use as required. 44. PLASMON SUET DUMPLING.—Ingredients : 1 lb. flour ; 2 oz. Plasmon ; 6 oz. suet; salt. Method.—Put the flour, Plasmon, and salt in a basin; add the suet (finely chopped), and mix with cold water into a stiff dough. Wring out a cloth in boiling water, flour it, tie up the pudding (allowing room for it to swell); boil 2g hours. Note.—Apple or any fruit pudding can be made with dough as above.,3i 45. PLASMON COLLEGE PUDDING. —Ingredients : i stale sponge cake or i doz. small cakes; 2 eggs; 1 gill milk ; 1 gill Plasmon stock ; 1 tablespoonful of any jam. Method.—Break up the cake into crumbs; mix in the jam ; pour on the milk, warm : beat up the eggs stiffly, whip the Plasmon to a stiff cream; mix the eggs and Plasmon together, and stir into the mixture quickly. Steam for 2k hours. 46. RICE PUDDING. —Ingredients : 2 oz. Carolina rice ; 2 teaspoonfuls Plasmon ; 1 pint boiling milk ; sugar to taste ; and pinch salt. Method.—Sprinkle 2 oz. well-washed rice and 2 teaspoonfuls Plasmon into 1 pint boiling milk ; stir for a few minutes, add a little sugar, and put in a pie-dish; bake in a slow oven until the rice is tender. Semolina and sago may be treated in the same way. 47. PLASMON RICE PUDDING.—Ingredients : 2 oz. Carolina rice: 2 teaspoonsful Plasmon powder; 1 pint milk; sifted sugar to taste. Method.—Butter the dish; put in the rice and sugar. Mix the Plasmon with a little of the milk warm, add the remainder gradually, and pour on to the rice. Put in a slow oven, and bake for 4 hours. Tapioca, sago, etc., are made in the same way. Bake 3 hours. 48. PLASMON MOULD (without milk).—Ingredients : 2 tablespoonsful semolina; 2 teaspoonsful Plasmon powder ; 5 pint tepid water ; 1 pint boiling water ; juice 1 lemon ; sifted sugar to taste. Method.—Mix the semolina and Plasmon; add gradually the tepid water. Have the pint of water boiling in the pan with the lemon juice and sugar; pour into it the mixed semolina and Plasmon, and boil well for 15 minutes, stirring all the time. Pour into a wetted mould to set. Serve with stewed fruit or jam. Ground rice mould may be made in the same way. If desired, milk may be used instead of water, when vanilla or almond flavouring should be used.32 49. PLASMON ARROWROOT JELLY (without milk). —Ingredients : 4 teaspoonsful Plasmon arrowroot; 2 table- spoonsful cold water; 1 pint boiling water; juice 1 lemon ; sifted sugar to task. Method.—Mix the Plasmon arrowroot with the cold water. Have the pint of water boiling in a saucepan with the lemon juice and sugar; then pour the Plasmon arrowroot into it. Boil for 5 minutes, stirring all the time. Pour into a wetted mould to set. If for an invalid, half the lemon juice may be used, or as desired. If made with milk instead of water, vanilla or almond flavouring should be used. 50. PLASMON GOLDEN PUDDING.—Ingredients: 4 breadcrumbs; 1 oz. Plasmon ; 4 oz. marmalade; 4 oz. castor sugar; 4 oz. suet; 3 eggs. Method. — Put the breadcrumbs, Plasmon, and finely chopped suet into a basin ; then add the marmalade and sugar ; stir all the ingredients together, add the eggs (well whisked), put into a buttered basin, cover down with a cloth, and boil for 2 hours. This dish may be garnished by laying raisins or sultanas evenly round the buttered bowl before pouring in the mixture. When cooked, turn out carefully, and sprinkle with castor sugar. Serve with Plasmon sweet sauce. 51. PLASMON CABINET PUDDING.—Ingredients : 4 oz. stale cake, biscuits, or bread; g pint milk ; g oz. Plasmon ; 1 eSS! 1 oz- castor sugar; and a grate of nutmeg. Method.—Cut the cake, biscuit, or bread into dice shapes. Sprinkle the Plasmon over it, and put it in a buttered pudding mould. Beat up the egg, add the milk,.the sugar, and nutmeg, and beat well. Pour this into the mould, let it stand for half an hour to soak, and steam for i| hours. Serve with jam or marmalade sauce.—“ Food and Cookery,” August, 1903. 52. PLASMON CREAM. — Take 3 tablespoonfuls of Plasmon stock (No. 3, page 13) and put into a large cup ; whiskbriskly with a wheel whisk until quite thick; add sugar and flavouring to taste. The stock should be quite cold ; if made over-night it gives the best results.—“ Food and Cookery,” August, 1903. 53. SHREDDED WHEAT BISCUIT PUDDING.— (Excellent pudding for children.) Ingredients : 4 shredded wheat biscuits; 4 lb. raspberry jam ; h pint Plasmon stock; 1 gill cream ; 1 oz. castor sugar ; 12 drops vanilla essence. Method.—Take the shredded wheat biscuits; halve them lengthwise and spread inside with raspberry jam, or stewed raspberry puree. Lay them in a glass dish; pour over them sufficient raspberry liquor (made by boiling raspberry jam in water, to which Plasmon stock can be added, or with juice of fresh raspberry puree), to well soak the biscuits. Beat g pint of Plasmon stock with 1 gill of cream and 1 oz. castor sugar, to a stiff snow; flavour with 12 drops vanilla essence, heap over the biscuits and serve. 5i. QUEEN’S GOOSEBERRY PIE.—Ingredients : 4 sponge cakes ; Plasmon custard ; stewed gooseberries ; Plasmon cream. Method.—Put the sponge cakes in the bottom of a glass dish; make some custard with | pint of water and milk, 1 teaspoonful Plasmon, 1 egg, flavouring, and castor sugar. Pour this over the cakes; stew some gooseberries with a little water, and sugar to taste; when tender pour these over the custard ; whip some Plasmon stock, about a gill, to stiff cream. Put this on the top of the gooseberries; set in a hot oven, and let it brown very slightly. Serve hot or cold. 55. LIGHT APPLE PUDDING.—Ingredients : 4 or 5 apples; \ lb. butter; \ lb. sugar; 3 eggs; 1 oz. Plasmon; grated peel of one lemon. Method.—Wipe and quarter some sound ripe apples, boil them in a little water till soft, press through a sieve as much as will make \ lb.; add the butter and sugar while still hot; then, after it gets cool, mix with it the eggs beaten to a foam, the 334 Plasmon powder and the grated peel of i lemon. Butter a pudding form, dust it over with powdered sugar, and fill in your mixture. The form must be high enough to allow the rising of the pudding. Try by inserting a straw into the centre; if nothing attaches to it the baking is done. Serve at once. 56. WHITE OF EGG PUDDING. — Ingredients : 3 whites of eggs; 1 gill Plasmon stock ; 2 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade ; 1 \ oz. castor sugar. Method.—Beat the whites of eggs and Plasmon stock to a stiff snow ; mix in very carefully the apricot marmalade and the sugar; fill the whole into a buttered china dish and bake in a slow oven for about half an hour. Serve immediately or it will fall. 57. PLASMON CORNETS.—Ingredients : Flaky pastry ; | pint Plasmon stock; 5 oz. gelatine; | oz. sugar; 10 drops essence of vanilla ; cocoanut and chopped pistachio nuts. Method.—Make the cases on cornet tins; melt the gelatine in a little water, strain to the sugar and Plasmon stock; add essence, and whisk till stiff; divide the mixture, and colour one half with coffee essence and the other half with carmine. Fill the cases with some of the mixture; decorate those filled with the coffee mixture with pistachio nuts, and those with red with the cocoanut. 58. SANDWICH. —Ingredients: 2 eggs; 4 tablespoonfuls sugar; 3 tablespoonfuls flour; 1 tablespoonful cream; 1 oz. pistachio 7iuts; 1 tablespoonful Plasmon stock; 1 teaspoonful baking poivder; 1 tablespoonful butter, melted. Method.—Beat the eggs and sugar, then add the flour, butter, and baking powder. Put into two tins and bake for 5 minutes. Whip together 1 tablespoonful cream and 1 table- spoonful Plasmon stock and spread on 1 sandwich; sprinkle on the pistachio nuts, chopped, and cover with the other sandwich.35 59. PLASMON MOULD.—Ingredients : 5 teaspoonfuls Plasmon ; 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla essefice; 1 pint milk ; 2 oz. sugar; yolks of 2 eggs ; 1 pint lemon jelly; f oz. cornflour ; ] oz. gelatine. Method.—Dissolve the Plasmon in k pint of milk in a double saucepan, and cool for 5 minutes. Boil the cornflour and 4 pint of milk together for 10 minutes; then add the sugar, yolks of eggs well beaten, vanilla, and thicken; mix in the Plasmon, and lastly the gelatine, previously dissolved in a little warm water, very gradually. Turn into a wet flat tin to set. When set, cut into diamonds, stars, or any fancy shape. Line the bottom of a mould with some of the jelly, let it set; then lay in the custard shapes and more jelly to cover; set, and repeat until the mould is full. Some of the custard may be coloured, if liked, to give variety. 60. ECONOMICAL PLASMON MOULD.-Ingredients : i pint milk; 1 \ oz. cornflour; | oz. Plasmon; 2 oz. loaf sugar. Method.—Mix the cornflour and Plasmon to a smooth paste with a little cold milk. Boil milk in an enamelled pan, add sugar and the paste, stir with a wooden spoon until it boils ; stir and boil for eight minutes. Turn into a wet mould. 61. EGG MOULD. — Ingredients : 1 dessertspoonful Plasmon ; 1 gill water; 2 eggs ; flavouring; 1 dessertspoonful castor sugar. Method.—Stir the Plasmon smoothly into the water, add the well-beaten eggs, the sugar, and flavouring; cook gently till the mixture thickens; pour into a prepared mould ; when set, turn out and serve. Note.—Milk may be used instead of water. 62. FLORADOR MOULD.—1 pint milk; 1 oz. Plasmon powder; rind of half a lemon pared very thin ; 1 oz. castor sugar ; 1 j oz. (medium) Florador.3^ Method.—Mix the Plasmon and Florador to a smooth paste ; bring the milk almost to the boil with the lemon rind and sugar in it. Add gradually to the paste ; return the whole to the saucepan and cook for io minutes, stirring with a wooden spoon. Pick out the lemon rind and turn the whole into a wet mould to set. 63. PLASMON CHOCOLATE MOULD (without milk). -—Ingredients : x tablespoonful cornflour; i tablespoonful Plasmon cocoa ; \ pint tepid water ; | pint boiling water ; 3 oz. sugar ; vanilla flavouring to taste. Method.—Put the cornflour and Plasmon cocoa into a basin, mix with the tepid water gradually; have the water boiling with the sugar in it (milk may be used in place of water if preferred). Add the mixed cornflour and Plasmon cocoa and vanilla. Let it boil for five minutes, stirring all the time. Pour into a wetted mould to set. Decorate with blanched almonds, and serve with Plasmon cream whipped very stiffly. 65. BOILED CUSTARD.—Ingredients : 3 teaspoonfuls Plasmon; h pint milk; 3 lumps sugar; 1 egg. Method.—Put 3 teaspoonfuls of Plasmon into a saucepan, adding gradually \ pint lukewarm milk; boil for 2 minutes, then add 3 lumps of sugar and 1 well-beaten egg. Stir till custard thickens, but do not allow it to boil. 65. STEAMED CUSTARD.—Ingredients: 4 teaspoonfuls Plasmon ; \ pint milk ; 2 eggs ; sugar. Method.—Dissolve the Plasmon in milk as above, then add to it 2 beaten-up eggs, which should be poured into a buttered mould and steamed gently for 30 minutes—till custard is set. This may be put into a pie dish and baked in a slow oven. 66. PLASMON LEMON SNOW. —Ingredients : 1 pint water; | oz. gelatine; | oz. Plasmon; 2 oz. castor sugar; whites of 2 eggs; rind and juice of 2 lemons. Method.—Put the gelatine, Plasmon, water, and lemon rinds into an enamelled pan ; stir over a slow fire until the37 gelatine is dissolved, then strain into a basin. When nearly cold add the sugar, lemon juice, and egg; whisk all to a stiff froth ; pile in a glass dish and serve.. This dish must be prepared only just before it is wanted, as, like souffle, it is apt to collapse. 67. PLASMON RASPBERRY CREAM. —Ingredients : 1 pint milk; 3 teaspoonfuls Plasmon ; \ pint raspberry juice (made from fresh fruit or jam); 1 oz. gelatine; about 3 oz. sugar; 1 lemon rifid; 1 tablespoo?iful brandy ; a feiv drops of cochineal; about | pint clear jelly, to mask the mould; a little preserved fruit or fresh raspberries, for decoration. Method.—Rinse a mould with cold water, mask it with a little clear jelly, and decorate with the preserved fruits ; pour in a little more clear jelly, just sufficient to cover the fruit, and allow it to set. Make g pint of the milk just lukewarm, and pour it gradually upon 3 teaspoonfuls of Plasmon, keeping it well stirred. Place the saucepan over the fire and boil for 2 minutes, stirring all the time. When cooked pour the Plasmon stock into a basin and allow it to get cold. Tear up the gelatine and put it to soak for a few minutes in the other g pint of milk, then place it in a saucepan with the thinly peeled rind of lemon, and dissolve it very carefully; strain it into a basin and allow it to cool. If fresh fruit is not in season, take 2 large tablespoonfuls of raspberry jam and 1 dessert- spoonful of red currant jelly and boil together with a ^ pint of water and 2 oz. of sugar until it becomes a thick syrup ; strain it, and when a little cooled stir it gently into the gelatine and milk. When the Plasmon stock is quite cold whisk it until it is quite thick, then stir it very gently into the other ingredients ; add the brandy and enough cochineal to make it a good colour, pour it into the prepared mould and allow it to set. To turn out, immerse the mould in hot water. 68. GINGER CREAM.—Ingredients: Yolks of 3 eggs; 1 oz. sugar; 1 gill milk ; \ gill gitiger syrup ; h pint cream ; 2 oz. ginger ; f oz. gelatine ; 3 teaspoonfuls Plasmon. Method.—Dissolve Plasmon in the milk and boil for 2 minutes, then make into a custard with yolks; add sugar and set aside to cool; whip the cream ; dissolve gelatine in ginger syrup. Stir the dissolved gelatine into the custard,38 add the ginger cut up into dice, and lastly the whipped cream. When commencing to set pour into a mould coated with wine jelly and ornamented. 69. COFFEE CREME. Ingredients: f pint milk; i oz. Plasmon ; 2 oz. ground Moca ; yolks of 5 eggs ; 2 oz. sugar. Method.—Boil the milk with the Plasmon, stirring all the time, then pour into it the Moca coffee. Cover up and put in a warm place where it will draw, not boil, leave it there for about 10 minutes, then strain and add the yolks of eggs, beaten light beforehand, and the sugar. Beat the whole vigorously, fill into cups and finish in a bain-marie. Note.—For a bain-marie use a shallow pan. Fill with boiling water up to three-quarters the height of the cups you are going to use. Cover the pan with a second one, and leave it where the water keeps boiling moderately. When the surface of the mixture begins to thicken, which will be in about 10 minutes, remove the pan from the fire and take the cups out of the water, for if the water is allowed to boil too rapidly or too long the custards will be spoilt. 70. CHOCOLATE CREME.—Ingredients : oz. Plas- mon chocolate ; 1 pint milk ; 4 eggs ; 2 oz. sugar. Method.—Dissolve the chocolate in the hot milk, and proceed exactly as in the foregoing recipe. Both the above are delicious cold sweets. 71. PLASMON ICE CREAM. —Ingredients : 1 table- spoonful Plasmon poivder; 1 pint milk or milk and cream ; 4 tablespoonfuls castor sugar. Essence of vanilla (for vanilla ice) ; | pint pineapple puree (for pineapple ice) ; h pint fresh raspberry or strawberry puree, passed through a sieve (for raspberry or straivberry ice). Method.—Mix the Plasmon with the milk and boil it; when cold, stir in the sugar and the fruit or essence, which- ever is used. Freeze in the ordinary way. This ice, being nourishing, is highly recommended for invalids and in throat troubles. Ices with other flavourings, such as strawberry, raspberry, etc., may be made in the same way.39 72. PLASMON COFFEE ICE.—2 oz. (2 heaped table- spoonfuls) Plasmon to make 1 pint Plasmon milk stock (see below) ; 1 pint water ; 4 oz. coffee ; 8 oz. sugar ; 1 gill cream. The Plasmon Milk Stock is made as followsPut 1 pint of milk in a pan to warm, put the 2 oz. of Plasmon in a basin, add enough of the milk whilst it is tepid to mix the Plasmon well; when mixed add it to the rest of the milk in the pan and boil, stirring all the time ; then stand aside to cool. Method.—Make the coffee with the water in the usual way, strain well, and stand aside to cool; add it to the Plasmon milk stock; add the cream and sugar. Freeze as usual. 73. PLASMON YANILLA ICE CREAM.—Ingredients : 2 oz. (2 heaped tablespoonfuls) Plasmon; 1 quart milk ; 1 gill cream; 6 oz. castor sugar; 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence. Method.—Warm up a pint pf the milk in a stewpan. Mix the Plasmon in a basin with enough tepid milk to make a creamy mixture; then add the remainder of the milk in the pan, and boil, stirring all the time ; add the sugar and then allow it to cool. This is Plasmon milk stock. When cold add the pint of cold milk, the cream, and the vanilla essence. Mix and freeze in the usual manner.—“ Food and Cookery,” September, 1903. 74. PLASMON APRICOT ICE.—The same as above, omitting the vanilla and adding one pint of apricot pulp, which is obtained by passing the cooked fruit through a sieve. Straw- berries, peaches, and other fruits may be used in the same way. When preserved fruits are used less sugar than the above quantity should be taken.—“ Food and Cookery,” September, 1903. 75. PASTRY BASKET.—Ingredients : ^ H>• flour; 5 lb. butter; yolk of 1 egg; 2 teaspoonfuls Plasmon; g teaspoonful baking pmvder ; 2 oz. chopped burnt almonds ; 1 gill cream ; a few apricots. Method.—Place the flour, Plasmon, and baking powder in a basin ; mix well, then rub in butter, and form into a paste with cold water and the yolk. Line a square tin with the pastry,40 also six cornucopia moulds, and bake in quick oven. When cooked and cold, brush over with beaten white of egg and coat with the chopped almonds. Place a layer of apricots in the bottom of pastry case and fill the cornucopia with them cut in pieces ; fill up with whipped cream. 76. QUAINTON BASKETS. —Ingredients : The weight of 2 eggs in butter, sugar, and flour; pinch salt; a few drops vanilla essence ; Plasmon slock ; royal icing ; angelica. Method.—Beat butter and sugar to a cream ; add eggs, one at a time, and beat well; sift in the flour, stirring gently. Butter some oval-shaped tins, fill them two-thirds, and bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes. When cold take out the centre neatly ; put some narrow strips of angelica to form handles ; decorate the sides with royal icing, trellis-work pattern. For centre, whip some Plasmon stock, slightly sweeten, add a few drops of vanilla, whip until a nice cream, fill baskets ; if this sweet has to wait any time it is as well to add a little cream or white of egg to the Plasmon stock to give extra stiffness. Sprinkle with chopped pistachio, place on one or two cherries dipped in fondant, and serve daintily. 77. CREAM TARTS. —Ingredients: 3 oz. flour; 1 oz. Plasmon ; 2 oz. hitter; salt; yolk of egg and water ; whipped cream ; jam. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour and add the Plasmon and salt, mix to stiff paste with the egg and water, roll out, put into greased tins, and bake in a hot oven for half an hour; when cold put in cream and jam or Plasmon snow cream. 78. PLASMON MOSS BASKETS. —Ingredients : 2 eggs; 4 tablespoonfuls castor sugar; 3 tablespoonfuls flour ; 1 tablespoonful Plasmon ; 1 teaspoonful baking powder ; flavouring to taste. Method.—Beat the eggs and sugar to a cream; then add the flour, Plasmon, and baking powder; put into round greased tins, and bake in a slow oven for about 15 minutes. Scoop out the centre, dip in thick Plasmon stock, toss in chopped pistachio nut, and fill with cream.4i 79. MAFEKING PUDDING.—Ingredients: i pint warm water ; xo teaspoonfuls Plasmon ; 4 teaspoonfuls castor sugar ; a feiv drops vanilla essence ; 6 bananas ; 4 os. Savoy biscuits ; 1 pint cream or whites of 2 eggs whisked stiffly into h pint cold Plasmon stock. Method.—Prepare a pretty flat dish (white, to show up the colours of this dainty pudding). Make the Plasmon jelly thus: Pour 1 pint of warm water on to 10 teaspoonsfuls Plasmon (in a double saucepan, to dissolve this large quantity evenly); boil for 4 minutes, then pour into the dish and set till cool. When set, place a thick layer of bananas, cut in slices lengthways, on the set jelly ; sprinkle lemon juice and sugar over the bananas, then heap up very lightly the Plasmon snow cream ; tint a little a pale pink for top; decorate sides of dish with Savoy biscuits placed standing upwards. 80. PLASMON FANCY SWEET.—Ingredients : 12 sponge fingers; 2 bananas; 1 gill cream; 1 dessertspoonful Plasmon. Method.—Arrange the sponge fingers prettily in a glass dish; peel and slice the bananas ; whip up the cream with 1 tablespoonful of sugar. Add the sliced banana, pile high in the centre of the sponge; decorate with preserved cherries and angelica. Garnish with chopped pistachios. 81. CHARLOTTE OF PLASMON.—Ingredients : 12 Savoy biscuits; f pint Plasmon stock; 15 drops essence vanilla; i' oz. sugar; | oz. gelatine; violets; angelica; 2 tablespoonsfuls jelly. Method.—Put into a round tin about 2 tablespoonfuls jelly and allow it to set; line the tin with Savoy biscuits trimmed nicely; put Plasmon stock, essence, sugar, and gelatine (previously melted in 1 tablespoonful of water) into a basin, and whisk until stiff; fill the centre of the tin and allow to set; turn on to a dish and decorate to taste with violets and angelica. 82. PLASMON CHOCOLATE JELLY.—Ingredients : 2 oz. Plasmon cocoa ; 1 \ oz. cornflour; 2.\ oz. sugar ; i4 pints water ; vanilla flavouring.42 Method.—Mix the cocoa and cornflour to a smooth batter with a little Plasmon and tepid water, add the sugar, and heat up. Add the remainder of the water and boil for five minutes whilst stirring. Remove from the fire and add a few drops of vanilla essence. Pour into a pudding mould previously rinsed with cold water. When quite set turn out on a dish and decorate with whipped cream and angelica.— “Food and Cookery,” September, 1903. 83. PLASMON CALYES-FEET JELLY.—Ingredients : i pint sweetened calves-feet jelly; rinds of 2 lemons; g pint Plasmon jelly; 5 teaspoonfuls Plasmon; g pint ivater. Method.—To | pint of sweetened calves-feet jelly, in which the rinds of two lemons have been steeped, mix, when cool, £ pint of Plasmon jelly, 5 teaspoonfuls Plasmon, and g pint water. Pour into a mould, and when set turn out. Lemon juice or any other acid must not be used.fqr feVfg’TWgaP,'' tbfn mixture on to board, add the Plasmon, knead well (like bread) with the hands into a smooth mass, then colour and flavour as pleased. This mixture will make 10 strawberries, coloured with carmine, and 5 or 6 small carrots, coloured with carmine and apricot yellow. Tie carrots in bundles with ribbon. Put strawberries in bon-bon cases. 90. PLASMON FONDANTS (Portable Food for Cyclists) .—Ingredients : g lb. loaf sugar ; g gill water; 1 oz. butter ; 1 tablespoonful cream ; 2 teaspoonfuls Plasmon ; vanilla afid chocolate. Method.—Boil the sugar and water to 245 degrees Fahr. ; wet a bowl with cold water, pour the mixture into it; beat to a cream; add Plasmon, butter, and cream; beat till well mixed and white; flavour and colour if liked. Have ready some milled chocolate ; form fondant mixture into little cakes, dip them in the milled chocolate, and drop on greasy proof paper to cool. Put in bon-bon cases.4 PART IV.—SAVOURIES. Although the following recipes are classed as “ Savouries,” to serve as a course immediately following sweets, most of the dishes are suitable for hors d’ceuvres. They are also well adapted for buffets at balls, evening parties, “at homes,” etc. The tomato paste is capable, in competent hands, of being turned to much use in the preparation of quite a variety of savoury toasts, tartlets, etc. 91. PLASMON BUTTERFLIES.—Ingredients : 2 oz. flour; h teaspoonful Plasmon, for pastry; i oz. butter; 2 oz. Parmesan cheese ; dust cayenne pepper and salt, white pepper, baking powder; 1 small egg; | gill cream ; f teaspoonful Plasmon ; for mixture, a few drops cochineal; parsley stalks. Method.—Put the flour into a basin, add \ teaspoonful of Plasmon, cayenne, white pepper, and salt. Rub in the butter, add 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese and pinch of baking powder ; mix to stiff paste with well-beaten egg ; roll out to about g in. in thickness; stamp out 8 or 9 rounds with a fluted cutter about the size of a crown piece; work up all the remaining pieces into a ball; roll out, cut into crescent shapes (16 or 18); bake on a greased tin in a moderate oven for about 10 minutes. When quite cold smear round the edges of the pastry with cochineal, using the finger for the purpose. Whip up the cream stiffly, add f teaspoonful Plasmon, 1 oz. grated cheese, pepper, and salt. Force this mixture through a large rose pipe on to the rounds; fix 2 crescent shapes in the cream to represent wings, and 2 tiny pieces of parsley stalk to represent feelers. Serve on a dish paper. Cost \ to. fump sugar; 1 tectspoonpu Plasmon ; .j teacup water. Method.—Beat eggs well; boil sugar and water together tor x minute; dissolve Plasmon in the water and sugar, and46 Plasmon ; sap green ; and small quantity of truffles, chilli and parsley. Method.—Take two filleted whiting, or the remainder of any cold white fish, pound in a mortar until quite smooth, add i tablespoonful thick Bechamel sauce; add to these, very slowly, 4 tablespoonfuls Plasmon jelly, just dissolved, and mix well together; season with cayenne and pinch of salt; stand in a cool place for half-hour to set, then place on a slab in portions about the size of a small egg; press flat, place in centre of each a piece of lobster butter (made as below) to form yolk, close each up into the shape of an egg, and stand on ice for 15 minutes. Make 1 pint of Plasmon jelly, to be used for outside coverings; divide into three equal portions for the green, brown, and white. For green, add a few drops of sap green ; the brown, add a little Beef Plasmon ; the white, 1 teaspoonful of cream; then coat each egg over three times ; garnish the green with truffles; the brown and white with chopped parsley ; add a little finely chopped chilli on the brown. Serve for breakfast dish. Lobster Butter.—Take half the contents of a small jar of lobster paste and mix with | oz. fresh butter, and use as above. 93. ANCHOYY PATTIES. —Ingredients: | oz. butter; | gill Plasmon stock; \ oz. flour; x hard-boiled egg; 1 tea- spoonful anchovy sauce ; pepper and salt; a squeeze of lemon juice ; | teaspoonful chopped parsley. Method.—Melt the butter, add the flour, then the stock ; allow to boil until the panada leaves the sides of the saucepan. Chop parsley and egg, and add together. 94. PLASMON HAM JELLY.—Ingredients : { lb. ham; | pint Plasmon jelly ; 1 tablespoonful aspic jelly. Method.—Take ^ lb. ham, pounded and passed through a sieve ; mix with \ pint Plasmon jelly 1 tablespoonful aspic jelly ; set in any little fancy moulds. Serve for breakfast or49 PART V—CAKES, BISCUITS, AND BREAD. 103. PLASMON SPECIAL ORNAMENTAL CAKE.-^ Ingredients: 4 lb. butter; 4 lb. castor sugar; 6 oz. flour; 2 oz. Plasmon ; 3 eggs ; 4 lb. almond paste. Method.—Beat 4 lb. butter into a cream, add 4 lb. castor sugar and beat again for 10 minutes; take 6 oz. flour and 2 oz. Plasmon. Well mix together, then slowly work in with butter and sugar; beat up 3 eggs (only 3 required when using Plasmon), add to the other ingredients, and thoroughly mix all together; flavour with a few drops of vanilla essence ; have tin ready, well buttered, and paper well buttered to line it; place the mixture in, and bake in moderate oven about 1 hour. When cold, ice over with pink icing made to a paste of the ordinary consistency with Plasmon stock. Take | lb. almond paste and mix in 1 teaspoonful of Plasmon, add a few drops of sap green to colour; have ready white Royal icing and ornament the top in any fancy design. 104. CHOCOLATE CAKE.—Ingredients : | lb. butter; \ lb. castor sugar; j lb. fine flour; | lb. Plasmon chocolate; 1 oz. Plasmon powder ; a little icing sugar a?id milk. Method.—Beat | lb. butter to a cream, and | lb. castor sugar, then add 5 lb. fine flour and 1 oz. Plasmon, also | lb. Plasmon chocolate and 2 well-beaten eggs; bake 1 hour. Pour Plasmon chocolate, melted with a little icing sugar and milk, over cake. 105. SPONGE CAKES —I ngredients : 5 eggs; 4 lb. flour, I lb. lump sugar; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon ; 2 teacup water. Method.—Beat eggs well; boil sugar and water together for 1 minute; dissolve Plasmon in the water and sugar, and 45o pour hot on the eggs, beating all the time; whisk till thick, then sift in flour ; stir very lightly and pour into greased and sugared tins; bake in a moderate oven till done. The above quantities are sufficient to make two nice cakes. 106. LEMON CAKE.—Ingredients: g lb. flour; \ lb. butter ; | lb. castor sugar ; 2 eggs ; 1 oz. Plasmon ; 1 teaspoonful baking powder; rind of 1 lemon; 1 oz. candied lemon peel; | gill milk. Method.-—Put butter and sugar into a basin and beat to a cream, then add the eggs and beat well again; stir in all the dry ingredients except the baking powder; add the milk and flavourings, and mix well;, stir in the baking powder; turn into well-greased tins, and bake in a moderate oven from 20 minutes to 1 hour, according to size. Try the cake with a skewer, if it comes out clean the cake is done. Turn out and place on a sieve to cool. 107. SWISS ROLL.—Ingredients: 3 eggs; 4 oz. sugar; 3 oz. flour ; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon stock ; £ teaspoonful baking powder ; 2 tablespoonfuls jam. Method.—Whisk the sugar and eggs together over hot water (not boiling) until thick and creamy; add Plasmon stock and flour, mix lightly together, and lastly add baking powder. Butter a baking tin and line it with a buttered paper, on to which pour the mixture. Place in a hot oven and bake from 7 to 10 minutes. Heat the jam. When the roll is ready turn out on a piece of white paper which has been dusted with castor sugar. Spread on jam and roll up quickly. Icing for Swiss Roll.—Ingredients : 4 oz. icing sugar; 2 oz. fresh butter ; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon stock ; 2 sticks Plasmon chocolate. Method.—Rub sugar through a sieve, mix the butter and sugar together, grate the chocolate and add to mixture which is then ready for use. 108. PEACH CAKES.—Ingredients : 6 oz. flour; pinch salt; 3 oz. castor sugar; 3 oz. butter; 3 eggs; 2 teaspoonfuls Plasmon ; \ teaspoonful baking powder ; a little carmine and sugar.5i Method.—Put butter and sugar in a bowl, beat 10 minutes ; add yolks of eggs, and beat io minutes. Beat whites to stiff froth; add flour mixed with Plasmon ; next add a little of egg and flour alternately, stirring gently all the time. Lastly, add baking powder ; pour mixture into buttered moulds (peach- shaped for preference); bake in moderate oven 15 minutes. Colour with carmine and sift sugar over. Garnish with vine leaves. 109. ALMOND CAKES.—Ingredients : 2 oz. flour ; 2 oz. castor sugar ; 2 oz. butter ; 1 legg; pinch salt; k teaspoonful vanilla ; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon. Method.—Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; beat the egg and add it alternately with the flour (the salt and Plasmon should be previously mixed with the flour); then add the vanilla. Beat the mixture well. Grease a shallow baking tin and line with paper, spread the mixture over evenly, and bake in a quick oven for 15 minutes. Just before it is done brush over with the white of 1 egg beaten up with 1 oz. sugar; then strew 2 oz. chopped almonds over and return to the oven, and bake till a fawn colour. Turn out and cut into triangle shapes. 110. PLASMON TEA BUNS.—Ingredients : 2 oz. butter ; 2 oz. sugar; 5 oz. flour; x large teaspoonfil Plasmon; 1 egg, divided and beaten separately; 2 oz. dried cherries; 1 oz. angelica, cut up thinly ; a few drops vanilla flavouring ; J tea- spoonful baking powder. Method.—Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add yolk of egg, and beat well; then add flavouring; mix dry ingredients on plate and add them to the ingredients in the basin, and a little milk if required—it must not be mixed too stiffly. Lastly, add the white of egg, beaten to stiff froth ; put the mixture into small greased tins, and bake in hot oven for about 15 minutes; or it maybe baked in one large tin, when it will tak# about 1 hour to cook. 111. PLASMON CHEESE CAKES.—Ingredients: 1 pint milk ; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon; 1 oz. butler; 1 oz. sugar; 1 oz. flour ; 1 oz. almonds, blanched and chopped; a few drops essence of almonds ; 1 egg.52 Method.—Put the milk into a saucepan; when warm, sprinkle in i teaspoonful of Plasmon; bring it to the boil, and let it boil for 2 minutes, stirring well all the time; then pour into a clean basin. Put the butter and flour into the saucepan and stir over the fire for a few minutes; then add the sugar, flavouring, the egg (well-beaten), and the milk with the Plasmon dissolved in it; stir all together, and boil for about 3 minutes; then stir in the chopped almonds. Line some patty-pans with flaky pastry, put some of the cheese cake mixture in each, and bake in a hot oven for about 15 minutes. 112. CHERRY CAKES.—Ingredients : For Pastry— 3 oz. flour; 1 oz. Plasmon; 2 oz. butter; salt; yolk of egg, and water. For Mixture—2 oz. butter; 2 oz. sugar; 1 oz. dried cherries; 1 oz. peel; 1 oz. cake crumbs; 5 oz. cornflour; 1 egg. Method.—To make the mixture, cream the butter and sugar together, and add the rest of the dry ingredients and the eggs gradually until it becomes like a thick cream. Make the pastry by rubbing the butter into the flour and adding the Plasmon, mixing with the egg and water until it becomes a thick paste. Roll out and cut into rounds; put pastry into greased tins, and add a teaspoonful of the mixture. Bake in a hot oven for 15 minutes. 113. COCOANUT BISCUITS.—Ingredients : | lb. cocoa- nut ; 5 lb. castor sugar; 1 oz. Plasmon; whites of 3 eggs. Method.—Put castor sugar and eggs into a basin, and whisk to a stiff froth; then lightly stir in cocoanut and Plasmon. Place in little heaps on a buttered paper on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes. Dry well, and keep in an air-tight tin. 114. SHORTBREAD. —Ingredients: 6 oz. flour; 2 oz. Plasmoti; \ lb. butter; 2 oz. castor sugar; flavouring. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour; add the Plasmon, sugar, and flavouring ; knead well until it is quite smooth ; roll out, and bake in slow oven about | hour.53 115. SPONGE FINGERS.—Ingredients : The weight of 2 eggs in sugar, i egg in Plasmon, and 2 eggs in flour. Method.—Beat the eggs and sugar well together ; sprinkle in the Plasmon and flour gradually, stirring all the time. Put into greased tins ; bake in a very hot oven for 6 minutes. 116. WINE BISCUITS.—Ingredients : 8 oz. pastry flour ; 5 oz. butter; 2 oz. Plasmon stock; rind of 1 lemon; 2 oz. sugar; 1 oz. cornflour. Method.—Cream the sugar and butter well together; add the Plasmon stock, beat well, add flour lightly. Knead the mixture into a nice stiff dough, roll on a well-floured board, cut into fancy shapes, bake 15 minutes a pale colour, decorate with coloured sugars. 117. PLASMON BREAD (Home-made). —Ingredients : 3 lb. flour; 1 teaspoonful salt; b oz. German yeast; 5 oz. Plasmon; 1 teaspoonful sugar; i| pint warm water or milk and ivater; salt. Method.—Put flour in basin, make a hole in centre and sprinkle salt round the sides ; dissolve the Plasmon in the warm water, and add to the yeast and sugar; pour into the centre of flour, then knead well, and set to rise for about 2 hours. Make into loaves, and bake till done. Wholemeal Bread.—The same proportions as white bread, using fine wholemeal.54 PART VI.—IN VALID COOKERY. The following recipes have been specially prepared for invalids (particularly diabetics), but practically every one of these will be found delicious and quite suitable for ordinary use. If not required for patients suffering from obesity, diabetic affections, gout, and certain forms of skin diseases, sugar should be substituted for saccharin in the sweet dishes. Although saccharin (a preparation from coal-tar) possesses a sweetening power many times greater than cane or beet sugar, it is not a food, and is therefore of no value except medicinally. It is to be noted that Plasmon lightens dishes and greatly facilitates digestion and nutrition. 118. FISH CUSTARD.—Method: Take fora i-pint mould 2 large tablespoonfuls Plasmon, dissolve in \ pint tepid milk; let this come to the boil, turn into a basin to get cold, and keep stirring occasionally. Have a haddock or 2 whitings cut into slices, and boil in milk for about f hour; add to this 1 sliced onion, white and black peppercorns, 2 bay-leaves and a little thyme; simmer for about 5 hour, strajn, and when cold add to this the raw yolks of 3 eggs and the prepared Plasmon. Pour into a buttered mould, and steam for 1 hour. 119. REEF TEA (Diabetic).—Ingredients : \ lb. beef s.'enk ; \pint water ; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon; 1 pinch of salt. Method.—Shred beef finely and place in the water, to which the salt and Plasmon have been added, and let it stand about 1 hour ; then put into a jar or saucepan, and cook gently for 20 minutes. Do not let it boil; stir well while cooking. Beef-tea jelly may be made in the same way, using 1 gill water, 1 teaspoonful Plasmon.55 120. MUSHROOM CUTLETS (Diabetic).—Ingredients : h lb. mushrooms ; i oz. butter ; x tablespoonful thick Plasmon stock; i teaspoonful cream; i egg; seasoning to taste ; i tablespoonful dry Plasmon ; frying fat. Method.—Prepare mushrooms, melt butter in a saucepan, and stew mushrooms in it till tender; chop finely or rub through sieve ; then add Plasmon stock, cream, and seasoning. When cold and stiff shape into cutlets, brush over with egg, and sprinkle with dry Plasmon ; fry in boiling fat. Serve with brown gravy. 121. TOMATO CUTLETS (Diabetic).—Ingredients : i lb. tomatoes; i k tablespoonfuls Plasmon ; i oz. butter; i tablespoonful cream ; i egg; seasoning to taste ; frying fat. Method.—Stew the tomatoes in butter until tender ; rub through sieve, return pulp to saucepan, mix in i tablespoonful of Plasmon slowly, add cream and seasoning. Cook gently until quite thick, but do not boil; pour on to a plate; when cold shape into cutlets, brush over with egg, and sprinkle with Plasmon; fry in boiling fat. Serve with brown gravy. 422. BAKED APPLE PUDDING WITH CUSTARD (Diabetic). —Ingredients: h lb. apples; 2 eggs; \ gill Plasmon stock; | oz, butter; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon; saccharin to taste. Method.—Stew or bake apples until they form a pulp ; when cool, add yolk£ of two eggs, saccharin to taste, and stock; beat whites up to stiff froth and stir in lightly ; pour into a prepared pie-dish and bake gently for about 20 minutes. To prepare pie-dish, line with butter and shake over it some dry Plasmon. 123. CUSTARD (Diabetic).—Ingredients: i egg; bgill Plasmon stock; \ gill milk ; saccharin to taste; a small piece of lemon peel. Method.—Well beat egg, add stock and milk, lemon peel, and saccharin to taste ; pour into a jug or a double saucepan; cook gently until thick, but do not allow to boil.56 124. LEMON SPONGE (Diabetic).—Ingredients : \pint Plasm on stock ; -f oz. gelatine ; a little water; saccharin, lemon peel, and citric acid to taste. Method.—Soak gelatine in about a tablespoonful of water for about 20 minutes, then pur it into a saucepan with the stock, a small piece of lemon peel and saccharin ; cook until gelatine is dissolved, but do not boil; pour into a basin, add citric acid to taste, remove lemon peel, and beat mixture to a stiff froth. 125. INVALID JELLY.—Ingredients : | oz. gelatine ; | pint Plasmon stock; | pint milk; § oz. sugar ; 1 egg ; flavouring. Method.—Make the stock by mixing 1 teaspoonful Plasmon with \ pint water; bring to the boil. Dissolve the gelatine in the milk and add to stock, with the sugar flavouring and beaten-up egg. Mix well together, and pour into wet mould. 126. BEEP PLASMON (for ordinary Beef Cup).— Ingredients : 1 teaspoonful Beef Plasmon ; pepper, celery salt; 1 teaspoonful water. Method.—To 1 teaspoonful Beef Plasmon add 1 teacupful boiling water, and season with pepper and celery salt. This is improved by being boiled for 2 minutes. 127. PLASMON BLANCMANGE OR JELLY (Diabetic). —Ingredients : \ pint milk; 3 teaspoonfuls Plasmon ; saccharin ; rind of 1 lemon. Method.—Put the Plasmon into a saucepan, add to it part of the milk, mix to a thin paste, add the remainder of the milk and bring to the boil, add the lemon rind and simmer for about 20 minutes. Dissolve the gelatine in 1 tablespoonful warm water, strain it into the Plasmon, add sufficient saccharin to sweeten (about | teaspoonful), strain and mould the mixture, set in ice and turn out. Plasmon vanilla sauce can be poured round if liked.59 133. FRENCH WHITE SAUCE (Bechamel).—Ingre- dients : 2 pints white Plasmon stock ; i pint cream ; i table- spoonful Plasmon arroivroot; r small bunch herbs; i small bunch parsley ; 2 cloves; half a bay-leaf ; a feiv mushrooms or a little grated cheese ; salt to favour ; a feiv peppercorns (not pepper, as that would spoil the white colour of this sauce). Method.—Put the sweet herbs, parsley, bay-leaf, cloves, and peppercorns (tied loosely in a piece of muslin) to boil in the Plasmon stock until the stock has extracted the flavour of the herbs, etc.; remove the muslin bag of herbs, and allow the stock to boil' till nearly half is reduced. Now mix the arrow- root smoothly with the cream, pour it to the reduced stock, simmer slowly for 10 minutes if the sauce be thick ; if too thin, stir briskly till it thickens. Always make it thick, as it may be thinned by adding milk, cream, or Plasmon stock. Add grated cheese to this stock, if liked, and serve over a cauliflower, turnips, etc. 134. BROWN SAUCE (Espagnole).—Ingredients : 2 slices lean ham; 1 lb. veal; i| pint Plasmon stock; 2 or 3 sprigs parsley ; half a b ay-leaf; 2 or 3 sprigs savoury herbs ; 6 small green onions; 3 eschalots ; 2 cloves; 1 blade mace ; 2 glasses sherry or madeira ; 2 oz. butter; 2 oz. flour; 1 or 2 tablespoonful sauce ; salt to sauce. Method.—Fry the veal and ham (cut into neat pieces) a good brown, till a nicely coloured glaze is produced in the pan, then add the remainder of the stock and all the herbs, etc., and allow it to simmer for 1 hour. Strain and skim off every particle of fat; fry the flour a nice brown, add the strained stock, cook a few minutes, then add the two sauces, salt, cayenne, and last of all the wine, and serve. 135. CREAM SAUCE (for Vegetables).—Ingredients: 1 oz. Plasmon arroivroot; 1 pint Plasmon stock ; | pint cream ; salt; any fresh vegetables—carrot, turnip, onion—and bunch sweet herbs. Method.—Put all the vegetables, nicely cut, into x pint water, and cook gently till the flavour of vegetables is extracted; strain the vegetables away from stock, and use equal parts of crearn and vegetable stock or Plasmon stock ; thicken with 1-2 oz. arrowroot to each pint ; season, and add a few drops of lemon juice, if liked. Previous to adding the stock blend6o smoothly the arrowroot with cold milk to a paste. This sauce is excellent for asparagus, artichokes, young carrots and turnips, marrows, and various kinds of beans. 136. TOMATO SAUCE.—Ingredients : 3 doz. tomatoes ; i oz. garlic; i oz. eschalot; 2 oz. salt; 1 green capsicum ; h teaspoonful cayenne; 2 pickled gherkins; 6 pickled onions; 1 pint vinegar; 1 gill Plasmon stock; juice of 6 lemons. To each 1 lb. of tomato pulp allow 1 pint chilli vinegar. Method.—Choose the tomatoes when quite ripe and red; put them in a jar with a cover to it and bake them till quite tender ; skin them and rub through a hair sieve. Measure the pulp, and to each 1 lb. pulp add 1 pint vinegar, and then, having previously finely powdered or finely chopped, add all the other ingredients. Boil the whole together till everything is tender, then again rub through a sieve, and add the lemon juice. Now boil the whole again, adding the Plasmon stock till it becomes as thick as cream, and keep continually stirring (with a wooden spoon); bottle when quite cold. If the flavour of the garlic or eschalot is not liked, put very little; also very little chilli vinegar, unless a hot sauce is desired. 137. CHUTNEY SAUCE.—Ingredients: Equal parts of sweet chutney and hot chutney; add 4 tablespoonfuls, ivhen mixed, an equal measure of brown sauce ; 1 teaspoonful French mustard; 1 tablespoonful tomato pulp ; 1 gill Plasmon stock; 1 teaspoonful brown colouring; salt to taste. Method.—Boil together, mix well, and bottle. This sauce is nice with grills, broils, savouries, entrees, cold meat dishes, etc. If liked sweet, mix together more sweet chutney than hot, and vice versa. 138. SWEET SAUCE (for Puddings). —Ingredients : \ pint Plasmon stock; 1 oz. butter; \oz. flour; ig oz. sugar; grated lemon rind, or nutmegs or cinnamon, or a few bitter almonds. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour (away from the gas or fire) till of a smooth consistency, then add the Plasmon stock gradually ; cook a few minutes ; stir in the sugar and grated lemon rind, nutmeg or cinnamon, and serve. If the flavour of bitter almonds is liked, the almonds must be left in the milk, to infuse, about 10 minutes before making this sauce.6i PRICES. PLASMON GRANULATED POWDER—The Mainstay of Life.—Plasmon is the Proteid (the nourishing sub- stance) of pure, fresh milk, thoroughly sterilised, contain- ing the Organic Salts in their original unaltered condition. It is free from flavour and odour, and can be used without trouble or waste. Added to any food (animal or vege- table) it raises the nutritive value of such food to a high and trustworthy degree, and renders it more easy of digestion. In Packets, 9 d., 1/4, and 2/6 each. (Full directions for use in each packet.) PLASMON COCOA.—Prepared from the purest and best Cocoa procurable, and pure Plasmon. One cup of Plasmon Cocoa contains more real building up nutriment than ten cups of any plain Cocoa. In Tins, 9d., 1/4, and 2/6 each. PLASMON CHOCOLATE (25% Plasmon). —For Travellers, Cyclists, Athletes, etc., Plasmon Chocolate is most useful, as it contains a very high percentage of nourishment in a very small bulk, Plasmon Chocolate is satisfying and nourishing. Super Extra Fine Quality, Crisp or Cream Texture, in 1-lb. Boxes, 5/-; 2-oz. Tablets, 8d. each. Fine Quality, Crisp or Cream Texture, in i-lb. Boxes, 3/-; 2-oz. Tablets, 5d., 4-oz., 9d. each. Croquettes, in Fancy Boxes, 1/6, and in Packets, 6d. and yl. each. Oblongs in Boxes, 1 /- each.62 PLASMON ARROWROOT. — Prepared from the finest Arrowroot, with a suitable proportion of Plasmon added : forms an Ideal Food for Invalids and Children. In Tins, $d. and 9d. each. BEEF PLASMON.—A scientifically Perfect Food, being a combination of Beef Extract and Plasmon. In i-oz. Tins, $d.; 2-oz. Tins, 9d. each. PLASMON BISCUITS.—Composed of the best Flour (or wholemeal) mixed with 20% of Plasmon. They are made in many varieties by Messrs. Peek, Frean & Co., Ltd., and sold by all Grocers and Stores. Also supplied by International Plasmon, Ltd. In Tins, from 1/- to 2/4. PLASMON DIABETIC BISCUITS.—Prepared from the most suitable ingredients, and guaranteed to be absolutely free from Starch and Sugar. These Biscuits are palatable and nourishing. Sweet or Plain—4-lb. Tins, 2/-; i-lb. Tins, 4/- each. PLASMON Cyclist and Sportsman Luncheon Packet.— Contains Biscuits and Chocolate, put up in Box to fit the pocket. Invaluable to Tourists, Sportsmen, Cyclists, etc. A sufficient meal for three or four hours. In Boxes at 6d. each. PLASMON and PLASMON PREPARATIONS may be obtained at all High Class Chemists, Grocers, Stores, etc. INTERNATIONAL PLASMON, LTD., 66a, Farringdon Street, London, E.C.; 56, Duke Street, Grosvenor Square, W.63 INDEX. PAGE How to use Flasmon ... 13 Plasmon, Dry ... 13 ,, Moist ... 13 ,, Stock ... 13 ,, Cream ... ... ... ... 14 ,, White Stock ... 14 „ Infants’ Food 14 SOUPS. PAGE Beef Plasmon Soups ... ... 20 Parmentier Soup 17 Creme Printaniere 19 Plasmon Stock for Soup 17 Game Soup 18 Potato Soup 19 Hollandaise Soup 19 Potage a la Volaille ... 20 Lentil Soup 18 Vegetable Soup 19 FISH, MEAT, AND VEGETABLE DISHES. Creme de Volaille a la Plasmon 24 Plasmon, Irish Stew ... 22 Chicken Souffle . . . 24 ,, Yorkshire Pudding.. 26 Chicken set in Plasmon Jelly 25 ,, Steak and Kidney Cold Meat Shape 25 Pudding 26 C6telettes de Mouton... . . . 26 >, Tripe 27 Fish Pudding ... 21 ,, Rice Cutlets 27 Fish Pie 22 ,, Mashed Potatoes .. 28 Green Corn Fritters ... 28 Potato Croquettes 29 Hominy Cutlets 28 Savoury Plasmon Balls 23 Ham Relish ... 24 ,, Cutlets 26 Lettuce with Plasmon 29 ,, Vegetables ... 29 Mutton Collops 23 Shepherd’s Pie... 23 Mushroom Cream 28 Stuffed Tomatoes 29 Oyster Omelet... 21 Turkish Pilaff ... 25 Plasmon Mould of Kedgeree 22 Toad in the PI ole 27 SWEETS. Custard, Boiled ... 36 Economical Plasmon Mould 35 ,, Steamed 36 Egg Mould 35 Cream, Plasmon 32 Florador Mould 35 ,, Raspberry 37 Light Apple Pudding... 33 „ Ginger 37 Mafeking Pudding 4i ,, Coffee 38 Plasmon Suet Dumpling 30 ,, Chocolate 38 ,, College Pudding 3i „ Tarts 40 ,, Rice 31 Charlotte of Plasmon ... 4i ,, Mould 31 Chartreuse of Strawberries ... 42 „ Arrowroot Jelly 3264 SWEETS —Continued. PAGE PAGE Plasmon Golden Pudding 32 Plasmon Fondants 44 ,, Cabinet Pudding 32 Pastry, Puff 3° „ Cornets 34 ,, Short 3° ,, Mould 35 ,, Basket 39 ,, Chocolate Mould 36 Queen’s Gooseberry Pie 33 ,, Lemon Snow 36 Quainton Baskets 40 ,, Ice Cream ... 38 Rice Pudding ... 31 ,, Coffee Ice ... 39 Shredded Wheat Biscuit Pud- ,, Vanilla Ice Cream 39 ding 33 ,, Apricot Ice ... 39 Sandwich 34 ,, Moss Baskets 40 Souffle, Omelet 42 ,, Fancy Sweet 4i ,, Steamed 43 ,, Chocolate Jelly 4i ,, Lemon (Cold) 43 ,, Calves Feet Jelly 42 ,, Cold Chocolate 43 „ Marzipan ... 44 White of Egg Pudding 34 SAVOURIES. Anchovy Patties 46 Plasmon Mock Eggs ... 45 Aspic Jelly 48 ,, Ham Jelly ... 46 Cheese Straws ... 46 ,, Cheese Souffles (Cold) 48 ,, Balls 47 Savoury Mould 47 Macaroni Fritters . . • 48 Scrambled Egg Patties 47 Plasmon Butterflies 45 Tomato Paste for Sandwiches 47 CAKES, BISCUITS, AND BREAD. Almond Cakes... 5i Plasmon Bread... 53 Chocolate Cake ... 49 ,, Wholemeal Bread 53 Cherry Cakes ... 52 Peach Cakes 50 Cocoanut Biscuits . . . 52 Swiss Roll 50 Lemon Cake ... 5° Sponge Cakes ... 49 Plasmon Special Ornamental Shortbread 52 Cake . . . 49 Sponge Fingers 53 Plasmon Tea Buns 5i Wine Biscuits 53 ,, Cheese Cakes ... 51 INVALID COOKERY. Beef Tea ... 54 Invalid Jelly ... - 56 ,, Plasmon ... . . . 56 Lemon Sponge - 56 Baked Apple Pudding 55 Mushroom Cutlets •• 55 Custard... 55 Plasmon Blancmange ... .. 56 Cheese Biscuits 57 ,, Wine Jelly ... •• 57 Egg Jelly 57 Tomato Cutlets •• 55 Fish Custard 54 SAUCES. Bechamel Sauce • • . 59 Sweet (Arrowroot) .. S8 Brown Sauce ... 59 Sweet Sauce ... .. Co Cream Sauce ... 59 Tomato Sauce... .. 60 Chutney Sauce 60 White Sauce .. 58*rrewv 66a, Farrlfijjdon Street LONDON 56, Duke Street Grosvcnor Square LONDON. WM: i- « lT>a3Unj'^ VI ip^Jf >1031 i • ■* |v —f UJC W:: #r>'' Ip r ; ^ -. 1 r » ,- v F* '■ ’ i-? ■ ' f|l 2. • \56, Duke Street 66 a, Farrffifdon Street LONDON E.C. ?nor Square LONDON, W