^ SREflJ(FMT AND LUNCH J)ISHES SECOND EDITION LONDON: HORACE COX, QtJEEN” OFFICE, BEEAM’S BUILDINGS, E.C, Price One SIiillinR.22101424311THE “ QUEEN ” COOKERY BOOKS.Advertisements. o Delicious Breakfast Dish. Li: Q Cei CO o o 0) ■^3 c3 s fl d u c3 9 o •• c5 CO Jg CO ^ Ed ^ O CO O bo D O CQ ^ oT o n E- O s ^ e I o I U bo oc -r rS o O o a m <Q M d 1“ CO LU C3 q: < C3 < CO o LL. CO UJ LU < C3 DC O ec LU ta o ec es ec zs o >■ iC CO < ALSO PORK PIES, BRAWN, HAMS, BACON, AND LARD. PALSTHOBPES, LIMITED, DUDLEY PORT (STAFFS.), whose Modil Factory is at all times open to the inspection of Visitors. London Depot: 61, WEST SMITHFIELD, LONDON, E.C.I THE “PEN” COOKERT BOONS No. 8. BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. COLLECTED AND DESCRIBED BY S. BEATY-POWNALL, Departmental Editor “ Housewife and Cuisine,” Qo(«en Newspaper, and Author of “ A Book of Sauces.” SECOND EDITION- LONDON: HOEACE COX, “QUEEN” OFFICE, WINDSOR HOUSE, DREAM’S BUILDINGS, E.C. 1904./5 /SO ‘^5'2_ LONDON ; PaiNFED BY HOHAOE COX, WINDSOR HO08E. BREAM’S BtJILDINOS, A ( historical 1 MEDICAL WELLCOME INSTITUTE^' LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. ar .-APEEFAOE. Little, if any, originality is claimed for the following recipes, most of whicli have appeared in the Cookery columns of the Queen during the last eight or nine years, from whence they have been collected at the request of many readers of the Queen, to save reference to back numbers not always within reach. Additional recipes have, how- ever, been given, to bring this httle work as much up to date as possible; but all these, like the previous ones, have been carefully tested, and are all (as I know from practical experience) well within the capacity of any ordinary “ good plain cook;” gifted with fair intelligence and a little goodwill. I desire also to take this opportunity of acknow- ledging my indebtedness to the various authors of standard foreign cookery books, and also to offer my grateful thanks to Mrs. A. B. Marshall, and several other well-known chefs, whose kindness has so materially helj^ed and, rendered possible my work in these last years. S. Beaty-Pownall, October, 1904.Advertisements. r. * ^ SPRIMfiS DCUGHT& J r^XMCOX^£4&$HXJR£: JF'AKM PROX>XJC£:. WHITE CLOVER HONEY. Specially selected from the best Apiaries, and de- clared by connoisseurs to be the finest English Honey ever introduced to the public. Each jar bears over the cap a Red Guarantee Label with the words, “ Guaranteed Pure English Honey," without which, and the registered picture label, none is genuine. Sold in lib. and 21b. Glass Jars at Is. or 2s. by the usual dealers, or a Is. Jar will be sent direct from the factory for stam p CHEESECAKf^ CURD in Jars, Is. and 2s. ORANGE BUTTER, in Jars, 6Jd. and Is. Free Sampebs of the Cheesecake Curd and Orange Butter sent on giving your own and Grocer’s name and address, or jar of each DELIGHT mailed free forP.O. 3s. 6d. Sole Makers and Proprietors: SPRING & CO., Ltd., Brigg, Lincolnshire.COE'TElsrTS. Breakfast CHAPTER I. page 1 Eggs CHAPTER II. 19 Fish CHAPTER III. 43 Hot Dishes CHAPTER IV. 59 Cold Dishes ... CHAPTER V. ... 77 Curries and Pilaffs CHAPTER VI. 94 Luncheon CHAPTER VII. 106Advertisements. By Appointment to the KING and the Prince of Wales. D. S. F. MUSTARD. See that Colman’s name is on the Tin. CORN FLOUR. jjlM / For Blanc Manges, Custards, &c. I Self-Rising Flour. For Bread, Pastry, Cakes, Puddings, Scones, &c. io8, CANNON STREET, LONDON, andrCARROW WORKS NORWICH.BREAKFAST AiN O LUNCH DISHES. CHAPTER I. BHEAKFAST. Few, if any, House-mistresses require in these days to be reminded that as much daintiness is needed about the breakfast as about the dinner table ; and few households are in the case suggested, in some old housekeeping books, by the minute hints given regarding the s’potlessness of the napery, the brilliancy of the plate and china, and the care in the laying of the table. We may be thankful that such neglect as is implied by these suggestions is a thing of the past in any properly kept establishment. Still, unless the servants can be implicitly depended on, which is not always the case, it is well for the mistress to look round occasionally, especially in the case of a new servant, to see that all the accessories, such as hot plates, extra cold ones, extra knives and forks, &c., are at hand. The breakfast cruets especially require a friendly glance at intervals, or B2 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. the mustard will be fouiul to have degenerated into an unpleasant brown mud, the peppermill will be empty, and the salt will have hardened into a rock. If the parlourmaid cannot be trusted to see to these small matters, which, however, are very impoidant for comfort, it will be well to have small mustard pots which must be refilled daily; and either have Cerebos salt—that capital condiment which never seems to lose its condition even under the most trying circumstances—or else a jar of fine table salt must be kept in a warm place, handy to fill up the saltcellars daily. If liked, a very little cornflour may be mixed with the salt, as this prevents its caking. Next as to the breakfast itself. Bread, of course, and probably in various forms, should be at hand ; one or more hot dishes according to circumstances, one cold one, at least, on the sideboard, and either jam, compote, or fresh fruit will make up the menu. Where economy has to be studied, it is well to provide what may be called a first course in the shape of porridge, Quaker’s oats, hominy, &c., and then proceed to the hot dishes, &c. It may here be observed if the delightful breakfast heater, now to be obtained in so many different shapes and materials, is unobtainable, that a dainty little chaufferette is to be had for a very few shillings, which will keep a dish hot, and will serve afterwards as a footwarmer, &c., as may be required, at a cost of about Id. an hour. For this methylated spirit is used. Tea.—Strangely enough, considering this is almost a national drink in this country, it is by no means always found perfectly made. To begin with, theBREAKFAST. 3 water must be absolutely boiling, and not only boiling, but just freshly brought to the boil. Water that has been allowed to boil a good while, even if kept religiously at the boiling point all the time, becomes flat, and a connoisseur can at once detect if the tea has been made wdih fresh or stale boiling water; and this without casting the least doubt on the boiling of the liquid, a subject that is apt to breed disturbance between mistress and maid. Tea made with water that has not actually boiled is simply impossible! Another fault in tea, though generally more en evidence at five o’clock tea-time than at breakfast, is stewed tea, t.e.,fea kept hot either at the side of the fire, or under a heavy cosy, the leaves being allowed to infuse in the boiling water till, instead of a delicate, fragrant beverage, it becomes a bitter, astringent, decoction of tannin, absolutely fatal to the digestion of any two-legged being less eupeptic than an ostrich ! Doctors could, an’ they would, tell some fearsome tales respecting the results of drinking such misused tea. With regard to the actual quantity of tea to be used the old rule “ one spoonful each and one for the pot,’’ is a very fair one, as long as the tea is good, and the spoon not too small. First rinse out the pot well with boiling water, then put in the leaves, and pour on it sufficient boiling water; now let it stand for three to five minutes, then at once pour off the liquid into a second pot (heated like the previous one), and now, if you care to, you may pour a second portion of boiling water on to the leaves, treating this in the same way, but as you value your own and your friends’ B 24 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. digestions, do not let the tea infuse ! In former days when tea cost 18s. to 20s. a pound the spent leaves were handed over to the servants, who made a decoction by “ mashing,” or infusing them at the side of the fire, and the j3ot was kept literally “ on the hob,” for an indefinite time. Now this may have answered a hundred years or so ago, when “nerves” were confined to the “upper ten” (who could afford to use only the first brew, and W'ho moreover used China tea, which is far less strongly impregnated with tannin than the other kinds), and when the tea was simply the unsophisticated dried leaves of the plant in question; but would to-day be little less than suicidal. Tea is a strong “ pick-me-up ” if made fresh and used at once, but if left to infuse indefinitely on the hob, as is the rule in the servants’ hall and the kitchen, you simply get a more or less strong infusion of tannin, which it may be observed is absolutely the same substance as is obtained from oak-bark in tanning leather ! Now surely no one needs wilfully to tan the coats of his stomach! The Chinese method is to be recommended where a cup of tea is required in a hurry, and may be specially advised for the benefit of the unpunctual ones. For this either put a good spoonful of tea into the cup (having regard to the size of the cup), fill it up with freshly boiled water, let it stand covered for three minutes, and drink at once, or use one of the many strainers which fit on the top of the cup, and j)ut the tea into this, stand the cup itself in hot water, then pour the requisite boiling water through, cover down closely, leave for three minutes, then lift off5 BREAKFAST. tbe strainer and drink tlie tea, inuring a second supply of water tlirougli tlie leaves if necessary. Cream, milk, sugar, or sliced lemon, are all acces- sories to the tea-drinker’s comfort, and should always be eii evidence. With regard to lemon, it must be remembered that the lemon used should be a small one, and thinly sliced, a delicate slice cut through shin and pulp, about the size and thickness of haK a crown being to be p)referred. It may be observed that in these days of diet, lemon cut through pulp and peel is much to be preferred “ for the stomach’s sake ” to either milk, cream, or sugar, tempting though these may be. (Incidentally it must be remarked that cold tea, a very favourite drink for “ the hill,” or the turnips, should be made as above and poured off the moment it is ready, a fresh lemon and a sharp knife being sent out with it. Never shall I forget the face of a sportsman when, in answer to his request for “ some cold tea for my flask, please,” his hostess proceeded to fill that receptacle from the already twice watered teapot, which had been standing under the cosy for nearly two hours.) For invalids many doctors advise “ Milk tea,” or, as it is sometimes called, “ Sir A. Clarke’s tea,” from the name of its introducer. This is simply tea made with boiling milk instead of water, in exactly the same way. For invalids, only the best tea should be used; moreover, it is well to study the water you use, as on this will be foued to depend a great deal of the quality of the tea. If informed of any peculiarities in this way, a first-class tea-merchant6 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. Trill always be able to advise as to Ijest kinds and blends of tea (and even coffee) to use under the circumstances. Coffee.—The great points about coffee are that it should be freshly roasted, freshly ground, and generously used. As a rule in this country we stint the quantities most painfully. A full tablespoonful for each fair-sized breakfastcup is the pi'oper allow- ance. In the country the coffee should be always bought raw, and roasted in small quantities as required, keeping the result if necessary in an air- tight tin, from one meal to the other, but grinding it most conscientiously each time it is used. There are many coffee-roasters on the market, varying in size and simplicity; personally, the little fireproof earthenware Diahle rousset apj)eals to me most from its simplicity. It consists of two small earthenware stewpans, one fixing over the other, into which you put the coffee; place the pan, covered with its match, on the fire and jn’oceed to toss the berries over the fire (turning and returning the pan from time to time to ensure the even roasting of the berries) for about twenty to twenty-five minutes, till they are richly coloimed, rather moist, and very fragrant. Now toss them for a minute or two in a wooden sieve to cool, and then at once put them ujd in an airtight canister. Grind as wanted. Abroad cooks quietly fry the coffee with the best possible results, thus: Lightly butter, or brush over with a very little salad oil, a frying or saute pan, and place a handful or so of berries into this according to its size (do not do too many at once), and stir them overBREAKFAST. 7 tlie fire till tliey Lccoine of a ricli soft Havana brown, then grind at once and use as soon as possible. Be careful, whatever way yon roast your coffee, to discard at once any berry that shows tlie least sign of being burned, as this is sufficient utterly to ruin the whole lot. Of course dwellers in town can always make ar- rangements to have their coffee sent to them at regular intervals freshly roasted and ground. Always keep coffee, under any circumstances, in an airtight tin. The kind of coffee used is largely a matter of taste, as is also the use of chicory. Abroad, in France especially, the usual blend is, I believe, equal parts of Mocha, Bourbon, and Martinique, but this is a matter of individual liking, and also, as said before, of the water. Of chicory one part to two of pure coffee is supposed to be a fair proportion, but personally I detest all admixture, and prefer my coffee pure. For cafe noir the licjuid should be much stronger, one tablespoonful of powder to each coffeecupful being the general allowance; in some cases, however, five tablespoonfuls of coffee for four coffeecupfuls of boiling water being considered none too much. Then there is cafe turc, which is made in again another fashion. For this a special pot, much wider at the base than at the mouth, is best, and it should be made at the table on a spirit lamp. Into this pot put a teaspoonful of coffee for each person and one for the pot. Have the water ready, boiling (remember that the cups are always very small, so measure your water accordingly), pour this in, having enough8 BREAlCFASl: AND LUNCH DISHES. to fill the pot, and let it boil np three times, catching the j:)ot oft the flame each time as it boils uj); after the third boil-ui? add a teaspoonful of quite cold water, and let it stand for a few minutes to settle befoi'e pouring it out; this you must do carefully so as to have no sediment in the cup. This is a j)ar- ticularly fragrant, refreshing mixture, dark, strong, and perfectly clear, very different from the extra- ordinary mud people will offer you as Turkish coffee, or cafe a la Levantine, in this country. But please remember, for this coffee the best, freshly ground and roasted, and absolutely innocent of chicory, can alone be used ! For ordinary purposes the common tin or china cafctiei-e answers capitally, and needs no spu’it lamp, if the pot be stood in a pan of hot water, whilst the boiling water is poured through it. Please impress on your servants that boiled coffee is spoiled coffee, and should never be seen at a decent table. Bring the water just to the boil if you please, but not one iota beyond! Coffee Extract.—Coffee is, needless to say, always best fresh made, but in cases of emergency the following will be found both practical and useful. Infuse 11b. of freshly roasted and ground coffee in a quart of boiling water for two or three hours, keeping the pot, which should be tightly closed, in the bainmarie, or in a lai’ger pot three parts full of boiling water, all the time. Now tammy it, return it to the i^an (which should be an enamelled one), and boil it down sharply to a pint. If to be kept, allow a sherry glassful of best cognac to each pint as you bottle it off. Keep the bottles closely sloppered.BREAKFAST. 9 If properly made tliis keeps tlie aroma and flavour of tlie eofl'ee most wonderfully. For use stir a spoonful of tills into a cup of absolutely boiling milk or water as you choose. The size of the spoon must be in proportion to the cup. Chocolate.—For this scrape or grate down any good chocolate to taste into a pan containing gills of water for each bib. of chocolate; then set it on the fire and keep it constantly beaten till it is quite thick, when you add in gradually, beating it all the time, about a pint of new milk. If you do not possess a proper “ chocolate mill,” or moussoir (which, if you use chocolate much, is well worth the few jDence it costs), take either a delicately clean whisk, or a wooden spoon, and twirl it between the palms of your hands, beating and frothing the chocolate at the same time. The quantity of milk is a question of taste, as is also the consistency. The above is for breakfast chocolate d VAncjlaise. In Spain and Austria the milk is omitted and the chocolate made so stiff that the spoon will almost stand upright in it, a strong flavouring of cinnamon, vanilla, &c., being added in the first, and a spoonful of liqueur-flavom’ed, stiffly whiskdd cream in the latter country. Cocoa.—Any of the patent cocoas on the market can be made by the directions sent out with them, but from personal experience I should advise the mixture being always just brought to the boil before use, as this seems to give far more flavour than when the powder is simply mixed with boiling water.10 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. Cocoanibs.—For ihis put 4oz. of cocoauibs into a pau witli three quarts of water, bring it all to the boil, then let it simmer steadily for quite five hours till the water is reduced to two-and-a-half quarts. Then pour the cocoa off the nibs (if left longer than five hours the liquid acquires an acrid, bitter taste; and leave it till cold, when all the fat on the surface must be carefully skimmed off. It should then be boiled up again for use. Unlike tea or coffee, this cocoa is all the better for re-heating. In a house I knew the cocoapot was never empty nor off the hob, and its fame was such that all the workpeople on the estate always gladly welcomed a cup of “ the mistress’s cocoa ” (she drank nothing else), and the cocoa there was famed far and wide; though no one apparently grasped the secret of its excellence, namely that the pot was always at the side of the fire. A fresh supi:)ly of cocoa was made daily or so, left to cool, then carefully skimmed, and added cold to the last pot each time any was taken from the latter, which was incontinently boiled up again. Porridge.—Put a pint and a half of water into a delicately clean pot (always keep one for the pur- pose), and directly it boils well, sprinkle in gradually with your left hand about a good teacupful of oatmeal (stirring it all the time vigorously with your right hand), and let it boil gently for quite half-an-hour ; then add rather over half a teaspoon- ful of salt, and boil for ten minutes longer. Dish in a basin or soup plate, a jug of milk, or cream, or buttermilk, being sent to table with it. The Scotch use a long stick something like a woodenBREAKFAST. 11 spoou-liandlc for stirring it, wliicli is known as “ the porritcli spurtle; ” failing this use a clean wooden spoon. Always keep one pot for porridge-raaking, and be very careful the uioinent it is done with to %/ pour into it half a jhnt or so of cold water, as oatmeal gets very hot and cooks after it leaves the fire; so, if neglected, the pan would inevitably catch and burn, and the same fate would certainly befall the next batch of porridge cooked in it. Use “ medium ” meal, and be very particular as to its quality and freshness. Polenta, or Indian cornmeal porridge (known also in America as “ cornmeal mush ”), is made in pre- cisely the same way as porridge, only perhay>s a trifle thicker, and is excellent as a breakfast dish; it is even better still if allowed to get cold and set, then sliced, cut into cubes, diamonds, &c., and fried in plenty of hot fat, drained, and served with any good sauce, such as tomato, &c., or as a garnish ; or, lastly, as a sweet with sugar, jam, or golden syritp. Semolina also is excellent used in the same way. A little butter and, if liked, grated cheese added to all of these (with the exception of the oatmeal porridge) is a great addilion. Toast, Pry.—This is seldom well made, simply from want of care. Cut the slices from a stale loaf, a quarter of an inch thick, and warm them gently some way from the fire, or put them on a rack in the oven for a minute or two to get them cjuite dry ; then place them near enough to the fire to colour each side a clear golden brown, never allowing it to brum anywhere. Bread toasted like this should be crisp12 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. outside, but soft, though quite dry, inside. For invalids and persons obliged to study their health, the best toast is made by slicing down a stale tin loaf in one-eighth of an inch thick slices, and placing these on a reversed sieve or pastry rack in the oven till they dry perfectly crisp and are of a pale golden brown. This toast can then be kept in airtight tins and used as wanted. Always put toast upright in the rack directly it is done, or it will toughen. Toast, Buttered. — Dry and toast the bread carefully by the first recipe given above, placing each . i^iece as done in a rack in a hot corner. Have ready some fresh butter cut up into dice and warmed (but not oiled) by the fire. When all the slices are done, place one on a hot plate, sjjread lightly but generously with the warmed butter, and place another slice on this, buttering this also, and repeat this, piling one slice on the other, till all the toast is used, then cut it into quarters and serve very hot. The butter should penetrate the bread readily. It is best to place the dish of toast on a bowl of boiling water to keep it hot. Muffins.—These are usually bought, and are then cooked thus: Pull the muffins exactly in haK with two forks (never touch them at this stage with a knife) and toast each side carefully but lightly. Now lay a slice of warmed butter on one side, close the other closely over it and set it on a hot dish, treating the rest in the same way. Cut in four and serve very hot in a proper muffin dish with a cover. It is better to send only one or two muffins in at a13 BREAKFAST. time, always serving them hot, rather than to pile too many on the plate at once, which makes them sodden. Where muffins cannot he bought, make them thus: Sift together 11b. of line flour, a tea- spoonful of baking powder, and two saltspoonfuls of salt; now stir into this gradually enough milk to make a rather stiff, smooth batter, butter four muffin-rings and place them on a well-buttered and heated baking tin in the oven, and bake for about twenty-five minutes. As soon as the batter rises to the top of the ring turn it gently and bake until each is a pale straw colour. Then finish off as before. The above quantities will take altogether about a pint (or pei'haps a trifle more) of milk. Crumpets.—These are not opened, but toasted carefully and quickly, buttered on both sides, and served singly, or in pairs, on a hot water dish. It is not good to pile too many on top of each other or they will get sodden. Above all, serve hot! If you must make these (and they are always nicer if served hot from the j>an, than if allowed to get cold and then re-heated), try this : Sift together |lb. of fine flour, foz. of baking powder, and a small salt- spoonful of salt; now stir into this loz. of liquefied butter, a well-beaten, whole egg, and enough milk to bring it all to a smooth batter. Well butter seven or eight muffin-rings, set them on a buttered and heated tin, half fill them with the batter, and bake. As soon as the batter rises in the rings, turn each carefully, and finish baldng without turning them again. These crumpets, freshly made, spread with hot better whilst very hot, and then vdth good14 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. fresh Astrakan caviar, seasoned with lemon juice, 231’oduce an excellent imitation of the famous Russian Blinis au caviar. Ajpums.—For these Indian cakes dissolve ^oz. fresh German yeast in some luke-warm water (i.e. a mixture of one part boiling to two of cold water), and with this work l|lb. of best rice flour to a stiff jjaste. Let this stand till next day, then mix it all to a smooth, firm batter with cocoanut or almond milk, and put this batter, a teacupful at a time, into a w’arm, buttered pan on the hot plate, covering it down tightly. When browmed round the edges, and well risen, the cake is ready. Repeat till all the batter is used, and serve very hot, on a naijkin, sprinkled Avith salt. “ Cocoanut Milk.”—This is not the juice or “ milk ” of the nut, but is j)i’epared by expressing the juice from the kernel itself thus: sorajje the white flesh of the nut into a basin, and j^our on to this sufficient scalding-hot water to wet it all well. Cover down the basin and let the nut infuse for half an hour, then strain oft' the liquid and Avring the scraped pulj) in a tammy or clean muslin to extract every drop of juice. This, like almond milk, is used in India for curry, to Avhich it is a great addition. Almond milk is made in exactly the same Avay. Passover Cakes.—Mix lib. of fine flour to a stiff paste with a little cream and a j)inch of salt; roll this paste out as thin as possible; it should be of the thickness of paper. From this quantity make twelve to fourteen cakes about the size of a meat jflate, and bake five minutes or so on a girdle or onf BREAKFAST. 15 a tin on the hot plate. As soon as the cakes begin to blister, turn them. When ready they should be covered with large brown blisters and be almost transparent. Croissants.—These are really only made from Vienna bread dough, which is simply the same dough as for any bread, save that it is made with milk and water instead of water only, a little butter being also kneaded into the dough when kneaded for the second time; loz. of butter to the pound will be ample. Now roll the dough out like pastry till about “in. thick, cut it into neat triangles with a sharp laiife, and taking a corner in each hand roll each triangle up neatly with the third point outside, and bend the other two points gently inwards in a half moon-shape (whence their name of croissants, or half moons). Bake ten to fifteen minutes in a rather quick oven, brushing each as it comes out with milk, or egg and milk. This makes the crust shiny, and prevents the rolls hardening. After making the croissants, gather up the trimmings of dough, and shape them egg-wise in your well-floured hands, cut each across with a sharp knife and finish off like the croissants. These make neat little dinner-rolls. Fadge.—Mix together 2oz. each of rye and of ordinary brown flour, and a saltspoonful of salt; work into this 3oz. of butter and enough milk (about a gill) to bring it all to a stiff paste: Bake for an hour on the girdle or the hot plate, and serve. If cooked too long this gets like piecrust. It must not be baked in the oven ! Another way is16 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. to dissolve 3oz. of butter in balf a pint of milk over the fire; mix together lib. of wholemeal, ^oz. of baking powder, and a saltspoonful of salt. Now mix all these ingredients to a stiff dough with the butter, milk, &c.; roll it out £in. thick, and cut it into cakes, or fingers, l|in. by 3in. or 4in. long, and bake on the girdle, or in a well heated frying-pan on the hot plate, turning them to cook them evenly. Serve hot in a napkin well dusted with flour. OatcaJce.—Mix together to a fairly stiff dough 11b. of oatmeal, a teaspoonful of salt, a good table- spoonful of warmed dripj:)ing, and enough warm water to mix it. Knead it well till smooth, then dust the pastry board with dry oatmeal, turn the dough out on it, and press it out with youi’ hands into a round cake, about ^in. to fin. thick, then roll it out with a well dusted roller till thin. Cut this round cake across and across into eight segments, and bake these on the girdle till firm. Now lift them off the girdle, rub each well over with oatmeal, and toast in front of the fire till they curl up. Be very careful to keep the girdle very clean. It should never be washed, but well sprinkled with coarse salt whilst hot, then rubbed till perfectly clean with pieces of paper. Heat the girdle and rub it over with a piece of suet tied up in muslin before using it. If no girdle is at hand, a baking sheet treated in the same way will be very effectual if placed on the hot plate. But do not try baking oat cake in the oven! Baps.—Make a leaven with |oz. of yeast, loz.BREAKFAST. 17 of salt, and loz. of sugar, and wlien ready work it into enougli flour to make 121b. of dough, kneading into the latter loz. of lard and about a quart of water. When this dough is ready and well risen, dust the pastry board with a little flour, cut the dough up into 4oz. pieces, knead these well, make into balls, I’oll them out into a round or oval shape, let them rise for a little on a flat tin, then bake in a nice hot oven. Brush over with milk. Scones.—Rub smoothly together half a teaspoonful of salt, a small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and half a teaspoonful of cream of tartar; mix these thoroughly with a pound of flour, and work it to a lithe dough with thi’ee-quarters to a pint of buttermilk. Now turn it out on to a well-floured board, bnead it for a few minutes, then form it into two rounds half-an-inch thick, cut it across and across into four, and bake on a well-floured and not too hot gii’dle. These scones can also be baked in an oven. Buttermilh Scones.—Mix into l|lb. of flour one and a half teaspoonfuls of carbonate of soda and not quite a full teaspoonful of tartaric acid; rub into this l^oz. of butter, lard, or claritied dripping, and a little salt, and work it to a smooth dough with the points of the fingers, and three-quarters of a pint of buttermilk; make this dough into four round cakes lin. thick, and either prick the tops with a fork, or cut each cake across into four, as you please, and bake for twenty minutes in a quick oven. Breakfast Bolls.—Mix together a full teaspoon- ful of baking powder, lib. of flour, and a small o18 BRI2A.KFASTD AFTD LUNCH DISHES. teaspoonful of salt, mb 2oz. butter into it, mix it quickly with half-a-pint of butter, or skim, milk; make them into little rolls, set them on a well- floured baking tin, and bake ten or fifteen minutes. When half-baked brush over with milk. Breakfast Bolls.—Two pounds of flour, ^Ib. of butter, 2oz. of lard, and a little sugar ; moisten well with four eggs well beaten up with sufficient milk to make it a nice dough, mix in three small tea- spoonfuls of baking powder, make it into cakes the size of a muffin, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. Turn them now and again, as they burn very easily. Si3lit, butter, and serve very hot. Slim Cakes.—One pound of flour, two well-beaten eggs, loz. of butter, half a teasjioonful of salt, and as much warm milk as will make it into a workable paste. Knead it well, let it stand in a warm place for half an hour, then roll it out, cut it into squares, dust with flour, and bake on a girdle or in the oven, as you please. Serve plain, or split and buttered. These last three cakes are particularly good made with Hovis flour.CHAPTEE II. EGGS. The value of eggs in introducing a welcome novelty and variety to the breakfast table is slowly being recognised. Still, it must be confessed that eggs boiled, poached, and scrambled appear to exhaust the culinary knowledge (in this line) of the average British cook and housewife. Yet there are literally hundreds of ways of preparing tliese, would these two ladies only bestow a little intelligent interest on the subject. Unfortunately, in many cases it is even doubtful if they have actually sounded the depths of their own very elementary knowledge. We have all heard, jjrobably not without inward qualms, of the variety of eggs known to commerce, ranging from the “breakfast egg” (the term, I believe, appertaining to the undoubtedly new-laid egg of country life) to the awful “ shop egg,” concerning whose condition and destination it is best not to inquire too closely. But do many of us realize that different scages of eggdom are needed for different purposes? For instance, though we probably all know that the ideal “ boiled egg ” is one taken c 220 BREAKSASO" AND LUNCH DISHES. straight from the nest to the egg-boiler in the dining-room, whose white is, when cooked, a delicious creamy mass; how about the poached egg, which needs to be fresh certainly, but still an egg of yesterday, if the white is to set properly ? Perhaps the following may be of interest to the young housewife. Eggs, Boiled.—Choose the freshest eggs possible, and when the water boils hard, gently slip the eggs in one by one with a spoon, being careful to let the point of the spoon touch the bottom of the pan before letting the egg go, as this prevents the latter from falling, and so cracking. Keep the water boiling hard all the time, three minutes for an egg with a creamy white, or half a minute more if to be set pretty firm; in short, measuring the time by the consumer’s taste. For hard-boiled eggs for curry or salad, etc., allow ten to twelve minutes (not longer, or the yolk will probably discolour), plunge at once into cold water, and do not attempt to shell till the heat is all out of them. If rolled on the table with the hand they will shell the easier. A. nice way of boiling eggs for invalids is the following: Pour into a saucepan sufficient boiling water to generously cover the number of eggs you wish to cook, see that the water is actually at boiling point, then slip in the eggs; draw the pan to the side of the stove where the water will keep its heat without actually re-boiling, and let the pan and the eggs stand, uncovered, for ten minutes or so. Treated thus, they will be absolutely cooked without the white hardening into indigestibility. Many21 EGGS. people wlio are in the ordinary way afraid of eggs can eat them cooked thus. This method has the further advantage that the eggs can wait in the water for some little time with- out spoiling, as long as the water is not allowed to re-heat. By the bye, few people appear to know that eggs either boiled or poached {oeufs mollets as the French call them) can be re-heated admirably by standing them for a minute or two in hot (but not boiling) water, and can be used without detection; though once cooked and lifted from the fire, no subsequent amount of cooking will harden them. Poached Eggs.—Put into a pan some water and vinegar in the proportion of a tablespoonful of best vinegar to each quart of water, bring this to the boil, then break one egg into a cup, and from this slip it gently into the water; j)our a little of the acidulated water over the egg with a spoon, gathering the white lightly round it; repeat this with each egg, and let them cook for three minutes or so till the white is nicely set; now lift each separately with a delicately clean fish slice, let it drain over the pan for a minute, then lift it on to a slice of buttered toast, bacon, &c., or simply on to a hot dish, as preferred, and serve. Eggs, Fried.—It is not so easy as it sounds to fry an egg properly, as may be proved only too often when “ fried ham and eggs ” is the dish for breakfast. The reason is that the cook fries her bacon first and then fries the eggs in the same fat, which is mani- festly insufficient. The proper way is this : Put into a, clean pan 3oz. or 4oz. of good fat (clarified dripping,22 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. lard, marrowfat, &c., as you please), and when this fat is thoroughly hot, slip the eggs in, one at a time, and directly the white is nicely set lift them out with a fish slice, drain thoroughly, and cook tlic next egg. The eggs when cooked sliould be placed either on a clean cloth or a folded sheet of kitchen paper, and carefully trimmed. Eggs cooked thus are excellent with broiled ham, poulet Marengo, &c. Eggs, Buttered (or Scrambled).—Take l^oz. to 2oz. of fresh butter, three eggs, half a gill of cream, milk, or white sauce, half a small saltspoonful each of salt and white pej)j)er. Melt about loz. of the butter in a stewpan, break the eggs, and mix them into the butter, season them, and stir the whole gently over a slack fire till they begin to set, then work in the rest of the butter; cut up into small pieces, stirring it all well together till quite amalga- mated, when you stir in the cream, milk, or sauce, and it will be ready ; pour it at once on to hot buttered toast, and serve as hot as possible. This dish may be varied by the addition of a sjsoonful or two of fines herhes or d'TJxelles mixture (i.e., a table- spoonful of minced mushrooms (the stalks and trimmings will do), a tablesj^oonful each of minced parsley and chives, or rather less of finely-chopped shallot, all fried together for five minutes in |oz. of butter (seasoned with a little pepper and salt), stir these in after adding the milk or sauce. Cooked peas, asparagus points, broken-up cauliflower, shrimps, prawns, or cooked and minced mushrooms can all be used in this way; or broiled and seasoned mushrooms may be placed in a hot silver or china23 EGGS. dish, with a garnish of tiny rolls of fried bacon or ham, and the buttered eggs poured over all. In short, this dish may be varied almost indefinitely. If served on hot buttered toast the latter may be spread with any hind of savoury butter, such as anchovy, bourguignotte (a rich, thick brown sauce, flavoured with onion, herbs, mushroom, spice, and red wine, and thickened with butter), cayenne or curry,*ham, lobster, muitre d’hotel, truffle, shrimp, or ravigotte butter. A pretty dish of this kind, which may serve as an example, is the Spanish tomafe y Imevos (buttered eggs and tomatoes) : For this parboil three or more ripe tomatoes, rub them through a sieve, put the pulp into a pan with an an ounce or so of butter or good dripping, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; break two or three eggs, according to the size you wish your dish to be (one egg and two tomatoes a head is the usual reckoning), into the mixture, stir it over the fire till the eggs are thoroughly “ scrambled,” and serve very hot. Pieces of cold cooked potato cut into cubes, dice of cold bacon, sliced sausage, minced parsley, chives, finely-sliced shallot, &c., are all added to this disb, which is a special blessing for thrifty housewives, as it produces a dainty dish out of the merest scraps. It is manifestly impossible in a book of this size to attempt anything exhaustive in the matter of egg cookery, so that only a few recipes will be given as specimens, and the intelli- crent cook must use them as stepping stones to further variety. Baked Eg^s.—Butter some patty pans and sprinkle24 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. them with minced parsley and chives, then break a fresh egg carefully into each, put a morsel of butter and a seasoning of salt and pepper on each, and bake till the egg is lightly set. Have ready as many squares of hot buttered toast as you have eggs, strew these thickly with grated ham or tongue, caviai', &c., turn an egg carefully on to each, and serve either plain or surrounded with any nice sauce or gravy to taste. This dish can manifestly be varied almost indefinitely by clianging the sjjread- ing of the toast, the sprinkling of the pans, and the surrounding sauce as you please. Egg Balls.—These may be either fried or boiled, the process is the same, only using water or fat according to the kind you wish for. Have ready a deep pan three parts full of boiling water, or any frying fat to taste, and stir it with a long wooden spoon or skewer till it acquires a circular, whirling motion, then break an egg into the very centre of this miniature whirlpool, keeping up the steady circular action all the time till the egg is cooked, when, if the whirling has been steadily kept up, it will be a round ball. Now lift it out with a slice, drain for a minute, then place it in a warm dish by the fire till the rest of the eggs are cooked singly in the same way. A very little practice will enable the cook to prepare her eggs thus ])oth rapidly and easily. They are very nice as a garnish for many dishes, and also served on a puree of mushrooms, spinach, endive, or tomatoes, &c., as you please. Devilled Eggs.—Put a round of fried ham dusted with cayenne pepper into as many little china25 EGGS. cocottes or cases (or paper cases previously brushed over inside with oil and allowed to dry) as you intend serving eggs, place a poached egg (or one of the egg balls) on the toj3, and fill up the case with devil sauce, made thus : Fry a small onion or two or three sliced shalots in oil or fat till delicately browned, then add a pinch of cayenne pepper and a teaspoonful of curry powder, fry this all together for a few minutes, lastly moistening it all with about a gill of bechamel or any nice white sauce, and a spoonful of Lea and Perrin’s Woi’cester sauce, or the same of Yorkshire Kelish; simmer it all well together, stirring it freely, then skim off the fat, strain, and use very hot. The great secret of this dish is its heat. Any grill sauce can be used, or sliced sausage can be substituted for the ham, &c. (Eufs en Cocottes.—Butter six or more small fire- proof china cases or pipkins {cocottes), break a fresh egg into each, season with pepper (white and coralline) and salt, pour a teaspoonful of cream over each egg, stand the cases three parts their depth in boiling water, and set the tin containing them in the oven till poached. This is another dish that may be varied by putting grated ham, tongue, minced mush- room or truffle, &c., in the bottom of the pipkin, the egg on top, and a seasoning to match lightly dusted over the top, with a good spoonful of cream. Some people use grated cheese for this dish with fines herbes, mireed shalot, &c., but in that case it seems fitter for use as a savoury than for breakfast. In 1'ranee the egg yolks only are used for poaching,26 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. and for a claange have a very dainty effect—e.g., brealc the eggs and separate the yolks from the white.®, have ready some boiling acidulated water as for poaching in the ordinary way, and slip in the yolks very gently, poaching them for just two minutes till nicely set. Have ready some squares of toast piled up with mushroom puree, or a broiled mushroom nicely seasoned on each, drop the egg yolk very lightly on this, dust it Avith fresh and coarsely ground black pepper, and serve hot with tomato, Italienne, Espagnole, or any nice sauce to taste, round them. (Eufs en Rohe de Chamhre.—Choose nice, round and even-sized potatoes and bake them in the oven. When cooked slice off the top, scoop out some of the potato, put a little bit of butter into each, season with pepper and salt, and break a fresh egg into each; return them to the oven till the eggs are cooked, then cover over the egg lightly with the removed potato, which you have mashed through the masher to a light snow, and serve very hot. OEufs d la Reine.—For this you can either use boiled eggs left over from breakfast, which can be carefully shelled and heated in warm water, or you can prepare them by simmering them for five minutes in boiling water, then leaving them in cold water for ten minutes, after which they are shelled and left in cold water till wanted, to keep them white. For use warm them in salted and acidulated water, or in white stock. Now prepare a purc% of chicken a7id tongue or ham, exactly as for rissoles, dish on squares of buttered toast or on fried croutons,EGGS. 27 place an egg on each and serve sprinkled with chopped tongue or truffle. Poached Eggs en Aspic.—Choose dariole moulds that will just hold an egg nicely, and line them ' with aspic jelly. Now make egg balls in boiling water, poaching them for four minutes, then leave them in cold water till perfectly cold. When the jelly is set in the moulds and the eggs are thoroughly cold and firm, put an egg in each mould, and pour in enough liquid aspic to come just to the level of the egg; now lay in a round of cooked tongue, or pate de foie gras, and set this with more just liquid aspic. When perfectly set turn out the eggs and serve garnished with chopped aspic and watercress well washed, picked, and seasoned with oil and vinegar. This makes a capital summer breakfast dish, or it can be used as a garnish for cold meat, salad, &c. Curried Eggs.—Boil as many eggs as you like for ten or twelve minutes till hard, then leave them in cold water till wanted. Meanwhile fry two sliced onions in loz. or 2oz. of butter till delicately coloured; then fry in the same pan, a good spoonful of curry powder, moisten this with about a pint of stock (fish, meat, or vegetable) and stew it all together till the onions are quite tender; now add a gill of cocoanut milk, or, failing this, a gill of cream or new milk thickened with arrowroot and a pinch of sugar, and simmer it all for a few minutes till thick ; then lay in the eggs shelled and sliced lengthways, and let them heat very gently till quite hot. Serve with plain boiled rice. To boil28 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. tlie rice pick it over and well wash it, then put it on in a large pan with plenty of cold water (a full quart to 6oz. of rice is none too much), and as soon as this water is really boiling hard the rice is cooked. Now strain off the water, stand the pan with tlie rice in it on the fire for a minute or two, stirring it with a fork all the time till the grains are dry and separate. It is now ready. Curried Eggs.—Bone, wash, and pound smoothly 4oz. of anchovies, with a little curry powder or paste (the quantity of this is necessarily a matter of taste and experience), a little mustard, and a few diups of vinegar or lemon juice, and enough butter to bring it all to a smooth paste. Spread as many squares of buttered toast as you want eggs with this mixture, slip a poached egg on each, and serve with a rich, thick, curry sauce poured round it all. Qikhfs d la Tripe.—Parboil two sliced onions, then drain them and finish cooking them in slightly salted milk. When they are cooked, drain them off, and with the cooking milk prepare a rather thick bechamel sauce, adding in at the last a spoonful of double cream. Season with salt, cayenne, and a tiny dust of nutmeg, then stir in the onion and six hard-boiled, sliced eggs, and stir them all gently too-ether with a wooden spoon over the fire till quite h.ot. Pour it all on to a hot dish and serve garnished Tv^ith fried croutons. (Eufs au Gratin.—Boil five or six eggs hard and slice them rather thickly. Butter a pie-dish and put into it a full tablespoonful of any rich white gfiuce, and on this a la^jrer of the eggs stj.w thjs29 EGGS. witli minced mushrooms, fine herbs, parsley, chives, grated ham, mushrooms, salt, pepper, &c., according to -what you have, then more sauce, and repeat these layers till the dish is full, being careful to finish with the herbs, &c., and some tiny morsels of butter; now set the dish in the oven till browned on top, or brown it with a red-hot salamander or shovel, and serve very hot. If liked, grated cheese may be used. Farced Eggs.—Hard boil, shell, and divide six eggs lengthways, slicing a tiny piece off to make them stand like little canoes. How remove the yolks and pound these in the mortar with a tablespoonful of thick white sauce, a couple of spoonfuls of freshly- grated white bread, salt, cayenne pepper, and a spoonful of minced fine herbs (shalot or chives, mushrooms, and parsley, minced and fried first in butter) ; fill up the eggs with this mixture, rounding them neatly, and set them in the oven on a buttered tin for ten minutes, then serve with Italienne or any nice sauce to taste round them. These are also known as eggs d la Benedictine, and are much used for fast days. Eggs can be filled in this way with any farce, e.g., with shrimp paste rubbed up with the egg yolks, &c., as d la Normande; or with grated cheese, &c., when they are called d la Suisse; or d rindienne with boiled rice mixed with a tea- spoonful of uUiTy powder for two tablespoonfuls of the rice, the^’egg yolks, a little fresh butter, salt, and a spoonful of white sauce, and finished off as before (rounding the farced surface neatly with a knife dipped in warm butter or water) ; then dish on a:^0 breakfast and LtTNCH DISHES. bed of mashed potato, or fish farce, and serve with a rich curry sauce round. Scotch Eggs.—Boil as many eggs as you require for ten to twelve minutes, then leave them in cold water till perfectly cold. Meanwhile prepare any nice forcemeat to taste, such as you use for rissoles, &c., or some delicate sausagemeat, seasoning these Avell to taste. Now take out the eggs, shell them neatly, and roll them in the forcemeat, pressing this well round them with your floured hands, brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in fine crumbs or in broken-up vermicelli, and fry a delicate golden brown in plenty of hot fat. Drain well, and serve garnished with fried parsley; or halve them and serve them round a mound of potato, broiled mush- rooms, spinach, &c. Dressed Eggs.—Hard boil as many eggs as you require, cooling and shelling them in the usual way, and slice them, arranging them neatly down a hot dish. Mince finely a shalot or some chives and a little parsley, and put this into sufficient cream to cover the amount of eggs (for an ordinary dish half a pint is plenty), and let it all boil uj), then pour it hot over the eggs and serve at once. (Hard-boiled eggs may be served thus with almost any sauce, bui to my own taste they are improved by being allowe( • to heat gently in whatever sauce they are served in. Eggs dressed thus are admirably served in a chafing dish. They are also delicious if mixed with broiled tomatoes or mushrooms, tiny rashers of bacon, oysters, &c. Eggs thus are also excellent if served with either a devil or a chutney sauce. For the31 EGGS. former to half a pint of ordinary and very smooth brown sauce add a tablespoonful of walnut or mushroom ketchup, the strained juice of a small lemon, a teaspoonful of Burgess’s essence of anchovy, the same of made mustard (if a very hot dish is liked, mix this mustard with Worcester sauce instead of water, and a very little milk), a small and very finely minced shalot (or a small tablespoonful of minced chives), ten or twelve minced capers, a dust of cayenne, and a grate of lemon peel; bring this all to the boil and simmer it for a few minutes before poui’ing it over the eggs or heating them in it. For the chutney sauce add a dessertspoonful each of Harvey sauce and mushroom ketchup to a full gill of brown sauce, with a teaspoonful of chili vinegar and a dessertspoonful of any good chutney, stir well together, boil up and use as before. Hard- boiled sliced or poached eggs can also be served with good shrimp, cockle, or scallop sauce for a change. Eggs with Shrimps.—Fry a dessertspoonful each of finely-minced parsley and chives (or a medium onion) in 2oz. of butter till brown, then stir in a pint of picked shrimps and half a pint of water (in which you have previously boiled down the heads and shells of the shrimps), with pepper and salt, and stew it all for twenty minutes; then strain off the liquor, arrange the rest in a hot dish, place five or six poached eggs on this, and serve with the following sauce over them: Found together smoothly 2oz. of capers, a good tablespoonful of picked parsley, a gherkin and a capsicum (from a pickle bottle), one32 BREAKFAST AND LUKCH DISHES. or two small slialots, and two or three good table- spoonfuls of breadcrumbs (previously soaked in vinegar and pressed dry); sieve this, then beat in three tablespoonfuls of oil (or oiled butter), one and a half of good red wine vinegar, a dash of cayenne and salt to taste, and whisk it all together till of the consistency of cream. This is an Italian recipe, and is also good made with j^rawns, lobster, or crab. My Grandmother s Egg Pie.—Soak some thin rashers of bacon overnight in cold water to take out the salt, then lay them in a piedish and pour to them four eggs beaten up with half a ]jiut of cream with a seasoning of pei per, salt, and minced parsley; cover all wuth a nice paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Bake the day before it is wanted. CEufs a%i Miroir.—Put about loz. of butter into a silver or firejuoof dish, and as soon as it frizzles or “ fritters,” break into it as many new laid eggs as you require, being careful not to break or otherwise disturb the yolks; season with salt and freshly ground black pei^per, and set the dish in the oven for three or four minutes, passing a red hot shovel or salamander lightly over the top at the last to set them, being careful not to hold the shovel too close to the eggs. If properly cooked the yolk will be almost transparent and the white have a bluish glazy appearance, whence its name. If eggs are cooked in this way, and a spoonful of cream poured lightly over them when seasoning them, they are known as ceufs sur le plat; whilst if you cook them as in the first instance, and serve them with nut-brown butter, they are known as ceufs au beurre noir. For this butterEGGS. 33 lift the eggs very carefully out of the pau on to a hot dish (in the two previous recipes the eggs are served in the dish they are cooked in), add an ounce or two more to the butter in the pan, with two or more spoonfuls of strong vinegar, cook it all till the butter is of a rich coffee brown and the vinegar reduced to very nearly half, and pour it hot over the e<igs, ffiw/s cn Beignets.—Poach six eggs in the ordinary way in salted water acidulated with vinegar (you will require a short wineglassful of vinegar for six eggs); when they have boiled for three minutes lift the eggs with a slice and place them in plenty of cold water, leave them till perfectly cold, then drain well on a clean cloth, season with a little salt and coarsely ground black pepper, and, if liked, a dust of nutmeg. Have ready, very thinly rolled out, some trimmings of puff paste, and from this stamp out twelve rounds, each half an inch wider than the poached egg. Place each egg on one of these rounds, and cover with another, moistening the edges of the paste with a wet bnish and pressing them well together; dip these beignets into beaten egg and roll them either in fresh breadcrumbs or broken-up vermicelli, and fry in plenty of fat till of a golden brown. Serve plain, with a garnish of fried parsley, or with any sauce to taste round them, tomato sauce being a great favomute. Eggs cooked thus are served unrler varying names, according to the garnish used or the chef’s fancy. If, when poached and seasoned as above, they are dipped in good batter and fri<ul for a minute in hot fat they are known as oeufs en Ilorli; D34 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES whilst if prepared as before, then rolled in flour, fried a golden brown in plenty of hot fat, and served on hot buttered toast, they are known as oeufs a la Viennoise. OiJvfs en CEil de Boeuf.—From a slice of bread half an inch thick stamp out some Sin. rounds, cut out a smaller round with the next sized cutter three parts the depth of the slice, and fry these rounds to a golden brown. When ready scoop out as much as you can of the inside without actually going through, and place them on a thickly buttered baking tin (or preferably a fireproof china dish), season them inside with salt, coralline pepper, minced chives or parsley, and break an egg in the centre of each; then place in the oven till the egg is set, glazing it at the last as for oeufs au miroir. QUiifs Mollets.—Break the eggs, which should be as fi-esh as for poached eggs, into a stewpan of boiling water, and simmer them very gently for five minutes, after which you lift them carefully and leave them in cold water for ten minutes or so ; now remove the shells and return the eggs to the cold water to keep them white. When wanted heat them in a little stock or salted water, as you please. Eggs cooked in this way are frequently used abroad with minces or purees of any kind, and it may interest the careful housewife to know that any boiled eggs left untouched from breakfast can be used in this way, provided, of course, they have been boded for the regulation three minutes, but they naturally z-equire moi'e tender handling than the properly cooked eggs which have been simmered for much longer. A very35 EGGS. pretty disli may be 'made with these eggs by pre- paring little cases as for the ceil de boeuf, only making them into ovals instead of rounds, filling these ovals when cooked with a rich puree of mushrooms, fish (or any other nice puree). Lay an egg cooked as above on each, and serve with any nice sauce, such as veloute, Italienne, tomato, &c., over and round them. CEufs a la SuUane.—Beat up together the yolks of two eggs with a tablesjDoonful of olive oil and a dessertspoonful of any good chutney to taste, and pour this, when well mixed, on to a fireproof dish ; break four eggs, one at a time, very carefully on to the sauce, and place the dish in a moderate oven till the eggs are set. Serve very hot. CEufs a la Parisienne.—Choose some dariole moulds each large enough to hold an egg, and stand them on ice or a very cold place until wanted. Melt some glaze and pour a spoonful or so into each mould, turning the moulds on the ice to coat them with the glaze, just as you would when coating a mould with jelly; strew this glaze generously with a little minced ham or tongue, truffles and fines herbes, then break into each mould a new-laid egg, being very careful not to break the yolk. Season with salt and pepper, and stand the moulds in a baking tin of boiling water to three parts their height; stand this tin in a hot oven, and poach the eggs for five or six minutes, finishing them with the salamander if not sufficiently set by that time, then turn the eggs out on a dish, and pour any good sauce to taste round them. Of course a garnish of fried bacon, devilled kidneys, or croutons spread with any savoury butter, n 236 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. may be served with this dish. If you butter the moulds thickly instead of glazing them, and strew them with previously blanched, dried, and minced tarragon, chervil, and parsley or chives, and cook them as before, turning them out and serving them with a rich sauce verte or ravigotte, they are the well-known (Evf^ a la Ravigotte. GEufs a I 'Arlequin.—Prepare the eggs as for oeufs mollets, and have ready as many croutons of fried bread (strewed with coralline pepper and minced parsley and chives) and small slices of fried bacon as you have eggs; place the crohtons on a hot dish with a slice of bacon on each, and lastly an egg ; sprinkle these latter with minced ham or tongue, parsley, and truffles, in equal proportions, with some coralline pepper, and serve with any nice sauce or gravy round. CEufs a la d’Uxelle.—Pop,ch the eggs for three minutes, then leave them in cold water till perfectly cold and set, when you drain them well, and trim off as much of the white as you can manage. Have ready a rich and rather thick d’Uxelle sauce, dip each egg well in this, and leave it on the dish to drain. Now place the eggs on ice or in the re- frigerator, and when the sauce is perfectly set roll the eggs in seasoned breadcrumbs, Ihen in beaten egg, and again in breadcrumbs; fry in plenty of boiling fat, and serve on a napkin with a garnish of fried parsley. If the cook is very neat and light- handed, she will find it more economical to sej^arate the whites from the yolks, and only to poach the latter, reserving the whites for other purposes, but37 EGGS. this requires very dainty treatment. Sauce d ’ TJxelle ; Have ready half a pint of some rather extra thick white sauce, either Allemande, bechamel, or veloute (the first is, perhaps, the best), and add to it a good tablespoonful of d’Uxelle mixture (equal jjarts of mushroom and parsley, and half a part of shallot or chives, all finely minced and stewed in butler, with a good seasoning of pepper, salt, and lemon juice), and finish off with the liaison of one egg yolk beaten up with a spoonful of milk or cream and a tiny morsel of fresh butter. This sauce, when required as a sauce and not for a coating, is naturally not so much reduced and consequently thickened. CEnfs d la Portugaise.—Choose ripe, rich-coloured tomatoes, all of a size, either large enough to hold an egg in each half or else just the size for one. Scoop out the seeds and core with a spoon, pressing out as much of the water as you can; season the insides with salt, coarsely ground black pepper, minced parsley, chives, and mushrooms. Set these tomatoes on a well-buttered baking tin, break a fresh egg carefully into each, and put the pan into the hot oven till the eggs are poached. Serve on fried croutons or plain, as you please, with any sauce to taste, or preferably good meat gravy, lightly thickened with tomato pulp, and seasoned with a dash of lemon juice and coralline pepj)er. The above will be sufficient to give some idea of the variety to be obtained from eggs, but a few words must lastly be said concerning omelets, which, for some inscrutable reason, are always looked on as an impossibility by the ordinary “ good plain cook” ;38 BBEAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. yet in reality few things are simpler to make. Take a new frying-j^an (and keep it only for omelets), put a small piece of butter, lard, or dripping into this, and fry it till it smokes strongly and begins to turn brown; then pour it away, and carefully wipe out the pan with a piece of soft paper. (Please re- member an omelet pan should never he washed, on i:»ain of burning the omelet, but it should be kept delicately clean by wiping it out most carefully with soft clean paper every time it is used.) Now beat lightly together two or three whole eggs, according to the size of your omelet, till the whites and yolks are well mixed, but nothing more; then season this egg yolk to taste with pepper, salt, minced parsley, &c. Now melt some butter in the frying-pan, using -g-oz. of butter for each egg, and when this has ceased to smoko, pour into it the egg mixture; let it rest quietly on the fire for a minute or so till a thin layer of cooked egg has formed on the bottom of the pan. You can soon see if the egg has properly set by tilting up the pan a little, which will be shown by the puffs of steam that will rise. Now lift the edge of this set part with a broad-bladed knife (a palette knife is best) and allow as much of the uncooked egg to run under as you can, repeating this till no fluid is left and the top of the egg is as much set as for scrambled eggs. Slip the knife right under the omelet and fold over one half on to the other and draw it on to the hot dish ready for it, or, if preferred, lay the dish on the pan, reversing the latter so that the omelet falls gently over into the dish, and serve at once—for an omelet will not wait 1EGGS. 38 This is the whole mystery of omelet making, and please let no one tempt you to add flour or milk to it. A jiroperly made omelet requires neither, though I admit if there is a chance of its having to wait after it comes to table, a small spoonful of millj is permissible to keep it soft, but in a well regulated dining room an omelet never has to wait! Two points must be borne in mind; firstly, an omelet is not a pancake, and therefore should never be turned while cooking; and, secondly, it should be dished directly the eggs on the top are just set, or it will come to table tough from overcooking, as eggs continue to cook after they leave the, fire. If you keep your omelet on the fire till it is ready to serve, it will be like shoe-leather before it reaches the dining-room. If these directions are carefully followed there will be little or no difficulty in ensuring a nicely cooked omelet, but let me impress upon you that one pan must be kept religiously for this purpose, and, as said above, though kept delicately clean must never be washed! Of course, if you have it, an omelet-pan is nice, but it is not necessary, for any frying-pan, granted it is flat and not slightly raised in the middle of the bottom as so many are, will do. You must also bear in mind the size of this pan; a pan Sin. across the bottom is right for an omelet of two eggs or so, up to Sin. for eight or nine eggs, about the largest sized omelet an ordinary cook finds it convenient to make. Having grasped the method it is very easy to vary your omelets. For instance, when beating up your eggs add a small dessert-40 breakfast and lunch dishes. spoonful of finely minced parsley and chives (or shallot) to the egg mixture, finishing as before, when It IS known as Omelette aux fines herhes, whilst if grated ^eese or ham be added, it becomes either Omelette au Grmjere {or au Parmesan) or au jamhon. If, again a due quantity of fried bacon is cut into small dice and stirred with the omelet mixture, it becomes the well-known Omelette au lard. N.B.-It is in this case often cooked in bacon fat instead of butter. Besides these omelets there are the so-called Omelettes fourrees, or stufted. For these au omelet prepared as above, either with or without the fines herhes, is made, and then just as you are about to double it over a spoonful or so of whatever mixture you choose is gently folded in with it, and the whole served as before. For instance, for a mushroom omelet roughly chop 2oz. or.Soz. of nice mushrooms and fry them for three or four minutes in loz. of buttei, with pepper, salt, a little minced parsley, and a few drops of lemon juice, and as soon as the omelet is ready, introduce this mince into it as you fold it. Kidney Omelet.—BUcq three or four sheep’s kidneys rather thinly and sautez them in butter over a sharp fire till cooked; now pour off the butter, dust a little floui into the pan, together with some minced parsley, chives, and, if liked, mushroom, add a gill of any light stock and a glass of white wine (preferably Chablis or Grave); stir it all well over the fire for a minute or two, then fold it in an omelet made with five eggs, and serve. Omelette d VIndienne.—Fry a minced onion till nicely coloured in oil or butter, then stir into the sameEGGS. 41 pau a spoonful of curry powder and two spoonfuls of cream or new milk, continue stirring it'for two minutes longer, then mix it and finish in the usual w^ay. Have ready some roughly chojjped prawns or shrimps heated in a little rather thick curry sauce, and when the omelet is ready to turn over intro- duce the prawn or shrimp sauce ; fold over and serve. Any odds and ends of game, meat, poidtry, fish and oyster, shrimp, or lobster sauce can be used in this way, but remember the sauce in which these scraps are heate 1 should ahvays be well boiled down to thicken it nicely. Of course the sauce used can be varied according to the miuce, and the omelet may be either curried or plain. Few people are aw'^are how good the remains of macaroni cheese, Italian rice, or pilaff are, if moistened with tomato sauce and added to an omelet aux fines herhes. In fact, no better way of using up any kind of scraps has ever been devised. Lastly, there are the cold omelets. almost unknown in this country. For these make an omelet aux fines herhes in the usual way with three or four eggs, but when ready, instead of folding it slip it oft' on to a dish and letj,ve it till cold. Have ready a nice puree of 2oz. each of cooked tongue and chicken and the same quantity of butter, season this lightly with peirper and a very little salt, pounded together till smooth, and sj>read tlris all over the cold omelet, then roll it up like a pancake, ix variante of this is made by using cold game and ham or pate de foie gras, or else there is the Omelette a la Uusse. Make some small omelets in the usual way, only adding a little cayenne or a42 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. droi5 or two oi‘ Tabasco to the mixture, aud finish as in the ]jrevious recij)e. When quite cold, spread them with caviar seasoned with a dust of cayenne aud lemon juice, roll them up, and leave them on ice till wanted. If to be eaten hot, as these some- times are, as soon as the omelet is coloured on oiae side, take the pan from the fire, turn the omelet over, and let it stand for a minute or two off the fire; now spread it with the caviar as before, roll and serve at once, or, if they have cooled in the process, put them in the oven for a minute or two to Avann, but be careful not to overheat them, or the caviar will be tough and tasteless. One with regard to omelets remains, aud this is the vexed question of gravy. The stuffed omelets are almost always served with a sauce or gravy, but it is a moot point whether ordinary omelets should be thus served, and is a matter for individual decision, only remember that sauce served round an omelet should not be thick—a clear gravy, flavoured to taste, is always best. Abroad a nice demi-glace (a rich, transparent gravy) is generally served, but for omelets a I’lndienne, &c., a thin curry sauce may be used, whilst for kidneys a very thin espagnole, flavoured with Worcester or Harvey sauce, is jueferred.CHAPTER III. FISH. Fish is a great stand-by for breakfast, and can be served in a variety of ways, though the simpler and less higbly-flavoured methods are generally preferred, especially for fresh fish; very constantly, however, the breakfast fish is prepared from the fish left over from the previous day’s dinner. For these rechaufiies the following recif>es are of general application. Fish a la Creme.—Flake any nice white fish with two silver forks into neat pieces, dusting them as you do so with white pepper, salt, and a few droj)s of lemon juice (this can be done overnight, and in any case should be done whilst the fish is hot, as the skin and bones never come away so neatly if the fish is left till cold) ; have ready for each |lb. of flaked fish half a pint of good melted butter, bechamel, or white sauce, flavouring these with a dash of cayenne and lemon juice and some delicately minced chives or parsley; heat the fish in this, and when thoroughly hot, dish on a hot dish with a garnish of fried croutons spread with maitre d’hotel or anchovy butter. Or: Prepare the fish and sauce as before, put the fish into a well-buttered pie or other fireproofBREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. clisli, and pour the sauce over it all; dust the surface with browned breadcrumbs, minced parsley, and coralline pepjier, and bake for twenty to thirty minutes in a hot oven. If preferred, small fireproof china cases, or shells, may be used instead of one largo dish, of course b.iking the fish for little more than half the previously^ given time. Any nice fish (save hei-ring or mackerel, which are too rich) may be prepared thus. Any remains of oyster, shrimp, lobster, or other good fish sauce may be used up for this dish. Fish Mould.—Heat 12oz. of any good fish flaked as above in 2oz. of butter, and when hot turn it out and pound it smoothly, then working into it 3oz. of fresh Avhite breadcrumbs, previously steeped in a gill or so of single cream or new milk, till it is all a smooth paste. Season Avith pepper, salt, coralline pepjAer, if liked a very tiny grate of nutmeg or mace, and, lastly, add the Avell-beaten yolks and whites of two eggs; pour this mixture into a generously buttered basin and bake, boil, or steam for thirty- five to forty minutes. Turn out and serve with anchovy, or any nice fish sauce to taste. This is excellent made with any kind of fish, but especially Avith salmon or lobster. A more delicate dish can be made thus: Remove all skin and bone from the fish (raw whiting is j>articularly delicate for this) and weigh it, then mince and pound it to a smooth paste. Rinse a pan out carefully with cold Avater, then put into it loz. of butter and a full gill of new milk or single cream, and stir it over the fire tiU the butter is perfectly melted, when you add 2oz. of freshly-45 FISH. made white breadcrumbs and stir it over the fire till the bread has almost, if not quite, absorbed the liquid; then pour this all on to the pounded fish, and repound and sieve it all, carefully scraping off all the puree that adheres to the under side of the sieve, mixing it with the rest; now stir in lightly and quickly the stiffly-whisked whites of two eggs, and lastly a gill of cream half beaten (i.e., till thick, but not sufficiently whisked to stand up in points). Three parts fill a well-buttered mould or basin with this mixture, rap it sharply against the table edge to settle it, cover it with a buttered paper, and steam or jjoach it slowly for fifteen minutes, or till the surface of the cream feels firm to the finger. Lift it off, let it stand for a minute to settle, then turn it out on to a hot dish and serve plain or with a rich sauce over and round it. This may be made with either cooked or raw fish. Fish Cakes.—Mince any remains of cold fish freed from skin and bone, seasoning it as you do so with pepper, salt, finely-minced chives or parsley, and just enough butter to mix it. Shape this mixture into little round flat cakes or balls in your well floured hands, brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in breadcrumbs or broken up vermicelli, and fry a light golden brown. They may then be served plain, with a garnish of fried parsley, or you can make a little stock from the fish bones, flavoured with a green onion stuck with a clove, and a sprig of parsley, and seasoned to taste, and when this is ready, strain it into a pan, put in the fish cakes, and let it all stew together for a fev/ minutes. The46 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. cakes and gravy can be prepared overnight, and the whole heated in the morning if preferred. These cakes are also good if a little cold cooked rice be stii’red in amongst the tish, as it makes them lighter. Fish Cutlets.—Melt 2oz. of butter and stir into it very smoothly loz. of fine flour, diluting this when perfectly smooth with a gill of water, milk, or fish stock, and let it all boil together for a few minutes (of course if you follow the good custom of having white and brown roux always at hand, dilute a couple of ounces of white roux with the stock). Now add to this a tablespoonful of cream, a tea- spoonful of lemon juice, a dust of cayenne and of salt, and a few drops oC anchovy. (If you are j>re- paring lobster cutlets, add the coral, or failing this coralline pepper, pounded smoothly with a little fresh butter, as the charm of this sauce is its pretty rose colour.) To this sauce now add either a small cooked lobster (or half a tin of canned lobster) or an equivalent amount of any cold cooked fish, all cut into tiny dice, and when well blended, turn it out on to a dish or the pastry slab and leave it for an hour or two at least (it is best made overnight). When wanted shape it into cutlets with your well-floured hands and palette knife, egg and crumb these and fry them, being careful that the fat is at the right temperature (i.e., that a pale blue vapour is just beginning to rise), till of a light golden brown. Drain well by the fire on a sheet of kitchen paper, then serve hot with a garnish of fried parsley. This farce can be shaped to taste into corks, balls, pears, &c. If the latter be chosen, shape it neatly inFISH. 47 your 'well-floured hands, pressing a clove into the round end to simulate the flower, and a j)iece of lobster feeler or of parsley stem into the pointed end for a stalk. Any odds and ends of fish—raw, cooked, or canned—may be used. This farce may also be moulded, steamed, and served with any nice sauce to taste. Fish d VOrlie.—Flake any nice firm cold fish (previously freed from slrin and bone), fresh or smoked haddock or salmon being particularly good, into rather large flakes ; season with pepper, salt, and a Kttle lemon juice, dip each piece into good and rather thick batter, and fry in plenty of hot fat. drain well, and serve either plain with fried parsley or with tomato sauce. Another version of this dish is known as Mock Whitebait. Lift the flesh free from the bones (use a sole for choice) and cut it into tiny strips about the size of a fairly large whitebait, toss these strips in a floured cloth till nicely and lightly coated, and fry them, a few at a time, in plenty of hot fat in a frying basket till they turn colour; now drain them for a minute over the pan, then turn them out to drain on the kitchen paper in front of the fire. When all have been cooked thus, sju-inkle them with salt and coralline pejDper (some cooks also use cuiTy powder for this), and serve very hot with a quartered lemon and brown bread and butter. If cooked fish are used they will take but a minute or so to colour in the fat, which should be pretty hot; but if raw fish be preferred, put them into the frying kettle just as the fat begins to smoke, as they will take eight to ten minutes to cook properly.48 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. Fish Gurry.—Prepare a good curry sauce, and wlieii ready lay in the fish flaked as before and one or more hard-boiled eggs (according to the size of the dish), sliced or quartered, and let them stee[) in the sauce at the side of the fire till quite hot without actually cooking; serve with a wall of boiled rice round them. You will need about half a pint of curry sauce for each 6oz. to 8oz. of fish. Or: Melt |oz. of butter over a slow fire, and in this fry a dessertspoonful of finely minced shallot or onion till of a pale golden brown, then add about a dessert- spoonful of curry powder and a small teaspoonful each of curry paste and freshly grated cocoanut, and stir it all over the fire for four or five minutes; now stir in about one and a half tablespoonfuls each of tamarind water and cocoanut milk, and the fish flaked small, allowing about six good tablespoonfuls of fish to this sauce, and let it all fiy very gently together till the liquid is pretty well absorbed and the fish nearly dry and powdery, stirring it all well together to prevent burning. Then serve piled on a hot dish, or in little shells or cases. About a heaped-up spoonful of the flaked fish is used for each person, and the above quantities will fill five or six small cases. Groutes de Poisson, or Fish Toasts.—These are very easy to prepare, thus : Flake the fish small, season with pepper (white and red), salt if required, and minced parsley, put this into a pan with a piece of butter proportioned to the amount of fish (say |oz. for 3oz. or 4oz. of fish), and stir it over the fire, moistening it from time to time with lemonFISH. 49 juice and inillc, or any melted butter left over from the previous uiglit. When very hot and well blemled, pour this mixture on to squares of hot buttered toast, dust with coralline pepper and minced parsley, and serve. If preferred, squares of bread, fried till biscuit-crisp in plenty of hot fat, well drained, and dusted with pepper and minced parsley, maybe used instead of the buttered toast; or, again, take as many little dinner rolls as you choose (the halfpenny size), cut off the top, scoop out the crumb, and fry the little cases to a pale golden brown and biscuit-crisp, and fill with the fish mince. Or, fry a finely-minced onion in butter, then fry in the same pan a spoonful of curry powder, moisten with a little milk and a little tamarind or tomato pulp, and stew till all is tender; then lay in the fish, dusted with coralline pepper and minceil parsley, and when thoroughly hot serve on fried or toasted squares of bread. Lastly, there is Kedgeree, or, more properly, Kitchri. For this, flake or mince |lb. of cold fish and stir it in a pan with a full l^oz. of butter, two hard boiled eggs cut into tiny dice, with pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste, adding in at the last 3oz. or 4oz. of cooked Patna rice. Stir it all well together over the fire, and serve veiy hot. If preferred, one egg may be hard, the other soft boiled (eggs left over being capital for this), whilst many people use |oz. or loz. more butter, frying in this at first a small onion or a shallot sliced in rings ; then stir in tlie rice, next the fish and it^. seasoning, then enough turmeric (about half a teaspoonful) to make it all a pale yellow tint, a,ud lastly the eggs, serving it very hot.no BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. Presli fisli may be broiled or fried, but for sea or other trout or herring it is best to roll it in oatmeal before frying it; or it may be brushed over lightly with oiled butter or salad oil, preparing some long straws in the same way, and laying these on the grid and the fish on them. In this way the skin of the fish does not stick and tear at the bars, as often happens with delicate fish, like red mullet, for instance. Fish Papillotes Sire a very nice way of cooking raw fish. Oil some square or heart-shaped sheets of white paper and set them near the fire tiU dry. Have ready as many nice fillets of fish as you have cases, and place one in each piece of j>aper, with a spoonful of tomato or any other nice, and rather thick, sauce to taste, with a seasoning of salt, j>epper, and lemon juice, or with a d’Uxelles mixture; fold the paper over, rolling in the ends securely, and broil or bake in a well-buttered tin till the paper puffs out, and serve at once in the paper. These take from eight to ten minutes to cook. Salmon, sole (lemon sole, or plaice), haddock, mackerel, herring, whiting, or indeed any fish, are excellent served thus. Fish in Oases.—Fillet a sole (or any other fish) and skin it, seasoning the skinned side with white pepper, salt, and a drop or two of lemon juice, then roll each up, fastening it in place with a band of buttered paj^er ; put these little fillets in a buttered jjan, squeeze a little lemon juice over them, cover down the pan, and set it in the oven, or at the side of the stove, for fifteen to eighteen minutes. Have51 FISH. ready some little paper cases previously bruslied over witli oil and dried, and as soon as tlie fillets are ready place one in each, case (after removing the paper band), place a tiny pat of anchovy or maitre d’ho tel butter on each, moistening each with a drop or two of oiled butter and lemon juice, and serve very hot. Any fish that will roll nicely will do for this. Herring fillets finished with mustard butter, lemon juice, and a drop or two of oil are excellent. Fish a la Genoise.—For this whiting are best, but perch, haddock, sole, smelts, &c., can all be used. If whiting are used, choose the freshest and smallest fish, trim, wash, and cleanse them, cut off the tails and fins, and lay them for two or three hours in the strained juice of two lemons mixed with two table- spoonfuls or so of salad oil, with two or three slices of onion, two or three sprays of j^arsley and thyme, a little salt, pepper, and spice to taste. When sufficiently marinaded (in Italy this lasts for four hours, but we find two ample) lift them out of the marinade, di’ain a little, hour, and fry them; serve plain, or with a good sauce. Fish au Gratin.—Mince together five or six mush- rooms, two shallots, and some parsley, and mix with freshly ground black pepper, a little salt, and one- third the quantity of fine, freshly grated bread- crumbs ; strew a well-buttered fireproof china dish with half this mixture and lay on it a nice sole, cover with the rest of the mixture, strewing the top with a few more browned crumbs and some tiny morsels of butter, and pour in at the side a wine- glassful of light French wine, with enough fish stock s 252 BREAKFAST AKD LUNCH DISHES. to come up to but not to cover the fish, and bake till the liquid is all absorbed. The time this takes to cook must depend on the size and thickness of the sole, but usually from twenty-five to thirty-five minutes is sufficient. Any fish can be cooked in this way, but fish other than soles are better filleted, in which case they naturally take less time. Cooked fish may also be used in this way. When light French wiue is not obtainable, use all fish stock, flavouring this with a spoonful of sherry, a squeeze of lemon, and a few drops of essence of anchovy. Haddock is an excellent fish for breakfast uses, and may be cooked (either fresh or salted) in a variety of ways. First among these is Bizzared liaddie, a very popular Scotch dish. For this rub the fish well, inside and out, with salt, and after I’unning a skewer through their heads, fasten them up in the open air, supporting the ends of the skewer on two nails, and leave them there for twenty-four hours. Then skin them, dust them with flour, and broil them over a clear fii-e. Many fish can be cooked in this way, plaice and flounders being particularly good, but cut off the heads and let these hang head down to drain for twenty-four hours before use, as this makes them firmer and less watery, Steived Finnon Haddie.—Melt two tablespoonfuls of dripping in a pan, then lay in the fish, previously cut into neat pieces, and fry it for eight or ten minutes, according to the thickness of the fish ; then jDOur into the pan sufficient milk to cover the fish and let it all stew gently together for about half an horn’ as slowly and over as gentle a fire as you cajjFISH. 58 manage. Lift out and serve with a spoonful or so of the milk round it. (N.B.—The milk left over is an excellent foundation for fish sauce, souffle, or fish toasts.) This is a Highland fisherman’s recipe. Steamed SmoTced Haddoclc.—Skin the fish and lay it in a hot pan, add enough boiling water not quite to cover it, cover down the pan and cook on a hot corner of the stove for ten or fifteen minutes; then di-aiu, spread a little butter over it, and serve with a dust of cayenne and a sprinkling of lemon juice, or, if liked, Worcester sauce over it. These form pleasant variations from the ordinary method of skinning the fish, buttering, and broiling it over a clear fire. “ Crapjnt Heids.”—This is an old-fashioned Scotch dish still very popular in some parts of Scotland. Cleanse three good haddocks’ heads (or a cod’s head), wipe them quite dry, and remove the eyes from the outside so as not to make a hole through it. Have ready toasted before the fire or in the oven 4oz. of medium oatmeal (be careful this has been kept stirred so as only to dry and lightly brown it, for if the least “ caught” it is spoiled), and make a stuffing with this and two haddock roes and two livers (or use 2oz. clarified drqiping), a dessertspoonful of minced parsley, two parboiled and minced onions, a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter as much jicpper, mixing it all to a stiff paste with about a gill of milk or water; then stuff the heads with this, sewing them up carefully to prevent the farce escaping. Brush them over with ^oz. of dissolved dripping, roll them in breadcrumbs, let them stand for a minute or two54 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. to set this coating, then hake or toast in front of the fire for one to one and a half hours. If preferred, the heads may be boiled for three-quarters of an hour, stale white breadcrumbs replacing the oatmeal. Serve hot. Sole d la Colbert.—Remove the brown skin and trim the fish, then run your knife down each side of the backbone to within an inch of the head and tail, slipping the blade along under the flesh to loosen but not remove the fillets, breaking the backbone in two or three places with the haft of your Imife. Now egg, crumb, and fry in plenty of hot fat in the usual way for ten or twelve minutes. The edges of the cuts will, when cooked, have curled away from the bone, which you now remove, drainmg the fish well on a clean cloth, and rej)lacing the bone with a pat of maitre d’hotel butter; sprinkle with salt, and serve at once very hot. The opening can, if preferred, be filled with a d’Uxelle mixture and left till quite cold, when it may be stood on ice till Avanted, and served Avith either mayonnaise of any kind, or tomato cream, and a garnish of water- cress. “Planked Shad.”—This well-known American dish is Avell worth the trouble it demands. Split the fish and skewer or peg it out on a stout board (an oaken one is always thought indispensable in the United States), the lower end of which should stand in a tub of salt and water. Now toast the fish in front of the fire, basting it now and again with the salt and water, and serve very hot, with a garnish of pickled walnut and a boat of melted butler.55 FISH. Trout a la Hussarde.—Skin and clean five or six small trout, stuff each with a lump of maitre d’hotel butter, lay them in a marinade of oil, seasoned with salt and freshly ground black pepper, for an hour ; then grill or broil, and serve very hot. Broihd Maclcerel.—Cleanse and trim the fish, .siditting it lengthwise down the back to the bone; marinade the split fish for an hour, as in the pre- ceding recipe, then grill or broil it for six minutes on each side and serve very hot with a pat of maitre d’hotel butter. In old days mackerel intended for broiling was wrapped first in southernwood, which was held to improve its flavour. If this be true I know not, but to* this day many gourmets advise wrapping the fish, before laying it on the grill, in fennel. KentiicJcy Cod.—Cut the fish up into 2in. pieces, season each with salt and pepper, and roll in Indian corn meal, or failing this, in oatmeal. Fry some thin rolls of bacon and put them when done in a hot dish, then fry the fish in the same pan in the bacon fat, adding, if the latter be not sufficient, a little lard or some more bacon fat saved on a previous occasion. When delicately browned, drain the fish, pile it on a hot dish, and serve garnished with the bacon. Corned Cod. — Split and cleanse carefully a medium sized cod, remove the backbone, and rub in a good handful of salt (this manifestly depends on the size of the fish, a 71b. or 81b. fish taking a woman’s large handful), lay it flat on a dish skin down- wards, leave it thus for exactly twenty-four hours.56 BREAKFAST AKD LUNCH DISHES. then hang it iqj to drain (preferably in tlie oj>cn air) for four or five days till quite dry, when it may be rizzared like a haddock or treated in any way recommended for Finnon haddie, or it may be boiled and served with esrsr sauce. o o Grilled Bloaters.—'Remove the heads and tails of the bloaters and split them right down the back, removing the roes and backbone by slipping the forefinger under the latter from the tail; then • press the fish back into shape as plumply and smoothly as possible, after laying back the Avell- washed roes, sandwich fashion, between the sid/s of the fish. Pour some warm butter over the bloaters, well saturating both sides with it, and either broil or grill from five to eight minutes (according to size), or bake in a well-buttered baking tin, covered with a buttered paper, for the same time. Serve very hot, brushed over with a little plain or maitre d’hotel butter, and a garnish of seasoned watercress. Red Herring a, la Maitre d’Hot.l.—Thoroughly soak and dry some good red herring, then split them doAvn the back and toast or broil them for two or three minutes; place on a hot dish with either a pat of maitre d’hotel butter or a tiny pat of fresh butter and a little finely minced chives or onion on each; sprinkle it all with a little vinegar and serve very hot garnished with fried, or snow potatoes. These are still nicer if filleted, then treated as above. Herring Pie.—Line a well-buttered piedish with . cold, cooked, and sliced potatoes; skin, bone, and carefully mince three or four herrings (either fresh,r>7 FISH. pickled, or salt, the latter being perliaps tbe best), removing all bones, and mix them with a little salt, pepper if liked, and some cream. Place a layer of this mince on the sliced potato, then more potato, Avith tiny morsels of butter scattered over them, and continue these layers till the dish is full, finishing Avith the potato and butter. Bake three-quarters of an hour. (This is a German dish.) Potted Herring.—Pick the flesh from some broiled fresh or red herring, being careful to remove all bones and skin, and pound it Avith a little butter, pepper, salt, and an atom of mace; then press it all into a mould or jar and cover down Avith clarified dri])ping or butter (liquefied) if intended to be kept. Any fish is excellent potted thus, and very useful breakfast and sandAvich potted fish can bo made with canned salmon, lobster, &c. It is difficult to give exact quantities, as you jjound the fish, adding butter and seasoning gradually till you get both taste and consistency to your mind. Whiting d la Genoise.—Choose small and very fresh fish, wash, clean and trim them, and marinade them for tAVO or three hours in oil and lemon juice flavoured Avith a slice or two of onion, a spray of l^arsley and thyme, salt, pepper, and spice to taste. When sufficiently marinaded, lift out the fish, let the oil drain off[ Avithout Aviping, flour, and fry or grill them Serve plain, or with sauce to taste. Fish Pie d la Busse.—Flake and remoA'e all skin and bones from 11b. of cold cooked fish. Boil two eggs for ten or twelve minutes, then throw them into cold Avater to save their colour; make a white58 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. sauce with loz. each of fine flour and butter, and half a pint of milk, boiling it well together for twelve to fifteen minutes, season to taste with salt, coralline pepper, a dessertspoonful of essence of anchovy, and some capers. Now put into a buttered piedish a layer of the flaked fish, then one of freshly boiled and well dried rice, moistening this with a little of the sauce, then a layer of the eggs sliced, and repeat these layers till the dish is full, finishing with the sliced egg; strew some morsels of butter over the top, and set it in the oven till thoi’oughly hot all through.CHAPTEE IV. HOT DISHES. Hot breakfast dishes are simply legion, and a careful cook,who is not ashamed of looking after “scraps,” need never be at a loss for a dainty dish to eke out the conventional “ eggs and bacon.” Broiled fillets of beef, cutlets, rissoles, croquettes, and meat en caisses are all favourite breakfast as well as dinner and lunch dishes, the recipes for which, however, need not be repeated here. One hint, however, may be given: if some fillets of beef or cutlets have been left over from the previous night, wrap them in neat heart-shaped pieces of buttered or oiled paj>er, with either a little pat of savomy or plain butter on each side, adding in the latter case a little d’Uxelle mix- ture or some finely minced chives and parsley, and set them either on a baking tin in the oven or on the gridiron for a minute or two till quite hot (but mind, they must not be cooked !), and then serve with a garnish of seasoned watercress or some fried or mashed jjotatoes, &c., and few people will detect the rechauffe character of the dish. Meat can be re-heated perfectly without detriment to its nourish-60 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. nient if carefully and daintily done, but it will not, in nine eases out of ton, stand re-cookiug—a fact the average “ good plain cook ” is aj)parently utterly unable to grasp. To begin with the traditional British breakfast dish—bacon. For fried, toasted, or rolled rashers choose the streaky part of the pig, remove the rind (this should be saved for the stock pot), and cut into thin, even slices. For baked rashers (a favourite method for busy cooks), choose the back, which is also the best piece for boiling; and remember that for household use the fore end, or the gammon, is quite equal as far as taste goes to ordinary ham, and in town is 2d. or 3d. a pound cheaper, which, in a large family, is a consideration. Toasted hacon is easily done by means of a Dutch oven or with a toasting Fork, putting a plate underneath to catch the fat. This, by the way, is a capital frying medium for frying onions for curry, veal cutlets, &c., and remember that tiny croutons of bread fried in the bacon fat, well drained, and dusted with coralline pepper and minced parsley, are an excellent garnish for any dish in which bacon is used. The fat of the bacon when cooked should look delicately trans- jjarent and crisp. The same remarks apply to broiled bacon. For fried bacon, heat the pan Avell over the fire, then lay in the bacon and cook till the fat is transparent, turning the rashers once or twice in the process. Baked bacon is done thus: Take a nice piece of the back with the fat and lean neatly divided, cut off the rind in one piece (this is both economical and allows of the meat being more evenly61 HOT DISHES. sliced), and slice it tliinly. Now melt a little bacon fat in a baking tin, and when this is quite hot, but not scorching, put hi the bacon, arranging this so that the fat of one piece rests on the lean of the other, and allow it to cook thus for ten minutes. Be careful, both in baking and frying, to have the fat at the right temperature, for if cooked too fast the fat hardens and scorches. For this reason cooks often mix a little dripping with the bacon fat in frying, as this heats less quickly than pork fat. Bacon Bolls, a very pretty garnish to many dishes, are made by shaving the bacon very thin, then I'olling the slices up neatly and either tying them with cotton or slipping them on to a thin skewer two or three together, and either broiling or baking them. Bacon and Potatoes (Cornish) make a pleasant dish. Fry the bacon as usual, then lift it out and keep it hot whilst you fry in the same jiaii—adding a little more fat if needed—some cold cooked potatoes, sliced or coarsely minced, stirring them together; then turn out on a hot dish, season with pe^iper, dish the bacon on top, and serve very hot. Bacon and Finnon Haddie.—Flake the remains of a cooked smoked haddock neatly, and slice some thin rashers; halve or quarter these as may be required, and wrap a flake or two of haddock, sand- wich fashion, between two bits of bacon; bake in a tin in a hot oven for five minutes till the bacon is cooked, and serve on croutons fried as above in liacon fat. If preferred, the sandwiches, rather liighly seasoned with minced shallot or chives, parsley, and freshly ground black pepper, may be62 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. wrajDped in heart-shaped pieces of previously oiled and dried paper, and broiled as above; or the fish and bacon rolls, nicely seasoned as you roll them up, may be run on to skewers and broiled. Bacon Fritters.—Cut some thin rashers and thin slices of bread to the same size, dip the latter in milk, then lay a piece of bacon between two slices of the moistened (but not papj^y) bread, dip these sandwiches in good frying batter, and fry a golden brown in plenty of hot fat. Or, well season the bacon with spice and minced herbs, and roll an oyster, or a parboiled chicken liver, &c., in the bacon and fry in batter, or in egg and breadcrumbs as above. Serve on croutons, with a garnish of picked watercress seasoned with oil and vinegar. Bacon and Tomatoes. — Slice some nice ripe tomatoes, season with salt, coralline pepper, and finely minced parsley and chives (or shallot), set them in a buttered baking tin, covered with a buttered paper, and bake ten minutes in a moderate oven. Serve dished alternately with sliced and fried bacon. Mushrooms may replace the tomatoes. Bacon and Macaroni.—Boil 2oz. of macaroni in a j)iut of stock til] tender, but not pappy; then add 2oz. or 3oz, of previously boiled streaky bacon, cut into squares, to the macaroni, which should have absorbed most of the liquid, and toss the whole over the fire with loz. of bacon fat till quite hot; turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with a garnish of fried eggs or broiled mushrooms, or both. Liver and Bacon.—Well wash, dry, and slice thinly 4oz. of calf’s liver; fry 3oz. or 4oz. of baconHOT DISHES. G.3 and set it aside in a hot dish; now put into the same pan the sliced liver and |lb. of well wiped, peeled, and minced mushrooms, and fry it all together for eight minutes or so, adding a little more bacon fat (or some butter) if that in the pan is not sufficient. Mind it does not burn ! Now lift out the liver, dredge into the pan a spoonful of flour, and stir this in till nicely browned, when you pour to it half a pint of good stock (flavoured with the mushroom trimmings, stalks, &c.), pepper, and salt; let this boil up, then return the liver to the pan and let it stew gently till quite tender, when you lift it out and dish with the bacon and the gravy round it. Or: dissolve some bacon fat in a pan, and have ready sliced (about one-third of an inch thick), diied, and floured, some nice calf’s liver, dq? it in the melted fat and broil or toast it, peppering it well whilst cooking, and serve with rolls of broiled bacon. Usually the bacon is fried first and then the liver, but the above method will be found well worth the small amount of extra trouble. Kidneys d la Brochette.—Throw the kidneys for three or four minutes into boiling salted water to remove the rank taste they sometimes have, then dry well, slit them through without actually dividing them, and remove the core; then skewer them open like the leaves of a book with tiny skewers, one for each person; or, if preferred, run them two or three together on long slender skewers. Dqj them in liquefied butter or very good salad oil, and cook on a buttered grid for eight minutes, turning frequently. Slip off on to a hot dish, place a tiny pat of maitre64 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. d’hotel butter (or any other savoury butter to taste) on each, and serve plain or with seasoned watercre s and broiled or toasted bacon, or mushrooms. For devilled kidneys you prepare them in the same way, seasoning them rather highly after dipping them in the hot butter, with freshly ground black pepper, a little salt, and cayenne if liked. Broil as before, then serve hot, sprinkled with a little lemon juice and minced parsley, with a tiny pat of cayenne or devil butter on each. Cayenne Butter: Cream 3oz. or 4oz. of butter and mix it thoroughly with about a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. Coralline pepper is an excellent substitute for cayenne, as its colour is most decorative, and many people prefer it to the more strongly flavoured cayenne. Devil Butter is made by creaming 3oz. or 4oz. of butter, working into it a good spoonful of curry paste (the size of this is a question of taste), some very finely minced chives or pounded shallot, and a drop or two of tabasco. For stewed kidneys peel, trim, and slice ten or twelve kidneys and toss them for five minutes over the fire with loz. of butter, add three or four mushrooms minced, and half a pint of espagnole or any good brown sauce to taste, and finish cooking, without however, allowing them to boil, which toughens and spoils them. Calf’s kidney is excellent cooked thus. Very often champagne sauce is used for kidneys cooked in this way. Sausages, Boiled.—Prick them well; lay them in a pan of hot water and bring this gently to the boil, let them only simmer very gently for fully forty to fortv-five mi^utes, then dr^in and serve plain orHOT DISHES. 65 with potato snow. Many cannot eat fried sausages can enjoy them thus, but the success de]3ends entirely on the slowness of the cooking. Sausages, Fried.—Prick the sausages well, melt a little beef dripping in the frying-pan, and fry very gently over a low fire for at least half an hour. Remember, like all white meat, pork requires thorough cooking or it is most unwholesome. In- deed, many people have the sausages boiled for five minutes or so before frying, as they consider this takes off the richness. Sausages may also be baked after pricking them, if laid in a well-greased baking tin and cooked very gently in a moderate oven. In any case a garnish of mashed potato is an improve- ment. For this boil or steam five or six good-sized potatoes, drain and sieve them, moisten with loz. of butter or dripping, half a gill of milk, and one raw egg yolk, with pepper and salt to taste. Mix this all well, pat it out into as many little mounds as you have sausages (this is enough for six) and set them on a buttered baking tin in the oven till nicely coloured and hot; then lift them out on to a hot dish with a fish slice and serve with a sausage on each. Toasts of all kinds are very easy to prepare, and can be made out of all sorts of scraps. 'I he pro- cedure is the same in every case; mince the meat, removing all skin, string, or hard parts, season rather highly with pepper, salt, a little spice (if liked), anr* some minced parsley, chives, or shalot, as you choose. Now stir this over the fire, with a little appropriate sauce, the yolk of an egg, or a little milk or cream, &c., to taste and according to what F66 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. jou are using. When quite hot and thick, pour it all on to neat squares of buttered toast dusted with coralline pepper, and serve very hot, either plain or with buttered eggs poured over it. Another way is to let the mince cool after blending it over the fire, then when cold and thick pile it up on hot buttered toast, strew seasoned breadcrumbs (with a little grated Parmesan cheese) over it, put some tiny morsels of butter or clarified dripping over all, and set it in the oven till quite hot and nicely browned on top. It is hardly necessary to go into more detail over these toasts, as they can be made with any kind (or kinds) of meat, with any sauce to taste. Fish is equally good this way, and so are vegetables, especially if moistened with curry sauce and piled on toast spread with a little chutney. Manifestly these toasts may be buttered with any savoury butter to taste. A drop or two of anchovy is an advisable addition to the moistening sauce for any fish or brown meat. “ Devils ” are very acceptable breakfast dainties for the masculine 2^ortion of the household, and are a capital way of using up carcases of game especially. Almost everything may be devilled, fish being extremely nice for such as like these dishes. Where these dishes are much in request it is well to keep a “ devil pepper,” made by mixing together a teaspoonful each of cayenne and salt, with the same of freshly ground black pepper. If you are going to devil small things, such as flaked fish, prawns, &c., melt a little butter in a pan, dust whatever you are going to use with this j)epper pretty thickly, and layHOT DISHES. 67 it into the melted butter -with a tiny squeeze of lemon juice or chilli vinegar; stir it all well together and serve on very hot biscuit-crisp fingers or squares of fried bread liberally dusted with the above i) 'ppei and, if liked, a little minced chives. For cievilled fowl, pigeon, or game of any kind, divide the remains of any cold cooked bird into neat pieces, score each piece two or three times to the bone, dip in oil or liquefied butter, dust pretty thickly with mustard flour and the devil pepper, and broil over a sharj), clear fire, basting it lightly with a few drops of Liquefied butter as you broil it. If preferred, made mustard can be used instead of the butter, putting little pieces of the latter over it at the last; or curry powder may replace the mustard altogether. Devilled Liver.—Wash, dry, and slice thinly some good calf’s liver, brush each slice over with mustard and chutney, sprinkle with the devil pepper, then dip in oil or liquefied butter, broil over a clear fire, and serve in a ring, with a mound of broiled and highly peppered mushrooms in the centre, and some crisply fried rolls of bacon round. If mushrooms are unattainable, rej)lace them by tomatoes, j3eeled, sliced rather thickly, Avell spread with mustard butter, dusted with the devil pepper, and broiled or baked very quickly. Devilled Ham.—Season some sliced ham rather highly with the devil pepper, and broil over a sharp fire. Have ready some fried croutons dusted pretty thickly with the pepper and either minced chives or parsley, and spread generously with chutney and some “ devil sauce ” made thus : bring to the boil F 268 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. together halt a pint of good brown sauce, a table- spoonful of claret, a teaspoonful of English or French mustard, not quite two dessertspoonfuls of Worcester sauce, with a litile cayenne or chilli vinegar to taste, let it boil together till a little reduced, and serve. Or: to half a pint of any stock add loz. of glaze, a full tablespoonful of hot sweet chutney, a tablespoonful each of mustard mixed with Worcester sauce instead of water, mushroom ketchup, and wine, with a teaspoonful of chilli vinegar and half that of red currant jelly; bring this all just to the boil, and as soon as the jelly is melted and the other ingredients well blended, strain it on to loz. of brown roux, heat it up to boiling point, and pour it hissing hot on to whatever it is to accompany. Sausages, instead of the ham, are equally good. Almost any meat is nice served as a devil, and with a little care it is not difficult to do this, though many people appear to find it hard to understand the diifex’ence between a “ grill ” and a devil. For the former the meat is simply dipped in oil or liquefied butter, seasoned to taste with black pepper and salt, and grilled or broiled till nicely crisj^ed and scorched on the outside. For a devil it must be thickly sjiread with mustard, which should be made with either Worcester sauce or chilli vinegar, and if a particularly fiery kind of diablotin is desired add a (very) few drops of Tabasco (which is the essence of chillies) as you mix it; then season well with the devil pepper given above, brush it all over with butter or oil, and broil on a well-buttered gridiron over a clear fire. If the bone or bird is served69 HOT DISHES. straiglit from tlie fire it is called a “ dry devil,” whilst if sent to table with either of the sauces given above round it, or in a sauce-boat, it is known as a “ wet devil.” Only remember that for these dishes the meat must be well scored right through to the bone. The above may serve to give a few ideas for breakfast, and the only thing remaining is to give a few directions for prei^aring chickens (which are in most cases equally good for almost any game, also for rabbits, pigeons, quail, &c.) that are as useful for lunches as for breakfast. Poulet en Casserole.—There are various ways of doing this, one being to cut it up in neat joints, seasoning these with pej>per, salt, and a little sifted flour; then melt a little butter or dripping in a casserole (if liked, the pan may be rubbed across once or twice with a fresh cut clove of garlic) and toss the chicken joints in this till delicately browned; have ready about a pint of good stock nicely flavoured with herbs, mushrooms, &c., and put this to the chicken with about a wineglassful of sherry, loz. of glaze or a spoonful of Liebig, and a bunch of herbs, together with some whole mush- rooms, and small squares of bacon, previously lightly fried with the chicken; cover the pan down closely and set it in the oven to cook for about forty minutes, standing it in a baking tin of boiling water. You can then serve on a very hot dish, or in the pan in which it was cooked (the usual method) ; in this latter case remove the bunch of herbs and thicken the sauce (after removing the chicken, keeping the70 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. latter hot) by the addition either of a little roux and by rapid boiling, or else allow it to reduce as before, after adding to it a little arrowroot rubbed down smoothly with the gravy; then return the chicken to the pan, re-heat, and serve. Another way of doing •poulet en casserole is to truss the fowl as if for roasting, putting some butter in the fireproof casse- role, and browning the fowl in this; then cook as before, only being careful to keep the fowl well basted while cooking. Or, slice rather thickly and fry one large onion or several small ones, a slice or two of ham or bacon cut into strips, some very finely sliced carrot, salt, freshly ground black pej>per, and a good bouquet. When these are well coloured, lay in the fowl wrapped in slices of fat bacon, with a few mush- rooms, tomatoes, or any other addenda to taste. Now 2^our in a gill of water, stock, or half stock and half white wine ; cover down closely, and cook steadily and slowly in the oven for one and a half houi's, then lift out the bouquet and serve in the casserole. Pheasants, blackcock, or indeed any kind of game or poultry, may be served thus. ChicTcen Saute.—Cut up a nice young chicken, 2>utting the bones, giblets, trimmings, &c., of the bird into a pan with two or three bacon rinds, pour in enough water or bone stock to cover well, and cook till you liave some good, well-flavoured stock; reduce it a litlle by rapid boiling, and strain. Now put the chicken into a stewpan with 3oz. of butter, salt, and pepper (and, for a change, a good pinch of curry powder, though not strictly correct, is often liked), and fry it all till delicately coloured, turningHOT DISHES. 71 the pieces to get them evenly tinted. Do this sharply over a clear fire, being careful not to let the butter go off the boil. About fifteen to twenty minutes should be suflScient to cook it, for if slowly done the meat soddens and hardens instantly. Now sprinkle a little dried and sifted flour over the meat, add half a shalot, a little parsley, and, if at hand, three or four mushrooms, all very finely minced; moisten this all with the stock, bring it to the boil, then at once lift it off, toss the contents of the pan well together and return it again to the fire—always well shaking the pan, and repeating these boils up and liftings off two or three times to ensure the chicken, &c., being properly cooked; then dish the meat, &c., on a hot dish and pour the gravy over it all. If the latter is too thin, cover down the chicken to keep it hot and boil up the gravy sharply to reduce it. If you find the meat is hardly done by the sawie-ing process, you can leave it to simmer for a few minutes in the gravy, but this alters the character of the dish. This can be served plain or garnished with cut-up and fried tomatoes or broiled mushrooms, as you please. Poulet Marengo.—Prepare the chicken as for poulet saute, then place the giblets, trimmings, &c., of the fowl in a pan with a little parsley, two or three green spring onions, and a bayleaf, with about half a pint of water or bone stock, and simmer it gently until you have half a pint of nice chicken stock ; now add to this a glass of white French wine (or half a glass each of sherry or Marsala and water), a dash of lemon juice, and two or three spoonfuls of72 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. any good strong meat gravy (not sauce); bring it all gently to the boil again and let it simmer together for fifteen to twenty minutes. Fry the chicken in three or four good tabiespoonfuls of best salad oil, with plenty of salt, white pepper, and a minced shalot, laying in the bird when the oil, &c., has boiled up or at least got very hot, and keep turning the pieces all the time they are cooking to get them evenly and nicely coloured. This will take about half an hour. Now take two tablespoonfuls of the oil the bird was cooked in, and add it to the strained stock previously made, beating it all well together over the fire; then pour it over the chicken, garnish with fried eggs (see recipe in the Egg chapter) and croutons of bread fried in the oil with the chicken, and serve very hot. If yon have not got really good oil you may use butter, but then it is no longer a poulet Marengo—which derives its name from the fact that it was the dish with which Napoleon’s chef welcomed him on his return from the battle of that name—a dish intended to be poulet saute, only no butter could be procured to cook it in, so the cook had to be content with a little oil brought in by some foragers. Spatchcock (sometimes called “ spread eagle”).— For this choose a freshly killed fowl. Pick, cleanse, and split it right down the back, skewering it out flat and trimming it neatly; dust it well with pepper and salt and, if liked, a little made mustard, brush it over generously with butter, and grill on a well- greased gridiron for about half an hour over a clear, bright fire. Have ready a crouton of fried or toasted73 HOT DISHES. and buttered bread, place the fowl neatly on this;, with a pat of butter on the bird, and serve very hot. If preferred this can be cooked in the oven, keeping it well basted, in a buttered dish, but it then misses the full flavour belonging to this dish. Maitro d’hotel, curry, cayenne, or anchovy butter may be used, if preferred to the plain pat. Country Captain.—Trim neatly any remains of cold, cooked poultry or game, dip each little joint in flour, and then fry them till delicately browned in 2oz. of butter, with salt, black, and cayenne or coral- line pepper, and a spoonful of curry powder. When browned add the sieved pulp of two or three tomatoes, haK a pint of tomato sauce, and a very little finely minced parsley, and boil up again. Dish in a pile, with a garnish of fried croutons dusted with coralline pepper and minced parsley, and fried onion rings well drained and seasoned with pepper and salt. Or: Slice oflc the meat of a good young fowl, or if preferred cut it into neat joints, sprinkling these all with curry powder; fry an onion sliced into rings in 3oz. or 4oz. of butter till delicately coloured and quite crisp; then take out the onion and keep the rings hot, putting the chicken pieces into the pan and the butter in which the onions were fried, and toss them over the tire tiU nicely coloured, when you dish them neatly on a very hot plate, garnishing them with the fried onions. Mutton, lamb, or veal, cut up into neat pieces, can be cooked in the same way. Of course a great deal depends on the goodness and flavour of the curry powdei used.74 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. ChicJcen Fritters.—Cut tlie remains of any cold cooked chicken, &c., into neat pieces as large and as even as you can get them, season with salt and freshly ground black pepper; dip each piece into frying batter, and fry in plenty of hot fat till of a golden brown. Drain well, sprinkle with coralline pepper, and serve piled up on a napkin, with Irliudaise, Bcarnaise, or Tartare sauce handed round. If preferred the meat may be egged and crumbed instead of using batter, but in this case serve with little rolls of fried bacon and a rich, ice- cold tomato mayonnaise. Chicken Viennoise.—Si^lit a spiung chicken as for broiling, remove the breastbone, quarter it, and marinade these quarters for an hour or two in oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper; then roll each piece in fine flour and fry in plenty of boiling fat, cooking each piece separately. When nicely coloured drain the pieces on kitchen paper near the fire, and when all are ready serve on a napkin garnished with quartered lettuce, and hand round mayonnaise sauce. Needless, presumably, to say that all and any of these recipes are equally appropriate to turkey, pigeons, quail, game, rabbits, &c. Poulet a la Jeune Fille.—Rub a nice fowl with butter and season with pepper and salt, fill it with seasoned oysters, and put it into a casserole, closing it down hermetically; stand it in the bain-marie and allow it to cook gently till perfectly tender. Now lift out the fowl and keep it hot; pour the liquor into a pan, with 2oz. of butter, a gill of milk, a spoonful of arrowroot, and a little minced parsley;75 HOT DISHES. bring this all sliarplj to the boil; continue boiling for ten minutes, add three liard-boiled minced eggs, pour it over the fowl, and serve hot. Guisado alia Contrabandista.—Cut a raw fowl into neat joints and toss these till coloured nicely in butter, oil, or dripping. (In Spain bacon fat rendered down with red peppers, chile Colorado^ is used for this.) Then stir in five or six minced tomatoes (tinned will do), thi’ee minced green peppers, a clove of garlic, a bayleaf, and two good tables]30onfuls of gravy or stock. Bring it all just to the boil, then draw it aside and let it simmer very gently for two hours. Serve very hot. An old fowl is excellent for this. For British tastes it would be amply sufiicient to rub the pan over once or twice with fresh cut garlic. Eice may be added to this if liked. Any meat can be used instead of fowl. Pepperpot (a genuine West Indian recipe).—lute a good-sized earthenware pan or casserole put three tablespoonfuls of pure casseripe for each quart of cold water, with salt to taste and a handful of bird peppers. (Where these cannot be got use cayenne.) Cut the meat up into small pieces after being well cooked and put into the pot, then cook for half an hour. This should be heated up every day, and something added to it daily. Any sort of meat, the more various the kinds the better, will do, and hard boiled eggs are a great addition. Usually |lb. of mixed vegetables (onions being chief) and fib. of all sorts of meat (veal, fowl, beef, mutton, pickled pork, &c., according to what is at band) to76 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. eacli quart of water, with, if liked, a little rice, is the average; adding, when nearly cooked, the flesh of a crab or lobster, and the eggs, if put in. In the West Indies, okra, plantain, or bananas, yams, &c., are all used for pepperpot, and the natives declare that the longer this stew goes without being actually emptied out the more succulent does the dish become. In fact, once started, a pepperpot out there is kept going for weeks, and, indeed, months, adding a little more meat and casseripe daily, and boiling it up regularly. These may serve as a sample of the many ways there are of serving fowls for breakfast or lunch, and almost every housekeeper, and not a few bachelors, can give most admirable hints for the preparation of such dishes, which, when given, should certainly “ be made a note of,” a la Captain Cuttle, for breakfast is at best a trying meal to cater for, and no advice on the subject should be despised.CHAPTBE V. • COLD DISHES^ Where economy has to be considered it is well to have some cold dish as a stand-by, on the sideboard, if the family be a large one. This is by no means 50 expensive an arrangement as may be thought, for all sorts of inexpensive dishes can be provided which, if carefully cooked and dished, are very tempting. The following recipes will be found to bear this statement out:— Bacon, to Boil.—For this choose a nice piece of the back (in contradiction to fried or broiled bacon, which should always be taken from the streaky part), having the fat and the lean pretty equally divided soak it, if possible, for an hour or two, then put it on with sulGBcient cold water to cover it, allow it to come very slowly to the boil, skimming it carefully as it does so, and then draw it to the side of the stove and allow it to simmer very slowly till cooked you should allow twenty-five minutes to the pound at least from the time the water boils up. When done lift it out, strip off the skin (this should go to help the stock-pot), strew thickly with breadcrumbs78 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. or raspings, and leave it till cold. Some people prefer, after skinning the bacon, to press it like a brisket of beef between two dishes or plates with a weight on top. This makes a more compact and neater joint, but when the dish is removed the top •of the bacon must be lightly brushed over with very thin glaze, or even a weak solution of gelatine (or aspic if liked), and thickly crumbed as before. (If a piece of bacon lasts too long, it is veiy easy to serve some of it en rechauffe in this way: Slice it down thinly, sprinkle each slice generously with seasoned ■breadcrumbs to which you have added a little cayenne Dr coralline pepper, and toast or broil at once.) Ham can be cooked, if preferred, like bacon, but recipes have already been given for this joint in a previous series. It should be observed that different kinds of hams require different treatment, and are always better for being cooked in stock with a mixture of :soup vegetables, herbs, &c., or else baked or roasted in a casin g of water paste. Never forget that ham always requires soaking for a time extending from eight to thirty-six hours, so it is well when purchasing to inquire into the dryness and smoking of the joint. Lukewarm water is best for softening, and should be changed two or three times during the process. Old-fashioned cooks averred that ale in small quan- tities (say from quarter to half a pint to the gallon •of water) should always be added to the boiling water of a treacle-cured ham; whilst for ordinary •ones the last soaking water should contain a gill of good vinegar, half a pint each of vinegar and cider being added to the boiling water. Be very careful79 COLD DISHES. to see that the ham is well scrubbed and all rusty, discoloured parts cut off before soaking, but do not cut the skill more than you can help, as this is best drawn off whole at the last. Hams, if very dry, will take from thirty to thirty-five minutes per pound, while fresher ones will only need about twenty-five minutes, but the thickness of the ham must always be taken into consideration. Foreign hams generally take longer to soak than English ones, as they are usually more highly dried; a Westphalian ham, for instance, should be soaked (in cold water) for twenty- fom’ hours, then drained and covered with fresh cold water, and soaked for twenty-four hours longer. A Spanish ham will take quite thirty to forty hours’ soaking, and should always be put on in cold liquid- water for the first hour, then stock, with vegetables, spice, &c. York hams are only to be had in perfec- tion if large. Baih Chap.—The great secret in cooking this is to soak it well and then to boil it very slowly. It will take from eight to twelve hours’ soaking, and even more if very diy, then boil and treat as advised for boiled bacon. Fielded Pork.—One of the nicest pieces for break- fast use is the thin flank, or belly, part of a young pig. It should be salted for two or three days with a mixture of one saltspoonful of powdered saltpetre to two tablespoonfuls of common salt (this any butcher will do for you), then wash it in cold water and dry it carefully with a cloth; j)ut it on with plenty of water and a bunch of herbs, bring it slowly to the boil, skim carefully, then draw it to the side80 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. and simmer very gently till the meat is done; from twenty to twenty-five minutes per pound is a fair average. Some cooks roll this pickled pork before cooking it, and leave it under a weight to press till cold, but many people object to this on account of the rind, which must necessarily be left on. Brawn.—This can really be made of almost every- thing, from calf’s head upwards and downwards, adding to the more tasteless meats slices of ham, tongue, spiced beef, &c., but generally brawn is made from pig’s head. Choose a small head, or half a large one, weighing say from 41b. to 51b., with the feet and the tongue, clean the head thoroughly, removing the eyes and the brains, and soak the whole for an hour or two in cold water, then put it in a pan with water enough to cover it, adding, if the pig’s head be very fat, from ^Ib. to fib. of lean beef; the tongue must be cooked separately. Bring the meat to the boil, skimming it carefully and adding a good bunch of herbs and a carrot and turnip, and let it all simmer together steadily till you can lift out the bones quite easily; now strain it free of the broth, remove every atom of bone, and cut, or better still, tear (this makes it form a more compact substance) it into small pieces whilst hot, seasoning it with salt and pepper and quatre cpices, and stirring in the tongue similarly cut up ; a little cayenne may be added if liked. Now put the brawn into the brawn tin in spoonfuls, packing it well down as you do so, and pour on to it, little by little, the liquor in which it was cooked, which you have reduced by rapid boiling to about a pint. When81 COLD DISHES. tightly packed either screw it down (if packed in a proper brawn tin), increasing the pressure as the meat settles, or else put a plate into the tin with a heavy weight on it, and let it stand till set. The tin can then be dipped for a moment into hot water, and turned out like a jelly. Remember when choosing your brawn tin that it is better to have it rather narrow, as it is much easier to carve than when the brawn is too wide. It is impossible to say exactly how long the brawn will take to finish, as it must be very slowly simmered, and the ears and feet (which add largely to the jelly) take a considerable time to cook. Potted Head.—A homely dish, somewhat similar to brawn, and very popular in Scotland, is made from an ox’s or sheep’s head. For this take a whole or half a head, according to size, removing the brains; wash the head thoroughly and soak both it and the foot for an hour or two in warm water ; then break up both and lay them in a pan with just enough water to cover them well. Bring to the boil, skim well, then draw to the side and simmer steadily, closely covered, till the bones will slip from the flesh. This, for a moderate head, takes about four hours. Now lift the meat out, remove the bones, cut it into dice, seasoning it as you do so with the following mixture: Two teaspoonfuls of salt, one of freshly ground black pepper, one of powdered allspice, and, if liked, a saltspoonful of cayenne. Return the meat to the pan, allow it to simmer uncovered for a few minutes, then pour it with it3 strained liquor into a wetted basin or mould, 082 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. and leave till set. If liked, the liquor may be sharply boiled up to reduce it whilst the meat is being cut uj). Sheep’s head is also good this way, but then add the tongue. Tongue, to Boil.—A plainly-pielded tongue only needs soaking for an hour or so, but if smoked will need several hoiirs. Trim it neatly at the root, wash it well, and put it on in enough cold water to cover it well; bring gently to the boil, skim well, add a few slices of onion and carrot and a good bunch of herbs with a few peppercorns ; draw it aside and allow it to simmer very gently for three or four hours according to size ; then lift it out, skin it carefully, set it out straight on a boai'd, fastening it down at root and tip with fine skewers to keep it in shape, and leave it till cold, when it is taken up, trimmed and glazed, or not, as preferred. A good deal of fat must bo trimmed olf as a rule, but this is a matter of taste. Some people roll the tongue whilst hot, tying it into shape with a broad tape, and weighting it between two plates till firmly set; or it may be rolled tightly and packed into a round tin which fits it exactly, a little of the extra fat being rolled in the middle to make it the right size. When quite set and cold it is turned out and glazed. Reindeer tongue is excellent on condition that it is properly soaked, a fact cooks seldom grasp, thinking more of its size than of its dryness. Soak it for three to four hours in c.old water, then lift it out and let it dry in a cool, airy place ; then again soak and dry it, and rej^eat this once more, soaking and diwiug it three times altogether. Then scrape and trim it83 COLD DISHSS. and boil exactly like an ordinary tongue for about three hours, only, however, allowing it to simmer steadily after the initial boil up. The success de]3ends entirely on the soaking and the very slow simmering. Boar’s Head.—Choose a well-shaped head, cut rather deep at the shoulders, and have it singed (the head must be taken off before the pig is scalded) with lighted straw; this removes the bristles and gives it the look of a wild boar. Bone the head very carefully, beginning under the lower jaw, and being very careful not to cut the skin; then spread out the head and rub it well with the following- pickle : 61b. of kitchen salt, 4oz. of saltpetre, 6oz. of moist sugar, |oz. of juniper berries, four cloves of garlic, six bay leaves, a handful of thyme, marjoram, and basil, with a blade or two of mace, and some cloves. When the head has been well rubbed all over pour on to it a bottle of good cooking port, and leave it in a cool place for a fortnight, turning and rubbing it every day. After this, lift it out of the i^ickle and rinse it thoroughly in plenty of cold water, after- wards carefully drying it with a clean cloth ; then spread it f'ut and pare off all the meat on the cheeks in thin, long slices till you get it all quite even. Spread on this an even layer of forcemeat (such as is used for gahintines), and lay on this again the fillets cut from the cheeks, the pig’s tongue also filleted, some sliced truffles, blanched pistachios if liked, &c., then another layer of forcemeat, and continue these two layers till the head is full, and you can tie it into proper shape; then sew it up, and bind it into84 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. the right shape in a well-buttered, clean cloth, tying it firmly with wide tape, and set it in a braising pan with any carcases of game available (grouse and blackcock are particularly suitable), meat trim- mings, &c., and two or three cow-heels. Lastly pour over it enough strong, richly flavoured stock (to which you may add a considerable dash of wine) to cover the head entirely, bring it to the boil, skim carefully, then draw it to the side of the fire and let it cook steadily, but slowly, for four to five hours. As soon as it appears to be cooked lift the pan off the fire, and, after allowing the stock to cool some- what, take out the head on to a large dish, and, if it seems to have shrunk, draw the cloth round it again more closely, but be careful always to preserve the shape; then lay it into a basin, pour its liquor over it, and leave it till the latter has cooled and set into a jelly. Now lift the head out on to a baking dish, and seh it in the oven for a few minutes to melt off the greasy jelly that may be adhering to it, wipe it carefully, especially about the ears, aud set these in position with tiny skewers. Brush it all over with dark, just liquid glaze, and leave it till set, when it is dished either on a large dish, or a socle, or a stand of boiled rice, and garnished with chopped aspic. In France the boar’s head is carefully tied into shape between thin, wide boards to prevent its spreading, the ears are also cut off and cooked separately, being then fastened on at the last with a little lard forced out through a bag, and used to decorate the head generally; enamel eyes are added, and also tusks, either of the real pig or of wax or lard, as you please,85 COLB DISHES. Where glass eyes are objected to, they are made thus: Line a coifee spoon with j ust liquid aspic, then lay in a small round of truffle, and over this a round of hard-boiled white of egg, and fill up the spoon with aspic; when set arrange these in the eye holes, previously trimmed to admit them, and mark them round with a line of the forced butter. For the galantine farce use a rather highly-seasoned sausage meat mixture, mixed with sliced truffles and roughly-chopped almonds. This differs somewhat from the recipe given in Series V., but it is well worth trial, in the country especially. The truffles and pistachios are not in- dispensable, the boar’s head being excellent without them, but, if liked, a pot of pfite de foie gras cut into dice and dotted through the forcemeat is an immense addition. For a simpler dish, roll up the head and treat as an ordinary galantine. Gold Beef d la Daube.—Lard a nice piece of the round of beef and tie it into shape; lay it in a stew- pan with a sliced onion, a carrot, a turnip, a bouquet, a few peppercorns, and some salt; put a calf’s foot in water, let it boil up, then strain and repeat the process, af^er which break it up and add it to the beef. Now pour into the pan as much stock as will cover the beef exactly, and add a wineglassful of white wine; cover the pan with a flour and watei paste, put the lid over this tightly, and cook in a moderate oven for some hours. Now lift out the beef, place it in a deep disli or basin, strain and reduce the gravy by rapid boiling, and pour it over the beef, leaving it till cold and set. When wanted,86 BREAKFAS^r AND LUNCH DISHES. dip tlie basiu iu hot water, and turn out its contents on to a dish, and serve garnished with sliced lemon and small gherkins. The liquor should be a thick glaze. Collared Head.—Have the pig’s head nicely singed, and remove all bones carefully without breaking the skin, after which rub it well all over with salt. Prepare a brine thus: Into a gallon of spring water put lib. of kitchen salt, half a handful of minced juniper berries, six broken cloves, two bay leaves, and some sprays of thyme, basil, and sage, and lastly ^oz. salt- 13otre. Let this all boil together for fifteen minutes, then put it aside till cold. Now i^our it on and over the pig’s head, and let the latter steep in it for ten days, turning and rubbing it well constantly; then wipe and dry it well. When to be used prepare a forcemeat by mincing and then pounding together •|lb. each of ham and bacon, and when this is smooth woi’k into it a teaspoonful of mixed spice, 4oz. of lard, a tablespoonful of minced parsley, six young onions, and freshly ground pej^per to taste. When this is all thoroughly blended together spread the mixture evenly all over the inside of the pig’s head, then roll this up in a clean cloth, tying it into shape with broad tape. Put it into a pan with any nice meat trimmings, and enough second stock to cover it entirely ; bring it to the boil, then draw it to the side of the stove and let it simmer gently but steadily for four hours, being cai*eful it does not stop cooking the whole time it is on the fire. When it is tender lift it out of the pot and stand it between two plates to press, the top j)late being weighted with a heavy weight. When it is perfectly cold take off the clothCOLD DISHES. S7 and tajjes, wipe the head well, and send to table on a napkin. Moch Pate de Foie Gras,—Soak some calf’s liver for half an hour to get all the blood out of it, then wipe and dry it well, and proceed to lard it all over regularly with lardons of good fat bacon, jin. broad and jin. thick, till the liver is evenly larded and you have used up the same quantity of fat bacon as you have liver. Now rub the bottom of a good- sized pan over four or five times with a fresh-cut clove of garlic, and (for 31b. of liver) lay in two minced shallots, two bay leaves, a blade of mace, four or five pepjiercorus, two cloves, a saltspoonful of salt, the same of loaf sugar, five large whole truffles, and |lb. of best fresh butter. Let the larded calf’s liver simmer in all this as gently as possible for three and three-quarter hours, then take it up and place it in a pan or basin, pour the butter over it, and leave it till next day; then take off the butter and dissolve it in a delicately clean saucepan. Now mince and pound the liver to a very smooth paste, adding a teasi^oonful of dry salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, two taljlespooufuls of gravy, and two- thirds of the dissolved butter. Mix this all well together, and then stir in the truffles, either cut into little dice or small slices as you please; press the whole mixture when perfectly blended into a raised pie dish, smooth the top over carefully with a knife, nin the rest of the butter over it, and keep the pate in a cool place, N.B.—If you can get two or three real goose livers and treat them in exactly the same way, they make a delicious piite.88 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. Game Mould.—Stew any old birds or rabbits with a slice or two of ham, two onions, a blade of mace, and seasoning to taste. When sufficiently cooked to allow the bones to be slipped out of the meat, cut the latter uj) and keep it hot. Add a table- spoonful of ketchup to the stock and boil it up again sharply. Pack the meat lightly in a basin or mould, with sliced or quartered hard-boiled egg, strips of ham or tongue, &c., and pour the reduced stock all over it and leave it in a cool place till set, Seiwe plain, garnished with parsley or watercress, or, if jireferred, with chopped aspic, sliced tomatoes, artichoke bottoms, &c., seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Galantine.—This is looked on by the average cook as quite beyond her ken, and her mistress considers it a dainty not to be dreamt of save for some very special function; yet, as a matter of fact, it is not necessarily either an expensive or a very recondite dish, as the following directions show. Choose a large fowl, bone it carefully, putting the bones and the well-washed giblets aside to make stock; prepare a forcemeat with one part of bacon to one part of veal, seasoning this rather highly with spice, and mixing with it one part of ham and cooked tongue in equal quantities, cut into dice. Now spread out the fowl, trimming the flesh so as to get the surface level, adding these trimmings to those parts which are thinnest. Now lay the forcemeat on this, adding to it, if liked, some truffles cut in dice, shred almonds and pistachios, and dust it all with seasoning ; then fold up the carcase in a roll, wrap it in a clean cloth,89 COLD DISHES. tying it neatly into shape with broad tape, and lay it in a deep pan, covering it well with the stock from the giblets, &c., and a wineglassful of sherry or marsala, bring it all to the boil, cover it closely, draw it to the side of the stove, and let it simmer gently but steadily for three or four hours (accord- ing to size). Wlien done, lift the galantine into a basin, pour the liquor over it, and let it cool in this for an hour or so, when you remove the cloth, wrapping the galantine in a fresh one, after draining it well, and let it get cold between two plates under a weight. When perfectly cold, wipe off any fat that may stick to it, glaze it Avith some just liquid glaze, set it on ice till this is firm, and serve garnished with chopped aspic jelly. I have given the recipe in extenso, but it must be remembered that truffles, foie gras, pistachios, &c., though pleasant acces- sories, are not necessaries, and a very praiseworthy dish may be evolved from either an elderly fowl (such as poulterers sell in town cheaj) as a “ soup fowl ”) or even a breast of veal, which answers excellently if the simmering be of the gentlest and slowest, whilst the forcemeat may be replaced by delicate sausage meat, a small terrine of pate de foie gras truffe, cut into dice, being added for any extra special occasion. The liquid in which the fowl was cooked, if strained, fortified with ^oz. of leaf gelatine to the pint and reduced a third or so by rapid boiling, will act admirably as a glazing and decora- tive substance. Veal Cake.—Well butter a plain round or square mould and garnish it with sliced hard-boiled egg,90 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. then pack it with alternate layers of raw veal, ham fat and lean, hard-boiled egg, and a seasoning of minced parsley, salt, quatre epices or freshly ground black pepper, pour in sufficient strong veal stock (made from veal bones and trimmings) to cover it well, stand it in a baking tin with boiling water round it, cover with a buttered paper, and bake in a steady oven for four hours. Let it stand till perfectly cold and set, then turn out and serve garnished with parsley and chopped aspic. Mind you pack it very closely, and be generous with the gravy, or it may dry in the oven, shrink from the sides of the mould and altogether present a dried-up, hard, and ragged look. If this mishap has occurred, pour to it, as you lift it from the oven, sufficient veal stock, stiffened with gelatine, to perfectly fill the mould, and leave till set. A form of this veal cake may be made with cooked meat, sliced into neat pieces, varying the meat with ham or tongue, slices of egg, pate de foie gras, &c., according to what you have, seasoning it to taste, pouring in sufficient liquid gelatined stock to cover it well, and leave till set. Any remains of cold game, chicken, veal, &c., cut into neat fillets, can be used in this way, all kinds of meat being mixed in. Breakfast Pate.—Cut into dice equal parts of nice calf’s liver and fat and lean bacon, and fry these till cooked, in butter (seasoning them with minced parsley, shallot, spice, pepper and salt), over a slow fire, stirring them constantly. Then drain off the fat and pound the rest to a smooth paste. Have ready any game or poultry meat cut into neat filletsCOLD DISHES. 91 (foreign game is very good thus, only mind it is skinned, or rabbits) and par-fry these in the fat in which the liver was cooked, adding if necessary a little more butter. Now spread a layer of the farce at the bottom of a raised pie-dish, and on this a layer of the fillets, sjninkling these with pepper, salt, coralline pepper, and a little powdered allspice and cloves; repeat these layers till the dish is full, finishing with the farce; then stand the dish in a tin three parts full of boiling water, and steam for one or two hours, according to its size. When cooked, smooth, slightly flatten the surface with the bowl of a hot spoon, and pour over it sufficient liquid clarified butter to penetrate it thoroughly, and serve cold with chopped aspic over it. If to keep run good lard over it. Pork Pie (Lincolnshire recipe).—Eor the crust take 71b. of flour, 4oz. of suet, 11b. 12oz. of lard, and one pint of hot water. Turn out the flour on to a board, hollow out the centre with your knuckles, and place in this the suet and lard warmed and the hot water, mixing it all well together (using a wooden spoon till cool enough to handle) till it forms a smooth, firm paste. Then either roll it out aud cut out two rounds and a strip sufficiently long to encircle thu round, and stick one round and the strip together with yolk of egg, pack with the meat, and put on the cover, pinching it and the strip well together; or, hollow the paste, stand a bottle or jar in the centre, and press up the paste all round with your hands till of the requisite shape and size, then pack, cover with a piece of paste reserved for the92 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. purpose, and bake. For the filling, cut the meat from a nice loin of fresh pork, or the leg, as you please, allowing two parts of lean to one of fat, seasoTi well with salt and freshly ground black pepper; pack it well into the pastry case, ramming the meat well home, and moistening it, as you do so, with a little cold water; then bake in a moderate, “ soaking ” oven for about two hours. If baked too quickly or not packed tight enough, the meat will dry up and leave the sides of the paste, hardening and shrivelling on the outside. The same thing will happen if the paste cover is not well pinched together, as the gravy will escape. Lastly there are Potted Meats. These, though cheap enough to buy, are cheaper still to make, whilst there is no comparison in flavour. The process is very easy. Grate or mince any remains of ham, tongue, or spiced beef, season rather highly with pepper, salt (if needed), cayenne or coralline pepper, and enough fresh butter to work it all to a smooth i>aste, adding, if too dry, a little Worcester or other sauce to taste ; then press it into pots, and run some liquefied butter or lard over it, when it will keep some time. Fish of any kind can be preserved in the same way, flavouring it with a drop or two of essence of anchovy, lemon juice, coralline pepper, and, if liked, a very little powdered mace. Tinned salmon or lobster of a good brand makes super- excellent potted fish, at an almost nominal cost. Cods’ roe, fresh or smoked, or indeed any fish roe, may be first cooked and then potted as above with great success, and, like many of the previous recipes.93 COLD DISHES. this is a very satisfactory way of using up otherwise unproduceable scraps. When herring or bloater roes are required for savouries, utilise the fish by cooking, mincing, and pounding it with spice and ]ilenty of fresh butter. Needless to say, these recipes by no means exhaust the list of possible breakfast or lunch dishes, but will serve as hints ; and, the idea once grasped, housewives will find all sorts of nice dishes that only require a little adaptation to turn them into very satisfactory and inexpensive breakfast and lunch stall dbyes.CHAPTEE VI. CUREIES AND PILAFFS. There are few nicer things for lunch than these twc Indian dishes, though, as a matter of fact, over here curries are more thau a little misunderstood. An Oriental chef differentiates his curry powder (as we should say) according to the ingredient to be curried; fish, meat, and vegetables each require, in his eyes, a different j^rej^aration, and these again are varied according to the taste and the native country of the cook. For instance, no self-respecting Indian cook Avould allow of ginger in the powder to be used in currying fish; nor will he permit the mixture of cocoauut milk with any preparation containing coriander and cumin seed unless he were a Cingalese or a Malay, in which case this milk, together with fresh chutneys or sambals, as he would call them, are indispensable. Again, Madras curry powder claims to be the best and purest; Bombay curry is especially to be used for fish ; whilst Bengal furnishes the powder best adapted for currying vegetables and eggs, and, next to these, fish ; and so on. But over here we get our curry powder from the grocer (very seldom taking the trouble to discoverCURRTES AND PILAFFS. 95 the kind), and this we apply straiglit through to fish, flesh, or fowl, not to mention eggs and A’^egetables. Generally, it may be added, in the opinion of con- noisseurs, with disastrous results! However, having fixed on our curry powder, it is still possible for the British cook to impart an agreeable variety to her Eastern dishes by a careful use of the various addenda indispensable in curry making. On one point, however, no mistake must be made. Butter is necessary, and must be used generously, taking care, however, to avoid the mis- take (in European eyes) of the Indian cook, who is apt to measure the excellence of his curry by its greasiness. The addenda are shallots, garlic, cayenne, cocoanut (grated or as milk), green ginger (procurable at the dilferent stores and at Covent Garden), turmeric, creme de riz or rice flour, tamarinds, sour apples, raisins, &c. Onions are indispensable, and should be used liberally, sliced, and fried to a golden brown in the pan in which you eventually fry the curry jwwder. But these may be varied by using shallot minced and fried (which is, indeed, the onion ch'efly used in India), or even a little minced garlic, or garlic vinegar, in the flavouring. (Eor average tastes a cut clove of garlic rubbed two or three times across the frying or stewf)an Avill be found amj^le.) An acid of some kind should ahvays be mixed Avith curry, whether this be tamarind pul]:), lemon or lime juice, tom'-,to puree, sour apples, or gooseberries, as may be most convenient. The curry powder itself, whatever be its kind, must alAvays be carefully cooked before the moistening96 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. and other ingredients are added, or it will give a harsh, acrid, dusty taste to the dish that nothing will overcome ; it must, moreover, be very slowly cooked. Indeed, curry can never be hurried at any time, and as a general rule is always nicer the second than the first day. The process is as follows: Rub a frying-pan over once or twice with a cut clove of garlic, and melt in it a full ounce (or jDerhaps a little more) of butter or best clarified dripping, and fry in this 2oz. of minced sLallot or onion tiU of a delicate golden brown, over a slow, clear fire; then stir in the curry powder, using four or five good dessertspoonfuls of the powder for an average dish, or use four spoonfuls and one of curry paste, as you please. This amount must however depend greatly on individual taste and the freshness and strength of the curry powder (I prefer Edmund’s “ Empress ” powder and paste), and must be cooked very slowly with the other ingredients for seven or eight minutes, adding more butter or dripping if necessary during the cooking. When this is all well blended, add gradually a pint of either hot water or any stock suitable to the material of which the curry is to be made, stirring it well and smoothly together. If you are going to use cooked meat it is well to stir a couple of teaspoonfuls of creme de riz into the pan with the other ingre- dients, and then when the stock is added, bring it all gently to the boil, after which you allow it to simmer fifteen or twenty minutes till it all becomes a rich sauce. Now, if you are going to use cooked ingredients, add them cut up neatly; draw the panCURRIES AND PILAFFS. 97 to the side to keep hot but no longer to cook, and allow the addition to steep in this sauce for an hour at least, though several will not hurt it; then, when wanted, draw it back to the fire and let it heat well, without, however, actually boiling, which would toughen the meat, &c. If flesh meat is used for the curry, cut it up fairly small and fry it lightly for two or three minutes in loz. of butter or clarified dripping, with a minced shallot, then add it to the curry sauce and let it steep for an hour or so ; bring it gently to the simmer and let it continue very gently for twenty-five to thirty minutes in a partially uncovered pan. It is at this time that the various seasonings should be added. For instance, tamarind pulp (for this take half a small pot of tamarinds and rub it through a fine sieve, using about half a pint of boiling water to help it through, stir this together, then add it to the rest of the curry) ; or else a teaspoonful of green ginger grated very finely may be stirred in, together with a few raisins, or some lemon juice, &c. At the last stir into the curry a gill oi rich cocoanut or almond milk; or two or three spoonfuls of cream may be stirred in, just as you are about to serve the curry. The recipe for this milk has already been given. Any fish, flesh, or fowl may be curried by this recipe, which, it maybe mentioned, is for lib. of meat of any kind, fresh or cooked. Beef or mutton are excellent for curry, though abroad chicken are chiefly used, cut up into neat pieces, the pint of stock being obtained from the bones, giblets, &c. In this country pork is much liked served in this way. H98 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. A curry made by this metliod can bo most success- fully boated if |oz. of minced shallot or onion and a teaspoonful of curry powder be fried in l^oz.of l)utter, moistened with a cupful of milk or stock, and, when this lias boiled up, added to the curry left over and all re-heated together gently. But remember that curry must always stand in a china basin or bowl, unless cooked in an earthenwai’e casserole. It cannot be left safely to cool in a metal pan. The above is only one amongst many methods of making curry, but I can guarantee its success if the directions are strictly' adhered to. It is an Indian recipe. A Cingalese or Malay curry is especially noticeable for the preponderance of the cocoanut in its manufacture, and is especially suitable for fish or egg curries. It is, moreover, much milder than ordinary curries; indeed it is really more of a fricassee than a curry, as the powder shines chiefly by its absence. Try it thus: Fry 2oz. or 3oz. of sliced shallot in l^oz. to 2oz. of butter till tender but scarcely coloured, then add about a spoonful of Malay curry powder, half the quantity of creme de riz, and a pinch of caster sugar, moistening this gradually as it cooks with about half a pint of cocoanut milk; then add half a pint of stock (fish, chicken, or vegetable, according to the material to be curried), and lastly lay in the meat, &c., together, if liked, with a good teasjDOonfiil of grated green ginger, and the skin of two or three green chillies cut into strips (be sure you take out the seeds). Let this all soak together witljout cooking for half an hour or more, as you please; then draw the j>an back toCURRIES AND PILAFFS. 99 the fire and let all just come to simmering point and get perfectly hot. Now add to it a teaspoonful of strained lemon or lime juice (do not use lime juice cordial, as a cook of ours once did with disastrous results !), and about a cupful of very strong cocoanut milk; let it all get thoroughly hot, and serve with rice. Cooked fish, hard-boiled eggs, and vegetables are all delicious in this form. Remember, if cocoa- nuts or almonds are not available, Brazil nuts make a very rich and most satisfactory “mi.k.” Malay cooks infuse the flesh of a large nut in half a pint of absolutely boiling water for fifteen or twenty minutes, then strain this off, reserving it, as the strongest, to be added at the last to the curry; they then cover the nut with a full half a pint, or even more, of boiling water, stirring this well together, and letting it stand fully twice as long as the first infusion, finally extracting every drop of liquid by strong pressure. For those who may wish to try this form of curry powder here is a Malay recij>e for its preparation: Turmeric, twelve parts; dry ginger, eight parts; chillies, two parts ; cardamums, four parts; cinnamon and cloves, two j>arts each. Pound this all to a fine powder, sift together through a muslin, and keep in a closely stoppered bottle. Needless to say, in the East the powder is almost invariably freshly made, many of the ingredients also being fresh. For a Cingalese cuiTy, garlic (not necessarily in any large quantity) is de rigueur. Kebobs, or cabobs, as they are some- times called, are simply pieces of meat exit into neat shapes and passed on to small skewers, alternately with slices of parboiled onion, parboiled bacon, and H 2100 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. green ginger, nicely browned in loz. or so of butter, with a small minced onion and a little salt, and then finished off in curry sauce. Sliced chicken with bacon and mushrooms make delicious kabolis if jjrepared with the Cingalese curry sauce. For Dr?/ Curry all that i.s needed is to take the remains of any curry left over from the day before and pick out all the meat or vegetables, lifting each piece with its fair share of sauce. Now for 12oz. to 16oz. of this melt ^oz. of butter or clarified di-ippiug in a pan, lay in the curry stuff, and leave it to dry over a low fire, stirring it pretty constantly so as to heat and dry it at the same time. This is a very slow process, and must in no case be hurried, or it is a fore-doomed failure. When dry and powdery on the surface, serve on squares of fried bread thickly strewn with minced chives, coralline and black pepper, &c. Vegetables are particularly good thus. Rice is a factor in curry that may not be over- looked, and I give here the regular native cook’s recipe. Well wash in two or three cold waters 6oz. or 8oz. of Patna rice, then put it on in a large q>an with a good quantity of fast boiling water (a gallon is none too much) and keep the rice boiling hard in this for about fifteen minutes (this prevents any chance of burning) ; then test it by pressing a grain between your finger and thumb ; if it rubs to powder it is ready, and must be at once poured off’ into a colander. Pour in cold water from a jug held well above the rice, or turn the cold water tap on to the rice in the colander, drenching it well. Now return it to the hot stewpan, covering it with aCURRIES AND PILAFFS. 101 doubled cloth, and let it drj thoroughly near the fire. It will take fully half an hour or more to dry, when every grain should be separate. After curries come ^pilaffs, or pilaus, as they are sometimes called. Practically these are nothing more than stews of meat, poultry, &c., cooked to rags, the rice being cooked in the stock resulting from the stew. The most primitive form is Mutton Pilaff, for which you put a neck or other piece of mutton in water with seasoning and spice to taste, and stew it gently and steadily till it is ready, i.e., till it can be pulled apart with the fij.i.gers, and is, to European taste, wholly overdone. Half way in its cooking you add the rice, allowing 4oz. to 6oz. for a fowl or an equal quantity of meat, and let it stew in the stock till it is cooked and swollen and has absorbed most of the stock. It is then served in a heap with the meat piled on the top. For more fasbidious tastes the meat is withdrawn from the pot when cooked to taste and kept hot whilst the rice is finished off in the stock, flavouring it just at the last with grated nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, &c. For Indian Pilaff' the rice is coloured with a dash of turmeric and garnished with crisp rings of fried onion, chopped hard-boiled egg, almonds, raisins, pistachio nuts, green ginger, &c., to taste, whilst in the Levant and Turkey saffron replaces the turmeric, the rest of the ingredients being much the same, only varied by the limits of the cook’s stores. Dates are often stewed with the rice in Africa. A South American dish, bearing evident traces of its Eastern origin, is the jambolaya, in which an old fowl is102 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. cooked precisely in this way, with the addition of sliced tomato, minced ham (or bacon, fried in this case, as is also the fowl used), but neither turmeric nor saffron is used. Pilaffs of all kinds are capital dishes where irregular hours are the rule, as, like curry, they improve by hot steeping in their sauce. Another form of pilaff is the Italian risotto, prepared thus : Risotto.—Pry a large peeled and minced onion in butter for ten or fifteen minutes, without allowing it to colour, then add to it 5oz. or 6oz. of well-washed rice and a pint of vegetable stock strongly flavoured with mushrooms. Let it boil up, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, and simmer it gently at the side of the stove for half an hour; remove the paper, jjour over it all 2oz. of clarified butter, with a couple of spoonfuls of grated Parmesan and a dash of coralline pepijer (or the Hungarian paj^rika will do); mix it all well, turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve hot, with either tomato, shrimp, or lobster sauce, or with beurre noir. Or, fry the onion as before, but till of a good golden brown, then add 6oz. of well-washed rice and a tiny pinch of powdered saffron; stir it all over the fire for two minutes with a wooden spoon, add very slowly and gradually a j^int of strong, well-flavoured stock; let it all simmer very gently (stirring all the time) till the rice is soft, and just as it is ready mix into it 2oz. of grated Parmesan, a grate of nut- meg, and a dash of the pepper; stir it all together for a minute or two, then serve very hot on a hot plate. Remember that when frying the rice and the saffron at first it must be stirred incessantly, as it is103 CURRIES AND PILAFFS. very aj)t to catch and stick, in which case, of course, it is spoilt. This is excellent as it stands, hut if any remains of fish, flesh, fowl, or vegetable he tossed for a minute or tAvo in hotter and stirred into it hot, it makes a capital breakfast dish. Tiny sausages, or sliced sausage, remains of sweetbread, cooked liver, &c., can all be mixed with this, and either served plain or with a garnish to any fried or broiled meat. For the latter, however, devilled 7'ice is very good prepared thus: Boil the rice as for curry, then, when you retiun it to the pan to dry it, add (for 2oz. to 3oz. of rice) ^oz. of butter, a teaspoonful of curry powder, half a teaspoonful of freshly ground black j>epper, a dust of cayenne, and a very finely minced shallot. Shake it Avell every few mimites whilst drying, leaving it at the side of the fire with the cover of the pan off. This is a capital garnish for devilled bones. Few people api^ear to know that pearl barley, treated like rice, is excellent both with curry and pilaff. Lastly there are the samhals, most excellent with curry, and many other things, too, for that matter. These are really simply fresh chutnies. For instance : Tomato Samba,1.—Dip three ripe tomatoes for a minute into boiling water, then peel them, removing their seeds and watery part, mince them coarsely, with a teaspoonful of minced chives or shallot for every th'^ee dessertspoonfuls of minced tomato, a dust of salt and sugar, the same of freshly ground black pepper and cayenne (or use three or four chillies cut into shreds after removing the seeds), and, if liked, a little finely minced celery; moisten104 BREAKFAST AED LUNCH DISHES. with a teaspoonful of any flavoured vinegar to choice, and stand on ice till wanted. Cucumber Samhal is made by mixing three or four good tablespoonfuls of cucumber cut into Julienne shreds with a tablespoonful each of finely minced chives (or green sj)ring onions), parsley, and minced chillies ; dissolve a dust of caster sugar in a dessert- spoonful of vinegar, stir in a sj)oonful of oil, with salt and black pepper, and strew it over the cucumber, &c. Cocoanut Samhal is made by mixing and pounding together 2oz. of freshly grated cocoanut, |oz. of grated green ginger, joz. each of green chillies, and onion, with vinegar to taste. (All these are better if the mixing dish is rubbed with fresh cut garlic, and cayenne may be added to taste.) Mint Samhal is made like the cocoanut sambal, using well blanched and dried mint instead of the nut. Mauritius Shrimp Samhal.—Mince finely a pint of freshly boiled shrimps and pound them in a marble mortar to a smooth paste ; now mix with them three dessertspoonfuls of best salad oil, two or three finely minced green chillies (or, failing these, cayenne), one or more very finely minced shallots, a little salt, and as much lime or lemon juice as will acidulate it nicely. A grate of green ginger is an immense improvement. Almost any unripe finiit and most vegetables, such as seeded and pressed tomatoes, egg plant, green peaches, &c., if crushed to a paste in a mortar and mixed with finely chopped chives or shallots and chillies, pepper, salt, and oil and105 CURRIES AND PILAFFS. vinegar (two parts oil to one of vinegar) till it is a smooth, thick sauce, is an excellent accompaniment to curry, or, indeed, any cold meat. By the way, it is interesting at the present time to know that bananas, if not over ripe, make a delicious sambal. Bombay Duck are small fish, usually procured tinned in this country. They should be set in the oven on a pastry rack or drainer for a few minutes to crisp them, and are then served piping hot with the curry.CHAPTER YU. LUNCHEON. Lunch is a meal that varies in different houses, and may be roughly divided into three classes—First, the family lunch, the direct descendant of the halt' past one or two o'clock dinner of fifty years ago, Avhen the children in nursery and schoolroom make their appearance, and at which a fairly heavy joint and an innocent nursery pudding are a sine qua non; second, the lunch proper, which is akin to tiie French dejeuner; and, third, the shooting or skating lunch. Of the first it is hardly necessary to speak here, as it is neither more nor less than a plain, middle of the day dinner, in which, in most house- holds, the servants share. It is where there are children, a practical, sensible meal, but it is not, on the face of it, a form of refreshment to which you Avould naturally invite your smartest acquaintances, though it is often patronised by friends Avho “ drop in” as the phrase runs. To make the second form, the lunch-(Zf'^'e'?'?ier a success, you require a carefully- chosen and rather light menu, a daintily set out table, light beverages (as a rule), anti pleasant company. The nearer this class of eiitertaiiiment approaches to the dejeuner, the more certain is it of107 LUNCHEON. mocting Avitli approval. In sninmcr a disli of daintily duossed lisli, or a nice lisli salad ; a disli of cutlets (either mutton, lamb, or veal), Avith a suitable vegetable garnish, or one of broiled or bi’aised fillets of beef served with any good sauce, such as bcaimaise; a roast chicken with watercress salad, or broiled jjigeons or game served with iced tartare sauce; a moscovite or a parfait, as your appliances admit of; with some pretty little savoury, such as anchois a la creme Pomel, &c., will make a dainty lunch enough. In winter soup may be given, generally clear (served in little cups, for choice), with any nice garnish to taste; or in very cold weather, when a drive in the country has preceded the meal, mulligatawny, ox tail, or hare (thick or clear), or a potage Victoria, Velours, or a la reine, may be substituted for the consomme'. This might be folloAved by a casserole of fowl, rabbit or any other of the chicken recipes given among the hot breakfast dishes, a well-made hash of venison or mutton (in a well-heated hash dish), a salmon or lobster mayonnaise, and an omelette au rlium, finished Avith Stilton cheese, caviare, foie gras, &c., according to what may be available, and Avill be found generally acceptable. These are naturally the merest suggestions, and can be amplified to suit any taste or circumstance. Needless to observe that in the country, and in winter especially, the sideboard has a well marked part to jday in the menu, as pates of all kinds, pressed or spiced beef, cold roast game, galantine, boar’s head, braAvn, &c., are all available for lunch. But however you arrange your menu,108 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. remember that at a soigne lunch, coHee, black or otherwise, is indispensable, and the brilliancy and aroma of this same coffee is one of the best tests of the efficiency of the house-mistress. Recipes for the prepai’ation of this have been given, so no more need be said on the subject, save that if the host or hostess is a traveller she will find that cafe Tm-c made in the room with an appropriate cafetiere, and the quaint, tiny Arab or Moorish cuj)s used abroad for this add a cachet and a charm to the service. A well- filled liqueur-stand, often of home-manufactured and uncommon cordials such as Morat (or mulberry liqueur), rowanberry whiskey, creme de menthe, &c., is another addition to the end of the lunch, and, where fruit is plentiful, an easily attained luxury. For outdoor lunches where it is possible to rig up some kind of stove, oil or spirit, or where one of the convenient Norwegian hot cases are available, few things beat a hot potage puree of some kind; for instance, well-made pea or lentil soujj, sottpe d Vognon au fromage (i.e., good tliick Avhite or brown onion soup, to which you add, as you dish it, two or three spoonfuls of grated G-ruyere cheese stirred in very slowly and thoroughly ; this is a very favourite dish with sportsmen abroad, who all have much faith in the hygienic value of onions), Scotch hare soup, &c. Then a Navarin, or Irish stew, or a Meg Merrilies stew (a casserole or stew of all sorts of game, venison, mutton, or beef, all mixed together, rather highly seasoned, and cooked with soup vegetables and herbs), are all well liked; but as many recipes for such dishes are given in No. V. of this series (“ Meat and Game ”),LUNCHEON. 109 no more need be said on the subject. Curries, again, are useful for all kinds of lunches, so are sandwiches and fancy salads, but these are gi\en seijarately. Sweets, again, are very favourite dishes for luncheon use, the more solid English puddings being’ especially accept ible, though, naturally, not in quite so plain a form as Avhen served at the nursery- dinner-lunch. Omelets also, sweet or savoury, plain ov fourrees, or soujfAes, are all approved, and so also are eggs in various ways, whilst, where the cook is to be trusted, dainty vegetable entremets should always have a place on the lunch table. Macaroni and rice in various forms, either as pilaff, a VItalienne, aux tomates, &c , are also to be commended, and give a note of novelty to the ordinary lunch table ; recipes for these are given in another chajjter. Lastly, a word must be said with regard to the actual table itself, which on festive occasions should be as carefullv decorated as ever it is for late dinner. «/ In this matter all sorts of whims a,nd fads may be given a free rein with advantage, and colours which lose more than half their value under artificial light are most effective by daylight. As example is better than precept, the following menus for dainty little lunches of the dejeuner type may be found useful: WINTER. ConBomm4 a Tlndienne en tasscs. Merluche en Orlie. Faisan en Casserole. Filets de Boeuf a la Maitro d’Hotel. Eclairs an Caf^, Fromage, &c.110 BREAKFAST AND LITNOH DISHES. SPRING. Conpomme d’Artcis en taHscs. Moiuo en Salado aux Tonial,e.s. C6telette3 d’Agneau. See. Merithe. Petits Poulets a la Printaniei’. Rhubarb Flummery and Cream, &c. SUMMER. Sanmon en Mayonnaise, fflufs au Karl. Timbale il la Romaine. Fonds d’Artichayits a la Morny. Cr6mo a la Reine Mab. AUTUMN. Qilufs Brouilles a la Normande. Grouses rotis au cresson. Macaroni fourre a la Milanaise. Macedoine de Fruits au Marasquin. Escalopes de Foie Gras au Mad6re. The above can evidently be increased by having cold dislies of various kinds on the sideboard ; or if less is required, a dish of meat or the savoury may be suppressed. But the above may serve as types. Lastly there are shooting lunches and what, for want of a better word, may be known as basket lunches. Concerning the former a few words have already been said, but it may not be out of place to enter a protest against the tendency to turn the shooting lunch into a kind of picnic, of more or less ornate character, which, with due submission, it may be observed is a mistake. A rich, heavy lunch, differing only by the fact of its being eaten in the open from the same meal at home, is seldom, if ever, a good preparation for a successful afternoon shoot.Ill LUNCHEON. and, generally speaking, the shoot, and not the Inneh, is the raison d'etre o£ the outing, and the first point to be considered. Such decorative meals may therefore be left out of the question. Ex- perience has taught me that what a man in the turnips or on the hill likes best is something of this kind: A packet of neatly-cut sandwiches, a good slice each of bread and of cheese, a slice of cake or a biscuit, according to individual taste, and lastly some fruit. Attention must be paid to the following points : hunger will certainly be present, but thirst IS, at all risks, to be avoided, for no matter how harmless and sinq^le the beverages, the mere fact of drinking anythiiuj interferes with straight shooting. Cold tea d la Russe, for which directions have been given, is the most generally popidar non-alcoholic drink, but, if sent, mind a fresh lemon, a sharp knife, and some loaf sugar is included with it. Each sportsman must be a rule unto himself as to the contents of his flask, but always see that in the lunch basket a small phial of spirit (whiskey, brandy, &c.,) is provided in case of accidents, and bear in mind that fortuitous burns and streams are usually fully as dangerous as the ju'etty little brook that tempted the enchanted fawn in days of old. Lastly there are the school lunches to be provided In these days of advanced education the strain is so great that the luncheon interval should always be carefully provided for, and this is a point on which too little stress is laid in many schools, girls’ schools especially. In many lemonade (botth d), milk, and water are, possibly, supplied as liquid refreshment.112 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. whilst buns, shortbread, or hard biscuits represent the solid food ; these are not bad in their way, but by no means the best things at the time. It would be well if tlie authorities would personally investigate at intervals the condition of the liquids supplied. We all know the danger of cpiestionable milk and water, and tlieir purity is not to be lightly left to the dis- cretion of either tradesmen or servants. Buns, again, though “filling” (to use a schoolboy jjhrase), and palatable to most childi en, ai’e not to be com- mended as a staple daily food, and, indeed, this Icind of diet is really at the bottom of most of the dyspepsia from which only too many young people, girls especially, suffer so much nowadays. Let each child have its home-supplied lunch basket, and vary the contents of this as much as possible. Sandwiches, fourres and otherwise, may be the staple food if liked, but perha[)S the best is good, solid, and generously buttered bread and butter, with fruit, and a slice of plain loaf or schoolroom cake. Ci'eam cheese sand- wiches are favourites, so are sandwiches thickly buttered and dusted with pure cane (brown) sugar or grated chocolate. Sugar is wholesome if pure and not inordinately consumed, and the craving for sweet things and fruit so universal amongst children points to a natural want of their constitutions. But please remember rich cake, pastry, or a superfluity of bonbons does not come into this category. Plain, light, and appetising food is required, and variety is an important factor in the diet of children, concerning which, however, no more need be said here.IKDEX Aptims, 14 Bacon, to boil, 77 to choose, 60 baked, 60 broiled, 60 and Finnan had die, 61 fried, 60 fritters, 62 grilled, 60 and liver, 62 ,, macaroni, 62 ,, potatoes, 61 rolls, 61 rechauffe, 78 toasted, 60 and tomatoes, 02 “Baps,” 16 Bath chap, 79 Beef (cold) en daube, 85 en rechauffe, 59 Bloaters, 56 Boar’s bead, 83 Bombay duck, 105 Brawn, 80 Breakfast rolls, 17, 18 Butter, cayenne, 64 devil, 64 £114 INDEX. Chicken casserole, 69, 70 contrabandiata, 75 country captain, 73 fritters, 74 jeune fille, 74 Marengo, 71 saute, 70 spatchcock, 72 Viennoise, 74 Chocolate, to make, 0 Austrian, 9 Spanish, 9 Cocoa, 9 nibs, 10 Cod, corned, 55 Kentucky, 55 Coffee, 6-9 chicory and, 7 extract, 8 quantities, G, to fry, 6 to roast, 6 Turkish, 7 “ Crappit heids,” 53 “ Croissants,” 15 Crumpets, 13 au caviar, 14 Curry, 91-101 Cingalese, 98, 99 dry, 100 Malay, 98 powder, 96 „ Malay, 99 Cutlets, &c., rechauffes, 59 Devilled eggs, 24 fowl, 67 ham, 67 kidneys, 64index: 115 Devilled liver, 67 rice, 103 sausages, 67 Devils, 66 or grills, 68 dry, 69 pepper, &c., 66 sauce, 67, 68 wet, 69 D’XJxelles, 22 Eggs, 19 ^ la Benedictine, 29 k TAi’lequin, 36 ^ la d’TTxelles, 36 k ITndienne, 29 k la Parisienne, 35 a la Portugaise, 37 k la ravigotte, 36 k la reine, 26 a la Suisse, 29 k la sultane, 35 ^ la tripe, 28 an beurre noir, 32 au gratin, 28 an iniroir, 32 baked, 23 balls, 24 boiled, 20 ,, (for invalids), 20 buttered, 22 „ and tomatoes, 23 onrried, 27 devilled, 24 dressed, 30 en aspic, 27 en beignets, 33 en cocottes, 25 en horH, 3311& INDEX. Eggs {continued)— en OBuil de boeuf, 34 en robe de chambre, 26 farced, 29 fried, 21 mollets, 34 pie, 32 poached, 21 re-heated, 21 Scotch, 30 ■with shrimps, 31 sur lo plat, 32 Fa.dge, 15 Fiiinaii haddie and bacon, 61 smoked, 53 ste'wed, 52 Fish h la orfeme, 43 h la Genoise, 51 a I’Orlie, 47 an gratin, 51 cakes, 45 cases, 50 curry, 48 cutlets, 46 mould, 44 papilottes, 50 pie, a la Eusse, 57 toast, 48 Galantine, 88 Game mould, 88 “ Girdle,” to keep, 16 Grill or devil, (18 Guisado, 75 Haddock, rizzared, 52 Hams, to boil, 78-79 to soak, 78, 79 Head, boar’s, 83 collared, 86INDEX. .117 Head, potted, 81 Jambolaja, 101 Ivebobs, 99 Kedgeree (or kicbri), 49 Kidneys, a la brochette, 63, devilled, 64 stewed, 64 Liver and bacon, 62 devilled, 67 Luncheons, 106-110 school, 111, 112 shooting, 110, 111 Mackerel, broiled, 55 Menus (lunch), 109 “ Milk,” almond, 14 cocoanut, 14 Muffins, 12, 13 Oatcakes, 16 CEufs, mollets, 21, 34 Omelets, 37-39 a ITndienne, 40 a la Eusse, 57 an Gruj ere, 40 an jambon, 40 au lard, 40 auz fines herbes, 40 cold, 41 fonrrees, 40 kidney, 40 mushroom, 40 Passover cakes, 14 Pat^, breakfast, 90 de foie gras (mock), 87 Pepper, devil, 66 pot, 75 Pilaff, 94-101 Indian, 101 mutton, 101118 INDEX. Polenta, 11 Pork, pickled, 79 pie (LincolnsMre), 91 Porridge, 10 Potted head, 81 meat, 92 Poulet a la jeune fille, 74 en casserole, 69 Marengo, 71 Viennoise, 74 Rechauffes, 59, 78 Rice, to boil, 27, 28, 100 devilled, 103 Risotto, 102 Salt, to keep, 2 Sambals, 94 cocoanut, 104 cucumber, 104' mint, 104 shrimp, 104 tomato, 103 Sauce, beurre noir, 33 chutney, 31 devil, 25, 30, 67, 68 d’Uxelles, 37 for eggs, 31 Sausages, boiled, 64 devilled, 67 fried, 65 Scones, 17 (buttermilk), 17 Shad, planked, 54 Slim cakes, 18 Sole Colbert, 54 Spread eagle, 72 Tea, 2-6 Chinese, 4. lemon in, 5119 INDEX. Tea {continued)— ^ stewed, 3, 4 Sir A. Clarke’s, 5 to make, 3 Toast, 11 buttered, 12 dry, 11 invalid’s, 12 various, 65, 66 Tongue, to boU, 82 reindeer, 82 Trout t\ la hussarde, 55 Yeal cake, 89 Whiting k la Genoise, 57 f0 ^r. QidburVs COCOA Absolutely Pure, therefore Best. TAKE OARE when dnnkirtg Cocoa to have the pure article only, as many so-called “ Pure Cocoas contain added matter that is not only unnecessary, but sometimes positively harmful CADBURY’S coco. IS ABSOLUTELY PURE, and untampered with,, and can be taken with the greatest benfit in Childhood, in Youth, or Ifi Old Age. " Without exception the most popular Cocoa of the day; we are^lad to give it the highest praise. For Nourishment there ts nothing superior to be found."--^toxcKV. Magazine Cadbury’s Cocoa is a Perfect Food. \ [