22101425338Digitized by tine internet Archive in 2014 https://archive.org/cletails/b20412800THE COOK AND HOUSEWIFE'S MANUAL.THE COOK AND HOUSEWIFE'S MANUAL: A PRACTICAL SYSTEM OP MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY AND FAMILY MANAGEMENT; CONTAININa A COMPENDIUM OF FRENCH COOKERY, AND OF FASHIONABLE CONFECTIONARY, PREPARATIONS FOR INVALIDS AND CONVALESCENTS, A SELECTION OF CHEAP DISHES, AND NUMEROUS USEFUL MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS IN THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF DOMESTIC ECONOMY. By MISTKESS MAEGAEET DODS, OP THE CLEIKUM INN, ST RONAN'S. (^Uhnt^ ^Vxthn, ^thhtla. EDINBUEaH: OLIVEE AND BOYD, TWEEDDALE COUET. LONDON: SIMPKIN, MAKSHALL, AND CO. 1862.EDINBURGH: PHINTED BY OLIVER AND BOTD, TWEEDDALE COURT. >ELLCOME INSTITUTE \ LIBRARY Coll \weMQmec Call No.ADVERTISEMENT. This Work has been once more revised and amended. It is now printed with a larger type, while the price has been much reduced.ADVEKTISEMENT TO THE TENTH EDITION. In again making our respectful acknowledgments to the public, and presenting a New Edition of the Cook and Housewife's Manual, professing to be thoroughly revised, and considerably enlarged, with the view of increasing its every-day, practical utility, we take leave to state briefly in what departments improvement has been attempted:— Extending more or less through every section treating of Modern English, or more correctly of Anglo-French Cookery — that reformed and enlarged system of culinary science first promulgated in our pages—the improvements, which are apparent in all departments, are chiefly conspicuous, not in simple elementary processes,—those of Britain being in general unexceptionable,—but in those dishes entitled to be called dressed or made; the entrees and entremets of the French kitchen. In this department many new receipts have been added. But in the soups and fashionable iced puddings of Careme, or the Salades and Salmis of his contemporaries.ADVERTISEMENT. 8 we have not overlooked the improvements made in the far more important, plain but savoury, every-day family-dishes of unostentatious middle life, nor been less attentive to the progress made in the various branches of modern English domestic cookery. Our original system was not exclusively that of England, Scotland, or France; but an attempt to exhibit, and to a certain extent combine, the admitted excellences of each, in the belief that a practical system superior to any one of them might be formed from what was best in the three systems; or, at all events, that familiar acquaintance with French cookery might prove a great resource to those capable of modifying and adapting their knowledge to the uses of the English kitchen. Though attention and observation have not been wanting on our part, we must once more confess our obligations to the judicious hints and corrections of practical cooks, and of ladies qualified by superior intelligence and experience, to enhance the value of any work of this sort, whether to the young housekeeper, or to the half-instructed cook. This information relates in general to preparations adopted for some time in the kitchens of the comfortable or affluent among the middle classes, which have not yet found their way into books of recipes; and to modes of Cookery adopted from France, India, and other quarters, — but generally modified, and, as we think, improved by English tastes and habits. In this department there was indeed some danger of overdoing; but we kept in view the maxim, " that tooADVERTISEMENT. 9 many cooks spoil the broth," and endeavoured to hold the novel in strict subservience to the useful. The mighty revolution effected by steam has already had considerable influence on cookery; and so have the recent changes in the Tariffs. Spiceries, and fresh and dried fruits, once costly luxuries, may now be obtained to a reasonable extent, by the industrious even among the working-classes. It is pleasant to hear of them seasoning their gruel and rice with nutmeg or cassia, but it would be still more delightful that their messes could be enriched and sweetened with yet cheaper sugar; and better still to see the prepared meats and gelatines of distant lands, as plenteously yielding their abundance to English artisans as we now see oranges, dates, grapes, cocoa-nuts, and pine-apples. Freed Commerce has already done much, but far more remains to be accomplished; and if Providence send the meat, we should hope that the proverbial reproach against the cooks will, with good reason, be withdrawn. We are not, however, of the number of those who pretend to make a cook by book. This assumption we have repeat- edly disclaimed, as may be seen in many of our pages, as at 276, 277, and also in Mr Touchwood's Lectures, and other sections of this work. But we do pretend to have drawn into a focus, and laid before the intelligent cook who has learnt the A B C of her art, a body of knowledge and of recipes connected with the progress of cookery, which she will not meet with in more expensive works. But as this is not the rudiments, or First Book of Cookery, A 210 ADVERTISEMENT. it is chiefly to intelligent.young housekeepers that we com- mend it, as a directory or assistant that will be found neither dogmatic nor dictatorial; requesting them to bear in mind, that, although we generally give our directions in a less arbitrary form than most of our predecessors, and have con- descended to assign a reason for many of our commands, and to explain the rationale of our prescriptions, our fair and courteous readers must not for this humility of tone imagine them one whit less worthy of attention. They may, indeed, at all times walk safely by the letter of our prescriptions; but they will fall short of the full advantage intended, unless, exercising their own understanding, and applying their in- creasing experience, they learn to apprehend the spirit in the letter^ and, in every circumstance, as it may arise, act accordingly. It was to conciliate the interesting class of accomplished young housekeepers, and win their attention to an art so closely connected with their daily duties, that many of our literary garnisMngs and decorations were originally intro- duced. Acting upon a favourite culinary maxim of our own, much of this extraneous ornament has been withdrawn to make way for more solid matter. It would, however, be altogether erroneous to imagine, that, in making an irruption from headquarters, and crossing the Border, preceded by a flourish of Marrow-bones and Cleavers, we might not have a message to deliver, as earnest and important as any ever conveyed in the soberest tones of monotonous dulness. So much for ourselves: and now a parting word of warn-11 ADVERTISEMENT. hig to our readers. We would impress upon them, that in specifying many enriching and expensive ingredients, deco- rations, and sauces, the things and modes in common or in fashionable use are pointed out, but by no means always recommended. But, on the other hand, as works of this kind are usually consulted on high-days and holidays^ or upon unforeseen emergencies, and occasions when sparing would be parsimony or shabbiness, receipts for the prepara- tion of fashionable modern dishes will be found in perhaps more than sufficient variety. In all circumstances, we would hint, that the tasteful economist, though of affluent means, will do well, whether she have a housekeeper or not, to exercise her own discre- tion in drawing out or examining her bills of fare; and, as a universal rule, the omission of costly ingredients is recom- mended, in preference to resorting to paltry substitutes, suggested by the ill-regulated desire of being genteel. This by no means excludes good taste and ingenuity in giving every dish, or selection of dishes, the best relish, and the most appetizing and graceful form, at the least cost. To those who use this work as a Manual of Cookery, we would take leave to recommend the Glossary of Culinary Terms, which is enlarged in late Editions; the prefatory remarks to the Chapter or Section containing the particular receipt studied, and any Notes and Observations connected with it. For instance, every separate receipt for making, boiling, or baking a pudding, cannot have the entire details to be found in pp. 442 to 444, but these once studied, recur-12 ADVERTISEMENT. rence to them in every receipt for making puddings would superfluously swell and encumber the work. Acting on the same principle of high-pressure^ most of our receipts will be found to contain two, three, four, or more subsidiary receipts, frequently not less important than the principal one. In conclusion, it is earnestly hoped that the work, in its improved state, will be found to bear, to the young or inex- perienced housekeeper and the practical cook, value in some degree commensurate to the labour and care bestowed upon its original compilation and subsequent revisions.CONTENTS. PART I. PAGE History of the Institution of the Cleikum or St Ronan's Culinary Club, 17 Introductory Lecture, 33 Syllabus of Culinary Lectures, 37 Directions for Carving, with Cuts, ..... 45 Bills of Fare, and Observations on laying out Tables and arranging Dinners, . 58 Company Suppers, 61 Dejeuners a la Fourchette, 63 PART II. ELEMENTARY PROCESSES IN COOKERY. Chap. I. Boiling and Steaming, ..... 64 11. To boil a Round of Beef, etc., .... 68 ill. Roasting and Baking, 79 IV. Broiling, 107 V. Frying, ....... 113 VI. Broths, Soups, and Gravies, .... 122 Stew or Mouthful Soups, .... 141 Fish Soups, 154 VII. Fish and Fish-Pies, 161 VIII. Vegetables and Roots, 203 IX. Sauces, Essences, Pickles, Catsups, Vinegars, Herb-Wines, Mustards, and other Condiments, 23014 CONTENTS. PART III. PAGK Chap. 1. Made-Dishes, 276 of Beef, 280 of Veal, 296 of Mutton, 308 of Lamb, 314 of Venison, Hare, and Rabbits, . 317-320 of Poultry and Game, . . .. 320 Curries . , . . 187, 327-331 Sausages, 332 Devils, 334 Cheese, .... 335-339 Eggs, ..... 339 Chap. II. French Cookery, 345 Sauces, 350-356 Soups, 356 Made-Disbes, 360 Disbes of Fisb, 379 Forcemeats, 383 Disbes of Vegetables, Fruit, etc., . . . 387 Pastry, etc., 392 CiLAJP. III. National Disbes—Scotch, Irish, Welsh, German, Spanish, and Oriental, 396 IV. Pastry, Pies, Patties, PulFs, Puddings, Pancakes, Fritters, and Dumplings, .... 420 V. Creams, Jellies, Blancmanges, Trifles, Custards, Clieese-Cakes, Souffles^ Rice-Dishes, Sweetmeats, Preserves, Drops, Cakes, Household Bread, etc., 468 PART IV. Chap. I. Liqueurs, Cordials, Punch, Brandies, Possets, Made-Wines, and Household Beers, . . 519 Table of the Average Time required for Boiling, Roasting, Frying, etc., .... 540 Notices of the Provisions in Season in the different months of the year, 543 Glossary of Culinary Terms, .... 546CONTENTS. 15 PAGE Chaf. II. Preparations for the Sick, and for Convalescents, 549 Of Coffee, Chocolate, etc., best mode of making, 556 Preparations for the Dressing-Room, . . . 564 Cheap Dishes, and Cookery for the Poor, . 566 III. Of Salting Meat, Tongues, Hams, Making Cheese, Preserving Butter, Eggs, Fattening Poultry, etc., 573 IV. Useful Miscellaneous Receipts for Cleaning and Preserving Furniture, Clothes, etc., . . 592INSTITUTION OF THE ST ROMNS CULIMEY CLUB. After the accomplishment of those passages which are recorded at large in that entertaining and highly popular history, entitled St Ronan's Well," Peregrine Touch- wood, Esquire, more commonly styled the Cleikum Nabob, who had been deeply concerned in these disastrous events, was sorely pricked in mind; and, after a time, became afflicted with melancholy languor, so that his appetite failed, time hung heavily on his hands, and he knew not whereunto to betake himself. This worthy gentleman was, it may be remembered, of a stirring, active temper; prompt, nimble, and prying in spirit; somewhat dogmatic and opinionative withal; and fond of having a finger in every Pie, though it was alleged that he sometimes scalded his lips with other people's Broth, The unhappy catastrophe which befell the ancient ^nd honourable house of St Ronan's occurred about the fall of the year; and by the end of the following March, Mr Touch- wood, having carried reform as far as was possible in and about the hamlet of Auldtown, was in some danger, as we have distantly intimated, of falling into hypochondria, or what the learned Dr Cackleben called " fever on the spirits," vulgarly fidgets,—a malady to which bachelor gentlemen in easy circumstances, when turned of fifty, are thought to beINSTITUTION OF THE 18 peculiarly liable. It so happened, however, that one of those fortunate occurrences which oftenest befall when least looked for, wrought the deliverance of the Nabob from the power of ennui or hypochondria, and restored him to himself. In brief, he exorcised the blue devils which began to torment him, by an attempt to teach his fair countrywomen the mystery of preparing culinary devils of all names and kinds; besides soups^ ragouts^ sauces^ and the whole circle of the arts of domestic economy,—an entirely new system, in short, of Rational, Practical Cookery. An idea of this kind had, among many others, been for some time floating in the brain of the Nabob, which was rather fertile in projects; but it would probably never have gone farther than the tongue, save for one of those fortuitous combinations of events which sometimes produce the mightiest consequences, and which about this time sent to St Ronan's a personage of no less weight than the celebrated Dr RedgilL The Doctor had for some months been what his physician called " an incipient invalid." His powers of digestion, though still respectable, were of late rather declining; but his appetite, "he thanked God!'' was vigorous as ever, his taste more refined, and his knowledge matured and extended in every branch of the science. He had been trying the Cheltenham waters in the previous season, and was now recommended by a Scotch physician, who had been singu- larly happy in the case of his friend. Alderman , to try the St Ronan's Spa, the virtues of which were just then coming into fashionable repute. Like the bulk of mankind, attracted by the glitter of appearance, Dr Redgill, on his arrival, had established him- self at the New Hotel, just set up in opposition to the hos- telrie of Mistress Margaret Dods. But here he soon became discontented with the accommodation, attendance, but, above all, the cookery; and learning that a wealthy old East Indian —a sort of humorist, who understood and loved good cheer —^had fixed his headquarters in a quiet, comfortable, well-19 ST RON an'S CULINARY CLUB. ordered, old-fashioned inn, where excellent small dinners were served, the Doctor ordered his low-hung, well-cushioned chariot, and on the second morning of his residence at St Ronan's Well, set out to reconnoitre the capabilities of this land of promise. The Nabob, unshaved, half-dressed, blue and yellow, fallen off in flesh, and given up to melancholious fancies about bilious attacks and the fall of stocks, the vanity of riches, and the moral impossibility of Scotch cooks ever boiling rice properly, was, when the Doctor drove in sight, lounging at his parlour window, directing the old gray ostler in curry- ing the old gray horse; but with little of his former spirit and promptitude. It was a critical conjunction. The eyes of the three persons—the Doctor, the Nabob, and the Ostler —were instantly attracted to a spectacle in which all man- kind take more or less interest,—a pair of Mistress Dods' game-cocks, that had lustily commenced a sparring-match. The Ostler staid his currycomb and its hissing accompani- ment, and clapped his hands to cheer the combatants; the Nabob flung up the sash; and the Doctor drew up to con- template the conflict. The feathered combatants fought it out gallantly,—each, no doubt, animated by the knightly consciousness that "his lady saw him," till one dropped dead and the other staggered over.—" Well done, Charlie! —^bravely fought, Charlie!" cried the Ostler, lifting up the survivor. " Admirable cock-a-leekie," said the Doctor, touching the deceased with the end of his whip; all the better for the fight; it would raise the creature's blood.—A fine brood that!" addressing the Ostler, and throwing eyes of love on a set of ducklings, just escaped from the shell, that were innocently disporting themselves in a little puddle, near some goodly rows of green pease in a more advanced state of vegetation than any the Doctor had seen since he had crossed the Border; " these ducklings will, however, be too old before the pease are ready. Strange stupidity not to20 INSTITUTION OF THE have 'em come together!"^—At this instant the soft treble squeak of a pig of tender days, and then the squall of a full choir, a whole litter of pigs,—Chinese pigs, the Doctor knew by the Orientalism of the infant grunt,—struck his ear; and, starting like an old battle-horse at the sound of the trumpet, he alighted (the Ostler instinctively seizing the reins), and unheeding the proffered courtesy of the Nabob, who requested him to walk in, pushed forwards.— "Whereabouts, good woman! whereabouts is the piggery! How many days are they littered —" Gude woman, ill woman,'' replied Mistress Dods,—for it was Meg herself, who, with a pailful of slops, was sallying towards the deli- cate objects of the Doctor's solicitude, under which office she disguised the latent purpose of taking a nearer view of the new arrival at the Spa,—" Gude woman, ill woman, it can make little odds to you, for they are no for your market and Meg pushed on, " In maiden meditation fancy free." The Doctor, not yet wholly discomfited, followed with grave and ponderous, though eager steps. The appearance of the Hebe who daily ministered to their little wants, called forth a full chorus of grunters, swelling the triple thrice- confounded din; and the matron of the sty, a full-grown porker, bursting the verge of the sanctuary, ran full tilt against the Doctor, and, getting between his legs, caused him to perform a somerset, which made him free of the house ere Meg had time to bless herself.—" Help! hilloa, here, good woman!" exclaimed the Doctor, as the enraged matron of the sty, filled with maternal alarms, began to discover her tusks. " Ye'11 ken the way back to my pig-sty again, it's like," said Meg, with a grim smile; and, as a measure of defence, she heaved the whole contents of her brimming pail on the sow, thus allowing a rather copious libation to the Doctor; * We never, for our own private eating, could yet find much to admire in the skin-and-hone ducks of June and July.—P. T.ST RONAN S CULINARY CLUB. 21 shouting—" Help here, Jerry Ostler! Lord sake, help here! this battle atween the Scots and English is waur than Ban- nockburn. Is't you, Mr Touchwood? This is a worse job than Saunders Jaup's jaw-hole yet; the fat English minister, frae St Ronan's "Well, is smooring a^ my wee grices/' " Your grices will smother him, you mean, dame/' said Touchwood. " Here, sir; ay, there you are on end again. This way,—follow me. You shall have your revenge though. They bemire you; you shall crunsh their bodies J' Reeking and panting from the struggle, Dr Redgill, more provoked by the fancied insolence of the landlady, and the ill-timed mirth of the Nabob, than by the assault of the Felon Sow, growled forth something that, were such enor- mity possible, sounded very like wishing the whole party in that place from which it was his duty as a clergyman to keep them. " Neither my swine nor my guests boded themselves on you," said Meg, sharply. " Them that come unsent for, sit unserved. But that cannot be said of you; ye contrived, to get far ben on short notice. If folks will scrape acquaint- ance " " A scraping acquaintance indeed 1" interrupted Touch- wood. " Here, Jerry Ostler,—Your currycombs here! Soap, water, towels! Uncase, Doctor. Faith, as you say, dame, a worse job than Saunders Jaup's jaw-hole yet." The grumbling Doctor, wise enough to make a virtue of necessity, rallied his naturally good temper; for we hold that all gourmands are good-natured, except, perhaps, about meal-times; though it may be, as Lord Shaftesbury says of other good-natured persons, " because they care for nobody but themselves; and as nothing annoys them but what affects their own interest, they never irritate themselves about what does not concern them, and so seem to be made of the very milk of human kindness."—Such was Dr Red- gill. His rubicund countenance, soft and swelling as a jelly, generally beamed easy good-nature; his ample chest—callINSTITUTION OF THE 22 it not pauncli—seemed a reservoir of the very gravy of human kindness; his full, oleaginous lips curved over like the ledges of an overf]owing sauce-tureen. Having cast his slough, and got purified from the defilements of the sty, arrayed his outward man in a scanty suit of brown tendered by the Nabob, and fortified the inner with the full of one of Meg's long-stalked, enamelled antique glasses of Touch- wood's CuraQoa, the Doctor was so far mollified as to add to a grateful eulogy on the qualities of the liqueur an acknowl- edgment of the attention of the administrator. " Never mind it, man," said the easy Nabob ; " I at least am indebted to the delinquent sow; she abridges ceremony and idle introductions. You must take a bachelor's dinner with me to-day. No refusal, positively. A glass of Meg's good wine must make amends for short commons I vow this brush has done me good." Nothing was farther from the real intention of Dr Red- gill than to refuse an invitation, which the savoury steams now issuing from Meg's kitchen—steams that might have created a stomach under the ribs of death—^rendered irre- sistibly seductive. With a decent show of hesitation, he yielded; and, snuffing up the incense-breathing vapours which ascended the stair, followed the Nabob to a private parlour, where an old, rich china basin, filled with the balmy and ambrosial fluid, scented from afar, was twice replenished for his solace; first, however, improved by a pin's point of crystals of Cayenne from his silver pocket-case of essence- vials, which had luckily escaped the taint of the sty. " Excellent hare-soup—very excellent indeed I pronounce it, Mr Touchwood. All the blood preserved — the con- sistence—the concoction complete—the seasoning admirable. Sir, I abhor the injustice of withholding from the poor cook the praise that is her due. It is bad policy, Mr Touch- wood. This hare-soup, I say it again, is admirable; and soup, to my thinking, though a Scottish mode, the very best way of dressing a hare. Sir, you are in snug quarters here.ST ronan's culinary club. 23 A sensible, discreet person, your hostess, though a little gruff at the first brush. Sir, all good cooks are so. They know their own value: they are a privileged class: they toil in a fiery element: they lie under a heavy responsibility. But, perhaps, after all, you travel with your own cook? many gentlemen who have travelled do." " No such thing,'' returned Touchwood, lightly; " never less alone than when alone in affairs of the stomach. I may have written out a few items for my old dame here, and for the first three months taken a peep occasionally into the kitchen and larder; but now matters go on as smoothly as well-oiled butter." "Sir, you write receipts, then!" cried the Doctor, looking on his hospitable entertainer with augmented respect,— " perhaps for this very soup;—and perhaps—but that would be too great a ,kindness to request on such short acquaintance —though hare-soup, sir^ I will candidly own it, is only understood in Scotland. Sir, I am above national preju- dices ; and, I must say, I yield the Scots the superiority in all soups—save turtle, ox-tail, and mullagatawny. An anti- quarian friend of mine attributes this to their early and long connexion with the French,—a nation pre-eminent in soups." " No doubt of it. Doctor," replied the Nabob; " but you shall have this receipt, ay and twenty more receipts. To this ancient hostel now—you will scarcely believe it—have been confined scores of admirable receipts in cookery, ever since the jolly friars flourished down in the Monastery yonder: * The monks of Melrose made fat kail On Fridays when they fasted.' You remember the old stave. Doctor?" The Doctor remembered no such thing. His attention was given to more substantial doctrine. " Sir," said he, " I should not be surprised if they possessed the original receipt —a local one, too, I am told—for dressing the red trout, in this hereditary house of entertainment."INSTITUTION OF THE 24 "Never doubt it, man,—claret, butter, and spiceries.— Zounds, I have eat of it till It makes my moutli water yet. As the French adage goes,—' Give your trout a bottle of good wine, a lump of butter, and spice, and tell me how you like him.'—Excellent trout in this very house—got in the * Friar^s Cast,' man—the best reach of the Tweed. Let them alone for that. Those jolly monks knew something of the mystery. Their warm, sunny old orchards still produce the finest fruit in the country. You English gentlemen never saw the Grey-Gudewife pear? Look out here, sir. The Abbot's Haugh yonder—the richest carse land and fattest beeves in the country. Their very names—those Monks—are genial, and smack of milk and honey!—But here comes a brother of the Reformed order, whom I have never yet been able to teach the difference between Becha- mel and butter-milk, though he understands ten languages. Dr Redgill,—give me leave to present to you, my friend, Mr Josiah Cargill, the minister of this parish. Mr Cargill, I have been telling my friend that the Reformation has thrown the science of cookery three centuries back in this corner of the island. Popery and made-dishes, eh, Mr Car- gill ?—Episcopacy, roast-beef, and plum-pudding,—and what is left to meagre Presbytery, but its lang-kail, its brose, and mashlum bannocks ?" " So I have heard," replied Mr CargUl; very whole- some food indeed." " Wholesome food, sir! Why, your wits are wool- gathering. There is not a barefoot monk, sir, of the most beggarly abstemious order, but can give you some pretty notions for tossing up a fricassee or an omelet, or of mixing an olio. Scotland has absolutely retrograded in gastronomy; yet she saw a better day, the memory of which is savoury in our nostrils yet. Doctor. Li old Jacobite families, and in the neighbourhood of decayed monasteries,—in such houses as this, for instance, where long succeeding generations have followed the trade of victuallers,—a few relics may still beST ronan's culinary club. 25 found. It is for this reason I fix my scene of experiment at the Cleikum, and choose my notable hostess as high priestess of the mysteries. But here comes Mr Winterblossom— No word of Jekyl ? Never mind.—Serve dinner there. I allow five minutes for difference of time-pjeces, and wait a half-minute more for my tardy guest—no man shall call me uncivil—and then proceed to the main business of the day, —eh, Doctor?—were King George expected.'' " Sir," said the Doctor, earnestly, I venerate your opin- ions and your practice in this matter. Sir, our great English moralist, Dr Johnson, though a fellow of no college, yet no mean authority, says,—' The man that does not mind his stomach is a fool: the belly is every man's master.'—Sir, I have known young gentlemen, otherwise of unexceptionable morals, disgrace themselves, sir, I say disgrace them- selves, and lose the friendship of those who were inclined to serve them and to promote their views in life, by this infa- mous practice of delaying dinner; a practice which the ele- gant and classic Addison truly calls a species of perjury. Sir, he brands it as ^ the detestable habit of keeping your friends waiting dinner.'—' If such persons did think at all,' says he, * they would reflect on their guilt in lengthening the suspension of agreeable life,—that is, in lengthening the hanging-on, miserable half-hour before dinner." This dinner was served punctual to the second; for Meg and the Nabob, though they did not quite agree in harmony, always agreed in time :—a true gourmand dinner;—no sumptuous feast of twenty dishes in the dead-thraw^ but a few well-chosen and well-suited,—each relieving each,— the boils done to a popple^ the roast to a turn^—the stews to the nick of time. First came the soup—the hare-soup ; Meg called it rabbit-soup," as this was close-time. " Sir, if you please," replied the Doctor, bowing to the tureen, and sipping his heated Madeira, as he answered the inquiry of the Nabob, if he would take soup,—"as our great moralist, Dr Johnson, said of your Scotch barley- B26 INSTITUTION OF THE broth,—^ Sir, I have eat of it, and shall be happy to do so again.' Stewed red trout, for which the house was celebrated,— a fat, juicy, short-legged, thick-rumped, very white pullet, braised and served with rice and mushroom sauce,—a Scotch dish of venison-collops,—and, though last, not least in the Doctor's good love, one of the young pigs, killed since his adventure in the sty:—these formed the dinner. And all were neatly dished,—each dish with its appropriate sauces and garnishings,—the whole in keeping that would have done honour to the best city-tavern in London.—" Sir, I say City- tavern," said Redgill; " for I humbly conceive that, in all save flimsy show, business is best understood in the City, however finely they may talk the matter in the grand Clubs, and at the West End. Such a dinner deserved a grace. It was, indeed, part of the garnish—indispensable. The Doctor's was short and pithy, delivered in a rolling, sonorous voice, pitched to fill the dining-hall of a college; and then the seats were occu- pied without further ceremony; for though it be true that at large dinners " the post of profit is a private station," there was here little to alarm. Stewed trout had ceased to be luxury to Winterblossom or the Nabob; and they both knew that though Jekyl would stand out with the most high-bred politeness, like a very gamester, or a Hotspur, for his full share of the vensio7i-fat, browned outside of vealj helly-slice of salmon^ neck jelly of cod^s-head^ Pope^s-eye^ crack- ling^ due proportion of stuffing^ and all those epicurean delicacies which gentlemen politely urge on each other when resolved to obtain the dainty morsel for themselves; they also knew, as we have said, that they could do Mr Cargill with perfect ease; and he was the only other guest present. Dr Redgill, with cranberry tart and a copious libation of rich plain cream, was concluding one of the most satis- factory dinners he had ever made in his life, though called27 ST eonan's culinaky club. a chance-dinner—lie in general detested chance-dinners— when Mr Jekyl, in his fishing-jacket and wet shoes, lounged into the room. Certain reasons made an absence from the metropolis convenient to the young gentleman at this time. He was therefore still at St Ronan's, and was become rather intimate with the Nabob, who, like Sir Peter Teazle with his young friends, never grudged him his good advice. The young gentleman bore the rebuke, which his want of punctuality drew upon him, with entire nonchalance^ sur- veyed the board with an air of half-supercilious scrutiny, and then ordered the female waiter to carry his compliments to Mistress Dods, and say that Mr Touchwood would be particularly obliged by the re-appearance of the excellent roast-beef he had had yesterday, and a few slices of cold carrot. The Nabob and the facetious Winterblossom, who, it may be remembered, was the most pleasant companion in the world, albeit he did not value at a pin's point any crea- ture on its surface, were well accustomed to these high flings in the young man, and gave themselves no manner of con- cern; but Dr Redgill, who was really, as we have said, a good-natured man, and who—after dinner—had bowels even for an unpunctual fisher, took compassion on the gentleman- like young officer, and recommended the hraised fowl, " hot yet, hardly touched,"—the pig the Doctor kept as a special preserve. It would be admirable to-morrow, re-dressed au Bechamel. The young man was politely grateful, but invin- cible. Most elaborately did he mix up a relish, compounded of made mustard, eschalot-vinegar, catsup, and horse-radish, for his cold regale; and plateful after plateful was swal- lowed, the Doctor looking on in silent admiration, not un- mixed with envy, and resolving at supper to try this inviting beef, since, unfortunately, a man that lunches cannot com- fortably eat two dinners in the same day. The toper cer- tainly has here advantage of the gourmand. And now the clash of plates had ceased, the ringing of tumblers was no more; and as next in degree to the eatingINSTITUTION OF THE 28 of a good dinner—the digesting is a different thing—conies the pleasure of talking of it, the merits of the several dishes were discussed at large. Winterblossom suggested a very little more currant-jelly to the venison-sauce;" and the Doc- tor hinted that, " had the mustard been mixed one half-hour earlier, the amalgamation would have been complete:—but freslmess^ after all, was the good extreme ; it is very well/' Both were deep in the stewed trout, when Jekyl, his solitary meal finished, took the lead with his wonted easy, well-bred assurance ; and expatiated so knowingly on the mysteries of the French kitchen, unfolding the intricate combinations of the most complicated ragouts, " familiar as his garter, talking so learnedly of unique flavours, of braises, dauhes, matelotes, etc., the compositions of sauces^ their inventors, and the names of Parisian restaurateurs of celebrity, damning this one and applauding the other, and quoting the maxims and proceedings of the Caveau Moderne, that the Doctor began to think that on the shoulders of a young lifeguards- man he had discovered the head of a Bishop. This was, however, rather a blow that staggered than one which made a lasting impression. " Sir," said the Doctor to Touchwood next day, " the talk of half these young fellows is mere foppery. In reality they know little and care less about the matter—^mere foppery and pretence, sir." But on the present day the racy flavour of Meg's old claret completed the conquest of Dr Redgill's affections; and he resolved, if possible, to abide in this land flowing with milk and honey. Moving his nose over his glass, like a beau smelling a nosegay, " Sir," said he, "I pronounce this wine:—sir, common wines have taste—this has flavour Amid the smacking of green seals and red seals, the cracking of nuts and of jokes, the Nabob withdrew to sound Mistress Dods on the affair of Dr Redgill's establishing himself in her house : which he did in a manner that evinced considerable knowledge of the trim of his hostess. Sick! d'ye say, sir ? he doesna look like it," said Meg.ST KONAN S CULINARY CLUB. 29 " Fond o' a quiet, clean, we el-ordered house ? Is tliere no that at the grand new hottle he gaed to ? Dying ! Deil a fears o' him—that I should ban!—unless he smure in his creesh;* whilk is not unlikely.—A swalled, judgment-like Jeshurun, wi' eyne like to loup with clean fat," cried Meg, who had taken deep offence, first, at the Doctor going to the Opposition Hotel; and, secondly, at the freedom with which he, a guest there, had entered her territories. But here he shall come, Luckie," returned Touchwood, " ay, this very night too. What, woman ! would you turn the servant of the Lord—the stranger, from your gates!— An invalid, too, that cannot get an hour of rest, nor a morsel he can swallow, poor gentleman, in their gilded-gingerbread pig-sty down yonder." Say ye sae, say ye sae, Mr Touchwood?" cried Meg, her features relaxing j " not a comfortable meltith o' meat, and him in a dwining way, ye say, Nawbob ?—though troth he does not look like it! But fat folk are often feckless. There was Mr Matthew Stechy, St Ronan's auld butler, that kept the first hottle in Glasgow—there was the cook, if ye speak of cooks! that is, for a man-cook, whilk is but a non-natural calling—there was Matthew, waxed fatter and fatter to a perfect mere-swine. Well, he broke, sir—became dyvour—was rouped to the door ; took the Mill-craft down in the Haugh, wrought hard for his daily morsel, and is now as swack and clean-deliver a man, o' his years, as enters the kirk o' St Ronan's." " It will do, by Jupiter and Comus !" exclaimed Touch- wood, who had been absorbed in a very unusual fit of mus- ing. " The Cleikum Club—myself President,—must keep order amongst them—liedgill Vice ; Winterblossom, an old coxcomb, but deep in the mystery; Jekyl, a conceited fop, but has his uses; Meg for the executive, with this Stechy —a practical man—nothing like practical men in business— Meg with great practical skill and knowledge, the paragon * Be smothered in his own grease.INSTITUTION OF THE 30 of economy and cleanliness.—It will do, by the Boar and the Peacock V "And what will do, sir?'' replied Meg. "The East chaumer for the Doctor, wi' the red Turk-upon-Turk bed. It can get a slaik o' paint, and the easy-chair brought from Mr Francie's room. Puir lad, little he sat in't. The bunker i' the window that looks down through the firs to the Shaws Place, was aye his seat in the e'ening. I'll ne'er ha'e a lodger like him !" " That's all past and gone, dame," cried Touchwood, im- patiently ; " other matters on hand, woman: but remember the rice-water to mix with your whitening, as I directed you in whitewashing the kitchen." "As ready wi' your advice as your help," muttered Meg; " but I just took kirn-milk, as I used to do, and the same will serve this turn—but better fleich a fule than fecht him." "Well, he enters to-night," said Touchwood; "Jerry Ostler must settle the bill, and bring over the baggage along with the Doctor's own man." The defection of the great Dr Redgill from the New Hotel, after a trial of twenty-four hours, was the most signal triumph Meg had yet obtained over that establishment. But she disdained to crimp a customer; and as Mr Cargill was at this instant passing out, happier than ever, after this symposium, to escape to his burrow and his books, she called on him to witness the compact. " He'll get the East chaumer," said Meg; "I cannot spare anither parlour,—breakfast his lane ; and ye dine a' thegither,—the Club,—the Cleikum Club, ye ca' it; and better mess thegither than making as much ready for ae single gentleman as would serve six. I'll mak' ye a' com- fortable, never fear it. But,—and hear me now!—it's no to be said, thought, or surmeesed, that by harbouring and resetting a rampant follower o' the Lethargy o' the Church of England, I'm to change my Kirk for the lucre o' trade and custom. Ye certify that, Nawbob, on saul and con-31 ST RONAN^S CULINARY CLUB. science; or a dish is no cookit for him in owre that door- stane." " Keep yourself easy, Mistress Margaret/' said Touch- wood ; " the Doctor is, I dare say, a true son of the Church of England, but he admires your practice too much to seek to shake your faith." "Na ; wha made me a judge and a divine?^' replied Meg, greatly mollified with the act of delivering her testimony; I'm no dooting but the Doctor has the root o' the matter in him, Maister Cargill." " Ay, that he has,'' cried Touchwood; " truffles and morels, onions and carrots, I'll answer for him.'* That's enough," said Meg. Go, woman, scour your saucepans. Send for Stechy; have the kitchen like a Dutch paradise to-morrow morning; —for then we take the field !" By the time that Touchwood returned triumphantly from his negotiation in the kitchen, the good wine had done its good ofiice in the parlour. Not that there were any symp- toms of inebriation, either actual or remote; but the prevailing mood was free, joyous, in short, highly convivial. The Doctor told prosy college stories of college feasts, and gave Latin toasts; Winterblossom related anecdotes of the bon vivans of another generation, and hummed catches most vilely; and the young man smoked his cigar and the whole party at once. In this happy hour, on which favouring stars shed pros- perous influences, was the Cleikum or St Ronan's Club instituted. To conclude the entertainment, the Nabob pro- duced a single bottle of choice Burjundy, Mont Ratchet; and a special bumper was dedicated to the new comer. Coffee, four years kept, but only one hour roasted, was prepared by the Nabob's own hi^nds—coffee which he had himself brought from Mocha, and now with a supqon of chicory, made in a coffeepot of Parisian invention patronized by Napoleon.INSTITUTION OF THE 32 Mistress Dods was afterwards courteously summoned to make tea; and the plan of the proposed Club was submitted to her judgment. She startled a good deal at first, and was several times in danger of bolting off the course. But once fairly engaged, her zeal was unbounded; and long experi- ence rendered her, finally, the most efficient member of the convocation. An extended correspondence was arranged with celebrated amateur gourmands^ as well as practical cooks; and also with those Clubs, both provincial and metropolitan, of which the eating, rather than the erudite preparation of dishes, had hitherto been the leading business. Meanwhile, as everything requires time, while the kitchen stores and utensils were getting into order, the Nabob, aided by his friend, delivered what might almost be called a Course of Lectures on the science of cookery in all its branches, which we propose some day to extend and publish. For these, though exceedingly valuable from the curious facts they contained, as well as for their philosophical specu- lations, Meg had not patience. ^'Let us to the wark she cried; "what business ha'e tliae lang, ink-horn-tailed words wi' teaching wives and lasses to make Cock-a-leekie, or Friar's Chicken?" " Ay, there it is,*' cried Touchwood, " the very names stamp truth on my theory." "Ay, there's Friar's Chicken, and Friar's Fish-in-sauce, and Friar's Balsam, too, Nawbob," said Meg; " and my grand-dame, as ye say, was just as good a cook as mysel'; and maybe a wee tht)ught better at the jeelies and paistries; and for a Floating Island, or an Almond Hedgehog, we could never pretend to ony sic grandery at the Cleikum; mair especially in days when every farmer-chield gangs yanking by on his bluid-horse, and keeps his bred cook with her twal pound a-year and her tea-money. A bonny breed there is o' them! Unless I get the jillets o' my33 ST KONAN^S CULINARY CLUB. ain up-bringing, I wadna trust them to scour a pot-lid, Mr Touchwood." Meg shall deliver the lecture on the breeding and train- ing of female cooks/' said the Nabob. " But a beginning must be made; and I have thrown together a few loose hints, which I submit to you, gentlemen. You know my object. It was the saying of a great prince, that he wished every one of his subjects ^ had a pullet in the pot/ And why may not I, simple Peregrine Touchwood, do my best to instruct every fair fellow-subject of mine how to dress her pullet when she has got it ? If a Dr King, a Sir John Hill, a Dr Hunter, a Sir John Sinclair, and a Count Rumford, have dedicated their time and talents to the service of their species, in this important department; nay, if a Paris and Pereira have not disdained it, why should plain Peregrine Touchwood? No man cares less about what he himself eats than I do, gentlemen. A man who has shared horse- flesh with the Tartar, and banqueted on dog's flesh with the Chinaman, is not likely to be dainty of his own gab." Here the Nabob took from his pocket the Introductory Lecture,—which had been privately retouched by Winter- blossom, as its garnish showed,—wiped his mouth with his ample Bandana, and proceeded:— " Gentlemen,—Man is a cooking animal; and in what- ever situation he is found, it may be assumed as an axiom, that his progress in civilisation has kept exact pace with the degree of refinement he may have attained in the science of gastronomy. From the hairy man of the woods, gentlemen, digging his roots with his claws, to the refined banquet of the Greek, or the sumptuous entertainment of the Roman; from the ferocious hunter, gnawing the half-broiled, bloody collop, torn from the still reeking carcass, to the modern gourmand^ apportioning his ingredients, and blending his essences, the chain is complete! First^ We have the bru- talized digger of roots; then the sly entrapper of the finny B 234 INSTITUTION OF THE tribes; and, next, the fierce^ foul feeder^ devouring his ensnared prey, fat, blood, and muscle " What a style o' language !whispered Mistress Dods; —^^but for a' that it's me maun look after the scouring o' the kettles.'^ " The next age of cookery, gentlemen," continued the orator, " may be called the pastoral, as the last was that of the hunter. Here we have simple, mild broths, seasoned, perhaps, with herbs of the field, decoctions of pulse, barley- cakes, and the kid seethed in milk. I pass over the ages of Rome and Greece, and confine myself to the Gothic and Celtic tribes, among whom gradually emerged what I shall call the Chivalrous, or rather Feudal age of cookery,—the wild boar roasted whole, the stately crane, the lordly swan, the full-plumaged peacock, borne into the feudal hall by troops of vassals, to the flourish of trumpets, warlike instru- ments, marrow-bones, and cleavers! " Bravo I " cried Jekyl. " Cookery as a domestic art, contributing to the comfort and luxury of private life, had made considerable progress in England before the Reformation; which event, I speak it with sorrow, threw it back some centuries. We find the writers of those ages making large account of an art, from which common sense, in all countries, borrows its most striking illustrations and analogies." " Only hear till him ! " whispered Meg. ^' The ambitious man ^ seeks to rule the roast; *—The meddling person * likes to have his finger in the pie;'— ' Meat and mass hinder no business ;'—The rash man * gets into a stew,' and ^ cooks himself a pretty mess;'—^ A half- loaf is better than no bread;'—^ There goes reason to the roasting of an egg;'—^ Fools make feasts, and wise men eat them;'—^ The churl invites a guest, and sticks him with the spit—' The belly is every man's master—' He who will not fight for his meat, what will he fight for?'—^ A hungry man is an angry man ;'—' It's ill talking between a full man35 ST EOKAN S CULINARY CLUB. and a fasting—and, finally, ' It is the main business of every man's life to make the pot boil;' or, as the Scots more emphatically have it, ^ to 7nake the pot play hrown^^ which a maigre pot never will do." "And that's as true," said Meg. "A fat pot boiling, popples and glances on the tap, like as mony bonny, brown lammer-beads." " Hush, dame !—The science, as we noticed, gentlemen, had made considerable advances in England, when the Reformation not only arrested its progress, but threatened for ever to extinguish the culinary fire. Gastronomy, violently expelled from monasteries and colleges, found no fitting sanctuary either in the riotous household of the jolly Cava- lier, or in the gloomy abode of the lank, pinched-visaged Roundhead; the latter, as the poet has it, eager to ' Fall out with mince-meat, and disparage His best and dearest friend, plum-porridge,'— the former broaching his hogshead of October beer, and roasting a whole ox, in the exercise of a hospitality far more liberal than elegant." " But, gentlemen, in our seats of learning, the genial spark was still secretly cherished. Oxford watched over the culinary flame with zeal proportioned to the importance of the trust! From this altar were rekindled the culinary fires of Episcopal palaces, which had smouldered for a time ; and Gastronomy once more raised her parsley-wreathed front in Britain, and daily gained an increase of devoted, if not yet enlightened worshippers." " Ay, that will sufiice for a general view of the subject," said Dr Redgill; " let us now get to the practical part of the science,—arrange the dinners,—the proof of the pudding is the eating.' " Touchwood had a high disdain for what he called " the bigotry of the stew-pan" in Dr Redgill, who, like a true churchman, had a strong leaning to " dishes as they are."36 INSTITUTION OF THE ST RONAN^S CULINARY CLUB. Jekyl was to the full as flighty and speculative as the Doctor was dogmatic. The young man had French theory,—the heau ideal of gastrology floating in his brains,—he could talk of Ude and Careme. • His experience in the most fashion- able clubs, and taverns, and bachelor-establishments about the metropolis, had indeed been great; but it was fortu- nately modified by a course of Peninsular practice, under Wellington; and, upon the whole, he was found a most efficient member of the Club in all that regarded modern improvements, though rather intolerant of Scottish national dishes. The culinary lectures of Touchwood, whose eloquence for six long wrecks fulmined over the Cleikum kitchen, extended to such unreasonable compass, that a brief syllabus of the course is all we can at present give, without unduly swelling this Manual, and losing sight of the purpose for which it was intended ; namely, a Practical System of Rational Modern Cookery and Domestic Economy.37 SYLLABUS. Lecture I. Importance of tlie science :—Its histoiy. II. On Cooks.—The name clearly derived from Coquin. —Their self-conceit and prejudices.—Their ignorance.— May be propitiated by a printed Guide when they would disdain advice,—Sly peep into the Manual in the dresser drawer. — Books of receipts most useful to cooks who have already made some practical progress in the art.— Their elemental virtues, aptness to learn, order and punc- tuality. III. On the Kitchen.—Of kitchens in general.—The Dutch kitchen.—The baronial kitchen, and the corridor communicating with the chambers, whence the lady sur- veyed the operations below.—The Vicar of Wakefield's kitchen.—Kitchen of a comfortable village inn.—The yeo- man's hall-kitchen.—Dark kitchens of great cities.—Im- portance of light.—The construction and regulation of the fires.—Kitchen ranges, and new invented culinary utensils; many of them sheer humbugs; the prudent housekeeper should see them in operation before buying, and adopt no new range of which actual trial is not first made.—Steam- ing ; Ovens; Stoves.—Supply of soft hot water in kitchens. —Kitchen utensils.—Ought to be provided in proper quan- tity, as well as of suitable kinds.—Eather numerous than otherwise, to save the distraction and waste of time occa- sioned by a scanty supply.—A digester^ meat-screen^ salting- trough^ meat-safe^ balnea maria^ and a few other small articles, indispensable in families where comfort and economy are studied.—Speedily pay themselves by the saving of fuel, labour, and provisions.—May be bought on the graduatedSYLLABUS OF CULINAKY LECTUKES, 38 scale suited to the size and circumstances of the family.— The price, to a young housekeeper, of one couch or looking- glass, would obtain all those kitchen articles so subservient to good cookery and economy. IV. Cleanliness.—Its importance insisted on.—Con- sidered the first virtue of a plain cook.—Difference of opin- ion among gourmands as to its relative importance.—Female cooks generally considered superior to those of the other sex in cleanliness.—Ist^ Cleanliness as applicable to all de- scriptions of culinary utensils.—All saucepans, gridirons, spits, skewers, etc., to be laid away clean, and kept well tinned and free of rust.—Pickle-jars, casks, troughs, paste- pins, etc., to be laid aside clean.—Great attention to be given to keep pudding-moulds and cloths, tapes, jelly-bags, tammy- cloths, sieves, etc., clean, sweet, and dry.—Kitchen-cloths to be washed every day after dinner.—Wood-ashes recom- mended by French artists for this purpose, as soap gives a bad flavour to pudding-cloths, etc.—2(i, Cleanliness as appli- cable to provisions about to be dressed.—Should all be thoroughly trimmed, washed, and wiped.—Attention to be given to careful skimming, straining, withholding the sedi- ment or lees.—Neatness in dishing without sloping the ledges of the dishes.—Anecdotes of the slovenliness of cooks. —Nobleman who, visiting his kitchen, found the butter required for the made-dishes stuck over the kitchen fire- place.—Mr F of C , on a similar occasion, finds his man-cook employing the contents of a shaving-jug, which he had just been using, to liquefy a dish of mince- collops! V. Early Training of Cooks.—No receipts sufficient to qualify for duty.—Cooks, like surgeons, must first look on, and next put to their hands.—A mistress should, in pre- ference to sending an intelligent young cook-maid to the kitchens of great hotels and Club Houses, procure her ad- mission as a spectator and assistant in the kitchens of fami- lies who give handsome dinners, with some frequency; andSYLLABUS OF CULINARY LECTURES. 39 where, consequently, good cookery and neat and stylish dish- ing are not only thoroughly understood, but practised daily. —Let the cook do this, and study Meg Dods both before and after such days.—Ought to be duly impressed with the im- portance of her art, and, above all, with her own individual responsibility.—Method: arrangement: forecast.—The days before a great dinner.—The day of a great dinner: what to be done.—Soups, Jellies, creams, and many made-dishes to be prepared beforehand.—Vegetables cleaned : spices ready mixed : thickening prepared: poultry ready trussed: chops trimmed, etc.—Rules for seasoning,—Training of the palate of the cook—indurated by the use of snuff, tobacco, and spirituous liquors.—Gentlemen of forty-five and upwards generally found to require a double allowance of Cayenne, eschalot, garlic, salt, and flavoured wines or vinegars, com- pared with those under that age, unless the juniors have been bred at Oxford.—As a general rule, bachelors and sportsmen to be allowed a fourth more seasoning than sober married men:—nearly the same proportions hold between a military man and a civilian.—For West and East Indians, peppers and all stimulating condiments may be used ad libitum. YI. On Family Management and Domestic Economy IN General.—Ist^ Early rising, importance of, to mistresses and servants.—Where impossible or inconvenient, best sub- stitute early and diligent inspection, and regular enforce- ment of the orders given the night before, for the employ- ment of the morning hours.—2J, Marketing and laying in family-stores and articles that improve by keeping,—as soap, sugar, starch, spiceries, fruits, spring-made candles, etc., etc.—Rice, pearl barley, macaroni, vermicelli, semoulina, tapioca, and such things, should be bought very fresh, and not in large quantities, as they soon spoil. All best pre- served in cool, but dry places. No expense to be grudged that prevents insects and vermin from getting at the stores. 3c?, Choice of provisions.—The senses of sight and smell,40 SYLLABUS OF CULINARY LECTUKES. with some experience, the best guides.—Fish of all sorts best when short and thick, well-made, bright in the scales, stiff and springy to the touch, the gills of a fresh red, the belly not flabby,—the eyes and fins to be looked at.—Meat speaks for itself.—The fat of heef to be white and pure ; the lean smooth-grained, and of a healthy brownish crimson.— Veal should be fat, white, and young: the mode of feeding it of great importance. The kidney to be duly examined; the state of which will show the feeding and condition of all animals.—Ram-Mutton discoverable by the rank flavour and coarse texture of the flesh.—Mutton not eatable under three years old.—Best about five, but seldom to be got in the market of that age. The black-faced or hill sheep best for the table, though as much depends on the pasture as on the breed.—Lamb.—The qualities of it may easily be known by inspection of the head, neck, and kidney; let the neck be fat, the eyes not sunk, the kidney fresh and fat, the quarters short and thick.—Pork to be chosen by the colour, and the smoothness of the rind.—Measly pork easily known by the little lumps and kernels mixed with the fat, which looks clammy and greasy.—All meat known, if stale, by the eyes being sunk, the kidney tainted, the flesh clammy and livid. The best joints of the best meat cost most money at first, but are the most economical.—Utility of purchasing these.— Venison.—Should be thick and firm in the fat,— the lean pure.—The age of deer, hares, and rabbits, known by the clefts and claws being close and smooth in the young animal.—Game and Poultry,—The age known by the legs and spur.—When smooth in the legs and short in the spur, the animal is young.—Trick of poulterers to cut and shorten the spur.—Stale when the eye is sunk, the vent tainted.— Black-legged fowls often the most juicy:—white-legged look better.—Attention to the breed and form.—Polanders. —The Dorking large breed recommended—though bad layers—best when short, plump, broad in the breast, and thick in the rump.—Game, if stale, known by the livid41 SYLLABUS OF CULINARY LECTURES. colour of the flesh about the vent.—Hams and Bacon good when the flesh adheres firmly to the bone, the smell fresh, the lean clear, and not streaked with yellow.—Very good hams from Westmoreland, Yorkshire, Wiltshire, and other parts of England and Ireland :—if well fed and cured, quite equal to those of Bayonne and Westphalia.—Brawn.—If old, the rind thick and hard.—Salt Butter and Cheese to be probed and tasted. Fresh butter easily known by the taste. —Eggs not easily known when stale. Hold between the eye and a candle in a dark room, and if the yolk be unbroken the egg is not stale :—Rather a doubtful test this.—Fish of all kinds best when fresh caught; but the flat fish, as tur- bot, skate, halibut, may keep a few days, and even ripen and mellow: salmon, trout, eels, herrings, and mackerel, and also haddocks and whitings, cannot be too fresh. The red fish the most rich, though oily; the white the most diges- tible. Shell-fish of all sorts should be quite fresh to be wholesome or even safe. Lobsters often underhoiled by fish- mongers to make them keep longer. An eye of some expe- rience and the sense of smell best determine the freshness of fish:—directions in the receipts, Chapter, Fish, for pre- paring, cooking, and preserving the several kinds.—Anchovies and Pickled Salmon known by the smell and fresh colour of the fish.—Their pickle-liquor should be pure and well- flavoured.—The red colour given to anchovy-liquor by arti- ficial means, and no test of goodness.—All provisions SHOULD BE BOUGHT WITH READY MONEY; OR THE BILLS SETTLED WEEKLY. ShOWN TO BE A SAVING OF MANY PER CENTS. yil.—Miscellaneous Hints and Directions.—Straining to be done twice if necessary, or with a double tammy-sieve. —All jelly-bags to be moistened in hot water, and well wrung:—if used dry, will drink up a considerable quantity of the article strained.—Full supply of kitchen-cloths,—use of gauze-wire covers and cheese-cloths in preserving raw and cold provisions. Marble slab for paste,—marble pestleSYLLABUS OF CULINARY LECTURES. 42 and mortar.—Sauces too much thickened can never after- wards be cleared of fat, as the fatty matter will not separate. —Sauces and broths must have time to cook; but if kept too long over the fire, will deteriorate both in colour and flavour.—This is peculiarly applicable to sauces of game.— All sorts of small cakes, pasties, and puffs, shortbread, Savoy cake, etc., may be renovated by being laid on paper, and heated on the hob, or hot-hearth, or before the fire when to be used.—Pastry, if kept for days, is so much refreshed by this process as to eat nearly as well as when newly baked, from the full flavour of the sugar, butter, and fruit, being again brought out.—Great care to be taken that every single egg used be fresh, as one stale egg will, in cooking, taint dozens. VIII. Preserving of Provisions by Salting, Drying, Pickling, Preserving.—Importance of sugar and molasses in preserving meat, fish, and butter;—shown to do so effectually with only a small proportion of salt.—The pyro- ligneous acid, or vinegar of wood, and chloride of soda,— their uses.—Discoveries in curing provisions in conse- quence of the premiums given by the Highland Society.— Meat salts the better of having the bones taken out.— Bacon should always be twice salted or pickled, and be patiently rubbed both times.—All meat salted in pieces and packed must be fully covered with the brine. The process of salting accelerated by occasional rubbing with fresh salt. This important subject more fully treated of in Part lY., Chap. III., of the Manual ; Art, Salting, IX. Premiums to Cooks for diligent Discharge of their Duties, and Proficiency in their Art.—For neat- ness, economy, forecast, the preservation of provisions, and invention or improvement of cheap family-dishes.—Estab- lishment for decayed cooks, and prospectus of a National Gastronomical Board. X. Causes that retard the Progress of the Art.— Ignorance and prejudices of cooks. Inattention of ladies.43 SYLLABUS OF CULINARY LECTURES. —Impudence and common tricks of culinary quacks and would-be gastronomers. XI. On French Cookery.—The French, as a nation, allowed to be the best cooks in the world.—In what their superiority consists :—wherein worthy of imitation.—Their earthen stew-pans,—charcoal and wood embers,—small fur- naces,—their fire applied above and around as well as under their sauce-pans.—Their cookery of vegetables, and of dishes of desserte (that is, of cold left things) peculiarly commend- able. Reference made to Mistress Dods^ Manual for the substance of French Cookery. XII. View of Cookery in Modern Europe.—A French dinner described.—Restaurateurs of Paris. — A word to Amphitryons,—to guests.—Petty differences of usages in different countries.—What would be considered ban ton at a dinner in Paris reckoned low breeding in London.—Unc- tuous dishes of Germany.—Mingled barbarism and refine- ment of Russian cookery,—Russian whets and salads:—the kistischi or raw vegetables in quass : vareniky:—buterinia, or salad of salt-fish.—Spain behind all Europe in cookery : doubts on this head :—the oUa or puchero :—the guisado.— Spaniards unshaken in their loyalty to garlic:—their taste for allspice traced to Christopher Columbus. See Manual^ National Dishes. XIII. Anglo-Gallican Cookery of the middle of the Nineteenth Century :—considered the best the world has yet seen. — Causes which retard its progress:—conceit of French cooks, and affectation of juvenile gastronomers.— Reciprocal influence of cookery and polite literature : atten- tion given by the periodical writers and novelists of the day to this important subject creditable to their understandings. —The empire of cookery extended by late travellers.— What the science owes to the Jesuits :—to the W^hite Friars : —to the Trappists :—to Mesdames Maintenon and Pompa- dour.—Eulogy on Yatel.—Praise of the late Mrs Baron Hepburn, of Lord Sefton, Rothschild, Sarapayo, and SirSYLLABUS OF CULINARY LECTURES. 44 George Warrender.—Car erne, and a few more illustrious cJiefs^ decorative cooks ; as much for the eye as for the palate; relying too much upon ornamental vases, silver skewers and dishes, and the long purses of their parvenu employers.45 DIEEOTIONS FOR OAEVING. Carving has ever been esteemed one of the minor arts of polite life,—a test at first sight of the breeding of men, as its dexterous and graceful performance is presumed to mark a person trained in good fashion. In the times of chivalry, carving was the duty of the younger squire attendant on the knight. " To dance in hall and carve at board'' are classed together in the list of a young gentleman's accomplishments ; and Chesterfield, the great modern teacher of polished life, has made this qualification an object of his pupil's peculiar study. Carving, like heraldry, hunting, hawking, and other sciences of a like important kind, had a language of its own. Treatises were composed to show how the heron was to be dismembered^ the duck unbraced^ the crane displayed^ the swan lifted^ the goose reared^ and so forth. The Grand Carver was a functionary of some dignity in former times; and till the office is revived, or the oriental and continental custom, of having the principal part of the carving performed by the cook and servants, is adopted, it is necessary to acquire a knowledge of this art on principles of economy, as well as from respect to good manners. To carve quickly and neatly requires a good deal of prac- tice, as well as vigilant observation of those who perform the office well. There are awkward grown-up persons, having, as the French say, two left hands, whom no labour will ever make dexterous carvers; yet there is no difficulty in this humble but useful art, which young persons, if early initiated under the eye of friends, might not easily surmount, and thus save themselves much awkward embarrassment in future life. One objection to allowing juvenile practice is, that young people haggle provisions ; but they might be per- mitted sometimes to try plain joints and cold game, which would soon bring in their hands. A lady, where ladies still carve at family dinners, requires an elevated seat, a light sharp knife, and the dish placed near her. All puddings, trifles, pastry, etc., should be cut or helped with a silverDIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 46 spoon. The French have a small silver trowel for this pur- pose. Then' fish trowel has often one edge with teeth. In carving fish, study to preserve the beauty of the flakes. Though no directions can supply the place of observation and practice, it may be useful to tell the young carver how to use his tools, and what is expected from him. What are esteemed the most choice morsels of every dish ought to be known; for "to deal small and serve all" must be the carver's maxim. Venison fat,—the Pope's eye in a leg of mutton,—veal and lamb kidney,—the firm gelatinous parts of a cod's head,—the thin part of salmon,—the thick of turbot and other flat fish, are reckoned the prime bits.—The ribs, neck, and pettitoes of a pig,—the breast and wings of fowls,—the shoulders, rump, and back of hare and rabbit,— the breast and thighs of turkey and goose, cutting off the drum-Sticks,—the wings and breast of pheasants, partridges, and moor-game, and the legs and breast of duck, are also reckoned delicacies. There are, besides, favourite bits highly prized by some gourmands, though it is sometimes not easy to discover in what their superior excellence consists; as dry shank of mutton,—turbot fins,— cod's tongue,—the bitter back of moor-game,—the back of hare,—the head of carp. In stew-soups, meat and force-meat balls are prized. A knowledge of these things will be of use to the carver as a guide in that equitable distribution of good things, which is the most pleasing part of his duty. A person of any refinement will eat much more when his food is served in handsome slices, and not too much at once, than when a pound, clumsily cut, is laid upon his plate. To cut warm joints fairly and smoothly, neither in slices too thick, nor in such as are finically thin, is all that is required of the carver of a plain joint.* For this purpose he must be provided with a knife of suitable size having a good edge ; and it will greatly facilitate his operations if the cook has previously taken care that the bones in all joints are properly divided. It is impossible for the most dexterous carver to proceed with ease or comfort if this be neglected. Clever cooks are beginning to joint game and small poultry, and to cut the sinews with scissors, before dressing. The dishes appear at table in the usual form, but are much more * The little instrument called " An instantaneous knife-sharper" is worthy of the carver's attention.DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 47 easily carved. Modern carvers cut diagonally as often as this is practicable, as it saves the joint, improves the grain, and gives a better distribution of fat and lean. In carving game or poultry for a large party, where many look for a share of the same delicacy, what is called " making wings" must be avoided; the first helpings should be cut the long way, and not made too large. Pour the sauce beside the meat or vegetables, not over them. One ladle of soup is a helping. Whatever accident occurs, preserve your self- possession. Turhot—The thick part is the best : ih^ fins are fancied. Make a cross-cut in the thickest part down to the bone, then make lines from the centre to the fins, and take out slices with a fish-slice, helping part of the thick of the fins with each slice, along with the appropriate sauce; but sauces are best handed round. Salmon is easily carved, whether crimped in slices, or boiled whole. This fish is served on a napkin; a slice of the thick, cut so as to preserve the beauty of the flakes, and a smaller one of the thin, are given with the appropriate sauces; and a slice of lemon or cucumber is to be helped, if not objected to. Fried Fish.—The thick part is reckoned the best. The fish are, according to size, to be either raised from the bone, or cut quite through. The choice is—Shoulders or tail?" Neither iron nor steel should ever touch fish. Sirloin of Beef—This favourite joint is all prime. The fillet, or English side, as it is called in Scotland, is preferred by many. The Sirloin may therefore be turned over on the dish, or be made to rest on the chine-bone, and slices of tlie tender-loin, cut crossways, may be sufiicient for the party, and the joint be left to present cold, apparently un- touched. Many, however, prefer the upper part of the joint; in which case the carver should, with a very sharp knife, make an incision along the chine-bone as far as he thinks slices may be required; then, cutting off the out- side slice next himself, he may proceed to help thin slices, cutting from the chine-bone towards the end of the ribs, serving with each part of the soft fat, delicately cut, gravy, and scraped horse-radish. Some at once carve out slices48 DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. along the back-bone. This last, however, is neither the most economical nor sightly method. If the meat is to be presented cold, this deep trench—this " forty mortal gashes on its side"—looks ill, while it drains the joint of its juices. Edge-hone^ or Aitch-bone of Beef.—In this, and all pieces of boiled meat, the ontside slice, which becomes dry and hard in the salting and boiling, is to be laid aside or sent away. This done, cut handsome smooth slices of the lean, and with each give a very little of the marrowy and firm fat, for which this joint is prized. Bound of Beef is carved as the above, with a large carver for the purpose. Begin at the fattest end. Many carve this joint slantways; but more commonly it is cut horizon- tally, preserving a smooth, finely-grained surface. A Brisket of Beef is cut down to the bone the cross way in rather thin slices, as the piece is fatty and gristly; and all fat meat must be cut delicately thin. Breast of Veal or Lamb.—Divide the gristly part from the ribs, as directed in carving a fore-quarter of lamb,—then divide both the cross way. The choice is — '^Gristles or ribs?" Cut the meat clean off ribs of veal, as the gristly bones only encumber the eater's plate, and ought to be cut out, and dressed d la Franqaise as Tendrons de Veau ; help a morsel of the sweetbread. Fillet of Veal.—This is usually, and always ought to be, stuffed. Cut it in delicate horizontal slices; and help either the browned outside or the inside, as is chosen, with a little of the fat, a thin slice of the stuffing, and gravy, etc. Gigot.—This delicate joint is familiar where veal is small. It is either cut in horizontal slices, or as a leg of mutton, but beginning nearer the broad end. Shoulder and loin of veal are cut as mutton. The kidney-fat of the loin is prized, and sometimes sliced at table and kept hot over a lamp, ready to help. Saddle of Mutton.—Cut thin slices along the back-bone, dividing them if too long, and helping fat and lean together. Many persons think that, besides being a more economical way of carving, all meat is more delicately grained, and eats better, if a deep incision be made along the chine-bone, and slices taken crossways from thence. M. Ude does so.DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 49 Roasted Pig,—We could wish that the practice of having this dish carved by the cook were universal; for, in this fastidious age, the spectacle of a four-footed animal at table is anything but acceptable. Like the larger poultry, pig is also very troublesome to the carver, who must have a sharp knife, with which the head is to be taken off in the first place: then cut down the back from neck to rump; after- wards remove the shoulder and leg on each side. The ribs are then to be divided into four portions, and the legs and shoulders cut in two. The ribs were esteemed the most delicate part of this dish; now the neck of a well-roasted pig is the favourite morsel. The carver must use his dis- cretion in distributing ear and cheek, as far as these will go; and the cook should enable him to help stuffing and sauce liberally. Hams are cut in various ways. You may begin near the knuckle, which is the most economical method; in the middle, taking out slices in a slanting direction, that the fat and lean may be fairly divided ; or at the broad end. The chief thing to be attended to, after an incision is made, is the delicacy of the slices. Tongue,—The best part is the thickest, and the meat is most delicate when cut across in rather thin slices. Some leave a bottom or sole for the sake of appearance; others reckon it more economical to carve in thin slices the long way. Tongue and ham cannot be too delicately cut. Cod^s Head and Shoulders^ if served plain or without a sauce in the dish, should be served on a napkin. If suffi- ciently boiled it is easily carved. Let the back of the fish be placed towards the carver. Enter the silver fish-slice w^ithin three inches of the head, and cut across down to the bone. Help from this opening right and left at conve- nience, taking care not to make a jagged surface by break- ing the flakes. The gelatinous pieces about the neck and head are prized, and also a small slice of the sound. The palate and tongue may be got at with a spoon, but these are rather the fantastic than prime parts. Some cut the fish longways; but the above is perhaps the fairer mode. Haunch of Venison.—Make an incision quite down to the bone in the direction of the line a h, to let the gravy flow. Let the carver then turn the dish towards himself, and cut50 DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. clown to the bone from c to d. The most delicate slices lie to the left of the line c d, supposing the joint to lie endways 1 to the carver, and the broad end of the haunch, e df, next him. From this incision, The Alderman's waW slices, not too thick, may be cut, which slices, if too large, can be divided. A thinner and smaller slice of fat must be given with each helping, and also gravy. As the fat of venison freezes very rapidly, the more expeditiously the carver gets through his task the better; or a dish with a spirit-lamp is sometimes brought to the table, to keep the gravy and fat quite hot. Sometimes the cook makes a cha7^t of cloves on the joint, as a guide to the carver. Haunch of Mutton is carved exactly as venison. A Boiled Gigot or Leg of Mutton,—A boiled gigot or leg is often served with the inside uppermost; a roast leg or haunch always with the outside uppermost. The most juicy part of this favourite joint is about the thick of the thigh, or along the backbone. Let the knuckle lie to the carv- er's left hand, and let him cut down to the bone, through the noix or kernel, called the Pope's eye. Though the most juicy part of the leg is here, some choose the dry knuckle; and others the fatty part about the chump; others, delicate slices that may be found along the back- bone ; even the tail of fat mutton is chosen by some. Some modern carvers give horizontal slices, and prefer this mode; others diagonal slices, which is better. Shoulder of Mutton,—This joint is served as shown. Cut into the thickest part down to the bone in a slanting line from a to b ; and from this opening take slices of a proper thickness. If more helpings are wanted, some delicate slices may be got on each side of the ridge of the blade-bone, in51 DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. tlie direction c d and ef. The most delicate slices are to be found in that part which, in the living animal, lay next to the back-bone ; they are to be cut out rather thin, in the direction of the line g h. In almost all animals delicate fatty slices are to be found along the back-bone. Good fleshy slices, full of juice, though not very delicate in the fibre, are to be got by turning the shoulder over, and cut- ting slantways into the hollow part of the inside. So va- rious ai^e tastes, that some persons prefer the knuckle, though the driest and coarsest part of the animal. Some modern straightforward carvers prefer at once carving from what is called the " oyster,^' and right down from the knuckle to the broad end. The knuckle should be turned down from the first joint, though not thus shown in the above plate. Fore-Quarter of Lamb»—Separate the shoulder from the ribs, by passing a carving-knife, held nearly horizontally, in the direction ah cd e. Take care not to make too broadDIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 52 a shoulder-flap, and thus leave the ribs too hare. Some carvers merely make a slight incision into the skin, and tear off the shoulder-flap. The shank, which should be twisted in fringed paper, may be held in the carver's left hand. Squeeze a little juice of lemon or Seville orange over the parts separated, and sprinkle them with a little salt. They may also be laid together, and gently pressed down, to make the juice flow; or have a little plain or Mattre Hotel butter laid between them if deficient in juice. Next separate the gristles of the breast from the ribs, in the direction e f; carve them in the direction of g A, and the ribs in the direction of i j. The choice is—" Ribs, gristles, or shoulder?" The shoulder is to be carved as directed for shoulder of mutton; and if the joint is large, it will be found convenient to put the shoulder aside on a plate, while carving the ribs, etc. A saddle of lamb is carved as directed above, for a haunch of venison or saddle of mutton. A Goose.—The carver may turn the dish towards him, and cut thin slices in the lines h «, down to the breast- bone, helping as he carves. If there be stuffing, the apron must be cut open in the circular line flg^ and stuffing may be served with each helping. If there be no stuffing, a glass of wine, a little orange-gravy, or vinegar, is poured into the body of the goose at the opening, which the carver, for this purpose, makes in the apron. Orange gravy or red wine is also often poured over the sliced breast of goose or duck, before the slices are taken out. If the party be so numer- ous that the breast-slices are not sufficient, the carver must first help a slice or two from the right leg, and then pro- ceed to disjoint it; for which purpose he must put his fork through the small end, press it close to the body, and meanwhile, entering his knife at d^ jerk the leg smartly back, and the joint will separate, when the leg may easily53 DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. be cut off in the direction d e. The wing on the same side is next to be taken off. For this purpose, fix the fork in the pinion, press it to the body, and, entering the knife at separate the joint, and afterwards cut off the wing in the direction c d. Proceed in the same way to take off the other leg and wing. In helping a goose, the thigh, which is a favourite part, may be separated from the drumstick, and the fleshy part of the wing from the pinion. Fortu- nately for the carver the breast-slices are in general found sufficient; as dismembering an old goose or turkey is one of the most laborious and awkward of his duties. They order these things better on the Continent. . Turkey.—WhQYQ the party is not very large, and the dishes are numerous, a good many small delicate slices, with very thin portions of the stuffing, may be helped lengthways from the breast. If this is not sufficient, proceed with the legs and wings as above directed for a goose. A Roast Foivlj with the wing and leg as cut off.—Fowls are carved in the same way, whether boiled or roasted. In a boiled or stev/ed fowl, the legs are bent inwards, and trussed within the apron; in a roasted fowl they are left out and skewered en long. The carver may. remove the fowl from the dish to his own plate, particularly when two fowls (as is usual) are served in the same dish. The mem- bers and joints, as taken off, are to be placed in the dish, if not helped round as cut off, which is the better way, as the guests are not kept waiting, and the carver sees when he has enough. He must fix his fork in the breast, and take off slices from the breast on each side of the merry- thought, which are to be helped in the first place, or left till the whole is finished, as is approved. Next separate theDIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 54 joint of the wing in the direction ah; then separate the muscles, bj fixing the fork in the pinion, and smartly jerk- ing back the wing towards the leg. Pass the knife between the body and leg, in the direction h d and cut to the joint clear; then, with the fork fixed, jerk the leg back, and the parts will give way. Turn round the fowl on your plate, and take off the other leg and wing; next cut the breast in the line e c, and turn the knife towards the neck under the merrythought, which it will easily lift from the breast. Take off the neck-bone, by putting in the knife at g; and having the fork well fixed, jerk it off from the part which adheres to the breast-bone. The members being thus dis- posed of, the breast must be divided from the back by cut- ting right through the ribs downwards to the rump on each side. Tliis done, turn the back of the fowl upwards on your plate. Lay your knife firmly across it as if to hold it down, and, with the fork fixed in the rump, give it a jerk, when it will easily divide across; turn the rump from you, and cut off the side-bones, and the fowl is carved. What demands most attention, is to hit the joint of the wing, so as not to interfere with the neck-bone. The prime parts of a fowl, whether boiled or roasted, are the breast, merrythought, wings, particularly a livered wing, and side- bones. The thigh of a boiled fowl is often preferred, if white, fleshy, and fat. Some dexterous carvers can take out a side-bone and leave on the leg and wing, which per- mits the fowl to be presented cold in good form. A Pheasant or Blackcock,—Fix the fork in the breast, and cut slices in the lines a h. If more helpings are wanted, take off the legs and wings, as directed in carving a fowl, and be careful in taking off the wing to hit the exact poinfc be- tween it and the neck-bone. Next cut off the merrythought in the line c c?, and then divide the other parts exactly as aDIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 65 fowl. The prime bits are the same as in a fowl. The brains are fancied. Of course, all skewers are removed before the birds are served. Pigeons.—To divide the pigeon by carving from the breast downward, in the line d is esteemed the fairest way, as the thigh and rump are counted delicate; though many prefer the breast. Pigeons may also be divided in a trian- gular line, b a Cy making two legs, and two wings with the breast. Ducklings, or very young spring chickens, are carved in the same manner. A Partridge.—A partridge is cut up as a fowl or pheasant. The prime parts are the same in them all; but in a partridge the wing,—and particularly the tip of the wing,—is reckoned the most dainty bit. Small game, where many helpings are required, may be carved by turning back the legs, fixing the fork in the back, separating the whole body from the back, and then dividing the bird into six portions,—namely, four helpings of a wing or leg; the breast, and the back. The head is now often cut off, and sometimes the legs trussed short. A Roast Hare.—Y^hih roast hare is sent to table as represented in the plate, the carver must enter his knife at g, and cut fairly down in parallel lines on each side of the CODIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 56 back-bone to h. These slices are considered prime, and must be served first. The legs, as next best, are to be cut in the circular line c h a—which if the animal be young, will not be difficult—and divided into proper helping free of bones. The shoulders are then taken off in the circular line efg. Now divide the body or back into three, or if a large hare, four pieces, going right through the spine at a joint. An old hare should, when it is practicable, have the backbone cut out before roasting. If the hare is old and tough, the carver should turn the dish towards himself and cut off the legs, entering his knife about two inches below the back-bone, trying to hit the haunch-joint, and jerking it open as in carving a goose. If the whole hare is wanted, the head must be cut off and placed on a plate, the upper part divided from the under jaw, and then cut exactly down the middle. The slices may be either helped as carved, which we con- sider the best way, or left till the whole process is finished. They are helped with stuffing and gravy. During the pro- cess, the carver should frequently moisten the dry roast, and the parts cut off, with the hot gravy in the dish. The ears and hrain are fancied ; so that some care must be taken, by papering, to have the ears crisp; and before roasting they should be singed inside with a hot poker or Italian iron-heater. No bone should be given with hare. Babbits are carved like hare; only being much smaller, the head is not divided, and the back is cut into fewer pieces. The shoulders of rabbits are considered the tid-bits. The carver is permitted to turn every dish towards him- self, when more convenient, and he generally cuts towards himself. From a dish presented in its customary position he cuts from left to right. Fowls and Turkeys, boned and stuffed with forcemeat, are cut in slices across like tongue. Things that are larded must be cut the crossway of the lardons to look well. Every graceful carver will try to cover the unsightly gashes he must sometimes make—in fish particularly—by throwing the parsley, or other garnish, over the wreck. In ordinary circumstances, garnishing the ledges of dishes is rather losing ground. At highly dressed dinners, garnished by thoroughbred professors, all sorts of ornament are ex- pected. For public breakfasts, collations, and suppers, gar- nishings of coloured jellies, and of sauces iced and mouldedDIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 57 in the Frencli style, have peculiar beauty and fitness. And even at small quiet dinners, brain-cakes, forcemeat balls, small fried fish, or oysters fried, sippets, small sausages, pastry-borders, and those of potato or rice, are always appropriate when served with the respective dishes to which the best usages of cookery have attached them ; while the fried parsley, the spinage, sorrel, turnip, or other purees^ on which fricandeau^ tongue, or boiled mutton, etc., may be served, is a positive improvement, at almost no additional expense. But as it must ever be more convenient, it is also more agreeable, to see such things as sliced orange or lemon, beet, pickles, scraped horseradish, etc., placed on a small dish near the carver, than tossed awry, soused in the gravy, or sloping the edges of the dishes. Curled parsley always looks refreshing^ and is generally appropriate ; and still more so fresh water-cresses. There is one cheap and comfortable mode of imparting a look of fulness, finish, and neatness, in serving an otherwise insignificant dressed dish, when destined to occupy a principal place, which merits more general adoption,—namely, serving the dish on a larger one, within which a damask napkin is neatly puffed, or the fancy napkins which ladies now knit for such purposes; thus showing an agreeable framework or border, of which a light paste border round the dish with the viands, may form, as it were, the inner circle. But Careme's ornamented silver vases and skewers are the greatest modern discovery in mere garnishing. They are indeed superb. Protest.—"We hope to see the day when all large, troublesome dishes will be taken to the side-table, after being presented, and carved by the Maitre d 'Hotel, the butler, or whoever waits on the company, as is now the general practice of France, Germany, and Eussia, and the best houses in England. P. T., H. J. c 258 BILLS OP PAEE. Tables should be like pictures to the sight, Some dishes cast in shade, some spread in light; Some should be moved when broken, others last Through the whole treat, incentive to the taste. King's Cookery. Bills of Fare may be varied in endless ways,—nor can any specific rules be given for selecting dishes for the table, which must depend wholly on fortune, fashion, the season of the year, local situation, and a variety of circumstances. Neatness and propriety are alone of universal obligation in the regulation of every table, from the humblest to the most sumptuous. To the credit of the age, modern fashion inclines more to a few dishes, well selected and elegantly disposed, than to that heterogeneous accumulation of good things with which notable British housewives used to conceal their table- linen. The culinary tastes of our polite neighbours are im- perceptibly rmdermining many points of our ancient national faith. At refined tables,puddings, very rich cakes, and fat meat-pies, have lost ground. Creams, jellies, and pre- served and caramelled fruits or compotes^ take their place. Fish is more simply cooked than it formerly was. Putrid game is no longer admired; and the native flavour of all viands is more sedulously preserved by a simpler and better style of cookery. The manner of laying out a fashionable table is nearly the same in all parts of the United Kingdom; yet there are trifling local pecidiarities to which the prudent housewife in middle life must attend. A centre-ornament, whether it be a dormant^ a plateau^ an ^pergne^ a candelabra.^ or a wine- vase, is found so convenient, and contributes so much to the good appearance of the table, that a fashionable dinner is now seldom or never set out without something of this kind, though a salad, or a cold ornamented raised pie, may fill the space in the first course. A very false taste is often shown in centre-ornaments. Strange ill-assorted nosegays, or monstrous bouquets of arti- ficial flowers, begin to look faded among those hot steams, which soon deprive even the more appropriate salad of its fresh and crispy appearance. The modern silver skewers and vases, or ornamental articles of family plate, carved,59 BILLS OF FARE. chased, or merely plain, but highly polished, can never be out of place, however old-fashioned, and are the only things of which this can be constantly affirmed. In the same man- ner we may assume, that in desserts, richly cut and brightly washed useful articles of glass and china can never cease to be ornamental; though we would pause on the adoption of all alum or wax baskets, and all fruits of this last tantalizing substance, with many other things of the counterfeit kind. We are far, however, from proscribing flowers, and the foliage and moss in which fruits are sometimes seen lightly bedded. These, next to the native dew, and the bloom, are beautiful and appropriate. That sparkling imitation of frost- work, which is given to preserved fruits and other things, is also exceedingly beautiful; as are many of the trifles belong- ing to French and Italian confectionary. It may be assumed, that utility is the true principle of beauty, in affairs of the table, and, above all, in the substan- tial First Course. The first course may, therefore, consist mainly of English dishes; while French appear in the second. Linen well done up, and overlays, or more cloths than one, with a scarlet baize between, give a table a clad^ com- fortable look. Though English gentlemen and gentlewomen do not slobber and bedaub their fingers, mouths, and clothes, like some of their continental neighbours, table-napkins are now in universal use at refined English tables, and frequently even at those of persons in the humbler classes of middle life. In all ranks, and in every family, one important art in housekeeping is to make what remains over from one day's entertainment contribute to the elegance or plenty of the next day's repasts. This is a principle understood by persons in the very highest ranks of society, who maintain the most splendid and expensive establishments. Their great town- dinners usually follow in rapid succession; one banquet forming, if not the basis, a useful auxiliary to the next. But as this has been elsewhere recommended to the attention of the reader, it is almost unnecessary to repeat here, that vege- tables, ragouts, and soups, may be re-warmed; and jellies and blancmange re-moulded^ with little deterioration of their qualities. Savoury or sweet patties, potted meats, croquets, rissoles, vol-au-ventSj fritters, tartlets, etc., may be served with almost no cost, where cookery is going forward on a large scale. In the French kitchen, a numerous class ofBILLS OF FARE. 60 culinary preparations, called entrees de dessert^ or made-dishes of left things, are served even at grand dinners. At Dinners of any pretension, it is understood that the first course shall consist of soups and fish, removed by boiled poultry, ham, or tongue, roasts, stews, etc.; and of vegeta- bles, with a few made-dishes, or entrees^ as ragouts, curries, hashes, cutlets, patties, fricandeaus, etc., in as great variety as the number of dishes permits; as a white and a brown, or a clear and a stew soup.* For the second course, or entre- mets^ where there are only removes and not a third, roasted poultry or game at the top and bottom, with dressed vege- tables, omelets, macaroni, jellies, creams, salads, preserved fruit, and all sorts of sweet things and pastry, are employed, —endeavouring to give an article of each sort, as a jelly and a cream. This is a more sensible arrangement than three coic7^seSj which are attended with so much additional trouble both to the guests and servants. In France, where the table- cloth is never withdrawn, the dessert forms the Third Course. But whether the dinner be of two or three courses, it is managed nearly in the same way; and for the advantage of servants, as well as of their juvenile employers, a few partic- ulars may be detailed. In the centre, there is generally some ornamental article as an epergne with flowers, real or artificial, or a decorated salad, or cold raised game-pie. An ornamental stand, containing cruets and pepper dishes, if plainer, is equally appropriate for a small party. Two soups, a white and a brown, or a mild and a high- seasoned, should occupy the top and bottom, and be re-placed by two dishes of fish, dressed in different ways. These, with the decanted wines drunk during dinner, form the First Course. When there are rare French or Rhenish wines, they are placed in the original bottles, in ornamented wine- vases, between the centre-piece and the top and bottom dishes; or if four kinds, they are ranged round the plateau. If only one choice bottle, at a bachelor tete-a-tete dinner, it may be placed in a vase in the centre. The Second Course, if there are three, consists of roasts, * In some nohle private eating-houses, it is now customary to hand round oysters before the soup, as a whet or preparative. This is a Parisian cus- tom, which we cannot admire. In stylish modern dinners, the liors cVceuvres and Jlying-dishes {assiettes volantes) appear usually during the First Course, and before the remoi?es,—although latitude is allowed in this matter.COMPANY SUPPERS. 61 and stews for the top and bottom; turkey or fowls or fricarideau, or ham garnished, or tongue, for the sides; with small made-dishes for the corners, served in covered dishes ; as palates, stewed giblets, curry of any kind, ragout or fricassee of rabbits, stewed mushrooms, etc., etc. Vegetables [assiettes volantes) on the side-table are handed round. If the epergne is taken away with this course, then the small table-cloth or overlay^ which is often placed across, to keep the cloth neat for the third course, is also removed. The Third Course consists of game, pastry, confectionary, the more delicate vegetables and salads dressed in the French way, iced puddings, compotes of fruit, creams, jellies, etc. Water-bottles and tumblers are placed at proper intervals. Malt liquors, and common beverages, are called for; but where hock, champagne, etc., are served, they are offered round between the courses. When the Third Course is cleared away, cheese, butter, a fresh salad, or sliced cucum- ber, are usually served, in respectable English families, who do not affect foreign manners. At many tables, however, of good fashion, cheese is proscribed. The finger-glasses precede the dessert. QmVMY SUPPEES. Ti-iE ingenuity of the genteel economist is as often taxed to contrive supper things as in arranging dinners, which admit of less temporizing. Economy, good taste, and neatness, can however do much, even with slender means, where the chief organ to be propitiated is the eye; for the lateness of modern dinner-hours has now, almost universally, changed suppers from a solid meal into a light showy refreshment. It is said that ladies are the best critics in suppers, while gentlemen are better qualified to decide on the more sub- stantial business of the dinner-table. Ladies are unques- tionably more conversant with the things on which the elegance of a supper-table depends, — namely, the beautiful shapes and arrangement of china, glass, linen, fruits, foliage, flowers, colours, lights, ornamental confectionary, and all the other natural and artificial embellishments of the table. Articles, so beautiful in themselves, cannot fail, if tastefully62 COMPANY SUPPERS. disposed, to gratify the eye, however slender the repast with which they are intermixed. When a formal substantial supper is set out, the principal dishes are understood to be roasted game or poultry, cold meats sliced, ham, tongue, collared and potted things, grated beef, Bologna sausage, Dutch herring, kipper, highly-seasoned cold pies of game, etc., etc., with occasionally soup—an addi- tion to modern suppers which, after the heat and fatigue of a ball-room, or large party, is found peculiarly grateful and re- storative. Minced white meats, lobsters, oysters, collared eels, and crawfish dressed in various forms; sago, rice, the more delicate vegetables, poached eggs, scalloped potatoes, are all suitable articles of the solid kind. To these are added, ices, cakes, tarts, possets, creams, jellies in glasses or shapes, custards, preserved or dried fruits, pancakes, fritters, puffs, tartlets, grated cheese, butter in little shapes, sandwiches; and for convivial suppers in the entire catalogue of the more stimulating dishes, as anchovy toasts, grilled bones, Welsh, English, and Scotch rabbits, roasted onions, salmagundi, smoked sausages sliced, many of the things the French name Jiors d'oeuvresj and those other preparations which are best adapted to what among ancient hon-vivants was called the rere-suppevj or supper next morning." A supper-table should neither be too much crowded nor too much scattered and broken with minute dishes. Any larder moderately stored will furnish a few substantial articles for supper on an emergency; and a few sweet things readily prepared, or purchased, with patties, shell-fish, and fruits, will do the rest, if the effect of contrasted colours, flavours, and forms, be understood ; and that light and graceful disposition of trifles which is the chief art in setting off such entertain- ments. Where small apartments, and crowded parties in- troduce the custom of standing suppers, the same cold dishes are suitable, served on high tables, and eaten on one's knee, or standing. French wines have become an article of ambitious display at fashionable suppers, even in families of the middle rank. Where they can be afforded in excellence and variety, nothing can be more appropriate to a light, showy, exhilarating repast. Solid supper articles will generally answer for luncheons or comfortable collations—and for that refreshment affectedly termed Tiffin.63 DES DEJEOTEES A LA FOUEOHETTE.f That change of manners which has introduced late dinners, and superseded hot suppers, has very much improved the modern breakfast. Besides the ordinary articles of eggs, broiled fish, pickled herrings, Sardinias, Finnan haddocks, collared eels, beef, mutton, and goat hams, reindeer and beef tongues, sausages, potted meats, cold pies of game, etc., etc., a few stimulating, hot, dressed dishes are, by a sort of tacit prescription, set especially apart for the dejeuner d la fourchette of the gourmand and the sportsman. Of this number are broiled kidneys, calf s and lamb's liver fried with fine herbs, mutton cutlets d la Venetienne^ Oxford Jolin^ and many kinds of broiled and fried fish, and other piquant^ and yet solid preparations. Receipts for these stimulating pre- parations of poultry, game, etc., will be found under the proper heads. In France, where it is the practice to take a cup of coffee either in bed, or in the bed-chamber the moment of rising, the breakfast, later than with us, is a sort of lunch- eon, or lighter dinner, but served sans ceremonie^ and often without a table-cloth; cold and hot dishes are served, the repast often beginning with oysters, and ending with a dessert of the fruits in season, with coffee, tea, and chocolate, and wines of course. When the dejeuner d la fourchette is in England an entertainment for company, the articles provided with the addition of tea, coffee, chocolate, and all kinds of breakfast breads, etc., do not materially differ from those of a fashionable supper. It is served in two courses. t THE DEJEUNER A LA FOURCHETTE. AN ODE. There are the sausages, there are the eggs, And there the chickens with close-fitted legs, And there is a hottle of brandy, And there's some of the best sugar-candy, Which is better than sugar for coffee. There are slices from good ham cut off,—he Who cut them was but an indifferent carver, He wanted the delicate hand of a barber. And there is a dish Buttered over! and fish, trout and char Sleeping are The smooth ice-like surface over, There's a pie made of veal, one of widgeons, And there's one of ham mixed Avith pigeons.PAET SECOND. CHAPTER I. BOILINa AND STEAMIITG. Oh! for some forty pounds of lovely beef In a Mediterranean sea of brewis! Spanish Curate. [When studying the receipts in this Chapter, read along with them those for made-dishes, and French dishes of the same kinds of meat, fish, or game. And see Glossary, end of Chapter I., Part IV.] Boiling, though not the first invented, is certainly the easiest of culinary processes; and for this reason, it is often the worst performed. After what has been said in the Intro- duction, we would disdain to waste words on the careless housewife or greasy Joan, who requires again to be told, that order, arrangement, thorough-going cleanliness, and neatness all but finical, is indispensable in this, as in every other branch of Cookery. Taking it for granted, then, that the fire burns clear, that the hearth is neatly swept, that the pots and stewpans, of cast-iron, in preference for safety to copper (the Carron goblets of Scotland and saucepans of England and Ireland), are of proper size, clean, well-tinned, and covered with close-fitting lids, we proceed with a few general rules for boiling. All meat, whether fresh or salted, smoked, or dried, is best put in with cold water. For fowls or white meats, the water may be heated, and also for salted meat when there is danger of it freshening over much in coming slowly to boil. Gradual heating softens, plumps, and whitens the meat, and facilitates the separation of the scum, on the entire removal of which the goodness, as well as beauty of soup and boiled meat, so much depends. Salt facilitates the separation of the scum. Carefully watch when the first thick scum rises; take the pot from the65 CHAP. I. BOILING. fire, if necessary, to remove the scnm completely; then throw in a little cold water, which will check the boiling and throw up what scum remains.—T/«5 is the first step hy which Soups, Gravies, and Sauces are best cleared and re- fined.—When the skimmed pot must be eked, let it be with boiling water. Milk, and floured cloths as wrappers, are often employed in boiling white meats and poultry, to make them look whiter. The practice is questionable. Soaking in cold or lukewarm water, or, according to circumstances, hlaiiching, careful skimming, and slow boiling, especially at first, are equal to any other method. Yet a leg of mutton, or fowls, may sometimes, with advantage, be boiled in a floured cloth. No certain rule can be given for the length of time necessary to boil meat or fish. Dried tongues, for example, or hams, will take double the time to simmer which will boil a fresh leg of mutton; and, again, these will differ from each other, from hardness, while pork, though a little salted, will take longer to boil than either veal or lamb- Of all meat the hind-quarter, from the solid and compact texture of the fibre, will require longer boil- ing or simmering than the fore-quarter. The state of the weather, so important in roasting, less affects things that are boiled. As a general rule, liable however to many excep- tions, from 15 to 25 minutes of time, and a quart of water (less where strong soup is wanted), is allowed by cooks to the pound of fresh meat; and from 25 to 35 minutes for salted meat, with a fourth more water.* But no length of boiling will ever make highly dried meats fit to be eaten, without sufficient previous soaking. This is emphatically true of goat and pork hams, rein-deer tongues, dried salt fish, etc. Capital blunders are often made in this depart- ment; and provisions which excel all others for relishes, breakfasts, and luncheons, are made good for nothing but to try the temper, and break the teeth of the eater, who might as well diet upon " spur leather whang." Smoked and dried meats and dried fish sometimes require to be soaked from one hour to four or five days, changing the * There is palpable absurdity in this universal culinary rule. A quarter of an hour will not be nearly enough of time to boil one pound of meat, nor a half hour to boil two, still less three quarters of an hour for three pounds. But, again, twelve hours' boiling would destroy forty-eight pounds. It must be kept in mind that large joints expose corresponding surfaces to heat, whether in pots or on spits.66 CHAP. I.—BOILING. water; or, what is better, where there is a run of fresh water, steeping the meat in it, or in the trough of a pump. In some circumstances, salted or spiced meat should be left to soak for hours in the liquor in which it wa;> boiled. Some good cooks like the subsequent steep better than much pre- vious soaking. Meat must have time to imbibe salt; but frequent rub- bing and a warm temperature will hasten the process.— In brief, well-tinned clean pots,—thick in the bottom to aid in maintaining an equal temperature,—a clear fire, well washed, and if salt, well-soaked viands, gentle boiling, and most careful skimming, are all the rules that can be given to ensure well-dressed boiled dishes; for the length of time in previous soaking, and subsequent boiling, or rather simmering^ must in almost every case be determined by the size, the condition, and the nature of the provisions.— Ohs. What goes under the general name of pot-liquor^ particularly that in which fresh meat or poultry has been boiled, may be applied to many useful purposes, for which directions will be given. Professed cooks, and works which treat of Gastronomy, uniformly enter a protest against any sort of vegetables being boiled with meat to be served at table, except carrots,—a rule this Avhich the Cleikum Club thought more honoured in the breach than the observance. Watery vegetables, boiled in water and served in wateriness, find no favour in the French kitchen. But meat to be afterwards served cold is hurt in the flavour by green vegetables. There is an adaptation, a natural affinity^ between certain vegetables and roots, and certain pieces and kinds of meat. A cook who would excel in her profession, ought, day and night, to study this doctrine of coherence and natural affinity. Who would dissever from the round of salted beef, the carrots, greens, or cabbage, which be- come part and parcel of it as soon as it reaches the pot! If, however, from reasons of economy, it is wished to pre- serve the liquor for other purposes, a quantity of it may be put into a separate vessel, and the greens boiled there. The pot may have the top-fat taken off to enrich the water in which the greens are boiled, without any loss of pot-liquor for soup; and the cook's objection, that green vegetables spoil the meat, is thus obviated.CHAP. I. STEAMING. 67 Salted or spiced heef^ with suitable roots and vegetables, is one of those cut-and-come-again family dishes, which, from November till March, every sensible man hails with pleasure, whether on his own or his friend's table. To dress it in the best manner is therefore well worth the attention of the cook, the economist, and the judicious epi- cure.—See Salting. Steaming.—In large families and large establishments, steaming is found a very convenient way of preparing food; and to a limited extent it is useful and practicable in every kitchen, for small steamers may be attached to any range; and at all events everybody may have a saucepan with a Rumford steamer to fit it, or a large kettle inserted over the boiler of the range, in which small saucepans with drainers and close-fitting lids may be inserted, in which to place the meat. An apparatus of this kind, of different forms, may now be seen at the ironmongers; but as we have said of new-fashioned ranges, frying-pans, gridirons, etc., etc., let them first be carefully examined, and tried, and get the opinion of those who have used them for some time. Steaming has much to recommend it to the cook, were it only that it saves her much trouble and also from being scorched by a furious fire. Yet good cooks do not like the process; and there are grave doubts whether dishes steamed are as savoury as when cooked by the old method. The cooks at Buckingham Palace, the City Club, the Albion Tavern, etc., allege that neither meat nor fish are so well cooked by steam as by boiling in water. This does not apply to many preparations, such as jugged hare, stuffed oyster of veal, etc., etc. And steaming in numerous cases has much to recommend it. In small families, a lain marie^ or a piece of hot plate over the grate with a few embers below, will be found useful for small saucepans in which are sauces and ragouts, and generally for articles that would stew to advantage, and w^hich are not apt to be overdone, as kidneys, jugged hare, and salt tongues. Where steam is employed on any scale, the steamers must, of course, be kept thoroughly clean, and the fire must be so managed as to keep the water in the boiler of the range boiling strongly. Things to be steamed are cleaned and prepared exactly as for boiling or stewing. Several articles may be cooked in the same steamer, as veal with pickled pork under it; or68 CHAP. II. BOILING. pease-pudding tied up, and carrots laid to one side. The same steamer may have small saucepans fitting into the lid, in which apple-sauce, for example, or parsley may be cooked, or butter melted. If the steamed meats are of suitable kinds, the liquor which must occasionally be drawn off by the tap of the steamer, will make good soup when it is allowed to cool and the cake of fat is taken off. Steaming requires fully as long time as boiling. Cooldng by Gas,—Some years since we had great hopes of the success of cooking by gas^ which must have been of immense convenience to small families where gas is used for lighting. We regret to say that no great progress has been made: gas cookery is still not only unsatisfactory, but ex- pensive. CHAPTER II. 1. To Boil a Round of Beef. A ROUND or rump of salted beef may be boiled whole, or may be divided into two or three pieces, according to the size of the joint, and the number of the guests or family. [For salting it, see No. 1188.] It is a common error to boil too much of a large ham or round at once. If boiled whole, the bone may be cut out; if divided, it is desirable to give each piece an equal proportion of the fat; the tongue^ or silver side is the best. Wash the meat, and if over-salt, soak it in one or more waters till it be sufficiently freshened. Skewer it up tightly, and of a good shape, wrapping the flap or tongue-piece very firmly round; and then bind it with strong tape, or fillets of linen. The pot should be roomy, and the water should just cover the meat. A fish-drainer is convenient to boil this and other large pieces on. Heat gradually; take off the scum (of which a great deal will be thrown up), till no more rises, and throw in cold water to refine the liquor farther, and scum again; cover the pot close, and boil slowly, but at an equal tem- perature, allowing about three hours to from 12 to 16 pounds, and from that to four or five hours for a weightier piece. Turn the meat once or twice in the pot during the process. Put in carrot and turnip about two hours after the meat. IfROUND OF BEEF BEEF LEG OF MUTTON. 69 the liquor is to be afterwards used for pease or potato soup, tlie roots instead of hurting will improve the flavour. Greens may be boiled in the same pot, but much better separately in some of the pot-liquor. When the meat is dished, ladle up some of the liquor to wash it, and with a clean sponge, or a cloth moistened in the pot-liquor, take off any scum or films which will often hang about salted meat; replace the skewer that holds the flap with a plated or silver one; garnish with large sliced carrots (or with greens or cabbage instead), and serve greens in separate dishes. A miniature round is made by boning and rolling up from six to ten pounds of thick of the ribs. Salt for a week; simmer for 1^ or 2 hours, according to weight. See No. 388. Obs. The dry outside slices are to be laid aside by the carver : the meat must be cut in smooth, thin, horizontal or diagonal slices, keeping the surface level. The soft fat eats best when the meat is warm, tlie firmer fat when it is cold; but the taste of the guests must be the carver's guide. By good management this meat will in cold weather keep for a fortnight or more. Cover it with several folds of soft cloth. Cut off a thin slice from the outside before it is at any tim.e presented at table, or on the sideboard. If underdone, the meat, after keeping some time, may be put into pot- liquor, and get from 15 to 35 minutes' slow boiling. This receipt is equally applicable to every piece of salted beef, whether ribs, brisket, edge-bone, or heuckbane. In England, a few suet or plain flour-dumplings, or what are provincially called dough-boys, are often boiled with the round and served with it " hot and hot." The Reform Club authority suggests that when to be presented cold, the round taken from the boiling pot should be plunged into ice, or several courses of spring water, to freeze the surface and retain the juices. 2. Boiled Beef, or Bonilli Ordinaire. This is another plain family dish,—boiled fresh beef; but as economy, good sense, and, what is the same thing, good taste, reject this mode of dressing beef but in conjunction with the soup, which forms the better part of it, we leave the Bouilli till we give it along with the Bouillon^ though obliged, for connexion's sake, to notice it here. See No. 389. 3. To Boil a Leg^ of Mutton with Turnip, etc. A LEG OF MUTTON—the gigot of the French and Scottish kitchen—may be kept from two days to a week before boiling. The pipe, as it is technically called, must be cut out at once, and the mustiness which gathers on the sur- face, and in the folds and soft places, daily rubbed off. It is70 CHAP. II.—BOILING. whitest when quite fresh, but most delicate when hung a week in the larder, though not so long as to alloAv the juices to thicken and the flavour to deteriorate. Mountain- wether mutton, from four to five years old, is by far the best, whether for boiling or roasting. Choose it short and thick in the knuckle, and of a pure, healthy, brownish red. Chop but a very small bit off the shank; if too much is taken off, the juices will be drained by this con- duit. If you wish to whiten the meat, blanch it for ten minutes in warm water, or boil it in a floured cloth if you like. Simmer it in an oval-shaped pot that will just hold it, letting the water come very slowly to boil. Skim carefully. Boil sliced carrots and turnip with the mutton, and the younger and more juicy they are the better they suit this joint. Be sure never to run a fork or any thing sharp into the meat, which would drain its juices. All meat ought to he well done, but a leg of mutton not overdone, to look plump and retain its juices. About two hours of slow boiling will dress it. Garnish with slices of carrot. Pour caper-sauce over the meat, and serve mashed turnip or cauliflower in a separate dish. Some good country cooks serve the turnip as a puree^ that is, a thin mash made with cream or its own broth, under the mutton; and as, in carv- ing, the native juices are all caught by the vegetable sauce, the practice, though not general, is commendable. Where it is followed, the caper-sauce must be kept in a sauce- boat. Turnip-sauce, i. e, a very thin puree, or mash, is sometimes poured over the joint. If chickens or fowls are wanted for the same dinner, they will boil in a cloth with great advantage along with the mutton, before the roots are put to it, or in some of the liquor in a separate pot.—Ohs, This joint, above all others, should be boiled slowly to eat well. The liquor in which fresh mutton is boiled is valuable for broth ; and it is a common family practice in Scotland, to make barley or rice broth for next day at the same time the leg is boiled. When broth is to be made, put in the barley at first; lift out the meat after an hour and a half's boiling; cover it up to keep warm; take the lid off the pot, and suffer the liquor to eva- porate by rapid boiling, till what remains is strong and good, and the broth of a proper consistence. Cut some of the roots into small dice, and put these, with a head of71 LEG OF MUTTON SCRAG OF MUTTON. celery cut in fillet, and a little finely-shred parlsey, to the broth; return the mutton, and boil gently for a half-hour longer. A gigot is an excellent and most economical joint, capable of being turned to many purposes. It may be dressed as chops, and the best balmy, mellow, barley, or rice, broth made of what remains. It may also be roasted, or baked, or cured as ham, or, if a large gigot, a fillet may be stuffed and roasted, and the knuckle used for barley or rice broth. In French cookery, parsley, onions, and sometimes a clove or two of garlic, are boiled with this favourite joint. It is then glazed and served on a Sauce Espagnole,—See French Cookery^ Part III. Chap. ii. 4. To Boil a small Scrag: of Mutton, or Back Hibs: An Eco7iomical Dish. Wash, trim nicely, and simmer from five to seven pounds of the necl^ slowly for two hours, making broth as in last receipt. Use the trimmed-off bones. The scrag may be taken up and finished with egg and bread crumbs, in the American oven, like dressed lamb's head, thus making a nice cheap family dish, and soup also. Garnish the dish with carrot, or turnips cut; and pour over the meat caper-sauce, or parlsey and butter. Serve mashed turnip or cauliflower.—Ohs. Pouring the sauce over boiled dishes, besides improving their appearance, is often to be preferred, because, in carving, the juices of the meat, the natural sauce, flow out and mingle with the prepared relish, " each improving each." This joint, in point of economy, comes next, if not be- fore the gigot. The scrag (Captain Booth's favourite dish —vide Fielding'^s Amelia) or the neck alone makes excel- lent barley or rice broth, or it will stew. The ribs will do the same; or make Chops, Curry, Haricot, Irish Stew, or Pie.—See Made-Dishes of Mutton.—French cooks take two necks for this dish, but their mutton, lamb, and veal, are generally smaller than ours. They saw off the bones ; steep the meat in olive-oil, with pepper, salt, and sliced onion; and lard it with blanched minced parsley. A boiled shoulder of mutton, or of veal, is very good with white onion-sauce poured over it. A sciag of lamb is cooked as above.72 CHAP. II.—-BOILING. 6. To Boil a Leg^ of Lamb. Lamb must be boiled slowly to look plump and white; and is served with brocoli, spinage, turnip, or cauliflower. Garnish with sprigs of boiled cauliflower. The loin may be cut in steaks and nicely fried, and served round the boiled leg with crisped parsley.—See Made-Dishes of Lamb, 6. To Boil Veal. Veal, save the gristly parts, when plainly boiled, is too insipid to be much relished. But variety, economy, and veal broth or gravy, sanction this mode of cookery. Boiled veal looks detestable when slobbery and red-coloured; and to prevent this, particular attention must be paid to the boiling. It is eaten with bacon, or sausage. Sauce—Pars- ley and butter, onion-sauce of young onions, or any favourite pi^uante sauce.—See Made-Dishes of Veal. 7. To Boil Venison.* A NECK, and even a haunch, is somtimes boiled. Let it hang from three days to ten. Boil it as mutton. It is eaten with turnip or cauliflower, with which last garnish. Sauce—Melted butter, and a little of any of the flavoured vinegars you choose. See Vension Soup - see also Civet de ChevreuiL 8. To Boil Poultry, t In picking, be careful not to break the skin, in drawing not to break the gall-bag. Let the fowls hang from two to five days; for the most delicate fowl will be tough and thready if too soon dressed. When to be used, draw, singe, * It is only in the hunting-grounds of America that one could bear to hear of venison so scandalously cooked ; hut when very plentiful it may he made into stew-soup, which possesses the wild flavour so prized by les kommes de houche.— P. T. -j- So little is the proper keeping of fowls previous to dressing attended to in country inns and families, that, warned by experience, the arrival of a stranger is the signal for the whole poultry in remote places to run otf and burrow among the nettles, to eschew their fate for yet another day. The bounty of a penny sterling, which travellers have sometimes heard offered on the head of "the old cocJc to make brandered chicken for the gentleman's dinner," is often earned with the sweat of his brow by the galopin loitering about the inn-door, so knowing do those old stagers become.—As a house for the wayfarer, and the solitary chance-traveller, poultry was at all times a main article in the larder of the Cleikum. where73 POULTRY. without blackening, and wash thoroughly, passing^ a stream of water again and again through the inside. Boiled fowls must be very neatly trussed, as they have small aid from skewers;.and nothing can be more indecorous than to see unfortunates on a dinner table— Whose dying limbs no decent hands composed! Put them on with plenty of water, a little warmed, and in a floured cloth if you like. Having, as usual, skimmed very carefully, simmer by the side of the fire from thirty-five minutes to an hour and a half, according to the age and size of the fowl. A small tureen of very good barley or rice broth, seasoned with shred parsley and young onions, may be made at the same time, if a shank^ or small cutlets of neck of mutton be added ; which last may be frugally served in the broth. Some good cooks put fresh suet and slices of peeled lemon to boil with fowls if lean, but larding is better. "White-legged fowls are most worthy of attention, whether for eating or appearance. The St Ronan's sauce for fowls was either the national " drappit egg," egg-sauce, parsley and butter, or, if the fowls were of a dark complexion, liver-sauce, as a veil of their din- giness. Touchwood chose celery-sauce for fowls, and oyster- sauce for turkey; Jekyl preferred lemon-sauce, and for boiled turkey maccaroni in white sauce served in the dish. The best stuffing for poultry was the cause of many disputes. Meg long stood out for sweet stuffing for her turkeys, orthodox apple-sauce for her goose, and a sweet pudding in the bosom of her sucking pig. After a feud, which lasted three days, the belligerents came to a treaty on the old basis of the uti possidetis ; though the best stuffing for boiled or roasted poultry or veal was agreed to be this,— great dinners and numerous dishes were seldom required. So plump, so white, so tender were the fowls, whether boiled or roasted, and the chickens, whether hrandered, or dressed as howtowdie or as Friar s Chicken^ that Touchwood, so tenacious on other points of the art, gave up this department entirely to Meg herself, reserving only some practical directions for curried fowls and the feeding and fattening of young poultry, which will be found in another section of this erudite work. " Take the fattest and youngest eerocks'' (yearlings), said Meg, " and the whitest,—for a white, clear skin is a good sign, whether of beast or body." D74 CHAP. II.—BOILING. Sauce and Stuffing for Boiled Turkey, Fowls, or Veal. Crumbs of stale bread, two parts; suet, marrow, or fresh butter, one part; a little parsley, boiled for a minute, and very finely shred; the quarter of a small nutmeg grated, a teaspoonful of lemon-rind grated, allspice and salt,—the whole to be worked up to a proper consistence, with two yolks of eggs well beat." If for roasted or boiled turkey, pickled oysters chopped, ham or tongue grated, and eschalot to taste, may be added. Meg's sweet stuffing was made by discard- ing the parsley, ham, oysters, and tongue, and substituting a large handful of currants, picked, rubbed, and dried, as for puddings. For honing fowls or turkeys, see the thing done, [A common and an approved smuggling way of boiling a pullet or how-towdie in Scotland, was, in a well-cleaned haggis-bag, which must have preserved the juices much better than a cloth. In the days of Popery and good cheer, —and they were certainly synonymous,—though we do not quite subscribe to the opinion of Dr Redgill, that no Presbyterian country can ever attain eminence in Gastron- omy,—in those days of paternosters and venison pasties, stoups of untaxed claret and oral confession, a pullet so treated was, according to waggish legends, the secret regale provided for Mess John by his fair penitents.—Vide Allan Ramsay's " Monk and Miller's Wife,'' or " The Friars of Berwickalso, " Traditions of the Cleikum," and " Bught- ri,2:g's Wife's Receipt for ' Ane capon stewed in brewis.' "— Butter, shred onions, and spice, were put into the bag along with the fowl, and formed the sauce; or else oysters with their liquor strained.] 9. To Boil Bacon. Bking slowly to boil, and simmer for at least two hours. When ready to serve, strip off the rind, and dry the meat with a red hot shovel, or salamander, or set it in the oven to dry up the oozing fat. Dredge bread-raspings over it. 10. To Boil a Ham.* A LAPvGE ham is seldom boiled at once, but whether in * A Hamburgh or Westphalia ham requires longer soaking than one of Bayonne, or one home made.— We back a Westmoreland or Yorkshire, a Gl( ueester, Wiltshire, or Drumfriesshire ham well fattened and properly cured, against all the hams in the world.—P. T.HAM HAM WITH MADEIRA. 75 whole or in part, it must be treated in the same way. Pork is so well adapted to salting that though kept for years it does not become so hard or tough as beef or mut- ton would do in half the time. The main point is the soak- ing^ which the discretion of the cook must proportion to the hardness and saltness of the meat. If very old, briny, and dry, it will require from three to four days, in and out of the water, to soften and become mellow. The night before it is boiled, pour lukewarm water over it, scrape it very well, and trim off all rusty ill-looking bits. Put it in on oval kettle with plenty of water. Let it soak for an hour or two before coming to the boil,—then quicken the boil, and skim. Then let it simmer slowly by the side of the fire for from two to five hours, according to the weight. When done, pull off the skin neatly and keep it to cover the ham when set by cold; strew bread-raspings (and many pour spirits) over it, and place it on a hot dish set over the pot before the fire, to brown and crisp. It will crisp easier if put in an oven to dry up the oozing fat. Twist a fringe of writing paper neatly round the shank. Garnish if you choose with old-fashioned greens, or stew raspings in little heaps on the ledge of the dish; or better, dish it over dressed Windsor beans.—See Glazing, We have seen fresh ham admirably done by a quick boiling of one hour, and then, after it is skinned, toasting in the American oven till done. 11. Ham with Madeira. The French Jamhon Braise, Take a small fresh North of England ham. Saw off the knuckle, or the ham may be boned if wished. Let it soak if likely to be briny, and simmer it for an hour; then drain, trim, and dry it. Lay it in a braising pan, or oval-shaped stew-pan that will just hold it, and in which you have pre- viously laid slices of veal, carrots, onions, parsley, and spices. Pour in some good broth (about a quart), and a bottle of Madeira. When done for an hour take off the lid, and let the braise reduce. In a half-hour more, probe to try whetlier the ham is done. Drain and skin, and dry it in the oven. Glaze with veal glaze: serve the braise liquor, well re- duced and skimmed as sauce.—Obs, Ham may be glazed enough by shifting fine sugar over it, and holding a red hot poker above ; but sweet glaze is, in our opinion, not suitableCHAP. II. BOILING. 76 to meat dishes. The French often serve braised ham over spinage, or mashed, i. e. a puree of turnips, or other vegeta- bles ; but it is seldom served in England save with Windsor beans. This, which is just the French ham d Vessence will keep longer than a round of beef, and is an excellent and serviceable article at all hours. 12. Ham with Windsor Beans. Boil the ham as directed in No. 10, and serve it trimmed and skinned, over Windsor beans, boiled in salt and water, and tossed up in melted butter. When cold keep as directed for a salted round of beef, using the skin instead of cloths. The outside slices pared off before the meat is served, can be kept for culinary purposes. The liquor in which the ham was boiled may be strained; and if you manage to have fowls or a knuckle of veal dressed on the following day, both liquors may be rapidly boiled down to- gether, with pepper, mace, eschalot, and sweet herbs, when the result will be a rich and highly-relishing gravy for culi- nary puposes. Or plain pease or carrot soup may be made of these mixed liquors. See Potted Meatsj Pease Soupj Ham roastedj and Sandwiches. Jekyll was intolerably eloquent on ham sauce, and astounded even Touchwood by anecdotes of a grand gourmand, a man of ultra gout, who, pursuing the science as one of the fine arts, soaked his Westphalia hams in Rhine- wine, and baked them in French wine, with aromatic spices. "It was a fine thing," as the Irishman said, " to be a pig in them times." If a ham is tolerably fresh, it will bake very well. It must be soaked as for boiling. The colour will be better than when boiled, and the flavour higher. But Mistress Dods, who detested that new and unnatural practice, said it was " dried to a dander;" and Touchwood dropped the point, as he could not think of bestowing a libation of Rhine-wine on a porker of West- phalia (see Ham with Madeira); and distance from the metropolis made it impossible to procure Essence of Ham, a high-flavoured commodity sold at the London Eating- houses, which he not irrationally concluded might make an admirable substitute for wine (as does cider, with a little vinegar), and be afterwards applicable to every purpose forBACON LEG OF PORK GAME. 77 wliich Essence of Ham is used. His experiment is worth trying.—French Mode. In France, hams are boiled deli- ciously, wrapped in a cloth with carrots, onions, garlic, cloves, bay-leaves, parsley, thyme, and basil. When enough done, the cloth is tied more firmly, and when cool, the ham is dressed as in No. 11, and served on a napkin. The French also roast hams, and have the Pate de Jamhon, 13. Boiled Bacon or Pork. All pork to be boiled should lie in salt at least two days previous to dressing. Pork requires more boiling than other meat. Small pork is the most delicate to boil fresh. Pork throws up a greasy scum during the whole process, which must be constantly removed. Serve with pease-pud- ding or bean-pudding, haricot beans or parsnips, boiled in the same pot.* 14. A Leg of Pork to Boil. Choose a nice, small, compact, well-filled leg. Salt it, rubbing hard, lay it in a pickle for a week; and boil and serve along with pease-pudding, boiled with it, and savoys or green cabbage. 15. To Boil Rabbits, Partridges, Pheasants, Snipes, Wild Ducks, and other Game. Boil as directed in No. 8 ; or in fresh veal or mutton- broth. For Partridges, Pheasants, etc., use the same sauces as directed for them when roasted ; garnish with crisp parsley, slices of lemon, or green pickles.—Ohs. Though game of all sorts is occasionally boiled, the Committee of the Cleikum did not patronize this mode of dressing, except for rabbits. Stewed rabbits, which must be neatly trussed, * Dr Redgill, professionally devoted to benevolence and Christian charity, made a long oration on the value of pork liquor for soup to the poor ; clmritahle soup, economical soup, dealt out in copious libations to old women, as often as very salt or very fat pork was boiled in the Doctor's kitchen. The idea was nauseous to every other member of the Committee. ToijCHWood asserted, that even Cobbett, that enthusiast for hog's flesh, disclaims porh broth. Redgill, on this hard push, brought forward his battle-horse, Dr Kitchiner, in vain,—was left in a minority of one, and the hogs got their natural perquisite. The liquor of young pork not long in salt will, however, make tolerable pease-soup, to which a strong subdu- ing £elish of celery and onion should be given. Cabbage and greens of all sorts may be boiled with advantage in pork liquor. Also bean or pease pudding, or white haricot beans.CHAP. II. BOILING. 78 are best smothered with a thick, mild onion-sauce, though sometimes a liver-^mce is made thus: Boil and bruise the liver; add veal or other gravy to some of the liquor in which the rabbits were boiled. Thicken with flour, a good piece of butter, and parsley shred very fine. Season with mace and allspice. Garnish with sliced lemon. Onion-sauce is also often used for boiled goose and ducks, in preference to less piquant compositions. Rabbits will take a full hour of slow boiling; with a quarter parboiling, throwing away the first liquor; birds according to their size. 16. To Boil Tripe and Cow-lieels. Unless in country places, or where families kill their own beef, tripe is usually bought froin the butcher, or else ready- boiled at the Irijje or Cow-heel shops. It requires very long boiling—from six to nine hours of simmering by the fire, or, as is a very good practice where kitchen-fires are gathered^ it is left over a slow fire for a whole night. Tripe requires endless cleaning, and is best managed at a river-side. After- wards, to assist in the cleaning and blanching, a piece of quicklime may be dissolved in the water in which it is scalded and scraped ; but tripe so blanched may become ill coloured in the boih'ng. Tripe, like chickens, veal, etc., may be whitened by rubbing it with lemon-juice, where expense is no object. The scalding must be frequently repeated. When bought in the shops, clioose it thick, fat, and white, and see that it be fresh, 'ihe best way of keeping tripe for a few days is to allow it to jelly in the liquor in which it was boiled. When to be dressed, pare off the fat and films, and wash it with warm water. Cut it into pieces about the size of small cutlets, and simmer in milk and water till it is quite soft and tender, and the sauce thickish. Peel and boil a dozen white, firm button onions. Dish the tripe in a deep steak-dish or small tureen, and put the onions to it, taking off the surface-skin if they look black.* Many per- sons prefer tripe boiled plainly in water, and served with onion-sauce and mustard; others boil it in veal broth, or put a fresh beef-bone or veal-shank to the water, and some * Dr Redgill, to tlie above, added a bit of butter rolled in flour, and put into the sauce, half an hour before it was taken off the fire, a large teaspoonful of made-mustard, or the same quantity of mushroom-catsup, and the onions, previously parboiled, or fried in butter. This original variation was highly approved of.79 ROASTING. bake it in milk, and serve onion-sauce separately.—See Glasgow and Birmingham Tripe. No. 56. Freyich Mode.—In modern Frencli cookery, tripe, after being boiled and whitened with lemon-juice, is cut in strips and stewed in white sauce, or strong white broth, for four hours. It is then served either in a sauce d la Poulette or in sauce Italienne blanche. In good, old French cookery, tlie tripe, Avhen boiled and cut in bits, was stewed in cullis, with all sorts of herbs, onions, and chives, a glass of wine, and a little tarragon. When the sauce was thickened, a little rnade-mustard was added, and the whole strained, heated, and poured over the tripe. Cow-heels are generally cleaned before they are bought. They require from five to six hours' boiling. If to be dressed, cut them into neat bits, eg,2; and crumb these, brown them, and serve round slices of Portugal onion fried, and laid in the middle of the dish. Sauce.,—melted butter, a teaspoonful of made-mustard, and a very little vinegar, or parsley and butter.—See Potted Heels., Fried and Fricasseed Tripe., etc.: also French Cookery., National Dishes^ and Kelly's Sauce. The fat skimmings of Cow-heels and Cow-head are the best adapted, for frying or basting, of all boiled fats. They, indeed, afford a very rich oil, which is sometimes even burned; and the perfumers draw largely upon them for commodities of high name. Calves' feet jelly, so named, is often made from both Cow-heels and Tripe; indeed the former affords a much stronger jelly than the article whose name it usurps. A good glaze is made of Cow-heels, which also afford a good cheap soup, if properly seasoned. CHAPTER III. EOASTIl^G. " For what are your soups, your ragouts, and your sauce, Compared to the Beef of Old England V— And 0, the Old English Roast BeefT In a voice between whistling and singing, accompanied by the flourish of the carving-knife, and an occasional rub against the steel, it was with the above appropriate staveCHAP. III. ROASTING. 80 that our brisk, old Nabob hailed with high satisfaction the lordly Sirloin^ of a delicate, rich brown; frosted as if with seed-pearls, a labour of love which had occupied him for five hours, and now smoked in savouriness on the board of the Committee. In the evening of the same day, and while the process was still fresh in his head, after sundry disputes with Dr Redgill on the underdone and the overdone^ the Nabob dictated something like the following discourse on roasting:— No printed rules can make a good Roaster. Practice and vigilant attention alone can produce that vara avis of the kitchen. In the French kitchen this is a department by itself. He who rules the roast attends to that only. No rule can be given as to time. The cook must judge. Our time in the following receipts is generally under^ as the safe side. Choose your meat well: but even then no meat will roast to advantage that is not kept the proper length of time; and this in every case must be determined by the weather and the age of the animal. Two days of hot weather are equal to a week of cold in rendering meat fit for the spit, or hien mortifie, Londoners often roast their beef too soon. In the North of England, and other places, the roasted sirloin is frequently salted, and eaten with vinegar and mustard. A salted sirloin, or leg of mutton, eats tolerably well; but they are undeniably a relic of those days when the squire or yeoman killed his own beef and mutton, and his lady found it necessary to keep the holiday joint, however long, to grace the holiday. Even in summer, by proper attention, meat will keep much longer than is generally supposed. Have the roast properly jointed, which saves much mortification to the carver, and much haggling and mangling of the meat. Let it be spunged with salt and water, and well dried. See that the spit, when used, be brightly clean. If not, scour with sand and water, or Bath brick, and wipe dry with a clean cloth. If there is too much fat, some of it may be previ- ously cut off for paste or puddings. Cover the fat for the first hour with kitchen-paper, fastened on with twine.* A * Redgill insisted upon a warning post here, as tiie worthy gentleman, in the eagerness of his appetite, had one day a large bodle-pin fixed in his gullet, like a salmon-hook, for a good half-hour; which some of Meg's queans had used in skewering (new reading, securing) the paper.ROASTING. 81 good cook can manage to handle meat very little in the spit- ting and balancing. In many joints, the spit will run along the side of the bone without piercing the flesh. Tie it, or fix with screw skewers. If much handled, baste the joint with salt and water, and dry the dripping-pan, suffering the meat to drip and dry (which it will do in a few seconds by the heat of the fire) before basting. If the joint is not accu- rately balanced, no horizontal spit will work well.* In roasting, the management of the fire is half the battle. Let the kitchen-grate be thoroughly raked out in the morn- ing. An hour before the roast is put down, make up a fire suited to the size of the joint; let it be clear and glowing, and free of ashes and smoke in front. A backing of wetted cinders or small coal helps to throw forward and sustain an equal radiant heat in front. Place the meat at a due dis- tance, that it may heat through without the outside becom- ing shrivelled and scorched. To prevent this, baste dili- gently for the first half-hour. The larger the joint the greater at first must be the distance from the fire, so that it be not so great as to make the meat tough and sodden by the slackness of the process. A radiant fire, due distance, and frequent basting, can alone ensure a well roasted joint, of that fine amber-colour, crisp, and lightly frothed, which speaks a language that all men understand. Remember that slow but equal roasting is as important as slow but constant boiling or simmering. A quarter of an hour to the pound of meat is the time usually allowed for roasting, bearing in mind that fat meat takes longer than lean, and pork and veal longer than other kinds of meat. But, as we have said of boiling, this must in almost every case be determined by circumstances. Fillets and legs take rather longer than loins or breasts. A meat-screen, the state of the weather, the kind of fuel, and a thousand things, must be taken into account. A meat-screen, with shelves, contributes so much * A smoke or a wind-up jack, or a cradle-spit, was considered the best by the Nabob; but Yorkshire jacks, bottle-jacks, Dutch ovens, and Gipsy jacks, i. e. a nail and a string, and many other contrivances, may all be employed with success, if the fire he adapted to the peculiar construction of the implement. Experience shows that the bottle-jack, with or without a tin screen as may be found suitable, is the one best adapted to private families in middle life. A substitute for a spit-screen is easily contrived, from an old large tea-tray, or a clothes-horse. Smaller light tin screens with one or two shelves are now generally substituted for the huge block- tin and timber framework of the jack.82 CHAP. III. ROASTING. to good roasting, and is so generally useful, that something of the kind ought to find a place in every family that aspires to comfort. It saves fuel, keeps plates and dishes warm, and, above all, by warding off draughts of air, preserves the temperature in the region of the spit in a state of equality. Once, or, if the roast be very large, twice during the process, withdraw the spit and dripping-pan, and stir the fire, clear away the ashes, and bring forward the clear burning coals,* supplying their place with fresh fuel. When the meat is nearly done, which will be known by the length of time, and by the steams, in the language of the kitchen, " draw- ing to the fire," the paper, if any, is to be removed, a little salt sprinkled over the roast, and the spit so placed that the ends of the roast may be browned. The meat must now be carefully basted, and may be placed a little nearer to the fire, if the surface is not yet of a fine, clear, brown colour. The roast is then frothed, where this is liked, by dredging it very lightly with well-dried flour, shaken from a dredg- ing-box smaller in the holes than those generally employed.-j- Fresh butter makes a delicate froth, but does not improve the flavour of the skin or the appearance of the gravy, which ought at this stage to be sparkling in the dripping- pan, bright, brown, and transparent as a Caledonian topaz. If much flour is dredged on, let it at least have time to get crisp. Fashion and luxury have introduced stall-fed oxen and overgrown sheep, which are better fitted for the tallow- chandler than the cook. They are indeed good for nothing, save to obtain premiums at cattle-shows, and delu.sje drip- ping-pans with liquid fat. Our prize oxen," says D'Israeli, * In all departments of domestic life, save the management of kitchen- fires, there is at least a plausible show of attention to economy among servants. There the waste is wanton, wilful, and enormous, whether cooking be going forward or not. The waste of fuel," says Count Kum- ford, " which arises from making liquids boil unnecessarily, or when nothing more is necessary than merely to keep them boiling hot, is enormous. I have not a doubt, that half the fire used in kitchens, public and private, in the whole world, is wasted precisely in this manner." What would Count Rumford have said to great Jires for doing nothing ? To convince a regular cook, or even a kitchen-maid, that she does not know how to manage her fire, is, we confess, quite hopeless; but surely something might be made, by the proper instruction of young girls, in economizing an article of such serious consequence in all families. t The calibre of Touchwood's best dredging-box and that of his pepper-box were precisely the same.83 ROASTING. " might astonish a Roman as much as one of their crammed peacocks would ourselves. Gluttony produces monsters, and turns away from nature to feed on unwholesome meats." When meat of this description is to be dressed, it is an object of economy to save the superfluous fat, which makes so much of the weight. Besides what is cut off, the dripping- pan, during the first hour of roasting, may be emptied of its oily contents once or twice, and abundance remain for basting. Dripping put aside in this manner will be much fitter for all culinary purposes, whether for pease-soup, pie-crust, or for frying fish, than that which has acquired an empyreumatic taste, either from burning cinders, or being exposed to the action of a fierce heat. This disagreeable flavour, or the unsalutary qualities which it betokens, make an epicure reject all dripping with abhorrence, for any use except making coarse pastry, or frying fish, common fritters, patties, and rissoles. The improved Cleikum dripping-pan, from a drawing by Winterblossom, was made of ample dimensions, and with high sloping ledges. It was furnished with a covered fountain, and a conduit to allow the super- fluous dripping to be easily taken away. In tlie Cleikum kitchen, the dripping was immediately clarified for future use. [See No. 44.] If meat is at all of good quality, and roasted with care, it will afford a plentiful supply of good gravy, the natural and best sauce that can accompany it. To the gravy which flows from the meat, the best addition, as we have found after repeated experiments, is a little boiling water (a large cupful for ten pounds) and salt, poured through the hole from Avhich the spit is withdrawn, and then gently laved on the browned outside under parts of the roast. Some good frugal cooks remove the roast, and wash and melt down all the crisp crust, which forms in the dripping-pan, in boiling water, which is again boiled, strained, and poured as above over the roast, thus making an excellent gravy with much of the osmazome^ the charm of the roast, in it. To the gravy of venison and veal, when found scanty, which will sometimes be the case, a little thin melted butter may be added in preference to drawn gravies. The dishes for roasts should be furnished with a gravy foun- tain, for utility as well as neatness. The jelly gravy that flows from young meats, the very essence of meat, ought to be carefully preserved, as it forms the most delicate of allCHAP. III.—ROASTING. 84 gravies to enrich sauces, ragouts, and hashes. Of this, veal gravy is the most delicate, and it is accordingly in great requisition among good cooks; but beef gravy is fit for almost all purposes. Some sensible, economical cooks boil legs of fowls, turkeys, shanks of mutton, etc., etc., for an hour; and have thus, they allege, a basis for broth and an improved roast. The Nabob, in the course of his discursive readings, though he was more a practical man than one of research, discovered that many things had been anciently used for bastings which the simplicity of modern practice rejects. But these antique refinements were all rejected, except butter and claret, which, for venison, and the dry meats that some- times go under that generic name, were used at the Cleikum with unanimous approbation. Much more did our Nabob, in the fulness of his heart and stomach, on this day of his triumph, say on the subject of roasting in general, and on this his Essay roast in particular, which we must take the liberty to skip, and come at once to the receipts for roasting. 17. To Roast a Sirloin of Beef. Study well the above discourse, and bear in mind that, next to hroiling^ roasting is the most difficult of all elemen- tary culinary processes: and, when well done, is valued accordingly. Instruction may teach even a bungler to com- pound a tolerable made-dish^ which, if faulty, may be im- proved, disguised, or altered. But care alone, and a little practice, can make a dexterous roaster. Give a large sirloin from four to five hours to roast; and then The great Sirloin of Beef, august he stands, In his pure native splendour full array'd! No knife hath touch'd him; never mortal hands Have dared his majesty of form invade. For thee he lives: his death-pang it will sweeten First for thee to be carved—first by thee to be eaten I HoAST Beep is garnished with horseradish, finely scraped, and laid round the dish in light heaps; and it is served with Yorkshire pudding, or potato pudding and horseradish-sauce.* The fillet, tender-loin^ or English * Dr Redgill, who rather relished a joke after the serious business of dinner was despatched, holding it as a maxim that a moderate laugh aided digestion, was wont to say, that Yorkshire Pudding was the true squire of85 SIRLOIN RUMP RIBS OF BEEF. side,* as it is commonly called in the northern division of the island, is by some esteemed the most delicate part. To this the carver must attend, and also to the equitable distribution of the fat. Cold roast beef is generally liked. The cold gravy should be served in a sauce-boat. Roast beef may be warmed in various ways. Slices may be warmed in a Dutch oven, and served with some of the gravy also v/armed, and seasoned rather highly with pepper and salt, anchovy, eschalot, or a teaspoonful of eschalot vinegar. Cold beef may also be dressed as Olives, or as a Fricassee, Cecils, Sanders, Bubble and Squeak, etc. N.B.—French cooks saw off the large bones, sprinkle the sirloin with olive-oil, and lay sliced onions and bay leaves over it, and leave it thus some days before roasting. They serve it, when roasted, with sauce-hacMe^ that is, chopped gherkins, mushrooms, capers, and an anchovy, all thrown into a brown sauce. Sirloin is, we think, better ordered at home. The French also braise the sirloin.—See Made- Dishes of Beef and Frencli Cookery of Beef 172. To Roast the Rump, or Part of it. Cut from the rump, chump-end, a handsome roast of from seven to ten or twelve pounds. Bone and roll it up nicely like a fillet of veal. It will take from three to five hours to roast, according to its thickness. 18. To Roast Ribs of Beef.—P. R., Esq. This piece of beef is garnished, and served with the same accompaniments as the sirloin. Both the ribs and the inside part of a large sirloin may be dressed in a more elaborate way as follows:—Cut out the ribs; beat the meat flat with a rolling-pin; lay it to soak in vinegar and wine for a night; cover it with a rich forcemeat, made of minced veal, suet, grated ham, lemon-peel, and mixed spices. Roll it tightly up, fixing it with small skewers and tape, and roast it, bast- ing constantly with wine and butter. Froth with fresh Sir Loin, and horseradish his brisk, fiery page, without which attendants he looked despoiled of his dignity and bearing. Yorkshire pudding is nearly the same as the Panade with which it was the ancient custom to baste roasts till they gathered a crust before the fire. * The French distinguish the different parts of the aloyau or sirloin as " the lawyer's bit and the cleric's.'''' The fillet alone makes a nice small roast. Whatever roasts will, when boned, make admirable stewed beef.86 CHAP. III. ROASTING. butter, and serve with venison-sauce.—Ols, The fillet of the sirloin, larded, marinaded, and roasted, makes a handsome French dish, served with tomata-sauce, or cucumber-sauce. 19. To Roast a Leg, Haunch, or Saddle of Mutton. (See French Cookery oj Mutton^ uliich is well worth attention.) Mutton intended to be roasted may be kept longer than mutton for boiling, as the colour is of less importance. Cut out the pipe that runs along the back-bone, which taints so early; daily wipe off the mustiness that gathers on the sur- face, and in the folds of the meat, and below the flap. This and every other piece of meat may be lightly dusted with flour or with pepper, which, by excluding the external air and keeping off flies, helps to preserve the meat, and can be taken off in the washing previous to roasting. A leg^ a chine^ a saddle^ a loin^ a breast^ a shoulder^ and the haunch or the gigot^ are the roasting pieces of mutton. Joint the roast well, whatever be the piece. Most of the loose fat should be cut from the loin, which may be stuffed, and should be papered at first, to preserve the kidney-fat. A modern refinement is to put laver in the dripping-pan, which, in basting, imparts a high gout: or a large saddle may be served over a pound and a half of laver^ stewed in brown sauce with catsup and seasonings. This roast requires a rather quick fire to concentrate its juices. Onion-sauce^ cucuwher-sauce^ and currant-jelly^ are ordered in most Cookery Books to be served with roast mutton; but a juicy leg of mutton requires little sauce save its own gravy, to which the French add a squeeze of lemon, and pepper. A saddle is roasted as above. A double saddle has been introduced at the Reform Club, which is well adapted for large parties. It consists of the entire middle of the four quarters, leaving more of the shoulder than in a shoulder saddle, and more of the gigot than in the loin saddle. It is trimmed by the butcher. Some French cooks serve roast mutton on French beans stewed in good stock, with a couple of onions cut in dice and fried. The crowbeiry or red bilberry, and even the berry of the moun- tain-ash, as a thick jam, makes a rustic sauce for venison or mountain mutton. Some modern gourmands consider sweet jellies eaten with animal food as not merely among the vul-SUCKING-PIG. 87 garities but tlie obsolete barbarisms of cookery ; others con- sider red currant jelly indispensable : and when will an Englishman give up the currant jelly of his boyhood? N.B.—Potatoes browned in the dripping-pan, or a plain potato-pudding placed below the dripping roast, are favourite accompaniments to this dish at our Club. Mashed turnip is another approved accompaniment. — See Made-Dishes of Mutton. 20. To Roast a Sucking Pig.—By Dr Redgill. A SUCKING PIG! un cockon de lait! France and England, natural enemies on the relative merits of ragouts and roast beef, are in brotherhood here. The age for killing, on which every gourmand^ whether insular or continental, has set his seal, is from ten days to double that number. Unlike the ways of other flesh, in this delicate creature—this " ortolan with four feet," as a corresponding member calls him—there is but one step between the gully of the butcher and the carver's knife. In short, he must be killed; but that done, the sooner he is roasted and eaten, the better is he relished by those in the secret. The ordinary way, after he has received the coup de grace^ is to take off the hair by scalding.* When cleaned from the hair, the entrails * Dr Redgill, though apt to be somewhat violent in his prejudices, and entertaining a loyal and laudable hatred of Cobbett and all his ways, paused when Touchwood communicated to him the method which that demagogue—infalliole in hog's flesh, and unequalled in bolting—recom- mends for removing the hair of grown porkei s: " And why not," said the Nabob, "of sucklings?" "The first method" (scalding), says Cobbett, " slackens the skin, opens all the pores of it, and makes it loose and flabby, t)y drawing out the roots of the hair. The second (singeing) tirrhtens the skin in every part, contracts all the sinews and veins," etc. This is said in reference to bacon, no doubt; but it was for talent like Dr Redgill's to apply it to young pigs. In a roast pig, where cradding is all in all, this burning process is surely worthy of trial. The President, with a meanness of jealousy of which the good Doctor was incapable, where pig of which he was himself to partake was concerned, had indeed kept this important information secret till the scalded Sieve of his rival was smoking in the platter; he then referred, with malicious triumph, to the singeing of sheep's head, reasoning on what a icersh, fusionless morsel it would make if scalded. The moisture which had overflowed the Doctor's chops as he viewed his savoury charge reposing, as might say, " in the crispness of his beauty," was arrested in its course. But between a singed pig in prospect, and a scalded pig on the table, ready roasted, sauce, crackling^ stuffing, all alike inviting, the Doctor did not long hesitate. N. B.—Every cook should be made aware, that, by singeing chickens and fowls, she not only removes the downy feathers, but gives firmness to the flesh, and tenacity to the skin; and that the chickens, if for fricassee, broiling, etc., will cut up much cleaner when well singed.CHAP. III. ROASTING. 88 taken out, and the nostrils and ears well cleaned, the pig must next be washed in cold water* Cut off the feet at the first joint, loosening and leaving on the skin to turn neatly over. He is now ready for the stuffing. For thi^^, take a half ounce of mild sage, and a couple of young onions parboiled; chop these very fine, add a cupful of grated bread-crumbs, four ounces of good butter, and a high relish of cayenne and white pepper and salt. Sew the slit neatly up (this the Doctor did with his own hands), and baste first with brine, then with the best fresh butter, or with salad- oil, if you would have the crackling crisp, which is the true and only test of a well-roasted pig. Some cooks tie up the butter in a bit of muslin, and diligently rub the crackling with this ; others anoint that substance with a bunch of feathers or a paste-brush to keep it constantly moist; others again smear it with beat white of eggs. A pig-iron, or some ingenious substitute, must be placed in the centre of the grate, part of the time, to prevent the middle regions of the animal from being scorched before the extremities are enough done. The legs must be trussed back to allow the inside to be roasted, and— *' You'll see when he's enough, when both eyes out, Or if he want the nice, concluding bout; For if he lie too long, the crackling's pall'd, Not by the dredging box to be recall'd." For sauce,—Clear beef or veal gravy, with a squeeze of lemon, and, if approved, a little of the stuffing stirred into the sauce-tureen.—Obs. Apple-sauce and currant-sauce are still served with roast pig; but sweet sauces for animal food are losing favour, if not place. Even currant-jelly sauce with mutton and venison, which were heretofore considered one-and-indivisible, are now often seen disjoined. The taste of the age is decidedly either for the pungent, the sharp, the piquant, or the sub-acid. Another favourite sauce is the liver and brains, the forcemeat, and a few sprigs of sage, chopped and boiled up in the gravy. In Scotland, where the pig is too often dished whole, the brains cannot be obtained to enrich the sauce, which, along with the trouble given to the carver, was considered by the Club a capital objection to this semi-barbarous mode of dishing.ROAST PIG HAUNCH OR SHOULDER OF VENISON. 89 202. itoast Pig—English Mode. In England the pig is generally cut off the spit down the middle on both sides; the head is cut off and divided, and the jaws are stuck up on each side for ornament, instead of the pippin, which was wont of old to be stuck in the grin- ning chops of the savoury cherub. Roast pig, when not liked cold, should be cut into neat fillets, and warmed in a strained sauce made of thin melted butter, flour and sweet herbs, chopped mushrooms, and a bay leaf, or in broth so seasoned, or in Bechamel. He may be baked, which is an excellent and convenient mode, only the cook or baker must baste him liberally.—See No. 37. ^ For an excellent way of dressing pig, see French Cookery f' also Scotch receipt. National Dishes, 21. To Roast a Haunch or Shoulder of Venison in the English Mode.—By H. J., Esq.t The meat may be kept from ten to twenty days by * The illustrious members of the Caveau Moderne, the most distin- guished gourmet and gourmand association in the world (previous to the establishment of our Cleikum Club and the City and Reform Clubs), ste3p their pig in fresh water for four hours ; baste him with a bouquet of sage dipped in olive-oil; and, for forcing, use fine herbs minced, steeped in lemon-juice, and about a pound of fresh butter. This, though French, is no bad receipt.—P. T. f WiNTERBLOSSOM and Jekyll, both men of family and fashion, the former of whom had for forty years, by one means or other, contrived " to sit at good men's feasts," took the lead here. " Nothing," said Jekyll, " can be more delicious than a fat buck from an English park, ' a hart of grease,' in the proper season. It is food for heroes and princes ; but with the good leave of our hostess, this ' doe or roe, or hart or hind' of the Caledonian forest, would please me fully better bounding on its native hills than smoking on this board. For the greater part of the year these wild animals are as sinewy, lean, and dry as the stalkers who pursue them. Roast it will not,—this meagre hard meat. With all appliances to boot, it makes but an indifferent pasty ; but after a long morning of shooting, or for adejeuner d lafourchette, I have found a fricassee of it cleverly tossed up— what you Scots call venison collops. Mistress Dods,—very tolerable eating." " And what you Englishers lick your lips after," said Meg, not a little offended. " I have had but little handling of English fallow-deer ; but as gude venishon haunch and sbouther, neck and brisket, has been roasted in my father's kitchen as e'er coost horn or cloot in an English policy (park) —Set them up !" " For my own private eating," said Touchwood, " a leg of five- year-old heath, wether mutton l3efore all the venison in the world; but on occasions of high festival, this aristocratic dish is indispensable to the fools who preside and the knaves who partake :—so about it, Captain. The dulce we leave to you and Winterblossom ; the utile is my own peculiar province."CHAP. III. ROASTING. 90 proper care, and by observing the precautions recommended for preserving mutton. When to be used, clean it without much wetting, with a sponge dipped in lukewarm water. Unless venison is fat it is useless to roast it: and in roasting, the main object is to preserve the fat. For this purpose, butter or rub over with salad-oil a large sheet of writing paper, tie it over the fat, and butter it on the outside once more. Have ready rolled a paste of flour and water, to the thickness of a half inch, on another sheet of paper, and with this cover the first paper. Tie the whole firmly on, and pour plenty of melted butter over the outside paper, to pre- vent it from catching to the fire. Baste constantly, and keep up the fire, which must be a strong, solid sirloin fire, to penetrate through the incasements, and roast the haunch. Venison is rather preferred underdone than overdone, a little red but not blue. A large haunch may be allowed from five to seven hours, when wrapped in paste. A half hour before it is ready it must be carefully unswaddledj placed near the fire, basted with fresh butter, and lightly dredged with flour, to brown and froth. For sauce,—Cur- rant-jelly melted in port wine, or jelly in a sauce-tureen, or roughed in a sweetmeat-glass, is still usually served.—Obs. A glass or two of claret, with three times that quantity of gravy made of venison or mutton, and a small glassful of raspberry vinegar, all very hot, was the sharp sauce most relished by our Club ; or a plain sharp sauce made of white- wine vinegar or lemon-juice and the finest lump-sugar, heated together in a stone jar. This is the best mode of roasting venison where expense is not grudged. In ordinary cases the paste may be dis- pensed with, — a double paper will be suflicient. The shoulder, breast, and neck, are each roasted; but the latter is much better dressed as a pasty or as soup.—See Venison Pies, At small, genuine gourmand parties, as the venison fat freezes, it is not unusual to cut off small slices of fat and lean, and heat them in a silver dish over a spirit-lamp. Venison is thus kept warm in perfection. And where luxury or joint-stock Gourmand Clubs afford silver dishes, these, besides retaining their heat long when once thor- oughly heated, are placed on the table on concealed heaters filled with hot sand, and thus keep any dish hot.RED DEER OR ROE VEAL. 91 22. To Roast Eed Deer or Eoe. Season the haunch highly, by rubbing it well with mixed spices. Soak it for six hours in claret and a quarter pint of the best vinegar, or the fresh juice of three lemons; turn it frequently, and baste with the liquor. Strain the liquor in which the venison was soaked; add to it fresh butter melted, and with this baste the haunch during the whole time it is roasting. Fifteen minutes before the roast is drawn remove the paper, and froth and brown it as directed in other receipts. For sauce,—Take the contents of the dripping-pan, which will be very rich and highly flavoured : add a half-pint of clear brown gravy, drawn from venison or full-aged heath mutton. Boil them up together; skim, add a teaspoonful of walnut-catsup, and pour the sauce round the roast. Instead of the walnut- catsup, lemon-juice or any of the flavoured vinegars most congenial to venison, and to the taste of the gastronome, may advantageously be substituted. After the third venison dinner, it was the recorded opinion of the Club, that it is downright idiocy, a wanton and profligate sacrifice of the palate and the stomach to the vanity of the eye, to roast venison when it is not fat, while so many more nutritious and palatable modes of cookery may be employed, in coliops, soup, pasty, or civet.—See Made-Dishes of Venison, 23. To Roast Veal. The fillet, the loin, the shoulder,* or what of it is called the oyster, and the breast, are roasted ; the back ribs are best used for pie or cutlets; and the scrag should be either cut to pieces and stewed, and served in thick stew-soup, or made into rice-broth. Stuff the flap of the fillet with forcemeat made as directed for boiled turkey, but with rather more lemon-peel. Sew in the stuffing.—See Sauce, and Stuffing for Turkey, No. 8, or No. 27. Some of it may be worked up with yolk of egg into the shape of pigeon-eggs, then fried, or parboiled and browned below the roast, and drained, and served as a garnishing, or made into a small * The mdx, or large muscle bedded in firm fat near the neck, is a tid- bit of the Parisian epicure.CHAP. III. KOASTING. 92 accompanying disli.* Be careful to brown the outside nicely, which can only be well done by attention to the state of the fire.-j- The tendrons are often cut out of a breast of large veal, and dressed separately, as Tendrons de veau, No. 6291 24. Loin and Breast of Veal. A LOIN is roasted and served in the very same way, only the kidney fat, which is so delicate, must be papered, and the roast should be more constantly basted.J The flap should be rolled in and skewered firm, and the bones chop- ped off, to give the dish a handsome shape. If a large loin, the kidney must be skewered back for a time to roast thoroughly. The Shoulder should always be stuffed; and the stuffing for this piece requires more suet, marrow, or butter, whichever is employed, than the forcemeat for the fillet. The breast must be covered with paper or the Caul on, till nearly enough done, which both preserves and enriches the meat. Serve these roasts with their own gravy only. 25. To Boast a Leg or Saddle of Lamb. A SADDLE is now considered a stylish joint for a small party. Whether Leg, Shoulder, or Saddle, place it at some distance from a sharp clear fire, and baste well; paper, if * Forcemeat must be left in a great measure to the genius and invention of the cook. Like spiceries and seasoning, it may, in the exercise of good discretion, be used ad libitum^ bearing in mind that it is intended to enrich and give piquance to the more insipid meats. Relishing ingredients of all kinds enter into the composition of forcemeat, such as grated ham or spiced beef, sausage, pickled oysters, caviare, anchovy, sweet herbs, eschalots, mushrooms, truffles, and morells, curry powder, cayenne, etc. " Plodding perseverance," said Jekyll, " may make a good roaster, and careful observance of rules a tolerable compounder of a made-dish; but the true maker of forcemeat, like the true poet, must be born." f " A bit of the brown " is esteemed the most delicate part of this roast. It was with this, liberally supplied from Mr Strahan's veal, that the demagogue Wilkes not only overcame the prejudices, but actually gained the heart, of Dr Johnson,—a success which far outdoes that of Richard III. over Lady Anne. But then he helped a slice of the lemon or bitter orange, which formed the garnishing, along with the browned outside. Ever, as you would gain the heart of a judicious epicure, garnish your roast veal with slices of lemon.—P. T. X On Basting.—Cooks, like Doctors, differ on many points, and among others on basting. We consider that both basters and anti-basters may be right or wrong according to circumstances. To baste mutton too much, for example, would stew, not roast it; but veal cannot be too much basted. In cooking, much is left to the intelligence of the cook.93 LAMB. needful: it will take from one hour and a half to two hours. Young lamb, and none other, is fit for the use of a gastro- nome of high gout^—a hobble-de-hoy between lamb and mutton being even coarser than a three months' pig. Lamb, like pig, and indeed all young meat, should not be long kept, if the flavour and juices are to be obtained in perfection; time to cool is considered quite sufficient by knowing gourmands. It is true, the fibre may be thready^ but the juices and flavour will be infinitely superior to that of lamb killed for days. In roasting the hind-quarter, the flap of the loin may be stuffed, using the superfluous fat for the forcemeat.* House lamb requires more roasting than pasture or hill lamb. Sauce.—The gravy which flows from the meat after the first dripping has been poured out, with about a wine- glassful of boiling water and a little salt, run through the spit-hole; and cucumber or Mint-sauce. Serve spinage, French beans, cauliflower, or green pease with lamb; gar- nish with crisp parsley, or sprigs of cauliflower, and always serve a salad. The fore-quarter should be lightly jointed. Lamb must be well done. This and the knuckle of all roasts, or of a ham, ought to have a fringe of writing-paper twisted neatly round it. When the shoulder is removed, the carver is expected to squeeze a lemon, and to sprinkle a little salt over the ribs, or, if necessary, to put in a little melted butter; and to press the parts together to obtain gravy. N. B.—-A friend, who admires French cookery, recommends Maitre Hotel butter to be put under the shoulder. In Parisian cookery the lean parts of the lamb have thin slices of bacon papered over them while roasting. * This is an old Scottish practice, which Meg Dods called " Makin' a pouch." Dr Redgill, who patronized all receptacles for forcemeat, wheresoever placed, vowed that a " hind-quarter of lamb should never again be roasted in his kitchen without a pouch.''^ This protuberance must not be too large, else it might prove offensive to the eye,—an organ that ought to be diligently consulted in all matters connected with the table. '* Open the mouth, and shut the eyes," the maxim of a great modern gastronome, had certainly, Winterblossom said, been stolen from the luxurious picture of the Gude Wife of Auchtermuchty's Sow:— " And aye scho winked, and aye scho drankP Both Touchwood and Redgill rebuked the old beau for this irreverent sally against an authority for which the latter entertained the most pro- found respect,—to wit, Dr KiTcmNER. " On my recommendation, try for once the Scotch practice of delicate young mashed cabbage placed below this joint for a half-hour."—H. J.94 CHAP. III. ROASTING. When done, the shoulder is lifted from the breast so as not to be perceptible, and a Maitre Hotel sauce is slipped in. A clear gravy is served in the dish, and the larded parts are glazed. British lamb does not require larding. See Made-Dishes and Pies of Lamh, 28. To Eoast Pork. Pork takes more of the fire than any other kind of meat. Choose it young, short in the knuckle, fine in the grain, and thick but smooth in the skin.* Cut a hole in the knuckle, widen it with the finger, and stuff it with sage and onions parboiled and chopped fine, pepper, salt, grated crumbs, a piece of butter, a teaspoonful of made-mustard, and an egg to cement the whole. With a bunch of feathers rub the skin with salad-oil, or fresh butter tied up in a muslin rag. Do this frequently to prevent the crackling from blistering, and to make it crisp and brown. The crackling must be scored into diamonds twenty minutes before the roast is done ; but unless it look hide- houndj and scorched or shriv- elled, the scoring need not go deep. The roast loin should, however, be first scored in stripes^ with advantage both to the eating and to the appearance. Some cooks add pul- verized sage to the basting. We recommend this only in roasting the griskin. Fork requires a more pungent sauce than sucking pig; yet apple-sauce is occasionally used. Onion-soMce we like better, or Sauce Robert: and con- fidently recommend Dr Redgill's sauce for pork^ goose^ or rahhit. (See No. 292.)—French beans or pease-pudding are served with roast pork. The French serve a poivrade under a roast chine.—Ohs. Sham House Lamb, when the real is scarce and high-priced, is made by skinning a half- grown porker, and cutting it of a proper shape,—N.B. The Cleikum Club countenanced no counterfeits. 27. To Roast Turkey, Fowls, Guinea Fowls, and Game. A TURKEY will keep a fortnight, a fowl a week. By care they will keep longer; that is to say, if drawn, hung in a cool dry air, wiped often, and seasoned with pepper * If pork is fed in sties at dairy farms, that which has fattened on potatoes and buttermilk we consider much better, both in flesh and flavour, than that which has been fed on drenches and kitchen slops. The rationales of scoring pork is to increase the surfaces—in other words, the delicious jaune croquante ; therefore we say,—score awaj^!—P. X,TURKEY, FOWLS, AND GAME. 95 ill the inside.* The sinews of the legs must be drawn: (those of fowls, pheasants, etc. should all be drawn, espec- ially when the birds are old.) Press down the breast-bone * STUFPiNa FOR Turkey.—So dexterously, and with such an air of conscious superiority, did Mistress Dons carry herself, that, except for the new lights which had dawned upon Redgill in the composition of stuffings^ and an affected dandy squeamishness which overcame the young Guards- man about trussing, in this important branch of the art, the Club would, unquestioning, have submitted to her judgment as to an oracle ; but these causes produced open discontents, and vehement debate, and— " I say sweet stuffing is an abomination for roast turkey," cried Redgill, as the knife of Winterblossom gave to view Meg's savoury composition, mottled with Zante currants, and fragrant with what she termed " a scrape o' a nutmeg,"—an immense grater furnished with this spicy fruit being, instead of a lady's essence-bottle, generally lodged in the depths and laby- rinths of those strong, blue cloth p ickets, with scarlet welting, of whose multifarious contents Jekyll one day made a catalogue. " Oysters I oysters! madam; there is no other turkey stuffing worth the attention of a Christian eater."—"Or Dinde aux Truffes et d la hroche,^^ said Touch- wood, animated by the spirit of contradiction, and the ambition of display- ing his science. " A pound of fresh truffles chopped, the same quantity of rasped fat white bacon. Soak the mixture in the stew-pan, with spiceries and a bay leaf. Stuff the turkey, and give him three days to take the flavour ; covering him with slices of bacon :—or chestnuts,'''' con- tinued he. " Roast a quarter hundred, and peel them ;—leave out ten or a dozen; pound in a mortar, with the liver parboiled, a quarter of a pound of ham, or of pork sausage well grated, or pounded, a little basil and parsley, mace, pepper, salt, our friend Megs nutmeg, and a good piece of butter ; stuff and tie the bird at neck and vent:—roast him, and tell me how you like him. For sauce, the remaining chestnuts chopped and stirred in a thickened strong gravy, with a glass of old Sherry or Madeira. Garnish with sliced orange. This, sir, is a turkey for you ; or, better still, a roast turkey, with rolls of sausage fried, or sausage balls served with it,— 'an Alderman in chains,' as those waggish rogues, the London sturdy beggars, call it,—their favourite regale at the close of a prosperous day." Redgill despised the chestnut receipt; but turkey and sausage, the ambrosia of the housing ken, seemed worthy of an epicure's serious investi- gation ; so the next bird was ordered to be dressed beggar-fashion. " And why, Dame," said Jekyt.l, as, thrown back in his chair, he eyed the roasted turkey with a languid air of half-affected disgust,—" Why produce the unhappy huhhly-jock with his head—forty mortal gashes upon it—tucked under his wing, while his gizzard and liver, larger than life, grace his other fin? This affair of dining, after all, has its hetise. Or why th )se rough-footed Scots," pointing to a brace of moorfowl, " in their spurs and pantaloons, with their pretty innocent heads tucked under their arms, like that of St Denis in the pictures of a book of miracles ?—nay, worse, I pr ;t3St," and he lifted his eye-glass,—" here, too, are ducks, if 1 don't mis- take ; but indeed there is no mistaking—miserable amphibise ! their saffron web-feet drawn up, and spread in such goodly sort, as if in act to swim. Our refined patrons, Drs Kitchiner and Trussler, direct that the feet be roasted delicately crisp, as some people are very fond of them. " Cut off a turkey's head. Captain Jackall!" broke forth Meg, with in- dignant astonishment,—"A roasted tu;key! Do you tak' us for born ignoramuses on this side of the Border?"—" Cut off the heads," responded90 CHAP. III.—ROASTING. even »more than in a fowl, to make the bird look plump: be careful, in drawing, to preserve the liver whole, and not to break the intestines. For stuffing^—Take a breakfast-cup- ful of bread finely grated, two ounces of minced beef-suet, or marrow, a little parsley parboiled and finely shred, a tea- spoonful of lemon-peel grated, two sprigs of lemon-thyme, shred; a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Mix the whole well in a mortar, with a couple of eggs. Do not stuff too full; and, with another egg, work up what remains into balls, to be fried and served with the turkey. To this stuffing, parboiled sausage meat may be added, or grated ham, or oysters chopped. (The same stuffing is suitable for a large fowl, and in both cases the meat may be omitted.) Paper the breast. Score the gizzard. Season it highly with pepper, salt, and cayenne, and dip in melted butter, and then in bread crumbs; cover the gizzard and liver with veal or lamb caul, or buttered paper, and roast them, fixing them under the pinion, and basting liberally. A very large turkey will take nearly as long to roast as a sirloin. These are not the most delicate kind. A moderate-sized turkey will take from an hour and a half to two hours. The fire must be clear and sharp; dredge with flour when laid down. (Fresh butter is always best for basting white meats; but salted butter may be washed.) Keep the turkey far from the fire at first, that the stuffing and breast may be done through, and fifteen minutes before it is finished, remove the paper that the breast may be delicately browned. Sauces^ —Bread-sauce, with gravy in the dish, oyster-sauce, celery- sauce, egg-sauce. Hen turkeys are the most delicate, and Eedgill, " of turkey and wildfowl! Surely, my young friend, you forget yourself." The Doctor, a loyal hearty-dining churchman, had, since the beginning of the French Revolution, seen but too much of this innovating "off-with-his-head" spirit abroad. "There was no knowing," he said, " where its devastations were to stop; it began with anointed kings:"— *' And may safely end with hasted turkeys," rejoined Jekyll ; and he con- tinued—" At all tonish tables, Mr Wintekblossom, though I do not pretend to think better of mankind than my neighbours, it would be but a well-bred stretch of faith, to take for granted that turkey was not goose, nor pigeon grouse, without such testimony as those bloody heads and feathered heels afford. Why, the panache of his own tail-featliers, which my respected grandmother was wont to stick into the rump of her roasted pheasant, or even the surtout of his entire goodly plumage with which our ancestors invested the lordly peacock, was not more barbarous than this absurd fashion." Loud rose the clamour of cooks, scullions, and amateurs, as this new heresy was broached; and the refined Jekyll, if not convinced, was at least silenced.TURKEY, FOWLS, AND GAME—GOOSE. 97 the whitest; they are consequently preferred for boiling.— See To Hash and Devil Turkey; also Made-Dishes of Poultry ^ and French Cookery of Poultry. An excellent Stuffing for a Turkey or Hare^ French fashion, —Chop, and afterwards pound in a mortar, half a pound of beef-suet, equal bulk (but not weight) of soaked bread crumbs, lemon-peel, parsley, and a sprig of thyme chopped, pepper, salt, two beat eggs, and a little milk or broth. This makes an excellent stuffing. (See also Quenelles, French Cookery.)—French cooks are celebrated for their skill in forcemeat; one half of their merit in this department con- sists in their patience at the mortar. Turkey and other poultry are frequently served or garnished with fresh water- cresses; which often suits better than raw parsley, if it could be as easily got. N.B.—A test of turkey, pheasant, fowls, etc., being ready for the spit, is their falling down when suspended in the larder by a few of the tail feathers left for this experiment when the birds are picked. For roasting, choose full-fed, white-legged, large fowls:—smaller ones may do for boiling. 28. To Boast a Goose. A GOOSE, if well cleaned and seasoned inside with pepper, will keep in cold weather for a fortnight or more, and im- prove. Geese are in perfection from Michaelmas to Christ- mas. In Scotland, a goose is often rubbed with salt for ten days before roasting. In England, in rural situations, it is often first parboiled. Where geese are rank this may be advisable, but not otherwise, as it dries the flesh. After the goose is carefully picked and singed, let it be well washed and dried with a cloth. Stuffing,—Four well-sized onions, about fourth their bulk of sage undried, and half the liver; parboil slightly, and chop these very fine: add two ounces of butter, yolk of egg, and a cupful of grated bread:—or ci la bourgeoisie, an equal quantity of mashed potatoes, and season rather highly with pepper and salt. With this stuff the goose. All stuffing, containing bread-crumbs, should be allowed room to swell, and indeed all forcemeat whatever, as it expands more or less in the dressing. Spit the goose; fasten tightly at the neck and rump. Paper the breast, but remove the paper when it has swelled. A goose requires a brisk fire, well kept up; and will, according to size, take ECHAP. III. ROASTING. 98 from one hour to two hours to roast. The breast must not be allowed to sink. Apple-sauce is, by prescription^ served with goose. For delicate cookery, this bird requires a drawn gravy in the dish, its own being often rank and oily. Ohs, To apple-sauce the Cleikum Club preferred onion-sauce; better still, Eedgill^s sauce for roast pork, duck, or goose, and Bauce Robert.—Nos. 292, 293. The gravy may either be poured into the goose by the carver making, for this pur- pose, a slit in the apron, or served in a tureen in thick melted butter; a glass of port or (better) claret is by knowing gour- mands poured into the goose : if so, let it be hot. In Scot- land, it was customary to garnish with slices of raw onion, but the practice is obsolete. Green Geese are roasted in the same manner; but for these thready younglings les^j sage or onion is required. Season them with pepper and salt, and put a good piece of butter into the inside as an interior basting. Froth and brown nicely. The gravy is preserved and served, but more gravy must generally be added. Gooselerry-sauce^ or Redgill^s sauce. (See Sauces,) —Garnish with grated crust of bread.* Salted geese are, in some parts of Ireland and Scotland, served with a cabbage- sauce, or cabbage stewed in good broth. The French roast * The livers of geese and poultry are esteemed a great delicacy by some gourmands; and on the Continent great pains are taken to procure fat overgrown livers. The methods employed to produce this diseased state of the animals are as disgusting to rational taste as revolting to humanity. The geese are crammed with fat food, deprived of drink, kept in an intol- erably hot atmosphere, and fastened by the feet (we have heard of nailing) to the shelves of the fattening-cribs. The celebrated Strashurg -pics., which are esteemed so great a delicacy that they are often sent as presents to distant places, are enriched with these enormous livers. It is, however, a mistake that these pies are wholly made of this artificial animal substance. In England, the goose is sacred to St Michael; in France, to St Martin; in Scotland, where dainties were not going every day, " 'Twas Christmas sent its savoury goose." The Michaelmas goose is said to owe its origin to Queen Elizabeth's dining on one at the table of an English baronet on that happ^ day when she received tidings of the dispersion of the Spanish Armada ; in commemor- ation of which she orderd the Gocse to malte its appearance every Michael- mas. In some places, particularly Caithness, geese are cured and smoked, and are highly relishing. Smoked solan geese are well known as contri- buting to the abundance of a Scottish breakfast, though too rank and fishy- flavoured for unpractised palates. Slices are eaten as whets, or relishes. The goose has made some figure in the English history. The churlish- ness of Richard Cceur de Lion, a sovereign usually good-natured, and distinguished for an insatiable appetite and vigorous digestion, in an affair of roast goose was the alleged cause of his captivity in Germany.DUCKS AND PHEASANTS. 99 geese with chestnuts, as in the receipt for Turkey (Note, p. 95). The liver is chopped with the chestnuts, and both are fried together in lard before the goose is stuffed with them.* Onions, fried in the goose fat, is a favourite accom- paniment with some old-fashioned provincial eaters. Rings of large onions cooked in strong consomme are more delicate, but not better. 29. To Eoast Ducks, Teal, and Widgeons. Keep ducks three days; if young they are ready when killed. If a pair are to be roasted, one may be stuffed as directed for a goose, with less than half the quantity of stuffing; and to suit all tastes the other may be done plain, seasoning with only pepper and salt. From three quarters of an hour to a whole hour will roast ducks. Baste well, and dust lightly with flour to make them froth, and look of a rich, warm brown. Green pease are indissolubly allied with ducklings.—Sauce, Apple-sauce, onion, or sage-sauce, or Dr Redgill's sauce for goose, duck, etc. (See Nos. 292, 293.)—Wild Ducks are roasted in the same way, but made very crisp; and, as they are smaller, they take less time— from twenty-five minutes to half an hour.—Sauce, Pleydel's sauce for wild fowl; Orange Gravy-sauce; or No. 295— The above receipt is also applicable to Teal and Widgeons, —Obs. Some epicures prefer wild fowl underdone, to have the flavour in perfection; and to secure this, they eat it without sauce. All sorts of wild fowl require to be longer kept than your " tame villatic fowl,'' because they are drier in the flesh, for the same reasons that a city alderman is more abounding in juices than a backwoodsman or an Indian hunter.—See Hashed Duck, Made-Dishes, etc* 30. To Roast Pheasants, Partridges, Guinea Fowl, etc. These birds are trussed in the same manner: the craw is drawn out by a slit in the neck, the head is left on, and the kgs of the partridge are tucked across each other. Put a little fresh butter inside; baste frequently, and dredge with flour to froth; the fire must be brisk and clear. A partridge will take from twenty to twenty-five minutes; a pheasant from thirty to forty-five, or more. Make a round of toast; * A young salted goose answers very well dressed as duck in saur isroute,—?, T.100 CHAP. III. ROASTING. having pared off the outer crust, moisten it in hot water, or broth, press and butter it; and soak it in the dripping in the pan, and serve the partridges on it. This is lighter than fried bread-crumbs, which many good cooks use for these birds. Pheasants must be long kept to bring out their flavour. They require made-gravy of scrag of mutton, or knuckle of veal, but it is better made of beef, and best of all of game. (See Brown Gravy-sauce, Bread-sauce, or Rice- sauce.) — Ohs, We do not recommend the ornament of the pheasant's best tail-feather stuck in his tail; though such things are still heard of. Guinea and pea fovA are dressed and served exactly as pheasants; and by a fiction of cookery, when a brace cannot be procured, a fowl is, on occasion, con- verted into a pheasant. On keeping Game.—Necessity, and the vanity of produc- ing at a dinner what is rare and far-travelled, must first have introduced among cleanly, civilized nations, the custom of over-keeping game, till in time it came to be considered as essential to its perfection that it be kept till putrid, and that what has not flavour may at least \\2^nq fumet. It is at the same time indispensable that game be kept till tender, and the flavour brought out. The same principle applies here as in keeping pears and plums to mellow, after they are gathered. Game, as we have said before, must be longer kept than domestic fowls, to be in proper condition for the table. A great deal has been said on preserving provisions of late years; but we are afraid little has been done. We are certain that very few of the practices recommended have been adopted, and chiefly because that, when tried, they were found wanting. Form, colour, and material may be preserved; but flavour, and even nutritious qualities, have fled before the pyroligneous acid, and the genius of Appert; and mummy partridges, and embalmed green pease survive to please the eye and fill the table—and this so far is highly desirable—but sadly disappoint the palate. Game —we speak not of giving pheasants and grouse to immor- tality— may be kept good a long while, by drawing, crop- ping, picking, and (without washing) rubbing with equal parts of salt, pounded loaf-sugar, and a little pepper. It is a great mistake to wet, much less to wash, any fresh thing intended to be kept. Charcoal and chloride of soda, may also be employed to retard putrefaction. Lay a thin muslinPIGEONS. 101 cloth over the birds, and place lumps of charcoal under them and over the cloth. Charcoal baskets and closets may be had on the scale adapted to small establishments. We have no faith in charcoal doing much good in the way of restoring what is much tainted, though this is often con- fidently asserted. The knife applied to the worst parts, scraping and constantly removing the mustiness, and, when to be used, washing with hot water is the preferable method. Game, when it is wished to be kept to grace a gala day, besides the above precautions, may be parboiled or par- roasted ; in short, kept for ten minutes in boiling water, or laid to the fire for seven minutes, which must be made to touch all parts. Then dry thoroughly, ana to keep, use salt, sugar, and pepper, as above. Before roasting, cleanse from this seasoning, and season with a little fresh pepper. But the preservation of game depends as much on the sportsman as on the cook. A bird or hare much mangled by shot will taint far more quickly than one killed in a "gentlemanly way;" and what has fallen into the water, than that which drops on land. For some seasons back the southern sportsmen, who frequent the Highland moors, have paid great attention to preserving and packing their game. Stuffing with and packing in hops is found to answer better than any other method yet employed, and is now generally resorted to. The date of shooting is written on a card tied to the birds; so that the cook cannot be far astray. 31. To Roast Woodcocks, Snipes, Plovers, Rails, and Ortolans. Keep them till tender. They must not be drawn, as the intestines are considered a delicacy. (This rule admits of exceptions. The proverb says, " What is one man's meat is another man's poison.") Hook to your bottle-jack or tie them on a bird-spit, which fix to the spit, and lay down to a clear, brisk fire. Lay slices of moistened toast in the dripping-pan, to catch the trail. These birds^ and moor- game require to be deluged with butter in roasting. Dish them on the toasts, pour clear brown beef or game gravy very hot into the dish, and set it on a hot table, or over steam, or a spirit lamp. These birds will take from twenty- five to thirty minutes, in proportion to the size.—&mc€!^CHAP. III. KOA STING. 102 Pleydel^s sauce for wild fowl. Garnish with slices of lemon, or bitter orange, and fried bread-crumbs. Ohs. French cooks stuff woodcocks with chopped truffles, and either roast them, or stew them with fire under and over the pot. The trail is sometimes cooked in gravy and butter, and poured over the toast. French cooks lay slices of lemon over the breasts of part- ridges, on these slices of lard, and above all fasten paper. Dr Hunter recommends a stuffing of minced beef or veal for a cock-pheasant, the flesh of which is sometimes insipid to English palates. This may be more acceptable to some than the French practice of enriching these birds by larding. 32. To Eoast Grouse, Black Cock, and Ptarmigan. Truss with the head under the wing. They require a sharp, clear fire, must be well basted, and not overdone. Serve on a buttered toast soaked in the dripping-pan, and put brown beef-gravy in the dish. In this and the above receipt we recommend plain melted butter instead of meat- gravy, to those who wish to retain the native flavour of the birds.—Rice-sauce^ or Pleydel's Sauce; also Orange- gravy.—Ohs. The French often soak the toasts in lemon- juice before they are laid in the dripping-pan; an elegant practice. M. Soyer, an artiste of some authority, gives many receipts of his own invention for cooking grouse. His grouse d la Boh Roy is in one sense piquant. He wraps the birds, when to be roasted, in fat bacon and sprigs of heather^ moiiL^tened with a glass of whisky! His grouse d la Bonnie Lassie will be a favourite with young sportsmen, though, except the name, it has no particular claim to notice. His grouse-salad, however, the Salade de Grouse d la /Soyer, is magnifique. The recipe may be thus abridged : Put a thin rim of butter round a dish, and on this stick a high border of hard-boiled eggs cut into four lengthways, with a bit cut off to make them stand. Fill the centre with a nice fresh salad, and tastefully ornament the egg border with fillets of anchovies, cut beet-root, or gher- kins ; cut three under-roasted grouse into neat small pieces ; and have pre- pared, a sauce made of two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped eschalots; two of pounded sugar, the yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of chopped tarragon, and chervil, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, and two of salt: with these, gradually mix twelve tablespoonfuls of salad-oil, and three of Chili vinegar: mix all well, and put the mixture on the ice. ''When ready to serve," continues our authority, " whip half a pint of cream rather stiff, and add to the sauce: pour a little over the salad, upon which lay first the worst pieces of the grouse, over which pour more sauce, dressing them pyramidically." This salad, M. Soyer confesses, is better adapted to gentlemen than ladies. It was first served in Paris at a competition of the most celebrated artistes of the Stove, on whose head certain EnglishPIGEONS AND LARKS. 103 noblemen and gentlemen had large bets. What cook can fail to envy the Chef of the Keform Club, when he is able to say, " My first course, being full of novelty, gained the approbation of the whole party;" but the salade created such an unexpected effect, that in brief the inventor was invited to the honour of the sitting, and over several rosacles of exquisite Lafitte, it was christened by General Sir Alexander Duff, who presided over the noble party, "Salade de Grouse k la Soyer!" These are moments which occur but once in a man's life. This was M. Soyer's Waterloo^ or Trafalgar ; his Bridge of Lodi; his Austerlitz! 33. To Eoast Pigeons. Let them be cropped and drawn as soon as killed, and wiped inside as well as possible. They will be ready for tlie spit in from six to forty-eight hours, according to age and the weather ; and are in high season from June to No- vember. If kept long, they lose their flavour. When to be dressed, they must (when drawn), be well washed in several waters; and great care must be taken (as in all birds) not to break the intestines in drawing them. Stuff with parsley parboiled and chopped, though parsley is get- ting out of use, and about the size of a nutmeg of butter for each bird, with a few bread-crumbs, and the liver chopped, if it is liked. Season rather highly with pepper, salt, and cayenne. Twenty to twenty-five minutes will roast them. Dust with flour, and froth (if you like frothing) with fresh butter. Parsley and butter, or plain melted butter, is served in the dish, and is more suitable for mild-flavoured birds than meat-gravy.—Bread-sauce^ Orange Gravy-sauce^ or Rice-sauce.—Serve with dressed French beans, asparagus, or cucumber; or on water-cresses. Garnish with fried bread-crumbs, or slices of bitter orange. 34. To Roast Larks and Wheatears. When well cleaned, dip them in beat yolk of egg, and roll them in bread crumbs. Put a small bit of butter in each bird. Spit on a lark-spit, and fasten that to the spit, or hook to your bottle-jack. Baste with plenty of good butter, which is most essential in roasting all the smaller birds. Strew sifted bread-crumbs over the birds as they roast. From twelve to fifteen minutes will do them. Serve fried bread-crumbs, and garnish with fried crumbs or crisp parsley.—Ohs, Some good cooks put a thin small slice of bacon between the birds when they are spitted, to nourish them. This is good practice.104 CHAP. III.—ROASTING. 35. To Roast Hare, Fawn, or Kid. A HARE will keep from a fortnight to three weeks, if pro- perly managed; and is seldom fit of roasting before eight days, though for soup it should be used nearly as soon as killed. A hare keeps best when not open for some days; and the vent and mouth may be tied, to prevent the air from hastening the process of putrefaction. When kept four days in this state (if the object is to keep it as long as possible) it may be paunched, and the heart and liver taken out and scalded. Wash and soak it in warm water when to be dressed, changing the water several times. Make a little slit in the neck, and in every part where the blood has gathered to let it out. Drip, dry, and truss it. An old hare is not fit for roasting. Even a young hare makes but a dry roast; so that a rich and relishing stuffing is a sine qua non when dressing it in this manner.—For stuffing^—Take the grated crumb of a pennyloaf, a quarter of a pound of beef suet, or three ounces of marrow, a small quantity of minced parsley and eschalot, a boned anchovy,* a teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel, and the same quantity of nutmeg; salt and pepper to taste, a little cayenne, and the liver parboiled and chopped, if in a sound state,—and no liver should be used if unsound. Mix the ingredients with the yolk of an egg, and the crumbs soaked in a very little red wine. Put this into the hare, and sew it closely up. Baste well with plenty of butter for three quarters of an hour; then drain the dripping-pan into a basin; and baste with cream and yolk of egg well beat, and flour lightly. Hare will take from an hour and a half to two hours. For sauce^—Venison- sauce, or the drippings of the hare mixed with cream, or with claret, a squeeze of a lemon, some thin slices of bread, and a bit of fresh butter, boiled up with the skimmed drippings strained and highly seasoned; also currant jelly. (See Hashed Hare^ Hare Collops^ Made-Dishes of Hare, etc.)—Obs, It is good practice to take out the back and thigh bones when the cook is dexterous in boning. In France a roasted hare is always larded on the back; but the French seldom roast this dr?/ animal from choice.—For * We do not like anchovy to meat-dishes ourselves, but tolerate it as a relish admired by some contemporary authorities.ON BAKING MEAT. 105 an excellent method of dressing hare, see Civet and Lievre en daube, French Coohery. By a fiction of cookery, the lean inside of a large sirloin is cut up, stuffed as a hare, skewered, tied with tape, and roasted. It requires to be highly seasoned, and in truth eats better than most roasted hares. In rural situations, a liare is often stuffed with mashed potato, grated ham, suet, and onion, and highly seasoned with pepper and allspice ; nor, though a homely, is this a bad fashion. 36. A young Fawn is treated precisely as a hare, but must not be kept above one day. When somewhat grown, it may be roasted in quarters, or in a haunch or a saddle. Cover with veal or lamb caul in roasting, or slices of fat bacon, and baste well. Froth in the usual manner, and serve with venison-sauce^ and a good gravy in the dish. A Kid is roasted as a hare.—Obs, These are all, at least hare and kid, dry meats, and are better dressed, the former as soup or collops, the latter as coUops, or stew, or both, in the French fashion. A Rabbit, when large, may be stuffed and roasted as a hare; a leveret is not stuffed. A hare's ears are reckoned a dainty by some affected epicures;—they must be singed and cleaned. We hold them in equal respect with duck's feet, but are very tolerant of those who admire them. Baste and dredge as in roasting poultry, and make a sauce of the chopped liver and parsley, or lemon-juice stirred into melted butter. 37. On Baking Meat. The baker*s, or the family oven^ may often be substituted for the spit, with greater economy and convenience ; and for some particular joints and kinds of viands it is even more suitable. A baking dish ought to be in form of a trough, and at least six inches deep, that the meat, covered if pos- sible, may in fact stew in its own juices, as it gets little or no basting. But a pig must be baked in a shallow tin dish for sake of the crackling. The dripping-pan of a Bachelor's or Dutch oven will answer very well. Prepare things to be baked as for roasting, but season more highly. A fillet or breast of veal^ if not very high fed, will bake as well as it will roast. The oven is equally suitable to a leg of pork, but a loin requires to be sweated in roasting—it is too greasy when baked. A pig., if not very old, and if the baker is106 CHAP. III. ROASTING. careful to anoint the cracTcling^ or if it is covered with beat white of egg, bakes very well. His ears and tail must be put in buttered papers, if you would hope ever to see them return from the oven. Geese and ducks may be baked, if not old and rank ; in which case, they must either be first parboiled or sweated in roasting before the fire, to overcome the flavour. A leg of mutton, with potatoes peeled, and an onion shred, makes, when baked, an excellent plain family dish, the mucilage of the potatoes combines so kindly with the fat of the meat.* The noble Sirloin disdains to be cribbed in the oven; but a rump of heef spiced and salted for a few days, washed, highly seasoned, and baked with plenty of butter in a deep covered vessel, eats shorty and is esteemed a delicacy. A hare or rabbit may be haked^ allow- ing plenty of butter in the dish, and putting a large piece or a rich stuffing into the inside of the animal. Herrings^ sprats^ salmon^ haddocks^ and eels^ may all be highly sea- soned and baked with advantage. Bakers' ovens have one great drawback;—they are accused of being sad suckers in, indeed real sponges for gravy ; so that they largely indem- nify the bakers' apprentices for the trouble saved to the cook. Besides, meat is seldom got home in season from those wholesale receptacles for all manner of joints; and about the dinner hour, what dismay is often created by the face of the maid,— " Who comes with most terrible news from the baker. That insolent sloven! Who shut out the pasty when shutting his oven." Hams are often soaked and haked^ where they are used in great quantity, and where the object is to cut thin.-j- Fish, * We have doubly admired this homely dish, the happy artisan's social Sunday dinner, since reading the life of the poet Crabbe. f A few years since, the proprietor of Vauxhall Gardens lost his cele- brated carver of hams, when he advertised for a new operator in that department of harmless anatomy. One of notoriety applied, when the worthy proprietor asked him how many acres he could cover with one fine ham ; upon which he replied,. " He did not stand upon an acre or two more or less, but could cover the whole of his gardens with one ham." On this he was instantly hired, and told he was the very fellow for this establish- ment, and to cut away for the benefit of the concern and of mankind at large. To grow a shoulder or leg of mutton.—This art is said to be well under- Stood by London and other bakers. Have a very small leg or shoulder ; change it upon a customer for one a little larger, and that upon another for one larger still, and by the dinner-hour, you will have a heavy excellent joint grown out of your original very small one.—P. T.BROILING. 107 if hdked^ must have plenty of butter It has been ascer- tained by experiment that meat loses less weight in baking than by any other mode of cookery. But, alas I it loses flavour. CHAPTER IV. BEOILIl^G. I have no dainties for ye, gentlemen, Nor loads of meat to make the room smell of 'em;— Only a dish to every man I dedicate. Beaumont and Fletcher. Broiling is the most delicate manual office which the common cook has to perform, and one which requires the greatest practical facility and the most unremitting vigi- lance. She may turn her back on the stew-pan or the spit^ but the gridiron can never be left with impunity. A valuable and large portion of society is interested in this culinary process. It is besides the simple mode of cookery, best suited, and generally the most acceptable, to the sickly, fickle appetite of the invalid and valetudinarian. It is also recommended by comfort and economy to solitary diners and small families, as by this means the smallest morsel of meat can be dressed hot as delicately as the largest quantity; and few grown persons relish cold pro- visions, if they can help themselves. The French are admired for their skill in blending flavours, heightening relishes, imparting sapid qualities to what is dry or harsh, and giving piquancy to what is naturally insipid. But, as a nation, they are more entitled to praise for that graduated scale of cookery which descends to the very lowest class of society, and gives comfort and relish even to the meal of the Parisian tub-woman. Every French man and woman is something of a cook. Hence the pro- verb, " As many Frenchmen as many cooks.'' This they owe in some measure to the scale of their utensils, and to the tiny furnaces and chafing-dishes, and the patience and skill which enable them to deal in all manner of ways with the smallest bit of meat, while their contemporaries in London have too often but the one resource—the SundayCHAP. IV.—BROILING. 108 oven—for the large expensive joint, which loses both its flavour and succulence in baking, and, at all events, must be eaten cold by the family till it is finished. Such fami- lies know nothing of the pot-au-feu ; they seldom see soup^ rootSj or vegetables, save perhaps a few potatoes on the hot day. The cottage cookery of both rural and urbane Scot- land is superior to that of its neighbours, from the canuT/ skill of the Scotch in the potage, and in the use of roots and vegetables; and this they manage with no additional expense of fuel. Broiling is not, however, the cookery of the cottage economist; and it is of Broiling we now treat. The state of the fire is the primary consideration. It must be clear and radiant, consequently free of smoke. A fire half burnt out is best. The gridiron should rather be over long than too short, and ought to be so contrived that it can be placed at the distance of three, four, five, or six inches above the fire. If a gridiron is well polished at first, there can be no good cause for the bars ever becoming black. Let it be always rubbed when put aside, not only bright on the top of the bars but clear of soot and grease between them. The bars should be narrowest at top, that they may not intercept the heat of the fire. It is requisite to have one gridiron for fish, and another for poultry and steaks. The gridiron must be hot through (which will take five minutes) before anything is put on it. It must then be rubbed with a piece of fresh suet, to prevent the meat from being branded or sticking to the hot bars. If for fish, rub with chalk. Great care must be taken to keep broiled dishes hot, as the small- ness of the articles exposes them more to the action of cold than meat cooked in large pieces. There is great convenience sometimes in perpendicular gridirons; and there is a trifling kind made double of strong wire, with a hinge, which permits the steaks, bacon, or fish to be turned by merely turning the implement; and one with a small dripping-pan and hooks. On the small scale of cookery, these are very convenient. They hang before the fire, or lie over it. P.S.—We have been so often taken in with wonderful, newly-invented frying-pans and infallible gridirons, that we do not venture to recommend any form. We have collected half a garretful of those and other culinary inventions, and109 BEEF-STEAKS. on trial found nearly the whole useless, or little improve- ment on the old-fashioned utensils. 38. To broil Beef-Steaks.—P. T., Esq, In England, the best steaks are cut from the middle of the rump. In Ireland, Scotland, and France, steaks which are thought more delicate are oftener cut, like chops, from the sirloin or spare-rib, or edge-bone, trimming off the super- fluous fat, and chopping away the bone. Beef for steaks must be kilkd for from three to five days, or more, to eat tender; but it does not require to be kept so long as a large piece to be roasted. Cut the steaks of equal thickness (about three quarters of an inch), beat them to a level— though much beating is not recommended, as it expresses the juices from the meat. Let them be from three to four inches in breadth, and from four to six in length. Rib steaks shape themselves. Trim off the bone. When the gridiron is hot, rub the bars with suet, sprinkle a little salt over the fire, and pepper and lay on the steaks. Turn them frequently with steak-tongs, to do them equally and keep in the juices. When the fat blazes and smokes very much, remove the gridiron till the blaze is past. From ten to twelve minutes will do a steak. Have a hot dish (rubbed with eschalot if you like) placed by the side or over the fire, near the edge of the gridiron. When turning the steaks with the tongs, if there be on the top any gravy that would be lost in turning, drop it quickly into this dish to preserve it. Steaks are generally preferred rather under- done. Sprinkle them with a little salt just before they are dished in the hot dish, in which a little eschalot, finely shred, may be put, with a bit of fresh butter, and, if liked, a spoon- ful of catsup heated in the dish. Turn the steaks over with the tongs once or twice in the dish, squeezing them to express the gravy. Some cooks squeeze the steaks when half-done between plates. Garnish with pickled red cabbage or cucumber, or horseradish scraped as for roast beef— Oyster-sauee^ Eschalot-sauce^ Brown onion-sauce, Eschalot- vnne, Carach-sauce, GeneraVs sauce, or Miser^s sauce.— Those who relish a well-dressed beef-steak* discard all * "Ask a dozen healthy men under thirty," said Touchwood, "what was the very best dinner they ever made in their lives, and I bet from eight to ten of them answer, 'a beef-steak,' and they give you the history110 CHAP. IV.—BROILING. sauces, save the native juices of the meat, with the addition of pepper, salt, and at most a particle, a soupqon, of minced eschalot or onion. of this unique regale, generally found on a journey, a pedestrian tour, or fishing excursion. Yes, gentlemen! England may well pride herself on a bonne houche which her rival exhausts herself in vain endeavours to imitate, though she has never yet succeeded in even spelling its Christian name. The rum'-stih and hif-stih de mouton, are not more unlike in orthography than in quality, to the juicy, delicately-hrowned, hot, tender rump-steak, which has immortalized the name of this ' Club ' and of Dolly. But I am sorry to say that beef-sfe'c/cs, literally so, are too often met with even in our own island. I have calculated that in the cities of London, Liverpool, Edinburgh, and Glasgow alone, upwards of a hundred thousand young men dine on beef-steaks every day of the week,—students, apprentices, clerks, ^gentlemen of the press,^ and so forth. What a clattering of gridirons here! Now, if our receipt, by instructing the thousands of slip-shod or tidy wenches who dress those messes, tends to keep said youths from taverns and ordinaries, true to the old sober habits of their country—home- dinners^ I shall not think this page ill bestowed, Dr Redgill ; though you hint that too much time is occupied by simple elementary processes."— The Doctor assured his friend that he held no such opinion, and suggested that the girls attending the National Schools ought to be early initiated into these mysteries, as in the admirable French institution at Ecouen, near Paris, which would be conferring a real kindness on those they were destined to serve in future life.—" No spot on earth once," said Winter- blossom, "like the Old Flesh Market Close of Edinburgh, for a spare- rib steak ; and I believe it has not yet quite lost its ancient celebrity. I never ate one in perfection but there :"—and the old beau related, with much vivacity, the adventures of a night on which he had accompanied to this resort the eccentric Earl of Kelly, and a party of Caledonian hon-vivants of the last age.— "But the receipt?" inquired Eedgill, with grave earnest- ness, corresponding to the magnitude of the subject. "0! neither more nor less than that those taverns were, and are kept by butchers' wives, so that the primest of the meat found, and finds its way there. In the dark- some den into which we dived—Luckie Mtddritt's of savoury memory— hungry customers consumed beef-steaks by wholesale, at all hours of the night and day, or rather of the perpetual night. The coal fire was always in prime condition, and short way between the hrander and the mouth, Doctor,—served hot and hot,—no distance between the kitchen and the hall: before the collop-tongs had collapsed in the hands of the cook, in rushed the red-legged waiting-wench with the smoking wooden platter. Every man held his weapon ready, and his teeth set; trencher after trencher followed.—Ay, this is to eat a steak in perfection. It can be known but once!"—The listening Doctor compressed his lips, and sighed in accordance with this melancholy view of life. There were times—hours of crudities and incipient evil digestion—Avhen the hand of a child could have staggered the strongest principles of his culinary belief. The vision of some three pounds of steaks, consumed at a country inn in Somerset- shire, with all the vigour and relish of youthful appetite, sharpened by exercise, rose between him and the well-replenished board that now courted his advances; and the Doctor moralized on the vanity and nothingness of all sublunary pleasures, while he handed round the mock turtle soup. " No beef-steak, after all, equal to that of my friends the Abyssinians," said TouGHWOOD. The Doctor anathematized the savage and bloody prorBEEF-STEAKS MUTTON, LAMB, AND PORK CHOPS. Ill 39. Beef-steaks with. Potatoes or Beans, An Excellent French Dish. Flatten and season with salt and mixed spices neatly- cut rump or tender-loin steaks. Dip them in melted butter to keep in their native gravy whilst broiling. Have ready, in a hot dish by the fire, a very little parboiled and finely- shred parsley, with butter, a squeeze of lemon, pepper, and salt. When the steaks are broiled, as directed in the last receipt, lay them on this, and turn them quickly over once or twice, and arrange very hot sliced fried potatoes around them, or potato fritters; or serve French beans. 40. To Broil Mutton and Lamb Chops, etc. Mutton and Lamb Chops, Rabbit cut in quarters. Sweetbreads and Kidneys, may be broiled as above; but particular care must be taken that the f^it which drops from mutton does not smoke the chops—^to prevent which, turn them frequently, and remove or place the gridiron aslant backwards when the smoke rises. Kidneys must be stretched on a skewer to prevent their curling with the heat. Each of these things may be higher dressed by dipping them in egg, and then in a mixture of bread-crumbs and savoury herbs, which may also be strewed over them as they broil. —Sauces for mutton-chops the same as for beef-steaks. For Lamb, the Catsup is better omitted, and Cucumber or Maitre d'Hotel sauce substituted. 41. To Broil Pork-chops. PoRK-CHOPS should be delicately cut from the neck or loin, and trimmed from part of the fat. Dust them with white pepper, with which is mixed a spice of cayenne. Broil them for from fifteen to twenty minutes over a clear sharp fire, strewing over them a little salt when they are nearly cooked. They must be served broiling hot and cess:---"Nor any receipt to that of Macbeth," said Winterblossom—" not lie of the hotel, but of Shakspeare, Doctor;" and he spouted, " If it were done, when His done, Then 'twere well that it loere done quicJclyf" "Stolen from the New Monthly,''^ said Jekyll, only half-aside: and the Doctor, more than ever convinced that little assistance for the Great Work could be obtained either from the finical Guardsman or the flighty old Beau, gave himself in seriousness to the serious business of dining.CHAP. IV. BROILING. 112 with a hot gravy, with which a teaspoonful of made-mustard, and a little dry sage pulverized, may be mixed. Redgill- sauce or Sauce Robert possesses still more gusto for thorough- bred pork-eaters.* Stewed cabbage is served with them. Bacon, in very thin slices, may be nicely broiled over a slow fire, in a sheet of paper, tucked up in form of a small drip- ping-pan ; or on a toaster before the fire. N.B.—^We would, unless the fire is temptingly radiant and the cook dexterous, recommend that pork-chops be dressed in the American oven before a brisk fire, which will prevent their becoming black, and having the smeary appearance which those dressed on the gridiron too often exhibit; or they may be half-fried, crumbed, and then broiled brown. 42. To Broil Young Chickens and Pigeons. A BROILED chicken or pigeon is thought lighter than one roasted, and is at least more expeditiously cooked. It is therefore preferred for the sick, or the hungry and hasty. Singe as directed. Note, page 87. Pick, wash, and dry it; cut down the back, and truss as for boiling, making it very flat; season with pepper and salt, and place the inside on a gridiron previously heated, and put at a greater distance from the fire than for a steak. This dish will take a full half-hour to cook perfectly, and it is good practice, if the chicken or fowl is large, to boil it for ten or twelve minutes before broiling. The gridiron should occasionally be taken off the fire, and the birds rubbed with butter tied in a muslin rag. Probe with a knife to see if they are done. Place your chickens or pigeons in a hot dish. For chickens, serve parsley and butter, or gravy with mushrooms, or sauce d la Tartare, Garnish with slices of lemon, and the liver and gizzard (the latter scored) highly seasoned with * Pork-Chops.—It is related that Fuselt, when he wished to summon Nightmare, and bid her sit for her picture, or any other grotesque or horrible personation, was wont to prime himself for the feat by supping on about three pounds of half-dressed pork-chops. Though that accommodating Prince, Richard Cgeur de Lion, could, as has been seen, eat any thing, all being fish that came in the net, when he was sharp-set, he had, like other epicures, his favourite dish, which was Porlzified Saracen^ curried. On recovering in Syria from an ague, his first violent longing was for pork, which is said to approach nearer to human flesh than any other sort of meat. Pork is indeed " a passionate " food. It tolerates no medium. It must be idolized or detested, whether as flitch or gammon, souse or sausage, brawn or griskin.113 PARTRIDGES OR MOOR-GAME. pepper and salt, and also broiled. For pigeons—the sauce is melted butter, flavoured with mushroom-catsup, or parsley and butter in the dish. Pigeons may be broiled without splitting. Truss as for boiling, and flatten the breast-bone. Stufl* each pigeon with a bit of butter rolled in chopped parsley, and season highly with cayenne pepper and salt. Tie them close at both ends, and turn them frequently over a clear fire, that they may be nicely browned and equally done; or they may be rubbed with egg, and afterwards rolled in bread- crumbs and chopped parsley, and dredged with this mixture while broiling.—Obs. Pigeons are not so light, but more savoury, when broiled whole. When a chicken is broiled for an invalid or convalescent, it may be proper to skin it, and to use as little butter as possible. A chicken for an invalid may be par-roasted^ cut up, and then broiled.—It will sometimes be more convenient to dress chickens as directed for partridges in the next receipt. 43. To Broil Partridges or Moor-game. Having prepared, make them firm in the frying-pan, turning them once. Finish on the gridiron; and serve them in a hot dish, with Poor ManJs sauce.—Another good way, French cooks, after trussing the birds, often cut down the back, flatten the breast, break the leg-bones, simmer in butter with white pepper and salt, and finish on the gridiron. If for breakfast to sportsmen, season with cayenne. CHAPTER V. PEYING. Passion, 0 rae! how I run on, Here's that which should be thought upon; The business of the kitchen's great, And it is fit that men should eat, Nor was it e'er denied. Suckling. Frying, if not the lightest, is a very convenient mode of cookery to those who wish to unite comfort with economy; and, certain things premised, it is not difficult of manage-CHAP. V. FRYING. 114 ment. The frying-fat, be it lard, oil, butter, dripping^ or top-pot, must not be stale, much less rancid; the fire must not be smoky, and the frying-pan, but not the saute-pan (which our cooks corrupt into the sooty-pan), ought to be thicker in the bottom than frying-pans are usually made. Oil, fresh butter, clarified from all foreign substances, pure " British oil," is the most delicate substance in which meat can be fried, as it communicates no predominating flavour. Lard, or what answers equally well, clarified fresh suet, or dripping (the kitchen-fee" of the Cleikum), are better adapted than butter for fish, eggs, or any thing watery. When butter for frying is clarified, it is not nearly so apt to hum, which effect is produced by the water or milk it con- tains. Fritters and sweet things must have either good butter, or good lard, or, where it can be afforded, good oil. The fire must not be too fierce, nor yet too slack, as fat is susceptible of that intense degree of heat which will scorch whatever is placed in it before the substance to be fried could be heated through; and, on the other hand, if not hot enough, the fry will be merely sodden in fat, stewed and not fried. If fish, they would be apt to break, of a bad colour, and have no crispness. Fish are more difficult to fry than meat, from the softness of the fibre. They conse- quently require a greater degree of attention; they must be thoroughly dry. Have an oval-shaped frying-pan for fish, or, if for large soles, a fish-kettle, as this form requires less of the frying material than one of a round shape. A wire- frame fitted to the size of the pan, and raised about a quarter inch from its bottom, is coming into general use for fish : ascertain the heat of the fat, which must completely cover the fish, by noticing when it ceases to bubble up, or by throwing a bit of bread into it. Fat that has fried veal-cutlets, lamb-steaks, etc., may be used afterwards for fish, if allowed to settle, and poured clean from the sediment; but what is used for fish would spoil meat, though it will answer repeat- edly for fish, especially of the same sort, if strained. Frying- fat becomes richer from having meat fried in it; and if carefully taken up, may be used repeatedly. See Fritters, Omelets, etc., and No. 136. Read Nos. 57, 58. All fries served dry are dished on a napkin.115 FEYING-FATS. 44. To Clarify Butter for Potting or Frying, and Suet and Dripping for Frying. Cut the butter in slices; put it into a jar, which set in a pan of boiling water till it melt. Skim it, take it out, and when it has cooled a little, pour it gently off, holding back the curdy sediment. Mutton and beef suet and lard may be roughly chopped, have all the skin and fibrous parts taken out, and either be gradually melted over a slow fire, or before the fire in a Dutch oven, taking away the fat as it drops. In this last process there is less danger of the fat acquiring a burnt taste than when rapidly melted into tallow over the fire. Another good way.—Boil down the suet in water, and when cold, take off the cake of fat. In each case strain the fat and keep back the sediment. Dripping and melted suet* are used for pie-crust, and for basting and homely soups, as well as for frying. Their suitableness for all these purposes depends, in a great measure, on the way in which they have been melted and preserved. When dripping is to be kept for soup, it may be seasoned, not otherwise. It may be highly purified by twice clarifying. A bit of charcoal, or a charred toast thrown into it, will help to remove a rancid taint. 45. To Melt Lard for Frying, etc., and to make Lard. Either melt it as in last receipt, or skin, beat, and boil the hog's caul slowly, and lay it in a little water, working it with the hand. When it will easily break with the fingers, let it cool, and rub it through a sieve. Hang the lard in bladders or nets in a cool place. Another way,—Melt the lard in a stone jar set in boiling water; pour it carefully from the sediment, and keep it in bladders or small jars. Lard for larding.—Rub the lard when taken from the pig with pounded salt. Lay two pieces together, put a heavy weight over them. Let it lie from four to six weeks, then skewer and hang it to dry, in a dry, cool, airy place. It cannot be used /or larding till it get quite firm. See Nos. 57, 58. Where there is not a thorough-bred cook, employ your poulterer to lard, whether/r/cancZeaw^c or birds. * For an excellent way of using beef suet, see Paste of Beef Suet for Piesi etc. No. 774.116 CHAP. V. FRYING. 46. To Fry Beef-Steaks.—Dr R. Fry in butter, for twelve or fifteen minutes, pieces cut from the best part of the rump or any good joint, of the same size as for broiling. Fry them of a fine brown. The pan may be covered after the steaks are browned, which will render them more juicy. When done, place them in a hot dish by the fire; add to the gravy in the pan a small glass of red wine, and, if you like it, a small anchovy boned, pep- per, salt, and a minced eschalot. Give it a boil up, and pour what is clear over the steaks, which, like every fry and broil, must be served hot. Or fried steaks may be eaten with brown gravy, or onion-sauce, or fried onions, served very hot along with them. Garnish with pickles or scraped horse- radish. The wine may be omitted. Potato-fritters or plain small dumplings are a good accompaniment. 47. Scotch Beef-CoUops with Onions, or " CoUop in the Pan."-M. D. Cut the meat rather thinner than for broiling; make the butter hot, and place the collops in the frying-pan, with about the proportion of a couple of middle-sized onions sliced to each half-pound. If the butter be salt, pepper is used, but no additional salt. Brown, and then cover the pan with a close lid. When done, the collops may be drawn aside, and a little oyster-pickle or walnut-catsup and boiling water added to the onion-gravy sauce in the pan. Dish and serve hot.* Ten minutes will dress them. 48. To Fry Veal-Cutlets, English and French Way. Cut slices about half an inch thick from the fillet, back- ribs, or loin. If not equally cut, level them with a cutlet- bat, and shape round, about the size of the mouth of a large tea-cup. Have plenty of lard or fresh butter to fry them in, not dripping, which is not so suitable to white meats. Keep the pan at a good distance from the fire, if the cutlets be thick; when browned on both sides of a * This national dish possessed rather too much gusto for Jekyll ; but the Doctor admired it exceedingly, and even suggested that, independently of the collops, this was an excellent method of preparing onion-gravy^ which only required the addition of a little red wine and lemon juice, to those who like an acid relish, to be a complete sauce.117 VEAL- CUTLETS—CHOPS. light golden-tinged brown^ the pan may be held higher above the fire and covered. Have ready some gravy made thus: A quarter-pound of the skins, bones, or trimmings of the cutlets, a blade of mace, the head of a young onion, a sprig of parsley, a good bit of lemon-peel, six white peppercorns, a bay leaf, if the flavour is liked, and a pint of water, which may boil down one-half; add fresh butter, the size of a large walnut, rolled in flour, or white roux. When this gravy is thickened, strain, boil again, and pour it hot over the cutlets, which must be served very hot. This sauce may be made brown, by the addition of a little walnut or mushroom catsup. Another Way,—Veal cutlets may be more highly dressed by brushing the slices with beat egg, and strewing over them a mixture of bread- crumbs, parsley, and lemon-peel chopped very fine, and a scrape of nutmeg. They must be fried in plenty of butter. When the cutlets are done, place them before the fire in a hot dish, covered, and to the gravy in the pan add veal- broth or gravy, and white roux, or a few little bits of butter separately rolled in flour; let it boil and thicken; add a little lemon-juice and white pepper, skim the sauce, and pour it over the cutlets. Where the flavour of lemon- thyme is liked, a sprig of it makes a grateful addition to sauce for veal-cutlets. French way, which the French call the English:—Cut nice small cutlets from the neck, skin- ning and trimming them from fat. Egg, crumb, and fry them. In another pan fry as many delicate slices of bacon as you have cutlets. Dress round on a very hot dish, a cutlet and a slice of bacon laid edgeways on each other, and pour hot mushroom-gravy into the centre. See Nos. 640, 641, 642, and Scotch Collops, in Chap. National Dishes, 49. Lamb or Pork-Chops Are fried in same manner as veal, and either plain or egged,* rolled in bread-crumbs, and when dished, garnished with slices of lemon, or crisped parsley. Pork-chops may be fried as above, dipping them after they are egged in a * " To egg,"—to smear with beat egg, or dip in egg,—is an approved kitchen verb, from which Touchwood derived the Scotch phrase, to " egg up," or " egg on," incite, urge, or stimulate—the appetite. Dr Eedgill had grave doubts as to this etymology. " To onion" is another buttery verb, which deserves to be more generally known.118 CHAP. V.—FRYING. mixture of chopped onion, sage, and bread-crumbs.—Ohs. Care should be taken to have all chops, steaks, and cutlets of a good shape; neatly trimmed, and beat out to equal thick- ness, when not at first cut smoothly and equally. 50. To Fry Fresh Sausag^es.—Dr R. Whether pork, veal, or beef sausages, they are best fried in the same way, viz. slowly, that they may heat to the heart without bursting. Sausages ought to be dressed fresh, more especially those that are bought at cooks' shops, where it is the practice to put the crumb of fresh roll soaked in a certain proportion of water into them, which immediately ferments and turns the sausage-meat sour. Very little butter or lard is required to fry pork or beef sausages *, veal must have more. If in danger of bursting, they may be pricked with a darning-needle; but if grad- ually heated, unless they are fermenting, this precaution will not be necessary. They must be lightly dredged with flour to froth them, and drained from the fat, by lying, on a dish before the fire. They are sometimes boiled, and frothed before the fire. Serve on a toast.—Ohs. Sausages were wont to be fried with apples, pared, cored, and quar- tered ; and garnished and served with the same: the prac- tice is nearly obsolete. Poached eggs and fried bread, mashed, roasted, or scalloped potatoes, or stewed red cabbage, are more suitable to this rich and savoury dish. With Tur- hey, fowl, or veal, sausage is often more acceptable than even tongue or ham. To make Sausages, see the Index. 61. To Fry Eggs with Bacon Ham or Sausage.—P. T. But for this homely dish, many an honest traveller would go without his dinner. The general fault is, that the bacon is often too hard, and cannot be cut into proper slices; to steep the slices even for a few minutes in luke- warm water would tend to remedy one defect; they must then be dried in the folds of a cloth. The colour of eggs is very easily hurt; so be sure that the frying-pan is deli- cately clean. This, in all cases, is best known by melting a little fat in it, pouring it out, and wiping hard while the pan is still hot. Let the bacon be nearly fried, draw it aside, and if the fat look in the least dark or burnt, pour it off, and, if nice cookery is wanted, let fresh material get hotSWEETBEEADS LAMB^S LIVER PIG^S HARSLET. 119 before the eggs are broken and gently slipt in. Ladle the frying-fat over them with an iron tinned spoon. When the eggs are done on the under side, dish the bacon in a hot dish, and either turn the eggs or hold the pan before the fire a minute, or use a salamander, to take the raw off the upper side. Trim them as they lie in the pan; then take them up with a slice, and drain the grease off, before dishing them with the bacon. They are dished either on the slices of bacon, or laid in the dish, with the bacon placed neatly round them. In very nice cookery, a separate pan should be used for frying the eggs, and some good cooks broil the ham, and fry the eggs only. 52. To Fry Sweetbreads. Let sweetbreads always be slightly parboiled when they come from the butcher. When to be dressed, cut them into oblong slices, and either flour and fry them in butter, or egg them, then roll in bread-crumbs : add a seasoning of lemon- peel, pepper, cayenne, and a sprig of basil chopped. Gar- nish with crisped parsley: anchovy-sauce^ or melted butter, with a small teaspoonful of walnut or mushroom catsup stirred into it. Serve with them small, thin slices of crisped bacon, or of sausage done in a cheese-toaster or Dutch oven. For Sweetbreads^ see French Cookery, 53. To Fry Lamb's Liver and Pig's Harslet. Cut a sound fat liver into long thin slices. Soak in water, dry in a cloth, and flour these. Fry them of a fine rich brown, in plenty of fresh butter or lard. Minced eschalot, or young onions, cayenne, and pepper, may be added to the fry. Serve with hot gravy and stewed cucumbers, or cucum- ber-sauce. Garnish with fried parsley.—Ohs. When liver is found either livid, black, or lumpy, it is surely unnecessary to notice, that, whether for sauce, stufling, or frying, it is alike to be rejected. Liver may be boiled ten minutes, and finished by frying. Pig's Harslet—Clean and boil the lights, liver, sweetbread, and heart, thirty minutes; slice, dredge with flour, season with pepper, cayenne, and salt, and fry with chopped onion and sage, in butter or lard, with a bit of bacon. The French make this dish fine by serving it with a sauce of claret and mustard. Harslet may be stewed, a good plain way ; or roasted, skewered up in a caul.CHAP. V. FRYING. 120 54. To Fry CaK's Liver and Bacon. Calf^s liver is fried as above. When nearly done, or better in a separate pan, fry the bacon. Dish with a slice of bacon laid on each slice of liver; or they may be dished separately. Serve a little thickened gravy with a squeeze of lemon. Garnish with crisp parsley.—Ohs, Sound ox-liver and bacon, done as above, make a good, cheap^ but coarse dish. So do mashed potatoes, with fat bacon fried. 55. To Fry Venison Collops, Scottish. Cut nice steaks from the haunch, or slices neatly trimmed from the neck or loin. Have a gravy drawn from the bones and trimmings, ready thickened with butter rolled in lightly-browned flour. Strain it into a small stew-pan, boil, and add a squeeze of lemon or orange, and a small glass of claret:* pepper to taste, a salt-spoonful of salt, the size of a pin's head of cayenne, and a scrape of nutmeg. Fry and dish the collops hot, and pour this sauce over them. A still higher gout may be imparted to this sauce by eschalot wine^ basil wine^ or tarragon vinegar^ chosen as may suit the taste of the eater. If these flavours are not liked, some old venison-eaters may relish a very little pounded fine sugar and vinegar in the gravy, and currant- jelly may be served in a sauce tureen. Garnish with fried crumbs. This is an excellent way of dressing venison, par- ticularly when it is not fat enough to roast well.—For Venison Minced Collops^ see National Dishes, 56. To Fry Tripe and Cow-Heels. Tripe must be boiled as in No. 16, cut in pieces not too large, and dipped in a batter m ade of flour and eggs, with a little salt and minced onion, if you like, and fried for seven minutes of a rich pale brown.—TFMe Onion-sauce.—Ohs, Cow Heel is cut into neat pieces, egged, rolled in crumbs, fried, and served in the same manner. The Club were not partial to these fries. They to a man preferred plain boiled tripe, or tripe fricasseed with a white sauce.—See Potted Heelj Irishj French, Birmingham, and Glasgow Tripe, * Claret, of all the red wines, is that, in general, best adapted to the use of the cook; for higher flavour. Burgundy is preferred, yet white wines are those generally used; Champagne, Madeira, and Sherry especially, which are best adapted to white meats and fish.121 PREPARE CRUMBS FRY HERBS. 57. To prepare Crumbs for Crumbing and Frying, and to Fry Crumbs and Parsley. ' Toast carefully in an American oven thin slices of bread with the crust off; or, better, place it for a night in a cool oven to be bis-cuit, L e. twice baked; when very crisp crumble and roll or rub it down into fine crumbs for things fried, or to dredge hams, bacon, or frying fish with. To fry parsley, have the frying-pan well filled with very hot drip- ping or lard. Have young parsley nicely picked, washed, drained, and then rubbed lightly between the folds of a cloth to dry. It must be fried quickly to get crisp. The moment it is done lift it with a slice, and place it before the fire on a sieve reversed, to drain and become more crisp; or it may be crisped in a Dutch oven before the fire. There is now a useful wire basket, for holding parsley while frying. Par- sley fried is used for garnishing lamb-chops, liver, or any meat dish to which the flavour of parsley is suitable. Many things are served on fried parsley. (See Dried Herbs.)— Bread-Crumbs are fried and drained in the same manner, taking care that the fat is perfectly clear and transparent, and that the bread is not burned. Sippets cut thin may be stamped out with pastry stamps in the form of stars, the Maltese cross, triangles, diamonds, paper-kites, cocks'-combs, etc., etc., and nicely fried and drained before the fire to serve for garnishings. Fried bread and crumbs are useful articles for garnishing, as they never fail, when well done, to be eaten with the dish they are employed to ornament. Another Way.—Fry in a wire basket; or, as a substitute, in a colander held among the frying-fat. Crumbs will thus be easily lifted when dry and firm. Parsley fried may be afterwards dried in the oven. 58, To Fry Herbs to serve with Bacon and Eggs, or Calf's Liver. Take two handfuls of spinage, a bunch of parsley, and a few chives or young onions. Pick, cut, wash, drain, and stew them slowly in a very little broth and butter, taking care they do not burn. They may also be fried in a net, or wire basket, placed in the frying-fat. N.B.—For frying Fish, see No. 136.122 CHAPTER VI. BEOTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. C'est la soupe qui fait le soldat. French Proverb, Soup has been aptly termed the vestibule to a banquet. We call it the safest foundation to the principal repast of the day, whether it be a Cottage or a Cabinet dinner. With this belief we hold as maxims, that the French take the lead of all European people in soups and broths; that the Scotch rank second, the Welsh next; and that the English, as a nation, though with many honourable excep- tions, are at the very bottom of the scale; and, farther, that if soup be the foundation of a good dinner, it is equally true that good beef is the best foundation of the best soup. Whether brown or white, plain or rich, the basis may still be beef,—fresh-killed, juicy, mature beef, and soft pure water.* * " We of Scotland," said Winterblossom, "probably owe our superi- ority in this department to our long and close alliance with that nation which has ever been most profoundly skilled in the mysteries of the soup- pot. That Scotland is indebted to France for the proficiency she has attained in cookery, is abundantly evident from the culinary nomenclature of the nation. Kitchen—Cuisine—the word with us comprehends every kind of viand or preparation which may add to the relish of the coarse cake, and the decoction of oatmeal and coleworts, which formed the staple of the dinner meal. A peasant's butter, cheese, fish, meat, and so forth, are still named his ' Mtchen.^ Then we have the Jiachi—the soup Lorraine^ and a la Heine, the veal Flory—or Florentine pie—our hroclie and turn-hrocJie, and our culinary adage, ' Hunger is gude hitchen.^ "—" If you go on at this rate, you will soon reduce your nation to their original brcse. and haggis,'* said Jekyll ; "for you recollect that your skill in cabbage and coleworts is attributed to Cromwell's soldiers." " Little or mickle," put in Mistress Dods, a true-bred Border Scot, who would not yield an inch of the kitchen-floor to France or England, " we mak' better use o' what little skill is accorded to us, it's like. I have heard them say that should know, and that's the Nawbob himsel' there, that there is thousands upon thousands o' working-men's houses in Lunon whar they ne'er saw a broth-trencher, let-a-be a pot o' fat kail:—Cauld, comfortless, wasterfu', gude-for-naething gangings on, for man, wife, and wean. Their roast joint,—set them up!—scouthered to a cinder in a baker's oven,—a hunger and a burst,—dear bought at first, and a short outcome for a working-man's family, compared with two or three pots-fu' o' gude barley broth from the same joint of meat." " Even too true, Luckie," interrupted the Nabob; " this must be eared for. The Scots may, or did fail in a great dinner, Doctor,—no doubt of it;123 BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. The essential qualities of soup are, that it be nourishing and restorative. It is the food of childhood and extreme old age, of the declining and the debilitated, for whom the soup- pot performs half the offices of the digestive organs. With these invigorating and salutiferous qualities, the mildest, the richest, and the most poignant relishes may be combined, by the judicious employment of the numerous ingredients which go to the composition of soups. The capital defect of soups is not in general so much the want of meat as of the time necessary to the due concoction of a rich fluid composed of so many ingredients. The defects of soups are vainly attempted to be concealed by the excessive use of pepper and herbs. The following elementary rules, from the French of the chemist Parmentier, were assumed by the Club as practical directions to the cook :— Eules for Making Nourishmg Brotli. I. Sound, healthful, fresh viands. II. Vessels of earthenware in preference to those of metal, as a less degree of heat keeps them boiling; and once heated, a few hot cinders will maintain that slight degree of ebullition which is all that is wanted. III. Double the weight of water to that of the meat used. but as a nation they manage better than most of their neighbours,—three hot meals of broth and meat for about the price of one roasting joint, perhaps. Then ' second day's ^a^7,'—said I right, dame?—something to warm up to- morrow for the gudeman and the bairns; pot-au-feu of France?" " And gude enough too," rejoined Meg; " sae ye need not cast up puir Scotland, Captain Jaykill. A week's hunger and a Sunday burst—their hot roast joint—set them up! We may be easily put by; and the Gude forbid we were belly-gods and pock-pudding Eppycurryeans; though at a Christening, or a Kirn, or on a Sacrament Monday, we may like a bit roast as weel as our nice-gabbit neighbours." " Ay this it is to clip and crib the gluttonizing joys of honest John Bull, ' to some high festival of once a-year,' " said Jekyll. " Call you a wholesome nutritious soup four times'a-week, clipping the gormandizing joys of John Bull, " cried the Nabob, " instead of his Sunday roast and dilution of porter ?—no, sir, soup is the best as well as the most economical fare for dinner that a mechanic's family can consume. But I will give him a thousand preparations." " Besides the elegant variety of Mr George Rose's salt herring, and Cobbett's toujours fat—'yer^/ya^—bacon," said Jekyll, who scented a long prosing harangue and wished to cut it. " But let Mistress Dods proceed with her discourse," he added. Here, however, the Doctor called the party to order, and resumed the real business of the day—Gravy-soup. . . . For many excellent, cheap Scotch soups, see National Dishes, and Cookery for the Poor.124 CHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. IV. A sufficient quantity of common salt to facilitate the separation of tlie blood and slime that coagulate under the form of scum. V. In the early stage of the process such a degree of heat as will throw off the whole scum. VI. Afterwards a lower, but an equal temperature, that the soup may simmer gently till the substances employed, whether nutritive, colouring, or flavouring, are per- fectly combined with the water, according, to their several degrees of solubility. Besides observing these rules, use the softest water, and let the cook read the observations prefixed to the Chapter on Boiling, and attend to the following hints:—Some soups are very good when made the day before they are to be eaten, as the top-fat can be removed in a cake, and they can be cleared more effectually, and also attain more complete consistence, where a thick body is required [Scottice, lithi- ness), without losing their flavour; but they need not be seasoned till wanted, and should then be slowly heated to the boiling point. If permitted to boil, most re-warmed soups will lose part of their flavour; and in stew-soups the meat will harden. Excellent judges differ on this point. Many think every hot preparation best when fresh-cooked, —and soups of the number. Of the kinds that will keep, and that may be prepared beforehand, are brown-soup, hare-soup, soup of game of any kind, giblet-soup, and generally all soups made of the meat of animals of mature growth. Soups into which vegetables and young meats enter in any quantity, are best when fresh-made, as these things have a tendency to ferment. This holds especially of veal and fish soups. This tendency may be partly checked by boiling them up, and changing the vessels. In re-warm- ing all previously-made soups, broths, sauces, and gravies, if they cannot be heated by steam, or l3y the vessel contain- ing them being completely plunged into a stew-pan of boil- ing water, or a hain marie, particular care must be taken that they are not smoked. The fire must be clear, and the lids close ; for things re-warmed are more liable to be smoked than during their first preparation. Soups and gravies are best kept in earthen or stone ware vessels. They must not be covered till quite cold; and when cold and covered,125 RULES FOR MAKING STOCK BROTH. vegetable soups, etc., may be plunged into a trough or large vessel of spring water. Where there is no ice-house this is a good way to keep cream or milk sweet. The wicker- work boxes or baskets, lined with charcoal, used in hot climates, might often be useful at home to preserve meat, ices, etc. When soup is to be finished or warmed, take off the cake of fat which settles on the top, strain, and hold back the sediment. Give all soup ample time in preparing. From four to six hours is not too much; but the finer flavouring ingre- dients for soups, gravies, or made-dishes, need not be added, save for the length of time necessary to blend the various zests into one harmonious relish, without exposing them to that degree of continued heat which drives off their subtle essence. This observation is peculiarly applicable to cat- sups, aromatic spices, wines, flavouring vinegars, lemon and orange juice, etc.; and a much smaller quantity of these costly ingredients would answer the purpose if it were attended to. In certain cases it is proper to put in the half of these ingredients at an early stage of the process, that the flavour may be intimately blended with the prepara- tion, adding what remains to give piquance near the con- clusion. In English books on cookery there is often too much wine ordered for soups, and sometimes too little meat. The former error is the less dangerous, as what is levied from the cellar may not always find its way to the soup- pot. Eoots, bread-raspings, or barley, for plain common soups, ought to be put in as soon as the pot is skimmed, when the roots are merely intended to thicken and flavour the soup. When to be cut in pieces and served in the broth, an hour's boiling is generally enough for carrots, tur- nips, onions. Many things are used to thicken and give consistency to common soups; not the worst is the flour of oatmeal; but arrow-root, rice-flour, or rice, potato-flour, pearl-barley, and bread are each excellent. When the soup or gravy is too much toiled down, the waste must be supplied with boiling water or broth; and though in general we strenuously recommend close-covered pots, yet when the soup is watery and weak, the lid may be taken off till the watery particles evaporate; for thiclcening gives con- sistence but not strength. It facilitates the operation, if meat for soup or gravy be cut into pieces of about a half-126 CHAP. .VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. pound each ; and it improves the colour, if the meat, onions, and carrots be browned with a bit of butter at the bottom of the soup-pot, or digester, before the water is added to it.* The only objection is, that by these means the removal of the scum is not so complete as is necessary to the rock- crystal transparency of clear soups. Scotch Broth made of fat meat may have a larger proportion of greens, leeks, cab- bage, or whatever green vegetable is used, than lean meat. The best plain browning for high-flavoured soups, sauces, gravies, etc., is red wine, soy, or mushroom or walnut cat- sup. Where these are not admissible, use crusts of bread well browned, brown flour or browned oatmeal where thick- ening is required, with the meat browned, in the pot before putting in the water, and the onions fried a fine deep brown. But a more elegant becaiise paler tint is simply got by the carrots, the black peppercorns, and the skins of the onions, which should be topped, tailed, and washed, but not peeled before being put to the soup. (See Broivning for Soups and Made - Dishes.) — To improve the colour, .many cooks sacrifice the flavour of their soups. Burnt meat or bones, and even burnt sugar or treacle, are condemned by us. The cook is entreated to bear in mind, that the beauty of all clear gravy brown soups consists in transparency^ united with richness and flavour,—to obtain which skim carefully and simmer slowly ; and of white soups, and fish and vege- table soups, in the goodness of the desired colour, and in fulness or velvetiness on the palate. Soup may be made in an infinity of ways. There is no end to the combinations of meat, game, fish, herbs, roots, spices, and mucilage, with water; but the basis of the best soup, whether expense is either an object or no object, is, as we have said, beef,—fresh, full of juices, mature, suc- culent, but not too fat,—the lean parts of an equally fat- tened animal. For this Primary soup we give the following tried and approved receipt:— * To this previous slight drawing out of the juices without much or any water, we are inclined to attribute not a little of the superiority of French soups and stews. Some French cooks, to regulate the flavour of soups more exactly, boil the roots, herbs, and vegetables separately to a mash, and then squeeze them and add the juice, till the desired flavour is obtained.127 PLAIN STOCK-BROTH. 59. Plain Stock-Broth, The Basis of many Soups and Sauces. In large families, or if the cook is to have a large dinner, let her, on the previous day, prepare the Stock-broth.—To every pound of fresh juicy heef, or a shin broken, allow a quart, or, if wanted very strong, a third less of soft water, and to this add any fresh trimmings of lean mutton, veal, poultry, or game, which the larder affords. An old fowl, a rabbit, or a knuckle of veal, are excellent additions, and with these less meat will serve,—a good fresh bone, sawed^ is a cheap help to any stock-pot. When the broth is ren- dered pellucid by boiling, skimming, and clearing, as directed in the observations on boiling, put to it an ounce of salt, the same of black peppercorns, and a half-ounce of pimento corns, two carrots, two turnips, four large onions in their skins, four cloves, some good leeks, if you like the flavour, a fagot of herbs, and a head or two of celery. There are, however, some purposes for which stock is wanted, to which tliis quantity and kind of vegetables may be unsuitable ; and this is left to the judgment of the cook. Half the quantity specified will do for one large tureen. Let the soup boil for from four to six hours, according to the quan- tity. If left too long on the fire, thi3 flavour of the vege- tables will deteriorate, the colour will spoil, and the broth become ropy. When a good soup merely is wanted, with- out regard to the meat or vegetables, boil quickly with the lid aslant to reduce. When done, let it settle, skim off the fat (which will be useful for moistening braises, enriching vegetables, etc.), pour it from the sediment; strain it through a tammy, and set by for use. Obs. As our object is to unite judicious economy with good cookery, it is proper to mention that each of the material ingredients of the stock- pot may be turned to good account. The meat may be put on early on the day of the dinner, and may be kept hot to serve at the servants' table, while it affords stock for the soups, sauces, and braises. Or it may be served at a family d inner as beef gaimi de choux ; or gar)ii de racines, or as f^ain houilli. as directed for that dish, by taking it up when just enough done, and keeping hot in a stew-pan, with a few ladlefuls of the top of the broth, to serve as a sauce. If a fowl is boiled in the stock-pot, let it be trussed before boiling, and it may be served with rice, or any suitable sauce, or om gros set; so may a knuckle of veal, a rabbit with onions, or a brace of partridges with a proper sauce. In large private establishments, where broth for soups and sauces is constantly required, the articles, of which stock is best formed, may be served at the differentCHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. 128 tables, or on different days.* The stock being made, the cook is now in possession of a floating capital subservient to many purposes.—See Nos. 682-4. 60. Stronger Stock, The Consomme of the French Kitchen. This is the same thing, only stronger than the former broth. Take a large old fowl, or a cock, a large knuckle, or a good piece of the leg of veal, a piece of juicy beef, and any game you have to spare ; put four ounces of butter in a stew-pan, and then the cut meat; moisten with a pint of stock. No. 59 ; let it catch the fire till the juices are drawn; then add more first stock in the proportion of a pint to the pound of meat; skim, season with a carrot, two or three onions, two cloves, some parsley, and a head of celery. Let the fowl only boil till enough done for the table, and the knuckle of veal only till done. Then again skim and care- fully strain this consomme through a fine sieve.—N.B. Ham is often ordered for these stock - broths; but unless for gravies, to enrich ragouts, or to make certain sauces, it is seldom employed. Indeed, it is more suitable to savoury gravies than to the bland, elementary liquid, from which mild soups and sauces are to be made. 61. Richer High-Flavoured Stock. Line a well-tinned stew-pan with slices of good ham; over this place slices of veal from the thick of the knuckle, and a fowl or brace of game cut to pieces. When the meat has been sweated over a slow fire till the juices have formed a glazCj moisten the whole with a quart and a half of strong stock, and season with chopped mushrooms, parsley, green onions, a blade of mace, and two cloves. Strain and thicken it, when stewed, with white or brown thickening, and keep to use in cooking. 62. Very Strong Stock, The Grand Consomme of the French Kitchen. Make this exactly as Second Stock; but, if convenient, * For hotels, clubs, regimental messes, etc., these hints are valuable; for each of these dishes, besides causing no loss, will actually be more rich boiled in the stock-pot, than if cooked separately. A fowl au gros sel, means one sprinkled, when dished, with grains of large bright salt.129 CLEAR GRAVY-SOUPS. use more veal and poultry and less beef. This is the basis of many French sauces, and clear gravy-soups.* 63. Clear Gravy-Soup, ! The Basis of many of the Soups mentioned afterwards. Have eight pounds of a shin of beef, chopped across, a knuckle of veal, or a scrag of mutton, with any fresh trim- mings the larder can furnish, and a piece of lean ham, if the ham-flavour is admired. Heat and rub hard a nicely- tinned stew-pot; melt in it some butter, or rub it with mar- row. Let the meat, with a carrot, a head of celery, three onions, and a turnip, each sliced, catchy but not burn, over a rather quick fire ; then add five quarts of soft water. Carefully skim, as formerly directed. When skimmed, throw in a pint of cold water to refresh it, and take off what more scum is detached till it become quite limpid. If the soup is not sufficiently transparent, it may be clari- fied.-}- But careful first cookery is much better than second processes, which hurt the flavour. Let the stew-pot simmer slowly by the fire for four hours (without stirring it any more from the bottom) till all the strength is obtained, but not so long as to cause the soup to become ropy. Take it off and let it settle ; skim off the fat, and strain off * French cookery is imagined to be a very complicated affair. It is, in fact, more easily understood than our own, because its principles are more fixed, and its language more scientific. The Beauvillerian, the Udean^ and Very can systems are laid down as clearly as the Linnaean. Modern French professors have a few grand sounding names which they bestow on elementary gravies and sauces, as Espagnole^ Grande JSspagnoIe, Espagnole Travaillie, Italienne Blanche^ Italienne Botisse, etc., and these, once defined and properly understood, remain ever the same. Our sauces, like our native melodies, are so overlaid with everybody's variations, that it is difficult for the most correct ear or the most discriminating palate to recognise them. And along with all our culinary deficiencies, our cookery-books give double the number of transmogrified and unintelligible receipts that are to be found in the bulkiest French systems. On their comparative value I do not pronounce.—H. J. We must add, that of late French cooks, like French milhners, have become most perplexingly inventive of fine names; as the same dish will have twenty different names given by twenty different artistes^ though it remains the selfsame preparation. f To clarify stoch of all hinds.—Take the white and shell of one egg for every quart, and for each egg and its crushed shell, add a large wine-glass of cold water. Whisk this well, and add gradually as much or more of the boiling stock, still whisking. Pour this mixture to the boiling stock, and continue to whisk briskly till the whole is on the point of boiling, when remove from the fire, and let the stock remain ten minutes, or till the eggs fully separate : Strain carefully. o130 CHAP. VI.— BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. gently what flows freely tlirongh a tammy.— Ohs, This clear soup (for it must be very clear) is served under many different names; as, VermiceUi^ if with this paste separately boiled and put to it, when ready to serve ; Carrot-soup^ if with the red of boiled carrots cut in delicate straws; Tur- nip-soup, w^ith turnips scooped; Celery-soup, Asparagus- soup, Green Pease-soup, etc., by adding the ingredient which gives the name.—These additions are usually separately cooked. When all or the greater part ot these vegetables, stewed and carefully rubbed through a tammy sieve, are added to a strong gravy-soup, you have exactly the French Oecy-soup. A good French cook would, however, after chopping the roots, etc., first stew them in top-fat, or butter. The French generally have their turnip-soup white, their carrot-soup brown. Sippets are requisite to the Potage a la Crecy. With chopped lettuce and sorrel this (7recz/-soup makes Soupe d la Fauhonne. 64. French Brown Soup, or La Brunoise. To clear amber-coloured gravy-soup put carrots and tur- nips, cut in dice, straws, or like very small pears, with a root- cutter, and first fried and drained, if young, but if old par- boiled. Soak toasted sippets in a basin of broth, and slip them into the tureen after the soup is dished, lest they crumble down and destroy the brightness of the soup. This is proper whenever bread is used. Skim off any film of fat from the tureen, and serve.—Obs. Cut boiled leeks and celery in fillets like very fine straws of an inch and half in length, and cooked carrots, the red only, in thin straws, and turnips in thin slices, stamped with small pastry stamps, the whole boiled in the soup for a few minutes, and you have JuUenne-sovi^. The roots cannot be too delicately cut, and too many of them are considered vulgar. A teacupful will do for a large tureen. The carrot and celery may be cut round and round in ribbons. Spin AGE-SOUP—A very elegant and favourite mild soup d la Franqaise, is made by gently slipping a few balls of spin- age, the size of small eggs, into a tureen of clear golden brown soup : the sparkling emerald green of the spinage contrasting beautifully with the brilliant topaz hue of the soup. See from Nos. 607 to 618, French Soups,131 SCOTCH BKOWN SOUP—WHITE SOUPS. 65. The Old Scotch Brown Soup. Make the stock as directed for clear gravy-soup, but brown the meat a little more, and, when the stock is ready, put to it two pounds of rump steaks, in small cutlets, nicely browned in the frying-pan, but drained from the frying-fat. Simmer the steaks in the soup for an hour; strain it; add a small glassful of catsup, with salt, pepper, and cayenne; slip toasted sippets into the tureen, and, skimming off any filmy fat, serve the soup with the steaks in it. Without the steaks, which one now rarely sees, this is a plain hrown soup, 66. Plain White Stock for several kinds of Soup, The French Blonde de Veau, or Veal Broth, Have a large knuckle of veal broken, and to this put any fresh poultry trimmings you have, and a few slices of lean ham, a carrot, three onions, and a blade of mace. Moisten these (when laid in a nice stew-pan over which butter has been rubbed) with a little good broth or water. When the jelly is partly drawn out, and the meat tinged a little, prick it all over with a sharp knife to let the juices flow, and add more clear broth or water till you have enough. Add a bunch of parsley and onions, and a large teaspoonful of white peppercorns ; boil and skim, and when the soup is ready, skim again and carefully strain it. Cooked rice or vermicelli is put to this soup. If a white colour is wished, thicken w^ith arrow-root, and add gradually, before serving, a pint or less of hot sweet cream.—N.B. Always boil cream before putting it to any soup or sauce, and stir carefully till it again boil. Keep the soup hot in a hain marie, or pot of water. 67, The Old Scotch White Soup, or Soup a la Eeine,* Take a large knuckle of veal, well broken and soaked, a nice fowl skinned, or two chickens, a quarter-pound of well- coloured, lean, undressed bacon, two sprigs of lemon-thy me, three onions, a carrot, celery, a white turnip, and a few wdiite peppercorns, and two blades of mace. Boil for about two hours; skim repeatedly and carefully during * This soup was introduced, or rather revived in Scotland, "by Hume the historian, after his residence in Paris; see his letters to Adam Smith, on his culinary experiments, in Burton's Life of Hume.132 CHAP. VI. ^BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. that time. When the stock is well tasted, strain it off. It will form a jelly. When to be used, take off the surface- fat, clear oft' the sediment, and put the jelly into a stew-pan nicely tinned; boil for a lialf-hour, and serve on a couple of rounds of a small French roll; or with macaroni pre- viously soaked, and stewed in some soup till perfectly soft; or rice or vermicelli. This is plain White Soup. It is raised to Lorraine soup as follows :—Take a half pound of sweet almonds, blanched (that is, scalded and the husks rubbed off in a cloth), the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, and the skinned breast and white parts of a cold roast fowl; beat the almonds to a paste in a mortar, with a little water to prevent their oiling; mince very finely the fowl and eggs with some bread-crumbs. Add to this hash an English pint or more of the stock, a bit of lemon-peel, and a scrape of nutmeg; bring it to boil, and put to it a pint of boiling cream, and the rest of the stock. Let it be for a consider- able time on the very eve of boiling, that it may thicken, but take care it does not boil, lest the cream curdle. . Strain through a sieve. Two yolks of eggs beat may be substi- tuted for half the cream. 68. Potage a la Reine, or Victoria Soup, The fashionable White Soup, Take a couple of large or three small fat pullets; clean and skin them: take also two pounds or more of veal cut into pieces, and a half pound of lean ham ; put these to- gether into a very nice stew-pan, with a bunch of parsley, and moisten them with clear boiling veal broth. Let this stew softly for an hour; then soak in the broth the soft part of a penny roll; cut the flesh off the breasts and wings of the chickens; chop and poimd it to a paste in a mortar with the hard yolks of two eggs, the soaked crumbs, ten sweet almonds and three bitter, all blanched. Rub the compound into the soup; strain the whole; and add gradually a quart of sweet cream brought to boil by itself; boil it up, stirring till served. It may be further thickened, if needful, with arrow-root. The seasoning should be mild; and a bit of sugar is an improvement. Cow-heel or Calf's Feet make a good White Soup stock. Rabbits may be economically substituted for chickens, and shin of beef for veal.ONION-SOUPS. 133 69. Plain Onion-Soup. Chop a dozen large mild onions, and stew them in a small stew-pan with butter; stir them about with a wooden spoon, let them cook very gradually and not get brown. Put to this some very strong stock-broth, well seasoned; add pepper, cayenne, and salt; and, if nicer cooking is wanted, strain the soup, and put to it a pint of boiling cream. 70. Superlative Onion-Soup. Have a proper quantity of well-seasoned, clear brown gravy-soup, in which a double proportion of onions and a fagot of seasoning herbs have been boiled. To this, when strained, put a dozen middle-sized onions, sliced and crisply fried; let these stew gently in the soup, not to crumble the slices ; season with white pepper and cayenne, and serve with toasted sippets in the tureen. Button onions, cooked as for garnishing houilli^ No. 262, etc., may be used instead of large ones fried; and for those who like a full-tasted soup, this may be thickened with rice-flour, or the pulp of pease. It may, if liked, be simmered till the onions, both in substance and flavour, are thoroughly blended with the soup.—Ohs. The gusto may be heightened and the flavour varied to suit the palate of the consumer. Curry-powder was a favourite addition of the Nabob, and also a spice of ginger, which made a sort of imitation Mullagatawny, su- perior to the original, to those who dislike fork-soups and stew-soups. Dr Redgill heightened the flavour of his onion- soup with mushroom-catsup, or eschalot. As the taste for onions and garlic,* like that for olives, piquant sauces, and peppers, increases with ago, we do not, in any case, fix the precise quantity to be used, but merely give the medium. Some cooks thicken onion-soup with a liaison of the yolk of two or three eggs well beat and whisked into the soup be- fore it is dished, or with cream, as in last receipt. * Onions are supposed to possess a considerable quantity of nourish- ment. It is even asserted, that no substance of only equal bulk affords so much. This is at least doubtful. Onions in their raw state are much relished by some persons, while others find them wholly indigestible : they are very generally acceptable in soup or sauce. They used to form the favourite bon-bons of the Highlander, " who, with a few of these and an oat-cake, would," says Sir John Sinclair, " travel an incredible distance, and live for days without other food." The Egyptians adored the Onion nearly as much as the Ox: and the Spaniards have the same fondness for134 CHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. 71. Onion-Soup Maigre,—^ood Chop and fry in butter a dozen large onions, two heads of celery, and a large carrot and turnip sliced. Pulp the roots through a tammy, and put them to two quarts of boiling water thickened with six ounces of butter kneaded up with rice-flour, and seasoned with salt, mace, and white pepper. The crumb of two penny loaves may be boiled in the water instead of the rice-flour, but it must then be strained. Add bread-sippets fried in butter, and thicken with the beat yolks of four eggs. 72. Potage a la Clermont, An elegant Onion-Soup, Brown a dozen small silver onions cut in rings, of a nice golden tinge, and drain them; cook them lightly in a little broth, and stew them for twenty minutes in clear gravy- broth, coloured with veal jelly-gravy, which is an excellent material for colouring soups or sauces. Serve with toasted sippets previously soaked in the tureen. 73. Vegetable Marrow, Jerusalem Artichoke, and other Vegetable Soups. Trim and slice nice young Vegetable Marrow. Stew it in veal or fowl broth. [The liquor in which a young turkey is boiled is an excellent basis for vegetable and paste soups.] When boiled almost to a mash, press the marrow through a sieve; add boiling cream or whisked yolk of an egg when nearly cooked. Grated cocoa-nut is a good addition. Add white pepper and salt to taste. The soup may be dished on toasted sippets. Under the head Vegetable Soups, or PotageSj the French comprehend an endless variety of prep- arations, many of them maigre. Under it might also be this pungent root, whether to give savour to their rich dishes, or raw, to relish the crust from the wallet, and the draught from the brook, which form the gay repast of the poor and light-hearted sojourners one likes so much to meet with in the Spanish novels. The Scotch peasants seasoned their chappit potatoes with shred onion, and sometimes their brose ; and the grave and high authority of Mrs Hannah More recommends " an onion from their own garden, which makes everything savoury and costs nothing," to the poor of England. Soupe a I'oignon " is thought highly restorative by the French. It is considered peculiarly grateful, and gently stimulating after hard drinking or night-watching, and holds among soups the place that champagne, soda-water, or ginger-beer, does among liquors.MACARONI AND OTHER PASTE SOUPS. 135 included the Welsh Leek-porridge^ and the Scottish Nettle- kail, and Pan-kail. But these mild, wholesome, and even elegant potages are, as we have seen, not necessarily maigre. In preparing them, the main object of the cook is to have the soup of a fine clear, pale-green colour, which is obtained by the expressed juice of spinage, parsley, green onions, or pea-shell liquor, using the colouring ingredient most suitable to the nature of the soup. Vegetable soups require a good deal of pepper, and are improved by a spice of cayenne. They will not keep. If the vegetables are bitter, a bit of sugar will help to correct that quality, and is a good addi- tion.—See No. 75. These maigre vernal compositions found little favour in the eyes of the elder members of the Cleikum Club, who thought them only fit for boarding-school girls and young Cockney poets. They, however, afford an elegant and wholesome variety, and are now well prepared at the shops, like richer soups. 74. Macaroni and other Paste Soups. This elegant class of soups is coming fast into general favour and use, and is easily prepared. They are Macaroni, Vermicelli, Semoulina, Nouille, and Cagliari, and with them may be classed sago and tapioca soup, and the varieties of rice and arrow-root soups; also what is thickened with the Canna starch called Tons les mois. These soups should be of a pale sherry colour. Vermicelli-Soup.—Break two ounces of vermicelli into minute bits ; soak, blanch, and drain it; drop it lightly, and by degrees, into two quarts of clear boiling gravy-soup; scum, and stew gently for from five to ten minutes, but not so long as to run it into lumps; the French put a great deal of vermicelli and other pastes into their potages. To ver- micelli-soup they sometimes add dressed young pease or asparagus-tops. Macaroni-Soup.—Throw three ounces of fresh macaroni into boiling water; boil for eight minutes, or ten if hard; when it is done, drain and cut it into thin delicate rings, and drop it into two quarts of clear gravy-stock: serve grated Parmesan along with this, and all soups made with Italian pastes. Cagliari-Soup is made precisely as the above; but as theCHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. 136 paste is here ready prepared in stars, rings, Maltese crosses, etc., etc., it needs no cutting, and looks very pretty. Semoulina-Soup,—Semoulina is an excellent preparation of the finest wheat. Make the soup as Vermicelli above ; but more of the Semoulina may be used, and it must also be dropt carefully and by slow degrees, not to get into lumps; to prevent which, stir diligently till it is ready, which will be in from twenty to thirty-five minutes. Semoulina makes an excellent pudding: Soujee smd.Manna-croup are very similar to Semoulina, but are chiefly used for the food of infants and invalids. All these soups form elegant potages, when made with clear, colourless gravy; or if thickened, and boiling cream gradually added, when about to be served. Sago and Tapioca. — Potages are sometimes made with these substances : wash, drain, and stew them in gravy- soup, or whatever sort of rich stock you choose ; good fresh broth in which beef, mutton, or veal has been boiled, answers very well. Sago must be simmered for an hour, and tapioca rather longer. Both first soaked for an hour. If a thick potage is wanted, give two ounces to every quart of soup ; if a fine soup, add wine and sugar to taste to the usual seasonings. Ohs, All of the above soups may be made in a higher style, with rich and very clear veal or fowl gravy-soup : or cheaply and plainly with any kind of fresh broth that would otherwise be lost. The French often serve Quenelles of chicken, etc., in them. Grated Parmesan should accompany all the paste-soups. Imitation of Italian Pastes and Nouille.—If not so fine as the original pastes, these have the advantage of being much cheaper, and are sure to be fresh. Make a paste with the yolks of half-a-dozen eggs, and the whites of two, and as much of the very finest dry flour as it will take to knead, and roll out smoothly. "Work it well, that it may be tena- cious ; roll out as thinly as possible ; cut into fillets about an inch and a half wide ; dust and rub these strips with flour: and laying them on paper, four or five above each other, cut into the thinnest straws or fibres; or it may be stamped out like the Cagliari paste with fine pastry-cut- ters. Separate the strips or shapes of paste, and dry them till pretty firm, when drop gently into boiling soup (like137 PEASE-SOUP. broken vermicelli), and, taking care they do not run together, boil for ten minutes and serve the soup. Good French cooks put nutmeg and white pepper to the paste. Rasped cocoa-nut we consider a fine ingredient in these soups if made as white potages ; and if cocoa-nut is used in white soup, made of veal or fowl stock, it takes a name from the nut, and is Cocoa-Soup. Cream should be added, and wine 7na^, with sufficient cayenne, and a bit of sugar. 75. Green Pease-Soup,—Ifae^re. Have shelled fully three pints of fresh-gathered marrowy pease. In shelling, separate the old from the young. Melt half a pound of fresh butter in a stew-pan, put to it four imperial pints of boiling water, a slice of bread, a quart of shelled pease, using the old ones, some roughly-chopped green onions, spinage, and green lettuce, salt, and two dozen corns of white and Jamaica pepper. Stew till the pease will pulp back into the liquor from which they are strained ; or they may be pounded in a mortar. To this add a pint more of young pease, the white of a lettuce chopped, and, if ap- proved, a sliced cucumber, first sprinkling the slices with salt, soaking and draining them. If the soup is thought too thin, add arrow-root or rice-flour; if too maigre, allow more butter ; if not green enough, add a little spinage chopped, or a glass of green spinage-liquor, made by par- boiling and squeezing the vegetable. Stew for half an hour, but do not let the soup boil, or the green colour will become a tawny yellow. Green shred mint in a very small quantity may be added to flavour the soup five minutes before it is dished. Serve with dice of fried bread.—Obs, This summer soup may be made gras from the liquor in which chickens, lamb, fowl, veal, or mutton have been boiled. If the pease are not quite young and sweet, a little sugar may be em- ployed, and consequently less salt. Pease, fresh gathered and quickly cooked, are as superior to those exposed in the market as is a fresh-caught herring or mackerel from one two days old. Cliantilly Soup is made by boiling for a minute or two a puree of these delicate pease in seasoned stock. 76. Green Asparagus-Soup. Make this as No. 75. Slice and pulp the thick part of the cooked asparagus; put the other part, cut into niceCHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GPvAVIES. 138 points, and dressed, into tlie strained soup before serving ; or substitute fried bread cut into dice.—Ohs. Adding con- somme to cold dressed young pease [petits pois) or asparagus, will, with thickening and seasoning, make a good and eco- nomical extempore Potage, 77. An excellent ^ovo^—Maigre, Melt a half-pound of butter very slowly, and put to it four onions sliced, a head of celery, and a carrot and tur- nip cut down. When the vegetables have fried in the butter for a quarter of an hour, and are browned on all sides, put to them nearly three quarts of boiling water, and a pint and a half of young pease, with twelve white and Jamaica peppercorns. When the vegetables are quite ten- der, let the soup stand to clear from the sediment, and strain it into a clean stew-pan. If not yet sufficiently transparent, let it stand an hour, and turn it carefully over. When it boils, put to it three onions shred, or five young ones ; a head of celery cut in fillets, carrots sliced, or cut as wheels or stars, and turnips scooped the size of marbles. When the vegetables are enough done, without the soup getting ropy from their disso- lution, the soup is finished. This and all savoury vegetable soups are, we think, the better of a spice of cayenne."^ 78. The best Yellow Pease-Soup. To a pound and a half of split-[- pease, soaked and floated^ to separate the bad ones, and, if very hard, soaked again for two hours in a quart of lukewarm water, add three quarts of very soft water, and three pounds of neck or shin beef, or of any sincAvy, lean, gelatinous piece, or trimmings of meat or poultry ; a slice of bacon, or a knuckle of either a bacon or mutton ham scalded (the root of a tongue salted a little, and well soaked to draw out all the slime, does very well) ; two well-sized carrots, two turnips, and four large or six * Always rub down cayenne with some liquid before using it, as you would avoid spasm of the windpipe.—P. T. f Whole pease are often sweeter and better than those which are split. In country families that study economy, pease of the grey kind are often shelled at the mill, and used as white boilers. The colour is not so fine, but the soup is equally good, if not better. Pease will mellow better in the pot, if first soaked a night, and then allowed to dry. They may be broken in a mill. New and excellent kinds are coming into use. We have seen the " Glasgoia Brosc-meaV^ used to advantage in thickening Pease and even Mullagatawny soups. It is a high-toasted, very fine-pea flour.139 PEASE-SOUP. smaller onions. When this has been skimmed, and has sim- mered slowly for about an hour and a half, taking care that it does not stick to the bottom of the pot, add another quart of boiling water, or any fresh pot-liquor in which poultry or meat has been boiled. Simmer again till the pease are com- pletely dissolved. Pour the soup into a sieve set over an earthen pan or stew-pot, and pulp the pease through w^ith a wooden spoon, taking back some strained soup to moisten what remains till the whole mash is pulped through. Add salt, white pepper, and the onions well pulped, to the strained soup; a head of fresh celery shred roughly, or a small dessert- spoonful of the bruised seed (which communicates the flavour in a strong degree) tied uj) in a muslin bag, which (we need not say) must be lifted out when the soup is dished. Sim- mer the soup for a half-hour or three-quarters, if too thin. Pour it into the tureen, and either throw in toasted bread, cut into dice or diamonds, or serve the dice on a plate : many, as in onion-soup, like curry seasoning. Stir up the soup the moment before it goes to the table. Butter lightly fried with flour may be used to enrich this soup. For Pease- POTAGE double the quantity of pease is required. — Ohs. This, though neither the most expensive nor elegant of soups, is a favourite family-dish for nine months of the year. It can be made of an inferior sort of anything that is whole- some. A rump-bone, the bones of meat used for pies, trimmings of a roast, etc., are all excellent. Roast beef- bones, if not stale nor charred, a hock of ham, or fresh drip- ping, answer very well; also the liquor in which salt meat is boiled—or part of it—Avith the exception of that of fat rancid pork, which, save in cases of stern necessity, cannot be tolerated by us. When pease-soup is made of shreds and patches of meat, more onion or celery and pepper should be used to overcome the flavour of what constitutes the basis of the soup. The grated red of carrot we think a great improvement to this and potato-soup. A very convenient way of making common pease-soup is, to have pease-pudding without eggs, boiled, ready to mix with the liquor in which meat or fowls are dressed. The above seasonings are then to be added, and the soup may be enriched with butter, or clarified fresh dripping, thickened as above directed, and finished in an hour. Dried mint or dried parsley is some- times rubbed and strewed into this soup, or chopped spinagc.140 CHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. Witliliolding the onions and celery, and substituting aspara- gus-points, makes pease-soup an excellent plain asparagus- soup. By tlie addition of Curry-powder, Dr Hunter, the author of Culina^ made Curry Pease-soup. Dr Redgill added square bits of fried bacon, cayenne, fried onions or cucumber, and concocted a soup of the Composite Order, which, in compliment to the inventor, was named by the Club, E-edgill's Pease-soup^ Haul Gout 79. Pease-Pudding. Marrowy melters^ whether whole or split, are far the best pease for the cook. Soak a pint the necessary length of time: boil them in the softest water tied loosely in a cloth till they will pulp through a colander. Add salt, pepper, two beat eggs, and a good piece of butter; tie up firmly in a floured cloth, and boil (with pork if boiling) for another half hour; hang the cloth before the fire till the pudding gets firm, then turn it out. 80. Potato-Soup. This cheap and favourite homely soup may be made of the same materials as Pease-soup^ or of any liquor in which meat has been boiled, or of roast-beef bones, etc.; a hock of ham, or shank of mutton-ham, or any thing of this kind, may be advantageously used to flavour and enrich it. Season with grated carrot, onions, celery, or parsley, and either thicken with mashed potatoes, or suffer the potatoes, pre- viously pared and parboiled, to fall to a mash in the soup. N.B.—Where small country families kill a sheep now and then for winter-store, what is salted, though it would not make even tolerable broth, will make a very palatable pease or potato soup, with any of the above seasonings. 81. To Grill Crusts for Soups and Cheese. Put the cut crusts upon a small wire gridiron over hot cinders to crisp. When done, wet the inside with top-fat, and sprinkle a little salt over them, and slip them into the tureen; or crisp them over a furnace, wetting with good stock. Crusts for Toasted Cheese.—Pull rough pieces from a quite new loaf, and brown them in the oven or before the fire. N.B.—If you put untoasted bread into boiling soup, it will swell, crumble, and spoil the appearance of the soup.141 SOUP Am STE¥, OE MOUTHFUL SOUPS. By the above names the reader is to understand all soups in which meat, fowl, or fish, cut in mouthfuls, is dressed and served. Such for example, are Mock-turtle Soup, Kidney, Ox-tail, Lobster-soup, Oyster-soup, etc. This is a division which -we think was wanted in books that treat of the culinary art. This important class, be it noticed, comprehends not only the Oriental Mullagatawny and the oleaginous Ox-rump, but even the spicy and luscious Turtle. [We give no receipt for dressing Turtle, an affair on which a volume might be written, so complicated and various are the processes. Rousseau tells of a German who composed a whole volume on the zest of a lemon. What then might not be said on that which comprehends all zests,—" The Sovereign of Savouriness," the Olio compounded " of every creature's best! " As none but thorough-bred men of science are ever intrusted with dressing a Turtle, the Cleikum Club did not presume to instruct them, and thought the receipts found in cookery books for this article merely so many make-bulks. Female cooks are excellent in their own way; but no woman ever yet succeeded in writing an Epic or dressing a Turtle.—P. T.] 82. MuUagatawny-Soup. Break and wash a knuckle of good veal, and put it to boil in nearly three quarts of water, with a quarter-ounce of white and Jamaica peppercorns. Place tinned skewers in the bottom of the stew-pan, to prevent the meat from sticking to it. Put also a few slices of streaky bacon, if the flavour is admired. Skim this stock carefully when it comes to boil, and let it simmer an hour and a half before straining it off. Cut three pounds of breast of veal into cubes of about an inch and fourth, and add trimmings, bones, and gristles of the breast, to the water in which the knuckle is put to boil. Fry the cubes of veal and six sliced onions in a stew-pan, of a delicate brown. Put the strained stock to them ; skim carefully, and when the soup and meat have simmered three quarters of an hour, rub two large spoonfuls of curry-powder, and the same quantity of lightly-browned flour or Glasgow brose-meal, to a smooth batter; add these to the soup, with salt, pepper, cayenne, and lemon-juice, to taste, and simmer till the meat is quite tender.—Obs, This142 CHAP. Vr.—BROTHS, SOUP?, AND GRAVIES. soup may be made, still more expensively, of chickens cut in pieces, of rabbits, or small mutton cutlets all first browned ; but is best when made of well-fed veal. For East Indian palates, eschalots, mace, and ginger may be employed, and, more elegantly, pickled mangoes and grated cocoa-nut: the quantity must be left to the discretion of the cook.—gee Mullagatawny as made in India^ Nos. 757-9 ; also No. 98. N.B.—Curry^ or Mullagatawny soup, may be varied in fifty ways. Calfs Head, for example, prepared as for Mock- Turtle, and treated as above, makes admirable Mullagatawny. Boiled rice is always served with this soup. A Vegetable Mullagatawny is made maigre with butter, or gras with veal stock, by boiling and pulping chopped vegetable marrow, cucumbers, onions, and tomatoes ; and seasoning with curry- powder and cayenne. Good stock, nice bits of meat, and the curry seasonings, are the essentials. 83. Mock-Turtle, or Calf's Head Soup. Scald the head of a middle-sized, well-fed, cow-calf, with the skin on; split it and take out the brains and the gristles and bones of the nose, blanch it well in several waters, to draw out the slime. Place it in a stew-pan, and cover it with cold water; bring it to the boil, and skim without in- termission while any scum continues to arise. When the head has boiled gently for three quarters of an hour, take it out, and as soon as cold enough to cut, carve the skin and fat parts, laying aside the fleshy, into small neat pieces, in the shape of diamonds, dice, triangles, etc. Peel the tongue, and cut it into cubes of an inch square. Meanwhile, put the broken bones and trimmings of the head into your stock-pot, with a large knuckle of veal well broken, and three or four pounds of a shin of beef well soaked. Let this boil very slowly, having carefully skimmed it, for at least four hours, and take care it does not stick to the bottom of the pot; then strain for future use, and lay aside a quart of the stock for gravy. This much may be done the evening before the soup is wanted. When the soup is to be finished, take off, as in all cases, the cake ot fat which will have formed on the top, and put the stock, holding back the sediment, into a large stew-pan. If the stock is good, it will be a jelly. When it is again skimmed, put to it a dozen onions sliced, and143 MOCK-TURTLE SOUP. browned in the frying-pan, with a lialf dozen sprigs of fresh mild sage, also chopped and fried. Thicken the soup with butter kneaded in browned flour, or with browned roux; and season highly with white and Jamaica pepper, a little cayenne, two blades of mace, an eschalot, four leaves of fresh basil, and the thin parings of one large or two small lemons. When the soup is strong and well coloured, strain it gently through a sieve into a fresh stew-pan; put the hash of the head to it, and heat. Add Madeira when it is nearly finished, in the proportion of a half-glassful to the quart.* When to be dished, slip in two dozen of small forcemeat balls, made of veal or veal-kidney, minced parsley, crumbs, egg, and the seasonings directed for Quenelles (See French Cookery)^ well fried, and drained; also a dozen yolks of hard-boiled eggs made into egg-balls, No. 86, and the juice of two lemons squeezed through a strainer. Ohs. A small piece of bacon used to be put into the stock-pot; and a fagot of sweet herbs and mushrooms are still occasionally added to this soup. The imitation of the real Turtle-soup was formerly thought nearer, when the soup abounded in bits of the fat double tripe, gristly bits of veal, or veal sweetbread parboiled, or the belly-piece of pickled pork cut in mouthfuls, the soft part of oysters, pickled tongue parboiled and cut down, the meat of lobsters, etc. These cloying substances are now very generally discarded. Simplicity is the taste of the day, though much is left to the discretion of the cook in making Mock-Turtle, and all soups of the Com- posite Order. The quantity made by the above directions is fully more than will be wanted for an ordinary dinner, as it will fill two tureens; but part of the stock may be laid aside for gravy or sauces ; and if there is too much hash^ some of it may be highly seasoned and dressed as a ragout or jpie. Mock-Turtle may be greened^ if that is wished, by stewing a large handful of chopped spinage or green herbs in butter, and putting some of the soup to them; then rubbing this green liquor through a sieve and putting it to green the soup. We do not recommend it. 84. A Cheaper and very Excellent Mock-Turtle Soup. This is made of calf s feet or cow-heels, gently stewed, the broth strained, and the best of the meat cut down as above, and put to it, with a seasoning of white pepper, allspice, onion, cayenne, a little mushroom or walnut cut sup, a squeeze of lemon, and a glass of Madeira. Or the wine and expensive seasonings may be withheld, and the soup be very good without them. * Madeira or Sherry is the wine commonly employed; but Burgundy or Claret may be used, where more depth of colour is wanted.CHAP. VI.—BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. 144 85. Baked Mock-Turtle Soup. This is good, easily prepared, and generally liked. Put a broken knuckle of veal, or the gristly ends of two knuckles, into a deep earthen pan, with two cow-heels, the half of a calf's head broken, four onions, a dozen of pepper- corns, three blades of mace, and a few sprigs of lemon- thyme, eschalot, or any other flavouring substance that is best relished by those for whom the soup is prepared. Fill up the dish with water or weak broth ; tie several folds of paper over the mouth of it, and set it in an oven for up- Avards of two hours. When it is cold, take off the fat from the jelly, cut the meat into mouthfuls, and stew it with the clear jelly till perfectly tender. Wine, spiceries, catsup, forcemeat balls as in the former receipts, or whatever is approved of, may be added, if a soup of haut gout be wanted; or it may be seasoned with only a little mushroom-catsup, and served plain. The French often make their Mock- Turtle soup stock of the trimmings of flsh and mutton knuckles, etc., using meat full of gelatine. They clarify the stock [see note to No. 63, To clarify Stock) and boil it so much down that, when cool, it will bear the Madeira on its surface. They cook the parboiled head in white sauce, and then proceed as above directed, only using more hard- boiled yolks of eggs. 86. To Make Egg-Balls for Mock-Turtle Soup. Pound a sufficient quantity of the yolks of hard-boiled eggs in a mortar, with as much raw yolk and flour as will bind the composition. Add salt, and make up in the form of balls the size of a marble. Put at least two dozen to a tureen of soup. 87. Scotch Hare, Rabbit, or Game Soup,—Excellent. Skin and clean the hare thoroughly, saving the blood. Cut a dozen or more of very small chops from the back, shoulders, and rump. Put what remains of the hare and the bones into a pot, with four pounds of fresh shin or neck of beef, four quarts of water, a couple of turnips, two car- rots, six middle-sized onions, a half ounce of black and Jamaica peppercorns, an ounce of salt, a fagot of sweetSCOTCH HARE, RABBIT, OR GAME SOUP. 145 herbs, and a large head of celery. Boil for three hours and strain. Brown the small chops nicely in a saute-ipsjij and add them to the strained stock, and simmer for an hour and a half. Strain the blood; rub it with flour, rice-flour, or arrow-root, and a half pint of the soup, as if making starch; add more hot soup, and put the whole into the soup, which must be kept only at the point of boiling for ten minutes, lest the blood curdle. The soup may be farther thickened with the parboiled liver, pounded in a mortar with the pieces of hare boiled for stock. When enough done, skim, put in a glass of catsup, and one or more of red wine, what more salt, pepper, and cayenne is required, and also essence of celery. Serve with the hare-steaks in the tureen.—Obs. Red wine, in the proportion of a quarter-pint to a tureen of soup, is reckoned an improvement by some gourmands; and those of the old school still like a large spoonful of currant-jelly dissolved in the soup. Hare-soup may be made by cutting down the ingredients and placing them in an earthen jar, in a kettle of boiling water, for four hours, and then managing as above. Cold roast hare, not over- done, cut to pieces and stewed for an hour in good and highly-seasoned broth, will make an excellent, but not the highest flavoured Hare-soup. (See Civet ofHare, No. 617.) You may lay aside as much of the fleshy part of a good hare as will make a handsome dish of hare-cakes, or minced collops, garnished with sippets; or as will make forcemeat balls for the soup.—Cold roast kare^ game, or veal, will all of them, if cut down, and slowly stewed for an hour in broth, or in a gravy drawn from their bones, or even in boiling water, thickened with brown flour, kneaded in butter, and rather highly seasoned with onions, pepper, and cayenne, make a very palatable family Steiv-soup, Many prefer this mode of re-dressing cold meat to either hashing oy fricasseeing. The burnt outside, skins, and every thing unfit for the tureen, should first be trimmed away; or, if these are boiled to make the stock, it must be strained before the hashed meat is added to it. 88. Modern or English Hare-Sonp. In England the blood is not generally used: cut down the hare into nice pieces, and stew these with a pound of good lean of ham, four onions, stuck with four cloves, four G146 CHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. blades of mace, a bay-leaf or two, a fagot of parsley, with two or three sprigs of basil, thyme, marjoram, and a head of celery. Simmer slowly in a little strong stock-broth; and when the juices are well drawn out, add more stock, till two quarts are in. Simmer for another hour at least, and strain the soup. Take the best of the meat from the bones, pound it, moistening with a little of the soup. Pound also some soaked crumb of bread, or use rice-flour, and put this to the soup, which must now be boiled up, seasoned to your taste with pepper, salt, cayenne, catsup, and red wine; or, for variety, keep the best pieces, if the hare be large, to serve in the tureen, cut into mouthfuls, and pound and pulp the others, which added, will make the soup have quite enough of consistence; more celery may be given, or a seasoning of the seed bruised, and tied in a muslin bag. The best pieces to serve are fillets cut off along the back- bone, which need not be boiled nearly so long as the other parts, if to be thus served. 89. Pigeon-Soup, or Game-Soup. Make a clear gravy-stock of four pounds of lean beef, or scrag and shanks of mutton, two small turnips, celery, two onions, and four quarts of water boiled down to three. Put to this stock the gizzards, crops, and livers of four or five pigeons or partridges, or a pheasant. The birds must be neatly trussed as for boiling, seasoned inside with ground white pepper and salt, and flattened on the breast. We prefer them divided, using the trimmings for stock. Dredge them with flour, and brown them nicely in a frying-pan. Thicken the stock with butter kneaded in browned flour; strain and season it with white pepper, salt, and a little mace, and let the pigeons stew in it for twenty-five minutes or more, taking off the scum as it rises. Throw a few toasted sippets into the tureen before dishing the soup. Either of the above receipts applies to joints of rabbits, which make a good soup, with suitable seasonings. 90. Superlative Game-Soup, or Venison-Soup. This soup is made of all sorts of black or red game, or of venison or wild rabbits. Skin the birds, carve and trim them neatly, and fry the pieces along with a few small slices of lean ham, sliced onions, carrots, and turnips, a little of147 OX-HEAD SOUP. each. Strain, and stew the meat gently for an hour in good fresh veal or beef stock-broth, with a head of celery cut in nice bits, a little minced parsley, and what seasonings you like.—Very small steaks of venison may be fried, as the birds, and stewed in the broth; and if the stock is made of any venison trimmings, it will be an advantage both in flavour and strength.—Ohs. Jamaica pepper and cloves are suitable seasonings; celery, from its nutty flavour, is a proper vegetable for hare and game soups. Take out the ham before dishing. Careme likes turkey and turkey- giblets better for game-soup, than either pheasants or par- tridges. The pot-liquor of boiled turkey is too often wasted in English kitchens. 91. Ox-head Soup. Called Hessian-Soup and Ragout^ Clean, rub with salt, and afterwards soak in salt and lukewarm water for four hours, the half of a fat bullock's head, and a cow-heel. Wash them well, and break and put them into a large pot with seven quarts of water and a spoonful of salt. Skim very carefully, and retard the boil- ing by throwing in a quart of cold water, which will throw up more scum. When the meat is tender, but not over- done, take it out and strain the broth. When cold, take off the cake of fat,^ and the oil below it, and put to the soup a pound of pease. When it has boiled an hour, add six carrots, four turnips, half a dozen onions, a bunch of parsley, and a dessert-spoonful of celery-seed tied up in muslin. Season witk pepper, salt, and cayenne, and boil till the vegetables are tender. This makes an excellent broth, nutritious and palatable, and the cut meat may either be served in it, or as a ragout. But a little more trouble fits this dish to appear at any family-dinner, and entitles it, made thus, to the appellation of Hessian-Soup and Ragout:—When the pease and vegetables put in the soup, as above described, are soft enough to pulp, strain it, and rub them through a sieve to the soup, which will now be nearly of the consistency of thin pease-soup. If not thickened enough, add flour or This is the preparation on which Young Mrs Roberts was wrecked at the first of her famous " Three Christmas Dinners."—See Edinhurqh Tales. t This will keep for frying, make a cheap soup, or Scotch Icail-brose or hrewis.148 CHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. rice-flour well mixed, and heat the soup, adding white pepper and cayenne to taste, and a head of celery sliced. The ragout or hash is made by cutting into mouthfuls the best parts of the head and cow-heel, seasoning highly with mixed spices, a little walnut-catsup, and a teaspoonful of made-mustard, with a pint and a half of the clear stock of the head, saved for this purpose when the soup is strained. —Ohs. Soy, forcemeat balls, wine, etc., are all ordered for this ragout in some approved books of cookery; but we consider such expensive ingredients quite out of place in a preparation which is cheap, good, and savoury, but never can be delicate. The meat that remains may either be eaten as a plain stew, added to the soup, or else potted in a mould, in the Scotch fashion, and used either turned out cold, or heated, as stew-soup. 92. Calf's-head Soup. Rub the half of a large head with salt, soak it for some hours, and, when thoroughly clean, put it on with as much fresh water or fresh pot-liquor as will cover it, and with an onion stuck with cloves, and some parsley. When well skimmed and boiled for an hour, take out the head and strain the soup. Cut the head into nice mouthfuls, about two inches long and one thick, and dress these as a ragout, or put them to stew in the soup. Season with white pepper, mace, and herbs. Curry-powder, and other fit seasonings make this very good Mullagatawny.—See Dressed Calf's Head, Nos. 83 and 84. 93. A Pepper Pot * This is understood to be a sort of clear larder, or wash- day's family dinner-dish, composed of all sorts of shreds and patches. It ought properly, if fine cookery is sought, to be an Olio, composed of a due admixture of meat, fish, fowl, vegetables, and roots. To three quarts of water put a couple of pounds, cut, of whatever vegetables are plentiful (a good proportion being onions), and a couple of pounds of mutton-scrag cut into three or four pieces; or a fowl, or a piece of veal, or lean bacon, and a little rice. Skim it; * *' Where every thing that every soldier got, Fowl, bacon, cabbage, mutton, and what not, Was thrown into one bank, and went to pot."149 KNUCKLE OF VEAL AND GIBLET SOUPS. and, when nearly finished, add the meat of a lobster or crab, cut in bits, or the soft part of a few oysters, or yolk of hard-boiled eggs. Take off all the fat that rises, and season highly with pepper and cayenne. Serve in a deep dish. 94. Knuckle of Veal Soup. An excellent Scotch Soup, Take a large knuckle, or if small, add a piece of the scrag. Break the bones and wash it; place skewers in the stew-pan to keep the meat from sticking; cover it and no more with water; put in a head of celery, a sprig of lemon- thyme, three onions, a carrot, a turnip, a bunch of parsley, and a dozen white and Jamaica peppercorns; simmer till the knuckle is tender. Strain the soup. Cut the gristly parts of the knuckle and all that is good into mouthfuls, and put to it a seasoning of white pepper, and mace in powder, and rice-flour to thicken, if it is wished.—Obs, This soup may be made with rice or vermicelli; or the stewed uncut knuckle may be served in the soup or sepa- rately ; for many like to pick the gristles, a " pleasing toil," instead of having the meat cut for them by the cook. Some gourmands admire veal stew-soup made of the Irish Staggering-Bob,—that is, an infant calf, whose bones are still gristle, and his flesh a jelly. The breast, knuckle, and shoulder-blade, are best for this purpose, and the soup is seasoned with mace, and, when finished, thickened with a liaison of the yolks of three eggs. 95. Giblet-Soup.* Take from two to three pounds of shin of beef, or of shanks and scrag of mutton, or knuckle of veal, or a part of each, as may be found most convenient; a small fagot of sweet herbs, carrots, turnips, and a little parsley : a quarter * This was one of those pretending dishes of which Mistress Dods em- phatically said, " Boil stanes in hutter, and the broth will be gude." When plainly made, as directed in the above receipt, it affords an agreeable variety for a family-dinner, and is an economical way of using what might otherwise be wasted. Wine is ordered for giblet-soup in the most approved cookery books; and we have no wish to restrain the fancies of a gourmand, however extravagant; but Mistress Dods strongly protested against bestow- ing Madeira on goose-horns and pinions. French cooks dress giblets as a haricot, wrapping them in layers of bacon, in which they are stewed. When done and drained, the bacon is of course laid aside, and the sauce is skimmed, thickened, and poured over the giblets.150 CHAP. VI. BEOTHS, SOUB«, AND GRAVIES. ounce of black or Jamaica peppercorns, and three quarts of water. When this has simmered for an hour, put to it two pair of goose-giblets, or four pair of duck-giblets—but turkey- giblets if you can—scalded and cleaned, and previously browned in the frying-pan (if you choose), with minced onion. When the giblets are stewed delicately tender, but not soft and insipid, take them up, and cut them neatly into mouthfuls. The soup must now be thickened with butter kneaded in a large spoonful of flour, or with roux, or with the top-fat gradually mixed with flour, and strained into a fresh stew-pan, into which put the giblets. Boil, skim, and season with a large spoonful of mushroom-catsup, salt, and a little cayenne. Serve with the cut giblets in the tureen. Beans, lettuce, and celery, separately boiled, may be added at pleasure ; and we especially approve of celery. 96. Ox-tail and Kidney Soups. Two tails, or, if small, three, will make a large tureen of soup. Let the butcher divide them at the joints. Rub them with salt, and soak them well and long in lukewarm water. Place them in a stew-pan, with a pound of ham, four onions or more, a bunch of parsley, celery, two dozen of Jamaica and black peppercorns (or a half-ounce, if high peppering is wanted), a turnip and a carrot or two sliced, and three quarts of water. When the meat is tender, which will take at least three hours, cut it into small mouthfuls, laying aside the ham. Thicken the soup with a little browned flour, rubbed up with a ladleful of the top-fat; strain it into a fresh stew-pan, put in the cut meat, boil up, and skim ; and finish with a spoonful of mushroom-catsup, and pepper and cayenne to taste.— Ohs. Ox-tails make a very excellent onion-soup, by adding to it, when strained, a dozen fried onions pulped, and thickening it with rice-flour. The tails cut to bits may be put to boil at once, and less or no ham used. Some cooks add red wine ; then less catsup is needed.—See No. 400. Kidney-Soup : Prepare Scotch kidney eoUops as directed, No. 398, using two ox-kidneys. When cooked for two hours, add suflicient stock to make the stew and soup, adding cayenne and catsup to taste, and thicken with browned flour rolled in butter.151 POACHER^S SOUP. 97, Poacher's Soup, Or Soup ci la Meg Merrilies^—simple and admirable. This savoury and highly-relishing sylvan stew-soup may be made of any or every thing known by the name of game, if fresh. Take from two to four pounds of the trimmings or coarse parts of venison, shin of beef, or knuckles or lean scrag of good mutton—all fresh. If game is plentiful, use no meat. Break the bones, and boil this in five pints of water, with celery, a couple of carrots and turnips, four onions, a bunch of parsley, and a quarter-ounce of pepper- corns, the larger portion Jamaica pepper. Strain this stock when it has simmered for three hours. Have ready cut down a black-cock, or wood-cock, a pheasant, half a hare, or a rabbit, a brace of partridges or grouse, or one of each (whichever is obtained most easily—a mixture is best), and season the pieces with mixed spices. These may be floured and browned in the frying-pan ; but as this is a process dictated by the eye as much as the palate, it is not necessary in making this soup. Put the cut game to the strained stock, with a dozen of small onions, a couple of heads of celery sliced, half a dozen peeled potatoes, or an ounce of rice- flour, and, when it boils, a very small white cabbage quar- tered ; black pepper, allspice, and salt, to taste. Let the soup simmer till the game is tender, but not overdone; and lest it should, the vegetables may be boiled half an hour before the meat.—Ohs. This soup may be coloured and flavoured with red wine and two spoonfuls of mushroom catsup, and enriched with forcemeat balls; but we think it best plain. Forcemeat balls are getting out of favour: they are considered indigestible, not without reason.^' Soups in which catsup is mixed should not be fully salted till the cat- sup is added, as it contains so much salt itself. * The Club were at variance on the above original receipt. The refined Jekyll declared for the simple racy flavour of the rude sylvan cheer; WiNTERBLOSSOM liked the addition of forcemeat-balls and catsup; and the Doctor—hovering between the tureens, like Macheath between his rival charmers—laid his ears deeply in both, but when compelled to decide, from habitual reverence for soups as they are, voted for the plain soup, as origi- nally swallowed with so much unction by Dominie Sampson. f Stew-soups, when not made cloyingly rich nor over-seasoned, as they always are by those whose trade it is to compound cordials to stimulate and pamper palled appetites and indurated palates, are, for common and general purposes, the most easy, economical, wholesome, and nutritious152 CHAF. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. 98. A Cheap Bice and Meat or Curry Soup. Boil from three to four pounds of a good ox-clieek, very well soaked and cleaned, in three quarts of water, with four onions, and a small fagot of pot-herbs. Strain it; cut the meat in small pieces, and stew it with six ounces of blanched rice, adding pepper and salt. This cheap stew-soup may be seasoned with curry-powder and mace ; or made after a finer fashion with fowls, knuckle of veal, or two cow-heels.—See No. 82. form in which food can be prepared. This is that combination of fluids and solids, animal and vegetable substances, with condiments, which forms a mixture well fitted to the human stomach, and calculated to promote health and impart strength. The prejudice which exists in England against soups as not promotive of strength, ought to give way before stew-soups. It has been gravely contended of late, that human life cannot be supported on soups, however rich, without solid animal food; and experiments are quoted where a dog kept on the richest soup died, while another which was fed on meat boiled to chips, and water, retained health and strength. To these experiments may be opposed the living example of the peasantry of Ireland and Scotland, and other countries, who hardly ever see animal food in any form, and yet enjoy health and strength. " The greatest heroes of antiquity," says Sir John Sinclair, lived on broth." The liquor in which their mutton or venison was boiled, thickened with a little oatmeal, and seasoned perhaps with a few wild herbs, formed the morning tea and cofiee in the hall of the Highland Chief, before the introduction of these commodities. It is impossible to say on what men will not live,—ay, and enjoy health too ;—shell-fish, Iceland moss, mushrooms, snails, and an end- less variety of substances, have been known to sustain life and health,— not to mention fricassees of old shoes and leather breeches, to which ship-* wrecked mariners have often had recourse. Our readers cannot have for- gotten Sir Bevis of Hampdoun in his dungeon, of whom— " Kats, and mice, and such small deer, Was the food for full seven year." This to be sure is solid animal food, and favours the theory of the modern experimenters ; but again, we have Dr Franklin's old Catholic lady, who lived solely on water-gruel, and yet enjoyed health. There has lately started up in England, we are told, a newfangled religious sect, who, from an absurd reading of the commandment, " Thou shalt not kill," renounce the use of animal food, and enjoy high health on their vegetable regimen. It is indeed great presumption to limit the powers of the human stomach, in assimilating and turning to healthful chyle whatever is, in discretion and without violent and sudden change, submitted to its action. Of this important organ, " the master of the family," it holds as strongly as of the palate, that " What is one man's meat is another man's poison:" " Ghaque pays, chaque coutumey The Tartar feeds on horse-flesh, the Chinese on dog's, the Greenlander on fish-garbage, with the luxurious sauce of train-oil. The Frenchman and German feast on frogs and snails, and the ancients valued asafcetida as much as the moderns do curry-powder, or Burgess's fish-sauce.—r. T.SCOTCH BARLEY-BROTII. 153 99. Scotch Barley-Broth, with Boiled Mutton or Beef, Served as Bouilli Ordinaire, To from three to six pounds of beef, or mutton, according to the quantity of soup wanted, put cold water in the pro- portion of a quart to the pound,—a quarter-pound of Scotch barley, or more or less as may suit the meat and the water, and some salt, unless the meat is already slightly salted. To this put a large breakfast-cupful of soaked white or split pease, unless in the season when fresh green pease are to be had cheap, a larger quantity of which must be put in with the other vegetables, using less barley. Skim very carefully as long as any scum rises; then draw aside the pot, and let the broth simmer slowly for an hour, at which time put to it two young carrots and turnips cut in dice, and two or three onions sliced. Five minutes before the broth is ready, add a little parsley, picked and chopped. The white part of three small leeks may be used instead of the onions, and a head of celery sliced, instead of the parsley seasoning; celery requires longer boiling. For beef-broth a small quantity of greens roughly shred, and the best part of four or five small leeks cut in inch lengths, are better suited than turnip, carrot, and parsley, which are more adapted to mutton. If there is danger of the meat being overdone before the broth is properly lithed^ i. e, thickened by boiling, it may be taken up, covered for half an hour, and returned into the pot to heat through before it is dished. Garnish the bouilli with carrot and turnip boiled in the broth, and divided; or pour over it caper-sauce, or parsley and butter, or a sauce made of pickled cucumbers, or nasturtiums, heated in melted butter, or in a little clear broth, with a teaspoonful of made- mustard and another of vinegar. Parsley, parboiled for two minutes and minced, may also be strewed over bouilli,—or a sprinkling of boiled carrot cut in very small dice or straws. Obs. This is the comfortable Pot au-feu of Scotland, which still furnishes the Manse and the Farmhouse dinner, and the " Pot-luck" of homely and hearty old-world hospitality. The pieces of fresh beef best adapted for barley-broth are the shin, the brisket, the flank, and the veiny piece,—of mutton, the neck, the ribs, and the knuckle. In some parts of the " Land of Kail," broth made of fresh beef would scarcely be tolerated,—the meat not at all; and unquestionably the brisket or flank, when salted for a week, makes excellent broth, while the meat eats better. Many, however, prefer fresh meat. An economical way of managing where beef is salted for winter provision, is to boil a piece of fresh an4. a piece of salt meat together, G 2154 CHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. hy which method the broth is not grouty nor yet over-.salt, which it will be if made wholly of salt meat. In some parts of rural England, lean fresh beef and salt pork are still boiled and eaten together. The improved management of stock [cattle, not broth), will soon supersede this necessity. Turkey beans, stripped of the blackening outer husk, are admirably adapted for lithing barley-broth.'^ If you would avoid the glary, ropy decoctions which are sometimes seen on tables, where better things might be looked for, the quality of the barley, rice, and, indeed, tapioca, tons le mois, Italian pastes, and everything of the kind used in cookery ought to be carefully attended to. When exposed to air and damp these things become musty much sooner than is generally thought. English books of cookery order a sauce for meat boiled in Scotch broth, of red wine, mushroom-catsup, and gravy with cut pickles—a piece of absurd extravagance, completely at variance with the character and properties of the better part of the dish— namely, with the bland, balsamic barley-broth of Scotland. But if a fine name is admired, use the French sauce TiacM. For cheap and excellent soups and broths, see National Dishes and Cheap Coohery.—The above barley-broth will make an excellent rice-broth, by substituting rice for barley, and omitting the pease, though we think pulse an excellent ingred- ient in all plain family soup. German barley-broth is made exactly as above, using a piece of the flank of beef.—See Sheep's Head Broth^ Scotch Hotch-Potch, Coch-a-Leelde^ and Nos. 725, 726, 728, and 748. PISH SOUPS. This delicate and refined description of sotips has gained on tlie favour of the gormandizing world very rapidly. Cray-fish soup was the favourite bonne houche of the soup- eaters of past generations. Oyster and lobster soups are more admired in our day. A clear gravy of cow-heels makes an admirable basis for fish-soups, and is largely em- ployed by those who make them for sale in towns. 100. The Basis of Fish-Soups. This Stock, as it is technically called, may either be made of fish or meat. The former is the more elegant, and is besides suited to maigre days; the latter is more rich and nourishing. Beef, veal, or the lean of mutton, may all be used for fish-stock. When made of fish, a skate, a cod's * Mistress Dods, with her usual sagacity, stated with great plausibility of reasoning, that one capital defect of barley-broth cooked by " Englishers'^ and other unqualified persons, is produced nine times out of ten by the bad quality of the pot-barley often used in England. Nor does pearl-barley give the same consistence as pot-barley. Bice, with mutton, veal, or fowl broth, is an excellent substitute for barley. Were it equally cheap it would be better liked than the principal. Both are of course best when quite fresh.BASIS OF FISH-SOUPS LOBSTER-SOUP. 155 skull, haddocks, whitings, eels, gudgeons, flounders, and other white fish are used, and also the heads, fins, and trimmings of the fish which are to be dressed. As fish- stock soon becomes sour, it should not be made sooner than needful. Boil the cut fish of which you make the stock in two quarts of water, with a couple of onions, a piece of lemon-peel, and a fagot of sweet herbs. Skim the liquor carefully, and strain it. If the fish-soup is to be brown, the fish which makes the stock may be browned in the fry- ing-pan before boiling, and catsup and brown roux is gener- ally put to brown fish-soup. — See Court Bouillon, French Cookery, 101. Lobster-Soup. Have three middle-sized, or five small fresh lobsters— hen-lobsters, if possible—ready boiled, and five pints of good veal-gravy, though beef, mutton, or cow-heel stock will answer very well. Break off and bruise on a mortar, the small claws and fins, with an anchovy, a piece of lemon- peel, and a couple of onions. Put these to the stock and simmer till you have obtained all the strength and flavour they contain. Strain off the stock. Split the tails, crack without mangling the great claws, and carefally take out the meat, cutting it into neat small pieces, and lay it aside. Pick the meat from the chine, and take part of the coral, the soft part of a few oysters, an anchovy, the quarter of a nutmeg, a blade of mace, a little cayenne, and a teaspoonful of lemon- peel grated. Beat these in a mortar; and with the yolks of two eggs and a very little flour, make of this two dozen small forcemeat-balls for the soup. Next bruise the spawn in the mortar, with a little flour, and rubbing it through a sieve, put it and the balls, with the cut meat of the claws and tails, and the coral left from the forcemeat, into the soup. Or fry the forcemeat-balls first, if you like, or brown them in a Dutch oven, and slip them into the soup, vfhich may then simmer for a quarter of an hour, but must not boil. Test the balls (see testing of forcemeat Godiveau, French Cookery); or they may be omitted, and the meat of which they are made cut in nice bits, and put to the soup. Foreign substances are sometimes employed to heighten the vermilion tint of this soup; but we do not recommend the practice. Squeeze the juice of a lemon through a strainer into the156 CHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GKAVIES. tureen, and serve the soup, lifting it carefully. Some cooks put a glass of Madeira into it.—Ohs, This soup is sometimes partly made of sweet cream, or milk thickened with rice- flour, and butter instead of stock ; but the mixture of milk with fish or meat is less relished every day. The meat of whitings or small haddocks is sometimes substituted for half the lobsters, where this fish is expensive. This soup is often thickened with rice-flour only. Wine is a good deal em- ployed by the French in the composition of fish- soups; the rough and dry wines suit some tastes better than cream. In like manner, cider, very mild ale, or beer, is sometimes employed in this country in making fish-soups. Another Lobster-Soup.—Make a good stock of a piece of beef, a slice of ham, and some butter, a large Portugal onion sliced, pepper, and any fish and lobster trimming you have. Strain the neck, pulping the onions; pound the spawn and body of the lobster as above, and stir it into the soup. Mix it smoothly with the stock. Season with cayenne and white pepper,—a glass of sherry, if you like; boil up and skim, and add the cut bits of the tail and claws as directed above. Simmer for five minutes. 102. Oyster-Soup. Have two quarts of a strong clear stock, whether of fish or meat: we prefer it of veal. Add to it the hard-boiled yolks of six eggs, and the hard part and beards of a quart of fresh, juicy oysters, previously well pounded in a mortar. Simmer for a half hour, and strain it into a fresh stew-pan, in which have the quart of oysters—or what will allow a dozen, if small or divided, to each half pint — cleared from the beards, and very nicely washed from shells and sand. Season with mace and cayenne, and let the oysters simmer for eight minutes, when the yolks of three eggs well beat may be stirred into a little of the cool soup, and gradually mixed with the whole quantity, drawing aside the stew-pan, and constantly stirring, lest the eggs curdle. When smooth and thick, serve in a tureen, and still keep stirring the soup to prevent curdling. Any other flavour that is relished may be given to this luscious soup. We like lemon: mustard and vinegar are used, and tarragon or garlic, for those who relish foreign cookery.WHITE OYSTER-SOUP CRAY-FISH SOUP. 157 103. White Oyster-Soup. Have for a full tureen of soup, a Scotch hundred (one hundred and twenty) or an English hundred and quarter of moderate-sized, plump, native oysters. Oysters for soup should be bearded in shelling; but if not, scald them in their own liquor, and take away the nut and beards: pick them out of the liquor and keep them warm. Let it settle for a half hour, and strain it over the oysters. Boil the nut or hard part and beards in a pint of strong veal-soup, for twenty minutes; let this settle, and strain it to three pints more of veal stock, seasoning it with a blade of mace and cayenne, and meanwhile have the oysters simmered for five minutes in their own liquor, and ready to slip into the tureen, into which a half-pint of rich boiling cream is to be stirred. This soup may be thickened w^ith beat yolks of eggs or arrow-root, enriched with butter; or cooked maigre by using fish-stock and butter; or the oysters may be run on fine skewers and fried, instead of being simmered in their own liquor. If large, the oysters for soup should be divided. Plain Oyster-Soup, maigre.—Have good Court Bouillon (No. 679), or make some of four pints of water, four onions fried in butter, mace, and other seasonings. Put to this when skimmed a half pound of fresh butter, and a hundred picked oysters ; also a few mushrooms. Thicken with rice- flour and simmer slowly a quarter of an hour. 104. Cray-Fish Sovo^^—Maigre, Make two quarts of fish-stock, in which boil a bunch of parsley, two onions, and two dozen of black and Jamaica peppercorns. For this, from two to three pounds of fish- fins, heads, etc., all fresh, will be needed. Boil to a mash, and strain the liquor till clear. Pick from four to five dozen of cray-fish, and stew them in the soup till delicately done: add a little cayenne, and the spawn of a boiled lobster, pounded and stirred into the soup, which it will both thicken and enrich.—0^5. Cray-fisli soup is seldom seen in this country; but good shell-fish soups are made of mussels, cockles, and prawns. These all require a good stock, (whether gras or maigre), plenty of pepper, and careful washing and picking.—As much of the flavour of delicate shell-fish is lost in washing them free of sand, the washings158 CHAP. YI.—-BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. may be allowed to settle, strained repeatedly, and put to the stock; but where shell-fish are in plenty this is idle. 105. Forcemeat for Fish-Soups, or for Stews of Fish. Beat the flesh and soft parts of a boiled lobster in a mortar, with a boned anchovy, the yolks of three eggs hard boiled, and a head of boiled celery chopped. Put to this a handful of bread-crumbs, cayenne, mace, a spoonful of mushroom-catsup, a quarter-pound of melted butter, a large spoonful of oyster-liquor, or some oyster-pickle, and two or more eggs well beaten, to cement the composition. Mix well, and form it into very small egg-shaped balls, which fry, or brown in a Dutch oven. Or the fish that makes the stock may be pounded for forcemeat.—See Fish Forcemeat; French Cookery of Fish; Chap, Fish; and also Crappit Heads. 106. Eel-Soup. Take two pounds of cleaned and cut eels, two quarts of water, a crust of bread, two blades of mace, two onions, a few corns of white pepper, and a bundle of sweet herbs; boil the fi^h uncovered till half the liquor is wasted, then strain it, and serve it up with toasted bread. This may make both a ragout and a soup. It may be made stronger by boiling it longer, or using broth instead of water.—See Scotch Fish and SaucCj National Dishes ; also Fish-Turtle, 107. Milk-Soup, A nice Nursery Dish. Boil two quarts of milk, with a little salt, a stick of cinnamon, and sugar to sweeten; lay thin slices of toasted bread in a dish; pour over a little of the milk to soak them, and keep them hot upon a stove; taking care the milk does not burn. When the soup is ready to serve, beat up the yolks of five eggs, and add them to the milk. Stir it over the fire till it thickens; then take it off lest it should curdle, and pour it into the dish upon the bread. —Obs. This makes the Potage de Lait of French cookery, by the addition of a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds (with a few bitter ones) blanched, pounded, sifted, and stirred into the boiling soup. It may be thickened with rice, Semoulina^ Vermicelli^ Nouille, or Cagliari paste, or cocoa-nut, and isPIG-PETTITOES SOUP SPHING-FRUIT SOUPS. 159 good and useful in every mode; we like lemon-peel flavour in it, and a squeeze of lemon. 108. Pig-Pettitoes Soup. This cheap and useful soup has obtained the imposing name of Lord Mayor's Soup^ and, like ox-tail and other soups which should be economical, is made expensive and less wholesome by useless additions. It is thus made in localities where pigs are reared for slaughter and exporta- tion, and where the offal is very cheap: To every two set of feet and ears thoroughly cleaned, put five quarts of water, a couple of onions, and a fagot of savoury herbs : skim well, and simmer for four hours; then lift out the ears; simmer the feet till quite tender; strain off the soup, and let it settle for a night, till the cake of fat sets and the sediment falls : cut the meat of the feet and ears into dice: boil up the soup cleared of the fat and sediment: season it highly with salt, cayenne, a table-spoonful of minced savoury herbs, and white pepper: thicken with flour, or arrow-root rubbed up in butter. Meanwhile have the cut meat ready in a small saucepan, and, first gradually heating it in some of the strained soup, put it to the thickened soup, and simmer the whole for a few minutes before serving. By putting Madeira, Harvey^s sauce, or turtle-sauce and forcemeat balls, to this unctuous potage^ is made what is called the Lord Mayor's Soup^—a coarse and not very wholesome composition: though if made plain as above, it is economical, and savoury, and quite suitable to persons of sound, vigorous digestion. 109. Spring-Fruit Soups. These are made of gourds, rhubarb, cucumbers, vegetable marrow, etc., etc. They may either be made with cream, milk, or good clear gravy; and seasoned to the taste of the eater. Peel, clean, and blanch a bundle of Victoria rhubarb, cut the stems into inch lengths, and put them to a couple of quarts of good veal or beef gravy, with two or three onions, a few thin slices of bread, crust and crumb together, and salt and cayenne. Skim ofl* all the fat and scum ; simmer till tender ; strain and serve on toasted sippets. This soup may be better made maigre with a half-pound of butter kneaded in a little flour. See No. 1125. A pleasant variety160 CHAP. VI. ^BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. of harmless and delicate messes may be made of spring fruits; we subjoin a few approved recipes :— Spring Soup of the Cheese-gourd.—Cut tbe fleshy part of a ripe gourd into small bits. Put these into a pan with an ounce of fresh butter, and melt over a slow fire to the con- sistence of a puree. Add water in the proportion of half a gallon to four pounds of gourds. Add a little salt and sugar to taste. Dish the soup over toasted bread cut into dice.— See No. 73. Use more butter.—P. T. Cheese-gourd^ Spanish fashion.—When ripe, slice the fleshy part of the gourd an inch thick, and score the slices on one side about half through. Put some rasped fat of bacon into a stew-pan, with a little parsley, eschalots, and chopped mushrooms, pepper, and salt; give this a fry; and cover the scored side of the slices of gourd with the mixture, lay- ing them first on the dish, which place in a quick oven, with a little melted butter or olive-oil poured over. When baked sufficiently, serve hot. Soup of Gourds.—Pare and slice the gourds. Boil them in gravy-broth to a mash, and strain this off. Put the strained soup on the fire in a clean pan. Season with salt and white pepper, and, boiling for half an hour, put three tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan in the tureen, and serve the soup over it, stirring them well up together.—N.B. The cheese must be in quantity to suit the soup. The above will do for a moderate dish. Second-Course Dishes of Young Gourds.—Take gourds when no larger than cucumbers, and cut them in four length- ways. Clear off any pulp. If tender, only blanch them, but if hard, parboil. Brown two ounces of butter, with a table- spoonful of flour in good gravy; stew the gourds in this sauce, and season Avith white pepper, cayenne, if you like, and salt. Young Gourds in White Sauce.—Proceed as above, but do not brown the butter. Instead of gravy-broth, take three beat yolks of eggs, a half-pint of milk, and another of cream. Mix and stir this over the fire like custard,—thick- ening with more yolks if necessary. Dish the gourds in this white sauce, and serve. N.B.—For a variety of other fashionable soups, see French Cookery^ Nos. 607 to 618. For good plain soups, see Na- tional Dishes j and also Cookery for the Poor,161 CHAPTER VII. FISH. -All fish from sea or shore, Freshet or purling brook, of shell or fin, And exquisitest name ; for which was drain'd Pontus and Lucrine bay, and Afric coast. Milton. Read Section VI., page 41. Clean all fish thoroughly, but without rubbing too hard or tossing roughly about. Brush, when gutted, all blood, slime, and filmy membranes most carefully from the inside. Cook fish thoroughly, in what- ever mode you dress it. We do not approve of steaming fish. Oily fish, as eels, and even herrings and mackerel, may be skinned: Eels must: Whitings and small haddocks, to be fried, are skinned, though the practice is more recom- mended by beauty than utility. Fish is usually boiled in salted water, L e. a slight brine, made with about an ounce of salt to the quart of spring water, and a drachm of salt- petre ; but some good modern cooks, instead of this, salt the water slightly, and rub the fish with salt, leaving it for from five minutes to a quarter of an hour, in proportion to its size, to soak in the salt previous to boiling. While some fish are best fresh caught, others, as cod and large haddocks, are improved by lying a night in salt. Flat fish are always dished with the white side uppermost. The soft-roed^ or male fish, are, in all species, reckoned the richest; so are the male lobster and crab. N.B.—Our French Cookery of fish contains excellent practical receipts; yet it is our belief that English cookery of fish is superior to that of France. For this we have elsewhere given our reasons. Of Salmon and other Fish. This monarch of the British rivers is in season in some part of the three kingdoms for most of the year; so that, however the price may vary, the London market—the point which attracts all salmon speculators—is never long without a supply. The fishing of the river Ness, which the fish visit162 CHAP. VII.—FISH. very earlj, is opened so soon as the month of December,— the Severn fishery even in November; and from that time some fishery is opened every week, till in April nearly the whole are in operation. The salmon of the Thames is that which was most esteemed in London ; that of the Tay is the favourite with the inhabitants of the northern metropolis,— probably, in both cases, because the fish from those rivers are brought to the respective markets in greater perfection than those of more distant rivers.—Steam and commerce have nearly banished salmon from the Thames. We have ever remarked, that the salmon of. a man's native stream, or of the river of his native province, is to him the best flavoured. Among other marks of degenerate times, is the decrease of salmon in our rivers; and it is perhaps the only one that is undeniable. This fish at one time was so plentiful an article of food, that stipulations were made by Scottish servants against having it above three times a-week for their kitchen ; and the same conditions were observed in indenturing the apprentices of Newcastle, Perth, and other towns. Since Mr Dempster's discovery, the well-boat, and packing salmon in ice, there has been no occasion for the enforce- ment of the clause against salmon-eating. The preservation of this source of wealth and luxury is still an object of legislative investigation; and we doubt not, that a subject coming home so immediately to men's purses and stomachs, will meet with all the attention it merits. The destruction of the fry is the chief evil. We have known instances in which whole cart-loads of salmon-fry have been used as manure. The poor of London, which draws into its enormous maw nearly all the fish of the kingdom, occasion- ally enjoy this luxury, though not in the best state. Steam navigation has revolutionized the trade in salmon. We are now supplied not only from the Scottish and Irish fisheries, but from Norway. Grilse is seldom sent to London, though in Paris, where cookery, if not more rich than in London, is thought to be more refined, the trout and grilse, from superior delicacy, are more prized than the ripe salmon. We ought to inform our gourmand readers, that a fish, as we have ate it, boiled in the pickling kettle, where perhaps some dozens of cut fish were preparing for the London market, is superbly done,—meltingly rich, and of incomparable flavour. Such a thing is to be procuredTO BOIL SALMON. 1C3 or.ly at the fishing-stations, at which, it is to be remarked, Assizes and Presbyteries are always held.—P. T. There are many excellent ways of dressing this favourite fish, but perhaps none equal to plain boiling when well performed; or, if on the small scale, broiling, as No. 112. 110. To Boil Salmon. Scale and clean the fish without unnecessary washing or handling, and without cutting it too much open. Have a well-scoured fish-kettle, and if the salmon be very large and thick, when you have placed it on the drainer and in the kettle, cover it with cold spring water, that it may heat through gradually. Throw in six ounces of salt to a gallon of water. If only a jole, slices, or a quarter is boiled, it may be put in with warm water. In both cases take off the scum carefully, and let the fish boil slowly, allowing from eight to ten minutes to the pound; if the piece is not heavier than five or six pounds, then the time must be much less. But it is even more difficult to fix the time that fish should boil than the length of time that meat re- quires. Experience, and those symptoms which the eye of a practised cook alone can discern, must fix the point, and nothing is more disgusting and unwholesome than under- done fish. Fish may be probed; and notice when the eyes start and the meat comes from the bone. The minute the boiling of any fish is completed, the fish-strainer must be lifted and rested across the kettle, to drain the fish.* Throw a soft cloth or flannel in several folds over it. It would spoil if permitted to soak in the hot water. Dish on a hot fish-plate with a napkin under. Besides the sauces and essences to be used at discretion, which are now found on every sideboard of any pretension, shrimp, anchovy, and * If meat is ready before the company assemble, take it up as directed above, in boiling fish, and it may be kept in good season. Have all the dish-covers warmed inside at all times, and the dishes well heated. Put a hot cover over the meat, and some folds of flannel over that. If you have a Bain marie (whicli is a most useful utensil), or some substitute, you will be at no loss, though the above may tolerably well supply its place. The Bain marie is a flat copper vessel containing boiling water; you put all your stew-pans into it, and keep the water always up to the boiling point, but it must not boil. The effect of this Bain marie is to keep every thing warm, without altering either the quantity or the quality, particu- larly the quality. *' When I had the honour, (says M. Ude,) of serving a nobleman who kept a very extensive hunting establishment, and the hour of dinner was consequently uncertain, I was in the habit of using the Bain164 CHAP. VII. FISH. lobster sauce, are served with salmon; also plain melted butter; and where the fish is got fresh, and served in what is esteemed by some the greatest perfection,—crisp, curdy, and creamy,—it is the practice to send up a sauce tureen of the clear liquor in which it was boiled. Fennel and butter are still heard of for salmon, but are nearly obsolete. Sliced cucumber is often served with salmon, and indeed with all boiled fish. Mustard is considered an improvement to salmon when over-ripe,—beginning to spoil, in short: salmon may then be boiled with horse-radish. Garnish with a fringe of curled green parsley, and if you like, slices of lemon. Curled parsley in wreaths or tufts we consider the handsomest of all fish-garnishes. The carver must help a slice of the thick part with a smaller one of the thin, which is the fattest, and the best liked by those in the secret. Careme skins salmon,—a bad practice unless the fish is to have sauce poured over it. Scotch cooks some- times leave the scales on, which, when fresh and silvery, have a good efi'ect in contrast with the garnishing. 111. To Boil Salmon Crimp. This makes a very handsome dish, and is the way which salmon is usually dressed in places near the fisheries, where the fish is obtained quick; and also at the most fashionable English tables. The fish must be clean and scaled or not, without much cutting up the breast. Cut off the head, with about two inches of the neck; and the tail-fin, which trim with scissors, with the same quantity of fish along with it. Cut as many circular fillets of the salmon as you wish for (according to the size of the fish and the number of the company), from about two to three inches thick;—the opening of these slices, whence the entrails have been taken, must be thoroughly cleaned. Throw the whole into cold water made brackish with salt and saltpetre, as above marie as a certain means of preserving the flavour of all mj dishes." Sauces set on a hot table would soon lose both flavour and proper consis- tency. If sauce, broth, or soup, is kept by the fireside, the soup reduces and becomes too strong, and sauce thickens as well as reduces. These are best managed where there is a steam range or hot plate, but may do by the fire. This is the best manner of re-warming turtle-soup: as the thick part is at the bottom of the stew-pan, this method prevents it from burning, and keeps it always good. The Maria Balnea^ for the reasons given above, does well for melting glaze, or heating up sauces.165 TO GRILL FRESH SALMON STEAKS OR CUTLETS. directed. Place the head and tail on the strainer, and put them in a fish-kettle of fast-boiling water, with a handful of salt and some vinegar—though vinegar hurts the colour. Let this boil three minutes; lift the strainer, and lay on the slices; take off whatever scum arises. Boil from fifteen to twenty-five minutes, according to the thickness. Place the head and tail on end on a napkin, in the middle of the fish- plate, and dish the slices neatly round them, or, at choice, dish by laying the fish in its natural shape as French cooks do slices. Sauce and garnishing as in the last receipt. This is boiled salmon in its utmost perfection. 112. To Grill Fresh Salmon Steaks or Cutlets. This mode of dressing, though unsuitable for a large dinner, is the way in which two or three, or the solitary epicure, best relishes this luxury. Split the Salmon and take out the bone,* without mangling the fish. Cut fillets of from two to three inches in breadth. Dry these in the folds of a cloth, but do not beat or press them. Have a clear fire, and a bright-barred gridiron, rubbed with chalk to prevent the fish from sticking; the slices if not quite dry may be dusted with flour; turn with steak-tongs. Place the gridiron aslant backwards to let the oil pass away, which, if it blaze, spoils the steaks. This, like all broils^ must be served very hot. The slices may be covered with the folds of a hot napkin.—Anchovy or Shrimp sauce.—Ohs, A small fish is cut in circular slices of about an inch in thickness. French cooks first marinade^ i. e. steep the salmon cutlets in oil, seasonings, and shred fine herbs ; baste them while on the gridiron with the marinade-liquor; take off the skin before serving, and serve with dressed cucumber or caper- sauce. This is good practice,—all save taking off the skin. To Fry Salmon.—Cut, fry, and serve thin fillets or slices as above.—See No. 118. 113. To Bake Salmon or Salmon Trout. Place the fish in a deep pan, and stick plenty of bits of * A salmon-bone with some rough pickings left makes an admirable Grill. The bone cut out of a Mppered salmon should be left rough for this purpose. Seasoned with pepper and salt, broiled and buttered, it is quite an epicure's breakfast morsel. A kipper originally meant a black fish. These were salted. Now the very finest salmon are thus managed, and called kippers.—See No. 115.CHAP. VII.—FISH. IGG butter over it, first seasoning it with allspice, mace, and salt: rub a little of the seasonings on the inside. It must be basted occasionally with what collects in the baking-pan. If the fish is small, or a grilse^ it may be skewered, with the tail turned round to the mouth. A baked salmon, if not too oily, makes a handsome dish, and eats well cold. Oarnishing and sauce the same as for boiled salmon.—Ohs, Many persons think salmon not only lighter but of finer flavour cold than hot. It is, at any rate, too expensive and too good to be lost. Pickle for cold Salmon,—To a quart of the liquor in which the fish was boiled put half an ounce of black pepper and allspice in corns, half a pint of vinegar, and a teaspoonful of salt. Boil this with a bay-leaf or two, and a sprig of lemon-thyme. When cold, pour it over the salmon, which must be kept covered. This pickle will keep the fish good for some days; but if it be necessary to keep it longer, boil up the pickle afresh, adding more vinegar and spice, and when cold pour it again on the fish or use No. 114. 114. Ballyshannon Pickle for Cold Salmon. Vinegar two parts, water one, white wine one. Boil in this salt, pepper, allspice, also at pleasure, mace, cloves, ginger, and horseradish sliced ; when cold pour this over the boiled cold salmon. Read No. 12G. 115. To Kipper, i. e. To Salt and Dry Salmon. The fish must be cut up at the back, cleaned, and scaled, but not washed, and have the bone cut neatly out. Rub with equal proportions of salt and raw sugar, pounded with the size of a nut of saltpetre. Peppers in powder may be added to the salt. Let the fish lie for two days, pressing it with a board on which weights are placed; then hang it up, or, which is much better, smoke it. Lest the folds gather mustiness, it is a good plan, when the fish is hung, N. B.— Very fresh salmon is in most places so expensive an article of luxury, that rarity alone has given it a factitious value with many persons ; for the fish is in reality much more delicate and sapid when ripened for a day or even more. The same thing holds of turbot and cod, though they too are prized for that crimp harsh freshness, which is in truth no recom- mendation in the eating, and often a drain on the purse.—P. T. We decidedly question this.—"W. W.spices, dipping in salad-oil, and broiling.—See No. 112. TO POT AND COLLAR SALMON. IGT to stretch it open with pieces of stick, that it may dry equally. This forms a favourite addition to a Scottish breakfast, and nothing can be more relishing than fresh kipper, though it soon hardens, when the French mode of grilling salmon. No. 112, may be used with advantage. Kipper is generally dressed by cutting it into half-inch slices and broiling, though we have seen it fried. If long hung the slices may be soaked m water a quarter of an hour, which wdl soften and improve the quality of the fish. If the fresh fish is very large and rich, it may be rubbed with salt, and drained for a day before it get the final salting. English cooks some- times serve poached eggs over dried salmon. Salmon Roe, —See No. 1189.2 6. To Pot Salmon Split, scale, or skin, and clean, by wiping, for water must not touch it; rub with salt, and in an hour drain off the moisture, and season the salmon with pounded mace, cloves, and black and Jamaica pepper. Cut it into neat pieces; lay these in a pan, and cover them with melted butter. Bake them, drain from the fat, and put the pieces into potting- cans, which must then be covered with cooled clarified butter. We think vinegar an improvement. 117. To Collar Salmon. Split, scale, and bone as much of the fish as will make a handsome collar of about six inches diameter. Season it highly with pounded mace, cloves, pepper and salt, and having rolled it firmly up and bandaged it, hake it three quarters of an hour with vinegar and butter; or simmer in vinegar and water. Serve with melted butter and anchovy- sauce. The liquor in which the collar was boiled or baked may be boiled up with salt, vinegar, and two bay-leaves, and poured cold over the collared fish to preserve it.—See Ohs. No. 113. 118. Salmon Cutlets. French cooks dress slices an inch and half thick of fresh salmon as cutlets en papillate^ seasoning them with mixed168 CHAP. VII. FISH. 119. Baked Salmon-Trout, A handsome small dish, A TROUT of from two to four pounds will make this dish. Having cleaned and scaled it without cutting it much up, stuff with fish-forcemeat (See Forcemeats)^ and fix the tail in the mouth; or tie the fish up in curve lines, as if swimming, —a common way in boiling a long fish in a small kettle. Pour over it a marinade made thus:—Boil in vinegar and a good piece of butter, chopped carrots, onions, eschalots, with peppercorns, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, basil, cloves, and allspice in grains. Baste with this frequently; when baked, strain off the liquor, and keep the fish hot while you boil it down; thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, season with a little essence of ancho- vies, pepper, cayenne, and the squeeze of a lemon. Serve the trout with this sauce strained over it; or if the trout is not skinned, in a tureen in preference.—See No. 113. 120. To Boil Turbot.* A FISH of the middle size is the best. Choose the turbot thick in the belly, which should be of a cream-coloured white, and springy under the slightest pressure of the finger. When to be boiled, soak the fish in salt and water, to draw off the slime incidental to all flat fish. When thoroughly clean, score the skin along the backbone deeply to prevent the belly from cracking when the fish begins to swell in heating ; and this done, place it on a fish-strainer with the back undermost. If very large, clever cooks cut out the bone to some extent. The turbot-kettle must be roomy and nicely clean, as the colour of fish is even more easily injured * This pontifical fish is found of excellent quality in many parts of the British seas, and also on the Irish coast; but what are still esteemed the best, are, like the best cod, caught off the Dutch coast, and brought alive to London in well-boats. This fish is in season, like the haddock, from the time it has had a " leap in the May flood" till Michaelmas. The halibut, which in Scotland often usurps the name of turbot, is in reality a handsomer-looking fish, and excellent of its kind, but not equal in rich- ness, and far inferior in flavour to the genuine Bannoch Fluke of Mr Jonathan Oldbuck. Miss Edgeworth relates an anecdote of a Bishop— and we doubt not that he came to be an Archbishop—who, descending to his kitchen to superintend the dressing of a turbot, and finding that his cook had stupidly cut away the fins, set about sewing them on again with his own Episcopal fingers. This dignitary knew the value of turbot.TO BOIL TURBOT. 169 than that of meat. The fish may be rubbed with lemon to whiten it.* Cover it with cold water, into which throw salt, six ounces to the gallon. Do not let the fish-kettle come too fast to boil; skim very carefully; and this done, draw aside the kettle, and allow it to simmer for from twenty- five to thirty minutes, without that violent degree of ebulli- tion which would crack the skin and spoil the look of the fish. Many cooks, to have the colour fine, and to prevent the skin from cracking, wrap a cloth round it, which is fast- ened under the strainer. For saucesj anchovy, lobster, or shrimp sauce, or any of the fish-sauces stirred into plain melted butter, may be served in one tureen, and melted butter in another, but lobster-sauce is the favourite turbot- sauce. Garnish with a fringe of curled parsley, slices of lemon, or horseradish nicely scraped. Nasturtium flowers look pretty intermixed, though we are not fond of over-garnish- ing. Cover the cracks, if unfortunately there should be any, with the garnish and a little lobster-coral. The ornaments may be interspersed with fried sprats, or very small flounders fried. Small turbot makes a very delicate dish, cut in slices and fried, drained from the frying fat, and, without breaking, simmered for five minutes in a sauce made of thin melted butter, a few pickled oysters chopped, or a boned anchovy, a teaspoonful of walnut-pickle, and a dessertspoonful of mushroom-catsup. Take up the fish with a slice, lay it neatly in the dish, and, having skimmed the sauce, pour it hot over the fish. A glass of claret is a desirable addition to this sauce. Garnish with slices of lemon.—Obs. Cold fish of any kind may be cut in neat pieces, and heated up in a white sauce; or soused, by placing it handsomely on the dish in slices, and pouring over it any of the flavoured vine- gars you choose, or white pepper and plain vinegar. If any lobster-sauce is left, it will be found most useful in dressing cold turbot afresh. The French make many entrees de desserte of this fish, by cutting what remains into fillets or dice, stewing these in a white sauce—d la crime, or serving in vol-au-vent, or in a dish with an ornamented border made of fried bread cut into diamonds.—See Nos. 688, 691. For turbot, Careme serves no sauce save two tureens of melted butter. * French cooks sometimes Tboil turbot in milk and water. H170 CHAP. VII.—FISH. 121. An excellent "Way to Dress a small Dish of Turbot or Brill. When the fish is cleaned, take off the skin gently (many like the skin), and cut the fillets off with a sharp knife. Dip the fillets in beat eggs, then in crumbs, minced parsley, and other seasonings. Dip thus twice. Place the fillets in a deep dish stuck round with butter, and bake them twenty minutes in a moderate oven, basting from time to time with the butter. Have ready lobster-sauce made of thin veal- broth, with cayenne, nutmeg, and salt. Let the lobster-meat stew in this for ten minutes before thickening it with roux. Dish the baked fillets in a hot dish, and pour the sauce hot over them. Garnish with slices of lemon and curled parsley. —Ohs, Where the party is not large, this is a very excellent way of dressing this expensive fish. It may also be stuffed and baked whole. Fillets of the tail will make a good dish, and allow plenty of an ordinary-sized fish for boiling on a future or a previous day. Many persons admire the above modes more than boiled turbot. 121.2 Soles in dilferent Ways. This fish is a general favourite in England, and when good, not inferior to turbot, if not, indeed, more delicate. It may be boiled plain as small turbot, putting it in warm water, made into a brine, as above directed, and simmered gently from six to ten minutes, according to size. Serve with the turbot sauces, and cucumber as for salmon.— Baked Soles: two fish, white side upmost, are, when thor- oughly cleaned, put into a wide baking-pan with two ounces of melted butter: stick two ounces more over the fish, having first brushed them with white of egg, and strewed a thick layer of fine crumbs and minced parsley over them: bake for a quarter of an hour; pour the gravy from them: if too rich, lay part of it aside, and put a glass of sherry and a squeeze of lemon-juice with cayenne and white pepper to the remainder, which boil up, skim, and pour gently under the nicely baked soles when dished. We consider the above modes better than filleting; but soles are also dressed in fillets. In some parts of England they are provincially stewed in cream, being first parboiled in water.COD^S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. 171 If fish are to be boiled in any liquid except water au hleu, or fish bouillon, let it be in some light sub-acid wine, or good sharp cider: cream, save for the sauce, is all but Hottentotish in the preparation of fish. See No. 136, and Fish rechauffee^ No. 159. 122. To Dress a Cod's Head and Shoulders,* Scotch Fashion. This was a great affair in its day. It is still a formidable, nay, even a respectable-looking dish, with a kind of bulky magnificence, which, at Christmas-tide, appears imposing at the head of a long board. Have a quart of good stock ready for the sauce, made of beef or veal, seasoned with onion, carrot, and turnip. Rub the fish (a deep-sea or rock- cod) with salt over night, taking off the scales, but do not wash it. When to be dressed, wash it clean, then quickly dash hot water over the upper side, and with a blunt knife remove the slime which will ooze out, taking great care not to break the skin. Do the same to the other side of the fish; then place it on the drainer, wipe it clean, and plunge it into a fish-kettle of boiling water, with a handful of salt and a half-pint of vinegar. It must be entirely covered, and will take from thirty to forty minutes' slow boiling. Set it to drain, slide it carefully on a deep dish, and glaze with beat eggs, over which strew fine bread-crumbs,f grated lemon-peel, pepper, and salt. Stick numerous bits of butter over the fish, and place it before a clear fire, strewing more crumbs, grated lemon-peel, and minced parsley over it, and basting with the butter. In the meanwhile thicken the stock with butter kneaded in flour, and strain it, adding to it half a hundred oysters nicely picked and bearded, and a glassful of their liquor, two glasses of Madeira or sherry, the juice of a lemon, the hard meat of a boiled lobster cut * Cod comes into season about Michaelmas, when the other large fish are going out. The Dogger-bank cod are the most esteemed in the London market; but very excellent fish are now sent from Orkney and many other parts. _ Cod of good quality are salted in the Hebrides, and a little has been done in Ireland ; but the greater supply of salted fish still comes from Newfoundland. The best cod are such as, with good size and shape, have yellow spots upon a pure skin. Many persons justly prefer both salt and fresh Ling to Cod; Tush is much superior to either of them, but is found in small quantities. t Modern cooks at this stage shin cod and haddocks. All true gour- mands detest/a?/e<^ fish. Where not nicely crumbed and browned they are absolutely horrific and spectral.—P. T,CHAP. VII.—FISH. 172 down, and the soft part pounded. Simmer this sauce for / five minutes, and skim it well; wipe clean the edges of the dish in which the fish is crisping, and pour the half of the sauce around it, serving the rest in a tureen. Garnish with fried oysters, small fried flounders, pickled samphire, or slices of lemon. Cod^s head is also dressed with a brown sauce, made of the stock, or with butter nicely browned, and a little mushroom-catsup. This sauce is generally made more piquant than the white, by the addition of two boned anchovies.—Obs. This Scotch mode of dressing cod is nearly the same as the French Cabillaud d, la Sainte Menehouldj only the cod is then stuffed with a forcemeat either of meat or fish. Cod may be parboiled and finished in the oven with the above sauce.— Oysters, Mussels, or Cockles, may supply the place of Lobster,—See No. 184. 123. Boiled Cod or Haddock with Shrimp-Sauce. Cut off the tail of cod, which would be useless before the other part is enough done. But if a large dish is wanted, place the tail-cut in the belly. Rub well with salt inside without washing; let it lie from one to two days, and wash and boil slowly in plenty of water, with a handful of salt. Drain the fish, serve it on a napkin, and garnish with the boiled roe and liver, or small flounders or whitings, nicely fried,—or with parsley only. Serve shrimp-sauce. The tail-cut may lie in salt for a few days, and be boiled and served with egg-sauce, or parsnips mashed with butter and cream, or it may be broiled fresh, or fried in fillets or slices, and served with oyster or shrimp sauce; or, grandly, with a sauce made of half a pint of veal-gravy, a glass of red wine, a boned anchovy chopped, white pepper and salt, and a few pickled oysters, and thickened with a little flour kneaded in butter. Boil up and skim the sauce ; place the slices neatly on the dish, and pour it around them. In Scotland, where cod is comparatively cheap, only the middle-cut is taken for a company dish; and is boiled, skinned, crumbed, browned before the fire, and served as above with oyster or shrimp sauce. Large or Dublin Bay Haddocks are cooked and served as cod. The French make entrees de desserte of cold cod as of turbot. These fish may be used as above quite fresh, but are improved by a night in salt. See French Cookery of Fish, from 679 onward.TO DRESS COD-SOUNDS. CABEACHED COD. 173 124. To Dress Cod-Sounds. Clean and scald them with very hot water, and rub them with salt. Take ofF the sloughy coat, parboil them, then flour and broil till enough done. Dish them and pour a sauce made of brown gravy, pepper, cayenne, salt, a little butter kneaded in browned flour, a teaspoonful of made- mustard, and one of soy. Cod-sounds are dressed as ragout, by boiling as above, and then stewing in clear gravy, add- ing a little cream and butter kneaded in flour, with a sea- soning of lemon-peel, nutmeg, and mace. Cut them in fillets. They may also be cut in fillets, turned round, dipped in batter, and fried; and served on a napkin. See Note to No. 1189, and also Nos. 682-4, and 691. Cod- livers and their oil we leave to the physicians, who cer- tainly make the most of them. 125. Cold Boiled Cod Curried, A LARGE fish that comes in fine flakes is best. Fry the flakes in butter, with sliced onions, of a pale brown, and stew them in a little white gravy, thickened with butter rolled in flour, and a large dessertspoonful of curry- powder, rubbed down with a glassful of good cream. Ohs, Cream for curries is, we think, the better of being a little turned,—thick and sourish, but not clotted. Good butter- milk makes a substitute for cream in this and most com- mon made-dishes. The large flakes may be seasoned and then fried in batter with butter or lard. See Curried Fish, No. 154. 126. Cabeached Cod. Cut the tail-part of the fish into slices, and upon these rub some white pepper and salt. Then fry in Spanish oil. Take the slices from the pan, and lay them on a plate to cool. When cold, put them into a pickle made of good vinegar, in which some white peppercorns, a few cloves, a little mace, and salt, have been boiled. When cold, mix with the pickle a teacupful of oil. Put the fish into a pot, and between every piece lay a few slices of onion, and keep the whole well covered with the pickle. In the same manner salmon may be cabeached; but if taken fresh out of the water, it is liable to break, which it will not do after being kept a few days. Mackerel when prime may be174 CHAP. VII. FISH. treated in this way, omitting the onion, and will, if not too soon opened up, keep for months, and be useful when fresh fish cannot be obtained. Oil should be poured over the pots to exclude the air. This is nearly the famous Spanish escaheche or fish-pickle. The Spanish preparation is simi- lar to the dish above described, with the addition of a large portion of garlic and some bay-leaves. The Spaniards eat it with ginger and salad, and sometimes stew it lightly. 127. To Crimp Cod. Boil quickly very fresh cod, cut in thin slices, or whole, in strong boiling brine for fifteen minutes (only ten if cut). Serve instantly with shrimp or oyster sauce. Cod in slices may also be fried or grilled. 128. To Dress Salt Cod, Ling, Tusk, etc. The fish must be soaked for a length of time correspond- ing to the hardness it has acquired. Soak it in cold water for a night; that done, if still hard, beat it well with a paste-roller, and brush it with a hard brush, and soak it again in lukewarm water. Let it come very slowly near to boil. When it has soaked thus for an hour and a half by the side of the fire, take up the pieces; scrape off the tough filmy outer parts, or clotted scales, but not the sTcin^ which, containing much gelatine, is the best of the fish. Place the pieces, laid skin to skin, in the stew-pan, having first trimmed them neatly from bones and films. Pour the strained liquor over them in which they have simmered; simmer for three, or, if needful, four hours longer, but never allow the fish to boil up till it is ready. Serve on a napkin, with egg-sauce or parsnips mashed with plenty of butter; mustard must never be forgotten. Garnish with hard- boiled eggs divided or in circular slices. Fillets are some- times rolled round, and tied up, taking off the threads before dishing.—Ohs. At sea, salt fish is dressed after a very palatable, if not refined fashion, by pulling it, when boiled, into flakes, and beating it up with mashed potatoes, or pars- nips and butter. In New England, where the manage- ment of dry cod is well understood, it is alternately soaked and laid on a table till sufiiciently softened, which is thought a better method than continual soaking. See Nos. 690 and 763.175 TO DRESS STURGEON TEASED SKATE. 129. To Dress Sturgeon. This fish does not eat well boiled. If boiled, skin it. It should be roasted or baked, basting with plenty of butter, and serving with a rich gravy flavoured with anchovy, wine, and juice of lemon; or with any favourite flavoured vinegar. Slices of sturgeon, skinned, are egged, dipped in bread- crumbs, seasonings, and chopped parsley, and broiled en papillote. This fish is seldom seen in England, and not so much admired as on the Continent. SaucCj—Oyster or lobster sauce, or melted butter, with a little soy and essence of anchovy. A nonsensical imitation of pickled sturgeon is made of a large turkey, boned and stewed in a rich pickle, made of a quart of wine-vinegar, a pint of Rhenish wine, salt and spices. The Chinese dress sturgeon in a way to us unknown, which the English at Canton admire. 130. Teased Skate. Economical and good. From Dr Hunter^s Culina, Take the dried wing of a skate, and after stripping off the skin, cut it into lengths of about one inch in breadth. Put the fish, so prepared, into water, and boil for the space of twenty minutes; after which let it be put into the oven, where it should remain a quarter of an hour, during which time it will become so tender as to permit the bones to be drawn out. The flesh being now detached from the bones, it should be put into a cloth, and well rubbed with the hands till it puts on a woolly appearance, which it will soon do. Take a saucepan, and in it reduce about half a pound of butter into oil, when the teased fish should be put into it, and kept stirring for the space of fifteen minutes. When sufficiently heated, serve up.—Ohs. Skate, so prepared, may be eaten as salt fish, with egg-sauce, mashed potatoes, or parsnips. The whole wing of a large skate will require half a pound of butter when put into the saucepan. It is a dish prepared at small expense. It may be served in a dish with a paste border, or in a casserole of mashed potatoes. 131. To Boil Skate.* If to be crimp, boil it quite fresh; if liked tender and * Skate differs more in quality than perhaps any other fish. It should be broad and thick, roughish on the back, and of a creamy or opal-tinged176 CHAP. VII. FISH. sapid, it may, in cool weather, liang from one to three days. Sauce^—Melted butter, or lobster or caper sauce. Skate fries very well when first parboiled for five minutes, cut in thin slices, and dipped in egg and bread crumbs; it eats well cold, with mustard, pepper, and vinegar. It is also very good parboiled, and then grilled in slices, serving it with parsley and butter, or caper-sauce. 132. Another Way to Boil Skate. Make a stock of the trimmings of the skate, parsley, onions, a clove of garlic, a sprig of basil, and a half-pint of vinegar. When this is cooked put in the skate, put also in the liver, let it just boil, and leave it twelve minutes covered with a cloth under the lid. Drain and dish on a napkin. Make a sauce with the brown meat nicely minced, and some of the stock. Garnish with the liver.—Serve Caper-sauce, Skate is also served with onion-sauce, parsley and butter, or beurre noir, i. e. butter fried till black. 133. To Crimp Skate. Clean, skin, and cut the fish into fillets, which must be tied to keep them round. Boil these quickly in water made very briny,—drain the fillets, take away the strings,—and serve with caper-sauce, parsley and butter, or shrimp-sauce. Obs, The French stew this excellent if liomely fish in a whiteness. "We have, however, seen a small kind of skate which is caught along the north-east coast of Scotland, of a leaden-blue colour, called by- fishermen the deen or dun skate, which is more delicate than any other kind we have met with. In places where this fish forms a great part of the food of the common people, it is best relished when it is hung till dry, by which time it has acquired so strong a smell of ammonia as to be intoler- able to the uninitiated. This fish, in those primitive days when as yet turtle was not, used to be esteemed, when eaten cold, with mustard and vinegar, quite a grand regale by those sober citzens of Edinburgh who repaired on holidays to the fishing-hamlets around the city. It is thought to eat like lobster,—by persons of lively imagination. Skate is said, when out of season, to produce cholera and other violent diseases. The same thing is alleged of salmon in the state of foul or " black fish and there is no question but that fish undergoes a change at particular seasons, which renders it for the time exceedingly improper food. There are instances of seamen dying in consequence of eating dolphin. Shell-fish especially mussels, sometimes occasion violent disorders, and kippered salmon is, according to Dr Christison, as poisonous as sausages. It is said that accidents of this nature may be avoided by the simple test of putting a piece of silver into the fish-kettle. If it blacken, the fish should be con- sidered dangerous, if not absolutely poisonous.—P. S. T.TO CRIMP SKATE HADDOCKS IN BKOWN SAUCE. 177 marinade of vinegar, salt, pepper, onions, bay-leaves, etc.; and after skinning, serve it with caper-sauce, or cucumbers. As the Parisians seldom have sea-fish very fresh, they season more highly than the English and Dutch. On the whole, we consider the modern English cookery of fish better than the French. 134. Haddocks in Brown Sauce. An excellent old-fashioned Scotch Dish, Clean, cut off the heads, tails, and fins, and skin from six to eight small-sized haddocks. Take the heads, tails, and trimmings, with two or three of the fish cut down, and boil them in a quart of water or broth, with a couple of onions, some sweet herbs, and a piece of lemon-peel; thicken with four ounces of butter rolled in browned flour, strain the sauce, and season highly with mixed spices and mushroom-catsup; and when it boils and is skimmed, put in the fish, skinned, boned and cut into fillets [Mead No. 136], and if you choose previously browned in the frying- pan. If there be too little sauce, add some good beef-gravy; add if you like, a quarter hundred of oysters and a glass of their liquor; or some mussels, and a little wine. Take out the fish, when ready, with a slice, and pour the boiling sauce, which should be brown, smooth, and thick, over them. Other ways.—Haddocks may he stvffed with a fish- forcemeat, and dressed in a sauce, as directed above. Some of the forcemeat may be made into balls for garnishing. Haddocks may also be stuffed, egged, and strewed with fine bread-crumbs, and minced parsley; and baked, basting them well with butter. Serve in a white or brown sauce made of a pound or more of veal, onions, and parsley, and thick- ened with plenty of butter kneaded in brown flour. Strain, and add a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, white pepper in fine powder, a quarter-hundred of pickled oysters divided, and a spoonful of the pickle. Pour the boiling skimmed sauce over the fish. Garnish with sliced lemon and pickled samphire. Whitings are dressed as above, with a white sauce, and codlings with a brown sauce. For Crap- pit Headsj see National Dishes. See also Fish and Sauce, National Dishes. h2178 CHAP. VII.—FISH. 135. Haddocks Baked. A plain good Family Dish, Clean and season three or four haddocks, place them neatly on a flat dish, with a border of paste or mashed potatoes neatly marked. Glaze with an egg, and place bits of butter here and there over the fish, and a piece inside of each. Garnish with potato-balls ragout^ and bake for a half-hour. Pour a little melted butter and catsup over the dish, as in baking fish get dry. This dish may be made much finer by adopting receipt No. 149. Bake a large had- dock as salmon. No. 113. 136. To Fry Haddocks, Soles, Trout, Perch, Tench, Whitings, Flounders, Herrings, etc.* Clean and skin the haddocks or whitings. If the had- docks are too large, cut them into two or three pieces,—or split them, or slit the backs. The bone should be cut out, particularly in large fish; or they may be dressed in fillets, now the fashionable way : fillets are made by cutting the fish neatly off the back-bone in oblong slices : when to be boiled or dressed d la Francaise, skin the fish—two soles for example—make a deep incision down the back-bone on each side, and divide each side into four fillets; but leave the fish on the bone till boiled and drained, by which means the fillets will be more easily detached smooth and un- broken. When the fish are to be fried, rub them with flour, and, if to be higher dressed, rub off the flour, and with a paste-brush brush them over with beat egg; strew finely- grated crumbs over them, and fry in a deep pan in plenty of,clarified dripping or lard (oil is still better), heated to such a degree that it may neither scorch the fish nor yet stew them : when a thick smoke rises they are considered ready. Turn and lift them carefully, and keep them hot by the fire, on a reversed sieve and soft paper, to absorb the * It is not easy to know the delicate whiting, at all times, from the coarse codling: — the codling has a beard—the whiting is silvery smooth. Flounders differ much in quality; there is a coarse kind of flounder, with bright scarlet star-like spots, which in reality looks better than the sober- coated gray-hack^ though the last is often not inferior to brill. The colour is a surer test than the thickness or firmness of the fish. Haddocks are in season from Whitsuntide to Christmas. Herrings are never long out of season, though the quality falls off at times.179 TO FRY HADDOCKS, ETC. fat^ till the whole are finished. Garnish with fried oysters, or a few sprigs of curled parsley, and sliced lemon, and serve very hot, with shrimp-sauce, if any be used. If small fish are not cut in pieces, they may be slit either in the back, or slightly scored;—the same frying-fat will serve more than once, if strained. Whitings and small haddocks may have the tail pushed through the eye. French cooks, and the best English ones, serve fried fish on a napkin, which always looks well if neatly done. In Scotland, her- rings are often dipped in oatmeal, and fried in plenty of dripping with sliced onions. In France mustard is served with fried fresh herrings. All these fish are occasionally broiled either split {Scottice, speldered) or whole. Wipe them very dry, dust them with flour, and broil over a clear moderate fire. Haddocks, split and boned {pipers), salted and hung for a day or two, are very good broiled. Skin them, dust with flour, lay them on a gridiron, and, if not split, put the opened part downmost. Turn them a few minutes on both sides, and they are done. Serve with cold butter. They are admirable for breakfast. 137. Finnan Haddocks (so named from a hamlet about six miles south of Aberdeen) should be skinned, broiled over a quick and clear fire, and served in a napkin. Those of the best quality are of a creamy-yellow colour, and have a peculiar odour, from the nature of the material used in preparing them. When kept above forty-eight hours they lose much of their delicacy. Broiled haddocks, whether fresh, rizzared^ or as Finnans, are held in great esteem by those who relish a good breakfast. Finnans are now regu- larly forwarded from Aberdeen to Edinburgh and London by railways and steamers. They may be dressed in a bread- toaster before the fire, or in a Dutch oven. An imitation of Finnans is now made at many parts of the east coast; a tolerable one by dipping the split fish in pyroligneous acid, as above, and smoking them.*—See No. 1196. * " A Finnan haddock," writes Sir Walter Scott, " has a relish of a very peculiar and delicate flavour, inimitable on any other coast than that of Aberdeenshire. Some of our Edinburgh philosophers tried to produce their equal in vain. I was one of a party at a dinner where the philosophi- cal haddocks were placed in competition with the genuine Finnan fish. These were served round without distinguishing whence they came ; but only one gentleman out of twelve present espoused the cause of philoso- phy."—BoswelVs Life ofJolmson^ by Groher^ vol. ii. p. 343, note.180 CHAP. VII.—FISH. 138. To Dress Slices of Halibut, Ling, or Tusk,— A Maigre Dish. Fry the fillets in butter, and then stew them in a little fish-stock, seasoned with parsley and celery. Add a piece of butter rolled in flour, white pepper, mace, a little lemon- peel, and a squeeze of lemon-juice ; or use a curry-sauce. 139. Herrings and Mackerel. Choose soft roe fresh mackerel. When gently boiled for from twelve to twenty minutes according to their size, dish on a napkin, with the boiled roe. Serve fennel-sauce, or a mixture of fennel and parsley ; more commonly and better, melted butter, or Maitre Hotel sauce. They may be fried or broiled, either split or whole, sprinkled or stuffed with herbs chopped and crumbed, and seasoned with pepper and salt; or collared^ by splitting them, taking out the bones, seasoning with mixed spices, rolling up and baking them in a slow oven. Herrings or mackerel are very good baked, and will keep a week. Clean, and season them highly with salt and mixed spices. Pack them neatly, heads and tails^ in a deep dish. Fill up with vinegar, and stick a little butter over them. Tie them closely up with several folds of paper, and bake them. They eat very well cold, or will warm up in their own liquor. For pickling highly, bay- leaves, and more vinegar and spices, may be employed, and the fish may be either baked or boiled ;—boil up the pickle, and when cold pour it over them, as directed for salmon, p. 166.—The French cook mackerel with fine herbs, champagne, and butter. Nor in London are the days quite gone by,— " When Mackerel seem'd delightful to their eyes, Though dress'd with incoherent gooseberries." 139 . Fresh Herrings as Dressed at Inveraray, And the Highland Sea-Lochs, The best herrings are obtained in these localities almost alive. Cut off the heads, fins, and tails; scale, gut, and wash them. Split and bone them or not, dust the inside with pepper and fine salt. Place two herrings flat together, the backs outmost, and dip in toasted oatmeal and fry them for seven minutes. Serve hot. They are delicious ; and, in the summer, add much to the breakfasts in the steamersTO STEW TROUT, ETC. SOLES, EELS, ETC. 181 on the Clyde, and round all the north-east and west coasts of Scotland. 140. To Stew Trout, Carp, or Perch. Clean and skin the fish; if large, they may be divided or split. Kub them inside with salt and mixed spices. Lay them in the stew-pan, and put in nearly as much good stock as will cover them, with a couple of onions and four cloves stuck in them, some Jamaica and black peppercorns, and a bit of mace; and when the fish have stewed five minutes, a couple of glasses of white wine, a boned anchovy, the juice of a lemon, and a little cayenne. Take up the fish carefully when ready, and keep them hot. Thicken the sauce with butter kneaded in brown flour; add a little mush- room-catsup and a few pickled oysters, if approved:—the sauce, though less piquant, is more delicate without catsup. Having skimmed and strained, pour it hot over the fish.— Ohs. In the French and Dutch kitchen, fish is sometimes stewed maigre with wine, spiceries, and butter. The dry, austere or sub-acid wines are the best adapted for this pur- pose. The sauce is thickened with bread boiled in it. These fish may all be boiled plain, and served with finely-minced parsley and butter, or fennel, or chervil and butter, or equal parts of each. (See Fish Sauces.)—The fish may be browned previously; but we conceive the flavour better when they are at once put to stew in the sauce. In England fish is sometimes stewed in cider instead of wine, seasoning with cayenne, eschalot, or onion. In Germany carp is sometimes even yet stewed in strong ale thickened with gingerbread! —See Nos. 685-7. 141. To Stew Soles, Eels, Lampreys, and Fillets of Turbot, Halibut, Whitings, Cod, etc. Clean, skin, and trim the fish. Eels must be cut in from three to four-inch lengths, and rubbed with salt to draw out the slime. Wash them thoroughly; cut off the heads. The other kinds of fish may be cut into larger pieces; the pieces may be dipped in egg, rolled in grated crumbs, and browned before they are put into the stew-pan. Have a pint and a half of good clear beef-gravy, in which two onions, a carrot, and a few savoury herbs have been boiled. Stew the fish in this gravy very gently, giving a quarter of an hour to the harder sorts, and about ten182 CHAP. VII. FISH. minutes to whitings or eels. Lift out the pieces or fillets with a fish slice, and keep them hot. Skim the sauce, and thicken it with brown flour, roux^ or rice-flour; add a small glass of wine, and a large spoonful of mushroom-cat- sup; give it a minute's boiling, and strain it over the dished fish.—Ohs, Stewed fish may be dressed for maigre days in the French manner, making the stock strong, either with fish or butter, or part of both, and using more herbs and seasonings. Lampreys and codlings are the better of having an anchovy and some made-mustard added to the above sauce. Serve them with scraped horseradish, sippets of bread, or fried parsley. 142. To Fry Eels * Skin and clean them, rub them in all cases with salt, and wash in several waters. Cut them in four-inch lengths; but if small, turn them round, the tail to the mouth, and, having rubbed them with salt and mixed spices, brush them with beat egg, and roll in crumbs. Fry in plenty of boiling lard, drain from the fat on a sieve before the fire, and serve with chervil and butter, or parsley and butter, plain melted butter, or melted butter sharpened with Chili vinegar or lemon-juice If maigre^ fry in butter or olive-oil. This, on a maigre day, is a dish for the Pope. N.B.—The fat in which eels are fried does not answer well for frying other fish. 143. To Collar Eels. Split, bone, and skin, without mangling, a large eel. Season * The freshness of an eel is known by its vivacity of motion; and its quality by the colour of the skin. The best kind, the silver eel, is that found in the clearest waters. The dingy yellow, and the deep sallow-green are inferior to the clear, coppery, brown-backed eel, and even to the bronze-coloured. Fresh-water fish of all kinds are best when found in clear streams. The natives of turbid, sluggish waters, are justly considered more difficult of digestion. This is said to be peculiarly the case with salmon. If very slimy, soak the eels in water in which a piece of alum or charcoal is put. The cruelty inflicted on eels is proverbial. Instead of skinning and cutting alive, a humane method of putting them to death is recommended by Dr Kitchiner, which deserves to be generally known. With a sharp- pointed skewer pierce the spinal marrow through the back part of the skull, when life will instantly cease. Mons. Ude gives the following receipt:—" Take live eels, throw them into the fire, and as they are twist- ing about on all sides, lay hold of them with a towel in your hand, and skin them' "183 TO COLLAR AND SPITCHCOCK EELS. it highly by rubbing it with mixed spices finely pounded, chopped parsley, sage, and a sprig of lemon-thyme. Roll up and bind the collar with tape, and boil it in salt and water till tender. It may be served whole with a sharp sauce, or it may be cut in slices. It will keep in a pickle of the liquor it was boiled in, adding salt and vinegar. Eels may be stewed as carp, but are a rather luscious dish. 144. To Spitchcock Eels. Linlithgow Receipt Clean them well, and rub with salt. Slit open the belly and take out the bone. Wash and dry them, cut in pieces about four inches long, dredge with flour, which wipe off, that they may be quite dry. Dip them in a thick batter made of melted butter, yolk of eggs, with a little minced parsley, sage and a very little eschalot, with pepper, cayenne, and salt. Eoll the pieces in fine grated bread- crumbs, or biscuit pounded. Dip and roll them again, and broil on a clear fire of a fine light brown. Eels may be thus dipped and broiled whole if they are not too large, or roasted in a Dutch oven. Serve either anchovy-sauce or melted butter, acidulated with any favourite flavoured vinegar. Garnish with crisped parsley. Eels are, by many gourmands^ preferred when boiled plain, strewing dried parsley and sage, pulverized, over them, and serving with them plain melted butter, sharpened with lemon-juice. (See also Remoulade and Tar tar-sauce.)—Eels are also dressed as Fish in Sauce, or as Water-Souchy. They are sometimes farced. 145. To Fry Sprats, Smelts, and other Small Fish. Clean them well, and, when wiped dry, rub them with flour to absorb any moisture that remains. Dip them in beat egg, and then in fine bread-crumbs. Fry them in plenty of oil, lard, or clarified dripping, making it quite hot. See No. 136. Take care in turning not to break them. If wanted very nice, they may be twice dipped in egg and crumbs, or biscuit-powder. Lay them on a sieve reversed to drain, and serve on a napkin. These delicate fish may also be stewed in wine, with a little vinegar and plenty of mixed peppers; or in cider: or they may be seasoned with salt, mace, and184 CHAP. VII. FISH. cayenne, and arranged with the tails meeting in the centre of a flat baking-dish, covered with fine bread-crumbs, over which plenty of fresh butter is laid, and baked for from ten to twelve minutes. Serve as above, placing the baking-dish concealed in another, in which a napkin is puffed. Garnish with fried parsley and lemon sliced. 146. To Broil, Bake, or Fry Sprats, Smelts, etc. Run a long bird-skewer or a common knitting-needle through the eyes. Dust them with flour, and have a hot gridiron rubbed with mutton-suet or chalk, and a clear fire. Serve them hot. These fish will pickle or bake, and eat well cold. Bake them with butter, and a high seasoning of mixed spices and vinegar. They will keep for a week.— Another way. Dip them in a batter made of two eggs, and bread- crumbs mixed with flour and seasonings, and fry them. Serve them on fried parsley. — Obs. Imitation-Anchovies may be made of sprats cured in a strong pickle of bay and common salt, sal 'prunella^ sugar, and pounded pepper, with a little cochineal to colour them. In Scotland, sprats, gar- vocks, etc., and herrings, are roasted on the girdle which toasts the family oat-bread, and this plan answers very well in cottage economy.—See White Bait, No. 156^. 147. To Dress Eed Herrings, Sardinias, and Buffed and Pickled Herrings. Skin, open, and trim red herrings. If old and dry, pour some hot small-beer or water over them, and let them steep a half-hour, or longer if hard. Yarmouth bloaters seldom need soaking. Broil them over a clear fire at a considerable distance; or before the fire; rub them with good oil or fresh butter while broiling, and rub on a little more when they are served. Serve them very hot, with scooped cold butter; or with melted butter and mustard, and mashed potatoes or parsnips. Steep Pickled Herrings from one to two days and nights, changing the water if they be very salt. Hang them to dry upon a stick pushed through the eyes, and trim and broil them when wanted. These are called buffed herrings in Scotland, and are served at breakfast or supper.PICKLED HERRINGS. 185 148. Pickled Herrings, A French way for a rere-supper. Wash the herrings; cut off the heads and tips of the tails; skin them; steep them in lukewarm milk and water, and dry and broil them; dish with slices of raw onions and rennets, and serve with oil. 149. To Stuff and Bake Carp, Pike,* and Haddocks. Having scaled and cleaned the fish without cutting open much of the breast, stuff them with a maigre forcemeat made thus: Beat yolks of eggs, a few oysters bearded and chopped, and two boned anchovies, pounded biscuit, or bread grated, minced parsley, and a bit of eschalot or an onion, a blade of mace pounded, pepper, allspice, and salt. Mix these in pro- per proportions; and, having melted a good piece of butter * Receipt for Dressing a Pilce^ hy Isaak Walton.—" First open your pike at the gills, and, if need be, cut also a little slit towards the belly. Out of these take his guts, and keep his liver, which you are to shred very small with thyme, sweet-marjoram, and a little winter-savoury; to these put some pickled oysters, and some anchovies, two or three, both these last whole, for the anchovies will melt, and the oysters should not; to these you must add also apound of sweet butter, which you are to mix with the herbs that are shred, and let them all be well salted. If the pike be more than a yard long, then you may put into these herbs more than a pound, or if he be less, then less butter will suffice; these, being thus mixed, with a blade or two of mace, must be put into the pike's belly; and then his belly so sewed up as to keep all the butter in his belly if it be possible; if not, then as much as you possibly can. But take not off the scales. Then you are to thrust the spit through his mouth, out at his tail. And then take four, or five, or six split sticks, or very thin laths, and a convenient quantity of tape or filleting; these laths are to be tied round about the pike's body from his head to his tail, and the tape tied somewhat thick, to prevent his breaking or falling off from the spit. Let him be roasted very leisurely, and often basted with claret wine, and anchovies and butter mixed together, and also with what moisture falls from him into the pan. When you have roasted him sufficiently, you are to hold under him, when you unwind or cut the tape that ties him, such a dish as you propose to eat him out of, and let him fall into it with the sauce that is roasted in his belly, and by this means the pike will be kept unbroken and complete. Then, to the sauce which was within, and also that sauce in the pan, you are to add a fit quantity of the best butter, and to squeeze the juice of three or four oranges. Lastly, you may either put it into the pike, with the oysters, two cloves of garlic, and take it whole out when the pike is cut off the spit; or, to give the sauce a hogoo \haut gout, we presume], let the dish into which you let the pike fall be rubbed with it; the using or not using of this gar- lic is left to your discretion. " This dish of meat is too good for any but anglers or very honest men; and I trust you will prove both, and therefore I have trusted you with this secret."CHAP. VII. FISH. 186 in a stew-pan, stir them in it, over the fire, till of the con- sistence of a thick batter, adding more biscuit-powder or flour if necessary. Fill the fish and sew up the slit. Bake them in a moderate oven, basting with plenty of butter, and sticking butter all over them. They will look handsomer if brushed with egg and crumbed. Serve Pike with anchovy- sauce, and carp with the following sauce :—Take up the fish on a hot dish; thicken the liquor in which it was baked with butter rolled in flour, boiling it for a few minutes with a faggot of parsley, a few leaves of basil, a sprig of lemon- thyme, and a very little marjoram. Strain and add to the sauce a teaspoonful of made-mustard, and one of Chili vine- gar, a glass of red wine, and a little soy, with mace, pepper, and salt to taste. Pour a little of this over the carp, and serve the rest in a tureen. Garnish with curled parsley and slices of lemon, or parsley and scraped horseradish.—Ohs. A highly-relishing forcemeat for the above may be made of scraped ham or tongue, or bacon fried and cut in little bits, suet, or marrow, eschalot, cayenne, salt, a chopped anchovy, bread-crumbs, a little walnut or oyster liquor, with egg to bind the composition. The meat of a lobster may be sub- stituted for the ham or fried bacon.—See Scottish Crappit Heads^ No. 747, and Fillets of Haddocks^ also French Cook- ery of Fish J Nos. 679 onward, 150. To Dress Plaice, Brill, or large Floimders. Clean, and, without washing, wipe the fish, and rub it with salt. When it has lain from six hours to a day, wash it, wipe it very dry, and rub with flour to absorb all the remaining damp. When the flour is rubbed off, brush it over with beat egg, and dip it in bread-crumbs, with a little finely-minced parsley. Fry it in plenty of lard, and when drained from the fat and dry, serve it on fried parsley, with anchovy-sauce, or melted butter sharp- ened with the juice of a lemon or Seville orange. 151. To Dress Pipers. Clean a very fresh fish without cutting it open too much. Stuff it with a forcemeat of two to three ounces of shred suet, and a large breakfast-cupful of bread-crumbs, mixed with two eggs, chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Sew in this stuffing, skewer the tail intoTO DRESS PIPERS, RED MULLET, FISH-TURTLE. 187 tlie mouth; dry, flour, egg, and crumb tlie fish; bake it in a hot oven; drain it and serve with Dutch sauce.—This must not be confounded with rizzared haddocks, which in Scotland are often called pipers, 152. To Dress Red Mullet. Clean and bake or boil the fish. Serve with lobster-sauce. —Ohs. French cooks do not gut this delicate fish. It is merely washed, wrapped in buttered paper-cases, and baked to preserve the delicacy of its native flavour. Serve in the cases. 153. Fish-Turtle, A favourite homely dish. Fry slices of fresh codling or haddock, and drain them. Parboil, skin, and cut into squares a thick piece of good skate. Have ready some stock of cow-heel, beef, or veal, highly seasoned with pepper, cayenne, and catsup, and thickened with butter rolled in flour. Stew the fish in this stock with the meat of a lobster, and a few oysters in their juice. Season with essence of anchovy, and a little wine, if you like. Serve in a soup-dish. 154. To Curry Haddocks, Codlings, Whitings, Or slices of Cod^ Halibut^ and other Fish, Have nearly a quart of good beef or veal stock, in which a carrot or turnip and two onions have been boiled. Thicken it with butter kneaded in lightly-browned rice- flour. Having cleaned, skinned, and boned the fish, cut them into neat fillets of about three inches in length, liub them with flour, and fry them in butter or lard of a fine golden brown. Drain them, and mix very smoothly with a little of the stock from a dessertspoonful to a table- spoonful of curry-powder, two onions beaten in a mortar, and a large quarter-pint of thick cream. Stew the fish very slowly in the stock till they are tender, which will not take long. Place the pieces neatly in the dish, the largest in the centre, and having skimmed the curry-sauce, pour it hot over them. Ohs. Curry has become a favourite way of dressing fish, though till of late it found no place in any book of cookery. It is cheap, convenient, end even elegant. Instead, however, of using curry-powder as obtained in shops, we would advise every cook to keep the several ingredients, each188 CHAP. VII.—FISH. good of its kind, in well-stopped vials, and to mix them when they are wanted, suiting the quantities of the various ingredients to the nature of the dish. Fish, for example, requires more acid than fowl. Some people like a great deal of cayenne, others detest the taste and smell of turmeric, and some are all for ginger. To use curry-powder mixed in the same proportions for every sort of viand and of taste, may do very well for those who entertain a mysterious veneration for the Oriental characters inscribed on the packages, but will not suit a gourmand of any knowledge or experience. Lobsters, prawns, oysters, or mussels, may be added to fish-curry, and are curried by themselves. Dressed fish make good curry. The curry may be any shade of colour, from pale gold to deep rich brown, by browning the fish and onions more or less, or adding browning. 155. Dutch Water-Souchy,—Ifaz^rrg. Eels, gudgeons, whitings, flounders, perch, tench, etc., are all employed for this dish. Whichever sort of fish you use, clean them well, taking out the gills, eyes, etc. Cut them in neat small pieces. Have a little good fish-stock made of the heads and fins, and seasoned with onion, parsley, a bit of lemon-peel, pepper, and salt. Strain and skim, and stew the cut fish in this for eight or ten minutes. Put in a little catsup; skim and serve in a soup-dish. A bay-leaf may be boiled in the stock, and the souchy may be flavoured with essence of anchovy, eschalot, or any flavour- ing ingredient that is approved.* Dr Anthony Todd Thomson's receipt.—Boil down two small flounders, whit- ings, or haddocks, in a quart of water to a third, reducing them nearly to a pulp; prepare four more flounders, and boil them in the strained liquor, serving with salt, pepper, and cayenne. This is strongly recommended for conva- lescents ; thickening the dish with beat yolk of egg if in advanced convalescence. 156. To Dress Cray-Fish and Shrimps. Boil cray-fish for fourteen minutes in the shell, in wine and water, or in salted water and vinegar, with herbs; drain, and serve them, hot or cold, on a napkin arranged neatly in form. Shrimps :—Boil five minutes, 1562. To Dress Whitebait, As at Greenwich and Blachwalh The sooner this delicate fish is cooked after it leaves the * We have been refused the receipt of the Star Inn at Alphen in Hol- land, a place famous for its water-zootje. This is illiberality which the Cleikum Club rarely experiences.WHITEBAIT—EICH FISH AND LOBSTER PIES. i«y water the better, just like herrings, mackerel, and also the small kinds eaten as whitebait. Keep them in a pan of sea water, or salted water. Lift them with a skimmer—^for they should never be handled—into a towel in which plenty of flour is put. Toss them about till coated with flour; place them in a colander, and sift all the flour off them that will come off easily, and instantly fry them for from one to two minutes in hot lard; lift with the fish-skimmer, drain from the frying-fat, and serve neatly and instantly on a fish- plate of china or silver, piling them like a pyramid. They are eaten with brown bread and butter, and sauced at table with a squeeze of cut lemon and cayenne : the accompanying beverage is iced punch.—Ohs. Whitebait is now settled to be a distinct species of fish; especially created, we presume, for English Cabinet Ministers and their friends, and a few London bankers and merchants. It is, however, found in other British estuaries besides the Thames, though it never can relish on the shores of the Dornoch Firth as at Green- wich. Our receipt is applicable to all localities, and to the several small delicate species of fish that pass for genuine whitebait. 157. Rich Fish-Pie,—^ maigre dish. Clean and nicely trim either soles, trout, salmon, turbot, whichever is intended for the pie, and cut the meat from the bone in handsome fillets. Season the fillets with pepper, cayenne, mace, and salt. They may either be turned round or laid flat in the pie-dish, packing them neatly. If to be very rich, the pie-dish must be lined with fish-forcemeat. Put bits of butter below and above the fish, and strew in, if to be very rich, chopped shrimps or prawns, or the soft part of oysters, or lobster-meat. Season a half-pint of stock made of the fish-heads and trimmings; thicken, and strain this over the fish, and cover the dish with a good puff-paste. It will require less baking than a meat-pie of the same size.— See Fish-Pudding, No 683. 158. Lobster-Pie,—^ maigre dish. Parboil two good lobsters; take out all that is good of the meat, and cut it in bits, and place it in a small pie-dish. Beat the spawn and shells, and stew them in water, with aCHAP. VII.—FISH. 190 blade or two of mace, and the juice of a lemon or a little good vinegar. Strain this over the lobster-meat, and cover with a light paste. Soy, wine, cayenne, and catsup will make this pie more relishing.—Ohs. Some knowing gour- mands have lobster-pies made of alternate layers of lobster and oyster meat, and bread-crumbs, with small farce-balls of pounded oysters, lobster-coral, and essence of anchovies. 159. Fish Re-Warmed,—ifaz^re. Cut cold cod, turbot, skate, pike, or other fish, in neat bits or flakes from the bone: place in a dish any sauce left of it, and lay the bits on this, pouring over them four ounces of butter melted in cream, and thickened and seasoned to your taste with cayenne, made-mustard, and Harvey's fish sauce. Heat thoroughly in a Dutch oven: the dish may have a paste border, or be served on another dish in a puffed napkin.—See Nos. 683, 684, for French receipts. 160. A Savoury Shrimp or Prawn Vie—Maigre. Have as many well-cleaned shrimps or prawns as will nearly fill the pie-dish. Season with pounded mace, cloves, a little cayenne, or Chili vinegar. Put some butter in the dish, and cover with a light puff-paste. Less than three- quarters of an hour will bake these pies. 161. An Excellent Salt-Fish 'Pie—Maigre. This may be made of either cod or haddocks salted, but not too dry. Steep and boil the fish. Trim away all skins, bones, and fins, and cut them into thin handsome pieces. Boil hard, and peel half a dozen eggs, and slice them thin; do the same with as many well-sized onions. Have plenty of parboiled potatoes sliced. Place some bits of butter and a layer of potatoes in the bottom of a large pie-dish, then fish, then eggs, then onions, and again butter, thus filling up the dish, shaking pepper over every separate layer, and putting butter over each. Make a sauce of chopped hard- boiled yolks of eggs, melted butter, a little made-mustard, and essence of anchovy, or soy, and pour it over the pie. Cover it with a puff paste, or with mashed potatoes, scal- loped round the edge, and glazed with eggs. This pie, if with potato, will not require much of the oven. — Obs. Pies mayFISH-PIES AND SAUCES. 191 be made of perch, mackerel, herrings, soles, flounders, had- docks, etc. The tough or oily fish must be previously skinned. Fish-pies may be baked open^ and we think are best so, with merely a border, and when dished, a sprink- ling of minced hard white of eggs strewed over.—See Potato Pasty^ No. 875. 162. A Eich Fish-Pie, or Baked Fish. Three middling-sized haddocks, mackerels, or soles, will make a pie. They may be stuffed, well-seasoned, and laid in an oval flat dish, with a puff-paste border and centre ornament, or an edging of mashed potatoes neatly marked. Stick plenty of butter over them; or, better, glaze and cover with bread-crumbs. Balls of fish-forcemeat, or yolks of hard-boiled eggs, may be employed to enrich the dish; or for plain dinners, potato-balls. If wanted very high- dressed, the fish may be laid on forcemeat, and have a rich sauce poured hot over them when baked.—Ohs, These may be served yet more elegantly d la Matelote^ or d la Genevoisej Nos. 681, 685. 163. Sauces for Fish-Pies, or for Fresh Fish. Take a quarter-pint of the best vinegar, the same quantity of white wine, a large spoonful of oyster-liquor, and another of catsup, with two anchovies boned and chopped. Boil this sauce for two minutes, and, skimming it, pour it hot through a funnel into the pie when to be served. 164. A Provincial way. Take a half-pint of good thick cream, a dessert spoonful of soy, two anchovies boned and chopped, and a bit of butter rolled in browned flour. Boil it up in a small saucepan, and pour it hot into the pie. 165. To Boil Lobsters and Crabs. Choose lobsters and crabs by their weight, alertness, and fresh smell. The tail of the lobster, when fresh, will be stiff and springy; and so will the claws of the crab.* Fill * Lobsters and crabs are in high season from March till October; so that they supply the place of oysters, which come in about the time that lobsters go out of season. Lobsters are held in great esteem by gastrologers for the firmness, purity, and flavour of their flesh. When they find refuge in the rocky fastnesses of the deep from the rapacity of sharks and fishermen, they sometimes attain an immense size, and have been found from eighteen inches to upwards of two feet in length. Apicius, who ought to be the192 CHAP. VII.—FISH. a large pot with water, and make it brackisli with salt (on the coast sea-water is used); brush and put in the lob- sters, tying the claws. Take off the scum, of which a great deal will be thrown up, and let them boil from twenty to forty minutes, according to the size. If boiled too long, the flesh will get thready and coarse; if not long enough, the spawn will not have a good colour. Wipe the lobsters with a damp cloth, then rub the shell with butter, and wipe it off again. Break off the great claws, and crack them at the joints without mangling. Split down the tail, and dress all neatly on the dish, serving the following sauce:—The hard yolks of two eggs pounded in a mortar with a little vinegar or lemon-juice, and the soft spawn of the lobster. When beaten quite smooth, mix this with a large spoonful of salad-oil and a glassful of the best vinegar, a teaspoonful of made-mustard, and a little cayenne and salt. For crabs the same sauce, but shorter boiling. 166. To Pot Lobsters, Shrimps, and Crabs for Sandwiches, Toasts, Deviled Biscuits, etc. Crack the claws, etc., and pick out the meat. If for sandwiches, beat it in a mortar with pounded mace, white pepper, cayenne, nutmeg, and salt. If to keep for eating, for a cold relish, mix the meat neatly cut in small bits, and patron saint of epicures, made a voyage to the coast of Africa on hearing that lobsters of an unsually large size were to be found there; and, after encountering much distress at sea, met with a disappointment. Very large lobsters are found on the coast of Orkney. Some naturalists affirm (Olaus Macinus and Gesner), that in the Indian seas, and on the wild shores of Norway, lobsters have been found twelve feet in length and six in breadth, which seize mariners in their terrible embrace, and dragging them into their caverns, devour them! However this may be, the lobsters and crabs for being devoured are best when of the middle size, and when found on reefs or rocky places. They are obtained on many parts of the British coast; and during the summer months there is generally an abundant supply in the London market. In places where crabs are good and plentiful, a pretty supper-plate is made of a few pairs of the claws cracked; and an excellent substitute for lobster-sauce is prepared from them, particularly from the small delicate species known by the name of Cavies. The age of shell-fish may, it is said be known, as that of a tree is by the bark, from the roughness and incrustations which gather upon the surface. Yet if lobsters cast their shells yearly, how can this be ? At any rate, avoid the crusted. River lobsters are esteemed more delicate than sea ones. In Germany, lobsters are often boiled alive in milk. The Ger- mans are indeed fond of cooking all sorts of fish in milk, and of marinading in m.ilk.—Barbarous cookery.—P. T. French practice is rapidly refiiiii)g German cookery.LOBSTER, HAUT GOUT—TO ROAST A LOBSTER. 193 the coral and the spawn, in a regular manner in layers or alternate pieces, so that when sliced it may have that marbled appearance, that look of mosaic work, which so much commends the taste of the cook. Press the layers into a potting-can, and bake, covered with butter, in a slow oven for about a half-hour. When cold, take oif the butter, pack the meat in small potting-cans, and pour the butter again clarified over it.—Ohs. What is left of this butter will be very relishing for sauces. Potted lobster may be dressed as a fricassee in a Bechamel or cream-sauce, or eaten cold. Lobsters for sauce, when the fish are dear or out of season, may be preserved in this way. To pot Shrimps.—Shell as many fresh shrimps as will fill a pint basin. Melt a quarter of a pound of fresh butter in a small saucepan, which season pretty highly with a blade of mace, a particle of cayenne, and a very little nutmeg. Let the shrimps gently heat through, and soak in the butter for a quarter of an hour, but not boil. Pot, as other things, in very small shallow potting-cans. When cold, pour a little melted butter over, and cover them closely. N.B.—If to be kept for sauce, pot at least three pints; but suit the seasonings to that purpose, and use no nutmeg. 167. Lobster, Haut Gout,—By H. Jekyll, Esq, Pick the firm meat from a parboiled lobster or two, and take also the inside, if not thin and watery. Season highly with white pepper, cayenne, pounded mace, and cloves, nutmeg, and salt. Take a little well-flavoured gravy—for example, the jelly of roast veal—a few tiny bits of butter, a spoonful of soy, or walnut-catsup, or of any favourite flavoured vinegar, and a spoonful of red wine. Stew the cut lobster in this sauce for a few minutes.—Obs, This is one of those delicate messes which the gourmet loves to cook for himself in a silver dish over a spirit-lamp, the preparation of the morsel being to him the better part of it. 168. To E-oast a Lobster. When parboiled, rub it with plenty of butter, and lay it in a Dutch oven, or before the fire ; baste it till it froth; dredge lightly with flour, and baste again.CHAP. VII. FISH. 194 169. To Butter Lobsters, Shrimps, etc. "Warm the meat cut into nice bits, in a little good brown gravy. Season with mace, nutmeg, and salt; and thicken with butter kneaded in brown flour; or dress them white in clear gravy and a little cream, seasoning with white pepper and salt. Pi^awns and shrimps may be buttered in the same way, either in white or brown sauce, and served on toasted sippets. See No. 186. 170. Fricasseed Lobster, An elegant Dish, Dress the lobster the same as in the former receipt, but use more veal-gravy, a little cream, and the beat yolk of an egg. Dish the fricassee in the middle of a small dish, and place the claws and cut tail neatly round it; garnish with pickled beetroot and sliced pickled cucumber. This is just a lobster salad. 171. Lobster in the French Mode. Cut the meat in small dice. Stew it in a little rich sauce for a few minutes, and serve it in the shell, which must be nicely cleaned, and have a small paste border. Strew it twice over with sifted crumbs, and brown with a sala- mander.— See Lobster-sauce^ and Sauce for Lobsters, No. 308, 309. 172-3. To Dress Crabs Hot and Cold, And the Scotch Partan-Pie, Pick the meat out of the claws and body of two crabs; clean one shell nicely, and return the whole meat into it, first seasoning with salt, white pepper, and nutmeg, with a few bits of fresh butter, and some bread-crumbs. A half- glass of vinegar beat up with a little made-mustard may be added, and a small quantity of salad-oil substituted for the butter.—Brown the meat when laid in the shell with a sala- mander. This is the preparation which Walker the Original thinks so charming an interlude in a social dinner, when handed round with the fish.—To dress Crabs cold. Pick out all the meat, and mixing it well with a teaspoonful of salad-oil, with cayenne, white pepper, and salt to taste, serve it in the shell.—Obs, For variety the meat may be cut inPRAWNS, OR CRAY-FISII CAVIARE AND MOCK-CAVIARE. 195 fillets, the small claws disposed neatly round the dish, and the contents of the body pounded, rubbed through a sieve, seasoned and stewed in a little gravy, before being returned into the shell. Shell-fish are picked from the shells, from which a liquor is drawn by breaking and boiling them in water and a little white wine and vinegar, with salt, pepper, mace, and lemon-peel. Strain and thicken this liquor; add the fish; stew for five minutes, and dish over slips of thin toast.—See Aspic Jelly^ No. 606. 174. Prawns, or Cray-Fish,— An Ornamental Dish* Make a savoury jelly of calf s feet or a cow-heel, a piece of skate, or trimmings of turbot, with horseradish, lemon- peel, an onion, and a piece of lean bacon. When boiled to a jelly, strain it, and when cold take off the fat, keep back the sediment, and boil it up with a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, and the whisked whites and crushed shells of four eggs. Do not disturb it by stirring. When boiled, let it settle twenty minutes, and run it through a jelly-bag. Pour some of the jelly into a deep dish; when it has firmed, put in the cray-fish with their backs down- wards, fill up the dish with the jelly, and when cold, turn the whole out. This jelly may be poured over any sort of shell-fish.—Obs. A lobster in savoury jelly was one of the fantastic dishes of the old school of cookery. The process was very elaborate, and it seldom succeeded entirely; either a horn was broken or awry, or a claw snapt, or a fracture of the tail took place, to the utter discomfiture of the cook and mortification of the hostess. 175. Caviare and Mock-Caviare. Caviare must be bought. The best is prepared from the roe of sturgeon; but roe of salmon, pike, etc., are also em- ployed. It is eaten raw^ with toasted bread, oil, and vine- gar, or lemon-juice.—A good imitation is thus m.ade .: Bone a few anchovies, and chop and pound them in a mortar with dried parsley, a clove of garlic, a little cayenne, salt, lemon- juice, and a very little salad-oil. Serve on toasted bread or toasted biscuits. See Salmon-roej No. IIS^^.196 CHAP. VII. FISH. 176. A Salmagundi. Wash and cut open at the breast two large Dutch or Lochfine pickled herrings; take the meat from the bones, without breaking the skin, and keep on the heads, tails, fins, etc. Mince the fish with the breast of a cold roast chicken skinned, a couple of hard-boiled yolks of eggs, an onion, a boned anchovy, and a little grated ham or tongue. Season with salad-oil, vinegar, cayenne, and salt, and fill up the herring-skins, so that they may look plump and well shaped. Garnish with scraped horseradish, and serve mustard with the dish.—Ohs, An ornamental Salmagundi yfdi^ one of the frippery Scotch dishes of former times. This edifice was raised on a china bowl reversed, and placed in the middle of a dish, crowned with what, by the courtesy of the kitchen, was called a pine-apple, made of fresh butter. Around were laid, stratum above stratum, chopped eggs, minced herring and veal, rasped meat, and minced parsley ; the whole sur- mounted by a triumphal arch of herring-bones, and adorned with a garnishing of barberries and samphire. 177. To Stew Oysters,* Cockles, or Mussels. Plump, juicy, middle-sized oysters alone will stew to advantage. When opened, put them in a saucepan to * Oysters are conceitedly said to be in season in every month of the year that has an r in its name, beginning with September and ending with April; but the season in many places extends from August to May. Every city has its favourite oyster-bank. In London the Colchester and Milton oysters are held in most esteem. Edinburgh has her " whiskered Pandores," and Dublin the Carlingford, and " Powldoodies of Burran." Venice is celebrated for oysters. Ancient Rome had those of Tarentum. For the convenience of obtaining a ready supply of oysters, they are often trans- ported from their original beds, and laid down on other places of the coast; but these exiles are seldom found in such perfection as those which are called natives; that is, such as have never been rudely torn from their native beds and despatched on voyages of profit. Oysters, when just dredged, may be so packed in small barrels as to keep good for a week or ten days, and in this state they are sent to distant places. Oysters may be dropped out of the shell into a bottle, and kept in their juice for a short time by pouring in a little olive-oil, and corking the bottle closely. They may also be preserved good for some time by feeding; and custom, which brings gourmands to admire game when in a state of putridity, has taught some epicures to relish the flavour of stale oysters better than those re- cently taken from the beds. The fresher oysters are, they are the better ; but when to be kept, lay them bottom downwards in a tub, or any vessel suited to the quantity to be preserved, and cover them with water in which a good deal of salt is dissolved. In this manner Apicius sent oysters to197 TO STEW OYSTERS, COCKLES, OR MUSSELS. harden for two minutes, which will enable you to beard them easily. Wash them as you beard, in their own Tiberius when he was in Parthia. Change the water every twelve hours. Most cooks direct that this delicate animal should be fed with oatmeal or flour sprinkled in the water; and others, on the principle which leads a mother of the parish of St Giles to give her new-born darling a drop of gin, are for feeding them with white wine and bread crumbs ! It is said by those who have the charge of fish-ponds, " that fish will eat nothing but what comes out of the sea;" now, though we are not perfectly convinced of this fact, we can at least believe that salt-water gruel is not well suited to the delicate stomach of an oyster. Those large fat oysters called Pan- dores, which are so much prized in Edinburgh, are said to owe their supe- rior excellence to the brackish contents of the pans of the adjacent salt- works of Prestonpans flowing out upon the beds,—a subject this worthy the serious investigation of the oyster-amateur, who may here receive ex- cellent hints for fattening and improving the quality of his favourite morsel. We, have, however, grave doubts of this theory. Shell-fish, and the oyster above all, have long been esteemed highly restorative, and easy of digestion; they are therefore recommended for the food of the delicate and declining, and of those whose digestive powers have been impaired by excess. We have grave doubts as to the easy digestibility of raw oysters. When eaten for health, an oyster is best swallowed with its own liquor the moment the shell is opened; or, if found too cold for the stomach, a sprinkling of black pepper may be allowed. Vinegar counteracts the effect of eating oysters to enrich the blood, or render it more balsamic, and ought therefore, it is said, to be avoided by the declining. As there are no reasonable bounds to oyster-eating, it may be useful to notice here, that when too many of these or other shell-fish are swallowed, the unpleasant feeling created may, it is said, be removed by drinking half a pint of hot milk. Consumptive persons are recommended to use hot milk after their oysters at all times,—we cannot tell why. " Oysters," says the learned author of Tdbella Cibaria, " were not common at Rome, and consequently fetched there a very high price; yet Macrobius assures us, that the Eoman Pontiffs never failed to have them every day on their tables." From the fourth century to the reign of Louis XIY. they were nearly forgotten; but they came again into vogue, and from that time have kept up their reputation. Gastronomers, we know, can swallow from three to four dozen before dinner, and then sit down and eat perhaps better than if they had abstained from them. They clear the stomach of accidental phlegm, increase the gastric juices, and by their natural coolness condense the air which may be fixed in the organs of digestion. When good they are wholesome, but poisonous when bad. The Athenians held oysters in great esteem," says the same learned authority on matters of the table; and we may add, that in the Modern Athens they are held in equal regard. They appear to have fallen into disrepute during the middle ages. Chaucer's begging monks mortified themselves upon this mean food. The principal taverns of the Old Town of Edinburgh used to be called Oyster Taverns, in honour of this favourite viand ; and this name is still kept up by some modern places of genial resort. " How many celebrated wits and bon-vivants, now quite chop-fallen," said Winterblossom, *' have dived into the dark defiles of Closes and Wynds in pursuit of this delicacy, and of the wine, the wit, the song, that gave it zest! I have heard my learned and facetious friend, the late Provost Creech—for it was rather before my day—^say, that before public amusements were much known in198 CHAP. VII.—FISH. liquor. Keep them hot. Strain the liquor, and afterwards allow time for the sediment to subside. Put it into a silver or block-tin saucepan, with a bit of mace and lemon-peel, a few white peppercorns, a little butter kneaded in flour, and a glass of sweet cream, or, better, of Champagne or Madeira, if for a high relish; in which case a very little minced eschalot, or onion and cayenne, may be added. Let it boil for a few minutes, and slip in the oysters, simmer very gently for five minutes, lift them with a silver spoon into a deep hot dish with toasted sippets in it, and strain the our Presbyterian capital, an Oyster-ploij, which always included music and a little dance, was the delight of the young fashionables of both sexes." The municipal authorities of Edinburgh were wont to pay considerable attention to " The feast of shells," both as regarded the supply and the price,—and we hope they do so still. At the commencement of the dredg- ing season, a voyage was boldly undertaken to the oyster-beds in the Frith of Forth by the public functionaries, with something of the solemnity of the Doge of Venice wedding his Adriatic bride. Even the plodding fisher- men of our bleak coasts seem to catch inspiration from this delicate crea- ture. Instead of the whisky inspiration which supports them in dragging the herring-nets, or throwing the cod-lines, like the fishermen of the Sicil- ian seas, they " Sing to charai the spirits of the deep," as they troll the dredging-nets. There is indeed a poetical notion that the oyster, among his other gentle qualities, is inclined to minstrelsy— " The Herring loves the merry moonlight, The Mackerel loves the wind, But the Oyster loves the dredging-sang, For he comes of gentle kind." The Nabob, emulous of the well-earned fame of Dr Kitchinee, who has set the ancient duet between Bubble and Squeak with proper accompani- ments, wished to embellish this volume with the music of the " Dr edging- Song,''^ and the shrilling recitative of the oyster-wives,—those Maids of Honour to the " Empress of the North," who, for miles off, are heard when September evenings begin to shorten—cuckoos of autumn—harbingers of winter—screaming around "her Mountain Throne"—drowning the sum- mer " babble of green trees," and bringing back the genial associations of " rousing nights," merry tavern-suppers, and " a quarter of a hundred after the play." There is perhaps no spot on earth where oysters were enjoyed in such perfection as at the head of the Old Fishmarket Close of Edin- burgh ; once,—alas the change!—the cynosure of all the taverns, fish- creels, and booksellers' shops of that learned city : the place where eating, learning, and law sat enthroned side by side. Here, on any evening from October till March, the oyster gourmand took his solitary stand, and enjoyed his delicious regale in its utmost earthly perfection,—swallowed alive with its own gravy the moment it was opened by the fishwife ; who operated on the shell with a dexterity of manipulation, a rapidity of fingering, that no pianoforte-player we ever saw could vie with,—nothing indeed could be compared with it except the eager voracity of those genuine lovers of the oyster, to whom these piscatory Hebes ministered. Dr Kedgill resolved to visit this favourite spot on the first night of his sojourn in Edinburgh.— Edit.TO SCALLOP, GRILL, AND BROWN OYSTERS. 199 sauce over them.—Ohs, A sort of deviled stew is made by- adding more seasonings and Parmesan cheese; which high- flavoured cheese the French employ frequently for relishing ragouts, both of meat and fish. If it be true that all fish require silver knives and forks, this holds peculiarly of oysters. A genuine oyster-eater rejects all additions,—wine, eschalot, lemon, etc., are alike obnoxious to his taste for the native juice. 178, To Scallop Oysters or Cockles. Having scalded, bearded, and stewed the oysters, as above directed, for two or three minutes in their own cleared juice, have some bread-crumbs moistened with the oyster-liquor, a good piece of butter melted, and a little wine. Place some of this in scallop-shapes, and cover with a layer of oysters, then more moistened bread-crumbs, next oysters, and finish with the bread-crumbs mixed with a little grated lemon-peel and finely shred parsley. Put some bits of butter over the whole, and brown in a Dutch oven, or with a salamander. 179. To Grill Oysters. Blanch them in a stew-pan in their own juice, beard and wash them out of this, and in another stew-pan give them a toss with a bit of fresh butter and a little chopped parsley; but do not let them boil. Place them in their own shells, previously well cleaned, and put some bits of butter over them. Place the shells on the gridiron; two minutes will do them. Nutmeg is added sometimes, both to scalloped and grilled oysters; but we do not approve of it. Two may be put in one shell. 180. To Brown Oysters in their own Juice. Beard and wash them in their juice, and dip them one by one in yolk of egg beat up with a very little flour, pepper, and salt. Brown a good piece of butter in the fry- ing-pan, and brown the oysters nicely over a quick fire; draw them aside, and pour their juice, strained, into the pan; thicken it with a very little flour kneaded in butter, and when it boils stir the oysters among it for a few minutes. This answers for brown sauce to cod's head and shoul- ders, and for calf s head, etc.; but when to be served as a200 CHAP. VII. FISH. stew, it may have a little catsup, bread-crumbs, and minced parsley added to it. Serve in a hot hash-dish on toasted sippets. Lemon-peel and chopped parsley will be an improvement. Mussels, cockles, and ClamSj whether as soup, stew, or sauce, may be dressed in the same way. 181. To Serve Oysters in the Shell. Let the opener stand behind the eater's chair, who should make quick and clean conveyance. If not so placed, wash, brush, and open and beard the oysters, and arrange them in rows on a tray; or if at a loss for room, heap the shells in piles: the fresher from the sea, and the more recently opened, the better. The French serve lemon-juice with raw oysters; we serve this and also vinegar, pepper, and toasted crusts. 182. To Pickle Oysters, Mussels, and Cockles. Scald, beard and wash large fat native oysters in their own liquor. Strain it, and to every pint put a glass of white wine, mace, nutmeg, a good many white peppercorns, and a little salt, if necessary. Simmer the oysters for four or five minutes; but never let them boil. Put them in glass or stone jars. Put vinegar, in the proportion of a glass to the pint, to the liquor, and boil it up. Skim this pickle and pour it over the oysters; and when cold, cork and tie them close up with bladder. The pickle-liquor may be boiled up occasionally, suffered to cool, and poured again over them, which will tend to preserve the oysters: a spoonful of it will be a great addition to any plain hash or common ragout. Add horseradish, parsley, and a little thyme, if you like. — N.B. Mussels and cockles in the same manner: but having washed well, place them on the fire that the shells may open,—then pick them out and proceed as above, using pepper and a little vinegar only. Neither mussels nor cockles should be kept long. 183. To Fry Oysters to Garnish Fish, and Oyster-Fritter?. Simmer them in their own strained liquor for three minutes; drain them; take ofi" the beards, and, dipping in a"* batter of egg, flour, and white pepper, or No. 882, fry them in lard or butter of a golden brown. The above is the same201 TO STEW MUSSELS FOR FISH-SAUCE. as oyster-fritterSj only the fritter-batter must be stiffer, and highly-seasoned with mace, nutmeg, and lemon-peel. Oyster- loaves, a fantastic sort of dish, are made as oyster-patties, filling the little rolls—croustades—made for this purpose instead of patty-cases. See Patties and Oyster-sauce^ Pre- served Oysters^ etc.* 184. To Stew Mussels for Fish-Sauce. Stew them as oysters in their own strained liquor, with pepper, butter, and a little vinegar, carefully picking off the beards, which are disagreeable and unwholesome. * Fish is a favourite food with the rich and luxurious, but it is not thought to possess much nourishment, though late experiments of men of science in France go far to overturn this opinion. When it is wished rapidly to reduce the weight of jockeys at Newmarket, they are kept on fish. Fish is considered more easy of digestion than flesh, though of some kinds we are disposed to question the statement. Shell-fish, including turtle, from approaching to the nature of meat jelly, are the most nutri- tious, but not always the most easily digested. Salmon and salmon-trout, turbot and sturgeon, are all nutritious, but heavy. Eels are nourishing, but difficult of digestion. Salt-water fish are more wholesome than the fish of slimy lakes and muddy pools. White fish are more easily digested than those of more richness and flavour, such as salmon and herring : and, if less fat, are at least as nutritious. Pike, the water-wolf, is firm in the texture, and a well-flavoured and wholesome, though not a favourite fish. Carp and tench are considered wholesome. Whitings, flounders, and soles, being of a moist juicy nature, are light, and easy of digestion. There seems, according to Sir John Sinclair, to be a general understanding among mankind, that fish ought to be eaten with butter and acids. " Fish and milk," says the same authority, " are seldom conjoined." Brandy, he ought to have added, is Latin for a salmon. Fish," says Sir John, " do not agree with vegetables, except the potato." Here he is wrong; the people in Orkney and Shetland, who live a great deal both on fresh and salt fish, consume cabbage in large quantities with it, and are entirely free from the scurvy, and those cutaneous diseases which overrun the people of the Hebrides, who raise no vegetables. " Among all fish," says Lynch's Guide to Health, whether of sea or river, the middle-sized are the best; also those that have not hard and dry flesh, that are crisp and tender, and have many scales and fins." The meat of the turtle, the sea-turtle, is con- sidered not only as a high-flavoured expensive delicacy, but as salubrious and highly nutritious, though those sickly half-dead animals, which are spiced and drugged for city-banquets, may not possess these qualities. Fish were held in such esteem by the ancients, that persons constantly rode post with live fish to Eome, as they now travel by railway. Note by Dr Redgill.—" It is strongly recommended to those who may, like me, have the misfortune to swallow a fish-bone, to take four grains of tartar emetic dissolved in warm water, and immediately after- wards the beat whites of four eggs. This mess will instantly coagulate, and will probably unfix the bone from the throat or stomach. The bones of pike, which are sharp and pronged, and so very hard that they will not dissolve in the stomach, ought to be watchfully avoided." i2202 CHAP, VII. FISH. 185. To Make a Store Fish-Sauce.* To an Englisli pint of red port (Burgundy or claret is better) add fifteen anchovies, chopped and prepared by steep- ing in vinegar in a close-covered vessel for a week; add to this a stick of horseradish scraped, two onions, and a hand- ful of parsley chopped, a desertspoonful of lemon-thyme stripped of the stalks, two bay-leaves, a nutmeg, and six blades of mace roughly pounded, nine cloves, and a small dessertspoonful of black pepper bruised. Pour over these ingredients a large half-pint of port-wine vinegar, and sim- mer slowly in a silver or nice block-tin saucepan, or earthen pipkin, till the bones of the anchovies are dissolved. Add a few grains of cochineal if the colour is not good. Strain the liquor through a hair-sieve, and, when cold, bottle it for use, securing the vials well with corks and leather. When to be used, shake the vials before pouring out the sauce ;— two tablespoonfuls will impart a high flavour to four ounces of melted butter, in which it must be simmered for a minute before it is served. For a great variety of Fish-sauces^ see the chapter on Sauces ; and for other receipts in Fish^ see French Cookery. 186. To Dress Prawns, from Beauvilliers. Take a pound and a half of prawns ; cover a dish with a large cup or basin reversed, so that a small damask napkin may be raised like an octagon upon it. Cover this with parsley, and dress the prawns on it like a pyramid. 187. John Dory,t—i.e., Jaune d'Oree, This hideous-looking but delicious dish is boiled as tur- bot or brill. Serve with anchovy-sauce or lobster-sauce, and cover lightly with green parsley. Maids are dressed like skate, by boiling or parboiling, and then broiling or frying as in No. 131, and are served with lobster or caper sauce. They may be hung a few days. Brill is dressed * The Cleikum Club were favoured with this original receipt from an intelligent Highland lady, who has contributed several valuable original receipts to this volume. This sauce boasts neither the name of Burgess nor Harvey ; but we would advise those who wish to combine economy with what is healthful and elegant, to make a fair trial of it. -j- Of all Unions, Quin, a rational gourmand^ admired that of " delicate Ann Chovy with rich John Dory.''''VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. 203 and sauced like turbot. Shad is usually broiled. French cooks in tbis country dress the jaune d^oree^ en matelote^ d la Hollandaise^ No. 596^, and in various complex ways ; but with the rich, fresh fish of the British seas, it were in gene- ral better, save for pampered and capricious gourmands, " to let well alone." Read Nos. 120, 121, 123, and 136. CHAPTER VIII. VEGETABLES kWD EOOTS. . . . . The earth hath roots; The bounteous huswife, Nature, on each bush Lays her full mess before ye. Shakespeare. Fat Coleworts and comforting Pursline, Cold lettuce and refreshing Rosemarine. Spenser. Vegetables are at their best when just on the eve of being ripe, in their natural season, and when their growth has neither been retarded nor forced on by artificial means. The vanity which induces people to load their tables with flavourless, ill-coloured, immature vegetables, is generally punished by the expense and disappointment it occasions. Much, however, has been judiciously done of late years, both to improve the quality, hasten the season, and spread the cultivation of vegetables. Where a turnip, a cabbage, or a leek was, fifty years ago, the only vegetable luxury found on a country gentleman's table, we now see a regular succession of not merely brocoli, cauliflower, and pease, but of the more recondite asparagus, seakale, endive, and artichoke; with an abundance of early small salad- ings. The vegetable-markets of most towns have within the same period undergone wonderful improvement. The kinds and quantity of articles are more than quadrupled; so that a healthful and harmless luxury is now within the reach of all classes. Vegetables of the more deli- cate species are, however, still comparatively such recent acquaintances, that, even at tables otherwise well appointed, they are seldom seen perfectly well dressed, at least in so204 CHAP. VIII. VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. far as regards colour. That homely chemistry, which does not disdain to descend to the kitchen, has indeed of late considerably assisted the cook in this department; and a few general observations will, if attended to, supply the place of long or often-repeated directions for dressing particular vege- tables. Vegetables can never be dressed too fresh, though some kinds, such as French beans and artichokes, will keep a few days, and by care all will keep for some time. They must, after being carefully cleared from insects, decayed leaves, and spoiled parts, be washed in plenty of water; they cannot be too much refreshed. Let the many-leaved lie in a pickle of salt and water, head downwards, till put to boil. This simple method will bring out insects that may lurk in the leaves. If to be kept for a few days, place the stalk-ends of cauliflower, asparagus, cucumbers, etc., in water, as in keeping cut flowers fresh. To preserve their beauty, , vegetables must be boiled alone^ in a perfectly clean, well- tinned vessel, and in abundance of boiling water. A tea- spoonful of salt of wormwood, or, better, soda, the size of a nutmeg, will not only preserve the green colour, but contri- bute to the tenderness of cabbage, savoys,* etc. A bit of sugar will sometimes be useful. Put all vegetables into soft boiling water with plenty of salt; with hard water the colour will keep better, but the quality will not improve. Boil fast, and do not cover the vessel if you desire to preserve the fine colour, but beware of smoke. In a former section it was recom- mended to boil several sorts of vegetables and roots with the meat, if salted , with which they are to be served; and this, though it may injure the colour, will certainly improve the quality—a point of greater importance. All vegetables should be enough boiled. The cook's rule of having cauliflowers crisp^\ is as inimical to health as offensive to the palate. If boiled quickly, which they ought to be, vegetables are ready when they begin to sink in the boiling water, and they will spoil every instant after that. Meat may wait a little, but vegetables will not, particularly the cauliflower kinds.— See French Cookery^ No. 698, onward^ and Butter to fry Vegetables, No. 882. * We know that the Romans used nitre in boiling vegetables, •f If cooks and ladies will have their cauliflowers m'sp, as they call it, why not serve them raw, and then eaters will be aware of them.—P. T.BROCOLI, CAULIFLOWERS, ASPARAGUS, ETC. 205 188. Brocoli and Cauliflowers. Choose those vegetables close, compact, of a good colour, and from five to eight inches in diameter; strip off the out- side leaves, and trim away the tops of the inner leaves; cut off the stalk at the bottom, and pare away the outer husky skin from it and the branches. Having washed, lay them head downwards, in a pan of cold water and salt, which will bring out all insects; and boil them open on a drainer in plenty of boiling water, with a little salt; some cooks add a bit of sugar. Skim the water well; from ten minutes to fifteen will boil them. When the stalks are nearly tender they are ready. If some heads are larger than others, put in the large ones first; dish as one large cauliflower, and if sauce is wanted, pour melted butter [sauce blanche) about them.—Obs. Brocoli is sometimes served at supper, like asparagus, on a toast. Melted butter (often with a very little vinegar) is usually sent to table either about or along with brocoli and cauliflower. Cauliflower is nicely dressed for the Second Course by pulling it into handsome branches, parboiling these, and then stewing them a few minutes in a sauce of white stock, seasoned with mace, white pepper, and salt, and thickened with a little sweet cream, and a bit of butter kneaded in flour, or ct la crime,—See No. 698 and onward. 189. Cauliflower with Parmesan,— For the Second Course. Strip away nearly all the green part, boil, and dish, and sauce the cauliflowers with sauce blanche; strew grated Parmesan over it; then gently pour a little melted butter, then strew crumbs and more grated cheese over all, and colour with a salamander; pour a little well-seasoned veloute or melted fresh butter, well mixed with grated Parmesan, into the dish; or butter melted in cream or milk will do.— Another way. Boil and dish the cauliflower, and have ready to pour over it a hot sauce made of veloute.^ and a liaison of two eggs with a little cream. 190. To Dress Asparagus, Sea-Kale, and Salsify. Scrape the stalks of asparagus nicely clean; throw them into cold water; tie them up in bundles of about three206 CHAP. VIII. ^VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. inches thick or two dozen each; cut the stalks of equal length, and put them heads downmost into a stew-pan of quick-boiling water, with plenty of salt. Notice when the stalks are tender, and take them up before they lose their flavour or colour. Have ready, nicely toasted, a slice of a round loaf; dip it for a few seconds into hot water, and, squeezing, lay it in the middle of the dish, and serve the asparagus upon it with the heads meeting inwards as a pyramid. Serve beat butter in a boat, with a little vinegar, if liked. (See No. 698.)—The same receipt is applicable to sea-kale^ except that no bread is served with it.* Cut out the black part of the roots. Let it be well drained. Sal- sify.—Scrape the roots. Throw them into water. Cut into three inch lengths, and boil with a bit of butter, salt, and vinegar. Serve with white sauce. Sea-kale may also be parboiled, drained and stewed in gravy, or boiled, and have sauce hlanche poured on it. See Nos. 189, 700, and 698. 191. To Boil Artichokes. Strip off the coarse outer leaves, and cut off the stalks. Steep and wash them in plenty of water, and boil them with the tops downwards, keeping up the boil (adding boiling water, when wanted), if old for from two to three hours. Float a plate over them to keep them below the water. Try a leaf, and if it draw out easily they are done, Drain them, and serve with melted butter in small cups, a very little in each, or with melted butter in a sauce-boat.—To Fry. Boil; take away the chokes^ divide the bottoms, dip in batter, fry and serve with melted butter. (See No. 882.)—Artichoke bottoms, if dry, may be soaked^ and then stewed in clear broth, and served with a little hot relishing forcemeat laid in each; or they may be boiled in milk and water, and served with cream-sauce. They are frequently sliced to enrich ra- gouts, turtle-soups, pies, etc. The French cut the bottoms undressed, and serve them as salad,, dipping the slices in oil or vinegar.—See No. 701. * So well was the cultivation of vegetables understood by the Eomans, that at Ravenna asparagus were raised for the tables of the great, of which three weighed a pound. Nettle-tops, alder-buds, and cliver were among their pot-herbs. Asparagus is thought medicinal. This vegetable is equally a favourite in Paris and London, where enormous quantities of it are consumed. Young buds of the hop form a wholesome substitute for asparagus. See French Cookery of Asparagus^ No. 608.ARTICHOKES AND GREEN PEASE. 207 192. Jerusalem Artichokes May either be boiled plain, taken up the moment they are done, and served with melted butter poured over them; or cooked with a rich white or brown sauce. They are very good roasted; they are then served on a napkin, and melted butter is eaten with them. They are also mashed, and used in pie or soup. 183. To Boil Green Pease. Pease should not be gathered, or, at any rate, not shelled, till they are to be used. The younger the more delicate; there is also a great difference in the kinds. When the water boils put them in with a little salt and a bit of sugar; skim, and let them boil quickly for from ten or fifteen to twenty-five minutes, trying when they are ready. Soda helps the colour, but is apt to soften young pease too much. Drain them, and put a few bits of fresh butter in the dish, turning them lightly over with a silver spoon till they are buttered. Boil a few sprigs of fresh mint by themselves; chop these fine, and if liked, lay in little heaps round the edge of the dish. Mint is boiled only with old pease. But- tering is a good old English custom. Dr Kitchiner allows " a peck of pease to two hearty pea-eaters.^' We would allow a peck of young pease to six persons. Pease are some- times stewed in good white broth, with sliced lettuce and onion, or with sliced cucumber. These must be nearly cooked before the pease are put in. Thicken the gravy with butter kneaded in flour; season with white pepper and salt, and a sprig of mint, to be taken out before the stew is dished. This is also called pease-saucej and is excellent served with lamb, veal, chickens, ducklings, giblets. The French cook pease savourily with bits of bacon fried, and more delicately with a thickening of beat yolks of eggs, and milk or cream and butter. The colour is hurt, but the flavour of pease, when not yet quite young, is improved.—See No. 699. 194. Windsor and other Beans. Boil them in plenty of water with salt. Serve them with or under bacon or pickled pork. Garnish with chopped parsley, and serve parsley and butter. Kidney or American beans, and Turkey beans, are found a good substitute for208 CHAP. VIII. VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. potatoes, and are now largely imported. Soak them from two to six or more hours, as found necessary. Boil, and when done drain them, and steam for a few minutes by the fire, adding salt, pepper, and a bit of butter. Or, after boil- ing, they may be stewed with meat or in gravy. The great objection to the red kidney beans is their colour, which offends the English eye. 195. French Beans. Cut off the stalks, and strip off the strings. If the beans are old, cut them in two, slantways. Lay them in a weak pickle of salt and water for a half-hour. Put them into water that boils quickly, and when done, which will be best known by trying them, drain, and serve them with melted butter.—Ohs. When old and large they are best split, as well as cut aslant. Dish in a pyramid. 196. To Boil Cabbage, Greens, Savoys, and Brussels Sprouts. Strip off the coarse outer leaves, and pare off most of the coarse husk from the branch-stalks; cut off the stem close to the head; wash thoroughly, and put on with plenty of boiling water in an open pot, and a little salt of wormwood, or a bit of soda. Divide half-grown cabbages, and quarter large ones, but tie up to keep them in shape till served. See that they be well covered with boiling water. They will take from fifteen minutes to an hour, or more, according to the age. Small Brussels cabbage are boiled for ten minutes and arranged in the dish as asparagus, or on a buttered toast. The French serve a white sauce, and often send up a cruet of oil with these delicate cabbages. They are also served with Maitre d'Hotel butter. Nos. 590, 590^ 197. Spinage. This delicate vegetable requires very careful picking and washing. When perfectly clean, put it into plenty of boiling water and salt, and boil very quickly, pressing it down with a wooden spoon; ten minutes will boil it. Drain and squeeze it, and throw it into a great quantity of cold water, to pre- serve the colour green. Put a piece of fresh butter and a little salt in the stewpan, and returning the spinage, well squeezed, to heat up, chop it fine. Spread it smoothly on209 TURNIPS. the dish, and scallop with a spoon; or score it in the form of diamonds or sippets; or more fashionably press it in a leaf-shaped perforated mould to drain, and turn it out. Cream, the squeeze of a lemon, and mace, or nutmeg, are added, by some cooks, or a little rich, bland gravy, if to be served under a tongue, fricandeau, or breast of lamb. Spin- age is often served with poached eggs. It is then boiled as above, pressed, beat up hot with butter and seasonings, and cut in the form of sippets, with an egg served over each:— this makes a pretty supper dish. Tender young spinage^ without any redundancy of vegetable bile in it, may be boiled in a close vessel, with no more water than what hangs about the leaves when washed; but is not so free of bitter- ness as when boiled in plenty of water. A little sugar may be added if required: the French serve fried sippets with spinage; and ihQiY Epinard en jus is excellent; for which cook as above, add a dessertspoonful of flour, and half a pint of strong jelly-gravy, garnishing with fried sippets glazed. The French also cook endive in juice, serving it as spinage with sippets, or poached eggs. 198. Turnips, ^Zam. Of turnips there are many varieties. Choose the pale yellow, small, fine-grained, juicy sorts. Pare off all that would be woody and stringy when boiled. Boil in plenty of water for from three-quarters of an hour to nearly two hours, according to the age and size. Swedish, four hours. Drain and serve them whole, or, if too large, divided, or, best of all mashed. A bit of the green top-shoot is left on early white turnips, and melted butter or white sauce poured over them. Swedish turnip-tops are delicate greens when young. If boiled in their coats, and then pared, old Swedish turnips will be more juicy. 199. To Dress Turnips, for Second Course,— A French Mode, Cut them into cubes or oblong forms, or scoop them out as balls, pears, peaches, plums, etc., with cutters, and, after boiling in salt and water with a piece of butter, sauce them with melted butter, seasoning them with nutmeg. Turnips are handy to fill up a table when other vegetables are not to210 CHAP. VIII. VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. be got: glazed or browned in butter or lard, turnips as above make an excellent garnish to several dishes. 200. To Mash Turnips. When the turnips are boiled as above directed, drain them and mash them with a wooden spoon through a colander. Return them into a stew-pan to warm, with a piece of fresh butter, white pepper, and salt. When mixed well with the butter, place them neatly in the dish, and mark in diamonds or sippets.—Obs, Our Club put a little powdered ginger to their mashed turnips, which were studiously chosen of the yellow, sweet, juicy sort, for which Scotland is celebrated, —that kind which, in the days of semi-barbarism, were served raw, as a delicate whet before dinner, as turnips are in Russia at the present day. The long-shaped genuine navet of France is of superior gout. Mashed turnips to be eaten with boiled fowl or veal, or the more insipid meats, are considerably improved by a seasoning of ginger, which, besides, tends to correct the flatulent properties of this esculent. Yellow turnips, mashed and eaten with milk, are recommended in scurvy and consumption. Physicians recommend turnips and carrots to be boiled separately in three successive waters, drained well, and mashed together with new milk and salt. Dr Anthony Todd Thomson recommends this dish strenuously to convalescents restricted to vegetable diet, and prefers it himself to any other kind of vegetable food. Turnips eat well with boiled or roasted mutton, and make an excellent puree, over which to serve boiled scrag or leg of mutton, neck of lamb, tongue, etc. 201. Carrots and Parsnips. — These roots, if old, require long boiling, and the water changed. Wash young carrots, and scrub them with a brush. Old ones must be scraped lightly, remembering that the red outside is far the best of the carrot, and alone used in French cooker}^ When boiled, have the outside scurf rubbed off with a towel. They are served with boiled mutton or beef, whether fresh or salted. If large, they may be sliced across.—Obs. Some persons like cold carrots with cold beef. Parsnips may either be mashed with butter or cream, served whole, or, if large, quartered. Turnips, carrots, and parsnips, warm up very well in a vessel plunged in boiling water; so do spinage and cauliflowers.CARROTS, GOURDS, SKIRRETS, SCONZONERAS, ETC. 211 202. Carrots, the Flemish way.—Prepare (after boiling) in nice forms, as stars, wheels, etc., and stew them in melted butter, with minced parsley, young onions, salt, and pepper. —N.B. This Vandyking throws away the best of the root, unless you keep it for some other use. 203. Fried Gourds, — Kitchiner, — Cut five or six gourds in quarters, take off the skin and pulp, stew them in the same manner as for table; when done, drain them quite dry, beat up an egg, and dip the gourds in it, and cover them well over with bread crumbs; make some hog's lard hot, and fry them a nice light colour, throw a little salt and pepper over them, and serve quite dry. 204 Another way.—Take six or eight small gourds as near of a size as possible, slice them with a cucumber-slice, ^ dry them in a cloth, and then fry them in very hot lard: throw over a little pepper and salt, and serve upon a napkin.—Ohs. These vegetables are also dressed in milk, with butter and seasonings. See No. 73. 205. Skirrets and Sconzoneras are boiled, and served with melted butter. Sconzonera,—Scrape off the rind. Steep in hot water, to extract part of the bitter, and then boil or stew as carrots. 206. ToMATAS, or Love-Apples.—These have rather gone down in France, but are like some other fashions when ebbing there, coming into vogue amongst us.—To stew. Place a layer in a nice saucepan, and pour good gravy over them till half covered; stew very gently j turn once; dish them, thicken the gravy with arrow-root, or rice-flour and cream ; or plain with flour and butter; pour it over them,— Tomatas roasted. Prepare them by cutting off the stalks, and roast in a Dutch oven, turning them ^occasionally for ten or twelve minutes.—Tomatas farced. Cut open the top of seven large ones with a cutter, and gently scoop out the inside: press the pulp through a small sieve, mixing it with a small cupful of bread-crumbs, and two ounces of butter in bits, with pepper, salt, and cayenne. Mix this thoroughly, fill the tomatas moderately, and bake for ten or twelve minutes. To this French cooks add yolks of eggs, or- grated ham, minced mushroom, or whatever is preferred for a212 CHAP. VITI. VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. relishing/arce, which must be thoroughly pounded. How- ever they are cooked, choose well-shaped tomatas. Dished with five round and two above, they make either a pretty dish or a garnish to stewed beef, boiled mutton or veal, and calf s head.—A Puree of tomatas is made by dividing, pick- ing out the seeds, and boiling them with good gravy, an onion or two, pepper, and cayenne, pulping and mixing down the puree with sufficient cream (or milk) and rice-flour. Tomatas are also used both in sauces and soups, and are pickled.—See Tomata Catsup^ and Sauce, No. 274. 207. Beetroots. Though chiefly used in winter-salads, or for pickling, beetroots may be dressed the same as parsnips, and served as a garnishing with boiled beef or salt fish. Wash, and without touching with the knife, boil them whole in boiling water, and skin,—or bake and skin them. If broken, the colour will fly. Parboiled beetroot may be sliced round or oval, and stewed with small onions in a little cream or gravy thickened, with seasonings, sugar, and a spoonful of vinegar. Dish the slices of beetroot with the small onions round them. Beetroot, besides being wholesome and palatable, is orna- mental in salads, and for garnishing; and makes a cheap and beautiful common pickle. In England it is often served sliced cold, along with the cheese, and with a little vinegar, or Chili vinegar poured over. The leaves of the white beet are cooked as spinage. The juice of the red is sometimes used to colour certain soups and sauces. 208. To Stew and Koast Onions. Scald and peel a dozen middle-sized, or three or four mild Spanish onions. If old and acrid, parboil, skin, and then stew very slowly for nearly an hour in good veal or beef stock, with white pepper and salt; thicken the sauce with a little white roux or butter kneaded in flour, and dish- ing the onions in a small hash-dish, pour it over them. A little mushroom-catsup may be added, or they may be browned. Onions are roasted before the fire in their skins, peeled, and served with scooped butter and salt. They are in Scotland served with roasted goose, or pork; and eaten either alone or with roasted potatoes, or red or pickled herrings. In the latter case, we would recommend mustardVEGETABLE CURRY. CUCUMBERS AND CELERY. 213 as well as butter.—-055. Stewed and roasted onions used to be a favourite supper-dish in Scotland, and were reckoned medicinal. The onions were stewed (after parboiling) in a butter-sauce, to which cream was put, i. e, the Sauce hlanche of France.* Onions may be farced, as may several sorts of vegetables, with a farce of meat, fish, or poultry.—See No. 206. 209. Vegetable Curry. Boil, strain, and mash delicate greens or cabbage; stew them in butter, with curry-powder to taste, rubbed down in vinegar, salt, and pepper. A curry of spiriage is made by the addition of vinegar or sorrel, and onions. The sauce is veal-gravy or butter, and either bits of meat, or, if maigre^ prawns, cockles, or oysters, are added to the stew. 210. To Stew Cucumbers and Celery. Pare fresh cucumbers, cut them in thin slices, and take out the seeds; or, if small, divide them the long way. Slice onions in the proportion of one to every two cucum- bers. Stew these together in a little good broth, or in melted butter, with cayenne, pepper, and salt. Thicken the sauce with a bit of butter kneaded in flour, and after dishing * "We now," said Touchwood, "rarely see a dish of onions; yet I have much to say in behalf of this homely, patriarchal relish, which is of so much consequence in giving gusto to the food of those who cannot reach the costly compound essences that are gradually subverting it in the kitchens of the rich. In the early part of the last century. Swift sung— 'There is, in every Cook's opinion, No savoury dish without an onion;' and added, for the benefit of youthful gourmands,— * But lest your kissing should he spoil'd The onion must be thoroughly boil'd— a precaution of no great moment, however, as the period when a man begins to pay much attention to palatic enjoyments is nearly about the same at which the taint of his breath becomes an affair of less concernment either to himself or others, provided he keep at a respectful distance. It may be remarked, by the way, that one sign of the precocity of the youth of the age, is their beginning to talk of the business of the table, at the years when their fathers were still upon their bread and milk."—" But return we to our onion," said Jekyll to the Nabob, after delivering this note. " Well, sir—and what has consigned this prime root to Parisian restaurateurs and London soup-brewers, who are still cunning enough in their art to employ its savoury, cordial, and stimulating qualities, but this same pouncet-box dread of the manly scent of a garlic breath,—another root, by the way, most vilely neglected ? ' Of all plants,' says Sir William Temple, ' garlic affords the most nourishment, and supplies the best spirits to those who eat little flesh.' It clears phlegm, dissipates cold slimy humours, etc., etc."214 CHAP. VIII. VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. the cucumbers, skim it, and pour it over them. To stew celery, clean and cut the heads (the younger the more delicate) in from three to six-inch lengths. Boil fifteen minutes; drain and stew in butter, or with ham. Thicken the sauce with a good piece of butter rolled in flour, add a quarter-pint of sweet cream, and season with pepper, mace, and salt. The French put grated nutmeg or minced parsley to stews of cucumber, and thicken the sauce with beat yolks of eggs. Nutmeg is a suitable condiment with this watery vegetable, so is cayenne.— Ohs. Stewed cucumbers are served with lamb-steaks, mutton-chops, or rump-steaks, and with mutton-rumps and kidneys. In high cookery, cucumbers are stuffed with a savoury forcemeat, for entrees, and with a sweet stuffing for entremets. These vegetable stews may be made into purees or sauces bearing their respective names, by cutting the celery in smaller bits, and by stewing the cucumbers to a mash, and pressing through a sieve. If to serve with veal, veal-kidneys, or fowls, celery may in cook- ing be enriched with ham and seasoning herbs.—See No. 240. 211. To Stew Eed Cabbage. Wash, pick, and shred what will fill a large pint basin. Melt some butter in a saucepan, and put in the cabbage with only the water that hangs about it, pepper, cayenne, salt, and an onion sliced. Stew this, keeping the saucepan close covered, but tossing; and when just ready, add a glass of vinegar, which should just boil up. French cooks add a bay-leaf and two cloves stuck in an onion, which must be picked out before serving. Fried sausages are served on this preparation; or it may be served with houilliJ^ * The cabbage tribe has ever been a first-rate favourite with writers on diet, whether ancient or modern. Volumes have been composed, not merely in praise of the demulcent cauliflower and brocoli, but of the common white and red cabba-;e. Besides their use in soups, and in correcting the putrescent qualities of animal food, they are said to be correctives of the consequences of excess in wine. Arbuthhot says, the juice of red cab- bage baked is, with the addition of honey, an excellent pectoral; and red cabbage stewed in veal-broth, with calf's lights and pistacliios, is, on the Continent, esteemed a specific in consumption—a malady, by the way, for which a remedy has been discovered in chickens, oysters, jellies, fruits, and every favourite aliment,—in short, in whatever the discoverer fancies he himself could thrive on, and live for ever.215 SORREL.—MUSHROOMS. 212. To Stew Sorrel for Hoasts of Veal, Lamb, Fricandeaux, etc. Wash and simmer sorrel in an unglazed earthen or stone jar, very slowly, and beat up with a good piece of butter, or a little salad-oil. Add cayenne, pepper, and salt. A mixture of spinage and sorrel is dressed as spinage, where sorrel alone might be thought too acid. The French cook it in jelly gravy, thicken with beat eggs, and serve with poached eggs. 213. Mushrooms. So many fatal accidents happen every season from the use of poisonous mushrooms, and it is so difficult to distinguish between the edible kinds and those that are deleterious, that we would advise our readers either to eat none that they have not examined for themselves, or to be contented with what are raised in artificial beds, though the flavour of these is as inferior to that o£* the wild mushrooms as a coop-fed chicken is to the heath-cock.* The small cultivated buttons are, however, excellent for pickling. * Naturalists enumerate nearly five hundred kinds of mushrooms found in England alone, and of these there are perhaps not ten sorts ascertained to be fit for human food. Mushrooms, with coarse bread, form the chief sustenance of the inhabitants of several of the Russian provinces, during a considerable part of the year. They are indeed freely eaten everywhere on the Continent, where their properties seem to be better understood than in England. In Eussia they are salted, dried, or dressed fresh, and eaten with olive-oil by the better orders, while the poorer classes use hemp-oil. They are also broiled, roasted in the ashes, stewed and fried, served with meat, chopped with potatoes, turnips, carrots, etc., and form a relishing ingredient in ragouts and sauces. The following is a tolerably accurate description of the wholesome, or, we should rather say, the unsuspected sorts; for, notwithstanding this extensive Russian practice, we question whether mushrooms in substance are over salubrious. " The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and the upper part and stalk are white; as the size increases, the under part gradually opens, and shows a fringy fur, of a very fine salmon colour, which continues more or less till the mushroom is a tolerable size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should be attended to ; and likewise, whether the skin can be easily parted from the edges and middle. Those which have a white or yellow fur should be carefully avoided, though many of them have the same smell, but not so strong as the right sort." The most delicate mushrooms are those found on old close-cropt pastures, or open downs by the seashore, where cattle browse. Mushrooms of good quality are plentiful in Ireland. It is of that country Bacon said long ago, " Ireland is the soil where mush- rooms and upstart weeds spring up in a night and do chiefly prosper." Picking this delicate and singular food forms an agreeable rustic amuse- ment ; and the ladies or idle gentlemen of any family may easily in their walks gather edible mushrooms for pickling, catsup, powder, and for dress-216 CHAP. VIII. VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. Mushrooms are safest when pickled or made into catsup, because they are then used in smaller quantities, and their pernicious properties are corrected by the acids and spices employed to preserve them. When good, they approach nearer to animal substances than any plant whatever, both in their texture and flavour, and in the gravy with which they abound. Skilful cooks have been known to impose a ragout of mushrooms for a meat ragout, even on practised epicures ; nor do we know any one flavouring ingredient that the cook could less spare than mushroom-catsup, when genuine. We by no means, therefore, wish to proscribe this delicacy, but to caution our readers not merely against mushrooms of suspi- cious quality, but also against consuming many at once, however temptingly they may be dressed. 214. To Stew or Ragout Mushrooms in White or Brown Sauce. Gather the largest button-mushrooms, or the smallest flaps. Trim away all that is mouldy or spoiled, rub with flannel, wash lightly, drain; dry in the folds of a towel, and when quite dry, for every half-pint have prepared an ounce of butter slightly browned. Place the mushrooms in this for five minutes, cooking them equally by tossing in the saucepan. Season with salt, mace, and cayenne. Another way.—Stew them in their own gravy, in a silver or earthen vessel, with a very small quantity of water, only to prevent burning. When nearly done put in a large spoonful of sweet cream, a bit of butter rolled in flour, cayenne, white pepper, and salt. Lemon-juice is employed to whiten them. The French thicken this ragout with beat yolks of eggs, and this is good practice.—Mushrooms are stewed brown in good brown gravy thickened and seasoned as above, with the addition of a little nutmeg. A piece of ing fresh. The Eomans, who were delicate in their eating, prepared their mushrooms at table with an amber or silver knife. The following test of the qualities of mushrooms is given, though we do not vouch for its accuracy :—"Boil a peeled onion with the mushrooms; if it remain white, they are safe ; if it become black or livid, there are bad ones among them." It is said, if the water in which mushrooms are steeped, or the broken parts of them, be poured upon an old bed, innumerable young ones will spring up. The mushrooms raised in beds are sometimes of unwholesome kinds, as well as the wild ones. N.B.—No sort of mush- room imll poison a Russian.—P. S. T.MUSHROOMS. TRUFFLES. 217 ham may be put to a brown ragout of mushrooms, fine herbs, onions, and parsley, keeping in view what they have to accompany. 2142 To Grill Mushrooms, Or Mushrooms d la Bordelais, Clean large, firm, fresh-gathered flaps. Skin them, and lightly score the under side. Put them into an earthen dish, and baste them with oil or melted butter, and strew pepper and salt over them. When they have been steeped in this marinade for an hour or more, broil them on both sides for ten minutes over a clear fire, and serve them with a sauce of oil or melted butter, in which are parsley, young onions, a little garlic (all minced), and the juice of a lemon poured over them: or they may be done in the oven, have a sauce drawn from their trimmings and stalks, and flavoured, as No. 2141. See No. 267. 215. To Stew Truffles in Champagne, Or serve in Croutons, Soak in warm water for an hour, and then clean with a scrubbing-brush a dozen fine black truffles, picking out the eyes. Wash thoroughly. Have a stew-pan ready, covered in the bottom with slices of fat bacon, a sliced carrot and turnip, two or three onions, and a fagot of parsley, thyme, a bay-leaf, six cloves, and a blade of mace. Lay in the truffles and half cover them with good white stock, and when they have simmered half an hour, add a pint of Champagne, and simmer a half-hour more, keeping the lid very close. Let them cool: place the stew-pan in ice with a weight over the cover. Drain, dry, and serve cold on a damask napkin, with the gravy also cold in a sauce-tureen. But they are often served hot, and also as truffle-sauce^ if sliced the size of a florin, and served in their own hot gravy. They are kept bottled at the Italian warehouses, and a few make a delicious addition to many sauces. Truffles may be fried cut in fillets, and sauced with jelly-gravy and wine; glazed and served with glazed sippets or croustades; and also in a large croustade with Italienne sauce. They are dressed in many other ways; but we have given the best on the competent authority of the great Car^me. K218 CHAP. VIII.—VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. 216. Potatoes. Some liumorous writer pities those people who lived before the publication of the Waverley Novels and the intro- duction of potatoes,—that root of superlative excellence and unbounded utility, which once—alas the day !—took its honoured place on every dining table or stool in the three kingdoms, and went far to equalize the dining enjoyments of every grade of society. There are a great many varieties of potatoes, and fully as many ways of cooking them; but when all ways are tried, simple boiling, when well done, is found the best way. Count RuMFORD, Sir John Sinclair, and other writers upon economics, have multiplied receipts for dressing this valuable root; but we would advise such of our readers as are potato- fanciers, rather to follow the practice adopted in the cabins or cottages in their neighbourhood, than any printed formula whatever. New potatoes are rarely seen in their utmost perfection save in such situations, when, just ripe and freshly dug, they are well washed and scrubbed, suited in size, and boiled in hot haste, with scanty water, changed once at least, and abundance of salt, and in a vessel to which poverty denies a close-fitting lid. As soon as they are ready, the water is poured off; a few minutes of the fire evaporates all moisture, and completes the cooking; and there they lie, smoking hot, mealy, and flaky, bursting from their coats, in such guise as they are seldom seen on the tables of opu- lence. Steaming is recommended for potatoes by theoretical writers upon the subject of the kitchen; and certainly, where potatoes must be cooked on a large scale, it is very conveni- ent ; but so far as our experience goes, we will venture to affirm, that the crude, rank, deleterious juice, which makes potatoes so unfit for food in their raw state, is never so quickly nor so effectually extracted as by rapid boiling. Potatoes ought to be eaten as soon as they are boiled and dried. If they must stand, let it be by the fire, in the sauce-pan, and only partially covered, that the steams may escape as they arise. A piece of coarse calico or flannel kept for this pur- pose should be laid over the potatoes in folds, and the pot- lid on edge over this. This will absorb the moisture, and keep them hot a long while. Young potatoes ought to be fresh dug, served in their skins;—very little boiling will dress219 POTATOES. tliem. Tliey are best boiled with hoiling water and salt poured over them, and may be buttered. 217. Roasted Potatoes.—This is perhaps the nicest mode of plainly cooking this root. Let the potatoes be rather large, of equal size, and well scrubbed; for the browned skin of a roasted potato is the better part of it. They must be slowly done before the fire, or in an American oven, or buried in wood or turf ashes. Serve with cold salt butter scooped, and roasted onions, 218. Potatoes are Fried or Broiled after being boiled, peeled, and sliced cold. Broil on a clear fire, ox fry in plenty of good dripping. They may be dressed as potato-fritters^ by flouring the slices, dipping them in egg and crumbs, and frying. These form an agreeable accompaniment to steaks, sausages, and pickled or red herrings, with which they may be served. Large potatoes, cut neatly in ringlet slices and browned, form a suitable garnish to sausages, pork-chops, etc. The French fry sliced potatoes in goose-dripping, which has a very strong gout; but before serving, drain them on a sieve before the fire. See French Cookery of Potatoes^ No. 705. 219. To Mash Potatoes.* Wash and pare them, cut out all the eyes and specks, boil them with plenty <)f salt, pour off the water, and put them over the fire to dry for a minute. Add butter, salt, and a little milk (the less the better, unless they are to be eaten with milk, as it makes them moist and doughy). Mash them smooth, with the Scottish implement called a potato-beetle, or with a beater, and dish neatly; score in diamond or sip- pets, and brown them before the fire. They are also pressed in shapes, and rock-work made by pressing more mash through a colander, upon the roughly heaped-up mash before browning. After the month of March, potatoes ought al- ways to be pared before boiling, whether they are to be mashed or served whole. * There is an admirable receipt for gusty cJiapptt {L e. mashed) potatoes in an early volume of Blackwood's Magazine, the work which, in the mysteries of Comus, wont to take the lead of all the periodicals of the day. The receipt to which we allude is after the practice of the pastoral inhabi- tants of Ettrick, Yarrow, and Teviotdale. Before calling the ^otato-heetle into operation, salt, pepper, and a raw onion, finely shred, are sprinkled over the potatoes, with a good dash of sweet milk. The addition of the onion is here the Ihur de Maitre.220 CHAP. VIII.—VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. 220. Mashed Potatoes may be pressed into patty-pans previously buttered, and turned out and browned; or put into stoneware scallop-shell shapes, glazed with egg, and browned before the fire, sticking a few bits of butter upon them. A few of these make a pretty supper-dish. 221. Potato-Snow^ a favourite way of cooking Potatoes.— Choose white, mealy, smooth potatoes; pare them; boil them carefully, and when they crack pour off the water, and put them to dry on the trivet till quite dry and powdery. Rub them through a coarse wire-sieve on the dish they are to go to table on; and do not disturb it, or the flakes will fall and flatten. 222. Potato-Balls,—Mash, roll up with yolk of egg and a little flour, and fry them in good dripping, or brown them. Scooped Potatoes.—Scoop with a proper cutter, parboil, steam, dry, and serve with white sauce, as entremets. 223. Potatoes dressed in a French mode for Nursery Dinners^ etc.—Stir new milk into mashed potatoes till the mixture is as thin as double cream. Boil this with a little butter, pepper, and salt, for ten minutes. 224. Potato-Balls Ragout are also made of mashed potatoes, by adding grated ham or tongue, minced parsley and onion, pepper, salt, a bit of butter, and a little of any flavouring ingredient that is suited to the dish they are to accompany. Small ragout halls of potatoes form an agreeable addition to open fish-pies, or make a neat supper-plate. 225. Westphalia Loaves^ a Supper Dish^ or to eat with Veal, etc.—Grate four ounces of cooked lean ham, and mix it with a pound of good potatoes, mashed with butter. Add salt, pepper, and two eggs, to bind the ingredients. Mould this into small loaves, or shape it in patty-pans, and fry and serve in a brown gravy, or without sauce. 226. A Potato-Collar, rolled handsomely up, scored in diagonal lines, and nicely browned, makes a neat potato- dish. Garnish it with potato-balls around it, and a brown onion gravy-sauce, or plain melted butter, which we would recommend in place of the wine-sauce ordered by learned cooks. 227. Potato-Fritters (Scotch). — Parboil waxy, long- shaped potatoes, dip them (sliced) in egg, bread-crumbs, and221 POTATOES. rasped ham; fry in plenty of dripping, and serve with any sort of steaks and chops, or alone as a supper-dish. They may be dipped in small-beer fritter-batter. A cheap and delicious mess was furnished in summer to those healthy and happy children educated in what are called the Maiden Hospitals of Edinburgh. Good potatoes, boiled, peeled, and roughly broken, were boiled up with sweet milk, and a small proportion of butter. 228. Calecannon and Vegetable Pudding, an Irish dish, is made by boiling and mashing greens, young cabbage, or spinage, and mixing them with mashed potatoes, butter, pepper, and salt; pressing it into a buttered shape to be turned out, or dishing it like mashed potatoes. In this dish at least two-thirds should be potato. Plain Calecannon is made in cottages with infinitely less ceremony, and is quite as good. Boil the vegetables till nearly done; put the peeled raw potatoes to them to boil; drain from the water; add pepper, salt, a shred onion, and a good piece of butter or dripping; and mash all up together. Pudding.—Boil and mash potatoes with half the quantity of carrots and turnips; mash a shred onion, three eggs, pepper and salt; tie up, boil an hour, and turn out. The partial failure of the potato crop in 1845, and the subsequent more general, or almost universal failure of this favourite esculent, drove all classes to their shifts to find substitutes; though neither the cook nor the potato-lover has yet completely succeeded. Substitutes became a ques- tion of economy, as well as of taste. Eice, macaroni, chest- nuts, parsnips, Portugal onions, stewed or roasted, beet, baked or boiled; the different kinds of beans, native or im- ported from difierent quarters, mashed white cabbage ; turnip and carrot mashed ; saur croute, many preparations of Indian corn or maize meal, and the old plain Yorkshire pudding, dough-nuts, dough-boys, and the other plain flour or oatmeal dumplings of our ancestors, were all resorted to, both to save the consumption of meat, and to improve it to the palate. For those who can afford to dine comfortably, if not sumptuously, every day, we would suggest, as among the best substitutes, if for accompaniments to meat:—I. Rice plain boiled, if with roasts or poultry; but parboiled, and then stewed with the meat, if with stews; and also as borders to stews and small made-dishes. II. Macaroni222 CHAP. VIII.—VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. paste dressed and served in the same way. III. Turkey and kidney beans, in all their varieties, soaked and plainly boiled till thoroughly cooked, and then strained^ and heated up in a saucepan with a bit of butter, pepper, and salt, before serving. IV. Carrots and turnips suggest them- selves, and parsnips have again come into favour, both for soup and to eat with salt meat and salt fish. Carrots and turnips boiled separately, No. 200, drained, and mashed up together, with pepper, salt, and a very little butter or stock, are an excellent accompaniment to plain roast or boiled joints, and a dish recommended for convalescents or those restricted to vegetable diet; tomatas and Jerusalem arti- chokes are also good substitutes. Y. Plain flour dump- lings, dough-nuts, or Devonshire dough-boys, boiled with meat or in water; and flour and oatmeal dumplings with suet, which may either be eaten alone or with meat; also Yorkshire pudding, and mashed young cabbage, put below roasts of lamb or mutton, in the same way as potatoes mashed. VI. Portugal onions stewed, and chestnuts as dressed plainly in Spain and the south of France, or stewed in stock, is another good substitute. [To cook ChestnutSy see No. 231^.) The white haricot bean, so much admired in France, is another admirable substitute, while young. Bakers now sell dough as readily as bread, which is found very useful; as cheap dumplings, dough-nuts, and meat-puddings, can thus be easily prepared. Meat-Puddings, which, whether for economy or savouri- ness, are most valuable preparations, have rapidly increased in favour since the failure of the potato, and so have plain mild curries. See No. 766—which is as good for family as for camp cookery—and other receipts. The failure of the potato, which first, on a great scale, brought to this country from the United States the blessing of Indian corn meal and buck-wheat, inundated us with American receipts for preparing the meal. On these, many of which were mere varieties of the same thing,—distinc- tions without difl'erence, save in name,—English cooks and housekeepers have improved. The most approved of these receipts we give in the sections, Puddings, Calces, and Bread ; and as a substitute for potatoes, a plain cheap accompani- ment to meat, we know of no recipes better than those which we subjoin; first prefixing a few general remarks on the223 INDIAN MEAL. important article of subsistence of whicli they are made. The Yellow meal, or what ladies in the hue of their ribbons call maize-colour^ is the richest and most nutritious. Indian meal should never be ground too fine. It will not make good bread nor cakes without a fourth or third of wheaten- flour; not very good, unless a half or three-fourths flour is used. It should not, however prepared, have much salt, which deteriorates its native flavour. It requires a hot oven, or, if baked on a girdle^ a hot clear fire. It takes longer to bake than wheaten-ilour bread; and if boiled, much longer time to boil properly than oatmeal or barley- meal. For boiling, the coarser ground it is the better, if it is long enough boiled. It is enough that it is husked. For hominy (a good substitute for rice), the corn is simply hulled or cracked at the mill^ and any inevitable meal is afterwards sifted out, or the skins are got rid of by pounding the corn in a mortar and sifting it,—a tedious process. Indian corn, roughly ground, may be used for forcemeat instead of bread- crumbs; or as oatmeal in our receipt for dressing fresh herrings. It makes tolerable gruel. Dinner Preparations of Indian Meal. 229. Hominy or crushed Indian Corn.—Bake half a pound of crushed corn in three pints of water and a salt-spoonful of salt. If it thicken too much, add more water, and stir up. It becomes of the consistence of rice-pudding. This will turn out of a shape if wished. 230. Another tt?<2?/.—Make a pudding of Indian meal, exactly as oatmeal porridge or stirabout is made over all Scotland and Ireland ; but boil much longer. Put in the meal very gradually, and stir briskly between each handful, as well as when dropping in the meal. The old-fashioned concave yetlin porridge-pot is best, as there is less risk of the pudding sticking to the bottom. It cannot be boiled too long, nor made too smoothly: and with care, and a good stout porridge-stick J this is easily done. Have ready a buttered basin or shape; pour the pudding into it, and it will, in a few minutes, be fit to turn out, still hot; or serve without turning out. Salt may be added at table. The above dishes may be made of milk instead of water. More liquid will often need to be added during the cooking, as the meal swells.224 CHAP. VIII. VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. To Fry Cold Mush or Pudding.—Cut it out in slices about an inch thick, and fry in lard, beef-dripping, or melted suet. It is excellent this way, either alone or with meat. 231. Hominy or Hulled Corn^ as in the Western States of America.—When the cracked corn is prepared as above directed, put it in a large pot of cold water, and boil for six or eight hours, frequently adding boiling water and stirring lest the hominy become black or burn. It is usually pre- pared twice a-week, and kept cold; and if for dinner, sliced and fried as No. 230; or if for breakfast, heated up by baking in a well-buttered baking dish, and either so served or turned over.—For Puddings and Cakes of Indian Meal, see the Index and No. 884^. Maize Starch, under various names, is an admirable sub- stitute for arrow-root and all farinas and seeds used for sweet-dishes. 231.^ Boiled and Roasted Chestnuts, Substitutes for Potatoes. —Make an incision in the outer skin of each chestnut: wash and boil them in salt and water as potatoes: probe with a packing-needle, to try when they are boiled enough, and drain; rub them in a kitchen towel, and serve quickly in a napkin: prepared as above they may be baked, or roasted in a coffee-bean roaster as in the chestnut countries, but in both ways must be first parboiled. Chestnuts thus prepared make a nice dish, if skinned, browned, and stewed in good beef gravy relished with a slice of ham, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Thicken this if needful, and pour it hot over the chestnuts. 232. Salads. Salad herbs are cooling and refreshing. They correct the putrescent tendency of animal food. Vegetable salads are at any rate a harmless luxury; and though they afford little nourishment of themselves, they make a pleasant addition to other aliments, and a graceful appearance on the dinner- table. Lettuce, of the different sorts, or salad, as it is often called, is the principal ingredient in these vegetable messes, and Endive the most beautiful. Lettuce should be blanched by the gardener, and eaten young; when old, its juices become acrimonious. Lettuce possesses soporific qualities, and is therefore recommended to bad sleepers as a supper- article. Radishes, when young, are juicy and cooling, butSALADS AND SALAD-SAUCE. 225 a very few days changes their quality, and they become woody and acrid; when not young, they ought to be scraped. Cress and mustard are cordial and grateful, and of an agree- able pungency ; and celery^ when young and properly blanched, by its peculiar nutty flavour, contributes much to what Evelyn calls Harmony in the composure of a sallet." A variety of other herbs mingle in full, well-selected salads, such as sorrel, young onions, cucumbers, tomatas, radish leaflets, and baked beetroot. Several wild herbs, as dan- delion, were formerly employed, and are still used on the Continent and in America, as saladings. As this is quite a delicate, jaunty branch of the culinary art, we would recommend that young ladies residing in the country should gather their own salad-herbs, and dress salads for their families, which will give a better chance of a duty being well done, which, in the hurry of the stew-pan, the spit, and the stove, the distracted cook must often perform with haste and slovenliness. Never dress a salad till near the dinner-hour, as it will flatten and lose, besides freshness, its light appearance by standing. Foreigners call many things salads which we would merely reckon cold, little, dressed dishes. A salad of cold dressed meat, game, or poultry, is a frequent continental summer dinner; and, as this may produce confusion of ideas in the young housekeeper, we notice it here. Our ancestors had the same notion of what sallets were that the French still retain, and which French cooks have again brought into use among us. There are also sweet dishes, having the name of salads, made of different kinds of fruit, and served in the dessert. 233. An English Summer Salad and Salad-Sauce,—Let the salad-herbs be freshly gathered, nicely picked and trimmed, and repeatedly washed in salt and water. Drain and cut them neatly with a silver knife. Salad-sauce.— Just before dinner is served, rub the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs very smooth on a soup-plate, with a little rich cream. When well mixed, add a teaspoonful of made-mustard and a little salt, a spoonful of olive-oil (one of oiled butter, or two of sourish cream may be substituted), and when this is mixed smooth, put in as much plain eschalot, cucumber, tarragon, or Chili vinegar as will give the proper degree of acidity to the sauce,—about two large spoonfuls; add a little K 222G CHAP. VIU.—VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. pounded sugar, if the flavour is liked. Salad-sauce may be rendered more pungent by the addition of cayenne, minced onion, or eschalot, or more herb-flavoured vinegar. Put the smooth sauce in the dish, and either lay the cut herbs lightly over it, or mix them well with it, and garnish with cooked beetroot sliced and marked, rings of the white of the eggs, young radishes, nasturtium flowers, etc. The onions may be served separately, on a small dish. Some like the salad- sauce served separately, and others, knowing persons, like grated Parmesan put to their salad and sauce.—See Nos. 239 and 266. 234. Lobster-Salad,—This is a fashionable salad. The coral of the boiled lobster is cut, and tastefully disposed among the white and green vegetables and green capsicums, so as best to contrast the colours; lemon-juice or vinegar is added with salt.—Another vmy. Choose a hen lobster. Boil, break the shell without mangling the meat. Divide the tail, and lay it in the middle of the dish, the best side upmost—the claws laid around—then a row of minced parsley, or better cress, then one of lobster and spawn. Garnish with slices of lemon. Serve a sauce of oil, vinegar, mustard, cayenne, and salt, or the sauce of No. 233. 235. Dress the lobster, and garnish with parsley.—See No. 32, Salade de Grouse a la Soyer^ and No. 666. 236. Parisian Salad, and Macedoine after Careme—Cnt five red carrots and five turnips in half-inch lengths ; and then, with a root-cutter a quarter inch wide, cut them into small fillets as for soup : keep them separate, and blanch them in salt and water : then boil them separately, in stock, with a morsel of butter and a bit of sugar, keeping the turnips firm : when boiled and cooled in a basin, add to them asparagus points, and young French beans, cut in half-inch lengths, and also boiled, but not too soft: season the Macedoine, to taste, with nutmeg, chopped chervil, pepper, eschalot, first blanched, and three spoonfuls of aspic jelly (See No. 606). Before dishing add a little tarragon-vinegar ; toss up in a saucepan to mix thoroughly, and serve in a Croustade (See No. 579), round which small sprigs of cauliflower may be placed. Prepared mushrooms, or artichoke bottoms cut in dice may be mingled with this, and two spoonfuls of salad- sauce, or the French Mayonnaise, added. This is a Spring 3Iacedoine, and is raised to the Parisian salad of Careme as follows:—Take slices of beet, and boiled potatoes ; cut them an inch and three-fourths long, and two thirds of an inch thick, and divide each piece into two triangular ones. Form a circle of potatoes six inches in diameter round a salad dish, placing a triangle of the beet alternately with one of potatoes, so as to form a border two-thirds of an inch high. To fortify this border, fill the bottom of the dish with aspic-jelly, and set it on ice. Then pierce the centre of thirty mushrooms with a corer an inch wide, and fill the hole with a head of asparagus an inch long, or else with French beans> carrot, or beet cut inSALADS. 227 fillets: dip each mushroom in a large spoonful of aspic nearly set (by the ice), and fix them on the border of beetroot and potato : they should appear as if slightly glazed. Within this dressed border pour the Macedoine, prepared as above directed, and cover it with a little Mayonnaise-sauce (No. 266), and then place within the border, as an inner one, small hearts of brilliant lettuces, divided, with a very fine one stuck in the centre; serve immediately The border may be made of hard eggs, cut in four the long way, and stuck to the dish, with aspic ; and small leaves of endive or celery may take the place of lettuce. We give the above, not from any great admiration of its utility in domestic cookery, but to show how elaborately these things are done in France. It is, besides, a specimen of fancy cookery for young ladies. 237. An Italian Salad.—Three hours before dinner, bone and chop two anchovies, mince a small eschalot, and some young cress or parsley. Mix these well in a salad-bowl, add a spoonful ot olive-oil, two of vinegar, pepper at dis- cretion, and a little made-mustard. To this sauce put very thin small slices of cold roast-meat, or minced breast of cold chicken, or lobster-meat, also veal gravy; toss them about in the sauce, and let them soak in it:—or, instead of sauce, use aspic-jelly^ or remoulade^—No. 598. Garnish with curled parsley, boiled white of eggs, or beetroot.—Obs. Almonds, capers, pickled fruits, or fish, grated cheese of high flavour, and many things of a piquant nature, were formerly mixed with salads, and are still used abroad in their composition. Salads are likewise compounded of cold oysters, salmon, soles, skate, trout, and cray-fish; but these Gothic mixtures, though sometimes presented, are seldom or never touched. 238. Boiled Salad.—This, if less agreeable, is more safe than crude vegetables, however they may be compounded. The sauce may be the same as for English Salad, No. 233, but the vegetables are previously cooked. It is made of dressed celery, French beans, or cauliflowers. Sprinkle some chopped raw white lettuce or endive over it. The jelly of roast-veal or lamb blends well with salads instead of oil or cream, and is preferred by many persons. 239. A Winter Salad.—The basis of this is the same as any other salad, with the substitution of endive, celery, and beetroot cooked, also pickled red cabbage and hard-boiled yolks.—Obs. A very pretty winter salad may be arranged by nicely contrasting the colours of the constituents, gar- nishing with the beetroot in slices, the red cabbage and white celery, cut in delicate straws, and endive arranged in the228 CHAP. VIII. VEGETABLES AND EOOTS. centre. Plovers' and sea-birds' eggs are used to ornament salads; and are admired for their opal and pearly tints. So are the root-flowers introduced by the French, and now to be had of our own green-grocers and fruiterers. These are Provence roses of white turnip, red roses of beet, and ranun- culuses of carrot, which are pretty to look at, and then to throw away. Salads admit of many elegant decorations of contrasted colours; as scraped horseradish, squirted and fairy butter, young radishes, etc., etc. See No. 1201. 240. To Dress Cucumbers,—Pare the cucumbers, and with a penknife cut the slices into small skeins (the length of the dish) wound up; sprinkle slightly with cayenne and drain. Dress the ribbons along the dish, and pour Chili vinegar over them. Cucumbers thus cut may be served over beet- root sliced. Cucumbers in ribbons or skeins may also be prettily served cooked. 241. Indian Salado,—Slice two cucumbers, taking out the seeds, a Spanish onion, two rennets, and two Chilies. Season with pepper and salt, stir together, and add two spoonfuls of vinegar, and three of salad-oil. The cut meat of a lobster, or of a crab's claws, is an improvement, and cayenne is indis- pensable. The onion may be omitted at pleasure. 242. To Preserve Roots and Vegetables. Potatoes are of most consequence, but few now think of storing potatoes. Keep carrots and turnips, parsnips and beetroots, with their native mould dry about them, in dry sand. Onions are best preserved strung, or the small ones in nets, in a cool but not a damp place. Use the thick- necked spongy ones first. They may also have the germ taken out with a larding-pin, and then be strung up, or they may be kiln-dried. Parsley may be picked, and dried by tying it in bundles to a string, or drying it in a cool oven; and so may other herbs. French beans will keep by salting and closing them up, and soaking them before they are dressed; but they lose their flavour and colour. Cucumbers, kidney-beans, endive, etc., may be parboiled and kept closed up in strong pickle; soaking them to freshen them before they are dressed. Green pease are shelled, scalded repeatedly, drained, dried in cloths, spread on plates, and put in a cool oven, and afterwards hung up in paper bags to harden.229 TO STORE FRUITS, ETC. Soak them before they are used. After all this trouble they are but the ghosts of sweet, young pease. They may also be scalded, bottled, covered with clarified butter, corked up, and the corks dipped in rosin; but nothing will preserve the sweet flavour and marrowy substance of the young pea. When used boil them with a bit of sugar. Cabbages, lettuce, greens, endive, leeks, cauliflowers, etc., if carefully removed in dry weather from the ground, without injuring the roots, and laid in a cold cellar, or on a stone floor, cover- ing the roots only with earth or sand, will keep through the winter even when the frost might destroy them if left in the garden; and this we conceive the best mode of preservation. —Ohs. Vegetables slightly touched by frost may be parti- ally recovered by soaking in water. 243. To Store Fruits of Different Kinds. This art is now so well understood, that in spring and early summer, apples, and even some kinds of pears, are seen as plump and fresh as in the autumn when they are gathered. Gather apples when just ready to drop off easily, but not over-ripe,—do not bruise any fruit in gathering. Wipe each apple or pear, one by one, and wrap in paper :—place them in stoneware gallon jars, bedded in fine sifted sand, dried in an oven:—fill up the jars with sand, which will imbibe any moisture that might injure the fruit. If fruit is frozen, steep it in cold water, as in all cases of things frozen, that it may thaw gradually. Pack each sort of fruit by itself; label jars and close them, and keep them in an airy loft, but protect from frost by covering them with a thick cloth. N.B.—Eggs, fruit, and other things packed in straw, acquire a musty flavour. This, which is called being straw- tasted^ may be avoided by using dried fern, sawdust, or bran, for packing. 244. Herbs and Seeds to dry for Kitchen Use. The herbs which are generally kept dry are mint, knotted marjoram, thyme, sweet basil, and sage, and parsley and celery-seeds; gather them when ripe, and put in a cool oven, meat-screen, or drying stove; dry them quickly, but do not230 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. burn them; when dry rub the leaves off the stalks; pound, sift, and keep in bottles well corked. Note.—They are thus higher flavoured than when dried slowly in the sun. They may be dried, as No. 242. 245. To Salt Vegetables. French beans, artichokes, samphire, and olives, may be kept for a long time in a strong brine, taking care that they are completely covered.—Cabbage as saur croute^ No. 762. 246, To Salt Barberries, Cranberries, etc. Gather fine full clusters before they are quite ripe. Pick away any dead leaves and injured berries, and keep the clusters in strong salt and water in jars well covered. When the pickle begins to ferment change it. Red currants, cranberries, and Qrowberries, may be kept as above. CHAPTER IX. SATJOES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. Elements! each other greeting, Gifts and Powers attend your meeting! The Firaie, Our fathers most admired their sauces sweet, And often ask'd for sugar with their meat; They butter'd currants on fat veal hestrew'd, And rumps of beef with virgin-honey stew'd : Insipid taste, old friend, to them who Paris know, Where roca>mhole, shallot, and the rank garlic grow. " It is the duty of a good sauce,'' says one of the most re- condite of modern gastrologers, the Editor of the Almanack des Gourmands^ " to insinuate itself all around the maxillary glands, and call into activity each ramification of the palatic organs. If it be not relishing^ it is incapable of producing this effect, and if too piquant^ it will deaden instead of ex- citing those titillations of tongue and vibrations of palate, which can only be produced by the most accomplished phi- losophers of the mouth on the well-trained palate of the re-SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. 231 fined gourmand^ This, we think, is a tolerably correct definition ofwhat a well-compounded sauce ought to be. The French, among our other insular distinctions, speak of us as a nation " with twenty religions and only one sauce,"—parsley and butter, by the way, is this national relish,—and unquestionably English cookery, like English manners^ has ever been simpler than that of our refined neighbours. Modem cookery, too, like modern dress, is stripped of many of its original tag-rag fripperies. We have laid aside lace and embroidery, save upon occasions of high ceremonial, and, at the same time, many omnegatherum compoimd sauces and ragouts, with a smack of every thing. Yet the human form and the human palate have not lost by this revolution. The harmonies of flavours, the afiinities and coherence of tastes, and the art of blending and of opposing relishes, were certainly never so well understood as now; while the modern kitchen still affords, in sufficient variety, the sharp, the pungent, the sweet, the acid, the spicy, the aromatic, and the nutty flavours, of which to compound mild, savoury, or piquant sauces, though a host of heterogeneous ingredients are laid aside. The elegance of a table, as opposed to mere lumbering sumptuousness or vulgar luxury, is perhaps best displayed in the adaptation of the sauces to the meats served, and in their proper preparation and attractive appearance. Plain sauces ought to have, as their name imports, a plain but yet a decided character; so ought the piquant, the sweet, and the savoury. All hot sauces should he served very hot,—a matter too often neglected in the hurry of dishing and serving dinner. Sauces with which cream and eggs are mixed should be diligently stirred after these ingredients are added, to prevent their curdling; and suffered to warm through in a pot of hot water or lain marie, but not to boil on the fire or hot plate, lest they curdle. The same care must be taken in mixing capers and acid pickles in sauce. Though it is wilful waste to put wine, catsup, lemon-juice, aromatic spices, and other expensive ingredients, into sauces or soups for more than the time necessary to extract the flavour,—yet, on the other hand, these things must be macerated or boiled long enough to be properly blended, both in substance and flavour, with the basis of the sauce. Patient concoction must also be duly attended to, whether at the mincing-board, in the232 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. mortar, or saucepan. As a general rule, brown sauces should be thinner than white. Cream should be boiled before it is mixed with any boiling soup or sauce. And all sauces served over meat should be thick enough to adhere to what they are meant to cover. A good test is their adhering to the back of a spoon. For sauces use enamelled saucepans, which are suitable for many small delicate dishes, and nearly as cheap as tinned ones. Avoid smoky fires in cooking sauces and vegetables. The receipts we have given in this important branch of the culinary art are ample, various, and circumstantial, and have been diligently considered. We do not, however, pre- tend, either in this Chapter or any other, to fix the precise quantities of ingredients; but we have tried to hit the medium as far as possible in a matter where men difier so widely and intolerantly, that— " The very dish one relishes the best Is tasteless or abomination to the rest." The basis, or, more correctly, the vehicle of plain English sauces, is butter^ whether melted, oiled, browned, or burnt; or gravy^ either clear, brown, or thickened; also water, milk, cream, and wine, or some substitute. A numerous class of sauces is composed of vegetables and green fruits, another of shell-fish, and a third of flavoured meat-gravy. There are still other complicated sauces, compounded of an admixture of many or all of these ingredients. It will simplify arrangement to take these in regular order; though the philosophers of the English kitchen shake themselves tolerably free of the trammels of system. For excellent foundation and other French sauces, see our French Cookery^ and read Nos. 59 to 63. 247. To Melt Butter Plain, or for Sauces. Break fresh butter in little bits, and put it into a small saucepan (kept for this and other delicate uses), with either hot cream, sweet milk, or water, or a mixture of them, in the proportion of a, dessertspoonful to the ounce of butter. Dredge a very little flour over this, and, holding the vessel over the fire, toss it quickly round, or stir quickly with a spoon, till the butter melts into the consistence of a very thick cream. Let it boil up and no more. This is the233 TO MELT BUTTER, ETC. Frencli Sauce Uanche. Some French cooks add a very little vinegar and nutmeg.—Another way. Make a thick batter of flour* with a wineglassful of water, let it heat, add six ounces of butter broken. Stir this quickly till it comes to the boiling point.—Ohs. A spoonful of catsup, and a little vinegar, flavoured or plain, or anchovy-liquor, converts this, extempore J into a good fish-sauce;—a teaspoonful of mustard, wliere suitable, will heighten the relish, or a little pepper with salt. Butter, from its bad quality, will sometimes run to oil in spite of the most vigilant cook. In this case, it is the prac- tice to put a little cold water to it, and to pour it rapidly backwards and forwards from the saucepan into a basin, which will partially restore it; but below we give a better way. Melted butter to be mixed with flavoured vinegars, catsups, and thin essences, should be made very thick, and melted with water and flour only, as milk is apt to coagulate ; and the vinegars, capers, pickles, etc., must be carefully stirred in, just before the sauce is served, to prevent it from curdling. Butter, on the contrary, into which minced egg, or herbs, which thicken, are to be stirred, should be rather thin when melted, as the other ingredients will thicken the sauce. To Recover Butter run to Oil.—Add a little salt of tartar, kept in a close-stopped vial for this purpose, to the oiled butter first poured off from the milky sediment. Shake them up together, and the desired creamy appearance will be restored, exactly as in making a liniment of hartshorn and oil.—To clarify Butter^ see No. 44.-1- 248. Oiled Butter.—Set the saucepan over a slow fire, or at the side of it, and it will oil of itself. Let it settle, and pour it from any milky sediment. 249. To Brown or Burn Butter^ i. e. Black Butter.—Put a large piece of butter into a small frying-pan, and toss it * Genuine arrow-root is in all cases to be preferred to flour for thicken- ing delicate dishes. f Butter is frequently spoiled by ignorance or carelessness. The simple chemical process of making the creamy compound called " volatile lini- ment," commonly used in cases of sore throat, is familiar to most people. It is merely adding the necessary quantity of hartshorn to sweet oil By a similar process oiled butter may be recovered as directed above, where the appearance of the sauce is a matter of more importance than its qualities.234 CHAP. IX.—SAUCES, ESSENCES AND CONDIMENTS. round over a brisk fire till it becomes brown. Skim it, dredge in lightly-browned flour, and stir it briskly round with an iron spoon, till it boils and is smooth. A little vinegar or lemon-juice, with cayenne, etc., makes this a good plain fish-sauce for skate, etc., etc. 250. To Thicken Butter, To keep to sauce Green Pease, Vegetables, Salads, etc. Just cover the bottom of a stew-pan with hot water. Put to it in bits ten ounces of fresh butter, and let it grad- ually melt. Take the stew-pan off the fire, and toss it round till the butter becomes smooth. When to be used, heat it in your melting-pan. This and oiled butter answer well for salads to those who dislike oil. 251. Parsley and Butter, the National Sauce.—Pick and wash young parsley; tie it up in a fagot, and boil it in salt and water, for five minutes if young, or seven if old or pre- served ; drain it, and cutting off the stalks, mince the leaves very fine,* and stir about a tablespoonful into three ounces of melted butter. This simple sauce is used with a variety of dishes. 252. To Melt Butter with Cream.—Melt a half-pound of butter broken in bits in a glassful of sweet cream. Stir it constantly. This is used for lobster or oyster sauces to serve with turbot, turkey, etc., when the sauce is to be pre- sented in the highest style of English cookery. Eoux, White and Brown, to Thicken Sauces, etc. 253. White Roux.—Melt some good butter slowly, and stir into it, over embers, the best sifted flour, till it is as thick as a thinnish but firm paste. Stir it over a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, but do not let it get brown—a pound of butter will take nearly a pound of flour. — Obs. This thickening, or roux, as the French term it, comes in place of our extempore butter kneaded in flour, and of our hastily-made browning, " a wretched resource," of which the mere name drives a French cook in England au deses- poir. The prepared roux, called humorously the " Cook's * We find it convenient to cut parsley, sage, or other fresh herbs Avith scissors.235 EOUX, WHITE AND BROWN. Assistant," is certainly superior to our insular^ ofF-hand, kneaded flour, which often communicates a musty flavour, at any rate an unpleasant doughy taste of flour, to the sauce thickened. 254. Brown Roux.—Melt what quantity of butter you need very slowly. Stir into this browned flour^ till of a proper consistence. Less cooking will make the roux if the flour is browned previously, and tend to prevent the empyreumatic flavour, which, by the common methods, and even by the French method, is nearly inseparable from browning made of butter.* Pour the roux into an earthen dish, and keep it for use. This thickening will keep a good while; but we conceive the method of having the flour ready browned better, as it will keep for ever. 255. Brown ThicTcening for Sauces^ Ragouts^ etc., another way,—To make thickening properly is one of the most delicate offices of the cook, and a sort of test of skill. We shall explain the mystery minutely, with due regard to its importance. Throw slices of clarified or good fresh butter into a shal- low small frying-pan • toss it about briskly till it become of a fine amber colour, skim ofl" the frothy bubbles that float on the surface, and from a dredging-box shake in slightly- browned flour, stirring the composition with a wooden spoon briskly and incessantly till it become perfectly smooth, and of the consistence of a thick batter. It must be stirred for at least fifteen minutes. Thickening is best when recently made; but it will keep for ten days or more if poured into small jars, and the surface is not broken. Put to it a little of the sauce you wish to thicken, and mix gradually, as in making mustard, till they are thoroughly incorporated. A dessertspoonful will thicken a sauce-tureen of gravy. In spite of the most vigilant attention, particles of fatty and other matters will sometimes, to the great mortification of the cook, be seen floating in sauce. To remove this, throw * We find no account of this simple and useful preparation in the many volumes on cookery which we have perused, though it highly merits the attention of the cook. Where hrowning or brown thickening is required for any dish, browned flour may be employed with much advantage. It is easily prepared by laying a quantity of flour on a plate, and placing it in an oven, or before the fire, till it takes the shade desired; for it may be of any tint, from that of cinnamon to the deepness of coffee-powder. Turn it occasionally, that it may colour equally, and keep it dry for use.236 CHAP. IX.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. a glassful of lukewarm water into the thickened sauce, and set the saucepan on the hearth, which will drive those crude particles to the top, when they can be removed, and the cook, in serving up a clear sauce, reap the reward of her care. This mode of refining may also be employed for soups and white sauces; but be it remembered, that the watery ordeal, while it contributes to the beauty, injures the flavour of these gusty compositions. The gravy served with roast ducks, hare, wildfowl, goose, etc., etc., if clear, is too often little better than amber-coloured water. When gravy is scanty for roasts, we would advise that the con- tents of the dripping-pan be strained (presuming that the first rank greasy droppings of goose, etc., are laid aside) and thickened with brown roux^ or potato or rice flour, and have the addition of a little walnut-pickle, or catsup. The eye admires clear gravy (often little better than coloured water), the palate relishes a cleared but savoury thickened gravy, like the above.—See Sugar Browning^ No. 369. 256. The Best Beef-Gravy, or Jus de Bceuf, The Basis of many Sauces for Made-Dishes, For strong gravy we would once more recommend, in place of all other parts of the animal, the lean but juicy pieces of good meat. The gelatinous pieces are better adapted for soup than for rich gravy, which is, in fact, the concentrated extract of beef. Ox-kidney is sometimes em- ployed from motives of economy ; it makes a strong- flavoured and rich-coloured, but certainly not a very deli- cate gravy. Cut the gravy-beef (from four to eight pounds, according to the degree of strength and the quantity wanted) into thin slices ; score them roughly, and, placing a thick slice of lean undressed bacon in a thick-bottomed stew-pot, lay the cut-meat over it, with a few bits of butter, or a cup- ful of fresh gravy or water. Slice over this a carrot, a couple of onions, a little eschalot, a head of celery, and, if a high-flavoured gravy for ragouts be wanted, a couple of bay-leaves, and a bundle of savoury herbs of suitable size. Let the stew-pot be deep and very closely covered. Set it over a sharp fire to catch and brown, and shake it occa- sionally, to prevent the meat from sticking. When the meat is drained on both sides, and the juices partially drawn237 GRAVY FOR SAUCES, ETC. out, which will take above half-an-hour, put in the proper quantity of boiling water, a short pint to the pound and half—allowing a little for waste. Skim it well,—check the boil with cold water, and skim it again and again, if need- ful,—wipe the edges of the stew-pot and lid, and, covering close, let the gravy simmer for three hours by the fire. Let it settle, and strain it into an earthen or stoneware vessel, and keep it in a dry, cool place.—See Consomme^ French Cookery, Nos. 582, 583. 257, Savoury Brown Gravy, For Brown Sauces, Ragouts, and Fricassees. This brown savoury gravy, or foundation brown sauce, we conceive to be, for every useful purpose, equivalent to the Grande Espagnole or Italienne rousse of the French kitchen. Line the stew-pan with slices of lean ham or bacon; add to this four or five pounds of a fillet of veal cut in slices; moisten with a ladleful or two of good stock, with two carrots and two onions, or double the number if you, for future purposes, wish their flavour. The juices will soon form a glaze. Take the stew-pan off the fire, and prick the meat all over, to obtain all the juices ; moisten again with any broth you have, made of gelatinous meat, as poul- try, game, or rabbits; season with a fagot of herbs—pars- ley and a little young onion especially—and mushrooms, if you have them; to this add (according to your own judg- ment) a few^ cloves, a bay-leaf, a bit of garlic, and a head of celery. When ready, allow this (or any gravy) to set- tle a few minutes before straining.—This gravy may be very conveniently made jugged. Cut down the ingredients, and put them in a jar ; cover it close, and set it in an oven or over a stove for a half-hour; add boiling-water, and let the preparation stove slowly till wanted.—Brown gravy may be varied and enriched in many ways, by the addition of red wines, flavoured'vinegars, eschalot, tarragon, mush- rooms, curry-powder, truffles, and morells, artichoke-bottoms, anchovy, pickled oysters,—in short, whatever is best fitted to improve and heighten the relish of the dish it is to sauce. Keep for use, and thicken it with brown thickening. No. 255, when wanted. Gravies may be cleared, if needful, with white of eggs before adding the thickening. See iVbie, No. 63.238 CHAF. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. KB.—Eschalot, a lemon sliced, a bay-leaf, two cloves, and a quarter-pint of eating oil, stewed in a ladleful of the above gravy, with pepper, cayenne, and a glass of white wine, makes the Italienne rousse ; and the Italienne hlanclie is made by using a white instead of a brown, savoury gravy. 2572. To Make Glaze and Demi-Glaze; And to Glaze Made-Dishes^ Poultry^ Cutlets^ Tongues, Fricandeaux, Hams, etc. Glaze is a highly-condensed extract of meat. It is, in fact, a meat varnish or glue, and the cook's glaze-pot and brush are, in character, nearly allied to those of the joiner. Make a strong consomme, for which see Nos. 60 and 62, and 582. Rapidly boil down the strong prepared gravy or con- somme, stirring constantly, till it becomes thickish in drop- ping from the spoon; then pour it into a smaller sauce-pan, and still boil and stir till it is fit to become a firm jelly. Veal makes the best jelly, because it is more gelatinous than other meat; but poultry and all meat yield more or less. Where required on a large scale, glaze is kept in bladders till wanted. To Glaze.—Dishes to be glazed should first be well dried on the surface. Have, on the small scale, the glaze melted in a small jar set in boiling-water, and brush the ham, tongue, etc., to be glazed, smoothly over with one coat: this dried, lay on another, and a third if needful. Mushrooms, in general, when glazed, look better rather lightly done, so that the glaze forms rather a graceful veil than a solid varnish. Demi-glaze is made of a mixture of two parts rich brown gravy, one part of consomme, and a very small proportion of glaze, boiled first down to a clear light glaze, and used as the basis of several sauces. 258. White Gravy Sauce, The French Veloute or White Cullis, the Basis of White Sauces for Vegetables and White Fricassees, etc. Put a piece of the best end of a knuckle of veal, according to the quantity of sauce wanted, into a well-tinned stew- pan, with some lean ham, some shin-beef cut to pieces, and whatever fresh trimmings of game or poultry the larder affords. Moisten this with stock, put to it three carrots,WHITE GRAVY AND OTHER SAUCES. 239 and parsley and thyme, and some chopped mushrooms, but no lemon or acid of any kind. Let the meat sweat, but not brown, and prick it to let the juices flow. When the knuckle is done well enough for a family dinner, skim the sauce ; strain through a law^n sieve ; boil it again till well reduced, and add to it, on the fire, as much roux blanche^ or white thickening (No, 253), ready prepared, as will make it of a proper consistence,—rather thick than other- wise, as it can easily be thinned. Skim it and boil it up once more, stirring it, and lifting it in a spoon, and letting it fall continually, to make it smooth and fine ; do this till it cool. This useful Scottish shinking process, which the French call to vanner a sauce, has no name in English.— See Bechamel, Nos. 279, 587. N.B.—M. Ude substitutes cream for roux hlanche in this sauce, and says that it is a great improvement. In appear- ance it certainly is so. The above is nearly sauce tournee, 259. Fennel and Butter, Basil, Burnet, Chervil, Tarra- gon, Cress and Butter, are all prepared for sauces according to the receipt for parsley and butter. No. 251.—Ohs. Tar- ragon, basil, chervil, rocambole, and burnet, used instead of parsley, give dishes a smack of foreign cookery. We would, however, recommend a cautious use of burnet and tarragon, unless the taste of those for whom the sauces are prepared be previously ascertained. Less of these high-flavoured herbs should be employed than of parsley. It is commend- able to mix a little parsley with fennel, which is too power- ful by itself. Butter melted in the water in which bruised celery or parsley seeds have been boiled will take the flavour when the fresh vegetables cannot be got; the seeds must either be boiled in a bag or strained off. The Essences of most herbs are now prepared for sale, and are useful to the cook. The flavour of the above herbs, where acids are admissible in the particular sauce, may be communicated in a more refined form to melted butter by the vinegars which they tincture. 260. Onion-Bauce.—Peel and throw a dozen of onions into salt and water to prevent their blackening. Boil them in plenty of water, and, if they are very acrid, change the water; chop them fine, and, with a wooden spoon, press them through a sieve; stir them into thin melted butter,240 CHAP. IX.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. and heat up the sauce : or roast the onions, and then pulp them.—Ohs. If for tripe, made-mustard may be mixed with this sauce : if for smothering rabbits, boiled ducks, etc., cream should be added. Some cooks use veal or clear beef- gravy instead of melted butter, and others mash a turnip, or apple, or white beet, along with the onions, where the flavour is thought too strong. Young onions^ when very small, may be cooked separately and served whole in the sauce. The French make onion-sauce, with cream or Becha- mel as the basis, and season with nutmeg or mace, and a bay-leaf. This is good practice. 261. Brown Onion-Sauce, — This is a highly-relishing sauce, suitable to many different dishes, and a general favourite with thorough-bred gourmands of the old school. Slice large mild onions, brown them in butter over a slow fire, add good brown gravy, pepper, salt, cayenne, and a bit of butter rolled in brown flour. Skim this, and put in a half-glass of Burgundy, claret, or port, the same quantity of mushroom-catsup ; or, if more suitable to the dish the sauce is to accompany, a dessertspoonful of walnut-pickle, or eschalot-vinegar, to give piquance ; also essence of ham.— Ohs, This standard sauce is susceptible of many variations. Onion-sauce^ brown or white, may be made extempore by stirring small cooked onions into Bechamel^ or into brown- sauce. 262. To Dress Onions for Garnishing^ and for Bouilli^ etc. —Top and tail small firm silver onions; blanch and peel them ; stew them in good stock till they look clear and pulpy.— Ohs, If to be browned, do not blanch, but at once fry them. If for garnishing houilli^ use larger onions ; put fire over the stew-pan, and let them fall to a glaze. Pour a little stock into the pan to float off the glaze^ which should be poured over the beef. If the onions are not mild, put a bit of sugar to the stock. 263. Sage and Onion Sauce,—Chop together a couple of onions and eight sprigs of fresh sage ; stew them in water with salt, and in five minutes add bread-crumbs ; drain off a little of the water when they are tender, and beat up and stir in melted butter ; add pepper, and, if for goose-stuffing, more flour, or crumbs. 264. Eschalot-Sauce,—Chop of eschalot what will fill aGARLIC-SAUCE MAYONNAISE. 241 dessertspoon; give this a scald, drain and add a half-pint of good gravy or melted butter, pepper, and salt, and when done, a large spoonful of vinegar. The eschalots stewed in mutton-broth, with a little butter rolled in flour, and some vinegar, make an excellent sauce for boiled mutton. Eschalot- sauce may be made as directed in No. 251 [Parsley and Butter)^ by merely stirring a little eschalot -vinegar into melted butter, with salt; and for roast meat or poultry this is more delicate than sauce of the chopped root. Carrier- sauce for mutton is made by boiling chopped eschalots in gravy, sharpened with vinegar, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Eschalot enters largely into the composition of most of the high-flavoured compound store sauces made for sale. 265. Garlic-Sauce.—Make this with a spoonful of garlic- vinegar stirred into a half-pint of melted butter; or blanch in two waters, chop and pound in a mortar two cloves of garlic with a bit of butter, or a very little oil, and, rubbing the paste through a sieve, simmer it in the butter.* 266. Mayonnaise^ a favourite Anglo-French sauce, for serving with, or masking [i.e. pouring thick over)j cold poultry, salads, and many cold dishes.—To the yolks of two eggs carefully separated from the whites, put a little salt and white pepper, and drop by drop a few drops of vinegar; stir, rub briskly with a spoon; and next, add drop by drop a spoonful of salad-oil, stirring and rubbing diligently. When rubbed quite smooth, and of the consistence of a thick cream, add gradually three wine-glasses of vinegar, or of eschalot, cucumber, tarragon, or Chili vinegar, or part of them, whichever is best adapted to the dish the Mayonnaise is to sauce. A spoonful of veal-jelly or of demi-glaze is a great improvement. This sauce requires great care and patience, and it will often curdle in spite of all the cook can do. The gradual rubbing of the yolks is the main thing. The sauce should be prepared in a cool place, or over ice. A spoonful of cold water, added after the vinegar, will help * T^e invention of the following garlic-sauce is attributed to Michael Kelly, a musical composer of some celebrity, and possessed moreover of some skill in the "Harmonies of Meats."—"For boiled tripe, cow-heels, or calf's head, take a spoonful of garlic-vinegar and a teaspoonful of made- mustard, brown sugar, and black pepper, stir these into a half-pint of oiled butter.'—JEKYLL pronounced this beastly ! L242 CHAP. IX. 3AUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. to whiten it, and so will the icing. This sauce is made gras^ with four hard-boiled yolks rubbed down, pepper, salt, a little salad-oil and tarragon-vinegar, added gradually as above directed, and meat-jelly; rub long and well over ice, to make it smooth. This is an excellent salad-sauce, and is poured over, or served with many cold dishes. See No. 236. When gras, it is used to sauce veal or poultry, re- warmed. Varieties of it are made by the addition of cooked and chopped fine herbs or spinage. We give the most re- fined of them from M. Soyer. Mayonnaise d la gelee.—Put a quarter-pint of melted aspic. No. 606, into a saucepan upon ice. Whisk till it become a white froth: add by slow degrees, first, a half-pint of salad-oil, and then six spoonfuls of tarragon-vinegar, con- tinually whisking till you have a sauce like a smooth white cream. Season with half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter one of white pepper, and a very little pounded sugar. Whisk once more, and this most delicate sauce is ready, and may be dressed pyramidically, as high as you please. Keep it in a cool place till served. It is made in the same way, with chopped herbs added: choose parsley, eschalots, or whatever is suitable to your dish. See No. 669. 267. Mushroom-Sauce, wphte,/or i^ow;/5, Veal^ Rabbits, etc.—Pick and wash a large breakfastcupful of small but- ton-mushrooms 5 take off the leathery skin as directed in No. 214, and stew them in Bechamel, No. 279, with pepper, cayenne, mace, nutmeg, salt, and a piece of butter rolled in a good deal of flour or arrow-root to thicken, as the abound- ing liquor of the mushroom requires a good deal of thicken- ing. Stew till tender, stirring them now and then, add four spoonfuls of hot cream, and pour the sauce over the fowls. Those who like a high relish of mushroom may add a spoon- ful of mushroom-juice (drawn off by slightly salting a few for a night), or mushroom-powder.—Obs. The mushrooms may be stewed in cream, and seasoned and thickened as above. Mushrooms pickled white may supply the place of fresh for this sauce. Lay them first in milk for a little. Brown mushroom-sauce is made by stewing mushrooms in brown gravy, No. 257, and adding catsup. 268. Celery-Sauce, white,/or boiled Fowls, Turkey, etc, —Wash, pare, and cut down in thin slices, about two inches243 CELERY-SAUCE, ETC. long, three or four heads of celery, the younger the better. Boil these tij.l tender in water, and season with pounded mace, nutmeg grated, white pepper, and salt. Thicken with white roux^ No. 253, or a good piece of butter kneaded in flour, or a liaison of two yolks of eggs. The juice of half a lemon is an improvement, or, for less delicate purposes, a little lemon-pickle.—Ohs. French cooks stew the chopped celery in stock, with suet or fat bacon, and use very little seasoning, which they justly think unsuitable, celery possess- ing so decided a flavour of its own. A puree of celery is made by boiling twelve heads, cut down, till tender; drain- ing, chopping, and stewing with four ounces of butter, half a pint of Bechamel, and a pint of milk, passing through a tammy, seasoning with salt, pepper, sugar, and serving very hot. 269. Brown Celery-Sauce.—Stew and season as in the receipt No. 268, thicken with browned flour, and add a glass of red wine and a spoonful of catsup.—See Pease- Sauce, No. 699. 270. Horseradish-Sauce J White and Broivn.—Grate a tea- cupful of horseradish; if for a white sauce add bread-crumbs and salt, and put to this vinegar. For Brown-sauce stir the horseradish in brown gravy, and add a little vinegar, salt, sugar, and a dessertspoonful of made-mustard; or use vine- gar alone without gravy. 271. Mint-Sauce for hot or cold Boast Lamb.—"Wash a small quantity of young mint; pick the tender leaflets, and have a wineglassful very finely minced, to which add, in the sauce-boat, vinegar enough to thin the mint, and pounded sugar to taste. 272. For Cucumber-Sauce, see Stewed Cucumbers, No. 210. 273. Sorrel-Sauce.—Stew two handfuls of blanched sorrel very slowly, with a good bit of butter oiled. Season it with pepper, salt, and cayenne; add a little strong gravy, and beat it well. Make it very hot, and serve below or with roast lamb, veal, sweetbreads, etc.—See No. 212. 274. Tomata-Sauce.—Take from ten to fifteen ripe toma- tas, or fewer, according to the size ; put them into a jar, which set in a cool oven. When they are soft take off the244 CHAP. IX.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. skins, pick out the seeds, and mix the pulp with a cut cap- sicum, a clove of garlic, and a very little vinegar, ginger, cayenne, white pepper, and salt; pulp this through a sieve, and simmer it for a few minutes. Beetroot-juice is used to improve the colour. Imitation Tomata-sauce is made by roasted apples, properly seasoned and coloured with turmeric. —Ohs» In Tomata-sauce French cooks stew an onion, a piece of ham, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf, and use top-fat, or a rich cullis, to moisten the ingredients. Good practice. See No. 206. 275. Apple-Sauce.—Pare, core, and slice four or five juicy baking-apples, and roast them; or simmer them in a sauce- pan, with a little water to keep them from burning, a bit of lemon-peel and sugar to taste. Take care they do not burn, and when quite soft, pour off the superfluous moisture, and beat them up with pounded sugar to taste, and a small bit of butter. Roasting is both best and easiest. Bread crumbs or panada may be added. If for goose or pig, much sugar is objectionable. For brown apple-sauce, stew the pared fruit, drain, and add brown gravy. No. 257 ; heat up and season highly with cayenne and pepper. This suits many tastes better than the common tame sweet apple-sauce. 276. Gooseherry-Sauce.—Clip away the tops and tails of a breakfastcupful of unripe small green gooseberries; scald them, drain them, and stir them into melted butter^ with a little sorrel-juice or vinegar. A little ginger may be added. The scalded gooseberries may also be served mashed with sugar and seasonings. 277. Caper-Sauce.—Take two table spoonfuls of capers and a very little of their vinegar. Mince the one half, and stir the whole into a half-pint of melted butter, or of strong thickened gravy. To prevent the butter from oiling, stir the sauce for some time. When wanted very poignant, lemon- juice may be added to this simple and tasteful sauce, or it may be flavoured with tarragon or Chili vinegar. If for fish, as skate, etc., a little essence of anchovy will be found an improvement, with pepper and salt to taste. 278. Mode Caper-Sauce is made of gherkins or nastur- tiums cut in bits, and lemon-juice stirred into melted butter. It is also made of radish seed-pods.245 BECHAMEL AND OTHER SAUCES. 279. Bechamel^ or French White Sauce.—Cut two pounds of the lean of a breast or knuckle of white veal, and a quarter-pound of lean fresh bacon, into small bits. Melt some butter in a deep saucepan, and put in the meat to draw a little, and to whiten^ not to hrown. Mix two spoonfuls of fine rice-flour very smooth with pure water, and then put in a quart of clear stock made of veal, or as much water or milk. Let this stew very gently with the meat, over a chafing-dish, or by the side of the fire, for an hour and a half; having first seasoned it with a teaspoonful of white peppercorns, an onion, a few sprigs of parsley and lemon- thyme, and a bit of lemon-peel. Let the sauce settle, strain it, and stir in a cupful of rich hot cream. Bring it to boil, and strain it once more.—A cheaper white sauce^ to pour over boiled fowls, may be made of pale stock and sweet milk, thickened and seasoned as above, and the yolk of an egg well beat and stirred gradually into it when just ready. A few chopped mushrooms will improve this sauce, if for fowls. The Bechamel^ before the cream is added, is a white cuUis, fit for adding to white ragouts, fricassees, and hashes of veal. It is also a rich basis for all savoury white sauces, and for dressed vegetables.—See Dishes d la Bechamel^ French Cookery^ No. 669. 280. Vinegarette for Cold Meat or Fowl.—Chop young mint, parsley, and eschalot together, add salt, and mix them up with salad-oil, and good vinegar. 28L Tartar-Sauce.—Add to vinegarette. No. 280, chopped chervil and tarragon, with a little made-mustard. 282. Lemon-Sauce.—Pare a lemon, taking off all the white part; cut it in half-inch slices, pick out the seeds, and on a plate cut the slices into dice, and mix them with melted butter, taking care to stir it up lest it oil. 283. Miser^s-Sauce.— Chop two onions, and mix them with pepper, salt, vinegar, and a little melted butter. When made with oil and young onions, add a little minced parsley and scraped horseradish. 284. Poor Man's Sauce, to serve with Turkey Poults or grilled Birds,—a French Sauce.— Mince a little parsley and a few eschalots. Stew this in stock or water, and add vinegar and pepper.246 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. 285. Carach-Sauce.—Mix a little pounded garlic with cayenne, soy, and walnut-pickle, in good vinegar. Other Sauces for Poultry and Game. Most of the common sauces for poultry have been described under other heads. These are principally white-sauce^ egg- sauce^ apple-sauce^ rice-sauce^ lemon-sauce^ celery-sauce^ goose- herry-saucCj and mushroom-sauce; but a few of the more delicate remain to be given. See also French Cookery of Sauces. 286. Bread-Sauce.—Put grated crumbs into a small saucepan, and pour a little of the liquor in which fowls, mutton, or veal have been boiled, over this. When it has soaked, simmer with it a sliced onion, white peppercorns, salt, and mace: take out the onion and peppercorns, and add cream or melted butter.—Another Bread-Sauce.—Pour a half-pint or more of boiling milk over a breakfastcupful of stale bread in crumbs in a jug: cover this, and in twenty minutes at soonest, beat it up in a nice saucepan, adding a good bit of butter and salt, cayenne and mace to taste. Add as much boiling cream or milk as will thin it; boil up and serve. 287. Rice-Sauce.— Stew two ounces of blanched rice in milk, with an onion, white peppercorns, and a little salt. Take out the peppercorns and onion, and rub the rice through a colander. Heat it up with more milk or cream, and flavour it as above. This looks whiter, but it is not so light as bread-sauce. Butter may be put to enrich it. 288. Egg-Sauce for salt Fishj roasted Poultry, etc.—Boil three or four eggs for a quarter of an hour. Dip them in cold water, and then roll them quickly under your hand to make the shell come easily off. Chop the yolks by them- selves into little half-inch cubes, and cut the white of one or two eggs in the same manner. Stir first the white and then the yolks into thinnish melted butter in the tureen. 289. Our Own Sauce for Game,—or Orange-Gravy.—A half-pint of claret, and the same quantity of good brown- gravy.—Make the gravy boil, put the wine to it, with pepper, salt, cayenne, and the strained juice of two Seville oranges, or one orange and a lemon. Let them simmer for a few minutes, and, pouring some over the game, serve the rest247 SAUCES FOR POULTRY AND GAME. very hot in a tureen.—Ohs. This is an elegant sauce for any sort of winged game. A French cook would use some of the thin rind or zest of the lemon, and less of the juice. 290. Pleydel's Sauce for Wild Duck, Teal, and Widgeons, —To a large quarter-pint of brown gravy, No. 257, put a glass of claret or port; pepper, salt, cayenne to taste, and a dessertspoonful of finely-shred eschalot. Make this hot, and pour it over the ducks.—Obs. In making this sauce, if for the oily, rank, and fishy-tasted water-fowl, made- mustard may be added, and a higher seasoning of eschalot and onion, with walnut pickle, or a little essence of anchovy. Wild geese, solan geese, mallards, etc., require a pungent sauce. 291. Dr Hunter's Sauce for cold Partridge, or cold Meat of any kind.—Eub down the yolk of a hard-boiled egg with salad-oil and vinegar; add a very little anchovy-liquor, cayenne pepper, salt, parsley, and eschalot, both chopped small. Ohs. This is a good extemporaneous sauce. It is excellent for cold lobster or crabs. 291^. Olive-Sauce for Ducks and Beef Steaks.—Carefully stone a quarter-pound of olives by paring the fruit round in ribbons, so that the olives may recover shape when stoned. Blanch them, and throw them into cold water, and let them soak till freshened, when stew slowly for a half-hour in a half-pint of brown gravy, No. 257. Add more gravy, if needed. A squeeze of lemon is sometimes added, but being disapproved of by those who like the native flavour of the olive, may be given at table. 291^. Chestnut-Sauce, White and Brown, for Turkey and Fowls.—Throw half a pound of fresh chestnuts, stripped of the outer rind, into boiling v/ater; scald for five minutes, and peel them. Stew them till quite tender in veal-gravy. No. 258, with a bit of lemon-peel, and rub them with the gravy through a hair-sieve, as if pulping pease. Season with white pepper and cayenne, and add a large glass of cream. Just boil up the sauce, stirring it till it boil, and serve. The Br own-Sauce is stewed in rich brown gravy, is more poig- nantly seasoned, and has no cream. 292. Redgill's Sauce for Stuhhle Goose, Boasted Pork, or Pork Chops, also called Dr Hunter's Sauce.—Make a248 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. quarter-pint, or rather more, of savoury brown gravy, or melted butter, very hot; thicken it with a little browned flour, and put to it a large glass of claret or port wine, a large teaspoonful of made-mustard, and salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. Simmer it a few minutes, and serve it very hot.—Ohs. For the wine, or part of it, may occasionally be substituted mushroom or walnut pickle, and a little chopped green sage may be added. Hard yolks of eggs rubbed smooth in the sauce, make a good variety of the above. 293. Sauce Robert^ for PorTc^ Mutton-Cutlets^ Geesej etc.— Brown four or five onions very finely shred, in a small sauce- pan, with a good piece of butter. When of a fine rich brown, mix in a tablespoonful of browned flour, one of mushroom- catsup, and two of red wine, with a half-pint of stock, a saltspoonful of pepper, and one of salt, and a teaspoonful of made-mustard, the juice of a lemon, or a dessertspoonful of Chili vinegar.—Obs. This sauce is named after the French inventor, as we say, Maintenon cutlets, or Sandwiches, It is a favourite sauce. Tarragon vinegar will give it the flavour of the French kitchen, which to some gourmands may be a recommendation even as an accompaniment to plain English fare. This sauce is eaten with rump steaks, whether stewed or broiled. Pour it hot over them, and garnish with scraped horseradish or fried parsley. 294. An Excellent White Sauce, For Fricasseed Rabbits^ Fowls, Veal, Whitings, etc. To a half-pint of the liquor in which fowls, veal, or trim- mings of these have been boiled, put a bit of lemon-peel, an onion sliced, six white peppercorns, a pounded blade of mace and a scrape of nutmeg, with a small bunch of lemon- thyme, basil, and parsley. When the sauce is well-flavoured, strain it, add a little rich cream, a bit of butter rolled in flour or arrowroot to thicken, and, last of all, a squeeze of lemon, taking care to stir the sauce lest the cream curdle. Pour it over the fricassee. 295. Lemon and Liver Sauce for Fowls.—Parboil the liver of the fowl, having first washed and scored it; mince it very fine. Pare a lemon very thin, as if for punch; take off the white part, and cut the lemon into small dice, picking out the seeds. Mince about a fourth part of the peel very fine,SAUCE FOR WILD FOWL VENISON-SA.UCES. 249 and put these ingredients, with a little salt, to a half-pint of melted butter. Let them heat up, but not boil, lest the butter oil.—Obs, Liver and Parsley Sauce is a good common sauce, and is made by parboiling the parsley and liver; and, after they are separately minced, stirring them into melted butter. 296. TJie Marquis's Sauce for Wild Fowl.—A glass of claret, a spoonful of catsup, the same of lemon-juice, a minced eschalot, a few thin slices of lemon-rind, a few grains of cayenne, two blades of mace pounded, and a large spoonful of the essence sold at the shops under the name of Sauce d la Russe. Simmer these ingredients for a few minutes, and strain them to the gravy which comes from the wild-fowl in roasting. Place the fowl on a dish heated by a lamp, and cut it up, so that the gravy as it flows out may simmer with the sauce.—Ohs, The above amateur preparation is much admired. The gravy of wild fowl is often scanty; but butter, or meat-gravy, would hurt the wild flavour Game- gravy may^ however, be made by par-roasting^ and then stewing, a partridge or grouse, by those who hesitate at no expense in the gratification of the palate. French artists procure this essence of game by slowly stewing partridges in a vessel closely covered, till they yield a strong consomme, 297. Venison-Sauces. Venison may have a sweet, a sharp, or a savoury sauce. —Sharp Sauce. A quarter-pound of the best loaf-sugar, or white candy-sugar, dissolved in a half-pint of Champagne vinegar, and carefully skimmed.—Sweet Sauce. Melt some white or red currant-jelly with a glass of white or red wine, whichever suits best in colour; or serve the jelly unmelted in a sauce-tureen. This last sauce answers well for hare, fawn, or kid, and to many tastes for roast mutton. We con- sider currant-jelly, worked cold^ very superior for venison- sauce to boiled jelly, though less transparent. Melon-pickle we reckon better still for either roast venison or mutton. It is made thus:—Pare, seed, and slice two or three rather unripe small melons ; soak them in vinegar for a week or ten days; drain off and simmer the slices in fresh vinegar till as tender as pickled beet; again drain, and leave the slices on the sieve reversed; and when dry, put them into L 2250 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. a pickle bottle, and pour over them a tliin syrup, made in the proportion of a pint of water to twelve ounces of sugar, and in which some cloves have been infused. Let them soak in the syrup for a week or more, and, pouring the half of it off them, fill up the bottles with the best vinegar, which, as for all pickles to keep, is first boiled and left to get quite cold.— Gravy for Venison. Make a pint of gravy of trim- mings of venison, or shanks of mutton, thus :—Broil the meat on a quick fire till it is browned, then stew it slowly. Strain, skim, and serve the gravy it yields, adding salt and a teaspoonful of walnut-pickle.—Savoury Venison Sauces^ see pp. 90, 91.—In the north of Europe a sauce of the whortleberry is used for venison and other meats. 298. Turtle Store-Sauce, to flavour Ragouts^ Hashes^ Savoury Patties^ Soups, Pies, etc.—A quarter-pint of strong mushroom-catsup, the same of basil-wine and of eschalot- wine, a large glassful of the liquor of anchovies, an ounce of lemon-peel sliced thin, concrete of lemon one drachm, and the same quantity of the best cayenne. Mix well, iniuse for ten days, strain off and bottle the essence, which is powerful and very much relished. 299. Turtle Sauce, for Calfs Head or Feet, Stewed Knuckle of Veal, Gristles, etc.—To a pint of beef or veal gravy add two spoonfuls of the above turtle store-sauce, and a little essence of anchovy. Thicken if you like. 300. A Store-Sauce, to flavour the Gravy of Steaks, Chops, or Roast Meat.—Infuse in a half-pint of walnut- pickle, and the same quantity of mushroom or oyster catsup, a half-ounce of Jamaica pepper in fine powder, with a salt- spoonful of cayenne, half an ounce of scraped horseradish, and the same weight of minced eschalot. Let these ingre- dients steep ten days, and strain and bottle them. A spoon- ful of essence of anchovy may be added, or a little bruised mustard-seed. — Ohs. This is a cheap and high-flavoured relish, and will be found useful at all times for seasoning either melted butter or the gravy that flows from chops, steaks, etc. 301. Curry-Sauce—This sauce is plainly made by mix- ing curry-powder with melted butter. It is more generally relished if mixed with white onion-sauce; or, if wanted of high flavour, with brown onion-gravy sauce. When likedCIIETXEY- SAUCE CUSTARD-SAUCE. 251 more piquant, Chili vinegar may be added to the sauce. French cooks use saffron to colour curry-sauce and rice served with curries; boiling the saffron, and rubbing it through a sieve. Where a bright colour alone is desired, a tincture of saffron is less offensive than an overdose of turmeric. Saffron is often used to colour cakes, puddings, etc.; but ti should be used with caution. 302. Chetney or CliainL—This, like curry-powder, is a compound Indian preparation, made in twenty ways. It can now be got from the East, and is well prepared there for the great Italian warehouses of London. The following is considered a good receipt:—A half-pound of crab-apples, unripe buUaces, or quinces; four ounces of stoned rasins; four of treacle or brown sugar; two of best white ginger in powder; one of chilies, with salt enough to make the whole rather salt, and cayenne to make it very hot. Pound the hard ingredients separately, add the sugar and spices, and as much plain or Chili vinegar, or lemon-juice, as will make the sauce of the consistence of thick mustard. Mangoes, tamarinds, garlic, berries of the mountain-ash, sloes, and many pungent and bitter things, are occasionally put to this composition. The main ingredient of the Bengal Chetney is a vegetable resembling parsley, of a very disagreeable odour. It is called cotemear, 303. White Hash-Sauce, for Veal roasted or minced^ or for Fowls.—Take the bones, gristles, and white trimmings of the meat, stew them in clear weak broth or water, with a small onion, and a good piece of thinly-sliced lemon-peel, salt, a blade of mace, and a dozen white peppercorns. Thicken the gravy with flour rolled in butter, and when it is boiled quite smooth, let it settle, and strain it. A good squeeze of lemon, and a little fresh lemon-grate, is the only additional seasoning we would recommend; a spoonful of good cream may be added; and for fowls, a little more mace and less acid. This may be miade a curry hash sauce, by adding a small dessertspoonful of curry-powder, and with- holding part of the lemon juice and peel. 304. Custaed-Sauce,/or Eice, Bread, Sago, or Custard- Puddings, or Fruit Pies.—Stir a pint of sweet cream in a nice saucepan till it comes to boil. Mix with it the beat yolks of two eggs, first rubbed with a little cold cream, and some252 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. finely pounded sugar; pour backwards and forwards from the saucepan to a basin to prevent curdling, and let it just come to the eve of boiling, constantly stirring it. Serve the sauce in a sauce-tureen, and grate a little nutmeg on the top of it. Butter and rice-flour or arrowroot may be added to thicken it. See Car erne's, No. 834^. 305. Caudle or Wine Sauce, for a Plum or Marrow Pudding.—A glass of white wine a half-glass of lemon brandy, or old rum, or rum-shrub, pounded sugar to taste, the grate of a lemon, and a little cinnamon, stirred into some thickened melted fresh butter; grate a little nutmeg on the top. 306. Pudding-Sauce, and a Store Punch-Sauce.— Heat half a pint of white wine, sweetened to taste with pounded-sugar; and with this, as in making custard, mix the beat yolks of four eggs. Mill the sauce over a slow heat with a chocolate stick till it thickens; add a few drops of essence of lemon and of lemon-peel.—N. B. The brandy or Kirchen- wasser, got from abroad, which is half cherry-juice sweet- ened, is excellent for fat pudding-sauces. Thicken it with egg or cream.—A Store-Sauce, A pint of canary, sherry, or Madeira, a quarter-pint of old rum (pine-apple is best), or of good brandy; a quarter pint of Curagoa, a half-ounce of good lemon-peel, the same quantity of Seville orange-peel, and half-an-ounce of mace. Infuse this for ten days, shaking the bottle every day. Strain it, and add a half-pint or more of rich clarified syrup. Bottle for use. This may be heated with wine, cream, thin syrup, eau sucre, etc., as a ready sauce to many sorts of puddings and sweet made-dishes. It is then Punch-Sauce. 307. Essence of Ham, or Ham-Sauce.—This may be bought in London and other large cities. In country situa- tions, a highly-flavoured gravy, which is, for plain purposes, a great improvement to other gravies, may be made by breaking ham-bones to pieces, and cutting down all the good pickings left on them. Let this just catch over a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, first adding butter or meat- gravy (jelly-gravy if you have it), and stirring it lest the meat and bones burn. When the ham has been treated in this way for some time, add rich stock, a bundle of sweet herbs, and onion and peppercorns; strain it for use.—Obs.253 SAUCES OF SHELL-FISH, AND FISH-SAUCES. Receipts for Sauces will he found along with the receipts for the dishes they are to accompany. Gravy-sauce for roast- meat, pp. 85-92. Sauce for tripe and cow-heel, p. 78. Sauce for a pig, p. 87. For roast venison, pp. 90, 91. Sauce for pork-chops, p. 111. — See also Drappit Egg^ National Dishes^ and French Cookery, Sauces of Shell-Fish, and Fish-Sauces. 308. Lobster-Sauce, or Crab-Sauce,/or Turbot, etc.— For sauce you must have a hen lobster, fresh (alive if pos- sible) and full of spawn. When boiled. No. 165, pound the spawn with a bit of butter, or a very little oil. In nice cookery reject the coarse outer spawn. Rub through a sieve into a sufficient quantity of melted butter, and mix it smooth; season with cayenne. Cut the meat of the tail, etc., into small dice, and put these to the sauce, which may be heated up, but not boiled, or the colour will spoil. This sauce is rendered more piquant by anchovies, cavice, catsup, spices, walnut or lemon pickles, etc.; but for fresh fish it is, we think, better unmixed with overpowering foreign flavours. Besides, these and other additions can be made at table. A little cream, first boiled, should be put to this sauce.—Obs, Lobsters for sauce may be preserved potted, and the live spawn may be kept in brine, or in an ice-house.—Sauces for Lobsters, p. 169. A sprinkling of the coral rubbed through a sieve makes, mixed with curled parsley, a pretty garnish to turbot, halibut, or other white fish, especially if they be cracked in the boiling. 309. Crab-Sauce.—Pick the meat from the great and small claws, and a little of the soft inside when not watery 5 season, and stir this into melted butter.^^ 310. Sau^e a VAurore.—This kind of lobster-sauce is made of the spawn only. Pound the spawn with butter; rub it through a coarse sieve, and thin it with a little clear stock; season it with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice.—Obs, This is served in France with trout or soles. 311. Oyster Sauce., for boiled Fish, Turkey, etc.—Open the oysters when you are ready to make the sauce ; save their * The inside meat of the small crabs, Scottice cavies, makes most deli- cate fish-sauce, inferior only in name to lobster-sauce. A spoonful of Harvey is a capital addition to most of the fish-sauces.—P. T.254 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. liquor, strain it, and put it to them, and give them a scald in it, and a soft boil. Take them up with a spoon with holes, and drain on a sieve, but keep hot. Let the liquor settle: pour it off the sediment. After picking and bearding the oysters one by one, return them into a stewpan, in which there must be in the proportion of half a pint of thick melted butter to two dozen of oysters, or to eighteen large divided ones. Strain the liquor over them :—or, letting them come to boil, set them in a bain marie or by the side of the fire that they may become tender : quick boiling hardens oysters. When ready, stir in a spoonful of hot cream. A squeeze of lemon-juice is a simple and tasteful addition. Some cooks add mace, nutmeg, and, if for fish, anchovy, etc., when a piquant sauce is wanted.—Obs, In oyster-sauce, it is good family practice, both from reasons of economy and palatic motives, to serve stewed oysters in one sauce-tureen, and melted iDutter in another. The quantities can then be mixed on the plate of each guest, and the oysters left may be after- wards grilled, scalloped, etc. Besides, it is the only way by which one can always escape the cook's detestable over- dose of flour. French cooks put flour and milk to oyster- sauce, and very little butter. English oyster-sauce and fish- cookery in general is much superior. In Scotland oysters are rarely used in sauces, save for fish. Our national cookery, if less savoury, is more delicate. 312. Shrimp-Sauce and CocJde-Sauce.—Shell and wash the fish carefully, and simmer them for a few seconds in melted butter; add a small spoonful of boiling cream. A squeeze of lemon and a little cayenne is the only addition we can recommend, though various pungent flavours are added to this simple and agreeable sauce. 313. Anchovy'Sauce,—Bone and pound some anchovies very smooth with a bit of butter; stir this into thick melted butter, in the proportion of three anchovies to the half-pint: —or melt them in vinegar or wine. A large spoonful of the essence of anchovies may be substituted.—Obs. This is a sauce which ought to be piquant; the cook is therefore at liberty to make whatever additions she pleases ; — cayenne, soy, essence of anchovy, lemon-pickle, horseradish, mustard, eschalot, gherkins, cavice, vinegars,—in short, the whole circle of the pungent and sharp flavours may be pressed into255 FISH-SAUCES. the service. When a compound or douhle-relish sauce is wanted, we would recommend brown gravy-sauce for the basis instead of plain melted butter. Anchoi^y-sauce may have chopped capers and cayenne added to it, and will then be a good fish-sauce for haddocks, skate, etc.—See No. 326. 314. Liver-Sauce for Fish.—Boil the fish-liver by itself; take away all fibres and black parts that attach to it, and pound it in a mortar. Boil it up in thin melted butter with cayenne, and sharpen with lemon-juice, or lemon cut in dice. If a higher gout is wanted, add soy, essence of anchovy, or catsup, instead of lemon-juice, or in addition to it.—Ohs. Liver-sauces are declining in favour. 315. A plain Sauce for Fish,—Melt some butter in hot water and vinegar; add the liver first boiled and chopped, and thicken with the yolk of an egg and flour. Mustard, or a teaspoonful of catsup, of Harvey^ or walnut-pickle, is a cheap good addition to the above. 316. Macherel-Roe Sauce.—Boil two or three soft roes; take away the filaments that hang about them, and bruise them with the yolk of an egg. Stir this into a little thin parsley and butter, or fennel and butter, and add a little vinegar or walnut-pickle, with pepper and salt. 317. The Old Admiral's Sauce.— Chop an anchovy, a dozen capers, and four eschalots or rocamboles; simmer these in melted butter till the anchovy dissolves; season with pepper and salt; and when ready, add the juice of a lemon and grated nutmeg. 318. ^ Grill-Sauce.—Thicken good brown gravy. No. 257, with butter and browned flour to the consistence of a thin batter; add to it a spoonful of walnut-catsup, the juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful of made-mustard, and a dozen chopped capers, a teaspoonful of the essence of anchovies, a bit of eschalot finely minced, a few grains of cayenne, and a tea- spoonful of grated rind of lemon. Simmer these ingredients for a minute, and, pouring a little hot over the grill, serve the rest in a tureen. 319. Dutch Sauce.—English way ; Boil a large spoonful of vinegar with two blades of mace and some cayenne: in this melt three ounces of butter rolled in flour, stirring it.256 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. Add, as in making custard, the beat yolks of two eggs, and again stir over the fire, taking care that it does not curdle. 3192. Dutch Fish-Sauce—Equal quantities of water and vinegar boiled, seasoned, and thickened with beat yolk of egg, and sharpened with a good squeeze of lemon; do not let it boil after the egg is added, but mill it like No. 306. 320. An excellent Store English Fish-Sauce.—A half-pint of claret or red port, a half-pint of mountain or Ehenish wine, and another of walnut-catsup, a large wineglassful of walnut-pickle, the grate and juice of two lemons, a dozen well-flavoured mellow anchovies pounded and dissolved by the side of the fire, three eschalots chopped, a good relish of cayenne, four large spoonfuls of scraped horseradish, a few blades of mace, and a dessertspoonful of mustard, rubbed down with the anchovy-liquor, of which the more you have the better. Simmer this composition for a few minutes, mixing in the ingredients according to the delicacy of their flavour and their solubility. Bottle it when cold in small bottles ; cork them well and dip in rosin. It will keep longer if, instead of fresh lemon rind and juice, citric acid and dry lemon-peel are used. A teaspoonful of the above will convert two ounces of melted butter into a well- flavoured extemporaneous sauce; or it may be mixed with the butter on the plate, like essence of anchovy, soy, etc. 321. The GeneraVs^ or Camp Sauce^ a Store-Sauce for Fish or Meat.—Chop six eschalots, a clove of garlic, with two bay-leaves, a few sprigs of lemon-thyme and leaves of basil, with a few bits of the peel of a Seville orange. Bruise a quarter of an ounce of mace and cloves, a half-ounce of long pepper, and add two ounces of salt, a quarter-pint of vinegar, and a pint of Madeira, with a half-glassful of verjfiice, and the juice of two lemons. Infuse these ingredients in a stone jar, very closely stopped, and let it stand over embers, or by the side of the fire, or in a hain marie^ for a night. Pour it gently from the lees, and strain it, and bottle as other essences. This is a high compound relish, and must be used in moderation either with thickened gravy or melted butter. 322. Dr Redgill's Sauce Piquant^ for Fish or Cold Meat.— Pound a large spoonful of scraped horseradish, four eschalots, a clove of garlic, a drachm of mustard, and one of celery-FISH-SAUCES. 257 seed, with salt and a high relish of cayenne, Jamaica, and black pepper. When well pounded, mix with these ingre- dients a half-pint of cucnmber-vinegar, a quarter-pint of eschalot, and the same quantity of horseradish-vinegar. Let these infuse in a close-stopped jar by the fire for a few days, and strain, and bottle in small vials for use. 323. Quin's* Fish-Sauce^ a Store-Sauce,—Two glasses of claret and two of walnut-pickle, with four of mushroom- catsup ; six large pounded anchovies with their pickle, and six eschalots pounded; a half-wineglassful of soy, black and cayenne pepper. Let this simmer slowly by the side of the fire till the bones of the anchovies dissolve. Strain it off, and, when cold, bottle for use.-j- * Had this great man lived in our day, he would, we think, instead of so much heavy catsup and coarse walnut-pickle, have adopted some delicately- flavoured vinegar as a substitute for about the one-half of these ingredients, — such as eschalot or burnet-vinegar, or even fiery horseradish-tincture. As a mere untravelled practical Englishman, and, moreover, of the Old School, QuiN, no doubt, ranks high in the lists of gastronomy. Still he is completely distanced by many moderns, both in love for, and knowledge of the science. Among the most noted of the moderns, we beg to introduce our readers to Mr Eogerson, an enthusiast greater than Sampayo, and, moreover, a martyr. He, as may be presumed, was educated at that Uni- versity where the rudiments of palatic science are the most thoroughly impressed on the ductile organs of youth. His father, a gentleman of Gloucestershire, sent him abroad to make the grand tour; upon which journey, says our informant, young RoaERSON attended to nothing but the various modes of cookery, and methods of eating and drinking luxuriously. Before his return his father died, and he entered into the possession of a very large moneyed fortune, and a small landed estate. He was now able to look over his notes of epicurism, and to discover where the most ex- quisite dishes were to be had, and the best cooks procured. He had no other servants in his house than cooks : his butler, footman, housekeeper, coachman, and grooms, were all cooks. He had three Italian cooks, one from Florence, another from Sienna, and a third from Viterbo, for dressing one dish, the docce jpiccante of Florence. He had a messenger constantly on the road between Brittany and London, to bring him the eggs of a certain sort of plover, found near St Maloes. He has eaten a single dinner at the expense of fifty-eight pounds, though himself only sat down to it, and there were but two dishes. He counted the minutes between meals, and seemed totally absorbed in the idea, or in the action of eating: yet his stomach was very small,—it was the exquisite flavour alone that he sought. In nine years he found his table dreadfully abridged by the ruin of his fortune, and himself hastening to poverty. This made him melancholy and brought on disease. When totally ruined (having spent near £150,000), a friend gave him a guinea to keep him from starving; and he was found in a garret soon after roasting an ortolan with his own hands. We regret to add that, a few days afterwards, this extraordinary youth shot himself. We hope that his notes are not lost to the dining world. f Grastronomers will feel a natural desire to know what was considered258 CHAP. IX.—^SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. 324. Dr Kitchiner's Fish-Sauce Superlative^ a Store- Sauce,—A pint of claret, a pint of mushroom-catsup, and half a pint of walnut-pickle; four ounces of pounded an- chovy, an ounce of fresh lemon-peel pared thin, and the same quantity of eschalot and scraped horseradish: an ounce of black pepper and allspice, and a drachm of cayenne, or three of curry-powder, with a drachm of celery-seed. In- fuse these, in a wide-mouthed bottle closely stopped, for a fortnight, and shake the mixture every day; then strain and bottle it for use. A large spoonful of this stirred into a quarter-pint of thickened melted butter makes,'' says the Doctor, " an admirable extemporaneous sauce."^—Ols, This will be found even more expensive than the fish-sauce of Harvey or Burgess : the composition of which, so far as such high mysteries are accessible to ordinary mortals, is not materially different from the piquant fish-sauces for which we have given receipts above, save that more an- chovies, cavice, acids, and probably fewer expensive season- ings and less wine, are employed. The extensive sales, and the complete apparatus of these Sauce-chemists^ enable them to sell compound essences cheaper than they could be pre- pared in any private family. Though so many receipts are given for Store-Sauces, we do not, when proper sauces can be obtained fresh, recommend them to small families either for taste or economy. We have been rather diffuse on the subject of fish-sauces, in the persuasion that fish, from its insipidity and softness of fibre, requires savoury and stimulating accompaniments more than any other kind of food. the "best universal sauce in the world" in the boon days of Charles II.; or at least what was accounted such by the Duke of York, who was in- structed how to prepare it L/ the Spanish ambassador. It consisted of parsley, and a dry toast pounded in a mortar with vinegar, salt, and pepper. The modern English would no more relish his Koyal Highness's taste in condiments than in some other matters. A fashionable or Cabinet dinner of the same period consisted of " a dish of marrow-bones, a leg of mutton, a dish of fowl, three pullets, and a dozen larks, all in a dish ; a great tart, a neat's tongue, a dish of anchovies, a dish of prawns, and cheese." At the same period, a delicate supper-dish, when the King supped with his mistress. Lady Castlemaine, " was a chine of beef roasted." But folks then supped at the modern dinner hour. * The Kitchiner sauce was analyzed with great care by the Cleikum Club at sundry sittings. Redgill approved of it in toto, the Nabob suggested a little more cayenne, and Jekyll more wine and less catsup, with the elegant substitution of lemon-pickle for walnut-p'ckle.ANCHOVY AND MUSHROOM POWDER, ETC. 250 Stuffings and Forcemeats. Receipts for these are, for the convenience of the cook, often given by us, along with the dishes, for which they are employed. See pp. 88, 91, 92, 95, 97, and 104, etc.; and Fish-Forcemeat J Nos. 105-149 ; also French Cookery and Crappit Heads^ No. 747. 325. Anchovy-Butter, For Anchovy-Toasts^ Devilled Biscuit^ etc. Bone, wash, and pound fresh mellow anchovies in a mor- tar, and, pressing into small potting-cans, cover them with clarified butter. If for devilled biscuit, a little cayenne may be added.—See Aspic and Montpelier, and other Butters, French Cookery. 326. Anchovy-Powder,/or flavouring Sauces or sprink- ling on Anchovy-Toasts or on Sandwiches,—Pound anchovies in a mortar, rub them through a hair-sieve, and make them into thin cakes, with flour and a little flour of mustard. Toast the cakes very dry, rub to powder, and keep in well- stopped vials.—Ohs. Instead of flour of mustard, citric acid and grated dry lemon-peel, added when the anchovy-cakes are baked, may be more agreeable to some palates. 327. Mushroom-Powder.—Peel large, fleshy mushrooms, and cut ofl" the stems; spread them on plates, and dry them in a slow oven. When thoroughly dry, pound them with a little cayenne and pounded mace. Bottle, and keep the powder in a dry place.—Ohs. The dried mushrooms may be kept hung up in paper-bags without pounding. A tea- spoonful of powder will give the mushroom-flavour to a tureen of soup, or to a curry, or to sauce for poultry, ragouts, hashes, etc., when fresh mushrooms cannot be obtained. 328. Horseradish-Powder.—In the beginning of winter slice horseradish, and dry it slowly before the fire. When dry, rub or pound, and bottle the powder. 329. Essence of Cayenne.—Steep half an ounce of good cayenne in a half-pint of strong spirits for a fortnight, and strain and bottle it for use. We have already remarked that Essences of all kinds may now be bought of excellent260 CHAP. IX.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. quality, and where there is no regular still-room, are per- haps cheapest and best when bought. It is, however, pro- per to prepare at home lemon and orange rind, and such like things, which might be lost when the juices are used. 330. Essence of Lemon and Seville Orange Peel.—Rub knobs of sugar on the lemon or orange till they are saturated with the yellow rind. Scrape off what is saturated, and repeat the process till all the rind is got off. Press the sugar down close, and cover it up.—Obs. Essence of Seville orange makes a fragrant and most grateful seasoning to custard, rice, or batter puddings. Essence of lemon or of orange peel is made by mixing one drachm of the essential oil of these fruits with a large glassful of rectified spirits, or spirit of wine, and is convenient when fresh lemons are not to be obtained, though not equal to the fresh fruit either in fragrance or flavour. The oil must be gradually mixed. Tincture of lemon-peel may be economically made when lemon-juice is wanted, by paring the peel off very nicely, and steeping it in brandy. The bottle must be very closely stopped, as the flavour of lemon is exceedingly volatile. Essence of Allspice may be made in the same way as essence of lemon, and so may Essences of Cloves and Mace. 331. Essence of Ginger.—Infuse three ounces of well- bruised fresh ginger, and an ounce of lemon-peel sliced thin, in a pint and a half of strong rectified spirits. Let it be closely stopped, and shaken every day. This preparation is cordial and grateful. 332. Tinctures of Cloves, Nutmeg, Allspice, Cinnamon, etc., may be all prepared by infusing a sufficient quantity of the aromatics in strong spirits. They may be converted into plain useful liqueurs by the addition of fine sugar; but they must then be carefully filtered. 333. Cayenne Pepper, to make.—This is made either of ripe chilies or capsicums. If chilies, dry them before the fire a whole day, turning them till quite dry. Trim away the stalks. Pound the pods in a mortar till they become a fine powder, mixing tn about a sixth of their weight of salt. Bottle the dry powder, and stop the vials carefully. If capsicums are used, dry them in the oven, first mixing them with dried flour; beat them to a powder, and add water, yeast, and a little salt, with which form the capsi-261 VINEGARS. cums into paste and then in small cakes. Bake these twice; pound and sift the powder, bottle in vials and stop. 334. Mixed Spices and Seasonings.—Cook's or Kitchen Pepper.—Dry, and pound or grind to a fine powder, an ounce of ginger; and of nutmeg, black and Jamaica pep- per, and cinnamon, half an ounce each, with a dozen of cloves. Bottle these separately in vials labelled and well corked: mix in proper proportions with common salt when wanted. N.B.—French cooks keep their seasonings mixed, and even pound or grind them together, not from convenience, but to blend the flavours intimately : much may be said for this practice. 335. Cook's Seasonings for White Sauces, Fricassees, and Ragouts. White pepper, nutmeg, mace, and lemon- grate pounded and mixed. Also ginger and cayenne in proper proportions. These may be pounded together. 336. Powder of fine Herbs, for flavouring Soups and Sauces, when the fresh Herbs cannot he obtained.—Dry, in summer, parsley two ounces, of lemon thyme, winter savory, sweet marjoram, and basil, each an ounce; lemon-peel dried, an ounce. Dry slowly and thoroughly; pound dry, and bottle. The powder should be sifted. Celery-seeds may be put to this useful relish.—See No. 244. 337. Household Vinegars.—Vinegar is an article per- petually wanted for various purposes in almost every family; and, compared with the first cost of the materials, it is, when good, an expensive one. Though we are not perfectly convinced that the labour of the still-room is at all times what economists would call productive labour, we think that vinegar, for ordinary purposes, may often be made at home. 338. Sugar'Vinegar.—To every gallon of water put two pounds of coarse raw sugar. Boil and skim this. Put it to cool in a tub, and when sufficiently cold, from 75° to 80° Fahrenheit, float in it a slice of bread soaked in fresh yeast. Barrel it in a week, and set it in the sun in summer, or by the fire in winter, for six months, without stopping the bung-hole; but cover it with muslin to keep out insects. 339. Cider'Vinegar.—Put a pound of white sugar to the gallon of cider, and, shaking them well together, let them262 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. ferment for four months, and a strong and well-coloured vinegar will be the result. 340. Gooseberry-Vinegar, — To every quart of bruised ripe white or green gooseberries put three quarts of spring- water. Stir them well with the water, and let them steep for forty-eight hours, repeating the stirring. Strain through a flannel bag, and put two pounds of white pounded sugar to every gallon of liquor. Put it into a barrel with a toast soaked in yeast, leaving the bung-hole as directed above. Keep the barrel in a warm place. White currants or rasp- berries make an excellent vinegar by following the same receipt. Pick the currants from the stalks. 341. Vinegar of Wine-Lees.—Boil the wine-lees quickly for half an hour, skimming well. Cask the lees and add some chervil. Stop the cask, and in a month it will be fit for use as vinegar. 342. Verjuice, — Gather some ripe crab-apples, and lay them in a heap to sweat; then throw away the stalks and decayed fruit, and having mashed the apples, express the juice. (A cider or wine press will be useful for this pur- pose.) Strain it: in a month it will be ready. This is the best simple substitute for lemon-juice that can be found: it also answers well in place of sorrel. The French, for many dishes, prefer verjuice to lemon-acid. It is used by great economists in preparing lemonade. 343. Alegar.—This is often made of stale beer, but is best when made of fresh worts, fermented with sour yeast, and set in the sun till the acetous fermentation takes place. 344. Raisin-Vinegar,—After making raisin-wine lay the refuse in a heap to ferment. Add water in the proportion of a gallon to the pound of raisins and half-pound of sugar. Put yeast to the liquor when strained. 345. Flavoured Vinegars.—These are a cheap and agreeable addition to sauces, hashes, and ragouts, and have the convenience of being always at hand at seasons when herbs are either very costly or not to be procured. They may be coloured with a few grains of cochineal. They keep long, and being so serviceable ought to be regularly prepared. Make them of the best pickling vinegar, 346. Chili-Vinegar and Cayenne-Vinegar, called Pepper-VINEGARS. 263 Vinegars.—Infuse a hundred red chilies, fresli gathered^ in a quart of the best white-wine vinegar for ten days or more, shaking the bottle occasionally. A half-ounce of genuine cayenne will answer the same purpose. This makes an ex- cellent and cheap addition to plain melted butter for fish- sauce, etc., and may be made of any strength. It is a safe and convenient mode of using cayenne in many dishes. 347. Eschalot-Vinegar. — Clean, peel, and bruise four ounces of eschalots at the season when they are quite ripe without having become acrid. Steep them in a quart of the best vinegar, and strain, filter, and bottle. 348. Garlic-Vinegar.—The same as above, but use only half the quantity of chopped garlic. 349. Celery or Cress Vinegar.—Pound a half-ounce of celery-seed or cress-seed, or a half-pound of fresh celery, and steep it for ten days in a quart of vinegar boiled. Strain and bottle. It is used with salads. 350. Cucumber-Vinegar. — Pare and slice ten large cucumbers, and steep them in three pints of pickle vinegar for a week. Strain and bottle it.—Ohs. Vinegar of nearly the same flavour may be more cheaply prepared with burnet. 351. Tarragon-Vinegar.—Gather the leaves of tarragon on a dry sunny day; pick them from the stalks, and, filling up a narrow-necked stone jar, pour the best vinegar over them till the jar is full. Let them infuse for ten days, then strain and bottle the tincture. 352. Basil- Vinegar is made precisely as the above. The French add cloves and lemon-rind: we admire this addition. 353. Horseradish-Vinegar.—Pour a quart of the best and strongest vinegar, boiling hot, on three ounces of scraped horseradish, an ounce of minced eschalot, two drachms of bruised black pepper, and a drachm of cayenne. Strain it in a week, and serve it in a cruet along with cold roast-beef. It makes an excellent economical addition to the gravy of chops, steaks, etc.—See No. 270. 354. Camp-Vinegar.—Six chopped anchovies, four spoon- fuls of walnut-catsup, two of soy, and a clove of garlic chopped very fine, and two drachms of cayenne. Steep these for a fortnight in a pint of white-wine vinegar, and strain and bottle for use.—Ohs. This is more properly a sauce264 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. than a vinegar, as, with butter or gravy added, it supplies the place of a store-sauce for either meat or fish. The anchovies should be omitted when the vinegar is to be Stored. 355. Curry-Vinegar.—Steep curry-powder, in the pro- portion of two ounces to the quart, in the best vinegar, and strain and filter for use. 356. Raspberry-Vinegar,—Pour on fresh-gathered rasp- berries, put in a large stoneware or china dish, or wide- necked bottles, the best champagne vinegar, in the propor- tion of a bottle to two quarts of fruit. Next day pour off the liquor, and pour it over fresh raspberries: where the fruit is plentiful and cheap, you need not mind expressing the juice too carefully; strain through a sieve, but do not bruise the fruit. To every pint of the vinegar and raspberry juice, now blended, allow a full pound of good refined sugar. Break it in pieces, and dissolve it in the juice. Boil the syrup for seven minutes, or it is better to place the whole in a stone jar (not a glazed earthen one), and put the jar (covered) in a kettle of boiling water for an hour; take off what scum arises ; when cool, bottle the vinegar for use. This is an exceedingly pleasant beverage in hot weather. Two spoonfuls mixed with water make a delicious summer draught; but the large quantity of acid which it contains may, in some cases, render it an improper one. With cur- rant-jelly it makes an admirable sauce for roast venison or mutton. It is also made extempore by melting raspberry- jelly in vinegar. 357. Herb Wines, etc. Wine may be impregnated with the flavour of roots and herbs in the same manner as vinegar, and this generous fluid extracts even more of the flavour; and often when vinegar would be objectionable, wine is suitable. The proportions for Eschalot-wine Tarragon-wine^ Basil-wine^ etc.^ are the same as when these herbs are steeped in strong vinegar. Eschalot-wine is that most used and esteemed. 358. Eschalot-Wine,—To four ounces of eschalots dried, chopped, and pounded, or merely bruised, put a bottle of sherry. Infuse for a fortnight and strain off. If for beef265 MUSTARDS AND CATSUPS. only horseradisli sliced may be added, or rather substituted for part of the eschalots. 359. Mustards. Mustard is best when nearly fresh made. It is prepared in a variety of ways. 360. Good Common Mustard, Mix by degrees the best mustard-flour with boiling water and a little salt, rubbing a long time till it be perfectly smooth. The less made at a time the better; but it will keep for some time in a pot with a ground stopper 361. Mild Mustard.—Mix as above, but use hot milk instead of water, and sugar with the salt. 362. Tartar Mustard^ and Imitation of Patent Mustard.— Scrape a cupful of horseradish, and chop a half-clove of garlic. Infuse this with salt enough to make a pint of boiling water rather brackish. Let it stand for a night; strain and mix with it the best mustard-flour, leaving the mustard rather thick. Cayenne may be added. Keep it close-stopped. — Tartar or pungent Mustard is made with cayenne, using horseradish-vinegar instead of water. French Mustard is imported. An imitation of it is made by making a paste with Durham mustard and salad-oil, and rubbing this down, when wanted, with a mixture of the flavoured vinegars ; tarragon in particular. — N.B. For mustard-pots always have well-ground close-fitting stoppers. 363. Catsups. Mushroom Catsup is the most esteemed of this class of preparations. Large flap-mushrooms, which contain a great deal of juice, and do not answer for pickling or stewing, are well adapted to making catsup. Let the mushrooms be wholesome. See Nos. 213, 214.—Without washing, pick off whatever looks dirty or spoiled, and, breaking in pieces, lay them in an earthen jar, strewing salt about them. Throw a folded cloth over the jar, and set it by the fire, or in a very cool oven. Let it remain thus for twenty- four hours or more, and then strain off the liquor into a clean saucepan. To every quart of strained liquor put a half- ounce of black peppercorns, a quarter-ounce of allspice in corns, a half-ounce of fresh sliced ginger, two or three blades M2G6 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. of mace, and six cloves. Boil the liquor on a qnick fire for fifteen minutes, or, if it be wished very strong, and to keep long, boil the catsup uncovered till it is reduced one-half, adding the spices after it has boiled a full half-hour. Let it settle on the lees, and, pouring it carefully off, bottle what is clear by itself; and bottle the sediment, after straining, in separate bottles, as it will answer very well for fish-and- sauce, hare-soup, game-soup, etc. Dip the corks of the bottles in black-rosin. No. 1112. Cayenne and nutmeg may be added to the other spiceries if a very delicate relish is wanted; or all the seasonings may be withheld, save the black pepper and salt, of which catsups, to make them keep well, require a good deal. The longer catsup is boiled the better it will keep. Anchovies, bay-leaves, and cayenne pepper are sometimes put to mushroom-catsup. In France, glaze is put to mushroom-catsup, and the whole is boiled till it be nearly a glaze or robh ; in this state it keeps good for years. Catsups^ Sauces^ etc.^ ought to be kept with the bottles lying on the side. They ought all to be bottled in small quantities, as a bottle once opened sooner spoils. When a bottle of capers or pickles is opened, it should be filled up again with good vinegar, scalded and cooled.^ 364. Walnut-Catsup.—Gather the walnuts green. Prick them with a bodkin, and throw them into a vessel with a large handful of salt and a little water, which will greatly assist in drawing out their liquor. Mash them well with a rolling-pin, and repeat this every day for four days. The rinds will now be soft. Pour scalding water with salt boiled in it, over the walnuts; stir, and raise the vessel on edge that the walnut-liquor may flow away from the shells. Take it up as it gathers into another vessel, and still repeat the m.ashing; or pound the walnuts in a stoneware mortar, and pour vinegar over them, which will extract all the remaining juice. To every quart of the walnut-liquor, when boiled down and skimmed, put an ounce of bruised ginger, an ounce of Jamaica and of black peppercorns, a quarter- * The wholesale mushroom-catsup of the shops, like soy, etc., has greatly deteriorated within the last few years. What is called double- catsup is, in particular, a suspicious commodity. Where catsup cannot be carefully prepared at home, we would recommend that Harvey's or the Reading Sauce be substituted for it as often as is practicable, as they are more likely to be genuine.CATSUPS. 2G7 ounce of cloves, the same of long pepper and nutmegs. Boil this liquor in a close vessel for three-quarters of an hour, and when cold, bottle the catsup, putting equal proportions of the spices into each bottle.— Ohs. Anchovies, garlic, cayenne, etc., are sometimes put to this catsup; but we think this a Ibad method, as these flavours, and even vine- gar, may render it unsuitable for some dishes, and they can be added extempore when required.—See Pickled Walnuts^ No. 374. 365. Lemon Catsup or PicMe.—Choose six large fresh lemons; pare them thinly; rub them with salt till they are saturated with it. Make an opening in the end of each, and put in salt. Bed them in a handful of salt and horseradish, and six bruised cloves of garlic, for a week; then dry them in the oven till quite crisp; boil them in two bottles of vinegar with a half-ounce of cayenne. Add a cupful of the best mustard-seed, and bruised tomatas to colour; strain and bottle.—See No. 381, and Melon-pickle, No. 297. 366. Tomata-Catsup.—Make this exactly as the sauce, No. 274 ; but boil it for an hour, then strain and bottle. A small glassful will flavour and colour any sauce, or, with melted butter, make an extempore Tomata-sauce. 367. Cucumber-Catsup,—Pare large cucumbers; cut them in slices and break them to a mash, which must be sprinkled with salt and covered with a cloth. Keep in all the seeds. Next day, set the vessel aslant to drain off the juice, and do this till no more can be obtained. Strain the juice, and boil it up with a high seasoning of white peppercorns, sliced ginger, black pepper, sliced eschalot, and a little horse- radish. When cold, pick out the eschalot and horseradish, and bottle the catsup, which is an excellent preparation for flavouring sauces for boiled fowls, veal, rabbits, or the more insipid meats. 368. Oyster^ Cockle, and Mussel Catsup.—Wash in their own liquor, and pound in a mortar, fat, newly-opened native oysters. To every pint of the pounded oysters, and their strained liquor, add a pint of white wine, and boil this up and skim it; then to every quart of this catsup add a large teaspoonful of white pepper, a saltspoonful of pounded mace, some cayenne, with salt to taste. Let it boil up to blend the spices, and then strain the catsup through a sieve into a2C8 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. clean vessel. When cold, bottle it, and stop the bottles with corks dipped in bottle rosin. No. 1112.—Coclde-Catsup is made as above ; but as this has less flavour naturally, and is seldom used but for fish, a few pounded anchovies may be added to it. 369. Browning^ or Sugar-Catsup,—Pound very finely six ounces of the best refined sugar, and put the powder into a small and very clean fryingpan, with a glass of water. As it dissolves, mix well with a wooden spoon, and withdraw the pan from the fire when the fluid begins to boil violently; stir, and keep it thus till it has acquired the rich, dark- brown colour wanted. It may either be seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, catsup, etc., or not, but is generally more useful plain. When cold, skim the browning, and bottle it in vials for use.—Ohs, It is very difiicult, nay, almost impossible, to prepare browning free of an empyreu- matic flavour, which is necessarily communicated to the dish that is coloured with it. Where sauces can be coloured with the catsup, browned flour, and wine, which may be employed in making the dish, it is better to avoid sugar browning ; and soup may generally be made of a sufiiciently rich colour by slightly browning the meat and onions, and by the other means we have pointed out. Many cooks use onion-skins, which contain a yellow dye, to colour their soups; and it is a common, but slovenly practice, where browning is wanted in a hurry, to melt a knob of sugar between the hot bowls of tongs, and drop it into a little soup to colour the rest. This, on an emergency, may be useful, but the necessity ought to be avoided. Prepared Browning is sold. The eye^ however, is so important an organ in affairs of the table, that we are very tolerant of a drop or two of sugar-browning, whether in soups, sauces, or the gravy of roasts, where it seems wanted. Tomatas also will improve the colour, and to some tastes the flavour, of soups and sauces. See Nos. 253, 254. 370. Pickles. These are a class of culinary preparations about which the cook and notable housewife were wont to make no little bustle, and feel no small pride. Pickles are chiefly intended for a relishing accompaniment to many sorts of made-dishes.PICKLES. 2G9 hashes, cold meats, and sauces; a few of them are merely ornamental as garnishings. The only general rules that can be given for the proper and safe preparation of pickles are, to have sound vegetables, or fruits not over-ripe, and gathered on a dry day. Let the things to be pickled be carefully trimmed and wiped, washing only such things as are to be steeped or parboiled previous to pickling. It is miserable economy to employ bad vinegar for pickling, or bad sugar for preserving, or to use either in stinted quantities,—and both the syrup in which fruits are preserved, and the vinegar used for pickles, may afterwards be serviceable to the cook. Pickle-liquor can be at all times conveniently disposed of in seasoning gravies or sauces, or as an accompaniment to cold meat;—the pickle of cucumbers, walnuts, mushrooms, and onions, is especially useful. The vinegar used for pickles, if not boiled, ought to be made scalding hot; but remember that no fermented liquid can be long boiled without loss of strength. The spiceries used in pickling are so well bestowed that we give no rule for the quantity, except that it should not be so great as to overcome the natural flavour of the article pickled: for pickles, like every thing else, should be what their name imports,—either Onion or Cucumber^ etc., and not a hodge- podge of conflicting flavours. Pickles are most safely pre- pared in stoneware vessels; but they must, at all events, be kept in small glass or stone jars well stopped, and the corks or bungs wrapt round with bladder or leather, with an upper covering of the same, or of sheet-lead if they are to be long kept. Or, when well corked, let them be dipped in bottle- rosin. India rubber capsules are now often used over the cork. They are not equal to bladder. The corks or bungs may be left rather loose for two days, and the jars filled up to the neck with scalded vinegar before being finally closed, as a great deal of the liquor will be absorbed at first by the pickles. When the pickles are used, boil up the liquor with a little salt and fresh spice, and bottle and cork it for future use, either as a sauce, or to pickle nasturtiums and gherkins, where a fine colour is no object. To have green pickles of a bright green^ and yet safe, is no easy matter; and there is now at the most refined tables a wholesome distrust of pickles of too brilliant a green. It is, however, very pos- sible to preserve the colour tolerably bright, and yet prepare270 CHAP. IX.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. the pickles safely, by keeping tliem for a length of time, first in brine, and then exposed to the steams of vinegar. Potato- plums, elder flowers in the bud, and many other things are pickled besides the vegetables in common use. We do not admire them. 371. To PicTcle Cucumbers.—Lay fifty firm, young, and very small-sized cucumbers, not too ripe or seedy, on flat dishes, having first rubbed them with salt. Keep them covered, and look at them and turn them occasionally for eight or ten days, and then, having carefully drained them, put them in a jar in which vine-leaves or cabbage-leaves are laid, and, pouring two quarts of scalding vinegar over them, cover them with more leaves, and keep them covered by the fire. Next day pour off the vinegar, boil it up, and pour it hot over the cucumbers, again covering them with fresh leaves above and below. A little pounded alum will im- prove the colour; but if it be not good enough, scald them once more by placing the jar in a pan of boiling water, or on a hot hearth. When the colour is tolerably good — for it will never be very brilliant—boil up the vinegar once more with a half-ounce of white pepper, the same of sliced ginger, two drachms of cloves, and a bruised nutmeg. Boil the spices for a few minutes with the vinegar, and when cold, bottle them according to the general directions in the preceding page.— Ohs, A French cook would add a seasoning of tarragon, fennel, and garlic. 372. French heans^ gherkins, Indian-cress seeds, samphire, and other green pickles, are all to be managed as in the above receipt for cucumbers. 373. Cucumbers and Onions pickled. — Pare and slice cucumbers, picking out the seeds; and peel and slice large onions in thick slices. Sprinkle salt over both, and drain for a night, then put them into a stone jar, and pour scald- ing vinegar over them. Close the jar, and set it by the fire. Scald them by placing the jar over a hot hearth, and repeat this till they become of a tolerable colour; then boil up the vinegar with spiceries, as in No. 371. 374. To Fickle Walnuts Green,—Gather the walnuts before they are nearly ripe, and while the shells are still tender. Lay them in a strong pickle of salt and water for ten days.271 TO PICKLE MUSHROOMS, ETC. Change the brine twice in that time. Keep a sinking-board over them, for if they are exposed to the air they will turn black. Drain them, and run a bodkin or steel pin into each walnut in several places. Lay plenty of vine-leaves or cabbage-leaves in the bottom of a stewpan. Place the walnuts on these, and cover them with more leaves; fill the vessel with water, and give them a scald ; let them stand to cool, and repeat this several times, pouring off the blackened water, and supplying its place with scalding water. When the husks become soft, scrape them off with a knife as quickly as possible; and, rubbing the walnuts smooth with flannel, throw them into a vessel of hot water. Boil for three minutes a quart of the best vinegar for every fifty walnuts, with white pepper, salt, ginger, cloves, and cayenne. Eub the walnuts well in a cloth, and pour the vinegar over them. Walnuts are pickled black in an easier manner, by merely steeping for twelve days in strong brine, renewed every three days, rubbing them smooth and dry, and pouring boiling vinegar over them, seasoned with pepper, horseradish, garlic, and. mustard-seed. 375. To Pickle Mushrooms^ and keep in Brine for Winter Use.—Choose small white button-mushrooms, and rub them w^ith flannel or a sponge dipped in a little salt. Put them into a stone jar, with some mace, ginger, pepper, and salt, and let them stew in their own juices over a slow fire, shaking them well, but not breaking them. Let them re- main over the fire till they are almost dry, but take care they do not burn. When the liquor is all reimbibed by the mushrooms, put in as much hot vinegar as will cover them, and let them just come to boil. AVhen cold, bottle them in jars, and after a week fill up the jars with vinegar, scalded and then cooled; and pour a little salad-oil into the necks of the bottles, which will aid in excluding the air. Cork the bottles, wrapping bladder or leather round the corks, and dip in bottle-rosin the corks of those which are to be long kept. To keep in brine.—Prepare buttons as above directed; and for every pint make a brine by boiling, in a pint of water, six ounces of salt and one of sugar, with a teaspoonful of peppercorns. Scald the mushrooms in the boiling brine for six minutes. Finer seasonings may be added; but we consider this unnecessary, as the mushrooms are to be afterwards cooked. If to keep, bottle and treat272 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. them exactly as pickled mushrooms. We have of late used tin-foil as for champagne bottles, for pickles and preserves, or India-rubber capsules. Bladder is better. 376. To PicMe Onions,—Choose small sound silver-onions, as equal in size as may be. Top and tail them, but do not pare the tops very close, as the air will soften and spoil the onions. Scald them with brine. Repeat this on the second day, and, when cold, peel the onions as quickly as possible, throwing them into vinegar as they are done, to prevent their blackening. Boil white-wine vinegar enough to cover them, with sliced ginger, black and white pepper, and mace; when cooled a little, pour it over the onions. Cork them well, as directed for other pickles, and dip in bottle-rosin.— Ohs, Some cooks peel and scald the onions, a few at a time; take them up as soon as they look transparent, and dry them in the folds of a cloth, covering them carefully to exclude the air. Others scald in brine, and then parboil in milk and water. Pickled onions of the shops look beauti- fully white, but some think have little gout* Bed Cabbage.—A firm deep-purple-coloured middle- sized cabbage is best for pickling. Strip off the outer leaves, cut out the stalk; and, dividing the cabbage, cut it down into slices of the breadth of narrow straws. Sprinkle salt over these, and let them lie for two days; then drain very dry, and pour over the sliced cabbage a pickle of boiling vinegar, seasoned highly with black and Jamaica peppers and ginger boiled in it. Cover the jar to keep in the hot steams, and when cold, close it up.—Obs. A few mild onions sliced are thought an improvement to this pickle. The onion takes the beautiful tinge of the cabbage, thus repaying " The grace it borrows with the strength it lends I" 378. Beetroot^ to picJcle.—^Wash the beetroots, but take care not to break the skin or the fibres which hang about them, else the colour will fly. Boil them softly for an hour or more if they are large, or bake them, and as soon as they are cold enough to be handled, peel them, and, cutting them into tliinnish slices, put the slices into a jar, and have ready to pour over them cold, vinegar, in which black and * In the youthful days of Mrs Dods, onions were pickled in their skins, tops, and tails, and only peeled when to be served at table. The flavour was then very little different from that of a raw onion.INDIAN PICKLE. 273 Jamaica pepper, ginger, cloves, and a little cayenne, have been previously boiled.—Ohs. A few slices of beetroot make a pretty fill-up disb for any odd corner on a table, and a rather elegant garnish, particularly if contrasted with the brilliant emerald green of pickled samphire. The slices, when to be used, may be cut with a cutter in the form of leaves, flowers, or Vandyked; a few small silver-onions, and turnips scooped out to the size of marbles, will take the rich red tinge of this pickle, form an ornamental variety with the beetroot, and cost nothing. Cochineal will im- prove the colour. 379. Indian Pickle, or Piccalilli.—This is a general hodge- podge pickle of all the common green and white pickles to which the curry flavour and tawny curry tinge is given. Prepare the pickle-liquor thus :—To every two quarts of the best vinegar, put an ounce and a half of white ginger, scraped and sliced, the same of long pepper, two ounces of peeled eschalots, one of peeled garlic, an ounce and a half of salt, an ounce of turmeric, a little cayenne, and some flour of mustard. Let this infuse in a close jar set in a warm place for a week; and, in the meanwhile, have ready a white cabbage sliced, cauliflowers cut in neat branches, white turnip-radishes, young French beans, sliced cucum- bers, button-onions, and codling-apples, a large carrot cut in round slices, nicked round the edges, capsicums, bird- pepper, etc. Sprinkle all these things with plenty of salt, mixing it well with them in a large earthen vessel, or pour- ing scalding brine over them. Let them lie for four days, often turning them over, and then take them up, wash them in vinegar, and dry them carefully with a cloth, and after- wards lay them on sieves before the fire, turning them over till thoroughly dried. Next day, place them either in a large stone jar, or in smaller jars, and pour the cooled, strained pickle over them. The jars must be well stopped. —Ols. This pickle keeps a long time, and for the first two years will even improve by the keeping. The vegetables do not all come in together, but they may be prepared as for pickling, and added to the general pickle as they come into season. This pickle looks more attractive if the French beans, small whole cucumbers, or melons, are greened before they are put to it, as directed in other receipts. When the melons or cucumbers are greened^ cut a slit in the sides, M 2274 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. and scrape out tlie seeds. Shoots of green elder are also put to this pickle, in imitation of the Bamboo of the genuine Mango pickle. Instead of being laid in salt, the vegetables may be parboiled in very strong brine, by which means the pickle will be soon ready; but the colour and crispness will be injured, though, on the whole, both for ease of prepara- tion and safety in eating, we think parboiling the preferable method. This pickle is so cheaply bought, whether common or nicely prepared, that few families now make it. 380. To Preserve Barberries.—Tie the clusters to bits of stick, and boil them in syrup. To Pickle Barberries for Garnishing.—Gather fine clusters not quite ripe. Make a brine of eight ounces of salt to the quart of water. Boil it up with a small bit of alum, and when cold, pour it over barberries, or Siberian crabs, laid not too closely in jars. Look at the fruit occasionally, and, if needed, pour off the brine, and supply its place with more, freshly prepared as the first, but with less salt. 381. To Pickle Bitter Oranges and Lemons for Wild Foivl. —Kub the fruit well with salt. Cover them with vinegar, with a handful of coriander-seeds, and some mace. Boil Lip the vinegar once or twice, and when cool pour it again over the oranges or lemons.—See No. 365. 382. To PicJcle Cauliflower or Brocoli.—Take firm, well- coloured vegetables, before they are quite ripe, and cut away the bark of the stems, and all the green leaves. Scald them for four minutes in a pan of boiling brine, and then drain and dry them thoroughly. When dry, pull them into properly-sized branches, trim the stalks smoothly, and pack them up in the jars with the same pickle-liquor as directed for onions or beetroots. 383. Nasturtiums^ to make either a pickle, or for imita- tion caper-sauce, may be prepared in the same manner ; also the seed-pods of the radish, which make another substitute for capers. 3832. rji^ PicJde Tomatas.—Prepare a half-peck, or what you want of well-coloured, small round tomatas. Prick them to let their juices flow for a few hours. Keep this juice covered. Place the tomatas in layers, in a deep jar, strewing between each a thin layer of salt. Cover the jar,PREPARATION OF PICKLES. 275 and in three days wasli the brine ofF each tomata with vine- gar and water; dry and replace them in the jar, and have ready to pour over them enough of the best pickle-vinegar boiled and cold, in which have been boiled (for every twelve tomatas) a large spoonful of fresh mustard-seed, a quarter- ounce of bruised cloves, and the same quantity of white pepper. Add the preserved tomata-juice, and if the pickle is intended for roast-meat only—cold or hot—add also a few sliced onions. Cover the jar : the pickle will be ready in a fortnight. 384. To Hasten the Preparation of PicMes.—Parboil in brine the vegetables you wish to pickle. Drain and dry them, and then proceed as above directed with the respec- tive kinds. The colour will not be quite so good, but the vegetables, besides being less crude, will be fit for use in a few days. Fresh pickles look the most handsome, but old pickles are safer, and eat better.PAET THIED. CHAPTER I. MADE-DISHES. When art and nature join, the effect will be Some nice ragout, or charming fricassee. King's Cookery. But prudent men will sometimes save their cash B7 interlinear days of frugal hash. Ceabbe's Tales. We take for granted that the cook, at this stage, thoroughly understands the rudiments of her art, and is, manually, an adept in the elementary processes treated of in the preceding chapters. We also hope that she begins to comprehend the principles or rationale of cookery. In the Introduction it has been said that the Cook, like the Surgeon, must first look on, observe carefully, and then put to her hand ; for it would be quite as easy to teach surgery by book, as many of the manual operations of cookery. We have found, by sad experience, that printed directions for honing^ trussing^ and larding^ preparing delicate sauces, — Mayonnaise^ for instance,—nay, peeling mushrooms,—only stupified an other- wise intelligent young cook-maid, who, when she saw the thing done, understood and could do it at once. In country lodgings, some time since, we found our boiled fowl very well cooked, but very ill trussed. It was offensive to the eye ; and patiently and elaborately, as we fancied, we ex- plained to a very clever girl how the thing should be done, and the legs trussed inside. Worse and worse ! an anxious attempt had been made ; and, next time, the unfortunate fowl, instead of its legs straddling abroad anywhere as before, appeared with the skin much torn, one stump half-in half-out, and the other exactly like the timber legs of one of Wilkie's veteran Chelsea pensioners. It was at once ludicrous andCHAP. I. MADE-DISPIES. 277 provoking; and the distress of the young candidate of the stove most pitiable. But " where there is a will there is a way." Book-knowledge was in this case given up in despair, and the manner showrij by an old kitchen-maid in the village, —no great cook. From that period we have held, that unless ladies will learn to put to their own delicate hands, and show their uninstructed cooks how to proceed,—a duty which we certainly do not require of gentlewomen or gentlemen,—the lesson should be given by some one properly qualified. If a lady obtain that rare prize, a thorough cook, nothing more is required than books to refresh her memory and extend her knowledge; but, if only a clever intelligent girl, capable of becoming a cook,—a humble function, which yet requires sound intellectual faculties, whatever may be thought of it,— the mistress should at once send the young woman to where she may see cookery performed in all its departments, from skinning a hare or gutting fish, to the most delicate offices. The cook will, if clever and willing, in a very short time learn to clean thoroughly,—a great point,—to truss, to bone, to kird, to whip, to mill, and fifty other things, which no printed instructions can teach half so well or easily as a single example. Let the young cook, therefore, previous to taking a place, go, or, if selected by a mistress, from being intelligent, active, and hopeful, be sent to observe, and tri/. This, in the first place ; and, while in the A B C of the art, the school should be the kitchen of a family where there is a careful and experienced plain cook. Another step is that recommended in our Introductory Lectures, of seeing hand- some dinners dressed, and assisting in their preparation, in a private family where dinners are given with some frequency. Where more instruction is required, there are now regular French or French-bred professors of the art in most of our considerable towns, who receive pupils, and who, going out to families to prepare company dinners, take their female pupils along with them to look on and assist. Young ladies in the middle ranks do still occasionally take lessons in pastry, confectionary, and preserving,—which for them is going quite far enough; for though it is perfectly right, and, indeed, indispensable, that all young housekeepers should be able to give orders, and even directions, and know when they are well served, it is going to the extreme to hear of gentlewomen who have, or ought to have, other duties andCHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. 278 pursuits, attending in the kitchens of hotels and clubs, to learn cookery. But enough of this ; and presupposing that the cook thoroughly understands at least the rudiments of her art, and many of its plainer but still most important branches, we proceed to Made-Dishes. What are with us technically termed Made-Dishes (the entrees and entremets of the French Kitchen) presupposes either a more elaborate mode of cookery than plain frying^ hroiling^ or roasting; or else some combination of those elementary processes, — as, for example, half-roasting and finishing in the stewpan, which is a common way of dressing a ragout. Most dishes called with us French dishes^ are of the class Made-dishes^ such d,^ fricassees and ragouts^ meat braised^ larded^ Sec, and so are hashes, curries, and generally all viands that are re-dressed or re-made. To understand this chapter properly, the young cook should first study the directions for braising, for cooking in a poele or a blanc ; also the mixing of forcemeat, cook's peppers, and other seasonings, and how to make and use all sorts of garnishes, as sippets, fried parsley, casserole edgings, crous- tades, bread-borders, farce-balls, egg-balls, grilled toasts of all kinds ; also serving in vol-au-vent, in timhalles, glazing and demi-glazing, glazing onions and celery for garnishes, paste and rice borders, dishing in various forms, and many other matters. She should understand the qualities and uses of the different catsups and flavoured wines and vinegars ; and what flavours are best adapted to the several meats ; as horseradish with dishes of beef; lemon-peel or lemon-juice with veal, &c. These things should be diligently studied, imder the respective heads, as pointed out in the Index.— Study also our French Cookery and Glossary of Culinary Terms. To dress a Made-dish properly requires rather knowledge, contrivance, and resource, than great manual dexterity. It is, in fact, more difficult to broil a chop properly than to dress a ragout, provided the cook knows how to proportion seasonings, and to blend flavours with taste and judgment. Stewing is the commonest form of dressing Made-dishes, and is besides that mode of cookery which is best adapted to all dry, fibrous, harsh meats. Its perfection consists in the extreme slowness with which the process is conducted*;MADE-DISHES. 279 and. the closeness of the vessel in which the meat is con- tained. The lid of a stewpan, or digester, after its contents have been skimmed, ought to be as seldom removed as pos- sible ; but the stewpan may be frequently shaken, to prevent the meat from adhering either to the bottom or to the sides.* Stewing is recommended by Dr Cullen as the best mode of cookery for retaining all the native succulence of meat, thus obtaining from it the greatest quantity of nourishment; and likewise as promotive of digestion. The last assertion, though of so great authority, may sometimes be questioned. Made-dishes are valued by the gourmand for their savouri- ness or their piquancy. They are equally esteemed by the economist, from the circumstance that a much smaller quan- tity of material than would suffice for a boil or roast, will make a handsome and highly-flavoured dish ; while, by the various modes of re-dressing^ everything cold may, in a new Made-dish^ be turned to good account. A common fault of English Made-dishes is that they are overdone. While a large dinner is proceeding, the stewpans are neglected, because their contents sustain less apparent injury than is instantly visible on roasts, broils, or fries ; and also because cooks either do not know, or forget, that meat stewing in its own rich juices is exposed to a more intense heat than in boiling or roasting. The general rules we would give for dressing Made-dishes are, — 1st, That they be not over-hastily done, but rather removed from the fire, steamer, or hot-plate, as a very few minutes will at any time finish them completely. 2d, That the sauce be smooth and properly thickened, so as to adhere to the meat,—and that the pieces of meat, fillets of poultry, etc., of which they are composed, be nicely trimmed; cut perfectly smooth with a fine-edged knife, and never clumsily large. This is peculiarly to be attended to in re-dressing .cold meat; which sometimes comes to table mangled and lacerated, as if it had been gnawed, not carved. Palates, sweetbreads, etc., may be cut into scollops, or other pretty forms, as is common in French cookery. The very name Made-dish implies with us something savoury and highly relishing; and though over- seasoning is * It would be a great improvement if the lids of stewpans permitted turf or charcoal to be put over, as well as under the meat; unless where there are scientific ranges, with steaming apparatus.CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES 280 to be avoided, it is proper that Made-dishes should be savoury, or else piquant rather than insipid. We name many things Made-dishes, which French cooks term removes or flanks, Made-Dishes of Beef. See Chapters, Roasting^ Broiling^ and Frying Beef. 386. To Ragout or Braise a Rump or half Rump of Beef— Except for some particular occasion, a rump to be stewed should not be very large, nor above ten inches in thickness, unless it is salted a little. Cut out the bone neatly, and break it; and with that and what trimmings may be made in smoothing the meat, make a gravy, by boiling them up with onions, a carrot, and turnip, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Season the rump highly with Cook's pepper, Nos. 334, 335, and a little cayenne, and skewer and tie it firmly up with tape. Lay skewers in the bottom of a clean stewpot that will just hold the meat, and place the rump upon them, straining over it the gravy drawn from the bones. When it has simmered, closely covered, for an hour or more, turn it over, and put to it three carrots sliced, two turnips scooped the size of children's marbles; and in another half-hour onions sliced, and a glass of eschalot-vinegar, or plain vinegar, with minced eschalots, and more pepper if required. Keep the lid close the whole time; and before dishing, put in a large spoonful of catsup, and, if you like, another of made-mustard, with roux^ No. 254, or butter rolled in flour, to thicken the gravy. The rump may be dressed more highly by filling up the hole whence the bone is taken with a relishing forcemeat; egging, browning it before stewing, and putting wine to the sauce; which may also be enriched with sweetbreads or kernels, parboiled and cut into bits. It may be glazed^ and the gravy may be prepared with bacon.—Ohs. A rump, or rather part of one, salted for four days in summer, or a week in cold weather, washed and stewed plainly, is an economical as well as an excellent dish, whether for company or for family use. It may be divided diagonally, so as to skewer up neatly, or cut into three parts, and stewed in weak stock with roots as above. Skim the fat carefully off, and serve the soup, which will be very rich, on toasted sippets, and the meat by itself, either garnished with cut pickles, or better.OF BEEF. 281 sliced carrot, or onions prepared as for garnishing, No. 262. A rump is sometimes half-roasted^ and finished in the stew- pot in broth, with some mild ale, or wine, vinegar, catsup, a fagot of sweet herbs, and onions, mixed spices, pickled mushrooms, etc. This last is an expensive dish, and has nothing to recommend it beyond a plainer dressed rump, stewed carefully in the stock intended to make soups and sauces for the same dinner. A sirloin is excellent stewed; but we consider stewing a desecration of this noble joint. 387. To Stew or Ragout a Brisket of Beef. Take six or eight pounds of a brisket, with the firm fat; wash and rub it with salt and vinegar before dressing it. Put it into a stewpot that will just hold it, with water or stock, and when well skimmed, let it stew very slowly for an hour or more, and then put to it cut carrots, turnips, and small whole onions. When it has stewed slowly till very tender, draw out the bones, thicken the gravy with butter rolled in flour and a little catsup, and season with plenty of mixed spices. Serve the meat by itself, with a garnishing of sprigs of cauliflower, and a sauce made of the thickened gravy, with more catsup, and, if approved, a little made- mustard.—0^5. A haricot of beef (excellent) may be made of the above, by dividing the meat into two dozen neat pieces, browning them, and putting in two sliced heads of celery and forcemeat balls, in addition to the ingredients ordered above. 388. Another way*—The French " Bceuf Garni de Choux^' an excellent dish,—Cut in quarters, tie up and boil firm white cabbages. Finish them in any good hraise or broth seasoned with roots. Moisten them with a little top-fat. Then drain the cabbage, press out the fat, untie and serve them neatly round beef stewed as above. A Bachelor's Round of Beef—Have from four to six pounds of a fine rib, boned, skewered, and bandaged round like a fillet of veal prepared for roasting. Kub it briskly with salt, and next day place it in a cold boiled pickle, in which the least particle of saltpetre has been dissolved by boiling. In from six days to ten, as you wish saltness, wash the meat, tie it up in a cloth, put it in hot water, and boil from an hour to two hours, in proportion to the weight; for282 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES it may be from six to ten pounds. Serve witli sliced carrots boiled with the round ; and greens or savoys, boiled in water enriched with the pot liquor, and served in a vegetable dish. A plated skewer must replace the wooden or iron one. 389, To Stew a Skin of Beef, or Bouilli Ordinaire. Have the shin-bone sawed across in three different places without cutting the fleshy side. Place skewers in the stew- pot, and lay the meat on them, with as much water as will nearly cover it. When this is skimmed, put in a bundle of herbs, a large head of celery cut, four onions, and a dessert- spoonful of black and Jamaica peppercorns in a spice-bag; cover the pot very close, and let the meat stew slowly for three hours, when more cut carrots may be put to it, and afterwards cut turnip, with a dozen of small onions; stew for another hour. Make a sauce for the Bouilli by thicken- ing and seasoning a pint of the soup with catsup, spices, and a little made-mustard. The French sauce hachee is also a very suitable garnish along with the onions. See Nos. 2, 591. 390. Beef or Veal a la Mode. The clod, the mouse-buttock, the rump, the thick of the flank, and any fleshy part may be dressed d la mode. Rub from six to ten pounds of the rump well with mixed spices and salt, and dredge with flour. Lay skewers in the bottom of a stewpan, and on them spread some thin slices of streaked bacon; place the meat on these, with a few more slices of bacon above, and a small quantity of vinegar and gravy, or good broth. Make the stewpan very close, and let the meat stew as slowly as possible over embers for two hours. Turn it, and put to the gravy a high seasoning of cloves, black and Jamaica pepper, with three bay-leaves and some mushrooms if in season, or a little catsup, and a dozen button onions half-roasted. Let it again stew very slowly till the meat is tender. Pick out the bay-leaves and bacon, and serve the meat in a deep dish with the gravy, which, if slowly stewed, will have thickened to the consistence of glaze. A fillet of veal is very good dressed in the same manner, though the gristly part of the breast is best adapted for this purpose. Lemon-grate may be added to the veal seasonings, but noOF BEEF. 283 catsup. Butter may be substituted for bacon, and with veal should be. Ohs.—A la mode will ever be a favourite way of dressing beef, for luxurious, healthy eaters. It should now be called d Vantique. The Cidotte de Bceuf a la Gelee of the French kitchen, called also Boeuf d la Royale^ differs very little from our beef a la mode^ save that it is tied up, and, when half baked and braised^ is boned. It is glazed, served with its own gravy, and garnished with pickles or parsley; and in high style^ with different coloured meat jellies, cut in figures. Many cooks lard the meat and bake it. It is good cold. Plain ct la mode Beef or Brazilian Stew.—(We are, we believe, indebted for this receipt to Mr Charles Knight the publisher.) " Cut a shin of beef into three-ounce slices, dip them in vinegar, and stew them very slowly: no water is required; in three or four hours, by a slow fire, the meat will have yielded abundant gravy, and be tender as a chicken; w^hen it may be seasoned, and served.'' 391. Dr Hunter's Receipt for a Stewed Brisket. Brisket of Beef stewed savoury.—Stew till quite tender eight pounds of the brisket in as much water as will just "steam'' the meat. Take out the bones, and carefully skim off the fat. Take a pint of the liquor, put to it the third of a pint of red wine, a little walnut or mushroom catsup, and some salt. Tie up in a bit of muslin some whole white pepper and mace, and stew these together for a short time. Have ready three carrots and turnips boiled tender, and cut into the form of dice ; strew them hot upon the beef, putting a few into the dish. " Trufiies and morells may be added," —when you can get them, the Doctor should have said. 392. To Collar Beef.—Choose the thin part of the flank, or what in Scotland is called the nine-holes or runner. Let the meat be young, tender, and well grained, but not very fat, as it is to be eaten cold. Rub it with salt mixed with a very little saltpetre; and when it has drained a night, rub it thoroughly well with a mixture of sugar, salt, pounded pepper, and allspice. Let it lie a week in the salting tray, turning it, and basting daily with the pickle that will gather. If the weather is cold, it may lie ten days; then bone it,284 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES and Gut away all the gristly parts, and the coarse inner skin. Dry it, and strew over the inside chopped herbs and Cook's pepper, No. 334. Roll it up as tightly as possible, bind it with broad fillets of strong cloth, and these with tape ; press it under a heavy weight, and then undo the bandages and re-fasten them (as the meat will have shrunk), and make the ends very fast. It will require from three to four hours slow but constant simmering. When done, press it again while still bound; and when cold, undo the bandages. It may first be served hot, with savoys or carrot, but it is most valued for slicing cold.—Ohs. A large fore-quarter of mutton, with the shoulder-blade cut out, will collar^ and so will veal, but neither of these eat nearly so well as collared beef.— Beef is pressed flat to slice for sandwiches or to eat cold, exactly in the above manner, but then it is not bound up: it eats as well, and is prepared with much less trouble. Spiced and collared beef is now prepared for sale,—so very good that we hesitate to give directions about it: Glasgow and the West of Scotland is famous for this preparation. 393. To Roast Collared Ribs of Beef—Take out the bones when the meat has hung till tender, beat, season it highly with spices and herbs, and, rolling tightly up, roast or bake it, or dress it as Hunter's beef.—Ohs, This is an excellent and economical dish, as a good soup can at once be made from the trimmings and bones cut out. A neck, or back- ribs of mutton, boned, seasoned, and sprinkled with dried parsley and sage, will roast as above, and the bones and scrag make rice-soup or barley-broth; but we would rather recommend this to the economist than to the fastidious eater; for although two good dishes are by this means presented at table, this particular piece of meat eats better dressed as chops, pie, bouilli, or curry, than as a roast, when the roti can be dispensed with. 394. Brisket of Beef d la Flamande,—Take eight pounds of the gristly nice part of the brisket; trim and season it. Put it to stew in a stewpan with the trimmings, and a slice of two of streaked bacon under and over it. Put to it carrots and turnips cut and scooped into the shapes of cocks' combs, pigeons' eggs, ejic, and also some cabbage previously dressed in top-fat or good broth. Arrange the vegetables with a few glazed onions round the meat, and thicken a pint of the285 OF BEEF. broth for sauce.—See Potage aux chouXj and German Onion Beef, Nos. 613, 761. 395. To Dress Ox-Palates,—Clean and boil them till the upper skin will easily pull off; and either cut them into long fillets and square bits, or merely divide them. Stew them very slowly in good gravy thickened with roux or butter kneaded in brown flour, and season with cayenne, minced eschalot, or onion, and a large spoonful of catsup; or the pickle of walnuts, mushrooms, or even of onions, which is very good for plain purposes.— Obs. This we think the most suitable way of dressing palates; but they are often in France more expensively prepared, by adding forcemeat, wine, and mushrooms, or even truffles and morells to the sauce; or by dressing them as a fricassee in white sauce. Palates are also served with cucumbers, or with sauce tournee. In fine cookery they are served in a vol-au-vent or casserole (see French Cookery, No. 621), or cut in pretty shapes and served in a rich brown sauce. Palates are suitable to the dejeuner ci la fourchette, either served hot like kidneys with Soubise sauce, or pickled and eaten cold. 396. The Bachelor^s Stew of Beef or Veal.— Order from two and a half to three and a half pounds of the rump or fillet, or mouse-buttock, shaped as a handsome steak about two inches thick; put a very little butter in a small stew- pan, and pepper well, and brown the meat; add a half-pint of water, and place two carrots cut in very thick slices, and the woody part taken out with an apple-corer, over the meat; close the lid very fast, and, first heating through, let the stew simmer very slowly by the fire—the heat of a match or a few cinders is sufficient—for three-quarters of an hour; then turn it over, still keeping the carrots uppermost; add four small whole onions, a little salt, a spoonful of cat- sup, and what boiling water you think necessary; but, as the steam is kept in, and the gravy drawn, none or very little may be required. Simmer on a trivet, or the hob, for an hour more, and dish with the sauce, which may now be thickened, and the roots as garnish. Celery may in part be substituted for the other roots; and the stew may be sea- soned and flavoured in various ways. The same quantity of a fillet of veal may be cooked as above, seasoning with juice and rind of lemon, and a bit of ham ; and using peaseCHAP. I. MADE-DISHES 286 for the carrots. A fowl may be well cooked as above, with celery or a few mushrooms. The main thing is, the slow- ness of the process, and the closeness of the lid, which may be pressed down with a smoothing-iron or heavy weight. In the French kitchen there are grooved lids for saucepans, and tin pudding-moulds, which should be universal. Beef-Steaks vnth Cucumbers.— Pare and slice three large cucumbers, and as many onions. Fry them in butter, and when browned, add a half-pint of gravy, and simmer. Beat and season rump-steaks and fry them. Dish them in a very hot dish, and pour the above cucumber-sauce hot over them. — Ohs. This is a good dish for variety at little expense.— See Nos. 38, 39, 46, 47. 397. To Stew a Tongue.—Trim off the coarse part of the root, but leave on some of the soft fat, called the throat sweetbread. Rub the tongue with salt, sugar, and pounded allspice, and let it lie in this for a few days. Stew it in a small close saucepan till it will skin; strain the liquor, put some fresh broth to it if necessary, a fagot of sweet herbs, two bay-leaves, and a head of young celery sliced. When the tongue has stewed in this very slowly for an hour, take out the herbs and bay-leaves, and season the gravy with cayenne, pounded cloves, mixed spices, and a little walnut- pickle. Serve the tongue in a deep dish, with the sauce about it, and a few dressed mushrooms or small onions pre- viously roasted and peeled. This is an excellent and not an expensive dish; and if any gravy be left, nothing can be better adapted for a sauce to ragouts. The tongue may be cut open the long way, but not quite divided, and so spread out on the dish.—Ohs. This differs little from the French langue de hceuf a la hraise^ save that the French dish is enriched by the trimmings of game, poultry, or veal put to the braise, and has a little wine put to the sauce. Pickled tongues are frequently glazed^ after (of course) being boiled and skinned. They are sometimes served on mashed turnips or spinage, but more handsomely with a rice border. Scarlet tongues^ cold, are sliced, and may have the slices glazed. If cold or dry, a tongue may have a ruche of cut paper placed around the root, which is often unsightly. See Nos. 623, 624. 398. To Dress Beef-Kidneys^ the Scotch Kidney-Collops.—OF BEEF. 287 Cut a fresh kidney in slices of the size of very small steaks, or into mouthfuls. Soak the slices in warm water, and dry them well. Dust them with flour, and brown them in a stewpan with fresh butter. When the coUops are browned, pour a little hot water into the pan, a minced eschalot, or the white of four young onions minced, with salt, pepper, cayenne, shred parsley, and a spoonful of plain or eschalot vinegar, or of onion-pickle liquor. Cover the stewpan close, and let the collops simmer slowly for two hours at least. [We give all internal parts of animals twice the time to cook allowed by most authorities.] If a flavoured vinegar is not used, a spoonful of mushroom-catsup put in a minute before the collops are dished will be a great improvement. Thicken the gravy. Garnish with fried parsley.—Ols. Some good cooks season this dish with an anchovy and lemon-pickle; others add made-mustard. 399. Beef-Kidneys for the Dejeuner ci la Fourchette,— Mince the kidneys into bits the size of a hazel-nut, and season highly with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Fry the mince for fifteen minutes, or till tender; moisten it with gravy and champagne, and serve in a hot-water dish. Cat- sup, or lemon or walnut pickle may be used in place of wine, and the mince may be first marinaded in vinegar and herbs.— See Rognons de Mouton^ No. 648. 400. To Stew Ox-Tails.—Let the butcher divide them at the joints. Scald them; dry and then brown them in the stewpan, add a little hot water or weak broth, with brown roux or a piece of butter rolled in browned flour. Stew them slowly till tender, and season with salt, mixed pep- pers, minced parsley, and either a spoonful of catsup or of eschalot-vinegar. We think cayenne an improvement.— See No. 96. 401. HotcJi-Potch of Ox-Tails^ or Rumps d la mode—a French Dish.—Have two tails jointed, and blanch them as for soup, No. 96. Cover a stewpan with trimmings of meat or poultry, and put in the tails, with four sliced onions, two carrots, a fagot of herbs, a bay-leaf, three cloves, and a clove of garlic. Moisten this with broth; cover it with slices of bacon, then with paper, then the lid, and over all put a few hot cinders. Let it simmer for four hours, till the meat will part easily from the bones with a spoon.288 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES Serve witli a ragout of roots stewed (after boiling) in the sauce of the tails or in melted butter.—Ols. Ox-tails dressed as above are very good served with a sauce, or puree of pease, or with sauce Jiachee,—See No. 591. 402. Beef-Olives,—Cut slices from the rump less than half-an-inch thick, four inches long, and about two inches broad. Flatten them, dip them in egg, and then in a seasoning made of pulverized or finely shred herbs, bread- crumbs, mixed spices, and salt. If the meat be lean, a little shred suet or ham may be flattened into each olive. Eoll them neatly up, and fasten : a little forcemeat may also be put into each. The olives may either be roasted on a lark- spit, and served with a drawn gravy, or browned and then stewed over embers in a broth made of the skins and trim- mings. Thicken the sauce, and season it with catsup, and, untying and dishing the olives neatly, skim and pour it very hot over them.—See No. 420. 403. Olives au Roi—a favourite small dish.—Mash two pounds of boiled potatoes; add a quarter of a pint of cream, two beat yolks of eggs, and one spoonful of flour; season this with salt and pepper; take six long slices of beef beat out very thin; strew over them a mixture made of a spoon- ful of chopped onion, the same of parsley, and of mush- rooms ; spread the potato-paste on the olives, and roll and tie them up ; fry or bake half an hour; glaze them, and put some plain brown sauce under them. Six will make a good-sized dish.—Ohs, Veal may be done the same way. Beef Olives may be baked in a potato or other paste border. 404. Beef Marrow-Bones,—Have them neatly sawed. Fill up the opening with a piece of dough or paste, and tie a floured cloth over that. Boil them, placed upright, in the soup-pot (keeping them covered) for two hours. Serve upright on a napkin, accompanied with slips of dry toast. Marrow bones may also be baked, covered with batter. Boiled fillets of marrow are served with stewed celery, 405. Beef-Heart—In England a heart is cut up, long soaked to free it from blood, and has the lobes cut off, after which it is stuffed with forcemeat as a roasted hare, covered with paper or veal-caul, and roasted or baked, and served with venison-sauce. In Scotland beef-heart is often dressed289 OF BEEF. as minced collops, with a proportion of beef, or, which we consider the best way of dressing it, as a stew-soup or mock hare-soup thus:—Clean and cut the heart in large pieces lengthways. Put these into a stewpot with cold water and salt, and carefully skim away the blood, which will be thrown up in large quantities. Take up the parboiled pieces, and carve them into mouthfuls; return them into the strained liquor with plenty of shred onion, a shred head or two of celery, pepper, and allspice, and a dozen or more peeled potatoes, or some sliced carrots. This is a nourish- ing, well-flavoured, and economical stew-soup, as the half of a bullock's heart will be sufficient to make it.—For Steaks, Collops, etc,J see pp. 109-11; Tripe, p. 120. 406. Beef-Skirts,—These, if not broiled, make a nice small dish dressed as palates. The French braise and farce them with mushrooms or oysters: they may be served with a ragout of cucumber, or over spinage or fried toasts.—See Nos. 395, 621. 407. Beef-Liver may be used when sound, and is constantly used on the Continent, either in a stew-soup with carrot and onion, or slowly cooked in butter or with bacon, as calPs liver: or as directed for Iambus liver in the Scotch mode, No. 53. 408. Beef-Udder may be boiled, sliced, and served with tomata or onion sauce : udder is also salted for two days, tacked to a tongue, and they are boiled together. Salted udder is eaten sliced cold with oil and vinegar. It should be very slowly simmered. 409. Spiced or Hunter's Beef—Take the bone from a small round and salt it, as directed for a rump of beef. No. 1188, using grated nutmeg, half an ounce, and the same weight of pounded cloves. When to be dressed, wash with a sponge, bind it tightly up, and put it into a tin or earthen- ware pan that will just hold it, with a pint of melted butter or gravy, and a little butter on the top; cover the pan with several folds of buttered paper, or a close-fitting lid. Bake in a slow oven for four hours.—The hole whence the bone is taken may be stuffed with sweet herbs and minced udder. The gravy in the pan, after the beef is baked, will be almost equal to ham-sauce for strength and flavour; and is N290 CHAP. 1. MADE-DISHES very useful for flavouring soups and sauces. Herbs, cori- ander-seeds, juniper, and garlic, are all used for this piquant dish by the French. They braise it with roots, bacon, and wine. This dish may be glazed and garnished with pickles and meat-jelly; and thus decorated, when cold, even after being previously served hot, makes a handsome dormant dish at an entertainment where there is a long table to cover. 410. BoBvf de Chasse; another form oj Spiced Beef.— Bone a piece of the flank of fifteen pounds. Take one ounce of saltpetre, three of brown sugar, two bruised nut- megs, a half-ounce of cloves, and an ounce and a half of allspice, with two large handfuls of salt dried. Pound and mix these well, and rub them well into the beef. Keep it two weeks in this pickle, turning and rubbing it daily. Wash, bind it up, skewer, and boil it, or bake it for four hours in a slow oven. 411. Dutch or Hamhurgh Beef.—Eub a rump of beef with brown sugar, and let it lie three days, turning it often; then wipe it, and salt it with four ounces of bay salt, four ounces common salt, and one ounce of saltpetre, all well beaten and mixed. Let it lie in this for a fortnight, turning it, and then roll it tight in a cloth, and press it under a weight. Smoke the meat in the cloth, hung in a chimney where wood is burned; boil it piecemeal, or fry with bacon in slices, as it is wanted; if boiled whole, press it till cold, and it will grate or pull like the real Dutch beef. — Ohs, Too much saltpetre is generally used for salting meat. It is incredible (till tried) how small a particle wiU give the desired red colour. 412. —Hamhurgh Beef or Boeuf Fume,—^This is cured in nearly the same manner as No. 411. Take sugar, salt, a very little saltpetre, juniper-berries, and pound them ; mix spices with them and aromatics, all in powder. Rub the beef well with this, and leave it for a fortnight, turning it every day, and, like all meat pickled, keeping it covered with the pickle. Tie up, drain, and smoke it for a week. In Germany, when boiled, it is served on saur croute,—For Salting, see Nos. 1187, 1188. 413. Irish Beef—Proceed as directed for a rump or round,291 OF BEEF. only season with nutmeg and mace, as well as the ingredients mentioned there.—Read Ohs,^ Chap. Salting. 414. Fillet of Beef with Madeira^ a receipt hy Beauvilliers. —Take a nice fat fillet of beef: cut away all fibres, skins, etc., and lard it equally all over. Line a stewpan with sliced carrots, onions, and a bunch of herbs. Strew four ounces of rasped lard over them, and place the fillet rolled up on this. Pour a half bottle of Madeira over it, as much good stock, and a little salt. Cover with three rounds of buttered paper, and let there be a very slow fire under, with embers over the lid. When nearly dressed, strain the gravy; and what will not go through a fine sieve return to nourish the fillet, and keep it moist Reduce the strained gravy, adding to it a large spoonful of Espagnole (see No. 585) till it comes to the consistence of glaze. Drain and glaze the fillet. Season the gravy that remains,—put a bit of butter to it, and pour it round the dished meat. 415. To Press Beef.—Take the bone« from the brisket or flank, or thin part of the ribs. Salt and season it well with sugar and mixed spices, and let it lie a week; then boil till tender, and press the meat under a heavy weight till cold, when it will either cut in slices or do for sandwiches.—See No. 392, 416. A Porker's and a Calf's Head may be pressed or collared. A porker^s head must be previously salted; for a calf s head the same seasonings are used as when the head is hashed.—See No. 892. 417. Made-Dishes of Beef that has been Dressed. Few persons, come to the years of eating discretion, like cold unsalted meat; and though the days are quite gone by when the hospitality of the landlord was measured by the size of the joint, it still happens that where a table affords any variety of dishes, a good deal of meat will be left cold. The invention of the culinary artist is thus put on the rack for new forms and modes of dressing, and new names for various dishes which are intrinsically the same. The most common and the best methods of dressing cold roast-beef, are broiling, heating in the Dutch oven, or hashing. It is served with sippets, pickles, and in many other ways.292 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES 418. To Dress the Inside of a Cold Sirloin.—Cut tlie meat in long and rather narrow slices of an inch thick, leaving a little of the firm fat upon each. Trim and season these with salt and mixed spices, dredge them with flour, and heat them, without any thing like violent frying, in the gravy saved from the cold joint, seasoned with an anchovy, if you like, an eschalot minced, or a shred onion, and a little vinegar. Garnish with scraped horseradish, or fried parsley, or better, sippets. N.B. The slices may also be broiled and served over the hot sauce with fried potatoes. 419. To Fricassee Cold Beef.—Cut away all skins, gristles, and fat. Cut the meat into thin small slices. Have ready a sauce made of stock, thickened with roux or butter rolled in flour, and seasoned with shred parsley and young onions, pepper, and salt. Strain the sauce when it is well flavoured, and just heat the meat in it, soaking by the side of the fire, add a glass of red wine, the yolk of an egg well beat, and the juice of a lemon. Stir the fricassee for a few minutes, but do not let it boil, or, like all re-warmed things, it will harden. 420. Olives of Dressed Beef.—Cut the meat as for fresh beef-olives. Season the slices, and spread thinly over them a forcemeat of bread-crumbs, seasonings, and a little finely shred suet or marrow. Roll them up, tie, and stew them in a relishing gravy saved from the joint, or drawn from the beef-bones, and thickened with butter rolled in flour, and seasoned with an anchovy or a little catsup. This makes also a nice family-dish when the bits of cold meat, either in small slices or minced, are seasoned, and rolled up in a paste of mashed potatoes and flour. Having been closed at the ends and edges they are fried in dripping, and browned before the fire.—See Olives au Roi^ p. 28S. 421. To Hash Cold Beef—Cut down the meat either into large slices, or thinly-cut mouthfuls, trimming away all burnt outside, fat, gristle, skin, etc. Set aside the meat thus prepared with what gravy you have saved, and draw a pint of broth from the bones well broken, the lean pieces of meat that are not used, and the hard, or overdone. Season this gravy highly with pepper and salt, allspice, two onions, and a fagot of parsley. Thicken it with brown roux or flourOF DRESSED BEEF. 2dS rubbed down as for batter-pudding. Skim all the fat from it; let it settle, and strain it, and boil it up again; putting to it, as additional seasonings, at discretion, any one of the following things:—Walnut or mushroom catsup, or onion- pickle liquor, with a few cut pickles ; a little tarragon- vinegar, or some shred parsley, made-mustard, capers, etc., etc.; in brief, any flavouring ingredient which is agreeable to the taste of the eater, and easily procured. While this sauce is hot, put in the cut meat, and let it soak and slowly warm quite through, without boiling: Or the sauce may be poured over the meat in the hash-dish, and that set in a hot- water bath, a cool oven, or a vessel of boiling water, till the hash is hot through. Place toasted sippets round the dish. A curry-hash of beef or mutton is generally liked. Fry a few large onions; add the hashed meat and curry seasonings. Garlic may be used if liked.—Ohs. The varieties of Hashes are endless; but the above is conceived the best mode of making this useful family-dish. Hashes or minces of dressed veal or poultry require white sauce, a seasoning of lemon- peel, and the juice of lemon; or the flavour of tarragon given by vinegar, which makes a French flavoured hash. A curry'hash of veal or fowls answers very well with plenty of small onions par-roasted, and then stewed whole in the hash-sauce. If meat comes back from the table which you know must be hashed next day, carve it before it get cool; it will then soak in the gravy which lies in the dish, and be far more rich than if allowed to remain dry and uncut till next day. This should be particularly attended to in hashes of venison, hare, or mutton.—See No. 534. 422. An English Stew of Cold Roast Beef Mutton^ or Lamb, —Cut the meat in small and rather thin slices, season them highly with pepper and salt, and dip each lightly in bread- crumbs, moistened in gravy or melted butter. Dress them neatly on a dish, and lay over them a thin layer of cut pickles, and moisten the whole with a glassful of pickle- vinegar, and the preserved gravy of the roast-meat: heat in a Dutch oven, and garnish with fried sippets, or potato-balls. Place the dish dressed in another with a napkin. This we consider one of the best methods of re-dressing cold roast meat. 423. Cold Beef Scalloped^ or Saunders,—Mince the meatCHAP. I. MADE-DISHES 294 as in the next receipt: add the same seasonings and a little scraped tongue or ham, moisten it with stock and walnut- pickle, heat and fill up scallop-shapes, laying mashed pota- toes thinly, and neatly marked, or crumbs over the mince. Put some bits of butter over each shape, and set them to warm and brown in an oven.—See Scottish Minced CoUops, No. 734, also Beef Patties and Podovies, No. 829. 424. To Mince Dressed Beef and Beef Cecils. — Mince the beef finely with a very little suet, and warm it up in a small stewpan, with a little broth or water^ minced parsley, eschalot, or onion, and a little vinegar, and what meat-gravy you have saved, which is the best ingredient that can enter into the composition of any hash or mince. Dish the mince with toasted sippets, or poached eggs. Beef Cecils,—Mince the whitest part of dressed meat very nicely, and mix it up with bread-crumbs, minced onions, a chopped anchovy, and parsley, pepper, salt, and a little onion or walnut pickle. Stir this mince over the fire in a small stewpan, with a little melted butter; and, when eold enough to handle, make it up into large oval balls with flour; egg the balls and roll them in crumbs; brown them before the fire, and pour hot gravy, seasoned with eschalot and pepper round them. 425. A Parisian Mode of dressing Cold Beef—Cut the part most underdone in slices, and stew them over embers in a sauce of weak broth, a glass of red wine, a small spoon- ful of tarragon-vinegar, an onion, two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, parsley, pepper, salt, and cloves. Serve either hot or cold, with the strained gravy, to which, however, more vinegar must be put if the beef is served cold. The wine may be omitted. 426. To Broil Cold Beef—Cut the slices as steaks, broil them over a very clear fire, or better, heat in a Dutch oven, and serve them with fried eggs, or scalloped potatoes, and steak-sauce, grill-sauce, or any piquant sauce made hot. 427. Another way,—Divide the dressed ribs and shorten them: leave the meat on the upper side about the breadth of an inch. Sprinkle the steaks with salt and mixed spices, and place them in a Dutch oven, basting them with the left gravy of the roast, bread-crumbs, and chopped parsley. Serve them with grill-sauce^ No. 318.295 OF DRESSED BEEF. 428. Bulhle and Squeak.—This dish is made either of cold roast or boiled beef or of pork ; and is best of salt meat. Cut the slices thin, and not very large; fry them in butter with plenty of pepper, and keep them warm before the fire. Meanwhile chop and fry, or braise some boiled cabbage, carrot, or onions, and lay this on the slices of beef; or heap the cabbage high in the middle of the dish, and lay the meat round it. For sauce, chop and stir a few slices of pickled cucumber and onion into a little thick melted butter, and add a teaspoonful of made-mustard. Fried beetroot, eggs, and even apples are used. A ragout added of any left oysters, mushrooms, or onions, makes this scrap-dish superb. 429. Buhhle and Squeak of Veal.—Make this as of beef, but use acids instead of mustard seasoning.—Ohs. This dish deserves to be better known. Spinage may be substituted for cabbage. 430. Inky Pinky.—Slice boiled carrots; slice also cold roast-beef, trimming away outside and skins. Put an onion to a good gravy (drawn from the roast beef-bones, if you like), and let the carrots and beef simmer slowly in this; add vinegar, pepper, and salt to taste. Thicken the gravy, —take out the onion, and serve hot, with sippets, or as any other hash. 431. To Pot Beef Veal, or Game.-Ssilt a piece of lean succulent beef for two days. Drain it, season it well, and afterwards bake it in a slow oven, or stew it in an earthen- ware jar, placed in a vessel of boiling water. When tender, drain off all the gravy, and set the meat before the fire, that all the moisture may be drawn out. Pull it to pieces, and beat it in a Wedgewood mortar with mixed spices and oiled fresh butter, till it becomes of the consistence of mellow Stilton cheese.—Ohs. This is mostly made of beef dressed for other purposes,—such as beef from which gravy is drawn, or the remains of any joint that cannot be otherwise used. It may be flavoured with anchovy, mushroom - powder, minced eschalot, chervil or tarragon, dried and pulverized, if the potted meat is not to be long kept. The longer it is beat in the mortar the better it will eat and keep. Put it into small potting cans, and cover with plenty of clarified butter, which butter Avill afterwards be useful for frying meat, pie -crust, etc.—Game to be sent to distant places mayCHAP. I. MADE-DISHES 296 be potted as above without cutting up the birds, and will keep for at least a month. The birds should not be over done, and their gravy should be preserved along with them. 432. Made-Dishes of Veal. Veal is generally accompanied by acid sauces, as sorrel, or lemon. It is often the better of a relishing forcemeat ; and unless fat, young, tender, and white, cooks the better for a slice oL good bacon. It is far best well fattened, but not overgrown. 433. To Stew a Fillet of Veal.—The more slowly all meat, but especially veal, is stewed, the better. Allow at least a half-hour to the pound. Take off the knuckle either to stew, or for soup or gravy, and also the square end, which will cut up into cutlets, or olives, or make a pie. Cut out the bone and stuff the middle part of the fillet with a force- meat, as directed at Nos. 8, 692, and 693. Eoll it up tightly, skewer it and simmer very slowly in a close stew- pan that will just contain it. Lay skewers below to prevent the meat from sticking. When quite tender take it up, and strain and thicken the sauce. Serve with small mushrooms parboiled, and then stewed in the sauce, and season with white pepper, lemon-juice, and mace: or the sauce may be enriched with a few piclded oysters and forcemeat-balls, seasoned with a glass of white wine and the juice of a lemon. Garnish with lemon sliced. See No. 23.—Ohs. The fillet may be half baked, and finished by stewing. For dividing the fillet, see French Cookery^ No. 627. 434. To Stew a Breast of Veal, a Common Remove of Fish, or a Second-course Top-dish,—Choose thick, white veal. Chop off the neck and the bone, and stew them for gravy. Stuff the thin part of the breast with a relishing forcemeat, made of a sweetbread parboiled and minced, bread-crumbs, lemon-grate, nutmeg, pepper, salt, shred suet or veal-kidney fat, and yolk of egg to bind the forcemeat. Skewer the stuffing neatly in, or sew it in, and stew the meat for two hours in the gravy made of the neck, first egging and brown- ing it if you choose. Thicken a pint and a half of the sauce, and put to it fifty oysters stewed and cut, a few mushrooms chopped, lemon-juice, white pepper, and mace. Pour this hot over the stew, and garnish with slices of lemon and force-OF VEAL. 297 meat-balls. Cream, wine, truffles, etc., are all put to this dish, also catsup and an anchovy. The oysters we omit. A shoulder is boned, stuffed, and stewed as above in good gravy. 435. To Ragout a Breast of Veal—Make a little strong gravy, as above, of the scrag trimmings and bones of the breast, and with this, or a quantity of rich stock sufficient to stew the veal, the peel of a lemon, white pepper, a bay- leaf, a large carrot sliced, three onions, and a fagot of sweet herbs and parsley, stew the meat till the point of a knife will easily enter it. This, like all stews, cannot be too slowly simmered, over embers or by the fire, keeping the lid of the stewpan very close. When the veal is quite tender, skim off all the fat that floats on the gravy, which must then be strained and thickened to the degree of a thin batter, and enriched with a glassful of white wine and the juice of a lemon. Heat up this sauce. Dish the veal and pour the sauce hot over it, holding back the sediment. Forcemeat-balls may be used as a garnishing to this dish (they will be more suitable if made with a large proportion of grated tongue, sausage-meat, ham, etc.), and also slices of lemon.—Obs. Veal, whether the neck or breast, is exceed- ingly good stewed plainly in a little strong gravy. The meat may also be glazed, or it may be covered with white onion-sauce; or cut and stewed with young green pease, chopped lettuce, and young onions chopped, and served en putt, that is, in a well or space in the middle of the dish, of which meat neatly cut forms the walls. Celery also answers well with stewed veal.—See Tendons de Veau, No. 629^ N.B.—Lamb or Babbits may be dressed as above, and served, the former with cucumbers, the latter with white onion-sauce. 436. Veal-Olives.—Make as Beef-Olives ; or cut, flatten, and spread forcemeat on each slice, with seasonings. Roll up each olive tightly, and egg and crumb them, and either roast or stew them in a rich gravy. Thicken the gravy with white roux; add to it a few forcemeat-balls, and serve with oyster or mushroom sauce. 437. Veal-Cutlets.—See Nos. 48 and 445, and French Cookery, No. 629. N 2298 CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES 438. Scotch Collops.^—Cut small slices of equal thickness out of the fillet; flatten, flour, and brown them over a brisk fire in fresh butter. When enough are browned, put a little weak veal-broth or boiling water to them in a small, close stewpan, adding, when they are nearly ready, the juice of a lemon, a spoonful of catsup, or the same of lemon-pickle, with mace, pepper, and salt to taste. Thicken with roux^ and strain the sauce, and pour it hot over the collops. They may be egged and dipped in crumbs. Some cooks lay the slices in a marinade of vinegar and spices for some hours before frying, but it is bad practice. Serve with this favour- ite small dish curled slices of toasted bacon, or mushrooms, if in season. 439. A Fricandeau of Veal.—Trim the fat fleshy side of a knuckle of white veal, or, if expense is no object, take a long thick piece from the fillet; skin it, by cutting it smooth at one stroke; beat it flat; season, and lard it, or stuff with veal-stufling in which is put a large proportion of rasped ham. Lay some slices of bacon in a stewpan, and place the veal on them with more slices of bacon above it. Put in a pint or more of stock, the knuckle-bone broken, or a calf s foot chopped, a fagot of herbs, a turnip, a carrot, and foiir onions sliced, mace, two bay-leaves, some white pepper, and more slices of fat bacon over all. Let this stew for more than two hours over a very slow fire, and keep the stewpan closely covered, unless while basting the upper side of the fricandeau with the gravy. The gravy will be very rich. Take up the fricandeau and keep it hot; skim the fat from the gravy; pour it from the sediment, and boil it quickly down till it thickens or becomes a glaze, with which glaze the meat. Serve with sorrel or tomata-sauce. —Ohs, A fricandeau is sometimes larded diagonally; but this presupposes a cook who needs no instructions. The lean part of a large neck may be frugally dressed as a fri- candeau, drawing a glaze from the bones. Truflles and morells, artichoke-bottoms, and mushrooms, are all served with this dish. Fricandeau is a French dish naturalized, though it does not always succeed ifi this country. The French often serve it over dressed spinage, sorrel, or endive : * This properly means scotched^ or scored collops, though the word has come to be understood as above.OF VEAL. 299 see Nos. 706, 212. Like many other dishes, it is much im- proved by having fire put over the stewpan, especially towards the conclusion of the process. Fricandeau should be so well done as to carve with a spoon; but for English palates meat quite in tatters does not always suit. Four or five small pieces of veal may be served as fricandeau, and this is often done. This and all things glaze better, if first dried before the fire or in a slow oven. 440. To Ragout a Knuckle of Veal—[an economical Dish). —Cut off the meat the cross way of the grain in slices rather thinner and smaller than for cutlets. Draw slowly, nearly a quart of broth from the chopped bone, the skins, gristles, and trimmings, with a head of celery, an onion, a carrot and turnip, a small fagot of parsley, and a sprig of lemon- thyme and basil, and a blade of mace. Season the slices with salt and cooks' pepper; dredge with flour, and brown them in a small stewpan ; and, pouring the strained broth over them, stew very slowly over embers or at a considerable distance from the fire, till quite tender. Thicken the sauce with flour rolled in butter or white roux^ and, just before serving, add the squeeze of a lemon.—To Stew a Knuckle with Rice J see page 149. 441. To Braise a Neck or Piece of Veal.—Cut part of the scrag in small bits, but keep whole, and lard the best end of it with chopped bacon, minced parsley, pepper, and salt. Lay the larded meat in a shallow stewpan, with hot water to cover it, and put over and around it the cut scrag, some slices of bacon, four onions, a turnip, a head of celery, two carrots, and three bay-leaves. Stew till tender, strain off the gravy, and, melting some butter in another stewpan, take the neck gently up, and lay it there to brown. When browned, take as much of the strained gravy as will do for sauce, with a glass of white wine, the juice of a Seville orange, white pepper and mace; boil up. Dish with the browned side uppermost, and pour the sauce round it.—Ohs. This is a rather expensive dish, with little to recommend it over plain savoury stews of veal, save the name and the larding^—a resource of cookery, by the way, which does not seem peculiarly suited to English palates, and which is every day less employed even in the Anglo-Gallican kitchen. Any piece of meat, poultry, or game, may be braised asCHAP. I. MADE-DISHES above ; or, as another variety, stuffed with forcemeat instead of being larded. Braising is, in fact, just slow stew-haking in fat, rich, compound juices, with high seasonings. 442. A Granada [properly Grenadin) of Veal^—a natu- ralized French Dish.—Line a small oval dish with a veal- caul, leaving part hanging over the ledges of the dish. In this place slices of good bacon, then a layer of veal, force- meat, Nos. 8, 693, next veal-collops well seasoned, and so on alternately till the dish is filled. Tuck the caul over the whole, tie paper over the dish, and bake the Granada. Turn it out of the dish, and serve with clear brown-gravy. —Ohs, Mushrooms, herbs, etc., may be added at discretion to this savoury dish. See No. 629. 443. To Dress Veal d la Daube.—Trim off the edge-bone of a good loin of veal, and cut off the chump.* Raise the skin, season the meat, and fill the cavity with the forcemeat of No. 8 ; bind up the loin with fillets of linen, but first cover it with slices of bacon; place it in a stewpan, with the bones and trimmings, and veal-stock, if you have it, or water, a chopped calf's foot, or jelly of cow-heels. Put in a fagot of herbs, mace, white pepper, and two anchovies. Cover the lid of the pan with a cloth, and force it down very close, placing a weight over it. Simmer slowly for two hours, shaking the stewpan occasionally. By this time the gravy will be reduced to a glaze. Take out the bacon and herbs, and glaze the veal. Serve with sorrel or tomata- sauce; or with mushrooms, which are generally a suitable accompaniment to made-dishes of veal or poultry. 444. An English Haricot of Veal. — Shorten the bones of the best end of a neck or back-ribs. Either leave the meat whole or cut it into chops. Brown it of a fine colour. Stew it in good brown-gravy; and, when nearly ready, add a pint of young pease, a large cucumber pared and sliced, and a well-blanched lettuce quartered, with pepper, salt, a point of cayenne, and what will cover the vegetables of boiling stock. Dish the veal in the middle of the soup-dish, pour the stew-sauce over it, and garnish with the lettuce and, if you like, a few forcemeat-balls. * The chump or tail-end makes a good family-dish, stewed in stock, with roots, spices, herbs, and a slice of bacon. Serve with its own thick- ened gravy, and the roots that are gtewed with it, but take out the bacon.301 OP VEAL. 445. Maintenon Cutlets.—Cut, flatten, and shape small round cutlets, season them with mixed spices, dip them in beat egg, and then in bread-crumbs and pulverized sweet- herbs, with a little grated nutmeg. Broil them over a sharp clear fire, turning them quickly, and moistening with melted butter. Twist each cutlet neatly up in thin writing-paper made hot, and serve them accompanied by mushroom sauce or catsup, stirred into plain melted butter. These cutlets may be dressed by stewing them for a few minutes with chopped parsley, butter, and rasped bacon, and finishing en papillote.-—Ohs. Common books of cookery recommend dressing veal-cutlets, salmon-cutlets, etc., in paper,—a plan which is extremely difficult even in the hands of a French artist, and which requires several folds of buttered or oiled paper put on at first, and supplied by fresh buttered paper when the cutlet is nearly dressed. The original paper will look greasy and besmeared whatever care the cook may take, and fresh paper spoils the meat.*—See Cutlets, No. 48. 446. Various Ways of Dressing Veal.—Prepare as above, and dress cutlets in a Dutch oven, pouring melted butter and mushrooms over them. Fresh Veal minced, with the grate of a lemon or nutmeg, and a little shred mutton-suet, makes a good small-dish or supper-dish, and warms up well, or does for patties or scallops. Veal-rolls, for a corner-dish or supper-dish, are made of long thin slices of veal flattened, seasoned, and rolled round a forcemeat of grated ham, suet, eschalot, parsley, and spices. Tie the rolls tight, and stew them slowly in gravy, adding white wine and the squeeze of a lemon. Serve in a ragout-dish. Stewed mushrooms are a suitable accompaniment to this dish, which is just another name for veal-olives. Veal makes excellent curry ov pillau. See Nos. 534, 753. 447. To Dress a Calfs PlucTc.—Clean and stuff the heart with the forcemeat of No. 8. Spread a veal-caul, or slices of fat bacon over it, and bake it. Boil, for an hour, the half of the liver and lights, and mince them rather finer than for a hash. Simmer this mince for a half-hour in a little gravy, seasoning it with the juice of a lemon, catsup, white pepper, chopped parsley, and salt. Dish the mince, * Nothing should be dressed en pajpillote in an English kitchen, save a pig's ears and tail. It is never well done.—P. T.302 CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES and place the baked heart above it, and lay slices of the remainder of the liver fried, round it, with fried parsley, or sippets ; or the heart, if large and fat, will of itself make a handsome dish if stuffed with a rich forcemeat, roasted with caul or paper over it, and served with venison-sauce or melted butter and catsup poured about it. The liver may be stuffed and roasted as above; but this we conceive one of the absurdities of cookery. The minced lights are also made into balls, or used for forcemeat to calf s head, etc. They should have a good deal of kidney or other fat, or of udder, and the usual veal seasonings of mace and lemon-peel. See Nos. 451, 452. 448. To Dress Veal-Sweetbreads,—Parboil them slightly. Divide and stew them in white gravy; thicken and season this with salt, mace, white pepper, and, when just ready, add a little hot cream; or, egg the parboiled sweetbreads, dip them in crumbs, chopped herbs and seasonings, and finish them in a Dutch oven, and serve with melted butter and catsup. 449. To Ragout Veal-Sweetbreads.—Cut them in mouth- fuls, wash and dry them in a cloth, brown them in fresh butter, and, pouring into the stewpan as much rich brown gravy as will just cover them, let them simmer gently, adding a seasoning of pepper, allspice, salt, and mushroom- catsup. Thicken the sauce, and, dishing the sweetbreads very hot, pour the sauce over them through a sieve.—See French Cookery^ No. 634. 450. To Dress Calves' Tails,—Clean, blanch, cut them at the joints, and brown them in butter, or soft kidney-fat. Drain, and stew them in good stock seasoned with parsley, onions, and a bay-leaf. Add green pease to the stew, if in season, or some small mushrooms. Skim and serve the ragout. Foreigners use garlic in this dish, and dredge it with grated Parmesan. 451. Calfs Heart,—Cut down in slices, and dress as a plain stew, and season with lemon-grate ; or stuff and roast, rolling in forcemeat as at No. 447. 452. Calfs Liver,—Cut a fat white liver into thin slices. Soak them in water. Dry and dust flour over these. Fry them for five minutes. Strew minced parsley and young303 OF VEAL. onions, salt, and pepper, over the fry. Moisten it with good stock, and give it a toss for five minutes more ; but do not let it boil, or it will harden. Before serving, add the squeeze of a lemon. Calfs Liver may be dressed more richly by stewing it with bacon, herbs, spices, etc., and putting white wine to the thickened sauce.—See No. 635.—Brains^ see Nos. 630, 631. 453. Veal-Kidney may be minced and fried as sausage, or rolled up in oval balls, mixing the fat and lean together, with a little bacon, onion, pepper, cayenne, salt, etc. Dressed thus, it forms a relishing accompaniment to plain stews of veal; but it is a violation of the principles of good cookery to separate the kidney from the roast-loin. 454. To Jug VeaL—Cut, flatten, and season slices of veal, and put them into an earthen or stone jar, with a few sprigs of sweet herbs, a roll of lemon-peel, and some bits of fresh butter. Cover the jar very closely, and set it in a pot of boiling water, or in a slow oven, for from two to three hours. Take off the covering, and stir a little thickening and the juice of a lemon into the sauce, and, allowing a few minutes for this to blend, dish the veal in a ragout-dish, picking out the herbs and lemon-peel. Garnish with slices of lemon. For choice small dishes of veal, see from Nos. 627 to 643, French Cookery, 455. Veal-Cdke,—This is rather a pretty fantastical dish to ornament a table than one about which either the epicure or economist cares much. Take the hard yolks of eight or more eggs, and cut them in two. Put some of them in the bottom of a small nice tin saucepan, or earthenware dish. Strew chopped parsley over them, with seasonings; then thin slices of veal and ham, or better, veal and ham, sepa- rately beaten to a paste in a mortar. Place thus alternate layers of egg, parsley, and meat-paste, till you have enough. Stick butter over the top, and add a little water or stock; cover the saucepan very close, and set it in an oven. When done, which will be in about three-quarters of an hour, take off the covering, and press the meat down. When cold and firm, turn it out. It may be baked in an oval or fluted earthenware shape, turned out, and garnished with curled parsley, etc.CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES 304 456. To Dress a Calfs Head 'plain,—Wash it and soak it in hot water that it may blanch. Take out the brains, arid cut away the black part of the eyes. Boil it in plenty of cold water, and some salt to throw up the scum. KSimmer it gently for an hour and a half or more. Take up the head, cut out the tongue; score the head (but not deeply) in diamonds; brush it with beat egg, and sprinkle it with bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, and No. 334, 335 seasonings. Stick a few bits of butter over it, and brown the head in a Dutch oven. Meanwhile, wash, scald, parboil, and skin the brains, and chop them up with parsley and sage (first par- boiled and chopped fine), white pepper and salt. Stir this into hot melted butter. Add the squeeze of a lemon, or a little lemon-pickle, a particle of cayenne, and a minced eschalot. Skin the tongue, and serve the brains dressed as above directed, around it, or as a smaller dish to accompany the calf's head. Serve also parsley and butter-sauce. Curled slices of toasted bacon, a piece of ham or bacon, a pig's cheek, or sausage, are indispensable with calfs head, even when highly dressed.—See No. 92. 457. Calfs or LamUs Head and Ragout^ a Scotch Dish.— Having parboiled a fat head as above, cut down the one- half of it, with the skinned tongue, the palate, etc., into dice and other neatly-shaped pieces. Trim and brush the other half with egg, and strew crumbs and chopped parsley over it, and set it to bake before the fire or in the oven, sticking butter over it, and strewing it with more crumbs. Mean- while stew the hash in a little good veal-broth, jelly of cow- heels, or any rich fresh stock you have: season this with mixed spices, Nos. 334, 335, the grate and juice of a lemon, mace, or whatever seasoning is most approved. Dish the ragout, and place the baked cheek upon it. Garnish with brain-cakes and forcemeat-balls, or fried sippets, or merely with slices of the fried liver.—0^5, Pickled oysters, catsup, etc., may be added to this ragout, which may, at the discre- tion of the cook, be made either white or brown. This we conceive the best way of dressing a calfs head; though a hash or fricassee on the second day must, by the experienced gourmand, be considered as preferable to any other mode of cookery, and only objectionable from not making so im- portant an addition to the appearance of the table as the full-dressed head. If it be a lamb's head, brown it all: theOF VEAL. 305 meat of the scrag minced (which is generally cut off with the head in Scotland) will make a great addition to the ragout. The heads may be glazed before being crumbed.— For Lamb's Head^ See No. 748^ 458. To Fricassee a Calf's Head.—Clean and parboil the head; cut the cheeks, tongue, palate, etc., into nice bits, and stew them in a rich white gravy, with a little of the broth in which the head was parboiled, seasoned with white pepper, mace, herbs, onion, and salt. Thicken with butter rolled in flour, and, just before dishing the fricassee, add a little hot cream or beat yolk of egg and lemon-juice. Simmer this, but do not allow it to boil. Garnish with brain-cakes and forcemeat-balls, or curled slices of toasted bacon, and egg-balls. 459. To Hash a Calfs Head.—Clean and parboil the head; or take what is left of a plainly-boiled cold head, and cut it into slices of a rather larger size than for fricassee. Peel and slice the tongue. Take upwards of a quart of the liquor in which the head was boiled, with the bones, trimmings, and a shank of veal or mutton, and boil these for the hash- stock, with a fagot of sweet herbs, a good bit of lemon-peel, onions, and white pepper. Boil this gravy till it is strong and well-flavoured. Thicken it with flour kneaded in butter, and strain it into a clean saucepan. Season it with pounded mace, catsup, or lemon-pickle, or a little of any piquant store- sauce, and warm up the hash, without sufl'ering it to boil, though boiling will not harm calfs head so much as it does other cold meats. Garnish with forcemeat-balls, or curled slices of bacon, or fried bread, which forms a suitable accom- paniment to all hashes.—Ols. This hash may be rendered more piquant by anchovy, pickled oysters, etc. It may be dressed as a curry-hash by the addition of fried onions and curry-povjder ; or receive the flavour of a French dish, from finely-shred parsley, knotted marjoram, and a bit of tarragon being added to the sauce just before dishing; or a little tarragon-vinegar. It may also be flavoured agreeably with a little basil-wine. A broivn hash may be made as above by using fried onion, catsup, soy, a little red wine, etc.; but as all brown made-dishes are expected to be piquant, while those that are white are usually bland and balsamic, season- ings of a more pungent quality are to be used.* * In France, eschalot-sauce is served with a plain dressed calf's head ; but the favourite mode of dressing this dish is superhe. Make a forcemeatCHAP. I. MADE -DISHES 306 460. Mock-Turtle, or Calf's Head. See also pages 143, 144^ and 148. Get a large fat head with the skin on. Scald and clean it well. Soak it in hot water, and, if you wish to have the imitation-dish very rich, parboil it in good veal-stock, with a turnip, carrot, onions, and sweet herbs. Skim this well. In half an hour take up the head, and, when cold enough to be firm and easily handled, cut the meat thus: The eyes into thin round slices, having first picked out the black part; the gristly part about the ears into long narrow strips, the fleshy part into round slices, the thick of the cheeks into small dice, the thin on the forehead into long strips, and the peeled tongue into nice square bits. Put the bones and trimmings, with a piece of bacon, back into the stewpot. Fry some minced eschalot in plenty of butter browned with flour. Put the cut meat to this browning, and give it a toss for a few minutes, then strain a sufficient quantity of the stock over it, to make the dish not much thicker than a stew-soup. Season with mace, pepper, salt, and a half-pint of Madeira. When the meat has stewed very slowly, rather soaking in the gravy than actually boiling, and is nearly ready, put to it cayenne to taste, a small glass of catsup, a very little soy, and a couple of spoonfuls of chopped basil, tarragon, chives, and parsley. When skimmed ready to be dished, add the juice of a lemon. Serve in a large but not deep soup-dish, ornamented with a cut paste border; and garnish with forcemeat-balls and egg-balls, with a few green pickles intermixed, if you choose.—Ohs. This highly-flavoured dish may be enriched by parboiled sweetbreads cut, oysters, turtle-balls, etc.; if the head be lean or small, a good cow- heel cut down will make an excellent addition to it, but will require more boiling, and must be put into the stockpot two hours before the head.—For Potted Head^ National Dishes. 461. To Dress Calves' Feet,—Clean and blanch them. Clean again and boil them till tender; divide and serve of a pound of minced veal and two pounds of the fat of beef-kidney, bread- crumbs steeped in cream and dried, and fine herbs minced—namely, mush- rooms, parsley, and young onions. Add salt, pepper, and spices. Mix this thoroughly. Stuff the boned head with it, but keep some for forcemeat- balls. Braise the head in gravy-stock ; put artichoke bottoms, veal-sweet • breads cut, truffles, and button-mushrooms, to the ragout, and serve with the farce-balls.307 OF DRESSED VEAL. tliem with sauce Robert or sauce d la Tartare^ in the dish; or they may be served as a fricassee like calf's head, thicken- ing the sauce, and seasoning it with lemon-peel and mace. They may be curried.— For Calfs Brains^ see Nos. 630, 631. Made-Dishes of Cold Yeal. 462. To Ragout Cold Veal,— Cut the cold meat into small round cutlets, trimming off all gristles, skins, bones, etc. With the fragments, an onion, a turnip, and carrot, make a little good gravy. Melt some fresh butter in a frying-pan, and flour and brown the slices of veal of a light brown; take them up, strain the made-gravy into the pan, and thicken the sauce to a proper consistence with flour first mixed with butter. When smooth and well mixed, put in the cutlets, and let them simmer very slowly. Season with pepper, mace, catsup, and anchovy or mushroom powder, if you choose; always bearing in mind that meat re-dressed, having lost much of its native flavour, requires more seasoning than at first. Skim the sauce, and pour it hot over the ragout. 463. To Hash Veal.— Cut the meat in thin small slices, paring away all gristles, skins, etc. Warm it up in a gravy drawn from the bones, as in the former receipt. Thicken with butter rolled in flour, and season with mace, minced lemon-peel, a spoonful of lemon-pickle, or the juice of a lemon; or, in place of these, a glass of basil-wine.—See Hashed Beef, Nos. 421-30. 464. To Mince Veal.—Take only the fine white part of the meat, mince it very finely, and heat it up in a little veal- stock, with white pepper, salt, mace, a good deal of finely- rasped lemon-peel, and a glassful of hot cream.—Ohs. Minced Veal may be dressed as patties, scallops, or hlanquettes. It is much more savoury when made of undressed meat. 465. A Dunelm of Cold Veal.—This is made by mixing stewed mushrooms finely minced with minced veal, thicken- ing the fricassee, putting a little cream to it, and serving garnished with toasted sippets, which ought to accompany all hashes and minces, 466. To Pot Veal.—A fillet of white veal answers very well potted. (See No. 431.)—Pounded ham or smoked tongue mixed with the potted veal is a great improvement to it.—For Potted Calfs Head^ see National Dishes, For308 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES Veal Sausage^ see Sausages ; and for several excellent dishes of veal, see French Cookery, from No. 627 to 643. Made-Dishes of Mutton. See JRoasts of Mutton^ P^g^ ^6, and Reform Club Cutlets^ No. 475, also from No. 644 onwards. 467. A Haricot'^ of Mutton.—Cut from three to four pounds of the back-ribs into handsome chops, trimming away the fat and bones. Flatten the chops with a cutlet-bat; season them well with mixed spices (No. 334), flour, and brown them lightly in the fryingpan, over a quick fire, and then put them into a stewpan with their own gravy, and a quart of strained stock, in which onions, a turnip, a carrot, and a fagot of parsley have been boiled. When the chops have stewed slowly for some time, put in one large or two middle-sized carrots cut into slices and marked on the edges, a dozen pieces of turnip scooped to the size of large marbles, and a half-dozen button-onions either roasted or parboiled and peeled. Yv^hen the chops are quite tender, skim, thicken, and season the gravy with pepper and salt. Dish the chops in a soup-dish, and pour the gravy and roots over them. What is left of the fore-quarter when a shoulder is cut off to roast, will make excellent family haricot or Irish stew.— Ohs. Celery or cucumber may be put to the haricot, and also cut pickles, or a spoonful of catsup. Brown haricot is made with carrot, yellow turnip, and onions; 'White haricot^ of haricot beans, white turnip, endive, celery, etc. Haricot is an excellent plain dish, nourishing and savoury, contain- ing a judicious combination of meat, fluid, and roots, and is one of the best plain ways in which veal cutlets, mutton- chops, or rump-steaks can be prepared. Haricot may be made of the loin, but not so economically as of the neck or back-ribs. These chops answer well with cabbage braised and quartered.— See p. Ill, and Nos. 474, 475, and from No. 644 to 655. 468. Shoulder of Mutton with Oysters,—'^2iWQ a large shoulder, which has been kept till tender, boned, and highly seasoned with salt and pepper. Lay some bearded oysters inside the meat, roll it up firm^ bind it with fillets of tape, * Haricot properly and originally meant French beans. Now with us it signifies meat cut in chops, and stewed with vegetables of different kinds.OF MUTTON. 309 and simmer in broth, witli onion, peppercorns, and a head of celery, till ready. Undo the tape, and pour oyster-sauce over the mutton. Nearly obsolete, 469. To Dress a Scrag of Mutton.—Trim the scrag, and dress it as Bachelors' Stew^ No. 396, or braise it in fresh stock with roots, seasonings, and a fagot of sweet herbs, and small slices of bacon under and over it, if you wish it rich. Simmer gently for three hours. Skim, and strain the gravy, and serve it with the meat, and dressed spinage, or cucumber- sauce. 470. Shoulder of Mutton.—Receipt by a Scotch Lady, —Keep the shoulder as long as possible without spoiling. Half roast it. Score it on both sides as for broiling. Melt in the basting-ladle four mellow anchovies chopped; put pepper and salt to this; place a clean dish under the roast, and baste with the following hot sauce :—The melted anchovies, half a pint of port, half a pint of rich gravy, a spoonful of mushroom-catsup, the same of walnut-catsup, a point of cayenne; baste constantly till the mutton is done. Dish on a hot dish rubbed with garlic. Skim the sauce or dropped gravy, and pour it over the mutton.* 471. To Dress a Breast of Mutton.—Cut off the fat; par- boil the meat; egg it, and strew over it shred parsley and bread-crumbs. Stick pieces of butter all over it. Roast it in the Dutch oven, and serve with caper or Robert sauce, or with stewed cucumbers. See No. 473. 472. Mutton-Collops.—See Beef-CollopSj page 116, and Chops, 111. 473. To Grill a Breast of Mutton.—Cut off the superfluous fat, and take out the bones. Boil for a half-hour. Cool it; beat it flat, and season and score it in diamonds. Brush it with egg, and strew minced parsley and bread-crumbs over it. Broil it in a Dutch oven, basting it well with fresh butter; and serve with caper-sauce, cucumbers, or sauce Robert. 474. Mutton-Cutlets, Maintenon.—Cut handsome chops from the loin, or cutlets from the gigot. Fry some chopped * M. Ude might shrug at this receipt as inadmissible in delicate cookery. But the dish is admirable for gusto; and at all events there are so few avowed fair amateurs of cookery in Scotland that we like to encourage the breed.—P. T.CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES 310 esclialot and muslirooms in butter, and in this brown the cutlets. Season them with cooks' pepper, and strew them with crumbs and chopped parsley dry; and, twisting them in buttered papers, finish them on the gridiron.—Serve with cucumbers, or any sauce that is liked. 475. Reform-Club Mutton-Cutlets,—For ten nicely trimmed cutlets, seasoned with salt and white pepper, mince very finely a quarter-pound of lean dressed ham ; and with it mix a quarter-pound of fine bread-crumbs. Brush the cutlets with egg, and dip them into the ham and crumbs, and fry them for ten minutes in a saute-pan^ in which oil to fry them has been made quite hot [if the pan will not hold the whole, keep hot those already done till the whole are finished]. They should be full of gravy; serve on a border of mashed potatoes, with the bones pointing outwards, and pour plenty of "Reform Sauce'' over the cutlets. Reform sauce is a piquant sauce, made of two onions, two sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, two bay-leaves, two ounces of lean ham, half a clove of garlic, and half a blade of mace, cooked for ten minutes over a sharp fire; thinned with two spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and one of Chili vinegar, and a pint of brown sauce. Boil it up, let it simmer for ten minutes, skim it; and boil it quickly till so reduced that it adheres to the back of a spoon, when add a large tablespoonful of red- currant jelly, and a half one of chopped mushrooms. Season with pepper and salt to taste; and when the jelly is melted, strain through a tammy. When wanted, make it hot, and add the white of hard-boiled eggs cut in half-inch strips, four white mushrooms first blanched^ one gherkin, two green Indian pickles, and half an ounce of cooked ham or tongue, all cut in strips like the egg. Do not boil the sauce after these are added, but keep very hot.—N.B. This we think an excellent general sauce of the piquant kind, and creditable to the genius of M. Soyer, though the simplicity of good taste might dictate fewer ingredients. For the one gherkin we suggest a point of cayenne. The Reform Sauce is equally good for roast-hare. Mutton-Steaks,—Cut down the back-ribs, a rib in each steak, and chop the bone short. If very fat, trim away some of the fat, which will answer very well for pie-crust, suet- puddings, etc. Broil them as beef-steaks, and serve hot andOF MUTTON. 311 hot. Put salt and a bit of fresh butter in the dish or serve with sauce Robert. These steaks are excellent over potato- pudding, or mashed potatoes, or arranged round a shape of potatoes, or with potato-balls, or slices fried and arranged round them.—See p. 111. 476. Mutton-Collops and Cucumbers.—Pare and slice the cucumbers. Sprinkle them with fine salt and pepper, and pour vinegar over them. Brown thinly-cut collops in a fryingpan, and then stew them with the drained cucumbers in a little stock. Skim and season the stew, and serve it hot in a ragout-dish.—Obs, Lamb-chops are excellent dressed as above, but they must not be over fat. Some cooks add slices of onion to the above ragout, and the practice is com- mendable.—See p. Ill, Nos. 474, 475. 477. To Roll a Loin of Mutton,—Keep the meat till quite tender and just beginning to turn. Bone it, and season it highly with black and Jamaica pepper, mace, nutmeg, and cloves (all in powder mixed), and salt. Let it lie a day in this seasoning. Flatten it with a rolling-pin, and cover it with forcemeat as for roast-hare. Roll it up, and bind with fillets of linen. Half-roast or bake it in a slow oven. Skim off all the fat when cold, and finish the dressing of the loin by stewing it in the gravy drawn from itself, first dredg- ing it well with flour and more spices. Put to the hot sauce, ten minutes before dishing the meat, a glass of red wine, catsup, an anchovy, and a large spoonful of lemon-pickle. 478. To Dress Mutton Tails and Kidneys.—Parboil six rumps (which are the number necessary for a dish), in mut- ton-broth. Let them cool, and take off the cake of fat from the broth. Brush the rumps with egg, dip them in crumbs, chopped parsley, and a little lemon-thyme, and brown them. Have six kidneys larded and broiled in a Dutch oven, and stew a little boiled rice in the gravy of the rumps. Dish the rice in a shallow dish, and lay the rumps on it, the points meeting at a centre ; place a kidney between each of these, and garnish with cut pickles. See No. 399.—Ohs. This dish is good served on stewed cucumbers. Besides the above methods, a fillet may be braised ;^ a haunch cut like venison, * Braising.—We are afraid that the young beginner in cookery may not find the account of the process of braising, which is given in this chapter, sufficiently circumstantial. This process, which is of French invention, is,312 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES kept till fully ripe, brushed with pyroligneous acid, kept two more days, and roasted, covering it with buttered paper or veal-caul, and then coarse paste, and roasting and glazing it, —serving it on French beans or cucumbers, first stewed in gravy, and placed in the dish below the mutton. Rumps are very suitably served over a 'puree of pease, or of turnips. —See Rognons de Mouton, No. 648. 479. Parson^s or Friar^s Venison.—When kept till very tender, bone a shoulder of mutton, and lay it to steep in wine, vinegar, herbs, and spices. Make a forcemeat of the trimmings and the kidney, or of ham, or tongue, with oysters or mushrooms. Stuff the shoulder,—cover it with veal-caul or paper; roast or braise it, and serve with venison-sauce. Garlic gives it the flavour of foreign cookery, if this is wished. Baste with the steep liquor. 480. Sheep^s or Lamb's Trotters.— Stew them in a braise for four hours, and serve with sauce Robert.—See French Cookery^ No. 653. 481. Sheep's Tongues.—Blanch ; stew in broth for two * hours, or in the stock-pot, or braise five or seven tongues. Skin and split them: heat them up and dish them round, by thorough-bred gourmands esteemed the ne plus ultra of cookery. It is eminently suited to white meats; lean, or what was anciently called, "rascal venison," turkey, and domestic fowls. It is not quite so well adapted to delicate stomachs ; nor is it relished by those whose unsophisti- cated palates can still distinguish and enjoy the native, decided flavour of meats, and reject even pepper to their beef-steak. Braised turkey, or rather Binde en daube, is a favourite dish, and when old and dry in the flesh, braising is requisite for this bird, of which it has been somewhat irrever- ently sung— " Turkey boil'd is Turkey spoil'd, And Turkey roast is Turkey lost; But for Turkey braised the Lord be praised." Braising is comparatively an easy process; and the same rules apply either to meat or poultry. Clean, season, and stuff or lai-d, where necessary, the article to be dressed. Line a thick-bottomed stewpan or baking-dish, just large enough to hold the meat, with slices of good bacon, or fat iDcef, sliced onion, carrot, and turnip. Strew in a few chopped herbs, with salt, mace, and black and Jamaica peppercorns, and a few bay-leaves, a clove of garlic, etc., etc., observing to vary and suit the seasonings to the nature of the preparation. Lay the meat or poultry on this spicy bed, and cover it with a superstratum of the same ingredients. Over this place folds of cambric paper, wrap a cloth about the lid of the stewpan, and press it closely down, setting a weight over it to keep it so, and to prevent the escape of the savoury steams which the meat or poultry ought to imbibe till completely saturated. Set the stewpan over embers, have embers above it, and let the process be very slow. Dishes which are braised are generally finished by glazing.OF MUTTON. 313 with tlie roots in the centre, and pour a ragout or puree of turnip or onion into the middle of the dish. 482. Another way.—Blanch and stew them, make a ragout of a dozen and a half of small onions, fried in butter with a little minced eschalot, catsup, wine, and white seasonings; add stock. Stew the tongues in this for a half- hour. Skim the sauce. Dish the tongues, sauce them, and arrange the onions either around, or in the centre. 483. Made-Dishes of Cold Mutton.—Dressed mutton may be warmed up either by hashing^ stewing in stock, or broil- ing in a Dutch oven. The last mode is suitable to a blade- bone, or Poor Man of Mutton^ which may be scored, seasoned, broiled, and served with any relishing sauce, or over a hash of the rest of the mutton. From a roast haunch, a nice fillet may be cut; if underdone, so much the better. Shape it, cut out the bone^ which replace with dressed forcemeat; have a little gravy, or draw a gravy from the trimmings, and stew the fillet very slowly till quite hot; or it may be well basted ^ad heated in the Dutch oven, at a good distance from the nre. 484. To Hash Mutton.—Cut the white underdone parts into thin slices about the size of a shilling, laying aside the fat. Prepare a gravy from the gristles and other trimmings, and season it with pepper, salt, and onion. Skim off the fat and strain the gravy, and, putting the meat to it, let it soak till thoroughly warm, but it must not boil.—See Ohs, Nos. 421, 422. 485. Minced Mutton with Cucumbers.—Mince the best parts left of a cold roasted leg, aud stir this into a mince of stewed cucumbers. Let it heat, but not boil —Obs. Minced mutton may also be served with cooked endive. 486. Plain Casserole of Dressed Mutton.—Butter and line a mould thickly with mashed potatoes ; fill it with the sliced mutton properly seasoned; cover the whole with more mashed potatoes, and bake and turn it out. 487. Haricot of Cold Mutton.—Cut the cold meat into chops, trimming off, as in all hashes, superfluous fat. Simmer it very slowly in any strong well-seasoned stock you may have ready, or may draw from the mutton-bones. Add, cooked, a half-dozen of button-onions, some round slices of carrot, and a turnip scooped down in bits like marbles.— o814 CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES Ohs. This is a good and economical way of dressing cold roast mutton for family use.*—See also pp. 291, 292, and French Cooker^/. N.B.—Almost every dish made of cold mutton may be prepared in the same way as lamb. Made-Dishes of Lamb. See Index for Roast Lamb, Saddle of Lamb, Chops of Frying^ Boiling^ Head^ etc. 488. Breast of Lamb with Cucumbers—Chop off the bone^ and, notching the breast well, stew it in good gravy for twenty minutes. Take it up, drain and score it in diamonds. Season it with mixed spices, dredge it with flour, and finish in a Dutch oven. Serve on stewed cucumbers, or green pease. 489. Lamb-Cutlets with Spinage.—Take cutlets from the loin; trim, flatten, season, and broil them; and placing spin- age (No. 197) high and neatly in a dish, dress the cutlets round it. Lamb-cutlets are also savourily served with a ragout of mushrooms or oysters, the cutlets laid around the ragout. Asparagus, or asparagus-pease, are very suitable to dressed dishes of lamb. 490. Shoulder of Lamb Stuffed,—Bone the shoulder, and fill up the vacancy with forcemeat. Braise the meat very slowly over embers, or a stove ; or stew it plainly in the same manner. Glaze, and serve it either with sorrel-sauce, tomata-sauce, or stewed cucumbers. 491. Lamb-Steaks Ragout—Stew them in veal-stock, to which a very little sweet milk is put, and season with white pepper and mace. When nearly ready, thicken the sauce with a little mushroom-powder, and a bit of butter rolled in flour. Add a large glassful of good boiling cream. 492. Lamb-Steaks^ Brown, see pp. 111-117.—Flatten and season them. Brush them with egg, and dip them in a * A Poor Man of Mutton.—This Scotch dish is the hlade-bone grilled, or heated before the fire. There is a traditionary story of Lord , after a long and severe fit of illness with which he was seized in London, horrifying his landlord by whining forth from behind his bed-curtains, when urged to choose and eat, "I think I could relish a snap o' a Puir man." Swift's scheme for Ireland went only the length of eating Poor Children!315 OP LAMB. seasoning of chopped parsley, bread-crumbs, grated lemon- peel, nutmeg, and salt. Fry tliem of a fine light-brown, and pour over them some good thickened gravy, in which put a glass of wine, and either a few stewed oysters or mushrooms. Skim the sauce, and serve the dish very hot, garnishing it with forcemeat-balls, fried bread, or cut pickles if preferred. These chops, which form a nice side-dish, may be served over a puree of turnip ; or with pease, or stewed cucumbers, 493. Another way, — Fry the steaks for five minutes in butter ; drain them, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, and finish them on the gridiron, 494. Lamb-Sweetbreads Ragout.—Blanch what will make a dish with scalding water. Soak and stew them in good clear gravy for twenty minutes, adding white pepper, mace, and salt. Thicken the gravy with butter rolled in flour. Beat up two yolks of eggs and a glass of sweet cream, with a dessertspoonful of minced parsley, and a little nutmeg. Take off the stewpan, and gradually mix in the beat egg and cream. Make the sauce hot, stirring it diligently, and, lest it curdle, do not let it boil. Asparagus-points, or cut young French beans, first parboiled, may be stirred into the ragout.—Obs, If the sweetbreads are very large they must be cut. 495. Lamb-Chops with Potatoes,, a favourite Dish.—Cut the back-ribs of a large lamb into handsome chops, trimming off the bone with a chopping-knife. Season, and brush the chops with a beat egg ; dip them in crumbs and minced parsley, and fry them nicely. Place mashed potatoes (made somewhat thin with butter and cream, and again heated) high in the centre of a dish, score this neatly, and lay the hot chops around, leaning each chop on the side of the adjoining one, — Obs. A finely-minced onion may be added to the mashed potatoes, if the flavour is liked. This is just a puree of potatoes. To dress LamVs Liver^ see p. 119. To dress Lamb^s Head, or Calfs Ilead^ see Nos. 457 and 748^. 496. To Dress a Leg of Lamb with Vegetables. — Cut the loin into handsome steaks, and fry them nicely. Boil the gigot slowly in a cloth, skimming well, that it may look white and plump. Place it in the middle of the dish, lay316 CHAP. 1. MADE-DISHES the steaks around it, witli sprigs of nicely-boiled cauliflower on eacli steak: or it may be served with spinage, sorrel, or stewed cucumber. Pour melted butter or Bechamel over the gigot. — Ohs. This is a good variety in dressing lamb, and is attended with no additional expense. 497. To Grill a Shoulder of Lamh.—Boil for forty minutes, score in diamonds, and broil or brown it in a Dutch oven. Serve with a clear gravy, or with mushroom or cucumber sauce. A neck of fat lamb is very good boiled and served over mashed turnip, with a little white sauce poured over it. Besides the above methods of cookery, lamb may be dressed as ragout^ collar^ curry^ Cutlets Mazntenon, covered with rice, and in all the ways that mutton is dressed. Cold lamb, whether shoulder or breast, is best re-dressed in the Dutch oven, or by scoring, seasoning, and grilling it; or it may be hashed, though this mode of dressing is not so well suited to lamb as to veal or poultry.—For Boast Lamb, see p. 92. 498. LainVs Stove^ a Scottish Dish,—Clean and blanch the head. Stew it in broth, water, or with a sh^nk of mut- ton, till tender. Add minced parsley, and green onions, and a good deal of mashed spinage, and serve the stew and head together in a deep dish.—Obs. This, nationality apart, we consider an indifferent preparation. It is but a beggarly imitation of the Tete d'Agneau d la pluche verte of our old allies the French.—See No. 457. The brains and liver may be boiled, rubbed through a tammy-cloth, and put to the stew. Asparagus or pease may be substituted for spinage, and the soup thickened with yolks of eggs. 499. Lamb's Stove, by a French Receipt.—Clean two lambs^ heads. Lift up the skin, and cut out the jaw-bones. Let them soak in salt and water; blanch them ; rub them with lemon to whiten them. Let them simmer for an hour in a blanc.^ Drain them ; split the skull; take out the brains, skin the tongues, and split them ; trim the ears. Serve the heads neatly arranged on the dish with a good sauce, and with the harslet boiled for two hours, and minced or cut in scollops and laid under the head or heads, as a ragout: or serve with a green sauce of parsley. One large head will make a dish.—See No. 7482. * See Index for the rich stock called a Uanc,317 OF VENISON. 500. Pigs' Pettitoes.^Boil the feet till tender; boil also the harslet as directed in lamb's head. Mince the harslet {i. e, pluck), and season and serve with the feet over it; garnish with sippets.—LamVs Trotters^ No. 480. Made-Dislies of Venison. 501. To Stew a Shoulder of Venison when too lean to roast, —Bone the meat when it has been kept long enough. Flat- ten it, and lay over it thin slices of fat well-flavoured mutton. Sprinkle with plenty of mixed spices, and roll it up very tight. Stew it slowly in rich beef or mutton gravy, in a close stewpan that will just hold it. Add, when nearly finished, pepper, cayenne, allspice, and a half-pint of claret or port. When the venison is tender, which will be in about three hours, take off the bandages, and dish it, pouring the strained gravy hot over it. Serve with venison-sauce.— Ohs, A few slices of mutton, or two or more shanks well broken, may be put to the gravy to enrich it. A breast of venison may be dressed as above, but is better as a pasty. 502. Venison Collops, a Scotch Dish.—Cut the meat in thin cutlets; season them highly with mixed spices, and having browned them in the stewpan, put to them a quar- ter-pint of strong brown gravy, the same quantity of claret, some fried crumbs, a little fine sugar, and a half-glass of white wine vinegar. Stew slowly in a close-covered stew- pan, and pour over the collops the strained sauce. They may first be marinaded in the wine, vinegar, and spices. —Obs. Venison makes the finest-flavoured minced collops, surpassing either beef or hare; and excellent steaks, when seasoned, dipped in butter, rolled in crumbs, and broiled or fried quickly. But these steaks require a gravy-sauce, un- less the venison be very fat.—See Nos. 55, 22, and 21. 502^. Baked Venison, an excellent Mode,—Grate the crumb of a penny loaf, to which put a half-pint of white wine, a glass of vinegar, the grated rind of a Seville orange, nutmeg, salt, a quarter-pound of sugar, and a half-pound of butter. Steep the meat (a breast or shoulder) in this, and bake and serve with venison-sauce. 503. Civet of Venison,—Cut the back-ribs, or breast, into small chops. Fry some pieces of good bacon in butter, and,318 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES when melted, drain off most of the liquid, and add flour. Brown the steaks in this roux^ and then moisten them with red wine, and good stock. Add minced parsley, onions, pepper, salt, and also garlic, if admired. Let this cook slowly, shaking the pan occasionally. Add a few small onions and mushrooms. Let the meat still stew slowly for two hours, and until the sauce is of good consistence. This is elegantly served en casserole. Hare or rabbits thus cooked make good civet Made-Dishes of Cold Venison. 504. To Stew Cold Venison,—Make a gravy of what re- mains about the bones after cutting off the meat, a little strong unseasoned mutton-stock, and a bundle of fine herbs. When this is good, skim it, and add browned butter thick- ened with flour; also catsup, mixed spices, a little claret, and a spoonful of currant-jelly, if liked. Boil this till smooth, stirring it well, and put in the thinly-sliced venison. Let it only heat thoroughly, and, taking out the herbs, dish it, squeezing a lemon into the dish. Garnish with slices ot lemon and fried sippets, or with cut pickles. 505. To Hash Venison.—Cut the meat as for other hashes, and soak till warm in its own gravy. Season and dish it with toasted sippets.—Ohs. When the hashed venison is very lean, some cooks cut the firm fat of a neck of mutton into thin small slices, stew them first in wine and sugar, and add them to the hash. A large piece of cold venison, when it cannot be used otherwise, will make a good stew- soup, made as directed for dressed veal stew-soup —For Roasting Venison, see No. 21.—CollopSj No. 55. Made-Dishes of Hare and R-abbit. 506. To Sfevj a Hare,—Cut off the legs and shoulders, or wings, as they are sometimes called; cut down the middle of the back, and then chop each side into three or four pieces. Season these with mixed spices, and soak* them for some hours in a glassful of eschalot-vinegar, with three bay-leaves and some cloves. Make a pint and a half of * The propriety of this and of all marinades is strongly doubted by some gastronomers of repute. They do not consider the foreign flavour imparted by the soaking as an equivalent for the native juices withdraAvn,319 OF HARE. gravy of the neck, head, liver, heart, and trimmings, with onions, a slice of bacon chopped into small bits, a large carrot split, fine herbs, and two dozen corns of black pepper and allspice. Strain this into a clean stewpan, and put the hare, with the vinegar in which it has been soaked, to it, and stew gently till done. Add salt, spices, and a little cayenne. Catsup may be added, and the stew may be thickened with butter rolled in brown flour.—Ohs. This is an excellent method of dressing a hare, which makes often but a dry and ungainly roast. A few par-roasted button- onions may be peeled, stewed in the sauce, and served with the hare. An old hare requires to be either larded, stewed in very rich broth, or, which is still better, braised. Garlic, if liked at all, should always be used with hare. Hare is also stewed in wine, ale, or cider, enriching the liquor with rasped bacon and high seasonings; and also with the cooked blood, stirred in when the dish is taken off the fire; the liver and lights may be dressed as forcemeat-balls to serve with it. Currant-jelly, honey, or sugar may be used, but with discretion, in this dish.—See Lievre en daube^ No. 662. 507. To Jug Hare.—Cut it into small pieces; season these, and put them into a jugging-can which will just hold them, with a slice or two of good bacon or beef hashed, a fagot of herbs, a few onions, with a half-dozen cloves stuck in them, a couple of bay-leaves, the rind of a lemon^ and a little water. Cover the jugging-can closely, so that no steam may escape. Set it in a steamer, a kettle of boil- ing water, or a slow oven, for at least three hours. When done, skim off the fat, and strain off the gravy \ thicken it; add seasonings, if necessary; and, dishing the pieces of hare neatly in a deep dish, pour the hot sauce over them; or, if they have become cold, heat them up in it.—Ohs. Red wine, instead of water, the juice of a lemon, and a clove of garlic, may be added to the jugged hare, which will then make a highly-flavoured ragout. Serve venison-sauce ; but the natural sauce is the best that can accompany this dish. 508. To Broil a Roasted Hare for Supper or Luncheon.— Cut off the legs and shoulders, and flatten and season them highly; broil them on a quick, clear fire; froth with cold butter, and serve them hot with venison-sauce. 509. To Hash Hare.—Gut down the cold hare into thinCHAP. I.— MADE-DISHES 320 bits, and warm these in good gravy, or in gravy drawn from the head, bones, etc. Season with mixed spices, an onion, savoury herbs, and a little wine. Pick out the onion and lierbs, and serve the hash with toasted sippets.—Ols. Hare may also be dressed as directed for braised goose. See No. 520. 510. Hare-Calces.—Mince the best parts of the hare with a little firm mutton-suet. Season the mince highly. Pound it in a mortar, and make up the cakes with raw eggs, as small cakes, or sausage-roll; flour and fry them, or do them in a Dutch oven.—See Gateau de Lievre^ No. 660. 511. To Smother Rabbits,—Truss them and boil them, throwing away the first water in ten minutes ; smother them with white onion-sauce, melting the butter with milk or cream, that it may look very white.—Obs. In Scotland, rabbits used to be smothered in an onion-sauce made with strong clear gravy instead of melted butter ; and though the dish looked less fine, it was at least equally savoury. Rab- bits cannot be too slowly simmered. Those who dislike strong onion-sauce for this dish may use a part of apples, turnips, or bread. Celery, artichoke-bottoms, young pease, and French beans, are all used as ragouts for rabbits. Warren rabbits are far before tame ones for the table,—wild ones are better still. All should have the boiling water changed. 512. To Fry Rabbits.—Cut them in joints, and fry them in fresh butter, with dried parsley and a sprinkling of sage. Serve liver-and-parsley-sauce. Rabbits may also be fri- casseed as directed for chickens. They make an excellent pie, a good soup, and may be potted or jugged. See also Curry^ Pie, Rabbits ct la Venetienne^ etc. Made-Dishes of Poultry and Game. See also pages 94 to 105, 112, 118; and Nos. 660 to 669. 513. To Boil Fowls with Rice.^—Stew a large white fowl in a little clear mutton or veal stock, seasoned with white * This is quite the French dish Poularde au riz. Fowls a la Turque are much the same thing too, save that they are stuffed with seasoned rice, in roasting have the breast covered with layers of bacon, and are papered till done. No. 515 is much the same as the dish in French cookery called Foulets aux huitres.321 OF POULTRY AND GAME. pepper, onion, and mace, in a close stewpan that will just hold it, and allow it room to swell. When it has stewed a half-hour, put to it a small cupful of clean, well-soaked rice. "When tender, take up the fowl, keep it hot, and, straining the rice from the broth, place it on a reversed sieve to dry. Dish the fowl, and pile the rice in light heaps around it. Bechamel may be put over all. Serve parsley and butter sauce. Serve the soup separately.—See pages 72 to 74, and 77. 514. Fowl with Mushrooms,—Season and stew as above in a very strong gravy, with butter rolled in flour, and add a few button-mushrooms nicely picked. Serve mushroom- sauce or a white fricassee of mushrooms. 515. Fowls with Oysters.—Truss as for boiling. Put plenty of butter and a seasoning of mace and lemon-rind into them; tie them at neck and vent; line a nice stewpan with streaked bacon, and put in the fowls, breast downmost. Moisten with stock, and braise the fowls slowly. Mean- while have a very nice thick oyster-sauce prepared with butter and cream; dish the fowls on this, and garnish with fried oysters and slices of lemon.—See Howtowdie^ Scottish^ No. 737. 516. To Farce a Fowl—a favourite old-fashioned English Dish.—Having boned the fowl, stuff the inside with the following forcemeat:—A quarter-pound of minced veal, two ounces of grated ham, two of chopped onion and suet, a spoonful of shred sweet herbs, two chopped hard yolks of eggs, a teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, mixed spices, and a little cayenne. Shred the several ingredients and beat the whole to a paste in a mortar, adding two eggs, to make them cohere. Stuff the fowl, sew it up, keeping it of the natural shape, draw the legs inside, and truss the wings. Stew it in clear stock, and, when nearly done, thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour. When just ready to serve, add a little cream, squeeze a lemon into the dish, and serve the fowl with the sauce around it.—See Quenelles^ and Gratin, French Cookery, 517. To Ragout Poultry^ Pigeons^ Rabbits^ etc,—a general Receipt,—Half-roast the thing which is to be dressed as a ragout. Carve it into joints as at table, and stew in good stock, with a couple of onions, two dozen corns of allspice o 2322 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES and black pepper, a few cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, and for some things a slice of celery, for others a couple of bay- leaves. Skim the stew, and, keeping the lid quite close, let it simmer for three quarters of an hour or more, accord- ing to the age and size of the birds. Strain off the gravy, leaving the fowls in the stewpan to keep hot. Take off the cake of fat which will soon form, and thicken the gravy with brown roux, or butter rolled in browned flour till it is as thick as stiff pancake-batter. Add to it a glass of white wine and the squeeze of a lemon. Dish the fowls, ducks, or rabbits, whichever your dish may be, and pour the sauce hot over them, garnishing with fried bread.—Obs. The sauce must be well worked, and ought to be smooth, thick, and well coloured. It may be made without wine. 5172. Chicken-Cutlets.—Cut the bone from the breasts and legs of two or three chickens. Skin the separated joints and fillets, and shape neatly, and season them with " chicken fixings —i. e., cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper. Brush with egg, dip in melted butter and crumbs, and fry them in a saute-pan, turning often. Meanwhile have a seasoned gravy drawn from the bones and trimmings, and a bit of lemon-rind. Strain it, add to it a little mush- room-powder, and thicken with butter rolled in flour, and a liaison of one egg. Dish the cutlets high, and pour the sauce over them. 518. To Braise Chickens or Pigeons with Green Pease, Mushrooms J or Asparagus.—Bone them, and stuff them with forcemeat, as at No. 516. Fry a few sliced onions in a stew- pan; add to these the bones and other trimmings of the chickens, with a broken shank of veal or mutton, a fagot of herbs, a few blades of mace, and a pint of good stock. Cover the chickens with slices of bacon, and then with paper. Stew very slowly over embers, or on a stove, for an hour and a half. Take them up, and keep them hot. Strain the braise-gravy, and boil it down quickly to a jelly. Glaze the chickens with it, and serve with a brown fricassee of mush- rooms, or over asparagus, or a puree of green pease.—See French Cookery, from No. 664 to 671. 519. J[ Continental Method of Dressing Cold Roast-Fowls, —Beat up two yolks of eggs with butter, mace, nutmeg, etc. Cut up the fowls, dip them in this, and roll the egged piecesOF POULTRY AND GAME. 323 in crumbs and fried parsley. Fry the cut pieces nicely in butter or clarified dripping, and pour over the dish any white or green vegetable ragout (that you may have left) made hot. Parmesan grated is used to heighten the gout of this and other such dishes. 520. To Braise a Turkey or Goose,—Everything to be braised is trussed as for boiling. Put thin slices of bacon under and over the bird, and line the stewpan with the same. Put in the turkey, with the giblets and seasonings. Moisten with stock. Braise as directed, page 312, and serve with chestnut-sauce, and goose with apple or onion sauce, mollified with white turnip.—Ols. A hare may be well cooked thus.—Wine is employed in braising both goose and turkey, but we see no use for it.—For Turkey^ see No. 697. 521. To Fricassee Chickens White.—Cut up each chicken neatly into eight parts, as in carving them at table. Wash, dry, flatten, and season the parts with mixed spices, using only white pepper. Take a pint of clear veal or mutton gravy, or other good clear stock, more or less according to the number of chickens, and put to it a roll of lemon-peel, two onions, three blades of mace, and a few sweet herbs. Stew the chickens in this very slowly for a half-hour, keep- ing the stewpan covered. Strain the sauce, and thicken with white roux or butter rolled in flour, adding salt and a scrape of nutmeg. When ready to serve, add a quarter- pint of good hot cream, and the yolk of one or two eggs well beat. Stir this carefully, and, lest it curdle, be sure it does not boil. A glass of white wine, and the squeeze of a lemon, may be put to this fricassee.—Ohs. Besides the above methods of dressing fowls and chickens, they may be stewed with pease and lettuce in good stock, seasoned with parsley, young onions, salt, and spices. Put in the pease, and a cut lettuce, a quarter of an hour after ihe chickens. Fill up the dish with the gravy, laying the pease and lettuce over the chickens. If large fowls, they may be cut down the back. Young chickens may here be trussed as for boiling, and stuffed.—See French Cookery^ Fricassee Naturel or d la Paysanne, 522. Davenport Fowls are stuffed with a forcemeat made of the hearts and livers, an anchovy, yolks of hard-boiled eggs, onions, mixed spices, and a piece of butter or shredCHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES 324 mutton-suet, or veal-kidney fat. Sew up the necks and vents, brown the fowls in a Dutch oven, then stew them in stock till tender, and serve with mushroom-sauce, or melted butter and catsup; a fowl farced in this way may be larded in the breast, and roasted.—See No. 516. 523. To Stew Giblets.—Clean and cut them as directed for giblet-soup, p. 149. Season with mixed spices. Stew them till very tender in a little stock, and before serving thicken the sauce, and add a glass of good boiling cream to it. Young green pease may be added to this stew. 524. To Pull Cold Turkey or Chickens.—Skin them, and pull the meat off the breast and wings in long flakes. Brown these in a Dutch oven, basting with butter: or brown very quickly in a fryingpan, so as not to dry the meat. Drain from the butter, and simmer the pulled meat in good gravy, seasoned with mixed spices. Thicken the gravy. Mean- while, have cut off the legs, sidesmen, and back. Season and broil these, and serving the pulled hash in the middle of the dish, place these neatly over and around it. Garnish with fried sippets. Turkey may be warmed as above; but the leg should be scored, peppered, and grilled, and the hash served under the devil'd leg.—See No. 27. 525. To stew Pigeons brown.—Season highly, and truss them with the legs inward. Return the livers into them, with a bit of butter and chopped parsley. Lay them in a small stewpan, with slices of bacon under and over them. Twenty-five minutes will cook them; serve well-seasoned brown gravy-sauce with them.—See Nos. 33, 42. 526. To Ragout Pigeons.—Clean and stuff them with a seasoning of mixed spices, salt, parsley shred very finely, a piece of fresh butter, and a few bread-crumbs. Tie them at neck and vent, half-roast them, and finish in the stewpan in good stock, to which a glass of white wine, a bit of lemon- peel, and a few fresh or pickled mushrooms may be put. Thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour. Dish the pigeons, and pour it over them. Garnish with asparagus laid between the birds. This is almost the French " Pigeons en compote J'—Obs. Cream, or the beat yolk of an egg, may be put to this, and to any white ragout, taking care to pre- vent these ingredients from curdling. The pigeons may be stuffed with a forcemeat of the chopped livers, with bread-OF PIGEONS AND DUCKS. 325 crumbs, minced parsley, butter, spices, and a little cayenne, and dressed as a brown ragout, by browning them in the fryingpan previous to stewing, thickening the sauce with browned flour or roux^ and adding to it a spoonful of cat- sup, or a glass of red wine. Some good cooks stew pigeons with white cabbage^ cut as for pickling, serving the cabbage round the pigeons; or stew them in hrown gravy highly seasoned, adding mushrooms or a little catsup. Others stew them with a lettuce quartered instead of cabbage. Pigeons pot very well, and are, though common, most excellent as a pie, either cold or hot.—N.B. The cabbage, when thus used with stewed pigeons, should be first braised. To roast or hroil Pigeons^ see pp. 103 and 112; Pigeon Soup, p. 146. 527. Ducks with young Pease., a favourite Dish prepared in the best manner.—Clean, truss, and singe the ducks, which about August should be plump though young. Season them with salt, pepper, cayenne and mixed spices. Place them between layers of bacon in a stewpan that will just hold them, and moisten them with a little stock. Stew them from thirty-five minutes to an hour, according to the size and age of the birds. Meanwhile parboil and afterwards fry three pints of the most delicate green pease with a half-pound of good bacon cut in bits. While the pease still retain their good colour, drain off all the fat, dust some flour over them; add a little water or stock, a bunch of parsley and young onions, some pepper and salt, and the ducks carved (if too large) into proper pieces. Serve the pease over the ducks, but let all fat be carefully skimmed off. Take out the pars- ley and onions before serving. This is much the same dish as the French Canard a petit pois.—Obs. The ducks may be roasted; but the stringy summer ducks that come with early green pease are much better dressed as above. Some persons will prefer the pease fried in butter instead of bits of bacon ; and the dish, if not so rich, will be at least as refined. Chickens are excellent cooked in this manner, or with aspar- agus. 528. To Stew Ducks with Cabbage.—Stew cut cabbage in top-fat with seasonings. Par-roast a large fat duck, and then stew it in gravy well seasoned with herbs, onions, sage, pepper, and salt. Thicken the gravy, and serve the duck with the cabbage under it and the gravy or sauce in the326 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES dish.—Ohs. Ducks thus dressed may be served with mashed turnips, over an onion puree or saur croute. 529. To Ragout Ducks,—Put the gizzards, livers, necks, etc., to a pint of good strong beef-broth, or other well-sea- soned stock. Season the ducks inside with salt and mixed spices. Brown them on all sides in a fryingpan, and then stew them till tender in the strained stock. When nearly ready, thicken the sauce with browned flour and butter, or brown roux. 530. Another way.—Clean, and season the ducks with pepper and salt inside. Par-roast them, and stew them in beef-gravy, with shred onions fried in the stewpan before the gravy is put in. When the ducks have simmered for twenty minutes, and been turned, put in a few leaves of sage and of lemon-thyme chopped very fine, or, in the season, a pint and a half of young green pease. When these are ten- der, thicken the sauce with roux or butter rolled in flour, and serve the ducks and pease together in a deep dish. Ohs. When pease are not in season, a dozen of small button-onions may be first par-roasted and then stewed with the ducks; or sliced cucumbers and onions, first fried.*—See No. 527. In Ireland ducks are often boiled, and very good. 531. To Hash DucTc.—Nothing hashes better than a fat roast-duck. Cut it into pieces as in carving at table, skin and soak these by the side of the fire in a little boiling gravy till thoroughly hot. Add a small glass of wine and a sufficient quantity of mixed spices, to give the sauce a high relish: or cut up the duck, add a gravy of the trimmings to some fried onions; thicken it, when strained, with butter browned with flour, stew the cut duck gently till ready, and, having seasoned the sauce, serve the hash on fried sippets. —Ohs. A cold goose may be dressed in the same way, adding a little finely-shred sage and onion to the hash-sauce;—and the legs of the goose may be scored, seasoned, and grilled, as directed for a turkey^ and served over the hash. Cold * Fillets cut from tlie breast of plump under-roasted ducks (that have been stuffed with chopped young sage and onion before they were roasted), served in hot orange-gravy and the juice that flows from the birds, with cayenne and high seasonings, are esteemed a rare luxury by the skilful gourmand. This is a dish for the solitary epicure, not for the table. Wives, children, and friends have no portion in such dainties. It is, more- over, the French Tahle Salmi.OF WILD FOWL. 327 poultry^ rabbits, and game may all be hashed as above. See that the hash-sauce be well thickened, smooth, and carefully cleared of all fat. Where there is any cold stuffing left, cut it into slices, and serve it warmed in the Dutch oven round the hashed meat. 532. To Hash Cold Wild Fowl.—Carve them as at table, and let them soak till hot in boiling gravy thickened with bread'crumbs, and seasoned with salt, mixed spices, a glass of claret, and a spoonful of lemon-pickle or orange-juice. Garnish with fried sippets. For partridges and pheasants use only white pepper and white wines.—N. Some gour- mands dislike bread-crumbs here.—See page 99. 533. To Ragout Wild Duck or Teal.—Half-roast the birds. Score the breast, but not deeply, and into each indenture put sufficient mixed spices and the squeeze of a lemon. Let the birds lie a few minutes, and then stew them till tender in good brown gravy. Take up the birds and keep them hot; add a glass of wine and three finely-shred eschalots to the gravy, and pour it hot over the ducks.—Obs. This is a dish of very high gout, and it is prized accordingly. In carving ducks, whether wild or domestic, after scoring the breast, it is an improvement to put a little butter over it, as wont to be done in shoulder of lamb, and a squeeze of bitter orange or lemon. Ducks are also re-dressed as curry, brown ragout, or even as a stew-soup. Ducks, and particularly the wildy may be dressed as civet of hare.—See also French Cookery, Salmis^ and No. 29. To Mince or Scallop a Cold Fowl.—Follow No. 464, add- ing any egg-sauce left, or chopped hard yolks of eggs to the mince, and garnish with fried parsley. 534. Chicken, Rabbit, and Veal, etc., as Curry. Bead Nos. 758, 7582. This common and favourite dish is at once economical, convenient at table, and of easy preparation. Our extend- ing and intimate relations with India had made curries po- pular, before the failure of the potato, and the greater neces- sity of using rice had introduced this mode of cookery into general use. All kinds of viands, cooked or raw, from th^ turtle to the shrimp, may be dressed as curry. The only328 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. important rule is, to have good stock; and the sole art con- sists in hitting the just medium in seasoning, or in suiting the tastes of the individuals for whom the curry is pre- pared. Our Indian friends must forgive us for just hinting that their censure of English curries is somewhat unquali- fied. We have elsewhere [No. 154] said that any positive formula for the preparation of curry-powders is quite as absurd as it would be to give every sort of ragout the same quantity of seasoning, consisting of the same ingredients. There are no prepared universal curry-powders for all pur- poses in India. The native cook suits his seasonings to the particular dish he is dressing, and the taste of his employers. Compound dry powders were adopted to suit voyagers six months at sea, where the ingredients could not be got fresh. Now that we may have green chilies, and when cocoa-nuts are selling in barrows on all our streets, with an endless variety of cultivated vegetables and fruits, acid and sub- acid, which India never knew, it is idle to talk longer of the superiority of the native curry-seasonings. In the first place, the kind of viand to be curried should be ascertained, and the seasoning in every case adapted to the character and quality of the meat. A curry of chicken, for example, and one of pork, or of cod, require very different powders, even with the helps or correctives the cook may administer in the course of her labours. We do not wish to become " an advertising mediumfor particular Italian warehouses; but many of them sell curry-powders which have at least a chance of h^mg fresh; and those scientifically prepared by chemists and sold in druggists' shops, are as good as any wholesale preparations of the same thing for every kind of meat can ever be. Besides, we never yet knew an old Indian who had not his own favourite recipe, Delhi^ or Felim^Sj or Pottinger, or Bengal, etc., etc. To Curry Meat or Chickens,—Cut up the chickens, fowls, rabbits, veal, lamb, fish, etc., etc., into pieces proper to be helped at table, and rather small than large. Fry this cut meat in butter, with sliced Spanish or button-onions, and a few chopped mushrooms, or mushroom-powder, till of a pale amber colour. When the meat is browned, add nearly a pint of good mutton or veal stock unseasoned; and when this has simmered slowly for a quarter of an hour, or more if the fowls are old, add from two to three dessertspoonfulsCURRY. 829 of curry-powder, or lialf powder and half paste, and a spoon- ful of rice-flour, both rubbed very smooth, and carefully stuTcd into the sauce. Easped cocoa-nut is a good ingre- dient in curry; so is acid apple. Put it in as thickening, using less rice-flour. "When the curry is just ready, add a glass of thick hot cream, and either the juice of a lemon or a proportionate quantity of citric acid. Skim ofl" all fat, and if the sauce be not rich enough, stir in, before dishing, a small quantity of melted butter. If the sauce be too thick, add a little stock to thin it. Serve boiled rice. Our favourite Family Curry.—Cut from one to three pounds of lean mutton into cubes of about an inch and half. For each pound of meat fry two rather large mild onions in butter, and, when they are brown and pulpy, throw in the meat, and fry it for ten minutes, stirring and turning it round; add in the proportion of a dessertspoonful of curry-powder and of flour for each pound of meat, rub- bing very smooth. Moisten with a very little stock or water, and stew slowly till the meat is quite tender. This is a mild curry. Cayenne, lemon-juice, and mushrooms may be added according to taste, and the curry may be made thinner. Serve boiled rice, Nos. 535 and 536. Some cooks pound part of the meat and all the scraps to thicken the curry, and also boiled livers, etc. Others first marinade, in lemon-juice and sliced onion, the meat they curry.—Ols. Curry may be made of cold chicken, slices of dressed veal, lamb, hard-boiled eggs, macaroni, etc., and is an acceptable variety, in place of toujours hash, though very inferior to curries of undressed meat. Some cooks add a few small onions that have been cooked in broth; others a few capsicums or a fresh chili, which is peculiarly accep- table to those who like hot-spiced dishes.—See Fish-Curry^ p. 187 and No. 757. 535. To Boil Rice for Curry. — Pick, wash, and soak good Carolina rice, and boil it quickly, in plenty of boil- ing water and an uncovered pot, till it be tender but not soft; drain it, and put it to dry before the fire. Either heap it lightly on a dish by itself, or if the dish of curry be small, it may be served round the dish, en casserole^ with the curry in the centre.—Ohs. To avoid hardness or over-boil- ing, some cooks shower cold water upon the boiled rice, and330 CHAP, I. MADE-DISHES. set it to evaporate in an oven or before the fire, so that every grain may be distinct, and yet the whole tender enough to eat. When over-boiledj the rice may, after draining, be smoothed, brushed over with yolk of egg, and coloured in the oven,—though this necessity ought never to be courted. Handle it very lightly. Spooning spoils it,—toss it lightly up with two forks. It may be moulded in a shape, with the curry served in the heart of ^t.—See National Dishes^ and No. 209. 536. To Boil Bice nearly M, Soyer^s^ or the Beforni Club- way.—Like ourselves, the ex-Chef of the Reform Club pre- fers Carolina to Patna rice. Wash what is wanted of the best Carolina rice in two waters. Throw it into sufficient boiling water and boil till three parts done, when drain. Butter the inside of a stewpan, into which tumble the drained rice: fix the lid tight, and set the stewpan on a trivet in a warm oven until the rice is quite tender. Dish it lightly. Another approved way.—Boil in water three pints to the half pound. When getting soft drain off half the boiling water, and replace it with cold. Add salt. Shake the rice briskly, to separate the giains. When done drain off the water, and place the pan of rice before the fire to swell and dry. 537. Hindostanee Mode of Boiling Rice.—After picking, soak the rice in cold water a quarter of an hour. Strain and put it into boiling water, which shall rise three inches above the rice. Cover, and boil about six minutes, skim- ming when necessary. Add a gill of sweet milk for each pound of rice^ and in two minutes more remove the pot from the fire; strain without squeezing; return it dry into the pot upon a slow fire, pour over it half an ounce of melted butter mixed with a spoonful of the hot water in which the rice was boiled, and in six minutes it will be ready for table. —From an Indian Correspondent. 538. Brain-Balls and Brain-Calces for Made-Dishes.— These may be made whether for lamb's or calf s head by the- same process. Clear the brains of all the fibres and skins that hang about them, and, having scalded them, beat them up in a basin with the yolks of two eggs, a spoonful of bread-crumbs, another of flour, a little grated lemon-peel, and a small dessertspoonful of finely-shred parsley, and if331 CROQUETS AND RISSOLES. for calf s head, a little shred sage and thyme. Put season- ings to the mixture, and a large spoonful of melted butter; and, dropping the batter in cakes the size of a teacup-mouth, fry them in lard of an amber colour. They may either be served as a garnishing, or as a small corner-dish to accom- pany a dressed calf's head or lamb's head.—See No. 748. 539. For Balls.—Roll with two teaspoons the above mixture into small balls with more egg and flour, and fry them. 540. Croquets and Rissoles.—These little useful dishes differ from savoury patties only in shape. They are alike made of cold chicken, sweetbreads, veal, or any nice bit of white meat that is left cold. Mince the meat, season it, and stew it for two minutes in gravy. Croquets are minced meat of various kinds rolled up as small sausages, dipped in egg, and rolled in bread-crumbs, fried a light brown, and served with nicely-fried parsley. We give an example: Croquets of Shrimps.—Pound to a fine paste a quart of fresh- shelled shrimps, with two ounces of butter, and mace, nut- meg, and cayenne, to taste. Pour hot milk over two ounces of stale bread, and soak for twenty minutes. Make it a dry panada, as at No. 694, and pound it with the shrimp paste, mixing in gradually two whisked eggs. When cold and firm, roll the mixture into croquets the size of olives; and egg, crumb, and fry or poach them for five or six minutes, according to their size. Rissoles are made in thin puff- paste, in any form you please, spreading a little of the mince on the paste, and doubling it up like an apple-pasty; or they are served as balls rolled up in paste and fried, and garnished with parsley.—See French Cookery^ Hors d^ceuvreSj from No. 670 to 678. 541. Canapes.—Take the crumb of a large loaf, cut it in slices the thickness of three quarters of an inch; afterwards cut or stamp the slices into pretty forms, and fry them of a nice colour in oil or butter; mince separately the hard yolks and whites of eggs, cucumbers, capers, anchovies, in strips, different fine herbs, small salad herbs, etc., and put them in a little oil; season the canapes [i.e. the fried bread) with salt, pepper, and vinegar; dress handsomely, and garnish tastefully with cut hard eggs, or ham, beetroot, small rad- ishes, anchovies, capers, cresses, etc., etc., and serve uponCHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. 332 dishes as Hors d^ceuvres^ i.e. relishes. Canapes are also made of skates' livers, and other things, as the above Hors d^ceuvres. 542. Pork-Sausages.—Mince the fat and lean of pork, keeping out skins and gristles, and season it well with salt, black and Jamaica ground pepper, and chopped sage. Clean and half fill the guts, and fry the sausages. Sausage-meat of all sorts may be cemented with egg, and cooked either in rolls, i.e. cannelons^ or in small cakes. 543. Oxford-Sausages.—Take equal quantities of veal and pork, mince them, and add a half of the weight of beef- suet ; mix and season this well, as directed above, and add, if to be cooked the same day, a small quantity of the crumb of fresh bread, steeped in water.—Ohs. A chopped anchovy is thought an improvement to these sausages. Lemon-peel, grated nutmeg, lemon-thy me, savory sweet marjoram, and basil, formerly used for these compositions, are now getting obsolete. 543'^. Oxford-John.—Cut thin small collops from a leg of mutton, and clear them of fat and sinews. Season to your taste, and put into a small stewpan in which a good lump of butter (proportioned to the collops) has been melted. Stir with a wooden spoon until the collops are three parts done, when add gravy in proportion to the quantity, a bit of roux^ and a squeeze of lemon or a little of any flavoured vinegar you prefer. Simmer for five minutes and serve in a hash-dish with sippets. Oxford-John of Venison^ No. 502, is a superb dish. 544. Epping-Sausages.—Take equal quantities of young tender pork and beef-suet. Mince them very finely, and season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, a sprinkling of sage, and some thin rind of bacon. Roll up with egg and fry. 545. Imitation Bologna-Sausages.—Take equal weight of bacon, beef, pork, and veal. Mince, and season high with pepper, salt, and sage. Fill a well-cleaned gut, and boil for an hour; or smoke and dry them for future use. 546. Beauvilliers-Sausages.—Mince what quantity of fresh pork will be necessary; mix with it equal to a quarter of lard; add salt and fine spices; fill the skins and tie them ; hang them in wood-smoke for three days ; then cook themSAUSAGT.S. 333 in bouillon for three hours, with salt, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay, basil, parsley, and young onions; when cold, serve upon a napkin. 547. Smoked Scotch-Sausages^ to keep and eat cold.—Salt a piece of beef for two days, and mince it with suet. Sea- son it highly with pepper, salt, onion, or eschalot. Fill a large well-cleaned ox-gut, plait it in links, and hang the sausage in the chimney to dry or smoke.* Boil it as wanted, either a single link or altogether. No onion, if to keep, 548. Common Beef-Sausages.—These are made of minced beef, with seasonings, and a proportion of suet. The crumb of a penny-loaf, soaked in water, is allowed to every three pounds of meat, before filling the skins. 549. Savaloys.—Take a piece of tender pork, free from skin and gristles, and salt it with common salt and a little saltpetre. In two or three days mince it, and season with pepper, chopped sage, and a little grated bread. Fill the gut, and bake the savaloys for a half-hour in a moderate oven. If to be eaten cold, let the meat lie a day or two longer in the salt.—Ohs. Sausage-meat may be broiled in a veal-caul, as a cake, first pressing it to a flat shape. It may be reddened with a little saltpetre. If to be used imme- diately, oysters, mushrooms, etc., may be put to sausages to heighten the flavour. See Boudins, French Cookery. 549^. Roll of Beef Veal, or Lamb.—Mince finely or beat from two to three pounds of the lean of juicy beef, with either a pound of good fresh streaky bacon or beef-suet. Season rather highly with salt, pepper, nutmeg, the grated peel of a lemon, a small teaspoonful of minced thyme, and a minced eschalot. Mix thoroughly well. Koll up in good shape ; wrap in double folds of buttered paper; cover with water paste as in roasting venison, and bake for two hours. For lamb or veal use bacon always; and mushrooms will be found an improvement. Uncase, and serve with a sauce suitable to the meat employed, as cucumber or tomata with lamb. * Some of these sausages used to be made when a Mart was killed: they formed an excellent article of supply for the hill, the moor, or the boat; and in the Hebrides and remote parts of the Highlands they still hold an honoured place in the wide open smoky chimney. Bologna-sausages labour under the calumnious imputation of being made of asses' flesh. It is said the celebrated Fetter-Lane sausages owed their flavour and fame to sweet basil.334 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. 550. Devils and Diablotins. Though what go by the ugly name, devils, are often served at supper or luncheon, they are most commonly considered as provocatives and stimulants,—a relish with wine, or a spur to a jaded appetite. Their preparation must accordingly vary with the momentary tastes or neces- sities of the consumers. The only indispensable attribute of the common familiar cock-crow devil for the rere-suppevj is scorching heat, and tear-compelling pungency. Devils are made of the legs, rumps, backs, and gizzards of cold turkey, goose, duck, capon; and of all kinds of game, particularly the backs of moor-game, which have a peculiarly stimulating bitter; and also of venison, veal, and mutton kidney, fish bones (p. 165), and of biscuits or rusks. The meat to be dressed in this way must be scored, that the seasonings may find suitable places of retreat. The seasgnings, which con- sist of salt, pepper, cayenne, and curry, mushroom, anchovy, or truffle powder, must be administered at the discretion of the consumer. It is a good mode to have the things sea- soned at table, and then sent to the kitchen-fire. The devils must be broiled on a strong clear fire, and served in a hot- water dish, or one with a spirit-lamp. When not served dry as a relish with wine, the proper sauces for devils are grill- sauce, anchovy-sauce, or any very piquant sauce. Dry toasts or rusks are a proper accompaniment to devil'd poul- try, etc.* * The following receipt for the preparation of devils is the best that has yet been disclosed; for in this philosophic and amateur department of cookery profound mystery has hitherto been observed: " Mix equal parts of common salt, pounded cayenne, and curry-powder, with double the quan- tity of mushroom or truffle powder. Dissect a brace of woodcocks (if under-roasted so much the better), split the heads, divide and subdivide the legs, wings, back, etc., and powder all the pieces with the seasonings well mixed. Bruise the trail and brains with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, a very little pounded mace, the grate of half a lemon, and half a spoonful of soy. Rub these together till they become smooth, and add a table- spoonful of catsup, a glass of Madeira, and the juice of two Seville oranges. Throw this sauce, along with the birds, into a silver stew-dish to be heated by a lamp. Cover it close, and keep gently simmering, occasionally stir- ring, until the flesh has imbibed the greater quantity of the liquid. When you have reason to suppose it is completely saturated, throw in a small quantity of salad-oil, and stirring it all once more well together, serve it round instantly." The only remaining direction the writer of this admir- able receipt gives, is, that as in picking the bones your fingers must neces- sarily be impregnated with the flavour of the devil, you must be careful, in licking them, not to swallow them entirely. These devils are nearly the French Tables Salmis.335 SANDWICHES AND ANCHOVY TOAST. 551. DevlVd Biscuit.—Heat captain's biscuits before the fire, and spread over them the same ingredients, with cayenne, as for anchovy-toasts, No. 554. Many other in- gredients are used, and also the medicated Zests sold in the shops. The anchovy-powder, No. 326, answers well.—See Le Bon Diable^ No. 768, and Hors d'oeuvres^ No. 678^. 552. Sandwiches,—These are a convenient and economi- cal, but, at the same time, a rather suspicious order of culi- nary preparations, especially in hotels and public gardens. Sandwiches may be made of chicken, ham, or tongue, sliced or grated; of German or common pork-sausage, cold salted rump, anchovies, shrimps, sprats, potted cheese, or hard yolks of egg, and Parmesan or Cheshire cheese pounded with butter; also of forcemeat, and potted meat of various kinds, cold poultry, with whatever seasonings, as mustard, curry-powder, etc., etc., are most suitable to the meat of which the sandwich is made. The only particular directions that can be given are, to have them fresh-made, and to cut the bread (sandwich loaves baked on purpose) in neat even slices, of any shapes that are fancied, and not too large— about two mouthfuls—nor thick, and to butter it very slightly. Mustard is added where suitable. Twist neatly up in paper.—See Sweet Sandwiclies. 553. A Cheese-Sandwich.—Take two parts of grated Par- mesan or Cheshire cheese, one of butter, and a small propor- tion of made-mustard; pound them in a mortar; cover slices of bread with a little of this, and lay over it very thin slices of ham, or any cured meat; cover with another slice of bread, press them together, and cut this into mouthfuls, that they may be lifted with a fork.—Obs. An anchovy may be pounded with the mixture, if liked. 554. Anchovy and otlier Savoury Toasts.—Cut slices of bread as for sandwiches, but keep them larger, and fry them nicely in fresh butter. Spread them with anchovy-butter, or boned anchovies and butter freshly pounded together, and lay some quartered anchovies above all. Brown this, if you like, with a salamander, and serve very hot. Toasts.—The old French cookery possessed an endless variety of Toasts^ some of which are still worthy of attention; as Friar's Toast, which was exactly our modern Anchovy Toast sprinkled over with chopped parsley, eschalot, and capers.336 CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. Britanny Toasts were made of chopped salad-herbs, with salad-sauce. Veal-kidney Toasts were rather a luscious mess; the minced kidney, seasoned with eschalot and parsley, and mixed with egg and bread-crumbs, was in fact a piquant forcemeat spread on a toast, which was baked and served hot. Ham Toasts were made thus :—The slices were soaked to freshen them, in the first place, when this was needful, or the ham was minced. Afterwards they were soaked in a stewpan in butter and seasonings for a few minutes; the toasts were fried in the same pan. The slices were drained and dished hot on the toasts, and a little hot gravy, with pepper, salt, and vinegar, poured over them. There were toasts still more recherche made of fat livers, skate-livers, etc., all appropriate to the rere supper of old convivial times, but scarcely admissible into the cookery of modern regu- larly-constituted families. See Hors d^ceuvres^ French Cookery, No. 6782. 555. BamaJdns.—Take equal parts of sound Cheshire and double Gloucester cheese and of fresh butter, and having crumbled or grated the cheese, beat the whole to a paste, with three or four raw yolks of eggs, and the crumb of a new French roll previously soaked in hot milk. Mix the paste with the whites of two of the eggs first well whisked. Season with a little salt, pepper, and pounded mace. Fill small paper pans, or very small saucers, half-full with the mixture, and bake the ramakins in a Dutch oven. Serve them quite hot, which is peculiarly requisite for every relish- ing preparation of cheese.— Obs. This batter is also served over boiled macaroni; or with stewed celery, asparagus, cauliflower, or brocoli. Stilton, Parmesan, or Greuyere cheese will make a more relishing ramakin where expense is not considered.—See Fondu, French Cookery, No. 678, and No. 553. 556. Fastry BamaMns.—Take any bits of puff-paste that remain from covering pies, tarts, etc., and roll them lightly out. Sprinkle grated cheese of any rich high-flavoured kind over them. Fold the paste up in three, or only double it, but sprinkle every fold with grated cheese. Shape the ramakins with a paste-runner to any shape, and bake and serve them hot on a napkin or as relishes. This is almost the French Brioche au fromage.337 MACARONI—CHEESE. 557. To Dress Macaroni in the test way.—Wash it well, and boil it slowly in water, till it is plump and tender, but not soft,—from twelve to fifteen minutes. Strain it, and add strong well-flavoured stock to it. When quite tender, season it with white pepper and cayenne, and when soft, but not broken, put it into the dish and serve over it in layers, grated Stilton, Parmesan, Greuyere, or other piquant cheese, in the proportions of six or eight ounces to half a pound ot macaroni. Brown it in a Dutch oven.—N.B. The more cheese, the more piquant is the macaroni. The old ewe-milk cheese of the Scottish Border we have found an admirable substitute for Greuyere. This dish is fashionably made en timballe. The timballe-shape is lined with slices of bacon, which are taken off before the macaroni, moulded in paste, is turned out and served, either with a brown sauce, or with gravy in the dish.—Ohs, Instead of gravy-stock, butter is often used. It may also be covered with ramakin-batter, or boiled with milk instead of water, or stewed in white ragout-sauce, with a little chopped lean ham. The grated cheese may also be laid in layers mixed up with the boiled macaroni, when, having dished it, strew fine bread-crumbs lightly over the top, and pour melted butter on the crur^bs through a colander. Brown it in a Dutch oven, as above, or with a salamander. — See Macaroni Pudding^ and Sughlio, 558. To Pot Cheese.—Cut down half a pound of good sound mellow Stilton, with two ounces of fresh butter ; add a little mace and made-mustard. Beat this well in a mortar, and, pressing it close in a potting-can, cover with clarified butter if to be long kept.—Ohs. Curry or anchovy powder, cayenne, or pepper, may all be added to the cheese, and we consider them more suitable than mace. 559. Toast and Cheese.—Pare the crust off a slice of bread cut smooth, and of about a half-inch in thickness. Toast it, but do not let it wither or harden in the toasting. Butter and cover the toast with slices of sound fat Stilton, Gouda, or Dunlop cheese of the first quality. Lay the toasts on a cheese-toaster, and notice that the cheese is equally done. Pepper, salt, and made-mustard are to be added at discre- tion.—Ohs. The toasts may be covered with the cheese pre- viously grated or chopped, which will facilitate the equal pCHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. 333 melting of it; or tlie cheese may be toasted on the under side before being put upon the bread. 560. Cheese-Fritters,—Pound good cheese with bread- crumbs, raw yolks, rasped ham, and butter. Make this into small oval balls; flatten, dip in stiff fritter-batter, No. 882, and fry them. 561. Savoury Cheesecakes.—Take four ounces of butter, four of good grated cheese, four beat eggs, a little cream, salt, and pepper; mix, and bake in paste cases. 562. Braised Cheese.—Melt some slices of any rich mild cheese in a small dish over a lamp or over steam. Add })utter and pepper, and mustard if chosen. Have ready a soft toast in a hot-water dish or cheese-dish with a hot-water reservoir, and spread the cheese on the toast. 563. Welsh-Gallimaufry.—Mix well, in a mortar, cheese with butter, and mustard. Add wine, flavoured, and vine- gar, or any such ingredient admired, ad libitum. 564. A Scotch'Rahhit.—^^Cut, toast, and butter the bread, as in No. 559, and keep it hot. Grate down mellow Stilton, Gouda, Cheshire, or good Dunlop cheese ; and, if not rich, put to it some bits of fresh butter. Put this into a cheese- toaster which has a hot-water reservoir, and add to it a small glassful of well-flavoured brown-stout porter, a tea- spoonful of made-mustard, and pepper (very finely ground) to taste. Stir the mixture till it is completely dissolved, brown it, and then, filling the reservoir with boiling water, serve the cheese, with hot, dry, or buttered toasts, on a separate dish.—Ohs. This is one of the best plain preparations of the kind that we are acquainted with. Some gourmand's use red wine instead of porter; but the latter liquor is much better adapted to the flavour of cheese. Others use a proportion of soft putrid cheese, or the whole of it in that Btate. This is, of course, a matter of taste beyond the juris- diction of any culinary dictator. To dip the toasts in hot porter makes another variety in this preparation.—Pasped Parmesan is largely used by Italian and French cooks to flavour ragouts and soups, and many dishes of vegetables. It is seldomer employed in our insular cookery than it should be.CHEESE EGGS. 339 565. Cheese to Serve as a Eelish.—Greite three ounces of good mellow cheese, and the same quantity of bread. Mix these with two ounces of butter, the beat yolks of two eggs, some made-mustard, pepper, and salt. Mash in a mortar, and spread this paste on small toasts, which cut as sippets. Toast, brown, and trim these, and serve them very hot.* Different Ways of Dressing Eggs and Omelets. 566, To Poach Eggs.—Boil and skim spring-water. Put a little vinegar to it. Open the eggs (which should be at least two days laid) with the point of a knife, that the meat may slide gently out without breaking. Take off the stew- pan, and slide them gently into the boiling water, taking care to break their fall. Turn the shell above the egg as you dip it into the water to gather in all the white. Let the saucepan stand by the side of the fire till the whife is set, and then put it on the fire for two minutes. Take up the eggs with a slice; trim away the broken parts of the whites, and serve them on toasts, slices of cold meat, broiled pork-sausages, spinage, brocoli, sorrel • also with veal-gravy. —Obs, Poached eggs may be served with a sauce of grated ham, shred onions, parsley, pepper, and salt, stewed for ten minutes in weak stock. When ready, thicken and strain the sauce, and, when it is a little cool, cover the eggs with * Toasted Cheese.—This academic, histrionic, and poetical preparation has produced a good deal of discussion in its day. The Welsh-Rahhit (by the way, we are inclined to think with a learned friend that the true read- ing is Welsh-Rarebit) has ever been a favourite morsel with those gentle- men who think a second supper fairly worth the other three regularly- administered meals of the day. The twenty-eighth maxim of O'DoHERTr is wholly dedicated to this tasteful subject, and his culinary opinions are worthy of profound attention. " It is the cant of the day," quoth Sir Morgan, " to say that a Welsh-Rabbit is heavy eating. I know this,— but did I ever feel it in my own case ?—Certainly not. I like it best in the genuine Welsh way, however:—that is, the toasted bread buttered on both sides profusely; then a layer of cold roast-beef, with mustard and. horseradish; and then, on the top of all, a superstratum of Cheshire thoroughly saturated, while in the process of toasting, with civrio^ or, in its absence, porter—genuine porter—black pepper, and eschalot-vinegar. I peril myself upon the assertion, that this is not a heavy supper for a man who has been busy all day till dinner in reading, writing, walking, or riding,—who has occupied himself between dinner and supper in the dis- cussion of a bottle or two of sound wine, or any equivalent, and who pro- poses to swallow at least three tumblers of something hot ere he resigns himself to the embrace of Somnus. With these provisoes, I recommend toasted cheese for supper."340 CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. it. They may be poached in butter or gravy, and neatly served in silver tablespoons. See Nos. 674^, 675, 676, and 737. 567. To Fry Eggs.— Carefully break the eggs into a small fryingpan, in which is melted butter, and have ready some butter fried in another pan to ladle over them. Fry them at a good distance above the fire.—See No. 51. 568. Mushroom and Egg Dish.—Slice, fry, and drain some large onions, and a few button-mushrooms. Slice hard-boiled eggs, the yolks and white separately, and either simmer the whole in fresh butter with pepper, salt, mustard, and eschalot-vinegar, or in good gravy. Put in the sliced yolks last, and only let them remain about a minute. Serve very hot, and garnish with curled parsley and a few light rings of the white of the eggs. 569. Swiss Eggs.—Mix two ounces of grated cheese and two of melted butter with six beat eggs. Season with salt, pepper, shred parsley, and young onions. Cook the mixture lightly in the fryingpan. Brown the upper side with a salamander, and serve very hot. 570. To Butter Eggs.—Beat six eggs well up in a basin. Set two ounces of fresh butter to melt in another basin placed in boiling water. Stir the eggs and butter together; add pepper and salt, and a finely-minced onion, if it is liked. Pour the mixture into a small saucepan, and toss it over a slow fire for a few seconds, then pour it into a large basin; skink the mixture backwards and forwards, setting it on the fire occasionally, but keeping it constantly briskly agitated till thickened. Serve on toasts, or as an accompaniment to salt fish, or red herrings. This is the Scotch rumbled eggs^ and the French oeufs brouilles, 571. Scotch Eggs.—Five eggs make a dish. Boil them hard. Shell and dip them in beat egg, and cover them with a forcemeat made of grated ham, chopped anchovy, crumbs, mixed spices, etc. Fry them nicely in good clarified dripping or lard, and serve them with a gravy sauce separately.— Obs. Eggs may be boiled half-hard, peeled, wrapped in pufF- paste, dipped in egg and crumbs, fried and served as a corner-dish or supper-dish. Eggs for a small dish may also be boiled hard, sliced, and served in a white ragout-sauce,341 OMELETS EGGS. dishing them with a whole yolk in the middle. Curled slips of bacon, toasted sippets, fried parsley, mushrooms, etc., form appropriate accompaniments and garnishings to dishes of eggs.—See French Cookery for oilier Preparations of Eggs, Nos. 674^, 675, 676, and 737. 572. An Omelet—Beat up six eggs with salt, pepper in fine powder, a large spoonful of parsley very finely shred, half the quantity of chives or green onions, a small bit of eschalot, if liked, some grated ham or tongue; or if for maigre days, to which this dish is considered appropriate, lobster-meat, the soft part of oysters, shrimps, or grated cheese, may be used. Let the several things be very finely minced or rubbed through a sieve, and well mixed with the batter, adding a large spoonful of flour and some bits of butter. Fry the omelet in plenty of very hot butter in a nice fryingpan, or better, omelet-pan, stirring it constantly with a spoon till it firm, and then lifting the edges with a knife, that the butter may get below. It must not be over- dressed, or it will get tough and dry. Carefully turn the omelet, by placing a plate over it, and slip it into the frying- pan to brown on the other side: or, without turning, brown, with a salamander, or hold the pan before the fire till the raw is taken off the upper side:—double it, trim, and serve very hot.—Ohs. A more delicate but less relishing omelet may be made by seasoning the batter with lemon-peel, mace, nutmeg, etc., and using neither meat nor fish. Some cooks put a little pulped apple, or mashed potato, to omelets; others flavour them with tarragon and mushroom-powder. Omelets may have grated ham, minced roast-veal, kidney, or grated Parmesan cheese, sprinkled over them. In the old French cookery, omelets were garnished with anchovies, fat livers, red herrings, and all the pungent herbs used for toasts. To a simple omelet, the squeeze of a lemon or Seville orange is an improvement. Sweet omelets are made by rolling up apricot-jam, or any suitable preserved sweet- meat, in fine pancakes.—See Nos. 879 and 958. 573. Asparagus and Eggs,—Beat three or four eggs well with pepper and salt. Cut some dressed asparagus into pieces the size of pease, and stir them into the eggs. Melt two ounces of butter in a small stewpan, and, pouring in the mixture, stir it till it thicken, and serve it hot on a toast.—342 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. Ohs. Eggs may be made into a pie, using mince-pie meat with tlie hard-boiled chopped eggs. They may be served as a vol-au-ventj or with sippets, etc. Eggs may be filled with a relishing forcemeat, using the hard yolks as a part of the farce. Of''the three hundred ways" of cooking eggs, we have given enough. The cook must use her discretion in the variations upon eggs and omelets.—See Nos. 51, 675, 676, 677, and 737. 574. Vol-au-mnt—With a paste-runner cut puff-paste which has got six turns and been doubled, into the shape of the dish in which the vol-au-vent is to be served. Lay it on a baking-tin with a ledge, and ornament and brush it over with yolk of egg. Open it lightly all round with the point of a knife, leaving an edge, and when baked in a sharp oven, open the place marked, without breaking the top; scrape out all the inside paste, fill with any white fricassee, as chickens, rabbits, sweetbreads, or with scollops of turbot or cod, fillets of soles, etc., and replace the top.—Ohs, One main use of a vol-uu-vent is, that it gives a handsome form to things left cold. For second courses, vols-au-vent may be fancifully marked round the border in a wreath of leaves, and have sweetmeats or delicately-dressed vegetables served in them. 575. Edgings to Dishes.—These are made (to serve made- dishes in) of bread, rice, mashed or small peeled potatoes, hard-boiled eggs, sliced beet, lemon, etc., and also orna- mented pastry edgings: and for sweet dishes (served in glass or china) of small drop-biscuit, caramelled fruit, nuts, or almonds, stuck on with candied sugar. These edgings, and casseroles^ croustades, casserolettes, and other garnitures^ are most suitable to French dishes. 576. Bread-Borders.—Take firm stale bread, cut the crumb into slices of the thickness of the blade of a knife; stamp those slices into any form; heat pot-top oil in a stew- pan, and put in the sippets; fry them some white and some brown. When crisp, drain and dry them; and put them up separately in paper cases according to form and colour. When they are wanted, pierce the end of an egg, let a little of the white out, and beat it with the blade of a knife; mix a little flour; heat your dish a little; dip one side of the343 CASSEROLES CROUSTADES. sippet into the beaten paste, and stick it on the dish ; in this manner continue till the border is finished. Care must be taken not to heat the dish too much, or the sippet will not adhere. 577. Rice-Casserole^ in the French Style,—Anglo-French cooks often serve several dishes for which with us paste is used in a crust made of boiled rice, en casserole. There are sweet and also savoury casseroles, and the rice must be seasoned accordingly. Cold as well as re-dressed things may be thus served. Fowls, chicken, lamb's and sheep's trotters, veal and lamb rumps, palates, fillets of turbot, soles, etc., all previously cooked, may be served en casserole^ which is a handsome and not expensive mode. Boil slowly one or two pounds of rice, as you require. Put to it, when quite soft and dry, some consomme^ if wanted for a savoury dish, and (at first) two onions and salt. Water, about a quart to the pound of rice. When you feel it quite soft, let it cool, and then work it well with a wooden spoon into a paste. Cover the bottom of a baking-tin with this paste, laid four inches high by seven wide for an ordinary casserole. Make the outside very smooth; carve it in bold relief; and mark on the top a cover, about four inches in diameter. Make round this cover a pretty deep incision; pour clarified butter over the whole, and bake it on a trivet about an hour, or till it become a fine amber. Take off the cover, now become an upper crust; scoop out the pulp below, leaving the bottom thin; fill the hollow or centre of the casserole with your pre- pared ragout, of whatever kind. Pour in a little of some appropriate sauce ; put on the cover, and before serving glaze the prominent parts of the ornamental design. ^ Casseroles are easier made in moulds. 578. An English-Casserole^ or rice-border for made-dishes, is thus prepared:— Soak and stew the rice with salt and a blade of mace. If wanted rich, put butter and the beat yolks of eggs to it when ready. Place it neatly on the dish as an edging three inches high; glaze with egg, and set in the oven to colour before heaping the curry, hash, pillau, or whatever the dish is^ in the middle of it. 579. Croustades^ or Bread prepared in which to serve Ragouts^ etc.—Loaves are baked for croustades in egg or heart-shaped moulds about from six to eight inches long.344 CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES Scoop out the crumb; fry these crusts or cases in butter or top-fat; drain, dry, and line them with gratin (No. 693), and fill with any fresh or re-dressed ragout. They are made small also. Moulds of this kind are made in Scotland of mashed potatoes (waxy ones are best, or a little flour may be added to them). These small potato-crusts may be made as Westphalia loaves, No. 225, and filled with any mince, and piled up in the dish pyramidically. What in cookery we call rolls and loaves are much the same as croustades.— See also Nos. 81, 86, and 262. 580. Fairy Butter.—To six hard-boiled yolks add a half- pound of fresh butter, and the same weight of sifted sugar. Pound this with a spoonful or two of orange-flower water to keep it from oiling, and squirt it, or rub it through a tightened cheese-cloth, or sieve. It may also be forced through the cloth in delicate coral-like wavy threads, by tying the cloth over the butter, twisting a stick made fast to a hook or door-lock in the cloth, and wringing out the butter on the dish it is to garnish. It is served over ham and bread for breakfast, and for garnishing; or by itself, as a little dish, garnished with savoury jelly.— See Nos. 601, 1201. *** "We must at the close, as at the beginning of this Chapter, again state, that if it be impossible to teach the simplest processes of plain cookery, by written directions, to the uninitiated or imperfectly instructed, it is not less so to teach the business of the Pastry-cook. Vols-au-vent^ for example, of whatever size, timbales, or casseroles of rice, and a long list of such showy and tasteful articles, must be seen done to be properly understood; and also require both aptitude to learn, and the frequent practice which alone can give the requisite manual dexterity.345 CHAPTER II. A COMPENDIUM OP PEEITOH dOOKEET, REVISED AND ENLARGED; CONSISTING OF RECEIPTS FOR SOME OF THE MOST APPROVED ENTRl^ES AND ENTREMETS, SOUPS, FISH, SAUCES, AND PASTRY. La gloire de la cuisine FrariQaise remplit Tunivers entier! Le Gastronome Frangais* Muse, sing the man that did to Paris go, That he might taste their Soups, and /Sauces know.—Dr King. It will save much trouble, to admit at once, that the French are the greatest cooking nation on earth. They, at least, insist that it is so, and perhaps they may be in the right. This much is certain, that in France alone the culinary art is regarded as an exact science, of which every one under- stands something, and feels pride in his knowledge. French cooks, no doubt, like French milliners and perfumers, like to magnify their art, and, like other professional people, sometimes make a mighty fuss about trifles, to keep up a show of doing work. How grandly that superlative cox- comb, M. Careme, for example, speaks of his art! Hear him on the decorations of the aspic, the aspics d la moderne, and his own designs for them;—"These designs," he says, belong to the highest walk of art, and attest our modern taste. Whilst inferior cooks compose their decorations with an infinity of trifling details, signifying nothing, mingling five or six colours to form a single decoration, which thus becomes truly insupportable." It is, however, a good rule of Careme and his modern brotherhood to have decorations of tvjo colours only. Both French home millinery and cookery are greatly refined in colouring, and really in advance of the rest of Europe. It must also be allowed that the various branches of economy connected with the kitchen are well understood; and that the art of making the most and best of every thing is diligently practised. The causes of the acknowledged superiority of the French it is not our present p 2346 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. business to investigate; our main concern being with those matters in which this confessed excellence consists. But there is one cause of superiority so important that it must be mentioned,—namely, the extreme patience and anxiety with which the most restless people in the world, upon all other occasions, attend to culinary processes. A French cook will give a half-day to the deliberate cookery of a dish, which an English one would toss off in a half-hour; and will watch the first popple of his stewpan as if it were the last pulse of life. Any one who has seen a French cook attending to the veloute, preparing the Mayonnaise^ decorating a salad, or pounding quenelles^ as if life and death depended on his function, may have some idea of the importance of his art in his own estimation. Another evident cause of French supe- riority is the comparative plenty of game, fine herbs, and vegetables, mushrooms, truffles, etc.; the cheapness of poultry, and of wines of high flavour; and also, paradoxical as it may seem, the high price of fuel in France. So scientifically is the culinary art understood by our neighbours, that a French kitchen, previous to a grand dinner, is a perfect arsenal of consomme^ gravies^ glaze^ roux^ and mixed spicesj all prepared in the best, and generally in the most economical manner; for, however it may be in this country with those ministers of vanity imported to English kitchens by luxury and ostentation, economy, we say it again, is thoroughly understood in France. Though objections are brought to the high relish of French dishes, we will venture to affirm, that the receipts given in oiu' English Cookery Books, with their heterogeneous mixture of a thousand and one ingredients, are not only more expensive, but less simple than those of Beauvilliers or Balaire. We speak not of Careme ; he was the Chef of emperors and millionaires. But if honne cliere is so well understood by our neighbours, hon gout^ in all matters connected with the table as with the fete^ is their undoubted/or^e. They study to propitiate the eye. It is their pride to present the humblest fare in an appetizing form. The French are allowed to excel in soups and entrees^ and in the refined preparation of sauces. They have also more and better ways of dressing vegetables than are prac- tised by us, by which they can, at small expense, add to the variety, fulness, and good appearance of a table. Their modes of cookery, by braising^ dressing in a hlanc^ or in aFRENCH COOKERY. 347 poele^ deserve tlie attention of every lover of good cheer. The French have also ever been pre-eminent as a larding nation, and as skilful in glaze. Now, though we seldom prize varnished meat, nor over-admire larding^ where meat is really good, we do highly value that union of economy with hon gout^ which enables the French to turn every cold left dish to good account, in the well-known elegant varieties of timbales^ scallops^ vols-au-vent; or by dressing in casserole, or as croquets, etc. This branch of French cookery is worth the attention of every refined economist; for though one, for example, does not go to the expense of always serving a piece of cold turbot as a dressed salad or a vol-au-vent, it is excellent to know how the cold fish is best prepared for serving in a plainer style. There is already much French cookery blended with our own, and of late we are taking to the names as well as to the dishes. Every modern cook who would thoroughly know her art must study the best French dishes, as modified by English taste and usage; and to do this she must be acquainted with the leading features of the French system. In this Chapter, therefore, besides a copious selection of receipts for the best French dishes, we have given the Ele- ments OF French Cookery ; and throughout the work, wdierever the French mode seemed to deserve approbation in any particular receipt, the variation has been pointed out. This we take leave to consider a feature as beautiful as it is original in The Cleikum Institutes of Modern Anglo- French Cookery. There are, in fact, ten times more French receipts intermixed with our English ones than are given in the following Compendium. It has already been mentioned that the Grand Divisions of a French dinner are, the First Course, or entrees, and the Second Course, or entremets. The entrees are made-dishes, generally served with sauce poured over or about them. The entremets are either savoury or sweet dishes, all sorts of pastry, creams, cakes, moulded jellies; iced puddings, with preserved fruits; fine vegetables, sweet omelets, etc. The glory of a French dinner—to the cook at least—con- sists principally in the number and excellence of the entrees and entremets; though the soups, roasts, fish, side-dishes or flancs, and removes, are not overlooked. At a small but recherche dinner, while a rump-steak stewed, or a piece of348 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. salmon—both d, la sometliing or other—fills the centre of the table, and constitutes the solid part, there are arranged round it four highly-dressed entrees; or, if economy is studied, two entrees^ and two more of vegetables dressed. We give two examples by M. Soyer:— Bill of Fare for a Dinner for a party of two or three ladies. —Centre, fillets of soles d la Hollandaise^ and round this, two lamb cutlets, with pease; a fillet of game, with a puree of mushrooms; two quenelles of rabbits with truf[les; and half a partridge in Salmi, A plainer Bill of Fare for a gentleman or two.—In the centre a slice of cod and oyster-sauce round it.—Entrees, 1st, Two mutton-cutlets, a la Reforme ; 2d, Four Jerusalem artichokes, d la Bechamel; 3d, Fried potatoes; 4th, Minced beef, with sauce piquante. Recherche Bill of Fare for a small Anglo-French Dinner. —Centre, a slice of salmon, en matelote. Entrees—1st, Two fillets of grouse, a la Bohemienne; 2d, Two escalopes of beef, with poivrade-sauce; 3d, Two croquets of chicken, with a puree of fat livers; 4th, A veal sweetbread, d la Financiers For larger Anglo-French dinners, with six entrees, may be served soup—the indispensable potage—fish of some kind (dressed with a particular sauce having a fine name), and removes, which consist of all manner of roasts, fries, and stews; a loin of veal, wdth celery, or roots; neck of veal, with Brussels sprouts; breast of veal, with pease ; calf's head dressed in several ways, or as turtle; beef-tongues stewed, etc. Turkey, pheasants, hare, game and poultry, etc., are all proper removes of top and bottom dishes. Side- dishes, or flancs^ consist of such things as small hams; tongues glazed and dressed in various ways; loins and necks of veal, mutton, and lamb, in many ways; spring chickens, with asparagus or mushrooms; ducklings, with green pease; hot small pies, of several sorts; casseroles of rice, of various kinds, suitably filled. The flancs ought properly to consist of one solid dish; but it is often convenient to dispense with so many solid pieces; and in this case some of the hors d^ceuvres may occupy the place flanks ought to take in a fully furnished table. If so, the pastry cases of the partic- ular article ought to be made larger than when hors d^oeuvres349 ANGLO-FRENCH DINNERS. are handed round; and more of them should be placed in the dish. We shall give a bill for a French-English dinner, which ought to content the great Careme himself. Top.—Hare soup, d la St George, Remove. — Boiled Turkey, with celery-sauce.—Epergne. Bottom.—Slices of turbot, with lobster-sauce. Two Flancs.—Tongue glazed, and neck of lamb d la Maitre Hotel. Four entrees for the corners.—1 st, Tendons de veau, with tomata-sauce; 2d, Fillets of chickens, with cucumbers; 3d, Salmi of grouse; 4th, Fillets of rabbit, with mushrooms. Sauces and vege- tables on the side-table. For the Second Course.—Top.—A pheasant with cresses. Bottom.—Smaller birds of some game sort. Two Flancs.— Nesselrode pudding; and a pyramid of pastry. Entremets, 1st, Pine-apple jelly; 2d, Bavaroise of apricots; 3d, Pears in rice ; 4th, Omelets a la Celestine.—These bills may be multiplied and varied ad infinitum.—Besides the divisions of dishes we have enumerated, the French-English kitchen has its Fish, its Vegetable, and its savoury dishes. In France the savoury dishes are served in the first course only; but in England they are, at convenience, served with either the first or second course ; and are equally ap- propriate to luncheons, collations, dejeuners d la fourchette, and suppers. Large savoury dishes consist of large game- pies ; cold tongues ornamented, cold hams decorated, galan- tines of different sorts, cutlets of mutton, veal, or lamb, dressed in various ways: cold and hot savoury pies; salads of all sorts of game and of lobsters; Mayonnaise or gratins of lobster, soles, and oysters; cold salmon and trout, cooked in a marinade; and an endless number of savoury and piquant things in character resembling hoi^s d^ceuvres, but differing in size, and in the manner of serving. The above gives a general idea of the grand divisions in French cookery. In that cookery there is much that is admirable, and in the cooks themselves much that is fantas- tical or positively absurd. Yet a French salad is a very good preparation, though there are so many trifling, ela- borate, and really nonsensical ways employed to decorate it. English cooks must use their discretion in adopting those finical and endless fillets of egg and anchovies, and bits of carved carrot, alternated with morsels of beet, which the350 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. simplicity of good taste disclaims altogether, as miich as it does the profusion of bows and cocques of ribbon, bits of fringe, and gimp, a button here, and a tag there, of French milliners. The great Careme seems to have a chaster taste in garnitures than most of his contemporaries; yet the minister of pampered luxury and boundless wealth, of the Emperor Alexander and of Rothschild, cannot be the best model or guide for the cook of a modest English family of middle rank, nor even for families of higher station. This much premised, and these needful cautions given, we pro- ceed to our compendious exposition of—the French Culi- nary System. 681. First Step in French Cookery: Stock-Broth, or Grand Bouillon. This foundation of soups and sauces is prepared exactly as directed in Nos. 59 and 60 of this work. Study these receipts; and read the receipts which follow them. French, like English cooks, have two foundation gravies or sauces,— white and hrown^ which are continually in requisition in the kitchen. We give the most choice of what are con- sidered their best sauces, where these are not already given in our Chapter, Sauces, from being now, under their French names, familiarized in the English kitchen, and in frequent use. 582. Grand Consomme^ the second step in systematic French Cookery,—Take a knuckle of veal, a shin of beef, any fresh trimmings of veal, giblets, poultry, rabbits, or game, or an old fowl, or brace of partridges. Cut these in pieces (except such as you wish to serve as dishes,) and put them into a nice clean stewpan with a bunch of parsley and young onions, and^ if the flavour of foreign cookery is admired, a clove of garlic. Moisten this with fresh stocky and let the meat sweat over a slow fire till heated through. Then prick it with a sharp-pointed knife to let the juices flow out, and add as much boiling stock as will suit the quantity of meat you have. Skim this, and let it simmer for three hours* Let it settle. Skim and strain it.—Ohs. Consomme^ wholly of poultry or game, to suit dishes of fowl or game, may be made as above without using beef. For such gravy a little lean ham is an improvement^ and for game consommej351 SAUCES. a partridge. Always keep in mind, that the flavour of tlie consomme in fine cookery should not be at variance with the flavour of the dish of which it is to form the sauce. For example, if intended for a dish dressed with mushrooms, which always have a very decided flavour,; season the con- somme with mushrooms. 583. Blonde de Veau^ Veal Grav}^, or Consomme.—Heat and rub a stewpan hard with a towel, then rub it with butter. Lay some slices of lean fresh bacon in the bottom of it, and over these four or five pounds of a leg of veal cut into slices. Moisten with a ladleful of grand consomme^ and in this let the meat sweat. When it has catched a golden tinge over a rather brisk fire, prick it with a sharp knife to let its juice, flow out; let it sweat for twenty minutes more ; when reduced to a jelly of a topaz colour, moisten it with boiling broth [Grand Bouillon^ No. 59), and season with onions, parsley, and mushrooms. Let this boil for an hour, and strain it for use. 584. Grande Sauce.—See Savoury Brovm Gravy^ No. 257. —it is the same thing. 585. Sauce Espagnole.—Put some slices of ham, according to the quantity of sauce you want, into a stewpan, with double the quantity of sliced veal. Moisten these with a small quantity of consomme, and when you have drawn a strong amber-coloured glaze, put in a few spoonfuls more to float this off. [N.B. This is a proper direction for detach- ing all glaze.] Put in a little more consomme of poultry or rabbits, if you have it; if not, some strong blonde de veaii, No. 583. Season with a little parsley, green onions, a half bay-leaf, two sprigs of basil and thyme, and two cloves. Simmer for a half-hour,, skim and strain.—Ohs. This is used for many dishes; it is a favourite general sauce; and, when wanted^ is thickened with rvux (No. 253), and seasoned with Madeira. It is sometimes made of game, especially when to sauce game. 586. Veloute, or White Cullis.—This is a very delicate sauce, made sometimes by a tedious and complicated process: ^ our receipt is simple.—(See No. 258.)—Sweat slowly over the fire some slices of very nice bacon, a knuckle of very white veal, any fresh trimmings of poultry or game youCHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. 352 have, the white part of two carrots, and a bunch of young onions. When you have got all the juices out of this, and it is just ready to catchy moisten it with consomme and season with a small fagot of sweet herbs. When all the strength is got from the meat, let the gravy settle, skim it, strain it, and reduce by quick boiling till it is nearly a jelly. Meanwhile mix three spoonfuls of rice-flour with three half- pints of cream ; and when this boils, pour it to your sauce, and boil till the veloute is of a proper consistence and very smooth. Work it well, continually lifting it high by spoon- fuls and letting it fall, and do this till it is cold, to prevent a skin from gathering on it. It will take probably more flour; and butter may be substituted for part of the cream. It should be smooth as velvet, as its name imports. 587. Sauce d la Bechamel.—Take as much veloute as you choose, and moisten it with hlonde de veau. Mix with this a pint of boiling cream, or what quantity you wish; flavour with seasonings suited to the dish you intend to sauce. See No. 279. 588. Brown Italian-Sauce, or Italienne Rousse, a favourite French Sauce.—Take two spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, one of parsley, half a one of eschalot, half a bay-leaf, pepper and salt to taste. Moisten with Espagnole, No. 585, and stew the vegetables. Add more pepper, if necessary, and the quantity of consomme required to bring the sauce to the proper thinness. Strain it. 589. Italian White-Sauce, or Italienne Blanche. — Use veloute instead of Espagnole. This is all the difference between the white and brown Italian-Sauce. 590. Sauce d la Maitre Hotel.—Melt a quarter-pound of butter, and thicken it with flour; add in the stewpan a little scalded and finely-minced parsley, salt, pepper, and afterwards a squeeze of lemon. Work it well with a wooden spoon to make it smooth. It should not be made till wanted. Another and better Maitre d^Hotel Sauce.—To two glass- fuls of Bechamel, put one of white-stock. Boil this up, and stir in three ounces of Maitre d^Hotel butter; when the butter is melted, it is ready. 590^. Maitre d^Hotel Butter.—Mix four ounces of butter.353 SAUCES. with two spoonfuls of chopped parsley, salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and the juice of two small lemons. 591. Sauce Hackee.—-Take of chopped mushrooms and gherkins a spoonful each, half a spoonful of scalded minced parsley, with pepper, salt, and vinegar. Moisten with a little consomme^ or with brown Italian-sauce. 592. French Sauce a la Tartare,—Mix a minced eschalot and a few leaves of chervil and tarragon finely minced, with a teaspoonful of made-mustard, a glass of vinegar, and a sprinkling of oil. Stir this constantly, and, if necessary, thin it with more vinegar. 592. Sauce Tournee.—Moisten some white roux with con- somme of poultry or blonde de veau, till it is thin. Stew in it a few chopped mushrooms, parsley, and onions. Skim and strain the sauce.—For Eoux, see No. 253. 594. Sauce d la Pluche.—Blanch and drain some curl- leafed young parsley and a little tarragon. Put to this a pint of veloute and a half-pint of clear consomme. Stir in a bit of butter; work it well to make it smooth. Ols. This is a proper French sauce for lamb's head. 595. Sauce d VAllemande^ or German Sauce.—Thicken Sauce Tournee with the beat yolk of an egg or two, accord- ing to the quantity. This sauce is extensively used for dressed-meat dishes. 595^. To make a liaison d la Franqaise^ for sauces and vegetable dishes.—Beat up three yolks of eggs with a quarter- pint of cream : strain through a tammy, and use to thicken and whiten. 596. Sauce d la Matelote for Fish.—Take a large pint of brown roux heated, or of Espagnole ; put to this six onions sliced and fried, with a few mushrooms (or a little mush- room catsup), a glass of red wine, and a little of the liquor in which the fish was boiled. Give it a seasoning of parsley, chives, a bay-leaf, salt, pepper, allspice, and a clove. SJcink it up (using a large spoon), to make it blend well. Put veal- gravy to it, if wanted more rich, or a good piece of butter. Strain it, and, if wanted exceedingly rich, add small quenelles (forcemeat-balls) made of ingredients proper for a fish-dish, glazed onions and mushrooms, a little essence of anchovy, and a squeeze of lemon. Serve over stewed carp or trout.—854 CHAP II. FRENCH COOKERY. Ohs. This sauce is exceedingly admired by some fish-eaters; indeed, fish served with it is preferred by them to all other ways of dressing fish. 596^. Sauce Hollandaise for Fish.—Melt a quarter-pound of butter, into which stir by degrees the beat yolks of two eggs, the juice of a lemon, w^hite pepper and salt previously mixed with a little milk or cream. Stir diligently to pre- vent curdling, and add more melted butter, about a half- pint ; half this quantity of eggs and butter will be enough for a small sauce-tureen. 597. Common Sauce a la Matelote.—Take a heaped spoon- ful of minced parsley, chives, and mushrooms, and give them a fry in butter. Dredge them with flour, and moisten with consomme till sufficiently thin. When stewed a few minutes, add gradually the beat yolks of two eggs, and take care they do not curdle.—Ohs. Tliis is a cheap, general, useful sauce for mutton-cutlets, palates, and sweetbreads, as well as for fish. Beauvilliers' Matelote is made of Espagnole reduced, small onions fried in butter, and dressed mushrooms and artichoke- bottoms. It is an excellent composition. 598. Remoulade.—Pound the hard-boiled yolks of two eggs in a mortar, with a little sour cream, or the raw yolk of an egg, a teaspoonful of made-mustard, pepper, salt, cayenne, one spoonful of vinegar and two of oil. Rub this salad-sauce through a sieve, and it is ready. 599. Salmi Sauce a VEspagnole^ a Game Sauce.—This is a sauce of high relish. Fry in butter, over a slow fire, three eschalots chopped, a sliced carrot, a bunch of parsley, some bits of bacon, and a sprig of thyme. Let them just catchy and moisten them with Madeira. Let this reduce a little, and add to it any trimmings of the game, and a little Espagnole. Let this stew till it is very good; season it with salt and pepper; skim and strain it. This sauce is served over salmis of partridge, duck, etc. 600. Poivrade-Sauce.—Cut six ounces of ham into bits, and fry them in butter with a few sprigs of parsley, a few young onions sliced, a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, a sprig of sweet-basil, one of thyme, and two cloves. When well fried over a quick fire, add pepper, cayenne, celery, if you like, a little tarragon-vinegar, and a half-pint of consomme. LetSAUCES. 355 tliese simmer by the side of the fire for a good while, skim, and strain through a tammy sieve. 601. Montpelier Butter,—To dressed rave^o/e (see No. 602), add six hard yolks, a spoonful of capers, eight ounces of butter, a clove of garlic, a seasoning of nutmeg, mace, all- spice, and tarragon-vinegar, and a glassful of salad-oil. Pound for eight minutes, then gradually add spinage-juice to green the butter. Pound till very smooth; set in ice to firm. This is used in decorating cold dishes of fish, meat, or salads, along with ornamental savoury jelly or aspic. 602. Dressed Ravigote.—Take a suitable quantity of burnet, chervil, tarragon, and celery, with two leaves of balm. Clean and boil them. Throw them into fresh water, and drain and pound them with a little salad-^oil, and vinegar, pepper, and salt. Rub this, when sufficiently done, through a sieve. 6022. Ravigote Butter.—Make as Mattre Hotel butter, substituting two spoonfuls of chopped chervil and tarragon for the parsley, and for lemon-juice a spoonful of Chili vinegar. 603. Ravigote-Bauce and Cold Ravigote,—Make the sauce exactly as directed for Maitre d''H6tel^ substituting Ravigote butter for Maitre d^Hotel butter. Cold Ravigote,—This is just a piquant salad-sauce. Clean, mince, and pound the herbs with a few capers and a boned anchovy or two. Pound the whole well with a raw egg, and add a little good vinegar to keep it from sticking. Rub through a sieve.* 604. Mushroom-Sauce J Beauvilliers^ Receipt.—Take two handfuls of mushrooms, wash them in several waters, rubbing them lightly; put them into a drainer; mince them with their stalks; put them into a stewpan, with the size of an egg of butter; let them fall over a slow fire, and, when nearly done, moisten them with two skimming spoonfuls of veloute; let them simmer three-quarters o^f an hour more; * We cannot here resist the Bavigote a I' Ude^ on which that celebrated (7i^e/prides himself not a little. Take of Chili vinegar, cavice, catsup, and Eeading-sauce, each a teaspoonful; the size of an egg of butter, three spoonfuls of Bechamel, a little cream, salt, pepper, a little chopped parsley- blanched, and Cayenne.CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. 356 rub them through a sieve, and finish with boiling cream.— See No. 267. 605. La Ducelle^ Beauvilliers' Receipt—Mince mush- rooms, parsley, young onions or eschalots, equal quantities of each, put some butter into a stewpan with as much rasped bacon; put them upon the fire; season with salt, pepper, fine spiceries, a little grated nutmeg, and a bay-leaf; moisten with a spoonful of Espagnole or veloute ; let it simmer, taking care to stir it; when sufficiently done, finish it with a thick- ening of yolks of eggs well beaten, which must not boil; the juice of a lemon is not necessary, but may be added. Put it into a tureen, and serve it with any thing that is served en papillote, 606. L'Aspic, or Savoury Ornamental Jelly.—Make the jelly-stock of fowls, knuckles of veal and ham, rabbits, or whatever gelatinous meat is convenient. Flavour it with vinegar, in which a large fagot of aromatic herbs has been boiled, as basil, burnet, tarragon, and chervil. Season with aromatic spices. Strain the jelly; let it cool; take off the top; keep back the sediment, and clarify it with the whites of four eggs well whisked in it, and their broken shells. Continue to whisk it over the fire till it look curdled and white, then draw it to the side of the stove, and throw cloths over it. When quite settled, clear and bright, strain it off gently, and keep the jelly to use in garnishing dishes.—Ohs. If for moulding, the jelly must be made very stiff. This jelly does to ornament fish, lobster-salads, and dressed dishes of various kinds. If for meat-dishes, the jelly must be sea- soned so as best to suit the kind of viands it is to garnish, whether ham, turkey, cold game, etc. It must be run through the jelly-bag till very clear and amber-coloured,— See No. 174. N.B.—The other popular sauces used by the French—as Bechamel, Mayonnaise, etc.—are either the same as our own that go under similar names, or the difference is pointed out in the receipts given for them in our Chapter, Sauces.—See Ohs. Nos. 268, 274, 289, etc. 607. French Soups. Soups, under the French names, or what is the same thing, under a different name, though the same soup, are soSOUPS. 357 common at English tables, that the best part of them will be found in our Chapter, Soups. There are still a few entitled to a place here.—See also Nos. 68, 72, 63, 64, etc. 608. Potage au Biz, or Bice-Soup.—llsiYQ a strong, clear, louillon (No. 59 or 63) of veal or beef, or of a mixture of these meats, made as directed for stock-broth. Put a suffi- cient quantity of this (well seasoned) boiling into a tureen, in which are two ounces of warm rice, prepared as directed for Mullagatawnj, in Chapter, National Dishes. Another way which makes two Dishes. — Boil a neatly- trussed large fowl or capon in grand bouillon with two cloves, two onions, a fagot of sweet herbs, and salt. Skim it well to make the soup clear. Serve the fowl with a little great salt sprinkled on the breast [au gros sel)^ and a spoonful of the clear soup about it. Strain the soup on boiled rice, taking out the onions, cloves, and herbs; and put a little brown gravy or browning to it to improve the colour.—See Nos. 66 and 98. 609. Potage de Levrauts a la Saint George,—(Careme's receipt for Hare-soup, named from St George the Patron Saint of England.)—" Take the fillets from two leverets, cut up their carcasses, and sweat them with a little fresh butter over a slow stove, mix in a spoonful of flour, and let them sweat a few minutes longer; then add half a bottle of champagne, one of claret, and four ladlefuls of consomme, a pottle of mushrooms, a truffle cut in quarters, two onions, and a bunch of parsley tied up, with half a bay-leaf, a little thyme, basil, marjoram, and savory, whole pepper, two cloves, mace, cayenne, and a clove of garlic. Let this boil gently by the side of a stove, and skim it; strain, and reduce it one-fourth, and when serving put it into the tureen in which you have placed the fillets of the leverets sauted in escalopes (cut in scollop shapes and fried), and thirty small quenelles made of the flesh of a partridge, with three pottles of mushrooms turned, cut in ribbons; and four truffles sliced and sauted in butter. The ingredients composing this soup require much care that they be perfectly done, and of a relishing flavour. The soup must not boil, or the escalopes will become hard.'' 610. Potage au Vermicelli.—Prepare four ounces of ver- micelli by blanching it, and boiling it in broth. Make the358 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. soup of grand bouillon^ of blonde de veau, or consomme, or a part of each. Let tlie previously-cooked vermicelli boil in it five minutes, and no more.—See No. 66. 611. Potage d fltalienne, a Brown-Soup.—Cut young carrots and turnips in scrolls like ribbons; and some white of leeks, two heads of celery, and three onions in fillets. Fry these in butter* moisten with enough of strong, clear, deep- coloured gravy-stock, and some blonde de veau. Season with salt, and serve on toasted crusts previously soaked in a little stock.—See No. 81. N.B.—If the roots are old, blanch them. This, in the season, is made a sort of vegetable hotch-potch, with cut green lettuce and other vegetables, 612. Potage d la Baveau, a clear Brown-Soup,^—Scoop out yellow turnips the size of marbles, with a root-scoop. Blanch and boil these in a clear strong consomme with a little browned sugar. Colour the soup deeper with veal- gravy or more browning, and serve it on grilled crusts. 612^ Potage Anglais a la Rothschild. — (In honour of Baron Rothschild.) Put into a stock-pot two slices of ham, a turkey three-parts roasted, and somewhat coloured, also a partridge, a knuckle of veal, and the necessary beef-stock; let this consomme be skimmed; add the skins of a pound of truffles, a pottle of mushrooms, two onions, a carrot, a head of celery, and two leeks, the whole sliced; half a bay-leaf, a little thyme, basil, savory, marjoram, a little grated nut- meg, cayenne pepper, and two cloves. When it has boiled gently five hours, mix with it two whites of eggs beaten up with half a pint of hock, take it off the fire, and a quarter of an hour after strain it through a napkin; set it again on to boil, and pour it afterwards into a tureen containing some quenelles of fowl, with essence of mushrooms mixed in them ; cocks^ combs, and kidneys, and twenty small white mush- rooms.—Careme. 613. Potage au Choux^ Cabbage-Soup. — Parboil three firm white small cabbages. Drain them, and braise them in top-fat, with a few slices of bacon and seasonings. Drain them again from this fat; quarter them, and slide them into * The French sometimes brown their carrots and turnips in butter, and rub them through a sieve if for carrot or turnip soup.—See Nos. 63, 64.359 SOUPS. tlie tureen, and over them pour strong, clear, well-seasoned, boiling beef-stock broth. 614. German Cabbage-Soup. — Mince parboiled white cabbages. Stew them in butter, and serve them in strong stock (No. 63), with toasted bread cut in dice. 615. Potage Printanier^ or Spring-Soup.—Cut young car- rots, turnips, celery, and onions into small dice. Fry them gently, and drain and boil them slowly in clear veal-stock, with a bit of browned sugar. Boil separately very green asparagus-tops, and French beans cut as small diamonds, also very green pease. Mix the whole and serve. 616. Potage d la Carrierani^^ by H. J.—For this soup, to make it in perfection, the cook must have genuine Naples macaroni, the best Parmesan cheese, and mellow Dutch butter, with two dozen livers of fat pullets, celery, turnips, parsnips, leeks, carrots, parsley, and young onions. Mince the livers, the celery, and the blanched pot-herbs very well, and stew them altogether in butter. Meanwhile boil the macaroni twelve minutes; season it with white pepper and fine spices, and drain it well. You must now (to do the thing in style) have a soup-dish that will bear the fire ; spread over it a layer of macaroni, next a layer of the cooked mincemeat, then a layer of grated Parmesan. Proceed in this order till the soup-dish is filled sufficiently, and end with grated Parmesan. Place the dish on embers, and let it simmer slowly for an hour, and send to table. Frencli Dishes which are Served in Tureens, or other Soup-Dishes in the First Course. 617. Civet of Hare^ a favourite Dish,—Cut the hare into small pieces, and carefully save the blood. Cut some firm white bacon into small cubes, and give them a light fry with a bit of butter. Strain the gravy they give out, and thicken it with browned flour dusted over it in the stewpan. Put aside the bits of bacon, and place the cut hare in the stew- * There is an immense quantity of gastrology in our late fashionable novels; not always very judiciously given, nor with very profound or accurate knowledge of that mystery in which we profess ourselves adepts, but with so much apparent good will and even enthusiasm for the science as to disarm criticism. Among the compositions lauded, with at least as much zeal as knowledge, is M. Camerani's celebrated soup, A dish of this soup has cost five pound^s! How can it fail to be good ?360 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. pan in the gravy. When firmed with frying, moisten with good stock and a pint of red wine, and season with parsley, young onions, salt, pepper, a few mushrooms or catsup, or mushroom-powder. Let the meat stew slowly till done, and skim off the fat. Now lift all that is good of the hare, and also the bacon that you put aside, into a clean stewpan. Strain the gravy over this, and next put to the civet the bruised liver, the blood, and some small mushrooms and onions ready cooked. Do not let it boil fast, and stir lest the blood curdle. Put the gravy in which the mushrooms and onions were cooked to the civet when it (the gravy) has been well boiled down.—Ohs, If cooking for palates trained on the Continent, add to the seasonings a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and one or even two cloves of garlic. The civet is similar to the old Scotch hare-soup. Pick out the herbs and serve. 618. Civet of Roehuclc.—Make this exactly as civet of hare, but without the blood of the animal. Use for it small cutlets of the neck and breast. It is an admirable way of dressing lean, dry venison.—See No. 503. French Made-Dishes of Beef. 619. Boeufd la Flamande.—See No. 394. 620. Boeufs de Chasse, No. 410; Beef-Steaks with Potatoes, No. 39. 621. Palais de Boeuf d V Italienne^ Beef Palates with Ita- lian-Sauce. — Rub the palates with salt; parboil and skin them. Cut them into scollops, not too large, and stew them very slowly in a brown Italian-sauce well thickened by previous boiling down. Add a squeeze of lemon, and serve them.—Ohs. This will be found an exceedingly good way of dressing palates. See also Nos. 395, 406, and 588. 622. Entre Cote de Boeuf — By this is meant what lies under the long ribs, or those thick slices of delicate meat which may be got from between them. Cut this into narrow steaks. Flatten and broil these, and either serve the steaks d, la Biftik Anglais, No. 38, or with Sauce hachee, No. 591, under them. 623. Langue de Bceuf en Miroton,—Cut a cold skinnedMADE-DISHES OF BEEF. 361 tongue into nice round slices. Heat them in Espagnole (No. 585), adding pepper, salt, and a little stock. Dress them hot round a dish, each slice leaning on the edge of the other, which is usually called en miroton. They may be glazed if liked. 624. Langue de Bcmf a la Braise^ Tongue braised.—Clean a large tongue, as directed, No. 397. Parboil and skin it, and lard it all across with lardons^ season with cooks' pepper. Put it in a stewpan that will just hold it. Cover it with good stock, and a glass of wine. Season with a bay-leaf, two cloves, two carrots, and three onions, and with any trimmings of veal, poultry, or game, you have. Put paper over it, and hot embers over the lid, and stew it slowly with fire under and over for two hours and a half. Garnish with the roots, and sauce the tongue with the strained gravy seasoned, to which add a little Espagnole,—N.B. This is of a very high gout. So are the following :— 625. Stewed Rump of Beef with glazed onions^ d la Fran- chaise.—Bone and lard a rump of from twenty to twenty- five pounds, slantways, with lardons of bacon six or seven inches long: put the sawed bone, four or five pounds of trimmings of the meat, and a pound of ham, into a stew- pan of the proper size. Add three onions, two carrots, a turnip, a head of celery, a leek, a bunch of parsley, and one of sweet herbs, with four bay-leaves, a dessertspoonful of peppercorns, and two blades of mace. Put in a pint of water, or rather more, to prevent the cut-meat from burning, and, when the gravy has become a glaze, put in the rump, and fill up the stewpan with water, and a little salt added. Let it simmer for six hours. With a packing-needle try if the beef is done : previous to this, have ready eighteen onions of middle size, blanched, and browned in butter in a saute-pan, with a half-ounce of pounded sugar: cover them with stock when browned, and let this simmer till it becomes a thin glaze. Have, also, eighteen slices of carrot, and eighteen bits of turnip, shaped like small pears, and prepared as the onions. Dish the rump. Dress the 'vegetables round it; but have ready a gravy for it made of the glaze of the vegetables, a quart of brown-gravy, and a pint and a half of stock. Season this with pepper and salt, and reduce by a rapid boil, and pour it over the vegetables and onions. Q362 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. Glaze the top of the beef; brown it lightly with a salaman- der, and serve. Another French Mode^ or aux Oignons Glaces.—Stew the rump as above, but prepare three dozen of onions ; raise a border of mashed potatoes round the dish, and dress the onions on this, with a very small, dressed Brussels cabbage upon each onion, or a head of asparagus. Put a quart of brown-sauce into a stewpan, the glaze of the cooked onions, and four spoonfuls of tomata-sauce. Boil it quickly for five minutes; pour it over the onions; put the beef into the dish, and glaze the top of the beef, and brown with a salamander. The Brussels sprouts, very green, may either be laid alter- nately with the onions, or one above each onion. The stewed rump may also be served with Tomata-sauce^ and the dish ornamented with a very white cauliflower at each end. To Dress a Cold Stewed Rump,—Cut slices a quarter of an inch thick. Trim them neatly; soak them till heated through in a little consomme ; or glaze them, after heating through in an oven, and serve with Tomata-sauce or sauce piquant. The above Grosses Pieces are of course for large or sumptuous dinners ; but they may be cooked on a smaller scale, and the stew-liquor may form the sauce. The larding may also be omitted. For Ox-Tails in the French Manner^ see No. 401. 626. Gras Double^ i.e. Tripe, to Dress.—Take the fattest double tripe, well cleaned, and repeatedly scalded and scraped. Boil it in water two hours, and clean it again ; then stew it in a blanc from four to six hours. Cut it in fillets, and serve it in white Italian-sauce.—See No. 16. Veal. 627. The French Manner of Dividing and Dressing the Fillet.—The fillet is formed of three distinct parts; the large fat fleshy piece inside of the thigh, which the French call the noix. Of this they make a principal first-course dish. The piece below this they call the under noix, and the side part the centre noix. Of the principal noix they make a fricandeau, or a small roast, by stuffing and skewering this piece, to which in a cow-calf the udder is attached; or they fry it, d la Bourgeoise. Of this piece they also make cutlets, and grenadins. The under noix they use for pie-MADE-DISHES OF VEAL. 363 meat, forcemeat, etc.; and the centre noix^ or fat marrowy piece of the fillet next the rump, for godiveau^ sauce tour- nee^ etc. The trimmings and bones help to make Espagnole^ or soup or sauce. The part next the rump, or centre noix, is also dressed d la Bourgeoise, i. e. fried. 628. Noix de Veau en Bedeau,—or in the Beadle^s Fashion, —Flatten the noix^ and lard it lengthways with lardons seasoned with minced parsley, green onions, and cooks' pepper. Line a stewpan, that will just hold it, with trim- mings of veal, and lay slices of white bacon over the noix where not larded. Put onions, carrots, parsley, etc., into the stewpan, and a little Espagyiole or roux. Cook slowly; serve with or over sorrel, spinage, or a puree of onions. A Puree of onions, turnips, mushrooms, etc., is a pulpy thin mash or sauce of the vegetable specified^ thinned with boiling cream or gravy. 629. Grenadins de Veau,— Veal Grenadins.—^These are small slices from the fillet, about an inch thick, and flat- tened ; and one piece being cut round, the others must be shaped as lozenges to lie neatly round this centre. Lard them, stew them in a pan lined with bacon, and any trim- mings of the veal: season as above ; put fire over the pan. Serve on a puree of mushrooms, or with cooked sorrel, or -endive, dishing the gromdins with their points to the centre where the round pi^ce is laid.—See No. 442. 629^. Tendons de Veau—or gristles cut out of th^ breast of veal—make a nice and favourite French dish, and are now common at refined tables in England. The tendons are cut from one or two breasts of veal; stewed in white or brown rich stock, wdth herbs and seasonings; allowed to cool, and then cut into difierent shapes, as ovals, diamonds, oysters. The following we consider the best mode of cook- ing :—The tendons lie round the front of the breast; cut them neatly out, not to spoil the joint for roasting or stew- ing. Put them into a deep small stewpan, with two car- rots, three onions, a bay-leaf, some slices of lemon, and cloves (if you like), and a small fagot of sweet herbs and parsley. Moisten with a pint of good stock, and simmer for two or three hours till the point of a knife will easily enter the meat. Lift them, and pull out any bones or hard parts remaining. Press them between two trenchers on864 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. wliicli a weiglit is laid, and when cold cut them into the shape you want, but let each not be above an inch and a half in size. Egg and crumb the bits, and fry them in a saute-pan, of a golden brown; and serve with a sauce made of six spoonfuls of white-stock, two of chopped mushrooms, and an onion parboiled and chopped, with salt and pepper to taste. A glass of white wine may be put to the sauce, which may be thickened with yolk of egg, and improved by cream. Tendons are dressed and dished under various names. Our No. 639 is a very good mode. They may be dished with a potato-paste border, or with sippets fried and glazed^ or not. They are also served cold, over different sauces, as Poivrade or Pauvre Homme, We have said more of this pretty dish than we should have done, if the tendons of large veal were not often lost by remaining underdone when the brisket is stewed; which, besides, cooks much better when they are cut out. 629^. To Curry Calf s Head a la Francaise,—Prepare the head as Nos. 456, 457, 458, 459. Boil a pound of rice as for curry, and dress it pyramidically in the centre of a dish. Have ready a sauce made of two acid apples and four mush- rooms sliced; a sprig of thyme, a few sprigs of parsley, a blade of mace, and four cloves. Fry these in two ounces of butter, and, when browned slightly, rub to this a large tablespoonful of curry-powder. Stir well in, and add three pints of white sauce. Boil the whole for fifteen minutes, strain into another stewpan, add white pepper, a little cayenne, and salt, and pour it hot over the hash of the head kept warm. Serve the pyramid of rice, with the top flat- tened into a well, in which the brains, cooked as No. 631, are laid. For Indians, or others, more curry-powder or curry-paste will be required, and many will prefer brown to white sauce. Instead of mushrooms, rasped cocoa-nut may be put in with the meat. See Note^ No. 154, and No. 534. 630. Calfs Brains d la Ravigote.^—Skin the brains, and carefully remove all the fibres. Soak them in several wa- ters. Parboil in salt and water, with a glass of vinegar, for * We do not consider these dishes of much importance ; hut where there is a table to furnish every day, and a cook who delights in her office, such elegant trifles may be found useful; and where good dinners are constantly given, and sauces prepared at any rate, the expense is nothing.365 MADE-DISHES OF VEAL. ten minutes ; and, when firm, divide and fry them. Serve with Ravigote-sauce^ No. 603. 631. Calfs Brains d la Maitre d'Hotel.—Boil the brains as above, with a little butter in the water ; don't fry them. Fry some bread cut like scallop-shells. Dish the brains divided, with the bread between, and cover with a Maitre d'Hotel sauce J No. 590. Another pretty dish of brains may be made by serving very green fried parsley in the middle of the dish, and the brains around, saucing with browned butter, sharpened with Chili vinegar. See No. 538. 632. Boudins of Cold Veal a la Reine.—Chop cold roast- veal, leaving out skin, gristles, etc. Season with white pepper, salt, lemon-grate, and a little lemon-juice. Heat the mince in veloute, or any white sauce, and, when cold, roll it up into boudins about the size of small sausages. Brush these with beat eggs, and strew with bread-crumbs till they are well crumbed. Fry of a fine brown, drain and serve them with fried parsley. 633. Calf's Ears.—The French dress these in various waysfarced with dressed forcemeat,—with a white Italian sauce, or d la Ravigote. Clean them, cook them in a blanc, No. 697, dip them in eggs and crumbs with seasonings, and fry them of a fine brown colour: Or dip in a light frying batter, and fry. Garnish with fried parsley. Fat sauces would be improper with such gristly tender meats as calf's feet or ears, or sheep's or lamb's trotters.—As a specimen of finical or false ornament in French cookery, we may mention calf's ears cut in tendrils or fringes, and a peeled plover's egg—a rich jewel!—deposited in each ear. 634. Ris de Veau aux Mousserons,—Veal-Sweetbreads^ with Mushrooms.— Choose sweetbreads large and white. Soak them and blanch in boiling water till they firm. Cut in nice pieces, and stew them in a little veloute, with mush- room-sauce,* ready prepared. Take them up. Boil down the sauce, and, when well reduced, thicken with beat yolks of eggs, and season with a little blanched parsley, nicely minced, and a squeeze of lemon. They are also served with young pease, or mushrooms; or are egged, crumbed, and fried.—See No. 639. * The French rub this sauce, celery, onion, etc., through a sieve; so that these sauces are all purees, i.e., smooth, and of pulpy consistence.CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. 866 635. Calfs Liver^ with Fine Herbs.—Cut a sound white liver into oblong slices less than an inch thick. Form these into the shape of hearts about two inches broad, dredge them with flour, and put them to fry with onions, mushrooms, parsley previously shred, and stewed in butter, pepper, and salt. Fry all this gently till ready, and dust it with more pepper. Keep the pieces hot, put a little brath or gravy to the herbs to moisten them, and stew for three minutes, and serve over the liver, which must be dished in form, arranging the bits neatly.— Ohs. This dish is often served for the Dejeuner d la fourchette^ and must then have a spice of cayenne, be highly seasoned, and served very hot.— See Nos. 54 and 452. 636. Blanquettes of Veal.—Cut a cold roast loin or shoulder of veal into small pieces, using only the white part. Trim away the browned outside, and fat, and mince the veal. Stir it till warm in velouie well reduced; but do not let it boil. Thicken with the beat yolk of an egg or two, and add a squeeze of lemon when ready to serve.—See Nos. 464 and 465. 637. Blanquettes with Cucumhers.—Cut cold veal as above into scollops, and heat them in sauce tournee. Quarter and cut four or five cucumbers also into scollops.. Cook these also in sauce tournee. Drain them; reduce the strained sauce; thicken it with the beat yolks of two eggs. Put in a little hot cream, salt, and a bit of sugar. Serve the sauce over the meat and cucumbers, neatly dished. 638. Blanquettes d la Baysanne.—Prepare the veal as above in scollops. Heat the meat in a reduced sauce tournee. Thicken with egg, and season with minced parsley, and^ before serving, add a good squeeze of lemon. These pre- parations may be served in dishes with borders. 639. Cold Sweetbreads.—Cut them into scollops or square bits. Stew them in strong gravy till heated through. Fry scollops of bread: dish, placing the meat and bread scollops alternately, and garnish with fried parsley. 640. Veal Cutlets d la Chingara.^—Cut and trim cutlets * These were the favourite cutlets of the Nabob. Jekyll preferred cutlets a Vltalienne, i. e., dipped in butter, nicely broiled, and served with white Italian-sauce.367 MADE-DISHES OF VEAL AND MUTTON. round, and three inches diameter, from the fillet. Put them into the stewpan with butter and ham, onions, parsley, carrot, and herbs. Warm in stock a slice of cold smoked tongue for each cutlet. When the cutlets are enough done, take them out; boil down the stock to a glaze, and put them back. Glaze the slices of tongue. Dish one slice on each cutlet, shaping them together. Dish them in a round form. Put a little Espagnole into the stewpan, and a bit of butter; warm in it the remains of the boiled tongue nicely minced, and pour this sauce into the centre of the dish.—N. B. Fillets of cold roast fowls or turkey are excellent dressed with tongue in this way.— See Nos. 48, 445, 446. 641. Cotelettes au Jambon.—These are precisely the same as the former, only ham (the prime slices) is used instead of tongue. 642. Veal Cutlets with Fine Herhsj or d la Venetienne.— Chop a handful of mushrooms, two eschalots, a little parsley, and a sprig of thyme. Stew these in rasped bacon and butter; when done, put in, and stew the cutlets over a very slow fire. Add white pepper and salt. Skim off the fat carefully. Put in a large spoonful of sauce tournee or white roux. Thicken with yolks of eggs beat with a little cream. Add the juice of a lemon, which is proper for all dishes made of veal, and a little cayenne. So are sorrel and tomatas, etc. 643. Loin of Dressed Veal d la Bechamel.— A loin of veal, when used as a remove^ very often comes back from the table untouched, or with very little taken off it. Make a mince of the fillet or inside of the loin. Cover the loin with buttered paper, and warm it in a Dutch oven. Place it above the stewed mince, and serve with a white sauce, or Bechamel. 644. Mutton.* Gigot d la Gasconne, or Leg of Mutton Gascon Fashion, —This is a dish of very high gout, and seldom now seen, but it still has devoted admirers. Lard a leg of mutton with * Families in the country, and those who kill "their own mutton," depend so much upon this favourite food, that it is impossible to know too many good ways of dressing it; though, when all is done, none can surpass a roast haunch or boiled leg; hotch-potch; or boiled scrag with onion- sauce ; our family curry, or a well-grilled mutton-chop.—P. T.CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. 368 garlic and fillets of anchovies; roast it, and serve with Spanish or garlic-sauce. If for English palates, first blanch the garlic in several waters, until it becomes mellow.—See from No. 467 to 477. 645. Cotelettes d la Souhise, Souhise Mutton-Cutlets,— Cut chops from the ribs, or cutlets from the leg, rather thick than otherwise. Trim off the superfluous fat, and sweat them in a stewpan in strong gravy or butter-sauce, with green onions, parslej, pepper, and salt. When thus cooked, take out the herbs, and reduce the sauce nearly to a glaze. Drain the cutlets. Dish them very hot with the sauce in the middle, and a dozen small onions around, cooked as directed, No. 262. — Obs, Souhise-cutlets used to be larded, and braised in bacon with all sorts of herbs; but since fatten- ing sheep and other animals became better understood, there has been a considerable revolution on the side of refinement even in French cookery. The cutlets may be served with French beans, or cucumbers. 646. Cotelettes d Vltalienne and au Naturel.—These are nearly the same. Cut, trim, and dip the chops in butter and bread crumbs. Broil them a little. Put pepper and salt over them, then butter and crumbs again, and broil till ready. Press out the fat between folds of hot paper, and serve with Brown Italian-sauce, 647. Cotelettes d la Minute^ or in their Juiee^ for Dejeuners d la fourchette,—Take rather thin slices from the gigot, as in carving a roast leg. Put them into a thin-bottomed fryingpan in which is hot butter. Turn them continually. Keep them hot in a dish by the fire; and put into the pan a little gravy and a few chopped herbs, stewed as for Venetian cutlets. No. 642; give this a toss, and skim and serve it round the hot cutlets. 648. Rognons de Mouton^ or Mutton-Kidneys.—These are also served at the Dejeuner d la Fourchette. Skin and split a dozen kidneys without wholly separating them. Pin them out with small wire skewers to keep them open; rub them with a little salt and pepper; dip them in butter, and broil first the inside, that, when turned on the grill to be finished, the gravy may be preserved. Dish on a hot dish, and lay a very little chopped blanched parsley and butter over each. —Obs, In France these are also dressed as a mince, stewing369 DISHES OF MUTTON. the mince in butter, draining and serving it in a well-reduced Italian brown-sauce with a very little champagne.—See Nos. 398, 478. 649. Beef-Kidneys are dressed as above, and served at the Dejeuner d la fourchette.—N. B. Yfith brains, kidneys, and liver, always use cayenne. 650. Haricot Brun, or d la Bourgeoise.— Brown mutton- chops in the fryingpan. Make a roux of the butter in which they were fried, with a little more butter and browned flour. Add a little veal-gravy, or good consomme^ well seasoned, and some bits of turnip, with parsley and green onions. Skim the sauce often to clear it of fat. Have some turnips scooped into small balls ready boiled, as for soup Baveau, No. 612. Put them with the chops into a clean stewpan, and strain the sauce over them. When the sauce looks clear and brown, and the turnips are done, dish the chops round, and serve the sauce and turnip-balls in the middle. Cold mutton is dressed as haricot in the same way. 651. Hachis de Mouton d la Portuguaise.—Prepare the meat as for any hash. Heat it in a thick, well reduced Es- pagnole^ with butter, pepper, and salt. Serve with eggs over it, poached rather hard, and with dressed onions between, en cordon^ or chain-wise. 652. Minced Mutton with Cucumhers.—See No. 485. 653. Pied de Mouton d la Sauce Rohert—Sheep's Trotters, •—Cook the cleaned trotters in a blanc. When slowly stewed till tender, bone them. Roll them in cooked forcemeat. Dip them in thin frying batter, and fry them.—Obs. They may also be stuffed with forcemeat, and braised, and so served. Serve with Robert sauce.—See No. 480. 654. Pieds d'Agneau, or lamb's trotters, are dressed as above.—See No. 480. 655. Cervelles des Moutons—Sheep's Brains, These are dressed exactly as No. 631, but more pungent seasonings are proper.—Obs. Of mutton the French also make/rzcan- deaux, mortadelles, or large sausages, grenadins, and many other dishes. See Sheep^s Tongues, No. 481. 656. Cochon de Lait au Moine blanc, en Galantine,—Pre- pare the pig as directed at No. 20. Bone it all except the q2370 CHAP. II. FPtENCII COOKERY. head and feet; but take care not to break the skin. Make a forcemeat of any degree of richness you choose, of veal, beef, suet, calf's udder, etc. Mince basil, thyme, and sage, and add also panada; beat eggs to bind. [Read Quenelles^ French Cookery.!^ Give plenty of spices. Now proceed as directed for godiveau. Lay the boned pig on a cloth, and cover it inside with the forcemeat. Rasp some ham over all. Try to keep the pig as near its natural shape as possible. Sew it up. Bind it in a napkin with tape, and boil it in stock seasoned with roots and herbs. When unswaddled, after two hours' slow boiling, wipe it dry, and serve with brown Espagnole^ or if cold, on a napkin.* 657. Jamhon d la Broche,—Take a Bayonne or other ham, sound, fresh, well-selected, and at least twenty pounds weight. Trim it all round. Steep it for two or three days ac- cording to the saltness.—See No. 10. If to be very superior you must steep it in Spanish wine. Cover it all over with slices of lard, and lay it in a cradle spit. It must have a slack fire for at least five hours, and be basted frequently with hot water to freshen it, and dilate the pores, which basting with wine would contract. When nearly ready re- move the skin and cover the surface lightly with fine bread- crumbs.—For Saucey boil down the wine in which the ham was steeped, and put to it the gravy which will flow from the ham when taken from the spit, and the juice of two lemons. Skim this and serve all hot. The above is one of the precious receipts of the Society of the Caveau Moderne, If any one choose to attempt this piece of extravagance, a good Yorkshire or Westmoreland ham, well cured, will answer his purpose quite well. Our authorities all speak * Dr Redgill, whose experiments on pig, from first to last, were ex- tremely interesting, totally lost one stuffed pig by overboiling; and had another considerably injured by the sewing tearing the skin. But his final success was triumphant; and he wrote down as a canon of cookery, that all s^wjfec? meats, as pig au moine hlaric^ haggis sausage, etc., are not to be boiled by their apparent size, but by their soliuity; as forcemeats of any kind will cook in a third or even a half less time than a joint of meat of the original compact texture. The sewing should be the stitch surgeons use in sewing up wounds. If the cook would avoid the catastrophe of her pig, goose, or haggis bursting she will boil these important articles in a napkin on a fish-drainer, that, if an accident do occur, ready help may be administered. Silk thread is more apt to tear the integument than any other thread; the cook should therefore for her purposes use soft thread made of cotton.—See Fig^s Olieeh^ National Dishes.371 STUFFED pig's FACE. with ethusiasm of the Jamhon d la Broche^ " Un tel roti est tres superieure a tous ceux que la boucherie, la basse-cour, la poulailler, les forets, les plaines, les etangs, et les mers pouvaient nous ofFrir. Heureux celui qui peut une fois en sa vie manger un jamhon a la hrocJie ! II ne plus rien a re- gretter des sensualites de ce bas monde!" This dish, even in France, would cost ten crowns.—See Nos. 11 and 12. 658. Hure de Cochon, or Pig's Face Stuffed,—Kd^Q the head as large as you can, by cutting down to the shoulders; the neck is prime. Singe it carefully. Put a red-hot poker into the ears. Clean and carefully bone the head without breaking the skin. Rub it with salt, and pour boiled cold brine over it, with a large handful of chopped juniper-berries, a few bruised cloves, and four bay-leaves, with thyme, basil, sage, a head of garlic bruised, and a quarter-ounce of salt- petre pounded. Let the head steep in this for ten days, and turn it and rub it often. Then wipe, drain, and dry it, and make a forcemeat for it thus:—Take equal quantities of un- dressed ham, and breast of bacon. Season this highly with cooks' pepper, and fine spices, if you choose. Pound this meat very smooth, and mix with it some seasoned lard, pars- ley, and young onions, finely minced. Prove the quality of the forcemeat as directed at No. 6922. Improve it where deficient. Spread it equally over the head. Roll up, and sew it, bind in a cloth, and stew it in a braise made of any trimmings and seasonings left, with stock enough to cover it. It will take nearly four hours to cook; and will be still richer if larded before it is stufi'ed. Pierce it with a larding- pin; if the pin enters easily it is done. When cool, take off the binding cloth. Trim the ends of the collared head, and serve it on a napkin.—Ohs, This dish is well worth the attention of the gourmand and of the country housekeeper. It will keep a long while, and the liquor will make a savoury pease-soup ; boil to d^glaze^ or braise vegetables. Independ- ently of the stufiing, this French mode of curing pig's face is excellent. It is, besides, exactly the Hure de sanglier of the great Careme, when stewed in brandied Madeira, and de- corated en galantine. See Pig's Cheeky National Dishes^ No. 741. 659. To Dress Cold Roast Pig a la Bechamel or in white Sauce,—Carve what remains of the pig into neat pieces, andCHAP. II.—FRENCH COOKERY. 872 let these just heat in Bechamel-sauce^ or serve them as llan- quetteSy i, e., as a mince.—See No. 636. French Dishes of Hare, Poultry, and Game. 660. Gateau de Lievre, i.e., Hare-CaJce for the Second Course.—Prepare the hare as directed at No. 35, and save the liver and the blood. Scrape the meat from the skin and sinews, and mince with it the liver, a piece of a calf's liver, and a good piece of the best part of an undressed ham. Pound the whole to a paste with a little cold stock, or with any hare or game-soup. Add equal to a third part of the whole bulk of rasped lard. Again pound the whole well together, with salt, pepper, young onions, and parsley, pre- viously blanched;—give a seasoning also of one spoonful of brandy, and No. 334. Mix with the pounded meat six or eight eggs, one by one, and, if foreign cookery is admired, the expressed juice of a clove of garlic. When the whole is exceedingly well pounded and mixed, line a stewpan with slices of lard, and put the forcemeat over it to the thickness of an inch and a half, and quite level and smooth. Then put in another layer of lard, pistachios, and truffles, all cut in strips and neatly laid down like mosaic; then again the forcemeat an inch and a half thick. Cover with slices of bacon, and then with paper. Close the pan, and bake the cake slowly for two hours, or for three, if you have a cake of three layers of forcemeat. Let it cool; dip the mould or pan in hot water to loosen the cake, and turn it out. Serve on a napkin. Garnish to your fancy. It makes a handsome dormant dish.—Obs. Hare is also dressed in France as cote- letteSj boudinSj etc, 661. Babbits a la Venetienne^ i.e., with fine Herbs.—Carve two white young fat rabbits neatly, and brown the pieces in butter with some rasped bacon and a handful of chopped mushrooms, parsley, and eschalot, with pepper, salt, and allspice. Rub a teaspoonful of flour into a little consomme^ and pour this into the stewpan with the rabbits. Stew slowly till they are cooked; skim and strain the sauce, and serve it hot about the meat, with a seasoning of cayenne and a good squeeze of lemon.—Nos. 503, 506. 662. Dindon en daube.—Truss the turkey as for boiling.373 HARE, POULTRY, AND GAME. Have lardons seasoned with salt, pepper, fine spices, and herbs. Lard the breast and the thighs. Put slices of bacon in a braising-pan, and place the turkey on these with a cut hock of ham, and a calf s foot broken, the trimmings of the turkey, five onions, stuck with four cloves, three carrots, two bay-leaves, three or four sprigs of thyme, a bunch of parsley, and young onions. Lay slices of bacon over the turkey ; moisten with four spoonfuls of melted butter ; cover with three rounds of buttered paper, and let it sim- mer slowly for five hours; take it from the fire, but do not lift it for another half hour, that it may not get dry. Strain the gravy and boil it down. Beat an egg well in a sauce- pan, and pour the gravy (or jelly rather) into this. Whip it well; put it on the fire; when just come to boil, place it on the side of the furnace; cover it with a lid which will bear embers over it; let it remain for a half-hour with embers over; strain again, and with this jelly cover the dished tur- key. Lievre en dauhe, the same. Turkey stuffed with truffles, or Dindo7i aux Truffes^ is now imported, ready to cook, 663. Fowl a la Chingara, A favourite small dish. Cut a fat white fowl in four, across and down the back. Melt a bit of butter in a stcAvpan, and lay four slices from a good part of an undressed ham in the pan. Place the cut fowl on this with a little water, and stew it very slowly on embers. When done, drain off the fat. Pour over the glaze, which will have formed at the bottom, a little Espagnole^ and rub in a little cayenne, salt, and pepper. Meanwhile have YQd^dij four toasts. Fry them in the fat you poured off the fowl, dust them with pepper and salt, and serve them between the slices of ham, on each slice of which a quarter of the fowl is to be laid. See No. 640. 664. Fowls a la Ravigote.—Rodi^t the fowls, and serve them with Ravigote-sauce. 665. Poulets d la Tartare. Roasted young fowls with Tartar-sauce.—See Nos. 592, 27, and Turkey en galantine. 665^. Fowl d la Campire.—Slit the breast of a roasted fowl to let the juice flow out; lay thinly-sliced raw onions in the slits, and serve with a brown poivrade in the dish.374 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. 666. Game Salad or of Fowl.—Roast a couple of grouse, a pheasant or blackcock, or a fowl, or rather use any of those left cold. Cut them into eight or ten handsome pieces. Soak these in a basin with sliced onion, oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Toss them about to imbibe these seasonings, and when they have lain an hour, dress the dish meant to receive them with a border of hard-boiled eggs cut, and stuck into a thin border of butter. Garnish with divided slices of beetroot, cucumbers, and gherkins. Fill the centre of the dish with finely chopped salad-herbs, and, dipping each piece of the game or fowl into Mayonnaise sauce, build them up as a pyramid, the handsomest uppermost; and, when ready to serve, pour Mayonnaise sauce over the centre. This is nearly M. Soyer's way, and we give it as a sort of general receipt for dressing meat and fish salads; the only thing left to the cook is to select the sauce for the salad, and the proper seasonings. By salad-herbs we mean let- tuce, endive, cress, and whatever of this kind is eaten un- dressed.—No. 669. 667. Poulets aux Huitres—Young Fowls with Oyster-sauce, —Stiffen a quarter of a hundred of oysters in their own strained juice. Cool, beard, and stew them in a little veloute^ or in two ounces of butter melted, and thickened with a little flour; add white pepper, the squeeze of a lemon, and two spoonfuls of cream, and pour this hot over two roasted fowls, or serve the oyster-sauce in a tureen separately.—See No. 515. 668. Fricassee des Poulets d la Paysanne,—a plain Fri- cassee of Chickens.— Singe two fat white chickens very well. Skin and carve them smoothly with a very sharp knife, exactly as at table. Wash them in lukewarm water, and blanch them over the fire a few minutes to whiten and firm the flesh. Plunge them in cold water to whiten farther, and then put them into a very nice stewpan, with three ounces of butter, a fagot of parsley and green onions, and a cupful of nicely-trimmed button-mushrooms. When warmed through, and a little tinged with colour, dredge on flour, and add salt, white pepper, and a little of the liquor they were blanched in. Let the fricassee simmer for a half-hour, or more if the chickens are large. Then lift them into another saucepan. Skim off the fat, and reduce the saucePOULTKY. 375 tliey are cooked in by a quick boil, and strain it over them. When ready to serve, add gradually a thickening of the beat yolks of two eggs.—See Nos. 521, 517. Scollops of Cold Chicken.—Mince the cold chickens, and heat the mince in Bechamel-sauce; dish in scollop-shapes, and serve with cucumber-sauce. 669. Cold Fowl d la Mayonnaise.—Arrange in the dish fillets and neat joints around hearts of very delicate lettuces, or endive trimmed; sauce the meat when to be served with a Mayonnaise., and garnish with water-cresses and hard- boiled eggs, divided, cutting off a bit of the white to make the egg stand.—See No. 666. Various Small French Dishes. 670. Parisian Rissoles and Rissoles of Cold Roast ChicTcen. —Mince the white and good parts. Warm the mince in veloute well reduced. Season with mace, white pepper, and nutmeg, and when cold, roll this up with two silver spoons, into balls the size of large eggs. Wrap these in thin paste, and fry and serve them with fried parsley.—See No. 540. 670^. Parisian Rissoles.—Car erne's Receipt.—Eoll out very thin three-quarters of a pound of Brioche paste. Place upon it, about two inches from the edge, minced fowl or game, prepared as for croquets (No. 540), and rolled up between two teaspoons in balls the size of a nutmeg. Place these an inch from each other; egg the paste all round, and fold the edge of it over the balls of mince. Press it firmly down, and with a pastry-stamp, two inches wide, cut the rissoles, keeping the mincemeat-ball exactly in the centre of each. Make twenty-four for a dish. Lay them on a hot tin that the paste may rise, and fry them in lard not too hot, turning with a skewer. They will become quite round. When of a fine colour, drain them on a cloth, dress, and serve directly. They may also be made oblong, or like crescents, etc., etc. 671. Salpiqons.—These elegant little dishes are made of any kind of left poultry, or forcemeat, or of the more deli- cate vegetables, as mushrooms and artichokes, cooked sepa- rately, and served together, but in different compartments of the same dish. Salpiqons are usually cooked in Espagnole^ and neatly dished, with a border, and a division-line of sip-376 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. pets. They may be strewed with crumbs, and browned with a salamander. They are considered genteel^ and are certainly frugal where cookery is all the cost. 672. Salmi de PerdreauXj Salmi of Partridges,—Par-roast three or four partridges kept till they have taken a little fumet When cold, skin and carve them. Put them into a small stewpan, with a bit of lemon-peel, four eschalots, a few bits of dressed ham, seasoning-herbs of all kinds that you like, and a dessertspoonful of peppercorns, a little cay- enne, with the trimmings of the partridges, a half-pint of Espagnole^ and two glasses of Madeira. Let this simmer for an hour very gently. Dish the birds, and strain the skim- med sauce hot over them. Serve fried bread with the salmi, which must be very hot and high seasoned to be good for any thing. 673. Partridge Salmi, Sportsman^s Fashion.—Put cold roasted, or, if done on purpose, half-roasted partridges, skinned and carved, into a saucepan with a small glass of eating-oil, a large glass of wine, pepper, salt, cayenne, and the grate and juice of lemon. When just heated through, serve with grilled crusts.—See Nos. 532, 533, 550. 674. Salmi of Cold Wild Duck or Teal Duck.—Make a sauce of veal-gravy seasoned with cayenne. Simmer the trimmings of the duck in this, and then put in the cold roasted duck, carved and skinned, and simmer till hot. Lift the meat into a stewpan to keep hot. Skim the sauce, and strain it over the meat, adding first, if needful, more season- ings. Squeeze a bitter orange over the sauce, and serve the Salmi very hot.—See Nos. 531, 533. Salmis are favourite dishes with epicures, both on account of the excellence of their constituent parts, and their elaborate and piquant com- position. They are in fact a species of moist devils. For thorough-bred English palates more hot seasonings will be requisite than are used by the French; and this must be attended to. 674^. To Boil and Peel Eggs.—Boil them for fifteen min- utes ; drop them into cold water; roll them below your hand and the shell will come off like any other mould. Plovers^ or Sea-birds' Eggs.—Boil fifteen minutes; serve hot on a napkin, or cold, laid in moss.—See No. 566 to 573.377 VARIOUS SMALL DISHES. 675. Eggs d la Tripe.—Peel, slice, and fry in butter, three or four Spanish onions. When done, dust in some flour, and let it catch to a light brown. Put in a little hot milk, salt, and pepper, and let the sauce reduce. Put to this a dozen small hard-boiled eggs quartered. Mix them gently with the sauce not to break the slices. Arrange the eggs neatly in the dish. 676. Eggs in Sauce Rohert.—Proceed as above directed; but brown the onions over a brisk fire, and moisten with stock. Reduce the sauce by boiling. Add a teaspoonful of made-mustard, and stir in the sliced eggs.—See Nos. 567, 568, 573, and 737. 677. Eggs d la Maitre Hotel.—Do these vjhite and as eggs d la Tripe^ but throw in a good lump of butter and some minced parsley.—Ohs. These dishes, though the best of their kind, seem of little comparative importance ; but when the cook, or the mistress of a family, as is often the case, is racked for something to fill up an odd corner, they afford a cheap and ready resource. Eggs dressed in this last way will afterwards make admirable sauce for poultry, salt cod, or ling. 678. Fondu.—This is prepared in various ways. Mix grated Parmesan and Gruyere cheese, in equal quantities, or substitute good Glo'ster or Cheshire for the latter; add to the rasped cheese about double the weight of cream, or melted butter, with beat yolks of eggs; beat the whites of the eggs separately, and having whisked the mixture very well, put pepper and a little salt to it, and then stir the beat whites lightly in. Either bake the whole in a silver or block-tin souffle-dish, or in paper cases. Fill them only half-full, as the mixture should rise very much. Serve very hot in the second course. Fondu is just cheese souffle.— See BamaJdns, No. 555. 678^. Hors d^oeuvres, or small dishes handed round the table at appropriate times^ as agreeable interludes^ or as relishes or whets.—For small vols-au-vent^ petites bouchees^ rissoles^ and such other hors d'ceuvres^ roll out a pound of the richest puff-paste; cut the vols-au-vent with a fluted cutter about two inches wide. Place them on a floured baking-tin, glaze them with egg with a paste-brush, and, dipping a plain cutter in hot water, mark out the top of each deeply.378 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. Bake tliem in a quick oven for about twenty minutes; take off the marked lid with a knife; scoop out the inside paste, and fill the vacant space with the preparation, which gives the name. Great care must be taken that the paste does not allow the sauce to escape and slop the dish. To prevent this, cooks fortify weak or thin parts with what is scooped out, and plaster with beat egg. 678^. Petites Vols-au-vent of Lobster.—Prepare from about a pound of puff-paste a dozen or more small vols-au-vent. When they are baked have ready the meat of a hen lob- ster cut in dice, and the spawn pounded with an ounce of butter, and rubbed through a sieve. Put eight spoonfuls of white sauce, and four of white stock, into a saucepan with cayenne, pepper, salt, and a teaspoonful of essence of an- chovies. Stir the meat into the hot sauce; heat it through, and, filling the vols-au-vent, dress them on a napkin pyra- midically. Fish and shell-fish of various sorts, skates' livers, and those of mackerels, may be prepared in the same way as a sort of hors d^ceuvres. Another kind of hors cBuvreSj named Petites Bouchees^ or small mouthfuls, are only about an inch and a half in diameter, and the paste is thin in proportion. They are made of several sorts of fish, of skate livers, oysters, fish roes, beef marrow, game, chicken, etc. Small rissoles are yet another form of the same relishing or stimulating pre- parations ; and so are small croustades, croquettes^ and esca- lopes. When the cook knows how to prepare the paste- cases under their various names and forms, the rest is more easily accomplished, as the relishes for all of them are made in nearly the same way, and only the sauce and seasonings varied to suit each sort. They are all usually dressed pyra- midically upon a napkin. Anchovies, anchovy or piquant salads, olives, etc., are all tastefully dressed in France, and served as whets and zests, or as hors d'ceuvres, Petits Diahlotins. These im,ps are made sweet by pounded filberts boiled in sweetened cream, thickened with rice-fiour to a soft paste, which is again rolled in small bits in more pounded filberts, and cut to the size of nuts. These are fried for a minute in the wire-basket for frying parsley; drained, rolled in sugar, and served either as an entremets as hors d^oeuvresj or a relish with wine.379 FISH. 678^. Petites Bouchees d la Eeine.—Make the cases as small vols-au-vent J but very upright and rounds and cut the paste, seven times rolled out, with a fluted cutter two inches wide. It must, for these preparations, be the very richest puff-paste. Bake the vols-au-ventj having first glazed them, and marked the cover. When baked, put to them a little rich Bechamel sauce, which the paste must have time to hn- bibe, then fill with a mince of two parts breast of chicken and one part tongue, seasoned with salt, white pepper, and juice of lemon. The more sauce they imbibe, the more delicious the mouthful is. See Savour^/ Fatties, No. 819. French Dishes of Fish * 679. Court Bouillon for dressing Fish.—Where fish is boiled every day, or in large establishments, this is a very useful broth, as well as in Catholic families during Lent. Season an imperial gallon of water with salt, three carrots, a bunch of parsley, or roots of parsley and green onions, four eschalots, two sprigs of thyme, basil, two bay-leaves, a half-ounce of peppercorns, and a few cloves. Stew and strain this. When you use it, add wine or vinegar. It will answer repeatedly by being boiled up; and the fish boiled in it on successive days will enrich it. A piece of butter may be put in at first. It will form a good basis for maigre soups and sauces to fish. This is also called eau de sel, 680. Court Bouillon for Fish dressed au lieu.—Take the same herbs as above, but less in quantity, and fry them a little in butter. Over this pour two bottles of white and one of red wine, and a little water. In this stew the fish, nicely cleaned. This rich and expensive marinade will do repeatedly; water to be added to it when again used.—Ohs, We consider this receipt useless where fish are to be got fresh. Fish dressed au bleu are eaten with oil and vinegar, mustard, etc. 681. Trout or Pike d la Genevoise.—Clean the fish, but do * Fish is not so well dressed in Paris as in London or at the Hague. The cooking au bleu, a la Genevoise, etc., is in fact practised chiefly to dis- guise the want of that first quality of all fish, which les poissons equivoques of Paris rarely possess—/res/mess. The French, however, re-dress fish better, or at least more variously, than we do, as in vol-au-vent, and as ris- soles, salpi^ons, but above all, au gratin^ No. 688.380 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. not scale it. Put a little court houillon in a stewpan with parsley-roots, cloves, parsley, two bay-leaves, and onions, also a carrot if you like. When these have stewed an hour, strain the liquor over the pike or trout in a small oval fish- pan, and add a little Madeira. When boiled, drain the fish, and take off the scales thoroughly; then put it again in the pan, with a little of the liquor to keep it moist and hot. Make a roux or thickening, and add to it veal-gravy (or, if for a maigre dish, wine); season this sauce with mushroom, parsley, and green onions. Let it stew till smooth. Thicken with butter kneaded in flour if needful. Strain the sauce hot over the dished fish, with a squeeze of lemon, and a little essence of anchovy.* Obs, For red fish use red wine, with mace, and more cloves. N.B.—Saumon d la Genevoise is dressed exactly in this w^ay, which, though rich cookery, is now more out of vogue than fish served d la Matelote^ No. 685. The head of the fish must be bound up to keep it from breaking, which is proper in dressing all large fish. 682. Turhot d la Creme d'AnchoiSj Soyer's way.—Boil the fish, and dish without a napkin. To a quart of melted butter, add, when it nearly boils, five or six ounces of anchovy butter, and four spoonfuls of whipped cream. Mix, but do not allow it to boil. Pour it over the dished tur- bot, and sprinkle with chopped capers and gherkins. Cold Turhot d la Creme [gratine).—Form a thick smooth batter of a quart of milk and a pound of flour; to which add two eschalots, with a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme, tied together; with a little salt, white j)epper, and grated nutmeg. Stir constantly, and boil the batter over a sharp fire till it becomes a thick paste; then take it off, and stir in a half-pound of melted butter, and the beat yolks of two eggs. Pass it through a tammy, and pour some into the bottom of a dish, over which place a layer of the boned (and, if you like, skinned) cold turbot. Then sauce, and again fish in alternate layers, finishing with sauce: strew lightly over the whole grated crumbs, and grated Parmesan. Bake for twenty minutes in a temperate oven, brown with a salamander, and serve in the baking- * Essence of anchovy has become a suspicious commodity. Where practicahlCj substitute anchovies.381 FISH. dish, which, if not a fine one, may be served on another with a puffed napkin: soles, brill, and any other cold white fish of a previous day, may be thus dressed. 6822. Fillets of Haddocks^ Whitings^ or Codlings^ with Maitre d'Hotel Sauce.—The French dress fish very fre- quently in fillets^ cut neatly from the bone the long way on both sides. The practice is good, and now generally adopted at home, as it saves trouble to the eater; the dish looks bet- ter, and if the debris is put to the stockpot for fish-soups or sauces, there is no waste. Cut the two sides or long fillets clean off the bone.—Dry and flour, or better, egg and crumb them. Fry them, and, when ready, serve under them a simple Maitre d^Hotel saucej made thus:—Stew in butter a large spoonful of chopped young onions, parsley, and mush- rooms, with pepper and salt to taste. This we conceive a useful general receipt. 683. Fish-Puddingy a common and favourite Way of Dress- ing Cold Fish.—Take any sort of cold fish. Trim and chop from one to two pounds of it, and season this with chopped onions, parsley, and mushrooms; also salt and pepper; pound the whole with two raw eggs. Line a pudding- mould with slices of fat bacon or buttered paper, and put in alternate layers of the fish, and of godiveau^ No. 692^. Cover with bacon, and bake for an hour and a half, if the pudding is large. Pick off the bacon, or paper ; turn it out, and serve with a plain brown sauce poured over it. 684. To Dress Fillets of Cold Pike d la Maitre d'Hotel.— Cut them neatly. Stew them in butter, with pepper and salt. Dish the fillets neatly, and sauce them with a maitre d^hotel sauce. No. 682^, to which you put a flavour of anchovy.—Obs. French cooks serve cold fish, re-dressed as vols-au-vent, croquets, salades, boudins^ and in many inge- nious modes as to outward show. See No. 123, and onwards. 685. Matelote de Carp a la Royale.—Clean what number of carp you choose. Cut them into three or four pieces, according to the size. Dry these, and stew them very slowly in red wine. Make a sauce matelote (see No. 596), but use the wine in which the carp is stewed both from economy and to have the flavour of the fish. Add also a dozen of small mushrooms. Dish the fish, the heads in the middle, and strain the prepared sauce hot over them. Place382 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. the small stewed onions and the mnslirooms, dressed in tlie sauce, round the fish, and garnish with the soft roes stewed in vinegar.—Obs, This sauce, and all fish-sauces, should be of good consistence, that it may adhere to the fish. 686. Perches au Vm, Ferches in Wine.—Scale and clean the perch. Cook them in good stock (No. 679); add a little white wine, with a high seasoning of parsley, chives, cloves, etc. Thicken a little of this liquor for sauce. Add to it salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a little anchovy-butter.—Ohs. Always use white wine with white fish, and red wine with red-coloured fish. 687. Perche a la Maitre Hotel.—BoW. some salt, pepper, parsley, and chives in water, and in this bouillon boil the perch. Drain and dish them, and cover them with a maitre hotel sauce. 688. Soles,^ Flounders, and other Small Flat Fish, or Fillets of Turbot, etc., au Gratin.—Have a flat silver dish, or tin bakingpan, and spread a bit of fresh butter over it. Mince, very finely, parsley, eschalots, and mushrooms; sea- son with pepper and salt, fry the herbs, and lay them in your buttered dish. Place your fish, neatly cut and trimmed, over this, and cover with fine bread-crumbs. Over this stick a few bits of butter; moisten with a little white wine ; cook under a furnace with a few embers, that the gratin may get crisp; squeeze lemon over your dish, and serve it very hot. The gratin may be browned with a salamander, and fried sippets may be stuck over the dish. Small undressed fish may be divided, have the bones taken out, and be baked au gratin, arranging the pieces neatly en miroton. No. 623. 689. Other French dishes of fish.—John Doree en Ma- telote.—Stuff with half a pound of a fish-forcemeat, No. 149. Boil the fish in a roomy kettle, throwing in a bunch of sweet and one of savoury herbs, three onions, a carrot, a turnip, a bay-leaf, a head of celery, a tablespoonful of salt, two glasses of red wine, and two of vinegar. Serve with a Matelote sauce, to which add three dozen oysters, blanched and bearded. Serve hot. Slices of brill, or large soles, or turbot may be served en matelote, d la maitre d'hotel, or d la Hollandaise. One is rejoiced to find that French cooks, * This and canapes of skates' livers are among the recettes alimentaires of a celebrated Parisian Society of Gourmands.FISH.—FORCEMEAT IN GENERAL. 383 in England, are beginning to dress salmon at least—au na- turel. We must again express admiration of their ways of dressing cold fish, au gratin^ d la creme^ d^ancJwis, and so forth, but doubt of their excessive meddling with fresh fish. We would except some of their dishes of fresh cod, of which we like the cahillaud d la Hollandaise and d la Juive^ made thus. Stew four spoonfuls of chopped onions in two of salad-oil. Add a half-pound of melted butter, two spoon- fuls of Harvey's sauce, two of essence of anchovies, and two of white vinegar. In this prepared sauce, stew two large slices of cod. Give them a quick boil up, and simmer for twenty-five minutes. Dish the slices. Keep them hot, and with a little sugar boil down the sauce and pour it over the fish. Garnish with fried slices of onion, and quenelles of cod's liver; an addition better omitted. M. Soyer has a receipt nearly the same as this, for had- docks, which he christens d la Walter Scott. 690. Morue d la Bonne Femme, Salt Cod in a Plain Way, —Cook the salt fish as directed at No. 161. Have some boiled potatoes in the shape of corks, cut these in slices about the size of a shilling, and warm them with the fish in melted butter. 691. Turhot-Roe^ a small pretty dish—Handle so as not to mangle the roe; blanch it, slice and finish in the oven, and serve as a ragout, or as a white fricassee. Garnish with slices of lemon.—Ohs. The French curry all sorts of fish and shell-fish in the English way. French Forcemeat in General. 692. Quenelles and Boudins,—The French claim suprem- acy over the v/hole civilized world in the art of preparing farces. Without presuming to question their superiority, it is possible for a cook of ordinary abilities and industry to attain a competent knowledge of this high mystery, with- out serving a regular apprenticeship at the French stove, provided she give respectful attention to the manner in which foreign artists proceed. The French have reduced the art of preparing forcemeat to fixed principles. As con- stituents, they have the godiveau, the panade, the farce of fowl, the gratinj all cut and dry ; and these they laboriously compound, with a degree of patience which goes far to384 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. redeem their national character from the charge of fickleness and levity. Of these farces are formed the quenelle and houdinj a class of preparations which, though made of force- meat, forms, like our sausages, a distinct order of dishes. The French forcemeats are indeed worthy of the profound attention of every refined epicure, and ought, with all speed, to supplant our home-made crude compounds. The first element in their composition is the Godiveau [of which also excellent Patties may he made), 6922. Qodiveau.—Scrape a pound of a fillet of white, well-fed veal, and mince a pound and a half of beef-suet, free from strings, skins, and kernels. Chop, of scalded parsley, young onions, and mushrooms, enough to season this meat. Add pepper, salt, allspice, and mace, and pound the whole very well, mixing in three raw eggs at different times, and a little water. To test Forcemeat. — When very well pounded, make up a small ball of the farce^ and boil it in fast-boiling water, to try if it be light, well seasoned, and good. By this proof-hall be guided either in adopting the farce^ or in adding another egg to give firmness, or more water to liquefy the godiveau, or whatever it wants. 693. Gratin,—This farce may be made either of the white parts of a fowl or of veal. Cut a half-pound of the fillet into small bits, and toss them over the fire, in butter, for ten minutes, with salt, pepper, and herbs. Drain off the butter. Mince the meat, and then pound it, if for fowls, with their livers parboiled, veal-udder parboiled and skinned, or butter instead of udder, and panada (see next receipt). Have as much butter or veal-udder as of each of the other ingredients, i. e. a third of each. Pound the whole together, adding a raw egg at a time till you have three, as in the godiveau. Prove the forcemeat by poaching a small ball of it as directed in No. 692^. 694. Panada for Forcemeats.—Soak slices of bread in hot milk. Press out the milk when the bread is quite moist, and beat up the bread with a little rich broth or white sauce, and a lump of butter. Stir till this becomes somewhat dry and firm. Add the yolks of two eggs, and pound the whole well together. 695. Quenelles de Volaille, or Forcemeat-Balls of Poultry as a Dish.—Strip off the skin, pull out the sinews, and .?385 FORCEMEAT IN GENERAL. mince and pound the best parts of young fowls, till the meat will rub through a sieve. Have one part of this, one of panada, and another of veal-udder, parboiled and skinned. Pound the whole well together, and season with salt, white pepper, and mace. Put raw yolks to the compound, and beat it perfectly smooth. Prove it as directed. No. 692^. If not firm enough, add more eggs, one at a time. Make up the quenelles of egg-shapes, and poach or bake them.— N.B. Quenelles may be made of rabbit, partridge, or pheas- ant, in the same way. Serve with clear gravy. They are considered a delicate dish. 696. Boudins d la Richelieu [Puddings of Rahhits or Poultry). — Make a forcemeat of rabbits or poultry, as directed for quenelles; but instead of panada use pounded potatoes. Put to the far^ce dressed onions or mushrooms chopped, in suitable quantity. Spread the forcemeat smooth on the dresser, and with a knife roll it up in small sausages or boudins ; or mould it to a proper shape, and bake the boudins Whether boiled or baked, serve with brown Italian-sauce. Boudins may be made of all sorts of game, poultry, also of whitings, craw-fish, etc. 696^. Boudins Blancj an exceedingly good kind of White Puddings.—Cook a dozen small onions in broth. Make a rather dry panada of cream or milk, and pound this with the onions and some pounded sweet almonds. Put to this pig's caul, cut in little bits, some yolks of eggs, a little cream, the white parts of raw chickens finely minced, with salt and spices. Pound the whole well, and try it by dressing a little in a small pan before you fill the skins. Boil the boudi7is in milk and water, pricking the skins to prevent them from bursting. When wanted, dip them in boiling water to heat, and finish them in a paper case in a Dutch oven.—See National Dishes, No. 738. 696^. Macaroni in the richest Italian mode.—Prepare pipe or ribbon Macaroni as at No. 557. Prepare also Sughlio as at note. No. 769. Drain the boiled macaroni, stew it very slowly in the sughlio for fifteen minutes. Dish and grate Parmesan and bread-crumbs. Put bits of butter over it. Brown with a salamander, and serve hot. To sughlio French cooks, of any refinement, prefer veal-gravy, or for a more delicate dish, Espagnole. RCHAP. II.—FRENCH COOKERY. 386 Modes of French Cookery, Turkey en Galantine. 697. Many of these modes we have seen; and as many more remain. The galantine is important; and as an ex- ample we take the galantine de dinde. Bone a turkey; truss the legs inside; spread over it a layer of prepared forcemeat, and on that strips of cooked lean ham, fat bacon, and lean veal. These^ must he laid in alternately, and thus contrasted. Season with pepper and salt; then cover with another layer of forcemeat, and thus fill the turkey, keeping it of a good shape. Sew it up, to keep shape, and put it in a cloth to stew in veal or turkey stock. Stew for three hours. Probe it; and if ready, undo the bandages; place it in a dish where it can be pressed with a weight till cold, but kept in shape. Have aspic jelly, No. 606, ready, with which, in croutons and roughed hits^ like crystals, decorate the galantine^ forming in aspic a star, a flower-de-luce, or any fanciful and light design upon the top of it. Galantines are, by French cooks, decorated in as many ways as are ladies' caps by Parisian milliners ;—with eggs, truffles, beet- root, etc.; but, above all, aspic jelly, which may be much varied in form and colour. All kinds of game and poultry are thus dressed, and also eels and other fish, by stuffing and decorating. None are more stylish than galantines of pheasants or grouse. Blancs and Poeles, to prepare for cooking French Dishes,— A hlanc is a rich broth or gravy, in which the French cook palates, lamb's head, and many other things. It is made thus: A pound of beef-kidney fat, minced, put on with a sliced carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, parsley, green onions, slices of lemon without the peel or seeds; or, if much is wanted, two pounds of fat, and two lemons. When the fat is a good deal melted, put in water made briny with salt; and when done, the Blanc is ready for use. To PoelCj and to prepare the Poele.—A pound of the white of fresh fat bacon, a pound of suet or veal-kidney fat, both hashed, and a pound of fresh butter. Fry, together with two pounds of veal, cut in small bits, for ten minutes, and add a quart and a half of water, two dessertspoonfuls of salt, an onion stuck with four cloves, a bay-leaf, a few sprigs387 YEGETABLES, FKUIT, ETC. of tliyme, a handful of parsley and young onions. Stew till the onion looks pulpy. Strain and keep for cooking in. To Poele Chickens, etc,—The above is expensive cookery. Fowls must be trussed as for roasting, and laid on a layer of fat bacon in the stewpan, and have the liquid poele poured over them. They should have butter, salt, and a little lemon-juice put into the inside.—See Braising, note to No. 478. French Dishes of Vegetables, Fruit, etc. See also from No. 188 to 241. French cooks claim superiority for their skill and variety in dressing vegetables; and the assumption is in this in- stance just. Vegetable preparations enter largely into both their courses, usually affording two entrees, or substitutes for entrees, for an ordinary dinner, and four for a larger one. Great improvements have been made of late, even among ourselves, in preparing the more delicate and showy vege- table dishes ; and it is to be hoped that British cooks, besides imitating the French in saucing their cauliflowers and arti- chokes, will soon copy their manner of braising cabbages and carrots for homely, everyday use. 698. Asparagus-Pease for the second Course, Entremets,'^' —Pick and cut some young asparagus into small equal bits, rejecting what is woody. Boil these pease in salt and water, and drain and dry them in a cloth. Then give them a fry in butter, with a bunch of parsley and green onions, and a sprig of mint. Dredge flour over them. Put in a bit of sugar, and moisten with boiling water. Give them a quick boil. When boiled down, take out the fagot of parsley and onions, and gradually thicken the sauce with the beat yolks of two eggs, beaten up with cream or melted butter, and a little salt and grated nutmeg. 698^. Macedoine de Legumes, or of roots.—Clean four deep- red smooth large carrots : scoop off the zest or red part the size of peas: simmer this for fifteen minutes. Scoop out, * Far from us be the presumption of attempting to teach the English cook what French artistes call entrees and what entremets. We would as soon attempt to teach her the gender of all the nouns in their language. We do not know ourselves: nobody does. On this point the great Ude would sometimes differ from the greater Careme.CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. 388 same size, six turnips, and pare twenty very small button- onions. Fry them in two ounces of butter with a teaspoon- ful of sugar for five or six minutes, when add the carrots. Fry the whole till covered with glaze, and add nearly a half- pint of Bechamel. Let the Macedoine reduce till rather thick. Season with white pepper and salt, and before serv- ing add three spoonfuls of a liaison of yolk of eggs and cream. 699. To Dress GreeM Pease [the Petits Pois),—Boil a large pint of the finest green pease, with salt and a good piece of butter rubbed among them. When tender, drain them, lift- ing them out of the colander, but leaving the refuse. Stew them with a fagot of parsley and green onions. Tlie colour will now deepen. Dredge a good deal of flour over them, and stir a piece of butter among them, with salt, a very little grated Parmesan (if you like), and a knob of sugar first dipped in boiling water. Let them get quite dry, and dress them high on the dish. Pease-sauce or puree of Pease.— Stew a pint or quart of very young pease till tender, with chopped lettuce, parsley, and young onions. Rub the puree through a tammy-cloth, and add good gravy. It is served with various meats. Obs. Consomme added to any left Petit Pois will make an excellent extempore potage suiting the quantities. 700. Sea-kale for the Second Course.—We do not know that this vegetable is naturalized in France even yet; but after boiling it in plenty of water, with salt, French cooks in this country drain it, and serve with sauce blanche or veloute. Sauce blanche, i.e. butter melted in cream, is per- haps the most appropriate sauce for all vegetables, but for the danger of its running to oil, which makes veloute pre- ferable in nice cookery.—-See No. 190. 701. Artichoke-bottoms en Canapes.—Have the boiled artichokes nicely trimmed, and the chokes removed. When cold, fill the bottoms with anchovy-butter, and decorate with pickled capers, gherkins, and beetroot carved, con- trasting the colours.—See No. 191. 702. Artichokes a Vltalienne.—Trim and quarter the arti- chokes, and boil them in salt and water. Take out the chokes. Drain and arrange the quarters with the leaves389 VEGETABLES, FRUIT, ETC. outwards. Pour a white Italian-sauce over them, and gar- nish with cresses. 703. French Beans d la Poulette.—When boiled (as di- rected page 208) very green, drain them. Reduce some sauce tournee. Thicken it with beat yolks of eggs, and pour this over the boiled beans. 704. Windsor Beans d la Poulette.—Boil fresh young beans. Stew them, first taking off the skins, and sauce them with veloute, 704^. Navets Vierge.—Peel and scoop out to the size of marbles, five or six good white turnips. Fry them with two ounces of butter and one of sugar. When covered with glaze, add above a quarter-pint of Bechamel or any good white sauce, and a half-glass of cream. Season with a very little salt, and white pepper. Yellow turnips may be dressed as above, brown, by using a quarter-pint of brown sauce, a glassful of Espagnole, and seasoning with a bunch of pars- ley, and a bay-leaf, pepper, and salt: skim carefully. Pick out the parsley and bay-leaf, and serve the ragout. 705. Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel.—Peel boiled potatoes and turn them the size of thick corks. Cut these in slices a half-inch thick. Put them into a stewpan with some sliced green onions and minced parsley, pepper, salt, and butter. Moisten with stock, and toss them till the pars- ley is cooked. 706. Endive for the Second Course.—Clean the endive by frequent washing, and plunge it head downmost in salt and water, to draw out those insects which often lodge in the leaves of vegetables. Blanch the heads, drain them, and, when cold, chop them fine. Stew them in veal-gravy with salt. When tender, add a little Espagnole^ and serve with poached eggs for second-course dishes, or under fricandeau, or with hashed mutton. 707. Compote de Cerises^—Compote of Cherries.—To a half-pound of clarified sugar put a pound of cherries, of which half the stalk is cut away. Give them a boil of three minutes. Skim, and serve them in a glass dish. Take out the stones and cut away the stalks, if wished. 707^. Ahricots au Riz.—Divide eighteen or twenty-four apricots. Fry them quickly (with the kernels blanchedCHAP. II.—FRENCH COOKERY. 800 and skinned) in a symp made of—for twenty-four—a half- pound of sugar, and the juice of two lemons. When ten- der, take them up to cool, and to the syrup add three table- spoonfuls of apricot marmalade. Have previously pre- pared six ounces of rice slowly cooked in milk, sweetened with foiir ounces of sugar, and enriched with four of fresh butter, and four beat eggs. Let the rice, with these addi- tions, thicken, stirring it. Cool and dress it on the dish, eight inches wide and three high, with a hollow in the cen- tre to receive, heaped pyramidically, the prepared apricots. Garnish to taste with preserved angelica.—Ol>s. This receipt is applicable to pears and apples au inz ; and the latter may be served hot. 708. Fears in Sugar.—Put a clove into the eye of each pear. Throw them into hot water to scald them. Pare and keep them under water to preserve the colour. Boil them in thin syrup made of a large pint of water to a half-pound of sugar. Add the juice of a lemon, and serve in a glass dish, in the syrup. Another way,—Divide large pears. Take out the seeds. Blanch them in hot water and lemon-juice, to keep the colour white. Pare them. Throw them into fresh water, and give them a few boils in thin syrup before serving them in it. Apples may be dressed in the same way, but must be longer boiled. 709. Apples d la Portuguaise.—"Wash and core fine large rennets, but do not pare them. Prick them with a knife^ and boil them in thin syrup. Then put them in an earthen dish under a small furnace, or in a Dutch oven, to brown^ basting them with the syrup. 710. Peaches in Sugar.—Blanch six or eight in hot water that they may easily peel, then give them a boil in syrup, and serve. The French serve all sorts of fruit en compotes, which form tasteful and economical dishes. Serve all these in a compote dish or any suitable glass dish. See Ornamen- tal Dishes. 710^. Miroton de Pomme.—Pare a dozen rennets, or best American apples. Slice them about a quarter of an inch thick. Pierce out the cores with a marked paste-cutter. Melt two ounces of fresh butter, to which put six of the best pounded sugar, the juice of two lemons and the grate of one.Part III. Chapter V. OMELETTES A LA CELESTINE. 891 Fry the apples gently in this, and dress them either en miroton (see Glossary/) or piled up in the dish, and pour over chem a spoonful of white currant jelly, heated in a glass of Madeira. 711. Omelettes a la Celestine. Make a smooth batter, with four ounces of pounded sugar, four of sifted flour, four eggs, and a pint of rich milk. Have a very little butter very hot, in an omelette-pan, into which pour equal to two large tablespoonfuls of the batter. When firmed, turn over the omelette upon a flat saucepan- lid, buttered and hot, and from this on a cloth. Make as many omelettes in this manner as you wish. Lay a tea- spoonful of apricot-jam, orange-marmalade, or any kind of preserve you like, upon each. Lay also a little frangipane^ No. 711^ upon each: fold up each, and, trimming the edges neatly, sift sugar over them, and glaze lightly with a sala- mander. Dress them pyramidically upon a napkin, and serve very hot. Pancakes d la Confiture are nearly the same.—See No. 879. 7112. Frangipane,—Beat up six eggs with two large table- spoonfuls of flour, to which add a pint of milk and a quar- ter pound of pounded sugar, and stir till these thicken and are on the eve of boiling. Now add the grate of a lemon, some broken ratafias, and a glass of rum or brandy. Stir up, and pour in two ounces of butter fried till it take a little colour. Frangipane^ may be flavoured with orange, coffee, vanilla, orange-flower essence, or any article suitable to the dish it is to be used with. Modern Frangipane is equivalent to our cold custard and prepared creams, used to serve with fruit pies and tarts. 711^. Creme Patissiere,—the cream which the French use instead of our cold custard, for saucing, i. e, eating with fruit-tarts and tartlets, puffs, sweet cannelons^ etc.—Eub in lumps, two ounces of sugar on the rind of a lemon. Make a batter of the yolks of three eggs and two ounces of the finest flour; whisk it well. Add to it gradually a pint of boiling milk (cream if you like), the flavoured sugar, and, if no cream, a half-ounce of melted butter. Whisk again. Stir it like custard over a clear fire, till it thicken. An ounce of crushed ratafias. No. 999, will improve this cream, or flavour may be given by any favourite liqueur. Read392 CHAP. IL—FRENCH COOKERY. French Paste and Pastry for Entremets. There is no end to the varieties of paste which French pastry-cooks prepare, nor yet to the infinity of preparations to which the different sorts are appUed. We give a small selection and the best of the pastes. Study from Nos. 771 to 779, and also 820. 712. Paste-Royal^ to make.—Put four ounces of butter into a stewpan with a large glassful of water, two ounces of beat sugar, and a bit of lemon-peel. When the butter is nearly melted, shake some dry flour to it through a fine sieve. Take out the lemon-peel, and with your hand strew in as much more flour as the boiling liquid will absorb, stirring briskly with a wooden spoon, till it come easily from the sides of the stewpan. Put it into another pan. Let it cool. Break an egg into it, and stir it well to mix, and afterwards three or four more eggs, stirring till the paste becomes tenacious and smooth. This is used for many small articles, as Pains d la Duchesse^ Choux, Chantilly baskets; in short, it may be moulded or stamped into any form, according to the ingenu- ity of the cook. The things made of it, when arranged on paper, may be iced, baked in a moderate oven, and dried before the Are. This paste swells very much, which must be considered in forming things of it.—See Paste^ No. 771-79. 713. Choux of Paste-Royal.—Form the choux in the shape of balls larger than children's marbles. Bake in a moderate oven. Dry them, and make a small opening in the side, into which put a little of any sweatmeat you like. 714. Pains d la Duchesse.—Make as the chouxj but larger, and flatten them with the rolling-pin to the length of four inches. When baked, slit them open at the end, and intro- duce the sweatmeat. 715. Les Gimhlettes d VArtois.—Make as the cJioux, but give them a deep dint in the middle before baking. Widen this by turning your finger round in it. Sift sugar over them when just done ; glaze with a salamander, and put the sweetmeat into the cavity. 716. Les Petits Choux et les Gimhlettes Pralines.'^—Make them rather smaller than above directed; and before baking, but when glazed, sprinkle finely-chopped sweet almonds and sugar over them, and garnish with sweetmeats, as the others. * What we would call confycted.PASTRY. 393 Pate Royale may, as formerly said, be rolled out, stamped with paste-cutters, and dressed in any form you choose, serving any sort of preserved sweetmeat neatly upon or within it. 717. Brioche Paste.—Every one who has had the felicity of seeing Paris, has, of course, paid for it in many ways besides by being deafeaned with shrill cries of ^' Brioches " Gateaux de Nanterre /" etc. The brioche paste is, notwith- standing, the first-rate article of its kind in Europe, when pro- perly prepared; and by a variation in the shapes of the Gateaux and a few additions, it may be produced in fifty forms of cake. It is made (in the best way) in the following manner and proportions:—Have four pounds [equal to four and a half English weight] of dry fine flour; take one-fourth of this to make the leaven in this manner; make a hole in the centre of the flour, into this pour a small wineglassful of sweet yeast, and over this as much hot water as will make it a rather thick leaven. Set this covered before the fire, making a few transverse incisions on the surface. Give it fifteen or twenty minutes to rise. Then leaven the remaining flour thus:—Throw a little beat salt, and some sugar, both melted in water, over the flour. Make a hole in the middle of it. Crumble down two pounds of butter, and break a dozen eggs into it. Knead it up quickly, once and again, till well mixed, and pour the prepared leaven equally over it. Divide it into pieces, which knead and toss about, changing their place continually to blend the whole materials equally and well. Next beat up the whole together, and keep the brioche paste in a medium temperature (according to the state of the weather) rolled up in a cloth, dusted with flour, and spread another over the deep vessel in which it is laid. Next day (for it works the better for lying over a night) break and mould the paste into any form you please, large or small. By the addition of currants or sugar, you have sugar-loaves and Gateaux de Nanterre. Add currants and fine stoned raisins, and you have the Gateaux de Compiegne. Tinge the paste with saffron diluted in water, and add a glass of Madeira or sweet wine, and by moulding in proper shapes you have Babas. The moulds should be buttered; and care must be taken that the babas are not scorched a-top, as colour is always of consequence.—A still better prepara- tion for a full-tooth epicure, is Brioche au Fromage^ made by strewing well-flavoured Swiss, Italian, or English cheese R 2394 CH4F. II. FRENCH COOKERY. in very small dice into tlie paste before baking it. Brioche cakes are generally made with a bead and sole or flat part, like our muffins. These are separately shaped in the hand, and then stuck together; a smaller top or bottom of the paste is clapped on above all, where the top is a little dinted in. The cakes are brushed with beat eggs, and baked in a quick oven. If large, Brioche cakes, like all cakes, require a steady, but not quick heat, else they will scorch before getting baked to the heart.—By H, J., Ecuyer tranchant to the St Ronan's Club. 718. Chantilly Baskets.—French cooks often make these of very small choux of pdte-royale^ instead of the ratafia-bis- cuits used in this country. The method is the same. When the little biscuits or choux are baked quite crisp, have ready some sugar clarified and boiled to crackling height. Stick a small skewer into each biscuit, and dip its edge in the sugar. Fix them one by one, as dipt, round a dish or mould that will shape your basket. When one row is done, begin another. The candied sugar will make the biscuits instantly stick. Use rather larger biscuit for the upper tiers, as the basket should widen towards the top. Three or four tiers will be enough of height. The handle will be most easily made by sticking the biscuits together round the ledge of a stewpan, first ascertaining the width of the arch; for really what is ordered in common receipt-books about "throwing over an arch," is easier said than done. An ornamental border of coloured drops of gum-paste may be given to the basket. Serve any dry sweatmeat you choose in the basket, which should first be lined with tissue-paper. 719. Bouchees des Damesj Ladies' Lips or Kisses.—Make a paste as for fine biscuits of six fresh eggs, with six ounces of sifted sugar, and three of rice-flour. Beat this very well; spread it thinly, and bake on paper on a buttered oven-tin for nearly twenty minutes. When fired, stamp out the paste the size of dollars, with ornamental stamps, and glaze with white, rose, or violet-coloured icing.—See To Ice Cakes, Nos. 1005, 1006. 719^. Petites Bouchees d la Patissiere.—Cut fifteen pieces out of puff-paste, rolled out to the eighth of an inch, with an oval fluted cutter, about two inches long, and one and * Properly, ladies' mouthfuls»395 PASTRY. a half broad. Roll out more paste, from which cut twenty pieces with a smaller stamp, and again with one yet smaller cut out the centre. Wet the pieces. Place the largest undermost, then the next, and lastly those stamped out like rings, having first dipped them in pounded sugar. Bake on a baking-tin, and fill the ring with any sort of fruit-jelly or jam, or a preserved cherry, etc. 720. The Twins or Meringues Jumeaux.—Whip the whites of eight eggs to a solid froth, and add to this a pound of fine sifted sugar; or clarify and boil it to the second degree. Season with lemon-grate, and whisk all very well together. Drop the Jumeaux on paper in the shape of an egg. Sift sugar over them. Bake them in a slow oven. When firm, draw them out, and stick two and two together, and put them to dry before the fire or in a hot closet.— Ols. These meringues or gemini may be made as above, and flavoured with marasquin or orange-flower water; but they must then be made smaller. As has been said, an endless variety of trifles is made of paste-royal^ by purchasing the proper cutters or stamps. Among the neatest are the Petits Paniers and Petites Bri- oches^ of which the proper stamp will direct the forming. Morsels of Brioche Paste, prepared in very small balls, straws, or as Cagliari Paste, make a good addition to soups, and may, if stamped^ be served with stews or wherever sip- pets are suitable.—See Pastry and Calces, 721. A plain Fruit-cake.—Roll out any bits of puff-paste you have left from more important preparations. Spread any kind of marmalade over these. Decorate with paste bands or straws. Glaze the cake with yolk of egg; bake it, and cut it into oblong pieces, and pile them on the dish. —See Pastry and Sweet and Ornamental Dishes, 72P. To serve Jelly in Orange Skins, Careme.—Choose ten well-shaped large oranges, of a rich colour. Cut a piece an inch wide at the stalk end with a cutter, and with a tea- spoon gently raise the rind and empty the orange. Clear away the pulp and seeds, and throw the skins into cold water to harden and plump out. Be careful not to break them; but if broken, stop the crack with a little butter. Filter the juice with the juice of two lemons through blot- tiag-paper, rolled up like a funnel. Add syrup and an396 CHAP. III. —SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. ounce and a half of melted isinglass. Now place the skins on a large sieve two inches from each other. Surround them with ice, and fill them with the jelly; replace the piece of skin removed to empty them. Lay six on a napkin, and a seventh on the top, and garnish with orange or laurel leaves. They may also be served in a paste-basket, or simply and gracefully piled in a glass dish. CHAPTER III. SCOTCH AND OTHEE JTATIOML DISHES. Ther« be livers out of England. Cymheline. It has been remarked, that every country is celebrated for some culinary preparation, and that, therefore, National Dishes are always good. The reason is obvious; had they not been acceptable to the palate, they never could have either gained or maintained supremacy. Accordingly, the Spanish olio and puchero^ the Italian macaroni^ the French ragout^ the Turkish pillau^ and, though last not least in our good love, the Scotch Haggis, differing essentially as they do, are, nevertheless, all equally good after their kind. We give precedence to the " Great chieftain of the pudding race," premising, in all good faith, that ours is the exact formula by which the Prize Haggis was prepared at the famous Competition of Haggises held in Edinburgh, when the St Ron an's Haggis carried the stakes, and that of Christopher North came in second. Among the judges on that ever memorable day were G. P. R. James, Esq., and the lamented author of Cyril Thornton," not to men- tion the late Director-General of the Fine Arts, who was himself a competitor. 722. The Scotch Haggis.—Clean a fat sheep's pluck thor- oughly. Make incisions in the heart and liver to allow the blood to flow out, and parboil the whole, letting the wind- pipe lie over the side of the pot, to permit the phlegm and blood to disgorge from the lungs ; the water may be changed397 THE SCOTCH HAGGIS. after ten minutes' boiling for fresh water. The lights can- not be overboiled. A half-hour's boiling will be sufficient for the rest; but throw back the half of the liver to boil till, when cold, it will grate easily. Take the heart, the half of the liver, and part of the lights, trimming away all skins and black-looking parts, and mince them together finely. Mince also a pound of good beef-suet. Grate the other half of the liver. Have four mild large onions, peeled, scalded, and minced, to mix with the haggis-mince. Have also ready some finely-ground oatmeal, toasted slowly be- fore the fire till it is of a light-brown colour, and perfectly nutty and dry; or high toasted oat-cake may be crumbled down. A large teacupful of meal will do for this quantity of meat. Spread the mince on a board, and strew the meal lightly over it, with a high seasoning of black pepper, salt, and a little cayenne, first well-mixed. Have a haggis-bag [i.e. a sheep's paunch) perfectly clean, and see that there be no thin part in it, else your whole labour will be lost by its bursting. Some cooks use two bags, or a cloth as an outer case. Put in the meat with a half-pint of good beef-gravy, or as much strong stock. Be careful not to fill the bag too full, but allow the meat and meal room to swell • add the juice of a lemon, or a little good vinegar; press out the air, and sew up the bag; prick it with a long needle when it first swells in the pot to prevent bursting; let it boil slowly for three hours if large.—Obs. This is a genuine Scotch haggis; the lemon and cayenne may be omitted, and instead of beef-gravy, a little of the broth in which the pluck is par- boiled may be taken. More suet may be given. A finer haggis may be made by parboiling and skinning sheep's tongues and kidneys, and substituting these minced, for the most of the lightsj and soaked bread or crisped crumbs for the toasted meal. There are, moreover, sundry modern re- finements on the above receipt,—such as eggs, milk, pounded biscuit, etc., etc.,—but these, by good judges, are not deemed improvements. Some cooks use the small fat tripes, as in making lamb's haggis. Mr Allan Cunningham, in some of his Tales, orders the parboiled minced meat of sheep's head for haggis. We have no experience of this receipt, but it promises well. A haggis boiled for two hours may be kept for a week or two; and when cold, gets so firm that haggises are often sent from Scotland to distant places and countries.398 CHAP. III.—SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. They must in this case be made very dry, and covered with oatmeal; nor will a haggis keep so well if there is onion put to it. For some tastes—our own for example—the above receipt prescribes too much onion. Haggis meat, by those who cannot admire the natural shape, may be poured out of the bag, and served in a deep dish. No dish heats up better. A ragout of cold haggis heated up in a stewpan in which a little shred onion, with pepper, is first fried, and the whole covered over with a haggis-bag, to keep the meat sappy^ is better than on the first day. We advised M. Soyer to try haggis with a paste or mashed potato border, d VEcossais, 723. A LamVs Haggis.—Slit up all the little fat tripes with scissors, and clean them thoroughly. Clean the ker- nels also, and parboil the whole, and cut them into little bits. Clean and shred the web and kidney fat, and mix it with the tripes. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Make a thin batter with two eggs, a half-pint of milk, and the necessary quantity of flour. Season with chopped chives or young onions. Mix the whole together. Sew up the bag, which must be very clean, and boil for an hour and a half. Lamb's Haggis is often made as sheep's haggis. We have been requested by a correspondent to give the following receipt for Calf's haggis publicity, for the benefit of mankind. The St Eonan's Club had originally no ex- perience of it, but Dr Redgill was willing to stake his reputation upon it untried, and he was found right. 7232. Calfs Haggis.—Take the veal-caul (or web of fat), the udder, the kidney, and best part of the calfs pluck. Blanch and boil the udder, and the split kidney and pluck, for twenty minutes. When cool, mince them; mince also the caul. Blanch and hash two dozen sprigs of picked young parsley, a few green onions very young, a bit of eschalot, and a few mushrooms, if you have them. Stew the herbs in butter for three or four minutes, and moisten them with a glass of Madeira. When this gets dry, season with salt and pepper. Mix the ingredients, i. e. the herbs and mince. Put them into a bag as other haggises; but for security have two bags, one casing the other, for iear of a breach. Mix meanwhile the beat yolks of two eggs with a half-pint of rich and highly-seasoned veal or beef gravy, andHAGGIS, KAIL-BROSE, AND COCK-A-LEEKIE. 399 two spoonfuls of pounded and soaked rusks. Put this into the bag with the other materials, and the squeeze of a lemon, and when sewed up, toss it about to blend them all, and boil in water, or fresh broth if you have it; pricking the bag to let out the air, as in other receipts. Boil three hours. 723^. Haggis Royal.—We find this receipt for Haggis Royal in the Minutes of Sederunt of the St Ronan's Club ; —" Three pounds of leg of mutton chopped; a pound of suet chopped; a little, or rather as much beef-marrow as you can spare; the crumb of a penny loaf (our own nutty-flavoured, browned oatmeal is, by the way, far better); the beat yolks of four eggs; a half-pint of red wine; three mellow fresh anchovies boned : minced parsley, lemon grate, white pepper, crystals of cayenne to taste,—crystals alone ensure a perfect diffusion of the flavour,—blend the ingredients well: truss them neatly in a veal-caul; bake in a deep dish, in a quick oven, and turn out. Serve hot as fire, with brown-gravy or venison-sauce.^' 724. Scottish Fat Brose.—Boil an ox-head, sheep's head, ox-heel, or shin of beef, till an almost pure oil floats on the top of the pot. Have some oatmeal well toasted before the fire, as in making haggis; put a handful of the meal into a basin with salt, and, pouring a ladleful of the fat broth over it, stir it quickly up with the handle of a spoon, so as not to run into one doughy mass, but to form knots, 725. Kail'Brose is made as in the above receipt, but of very fat broth in which shred greens, kail, have been boiled. 726. Cock-a-leekie.—Boil from four to six pounds of good shin-beef, well broken, till the liquor is very good. Strain it, and put to it a capon, or large fowl, trussed as for boiling, and, when it boils, half the quantity of blanched leeks in- tended to be used, well cleaned, and cut in inch-lengths, or longer. Skim this carefully. In a half-hour add the re- maining part of the leeks, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. The soup must be very thick of leeks, and the first part of them must be boiled down into the soup till it be- acomes a lubricous compound. Sometimes the capon is erved in the tureen with the soup. This makes good leek- soup without a fowl.—Some people thicken cock-a-leekie with the flour of oatmeal. Those who dislike so much of the leeks may substitute German greens, or spinage, for one-400 CHAP. m. SCOTCH AND OTHEK NATIONAL DISHES. half of them, and we consider this an improvement, greens especially, if tender and long boiled, and not too finely shred. Reject the coarse green of the leeks. Prunes and raisins used to be put into this soup. The practice is nearly obsolete.* 727. Balnamoon SkinJcj an Irish Soup.—Clean and cut into pieces two or three young cocks or fowls. Have one larger, neatly trussed as for boiling. Boil the cut fowls till the broth is as strong and good as they can make it; but do not overboil the uncut fowl. Strain the broth, season it with parsley, chives, and young onions chopped, and, if in season, a few green pease. Add white pepper and salt, and either serve the whole fowl in the tureen, or separately.— Obs. This soup may be improved by adding, before serving, a liaison of two beat eggs, and a little cream. It is a variety of the Scottish Friar's Chicken, and of dishes, which are, with whatever modification of seasonings, familiar wherever a backward system of husbandry renders poultry plentiful, and good shambles-meat scarce. 728. Scottish Hotch-Potch.—Make the stock of sweet fresh lamb or mutton. Grate the zest of two or three large young carrots ; slice down as many more. Slice down also sweet young turnips, young onions, lettuce, and parsley. Have a full quart of these things when finely shred, another of young green pease and sprigs of cauliflower. Put in the vegetables, withholding half the pease till near the end of the process. Cut down two or three pounds of ribs of lamb into small steaks, trimming off superfluous fat, and put them to the stock. Boil well and skim carefully; add the remaining pease, white pepper, and salt; and w^lien thick enough, serve the cutlets in the tureeen with the hotch-potch.—Obs. The excellence of this favourite dish depends mainly on the * At a formal banquet given bj the late Lord Holland, Tallejrand, who "was as celebrated for gastronomy as diplomacy, inquired "earnestly" of Lord Jeffrey the nature of " Cocky-leekie^''' and wished particularly to know if 'prunes [French plums) were essential to its scientific concoction. Mr Jeffrey was unable to give the Ex-bishop and Prince any satisfactory information; and the sagacious diplomatist, with his usual tact, settled for himself, that prunes should be boiled in the famous historical soup, warmly patronized by " gentle King Jamie," but taken out before thepotage was sent to table. It is not improbable that his Excellency gave his own cook orders accordingly, for the preparation of a soup which Scotland probably owed to France long before the Union of the crowns. Cock-a-leeTcie d la Talleyrand is worthy of trial, especially as conservative English cooks still affirm that this is the practice of Scotland.401 HOTCH-POTCH SKINK. meat, whether lamb or mutton, being perfectly fresh, and the vegetables being all young, full of sweet juices, and boiled till of good consistence. The sweet, white turnip is best for hotch-potch, or the small, round, smooth-grained yellow kind peculiar to Scotland, which is almost equal to the genuine Navet of France. Mutton-chops make excellent hotch-potch without lamb-steaks. Parsley shred, white cabbage, asparagus-points, or cauliflower, may be added to the other vegetables or not, at pleasure. The meat may be kept whole, and served separately.—See No. 99. Of this receipt, when it first appeared in our work, a great poet, and no contemptible gastronome, wrote, ^' Eve might have prepared it for Adam in Paradise.'' There are, however, many varieties of Scottish hotch-potch; we give what we consider the best and most national. 729. Winter Hotch-Potch^ or German Broth.—This dish may be made of either fresh beef, or of a neck or back-ribs of mutton, or of a mixture of both. Cut four pounds of meat into handsome pieces. Boil and skim this well, and add carrots and turnips sliced, small leeks and parsley cut down, and some German greens shred, and if tender, put in only a half-hour before the soup is completed. Season with pepper and salt. The quantity of vegetables must be suited to the quantity of meat, so that the soup may have consis- tence, but not be disagreeably thick. Serve the meat and soup together. Have, if you like, rice, or dry but melting, green pease boiled in it, which last is an improvement.—Ohs» The meat may be kept whole and served as Bouilli Ordi- naire^ No. 99. Another way.—Take a neck of mutton, a large pint of cut carrot and turnip, and three-quarters of a pound of well- soaked pease. Boil for an hour and a half; but in half an hour add a few small mutton-chops to serve in the tureen, and minced parsley and onion. The pease may be previously boiled for an hour, or added pulped. The turnip may also be pulped. Celery is a great improvement. Serve the meat as bouilli. 730. To make SkinJc^ an old fashioned Scottish Stew-Soup, —Take two small shins of sliced beef, put them on with two gallons of water; let them boil for six hours, taking care to skim the soup well all the time, as the gravy should be very402 CHAP. III. SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. clear and bright; then strain the liquor from the meat, take the sinewy part of the meat, and lay it aside till your soup is ready to serve up. Cut the sinews about an inch long. Have some vegetables cut, such as carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celery, lettuce, cabbage shred small, and green pease, when to be had. Blanch the whole in boiling water for ten minutes. Drain and put them into the soup, and boil till quite tender. Serve up the sinews in the tureen with the soup. Season the soup with salt and pepper before dishing it.—0^5. Herbs may be used to flavour these soups; and white pease (melters) are by many thought an improvement. Both are cheap and excellent family-dishes. It must be remembered that our bullocks were of small size in former times; one leg would now be heavier than two of those days. 731. Plain Scottish Fish aud Sauce^ a Maigre Dish.—This IS, in fact, just a good fish-soup; and for all such soups the fish must be very fresh. Make a stock of the skins, heads, points of the tails, bones, fins, etc., or where fish are cheap, cut down one or two to help the stock. Boil green onions, parsley, and chives in this, and some whole pepper. When all the substance is obtained, strain it. Thicken with butter kneaded in browned flour, but only to the consistence of a soup, and put in the fish (generally small haddocks), cut in three or divided. Boil the fish ten minutes, add catsup, and serve them in the sauce, in a tureen or soup-dish. See Nos. 134 and 149. This is a popular preparation along all the eastern coasts of Scotland, where fine haddocks are got quite fresh. 732. Scottish Fish and Sauce, a favourite Family-dish.— Proceed as above to make a stock; or use broth of meat, if wanted rich, though plenty of butter kneaded in browned flour will make this rich enough. The fish cut in pieces may be browned in the fryingpan, before boiling, for ten minutes in the sauce. Season highly with mixed spices and a half-cupful of catsup. This dish may be enriched with oysters, shrimps, or mussels prepared; or with fish farce- balls. The sauce or soup should be rather thicker than in the former receipt. Serve as above. For modern taste the fish may be filleted, flour left out, a glass of sherry, and a few drops of browning. See Skate-Soup, 733. Friar's C4^c^e?^.—Make a clear stock of veal orMINCED COLLOPS AND BEEF-GOBBETS. 403 mutton knuckles, or trimmings of fowls, or butter. Strain this into a nice saucepan, and put two fine white chickens, or young fowl or two, cut down as for curry, into it. Season with salt, white pepper, a blade of mace, and shred parsley. Thicken gradually when the soup is finished, with the beat yolks of two or three eggs and a glass of cream, and take great care that they do not curdle. Serve with the carved chicken in the soup.—Ohs. The stock may be simply made of butter, and the meat may be lightly browned in the fry- ingpan and drained before it is put to the soup. Eabbits make this very well. Some like the egg curdled, and egg in great quantity, making the dish a sort of thin ragout of eggs and chicken. 734. Scottish Minced Collops and Beef-Gohhets.—Mince very fine a fleshy piece of tender beef, laying aside skins and gristles, and season it with salt and mixed spices. Mix up the collops thoroughly with a little water or stock; and, having browned some butter in a saucepan, put them to it, and mash them well with a wooden spoon, till they are nearly ready, to keep them from running into lumps. Put more gravy to them, or a little broth made of the skins and gristles. Cook for twelve minutes.—Ohs. Minced collops of beef may be dressed like Dr Hunter's dinner for an invalid, No. 1248, and will be as light. Shred onions are relished by some persons, and a little made-mustard; pickles* or vinegars, plain or flavoured, are also used. Minced collops will keep some time, if packed in a can and covered like potted meats. Some cooks scrape the meat, or beat it, instead of mincing it: with herbs, chopped eggs, suet, and seasonings, it is then a good forcemeat. Some add a little shred suet to the mince. Beef may be cut into gohhets^ the size of a pigeon's egg, and dressed as above, with a little of any nice gravy seasoned, and covered with bread-crumbs, browned with a salamander, and served as a small made- dish. Veal may also be dressed in gobbets in the same manner, and both make an inexpensive variety. There are several varieties of the above useful National dish, but none so good as the freshly prepared simple Minced Collops, As * Though in all Scottish cookery-books pickles are ordered to be mixed with minced collops and other ragouts, the St Eonan's Club refuse their sanction to the semi-barbarous practice of mingling crude vegetables with fresh-dressed meat. Hashes may require piquancy.—P. T.404 CHAP. III. SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. a lighter disli for an invalid, mashed turnips may be put to it. It is lightest made thin without suet, and cooked for fifteen minutes. Some people come to like minced-collops after the mince is soured in the potting-cans—in fact, fer- menting. Sippets are appropriate to every mince. 735. Hare^ Venison^ and Veal Collops are made the same as beef minced-collops, using the seasonings appropriate to those savoury preparations.—See No. 55. 736. Potted Head^ Potted Heels^ etc.—Dress a buUock^s head as directed for ox-cheek-soup. No. 91, and, when boiled till very tender, cut the meat into small pieces as directed, No. 460. Strain the gravy; season it highly with mixed spices and mace, and return the whole into a clean saucepan. Boil for some time, and pour it out into stoneware shapes or basins, and when cold and wanted, turn it out. This makes a pretty corner-dish or supper-dish. Garnish with curled parsley, or pickled beetroot sliced. Cowheels and Shin soup are made as Calf's Head soup, and are potted in the same manner; but season Calf's head or feet with lemon- peel and juice of lemon.—See No. 91. 737. A Stoved Howtowdie^ with Drappit Eggs,—Prepare and stuff with forcemeat a young plump fowl. Put it into a yetlin concave-bottomed small pot with a close-fitting lid, with six button-onions, spices, and at least a quarter-pound of butter. Add some fine herbs. When the fowl has har- dened, and been turned, add a half-pint or rather more of boiling water or stock. Fit on the lid very close, and set the pot over embers. A cloth may be wrapped round the lid, if it is not grooved or luted on. An hour will do a young fowl, and so on in proportion. Have a little seasoned gravy, in which parboil the liver. Poach* nicely in this gravy five or six eggs. Dress them on flattened balls of spinage round the dish on which you serve the fowl. Eub down the liver to thicken the gravy and liquor in which the fowl was stewed, which reduce and pour over it for sauce, skimming it nicely, and serving all very hot. — Ohs, This is a nice small genuine Scottish dish. Mushrooms, oysters, force- meat-balls, etc., may be added to enrich it; or celery may be put to the sauce; the spinage may be, and often is, omitted. Slices of curled broiled ham may be served round * This is exactly the French dish (Eiifs pocMs an jus.405 PUDDINGS, ETC. the fowl. Two young boiled or stewed fowls, with a small salted tongue between them, make a good family-dinner dish.—Ols, Chickens and young fowls are dressed, in Ger- many, exactly like the Scottish howtowdie; from which we discard all oysters and farce-balls, using simply the drappit' egg and spinage; or, at most, a few very thin slices of broiled bacon, with fried eggs. In Germany, chickens are also steeped in lemon-juice, spices, and parsley, and cut up, fried, and served with fried eggs. 738. Scottish White Puddings.—Mince good beef-suet, but not too finely, and mix it with about a third of its weight of highly-toasted oatmeal. Season highly with pepper and salt. Have the skins thoroughly cleaned and cut of equal lengths. Fill them with the ingredients, and sew or fasten the ends with a wooden pin or by sewing. Boil the puddings for an hour, pricking them as they swell in the pot with a needle to let out the air. They will keep for months if laid in bran or oatmeal. When to be used, warm them through in hot water; then brown on the gridiron or the American oven, and serve very hot.—See No. 696. 739. Liver Puddings are made as above, using parboiled liver grated in the proportion of one-fourth; the rest suet and meal, with the above seasonings, and onions shred. 740. To Boast a Pig^ Scottish way.—The directions of a thorough-bred Scottish cook, sanctioned by experience, authorize us to recommend that a pig intended for roasting should be slightly rubbed with melted butter whenever it has warmed at the fire: then quickly dredge every part with fine flour; keep the spit turning continually, but slowly, allowing twenty minutes for each pound-weight in the roast; and frequently dredging it, that the skin may have a com- plete superficies of flour, uniform as on the locks of an anti- quated beau of the last century, shrouding the encroach- ments of Time beneath the powder of Fashion. When the pig has performed the specified revolutions before a clear fire, let the flour be blown off with a small handy pair of bellows; and with a large piece of butter, within a single press of clean linen, rub the skin all over, turning the roast with great deliberation. Persevere in this unction a quarter of an hour, and the pig-crackling will be exquisitely crisp. {From a Cor- respondent.)—See also No. 20, and French Mode, No. 656.406 CHAP. III.—SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. 741. Pig^s Cheeky hy a Scottish Lady's Receipt^ equal to Le Moine Blanc.—Split a large fat head, take out the brains, cut off the ears. Lay the head in water and salt for one night, and boil slowly till the bones will come out. Carefully take off the skin. Mince the meat while still hot. Season with pepper and allspice (nutmeg and mace if you please). Press the mince in a pudding-pan, or small cheese-press, Tcry firmly. Put a weight over it. It will get firm, and slice like Bologna sausage. It may be kept in a cold pickle made of its liquor, with vinegar and salt boiled in it. Serve with vinegar and mustard.—See Nos. 20, 656, 658. 742. Glasgow and Birmingham Hot Tripe.—When fat tripe is well cleaned and blanched as directed at No. 16, cut it into pieces; roll these up neatly, fasten with a thread. Then take a sawed marrow-bone, or knuckle, or trimmings of veal, place all in a jar or tin vessel, like a pudding-mould, or steamer with a close-fitting lid, adding pepper and salt. Place the closed jar in a pot of boiling water, which fill up as it boils away. This will take eight hours at least. Or the jar may be placed in a slack oven, if more convenient, and boil away. Keep the tripe in its own jelly in the jar, and dress it as wanted, as directed in Nos. 16, 56, 626, 743, 765. It will keep for a week or more. Birmingham, and some other English towns, are as famous for tripe as Glas- gow is, and as, in the olden time., Edinburgh was. The tripe, if not dressed for private consumption, is sold hot; the dealers giving a piece of each sort, and a quantity of the liquor, which, with salt and mustard, and stewed or roasted onions, forms the sole sauce. 743. To Fry Tripe^ Scottish fashion.—^This dish is eco- nomical, palatable, and agreeable to the eye. The pieces of tripe left after an ordinary stew are quite fit for the present purpose; or if you are to use tripe just taken from its own jelly, it must be wiped and stewed in milk and water, with a small piece of butter and salt. Simmer it slowly till very tender. This should be done in time to let it be thoroughly cold, before the finishing ingredients are added. For these make a batter with three eggs well beaten, allowing a spoon- ful of flour to each egg, and as much milk as will make a thick batter. Season with ginger, onions, or chives, and407 PUDDINGS, ETC. parsley minced very fine. Cut the tripe in small cutlets, dip them in the batter, and fry in beef-dripping. If you think the batter not thick enough to cover the tripe with a fine brown crust when fried, add a little more flour to it.— See Nos. 626, 16, 56, 742. 744. Scottish Fine Puddings in Shins.—Mince apples and grate plain biscuits; take an equal weight to these of shred suet. Sweeten this with sugar, and season with grated cin- namon and nutmeg. Moisten the whole with wine or any well-flavoured liquor, and mix and fill the skins, but not too full, as the biscuit swells. Boil two hours, and serve hot.— Obs. These will keep for a week or ten days, and re-warm by boiling ; they may then be browned in the Dutch oven. —Another kind of fine skin-pudding is made of rice boiled in milk, with suet, currants, sugar, and seasonings. The suet in these puddings should not be shred too small, which makes it thaw and disappear; nor yet left in coarse lumps. —See BoudinSj No. 696. 745. Scottish Black Puddings.—Salt hog's blood when drawn; strain it; mix it with a little sweet milk or stock; stir into it shred suet and dried oatmeal, with plenty of pep- per, salt, and minced onions till pretty thick. Fill the skins, and boil and then broil as white puddings, No. 738. Savoury herbs may be added.—N.B. Blood will curdle if boiled too quick. This national preparation is much supe- rior to the English receipts.—See No. 738. Of all blood that of the hog is thought the richest, and is always em- ployed in France in houdins of this kind, which are excel- lent. The blood of the hare has the most delicate flavour of any, but is seldom to be got in suflicient quantity for pud- dings.—See BouDiNS—French Cookery^ Nos. 696, 696^. 746. Oatmeal Dumpling^ or a Fitless Cock.—This antique Scottish dish, which is now seldom seen at any table, is made of suet and oatmeal, with a seasoning of pepper, salt, and shred onions, as^ for white puddings, the mixture being bound together with an egg. It must be boiled in a cloth, like a dumpling, or a collar. 747. Crappit Heads^ or Fish vnth Forcemeat.—The origi- nal Scottish farce for fish was simply oatmeal, minced suet or butter, pepper, salt, and onions, made into a coarse force- meat, for stuffing the heads of haddocks and whitings.408 CHAP. III.—SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. Modern Crappit Heads are farced with the ingredients mentioned in Nos. 134, 149; or with the fleshy parts of a boiled lobster or crab, minced; a boned anchovy, the chopped yolk of an egg, grated bread or pounded biscuit, white pepper, salt, cayenne, a large piece of butter broken down into bits, with beat eggs to cement, and a little oyster- liquor. A plainer and perhaps as suitable stuffing may be made of the soft roe of haddock or cod parboiled, skinned, and minced, mixed with double its bulk of pounded rusks or bread-crumbs, a good piece of butter, shred parsley, and seasonings, with an egg to cement the forcemeat. Place the crappit or stuffed heads on end, in the bottom of a buttered stewpan; pour the fish-soup gently over them; cover and boil a half-hour. Rizzared Haddocks.—This receipt we consider the ne plus ultra of haddock-cookery. Clean thoroughly a Cromarty Bay or Moray Firth moderate-sized haddock. Rub it with a very little salt. Hang it on a Jish-haTce^ and next morning cut off the head, take out the back-bone, skin, dust with flour, and broil it and serve with slices of fresh butter. In two days its flavour will have deteriorated. It is an excel- lent light dish for a convalescent. The tail-cut of boiling haddocks may be rizzared, 748. Sheep^s-Head Broth.^—Choose a large, fat, young * This national preparation was wont to be a favourite Sunday-dinner dish in many comfortable Scottish families. Where gentlemen " killed their own mutton," the head was reserved for the Sunday's broth ; and to good family customers and victuallers^ a prime tujp's head was a Saturday's gift from the butchers with whom they dealt. By the way, nationally speaking, we ought to say Jlesliers, as our countrymen would, till very lately, have been mortally offended at the designation "butcher." Sheep's-head broth is reckoned medicinal in certain cases ; and was fre- quently prescribed as an article of diet by the celebrated Dr Cullen. This dish has furnished whole pages to Joe Miller and his right witty contemporaries. In one of the most pleasing pieces of biography that ever was written, " The Life of Lady Grizel Baillie," there is an amusing *' Sheep's-head anecdote," which at once affords a glimpse of the simplicity of the National manners, and of the dexterity and good sense of the affec- tionate and very juvenile heroine. Her father, Sir Patrick Home, pro- scribed after the Restoration, was hidden near his own mansion,—his lady and his daughter Grizel alone being privy to his place of concealment. It was the duty of this young girl, not only to carry food to her father during the night, but to abstract these supplies from the dinner-table, so that neither the servants nor younger children might be aware that there was an invisible guest to feed. Her inordinate appetite and stratagems to pro- cure food became the cause of many jokes at table ; and one day, when a sheep's head—a favourite dish with Sir Patrick—was produced, she had409 sheep's-head broth. head. When carefully singed by the blacksmith, if it can- not be done at home, which is better, soak it and the singed trotters for a night, if you please, in lukewarm water.—Take out only the glassy part of the eyes, and scrape the head and trotters, and brush till perfectly clean and white; then split the head with a cleaver, and lay aside the brains, etc.; clean and cut out the nostrils and gristly parts, split also the trot- ters, and cut out the tendons. Wash the head and feet once more, and let them blanch till wanted for the pot. Take a large cupful of pot barley, and about twice that quantity of soaked white, or dried or fresh green pease, with a gallon or rather more of water. Put to this the head tied up, and from two to three pounds of scrag or trimmings of mutton, perfectly sweet, and some salt. Take off the scum very carefully as it rises, and the broth will be as limpid and white as any broth made of beef or mutton. When the head has boiled rather more than two hours, add sliced carrot and turnip, afterwards some onions, and lastly parsley shred. A head or two of celery sliced is admired by some modern gourmands, though we rather approve of the native flavour of this really excellent soup. The more slowly the head is boiled, the better will both the meat and soup be. just conveyed nearly the whole into her lap, when her young brother, afterwards Earl of Marchmont, looked up, and exclaimed,—" Mother, mother, look at Grizel; while we have been taking our broth, she has eaten up the whole sheep's head!"—The consternation of young Home could not, however, exceed that of a learned gentleman, who lately filled a chair in the Edinburgh University, upon a somewhat similar occasion. Before filling his late honourable situation. Professor was for some years a professor in S College; and, as might have been surmised, in the lapse of those years of exile, experienced a natural and national longing for that savoury food, which to a Scotsman is like his mother's milk. A sheep's head was accordingly procured by his orders, and sent to the blacksmith's to be singed. The hour of dinner arrived; the chops of the learned professor watered with expectation, when, lo I to his disappointment and horror, the fleshless skull was presented; and, doubly worse, accompanied with the sauce of a bill, setting forth,—" To polishing a sheep's head for Professor , one shilling and four- pence!"—Thus making the unfortunate philosopher come down with six- teen shillings, Scots money, for being deprived of the exquisite pleasure which he had anticipated in polishing the skull himself. The village of Duddingston was long celebrated for "sheep's head," and consequently a favourite resort of the frugal citizens of Edinburgh. Sheep's-head clubs were not unfrequent throughout the country, and " The Tup's-Head Dinner" about Michaelmas-day is still a high and appro- priate solemn festival with the official dignitaries in certain of our Scottish Koyal burghs.—This was before the days of Reform. They may, alas I have clianged all that now. S410 CHAP. III.—SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. From three to four or five hours' boiling, according to the size of the head and the age of the animal, and an hour's simmering by the side of the fire, will finish the soup. Many prefer the head of a ram to that of a wether, but it requires much longer boiling. In either case the trotters require rather less boiling than the head. Serve with the trotters, and large sliced carrot round the head. The pound or two of scrag is a great improvement to the broth. Sheep's head, not too much boiled, makes a good pie, if nicely cut down with the peeled tongue; or an excellent ragout or hash of higher flavour than calf's-head ragout.— Ohs. The sauces ordered for boiled mutton and cow-heel are well adapted to this dish, if sauce need be had where it is so little required.* For the ragout^ a sauce may be made of the broth seasoned and thickened with butter, flour, and chopped parsley. See No. 99. 748^. The Scottish dressed LamVs Head—a remove of fish or soup as a top-dish.—This dish is a universal favourite in its native land, and is in nothing inferior to the best French style of dressing LamVs Head, See Nos. 457 and 499. Split the skull; remove the brains; take out the watery part of the eyes and gristles of the nose; scald and clean the head and neck. Boil it and the appurtenances as directed at No. 722 ; but keep one-half of the liver to fry. Boil the lights for at least two hours, the head, and half the liver and heart, for one hour. Mince the heart, half the liver, some of the lights, and the tongue peeled; season the mince with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, and put it to stew in a little good stock. Make brain-cake batter as directed at No. 538. Brush the spread-out split head with egg, and crumb it with fine crumbs seasoned with pepper, salt, and minced parsley; stir more egg into the crumbs, and crumb again and again until the meat of the head is well covered with a thick layer as it browns in the Dutch oven. Stick plentifully bits of butter over it, and baste with its own gravy. Have the brain-cake batter ready; slice in scollops the half liver reserved, and fry as directed at No. 53. Fry the brain-cakes in cakes of about the size of the mouth of a small tea-cup. Add a squeeze of lemon and a point of * The reviewer of the first edition of this work in Blackwood's Maga- zine suggests that there should be two heads and eight trotters^ which admirable emendation certainly more than doubles the value of our receipt.PAN-KAIL PLUM-FORRIDGE. 411 cayenne to the mince if you choose, and serve hot under the browned head, with brain-cakes and scollops of liver laid alternately around it. This dish is not nearly so savoury where the neck is not left on the head as it is in Scotland. The neck cooked as above is one of the most delicate pre- parations of lamb. 749. Leek-porridgeJ^—Make this as cock-a-leekie, and thicken with toasted or fried bread. Prunes are sometimes put into this composition. The custom is nearly obsolete. —See No, 726 and note, 750. Pan-Kail^ a Maigre Soup.—Mince cabbage, savoys, or Grerman greens; boil them in water, thickened with oat- meal, and add a good piece of butter or dripping, salt, and pepper. Kail of a better kind is made by parboiling and mashing the greens, putting them to strong hot pot-liquor, and thickening the soup with bread or pounded biscuit. Both should be a rather thick pottage. 751. Plum-Porridge,—Boil ten pounds of a shin for five hours in a gallon, or rather more, of water. Skim care- fully. Strain off the liquor, and put to it a piece of veal cut from the fillet. Soften the crumb of a penny loaf in the soup, and beat it smoothly. Thicken the soup with this, and put to it a half-pound of cleaned stoned raisins, and a half-pound of stoned prunes, a pound of currants well cleaned, and some pepper, mace, and grated nutmeg. When the fruit is soft, the dish is ready. A little more bread may be used, if greater consistence is wanted, and the veal may be omitted. Nearly obsolete. 751^. Breakfast Potatoes.—We must confess, that in Ire- land, and the Highlands and Isles of Scotland, our gorge has sometimes rebelled against the customary dish of potatoes at breakfast time; but the mashed potatoes of the former day, sliced and broiled, are an admirable accompaniment to broiled ham, a salt herring, or rizzared haddock. * The Leeli is one of tlie most honourable and ancient of pot-herbs. It is called ^ar excellence "the herb;" and learned critics assert that our word porridge or pottage is derived from the Latin porrus, a leeJc. " From Indus to Peru," the adoration of the garlic, onion, and leeh is universal. The leek is besides the badge of a high-spirited, honourable, and fiery nation—the Ancient Britons. In the old poetry of the Northern nations, where a young man would now be styled the flower, he was called " the leek of his family or tribe,"—an epithet of most savoury meaning.412 CHAP. III.—SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. 752. A Pillau.—Stew some rice in stock, or with butter, and season it with white pepper, mace, cayenne, and cloves. Place two small boiled fowls, or a few dressed veal or mut- ton cutlets, in the centre of a large dish, in which a layer of rice is laid, and lay some slices of broiled bacon around them. Cover with boiled rice; smooth and glaze the rice with egg, and set the dish before the fire or in the oven, to brown. Garnish with divided yolks of hard-boiled eggs and fried onions, or use forcemeat-balls.—Ohs, This is no bad dish, whatever country owns it. A more Oriental com- plexion may be given to the dish by frying the rice in but- ter, stirring it with a fork till of a light brown, and then stewing it in stock till soft.*—See No. 755. 753. Pillau of Veal.—Half-roast a small breast of veal, and cut it into neat pieces. Season these highly, and stew them in rich gravy. Raise a casserole of rice round a dish, and lay rice below, and the meat in the centre. Cover with more rice, and set the dish in the oven for a short time, having first glazed it with eggs.—Ohs. Curry-powder may with advantage be used for this pillau ; and it may be made of cold veal. Pillau is also haked^ with a mixture of bacon, chicken, and onions, in layers. A fowl, capon, or small tur- key, trussed as for boiling, makes a handsome pillau dressed as in this receipt; but cover the breast with bacon, which remove before dishing. Rabbits, or a hind-quarter of lamb, make a nice pillau. Braise the leg, fry the loin in steaks, and treat it as above. 754. An Olio.—Boil in a close-covered pot, a fowl, a couple of partridges, a piece of a leg of mutton, a knuckle of veal, and a few rump-steaks; also a piece of good streaked bacon or ham. Brown the meat first; add boiling water; and when it has boiled an hour, add parsley, celery, young onions, pease, carrot, turnip, and a bit of garlic, if it is liked, with salt and mixed spices. Serve the whole together, first picking out the bacon. Savoury herbs may also be used.— See Pepper-pot^ No. 93. An olio is properly a Spanish dish; but Spain as a nation is not eminent in cookery, though the olio^ and a few more of its omne-gatherum stews of meat, pulse, and roots, are worthy of attention. In " Murray's * This is the same dish known in French cookery as Capons a la Turque^ except that the bodies of the fowls are then stuffed with the boiled rice.413 FRICANDELLE MULLAGATAWNY. Hand-book of Spain'' will be found as many Spanisli receipts as any one cares for. 755. China Chtlo,—Mince a pound and a half of good mutton and four ounces of mutton-suet. Stew this in stock or with butter, and add a pint of green pease, young onions, and a little shred lettuce. Skim off the fat. Season with salt, cayenne, and white pepper. Heap boiled rice round a shallow soup-dish, and serve the stew or chilo in the middle. —Obs. Veal or fowl may be dressed as above. A little curry- powder may be added to the seasoning. The zest of car- rots, cut in very small cubes, will supply the place of pease in winter; so will celery. 756. Frkandelle.—Take one pound of the lean of a leg of veal, half a pound of veal-suet, four rusks soaked in milk, four eggs (leaving out two whites), some onions, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and lemon-peel; chop all together very fine, and make three balls of it, which you must drop into boil- ing water, and boil four minutes. Make a gravy from the skin, bones, etc. Egg, crumb, and fry the balls a light brown in butter, and stew them half an hour in this gravy. Garnish the dish with slices of lemon; thicken the sauce with butter roiled in flour, if too thin. It ought to be very thick.—{From a Correspondent.) Obs. This may be made of dressed beef, or of fowl, or game; it may also be baked in a mould turned out, and served on a napkin.—See No. 692. 757. Mullagatawny^ or Curry-Soup as made in India.— Have ready pounded and sifted an ounce of coriander-seeds, the third of an ounce of cassia, three drachms of black and two of cayenne pepper, and a quarter of an ounce of China turmeric; mix them well. This quantity will do either for two chickens, a large fowl, or three pounds of meat. Cut down the meat in small pieces, and let it boil slowly for a half-hour in two quarts of water; then put to it four onions, and three cloves of garlic shred and fried in two ounces of butter. Mix down the seasonings with a little of the broth and rice-flour, and strain them into the stewpan, which must simmer till the soup is smooth and thick as cream. When it is within five minutes of being finished, add the juice of a lemon, or citric acid in the same proportion. Serve the meat and soup in a tureen; and boiled Patna rice in a hot water dish. This is a good plain curry-soup; but414 CHAP. III. SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. for homebred people, we would use fewer coriander-seeds, and less turmeric; and blanch the garlic in two waters. Though there is no acid for cookery equal in delicacy to lemon-acid, yet sour apples, tamarinds, and other things are often used to acidulate curries.—See Nos. 82, 534,535,1123. Various Eecipes for Curry-Powders, 758. Have of fresh seeds of the best quality, coriander four ounces, cummin two ounces, fenugreek two ounces, cayenne a quarter of an ounce, China turaieric six ounces. Dry, pound, sift, and weigh the seeds, and use them in the above proportions, adding more cayenne, with acids and turmeric as required, when the dish is dressing. The usual acids are very acid apples or lemon-juice ; or for some curries, tamarinds. If to the above you add black pepper, mustard- flour, and ginger pounded, about a half ounce of each, you have Dr Kitchiner's Curry-Powder, See Simple Curry- powder^ No. 1124. 758^. Rabhit-Curry^ Scottish,—From causes with which we have here no concern, Scotland, within the last thirty years, and especially in the neighbourhood of the preserves of great landed proprietors, is overrun with rabbits: they are found useful to small families far from markets. They are dressed in every way for which we have given receipts, but perhaps, next to the oldest way of No. 15, there is none better than the modern mode of—curry. Choose one or two, as you wish, fat, fresh rabbits. To test them, examine the kidney. Carve each into at least twelve pieces: brown these in but- ter, with onions. When browned, if you wish delicate cookery, pour off the butter, and add three quarters of a pint of well-seasoned stock for each rabbit, a large spoonful of curry-powder, and one of flour, and six ounces of streaky bacon cut into half-inch cubes, and also a half-dozen button- onions for each rabbit: season with a teaspoonful of mush- room-powder. Simmer this slowly for half an hour at least; stirring it. Add what more seasoning you think required, as cayenne^ a little turmeric, or some acid. Pile up the pieces of rabbit, and pour the sauce—which should be thickish, as in all curry-dishes—over them: serve plain boiled ric.e in a separate dish. Fresh cocoa-nut is an excellent ingredient in mild curries. Rasp and stew it the whole time : we do notTHE SPANISH PUCHERO GERMAN SAUER CROUT. 415 like green vegetables in curries, though they are sometimes used. Mushrooms are an enrichment, celery is good, and onion indispensable. Curry-powder excepted, this is the French Gibelottes of rabbit. 759. The Spanish Puchero,—Cut down as for a family curry, three pounds of shin of beef, a half-pound of salt pork, a fowl, with the gizzard and liver; a turnip and car- rot cut down; three onions, and a clove of garlic, a bunch of parsley, a high seasoning of black pepper, and salt to taste. Add the small pease called Garhanzas (if you can get them), or substitute cooked chestnuts: stew very slowly in three pints of water. This, we fear, is but a poor imita- tion of the genuine Puchero^ and yet no bad dish. 760. The Garbure^ a Dish of the North of Europe.—Take a fresh hock of ham, a knuckle of veal, and six pounds of the flank piece of beef well beat. Sweat this over a slow fire, with a bunch of parsley, three onions stuck with cloves, and three carrots, putting in a pint of stock or water at the first. When the meat is well heated, and the juices drawn out, add five or six pints of stock or water, and stew the whole slowly for two hours. Have some firm white cabbages cleaned, quartered, and blanched, and braise them between layers of bacon with a little broth till rich and mellow, when they must be put to the broth; now add ten small sausages, • or the legs of salted geese previously dressed. Toast slices of rye-bread (or brown bread as a substitute), and on a bed of this lay the cabbage, drained of fat, with the ham above it in the middle, and the sausages or geese-legs round it. Serve the" broth separately as a soup. Make the quantities to suit, as in all receipts, but the above are the proportions. 761. German Onion-Beef or Zwiebel Fleisch.—Put six pounds of the thin flank (skinned if you choose) to two quarts of water or weak fresh broth; stew it an hour in a close stewpan. Add to it the thin rind of two lemons, a quarter-ounce of bruised cloves, two bay-leaves, one dozen black and two dozen Jamaica peppercorns, in a spice-bag, and salt; stew a half-hour. Add a dozen large sliced onions, and stew till they are tender. Skim off the fat, and thicken the gravy. Boil up, season and dish, taking out the pepper, rinds, and bay-leaves. 762. German Sauer Croutj a substitute for Potatoes.—416 CHAP. III. SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. Shred down, as if for pickling, eighteen or twenty large, firm, white drum-cabbages, fully ripened, and better if mel- lowed by frost. Fumigate a tight, clean cask, or butter- tub, by burning a handful of green wood in it. Rub the seams with a dough made of vinegar and flour, or leaven, and strew in a handful of salt, with a few caraway-seeds; and so proceed with alternate layers of sliced cabbage, and salt and caraway-seeds, till the vessel is filled, pressing every successive layer firmly down. Pour off part of the liquor which will collect on the top when the cabbage is pressed down. Cover, and place the vessel in a rather warm temperature, when the cabbage will quickly ferment. When it has fermented for above a fortnight, take off the scum ; throw a piece of cloth over the cabbage, and put on the head of the cask, which press down on the cabbage with heavy stones, keeping the cabbage always covered with the pickle-liquor. In a cool, dry cellar, it will keep for years. Two ounces of salt will be sufficient for a large cabbage. (Gin, juniper-berries, and wine, are suggested by French cooks for Sauer Crout—Absurdities!) When wanted, boil in water for three or four hours; drain and stew in broth, or with a piece of coarse beef or a knuckle of ham. It is served with or over dry hashes, or sliced meat re-dressed; also, instead of potato-paste, and over beef-steak pie, or stewed duck (next receipt) or goose salted; and is a good accompaniment to many meat-dishes that wont to be served with mashed potatoes. Old cheese is sometimes grated over the cooked crout 762^. Duch with Sauer Crout, German.—Braise a lialf- pound of drained sauer crout with a good piece of bacon, parsley, onions, spices, and savoury herbs, and any fresh braise liquor you have. Lay the duck in the middle of it, cover with more slices of bacon; moisten with top-fat, and stew slowly. When about half done, add some small sau- sages. Drain the sauer crout when ready to serve, and place the duck over it, with the sausages around.—Ohs. These dishes are for the first course in place of our soups, and must be served in deep dishes. 763. Provence Brandade, an excellent way of dressing Salt Fish.—Soak in water and brush the fish (some use lime- water to whiten, but we do not recommend it). Stew it as directed for salt cod or ling, No. 128. Oil a sufficient quan-417 IRISH STEW. tity of butter (or use oil and butter) in a small stewpan, with chopped parsley and a bruised clove of garlic. Scale and pull the fish to small pieces, and shake these well in the stewpan to make them melt to a mass in the oil. The stewpan must be all along vigorously shaken. N.B.—An easier way of dressing this dish is to pound the fish, and bake it with the butter, in paste, or better, in potato- pastry. This is very similar to Dr Hunter's teased skate. No. 130. 764. Irish Stew.—Having taken the loose fat from a loin or neck of mutton, cut from two to four pounds of it into small well-shaped cutlets. Flatten, and season them with salt and mixed spices. Peel six or eight onions; parboil and skin two pounds of potatoes for one of meat. Lay some shred suet at the bottom of a stewpan, add a half-pint of stock, or two ounces of melted butter. Slice in a layer of potatoes, then place a layer of cutlets, strew in the onions, then again potatoes and chops, but let the top be thickly covered with potatoes. A shank or small bit of ham, or a scrape of smoked tongue, or a little sausage-meat, is an addi- tion to this favourite family-dish. It must stove very slowly, and the pan must be closely and constantly covered.—Ohs, Hunter^s Pie is another excellent form of Irish stew, only this is sometimes made of beef-collops instead of mutton- chops ; and the potatoes are always mashed. Place the po- tatoes, meat, and onions, in alternate layers in an earthen- ware pie-dish, and bake them; the thick top layer of pota- toes may be neatly scored or scolloped on the edges, and glazed with eggs, if approved. Care must be taken to cover the potato-pastry, else it will scorch before the meat is done. A fashionable or French-Irish stew is baked in a mould, en casserole^ and turned out when served. Mashed potatoes make an excellent wholesome paste to cover or form layers in plain meat-pies of all kinds, particularly pies of fat meat. See Potato Pasty, Some cooks wrap an old napkin round the stewpan-lid, which forms a kind of luting in dressing this and other stoved dishes, or use coarse water-paste. [There is a kind of cottage-oven used in Ireland and other places, in form of a wide stewpan, made of cast-iron, with a lid of the same thickness, on which embers of turf are put. This is placed over other embers, and an equal, slow heat is maintained, which dresses a stew, bakes a pudding or a bit of meat, and is found useful at other times as a cottage-pot.] s 2418 CHAP. III. SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. Another Plain Irish Stew. —Flatten cutlets of the back-ribs. Season with pepper and (if you like) mushroom-powder. Stew with plenty of shred onions and parsley in a broth drawn from the bones, etc., and when nearly done add peeled potatoes. When a thin stew, serve in a deep dish. 765. Irish Tripe.—Cook some onions in milk and water. If large, divide them, and have plenty of them. Add the tripe, cut in strips, and thicken as much of the sauce with butter, flour, and a little mustard, as will sauce the tripe. Serve the onions in it. A little vinegar or lemon-juice may be added. See Nos. 16, 56, 265, 742. 766. Bread and Meat, or Koobbe,—We have been favoured with a receipt for this savoury preparation, which, at sea, in camp, on Indian hunting-excursions, and long marches, is found to be very convenient. Make a dough with yeast as for bread; when yeast cannot be obtained, use whites of eggs or milk. In India, cocoa-nut is used to raise the dough, and with good effect. Roll out the paste very thick, and wrap meat into it (fat meat is best) of any kind, cut and seasoned in any way that is most convenient or agree- able. The dish may then be either boiled or baked. This species of camp-cookery is carried to some perfection in India, and might be found useful in the Bush, at the Dig- gings, and our thinly-populated colonies. It is applicable to all kinds of game, poultry, and meat. Fowls thus cooked may be stuffed with hard eggs, chopped parsley, oysters, etc.; veal, with forcemeat; goose, pig, and duck, either with apples or onions, as the sauce is liked. The stuffed things must be well skewered, or sewed before they are put into the dough, which forms a crust about the meat; thus com- bining bread, meat, and sauce in one portable dish. 767. MilcoUj a South American Preparation.—This pala- table and even elegant dish somewhat resembles the Italian pastes. Potatoes and a species of pumpkin are roasted, the pulp taken out and kneaded with salt and eggs. The paste is then rolled out, cut into little bits about the size of a dollar, and boiled for a quarter of an hour in milk sweetened. 768. Le Bon Diable. — This favourite bonne louche, for which we have obtained the receipt from a lady who has contributed many valuable articles to this work, is thus pre-419 LE BON DIABLE. pared at Pondicherry:—Score the devil (whether of duck, goose, or turkey) deeply in all directions; and, seasoning it highly with mixed spices, send it from the table to be broiled. Meanwhile, .take from each dish at table a spoonful of sauce or gravy, and, stirring this well in a silver saucepan over the fire, have it ready, boiling-hot, to pour over the grill, or hon diable, which is then handed round.—Ohs. The parts usually deviled are the rump, the gizzard, and drumsticks. Soy, lemon-juice, and made-mustard may be added to the sauce. — See Devils and Salmis, Nos. 550, 672-74. Deviled Almonds to serve vnth Wine.—Blanch, dry, and fry them in fresh butter, of a light brown. Drain, dust with salt and cayenne-pepper, and serve hot as a relish. 769. Indian Burdwan.—This eastern preparation is of the English genus Devil, or French Salmi. It is made of cold poultry, kid, rabbits, venison, or other game, but is best of venison. Make a sauce of melted butter with cayenne, or, if possible, a fresh Chili; a bit of garlic, essence of anchovy, and a sliced Spanish onion. Stew over a spirit-lamp till the onion is pulpy, when the Burdwan will be ready. Squeeze in a lime or Seville orange. Serve round very hot.* On other National Dishes we have nothing more to say. When not French or Anglo-French, they are often barbarous; of the fourteenth century, or earlier.—The cookery of our ancestors is not to be boasted of; but in the march of im- provement, if France took the lead, England has followed. * It would be very easy to swell this section of our Manual with a formidable array of uncouth dishes and strange names, with Indian, Syrian, Turkish, and Persian Yaughs, Cabauhs, and Cuscussuies^ etc., as modern travellers, and particularly the French, have paid considerable attention to Asiatic cookery; but this we consider mere waste of space, which may be more usefully employed. We have, however, been specially requested to make room for this Italian preparation:— Sughlio, or Gravy of Beef extracted in Wine.—This Italian preparation is a rich gravy, in which fowls, game, mullet, truffles, macaroni, and other delicacies are cooked. Prepare beef as at Nos. 59, 60, 256, but substitute Madeira or sherry for water. The pot must be carefully closed to prevent the escape of the precious steams : or the Sughlio may be prepared as well by placing the meat and wine in a jar, set in boiling water, or in an oven. Season with mace, cloves, ginger, and what other seasomngs are appropriate to the thing to be afterwards cooked in this rich cullis. Oniors, garlic, mushrooms, and celery are the suitable vegetables, with aromatic herbs. The meat from which the gravy is drawn need not be cut, and should not be overdone, as it will of itself afford a luxurious dish, and after being sauced will allow sufficient juices or gravy to remain to cook any thing wished in 8ugTilio.4:20 CHAPTER IV. PASTEY, PIES, PASTIES, PATTIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. Beasts of chase, or fowl, or game, In pastry built. Milton. Chimeras from the poet's fancy flow ; The cook contrives his shapes in real dough. King. That grand movement in cookery, to whicli the experiments of the St Ronan's Club have contributed not a little, has in some preparations produced almost an entire revolution. This mighty change is peculiarly visible in pastry. We have already, and repeatedly, spoken of the tendency of the age to simplicity, elegance, and true refinement, both in the preparation of all sorts of dishes, and in table embellish- ments. Careme^ a great cook, is great, indeed, as a pastry cook. Indeed he more excels in the entremets than the entrees. He might have peppered a cream-tart to Haroun Alraschid, though he might not have hit the taste of George III. in that monarch's plain, chervil-seasoned vermicelli soup; nor that of his more luxurious son in Turtle or Punch. French pastry-cooks have nearly as many kinds of paste for their several entremets as the meat-cooks have sauces for their entrees. They have their puff-paste, and half puff- paste, their beef-suet, and veal-suet paste, and their Sain- doux,—a particular paste for cold and for hot pies, for tim- bales, and for tarts,—their Brioche paste, and Nouille paste, and an endless variety more, which are made into cakes by mixing with the paste chopped filberts, pistachios, almonds, and many kinds of cheese. The Pate Royale we have given, No. 712. The French, however, are not such architects in pastry as they once were. Instead of immense castles, bridges, and cathedrals, they now content themselves with villas and cottages ornees. For some complicated and for- midable piece monteey trembling to its base, they now present us with pyramids of tasteful little vols-au-vent, huissons^ i.e.j bushes, — of tartlets, Dauphines, and Petites Bouchees of pastry: perhaps, through time, they may discard many of their imitation or mock entremets^ called en surprise^ doubt-PUFF-PASTE. 421 less from the astonishment created at table, when it is dis- covered that the full plumaged swan, the boar's head, the haunch of mutton, or shoulder of lamb, are only sponge- cakes moulded into such preposterous forms: and that the mushrooms, etc., etc., with which they are garnished are but meringued sugar. Conceive a dried tongue, or mutton-cutlet, of Savoy cake! 770. To Make Different Pastes. For paste, a marble slab, or very smooth fine-grained stone is best: some use a large slate ; every thing should be nicely clean, and the temperature very cool, especially for pufF-paste, as the butter if soft spoils the work. It may be iced in warm weather. Let a young, clever cook-maid see paste actually made, though but once, and she will under- stand all our receipts.—See Nos. 712, 717. 771. The state of the oven should be particularly attended to. Almost every oven has a temperament of its own; and it should never be forgotten, that from the intense degree of heat, and the circumstance of the meat being cut down into small pieces, the process of baking is more rapid than either roasting or stewing, Pvff-paste requires a rather quick oven to make it rise light. Raised pie-paste must have a soaking oven; and paste glazed must have a rather slack oven, that the icing, if put on at first, be not scorched before the fruit is sufficiently baked. Till experienced, test the heat by putting in a bit of paste. A few general plain directions may be given • but if practice and observation are essential to the proper preparation of plain pie-crust, much more are they to the finer pastes, and the management of an oven. All pies to be eaten cold must be more highly seasoned than when hot. Fine crust for fruit should have egg and a little sugar, and some sorts, lemon grate or juice. It must not be handled much, and should be made in a room of cool temperature. Have a feather-brush to wipe off superfluous flour. Pastry-cutters and stamps of all kinds are bought in the shops. Ornaments of paste-foliage upon the edges of dressed dishes, and upon dressed hams, etc., are often appro- priate. To Ice^ see No. 1005. French Puff-paste of Beef-Suet—Prepare as above directed, and pound good dry suet in a mortar, with a spoonful ofCHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 422 olive-oil, to which more and more is gradually added till the suet becomes like butter. Use it exactly as butter in 771^ Lard also may be employed, using half lard and half beef- suet pounded with flour. It makes excellent paste if to be eaten hot. Cold paste is best made of butter only. French Puff-paste of Lard or Butter,—To twelve ounces of flour take two of lard, and two yolks of eggs, with a little salt. Work the paste, and let it rest a few minutes, then roll it out as pufF-paste, and cover it lightly with lard (about the consistence of soft pomatum), with a paste-brush. Fold it in three layers, and roll it. Let it rest a few more minutes and brush again with more lard, and proceed as 771 until twelve ounces of lard have been used with sixteen of flour. This receipt is useful where butter is either dear or not to be had from heat of climate; a little sugar and lemon-juice are proper for paste if for fruit. — Ohs, An excellent light crust is made of the fresh leaf of a fat pig, by clearing it of skin and fibres, and, having well washed it, incorporating it with flour and making a buttery paste. French Paste for Hot Pies,—To thirteen ounces of flour put, in the usual manner, six ounces of butter, two yolks of eggs, a teaspoonful of salt, and a half-teacupful of water. Work it up, kneading between the hands. 771^ To make Fine Puff-paste^ the French Feuilletage^ or Many-leaved Crust,—Use the finest flour; fresh, dry, and if you like, sifted. If for very rich crust, take equal weight, or at least two-thirds of the weight, of fresh, or better, of freshly-salted butter. Prepare the butter, except one- eighth (which may be kept for minutely crumbling down among the flour), by washing, if salted; and in every case by pressing out all moisture, rolling it up like a flattened ball in a thin cotton cloth, and squeezing. In every case the butter should be quite cold and firm ; and in warm wea- ther should be set over ice, or surrounded by the coldest water: The butter ready and cool, lay the flour on the cold slab or table. Crumble the left butter into it, and making a well in the centre, break in the proportion of two yolks of eggs to the pound, with a little salt, and the necessary quan- tity of the coldest water; knead up the paste quickly and lightly, dredging flour on the slab and the roller that nothing may be dabbled or lost while you roll out the dough squarePUFF-PASTE. 423 to the thickness of a half inch. In the centre of this square place the cold firm ball of prepared butter. Lap the paste over and over it, making all tight in three folds. Flatten with strokes of the paste-roller, and roll it out quickly and lightlj, to the length of 36 inches. This rolling gives the first turn, as it is called; and from five, six, and for vols-au- vent, even seven are sometimes given. It is to be presumed that the butter is now equally spread over the crust, which must be again folded up in three, and if needful left to rest and cool between the several turns. Unless it is kept quite cool at all times, the work will be spoiled. Always roll from you; dredge on flour when needful, and roll out the crust as far as it will go, and always of equal thickness. Whether four, five, or six tur7is are given, the crust is always finished by a half-turn ; that is by being doubled up in two folds ready for use, and the sooner baked the better. When well done, this crust is superior in appearance to that made by the old process of dividing the butter into four equal parts, and sticking them at four different times equally over the rolled-out paste, which thus gets four turns and a half. But it requires more dexterity, and is more apt to fail, from the ball of butter breaking through the paste at some place or other. Very good-looking crust is still made by the old process. Brushing the paste as often as rolled out, and the bits of butter stuck on, with the white of an egg, helps it to rise in flakes or leaves^ to the height of 4 or 5 inches, the great beauty of puff-paste. 772. Savoury pies, made of fresh materials, properly sea- soned, and not overdone—their besetting fault—are, whether hot or cold, very generally liked. They are economical, since a good pie may be made of a piece of meat that would neither stew, roast, nor boil, so as to make a handsome dish; and they are convenient at table, since they may be divided and subdivided to any length, with little trouble to the car- ver. Pies like curries can be made of every thing, and they eat better cold than meat dressed in any other way. A solid raised pie is a larder in itself, and is as useful on the moors or at sea as in country situations, where families are liable to the incursions of voracious chance visiters. All pie- meat SHOULD BE BONED. 772^. Cheap Crust for Raised Meat-Pies,—Boil an ounce424 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. of larc^^ and rather more of fresh dripping or butter, in about a pint of water, and make the paste of this. Knead it strongly, and beat it well with a rolling-pin. Let it stand to cool, and then from the mass raise the pie; or cut out pieces for the top and bottom, and a long piece for the sides; cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringing the bot- tom piece beyond the sides, and pinching both together to make them join closely. Fill up the pie. Put on the top, and pinch it close to the sides. Small raised pies may be made by lining a tin shape with a sliding bottom with paste on the bottom and sides, and putting on a top. Practice is necessary to make a handsome raised pie.* 773. Common Paste for Savoury Pies.—To two pounds of good flour take six ounces of butter; break it down among the flour, and mix it with a couple of beat eggs and a pint of hot water. Knead it smooth, and roll out and double it three or four times. Cold paste is made as above, only use cold water. The butter is a short allowance. 774. Rich Paste of Beef~suet for Common Meat-Pies. Cut the suet in bits, and melt it in water. Strain it into fresh water, and when cold, press out the water, and pound it in a mortar with a little oil, till it come to the consistence of butter. Use this for making pie-crust, half a pound to a pound of flour.—See Clarijield Suet, No. 44. 775. Common Tart-paste and Cream-paste.—Make as No. 773, only use a little more butter, and a spoonful of sugar, if requisite. Cream-paste: use cream instead of water, and give six ounces of butter, with two of sugar, to the pound of flour. 776. Short Crust for preserved Sweets.—To a pound of the finest flour put a half-pound of fresh butter, the beat yolks of two eggs, and three ounces of fine sifted loaf-sugar. Mix this up with hot milk, knead it lightly, but smoothly, and ice the paste when ready. Cream may be used, and more butter.—Ohs. The more finely the butter is crumbled down among the flour, the shorter will the crust eat. Those who dislike sweet crust may either entirely omit or use only half the quantity of sugar. The above paste is generally em- ployed to line tart-pans. This paste may be perfumed by * Cooks also use strong pasteboard rims or moulds for fortifying the walls of raised pies. The thing must be seen. "We cannot satisfactorily describe it.425 SAVOURY PIES. tincturing it with rose or orange-flower water,—a little almond paste will enrich it. It may, where suitable, be flavoured with lemon-juice. In this department, like every other, much is left to the taste and discretion of the cook. 777. Venison-Pasty Crust.—Make a paste in the propor- tion of two pounds of flour to twenty ounces of butter, with six beat eggs and hot water. Roll it out three times, double it, and the last time let the part intended for the top-crust remain pretty thick. This paste is well adapted to line timbales. 778. Rice-paste for Savoury Pies.—Clean and simmer the rice in milk and water till it swell. Cover veal, lamb, chicken, or game pies, equally with a layer of this, using beat egg to make it adhere, and to glaze it. 779. Fine Crust for Cheesecakes^ or delicate preserved Fruits.—Sift a pound of the best flour, well dried, and mix it well with two ounces of finely sifted sugar. Beat half a pound of fresh butter to a cream by working it cold with a spoon or knife. Mix the flour and sugar very gradually with this, and work into it the well-beat whites of three eggs. If the paste is not stiff" enough to roll out, put more flour and sugar to it.—See Paste-royal^ Puff-paste^ Brioche Paste, and Household Bread, Savoury Pies of Meat, etc. 780. To make a Beef-Steak Pie.—Any tender and well mixed piece of beef will answer for a pie, though the heuck- bone or rump is best. Cut three or four pounds into small steaks; flatten and season highly with mixed spices; place fat and lean pieces together, and either roll them up as olives, or place them neatly in the dish, rising as all pies should do in the middle. Put in either a half-pint of gravy or the same quantity of water. Some like a few small half-cooked onions.—05s. Cutpickles, a little catsup, or other seasonings, may be put to the pie, and either forcemeat-balls or a layer of forcemeat above and below the beef. Some prefer a few oysters. Make a paste of one and a half pound of flour, and one pound of butter, or use No. 774. Lay a strip of crust round the edge of the dish, and then cover and ornament it. A Tripe Pie is sometimes made, laying ham or beef-steaks in the bottom of the dish, and filling it up with tripe pre-426 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. pared as if for Fricassee^ seasoning highly, and covering with paste. It is a nonsense pie, save for variety. 781. Plain Veal-Pie.—Cut small cutlets from the back- ribs or breast. Trim off the bones,—no bone should find place in any meat-pie,—and season the chops highly with mixed spices and such minced herbs as you choose; add a glass of water or a little gravy drawn from the trimmings, and cover the pie.—Ohs. A slice of dressed bacon is an im- provement. Uncooked bacon, if used, would, from the salt- petre in it, make the veal red and ugly-looking; else un- cooked were more savoury. 782. A richer Veal-Pie.—Proceed as above, but add a few slices of lean dressed bacon, forcemeat-balls, and hard-boiled yolks of eggs; or a scalded sweetbread cut into bits, and also truffles, morells, or mushrooms, as is convenient or ap- proved. When baked, pour some well-seasoned hot gravy into the pie by removing the top ornament. Then replace it. 783. ^ very rich Veal-Pie.—Cut steaks from the breast or fillet. Season them with white pepper, salt, mace, and cloves pounded, lemon-grate, and a scrape of nutmeg, all mixed. Cut down and season, as above, two sweetbreads or a veal-kidney, first well soaked. Lay an edging of paste round the ledge of the pie-dish, and fill it. Put divided hard-boiled yolks of eggs or the cut sweetbreads, and either some mushrooms or oysters, over the meat. Strew in more mixed seasonings, and place a layer of thin slices of cooked lean ham over the whole. Put in a half-pint of water or gravy, and cover the dish. When ready, remove the top ornament, and pour in through a funnel a large glassful of good veal-gravy, quite hot, and thickened with flour and cream; replace the top. Cold veal^ leef^ or mutton^ may be re-dressed, seasoning highly either as pie or potato-pasty. 784. Veal Olive Pie.—Cut long slices from the fillet, and flatten and season them. Having first brushed them with the yolk of an egg, roll them up neatly as olives, not too large, and place them in the dish, making the middle part highest, as is proper in all pies. Add a glass of water, and cover the dish; or add good gravy, thickened with cream and flour. A little forcemeat spread on each olive, before rolling up, will be an improvement. 785. Eich Veal Olive Pie^ Scottish.—MdkQ a forcemeat ofVEAL OLIVE PIE CALEBS HEAD AND FOOT PIES. 427 minced veal and a little suet or veal-kidney, a few bread- crumbs, some finely-chopped parsley, lemon-grate, salt, and mixed spices. Work up the forcemeat with the yolks of two eggs, and place a little of it in the middle of each slice of the meat cut for olives, having the olives previously flat- tened and seasoned. Roll them neatly up, and fill up the pie-dish. Make a dozen or more small forcemeat-balls, round and oval, of the remaining forcemeat, and lay them in the dish, with the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs divided; two small pickled cucumbers cut in round and oblong slices, and a few pickled mushrooms. Make a gravy of the bones and trimmings of veal, seasoning it with parsley and onion. Thicken and strain this gravy, and put to it a glass of white wine and the juice of a lemon. Pour this into the pie, and cover it with a good puff-paste. 786. Calf s-Head Pie^ to eat Cold.—Scald and soak the head, and simmer it for a half-hour in a very little water, with a large knuckle of veal, the rind of a lemon, two onions, a fagot of parsley and winter savory, a dozen white pepper- corns, and two or three blades of mace. Take up the head, and, when cold, cut it into bits of different forms, as directed at No. 460. Peel and cut the tongue into square half-inch cubes. Boil the broth in which the head was simmered with a few chips of isinglass till it is reduced to a strong jelly-gravy. Put a layer of thin slices of lean ham in the bottom of the pie-dish; then some of the head and tongue, mixing fat and lean, and forcemeat-balls made of the knuckle; add hard-boiled yolks of eggs cut in two. Strew above each separate layer a seasoning of white pepper, salt, nut- meg, and lemon-grate. Fill up the dish with the strained jelly-gravy; cover with puff-paste; ornament and bake the pie.—Obs. This pie will keep cold for a fortnight, and slices of it, garnished, make a nice supper-dish, from the variety of colours and forms. 787. Calf s-Foot Fie,—Clean and boil two or more feet till tender, but not slobbery. Mince the meat, when cold, with suet and pared apples, in the proportion of a third-part apples and suet. Mix a few cleaned currants, sugar to taste, and a quarter-pint of white or raisin-wine with the mince. Cover the dish with rich puff-paste. A half-hour or little more will bake this delicate Scottish pi428 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 788. A Bride^s Pie,—a Scottish Pie.—This is jnst a very nice mince-pie. Chop the meat of two large calves' feet, boiled as in the former receipt; a pound of mutton-suet, and a pound of pared apples, separately, till they are fine. Mix them, and add to them a half-poimd of picked and rubbed currants, and the same quantity of raisins stoned and chopped. Season with a quarter-ounce of cinnamon in powder, two drachms of grated nutmeg and pounded mace, an ounce of candied citron, and double the quantity of lemon-peel, both sliced thin, a glass of brandy, and another of Madeira. Line a tin pan, which has a slip-bottom, with puff-paste, and put the minced meat, etc., into it. Roll out a cover for the pie, which usually has a glass or a gold ring concealed some- where in the crust, and should be embellished with appro- priate ornaments and devices, as Cupids, turtles, torches, flames, darts, and other emblematic devices of the wedding- cake kind. 789. A Mutton-Pie, — Cut two or three pounds of the back-ribs or loin into handsome chops ; chop off all the bone, flatten and season the chops with pepper and salt. Place them neatly in the dish; put in a glassful of gravy or water, and strew minced parsley and onion over the meat, and with puff-paste made of a pound of flour, and a half- pound of butter, cover it,* Less paste will do for this pie, and of a cheaper kind. — Ohs. Mutton or veal pie may be seasoned with curry-powder. Mutton or veal may be made into small raised pies of an oval, or other form, or in saucers, or other shapes, and re-warmed in a Dutch oven when wanted for hot suppers or luncheon. A Squab Pie is made of mutton- chops, cut apples, and shred onions, with spices and a little sugar. Nearly obsolete. 790. Lamb-Pie.—This is made of either the loin, back- ribs, or breast, not too fat^ cutting out the bone, but always leaving the gristles. Do not season this delicate meat over highly. Put a little jelly-gravy in the dish if the pie is to be eaten cold, in which state a lamb-pie is exceedingly good. Hard-boiled eggs may be added. Use puff-paste. 79L Pigeon-Pie.—Clean and season the pigeons well in the inside with pepper, salt, and cayenne. Put into each * A corresponding member of the Club recommends Sauce Robert for mutton-pie, but made without lemon-juice. Approved.429 PIES OF GAME. bird a little chopped parsley mixed with the livers parboiled and minced, and some bits of butter. Cover the bottom of the dish either with a beef-steak, a few cutlets of veal, or slices of dressed bacon. Lay in the birds; put the seasoned gizzards, and, if approved, a few hard-boiled yolks of eggs into the dish. A thin slice of lean cooked ham laid on the breast of each bird is an improvement to the flavour. Cover the pie with pufF-paste, first laying a border of paste round the rim. A half-hour will bake it if small. — Ohs. It is common to stick two or three feet of pigeons or moorfow4 into the centre of the cover of pies as a label to the contents, though we confess we see little use and no beauty in the practice.—Forcemeat-balls may be added to enrich the pie; and a few chopped mushrooms are with us a favourite addi- tion. Some cooks lay the steaks above the birds, which is sensible, if not seemly. 792. Pies of Game.—Grouse or Moorfowl Pie,—If the birds are small, keep them whole ; if large, divide or quarter them. Season them highly, and put plenty of butter into the dish above and below them; or put a beef-steak into the bottom of the dish. Cover it with good puff-paste, and take care not to bake the pie too much. A half-pint of a hot sauce made of melted butter, the juice of a lemon, and a glass of claret, and poured into the pie when to be served hot, is an improvement, and does not overpower the native flavour of the game. Woodcocks and snipes^ when very plentiful, are sometimes made into pies. Clean the intes- tines, which are so highly prized. Parboil and pound them with seasonings, scraped lard, chopped herbs, and trufEes. Stuff the birds with this forcemeat. 793. A Hare-Pie, — Cut up the good parts of a hare; season and put them in a pie-dish with plenty of butter; or if to be very rich, forcemeat-balls and yolks of hard-boiled eggs. If to eat cold, which this pie does very well, fill the dish with a gravy when the top is taken off, of a kind which will jelly when cooled. 794. Chicken-Pie.—Skin and cut up, as for helping at table, as many chickens or young fowls as the size of your pie requires. Season the joints with white pepper, salt, and a little mace and nutmeg, all in fine powder. Put the pieces into the pie-dish, with thin slices of fresh ham, or veal-chops,CHAP. IV.—PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 430 or veal-udder. Forcemeat-iDalls, layers of forcemeat, and yolks of hard eggs, may be added at pleasure. Make a good gravy of knuckle or scrag of veal or of mutton, seasoning it with white peppercorns, onions, and parsley. Strain this gravy, which must be boiled to a jelly, and put it to the pie. Cover with a rich ornamented puff-paste; and bake the pie, if large, for an hour and a quarter, covering it with paper, or a tin dish-cover, lest the paste be scorched or over-done. — Ohs, The chickens may be stuffed, if very small, and laid on forcemeat. This pie may be made flat like a tourte^ in the French style. It and all pies may be made plainer at the discretion of the cook. It is the favourite pie of France and England, next to a game pie, and is as good cold as hot. If to eat cold, bone the chicken, and place alternate layers of chicken and forcemeat. It is always good to bone pie-meat. 795. Giblet-Pie.—Clean and stew the giblets in broth, with peppercorns, onions, and parsley. When tender, take them up, and when cold, cut them in neat pieces. Lay a beef- steak in the bottom of a small pie-dish, or a layer of force- meat made of seasonings, minced veal or beef, and a little ham. Put in the cut giblets, and strew in shred onion. Strain the liquor over them in which they were stewed, and place a few boiled potatoes sliced above all. Cover with a common crust, or for a plain dish with mashed potatoes.— Obs. A giblet pie is sometimes made with a pudding in it, composed of the blood of the goose or ducks strained, a little boiled rice, suet and onion shred fine, with pepper and salt. Keep the skin of the neck of the goose, and stuff it with this. Close the pudding at both ends, turn it round, and place it in the centre of the pie-dish. 796. A Babbit or Fife Pie.—This may be made as directed for chicken-pie; or more plainly as giblet-pie, making a forcemeat of the livers parboiled, chopped parsley, and an- chovies, or eschalot, pepper, salt, and a little butter or shred suet. A few thin slices or gobbets of well-flavoured bacon will greatly improve a rabbit-pie. It is now sometimes called a Fife-pie^ in honour of the Thane, we presume.—Obs, Rabbit-pie may be made with onion-sauce : but first parboil the onions to take off the excess of their flavour. 797. Partridge-Pie.—Clean and truss four, or, if large, three partridges, cutting off the legs at the second joint.ENGLISH CHRISTMAS-GOOSE PIE. 431 Season witli pepper, salt, and chopped parsley.* Place veal and ham forcemeat or sausage-meat, or slices of veal and ham, at the bottom of the dish, then put in the partridges, with a good many bits of butter stuck about them, and either a few scaldedutton-mushrooms or a glassful of mushroom- catsup. Cover the ledge of the dish with strips of puff-paste, and then put on the cover and ornaments. About an hour will bake this pie.—See Perigord Pie^ No. 800. 798. A Goose-Pie,—This is generally made in a raised crust. For a common pie, quarter or cut the goose into eight pieces; season, and bake it with plenty of butter. Two green geese will make a still better pie. They may be baked with either a plain suet-paste, as potato-pasty, or with mashed potatoes laid over the baking-dish, and neatly marked. They should be previously braised. 799. An English Christmas-Goose Pie.\—Bone and season highly a goose and a large fowl. Stuff the latter with forcemeat made of minced tongue or ham, veal, parsley, suet, pepper, and salt, with two eggs, or No. 516. Stew these for twenty minutes in a little good stock in a close stewpan. Put the fowl within the goose, and place that in a raised pie-crust, filling up the vacancies with forcemeat, or slices of parboiled tongue or pigeons, partridges, etc. Put plenty of butter over the meat. This pie will take three hours to bake. It will eat well cold, and keep a long while. 800. Perigord'Pie.—This is a dish which can scarcely be ever prepared in this country, where truffles are scarce, and very inferior to those of France. The Perigord-pie is, how- * French cooks chop the livers with parsley, and stuff with this. They also harde the birds with seasoned lard. Partridges done thus make an admirable cold pie in a raised crust. f This receipt still keeps its place in cookery books, though the pie itself is now comparatively as rare as the capercailzie or the wild boar. Still in the north of England one hears of the wains groaning, about Christmas-tide, under the load of these enormous pies. At such times the hostess of a well frequented inn, of the old school, will construct a pie of circumference rivalling her own; and the county newspaper will record its richness and dimensions. But Yorkshire Pie is a mere joke to those with which a German Baron or Italian noble was wont to regale his vassals. A bullock the outwork,—containing a deer, which contained poultry or game, which contained ortolans and quails, which contained oysters and craw-fish; and all boned and seasoned. How magnificent a Pi^ce de resistance! Such was the cookery of the feudal age.—A Christ- mas pie of tremendous dimensions broke down in 1832 when going from Sheffield as a tribute to Lord Chancellor Brougham.CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 4.32 ever, so celebrated, that it would be unpardonable to treat it with neglect. Truss as for boiling six partridges. Singe and wipe them. Season them with salt, pepper, and mixed spices, minced parsley, and young onions, and lard them. Brush, wash, and peel two pounds of truffles. Hash the small and broken ones; and mince them with the livers of the partridges and a fat goose-liver, or fat livers of poultry, or a piece of veal-udder parboiled. Mix all these things, and pound them in a mortar, adding raw egg, as directed for quenelles^ Nos. 692, 695. Season this forcemeat very highly. Cut open the trussed partridges at the back, and stuff each of them with the forcemeat, and some whole truffles. Place them backs downmost in a raised crust, either round or oval, and bake, first lining the crust with slices of bacon and force- meat. Game-pies of the richest description, with truffles, etc., are now regularly imported to London, where every- thing may be had for money. 801. Venison-Pasty.—A modern pasty is made of what does not roast well, as the neck, the breast, the shoulder. The breast makes a good pasty. Cut it into little chops, trimming off all bone and skins. Make some good gravy from the bones and other trimmings. Place fat and lean pieces of the meat together; or, if very lean, place thin slices from the firm fat of a leg or a neck of mutton along with each piece. Season the meat with pepper, salt, pounded mace, and allspice. Place it handsomely in a dish, and put in the drawn gravy a quarter-pint of claret or port, a glassful of eschalot-vinegar, and, if liked, a couple of onions very finely shred. Cover the dish with a thick crust, No. 777. —(See pages 91, 120, 317.)—055. This is a dish in which ornament is not only allowable, but is actually expected. The paste-decorations are, however, matters of fancy. Before the pasty is served, if the meat be lean, more sauce made of a little red wine, gravy, mixed spices, and the juice of a lemon, may be put in hot. A common fault of venison- pasty is being overdone. An hour and a half in a moderate oven is fully sufficient for baking an ordinary-sized pasty; an hour will do for a small one. Some cooks marinade the meat in the wine and other seasonings for a night, or for some hours previous to baking. This, no doubt, imbues the venison with the flavour of the seasonings, but at the same time drains off the juices, and hurts the natural flavour of433 FRUIT-PIES, ETC. the meat, so that we discountenance the practice. A Mock- venison pasty is made of a breast of mutton soaked in claret, vinegar, and spices for a night, before dressing. 802. Rook-Pie.—Skin the young birds; cut out the back- bones ; season the birds with pepper and salt. Lay a beef- steak in the bottom of the dish, and pour a good deal of thickened melted butter over the birds. Cover with a common crust. They require long baking: an hour and a half, and may with advantage be first stewed. For lark-pie and sparrow-pie, three or four dozen to one pie, we give no receipt. KB.—For Savoury Fish-Pies, see pages 189-91. 803. Sea-Pie. — Cut up into joints and blanch a fowl. Soak slices of salt beef. Make a thick, rich paste of flour and mashed potatoes, with butter or with dripping, or use flour or potato-paste separately, and made either with butter or dripping as convenient. Season with shred onion, pepper, and salt; and in a deep tin-buttered pudding-dish lay meat and paste, layer and layer alternately, till the dish is full. Fill up the dish with water, and let it either bake slowly, stew, or steam,—turn out and serve hot. A sea-pie is pro- perly a scrap-pie. Fruit-Pies, etc. Fruit-Pies require a light and rich crust. Fruits that have been preserved are generally baked in an open crust, and are ornamented with paste-bars, basket-work, stars, etc. Preserved fruits need not be put in till the crust is baked, as the oven often injures their colour.—See Flans. 804. Apple-Pie.—Wipe, pare, and slice the apples; core with the instrument. Lay a strip of puff-paste roimd the edge of the dish. Put in a layer of the sliced fruit, then sugar and whatever seasonings you use. A small mixture of quince greatly improves the flavour. Proceed in this manner till the dish is heaped, keeping the fruit highest in the middle. Cover it with puff-paste, ornament the border and the top with leaves, flowers, etc. — Ohs. A variety of apples besides codlins are used for baking, though russetings, Ribstone pippins, golden pippins, and such as melt equally, and are a little acid, are esteemed the best. Apple-pie used to be seasoned with pounded cinnamon and cloves; now lemon-grate, quince, marmalade, candied citron, or orange- peel, are preferred. If the apples have become dry andCHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 434 insipid, tlie parings and cores may be boiled with a stick of cinnamon and sugar, and the strained liquor added to the pie. Apple-pie is often liked hot. It is eaten with plain cream, made cream, or Creme Patissiere^ No. 711^ It was wont to be buttered; and this is still the practice in some provincial situations in England, though buttered pease, and buttered apple-pie, for reasons which we do not comprehend, have latterly come to be considered ungenteel, if not abso- lutely vulgar. Buttering is performed by putting a piece of fresh butter into the hot pie when it is cut open. Apples must be thrown into plenty of water as they are pared, or they will become discoloured. 805. Hipe Fruit-Pies—Black cherries and currants^ dam- sons^ plums of all kinds, currants^ and raspberries and cran- berries^ apricots^ and gooseberries^ suitably mixed or alone, are all made into fruit-pies. Place the fruit, picked and washed, in a flattish pie-dish, raising it high in the middle. Allow enough of sugar, and cover with a rich light paste, which fruit-pies require more than those made of meat. 806. Green Gooseherry-Pie.—Top and tail as many unripe gooseberries as will fully fill your dish. Line the dish, or merely border it with paste. Put in the fruit, and plenty of moist sugar, and cover the pie with good puff-paste. The gooseberries may be first stewed in the sugar.—Obs. All fruit, as it goes on to maturity, requires more sugar till nearly ripe. 807. Rhubarb-Pie—VqqI off the skin from stalks of young rhubarb, and cut them slantways into bits of about an inch and a half. Some kinds need no peeling. Stew them slowly in sugar, or in butter and a little water, till soft; sweeten, and make them into a covered pie or open tart.—Obs. Gooseberry, apple, rhubarb, and other fruit-pies, eat very well cold; or the fruit may be stewed and sweetened for common use, without further preparation. Fresh good cream is a very great improvement to all fruit-pies and tarts. The next best thing is plain custard. In England the cream is often sweetened, thickened with beat yolks of eggs, made, in short into a custard, and poured over the fiuit. In Scotland, cream for tarts is usually served either plain or merely whisked; and served whipt over the cold stewed fruit laid in crust.FEUIT-TARTS. 435 808. Fruit-Tarts of Preserved Fruits.—These are made of all sorts of marmalades, jams, and preserved small fruits. If of apples, pare, core, and quarter them. Stew and mash them, and sweeten them with fine beat sugar. Season with the squeeze and grate of a lemon, a little beat cinnamon, an ounce of candied orange-peel, and a little white wine or cider. Cover a flat dish with paste, and place a broad rim of puff-paste round the edges, which decorate, as with leaves, roses, etc. Bake the paste, and put in the jam, either when the crust is ready, or a few minutes before. Pastry-stars, flowers, etc., may be stamped, and baked on tins to ornament the top ; or if the fruit is put in at first, it may be covered with pastry trellis-work.—Ohs. Tarts of preserved fruit, when much ornament is wanted, are served under a croquante of sugar boiled to caramel; but this is rather the business of the professed confectioner than of the practical cook, and cannot be taught without actual experi- ment.—See Flans, 809. Scottish Flans: Flan d la Caleb Balder stone.—Rub butter on a fluted tin flan mould, with a loose bottom, and line it with good pufl-paste which has been seven times rolled, and has stood to acquire some tenacity. With a pastry-knife Vandyke the edge, and carve each Vandyke as a rose-leaf, veined. Line this crust with paper, and fill it with bran to keep the shape out while baking. Bake in a sharp oven till crisp; take out the bran and paper, and fill with any sort of preserved fruit, as cherries, apples, apri- cots, or pears, prepared as for No. 708. Creamed flans are made by preparing thick frangipane into which six ounces of sweet and one ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and finely chopped, are stirred.—Ohs. These delicate prepara- tions, we have no doubt, were perfectly well known when Scotland's " kings kept court in Holyrood." The art has lingered on, ever since, among old-fashioned pastry-cooks in Edinburgh; and we have seen the flan., most beautifully served, with the green Gasco7i gooseberry, preserved as only Mrs Fraser, a celebrated pastry-cook of the last gen- eration, could preserve and flavour this delicate small berry. 810. Tartlets and Fvffs of Fruit.—Line very small patty- pans, either oval or round, with pulF-paste, and pare the436 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. edges neatly. Put in a little of any kind of jam or mar- malade, and either cross-bar the tarts with paste-straws, cut out with a notched paste-runner, or wreathe the paste-straws round them.—Ohs, This, or making little patties or pastry ramakins, is a very good way of using up any bit of paste that is left over from a large pie or tart. Small Puffs.—Give puff-paste seven and a half turns, leaving it nearly a half-inch thick. Cut it into pieces about five inches long, to have, when doubled, the form of squares, triangles, crescents, etc. Place a little jam of any kind on each, and double them up. Wet and pinch them close at the edges with a fluted paste-runner, trim and bake them on tins, with paper below.—See No. 818. 811. Cranherry-TarL—This may be made either of fresh or preserved cranberries. Season with beat cloves and cin- namon. Put in a sufficient quantity of sugar. Cover with a puff-paste, and serve with cream, which to this dry fruit is indispensable. 812. Plum, Prune, and Apricot Tarts.—Wash and scald the fruit; take out the stones, and either bruise them, and take some of the chopped kernels to add to the tarts, or not, as you choose. Put sugar to taste to the fruit, and bake it as a flan, tart, or pie. 813. To Ice Tarts, etc.—Beat the white of an egg very well, and with this brush the paste with a feather, either at first, or when half-haked, which prevents the icing from becoming scorched in the oven. \Vhen brushed well over with egg, sift fine sugar, beat to powder, over it. A heavier kind of varnish for some things is made of beat yolks of eggs and melted butter.—See, for other Icings, Cakes, Nos. 1005, 1006. 814. Common Glazings for Paste.—Sugar and water; yolk or white of egg beat up with water; white of egg and sugar sifted over; yolk of egg and melted butter. 815. Mince-meat and Mince-pies.—These are made in an endless variety of ways. We recommend every young housekeeper to adopt in this favourite preparation the re- ceipt of her own grandmother. This ought to produce the best mince-meat and Christmas-pies. Indeed, every family receipt-book teems with prescriptions. We select what is, after experiment and mature consideration, considered the437 SMALL PUFFS. best formula.—Bake or boil slightly a couple of pounds of the fine lean of good beef, or better, of tongue. Mince this, or scrape it. Mince also two pounds of fresh suet, two of apples, pared and cored, three pounds of fresh currants, rubbed, picked, and dried, and a pound and a half of best raisins stoned. Let the things be separately minced till fine, but not so fine as to run together; then mix them well with a pound of beat sugar, and a teaspoonful of pounded salt, a half-ounce of ground ginger, the same weight of allspice and bruised coriander-seeds, some beat cloves, two nutmegs grated, the juice and grated rind of two lemons and of two Seville oranges, half a pound of candied lemon and orange peel, and a quarter-pound of candied citron, all sliced. Mix the seasonings equally with the meat. Keep the minced meat closely pressed in cans in a cool, dry, airy place. Put a half-pint of brandy, or pine-apple rum, into a bottle with double that quantity of Madeira or sherry, and a half-pint of orange-flower water. When to be used, cover baking- pans of any size, small saucers, or a small flat pie-dish, with puff or plain paste. Moisten the mince-meat with the wine and brandy; add some fresh grate and juice of lemon. The chopped apples may also be added at this stage. Fill the pies. Put a cover of puff-paste over them, and, if a plain paste, ice it. Pare the edges neatly, and ornament the top with stamps or a paste-knife. Half an hour of a moderate oven will bake these pies. Slip them out of the tins, and serve them hot.—Ohs, Mince-pies may be made cheaper, and yet tolerably good, by substituting gravy for wine; or by using home-made wine (ginger wine is best); by lessening the quantity of expensive fruits and spiceries, and taking any bit of good dressed beef the larder affords. 816. Superlative Mince-pies.—Rub with salt and mixed spices the lean of a fat bullock's tongue. Let it lie for three days, and parboil, skin, and mince or scrape two pounds of it. Mince separately two pounds of beef kidney suet, two of stoned raisins, three pounds of Zante currants, picked, plumped, and dried, a dozen of lemon pippin apples pared and cored, and a half-pound of blanched almonds, with a few bitter ones. Mix the mince, and add a half-pound of candied citron and orange peel minced, and an ounce of beat cinnamon and cloves, with the juice and grated rindCHAP. IV.—PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 438 of three or four lemons, half an ounce of salt, and the same quantity of allspice, a pound of fine sugar pounded, and a pint and a half of Madeira, the half quantity of brandy and orange-flower water. Line the pans with a rich pufF-paste, fill, bake, and serve the pies hot, with burnt brandy.—Ohs. The brandy should be burnt at table as it is used. Though the mince-meat will keep good for a long while, it is best not too old. The fruit, suet, and wine may be added when the pies are to be made, as the suet and raw apples are apt to spoil; and the dried fruits, though in less danger, do not improve by keeping in the minced state. Mince-pies warm up very well in a Dutch oven or in a slack oven, before the fire, or on the hob. A good addition to mince-meat is a couple of lemons boiled and chopped, taking out the pips and coarse parts.—See Plum-pudding, 817. Common Apple, Gooseberry, or Rhubarb Pasties, or Turn-overs,—Make a hot crust with dripping or lard melted in boiling water; roll it out quickly, and stamp it so as to be of a semicircular form when turned over. Lay stewed apples, rhubarb, or scalded gooseberries, or any common jam, in the crust, with moist sugar to sweeten; add, if apples, quince, lemon-peel, or cinnamon; if rhubarb, ginger. Double up and pinch the crust. Trim the edges, and bake the pasties in a moderate oven. If there be icing at hand they may be iced. Puffs. These are called apple-puffs, lemon-puffs, cheese-puffs, egg-puffs, etc., taking the name from the principal ingre- dient in their composition.—See No. 810. 818. Apple-Puffs. — Stew, or roast apples till they will peel and pulp dry. Mix them with good beat sugar and finely-chopped lemon-peel. Bake them in rather thin sweet crust, in a quick oven. They are best when made rather small. 819. Lemon or Orange Puffs.—Grate down three-quarters of a pound of refined sugar, and mix it well with the grate of three lemons, or two Seville oranges. Beat the whites of four eggs to a solid-looking froth, and, putting this to the sugar, beat the whole together without intermission for half an hour. Drop this mixture into any variety of shapes,439 PATTIES. and bake it on oiled paper, laid on tin plates, in a moderate oven. When cold take off the paper.—There are fifty other little things made of pastry and bits of sweetmeats, which cannot be enumerated here, as Sweet Sandwiches^ Gimblettes, GenoiseSj etc., etc. EaYOnry Patties. Patties, like small vols-au-vent and hors d'oeuvres (served in paste), and small rissoles and croquets, are an elegant, though secondary class of culinary preparations, and are as much admired by the genteel economist as the gourmand. They are the petits pates of the French kitchen. Where dinners have been given, or are in course of preparation, it is easy to make a dish of savoury patties, with small trouble and almost no expense. Patties, like the preparations named above, are made of a variety of things, as cold veal, fowl, rabbit, hare, lobsters, oysters, etc. They admit of all man- ner of seasonings, but must be nicely minced and served. They are generally baked as directed below, but may be made by frying, either for a dish or a garnish to other dishes. They are savoury or piquant hot preparations, proper for first and second courses, and partaken of between the prin- cipal dishes. 820. To make Crust for Savour?/ Patties.—Koll out puff- paste thin, and line small patty-pans. Cut out the tops on paper, with a tin stamp in form of a star, or any handsome shape. Ornament the tops neatly; lay a piece of paper crumpled up or a bit of bread into the lined patty-pan, to support the top when baking, and then put on the top. Bake the patty-crusts, and ice them. When to be served, take off the tops and pick out the paper, fill up with the hot mince, and put on the tops neatly, taking care not to fill the patties so full as to run over.—Obs. This plan of baking the crust separately will, on trial, be found superior to filling patties, or things of the sort, at the first. The icing may be omitted. Have at least a dozen for a dish; dress them on a napkin pyramidically. 821. Chicken and Ram Patties.—Skin and mince very finely the breast or white fleshy parts of a cold chicken, and about half the quantity of lean ham, or of tongue highly flavoured. Have, in a nice small saucepan, a little good gravy drawn from bones or trimmings, or the jelly of roast440 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIE.3, ETC. veal or lamb, thickened with a bit of butter rolled in flour; add a little grated lemon-peel, white pepper, salt, a very- little cayenne, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Stir the mince in this till quite hot, and fill up the patties, which are best baked empty, as above, as the mince-meat hardens in the baking.—Serve as No. 820. 822. Egg and Ham Patties.—In these hread is used for paste, or they are served en croustade.—Scoop out part from thick slices of a stale quartern loaf; shake the croustades, and fry them of a gold colour: drain and fill the cavity with ham, prepared as directed for chicken and ham patties; lay a nicely-poached egg on each.—Obs. Small loaves, with a thick bottom-crust, are baked for this purpose; and what bakers call sandwich loaves answer well. 823. Rabbit and Hare Patties.—Mince the best parts of a cold roast rabbit or hare, very fine, with a little finely-shred mutton-suet. Draw a gravy from the bones and skins, or take any other good gravy; thicken it with butter and flour, and season with salt, cayenne, pepper, nutmeg, mace, the grate of half a lemon, and a very little red wine, or any suitable flavoured vinegar. Stew the mince, and fill the patties as above directed.—Obs. If there be any stuffing of the hare left, it will make, when minced, a good addition to the patties, as will all the native gravy left about veal, hare, etc. 824. Oyster-Patties.—Prepare the paste for these patties as in No. 820, and wash in their own liquor, and beard as many small oysters as will make a dozen of patties. Strain the liquor, and put to it an ounce of butter rolled in flour. Cut the oysters into small bits, and stew them ten minutes with a little salt, mace, and white pepper, the grate of half a small lemon, and, if liked, a little cayenne. A spoonful of thick cream may be added. Put this hot into the patty- crusts when ready to serve. Some good cooks put a little minced parsley to the oysters, with salt and pepper, and no other seasoning.—Dish and serve as No. 820. 825. Lobster-Patties.—Chop the meat of the tail and claws of a boiled hen-lobster. Pound a little of the spawn in a mortar, with a half-ounce of butter crumbled, a little veal- jelly, gravy or butter, and a spoonful of cream; add a seasoning of cayenne, mace, salt, a little essence of anchovy,441 PATTIES. and a teaspoonful of lemon-grate. Stew the lobster-meat in this for a few minutes, adding a spoonful or two of water, if over thick, and a very little flour to give consistence to the gravy. Fill the patties with the hot stew when they are ready to serve. Another way^ French,—Make the meat into balls the size of a very large pea :—egg and roll the balls in fine crumbs and lobster coral: fry and place five in each prepared open patty-case, and a larger one to crown. Moisten with as much sauce VAurore as the crusts will hold without slopping.—See No. 820. 826. Oyster and Mushroom Patties.—Take two parts of stewed oysters, and one part of fresh mushrooms ; cut them separately into small dice. Fry the mushrooms in butter and flour. Moisten this with gravy, the oyster-liquor, and a little cream. Season with salt, nutmeg, pepper, and cayenne. Stir in the oysters, fill the patties, and put on the top. 827. Turkey-Patties,—Mince the white part of cold tur- key ; add a little grated ham. Stew this in a little good gravy, or melted butter. Put a spoonful of cream to the mince, and season with white pepper, salt, and mace. Veal and Ham Patties,—Make and season both these as chicken and ham patties, No. 821. 828. French^ or Modern English Patties,—These are essen- tially the same as patties baked in tins, and elaborately carved by the hand as above, but they differ in form, and are in fact just small vols-au-vent, or large pastry hors d'oeuvres^ according to the composition with which they are filled. Have some very light puff-paste about a half inch thick : with a fluted pastry-stamp of three and a half inches in diameter, cut out as many pieces as you wish patties; and, with one of less than two inches diameter, as many more : wet the smallest, and place it over the largest: and with a third cutter, of one and a half inch diameter, press lightly, but to make a distinct impression through both. Bake in a baking-tin in a quick oven, till of a good colour— about fifteen minutes: cut out the marked top, keeping the rim of the upper crust whole: scoop out the paste below, put in a teaspoonful of a suitable sauce, and tlien the pre- pared mince of oyster, lobster, chicken, or whatever it is : add a little more sauce, and either put on a paste-top, or, for ham and chicken patties, and some others, as oysters and t 2CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 442 shrimps, use fried crumbs. Sweet Patties the same ; but the paste may have a little sugar, and be seasonad with essence of lemon, or any flavouring ingredient suitable to what is to be served in them, adding a very little custard or Creme Patissiere.—N.B. Never fill patties so full as to slop.—See No. 831. 829. Beef Patties or Podovies.—Shred a tender underdone piece of lean roast beef, with a little ot" the firm fat. Season with pepper, salt, onion, an anchovy boned and chopped, and a very little eschalot or Chili vinegar. The podovies may be made either by putting the mince into hot paste like apple-pasty, and frying them, or be baked in patty- pans in a good plain crust made of dripping, suet, or lard. 830. To prepare Meat for small Pies for hot Suppers and Luncheons; or for Patties.—Take in the proportion of a pound of fillet of veal, a pound of beef, and a half-pound of suet. Chop the meat roughly, and the suet less than the meat. Season with salt, pepper, and allspice. The meat thus prepared will keep some days if pressed into a jar. When ready to be baked in saucers, or as little raised pies or patties, add a little minced parsley. Or keep the pies baked, and heat them, when wanted.—See Godiveau, No. 692. 831. Sweet Patties.—Mince the boiled meat of a calf's foot; three pared apples, and a little candied orange and lemon peel: add fresh lemon-grate, and the juice of a lemon, a little fine sugar, a small glass of sweet wine, a little nut- meg, the chopped yolk of two hard-boiled eggs, and, if wished, a little shred mutton-suet or marrow. Bake in puff-paste. Sweet Patties may be made like small mince- pies, and seasoned in an endless variety of ways. They may be made as Turn-overs^ Siud fried in plenty of lard or drip- ping. They are a favourite family-dish when baked as Turn-overs on tins. Puddings. Without pretending to make a skilled cook by book, we believe that any intelligent beginner may compound a good pudding by attending to the following simple rules and plain directions :—Attention is all that is required, and a little- manual dexterity in turning the pudding out of the mould443 PUDDINGS. or clotli. Let the several ingredients be each fresh and good of its kind; as one bad article, particularly eggs, will taint the whole composition. Have the moulds and pud- ding-cloths carefully washed when used; the cloths with wood-ashes, and dried in the open air. Lay them aside sweet, and thoroughly dry. Puddings ought to be put into plenty of boiling water, which must be kept up on a quick boil; or baked, in general, in a sharp but not scorching oven. A pudding in which there is much bread must be tied loosely, to allow room for swelling. A hatter-pudding ought to be tied up firmly. Moulds should be quite full, well buttered and covered with a fold or two of paper, floured and buttered. Eggs for puddings must be used in greater quantity when of small size. The yolks and whites, if the pudding is wanted particularly light and nice, should be strained after being separately well beaten. A little salt is necessary for all potato, bean, or pease puddings, and all puddings in which there is suet or meat. It saves sugar and improves the flavour. The several ingredients, after being well stirred together, should, in general, have a little time to stand, that the flavours may blend. A frequent fault of boiled puddings, which are often solid bodies, is being underdone. Baked puddings are as often scorched. Puddings may be steamed with advantage, placing the mould or basin in the steamer; or three parts dipped in a pot of boiling water, which must be kept boiling, and eked up as the water wastes. When the pudding-cloths are to be used, dip them in hot water, and dredge them with flour; the moulds must be buttered. Plain moulds or basins are easiest managed. When a pudding begins to set in the oven, stir it up in the dish to prevent the fruit, etc., from settling down to the bottom; and if boiled, turn over the cloth in the pot for the same reason, and also to prevent it from sticking to the bottom, on which a plate may be laid as a preventive. The time of boiling must be according to size and solidity. Large puddings are sometimes tethered to the ring of a twelve or fifteen pound weight to keep them below water in the pot. When the pudding is taken out of the pot, dip it quickly into cold water, and set it in a basin of its size. It will then more readily separate from the cloth without breaking. Have the oven very clean for all uses, cleaning it regularly before lighting the fire. Take care thatCHAP. ly. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 444 the juice of pies does not boil over, or the liquid contents of puddings; and remember that sugar, butter, and suet be- come liquids ia boiling. It is from their excess that puddings often break. Be, therefore, rather sparing of sugar; for if you have much syrup you must have more eggs and flour, which make puddings heavy. It is often the quantity of sugar which makes tapioca and arrow-root, boiled plain, troublesome to keep in shape when moulded. Rice or other grain puddings must not be allowed to hoil in the oven before setting^ or the ingredients will separate and never set; so never put them into a very hot oven. As a rule we may assume that such flavouring ingredients as lemon grate and juice, vanilla, and cocoa-nut are more admired in modern puddings than cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg. Care must be taken to mix batter-puddings smoothly. Let the dried flour be gradually mixed with a very little of the milk, as in making mustard or starch, and afterwards, in nice cookery, strain the batter through a coarse sieve. Puddings are lighter boiled than baked. Raisins, prunes, and damsons for pud- dings must be carefully stoned; or sultanas may be used in place of other raisins. Currants must be picked, and plunged in hot water, rubbed in a floured cloth and plumped and dried before the fire; almonds must be blanched and sliced; and in mixing grated bread, pounded biscuit, etc., with milk, pour the milk on them hot, and cover the vessel for an hour, which is both better and easier than boiling. Suet must be quite fresh and free of fibres. Mutton-suet for puddings is lighter than that of beef; but marrow, when it can be obtained, is richer than either. A baked pudding for com- pany has often a paste-border or a garnishing of blanched and sliced almonds about it, but these borders are merely matters of ornament; if moulded, puddings may also be garnished in various ways, as with bits of currant-jelly. The best seasonings for plain batter-puddings are conserve of Seville orange, lemon-rind, lemon-brandy, or orange-flower- water. Spirits, and even wine, are every day less used, both from taste and economy.—Pudding-Sauces^ see pp. 252, 447. The sweetness and flavour of puddings must in most cases be determined by individual taste. Sugar can be added at table. Iced Puddings are the greatest modern discovery in this class of dishes.—See Nos. 874, 8741 832. A Common small Plum-Pudding.—Take six ounces445 PLUM-PUDDING. of shred suet, from two to six of dry flour, four of stoned raisins, three of picked and plumped currants, a little allspice and nutmeg, or cinnamon. Thin this with four beat eggs and a little milk, and put in either a glass of sweet wine or a half-glass of rum or brandy, a saltspoonful of salt, and sugar to taste. There are a thousand ways of making a plum-pudding.—Ohs. The wine or spirits may be spared, and the pudding flavoured with distilled waters, as peach-water, orange-flower-water, etc. Bread-crumbs, or a part bread, make the pudding lighter than flour, and a spoonful of treacle deepens the colour; the materials, except the milk, eggs, and spirits, should be mixed the night before, and the whole must be vigorously and repeatedly stirred; tie firmly up, and boil for four hours at least. The Trinity Christmas Plum-Pudding, [We have had the felicity, on sundry " Merry Christmases," of sitting in the blaze of the Yule-clog," embowered among evergreens at " a good man's feast," who well understood, and himself looked, to the due concoc- tion and boiling of the pudding of his nation, weighing from some twenty- five to thirty pounds. For it we give his receipt, which we need not say is excellent; proved and approved.l The Trinity Christmas Pudding.—Three pounds stoned raisins, half Muscatel and half Yalentia, three pounds currants, three pounds beef-suet chopped very fine, sixty eggs, a pint and a half of milk, three pounds best moist sugar, the rind of six lemons minced very small, four pounds of fine flour, a half-pound treacle, four nutmegs grated, and cinnamon and cloves pounded to taste; one large tablespoonful of salt, two wine-glasses of brandy, two of rum, one of port; of sliced candied orange and lemon peel a half-ounce each, citron-peel a half-ounce. The whole must be thoroughly well mixed early on the 24th December, and boiled for ten hours on Christmas Eve, and four hours on Christmas Day, or from leaving chapel till dinner-time, taking care the whole time to keep the boiler filled with boiling water, and the fire strong and constant. Farther, in preparing for the boiler, the cloth, first scalded, afterwards squeezed, is put on the dresser and well dredged with flour, and then placed very evenly over a colander, so that it shall be exactly in the middle of it. The pudding is then put into the cloth, and well stirred up, a person plaiting the cloth so that it shall be evenly taken up and that no water shall get into it. It must then be excessively well tied up, allowing some room for the pudding swelling, and boiled. The Christmas Padding should be served up with a sprig of arbutus stuck in the middle, with one of its red berries, and a sprig of variegated holly with one or two berries on each side of it. This is to keep away the witches, 833. A superfine Plum-Pudding,—Take four ounces of pounded pudding-biscuit, or of good common biscuit, and two ounces of the best flour, a half-pound of bloom or mus- catel raisins stoned, the same quantity of fresh Zante currants picked and plumped, and a pound of kidney-suet strippedCHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 446 of skins and filaments, and slired; a teaspoonfiil of nutmeg grated, a quarter-pound of fine beat sugar, a drachm of pounded cinnamon, two blades of mace, and a saltspoonful of salt; two ounces of candied lemon, orange, or citron peel sliced, and two ounces of blanched almonds roughly chopped ; also the grated rind of two, and the juice of four lemons, and sugar to sweeten. Beat six eggs well, and put to them a little sweet milk, a glass of brandy, and then mix in the flour, and all the ingredients minced, and let them blend for some hours. Tie up the pudding firmly, and boil it for four or five hours, keeping up the boil, and turning the cloth. Serve pudding-sauce, pouring some over.—(Nos. 305, 834^.) Plum-pudding will keep long, hung in a dry cool larder; and re-warm whole, or in slices, in the Dutch oven or frying- pan, or served in a pastry-crust. A plum-pudding with meat may be made either according to the receipt for minced pies, or a Bride^s pie, adding enough of eggs and milk. The same pudding may be baked.* 834. Marrow-Pudding.—Grate as much bread as will fill a large breakfastcup quite full. Put it into a jug, and pour nearly a quart of boiling sweet milk or thin cream over it, and let it swell and soak, while you shred a half-pound of marrow or kidney-suet, and beat up four large or five small eggs. Have two ounces of raisins stoned, and two ounces of currants picked and plumped. Sweeten the pudding to taste, and season it with a very little grated nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of cinnamon in powder. Cover a flat stoneware dish on the edge with strips of pufl-paste, and mark tliis neatly in foliage. Bake the pudding in this dish, or plainly in a deep dish.—Ohs, A few blanched cut almonds, or a little candied citron or orange peel, may be put to this pudding for variety. A little finely-sifted sugar may be strewed on the top, which makes a good veil to puddings when unluckily scorched in the oven; and a few blanched almonds sliced may be stuck round it for ornament. In a flat dish twenty- five minutes will bake it. It will require a half-hour in a deep dish: or it may he boiled in a pudding-mould. This pudding, called also Alderman^s, will keep and cut in slices, * Instead of one huge plum-pudding, we prepare at The Cleikum a Hen and Chickens, putting the Hen, of ten or twelve pounds, to boil a couple of hours before her Chickens. We have the Hen for Christmas or company, and a, plum-Chicken can be heated up any day.447 PLUM-PUDDING. wliich may be fried, broiled, or heated in a Dutch oven. A Suet-pudding^ a Baked Plum-pudding^ and a Fat-pudding^ are made exactly as the above, only the quantity of fruit may be varied at pleasure, or cheaper fruit substituted. 834^. The St Bananas Plum-Pudding, d la Franqaise—ex- cellent,—Chop together twelve ounces of fresh beef-kidney- suet, and six of hard marrow, throwing into the mince six ounces of the finest sifted flour. Put this into a large basin, and mix with it a saltspoonful of salt, four ounces of pounded sugar, a glass of brandy, and a large teacupful of milk. Stir well up. Add two ounces of candied orange or citron peel, cut in delicate strips, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, six ounces of currants cleaned, six ounces of Musca- tel raisins stoned and chopped, with three minced rennets; and, if you have it, four large spoonfuls of apricot-jam. Stir the materials well. Add five beat eggs, and stir briskly; and, lastly, the grate and juice of two lemons. Stir again; allow to soak for an hour or two, to blend and settle, and tie up the pudding firmly in a cloth, and boil for four or five hours. Sauce.—Thicken on the fire two beat yolks of eggs, two ounces of sugar, two of fresh butter, a grain of salt, a squeeze of lemon, a large spoonful of cream: add a half-pint of sherry, or a large glass of maraschino, or of black cherry- brandy : strain and pour hot over the pudding. 834^. Careme^s Pudding-Sauce—the Chaudot.—Beat the yolks of two eggs, to which add a half-pint of Madeira and four ounces of pounded sugar. Set this upon embers or a slow fire, and mill it with a chocolate-mill. It will thicken and become smooth, and is a superior pudding-sauce. Serve it in a sauce-tureen, and the moulded pudding without sauce. The chaudot answers well for all kinds of plum or other rich puddings. 835. A Hunter^s Pudding.—This is a convenient variety of plum-pudding. Stone a pound of raisins, and chop them, shred a pound of suet, clean a pound of currants, grate the rind of two lemons over this, and mix up six beat eggs with a pound of flour, a quarter-pound of sugar, a very little salt, and what milk will make a stiff batter. Season with a saltspoonful of Jamaica pepper, and the same quantity of nutmeg; and add candied citron and orange peel, if you like. Boil for six or seven hours in a cloth or mould, and448 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. serve with sauce, No. 834^.—Ohs, This pudding will keep a long while, and in this its utility consists; it may either be fried or broiled in slices, or warmed up in a fresh cloth. It will take long to get hot quite through if re-warmed whole. If made with meat instead of suet it will eat cold: or if mince-meat, No. 815, is used with the addition of bread- crumbs. Adding to a pound of mince-meat three ounces of dry panada, and mixing up the whole with a glass of spirits, and the grate and juice of a lemon and three beat eggs, and boiling for three hours, you have an excellent Hunter's Mince-meat-pudding. 836. Plain Bread-Pudding.—Pour a pint of boiling milk over what will fill a breakfastcup of bread crumbs. Let them soak covered till cold, and mash smooth with a spoon. Sweeten this to taste. Add to it four eggs, well beat, the size of an egg of butter, and season with cinnamon and nut- meg. Stir in two ounces of currants picked and plumped, or a few cut raisins : or the pudding may be made very rich by the addition of blanched and chopped almonds, candied citron and orange peel, with more raisins and currants. Boil it in a buttered basin, or bake it in a deep dish. Pounded sweet or plain biscuit may be used instead of crumbs, and for all puddings where bread is used, sponge- cake may be employed without many eggs. A Brown Bread-pudding is made as above, but plainly; and also a Save-all or Crust-pudding. Small bread-puddings may be baked in buttered cups.—The French have their, or our, Brit-poudin, as they term it, made with sundry additions and variations, of w^hich the most showy is giving the pudding a raised or Souffle look, by lightly stirring in the whipt whites of the eggs the instant before putting the pud- ding to bake, and sifting sugar as glaze over the solid froth. 837. Bice-Pudding.—Wash well in several waters, and pick a half-pound of the best rice. Boil it slowly in a little water for a few minutes, pour off, and put a pint and a half of milk to it with a roll of lemon-peel. Stir it constantly, to prevent it from sticking. When quite soft, pour it into a dish, and mix two ounces of fresh butter, or of thinly shred suet with it; and when cool, three or four beat eggs, sugar to taste, and a seasoning of cinnamon, nutmeg, or lemon. Cover the edges of a flattish pie-dish with paste.SUTHERLAND-PUDDINGS. 449 which carve into leaves, and bake the pudding in it. A few cleaned currants may be put to it. This pudding may be thinned with milk, and boiled in a cloth ; or it may, allow- ing a double quantity of suet, be filled into skins and so boiled. Chopped apples, stoned prunes, pistachio - nut kernels, crumbled ratafia cakes, dried cherries, any sort of apple, orange, or apricot jam or liqueur^ may be employed to enrich a rice-pudding, and the rice may be ground instead of whole, etc.* When strips of candied peel are used, this takes the name of a Patna-pudding, 838. Delicate small Rice-Puddings.—Prepare four ounces of rice as directed No. 837, and put to it three ounces of fresh butter and a half-pint of cream. When cold, mix in sugar to taste, and six well-beat yolks of eggs, with three whites, grated lemon-peel, and a little cinnamon. Butter small cups, and putting into each a few slices of candied citron, fill very nearly full, and bake them. Dish and serve hot on a napkin, with sweet sauce in a tureen.—See Nos. 304, 305, 886. 839. Castle-puddings^ called also Sutherland-Puddings, —Take the weight of two eggs in flour, butter, and sugar. Set the butter in a basin before the fire till half melted; then beat it to a cream; beat the two eggs for ten minutes or longer, and then mix them gently with the butter, then the sugar, next the flour; add nutmeg and grated lemon- peel ; bake in cups for twenty minutes in a slow oven ; serve on a napkin. 840. Sago and Tapioca Puddings.—Wash in several waters, and boil four spoonfuls of sago in a quart of new milk. Sweeten to taste, and season with cinnamon, lemon- peel grated, and a scrape of nutmeg. Add, when cold, four eggs well beat, and bake in a dish with a cut paste-border. —Ohs. The sago may be first boiled in water, and then have wine and lemon-peel put to it, with some beat butter, and no milk. For the Tapioca^ if genuine, steep four spoonfuls for some hours in a quart of water or sweet milk, and use eggs, and sweeten and season as above. British * We have seen wheat, struck in the same manner as pot or pearl barley, substituted for rice in making puddings. It is much cheaper, can be had fresh at all times, and is by many persons thought better than rice. It is, in fact, cheap Semoulina. Rice, chopped suet, molasses, skim- milk, and ginger, make a good cheap pudding.—P.T.—>5ej Cheap Dishes.450 CHAP. IV.—PASTRY, PIES, ETC. Tapioca^ that is, potato-flour in grains, requires no soaking. If the milk is hot, a half-hour will do. If—Avhich is a better way—it be first soaked in tepid water, drain it and mix with the milk. This is a plain, good pudding, to which nutmeg alone, which is now cheap, makes a sufficient season- ing, with a little wine.—We know of no more delicate pre- paration than genuine tapioca, boiled first in milk, then add- ing sugar and lemon seasonings, again boiled and moulded, and when cold turned out and eaten with plain cream. 841. Bakevjell-Pudding^ or preserved Fruit-Pudding with custard-mixture.—Place a layer of preserved fruit (from humble gooseberries up to exquisite peaches or apricots) in a tart-dish bordered with paste. Mix with it a good deal of candied citron or orange peel cut in thin strips. Make a custard of five beat eggs, five ounces of melted fresh butter, six of pounded loaf-sugar, and three spoonfuls of lemon- brandy. Bake for three-quarters of an hour. This favourite pudding may be called the successor of the Marrow-pudding in many provincial parts of England, and is an improve- ment on that older favourite of John Bull. 84 P. The Quaker^sJ otherwise a Modern Welsh Pudding, —To a half-pound of nicely-chopped fresh suet, add a half- pound of grated stale bread, a half-pound of loaf-sugar pounded, the grated rind of one large lemon, and the juice of two. Cement the whole with two beat eggs. Butter a tin-mould with a grooved lid, and steam or boil the pudding for two hours. This we consider an excellent plain family pudding, which the lemon seasoning renders somewhat re- fined when compared with common fat puddings. Liverpool-Pudding.—Make exactly as the Quaker's, substi- tuting fresh figs chopped for the sugar, and a little milk. 842. Sweet Macaroni-Puddi7ig.—Simmer the macaroni in milk and water for fifteen minutes, add new milk to thin it; and when cold, add three beat yolks of eggs. Season with nutmeg, cinnamon, and a little almond-flower-water or noyeau, and sweeten with fine sugar. A little ginger- wine or lemon-wine is an improvement. A layer of orange- marmalade, or apricot-jam, in the centre of the pudding, is an excellent addition: Or, French plums, stoned and plumped, with shred marrow finely beat, (or mutton-suet), and sugar, may be placed in a layer over the macaroni. It451 CHEESE-PUDDING.—SPONGE-CAKE-PUDDING. may be steamed or baked. Stick blanched almonds, sliced longways, round the edges. 843. Parisian Macaroni-Pudding.—Wash six ounces of macaroni, and simmer it in water till tender, but not soft. Strain it; beat up five yolks, and two whites of eggs. Stir into them a very little salt and pepper, and a half-pint of sweet cream. Mince, but not too finely, the skinned breast of a cold fowl, and rather less of dressed lean ham. Grate about an ounce and a half of Parmesan cheese over the mince, and mix the whole ingredients well together with the macaroni. Butter, fill, and close a melon-shaped or other pudding-mould, and expose it to the steams of boiling water till thoroughly done. Turn the pudding carefully out, and serve it hot, with a strong clear gravy flavoured with onions,, parsley, and, if the flavour of the French cookery is admired^ a little tarragon.—Ohs, This, by gourmands of experience, is considered as out of sight the best modern preparation ol macaroni, sweetened dishes of this paste being considered by them as only fit for boys or women. But some except our Sughlio macaroni. More cheese may be employed of rich melting kinds.—See Nos. 557, 560-63, which we think better receipts than the following nightmare-creating cheese- pudding. Cheese-Pudding.—Grate Cheshire, or new rich Dunlop, or any mild melting cheese, in the proportion of a half-pound to two beat eggs, with a little oiled butter, cream, and a large tablespoonful of finely-grated bread. Bake in a small dish lined with puff-paste, or omit the paste, as in other puddings, at discretion.—Another, plainer and better. Grate the cheese; use but one egg, and melt the whole in a small saucepan with milk, or, if for a supper-relish, with ale or porter; use two tablespoonfuls of finely-sifted crumbs. Pour the mixture into a small buttered pudding-dish, and brown it in the Dutch oven. Made-mustard may be added. 843^. Sponge-cake-Pudding.—Take from six to eight fresh penny sponge-cakes. Butter a mould, and, slicing them, line it as for bread-and-butter pudding. No. 858. Strew in a thin layer of candied citron or orange peel, cut in delicate strips, or of delicate jam; then lay in more slices of cake and more orange-peel; three ounces in all. Make a caudle of five well-beaten eggs, and a pint and a half of boiling452 CHAP. IV.—PASTRY, PIES, ETC. milk, with three ounces of pounded sugar, the grate and iuice of two lemons, and a large glassful of brandy or rum, mixed gradually that tlie milk may not curdle. Pour the mixture over the cake in the mould. Cover and let it soak for an hour or two, and boil for one hour and a half. This pudding may be baked; or the cake may be crumbled down, and it may be thus made as a bread-pudding. If in a mould, a few bloom raisins, or small French plums, may be arranged at the bottom, so as to have a good effect when the pudding is turned out. 844. Vermicelli-Pudding,—Boil three ounces of soaked vermicelli till soft, in a pint and a half of new milk, with fine sugar to taste, a stick of cinnamon, and a bit of lemon- peel. Stir in, when cold, the beat yolks of four eggs with two of the whites, and bake the pudding in a dish with a paste-border. 845. Custard-Pudding.—Beat up the yolks and whites of from four to six, or from six to nine eggs separately. Mix the yolks with a pint and a half of rich new milk into which two spoonfuls of arrow-root or three of flour have been rubbed. Sweeten the mixture to taste, and add cinnamon and lemon grate and juice. When just ready to cook, stir in the beat whites of the eggs, and a little orange-flower- water. Boil the pudding for a half-hour, in a buttered basin, with a floured cloth tied tightly over it; or bake it for twenty minutes, taking care that it does not run in a too hot oven, before it has time to set. Grate sugar over the top, or put bits [croutons) of red currant-jelly or preserved cherries neatly round the dish. 846. Batter-Pudding.—Mix three or four ounces of flour with a little milk, and add a pint more of milk to it. Put a piece of butter the size of a small egg to this, and place it on the fire, stirring constantly till it thickens. When cold, add the beat yolks of four eggs, and a little ginger and grated lemon-peel. Boil in a buttered basin, and serve hot with a sweet sauce, or plain if with meat.—Ohs. A little orange-marmalade or conserve is a great improvement to this and to all batter-puddings; but not if served with meat. Instead of wheaten-flour, potato-flour, ground rice, or arrow- root may be used, but less of them. 847. Almond or Ratafia Pudding.—Blanch, cut down, andALMOND, ORANGE, LEMON, AND APPLE PUDDINGS. 453 beat in a mortar to a paste, a half-pound of sweet and a half-ounce of bitter almonds, with a spoonful of orange- flower-water or pure water. Add to this paste three ounces of fresh butter melted in a glass of hot cream, four beat eggs, sugar to taste, a scrape of nutmeg, and a little brandy or curagoa. Bake this in small cups buttered, or in a dish, and serve with a hot sauce of wine, sugar, and butter.—See Nos. 304, 305, 834^. 848. Other Almond- Puddings.—Beat half a pound of sweet and a few bitter almonds, with a spoonful of rose- water. Then mix four ounces of butter with two spoonfuls of cream warmed in it; four eggs, a spoonful of brandy, and sugar and nutmeg to taste. Butter some cups, half fill them, and bake the puddings. Serve on a napkin, with a sauce of butter, wine, and sugar. 849. A halted Almond-Pudding,—Blanch and beat, as above, six ounces of sweet and a dozen bitter almonds, and mix the paste with the beat yolks of six eggs, four ounces of butter, the grate and juice of a large lemon, a pint and a half of cream, and a glass of white wine. Add sugar to taste, and bake in a dish with a neatly-cut paste-border. Ornament the top with sliced almonds or citron. This pud- ding, if plainer, is not worse, if two ounces of bread-crumbs, soaked in milk, are added for two of the almonds. 850. Orange-Pudding.—To the grated rind of a large Seville orange put four ounces of fresh butter and six of pounded fine sugar. Beat this in a mortar, and gradually add eight well-beat eggs. Scrape a raw apple into the mix- ture, and put it in a dish lined with paste neatly scolloped on the edge. Cross-bar it with paste-straws, and bake till the paste is done. It may have three penny sponge biscuits, soaked in milk, put to it.—Ohs. Less of the above mixture will do for an ordinary-sized pudding, as this high-flavoured composition goes far. Candied orange-peel beat to a paste makes a fine pudding when used as above. 851. Lemon-Pudding.—Melt half a pound of sugar and six ounces of fresh butter together, and w^hen cold add six eggs very well beat (leaving out three of the whites), and the juice and grated rind of two lemons. Mix all well, and bake in a dish with a puff-paste border, neatly ornamented. 852. An Apple-Pudding.—Pare and grate three-quarters of454 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. a pound of jiucy apples. Put to them six ounces of butter beat cold to a cream, four beat-eggs, two pudding-biscuits pounded, the rind of a lemon grated on sugar to taste, a spoonful of brandy, and another of orange - flower - water. Bake in a puff-paste marked in leaves round the border, and when done, strew candied lemon or orange-peel sliced, over the top.—Ohs. Any good sweet biscuit may be used, or grated bread. A little lemon-juice or cider may be added if the apples are too mellow. 853. A Swiss Apple-Pudding.—Place alternately a layer of sliced apples and sugar, with a very thin layer of rusks pounded and soaked in milk. Finish with the pounded rusks, and pour melted butter over the pudding. Grate sugar over it when baked. 854. The Manse Apple-Pudding.—Pare, slice, core, and stew a pound of apples in a small stewpan, with a stick of cinnamon, and two or three cloves. When the apples are soft, sweeten them to taste. Pulp them through a sieve, and add the beat yolks of four eggs, a quarter-pound of but- ter, with the grated peel and the juice of a lemon. Mix the ingredients well, and boil the pudding, or bake it for a half- hour in a dish lined with puff-paste. 855. Nottingham Apple-Pudding.—Pare and core six large apples. Fill the hearts with moist sugar and a little cinna- mon. Place them in a pie-dish, pour a light batter-pudding, suitably seasoned, over them, and bake till the apples are ready,—three quarters of an hour or less. 856. Victoria,. Apricot^ Peachj or Nectarine Pudding.— Pour a pint of hot cream over what would fill a cup of bread-crumbs, and cover the jug. When cold, add the beat yolks of four eggs, a glass of white wine, and beat sugar to taste. Scald, till soft, a dozen large apricots. Peel them, cut them, take out the kernels, and pound the whole in a mortar, adding more sugar if necessary. Mix them with the other ingredients, and, lastly, the beat whites of two of the eggs, and bake in a dish with a paste-border. The apri- cots should not be too ripe. This may be made an iced pudding.—Nos. 874, 874^, 874^. 857. Gooseberry-Pudding.—Stew green gooseberries till they will pulp through a sieve. When cold, pulp them, and add to them six ounces of butter, four ounces of Savoy bis-NEWMARKET AND OTHER PUDDING. 455 cult, poimded sugar to taste, four beat-eggs, and a glass of brandy. Mix and bake in a dish with a paste-border.—Ohs, Excellent plain tartlets, and small pasties or turn-overs, may be made of this material. 858. Bread-and-Butter^ or Newmarket Pudding,—Boil a pint and a quarter of good milk for a few minutes, with the rind of half a lemon, a stick of cinnamon, and a bay-leaf. Put in fine sugar -to taste, and as the milk cools mix it grad- ually with the well-beat yolks of six eggs, and three of the Avhites separately beaten. Let this soak, and cut and butter thinly with fresh butter, slices of bread about a quarter-inch thick. Line a pudding-dish or mould neatly with the bread, and then place a layer of cleaned currants and a few raisins stoned and chopped, then again bread, and then fruit; but have the top layer of buttered bread. Pour the prepared custard through a sieve over this; let it soak for an hour, and bake or steam the pudding for a half-hour, or rather more. A few large raisins or small French plums, laid in order in the bottom of the mould, and embossed in the bread, have a good effect when the pudding is turned out. 858^ Another Bread-and-Butter Pudding, — Proceed as above, but use layers of any kind of rather thick jam instead of currants and raisins. 859. Cha7icellor^s or Cabinet Pudding^ a very delicate Pudding. — Boil a pint of cream with a bit of lemon-peel, and some fine sugar, and pour it hot over a half-pound of crumbled newly-baked Savoy cake in a basin. Cover the dish. When the cream is soaked up, add the yolks and whites of eight eggs, separately well whisked. Bake the pudding, and serve with custard-sauce. No. 868. Stoned dates, plums, or raisins may be added, and also minced marrow, almonds, and grated citron. 860. Ginger-Puddings. — Season a Chancellors pudding with two ounces of green preserved ginger. Steam it in a shape.—Ohs. The fruit in all these puddings should be cut and arranged in form round the mould, to look well when the pudding is turned out. 861. New College Puddings,—Beat six yolks and three whites of eggs, and mix them to a smooth batter with three heaped spoonfuls of flour, a little ginger, and half a grated nutmeg, with pounded sugar to taste. Add four ounces ofCHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 456 shred suet, four of cleaned currants, and an ounce of candied orange-peel and citron sliced. Bake in patty-pans, or fry these small puddings, making them up of an egg-shape. Serve with wine pudding-sauce and sliced lemon. — Ohs, Bread-crumbs or pounded biscuit may be used instead of half the flour when the pudding is to be baked. For all puddings bread-crumbs are much lighter than flour. 862. Puddings in haste. — Mix a little shred suet with grated bread, a handful of cleaned currants, the beat yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two. Add grated lemon- peel and ginger. Mix, and roll this up with flour, rolling with two spoons, in balls the size of a small egg. Have ready a pan of fast boiling-water, and slip them in. When done, they will rise to the top. Serve with pudding-sauce. —Nos. 305, 306, 834. 863. Liverpool or Fig Pudding. — Half a pound of suet minced, half a pound of figs minced, a tablespoonful of flour and grated bread to make up half a pound, three eggs, all mixed up with milk, and boiled in a shape the same as plum-pudding. It is better made without milk, and boiled from one hour to one and a half. Prunes may be taken instead of figs. 864. Dutch Pudding^ or Albany Cake.—Mix two pounds, or rather less, of good flour with a pound of butter, melted in half a pint of milk. Add to this the whites and yolks of eight eggs separately beaten, a half-pound of fine sifted sugar, a pound of cleaned currants, and a few chopped almonds, or a little candied orange-peel sliced fine. Put to this four spoonfuls of yeast. Cover it up for an hour or two, and bake it for an hour in a wide flattish dish. When cold it eats well sliced as a sort of cake.* 865. A Welsh Pudding.—Melt a half-pound of butter by setting it in a basin floating in hot water, and gradually mix it with the beat yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of four. Sweeten with fine pounded sugar, and season with the grate of a lemon and a little nutmeg. Bake in a dish with an ornamental paste-border; and when ready, stick slices of citron or candied orange peel round the edge.—No. 84P. * This was a bonne louche at the substantial rural tea-parties of the State of New York. The feast, begun with fried eggs and bacon, ended with buck-wheat and other cakes, and the above preparation.457 VARIOUS PUDDINGS. 865^ Another Welsh^ or Cheese-and-Onion Pudding, oj high gout — Parboil, skin, chop, and place as many good onions as you wish for in a small baking-dish, with pepper, salt, and plenty of butter. When enough done, cover with slices of Cheshire or Dunlop cheese toasted. Serve very hot, with toasts. This is an after-dinner relish of a coarse kind, or rather a Rere-supper dish. 866. Potato-flour-Pudding. — Stir three or four spoonfuls of the flour mixed with cold milk, into a quart of hot milk, in which suitable seasonings have been boiled, as nutmeg or lemon-peel. Strain and sweeten, add from three to five eggs at pleasure, and season with wine, rum, or pudding conserve. A quarter of an hour will bake it before the fire in the Dutch oven. 867. A George-Pudding, — Boil as for rice-pudding four ounces of ground rice with a roll of lemon-peel. Mix this, when drained dry, with the pulp of a dozen boiled, roasted, or baked apples, well beaten. Add the beat yolks of five or six eggs, sugar to taste, and a little cinnamon, with one ounce of candied orange and citron peel sliced. Butter a basin or mould and line with paste (not too thick), and pour the pudding into it; then gently stir in the whites of the eggs, beaten to a strong froth. Bake the pudding for more than a half-hour, and serve it with a caudle-sauce made of wdne, sugar, the yolk of an egg, and a bit of butter.—No. 304, 868. 868. Cream or Caudle Sauce for Puddings.—Sweeten thin cream, and season either with nutmeg, cinnamon, or lemon- rind, as best suits the pudding. Boil the cream with a bit of butter and a little rice-flour. SMnh it well, and keep it hot by plunging the dish in hot w^ater. When ready to serve, add a glass of sweet wine. Boil it up, and pour over the pudding.—See pages 252, 447. 869. A Charlotte or French Fruit-Pudding.—The prepa- rations known among us by this name are much admired on the Continent, and particularly in France, where the solid, lumpy, or over-rich English plum-pudding,* and fat pie or tart-crust, are not so much esteemed as they are at home.— * We cannot say whether it be in ignorance or irony that the French persist in calling our plum-cakes and plum-puddings, pudding, i.e., heavy or leaden. ButjpZom& enough they are sometimes. UCHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 458 A Charlotte—a French Fruit-piidding^ a Charlotte Russe^ or Friissienne, or by whatever other name it he designated, may be made of any kind of fruit, or of a mixture of such as blend well, as apricot with apple-marmalade. Cut smoothly slices of bread of nearly half an inch in thickness. Butter them richly on both sides, or dip them in melted butter, and cover the bottom and sides of a buttered plain mould with them, cutting the bread into dice or long slips, to make the whole join or dovetail compactly. Fill up the dish with apples, first stewed and seasoned as for an apple-pudding, No. 853. For the top, soak slices of bread in melted butter and milk. Cover the apples exactly with these soaked slices. Butter them again and keep them pressed down, while baking in a quick oven, with a plate and a weight placed on it. Turn out, brown with a salamander, and pour two spoonfuls of currant-jelly melted in sherry over the Charlotte.— Obs. This, turned out of the shape when baked, is sometimes in Scotland called an apple-loaf. Any kind of preserved or ripe fruit may be used instead of apples, attending to sweet- ening and seasoning appropriately. A few very thin slices of bread, soaked and buttered thus, make a good crust to a rice or other pudding. The French Charlottes^ or iced pud- dings, are of course finer than ours; we subjoin the most choice of their Iced Fuddings. 870 Yorkshire Fudding to hake under a Boast.—Mix four ounces of flour very smoothly with a pint and a half of milk, three or four beat eggs, a little salt, and also ginger, if liked. Butter a shallow tin-pan; pour the batter into it, and place it below the roast. When settling, stir up the batter; and when browned on the upper side, turn over the pudding,* first drawing a knife round the edges to loosen it. Brown the other side. It should be above an inch thick when done. This is the favourite English accompaniment to a sirloin of beef, or a loin of veal or mutton; finely-minced parsley, eschalot, onion, and also suet well beat, may be added. Yorkshire pudding, if for roast pork, should have a little minced sage. It is often served cut in strips. 871. Fotato-Fudding, to go helow a roast.—Peel, boil, and mash the potatoes^ with a very little milk, salt, pepper, and * To turn omelets or Yorkshire pudding, butter a flat tin, or stewpan lid; wliicli place over the omelet, and turn.459 POTATO-PUDDING. a finely-slired onion, if approved. Dish and score this, and set it below the roast to catch the rich dripping, and to brown. See Nos. 19, 866, and British Tapioca, No. 840. 872. Potato-Pudding, with Meat.—Mash the potatoes; thin them with milk, and season as above. Cut either fat beef, mutton, or pork, into very small bits, and season these well with salt, pepper, allspice, and shred onion. Place a layer of meat at the bottom of a baking-dish, then potatoes, and proceed thus till the dish is filled. Pour all the potato- batter that remains equally over the top, and stick some butter over that. Bake of a fine brown, covering with paper to prevent scorching. See No. 764.— Ohs. This dish is in no material respect different from baked Irish stew. The meat may be kept in steaks ; and the pudding is then called a Rump-steah potato-pudding. Chicken or veal, with curry sea- sonings, may be dressed as above, using a batter of boiled rice. A Mutton-chop-pudding is also made with potatoes as above. 873. Kidney-pudding, or Dumpling,—Slice, soak, and sea- son one or two ox-kidneys. Line a basin with a good paste made of suet, flour, and hot milk. Put in the kidneys with a little shred onion and suet, cover and pinch in the paste; tie in a cloth, and boil for two hours.—For Blood-Puddings and White-puddings, see National Dishes ; and French Cookery for several excellent meat-puddings or Boudins. 8732. Pease-Pudding.—See No. 79. Sauces for Puddings^ pp. 252, 255, and Nos. 834^, 868. Fashionable Iced Puddings. 874. Pine-apple Iced Pudding, a la Royale.—Now that pine-apples are got so cheaply from the West Indies, the Pouding d^Ananas may be tried. Peel two ripe middle- sized pine-apples, trimming off corners, and going rather deep. Slice the flesh in slices a quarter-inch thick, which cut into large dice. Boil these in six ounces of syrup for ten minutes ; cut the peel also in dice, and boil it in a pint of boiling cream. Let this soak a few minutes, and add six ounces of pounded sugar and twelve yolks of beat eggs; thicken over a slow fire, and strain through a tammy. When this is cold, add to it the syrup of the pines, and freeze the mixture; when frozen, add the pieces of fruit some preserved cherries, two ounces of pistachios, cut inCHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 460 strips, and two fine pears, cut in large dice. Mix all up, so as to look well when turned out, and freeze again; after which, fill the mould, and set it on the ice. These iced Pou- dings may be varied in many ways, by substituting different fruits and flavouring ingredients. 8742. Parisian Iced Apple-Pudding,—Peel, quarter, and core two dozen of pippins, and make them into a marmalade ; add to them a pot of apricot-jam, eight ounces of sugar, rubbed on the rind of a Seville orange. Rub all through a tammy, and freeze; then mix in a pot of preserved cherries, drained from the syrup ; four ounces of the best raisins, stoned, washed, and stewed in syrup, but cold; with an ounce of fresh citron-peel, cut in dice, and two ounces of pistachio-nuts, also in dice. Add a quarter-pint of maras- chino, and as much curagoa; mix the whole, and freeze again, and add two platefuls of whipt cream, or as much as the preparation will require. Freeze once more; fill the mould; plunge it into the ice-pot, which work with the handle, and mingle the frozen and unfrozen parts, till all are frozen equally. Serve it, turned out upon a neatly-folded napkin, and send to table iced whipt cream in a sauce-tureen, or glass dish, as sauce for iced pudding. 874^. Charlotte Prussienne.—Put jelly, flavoured with maraschino, and coloured with cochineal, into a plain dome- shaped mould, till it be a half-inch deep. Place it upon the ice; line the sides of the mould with Savoy biscuits, and fill the void with a jelly made thus :—an ounce and a half or two ounces of isinglass, dissolved in half a pint of water, to which is put the juice of two lemons, and five ounces of sugar, pounded. Boil till reduced one-half; skim, and pass through a tammy, and, when cold, add a quarter-pint of maraschino, and two glasses of brandy. Put the mould in the ice-pot, and, as the composition begins to freeze, add a pint of well-whipt cream. The biscuits must be cut and placed, or built up, in neat order, and made fast with jelly. A variety of Charlottes are thus made, varying the fruits and liqueurs ; as of ripe strawberries, or of differ- ent coloured fruits—en Mosaique, 874^. Careme^s Nesselrode-Pudding.—This pudding is made in the same way as other iced puddings, substituting forty cooked chestnuts, pounded and rubbed through a sieve,461 MEAT-PUDDING ETC. with a little syrup flavoured witli vanilla; put to this a pint of syrup and one of cream with the yolks of twelve eggs. Thicken over the fire; pass through a tammy, and, when cold, freeze the mixture, to which add candied citron, stoned raisins, and cleaned currants, previously soaked in maras- chino, and also a glass of that liqueur. When freezed a little, fill a mould; set it in the ice-pot, and proceed as usual. Add sugar pounded, with vanilla, a plateful of whipt cream, three whipt whites of eggs, and freeze again.* The mould should be a pine-apple shape. The My Pudding."—Every lady has or should have a " My Pudding.'' This we leave to individual taste and invention. Meat-Puddings, Potato-Pasties, and Dumplings. These excellent every-day dishes we consider of far more importance than all the Galantines and Pieces Monies of the French kitchen. If they do not belong to the highest style of cookery, the combination of savouriness with economy adapts them to all tastes and classes. To commence, we give a general receipt for meat-puddings, which may easily be modified to suit every palate and purse. 875. Mump-Steak-Pudding. — Flatten steaks, cut much smaller and thinner than for broiling; season each with mixed seasonings, as pie-meat. Have an earthenware basin or mould, which line with thin suet-paste, or demi-pufF- paste, which shall overlap the ledge; lay in the meat, with a very little chopped onion or eschalot, if you like. When filled with steaks, put in a wineglassful of water, to which, if you have used no cayenne or onion, a teaspoonful of eschalot or cayenne vinegar may be added, and a little cat- sup. Turn up the overhanging paste; wet it, and lay on the cover, which should be of thicker paste than the lining. Tie up the plain mould or basin in a cloth, and place it standing in a pot of boiling water, as in boiling other pud- dings ; keep up the boil for at least three hours, adding boil- * Freezing-pots are made in England of various constructions; with handles and spaddles, which easily remove the parts which freeze upon the sides of the pot or mould, and these, making the entire mass congeal equally, entirely supersede the roclcing and shaking prescribed by M. Careme, and answer the purpose mUch better. For a very ingenious and useful freez- ing-apparatus, Mr Peter Gray of Edinburgh took out a patent.462 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIESy ETC. ing water as wanted; or for four hours, if a three-pound pudding. Probe with a packing-needle, to see if it is tender. \yhen so, take it up, untie the cloth, wipe the mould or basin, and have a finer outer case to serve it in, or a napkin —or what we call " a pie-dish jacket''—to pin round it. It will require no gravy, as its own, completely preserved, will be sufficient. By the above plan of serving, a lighter pudding is obtained than if the whole paste were made so thick as to turn out in the usual way. If wanted to turn out, proceed as above; but butter the mould, line it with a substantial crust, and when served carve the pudding in horizontal slices.—Ohs. These puddings may be made fatter by suet, and also enriched with several ingredients, as mushrooms, oysters, etc. The same sort of pudding may be made of mutton or lamb-chops, not too fat, or of cold dressed beef or mutton, and the crust may be made econom- ically, of half-suet, half-dripping. This mode of cookery, like No. 766, is found peculiarly convenient everywhere in " The Bush," in Canada, and Australia, where culinary appliances are deficient, and where men weary of always pork, mutton and " damper Baker's dough may be used for the crust. 875^. Potato-Pasty, — This favourite preparation, like meat-puddings, curries, small pies, and nicely-dressed small savoury dishes of cold cooked meat, we hold in especial esteem from its use in respectable families in middle life, where a limited, income does not preclude that nice cookery which costs nothing save a little (agreeable) trouble, and adds so much to domestic comfort. Tin-moulds, for potato- pasty, are sold at the ironmongers' shops, like other moulds. The pasty may be made of beef, mutton, veal, pork, game, fish; and, in brief, whatever may be dressed as a savoury pie will answer equally well for a potato-pasty, and whether raw or previously cooked. Have from two to three pounds of the material; cut, trim, season, and lay it in the mould, as if making a pie or meat-pudding. A little more fat may be used with potato than with flour-paste or rice. Add water or gravy, cayenne and catsup, or whatever kind of seasoning is best adapted to the meat used, at discretion; also mushrooms, catsup, or curry-powder, with veal, and with fish a little Harvey. Put the tin perforated cover down into the mould, and upon it, to the thickness of three orPOTATO-PASTY. 463 four inches, rising conically, heap potatoes mashed with milk and a good bit of butter, and seasoned with pepper and salt; and if for beef or mutton, with a shred onion, if you like—in the Scottish fashion. Mark the paste neatly, and press some of the mash with a spoon through a colander, to form a sort of fretted or coral work on the surface, over which it is a great improvement to stick lightly small bits of butter. If the potatoes are in danger of being too much done before the meat is enough, the perforated cover need not be put on the mould till the meat is partly cooked. Bake as long as an ordinary pie of the same size, and serve with a napkin (or one of the fancy ''pie-dish jackets'' that ladies knit) round the mould. The frame or cover must not be removed till the pasty is served, when it is placed on another dish; as the potato-crust, we need not say, might break or crumble. Four pounds of potatoes, at least, will be required for the mash, and, if any of it is left, it may either be placed in balls round the ledge, or usefully served in slices, balls, or scallops. Cold mashed potatoes of a for- mer day are quite as good for pasty as those freshly mashed. The advantage of the potato-pasty pan over ordinary modes, lies in the steams of the meat ascending to the mashed pota- toes through the perforated cover, and that a well-looking and rich crust is thus obtained. After all, it is not much superior to the old way of dressing a thick border and balls of potatoes in a dish ; browning these, and then putting in any prepared hash or stew. Undressed meat, to be plainly served as potato-pasty, may be half-baked, or rather more, and then covered with mashed potatoes, over which a large old dish-cover may be turned, and only taken off to allow the crust time to brown before serving. Dumplings, Dumplings are made of all sorts of fruit, either fresh or preserved, and also of meat and other things. They are convenient, and sometimes economical, though not particu- larly elegant, and far from being of easy digestion. The boiled paste of dumplings is dough in its heaviest form ; but yeast will lighten it and save eggs. If yeast is used, the dough must stand a little to rise.—Buy bakers' dough. 876. Suet'Dumplings.—Chop from four to eight ounces of suet fine, and take double the weight of flour and grated464 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. bread. Beat two or three eggs with a glassful of milk. Mix all well together, and put a little salt and allspice to the mixture. Work it up into the shape and size of turkey- eggs, and tie each up separately in a pudding-cloth dredged with flour. Boil three-quarters of an hour at least. These are eaten hot along with meat, or alone with butter and vinegar. Made small, they are called dough-nuts^ and may be boiled thirty-five minutes. 876^. Plum^ Apple, Currant, Raspherry-Jam, Strawberry^ Jam, Gooseberry, or Damson Dumplings,—Line a tin basin with a plain suet-crust, and fill with the fruit, either pre- served, or prepared as for pies and puddings. Pinch in the paste, tie a floured cloth over the basin, and boil from two to three hours, and turn it out:—Or, roll the crust out long, spread the fruit or jam over it, then roll up as a collar, tie in a cloth firmly at both ends, and boil. This is a Rolled Pudding. 876^. Net or Crochet Dumplings. — Ladies ingeniously knit net or crochet cases in which to boil dumplings, which give them at table the appearance of being carved. What is called round nettingand fancy netting, has the best effect, though this may hold of fifty diflerent stitches; only let the thread be tough, and rather coarse. This refinement is appropriate to fruit-dumplings; suet ones being homely unpretending aflairs. 877. Norfolk-Dumplings.—Make a very stifl* batter with a pound of flour, a little milk, three eggs, and salt. Work this up into balls of the size of small turkey-eggs, roll them in flour, and boil in fast-boiling water, or along with meat, thirty minutes: or drop the batter from a spoon into water that boils fast, and boil for ten minutes ; drain, and serve them hot. Currants and sweet spices may be mixed in with suet or batter dumplings. Pancakes and Fritters. These articles make an economical and genteel addition to small dinners, and have the advantage of being quickly forthcoming upon any emergency. 878. Common Pancakes.—Beat from four to eight eggs, according to the number of pancakes wanted, and put in a small spoonful of flour for every egg, with sugar, ginger.465 PANCAKES AND FRITTEES. and a little nutmeg. Stir in milk enough to reduce this to a thick batter. Make a small fryingpan hot, melt a little butter in it, pour it out, and wipe the pan; or rub it with a buttered cloth. Put in a very small piece of butter, and when it covers the pan and froths, a ladleful of batter: toss round the pan to diffuse this equally. Run a knife round the edges, and turn the pancake. Brown very lightly on both sides, double the pancakes up to keep hot, or roll them lightly up as a collar. Serve a few at a time, hot and hot, with grated sugar and sliced lemon. They are good cold, but should then be thicker; have some preserve wrapped in them, and be cut as sweet sandwiches. 879. Oxford-Pancakes.—Beat six eggs, add a pint of cream, five spoonfuls of flour, and three ounces of butter, if wanted rich. Sweeten with sugar, and season with nutmeg, cinnamon, or lemon. Sift sugar over them as they are fried, and serve with a cut lemon, to be squeezed over them when helped at table.* 880. Irish Pancakes,—These are made as above, but with more flour and sugar. 881. Eice Pancakes or Fritters.—Boil four ounces of rice- flour in a quart of cream, or very rich milk, till it is as thick as pap. Stir in a quarter-pound of sugar. When cold mix thoroughly together four spoonfuls of flour, a little salt, and eight beat eggs. If not stiff enough, add more flour and sugar, and fry the batter either as fritters or pancakes. Serve with a little melted butter, wine, and sugar, poured hot into the dish. 882. French Frying Batter for plain Fritters of Fruity and for frying Vegetables.—Mix with a half-pint of milk and water two ounces of butter, and into it rub smoothly, work- ing it long, ten ounces of flour. When to be used add the whites of two eggs, whisked to a stiff froth, and use it quickly that the batter may be light. The batter may be seasoned if for vegetables, or sweetened if for fruit. Eng- lish frying Batter.—Put a half-pound of sifted flour into a * In the Cleikum, and probably in some other old-fashioned inns and Scottish families, pancakes were wont to be served with a layer of currant- jelly between the folds,—a practice for which much might be said by those familiar with it. Is not this the omelette d la Celestine or au confiture^ of our old allies, still lingering in remote places of the country? Pancakes are still better with apricot-marmalade.—P.T. u 2466 CHAP. IV.—PASTRY, PIES, ETC. disli, with salt, a little melted butter, and the yolks of two eggs. Moisten and work up this with worts, or fresh yeasty beer, till it is of proper consistence. Have the whites of the eggs well whipt, and work them into the paste, which should be made hours before it is used. Water, brandy, or wine may be used instead of beer : milk is often used. Top- pot fat makes the best frying material for plain fritters, and next to it dripping, or the soft kidney-fat of beef. 883. Good plain Fritters,—Stir minced apples rolled in sugar with a little finely-shred suet into stiff pancake-batter or fritter-batter, as above described. Drop this in proper quantities (a large spoonful) into boiling dripping, and fry the fritters; or a few picked currants may be stirred into the batter, and dropped in spoonfuls into the boiling dripping. Dry and serve on a napkin^ with sugar grated over them. 884. Apple, Apricot, and Peach F7'itters.—Put a little ad- ditional flour to common pancake-batter. Peel, stone, and divide the peaches and apricots. Peel, slice, and core large apples; * dip them in this thick pancake-batter, or fry them in French batter^ Drain and dish them neatly above each other, and grate sugar over them: Or drop batter into the boiling fat in the fryingpan, then a slice of apple, and drop more batter over that, and stamp out with a small lid.— Obs. Fritters are made of many kinds of fruit, and other things, as shell-fish, forcemeat, cheese, and anything you please, from slices of pine-apple to slices of potatoes. The principle is the same throughout, if the batter is suited to what it encloses. For sweet fritters, it may be flavoured with nutmeg or cinnamon, and brandy; for Jish or meat have mixed fine or savoury herbs. Sweet fritters should have sugar sprinkled over, and may be glazed. Savoury fritters should be a pale brown. All should swim when in the fryingpan, and be dried before dishing. See Potato- fritters, No. 227, and Oyster-fritters^ No. 183. 884^. Indian-Meal Fritters, Dumplings, etc. Indian-Meal Fritters and Pancakes.—Beat four eggs very well, and mix with a pint of milk, into which stir gradually * French cooks steep rennets for fritters in brandy and cinnamon, or some liqueur, before dipping them in the batter. They make fritters of all sorts of fruits, first half-haJcing the cored apples or stoned apricots.INDIAN-MEAL FRITTERS, DUMPLINGS, ETC. 467 ten spoonfuls of Indian-meal or three of Oswego Starch, Work the mixture till it is a smooth batter, when drop a ladleful at a time into half a pound of boiling lard. Lift out the fritters, when done, one by one, with a perforated skim- mer, and drain and serve hot and hot. More lard may be required, and the fritters must be carefully kept separate while frying. The 'above batter will make pancakes of Indian-meal. Serve with butter, sugar, and nutmeg, and a little white wine. A smaller kind are called Corn Oysters. Indian Flappers are pancakes, with fewer eggs, and baked on the girdle. Slap-Jacks are nearly the same; but the batter is prepared several hours beforehand, a little soda is mixed with warm water, and the batter touched with this before being fried for breakfast. Indian-meal suet-dumplings are made like flour-dumplings, but the suet must be well dredged with flour to prevent it from getting into lumps when boiled. Mix the floured suet with the Indian-meal. Add a little salt, and milk enough to make the mass a stiff dough. Knead this, divide it into dumplings the size of an orange. Flatten these with a rolling-pin, and beat them to make them light. Tie up in separate cloths, leaving room to swell, and boil as usual. They are eaten with boiled meat, fresh or salted, or with sugar or treacle. Boiled and baked Indian-puddings are made of the above fritter-batter, adding picked currants, and raisins stoned and cut. They are cooked like plum-pudding, and eaten with pudding- sauce. Polenta—When mush^ of Indian-meal, is nearly cooked, turn it into a buttered shallow baking-dish, and, for every half-pound, stir in two ounces of grated cheese. Stir it well, and bake for from twelve to fifteen minutes.—Nos. 229, 230.468 CHAPTER V. OEEAMS, JELLIES, SWEET DISHES, PEESEEVES, AND OEMMENTAL OONPEOTIONAEY. Make your transparent Sweetmeats truly nice, With Indian sugar and Arabian spice ; And let your various Creams enriched be With swelling fruit just ravish'd from the tree. De King. Where there is a good confectioner at hand, it will in general be not only more convenient, but cheaper, to pur- chase the greater part of the small articles used for desserts and suppers J as wafers^ little souffle cakes, houcMes des dameSj and the many fanciful trifles made of brioche-paste^ paste- royal and cream or sugar pastry. Even moulded creams, jellies, iced puddings, and preserved fruits of the finer kinds, where they are not often used, will be obtained as cheap, and in much better style than they can be prepared in small private families. But this department of the culinary art, besides affording a pleasing variety to the domestic business of ladies, often in the country becomes a necessary branch of knowledge. We have therefore given a copious selection of Receipts in Ornamental Confectionary, according to modern fashionable practice. Beginners in confectionary, as in cookery, are often at a loss to know how much of a receipt must be followed accord- ing to the letter, and how much is to be understood in the spirit only. Like the Malade Imaginaire^ when ordered to walk across the room, they are miserable from not knowing whether to take the breadth or the length of it. In general this is of small consequence, provided they do walk steadily either way. Ices, Creams, Jellies, etc. Creams are moulded, and garnished either with flowers or preserved sweetmeats of bright, contrasting colours, or served in glass-cups. Jellies are plain or Fancy-jellies ; the latter made of two or more contrasting colours ; as thus,— strew in a columnar or other mould a few delicate filaments469 ICES, CREAMS, JELLIES, ETC. of lemon-peel; fill it half-full or more with the brightest calves'-feet jelly ; let that get firm on the ice. Fill up the mould with a rose-coloured or other tinted jelly. For creams or jellies moulded, freezing is necessary to make sure of a fine and entire shape; and also isinglass. If too rich in syrup, cream-jellies will not readily take shape. If too watery, fruit-jellies will set in a half-dissolved ice. It is considered useful to half-freeze the liquids before filling the moulds; or to test them by trying a little in a small mould, to see if strong enough to keep shape. If not, more clarified isinglass must be used. Metal moulds give red jellies a dull colour. It is as necessary to wet moulds for creams and jellies, as to butter them for hot puddings. All creams are made in nearly the same manner, the chief difference arising from the flavouring ingredient, which generally gives the name; as pine-apple^ ^offee^ chocolate^ pistachio^ or van- illa cream. Though creams certainly look handsomer when moulded, they are not better than when served in glass-cups. The yolk of one egg to every cupful is a good rule in making creams and custards to be served in cups, but many more are often used for moulds. A little grated nutmeg, or cinnamon, may be sprinkled over creams served in cups. The exact quantity of isinglass necessary can only be known by experiment, this commodity varies so much in strength. For a large mould the material must be stiffer, to keep shape, than for a small one, especially if you have no ice-pot. 885. Isinglass to clarify,—When fruit or Fancy-jellies are wished of peculiar brilliancy, the finest isinglass sold may be farther cleared thus:—Cut in filaments with scissors, what is required—which for a shape may vary from an ounce to two ounces and a half. For every ounce take a short pint of water, in which whisk a teaspoonful of white of egg. Set this by the side of the fire in a stoneware pipkin ; drop in the cut isinglass, and mix thoroughly. Remove the scum as it rises till no more appears. If you have too much liquid boil it down, and strain it. A half-ounce to a quart of strong calves'-foot jelly-stock is a good allowance; but for fruit-juice full two ounces must be allowed. For creams and blancmanges, little or no isinglass and no clarify- ing are required. It is merely melted. 885^. Directions for Freezing Creams and Jellies.470 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. —There are various ways of procuring ice ; tlie cheajjest is to buy it of Nature's making, and to have the necessary apparatus for preserving it. Break the ice in a proper ice- bucket,, and strew a handful of salt amongst it. Rub it from the sides occasionally. Place your mould in the ice- pot, which set amidst the ice, but take care that the cream or jelly be quite cold, else it will melt the ice instead of being frozen itself. Ice-tubs are often not of sufficient di- ameter, to admit a large enough body of surrounding ice. They are quite well below and above, but have not enough of space for ice all around. We need give no farther direc- tions, as those who purchase an apparatus are taught the use of it. Let the cream or jelly remain on the ice till wanted. Then dip in hot water, or rub a towel dipt in hot water round the mould to detach it. Lay the dish over the mould, and turn carefully. Ois. Several ices, if left, by the addi- tion of rum or brandy, or liqueurs, make agreeable beverages, and so will the thick part left in running jellies through the jelly-bag.—^See Punch d la Eomaine, No. 1089. 886. Italian Cream,—Take two parts of sweet cream and one of milk, about a quart in all. Boil this, and infuse in it fine sugar enough to sweeten sufficiently, which is the only rule in using sugar^ and the thin rind of a lemon, or two if small. When flavoured, add the beat yolks of eight eggs, and beat the whole well. Set it on the fire to thicken; stirring constantly, and this done, put in a little melted isinglass, about a half-ounce (more afterwards, if necessary): whip well; strain through a lawn-sieve, and try a little in a cup before filling the mould. Put it on the ice. 887. Italian Cream^ another way,—Whisk up a pint, or rather more, of the richest cream, the yellow rind of a lemon rubbed off on sugar, the juice of the lemon, and enough fine sifted sugar to sweeten the cream to taste. Put to this, when well whisked, an ounce of isinglass dissolved and strained. Beat these together well, and season with noyeau, or cura^oa, if liked. Fill the shape, and when freezed, turn out and garnish according to fancy. — Ohs, This, with little variation, is the preparation called also Italian Cheese. Italian creams are in reality Lemon creams. They may be made as whipt creams, and the dish garnished with macaroons. See No. 875.471 CREAMS. 888. Ginger-Cream^ an elegant Cream.—Four ounces of preserved ginger sliced fine; three spoonfuls of the syrup ; five beat yolks of eggs, and a pint and a quarter of sweetened cream. Cook like custard,, and whisk till cold. If sugar is wanted, add the finest, then melted isinglass ; freeze the cream. It may be flavoured with a strong tincture of ginger, which is less expensive and very good, and be served in cups without isinglass. 889. Vanilla-Cream.—Vanilla in this country is some- times of bad quality. From being comparatively little used it lies long in the warehouses, and becomes musty. For a Cream, boil a pod and a half of vanilla in three pints of good milk. Let this reduce in a slow heat one-sixth, add- ing to it ten ounces of sugar, and a grain of salt. Beat the yolks of ten eggs, to which gradually add the vanilla- fiavoured milk. Set the mixture over a slow heat, stirring constantly, till, perfectly smooth, it adheres to the back of the spoon. Rub it through a fine sieve^ and when cool add an ounce and a half of melted isinglass. Rub a columnar mould—now the fashionable shape—with almond-oil or fresh butter. Fill, and set it in ice, and when wanted, turn out in the manner directed for turning out.—Nos. 885, 918. Orange-flower-water added to the mixture when thickening makes this a fine cream; and an infusion of fresh orange- flowers, when these can be got,, is still more delicate. 890. Whipt Coffee-Cream.—Infuse two ounces of coffee, so as to have a breakfastcupful of a strong tincture. AYhip a quart of sweetened cream, and lay aside the froth as it rises on a sieve reversed, to drain. Add the white of an egg if the whip does not rise well. Boil the remaining cream, and put it to the beat yolks of three or four eggs, and the clear coffee-tincture. Serve it in a glass-dish and the whip over it. N.B.—Whips will be much more easily made if the cream, where convenient, is whisked over ice, or in a very cool place. 891. Coffee-Cream.—Have a pint of clear jelly of calves' feet free of blacks and fat. Clear a large cupful of strong coffee with isinglass till bright but deeply brown. Mix it with the jelly; add a pint of good cream and fine sugar to tasteand,, after mixing well, boil up for a few minutes tillCHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. 472 you have a weak jelly. This is an easily-made and favourite nutritive cream. 892. Ratafia-Cream,—Mix a quarter-pint of ratafia or noyeau with the same quantity of white wine, sugar to taste, and the juice of a lemon and of a Seville orange. Whisk this with a pint of good cream, adding more sugar, if neces- sary, and fill the glasses. Ratafia-cream may also be made of the beat yolks of four or five eggs, with a quart of cream and two glasses of brandy, scalded together (but not boiled) over the fire. If moulded, add melted isinglass, and proceed as for other creams made in shapes. 893. A plain Cream.—Boil a pint of milk and one of cream, with two bay-leaves, a bit of lemon-peel, fine sugar to sweeten, a dozen almonds, and three bitter ones, beaten to a paste with orange-flower-water. Thicken with a little rice-flour rubbed down in milk, and give it a scald. When cold, put a little lemon-juice to the cream, and fill the glasses. A very little nutmeg or cinnamon may, or may not, be strewed over this and other creams in cups. 894. Orange-Cream^ an elegant Cream,—Wipe with a damp towel, and grate and put aside the thick coarse parts of a Seville orange rind; then pare and boil the skin till soft, changing the water. Beat this in a marble mortar, and put to it a spoonful of brandy, the juice of the orange strained, four ounces of fine sugar, and the yolks of four eggs. iBeat these ingredients thoroughly well for a quarter of an hour, and then by degrees mix with them a pint of cream that has boiled; keep beating till the whole is cold; then put it into custard-cups, and set these in a kettle of boiling water to thicken. Wipe the cups, let the cream thicken farther by cooling, and garnish with thin parings of preserved orange-chips.—Ohs. By the addition of isinglass this cream may be made in a mould. 895. Lemon-Cream. — Make as coffee-cream, but use lemon-rind instead of coffee, to give the flavour. — Ohs. Every variety of cream may Idc made in the same manner, only changing the flavour, as pistachio-cream of the nuts, chocolate and tea creams, by employing an infusion as directed in No. 891. Fresh Orange-flowers make a delicately-flavoured cream. 896. Canary or Sack Cream.—To a half-pint of creamCREAMS. 473 add a pint of sweet milk, and sweeten; put to this the beat yolk of two eggs, a bit of lemon-rind, and a glass of wine. Stir over the fire, but take care it does not curdle. Serve in glass-cups, with nutmeg grated over, and bits of toast or small light biscuits along with it. Creams or Blancmanges of Preserved or Fresh Fruits. 897. Raspberry or Strawberry Cream^ not iced,—Mash the ripe fruit, and boil down the strained juice with fine sugar. Have a strong whip prepared of sweetened cream. With what remains of the cream, mix the beat yolks of eggs, three to the pint when the juice is added ; cook this like custard, and, when cold, mix in the fruit-syrup, and serve the whip over it. — Obs, This will make equally well of preserved jellies or jams, first freeing the latter of seeds and skins by rubbing through a sieve. Or it may be made in a shape, by mixing an ounce or more of melted isinglass with a quart of cream, straining, and, when cool, mixing in the fruit-syrup, and filling the mould. It is very good made of the pulp of apples, plums, or apricots, but then changes its name; and should be sharpened with lemon-juice. 898. Pine-Apple Cream.—Infuse the rind of a pine-apple in boiling cream, and proceed as for Vanilla-cream. Head No. 874.—This cream is almost always moulded and freezed. 899. Cocoa-nut Cream,—Use a strong infusion of grated cocoa-nut to flavour the cream. N.B.—Cocoa is a favourite flavouring ingredient in the Colonies for puddings, curries, and some soups and sauces. It is thought to give the laurel-leaf flavour, and has no per- nicious quality. Cocoa-nuts are now so cheap and plentiful that they have got into common use in English cookery and bakery. 900. Bohemian Creams,—These are made of strawberries or raspberries, or of mixed small red fruits, rubbed through a sieve, sweetened and acidulated with lemon-juice, mixed with about an ounce and a half of isinglass melted in a half- pint of water to every pint of fruit-juice. Have ready whipt a pint of sweetened cream, which mix thoroughly with the fruit-juice and isinglass, then fill the wet mould, and set in the ice as directed. No. 885^.—Obs, Calves'-feet-jelly is some- times substituted for isinglass in several creams.474 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. 901. Strawberry Ice-Cream.—Mix the fruit-juice, strained and sweetened, and a squeeze of lemon in the proportions of a pound to a pint of whipt cream. If to be moulded, add a little melted and strained isinglass; if in small glasses, this is not necessary. 902. Raspberry Ice-Cream.—Make as above. 903. Apricot Ice-Cream. — Peel, stone, and pound the apricots with a little sugar. Press the mash through a sieve with a wooden spoon. Mix it with sweetened whipt cream; put a little melted isinglass to it; whip the whole over ice till it is thoroughly blended; then fill the mould, and place it in the ice-bucket.—Read No. 885. N.B.—We must again notice that the necessary quantity of isinglass to make creams hold shape can only be ascer- tained by experiment., 904. Imitation of the Red-Fruit Ice-Creams is made by tinging blancmange, etc., with beetroot, or prepared cochineal, bought from the chemists. Fruit Ice-Waters. In these, water is substituted for cream.—There is a great variety of them all made much in the same way. Spirits will at once make them into good punch. They are, in fact, the prepared sherbet. 905. Lemon Water-Ice.—Take the zest of six fresh lemons off on lumps of sugar. Add to it a half-pint of lemon-juice, and one pint of syrup. Strain and freeze.—Orange Water- Ice the same. 906. Tamarind Water-ice. — A pound of tamarinds,, a quarter pint of syrup, a little lemon-juice, a pint and quarter of water; rub through a sieve, and ice. 907. Negus Ice.—A bottle of port-wine,, half a nutmeg grated, the zest of a lemon rubbed off on sugar, a quart of water, and a pint of syrup or more to taste ;—ice. 908. Pine-Apple Water-Ice^ of Fresh or Preserved Fruit. —Take a half-pint of pine-apple syrup, the juice of three lemons, a pint of water, and a few slices of pine-apple cut in dice :—freeze. For fresh pine-apple, take a pint of syrup to a pound of grated fruit, and half a pint of water; rub through a sieve and ice.475 JELLIES. Jellies to be sent to Table in a Shape. Clarify the sugar you use, whether the jelly is boiled or worked cold; for although the main excellence of these jellies is no doubt the flavour, their most obvious qualities are colour and transparency. The former depends on the materials employed, and on the manner of preparing ; the latter, in a great measure, upon the straining of the jelly. The utensils should all be brightly clean, the moulds of metal, but of earthenware for red jellies, and the spoons of silver or wood. Unless the moulds are set in ice,, the cook will often be disappointed of an entire shape.. 909. Calves'-Feet-Jelly. — French cooks candidly allow that Calves'-Feet-Jelly is an English invention, and give us credit for it. It is, indeed, the great chief of the whole tribe of moulded jellies, and deserves both the pains and praise bestowed on it. Prepared gelatines are now extensively sold, and printed directions given for their use. They are often convenient, but good cooks disapprove, and are perhaps a little jealous of them. A first-rate female cook lately said to us, "I have a better jelly from my feet, and a nice little dish besides of the meat, for the price of the dry stuffJ^ It is best to make the plain jelly or stock—if the " dry stuff is not used—the day before the dish is wanted. Clean and slit three or four calves' feet, and boil them slowly in five quarts of water till rather more than the half is wasted. Skim the stock from fat, strain it off, measure it, have a quart, and when cold and firm, remove the top-fat and the sediment. Put this jelly-stock, when wanted, into a nice preserving-pan, with white sugar to taste, the thin rind of two lemons, and the juice of from four to six; half-bottle or less of Madeira or Sherry, the whites of six eggs well whisked, and the shells crushed and thrown into the pan. Stir this well together while cold, and set the pan on a clear fire, taking care not to agitate the jelly after it begins to heat. Let it boil slowly for from twelve to fifteen minutes, then throw in a little cold water, and let it boil another five minutes. Set the pan, with a flannel cloth thrown over it, to settle for a quarter-hour or more; skim off the head care- fully, pour the clear jelly into a flannel jelly-bag; strain it, and, if necessary, return it into the jelly-bag, till it be per- fectly pellucid. Fill the wet moulds.CHAP. y. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. 476 N.B.—If there is any doubt of the jelly not keeping shape, add a little melted isinglass to the stock, which also helps to clear the jelly.—Ohs. This jelly may be made of cow-heels, or a proportion of them; and flavoured with many things, some of them cheap substitutes for what is ordered above. Home-made noyeau^ or ginger-wine^ may be substituted for Madeira, or less wine may be used, and a little citric acid or verjuice does for part of the lemon-juice. Some very great economists even substitute porter or ale for wine, and flavour with coriander-seeds, allspice, cinnamon, and cloves. Finely- flavoured mild ale is indeed an excellent substitute, but it must not be much hopped: a stick of cinnamon is often added to the lemons. 910. Madeira-Wine-Jelly.—Make this precisely as calves'- feet-jelly, but add the Madeira wine and a glass of brandy after the jelly is clarified; and as this diminishes the strength of the jelly, a little clarified isinglass to give firmness. The philosophers of the stove allege that jellies broken, i. e. roughed^ eat better than those in shape, the admission of air (oxygen ?) heightening the flavour. What is left of a broken shape will, roughed^ fill glasses. — Ohs. Besides the prepared gelatines, jelly is now sold in bottles ; ready for melting and moulding. Set the bottle in hot water, to dissolve the con- tents, pour this into the mould, adding what wine, spirits, and flavouring ingredients are considered necessary. It is never very bright. 911. Orange-Jelly.—Take twenty oranges; divide and squeeze them, as in making orange-marmalade. Infuse the rind of six in a basin with boiling water. Clarify a pound and a quarter of sugar, and when it has reached the second degree put in the strained juice, and the strained infusion of the rind. Let it come to the point of boiling, but not boil. Skim it, and run it through a jelly-bag. If the oranges are too ripe, use a fourth-part bitter oranges, or a couple of lemons, with their rind infused. Add clarified isinglass. First try the jelly in a small mould, then fill the moulds.— Ohs. The colour should be a clear topaz; a few blades of saffron will improve it. It may need more sugar. 912. Lemon-Jelly.—Make this exactly as the above, but use more sugar. Much less fruit may do, and part of the rind may be saved, rubbed off on sugar, for other purposes.477 JELLIES. 913. Apple-Jelly.—Take as many fine-flavoured, juicy apples as you want; or if for a shape, what will yield a quart of juice. Without paring, save black or bad parts, slice, core, and throw them into spring water. The skins yield jelly and flavour, but dim the colour. Stew till the fruit is soft but not quite a pulp. Strain through a coarse cotton cloth suspended over a dish; and, if needful, strain again. Take equal weight of clear juice and sugar boiled to blowing height. Boil the jelly ten minutes, try it, and season it with lemon grate and juice. This jelly, if for preserving, should be made early in the autumn, before the apples get too mellow, but will answer on till D3cember; much depend- ing on the kinds of fruit. It must be borne in mind that, though lemon-juice greatly improves the flavour of this and other jellies, and of orange-marmalade, it is apt, when much is used, to granulate the sugar, or make the jelly muddy. Blowing height^ No. 962. 914. Peacli-Jelly.—Scald, peel, divide, and stone eighteen peaches. Break the stones, and take out the kernels. Boil the peaches and bruised kernels in clarified syrup for a quarter of an hour. Season with the juice and grate of four fresh lemons. Run it through a jelly-bag, add an ounce of clarified isinglass, and fill the mould, which must be plunged in ice. Jellies of Red Fruits in Shapes, for Dessert. Make all these with clarified isinglass, and do not boil them so long as jellies for preserving, as the colour will suffer. One direction may serve for all. 915. Raspherry-Jelly for a Shape.—Put fresh-picked fruit with a third red currants into an earthenware mortar, with pounded sugar. Mash them well. Put in a little water, run this through a jelly-bag, and stir in what you think a sufficient quantity (about an ounce to the quart) of clarified isinglass. Fill your mould.—0^5. Strawherry^ Red Currant^ and Cherry Jelly^ are all made as above:—for cherries and strawberries, add a little lemon-juice ; and also for the other fruits, if mawkishly sweet with over-ripeness. 917. Venus's Jelly.—Boil a half-pound of hartshorn-shav- ings in two quarts of water, till reduced a half. Strain, and boil up in this the thin rind of three china oranges, and478 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. three lemons. When cold, add pounded sugar to taste, the juice of the fruit, a large half pint of Sherry or Madeira, and the whisked whites of six eggs. Mix all well with enough liquid cochineal to tint a rose colour. Boil up without stirring for five minutes. Let it settle and cool; skim off the top, and run it through the jelly-bag till bright. 918. Blancmange. Eschew the reproach of English Blancmange being like shaving lather.'^ Pick, cut, and boil two ounces of isinglass for a quarter of an hour in a quart of milk or sweet cream, with the thin rind of a small lemon, sugar to taste, and a blade of mace. Blanch, split, and pound six bitter almonds, and two dozen sweet ones, with a little rose-water, or plain water, to prevent their oiling, and stir this paste gradually into the hot milk. Strain through a fine sieve into a basin, and let it settle for a good while, that the sediment may fall. Pour it again clear off from the sediment, and fill tlie moulds. It is sometimes difficult to take out, and dipping the mould in hot water destroys the fine marble-like surface. Rub the mould with a towel dipped in hot water, raise the jelly from the edges with a fruit-knife, and then use the fingers to get it out. Garnish with croutons of red jelly or flowers. 919. Blancmange as in France.—Make the stock of the jelly of calves' feet well blanched, or of white fish, as skate, or of feet of poultry. Season it with lemon-peel and cori- ander-seeds. In other respects make it as above; but use as little isinglass as possible. Our English blancmange is, in fact, just almond-cream. But we have a variety of blanc- manges which, except in the name, differ little from our creams of fresh and preserved fruits. 919^. Irish Moss makes a frugal blancmange; but it is at best a poor substitute for prepared gelatine, isinglass, or fresh jelly of calves' feet. Soak an ounce of moss twelve hours or more. Drain, and boil it in a pint and a half of milk for half an hour, with sugar and cinnamon to taste, stirring it to prevent sticking. Strain it into a mould. It is recommended for invalids and delicate persons. Trifle. 920. An elegant Trifle.—Whisk, early in the morning, or the day before you make the Trifle^ a quart of good cream,CUSTARDS. 479 with six ounces of sifted sugar, a glass of vfhite wine, the juice and fine grate of a lemon, and a few bits of cinnamon. Take off the froth as it rises, with a sugar-skimmer or silver fish-trowel, and place it to drain on a sieve reversed over a bowl. Whisk till you have enough of the whip, allowing for what it will sink. Next day place in a trifle-dish six fresh-baked sponge-biscuits sliced, or rice trifle-cake, or remnants of any good light cake cut down; a dozen ratafia drop-biscuits, and some sweet almonds blanched and split. Pour over them enough of white wine, or ginger-wine, to moisten them completely; next strew a seasoning of grated lemon-peel, and add a thin layer of raspberry or strawberry jam. Have ready a ricb and rather tbick custard, and pour it over this to the thickness of two inches. Heap the whip above this lightly and gracefully, and garnish with a few light sprigs of flowers of fine colour, or a few bits of very clear currant-jelly laid into the snow-white whip, or a sprink- ling of Harlequin-comfits. This last is considered antique, but it is still in use.—Nos. 923, 925. 920^. Tipsy-Cake.—Crumble a fresh-baked pound sponge- cake into a trifle-dish. Pour over it as much wine, with one- fourth brandy, as it will imbibe, and heap on it whipt cream seasoned as for trifle.—See Nos. 937 and 1016. 921. Gooseberry or Apple Trifle.—Scald, pulp through a sieve, sweeten, and season the fruit, if apples, with cinnamon or lemon grate ; mix it over the fire with a thin custard; put it into the trifle-dish, and, when cold, cover it with a whip made the day before, as no whip will be solid unless it has stood a good while. There need be no custard put to the fruit-pulp. When made of apples this is called Pomme Mange. Custards. 922. Custard for a centre dish.—Scottish.—Make a strong whip of sweetened cream, and have a little of the same cream tinged with liquid cochineal before it is whipt. Heap the white whip over a rich custard, No. 925, and drop the pink- coloured froth fancifully over that. Garnish with bright green and scarlet preserved fruits,—angelica and preserved cherries or barberries answer well to contrast the colours. Currant-jelly will give colour. 923. Almond-Custards.—Blanch and pound nearly a half-480 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. pound of sweet and a half-ounce of bitter almonds, using a little rose-water to prevent oiling. Sweeten a pint or rather more of boiling sweet milk and another of cream, and mix these gradually with the beat yolks of six eggs, stirring them well as they cool. Rub the almond-paste throi gh a sieve to this, and set it to thicken in a jug plunged in boiling water (a useful precaution in making any egg-thickening), carefully stirring it. Pour it into a jug, and stir till it cools. Instead of boiling, this may be baked in cups, or in a dish with a lightly cut paste-border. Flour of rice may be used instead of almonds; and the name be Rice-Custards. 924. Cheap useful Custards^ or Rice-Blancmange,—Boil rice-flour in sweetened milk, with a stick of cinnamon. Stir till thick and smooth. Add to it (off the fire) gradually the whipt whites of eggs, three to a quart. Stir again over the fire till the whole are well mixed and cooked, for about two minutes. Fill small moulds or tea-cups, which, like all moulds for cold things, as creams, jellies, etc., should be soaked in cold water, and left wet. Make a plain custard of the yolks of the eggs, and sufficient sweetened and sea- soned milk, which may be boiled and laid aside before the rice-flour is added. Turn out the rice, and place a preserved cherry, or a little red currant jelly, or any red jam on the top of each shape. Pour the custard around them. 925. Lemon-Custards.—Beat the yolks of eight eggs as well as if for a cake, till they are a strong white cream. Mix in gradually a pint of boiling cream and the grated rind and juice of two lemons. Sweeten to taste, and stir this one way over the fire till it thicken, but do not let it boil. Add a glass of wine and a spoonful of brandy when the custard is almost ready. Stir till cool. Serve in cups, and grate nutmeg over. 926. Excellent common Custards,—Boil a quart of new milk with sugar, a bit of cinnamon and lemon-peel, and a bay-leaf. Mix a spoonful of rice-flour with a little cold milk and the beat yolks of six eggs. Stir the whole gradu- ally into the boiling milk in a basin, and then let it thicken over the fire, but not boil. Pour it into a cold dish, and stir one way till cool. For bay-leaf a very little ratafia, cura^oa, or peach-water, may be put to flavour these custards. Grate nutmeg, or strew ground cinnamon lightly over the cups.481 CHEESECAKES AND SYLLABUBS. 927. Cheesecakes.—These are just various pudding or cake ingredients, more or less rich, baked in paste, covered. 9272. Good old-fashioned Cheesecakes.—Mix with the dry beat curd of a quart and a half of milk, a half-pound of cleaned currants, white sugar to taste, and also pounded cinnamon, the beat yolks of four eggs, the peel of a lemon grated off on lumps of the sugar used for sweetening, a half- pint of scalded cream, and a glass of brandy. Mix the ingredients well, and fill tartlet-pans, lined with a thin light puff-paste, nearly full. Cover, and lay thin strips of candied lemon-peel over; twenty minutes will bake them in a quick oven. They may be glazed. These, with a little nutmeg, are exactly what are known and admired at a Kichmond convivial dinner as Maids of Honour. 928. Almond-Cheesecakes.—Blanch and pound a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds and eight bitter ones, with a glass of spring or of orange-flower water. Add four ounces of sugar, a quarter-pint of cream, and the whites of two eggs beat to a froth. Mix and fill small tartlet-pans.—See Bavoury Cheesecakes^ No. 561. 929. Lemon or Orange Cheesecakes.—Grate the rinds of three lemons, and squeeze their juice over three sponge- biscuits soaked in a glass of cream. Add to this four ounces of fresh butter, four of fine sugar, and three eggs well beaten. Season with cinnamon and nutmeg. Mix the whole ingre- dients thoroughly, and bake in tartlet-pans lined with a light thin crust. Twist a few long thin slices of candied lemon- peel along the top before baking. 930. Whipt Syllabub.—Make a strong whip as directed for trifle; or in making a trifle a little of the whip may be saved, or may even be applied to this use after it has done duty on the trifle. Mix a large pint of rich sweet cream with a half-pint of sweet wine, sifted sugar to taste, the juice and fine grate of a lemon and a little cinnamon. Stir this briskly, and fill the glasses within a half-inch of the brim. With a spoon lay a little of the whip lightly on the top of each. A whip may be got by whisking the above materials, and draining the froth on a sieve. 931. Windsor Syllabub.—Pour a bottle of sherry into a deep china or glass bowl; sweeten it, and season with482 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. pounded cloves and grated nutmeg. Milk from the cow nearly double the quantity of milk over it, and stir it up. 932. Staffordshire Syllahuh.—It is made as above, substi- tuting cider, with a little brandy, for wine. 933. Somersetshire Syllabub,—Sweeten a pint of port, and another of Madeira or sherry, in a china bowl. Milk about three pints of milk over this. In a short time it will bear clouted cream laid over it. Grate nutmeg over this, or strew a few coloured comfits on the top, if you choose. 934. Curds and Cream^ Scottish. — When the milk is firmly curdled, fill up a melon or Turk's-cap shape, per- forated to let the whey drain off. Fill up the shape as the curd sinks. Turn it out when wanted in a glass dish, and serve with sweetened cream; or a whip may be poured over the curd, which may be made firm either by squeezing or standing to drain; or, having drained the curd well, rub through a sieve, and pour cream over it. Garnish with bits of red currant jelly or preserved barberries. 935. Clouted Cream.—Season a quarter-pint of new milk with two blades of mace, and put to it a large glass of rose- water. Strain and add to this the beat yolks of two eggs. Stir the mixture into a quart of rich cream, and let it scald, stirring it all the while. The rose-water may be omitted when this is to be eaten with fruit. 9352. Devonshire Clouted Cr^am.— Scald new milk. Col- lect the top as it thickens or clouts, 936. An Egg-cheese or Curd-star.—BoW and season with cinnamon and lemon-peel a quart of milk or cream, and put to it eight eggs well beat, and a very little salt. Sweeten and season with orange-flower-water, wine, or any seasoning that is preferred. Stir and let this boil till it curdles, and till the whey is completely separated ; then drain it through a sieve, and put it into a star-mould or other shape, that has holes to let the whey drain wholly off. When firm, turn it out, and serve with cream, custard, or wine and sugar, along with, or around it. 937. Wassail'boid^ a centre Supper Dish for Christmas- tide.—Cvvimhle down as for trifle a fresh rice-cake (or use macaroons or other small biscuit) into a china punch-bowl or deep glass dish. Over this pour some sweet, rich wine,483 WASSAIL-BOWL. as Malmsey Madeira, if wanted very ricli, but raisin-wine will do. Sweeten this, and pour a high-seasoned rich cus- tard over it. Strew nutmeg and grated sugar lightly over it, and ornament it with sliced blanched almonds.— This is, in fact, just a rich eating posset, or the more modem Tipsy- Cake; or, except that it is not moulded, essentially the same in ingredients, save eggs, as a Charlotte Russe or Prussienne^ No. 874^. A very good wassail-bowl may be made with mild ale, well spiced or sweetened, and a plain custard made with few eggs. The wassail-bowl was an- ciently crowned with garlands and ribbons, and ushered in with carols and songs,—a custom worthy of revival. 938. Devonshire Junket—Wi^k the cow into a bowl in which a very little rennet is put. Stir it up when full; and when firm pour over it scalded cream, and strew pounded sugar and cinnamon. Sweet Dislies of Apples, etc. 939. Gooseberry-fool.—Put the picked fruit and a glass of water into a jar with a little moist sugar, and set the jar over a stove, or in boiling water, till the fruit will pulp. Press it through a colander, and mix the pulp by degrees with cream or with common plain custard. 940. Apples J General Receipt.—With taste and invention the cook may contrive an endless variety of apple-dishes. We give the general rules.—Have firm kinds, if to cut, that will look clear and white when stewed. Cut them as corks, balls, circles, or bricks, and make a marmalade with the trimmings and more apples. Sweeten to taste. Lemons or oranges, and cinnamon are the favourite seasonings; a little quince may be added to sharpen, and a little cider, or white wine to these. Bury the cut pieces in equal their weight of sugar, with lemon or orange peel, for some hours or a night, and prepare the marmalade. Stew the cut pieces, lifting them carefully as they get ready, and arranging them on the dish. If bricks^ as cross-piles; if corks^ pyramidically, circles in pyramids, as the several pieces may be. Whole apples shaped as a hedgehog and bristled with sliced almonds, is a French apple-dish. Fill the interstices, and cover all bare places with the marmalade. Glaze the whole with two whites of eggs, whipt with pounded sugar, and set in theCHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. 484 oven to become a pale amber. For plain dishes, a few thin straws of lemon or orange peel will be sufficient decoration. Cream is appropriate to nearly all apple-dishes, and next best is custard. 941. Buttered Apples.—Pare and core pippins or rennets, or any good apples. Stew in thin syrup as many as will fill your dish, lift, and make a marmalade, flavoured with lemon, of the rest. Cover the dish with a thin layer of the marmalade. Place the apples on this, with a bit of butter in the heart of each. Lay the rest of the marmalade or apricot-jam into the vacancies. Glaze with sifted sugar, and give a fine colour in the oven. This is nearly a compote in the French style—and a good style it is—or exactly their Fommes au heiirre. 942. Apples in Rice.—Prepare apples as above ; but in- stead of apple-marmalade use sweetened, seasoned and but- tered rice. Glaze and brown as above, or with a salamander. 943. To hake Apples or Pears.—Pare, core, and, if large, divide them. Bake them in a stoneware dish with sugar, bruised cloves, a little sweet wine, and grated lemon-peel. The oven should be rather slow.—See Nos. 710^, 984. 944. To stew Winter Pears. — Prepare and season as above, and pack them in a nice saucepan with a little water or wine. Cover them close, and let them stew very slowly till done.—See Nos. 708, 984-86. 945. Black Caps.—Pare, divide, and core some large firm, but juicy apples. Bake them with white sugar. Serve with a sauce of wine and a little water, and sugar, seasoned with cloves and cinnamon.—Ohs. Genuine Hack caps are neither pared nor divided; they are merely cored, the holes stuffed with sugar and seasonings, and the apples stewed very slowly in sweet wine in a close-covered tin pan. The tops are then blackened with a salamander, which gives the name.—See Nos. 707 to 710. 946. Chartreuse de Pommes^—Beauvilliers' Receipt.— ^^Take a score of rennets; peel them, and with a very small corer take off all the pulp about the heart ,* when there is enough cored to fill the Chartreuse mould, mince the rest of the apples to make a marmalade ; equalize all the little apples, or pieces that have been cut out with the apple- corer : make a little saffron-water; put a little sugar to it j485 DRESSED PEACHES. throw in a third of the small apples; give them a slight boil, take them off, and drain; do another third in cochineal, and the last in a syrup of white sugar, with an equal quan- tity of angelica as of the apples ; line the mould with white paper; make any design in the bottom with the red, green, yellow, and white apples ; fix them tastefully all round the mould to the top, and fill it up with marmalade; it ought to be firm and without any void.'^—Ohs, At grand dinners, dressed in the French style, roots are often cut in forms, and served in the above way. 947. Dressed Peaches.—Choose and wipe six very fine peaches. Simmer them for from six to eight minutes in a syrup made of five ounces of pounded sugar and a half-pint of water. Let them soak, covered, in the half of this, and with the other half, and what more fine pounded sugar is necessary, make a smooth thick marmalade either of ripe peaches or apricots, nectarines, or of best white apples. Have of this at least a pound and a quarter; place a layer of it in a glass dish :—Next pare, divide, and arrange the twelve half peaches handsomely on this, and place more marmalade to fill up the interstices. Boil rapidly down, adding lemon- juice, tlie syrup in which the peaches were soaked, and pour it over them. Border the dish either with small macaroons, or candied citron in thin straws if you prefer. The peaches may be scalded, peeled, and divided at first; but will keep shape better if treated as above directed. A marmalade of fine-flavoured white apples is by many preferred to one of peaches. Sweet Dislies of Eice; and Flummery. 948. Snow-halls. — Swell a half-pound of rice in water, with a roll of lemon-peel, till tender, and drain it. Divide it into five parts, and roll a pared small apple cored, and the hole filled with sugar and cinnamon, into each heap, tying each up tightly in separate cloths. Boil for an hour, untie carefully, and serve with pudding-sauce, No. 306. 949. Buttered i?/ce.—Swell the rice till tender in new milk. Pour ofi" the thick milk, and add melted butter, sugar, and cinnamon. Serve hot. 950. Oatmeal-Flummery.—Put finely-ground oatmeal to steep in water for three days. Pour off the thin of the first water, and add more water. Stir up, strain, and boil thisCHAP. V. OKNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. 486 with a little salt till smooth and of the thickness wanted, adding water at first, if it be in danger of getting too stiff. A piece of butter is an improvement, and a little white sugar. Serve in a basin with milk, wine, cider, or cream. —Ohs. This, if allowed to become more sour, is neither more nor less than Scotch Sowens, and an excellent dish it is.—See Cookery for Invalids^ No. 1114^. 951. Rice-Flummery.—Mix a couple of spoonfuls of rice- flour with a little cold milk, and add to it a large pint of boiled milk sweetened and seasoned with cinnamon and lemon-peel. Two bitter almonds pounded will heighten the flavour. Boil this, stirring it constantly, and when of proper consistence, pour it into a mould or basin. When cold, turn it out, and serve with cream or thin custard round it, or with a sauce of wine, sugar, and lemon-juice.— This differs in nothing from rice blancmange^ except that rice-flour is used instead of unground rice. 952. Dutch Flummery^ or Yellow Flummery^ the French Jaune Mange, may be made as directed for blancmange, using well-beat yolks of eggs instead of cream. Colour with saffron. 954. Mille Feuilles, Italian Pyramid, Putt d^Amour.— This is the self-same thing, with different names. A good puff-paste, rather thick, must be stamped out with tin stamps, or any ingenious substitutes, into a number of pieces, each less than the other, the base being of the size of the plate on which the pyramid is to be raised, and the others gradually tapering. Bake separately the pieces of paste on paper laid on tins, and ice them. Pile them up, laying raspberry and other jams of different colours on the ledges, and a bunch of small preserved fruit or some suitable ornament to crown the pile. 955. Another way, from Beauvilliers.—^Take puff-paste, and roll it out as above; cut it with figured paste-cutters of different sizes; cut them equal in number, the large and small; put the large upon a baking-tin; wet with water, and put a small one on each large one; with the point of a knife cut them out in the middle the size of a thimble; put them into the oven, and, when nearly done, powder them with sugar; take out the cut middle [leaving a bottom, of course], replace it with sweetmeats, and serve.SWEET SOUFFLlfis. 487 Sweet Soulfles. These favourite and fashionable preparations too often fail in the hands of ordinary cooks — or of one cook, with per- haps a temporary assistant, and distracted with a hundred cares. For souffles, there should properly be a soufide-dish that will stand the oven, and a finer one into which it fits to go to table. The light and airy appearance of souffles depends greatly on the whisking of the eggs, but as much on the baking. Besides, they must be served instantly, or they will flatten. There is often no help for this, and the consolation remains, that what is not a light delicate souffle is nevertheless a very tolerable pudding. 956. Souffle of Ground Rice.—Blanch two spoonfuls of rice-flour, and dry., it. Boil it slowly with a half-pint of sweet milk. Put gradually to it in a basin the beat yolks of four eggs, and mix well. Sweeten this, and thicken the mixture for a few minutes over the fire, as in making custard. Cool this, and gently pour into it the whites of six eggs, beaten to a snow. (If they are not well beaten, the souffle will never rise.) Put the whole into a souffle-dish, and instantly bake in a rather slack oven. It will take from a half-hour to forty minutes. Much depends upon the state of the oven. Brown with a salamander, and serve without delay. 957. Souffle of Potato-Flour,—Mix a large spoonful of potato-flour and one of sifted sugar with as much boiled milk or cream as will make a thick batter of them, or rather a soft paste. Flavour this with rose-water, orange-flower- water, coffee, or chocolate, as you please, but name the souflle accordingly. Work into this the beat yolks of six eggs, and afterwards gently add the whites, beaten to a snow. Bake the souflle, and glaze it if you please. This dish is susceptible of many forms; it may be coloured with saffron. The whipping of the eggs, the state of the oven, and quick serving are the main points* 958. Omelette Souffle.—Beat separately, and strain the whites and yolks of six eggs. Sweeten the yolks, and flavour with orange-flower-water or lemon-peel. Beat the whites again to a strong whip, and stir this lightly into the yolks. Have a bit of fresh butter melted in an omelet-pan,488 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. and pour in the mixture. Cook it over a slow fire not to scorch. Turn it carefully out. Dredge fine sifted sugar over it, and set it in the oven to rise.— Ohs, Souffies may be flavoured in many ways.—Ratafia-cake pounded, or pounded almonds, may be added to their mixtures.— See No. 572. 959. Souffle of Apples in a Bice-border,—Prepare the rice as for Gateau de Biz, No. 1013, but keep it thicker by using less milk. Raise the border three inches round your dish, egging the edge to make it adhere. Make it smooth and of a neat form. Mix with fresh apple-jam, very sweet, the beat yolks of six eggs and two ounces of butter. Stir this over the fire to cook the eggs. To this put the whites of eight or ten eggs whisked to a snow. Mix gently. Fill the dish, and bake in a moderate oven till the souffle rises light. Serve instantly.—See Nos. 577, 1002. Observations on Sweetmeats and Preserves. To preserve the fruits that are in common use, and to make those sweetmeats which are oftenest wanted in private families, is justly considered a point of good housewifery; for common preserves may be both cheaper and more nicely made at home than where they are manufactured wholesale for the market. Besides, many families have gardens. A little observation and practice will soon give the cook or mistress of a family sufTicient skill to prepare the sugar for these things;—attention and cleanliness do the rest. The sugar for preserves ought, generally speaking, to be of the first quality. It ought also to be in sufficient quantity, for it is shortsighted economy to make paltry savings, at the risk of injuring commodities which are costly, however they may be managed. Never squeeze fruit too much; or take merely the juice that flows freely; and use what remains for made-wine, plain jams, or children's black butter, No. 979. Unless preserves are bright, and of a fine colour, they lose half their value; and this they never will be if the fruit is squeezed till the skins and seeds are broken. Let sieves be dipt in, and jelly-bags wrung out of hot water before using them, or they will absorb a great quantity of the jelly. Sweetmeats are usually kept in small pots of earthenware, stoneware, or glass, with papers steeped in brandy put over them as soon as they are cold, and a layer of sugar sifted either above or below these papers, or both.SWEETMEATS AND PRESERVES. 489 Tinfoil, bladder, corks and rosin. India-rubber capsules, are each employed; but for ordinary family purposes we have found no method so neat and convenient as the following :— Shape papers the size of the pots or jars, but leaving them an inch and half larger, that they may tie and overlap the ledges. Brush these papers inside till thoroughly saturated, with beat white of egg: tie on while still moist. They will dry and collapse like bladder. Nothing, however, can more thoroughly exclude the air than bladder over corks, or double bladder. For preserving raw fresh fruits that are merely scalded, good corks dipt in bottle-rosin is effectual; and for preserved stone-fruit, melted suet, a thick layer, is sometimes poured over the paper. Presses lined with wood, shelves, pantry-drawers, or any place that is perfectly dry, and not too warm, are best for keeping preserves. Brass pans, scoured till brightly clean,* are still much used for making preserves ; but a vessel of double block-tin, or of iron very thickly tinned, or better enamelled, if kept for jellies and sweet things, answers very well, and is safer, particularly for the coarser jams, which, being generally made with a short allowance of sugar, require long boiling. Sweetmeats are best when quickly boiled,-j- that the watery parts may be driven off without a process continued so long as to injure the colour and flavour of the fruit. The shade of colour may be varied in many ways by using white currants to lighten, or black to deepen the colour, or by white or red raspberry-juice. Currant jellies may be made without boiling at all, by merely stirring the sugar finely beaten and sifted into the juice of the fruits, or what is termed worlced-cold» But though the flavour is preserved, they look muddy and eat harshly. It is necessary to have sieves, spoons with holes, and pans of different sizes, kept wholly for preserves and sweet dishes, as the least taint of other things will injure these delicate preparations. Sweetmeats and preserved fruits should not be papered for a day or two, and ought to be looked at several times during the first months; and if mouldiness gather on them, jellies and jams, and the syrup of preserves must be boiled over again, till the watery * Care about the vessels is particularly requisite, where it is usual, as in many English kitchens, to boil the fruit-juice very long before the sugar or syrap is added. f This, we believe, is a culinary heresy, but we avouch it. X 2490 CHAP, v.—-ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. particles are wholly evaporated. Strong glass vessels keep preserves well, and, now that glass is so cheap, are cheaper in the end than earthenware ones.—Ohs. The great art in preserving stone-fruits is to avoid having the syrup too rich at first, which would inevitably shrivel them, particularly if they be boiled in it, or have it poured too hot over them. Of Boiling Sugars for Preserves. Confectioners reckon several degrees in preparing sugar, from simple clarified syrup up to caramel. The Saccharo- meter is as useful to the confectioner and cook as to the brewer. 960. To Clarify Sugar.—To every pound of broken sugar of the best quality take a quarter-pint of water, with the half of the white of an egg beat up in it, or less egg will do. Stir this till the sugar dissolves, and when it boils, and the scum rises strong and thick, pour in another quarter-pint of cold water to each pound. Let it boil, edging the pan forward from the stove till all the scum is thrown forward. Set it on the hearth, and when it is settled, take off the scum with a sugar-skimmer, upon a reversed sieve laid over a dish, that what syrup is in it may run clear from it. Return the syrup dropt through the sieve into the pan, and boil and skim the whole once more.—French artistes allege that the new processes of sugar-refining give an inferior quality of sugar. 961. Candied Sugar^ first degree.—Boil sugar, clarified as above, till in boiling it rises in the pan like clusters of pearls; or try between the finger and thumb if it have tenuity enough to draw out into a brittle thread. 962. Blown Sugar^ second degree.—Boil candied sugar till, on dipping the skimmer into the syrup, and blowing strongly through the holes of it, the sugar forms into bubbles. 963. Feathered Height^ third degree.—Boil sugar of the second degree for some time longer, and dip the skimmer in the pan; shake off the blown sugar, and give the skimmer a quick toss, when, if enough done, the sugar will fly off like snow-flakes or downs. 964. Crachlijig Sugar ^fourth degree.—TjoW feathered sugar till, on dipping a stick into the pan, and dipping it imme- diately in cold water, the sugar will instantly become hard.CARAMEL SUGAR FRUIT-JELLIES. 491 965. Caramel Sugar. — Boil craclding sugar till, on dip- ping a stick into it, and tlien into cold water, it hardens and snaps like glass.—Ohs. Tiiis last makes a very elegant cover for sweatmeats, when prepared thus: — Set the pan with the caramel sugar instantly into a vessel of cold water. Have the caramel-moulds oiled with almond-oil, and with a fork spread fine threads of the caramelled sugar over them in form of net-work or chain-work. This, however, we own, is easier said than done. The caramelled cover will last for many occasions if carefully handled. All sorts of fruit may be caramelled^ whether fresh or preserved. They must be washed free of sugar, if preserved, and dried in both cases. The process is, however, troublesome, and seldom succeeds but under the hands of thorough-bred confectioners, to whom, in general, all highly-ornamental affairs should, we think, be left. On all ordinary occasions we recommend highly-crys- tallized sugar for marmalades and jellies. Fruit-Jellies. See also page 475. 966. Red Currant Jelly. — Let the fruit be good of its kind, fully ripe, and gathered on and after a dry day. Strip it off the stalks; weigh it, and clarify and boil to the second degree an equal weight of refined sugar. Put the fruit to this in the preserving-pan ; boil and skim for fifteen minutes. Skim again, and run the jelly through a hair-sieve; but do not run it off too much; pot it, and when cold paper it with egged papers, as directed at p. 488. What remains in the sieve will make nursery pies, or mix with any common jam, and the jelly will be far more delicate from avoiding all squeezing. — Ohs. A small proportion of raspberries greatly improves the flavour of this jelly. It may be made paler by the mixture of a fourth or third part of white currants; or white raspberries may be used. Currant jelly may be made with much less boiling, or no boiling, for it may be worked- cold, as it is technically termed; but though this method is suitable for jellies made to serve in shapes,—for immediate nse in desserts, or for venison or roast-mutton sauce,—it does not, by our experience, answer well for keeping. 967. White Currant Jell?/. — Make as above, or better, heat the fruit in a jar set in boiling water, and strain off the492 CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. juice. Use a silver skimmer and the finest sugar, and boil only five minutes, or till all scum is removed, as the delicate colour of this sweetmeat is very easily injured. Run it twice through the jelly-bag, if necessary. N.B.—Have the sugar previously boiled to the second degree. 968. Blade Currant Jelly.—Pick the fruit, and scald it in a jar set in boiling water. Strain the hot fruit through a sieve. To every pint of the juice allow a pound of sugar and a quarter-pint of water, and boil and skim for twenty minutes. 969. Another good easy way.—^Clarify the sugar, and put the picked fruit to it. Let it boil for twenty minutes : run off some of the jelly through a sieve, and keep the rest as a jam for common tarts or dumplings, etc. If for sore throats, a little spermaceti may be added to it, or for invalids, a little calf s-feet jelly. 970. Gooseberry and Cranberry Jellies.—Clarify an equal weight of sugar with that of the fruit. Boil the fruit and sugar for twenty minutes, and run the jelly through a sieve, allowing a little to remain a thick jam, which may be sea- soned with spices and used for dumplings and children's pies.—Obs, Where cranberries are gathered in this country, old-fashioned good housewives put cinnamon to those they preserve for tarts. Cloves or mace would be as suitable.—• See No. 811, and Cranberry-Gruel., No. 1145. 971. Raspberry-J am.—Take three parts of picked finest raspberries and one of red currant juice, with equal weight of sugar. Put on half the sugar with a little water; skim this and add the fruit. Boil for fifteen minutes, add the other half of the sugar, and boil for another five minutes, and, when cold, pot the jam. This and all other jams may be made with less sugar, if they are longer boiled: but both colour and quality will sufier in the process. Less boiling will serve if the sugar is previously high-boiled. 972. Strawberry-J am,—Gather fine scarlet strawberries, quite ripe. Bruise them slightly, and put about a sixth- part of red currant juice to them: take nearly equal weight of sugar, pounded, and strew it over them in the preserving- pan ; or better, let them lie thus for some hours, or a nig^t; then boil quickly for fifteen minutes; pot, and next day cover with brandied or egged papers.—See No. 995. 973. Gooseberry and Black Currant Jam.—Take equalJAM AND MARMALADE. 493 weight of pounded lump-sugar and picked fruit; strew the sugar over the fruit in the preserving-pan, and put a little water into it. Let it soak; then boil and skim it; lift a little of the juice and fruit when the fruit has boiled for about twelve minutes, and set it to cool on a plate. If the juice runs off, the jam must be boiled longer; if it jellies, though slightly, it is enough. This is a test for all jellies.— Ohs, To get rid of some of the seeds of the hairy red goose- berry, take up the syrup, as it boils, with a gravy-spoon, and run it back through a small sieve into the pan. Another:— 973^. The EtUnck-Jam.—Take rather under-ripe white or sulphur-coloured gooseberries ; top and tail them ; make the jam as above, and flavour with fresh lemon-peel, finely grated, and lemon-juice to taste. This is a jam for tarts and pud- dings, little inferior to apricot-jam. Our rationale of under- ripe fruit for jams is, that the skins and seeds are more delicate than when the fruit has fully ripened. 974. Apricot and Plum Jam or Marmalade. — Stone and skin the fruit; scald it with a little vfater in an earthenware or stone vessel; rub it through a coarse sieve, or mash it in a bowl. Take equal weight of pulp and pounded loaf-sugar, and boil the jam for fifteen minutes, stirring and skimming it. The bruised kernels of the fruit, or a few bitter almonds, blanched and bruised, may be put in to flavour the jam. Peachy Nectarine J Greengage^ and Quince jam, for puddings and tarts, are made in the same manner.—Ohs. Jams should be quickly boiled to retain a good colour, and care must be taken, by stirring, that the thicker sorts do not stick to the pan, which should always be placed aslant, or on a trivet.— See No. 988. 975. Scotch Orange-Chip Marmalade.—Take equal weight of fine loaf-sugar and Seville oranges. Wipe and grate the oranges, but not too much. [The outer grate boiled up with sugar will make an excellent conserve for common rice or hatter puddings.'] Cut the oranges the cross way, and squeeze out the juice through a small sieve. Scrape off the white from the inner skins, and pick from them the seeds and films. Boil the skins till quite tender, changing the water to take off part of the bitter. When cool, again scrape the coarse, white, and filmy part from the skins, and, truss- ing three or four skins together for despatch, cut them intoCHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. 494 very narrow chips. Clarify tlie sugar, put the chips, pulp, and juice to it. Add, when nearly boiled for a half-hour, the juice and grate of two lemons for every dozen of oranges. Pot, and cover when cold. If the complexion is considered more important than the quality, use only the lemon-peel, as the lemon-juice is apt to granulate the sugar, and make the whole muddy.—Ohs. There are various ways of making this favourite marmalade.- The half of the boiled skins may be pounded before they are mixed; and if the chips look too numerous, part of them may be withheld for pudding-season- ing. The orange-grate, if a strong flavour is wanted, may either be added in substance, or infused, and the tincture strained and added to the marmalade when boiling. Where marmalade is made in large quantities to sell or for exporta- tion, the various articles are prepared and put at once into a thin syrup, boiled for from four to six hours, and potted in large jars. Orange-marmalade may be thinned with apple- jelly, or, when used at breakfast or tea, it may be liquefied extempore with a little tea. It keeps best in large quantities. 976. Scotch Marmalade^ the best, simplest, and most eco- nomical vjay.—Take equal weight of Seville oranges, and either crystallized or refined sugar. Wipe the oranges very clean. Rasp off the outer rind, putting the grate into a little water to prevent it sticking into a mass. Cut the fruit in quarters, picking out the seeds. Throw it into the brass pan with plenty of water, adding more as it wastes; so as to keep the oranges always well covered. Stir as necessary, and boil for three and a half or four hours. Then run the contents through a jelly-bag, and to each English pint of liquid take a pound of sugar. Throw in the grate, with a little lemon-juice (at pleasure). Give the whole a rapid boil of from twenty-five to thirty minutes. A little less or more sugar may be used, but the above is a fair average. 977. Transparent Orange-Marmalade.—Use the juice and pulp of the fruit only. Wash the pulp in a very little water, and strain this water to the juice. Take a pound and a half of refined sugar to the pint of juice, and boil it to the second degree. Put the juice to the syrup, and boil and skim well for twelve minutes.— Obs, Use the skins for can- died orange-peel. No. 1001. Lemon-marmalade may be made as above.495 PRESERVING BOTTLED FRUITS. 978. Apple-Marmalade.—Pare and core tlie apples. Set them in a slow oven all night. Next day boil them, sweet- ened, and seasoned with lemon-peel, cinnamon, etc., accord- ing to taste.—See No. 974. 979. Black Butter^ a Nursery Preserve.—Pick currants, gooseberries, strawberries, or whatever fruit you have: to every two pounds of fruit put one of sugar, and boil till a good deal reduced. 980. To Preserve Damsons for Pies.—Have equal to the weight of the stoned fruit of pounded sugar. Boil any of the broken damsons in this; and then add the whole quan- tity, and boil till it jellies. They may be skinned or not. Pot the compote^ and keep in a dry place.—See No. 989. 981. Four-Fruits Jam^ excelle?it.—Have three parts, in equal quantity, of picked black currants, stoned small black cherries, and red raspberries, and for every pint have a half- pint of red-currant juice. Boil as other jams, using equal weight of sugar and weighed juice. 982. Cheap Method of preserving Fruit for Puddings.— Pare apples, pears, plums; or pick whatever sort of small fruit you have, and place it in a stone jar, with as much good moist sugar as will sweeten it. Bake in a slow oven till done. This will eat with rice or with bread, make small pasties and roly-polies, i. e> rolled puddings. 983. General Receipts for preserviyig bottled Fruits.—Gather small or stone-fruit when quite dry and rather under-ripe. Lay aside all that is over-ripe or bruised. Drop the fruit, whatever kind, as currants, raspberries, plums, Morella- cherries, etc., etc., into the wide-mouthed bottles used for this purpose. Make it compact: cork up, having given each quart bottle two ounces of pounded sugar. Place them in a copper of cold water up to the neck, and with thin whisps of hay under and around to prevent collision. Light the fire, previously laid under the copper, and in from fifteen to twenty-five minutes the juices wilf have flowed out and covered the fruit. Slacken the fire instantly ; the object being to preserve the fruit as fresh as possible, not to extract its juices. Make the corks firm; dip them in bottle-rosin, and turn the bottles head downmost in sand in a cool, dry place. 983^. Thinnings of Apricots^ Greengages^ or Plums.—WhenCHAP. V.—OrvNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. 496 the swelling fruit overcrowds the branches, it may be picked off for tarts and puddings, and preserved as above, first pricking with a needle, and then boiling in a syrup, of one pound of sugar to the quart of water, for seven or eight minutes. Soak for three days in this. Boil up again, and, when cold, bottle and treat as in last receipt. Eeceipts for Beautiful Preserves and Compotes for Desserts, etc., etc. 984. Jargonelle Pears.—Take large, finely-shaped pears, and pare them very smoothly though thinly. Simmer them in a thin syrup, and let them soak, covered in this syrup in a tureen or basin, for a day or two. See that they are covered with the syrup. Drain off the syrup, and put more sugar to it. Clarify it, and simmer the pears in it till they look transparent. Take them up, and pour the syrup over them. About a fourth more sugar than the weight of the fruit is the requisite quantity in all.—Ols. The syrup should be seasoned with the juice of lemons. The pears may either be served dry by drying them in the sun, or in a slow oven when wanted; or in the syrup, which is better and more economical, as the fruit that is not used can be potted up afresh. If the seeds of this and of all preserved fruits are picked out, which may be done by an opening at both ends that will allow an ivory bodkin to be introduced, they will keep better. Large, finely-shaped pears of any kind done in this way, and iced white, as directed No. 1006, look exceedingly well. Pears are preserved red, by putting pre- pared cochineal into the syrup, or pouring melted red goose- berry or currant jelly over them.—See French Compotes, Nos. 707 to 711. 985. Preserved Apples, or en Compote,—Clarify fine sugar, and boil nicely-pared and cored pippins in it, with a little lemon-juice and lemon-rind. Serve in a glass or china dish, with the syrup, and garnish with bunches of preserved bar- berries, or sprigs of myrtle.—See No. 941. 986. Red Apples, served in jelly, are made nearly as above. Pare and core the most beautiful pippins you can get, but leave an inch of the stalks. Throw them into a pan of water to keep the colour good; boil them in a very little water, with which cochineal is mixed. When done, dishPRESERVED FRUIT. 497 tliem heads downmost, and put pounded sugar to the red water, with the rind of a lemon, and boil till it jellies. Strain it, and, when clear and cold, scoop it up neatly with a teaspoon, and lay it among the apples in heaps, like roughed calfs-feet jelly. Garnish with sprigs of myrtle, rings of lemond-rind, etc. Melted isinglass may be added, if the jelly is too weak. 987. Oranges in Sugar^ a pretty little Dish,—Peel four or five oranges: carefully remove all the scurf and thready parts. Cut them in round slices, take out seeds, and dress them in a small glass dish in hot syrup. Garnish with sprigs of myrtle. 988. To Presei^ve Apricots.—Always choose the finest fruit for preserving. Stone and pare the apricots, keeping them as entire as possible. Take above their own weight of pounded sugar, and strew it over them for a night, laying the slit part upmost to keep in the juices of the fruit. Break the stones, and blanch what are good of the kernels. Sim- mer gently, till the fruit looks transparent. Add the ker- nels ; skim carefully, and lift out the fruit into pots, pour the syrup and kernels over them, and paper when cold : —Or they may be preserved in apple-jelly; or greened, by putting a bit of alum into the water in which they are alternately scalded and cooled, till they take the desired colour. We do not recommend this. Peaches and green- gages are i^vQsevyed. as above.—Obs. Sugar for preserved fruit must be boiled to the second or third degree. The fruits should be looked at for the first month, and, if needful, the syrup may be boiled up, allowed to cool, and again poured over them.—See No. 974. 989. Magnum Bonum and other fine Plums.—Do them as directed for apricots, and be sure that the syrup is well clarified and well skimmed, and that the first simmering is slow and short, or else, instead of looking clear and plump, the fruit will shrink and shrivel in spite of whatever may be afterwards done to plump it.— Ohs. The Imperatrice and the Winesour are among the finest preserving plums. 990. To Preserve Bed Gooseberries.—Clip ofi" the top of each berry, and take weight for weight of fruit and sugar. Clarify the sugar, and put the fruit to it, having made a slit with a needle in each berry, to let the sugar penetrate the498 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. fruit. Skim well, and when the skins look very transpa- rent, take up the fruit with a sugar-skimmer into glasses or pots. Boil the syrup till it will jelly (if the fruit were boiled as long it would become leathery), strain it through a fine sieve, and pour it on the berries. This is a cheap and beautiful preserve, either served as a tart with a croquante cover, or in a glass dish. Green Gascoignes may be done in the same manner, first greening them, as directed for pickles, with alum and vine or cabbage leaves, though this at best is, we confess, a suspicious process. Every seed must be picked out of those green gooseberries with a needle, or they will neither look nor keep nearly so well.—See No. 973^. 991. To Preserve Cherries.—Take a fourth more of sugar than of Morella-cherries. Cut the stalks; take out the stones with a silver bodkin or needle as gently as possible; or, if this be too troublesome, merely prick the fruit with a needle. Clarify the sugar, and put to it a half-pint of red or white currant-jelly for every two pounds; and when this has boiled for five minutes, put in the cherries, and let them simmer till they look bright. 992. Dried Cherries.—Take out the stones, and give the cherries a simmer in this syrup. Let them remain in this for a day, and scald them again and again, making the syrup gradually richer with more sugar. When they look bright and plump, pot them up in the syrup; and when wanted, drain and dry them on a stove or wire sieve, or in a very cool oven. Cherries., peaches^ apricots., etc.., may be preserved in brandy with great ease. Prick them with a needle, and drop them into wide-necked bottles, with some fine sugar. Fill up with brandy, and cork and place the bottles in a hot- water bath or cool oven for some hours.—See Widow Bar- nahi/s Cherries^ No. 1088. 993. Cherries en Chemisej a pretty little Dish.—Take the largest ripe cherries you can get. Cut off the stalks with scissors, leaving about an inch to each cherry. Beat the white of an egg to a froth, and roll them in it one by one, and then roll them lightly in sifted sugar. Lay a sheet of paper on a sieve reversed, and, placing them on this, set them on a stove till they are to be served.—Ohs. Tlie same may be done with bunches of currants, strawberries, hautboys, etc. Fruits en chemise look well and cost little.—^^See No. 707.409 PRESERVED FRUIT. 994. Cucumbers, a beautiful Preserve.—Lay finely-sliapecl cucumbers in a weak pickle of salt and water for two days, and then for the same length of time in fresh water, chang- ing it twice. Green them as directed for pickles, No. 370, and strew a bit of alum over them to assist the process. When alternately scalded and cooled till they look of a fine green, boil them for a few minutes in water with fresh vine or cabbage leaves above and below them, and, when cool, cut a bit out of the flat side, and scrape out the seeds and pulp. Dry the cucumbers gently in a cloth, and put into the inside of each a seasoning of bruised cloves, sliced ginger, thin lemon-rind, mace, and a few white peppercorns. Tie in the ■bit cut out with narrow tape. To every pound of fruit have ready clarified a pound of sugar, and, when cold, pour it over them. Press them down with a plate on which a weight is placed, that they may be covered; and, when they have soaked two days, boil up the syrup, adding one-half more of clarified sugar to it. Repeat the soaking of the fruit, and boiling up of the syrup three times during a fort- night ; and, last of all, add to it the juice and fine grate of two lemons for every six cucumbers, and, boiling them in it for ten minutes, pot them up. They may be preserved by a more simple process, by cutting them in quarters, but look best when done whole and served in a glass dish, with a little of the clear syr.ip round them. A little pine-apple rum put to the syrup gives an imitation of West India sweetmeats. Small Melons are well preserved in the above manner. 995. To Preserve Strawberries,—Sprinkle sifted fine sugar equal to half their own weight, over the finest large fruit not over ripe. When they have lain in this for a night, take as much sugar again; or, in all, equal weight to the fruit, and with currant-juice make it into a thin syrup, and simmer the fruit in this till the juice will jelly. Serve either iced, or in a glass dish. 996. To Preserve Carved Oranges whole,—Choose large well-shaped and well-coloured China oranges. Rub them hard with a towel; and then, with a sharp penknife, or the knife made for this purpose, carve the rind in deeply in- dented leaves, or in groups of dancing-nymphs, etc., according to fancy (to do this well the thing must be seen). Boil them, thus carved, in plenty of spring-water, and when quite soft500 CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. take them up and drain. Cut a piece out of the top with a sharp knife, and with a mustardspoon scoop out all the pulp, seeds, and films. Boil them filled with and floated in clarified syrup for forty minutes. In four days repeat the boiling for twenty minutes. Do this four times. Last of all boil the syrup candy-high, adding more syrup, and keep the oranges well covered with it. If the colour fall, boil them up, and add fresh syrup.—Ohs. Several pretty dishes are made with preserved oranges. And orange-skins emptied, may be filled with rich custard, with calves'-feet jelly, or other jellies, or with a mixture of beat almonds, sugar, cream, and seasonings.—See No. 721. Tablets and Confectionary Drops. A FEW receipts in this department may be useful in most families, as these things are cordial and sometimes even medicinal, and may be easily and cheaply prepared at home. 997. To make Cinnamon, Lemon, lioy^eliound, or Ginger Tablet. — Take either oil of cinnamon, fine sifted China ginger, essence or grate of lemon pounded, in the proportion wanted for flavouring the kind of tablet to be made. Two drops of oil of cinnamon, a half-ounce of ground ginger, or the grate of two lemons, is a medium quantity to a pound of sugar. Mix the flavouring ingredient well with the boiling sugar, and pour it out, when boiled candy-height, on a marble slab, stone, or flat dish, previously rubbed with sweet oil. Mark the tablet quickly, ere it hardens, in small squares, with a roller and knife. Drops may be made of the same material, dropping it regularly on paper, and taking the drops off with a knife when firm. Any kind of sugar-drops may be made by adding different flavouring in- gredients to the boiled sugar; as, for example, for coffee- drops a little strong clear tincture of the coffee-berry; for clove-drops, essence of cloves; for peppermint-drops, essence of peppermint, and so on. 998. Fruit-Pastes.—Oranges, apples, cherries, pears, rasp- berries, etc., may all be made into paste. Boil the fruit with clarified sugar to a very thick marmalade. Season, and mould it into thin cakes. Dry these in a stove. The pastes must be small, but of any form or variety of forms; they may be ornamented by having the impress of some of the501 TO MAKE BARLEY-SUGAR, ETC. "Wedgewood-ware or glass seals, with groups from the an- tique, stars, shamrocks, etc., pressed upon them while still moist. Inferior paste is got from the refuse of apple-jelly. 999. Ratafia-Drops,—Blanch and pound, with an ounce of fine sugar and a little water, four ounces of bitter and two ounces of sweet almonds. Add to the almond-paste a pound of sugar, the beat whites of two eggs, and a little noyeau. Beat the whole well, and when light, drop the batter from a biscuit-funnel on paper of the size of pigeons' eggs, and bake on tins. The addition of fine flour will make this Ratafia-Biscuits. 1000. To maize Barley-Sugar.—Clarify, and boil sugar to the fourth degree, or crackling height, and, when nearly boiled enough, add to it lemon-grate, a drop of citron-oil, or a little beat spermaceti, according to the sort of barley- sugar wanted. Rub a slab or dish with oil, and when the sugar is ready, dip the pan in cold water for two minutes, and then pour it out thin on the dish. Cut the sugar into slips, and while hot twist it. Care must be taken in boiling sugar to this height, that it does not burn or fly over; to prevent which, a bit of butter may be thrown in to check violent ebullition :—add a little lemon-juice if it be in danger of graining. This may also be made as small lozenges or drops. It is often acidulated with tartaric acid, and is then termed Acidulated Drops. 1000^. Grandmamma^s Bon-hons.—Cut candied citron or orange peel into strips an inch long, and then as small dice : string them apart on a fine wire skewer, or knitting needle, and dip them in boiling barley-sugar flavoured in any way you prefer. Have a baking-slab, or large flat dish rubbed with oil, that they may not stick, and lay them on it to dry. When crisp, pack them in paper bags. With candied sugar for a basis, an endless variety of preparations, as, Rock^ Brilliants^ and Lozenges of various sorts, are made. Flavour and colour make the only difference. Flour is used with the cheaper sorts. 1001. Candied Orange and Lemon Peel.—Soak the peel of lemons or Seville oranges first in salt and water, and afterwards in fresh water. Dry them, and boil them till tender in a thin syrup; afterwards in a stronger syrup boiled higher; next drain, dry, and store them.502 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES^ ETC. 10012. Tofee and Hardbake.—For To fee,—Boil a pound of pounded sugar in eight ounces of melted butter, in a very small preserving-pan: boil for ten minutes, and add a fla- vouring of lemon or ginger. Boil for a few minutes more, stirring constantly, and try the tofee, by dropping a particle in cold water. If it get instantly crisp and crack between the teeth, pour it out on slabs or flat dishes rubbed with oil or butter. Tofee may have spermaceti put to it instead of part of the butter. Hardbake contains no butter: it is pre- pared as sugar for caramels. 1002. Rose Souffle Cakes.—Pick a handful of rose-leaves, and give them a boil in a syrup made of a pound of sugar. Have ready an icing made of two ounces of sugar, and the white of an egg well beat up and tinged with liquid cochi- neal. Stir a spoonful of this into the syrup till it rises; fill small moulds, and bake.—Obs. Confectioners use carmine or lake-powder, and so have Rose souffle cakes in full bloom all the year round. These colouring matters are prepared by the chemists, who also sell flavouring essences, which ought to be used with great caution, particularly when of the almond or laurel kinds. 1003. To make Devices and Ornaments in Sugar.—Make a paste of the finest loaf-sugar and gum-tragacanth steeped in rose-water, or any flavoured water, and mould and colour the ornaments as best suits the purpose for which they are intended; as rose with cochineal, yellow with safli-on, green with spinage-juice. 1004. Nougat in the French Style.—Blanch a half-pound of sweet almonds and six bitter ones. Peel and cut them into dice. Dry them thoroughly before the fire or in an oven, but do not let them brown much. Put a half-pound of fine sifted sugar into a small preserving-pan over a very slow fire, without a drop of water. When it is melted, throw in the cut almonds quite dry. Stir and turn out the paste, as it will now be, on a mould rubbed with oil. It must be quickly worked, as it will harden. It may be made in a variety of forms. If flat, press it quickly with an oiled rolling-pin, and cut it up in oblong slips. Cinna- mon or small white nonpareil comfits may be strewed over the surface while hot.—N.B. Nougats^ and the Devices of No. 1003, should in general be left to the confectioner.503 OBSERVATION ON CAKES. Observations on Cakes. Before beginning to make any sort of cake, have sugar beat and sifted; flour of good quality dry and sifted; the fruit stoned or picked, washed, and dry, and rubbed in a towel; the lemon-peel sliced, or beat to paste in a mortar, with a little cream; the fresh butter, when this is used for light cakes, beaten to a cream; but, above all, have the eggs, yolks and whites separately, well whisked. A large tin basin answers best for this purpose, as the yolks or butter can be heated in this occasionally over the fire, or in hot water, while the w^hisking is going on, which assists the process. It is a good test of beat eggs, when they are so thick as to carry the drop that falls from the whisk. If eggs are not properly managed at first, it is difficult to raise them to a cream afterwards. It ought to be remembered that eggs, besides enriching sweet cakes, are intended to supply the place of yeast. When the several ingredients, which a high temperatute improves when for cakes, are well mixed, they ought immediately to be put into the oven, that the fruit may not sink: if, however, yeast is used, the cake must stand for some time to rise. Yeast for cakes should be sweet, white, and thick. It may be improved by bleaching it repeatedly in water, allowing it to settle, and then pouring the water offi It saves hard labour to heat, but not melt, butter before beating it to a cream. The thing next to be attended to is the state of the oven. It must not only be thoroughly heated previously, but have a rather quick heat when most cakes are put in. Folds oi paper ought to be put over them, lest the top get scorched. Plunging a knife into the heart of a cake, and drawing it quickly out, is the best mode of judging whether it be ready. If not enough, the blade of the knife will be glary, and the cake must be instantly returned to the oven. The heat ought to be kept up equally throughout, by adding fresh fuel occasionally till the cake is drawn; but, above all, attention must be given till it is properly raised. The same observations apply to pastry, and to the setting of puddings. Cakes ought to be kept in a dry place, wrapped up and set in a close jar to keep them from hardening. If made without yeast, they will keep a very long time. They may be heated on the hob or in a slack oven to refresh504 CHAP. V. PASTRY AND CAKES, ETC. them, when to be used. Cake moulds and hoops are of various kinds and forms, and must be bought. 1005. To Ice or Glaze Pastry and Cakes.—This is done with the whites of eggs and sugar; and in a common way is a simple process. Yolhs of eggs glaze cakes, though coarsely, effectually; but sifting fine sugar over little cakes and biscuits before they are put into the oven, or when half- baked, will do them well enough.—See also Nos. 813 and 814. 1006. To Ice or Frost a Home-made Bride^s Cahe^ or very large Plum-cake.—To a half-pound of fine sifted sugar put the whites of two eggs, beaten with a little orange- flower-water, or simple water, and strain. With this whisk the sugar till it is quite smooth. This may be tinged with the juice of strawberries or currants, or with prepared cochineal. For a Bride's cake confectioners use lake or cochineal. Lay the icing equally over large cakes with a flat spoon. Brush small ones with a few feathers dipt in the mixture. Place both in a cold oven; but large cakes should be cold when iced. Lemon-juice well beat with the sugar and white of eggs make a white icing. No other white icing is admissible. 1007. A plain Pound-Cake.—Beat a pound of fresh butter to a cream, and put to it nine eggs well beat. Next beat them together till well mixed and light; and put to them a little shred lemon-peel, or a few blanched almonds chopped, sifted sugar to taste, and a pound and quarter of dried and sifted flour. Mix well and bake in a pan for an hour, in a rather quick oven; or two small cakes may be made of the ingredients.— Ohs. This may be made a plain plum-cake^ by putting to it a half-pound of cleaned currants, a few raisins, and a half-ounce of candied lemon and orange peel, with nutmeg and cinnamon to taste. It may also be converted into a good Seed-cake^ by adding caraway and coriander seeds to the plain cake. 1008. A plain Plum-Cake.—Use as much flour, butter, and sugar, as are ordered in the next receipt, but take only half the quantity of fruit, candied peel, and eggs. Season with cloves and nutmeg. Melt the butter in a half-pint of hot cream. Mix with the beat eggs three spoonfuls of sweet yeast. Beat the whole together; and if the composition505 PLUM, RICE, AND SEED CAKES. look too thick, add a little sweet wine, or more cream. Pour it into a buttered pan, and let it rise before the fire before it is put into the oven, which should be strongly heated. 1009. A rich Plum-Cake,—Take equal weight of cleaned currants and flour; about a pound of each will make a cake of good size; a pound and a half will make a large one. Beat twelve ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Beat also sixteen eggs to a cream with a whisk in a pan, and set them over the fire, or in a vessel of hot water, with a pound of sifted sugar, whisking all the time. When warm, take them off, and continue to beat till they are cold, when the butter will be well mixed with them. Add the currants. Put to this a half-pound of candied citron, lemon, and orange peel cut in strips, a half-ounce of bitter almonds beat to a paste with a little sugar, two ounces of sweet almonds blanched and sliced the long way, half an ounce of pounded cinnamon and mace, and a quarter pint curagoa, or any highly- flavoured liqueur, or plain brandy. Beat all the ingredients for a half-hour. Paper a hoop and pour in the cake. It will take from two to three hours, when the oven may be cooled, and the cake placed in it to get dry.* 1010. Rice-Coke,— Mix half a pound of sifted rice-flour with a half-pound of loaf-sugar sifted, and put to this six eggs well whisked and strained. Season with a little ratafia and orange-flower-water, and a drop or two of essence of lemon, or some fine-grated rind of lemon. Beat the whole together for twenty minutes, and fire in a quick oven.— Ohs. This is an excellent cake for a trifle, but it will not keep long. A small proportion of wheat-flour should be mixed with the rice-flour. 1011. A fine Seed-Cake.\—Have a pound and a half of flour, and sixteen eggs well whisked. Mix with them a pound and a half of fine sifted sugar, and whisk them thoroughly together. Throw in a half-pound of cut candied citron, lemon, and orange peel, and four ounces of almonds blanched and cut. Mix this with the dried flour, and twelve ounces of butter beat to a cream. Season with cinnamon * Sal volatile is sometimes used to make cakes rise, or, more properly, to prevent them from flatteninj^, by keeping the butter from oiling. f "When," says ancient Trusser, "the wheat-seed is put into the ground, the village is to be treated with seed-cake^ pasties, and frumentie- pot." Ah! when now do villages get such treats? Y506 CHAP. V.—PASTRY AND CAKES, ETC. and cloves, and, if liked, throw in a few caraway-seeds. Smooth the top of this (and every sort of cake) when put into the hoop, and throw sugared caraways over it or any cake ; or slips of candied peel. 1012. A common Seed-Cake.— Mix a half-pound of sifted sugar with two pounds of flour in a large bowl or pan. Make a hole in the centre, and pour into it a half-pint of lukewarm milk, and two spoonfuls of yeast. Draw a little of the surrounding flour into this, and, throwing a cloth over the vessel, set it in a warm place for an hour or two. Then add half a pound of melted butter, an ounce of cara- way-seeds, a little allspice, ginger, and nutmeg, and milk sufficient to make the whole of a proper stiffness. Mix it thoroughly. Butter and paper a hoop, and pour in the mixture. Let it stand a half-hour at the mouth of the oven to rise, and then bake it. 1013. Rice-Cake for tlie Centre of a Table,—the French Gateau de Biz.—Prepare the rice as for a casserole (No. 577), and for four ounces of rice take a quart of boiled cream, in which the peel of a lemon has been infused. Let them soak till the rice has absorbed all the cream, and is swelled. Sweeten this with fine sugar, and season with juice and peel of lemon. When cool, add the beat yolks of eight eggs, the whites well whisked by themselves, and also a good piece of butter. Next pour four ounces of melted butter into the mould, and turn it round and round till the butter adheres in a coat to all sides of it. Next cover the mould with fine bread-crumbs; and this done, pour in the cake. Bake it for an hour in a moderate oven, cool it, turn it upside down on the dish, and garnish it with flowers, etc. — Obs. If any of the material is left, roll it up in the shape of corks, dip them in butter, and fry as fritters. Dressed round fried parsley, they are called croquets of rice. A dozen sweet and a few bitter almonds chopped may be put to this cake; and it may be made of vermicelli, or served as a pudding, with custard-sauce. 1014. Scotch Diet-Cake, or Loaf—^Take a pound of fine sugar sifted, the same weight of eggs very well whisked, and mix and beat these together for twenty minutes. Season with lemon-grate and cinnamon. Stir in very smoothly three quarters of a pound of sifted flour. This is a verySHORTBREAD, SPONGE-CAKEj AND MACAROONS. 507 light cake, and will bake qiiicklj. It may either be iced, when baked, or have sifted sugar strewed over it before baking, 1015. Scottish Shortbread^ or Short-Cake.—To the fourth of a peck of flour (two pounds) take six ounces of sifted sugar, and of candied citron, orange-peel, and blanched almonds, two ounces each. Cut these in rather long thin slices, which cut in dice and mix with the flour. Eub down among the flour a pound of butter in small bits, melt a half- pound more, and with this work up the flour, etc. The less kneading it gets the more short and crisp the cakes will be. Roll out the paste lightly into a large well-shaped oval cake, about an inch thick, and divide this the narrow way, so as to have two cakes somewhat the shape of a Saxon arch. Pinch the cakes neatly at the edges, and dab them on the top with the instrument, the dahher^ used for the purpose, or with a fork. Strew caraway-com fits over the top, and a few strips of citron-peel. Bake on paper, rubbed with flour. The cakes may be square, or oblong.—Ohs. Plainer short- bread may be made by using less butter and no candied peel. The whole of the butter may be melted, which makes the process easier. Chopped almonds and butter are used in larger quantity for Scotch shortbread wanted very rich for sending as a holiday present to England. 1016. Savoy or Sponge Cake.— Whisk twelve eggs till white and thick, and mix with them a pound of sifted sugar. Beat these very well together, and then gradually mix in a half-pound of flour, a seasoning of essence of lemon, or lemon-grate, and a little orange-flower-water. Butter a melon or Turk's-cap mould, and fill it within two inches of the top. Bake for three quarters of an hour, and, when ready, take out the cake, shaking the mould to loosen it. Sponge-biscuits of the same material are baked in small tin moulds, and iced or glazed with sifted sugar.—Obs. These light cakes, or the remains of them, are well suited to fine puddings, trifles, or tipsy-cake. 1017. MacaroonsJ^—Blanch and pound with the whites of four eggs a pound of Jordan almonds. Add to this two * An endless variety of small biscuit is made in the manner of maca- roons, as light lemon-biscuit, by using grated peel and the yolks of three eggs; chocolate-biscuit, orange and common biscuit; Judges' biscuit, i.e., biscuit for hungry lawyers, kept long in court.508 CHAP. V.—PASTRY AND CAKES, ETC. pounds of fine sugar, and pound these ingredients to a paste; then put in eight more whites of eggs. Beat the whole well together; fill a biscuit-syringe, and squirt the macaroons on wafer-paper, and fire them slowly on tins. Ratafia-cakes may be made as above, by using one-half bitter almonds. Drop the biscuit from a knife-point instead of a squirt, if you have no squirt. Rice-flour is sometimes substituted for part of the almonds, and brandy is used to flavour. 1018. Plain Gingerbread,—Mix with a pound and a half of flour, four ounces of butter, four of brown sugar, a half ounce of ground ginger, and some allspice. Make this into a paste with two ounces of hot treacle, and shape and bake the cakes. 1018^. Mrs Fletchers^ Parliament-Calces.—With two pounds of the best flour dried, mix thoroughly one pound of good brown sugar and a quarter-pound of ground ginger. Melt a pound of fresh butter, add to it one of treacle, boil this, and pour it on the flour; work up the paste as hot as your hands will bear it, and roll it out in very large cakes, the sixth of an inch thick or less; mark it in squares with a knife or paper-cutter, and fire in a slow oven. Separate the squares while soft, and they will soon get crisp. 1019. Fine Gingerbread.—Two pounds of flour, a half- pound of brown sugar, a half-pound of candied orange-peel cut into bits, an ounce of freshly-ground ginger, half an ounce of caraway-seeds, cloves, mace, and some allspice. Mix with these a pound and a half of treacle, and a half- pound of melted butter. Mix the ingredients well together, and let them stand for some hours before rolling out the cakes. The paste will require a little additional flour in rolling out. Cut out the cakes, mark the top in diamonds with a knife, or string, and bake on tin plates. 1020. Gingerbread^ or Spice Nuts, or Schnaps, may be made of the above paste, but a little more ginger and other spices should be employed, and a little more flour. Drop the paste from a spoon on paper, and bake.—Cayenne, to my taste, rather improves gingerbread. A little carbonate of soda is now used to raise these nuts.''—P. T. * This worthy lady was the universal favourite of the schoolboys of Edinburgh, the contemporaries of Sir W. Scott. We regret not being able to recover her recipe for White Quality Cakes.509 TEA-CAKES. 1021. Wine-Biscuit.—Have a pound of the finest flour thrice-bolted," dry and sifted. Rub down among it three ounces of butter; add sugar and salt to taste. Make a dough of this with warm good milk, and a spoonful of sweet yeast. Knead it quickly up, and let it repose an hour. Eoll it out thin and stamp, and then prick the biscuits with a dabber. Bake in a quick oven. 1022. Imitation of Leman's^ Biscuit--Ho the above dough put a bit of sal volatile. Roll out, and mould in the form of Leman's biscuit in square and oblong figures, and balls flattened. Prick and fire them lightly. Small Tea-Cakes.t 1023. Good Tea-Calces.—Rub four ounces of butter into eight ounces of flour, and mix with this six ounces of cleaned currants, the same of beat sugar, and three beat eggs. Make this into a paste, and roll it out about a half-inch thick, and stamp out the cakes of any size you please with an inverted wine-glass, ale-glass, or small tumbler, by running a paste- cutter round the glass. Dust the top with sugar, with which, for all these small cakes, a few finely-chopped almonds may be mixed. 1024. Tunhridge and Shrewsbury Cakes.—Make them as * Wliile the House of the Great Leman or his representatives flourishes in London, and that of the not less famous Littlejolm in Edinburgh, we would say huy biscuits and rusks, and you will be sure to have the best.—W. W. f The greatest difficulty we have experienced in correcting the various editions of this immortal work has been in restraining the headlong torrent of our extensive culinary knowledge within reasonable bounds: what to tell, and what to suppress—not when to begin, but where to have done prescribing, has been our stumbling-block. We confess a strong natural leaning to the side of plenty—nay, of abundance—and of good-nature. If the solitary gourmand have his salmi, hia rognons, his soupe a la Cam- erani,^'' who would deny to the spinster her cordial waters, and the petti- coat-tails (No. 1026) that grace her tea-table; or to the schoolboy his mince- pie and "hot-cross bun?" Besides, at our table d'hote every kind of guest expects to find what will suit both his palate, his purse, and his humour. " We always," says the chief of Modern Reviewers, "fancied the descrip- tion of Harriet Byron's wedding-clothes (in Sir Charles Grandison) de trap, till we found that two young ladies of our acquaintance had copied out the whole passage for their private entertainment." We quote from memory, but this is the idea,—and this must be our apology for the superfluous variety of our puddings, calces, liqueurs, and even sauces,—the half of the number here described cannot be used in any single family; yet, for the many families into whose hands our work may fall, it is requisite that they should all be known—P. T. Small tea-cakes, and even shortbread, may be baked in the American Despatch.510 CHAP. V. PASTRY AND CAKES, ETC. above, of any size you please, and strew caraway-com fits over. For Shrewsbury Cakes.—Beat half a pound of cold butter to a cream, and mix with it six ounces of sifted sugar, eight ounces of flour, a few caraway-seeds, and some pounded cinnamon, two eggs beat, and a little rose-water. Roll out the paste a quarter of an inch in thickness, adding a little more flour if necessary, and stamp out the cakes of any circular size that is liked. 1025. Bath Cakes and Buns,—Rub half a pound of but- ter into a pound of flour, and add four beat eggs and a small glassful of yeast. Set this before the fire to rise; then add four ounces of sifted sugar, and a few caraway-seeds. Roll the paste into thin sheets, and stamp them out. Bake them on tins. They should rise very light.—Ohs. This is made into Bath-Buns by moulding the paste in the shape of buns, and strewing a few sugar-caraways over the tops. These Bath-buns are almost the same preparation as the Brioche cakes, so much eaten and talked of in Paris. 1026. Scotch Petticoat-Tails.—Mix a half-ounce (or fewer, or none) of caraway-seeds with a pound and three quarters of flour. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, and poar into it twelve ounces of butter melted in a quarter-pint of milk, and three ounces of beat sugar. Knead this, but not too much, or it will not be short; divide it in two, and roll it out round, rather thin. Cut out the cake by running a paste-cutter round a dinner-plate, or any large round disli inverted on the paste. Cut a cake from the centre of this one with a small saucer or large tumbler. Keep this inner circle whole, and cut the outer one into eight petticoat-tails. Bake on paper laid on tins, serve the round cake in the middle of the plate, and the petticoat-tails as radii round it. An English traveller in Scotland, and one well acquainted with France, states in his very pleasant book that our Club have fallen into a mistake in the name of these cakes, and that petticoat-tails is a corruption of the French Petites Gatelles, It may be so: in Scottish culinary terms there are many corruptions, though we rather think the name Petticoat-tails has its origin in the shape of the cakes, which is exactly that of the bell-hoop petticoats of our ancient Court ladies. 1027. Flour Scones and Slim Cakes are often used inTEA-CAKES. 511 the Highlands, and in country situations, for breakfast or tea. To a pound of flour allow from two to four ounces of butter, as much hot milk as will make a dough of the flour, and two beat eggs, if the cakes are wished to rise. Handle quickly, and lightly roll out and stamp of any size wanted, with a basin, saucer, or tumbler. Bake on the girdle^ or in a thick-bottomed fryingpan. They must be served hot, kept in a heap, well buttered, and used newly baked, as they soon become tough. For richer scones cream only is used. 1027^. Johnny Calces of Indian Meal.—Put a little salt to a quart of Indian meal. Make a hole in the middle of the heap, and mix in warm water, as in making any other dough, till it is a firm, but not hard dough. Knead it well, and roll out an inch thick, or rather less. Have the girdle hot over a clear, sharp fire, and rub it with a bit of butter. Lay on the cake, and when one side is done, turn it with a slice and toast the other; handling carefully,• as it easily breaks. Cut it in slices and serve hot, or split and butter them while hot, and serve. This is the most popular of the American cakes. See Nos. 229, 230. 1028. Queen^s Calces.—Make as pound-cake or plum- cake ; but bake in small saucers, but better in the fluted tins made for the purpose. 1029. Cinnamon-CaJces.—Whisk six eggs with a glass of rose-water; add a pound of sifted sugar and a quarter-ounce of ground cinnamon, with flour enough—above a pound— to make a paste. Eoll this out thin, and stamp it into small cakes. Bake them on paper. They may be iced, or have sifted sugar strewed over them. Sugar Tea-Cakes,— The same, with two eggs only. 1031. Derby Short-CaJces and Pikelets.—Rub down a pound of butter into two pounds of flour, and mix with this a half-pound of beat sugar, an egg, and as much milk as will make a paste. Roll this out thin, and cut out the cakes in any form. Bake on tin plates for about ten minutes. They may be iced. Pikelets.—A pint of milk, a pound of flour, two beat eggs, a spoonful of yeast or a little baking soda, with a particle of salt, and sugar, and nutmeg to taste. Beat the batter well, bake on a girdle, and butter while hot. 1032. Kent Drop-Cakes.—A pound of flour, a half-pound512 CHAP. V. PASTRY AND CAKES, ETC. of butter, the same of sifted sugar and currants. Make this into a paste with two eggs, two spoonfuls of orange-flower- water, a glass of brandy, and one of sweet wine. Mix up quickly, and drop the batter through a biscuit-funnel on floured tins, and bake for five or six minutes. 1033. Rout-Cakes.—To the beat yolks of twelve eggs put a half-pound of butter beat to a cream, half a pound of sifted sugar, the fresh grate of a lemon, and twelve ounces of flour dried. Season this with a little orange-flower-water, or a few pounded almonds. When very well mixed, pour the cake into a papered mould. Let it be scarcely an inch thick; bake it, and when cool ice it, and cut it with a sharp knife and ruler into small squares, lozenges, diamonds, etc. Moisten the edges of these morsels with sugar, beat with white of egg, and crisp them before the fire. 1034. Common Buns,—Mix two pounds of flour and a half pound of sugar. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, and put in a glassful of thick yeast, and half a pint of warmed milk. Make a thin batter of the surrounding flour and the milk, and set the dish covered before the fire till the leaven begins to ferment. Put to the mass a half-pound of melted butter, and milk enough to make a soft paste of all the flour. Cover this with a dust of flour, and let it once more rise for half an hour. Shape the dough into buns, and lay them apart on buttered tin-plates in rows to rise for a half-hour. Then bake in a quick oven. 1035. Cross-Buns are made of the same sort of dough, with the addition of a little more sugar, and a seasoning of cinnamon, allspice, and mace. They must, when moulded, have the figure of the Cross impressed on them with a stamp; and have a few currants. 1036. Plum-Buns.—Mix with the dough of cross-buns, cleaned currants, strips of candied orange-peel, blanched almonds chopped, and a seasoning of cinnamon and mace. Mark them round the edge when moulded, and bake as common buns. 1037. A Scotch Christmas-Bun^ from Mrs Fraser^s Cookery.—Take four pounds of flour, keeping out a little to work it up with; make a hole in the middle of the flour, and break in sixteen ounces of butter; pour in a pint of warm water, and three gills of yeast, and work it up into a513 WAFERS. smooth dough. If it is not moist enough, put in a little more warm water: then cut off one-third of the dough, and lay it aside for the cover. Take three pounds of stoned raisins, three pounds of cleaned currants, half a pound of blanched almonds cut longways; candied orange and citron peel cut, of each eight ounces; half an ounce of cloves, an ounce of cinnamon, and two ounces of ginger, all beat and sifted. Mix the spices, then spread out the dough; lay the fruit upon it; strew the spices over the fruit, and mix all together. When it is well kneaded, roll out the cover. Cover it neatly, trim it round the sides, prickle it, and bind it with paper to keep it in shape; set it in a pretty quick oven, and, just before you take it out, glaze the top with a beat egg.* Surely too much yeast. 1038. Wafers. We have Wine, Butter, Cream, Brandy, Flemish, Spanish^ and Almond wafers. The French have these, and many more, as Pistachio and Vanilla Gauffres, generally served as entremets. Almond is a sort commonly made. Mix in equal quantities dry flour and sifted sugar. To every six spoonfuls of this which you mean to use, allow three eggs, and four ounces of chopped almonds or pistachios. Beat the mass. Put a very little fresh yeast to it if you have it, and moisten it down to a thickish batter with good cream. Work the ingredients well, and let the whole settle a while. When wanted, rub wafer-irons, or baking tins with fat bacon, or fine wax. A teaspoonful of batter will make one wafer. Drop and let it spread. Bake carefully in a rather warm oven. Detach the wafers from the irons one by one with a knife, rolling each up, while still soft, round a small wooden roller. They should be thin as gossamer. Other kinds are * These buns, weighing from four to eight, ten, twelve, and sixteen, or more pounds, are still sent from Edinburgh, from the depots of Littlejohn, Mackie, and others, to many parts of the three kingdoms. Every country town, rural village, and neighbourhood in England, Scotland, and Ireland, has its favourite holiday-cake, or currant-loaf, under some such name as " Lady Bountiful's Loaf,'' "Mrs Notable's cake," "Miss Thrifty's bun," etc., etc. We do not pretend to give receipts for all these—the formula is endless—and they are all good.—The Irish receipt for Brade Breachd^ No. 1047, is nearly the substance of all of them. That they be well raised and well fired is all that is of any importance. They should be baked in a dome-shaped fluted mould or Turk's cap, but look still more imposing at holiday-times, formed like large, respectable^ old-fashioned household loaves. Leavened dough may be bought for them from the bakers. Y 2514 CHAP. V.—HOUSEHOLD BREAD, ETC. made as above, but flavoured with vanilla, orange-flower- water, mace, cinnamon, etc.; and what are called Brandy scrolls^ with ratafia, and the spices used for gingerbread-nuts. Houseliold Bread, etc. Every year produces something new, either in baking or in combining the materials of which bread may be made. Like novelties in other things, not one in a hundred succeeds, and from the time of Cobbett we have little or nothing that is both good and new on this subject. We therefore adhere to our old and tried authority for household-baking. 1039. Common Wheaten Bread^ nearly on Cohhett^s Plan, —Put a bushel of flour into a trough. Make a deep hole in the middle of the heap, and take for a bushel of flour a pint of good yeast, and stir it well up with as much milk- warm water. Pour this into the hole made in the flour; then take a spoon, and work it round the edges of this body of moisture, so as to bring into it, by degrees, flour enougli to make a thin batter, which must be well stirred for a minute or two Throw a handful of flour over the surface of this batter, and cover the whole with the folds of a cloth to keep it warm. Set it by the fire, regulating the distance by the state of the weather and season of the year. When the batter has risen enough to make cracks in the flour, form the whole mass into dough thus:—Begin by strewing six ounces of salt over the heap ; and then, beginning round the hole containing the batter, work the flour into the bat- ter, pouring in milk-warm soft water or milk as it is wanted. When the whole mass is moistened, knead it well, that the fermented paste may be duly mixed with the whole mass. Mould the loaves; let them rise for twenty minutes, and put them into the oven, which should be previously heated. The loaves will require a length of time to fire proportioned to their size.—N.B. To boil the water in bran is a saving of flour. Stale bread may be refreshed by placing it for an hour in a cool oven. Bread may be raised with many sub- stitutes for yeast. The carbonate of soda is now extensively used in small family bakings for flat cakes, or what in Scotland are called scones. The only art is to apportion the alkali and acid, the soda and the buttermilk, or whatever is used, so as to proportion the degree of acidity to the alka-515 BREAKFAST-ROLLS. lescence, and to bake before the elFervescence has subsided, so that the cakes may rise lightly.—No. 1042^. 1040. To hake JBreaJcfast-EoHs,—To two pounds of flour put a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter-pint or less of fresh yeast, and as much warmed milk and water as will make a batter. Stir this well till it is smooth, and let it stand covered be- fore the fire to rise for two hours, if you have time to wait so long. Add as much more flour, into which you should have rubbed down what butter you mean to put to the rolls. Work the dough very smooth, divide it, and mould it into rolls; fire them on tins, and rasp and keep them covered. Half this quantity will be sufficient on ordinary occasions. 1041. Milk Scones for Bi^eakfast or Tea—Receipt of the Ken- noway Scone Club.—To a pint of thin cream add a teaspoon- ful of salt. Stir in flour till the paste is of a proper thickness. Knead it well; then roll it out thin, and bake on the girdle on a clear, slow fire. The scones are eaten with fresh butter. 1042. Muffins, — A pint of hot milk, a quarter-pint, or rather less, of fresh yeast. Stir in flour to make this a bat- ter. Let this repose covered in a warm place, to rise. Add a little more milk, two ounces of butter, rubbed in flour in very small bits, and then flour enough to make the dough. Mix, cover, and let it again repose a half-hour; when knead, divide, and mould the dough into muffins. Let them repose once more for a quarter of an hour, and then bake them.—N.B. These at a pinch may be baked on the Scotch girdle^ or in a thick-bottomed fryingpan, the cottage oven-pot, or American oven. 1042^. Unfermented Bread.—Bread which Dr Pereira, one of the latest wTiters upon the interminable subject of Diet, describes as " most delicious," is thus prepared :—Flour, one pound. Sesquicarbonate of soda, forty grains; cold water, half a pint, or as much as may be required. Muriatic acid of the shops, fifty drops; and a teaspoonful of powdered white sugar. Stir the supercarbonate of soda and the sugar among the flour in a basin with a wooden spoon. Put the acid to the water, and stir the whole briskly till intimately mixed. Divide the dough into two loaves, and bake imme- diately ; the sugar may be omitted. 1043. Brown Bread is made as No. 1039, with coarser flour, or a proportion of shealings or husks added to th^ flour.516 CHAP, v.—BREAD AND BISCUITS. 1044. French Bread. — Many sorts of fine bread baked witb milk, eggs, and butter, receive this name. To four pounds of the finest flour put a quart of lukewarm milk, a little salt, a quarter-pound of melted butter, and a half pint of sweet yeast; whisk the fluids together, and add two or three beat eggs; mix the flour with this, handling it as little as possible; let the dough rise, and mould the bread into rolls, cakes, etc. Bake on tins in a quick oven, and rasp the loaves. 1045. Sally Lunn Cakes.—Make them as No. 1044, but dissolve some sugar in the hot milk; and if not to be served immediately, do not over-bake, as they should be re-heated before buttering : a pound of flour makes six cakes. A blade of saflron boiled in the milk enriches the colour of these or any other cakes.* 1046. Yorkshire Cakes are made as above, only moulded smaller. 1047. Irish Brade Breachd.\—To as much flour as will make two quartern-loaves put a half-pound of melted butter. Make the dough with fresh yeast, and when it has risen, mix in a half-pound of beat sugar, a half-pound of currants, picked, cleaned, and dried; the same quantity of stoned raisins; a few sweet almonds blanched and chopped, and some candied orange-peel sliced. Mould and bake the loaves. They may be of any size, and baker^s dough may be used. 1047^. Oatmeal Cakes.—The proper making of these cakes requires both skill and care. Have for the best kind, finely ground double-sifted oatmeal, such as is only seen to the north of the Spey. Add a little salt; make, one by one, cakes about five inches diameter, with barely enough scalding water to moisten the oaten flour. Knead with hands, but as little as possible, and toast very slowly at a distance from the fire, first on one side and then the other, on a toaster * Ohs.—Our admirable master, Careme, gives an account of these cakes, under the designation of Soli Lemne. French ears are about as well at- tuned to English sounds as are those of the New Zealanders. The Soli Lemne are prepared by French pastry-cooks under the name Koqites an Beurre or buttered cakes, a preparation which is served as an entremet. It may, however, be quite possible that the corruption of Soli lemne into Salh/ Lunn, is English ; thougli the French Brit-poudin, Plomb-cahe, and Bif-tih de mouton, warrants another conclusion. f This Irish word signifies spotted or freckled. This mottled loaf is the holiday-cake of Munster and Leinster.517 YEAST. of open bars that lets the moisture escape. Girdle Cakes, —The meal used for oat-cakes is usually ground finer than that for porridge. Make the cakes, one by one, with hot water and salt enough. Roll out from five to seven inches in dameter, keeping round. Bake on one side on the girdle, and the other toast before the fire. Keep dry meal below and above the cake on the baking-board to prevent sticking. Butter, or even dripping is used by good housewives for these cakes ; and milk or sweet whey instead of water. Soda also begins to be employed. They keep long, but if above a week, should be re-toasted when wanted, like most other cakes. They look best rolled very thin, but do not eat better, as more water must be used to make the dough hold together. They take no injury by lying over for some hours before being baked. 1048. Yeast—There are many ways of preparing bread- yeast, but no yeast is better than that made of brewer's fresh worts—now made expressly for the use of bakers in most towns. Yeast is, however, made of the flour of pease, rye, potatoes, and wheat, mixed with sugar and water, and afterwards fermented with fresh yeast. Bad yeast may be improved by mixing in it flour and sugar, with a little warm 'water, or by bleaching it; that is, beating up the yeast with water equal in quantity to itself, and the white of an egg to each quart of yeast. In twelve hours pour off the thin. What remains will be an improved yeast. Strain all yeast put to flour, if necessary. If the yeast is bitter, use less of it, but allow the dough double time to rise. 1049. ttussian Yeast, the best Substitute that we know,— Make a thick wort of ground rye or malt, and for a gallon of this take three ounces or more of leaven, and dissolve it in a little of the wort. Mix the whole, and add a half-pound of ground malt; shake the mixture for some time, and in half an hour add two large spoonfuls of good yeast: cover for forty-eight hours, and the whole will be good yeast. Where families bake regularly, a little leaven is kept over from one baking to another, to ferment the fresh yeast. 1051. Camp-Yeast—Make a thin gruel of a gallon of spring water, with flour of rye, wheat, or pease ; boil it, stir- ring it well for twenty minutes. Add to this a half-pound518 CHAP. V. YEAST. of raw sugar, and, when as cool as new milk, put a quarter- pint of fresh yeast to this, and let it ferment, covered before the fire, or in a warm place. Pour off the thin part. Keep a few spoonfuls of this bottled to ferment the next quantity wanted. A quarter-pint will do for four quartern-loaves. The uses of soda and acids, and of cocoa-nut and other things, begin to be understood in private country families, and in remote localities, in baking: nor need even the herdsman in the bush longer be kept always on damper. I519 PARI FOUETH. CHAPTER I. LIQUEUES, OOEDIALS, HOME-MADE WIHES, BEEES, Am MISOELLANEOUS EEOEIPTS TOE BETEEAGES. O, Girzy! GIrzy! when thou go'st to brew, Consider well what you're about to do; Be very wise, very sedately think That what you're going now to make is drink; Consider who must drink that drink, and then "What 'tis to have the praise of Honest Men. The best basis of all liqueurs is pure rectified spirit; Tin- coloured proof brandy or whisky,—^provided the latter have no peat-reek or other flavour, but be what is called silent spirit. Some fine liqueurs require to be distilled; but as this is a troublesome process, they or imitations are generally made in small families, by infusion, which succeeds very well. The syrup employed must he clarified as for preserves. Sometimes capillaire-syrup is used; but this, in most cases, is an unnecessary expense. We would, however, substitute fresh fruit and peel for oils and essences. 1052. Curaqoa.—Infuse three drachms of oil of orange- peel with a Scotch pint of rectified spirits, a pound of clari- fied syrup, and a few cloves.—Another way. Macerate five ounces of the dry peel of bitter oranges beaten to a paste with a little sugar, in a quart of pure spirit and a pound of clarified sugar. Let the mixture stand for a week in a warm place, and strain it off, first through a jelly-bag, and then patiently through chemist's filtering-paper. N.B.—This is the mode of clearing ail liqueurs and cordials, when mere pouring off the lees is not sufficient to clear them. Syrup does not easily filtrate.CHAP. I.—LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, ETC. 520 1053. Noyau.—To a quart of pure brandy, or aquavitse, put six ounces of clarified syrup, one ounce of French prunes, with the kernels broken, two ounces of sound peach, necta- rine, or apricot kernels bruised; a few grains of celery-seed, and a flavour of rind or essence of lemon or Seville orange. Infuse for ten days or more in a warm place, and, adding a half-pint of water, filter. 1054. Scotch Noyau^ a favourite Compound.—Two quarts of silent proof-spirit, a pint and a half of water, a pound and a half of clarified syrup, six ounces of sweet and four of bitter almonds blanched and chopped. Infuse for a fort- night, shaking the compound occasionally, and filter. Lemon juice or grate may be added, but much of the nutty or almond flavour does not harmonize well with acid, or with citron flavours. 1055. Strong Cinnamon-CordiaL — Pour sixpence-worth or more of oil of cinnamon on a few knobs of sugar, and rub them well together. Mix this with two quarts of spirits and a pound of hot clarified syrup. Shake well and let this infuse for a few days and then filter for use. Water and more syrup may be added at pleasure to reduce the strength.— Ohs. This may be made of cinnamon in substance by maceration. Cardamom-seeds may be added. This and other compounds may be coloured with burnt sugar; but, if well strained or filtered, they look better nearly colourless, but very bright. 1056. Citron-Cordial^ a Mgh flavoured and excellent Com- pound,—Take rinds of citrons, six ounces; of orange-peel, four ounces; a nutmeg bruised, and a pint and a half of clarified syrup. Mix with two quarts of spirits for ten days, keeping the vessel in a warm place. Strain as directed, No. 1052. 1057. Clove-Cordial.—Take of bruised cloves and cassia- buds, a quarter of an ounce each, and a dozen or more Jamaica peppercorns. Infuse the spices in hot water, and keep the bottle by the fire, close stopped, for two nights. Strain this to three pints of proof-spirit, and add syrup to taste. Filter, and colour with burnt sugar, or a bit of cochineal. Mace or nutmeg, bruised, may be added to Clove-Cordial. It is grateful and fancied tonic. 1058. Barhadoes Water.—To two quarts of proof-spiritLIQUEURS, CORDIALS, ETC. 521 add syrup to taste, two ounces of fresh orange-peel, four of lemon-peel, and a few bruised cloves. Infuse for ten days, and filter. 1059. Creme Orange^ a deMcious Cordial.—Over a dozen oranges, sliced, pour three quarts of rectified spirit, and a pint of orange-flower-water. Close the vessel carefully, and in ten days add five pounds of clarified syrup, a quart of water, and tincture of saffron enough to colour; close the vessel again, and in a fortnight strain off the liquor through a jelly-bag; when it has settled, pour it from the lees and bottle it.—Ohs. The lees of liqueurs make an excellent addition to plain puddings or pudding sauces and cakes for which spirits are ordered. 1060. Creme d^Absinthe^ hy M. Beauvilliers^ Receipt.— " Take in the proportions of tAvelve pints (old measure) of French brandy and two of water; a small handful of fresh wormwood, or a large half-ounce of the dried herb, a quarter- ounce of cinnamon, and a drachm of mace. Infuse for some days, and, if convenient, distil the compound. If not, infuse in a warm place for a fortnight, strain the liquor, and add a pound of sugar made into clear syrup, with five pints of water."—Ohs. This liqueur^ or a glass of Madeira or of rum, forms the coupe'de-milieu at a knowing French dinner, and, by its stimulating bitter, enables the gourmand to renew the flagging contest. Imitation of the Swiss Kirchwasser.—Take geans and cherries—morellas are best. Bruise them and pound the kernels. For every twenty pints of fruit when bruised add five pints of water and two of brandy or flavour- less whisky. Infuse for a fortnight. Strain off the liquor, and put the sediment in a press, as it contains much of the strength of the fruit and kernels. Pass the liquor through the still twice or thrice till strong enough, or merely filter. 1061. Com^mon Ratafia.—Take an ounce of bruised nut- megs, a half-pound of bitter almonds, blanched and chopped, and a grain of ambergris, well rubbed with sugar in a mortar; infuse in two quarts of proof-spirit in a warm place for two weeks, and filter. 1062. Red Ratafia.—Six pounds of the black-heart cherry, one of small black cherries or geans, and two of raspberries and strawberries. Bruise the fruit, and when it has stood fcjome time, drain off the juice, and to every pint add four522 CHAP. I. LIQUEURS, CORDIALS. ETC. ounces of the best refined sugar, or of syrup, and a quart of the best brandy. Strain through a jelly-bag, and flavour to taste with a half-ounce of cinnamon and a drachm of cloves, bruised and infused in brandy for a fortnight before, and strained, or with cloves alone, which is more appropriate. 1063. Cherry Brandy or Whisky.—Pick morella, or black cherries, from the stalks, and drop them into bottles, till the bottles are three-quarters full; fill up with brandy or flavour- less whisky. In three weeks strain off the spirits, and season with cinnamon and clove mixture, as in last receipt, adding syrup to taste. Ratafia should not be sweet. A second weaker decoction may be obtained by pouring more spirits on the fruit. This is good to flavour several pudding- sauces. 1063^. Lemon-Brandy for sweet entremets.—Pour over the zest of a dozen lemons, pared as for punch, and put in a wide-necked bottle, a quart of brandy. Cork and macerate for a month, and use as you need it. It will keep long. 1063^. Maraschino.—A good imitation of this favourite liqueur is made by stoning and mashing as many ripe morellas as will measure a quart. Have the same measure of the small black or brandy cherry, the Scottish gean^ and mashed raspberries. Pound the stones of half the morella cherries and of half the geans, with one ounce of peach leaves, and two of black currant leaves. To this compound mash add two quarts of rectified spirit, or better, of genuine brandy, with a drachm of catechu in powder. Infuse for a month, and then distil, by a slow heat, till the liqueur be- gins to look thick. Or simple filtration will do, though not so well. 1064. Black-Cherry-Brandy.—Put to three quarts of brandy four pounds of stoned black cherries;—bruise the stones, and add them to the mixture. Infuse for a month; —filter, and add the same flavouring ingredients and syrup directed above. A second infusion may be made, which will require more seasoning than that first drawn.—Ohs. Perfumes^ though sometimes used, are out of place in com- pounds of this kind. The blossoms of the sloe, infused for six weeks in spirits, make a sort of Ratafia. 10642. Ratafia of Four Fruits,—Have equal quantities of523 LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, ETC. tlie juice of ripe morellas, raspberries, strawberries, and currants. Strain the fruits separately. Put their strained juices together. Sweeten to taste with syrup. Strain again, and to every pint allow a quarter-pint of genuine brandy; and flavour with bruised cherry or apricot kernels, and mace. 1065. Raspberry-Brayidy is made precisely as above, and, if strong of the fruit, is best without any flavouring ingredients, but may have a little syrup. 1065^. Loudon^s* Admirable.—Skin two dozen ripe peaches. Quarter them and take out the" stones. Add to this the pulp of two dozen ripe greengages, and of one dozen ripe magnums. For every four pounds of pulp add six of sugar and two quarts of water. Boil slowly for a half-hour or more. Skim, strain, and, when cool, add three quarts of brandy or flavourless whisky. 1066. Usquebagh^ the Irish Cordial.—To two quarts of the best brandy, or whisky without a smoky or any peculiar flavour, put a pound of stoned raisins, a half-ounce of nut- megs, a quarter-ounce of cloves, the same quantity of car- damoms, all bruised in a mortar; the rind of a Seville orange, rubbed off on lumps of sugar, a little tincture of saffron, and a half-pound of brown candy-sugar. Shake the infusion every day for a fortnight, and filter it for use.—Obs. Not a drop of water must be put to Irish Cordial. It is sometimes tinged of a pale green with the juice of spinage, instead of the saffron tint from which it takes the Irish name (as we conjecture) of usque-bece^ i. e.. Yellow Water, 1067. VEau de la Vie.\—This liqueur is exceedingly * Loudon, the well-known horticulturist and landscape gardener. f UEau de la Vie.—The following rhyming receipt for compounding this seductive liqueur is communicated by a lady, who has contributed to this volume many useful and some rare receipts :— *' Grown old and grown stupid, you just think me fit To transcribe from my grandmother's book a receipt; And comfort it is for a wight in distress To be still of some use—he could scarce be of less. Were greater his talents, fair Ann might command His head,—if more worth than his heart or his hand. Your mandates obeying, he sends with much glee The genuine receipt to make VEau de la Vie:— Take seven large lemons, and pare them as thin As a wafer, or, what is much thinner, your skin ; Six ounces of sugar next take, and bear mind. That the sugar be of the best double-refined.524 CHAP. I.—LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. pleasant, and in quality so similar to Verder or milk-punch, Norfolk-puncli, etc., that it is unnecessary to give any oilier receipt for tliese compounds than the rhyming one sub- joined. 1068. Glasgow-Punch.—From LocJchart's Peter^s Letters. —^'The sugar being melted with a little cold water, the artist squeezed about a dozen lemons through a wooden strainer, and then poured in water enough almost to fill the bowl. In this state the liquor goes by the name of sherbet, and a few of the connoisseurs in his immediate neighbour- hood were requested to give their opinion of it—for in the mixing of the sherbet lies, according to the Glasgow creed, at least, one-half of the whole battle. This being approved by an audible smack from the lips of the umpires, the rum was added to the beverage, I suppose, in something about the proportion from one to seven. Last of all, the maker cut a few limes, and running each section rapidly round the rim of his bowl, squeezed in enough of this more delicate acid to flavour the whole composition. In this consists the true tour-de-maitre of the punch-maker." Glasgow-Punch should be made of the coldest spring water, newly taken from the spring. The acid ingredients above mentioned will suffice for a very large bowl.—See Regents Punch, No. 1077. Tea-Punch, note p. 528. 1069. Punch d la Romaine.—Make a good lemon-ice (which see), as for a dessert, or take any left. To one quart of the ice put the whites of three eggs, well beaten, and add rum and brandy till the ice liquefies. The propor- Clear the sugar in near half a pint of spring water, In the neat silver- saucepan you bought for your daughter. Then the fourth of a pint you must fully allow Of new milk, made as warm as it comes from the cow. Put the rinds of the lemons, the milk, and the syrup, In a jar with the rum, and give them a stir up— A fuU quart of old rum (French brandy is better, But we ne'er in receipts should stick close to the letter); And then to your taste you may add some perfume, Goa-stone, or whatever you like in its room. Let it stand thus ten days, but remember to shake it; And the closer you stop it, the richer you make it. Then filter through paper, 'twill sparkle and rise, Be as soft as your lips, and as bright as your eyes. Last, bottle it up, and, believe me, the Vicar Of E himself never drank better liquor. In a word, it excels, by a million of odds. The nectar your sister presents to the gods!"LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. 525 tions of spirits are three parts rum to one of brandy; water to taste. To this put a cup of strong green tea, a little champagne, and syrup if needed. 1069''^. Mint-Julep.—Put a few leaflets of fresh mint into one of the deep tumblers used in the United States for cordial drams, and over these and a spoonful of sugar, pour what wine, brandy, or rum you wish: Have another deep tumbler, half-full of pounded ice; pour the spirit or wine over the ice, and briskly pour the whole backwards and forwards until sufficiently mixed: next, if in very hot weather, place the tumbler in a larger glass with ice,— which will act as a freezing apparatus,—and, when frost- work spreads over the glass, drink. For several receipts for these American beverages, which owe half their value to the extreme heat or the cold of the climate, Britain has been indebted to Captain Marryat and an anonymous writer in Taifs Magazine, The principle is the same in the com- position of ail of them, whether Sherry Cobbler^ Gin Slings, or by whatever name familiar; so we shall give but one more variety, from Tait " By my halidom,'' says the Rambler in North America, " a Sherry Cobbler is nectar fit for the gods; and the most eloquent description will prove inadequate to convey a just idea of a compound so truly delicious. Some pounded sugar, about two table- spoonfuls, is put into a large tumbler, a liberal supply of ice, pure as crystal, two wine-glasses of fine sherry; lemon- peel, cut very thin, a large slice of pine-apple at the top, and the whole violently shaken up, or poured several times from one tumbler to another, and allowed a minute or so to clear: a long reed is then stuck in the glass, and so you imbibe it." 1070. Bishop, Hot or Iced.—The day before this beverage is wanted, grill on a wire-grill, over a clear, slow fire, three smooth-skinned large Seville oranges. Grill them of a pale brown. [They may also be done in an oven, or under a furnace.] Place them in a small punch-bowl that will about hold them, and pour over them a full half-pint from a bottle of old Bordeaux wine, in which a pound and a quarter of loaf-sugar is dissolved. Cover with a plate. When it is to be served next day (though it may soak for two or three days), cut and squeeze the oranges into a small sieve placed526 CHAP. I. LIQUEEES, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. above a jug, containing the remainder of the bottle of wine, previously made very hot. Add more syrup if it is wanted. Serve hot in large glasses. In summer it may be iced. Bishop is often made of Madeira in England, and is flavoured with nutmegs, bruised cloves, and mace. It ought, how- ever, to be made of old, generous Bordeaux wine, or it fails of its purpose as a tonic liqueur. It is reckoned highly stom- achic, and is served at French dinners, savans et recherches^ as the coup-dCapres.—See Absinthe^ Nos. 1060, and 1076. 1071. Norfolk-Punch. — Pare thinly thirty-two Seville oranges, and the same number of lemons. Infuse the peel for two days in a wide-necked bottle or jar, with a gallon of brandy (or flavourless whisky) reduced in strength one- sixth. Clarify in a gallon of water four pounds of sugar. When cold, strain the brandy (which will now be a tinc- ture) to this. Add the juice of the oranges and lemons to this,—previously strained and bottled, when the peel is taken ofl". Cask these liqueurs in a brandy-cask if conveni- ent, or put them in a jar. Stop well. In six weeks they may be gently drawn off and bottled, but may stand for months. A tincture of bruised nutmegs and cloves may be added to this compound. A small quantity of milk was wont to be put to this, but is now often omitted. 1072. Milk-Punch,—Rub off on lumps of sugar the zest of a dozen lemons. Pare off what you cannot rub off on the sugar, but take none of the white stuff. Infuse in two quarts of brandy. Strain off in two days, and add of clarified syrup two pounds, and of water two quarts, with a half-pint of hot new milk. Strain through a jelly-bag, and keep in a close-stopped jar, or small cask, till it fine, which will be in six weeks or less.—Ohs. This beverage is getting into desuetude. It may be made extempore by adding a little hot milk sweetened, and brandy to lemonade, and straining through a jelly-bag. 1073. To Mull Wine.—Boil the spiceries (cinnamon, nut- meg grated, cloves, and mace) in any quantity approved, in a quarter-pint, or better, of water; put to this a full pint of port, with sugar to taste. Mix it welL Serve hot with thin slips of toast or rusks.—Ohs. The yolks of eggs were formerly mixed with mulled wine, as in making hot-pint or egg-caudle, and many flavouring ingredients were employedLIQUEURS, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. 527 which are now discarded.* Lemon or Seville-orange juice may be added, and the water may be strained off from the spices. Ale or porter may be mulled as above, and have toasted sippets or biscuit put to or served with them. 1074. Wine-WheT/.—Boil in a saucepan a pint of new milk, and pour into it three glasses of sherry or raisin wine. Bring it again to the boiling point; let it stand till the curd forms, and then remove the curd, and strain and sweeten the whey to taste with fine sugar. The whey may be weakened with hot water, if necessary, for invalids, or it may be boiled for five minutes. Vinegar-whey^ Cream of Tartar^ Lemon^ Mustard-seed^ and Alum-vuhey^ etc., may all be made as above. 1075. Scotch Hot Pint.\—Grate a nutmeg into two quarts of mild ale, and bring it to the boiling point. Mix a little cold ale with sugar necessary to sweeten this, and, gradually, two eggs well beaten. Gradually ladle out and mix the hot ale with the eggs, taking care that they do not curdle. Put in a half-pint of whisky or rum, and, returning the whole to the saucepan, stir till it reach the boiling point, stirring Hot Spiced Wines.—A variety of these delicious potations were in use until about the beginning of the sixteenth century. The old metrical romances are full of allusions to these favourite compounds, and particu- larly to the hippocras, sacJc, and clary. The first of these, which took its name from the bag through which it was strained being called " Hippo- crates' sleeve," was made of either white or red wine, with aromatics, such as ginger, cinnamon, and aromatic seeds, and sugar. Clary was made from claret, with honey and aromatics; and sack from the wine of that name. This medicated vin de coucher was used as a composing draught, or night- cap," and also drank at the conclusion of a banquet. " Of these spiced wines," says Le Grande, in his Vie Privee de Francois, "our poets of the thirteenth century never speak without rapture, and as an exquisite luxury. They consider it the masterpiece of art to combine in one liquor the strength and flavour of wine with the sweetness of honey, and the per- fume of the most costly aromatics. A banquet at which no piment was served, would have been thought wanting in the most essential article." The only kind of these delicious beverages still in use, besides our common mulled wine, is Bishop, that bewitching mixture made of claret or Bur- gundy, oranges and spices, with sugar. See receipt Bis/iop, No. 1070. When this compound is made of Bordeaux wine, it is simply called Bishop; but, according to a German amateur, it receives the name of Car- dinal when old lihine wine is used; and even rises to the dignity of Pope when " imperial Tokay " is employed. f Egg-posset, egg-flip, etc., etc., are made on the same principle, substi- tuting wine for beer, and using a seasoning of lemon-grate rubbed off on knobs of sugar. Beer-flip is nearly the Scotch Hot Pint. It is in the Universities—we mean those of Oxford and Cambridge—that this order of preparations are now best understood, as probably they Avere of old in the jMonasteries. " Oxford Nightcaps " is the name of a learned work dedicated to those of Oxford alone.528 CHAP. I.—LIQUEUES, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. during the whole process, and then briskly pour it from one vessel into another till it becomes smooth and bright. * 1076. The German Vermoute, or Wormwood-Wine.—In- fuse two teaspoonfuls of the extract of wormwood in a quart of St George, a celebrated Hungarian wine. Any rough or sub-acid wine will medicinally answer the same purpose.— See Nos. 1060, 1093. 1077. To make Sack-Posset.—This is made either of thin cream and grated sweet biscuits, or of beat eggs and milk instead of cream. Boil the cream or milk, sweeten it, and season with cinnamon and grated nutmeg. Warm the wine (Canary, alias sack) in a separate vessel, and stir it gradu- ally into the milk; then pour it quickly from one vessel into another till perfectly smooth: this is especially requi- site if made with eggs.—See Wassail-Bowl^ No. 937. 1078. Ale-Posset.—Boil a pint of new milk with a slice of toasted bread, sweeten and season a bottle of mild ale in a china basin or dish, and pour the boiling milk over it. "When the head rises serve it. 1079. The Pope^s Posset.—Sweeten and heat a bottle of white wine. Have a half-pound of sweet almonds, with a few bitter, blanched, pounded, and boiled in water, and ready strained. Mix the boiling-hot ingredients, beat them well up together. 1080. Regents or George the Fourth^s Punch.—A bottle of champagne, a quarter-pint of brandy, a glassful of veri- table Martinique., the juice of a lemon and Seville orange: With this mix a pint or more of a strong infusion of the best green tea strained, and capillaire or simple syrup to taste. Calves'-feet jelly is sometimes mixed with this composition. It may be iced, and must be strained.—Ohs. Other liqueurs may be used with this compound, and also a flavouring of aromatics first infused and strained.—See No. 1069.-|- * This beveraj^e, carried about in a bright copper kettle, is, or loas^ the celebrated New-Year's-Morning TIet Pint of Edinburgh and Glasgow. In honest, frugal Aberdeen, half-boiled sowens is used on the same festive occasion. In Edinburgh, in her high and palmy state,—her days of "spice and wine," while she had yet a Court and a Parliament, while France sent her wines, and Spain, Italy, and Turkey, fruits and spices,—a far more refined composition than the above was made by substituting light white wine for ale, and brandy for whisky.—W. W. f The following receipt for making Tea-punch, is taken from the Journal des Connaissancts Usuelles:—Hyson tea, 8 oz.; black tea, 4 oz.; boilingLIQUEURS, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. 529 1081. A Cool Tankard.—Put two glasses of sherry and one of brandy into a jug with a hot toast and sugar. Pour a bottle of fine ale over it; stir with a sprig of balm, and let it settle for a half-hour. 10812. Devonshire Cool Tankard.—Sweeten a bottle of cider with lumps of sugar rubbed on the rind of a large lemon. Add the juice of the lemon, a quarter-pint of sherry, and the grate of half a nutmeg. Like all summer beverages, it may be placed in ice; and the flavour " of our ancestors may be given by stirring in it thyme, balm, or mint. 1082. AthoU'Brose,—Mix with a cupful of heather-honey two cupfuls of whisky, alias mountain-dew, or in this pro- portion. Brandy and rum are also used, though the combi- nation they form with honey cannot be called Athole-Brose, The yolk of an egg is sometimes beat up with the brose, which is much approved by sportsmen and yachtsmen from the south, who take as kindly to the mountain-dew as if it were Alma Mater^s milk. 1083. Auld Man^s Milk.—Beat the yolks and whites of six eggs separately. Put to the beat yolks sugar and a quart of new milk, or thin sweet cream. Add to this rum, whisky, or brandy to taste (about a half-pint). Slip in the whipt whites, and give the whole a gentle stir up in the china punch-bowl, in which it should be mixed. It may be flavoured with nutmeg or lemon-zest. This Highland morning-cup is nearly the egg-nogg of America. \0^4t, Lait Sucre.—-Boil fine sugar in milk, and flavour with lemon. This, cold, is a refreshment fit for children's balls, and is so used in France. 1085. Eau Sucri.—Sugar in boiling water. This is a frugal supper-beverage much used by French ladies, and considered soporific. Biscuits are served with it. 1086. Mum-Shrub.—This is made in the easy way by adding the juice and an infusion of the rind of Seville oranges to rum, with a little syrup and plain water, or orange-flower-water. Honey, raisin-wine, porter, citric acid, water, 3 gallons; sugar, 16 lbs.; old brandy {Eau de Vie), two and a half gallons; rum, half a gallon; citric acid, and spirit of citron, of each three ounces. The tea is first infused in the water, the citric acid and sugar are then dissolved, and the other ingredients added. z530 CHAP. I. LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. etc., are all employed in compound shrubs.—Brandy-Shrith is made in the same manner. It is best to buy tliese com- pound liquors rectified and distilled ; or as made in the West Indies, where fresh rich fruits abound. 1087. Currant'Shrub^—White or Bed,—is made by put- ting the juice of the fruit to rum or brandy, in the propor- tion of a pint of juice, or less, to a quart of spirits, and adding syrup to taste. It must then be strained. 1088. Widow Barnohy's Brandy-Cherries.—Fill wide- necked bottles with small black cherries or geans, till rather more than half-full. Fill up with brandy; cork the bottles. The cherries will be ready in a month, and keep for a year; and the brandy for ever. Where spirits are ordered for rich pudding-sauces, no plain spirit is superior to the above in- fusion, which is made a liqueur by adding apricot-kernels bruised, cloves, cinnamon, and Seville - orange peel, as in Nos. 1053, 1054. 1089. Lemonade, and Milk-Lemonade,—This agreeable beverage used formerly to be fermented,—now the process is more simple. Take any number of lemons, suitable to the quantity of lemonade wanted; pare them as thin as possible; then rub the surface with knobs of refined sugar, to extract all the yellow or zest; put the saturated sugar and half the parings into a basin, and squeeze the lemons over it. Add refined sugar to taste. Hot water, and a little boiling milk (if approved), must be added, in the proportions wished for; three or four quarts to two dozen lemons is a fair quantity, using the whole juice, but only half the rinds. Skim the liquor when well mixed, and run it through a jelly-bag. Bottle it. For Milk-Lemonade, sweeten, and acidulate to your taste with fresh lemon-juice equal quantities of milk and water; add what white wine is approved; mix, and strain through a jelly-bag.—Ohs. Orangeade is made as above.—See No. 1084. 1090. Portable Lemonade,—useful on Voyages or in the Country.—Take of tartaric acid one half-ounce, refined sugar three ounces, essence of lemon half a drachm. Pound the tartaric acid and sugar very well in a marble mortar, and gradually pour the essence upon the mixture. Mix the whole very well, and paper it up for use in twelve separate parcels; each of which, when mixed with a tumbler of water, willLIQUEURS, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. 531 make a pleasant and refreshing draught. Lemonade may also be made extempore with the concrete of lemon-acid and syrup. No home-made Lemonades can compare with those aerated by the chemists, when of good materials. 1091. Capillaire.—Beat up six eggs and their shells with sixteen pounds of loaf-sugar; put to this three quarts of water; beat the whole mass, and boil it, and skim well. Perfume with orange-flower-water, or Eau de milles fleurs. —Ohs. This imitation answers well for sweetening liqueurs, or, wdth a little lemon-juice and water, makes a pleasant summer-draught. 1092. Another way.—Infuse what quantity of American capillaire is wanted in boiling water; sweeten with clarified syrup; strain ; flavour if you choose, and bottle. N.B.—Very little of the fern of which the capillaire is made, is obtained genuine. 1093. Bitters., a Tonic,—Take of juniper-berries two ounces, of gentian-root one ounce and a half, of coriander- seeds a quarter of an ounce, of orange-peel a quarter of an ounce, of calamus-aromaticus a quarter of an ounce, of snake- root a drachm, and of cardamom-seeds a half-drachm. Cut the gentian-root into small pieces, pound the other ingredients in a mortar, and put the whole into a large bottle or jar, with five bottles of the best malt-whisky of the strength of glass- proof, or ] 5 per cent, below hydrometer-proof. Shake the bottle a little when the ingredients are first put in, but not afterwards. Let it macerate for twelve days, carefully corked, and then strain it off, and bottle it for use.—Ohs. Gin or brandy may be substituted for whisky: whatever spirit is used, must be reduced to the strength of glass-proof. Sherry wine may be substituted for spirits.—See Nos. 1060, 1076. 1094. Aromatic Tincture.—Take an ounce of bruised cin- namon, and an ounce of the seeds of the lesser cardamom ; take also an ounce of bruised white ginger, two drachms of long pepper, and a quart of spirits. Infuse this for a fort- night, keeping it in a warm place, and strain for use. Two or three teaspoonfuls may be taken in a little capillaire, or eau Sucre, or in wine with a little water or without. This tincture is cordial; and, in cases of indigestion and languor, is considered restorative.532 CHAP. I. LIQUEURS, COEDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. British or Home-Made Wines. " Of wine may be verified the merry induction, that good wine maketh good blood, good blood causeth good humours, good humours cause good thoughts, good thoughts bring forth good works, good works carry a man to heaven; ergo^ good wine carrieth a man to heaven."—Howell. Those families who make wine in any quantity will find it useful to procure an approved treatise on this branch of domestic economy alone. We shall, however, give receipts for making and ordering the best and most admired sorts of wines in sufficient variety to suit most private families. 1095. General and Important Observations.—The fruit ought to be gathered before it is dead riipe, and in dry and sunny weather, which will greatly improve the quality and flavour of the wine. All fruit that is either unripe or spoiled should be picked out with care, as one ill-flavoured berry will taint the juice of many good ones. The fruit must be carefully bruised and put into a vat (or on the small scale, a cask with the end out of it) to ferment with the softest water and the sugar. The more carefully the stalks and seeds are excluded, the better will the wine be in flavour and salutary qualities. The less water that is used, the richer will be the wine; and the more the fruit-juice, and the less the sugar employed, the more will the deshed vinous taste and flavour predominate. Two or three days are generally enough for the white wines to ferment in the vat. Red wines require a day or two longer. Fermentation may be hastened by agitating the liquid, and raising the temperature of the place in which the vat is placed. When the wine has under- gone fermentation, it must be cleared by being put into hair- bags, and strained in a wine-press, or be strained through a canvass-bag. [Large sieves are used in the small scale of wine-making.] The casks are then filled till within an inch of the bung-hole, which should be slightly covered over. The casks must be set in a cool place; and now another fermentation comes on, called the spiritous, which will throw off the feculence that remains in the must, and greatly purify the wine. When this second fermentation has abated, the spirits ordered for the wine should be added, and the cask filled up and bunged. In six weeks at soonest, the cask must be pegged, to see if the wine is bright, and if so, must be care- fully racked off from the lees into another cask. The best533 GENERAL OBSERVATIONF^. method is this:—Bore a hole about half-way up the cask, and use a small quill to draw off the purest of the wine. Now bore a hole a little lower down, and if what is drawn off be not so bright as that first drawn, do not mix them. The lees may be filtered. The chief qualities of home-made wines (for they never will have the flavour of fresh grape-wines) consist, after all, in colour and brightness; so that it is of very great import- ance to have them carefully racked. When not perfectly translucent on a first racking, the wine must be racked a second and even a third time, and fined. Wine should, it is said, be bottled in clear settled weather. The bottles should be new, or at least perfectly clean and dry, and great atten- tion must be paid to the corking. A variety of things are used for perfuming wines; such as sweet herbs, peach-leaves, sweet bay-leaves, bruised al- monds or kernels of fruit, bergamot, cloves, ginger, etc., etc. Brandy will enrich wines: it ought, when added, to be pre- viously mixed with syrup. Flat wines may be enlivened by adding raisins bruised, mixing first a very little spirits with them. The addition of good wine will better answer the same purpose. Home-made wine is apt to ferment over- much ; this may be checked by removing the wine into a cool place, putting a little spirits to check it, and making the bung fast, so as to exclude air. But fermentation is sometimes too slow, and by experience we would recom- mend, as a certain means of making the fermentation sure, whether of wines or beers, when yeast is employed, to com- mence the process with a quart of the cooled liquor in a small vessel. This may be gradually increased to two or three quarts, and then put to the whole contents of the vat which you wish to ferment. By this means less yeast will do, and the process will be more certain. This rule is applicable to ginger-beer and to every sort of liquor fermented by yeast. After fermentation is over, be sure the cask is kept quite full and close bunged. The sooner wine is bottled after it is ned the more it will sparkle; we do not say it will be the etter wine. A good judge will choose a creaming rather than an effervescing or sparkling wine. 1096. Best White Gooseberry Champagne.—To every four pints of ripe white or amber gooseberries mashed, add a quart and a half of milk-warm water and twelve ounces of534 CHAP. I. LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. good loaf-sugar bruised and dissolved. Stir the whole well in the tub or vat, and throw a blanket over the vessel, which is proper in making all wines, unless you wish to slacken the process of fermentation. Stir the ingredients occasionally, and in three days strain off the liquor into a cask. Keep the cask full, and when the spiritous fermen- tation has ceased, add for every gallon of wine a half-pint of brandy or good silent whisky, and the same quantity of Sherry or Madeira. Bung up the cask very closely, cover- ing the bung with clay; when it clears, rack it carefully off, and rack it again if not quite bright. N.B. The fruit here should be rather under-ripe. A very excellent white currant wine may be made by this receipt, or a wine of white gooseberries and white currants mixed. Fruit-wines ferment spontaneously. 1097. Red Gooseberry Wine.—Take equal measure of water and bruised fruit, or more of the fruit if it be plentiful. To every gallon of the mixture add four pounds of loaf- sugar, and a quarter-pound of sliced red beetroot. When fermented and casked, add a quart of spirits for three gallons. 1098. British Rhenish,—To every gallon of fresh apple- juice, add two pounds of loaf-sugar. Boil and skim this till quite limpid. Strain it. Ferment it, and when the head flattens, rack it off clear, and tun it. Next season rack it off again; add a pint of brandy to every three gallons.—Ols, This is a highly-reputed wine, but we have no actual experience of its qualities. 1099. Red Currant Wine—To twenty Scotch pints of water put thirty-six Scotch pints or more of red currants, and one pint of raspberries. When these have fermented, add twenty pounds of good sugar, and after the wine is casked, two pints (if you choose) of brandy. This will make eighteen gallons of wine. N.B. The Scotch pint is about two quarts. Eed tartar in fine powder, and a pound and a half of sliced red beetroot, may be added to the above to deepen the colour. The skins of the black currant boiled, and the liquid strained and used as part of the water, we have found to answer better than beet for deepening the colour of the dark-red home-made wines. 1100. A cheap Wine of mixed Fruit—Take equal mea-535 ELDER-WINE. sure of water and sucli fruit as you can get; such as rasp- berries, cherries, strawberries, gooseberries, and currants, either black, red, amber, or white. Strain and ferment as above directed : allow fifteen pounds of treacle or coarse sugar for every twenty gallons. Perfume with a quarter- pound of ginger, and a handful of sweet marjoram and lemon-thyme. Add two quarts of whisky. N.B. A more delicate compound Wine may be made by using loaf-sugar and brandy; the colour may be enriched by red tartar, or better, black currant-skin liquor as part of the water. 1101. Elder-flower Wine^ or English Frontignac.—Whisk six whites of eggs in six gallons of water, and put to this sixteen pounds of good loaf-sugar. Boil and skim it well. Put to the boiling liquid eight pounds of the best raisins chopped, and a quarter-peck of elder flowers. Infuse these, but do not boil them. When cooled to about 80°, put a quarter-pint of yeast to the liquid, stirring it well up. Next day put in the juice of four lemons and the thin rind. Let it ferment in the open vessel for three days, and then strain and cask it. 1102. Elder-Wine^ made of the elder-berries, is a rich and rather expensive preparation. It is made in the proportions of three pounds of sugar and three pints of elder-berry juice to the gallon of water, enriched with chopped raisins, and perfumed and flavoured with ginger, nutmeg, cloves, etc. An excellent but more expensive Elder-wine is made by using equal weight of water, Malaga raisins and sugar, and an eighth part elder-berries; and flavouring with cinnamon, cloves, mace, and ginger. Elder-berry wine is, or was^ the pride of many English housewives, and no expense nor pains were spared in its preparation. Mulled, or as negus, it forms a pleasant winter beverage. It may stand in the cask till February to fine before being bottled, and is best hot and spiced as No. 1073. 1103. Orange-Wine,—^Dissolve twelve pounds of loaf- sugar in six gallons of water, in which the whites of a dozen eggs have been whisked. Whisk the whole, and boil and skim it. When nearly cold, from 75° to 80°, put into it six spoonfuls of yeast, and the juice of a dozen lemons. Next morning, skim off the top, and add the parings of the lemons,536 CHAP. I.—LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. and the juice and yellow rind of four dozen Seville oranges. Ferment for three days, and cask the wine. N.B.—This wine may be improved to some tastes by substituting honey for one-third of the sugar. It may be enriched by the addition of some of the high-flavoured wines, and perfumed with ginger, bitter almonds, bergamot, citron, peach-leaves, etc., etc. The whole of the orange-rind is by some thought to give too decided a flavour; less may be taken at pleasure, and the rest used for candied chips. 1104. Orange and Lemon Wine of Raisins,—Take two pounds of loaf-sugar, one pound of Malaga raisins, and the juice and peel of a Seville orange, to each gallon of water. Add the orange-juice when the wine is nearly done ferment- ing. Lemon- Wine is made in the same manner, using the lemon in rather greater quantity than the orange. 1105. Parsnip-Wine.—To every four pounds of parsnips, cleaned and quartered, put a gallon of water. Boil till they are quite soft, and strain the liquor clear off' without crushing the parsnips. To every gallon of the liquor put three pounds of loaf-sugar, and a half-ounce of crude tartar. When nearly cold, put fresh yeast to it. Let it ferment four days in a warm room, and then bung it up. N.B.—Parsnip-wine is said to surpass the other home- made wines as much as East-India Madeira does that of the Cape. So much is said for it, and on good authority, that it certainly deserves a trial. Horseradish-wine is made as above, and is recommended for gouty habits. In Ireland a pleasant table-beer is made from parsnips brewed with hops. Beet ought to make good wine. ; 1106. Ginger-Wine^ a light Cordial Wine.—To ten gallons of water, in which fifteen pounds of loaf-sugar have been dissolved, put the beat whites of six eggs; whisk this well, and boil and skim it; then put to it one pound twelve ounces of the best white ginger scraped and bruised. Boil the whole in a covered copper a half hour, to extract the flavour. When the liquor is nearly cold, put a glassful of fresh yeast into the tub. Let it ferment for three days at least, and on the second add the thin parings of four Seville oranges and six lemons. Cask it, and bottle off in six weeks, or when bright. Whisky in the proportion of one-sixth is often added in the cask. This wine may be aromatized^ as it is537 BIRCH AND MALT WINES. called, by allspice, a few cloves, some mace, cinnamon, and nutmegs, bruised and infused in brandy : the strained infusion must be put to the wine just before it is bottled.—Ohs, Ginger- wine, an insipid sort, is often made without being fermented, by merely mixing syrup, water, and whisky with ginger; and in the cheap wholesale way, allspice and cayenne are used with ginger to give flavour and poignancy.—See No. 1109. Another way^ from a Correspondent.—To seven gallons of water, take one pound and a half of ginger; bruise and boil it two hours, then strain and cool it; pour it over four- teen pounds of moist sugar. Add three gallons of strong grain whisky, the juice and rinds of two dozen lemons, one dozen bitter oranges, and three pounds raisins stoned. Barrel it, and stir it well every day for three weeks, then add one half-ounce isinglass dissolved in boiling water. After this let it stand in a cool place, well corked, in cask for two or three months, then bottle it.'' So far our correspondent; and this is certainly a pleasant cordial decoction,—a Ginger cordial^ but not a wine^ which should be a fermented liquor. 1107. Birch-Wine.—To every gallon of the sap of the birch-tree, boiled, put four pounds of white sugar, and the thin paring of a lemon. Boil and skim this well. When cool, put fresh yeast to it; let it ferment for four or five days, then close it up. Keep the bung very close, and in four months rack it off, and bottle it. N.B.—The pith must be carefully corked up when it is drawn off from the trees, till it is to be used. Less sugar will answer. This wine is sometimes made with a third part raisins, and flavoured with bitter almonds. 1108. Malt-Wine.—This, by courtesy, called Scottish Malmsey, is not the worst of the home-made wines. Pro- cure from a strong-beer brewer six gallons of sweet, fresh worts, or from a distiller the same quantity of pot-ale. To this add as much water, and for every gallon of liquor add two pounds of sugar, or one of sugar and one of good honey. Ferment this after mixing the sugar well Avith it, and let it remain in the cask for a month, keeping it full. Meanwhile soak four pounds of the best raisins, and twelve ounces of bitter almonds, both chopped, in a quart of flavourless whisky, which, when the wine is cleared by fermentation, add to it, with an ounce of isinglass melted in wine; mix z 2538 CHAP. I. LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. well, and, after a month or six weeks, bottle it, drawing it clear hy pegging as directed in No. 1095. The best sort of home-made wines are manufactured from foreign fruits, particularly raisins and imported grapes. Beers and other Household Beverages. 1108^. White Spruce-Beer.—To five gallons of water put seven pounds of loaf-sugar, and three-fourths of a pound of the essence of spruce. Boil and skim this. Put it into a vessel, and, when cooled to 80°, add fresh yeast (about a half-pint or less). When the beer has fermented for three days, bung the cask, and in a week bottle it off. N,B.—For Brown Spruce use treacle or coarse brown sugar instead of loaf-sugar. Artificial Lemon-Juice.— Dissolve nine drachms and twelve grains of crystallized citric acid in a pint of water, and flavour it with a drop of essence of lemon dissolved in a teaspoonful of brandy. Lemon and Kali.—Two parts loaf-sugar, one part dried and powdered citric acid; and powdered bicarbonate of potash, one part and a fourth. A better preparation is,— Effervescing Concrete Acidulated Alkali.—Mix intimately one part powdered tartaric acid, one of bicarbonate of soda, and two of pounded loaf-sugar. Flavour with essence of lemon, sixty drops to a pound of the mixture. A teaspoon- ful in a half-pint of water, or less, makes the draught. Ginger-Beer Powders.—Thirty grains of bicarbonate of soda, in blue paper; twenty-five of tartaric acid in white paper, to which add five grains of powdered white ginger, and a drachm of pounded sugar. 1109. Ginger-Beer^ of a superior hindj for keeping.—Take four pounds of loaf-sugar, four ounces or more of bruised white ginger, and four gallons of water. Boil for a half- hour, and skim this. Slice two lemons or more into a tub, and put to them one ounce of cream of tartar. Pour the hot liquor over this, and when about 77°, add a half-pint, or rather less, of fresh beer-yeast. Let this work for three or four days. Strain it off clear from the lees into a cask, and add to it, if it is to be kept, a half-pint of brandy. Bottle in a week or ten days, and wire the corks.— Ohs. With fourGINGER AND TREACLE BEERS—BOTTLING LIQUORS. 539 times the quantity of cream of tartar this makes aerated ginger-beer.— See 1106. 11092. Superior Ginger-Beer,—Dr Pereira's Receipt.— White sugar, twenty pounds; lemon or lime juice, eighteen ounces; honey, one pound; white ginger bruised, twenty- two ounces; water, eighteen gallons. Boil the ginger [bruised] in three gallons of water for half an hour; then add the sugar, the juice, and honey, with the fifteen gallons of water reserved. Boil and strain. When cold, add the white of an egg and half an ounce of essence of lemons. In four days bottle it, and it will keep for months. Dr Pereira seems to forget fermentation. 1110. Common Ginger-Beer.—Make as above, but take a third less sugar (raw sugar will do), and no lemons nor brandy. Ferment for two days, and bottle for use. A little cayenne or allspice is a cheap substitute for part of the ginger. The above compositions are sometimes called Im- perial, Ginger-Pop, etc. 1111. Treacle-Beer, a Table-Beer.—Boil, for twenty minutes, four pounds of molasses, in from five to six gallons of soft water, with a handful of hops tied in a muslin bag, or a little extract of gentian. When cooled to 80°, add a pint of fresh beer-yeast, or from four to six quarts of fresh worts from the brewer's vat. Cover the beer (and all fer- menting liquids) with blankets or coarse cloths. Pour it from the lees and bottle it. You may use sugar for molasses, which is lighter. N.B.—This is a cheap and wholesome beverage. A little ginger may be boiled in it a half-hour, if the flavour is liked, instead of hops. On Bottling Liquors, and on Corks, Bottle-Wax, etc., etc. " The penny-wise and pound-foolish" principle is not shown in any department of domestic management more decidedly than in the purchase of corks. These should always be of the best cork-wood, whether for pickles, cat- sups, made-wines, or even the cheapest commodities. Bottles are best when new; but, if well kept and thoroughly cleaned, they will continue to answer quite well. They should always be washed when set away, and kept with the head down- most. Bottles that have contracted a bad smell may beTIME REQUIRED FOR BOILING. 540 fumigated by a lighted match after they are well brushed, washed, and dried. Wash and drain them again ; but better, if for good liquor, break them. The lead shot used for clean- ing bottles should be carefully removed before they are filled. Bottle-wax is sold ready prepared, or is easily made thus :— 1112. Bottle-Wax.—A pound of rosin, a pound of bees- wax, and a half-pound of tallow. Mix with this red or yellow ochre, soot, or Spanish whiting, whichever colour you want. Melt it carefully, stirring all the while. If likely to boil over, stir with a candle-end, which will allay the ebullition. 1113. To prevent Liquors from having a Corked Taste.— Dip the corks in a varnish made of equal quantities of puri- fied wax and suet melted together, and repeat the dipping till the end of the cork is covered with the mixture. N.B.—We are not sure of this prescription. It will pre- vent a corked taste; but, by contracting the fibres of the cork, will it as effectually exclude the external air ? TABLE OF THE AVERAGE TIME REQUIRED FOR BOILING, ROASTING, AND FRYING DIFFERENT QUANTITIES OF MEAT, FISH, AND VEGETABLES. Boiling, Mean Time.* A Salted Kound, of twenty to twenty-five pounds, four to five hours. Edge -bone, of ten to fourteen pounds, three hours. Brisket, of ten pounds, three hours. Ham, of twelve to sixteen pounds, simmer slowly four hours, or boil two, and toast before the fire. Tongues, two hours if fresh; if salt and dry, from three to four hours' slow boiling. Leg of Mutton, of nine pounds, simmer for three hours. Neck of Mutton, from five to seven pounds, two and a half hours. Shoulder, of seven pounds, two and a half hours' simmering. * By boiling, we mean simmering slowly; keeping the meat, when brought to boil, at the boiling-point, without violent ebullition. Fish, potatoes, artichokes, carrots, and other things, must be -probed to try if they be done. N.B.—The time specified for butcher's meat is rather under than over^ which is the safest side to err on; for fish rather over^ which is the safe side too. An experienced cook knows at a glance when things are ready; when the eyes of fish start, and the fins loosen; when jets of steam from roasts draw to the fire, when vegetables sink in the boiling water, and so on. A young cook must study the clock, and probe.TIME REQUIRED FOR BOILING AND ROASTING. 541 Leg of Lamb, five pounds, simmer one hour and twenty-five minutes. Neck of Lamb, three pounds and a half, one hour and a quarter. Leg of corned Pork, of six to eight pounds, two and a half hours. Hand or Spring of Pork, five to six pounds, two hours. Piece of Bacon, from three to four pounds, one hour and a half. Neck of Veal, five pounds, two hours. Breast of Veal, seven pounds, simmer two hours and a half. Knuckle, from five to seven pounds, two hours and a half. Calf's Head, simmer three hours. Pig's Cheek, two hours, or more. Pig's Feet, three hours. Tripe, to simmer from six to eight hours, or more. Small Hen Turkey, from one hour to one and a half. Fowls, if large, from one hour to one and a half. Much longer if old. Rabbits, from one hour to one hour and twenty minutes. Small Chickens, from twenty minutes to a half hour.—Partridges, a half hour.—Pigeons, twenty minutes.— Pheasants, from an hour to an hour and a quarter, according to the size and age. Young Greens and Cabbage, quick boiling, twenty-five minutes. Artichokes, thirty-five minutes, whan probe. Green Pease, from fifteen to twenty minutes. Turnips and Carrots, from fifteen to fifty, or more minutes, according to age and size, when probe. French Beans, thirty minutes, when probe. Brocoli and Cauliflower, from twelve to fifteen minutes. Asparagus, from twenty-five to thirty minutes. Beetroots, two hours and a half, or more. When baked, two hours. Parsnips, thirty-five minutes, when probe. Spinage, from ten to fifteen minutes. Jerusalem Artichokes, peeled, from twenty-five to thirty minutes. A Turbot, of ten to fourteen pounds, put in cold water, a full half hour's simmering, after it fairly boils. Cod's Head and Shoulders, if large, an hour from the time it is put on a good fire, with cold water and salt. A Salmon, or thick Jole, nearly an hour from the time it is put on with cold water and salt. Slices of Salmon, or Cod, crimped, put in boiling water, from twelve to fifteen minutes.—Eels and small Flat Fish are soon boiled.—Had- docks, Whitings, Soles, etc., according to size. Soles, middle size, put on with boiling water, from six to ten minutes; their texture does not require long cooking. Hemngs and Mackerel, from seven to ten minutes. Lobsters and Crabs, about twenty minutes, if of average size. Skate, from twelve to twenty minutes' simmering, according to thick- ness. Roasting, Mean Time, A Sirloin, from fifteen to eighteen pounds, four hours. Ribs, same weight, four hours. Collared Ribs, about three and a half hours. Haunch of Venison, from three to four hours. Haunch, if in paper and paste, from four to five hours.542 TIME REQUIRED FOR ROASTING AND FRYING. Leg of Mutton, of eight to ten pounds, two hours and a half. Shoulder, of eight pounds, two hours. Fillet of Veal, of ten pounds, stufted, three hours. Brisket of Veal, of eight pounds, two hours. Loin, of eight to nine pounds, two hours. Leg of Lamb, of six pounds, one and a half hour. Loin, of three to four pounds, one hour and a quarter. Leg of Pork, of eight pounds, two hours and three quarters. Loin of Pork, of six pounds, two hours. Goose, if large, from one hour to one and a half. Green Goose, fifty minutes to an hour. Ducks, if large, fifty minutes. Hare, an hour and quarter to an hour and half. Turkey, from two and a half to three and a half hours, according to size. Leveret, fifty minutes. Rabbits, large, one hour. Wild Duck, thirty-five minutes. Partridges, large, thirty-five minutes. Pigeons, from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Chickens, from twenty to fifty minutes, according to the size. Black Cock, from an hour to an hour and quarter. Pig from an hour and quarter to two hours, according to the size. Large Fowl, sixty-five minutes. Ox-Heart, stufied, if large, two hours and a half. Calf's Heart, one hour. Grouse, thirty-five minutes. N.B.—In frosty weather, a few minutes more is to he allowed, and much will always depend on the size of the fire, and the way in which it is kept up; and we reckon upon every thing being held back from the scorching heat of the fire when first put down. It must also be kept in mind that we refer to ordinary kitchen- fires, not to the raging furnaces of Club-houses and large hotels, where the processes are considerably shorter. Frying. Soles, from seven to ten minutes, according to size. Slices of Cod, Salmon, Turbot, or any large thick fish, twelve minutes. Fillets of, rolled up circularly, ten to fifteen minutes. Herrings, Whitings, and small Haddocks, from eight to twelve minutes. Whitings and small Flounders, six to eight minutes. Skate, in slices, ten to twelve minutes. Eels, twelve minutes. Tripe, in batter, faur minutes. Perch and Smelts, if small, five minutes. Oysters, for garnishing, three minutes. Pancakes, from one to three minutes. Fritters, in batter, the fruit previously stewed or roasted, four or five minutes. Fritters of fresh sliced apples, in batter, eight minutes. Rissoles and Croquets, of dressed mincemeat, five minutes. Potatoes, cold, in slices, three minutes. Eggs, three minutes. N.B.—The above time is rather in excess, as the safe side.PROVISIONS IN SEASON. 543 NOTICES OF THE PRINCIPAL MEATS, FISH, AND VEGETABLES, IN SEASON IN THE DIFFERENT MONTHS OF THE YEAR. JANUARY. Beef and mutton, which are to be had good all the year round, are both prime in this month, though they begin to get dearer than in the fall of the year; veal to be had good, but dear at this season; house- lamb and pork generally both dear. Poultry—Turkeys, geese, ducks, fowls, pullets, tame pigeons, wild ducks, hares and rabbits, plentiful; partridges, pheasants, and a great variety of wild fowl. Fish — Turbot, halibut, skate, cod, haddocks, soles, plaice, flounders, her- rings, oysters, —prime turbot is now scarce; lobsters and crabs hardly to be got at this time; prawns plentiful. Vegetables—The same sorts of vegetables are in season, with little variation, from the beginning of November till the end of February : they are Savoys, cabbage, and greens of all the sorts, Brussels sprouts, brocoli sulphur-coloured and purple; spinage, leeks, onions beetroot, parsnips, turnips, celery, carrots, potatoes, cresses, parsley, endive, and forced asparagus, and mushrooms. Fruits—A variety of apples, pears, and filberts, walnuts, oranges, foreign grapes, and all the dried foreign fruits now plentiful and excellent. FEBRUARY. Meat, the same as in January, but veal and house-lamb generally rather cheaper. Fish the same, but cod and haddocks fallen off; lob- sters and herrings more plentiful; barbel and dace got. F^oivls and game the same, save partridges and pheasants, with spring chickens and ducklings in addition, but at this season enormously dear. Pea and Guinea fowl now come in and continue till July. Vegetables the same, and, in addition, forced kidney-beans and salad herbs. MARCH. Meat as in January, and in some localities grass-lamb; house-lamb now cheaper; and mountain-mutton, which begins to fall off about mid-winter, now not so good, particularly in severe seasons; veal gets cheaper. Poultry the same as last months ; no hares from middle of the month; close time till September; green geese, ducklings, tame pigeons (cheaper); wild pigeons ; moor-game close. Fish—Salmon is now got, but dear,—indeed it is to be had in London almost the whole year mund. Fish, in an open spring, are plentiful about this time, but still more so in April; mackerel, shrimps, and prawns, are now seen. Turbot are now in high request. The John Dory makes its appearance in the London market. Vegetables—Forced cucumbers and rhubarb; young turnips, and turnip-tops, spinage, brocoli, rad- ishes, and salad herbs. APRIL. Heat of all hinds.—Yeal and lamb get cheaper. Poultry same as last three months. Leverets to be got towards the end of the month ; young fowls, with eggs, and turkey-poults, but in general extrava- gantly dear. Vegetables same as the last months, with chervil andPROVISIONS IN SEASON. 544 lettuce: vegetables now begin to get cheap. Cresses from the end of this month till November. Fruits—Green gooseberries and rhubarb for tarts. Smelts and whitings plentiful, mackerel is got, and mullet. MAY. The same in meat as the preceding months, and about Whitsuntide buck-venison comes in season. Fish—Turbot, lobster, trout, salmon, eels, and plenty of the smaller white fish in favourable weather; oysters go out of season till August, and cod is not liked from about Lady-day till Midsummer, or later. Vegetables of all kinds as before, with forced pease and early potatoes. Sea-kale, asparagus, saladings, and carrots, are now obtained of natural growth. JUNE. Meat of all hinds, and it generally begins to get cheaper. Fish— Salmon, turbot, skate, halibut, crabs, prawns, lobsters, soles, eels, all in high season, and getting cheaper. Vegetables in great plenty and variety, and cheaper; cauliflower, asparagus plentiful, and about the cheapest towards the end of the month. Fruits in fine seasons are strawberries, early cherries, melons, and forced peaches and apricots; also apples for tarts. About the beginning of the month the West India fleets used to arrive with turtle. Now it comes frequently by steam. JULY. 3Ieat of all hinds.—Lamb and veal cheap. Poultry of all kinds as before, and also plovers and wheat-ears. Leverets, turkey-poults, and ducklings, now begin to be worth eating, and cheaper. Wild ducks are often got about this time. Fish is now good of all kinds, save oysters; and the rarer sorts, as turbot and salmon, are about the cheapest; therefore cod is not sought after, though this is the high season of the cod and also of the herring fishery on our coasts. Vege- tables of all kinds good and plentiful, as cauliflowers, pease, and French and Windsor beans. Fruits—All the small fruits at their best, also early grapes and plums, apricots, melons, cherries, and pine-apples. AUGUST AND SEPTEMBER. Meat of all hinds, and cheaper. Mountain-mutton now excellent. Grass-lamb growing coarse. Veal getting scarcer. Poultry as before; with moor-game of all kinds after the 12th of August, and partridges and hares from the beginning of September. Geese and ducks now full grown and good. Fish—Cod is good,—turbot goes rather out, as does salmon. Fresh-water fish now plentiful, as pike, carp, perch, and trout. Herrings, which are in season from July till March, are still excellent. Fruits of all kinds plentiful, as peaches plums, nec- tarines, hot-house grapes, melons, filberts, pears, apples: retarded small fruits still seen; also quinces, morella cherries, and damsons. Mushrooms, wild ones, most plentiful in this month and next, also cucumbers. OCTOBER. Meat as before, and doe-venison. Pasture-fed beef and mutton are probably at the best in this month. Poultry and game in all varieties,PROVISIONS IN SEASON. 545 but young fowls get dearer. Pheasants now got, and generally wood- pigeons, snipes, and wild-ducks, begin to appear. Fish—Cod, had- docks, brill, tench, and all sorts of shell-fish. Oysters, which come in at London in August, and at Edinburgh in September, are now excellent. Vegetables—Beans, brocoli, and cabbage of all kinds; beet, onions, leeks, turnips, carrots, lettuce, cresses, chardoons, endive, celery, skirrets, cucumbers (scarce), spinage, and dried herbs; aspar- agus gets rare. Fruits—All sorts of apples and pears, nuts, walnuts, chestnuts, grapes, and retarded gooseberries. NOVEMBER AND DECEMBER. Meat.—Beef and mutton prime. House-lamb and veal. Sucking- pig. Buck-venison goes out. Fish—All good about this time. Salmon dear. Poultry gets very dear in large towns about this season, but it is to be got of all kinds; also woodcocks and snipes, mallards and sea-fowl; game generally cheaper now. It is, however, quite impossible rigidly to fix the seasons of pro- visions, and much less their price. Meat, generally speaking, is cheapest in the latter end of autumn, and dearest in spring. Beef is found prime all the year round, but small natural pasture-fed beef is at the best in October; so is hill-mutton: both fall away in the winter, and get lean in spring. Veal is good from Christmas till after Mid- summer, and is at the cheapest from the end of May until August. House-lamb is less liable to variation than other meat; in fact, it is seldom cheap, and always very dear till after Christmas. Grass-lamb is one of the few things that is at its best when dearest. In August and September it becomes cheaper but coarser. Pork, as it varies much in quality, also varies in price, from local situation. It is generally dear in London. Poultry is found cheapest in great towns in the end of summer ; and, in remote places, about Christmas, or before spring; — or wont to be, for now railways and steamers have annihilated space and nearly equalized prices. The same mighty agents have hastened and prolonged the seasons of many table luxuries. Edin- burgh, for example, now gets green pease from London so early as May, and returns the gift in September; so that both cities may have a four months' season. Wild-fowl and sea-birds, like fish, depend in price on the supply. Eggs get dearest before Christmas, and are cheapest before Easter. Vegetables, except perhaps young pease and early small salad-herbs, are always best when cheapest, that is, in June, July, and August. They are often cheap in spring, when the gardeners clear their grounds to receive fresh crops. Eschalots and carrots to store, and beans, cabbage, and cucumbers to pickle, will be best bought in August and September; onions, potatoes, carrots, and turnips in October. Beef and mutton may be cured for winter-store, or for hams, with most advantage about the beginning of November, both from quality and price. Hams, tongues, and sausages are in season all the year round, and are absolutely necessary when veal and poultry form the principal fare. Fruits ought to be preserved when their several kinds are at the best and cheapest, as plums and melons about August; Seville oranges in February or March.EXPLANATION OF UNUSUAL 546 GLOSSAEY OF THB MORE UNUSUAL CULINARY TERMS, FRENCH AND ENGLISH. Instead of elaborate definitions, we shall, in most instances, merely refer to the page at which the dish or process signified is fully ex- plained. Aspic, see page 356. Assiettes Volantes, small dishes handed round. Atelets, silver ornamental skewers. Bain Marie^ p. 163. Warding, covering with thin lard birds or meat to be dressed. Blanc, a rich stock in which tripe, etc., is stewed, p. 386. Blanch, to, to soak meat or vegetables in hot water, also to scald almonds, or give firmness or whiteness, by a short rapid boil. BlanqueMes, small minced dishes, see p. 366. Boudin, any French pudding, but used in this work only to signify puddings of meat or fish, p. 365. Bouilli, boiled meat of any kind, but generally said of boiled beef. Bouillon, broth of meat; and boiled liquor, of many kinds. Bouillon, Court, a French preparation for boiling fish, p. 379. Braise, to, see p. 311. Braises, dishes braised or cooked in a braise, p. 311. Brisket, the breast of beef, veal, or lamb. Broth, a term frequently used for stoclc. Browning—see Nos. 255, 369,—used to give soups, sauces, and gravies a fine colour. Buisson, a cluster, or hush of small pastry, piled up on the dish. Cannelons, small collars or rolls of minced meat, or of rice or pastry with fruit; so named from resembling cinnamon. Casserole, an edging, border, wall, or encasement of rice, paste, or mashed potatoes, in which meats are said to be served en Casserole, or saucepan shape: also a saucepan. Chops, slices of meat, usually cut from the ribs or neck of mutton, pork, or lamb, and generally with a bit of bone. Civet, a dark thickish stew, generally of hare or venison, p. 359. Clarify, to, to refine, to purify by boiling, skimming, straining, or filtering, pp. 115, 129, 469. Collar, to, to bone, season, and roll up meat or fish before dressing. Crimp, to, said of fish cut into fillets or slices, as cod, salmon, skate, or turbot, when very fresh, and boiled rapidly, till crisp and curdy. Croquettes, p. 331.CULINARY TERMS. 547 Crumb, to, to strew with or dip meat, fish, etc., in bread-crumbs. Cidlis, the French Coulis, a rich gravy, the basis of sauces. Cutlets or CoteJettes, slices of veal, mutton, venison, or salmon, thinner and smaller than chops, and generally without bone. Daubes, an order of French dishes dressed en Daube, p. 372. Dejeuner a la Fourcliette, or fork-breakfast, a breakfast at which the use of forks is required from solid dishes being served. Dormants, said of dishes which remain from the beginning to the end of a repast, as the cold pies, hams, or moulded or potted meats or ornamental things placed down the middle of a table at large enter- tainments. Dormant, a, a centre-dish which is not removed, and which is used by the French, who never change the tablecloth. Drappit Eggs, eggs poached in sauce, No. 737, p. 404. En Compote, things served in syrup, generally fresh fruits, pp. 389, 496. En Couronne, things dished in form of a crown. En Chemise, fruits rolled in sugar, or frosted with it, p. 498. En Ci^oustade, said of things served in crusts, or crust-shapes, p. 343. En Miroton, hashed or re-warmed slices of meat, arranged as de- scribed. No. 623. N. B.—In like manner French dishes are said to be a la Maitre Hotel, a VEspagnole, a la Venetienne, etc., from the sauces with which they are dressed or served. En Fapillote, generally said of every thing served in twisted paper, as salmon and mutton cutlets Maintenon, Nos. 445, 474. Entrees, the French term for their first-course dishes. Entrees de Desserte, dishes made of cold left meats. Entremets, the French term for second-course dishes. Fillets, things cut sharply into strips, as breasts of poultry, fish, French beans, and many other things. No. 682'^. Forcemeat or Farcemeat,—Stuffing in general, whether for meats, poultry, fish, balls for soup^ pies, or sweet dishes. Force, to, or Farce, to stuff" with forcemeat. Garnish, or Garniture, any thing useful, relishing, or ornamental, served around or along with dressed meats. Garnish, to, to decorate, to ornament. Gigot, the French and Scottish term for the leg of mutton or lamb, as distinguished from the haunch. Glaze, the rich juices of meat thickened by fast boiling and evapora- tion to a jelly or robb with which to glaze meat. Glaze, to, to dry and cover meats with glaze, p. 238. Godiveau, a French forcemeat, p. 384. Grathi, a French forcemeat, generally of poultry,—also the process of letting moistened bread-crumbs, etc. catch and crisp in a dish over ^ embers. Gravij, generally in England understood to mean the juices of cooked meat, and also strong stock. Haricot, so called from the French word for beans, with which the dish was originally made; now often understood of any ragout or thick stew of beef, mutton, or veal, cut in pieces, and dressed with abundant vegetables and roots.548 EXPLANATION OP UNUSUAL B'erhs, Savoury, or Fine, are parsley, mushrooms, chives, rocambole, tarragon, etc. Herbs, Sweet, are lemon-thyme, mint, basil, bay-leaf, etc. ITors d^ceuvres, p. 377. Hotch-potch, any thin stew, or stew soup, of meat cut in pieces, and dressed with fresh vegetables; also the name of a celebrated Scot- tish National dish. Kitchen-Fee, dripping, probably called kitchen-/e6 in Scotland, from being formerly the perquisite of the cook. Lardk, to, to enrich meats, poultry, etc., by introducing strips of lard into them with a needle made for that purpose ; also said of intro- ducing parsley, etc., in the same manner. Lardons, strips of lard. Liaison, a thickening, generally of beat eggs, sometimes of cream and eggs, intended to tie or connect the component parts of a dish. Soups and sauces with a liaison should be kept hot, in a pot of water, or hain marie, lest the fire curdle them. Maigre:—Preparations of all kinds, if made without butcher's meat, poultry, or game, and cooked merely with butter, where lard or dripping might at other times be proper, are called maigre, in opposition to gras. Maigre Dishes, dishes used by Roman-catholics on the days when their Church forbids flesh-meats; comprehending all fish and vege- table pies and soups, puddings, fruit-pies, egg-dishes, omelets, fritters, macaroni, all preparations of fish, cheese-dishes fish- sausages, and all creams, jellies, and confectionary, also dressed vegetables, pickles, and preserved cakes and biscuits. Marinades, compound liquors of various kinds, generally made of wine or vinegar, with herbs and spices, in which fish or meats are soaked before they are dressed, to improve their flavour or quality, and in which they are sometimes boiled. Marinade, to, to steep in a marinade, as No. 22, and Obs. No. 112. Panada, a batter for mixing with forcemeats, anciently employed for basting, p. 92, note. Pass, to, French passer, to give things a half or third part cooking hastily, in the stewpan, fryingpan, or saute-pan. Poele, to, to cook meat in a particular kind of rich stock, p. 386. Probe, to, to pierce to the heart or inside of butter, cheese, hams, etc., with a probe, to try their qualities by sight or smell;—also, to try if potatoes, turnips, gourds, etc., are enough boiled. Puree, a, a pulpy mash of onions, celery, turnips, mushrooms, pease, or chestnuts, thinner than a mash, but thicker than a sauce, over which, in French Cookery, meats are often served. Beduce, to, to boil a sauce or soup rapidly down to a jelly, or till it become rich and thick, or a glaze. Pefresh, to, to steep or soak meats, but particularly vegetables, i^ plenty of pure water, changing it, or letting it flow off; as spinage, when boiled, is often held in a colander, under the water-cock, to refresh it before being finished. Roux, thickening, white and brown, p. 234. Salads, cold dressed dishes of many things, but in modem England still generally said of vegetable messes only, pp. 224-228.549 CULINARY TERMS. Sandwiches^ a class of relishing convenient preparations, named from the noble inventor, p. 335. Sauter^ to give a light fry, or, Scottice, a leap; literal translation. Saute-pan, a thin bottomed fryingpan for quick frying. Scallops, or Scollops, small dishes of various kinds, so called from being served either in real scallop-shells, or little shapes resembling them, also things cut in this shape, Nos. 178, 668. Sippets, little bits of bread cut in various shapes, either soaked in stock, toasted or fried, to serve with meats as garnishing or borders, p. 342. Shinh, Scottish, a thin broth; also the leg or shin of beef from which stock is generally made, and also to pour a liquid from one vessel into another backwards and forwards, briskly. Stock, broths of various qualities prepared beforehand of different materials, as the basis of soups and sauces, and often called gravy. Sweat, to, to expose meat in a stewpot, cut or whole, to a slow steady heat, to extract its juices with little or no water. Tendons (sometimes tendrons), the French term for the gristly parts of the breast of veal or lamb, p. 863. Test, to, to cook a little of any farce or other thing, in order to prove its quality. Tourte, the corrupt French name for a fruit-tart, or other pie. Vanner, to, the French term for working a sauce smooth, b^ rapidly lifting it high in large spoonfuls, and letting it fall as rapidly for a length of time. Vol-au-vent, en, an elegant French mode of serving meats, particularly things dressed anew, as cold turbot, chickens, rabbits, p. 342,—also a mode of elegantly serving second-course dishes. N.B.—The measure referred to in this volume is the Imperial measure —the weight the lb, avoirdupois. CHAPTER II. MISCELLANEOUS EEOEIPTS, PKEPAEATIONS FOE THE SICK AND OONVALESOENT, AND CHEAP DISHES. Good broth with good keeping do much now and then; Good diet with wisdom best comforteth men; In health to be strong shall profit thee best ; In sickness hate trouble, seek quiet and rest. Thomas Tusser's good Huswifely Fhisich. 1114. Rice-Milk.—Wash the rice, and pick out the black parts. If milk be plentiful, it may be boiled in milk; if not, boil in water to plump and soften it, and when the water is wasted put in the milk; take care that the rice inCHAP. II. PREPARATIONS FOR THE SICK. 550 thickening does not stick to the saucepan. To avoid this, saucepans and all pans in which preserves, rice, and all such things, should be set on a trivet, and custards and egg-sauces in a vessel set in another to steam. Season with sugar and a bit of cinnamon boiled in the milk. Currants and grated nutmeg are sometimes used with rice-milk; and the milk is made first thin, and then thickened to a caudle with beat egg and flour.—Ohs, Where boiled rice and milk is frequently used as an article of diet, as in some nurseries and boarding- schools, the addition of a very little roughly-shred beef or mutton suet boiled with it, will not only render it more nutritious, but more wholesome. A bit of lemon or orange peel will give zest. Ill42. Bread-Pudding for Young Children or Convales- cents.—Dr Anthony Todd Thomson!s Receipt.—Over a half- pound of grated stale bread pour a pint of boiling milk. Cover the basin, and let it soak for an hour. Add to it, when cold, two eggs beat up. Mix and boil for a half-hour in the basin tied into a cloth. Eat with only salt or with sugar; and flavour with sherry, if wine is allowed. The doctor could have no objection to a bit of lemon-rind, cin- namon, or a little nutmeg. 1114^. Dr A. T. Thomson's Sowens or Flummery for con- valescents. To any quantity of oatmeal you like to infuse, put double the weight of warm water; stir well, and let the mixture infuse for four or five days in a warm temper- ature. Add more water, stir up and strain. Let the liquid stand till the starch falls down in a white sediment; pour off the water, and, mixing as much of the starch or sedi- ment as is wanted with water to thin it, boil, stirring briskly for a quarter of an hour, till a jelly more or less tenacious is formed. Sowens are eaten with milk, butter, or cream, and for convalescents, either with wine or milk, as prescribed. "Buttered sowens wi' fragrant lunt'' was the Hallow-Eve supper of rural Scotland. Thin or raw sowens are or were drunk in Aberdeen, and the northern towns of Scotland, on New Year's Day morning, for some reason that we do not pretend to understand. Sovjens, as a supper-dish, wont to be presented at the noblest tables in the north, and also in Ireland and Wales, under the name of flummery. There is no preparation of oatmeal more wholesome or palatable, andMILK-DISHES. 551 none so refined. This veritable oatmeal-jelly eats well cold, and takes any shape in a mould. We have altered, and, as we think, improved Dr Thomson's receipt. No better dish of the kind could be introduced by a Scotch physician into England. 1115. Baloop'Milh is made as No. 1114; but, from its native flavour, saloop does not require so much, nor indeed any seasoning. 1116. Sago-Milk.—Soak the berries in water for an hour before boiling ; or boil first in water for two or three minutes, which water pour off. Boil a large spoonful in a quart of new milk. Sweeten and season to taste.—Obs, The fore- going milks may be made of ground rice and saloop, using the rice-flour in smaller quantity. 1117. Scotch Hatted Kit.—Where this cooling and healthy article of diet is in constant use for children or delicate per- sons, a kit with a double bottom, the upper one perforated, and furnished with a faucet and a cover, should be got. Into this vessel put in the proportion of two quarts fresh good butter-milk, and a pint of milk hot from the cow. Mix well by jumbling; and next milking add another pint of milk, mixing all well. It will now firm, and gather a hat. Drain off the whey whenever it runs clear, by the spigot; remove what of the top or hat is necessary to take up the quantity wanted. This dish, if to present at table, may be moulded for an hour in a perforated mould, and strewed over with a little pounded sugar, and then nutmeg or cinnamon. The kit must be well sweetened with lime-water or charcoal every time it is used; and too much milk should not be made at once, it gets so rapidly very acid. A slight degree of coagulation assists digestion, but milk highly acidulated is not wished for in this dish. 1118. Another and easier way.—Pour a quart of very hot new milk over two quarts of fresh butter-milk. Let it repose. When firm, take off the surface, and drain the rest in a milk-sieve, or mould it if you choose. Serve cream in a jug and sugar. 1119. Corstorphine or Ruglen Cream, or Lappered Milk. —Pour a quart of new milk into a jar. On this, next morning, pour another, and mix well; at night do the same; and next day beat up the thickened milk with moist sugar.552 CHAP. II. PREPARATIONS FOR THE SICK. This cooling preparation was patronized by Sir John Sinclair. It may be made like hatted kit, of mixed butter-milk and sweet milk.—Indeed, there is a learned controversy on the genuine preparation, and another as to whether the honour of its invention really belongs to Corstorphine near Edin- burgh, or to the burgh of Rutherglen in the neighbourhood of the western metropolis. 1120. Sour-Milk Crowdie,—Pour fresh good butter-milk upon finely-ground oatmeal till as thin as pancake-batter. Stir the mixture. 1121. Sago for the delicate,—also a Supper-Dish.—Soak the berries, changing the water. Simmer with a bit of lemon-peel till the berries look transparent. When nearly done, add aromatic spices (z. e., nutmeg, mace, and cloves) to taste, with wine and sugar to taste. Give the whole a boil up before dishing it.—Ohs, Sago and patent cocoa, pounded in equal quantities, and a spoonful boiled in milk, with sugar to taste, make a nutritious breakfast. 1122. Arrowroot Jelly.—This may be prepared with either water, milk, or white wine and water, according to the pur- pose for which it is wanted, and sweetened, and seasoned to taste. Rub two heaped teaspoonfuls of the flour well with a little cold water, as in making starch, and pour over it a pint of the boiling liquid to be used. Stir it the whole time it is on the fire. Five minutes will dress it.—Ohs. This jelly, made in a shape and turned out, makes a light and pretty supper-dish, garnished with bits of red-currant jelly, or may serve for luncheon to young persons and children. Potato-flour is done in the same way, but it must be boiled longer to be good or safe. Arrowroot need not be boiled, and often is not, though it is best so cooked. 1123. A simple Indian Curry for a Convalescent.—Take a clove of garlic and a small onion; bruise them in a mortar, with three teaspoonfuls of the powder described in next receipt, and a teaspoonful of salt. Slice another onion, and fry it in a stewpan with a good piece of butter. Let it fry till the onion is brown. Pick out the shreds of onion, and put the mixed ingredients into the pan with a teaspoon- ful of good butter-milk, or soured cream; add to this a young fowl skinned, and carved into joints; and simmer till it is ready, stirring the whole quickly.PREPARATIONS FOR INVALIDS. 553 1124. A Simple Curry-Powder.— One teaspoonful of pow- dered white ginger, two of coriander-seeds. Half a one of turmeric, a quarter one of cayenne; acid to be added at pleasure to the curry when nearly ready.— See No. 758. 1125. Vegetable Marrow or Gourds,—Parboil the fruit. Take it up; and, when cool enough to handle, cut out a longitudinal piece reaching to the heart of it; and, draining out the moisture from the fruit, replace the piece cut out, and fasten it with thread. Boil in water with salt, till on probing it is found that the marrow is thoroughly done. It may be either served whole or divided, on a toast, with melted butter poured over; or mashed with cream and butter; or treated as at Nos. 203 and 204. 1126. Meat Cuhhuhed or Kebohhed^—a good dinner for an Invalid.— Cut veal, beef, or mutton, lean but juicy, into small bits. Beat them slightly; run them on wire skewers, and fasten these to the small whirling wire-jack. Baste well with the dropt gravy, using a little butter at first; dust with salt when ready, add pepper or curry-powder at dis- cretion. Serve either with grilled toasts or boiled dry rice. N.B.—A chicken or rabbit may be skinned, quartered, and done as above. What is called cuhhuhed curry is made as any other curry, but half of the meat is pork, fresh or pickled, with more garlic and turmeric than are usually employed in our cookery. Fresh pork in any form of fry or curry is not relished in this country, and is seldom seen, save, perhaps, of necessity, on board of ship. If for a land- ward dinner, we would recommend a large allowance of acid with pork curry. It seems an absurdity to curry the flesh of an animal the Hindoos abhor. 1127. Gloucester Jelly for Invalids.—This is made of equal parts of rice, sago, pearl-barley, hartshorn-shavings, and eringo-root; four ounces of the ingredients to nearly two quarts of water. Simmer slowly for an hour, and strain it. The jelly may be dissolved at pleasure in milk, wine, soup, etc., and is reckoned nourishing and light.—Ohs. This is sometimes called Dr JehVs Restorative Jelly. It makes a good breakfast for invalids, when warmed in milk and sweetened. 1128. Dr Hunter^s Dinner for a delicate Person.—" Cut a piece of veal into slices, beat, and put these into an earthen- 2 A554 CHAP. ir.—preparations for the sick. ware can with plenty of sliced turnip. Cover the vessel, and let it stand up to the brim in boiluig water. Add salt and pepper, and serve when done. This simple dish, says the learned Doctor, contains all the juices of the veal, with the addition of saccharine matter afforded by the turnip. The Komans were acquainted with this mode of cookery; it was what they meant by per duplex vas coquere." Beef may also be dressed thus:—Soups of sheep's head or trot- ters, or calf s feet boiled slowly to a weak jelly, are excel- lent invalid dishes in many cases. They should be served with grilled toasts (No. 81), which are often acceptable to a stomach too delicate to bear other food. 1129. Barley-Water.—Wash common or pearl barley, and take in the proportion of an ounce to a quart of water. Give it a boil for a few minutes in a very little water, and pour off this, and take fresh water, which will make the barley-water lighter and of a better colour. Boil it down one half. Lemon-peel and sugar may be added, or a com- pound draught made, by adding to every pint of the decoc- tion an ounce of stoned raisins, a quarter-ounce of sliced liquorice-root, and three or four figs. With lemon-juice it is less cloying, and more grateful to the sick. Currant-jelly answers very well mixed in barley-water. 1130. Panada.—Slice the crumb of a loaf very thin, and soak or boil it gently in water; when soft, beat it well, and add sugar, and, if admissible, wine or a little rum. A little butter may be added.—0^5. Panada may be made of chicken-broth instead of water, and seasoned with a little mace, or a bit of lemon-peel, and is excellent for invalids. 1131. White Caudle.—Mix two large spoonfuls of finely- ground oatmeal in water, two hours previous to using it; strain it from the grits and boil it. Sweeten, and add wine and seasonings to taste. Nutmeg or a little lemon-juice answer best for seasoning. 1131^. Brown Caudle, the Scotch Ale-berry, is made as above, using mild sweet small beer instead of water.—Obs. Caudle may be made of rice-flour or wheat-flour, with milk and water, boiling long and sweetening it to taste. 1132. Beef-Tea.—Cut a pound of lean, fresh, juicy beef, into thin bits, and pour a quart, or better, of hot water over it; infuse this for a half-hour by the fire, and then let it555 PREPARATIONS FOR INVALIDS. boil up quickly with a little salt, and take off the scum. Simmer gently for a half-hour, and let it settle; pour care- fully from the sediment, or strain it. Beef-tea is sometimes made by simple infusion, but this is a rather disgusting preparation to most people; and sometimes a steak is half- broiled and then cut down, and has boiling water poured over it, which is better. Veal or Chicken tea is made in the same way as beef-tea. Besides the above preparations, many receipts are scat- tered through this work for dishes proper for convalescents. Among these are barley-broth, and sheep's-head broth, if cleared of fat; broiled chickens, skinned; or fowl and chicken plain boiled, with rice; fresh rizzared haddock; chicken d la Paysanne^ which Careme upholds as the most wholesome dish that can be prepared. Sweetbreads, plainly dressed; and the various plain preparations of macaroni, vermicelli, semoulina, and rice ; all of these, well boiled, either with milk or broth. Broth, cooled and cleared of fat, but rich, and thickened with panada, is another excel- lent dish for those whose strength requires to be supported, but who must not use food too stimulating. Dr A. T. Thomson mentions tripe as particularly light or easy of digestion, when cooked till very tender; it makes, at least, a variety in the diet of convalescents. Arrow-root, simple blancmange, or pudding without eggs or with only one egg, is good in early convalescence; and apples, stewed with or without cooked rice. Boiled bread-pudding, with few eggs —one or two—is also good; and plain puddings of rice, or tapioca, seasoned with cinnamon or ginger, but with little egg or sugar. To Mould Meat-Cake, and Potted Meats for the Second Course, or for Collations and Suppers. 1133. Fill a handsome shape, round, if for a centre-dish, but if for a flank^ to which potted meat is more appropriate, with No. 455. Press the meat very close into the mould, when quite cold; if to keep long, pour over it a layer of cool melted butter. It will keep thus for days or weeks. When required, take off the cake of butter; wrap a napkin, dipped in boiling water, round the mould, and gently detach556 CHAP. II.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. tlie meat from the sides, and carefully turn it out, placing a dish over the mould to receive it. Lightly demi-glaze it, and ornament the dish with a border of aspic-jelly, cut in diamonds, buttons, etc., interspersed with hard-boiled eggs, —hens', but plovers' if you have them. Another.—Of the remains of this dish you may make a handsome little dish, by dressing circular slices of it, en miroton, round a centre of trimmed endive, or very white cos lettuce.—See No. 455. 1133^. Porh Pies, Puddings, and Italian Cheese.—The genuine English Pork Pie, which is sent in welcome presents from farm-houses to friends in towns on the great day when a pig is killed, is always baked in a raised crust, round, oval, or heart-shaped, and from eight to fourteen inches or more in length. Pork pies for home consumption are quite as good baked in a dish and merely covered. They are made of the odds and ends of the meat when roasts are cut^ and the trimmings of the pieces salted. Beat the meat well. Cut it into bits the size of a nut. Season highly with salt, white pepper, and cayenne. Press in the meat, either in layers of alternate fat and lean, or of these mixed. Make it very compact and solid, by pressure. Bake in a soaking heat; no water is given. A finer pork pie, to our taste, is made of half veal; and one finer still, has the dish or raised crust first lined with sausage meat. No. 542, and the centre filled with the seasoned bits as above.—A pork pudding, called Italian Cheese, is made as No. 875, with sausage-meat lining the crust in the basin. It may be eaten hot or cold. A cold Pork Pie of sausage-meat, and a cold veal or chicken pie, make an admirable Pic-nic supply. Of Coffee. 1134. Coffee hy the Imperial Percolator.—P.S. Touch- wood^ s Method.—Pour some boiling water into the percola- tor, and let it remain till the metal of the pot is thoroughly heated. Put the coffee-powder into the proper receptacle, between the perforated bottoms of the upper and under cylinders. Pour out the hot water from the pot, and put into the upper cylinder of the percolator as much boiling water as will completely saturate the coffee-powder; a small teacupful will be sufficient. In about two minutes, fill theCOFFEE. 557 cylinder with boiling water; place the percolator by the fire, or over a hot-water dish, and, when the coffee has filtered through, pour in again as much water as will make the quantity required. N.B.—This process may appear tedious in detail, but nothing is more simple and easy in daily practice. In about five minutes coffee may be made for four or five persons. When the filtered coffee is poured into a small vessel, brought to the boiling point, and again returned to the cylinder, and filtered a second time, it is exactly the coffee of the Society of Gourmands,—No. 1135. 11342. Our Latest Experiments.—Since the Seventh edi- tion of this Manual was published, the art of coffee-making has been carried nearly to perfection in this country, by the application of steam to the coffee-powder, previous to making the infusion. This is done in a simple and easy way, by means of the Steam Filter,—a discovery for which the coffee-drinking world is indebted to a Member of the St Ronan's Club. The Steam Filter is adapted to every existing form of coffee-pot. The cook or amateur proceeds thus: To make Coffee with the Steam Filter.—The powder, according to the degree of strength desired, is placed in the filter (formed of iron-wire or silver-wire), and shaken level. It is then, for two or three minutes, accord- ing to the quantity, placed in the mouth of the tin steamer, that the steam may pass freely through the powder. The filter is then placed in the mouth of the coffee-pot or per- colator (previously heated), and the boiling water poured over in the ordinary way. It will now be found that the steam has dislodged the air from the coffee-powder, and that the water will pass through the stratum of coffee-pow- der so quickly, that it may be imagined the virtue is not extracted from the material. The result, however, proves that the infusion is perfectly clear, comparatively strong, and highly aromatic, though not so deep in colour as coffee prepared by a slower process of filtration. It is ascertained that deep-coloured coffee is strong to the eye only, while that of a paler tint possesses all the grateful and aromatic qualities of the berry, without the disagreeable astringent bitter connected with the colouring matter of the coffee, and which attends too great torrefaction and slow filtration. The powder may be heated or roasted in a stewpan.CHAP. II. MISCELLANEOUS EECEIPTS. 558 1135. Coffee by the Receipt of the Authors of the Code des Gourmands, adopted by the members of the Caveau Moderne, and communicated to the St Ronan's Club.—It is given in their own words:—Apres avoir nous-memes experi- mente en cent fa^ons, nous avons fini par nous arreter a la maniere suivante, qui nous donnons pour qfficielle: On brUle separement, et soi-m^me, une partie de cafe Martinique vert, une cafe Bourbon, une Moka. [La bonte de la liqueur depend specialement du degre de torrefaction; la moindre negligence a cet egard altere le parfum du cafe. BrUle a point, le grain doit etre alezan clair. W vaut mieux bruler moins que plus; Tinconvenient subsiste dans les deux cas, mais dans le premier il est moins desastreux.] On opere ensuite le melange, et on reduit le tout en poudre, pas trop fine. Puis on opera d'apres le systeme de la cafeti^re DuBELLOY, qui consiste a verser I'eau bouillante sur le cafe place dans un vase a doubles fonds, perces de tres-petits trous. L'eau s'ecoule chargee de toute la partie essentielle. On la met alors sur le feu jusqu'^ ebullition, on la repasse de nouveau dans I'appareil, et Ton obtient un cafe aussi clair, aussi bon qu'il se puisse faire." It is added, " Celui qui a le gosier pave et pent avaler toute bouillante cette delicieuse boisson ne doit plus envier Tideale ambroisie."* * The French, if not the most skilful coffee-brewers in the world, which perhaps they are, celebrated as the coffee of Germany is, are at least its most devoted swallowers. Their Voltaire and their Napoleon were the greatest reputed coffee-bibbers of modern times. This beverage was called the hippocrene of Voltaire. One of the most agreeable passages of De Lille is devoted to its praise,—at once a recipe and a eulogy. He has done for it what Cowper has done for tea in England. " II est une liqueur au poete bien chere, Qui manquait k Virgile, et qu'adorait Voltaire; C'est toi, divin Cafe^ dont I'aimable liqueur, Sans alterer la tete, epanouit le coeur: Ainsi, quand mon palais est emousse par I'age, Avec plaisir encore je gotite ton breuvage. Que j 'aime a preparer ton nectar precieux! Nul n'usurpe chez moi ce soin delicieux; Sur le rechaud brulant, moi seul, tournant ta graine, A I'or de ta couleur fais succeder I'ebene; Moi seul, contre la noix qu'arment ses dents de fer Je fais, en le broyant, crier ton fruit amer. Charme de ton parfum, c'est moi seul qui, dans I'onde, Infuse a mon foyer ta poussiere feconde; Qui, tour-a-tour, calmant, excitant tes bouillons, Suis d'un ceil attentif, tes legers tourbillons. Enfin, de ta liqueur, lenteraent reposee, Dans le vase fumant la lie est deposee :559 COFFEE. 1136. To make Coffee^ Bonaparte's Way.—Put tlie ground coffee into a vessel with a strainer, and pour the water on it perfectly cold; plunge this vessel into another filled with boiling water, which must be kept at the boiling pitch till the process is completed. This method is thought to pre- serve the aroma of the berry. 1137. Parisian Coffee^ as made hy M, Dubelloy.—Take, when the coffee is needed, nearly four ounces of the best powder recently prepared, and put it, with a very little shred saffron, into a Greque.^ Pour in boiling water till it bubbles up through the strainer, and then close the vessel, and place it near the fire; arid as soon as the whole water is passed through, the coffee is made. 1138. To make Coffee hy a simple and good Method.— Pour boiling water in the proportion of six cupfuls to one cupful of freshly-ground coffee; but double or triple the coffee if for foreigners,—and Britons seldom quarrel with this double-strong when they meet with it. Let this be on the point of boiling for two minutes, held over the fire, and taken off at pleasure, so as to keep up the temperature, but not to permit any violent ebullition. Pour out a cupful two or three times, returning it; and set the coffee-pot on the hob to keep hot, while the coffee clears. If the hob is too hot, the coffee will not clear. It will spoil from being long kept nearly boiling. The receipts for making coffee, which are given in old Cookery-books, must completely drive off the flavour of the berry, from the length of time that the coffee is directed to be boiled. Flour of mustard, in the proportion of a small teaspoonful to the ounce of powder, is thought by some persons to improve the flavour, but is, we think, to be tolerated only for gouty or rheumatic invalids. Coffee made beforehand and heated up for use is a vile slop, detested by every coffee-drinker, and every one else who has the taste of his mouth. When coffee must be got ready for travellers, sportsmen, and others, before servants can Ma coupe, ton nectar, le miel Americain Que du sue des roseaux exprima I'Africain, , Tout est pret:—du Japone I'^mail re^oit tes ondes, Et seul tu reunis les tributs des deux mondes. Viens done, divin nectar! viens done; inspire-moi; Je ne veux qu'un desert, mon Antigone et toi! * A utensil which is used in Paris, similar to our now old-fashioned imperial percolator.CHAP. II.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 560 reasonably be expected to be astir, the Essence is valuable; but if coffee is prepared over-night, let it be of triple strength, and be reduced by water or milk. There is a tin vessel now in use fitted with a strainer and funnel, by which a very fair essence is obtained ; or rather a very strong tincture by filtration; which will keep for a week or more, and with the addition of boiling water or milk is quickly ready. Though not equal to fresh coffee, we have, in the country or on a journey, found a bottle of it very useful. Some modern amateurs in coffee like the cream (rich and thick) a little sourish, and beat up with the sugar in the cup to keep it from curdling, before the hot coffee is poured in. To those whom habit has brought to relish the peculiar flavour of the Essence, it will give somewhat of that taste. A soupqon of chicory is an improvement to coffee. It is its excess that gives rise to complaints. We have tried the home manufacture once and again, but, after all, find no coffee equal to that prepared systematically, in large quan- tities, by those great dealers who have a coffee reputation to maintain.—Ohs. By attending to the above simple receipt, if the coffee-powder is good, no isinglass, whites of eggs, etc., will be required to clear it. The bad quality of English coffee had become a sort of national reproach, but we are improving. Its capital defect is a want of material, or that material having lain too long in powder; for the berry improves with age. It is a good method to serve coffee like tea, permitting the drinkers to help themselves to hot cream or milk, and sugar. Good cream is essential to good English coffee. 1139. Cafe d la Creme,—Make very strong, clear coffee. Add boiled cream to it, and beat them together, if not very hot. It is always proper to boil the milk or cream for coffee before adding it. 1140. Coffee-Milk.—Make coffee according to the strength you want it; add boiled new milk. This is the French Cafe au laitj the favourite breakfast beverage of France. 1141. Cafe Noir.—The after-dinner small cup of France ; and now often served in English drawing-rooms, after dinner, and followed by a small glass of some delicious liqueur,— which a worthy lady in one of Mrs TroUope's novels takes solely for love of ^'the flavour,"—is made as strong asCHOCOLATE AND WATERS. 561 possible to be clear, and served with sugar, but noir^ and consequently without cream. Essence of coffee is convenient for making extempore cafe noir^ or any kind; but, besides ^ being expensive, it can never be compared with fresh well- ' made coffee. A teaspoonful is put into the cup, and boiling water poured on, with hot milk or cream. 1142. Chocolate J to Make,— Complaints of the deteriora- tion of chocolate are now universal. Buy from a respectable shop, and do not ask for it cheap. Boil equal quantities of good new milk and water. Scrape down the cake-chocolate according to the strength and quantity wanted, and take the milk and water off the fire. Throw in the chocolate and sugar, and mill it constantly and rapidly off and on the fire. Serve with the froth on it, and completely blended with the milk. It is now, even in this country, sometimes flavoured with vanilla.— Ohs, Chocolate is sometimes made as gruel for delicate persons. Where much is used, it is thought an economical plan to make a pint of very strong chocolate, and to boil up a couple or three or four spoonfuls of this in milk, water, and sugar, as it is wanted, milling it well. It is ever best fresh-made if possible. Spanish Chocolate^ excellent.—" Mix with six pounds of the pounded nut, three of sugar, one and a half of Indian-* corn-meal, or half the quantity of arrowroot, half a pound of cinnamon, six cloves, a drachm of capsicum, a little rouou- nut to improve the colour, and seven pods of vanilla.^' The Spaniards sometimes perfume this composition with amber- gris or musk. This receipt may be modified to suit English tastes, and this is as much a preparation for convalescents or for luncheon, as for breakfast. Make the chocolate as No. 1142, with sugar and milk. 1143. Waters y for Cooling Draughts, of preserved or fresh Fruits—Lemon-water, and Orange-juice-water.—Pour boil- ing water on the preserved or on sliced fresh fruit, or squeeze out the juice, boil it up in a little thin syrup, and put water to it as it is wanted. Apple-water, often called Tea, is made as above.—A teapot or covered jug should be used when those drinks are made by infusion. Cucumber and Melon Waters.—The water in which cucumber is cooked may have any odd bits and parings of the cucumber put to it, and be boiled up, strained and sweetened for a cooling draught— 2 A 2CHAP. II. MISCELLANEOUS EECEIPTS. 562 water flavoured witli melon the same—all these may he iced if agreeahle. Grape Thinnings,—Besides making pies, and puddings, the thinnings of unripe hot-house clusters make a grateful cooling draught for the sick; or an addition to thin gruels. 1144. To Stew Prunes.—Put them in a nice small saucepan with very little water, and stew till soft, but not to a mash. The stones may be broken, and a few of the kernels put to the stew. 1145. Gruels of Fruit—Boil in thin gruel, currants, black or red, or cranberries, in their juice, with sugar and nutmeg to taste, or use the jam of those fruits for gruel. 1146. Oatmeal'Gruel^ in the best Manner^ as made in Scot- land.—Take finely-ground oatmeal, of the best quality. In- fuse as much as you wish in cold water for an hour or two —a night if you like. Stir it up, let it settle, and pour it from the grits (or strain it), and boil slowly for a long time, stirring it up. Add a very little salt and enough sugar, with any addition of wine, rum, fruit, jelly, honey, butter, etc., etc., that you choose. This gruel will be quite smooth; and when cold will form a jelly. With a toast, it makes an excellent luncheon or supper for an invalid. It may be thinned at pleasure, with boiling water. 1147. Sweet Orange or Lemon Juice.—When you make candied chips, preserve the strained juice, by boiling it with an equal weight of fine sugar. It is a great addition to gruel or barley-water, and will be very useful for gargles in fevers and cases of sore throat, etc. 1148. Toast and Water.—An hour or two before it is wanted, toast thin slices of bread carefully. Pour cold water over the bread, and cover the jug:—or use boiled water, which many prefer, allowing it time to cool. Lemon-juice is a grateful addition, or with boiling water, slices of an acid apple. 1149. Artificial Ass's MilJc.—TBke eringo-root, sea-holly, and pearl-barley, each half an ounce; liquorice-root, three ounces ; water, one quart; boil the mixture over a slow fire, till the full half is evaporated. Strain, and when cool, add an equal quantity of fresh cow's milk. Another.—Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in barley-water. Sweeten, and pour to this a pint of new milk. Whip up.563 POULTICES. 1150. Fumigating or disinfecting Mixtures.—Two ounces of salt dried, two ditto of nitre. Mix and put to them, in a stone- ware dish, a half-ounce of water, and the same quantity of good sulphuric acid. Remove all polished metal articles from the room, as the vapour would rust them, and close all doors and windows. Or, place chloride of lime, with forty times its weight of water, in plates in different parts of the room. 1151. As Fomentations and Poultices are usually prepared in the kitchen, the cook ought to know how the various kinds are best managed. Poultices in the country, are gen- erally made of bread and milk, but bread and water answers very well, may be oftener changed, and is more quickly prepared. Bread-and-water Poultice.—Crumble down the soft part of a slice of bread into a jug; pour boiling water over it; let it soak; break it with a spoon, and if too thin pour off a little of the moisture, and spread it on a cloth to apply as usual. Bread and milk the same, but may be boiled a minute. A little fresh butter or lard is often laid over this and Oatmeal-Poultice. This last is made exactly like por- ridge, but must have no salt, and be long boiled. Arrowroot Poultice is made by simply breaking the powder with a spoonful of cold water, and then adding boiling water, as in preparing arrowroot for an infant. This poultice is fancied peculiarly soothing. Linseed-Meal Poultice.—Make as arrowroot. An excel lent poultice is made of equal qaantities of linseed-meal and bread-crumbs. Carrot-Poultice.—Boil carrots till they are a soft pulp. Onion-Poultice the same. When more complicated poultices are required, the surgeon usually gives direction as to what quantity of the extract of hemlock, foxglove, or whatever else is ordered, should be added to a linseed-meal or other poultice. 1152. Fomentations. — These are generally made of the leaves or flowers of plants, as chamomile-flower, mallows, elder-flowers, poppy-heads, wormwood, etc. They are best made by maceration in boiling water kept hot near the fire ; but the articles may also be boiled. Fomentations are gen- erally applied by dipping flannel (about a square of flannel) into the boiling decoction, and wringing it very hot quickly564 CHAP. II. MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. out. The hot vegetables are also applied in substance in the folds of a cloth; but this is more of the nature of a poultice than a fomentation. 1153. The proper Medium of Temperature of Baths^ e^c.—The tepid from 86° to 97° the Hot Bath from 97° to 108°, the Vapour Bath from 100° to 180°; Sick Rooms 60°. 1153^. Freezing Mixtures where Ice cannot he got.—Take of sal-ammoniac five parts, of nitre five, and water sixteen. Another: Sal-ammoniac five parts, nitre five, glauber salts eight, water sixteen. Place the vessel containing the water, bottle of wine, or cream, butter, whatever is to be cooled, in another containing the freezing mixture, which should be covered with thick flannel or straw matting. 1154. Substitute for a Water filter.—Lay a thick bed of pounded charcoal at the bottom of a large common earthen flower-pot, over this lay a bed of fine sand about four inches thick. Make all compact, and suspend the pot over a re- ceiving vessel. A bit of quicklime thrown into a water- puncheon will be useful in purifying water. Water, if muddy, may be strained through a common sieve, in which a cloth and sponge, or layer of fine sand or charcoal is placed. Preparations for the Toilet, etc. 1155. Pot Pourri.—Put into a large china jar, used for this purpose, damask and other single roses, buds, and blown flowers, as many as you can collect; add to every peck of these a large handful of jasmine-blossoms, one of dame vio- lets, one of orange-flowers 5 orris-root sliced, an ounce; benjamin and storax, each an ounce (many dislike these) ; two or three handfuls of clove-gillyflowers, red pinks and plenty lavender flowers, cloves, nutmegs, rosemary-flowers, allspice, knotted marjoram, lemon-thyme, rind of lemon, balm of Gilead dry, and a few laurel-leaves. Chop these together, and mix them well with bay-salt. Cover the jar; stir occasionally. The various ingredients may be collected in succession as they flower. To the above are added wood- roof, jonquil-flowers, citron, and many other things. 1156. Eau de Cologne.—Take the essence of Bergamot, lemon-peel, lavender, and orange-flowers, of each an ounce, essence of cinnamon half an ounce, spirit of rosemary, and ofPREPARATIONS FOR THE TOILET, ETC. 565 the spiritous water of Melisse, of each fifteen ounces, strong alcohol seven pints and a half. Mix the whole together, and let the mixture stand for the space of a fortnight; after which introduce it into a glass retort, the body of which is immersed in boiling water, contained in a vessel placed over a lamp, while the beak is introduced into a large glass retort well luted. By keeping the water to the boiling point, the mixture in the retort will distil over into the receiver, which should be covered over with wet cloths. In this manner will be obtained pure Eau de Cologne at one-fourth the selling price. N.B.—The above receipt is given on the authority of Dr Granville, who, at Cologne, took some pains to learn the component parts of this favourite accompaniment of an ele- gant toilet. Only 38,000 bottles of the water are made at Cologne in the year; so that probably two-thirds of the commodity sold as such, is made of materials, and by a pro- cess far inferior to the above. 1157. A cheap Perfume.—Dip fine cotton wool, such as jewellers use, in olive-oil, and spread it in thin layers over jasmine-flowers, and rose-leaves, in a jar or glass vessel. In a week squeeze out the perfumed oil into a vial for use, and keep the scented wool to perfume clothes-presses, etc.—Ohs. One of the most effectual perfumes is fresh-burnt charcoal, as it destroys bad odours, while more elegant preparations merely conceal the smell. 1158. Thieves' Vinegar.—Take an ounce of the tops of wormwood; rosemary, sage, mint, and rue, of each half an ounce; flowers of lavender two ounces; aromatic gum, cin- namon, cloves, nutmegs, and fresh garlic, two drachms of each; half an ounce of camphor, and eight pounds of red vinegar; beat the ingredients well, put them into a proper stone jar, and pour the vinegar upon them ; the garlic ought to be sliced. After stopping the jar, put it in the sun or in a hot place, such as a sand-bath, for three or four weeks; wring out the ingredients, and filter through filtering-paper; the camphor must be previously dissolved in a little spirits of wine. This vinegar, like all perfumed liquids, ought to be kept closely corked. 1159. Rose-Vinegar for Salads^ or for the Toilet.—Put a quarter of a pound of rose-leaves to four pints of goodCHAP. II. MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 566 vinegar, and some roots of tlie Florence lily. Infuse till a fine tincture is obtained, and strain oflf the infusion. Or use prepared cochineal to colour. 1160. Lavender-Vinegar—French.—To every pint of the best champagne vinegar put half an ounce of fresh lavender- flowers, and the thin rind of a lemon. Infuse for twenty- four hours in a stone jar, then take the jar and set it over hot embers to digest for ten or twelve hours. Filter and bottle the vinegar, dipping the corks in wax. 1161. Honey-water for the Hair.—Mix three drachms of tincture of ambergris, and one of tincture of musk, with a little spirit of wine. Afterwards add a pint of spirit of wine, or strong spirits, and shake all well and often. 1162. Cold Cream for the Skin.—Take two ounces of oil of sweet almonds, a drachm of white wax, and one of sper- maceti. Melt them in an earthen pipkin, and stir in a mor- tar till quite smooth and cold. Add orange-flower or rose- water till the mixture is as thin as double cream. Keep in a gallipot covered with leather. 1163. Lip-Salve.—Put four ounces of the best olive-oil into a bottle, with a half-ounce of picked alkanet-root; stop the bottle, and set it in the sun till the oil is coloured ; strain it into an earthen pipkin in which an ounce of white wax and one of clarified mutton-suet are placed; melt this by the fire, and perfume with a drop of oil of rhodium, or bergamot, or lavender; pour it off the sediment into very small gallipots. 1164. Paste for Chopped Hands.—Make a paste of fresh lard, honey, yolks of eggs, and a little of the fine dust of oatmeal or of bean-flour: it may be perfumed with a drop of essence of lemon. CHEAP DISHES AND COOKEKY FOR THE POOE. We are convinced that the art of preparing cheap dishes is much better understood by the intelligent poor than by those who assume the task of instructing them. It is not, therefore, for the direct use of the poorer classes, but for the information of those who, from charitable motives, are anxious to devote part of the abundance with which Providence has blessed them to their humble brethren, that this section is added to the Cook's Manual.567 COOKERY FOK THE POOR. There is not a family of any consideration but might distribute at least three or four gallons of soup a-week to their poor neighbours, with almost no additional expense, and only a little personal trouble to the cook or kitchen-maid. There is much waste in all families, which, by a slight degree of attention, might be avoided, and turned to good account, not only in supplying the wants of the poor, but in improving the domestic habits of young female servants, and qualify- ing them to be frugal managers when they come to be poor men's wives. Without wishing to encourage habits of dependence, much less pauperism, benevolent persons will find in all neighbourhoods old men and women, and orphan children, to whom the certainty that on even one day of the week they may look forward to a warm and com- fortable meal, will be no small blessing. Those benevolent indivi- duals who actively interest themselves in bettering the condition of the poor, seldom fail to enjoin them to go to church. Were this injunction coupled with a comfortable Sunday's dinner of warm stew- soup, to such as need this kindness, when church is over, the advice would not prove the less efficacious. For an expense of two shillings per week, any benevolent individual may dine ten old women or men every Sunday of the year, even allowing that none of the waste of his Idtchen were applied to this purpose, but that every article were purchased. In speaking of dishes for the poor, it is at once proper to say, that we have no idea of human life in grown persons being sustained in comfort and physical energy without a due proportion of animal food; nor do we conceive that, with any better diet than the miserable unchanging meal of the Irish and Highland peasantry, or the rice of the feebler tribes of India, there is any hearty food more really eco- nomical than cheap stew-soups of meat or fish, with a proper mixture of vegetables, roots, and farinaceous seeds. But this mode of cookery is not only the cheapest, it is also the most savoury in which plain food can be prepared. The worst feature in the domestic manage- ment of the poor—we speak not of drinking—is the universal and excessive use of tea; and this they must either swallow, a coarse, half-sweetened pernicious decoction, without the milk, butter, meat, which can alone render it a nourishing meal, or spend on it a share of their earnings, which must be subtracted from better purposes. The tea-pot drains the soup-pot; the price of the materials of an unsatisfy- ing breakfast would nearly purchase enough of meat, vegetables, and barley, or pulse, to make a hearty and comfortable family-dinner. Were soup or gruel substituted for tea, at least once a-day, and for those slops called British coffee, as is the practice with decent families on the Continent, and which till of late years was the custom of the Highlands of Scotland and Ireland, the change would be still better; as the meat, either cold or re- warmed in a little of the soup, would afterwards furnish dinner. The objection made to the old hearty breakfast of the Lowlands of Scotland, oatmeal-porridge, to the hurgou of the navy, the stir-about of Ireland, and hasty-pudding of the North of England, as heavy fare for females and sedentary mechanics, if it be just at all, could not be brought against a light soup, merely thickened with oatmeal, and eaten with bread. The increase of soup-shops, and even of places for the early sale of coffee and saloop,568 CHAP. II. MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. will be found one of the most effectual means for the suppression of dram-shops; for there can he no doubt that there are in large towns thousands on thousands of poor persons, market-women, barrow- women, and dealers in all sorts of small wares, who, were a pint of hot coffee or of warm soup and a small loaf as easily come by at the corner of every street, as a glass of gin, would, at least in the begin- ning of their career, prefer the former. It is not easy to hear the stern denunciations of gin^ and of the pro- fligacy of the lower classes, proceeding from one of those well-fed, well-clad moralists, who never indulge in anything save '■''sound old port," or " the best of malt liquor," without calling to mind one of the pictures of him whose sagacity in detecting the manifold weaknesses of the human heart, and penetrating to its most hidden springs, was only excelled by his indulgence in judging of its wanderings and weaknesses. The Antiquary is expressing his hope to the fish- woman, that the distilleries, then stopt, may never work again. " Ay, ay," said Maggie, "it's easy for your honour, and the like o' you gentle folks to say sae, that ha'e stouth and routh, and fire and fending, and meat and claith, and sit dry and canny by the fireside ; but an ye wanted fire, and meat, and dry claise, and were deeing o' cauld, and had a sair heart, whilk is warst ava, wi' just tippence in your pouch, wadna ye be glad to buy a dram wi't, to be eliding, and claise, and a supper, and heart's-ease into the bargain, till the morn's morning?"—"It's even too true an apology, Maggie," said Monk- barns. Besides the receipts for Cheap Dishes subjoined, there are many scattered through this work, as stew-soup of bullock's heart; sheep^s- head broth in a plain way; rice and milk with suet; plain /Scotch fish and sauce; Scotch haggis; pan-hail; pease-soup or potato-soup in which dripping is substituted for butter; ox-tail and ox-head soup and ragout; baked herrings; kidney collops; white^ bloody and liver puddings; mussel or other cheap shell-fish soups; calecannon enriched with dripping, or the same thing, Scotch Bumble-de-thumps; Scotch Jcail-brosCy and many other things. In treating of cookery for the poor, however briefly, it would be wrong to pass over the potato-flour, of which so much has lately been said and written. Of its uses and excellence in its own place, we have no doubts whatever, though we cannot just yet believe that in potato-flour a universal panacea is discovered for human misery. But it is now prepared for sale in considerable quantities, and if it be as really cheap, nutritious, and agreeable, as is alleged, there is no doubt of its success. To the mode of cooking potato-flour, as pro- mulgated by its most zealous patrons and proneurs, we, however, decidedly object. Their pudding is in fact raio potato-glue; if boil- ing water is merely poured over the flour. This might do for genuine arrowroot, or for oatmeal, or Glasgow brosemeal, but not for crude potato-mucilage. We give the suhjomed formula as an improvement: —31ix the flour as in making starch; pour boiling water over it, and boil it for at least from five to eight minutes, stirring constantly. If boiled in milk, or milk and water, with a little sugar, it will make aCOOKERY FOR THE POOR. 569 very agreeable mess either for breakfast or a light supper—where sappers are taken.* CHEAP DISHES. Some of the subjoined receipts were published during a period of scarcity. They are applicable at every time, as the preparations, besides being frugal, are savoury and healthful. The first nine are attributed to a lady whose pen has been usually devoted to sacred subjects, but who has not disdained to employ her talents in improv- ing the manners and increasing the domestic comforts of the humblest of her brethren—Mrs Hannah More. The rest are original. 1165. Cheap Milk-Rice.—A quart of skim milk, a quarter of a pound of rice, with sugar, and a little Jamaica pepper will make a cheap and a dainty dish. Swell the rice first with water. 1166. Bice-Pudding.—Two quarts of skim milk, a half-pound of rice, and two ounces of brown sugar. N.B.—A little shred suet, salt, and a very little ginger, will make this excellent.—Ed. 1167. Mrs White's Cheap Stew.—"I remember," said Mrs White, " a cheap dish, so nice that it makes my mouth water. I peel some raw potatoes, slice them thin, put the slices into a deep fryingpan or pot, with a little water, an onion, and a bit of pepper. Then I get a bone or two of a breast of mutton, or a little strip of salt pork, and put it into it. Cover it down close, keep in the steam, and let it stew for an hour." 1168. Herring and Potatoes.—Take two or three pickled herrings, wash and put them into a stone-jar, fill it up with peeled potatoes and a little water, and let it bake in the oven till it is done. [This dish is made in Scotland in a close-covered pot by boiling. Place the her- rings uppermost.—Ed.'\ 1178. Stew-Soup.—Two pounds of beef, four onions, ten turnips, half a pound of rice, a large handful of parsley, thyme, and savory; some pepper and salt; eight quarts of water. Cut the beef in slices, and after it has boiled some time, cut it still smaller. The whole should boil gently about two hours on a slow fire. If fuel be scarce, it may be stewed all night in an oven, and warmed up next day. You may add oatmeal or potatoes. Gray pease will be a great addition. [Too much turnip.—Ed.] 1170. —Another. Take half a pound of beef, mutton, or pork, cut it into small pieces; half a pint of pease, four sliced turnips, six potatoes cut very small, two onions or leeks; put to them seven pints of water. Let the whole boil gently over a very slow fire two hours and a half. Then thicken it with a quarter of a pound of oatmeal. After the thickening is put in, boil it a quarter of an hour, stirring it all the time ; then season it with salt and pepper. [Too much oatmeal.—Ed.] 1171. Stew-Soup of Salt Meat.—Take two pounds of salt beef or pork, cut it into very small bits, and put it into a pot with six quarts * These observations were made in an earlier edition, when the public were hored with potato-flour. The failure of the root has put a stop to this.570 CHAP. II.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. of water, letting it boil on a slow fire for tliree-quarters of an hour; then put a few carrots, parsnips, or turnips, all cut small; or a few potatoes sliced; a cabbage, and a couple of carrots. Thicken the whole with oatmeal. Season with salt and pepper.—See Bullock's- heart Stew, No 405. 1172. Cheap Soups.—The following soup Mrs Sparks sold every Saturday in small quantities. A pint of the soup, with a bit of the meat warmed up on a Sunday, made a dinner for a grown person:— An ox-cheek, two pecks of potatoes, a quarter of a peck of onions, one ounce of pepper, half a pound of salt, boiled all together in ninety pints of water till reduced to sixty; any garden-stuff may be thrown in. Friendly Hints by the same writer [Hannah More].—The difference hetween eating bread new and stale is one loaf in five. If you turn your meat into troth, it will go much farther than if you roast or haTce it. If you have a garden, maJce the most of it. A hit of leek, or onion, makes all dishes savoury, at small expense. If the money spent on fresh butter were spent on meat, poor families would be much better fed than they are. If the money spent on tea were spent on home-breiued beer, the wife would be better fed, the husband better pleased, and both would be healthier. Keep a little Scotch barley, rice, dry pease, and oatmeal in the house. They are all cheap, and do not spoil. Keep also pepper and ginger, 1173. Mrs Whitens Breakfasts.—" Neighbours," said Mrs White, " a halfpenny-worth of oatmeal, or groats, with a leek or onion out of your own garden, which costs nothing, a bit of salt, and a little coarse bread, will breakfast your whole family. It is a great mistake at any time to think a bit of meat is so ruinous, and a great load of bread so cheap. A poor man gets seven or eight shillings a-week; if he is careful, he brings it home. I dare not say how much of this goes for tea in the afternoon, now sugar and butter are so dear, because I should have you all upon me; but I will say that too much of this little goes even for bread, from a mistaken notion that it is the hardest fare. This at all times, but particularly if bread is dear, is bad man- agement. Dry pease, to be sure, have been very dear lately; but now they are plenty enough. I am certain then, that if a shilling or two of the seven or eight was laid out for a bit of coarse beef, a sheep's head, or any such thing, it would be well bestowed. I would throw a couple of pounds of this into the pot, with two or three handfuls of gray pease, an onion, and a little pepper. Then I would throw in cabbage or turnip, and carrot, or any garden-stuff that was most plenty; let it stew two or three hours, and it will make a dish fit for his Majesty. The workingmen should have the meat; the children do not want it; the soup will be thick and substantial, and requires no bread." [Mrs Hannah More does not say that " a poor man " in seven or eight shillings gets by a great deal too little ; but her receipt for a soup-breakfast may be useful to those who get twice the sum of weekly wages.] 1174. Another Cheap Soup.—Two pounds of shin of beef, or ox-COOKERY FOR THE POOR. 571 cheek, a quarter-pound of barley, a halfpenny-worth of parsley and onions, with salt, will make four quarts of good soup. A few potatoes, or any cheap vegetable, may be added. 1175. Shate-Soup.—Clean the skate thoroughly, and let it hang a day, or in cold weather two days. Skin it, cut the thick part into fillets about two inches square. Boil the head and trimmings with two onions, and some parsley, till all the strength is obtained, and boil down till only enough is left for the soup. Strain this stock. Brown as much butter in proportion to the quantity of soup as will colour and thicken the strained stock, but use no flour. Put in the fillets of skate, and boil for fifteen minutes, when add salt to taste, white pepper, catsup, and a glass of white wine if wished. This, though a cheap dish in its native locality, is an excellent one every- where, and well merits a place among Fish Soups. See Nos. 100 to 108. 1176. Bean-pudding^ to eat with Bacon or Pickled Forh^ hot Pig\s Cheeh, etc.—Boil and skin the beans, or take any left. Pound them with pepper and salt, and, if you like, a piece of butter, melted suet, or dripping. Put them in a buttered tin basin. Tie a pudding-cloth round, and boil with the pork, for from a half-hour to three quarters. 1177. Cheap Pease-Pudding.—To a pound of pease boiled for pud- ding, add two pounds of mashed potatoes, with dripping of any kind. The failure of the potato makes this at present dearer than if made of pease. 11772. Cheap Plum-Pudding loithout eggs or milk.—Eight ounces beef-suet, minced; ten ounces flour; eight ounces currants or raisins; two table-spoonfuls of sugar; one tea-spoonful of salt; the zest of two carrots grated, and one glass of sweet wine. Tie up tight in a cloth, boil three hours, and serve with a sweet sauce. This pudding may be useful at sea. 1178. Cheap Pastry of Potato^ in which Cheap Mince or Stew may he neatly served.—Mash the potatoes with a little milk, and a bit of butter, with salt, and point of finely-shred onion if you like. Border a flat dish thickly with this, and mark it, and place a layer of the mash over the dish; brown in the oven or before the fire, and scoop out the centre, or leave it as crust, and serve in it hashed beef-heart, kidney-collop, salt or other fish warmed up, etc. See No. 875. 1179. Milk-Porridge.—Stir oatmeal into boiling milk as in making stir-about. Buttermilk or whey porridge the same. 1180. Ox-liver^ sound and fresh, sliced, steeped for some hours in salt and water, and fried with fat bacon in cubes, parsley, onions, and allspice, makes a good cheap dish. 1181. Soup may be made of the rich liquor in which tripe is boiled, with rice or potatoes, parsley, and onions. Of the same liquor a fraudulent jelly is often made for the great. The culinary utensils of the poor are of great importance. Every family ought to have a cheap and small steamer of a substantial kind, fitted to the kind of pot which serves either for boiling or baking. In baking a pudding or meat, the thick metal lid of this sort of pot is first made hot and laid on the hearth, and the pot is turned upside- down over it; turf embers are placed all around or over this little oven, in which meat with potato-pastry, fish-pie with potato, rice-CHAP. II. MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 572 pudding, or any sucli dish may be cooked, and a loaf may be baked. The lid may also be laid over embers, in the grate, and the pot in- verted over it forms an oven. Still this is not cheap cookery; and though several interesting ex- periments have been made, especially in cooking by gas, we cannot perceive that, since the era of Count Rumford, any great advance, as regards the poor, has been made in economizing fuel and labour; though culinary processes are certainly rendered more easy to the servants of the wealthy. How great a benefactor of his species would that man be, who should enable the poor to obtain, at a cheap rate, a regulated degree of warmth in their dwellings, and to combine with this the advantages of the best processes of cookery. Economical Maxims of ancient Tusser, the first English writer on Domestic Economy, and author of " The Points of Good Hus- bandry and Housewiferyy " Save wing for a thresher when gander doth die Save feathers of all things the softer to lie: Much spice is a thief, so is candle and fire; Sweet sauce is as crafty as ever was friar. Save droppings and skimmings whatever ye do, For medicine, for cattle, for cart, and for shoe." From the maxims of this worthy, it would appear that the jolly English yeoman of the sixtenth century fared fully as well as the gentleman-farmer of the nineteenth—so far as substantials go—and his servants a great deal better. For the yeoman and his household's Lenten diet, Tusser recommends red herrings and salt fish. At Easter, veal and bacon; and at Martinmas, when dainties were no longer to be had, contentment with salted beef. At midsummer, when mackerel went out, there was fresh beef and salads; at Mich- aelmas, fresh herrings and old crones (ewes); at All Saints, pork and pease, sprats, and sparlings; and at Christmas, in Old England! Merry England! all good cheer and play ; with good drink, a rousing fire in the farmer's hall, brawn, puddings and souse, and mustard withal; beef, mutton, pork, and minced pies of the best; pig, veal, capon, goose, " turkey, and the chine;" cheese, apples, nuts,—and, to crown all, "jolly carols and stout ale."—Peace be with thy memory, Thomas Tusser! From the same genial and judicious person we learn, that in those Catholic times it was customary, and of ancient prescription, that twice a-week the farmer should give his servants roast meat, namely, on Thursday and Saturday evening. He, at the same time, restricts the Yeoman and Franklin's family-dinner to three dishes, " which, being well dressed, will be sufiicient to please your friend and grace your hall." Servants are ordered to bed at ten in summer and nine in winter, and to rise at four in summer and five in dark mornings. There are to be fritters and pancakes for dinner on Shrove-Tucsday; and on wake-day, the vigil of the saint to whom the parish church is dedicated, when every wanton may dance at her will," the oven is to be filled with flaunes. The seedcake is to grace the end of seed- time, and the harvest-home goose never to be neglected.—Why did not Cobbett give us a new edition of ancient Tusser ?CURING MEAT, ETC. 573 CHAPTER III. OP SALTINa MEAT, TONGUES, HAMS, MAKING CHEESE, PATTEmG POULTEY, PEESEEVING BUTTEE, EGGS, ETC. Meat should either be salted before the animal heat has left it, or be allowed to hang for a few days in cool weather, to become tender. It should be wiped free of moisture, blood, etc., and have the kernels and pipes taken out; wash if necessary. As a general rule, which is too little attended to, meat should first be rubbed with about the half, or less, of the salt ordered; and, after lying a day or two, to dis- gorge, have the remaining half rubbed in. This twice salting^ from getting rid of blood and slime, and the effectual rub- bing and mixing it causes, will be found an excellent method, and is good not only for meat, but for butter and fish. Bay- salt is imagined to give meat a better flavour than any other salt. It is thought sweeter than manufactured salt, from being dried by the gradual action of the sun. There are various modes of purifying salt for preserving meat, butter, and fish, but they are too complicated and troublesome for domestic use. The Dutch, the first discoverers of preserving fish by salting, and who are celebrated for the mild, mellow flavour of their butter and fish, often refine the salt by boiling it up with whey; and this method is quite practicable in any dairy. Heating and pounding the salt facilitates the salting of meat. Sugar is an admirable ingredient in curing meat and fish. Without making them too salt, it preserves and keeps them mellow. Some recommend that the meat should be first rubbed with sugar for some days, and then salted. Molasses is also used. Saltpetre dries up meat so much, that it is daily less and less employed. Much less of it will colour meat, or sausage-meat, than is imagined: or sanders- wood boiled in the pickle, will give the red colour. Crude sal ammoniac is an article of which a little goes far in pre- serving meat, without making it too salt. AH troughs and574 CHAP. III. CURING MEAT, HAMS, ETC. tubs in which meat is cured ought to be kept closely covered with lids, with several folds of blanket, or something of the kind. Meat, till it be taken out to hang up, should be kept covered with fresh pickle, not hitter brine, and rubbed, basted, and turned in the troughs once a-day;—the double or folded parts ought to be looked at, and rubbed; and if any mouldi- ness gather on the meat in any stage of curing, it must be carefully taken off. If the brine become rank with blood and slime, it must be boiled up, skimmed, and, when cold, poured over the hams; or, now that salt is cheap, a fresh pickle should be made. Bruised juniper-berries, coriander-seeds, sweet herbs pounded or not, and all sorts of peppers and aromatic spices, may be used for pickling hams, tongues, rumps, and sausage-meat; also garlic; but this must all be left to the discretion of the cook. 1182. To Cure Hams.—Choose the short thick legs of clean-fed hogs. Those which are just old enough to have the flesh of firm texture, and which have roamed at large in a forest or pasture-land, or been fattened about a dairy-farm, are far the best. To each large ham allow half-a-pound of bay-salt, one ounce of saltpetre, eight ounces of coarse sugar, and a half-pound of common salt, with four ounces of pounded Jamaica and black pepper, and one of coriander - seeds. Pound the ingredients, and heat and mix them well; but first rub in about six ounces of the salt and the saltpetre, and, after two days, drain, and rub in the rest of the salt and the spices. Rub for a long half-hour; lay the hams in the trough; keep them carefully covered, and baste them with the brine every day, or oftener; turn them occasionally, and rub with the brine. Make fresh brine if necessary. Bacon and Pig^s Face are treated as above.—(See pp. 371, 406.) The latter is the better of being pressed down with a weight. Some persons use weights for all cured meat, to firm and keep it below the brine. Hams are spiced by using aromatic spices and sweet herbs in curing. Smoking with green birch, oak, or the odoriferous woods, as juniper, etc., is an immense improvement to all dried salt meats. 1183, To Cure Hams.—M. Tide's Receipt.—As soon as the pig is cold enough to cut up, cut out the round bone from the hams. Rub well with common salt, and drain for three days; then dry the hams; and for two of eighteen575 CURING HAMS. pounds each, take a pound of moist sugar, a pound of salt, and two ounces of saltpetre. Mix and rub the hams well with it; put them in a trough, and treat as other hams : but, in three days, pour a bottle of good vinegar over them. They will be ready in a month, when dry as usual. " This," says the venerable chef of Crockford's, " is superior to a West- phalia ham.'' We are sure that, if smoked, it is better cured. A German Receipt for Hams.—The hams are cured, as with us, at a temperate season ; from the middle of October to the first of April. Place them in proper deep troughs; cover over with layers of salt, and a few laurel-leaves. In five days, drain and place them in a clean tub. Cover with a strong brine. Let them lie thus for three weeks; then soak in spring-water for twelve hours. Expose them to the smoke of juniper for three weeks. Jambon de Bastogne.—This ham was so much admired by Mr Dadley Costello, when travelling in the Ardennes, that he begged the receipt from the Chef at Dinant. The ham is cured in a brine of salt, saltpetre, and aromatic herbs, viz.:— A few bay-leaves, wild thyme, a handful of juniper-berries, and a little garlic. It is steeped for about six weeks, and then dried in the smoke of the chimney, over a fire of wood. When wanted for dressing, it is buried in the ground for twenty-four hours, and then boiled, with the addition of the same aromatic herbs in the water. After boiling, the bone is taken out, and the ham is pressed under a heavy weight. 1184. Beauvilliers' Hams.—Make a pickle with water and wine-lees to suit the size or number of hams and flitches, and add all sorts of sweet herbs; as sage, basil, thyme, bay, juniper-berries, salt, and saltpetre. Steep this for some days, and strain, and put in the meat. Let the hams lie a month; drain, wipe, and smoke them. When smoked and dry, rub with wine and vinegar to keep off flies. Tongues of hogs may be cured in the same pickle, and dried and smoked in a thin cloth. They are cooked in small wine and water, with herbs, and served cold. [If the hams were first rubbed with salt, and drained for a day or two, the receipt would be ex- cellent.—Edit.'] 1185. General Easy Receipt for curing hams or bacon of fourteen pounds weight, or in the proportion:—One ounce of saltpetre, three-quarters of a pound of brown sugar, five576 CHAP. III.—CURING MEAT, HAMS, ETC. ounces of salt, five of bay-salt, one of ground black pepper, one of Jamaica pepper. Mix the articles, and rub the hams well. Turn and rub every day for a month. Hang the hams when dry in a canvass bag in a dry place; first smoke them if convenient. 1186. Mutton Hams,—Proceed as at No. 1182, using for one ham a fourth of the salt, but a half of the spices and sugar. Rub the ham very well with the hot pounded salt. —Ohs, Ram-mutton, though disliked at table, is, when good, thought to make the best-flavoured hams. In the High- lands, dried juniper-berries are used in curing mutton-hams. No sort of meat is more improved by smoking with aromatic wpods, or even peat-reek^ than mutton. Mutton-hams, when they are once dried, will keep long enough, but scarcely im- prove after six months' keeping. N.B,—Roast instead of boiling mutton-ham, if not kept more than six months. Soak as if for boiling. The Scottish Border is famous for the excellence of the mutton-hams. They are carefully salted with salt, a little coarse sugar, and very little saltpetre; kept in the pickle for three weeks, and hung for months in shep- herds' chimneys, where peats and wood are the only fuel. Without previous steeping, they are boiled quickly for an hour, or a little more, if large, and allowed to soak in the pot-liquor for twenty-four hours. 1187. Tongues^ to Salt.—Cut off the roots, and steep the tongues in a weak brine; wash them well out, working them with the hand; afterwards salt them with common salt. [The roots eat very well with greens, or will make pease- soup, stew, or Scotch kail.] Scrape and dry the tongues; rub them with a little common salt and saltpetre; next day rub them very well with salt and brown sugar. Keep them covered with pickle for a fortnight; dry and smoke them.— Obs. When many tongues are salted, use a sinking-board and weights, to keep them below the brine. They may be spiced as No. 1182, and reddened with a double quantity of saltpetre. 1188. To Salt a Round or Rump of Beef.—A rump of twenty-five pounds will take from one to two ounces of salt- petre, as redness is wished for, eight of sugar, four of pepper, half-a-pound of bay-salt, and twice as much common salt. Rub the meat very well with the mixed salts and spices; turn it on all sides, and rub it. Baste and rub with theCURING GEESE, ETC. 577 brine every day for a month. It may either be hung and dried, or boiled out of this pickle.—See pp. 283, 289, 290. 1189. To Cure Geese.—In Languedoc, and other parts of France where land is of small value, and geese are plentiful, much of the winter-food of genteel provincial families de- pends on these birds. As the information may be found useful in Ireland, and remote parts both of England and Scotland, we shall detail the French method of proceeding: —When the geese are very fat, about the end of autumn, they are killed, and the wings and legs cut off, leaving as little flesh on the body as possible. The legs are partly boned, and, for every five geese, a half-ounce of saltpetre is mixed with the necessary quantity of common salt, with which the legs and wings are well rubbed, and laid for twenty-four hours in a pan with savoury herbs. Mean- while, all the fat is collected from the bodies and intestines, and boiled down as lard over a very slow fire, strained, and put to cool. The legs, wings, and the body cut in pieces, are, in twenty-four hours, taken from the salt, passed through fresh water, and stewed over a slow fire till the flesh will pierce with a straw. They are then taken out, and, when cold, packed in jars, and the melted fat poured over them ; when cold, parchment, or paper and bladder, are tied over the jars. A French family has, from this stock of winter provisions, the power of having a ragout of a leg or wing, heated in a little of the jelly and fat in which the meat is preserved; or a soupe of a neck, back, or pinion, with the mere addition of herbs, vegetables, and suitable seasonings. The relish is high; and French cooks speak with rapture of this savoury and economical mode of cooking geese. Young pigs may be treated in the same manner, but their flavour is not nearly so high. If the fat of geese be thus esteemed by our Continental neighbours, there is certainly, in this depart- ment, much waste in English kitchens. 1189^. Prepared Salmon or Cod Roes.—"Take the roes from a fish as near spawning as possible ; wash the roes well with milk and water, and then in cold water, till it come clean off; afterwards, put the roe in a sieve, and drain fifteen minutes. To salt them, take eight ounces of salt to three pounds of spawn, and let them lie in the brine forty- eight hours. Lay them on a board about three-fourths of a 2 B578 CHAP. III. CUEING MEAT, HAMS, ETC. yard from the fire, letting them remain there about half-a- day. Bruise them well with a roller, then put them into a pot, and press them well down. Put on them in the pro- portion of eight drops of spirit of nitre, and as much salt- petre as will lie upon a sixpence, to every pound of spawn; cover them with a piece of writing-paper, upon which lay a coating of hog's lard, as cold as it will spread; then tie over all a piece of dressed sheep's-skin, and keep in a warm place summer and winter.'' This receipt was got from Easton, hairdresser, Hawick, and one of the best fishers in the South of Scotland, who prepared and sold salmon-roe at a high price. It seems taken from the Russian receipt for making moist caviare^ which is largely exported to Italy, Germany, and other countries, and esteemed a great luxury. Caviare is made of the roe of the sturgeon, the beluga, the sterlet, and other large fish found in the Caspian, and also about the Wolga and Ural. It is of two kinds—moist and dry. The best is thus prepared, and the receipt may be equally applicable to the roe of salmon, cod, and other large fish :—The roes (quite fresh) are cleared of all fibres, and steeped in brine till the grains soften; it is then hung up in quantities of about eighteen pounds, in bags, shaped like jelly-bags, to drain; when drained, fresh brine is poured in, and it is purified by the second draining. The roes are then dried, by wringing the bags till all the moisture is expressed ; it hangs in the bags for twelve hours, and is then trod down in quantities in tubs, by a labourer in leathern stockings. The fresher the roe, and the less salt used to cure it, it is esteemed the better. In cold weather no salt is used, but then it does not keep long. 1190. To Salt a Mart or whole Bulloch.—The following approved receipt has been communicated to us for salting meat for family use, in country families far from markets, where a winter-store, or mart^ is still annually cured :— Take as much spring water as you think will cover the pieces of meat, and, with bay-salt, make of this water a pickle so strong as to float a potato. Stir till the ingre- dients are dissolved; and afterwards boil the pickle till all the scum is thrown off. "When quite cold, pour it over the cut meat in the salting-tub or heef-stand.—Ohs. The meat (and all meat or vegetables salted) must be wholly and579 CURING MEAT. constantly covered with the pickle, by occasionally adding fresh supplies as it wastes, and using a sinking-board. If the pickle become turbid, and a scum gather on it, either pour it off, and boil and skim it well before returning it, when cold, to the meat, or use a fresh pickle, which may now be afforded cheaply, and is perhaps better, because purer than the original liquor boiled up. Meat preserved in this way is never disagreeably salt, and will keep for a long time. A little saltpetre boiled with the pickle will tinge the meat. If meat is rubbed with salt, and suffered to drain from the blood for a day and night, it will keep the better. If meat is not liked so salt, substitute sugar for one-third of the salt. — Ohs. Rock salt is usually called Liverpool salt in the north-west of Scotland and in Ireland, because it comes from that port. The best of all salt for preserving meat or fish is what is called bay or Lisbon salt. To it anchovies partly owe their rich mellowness. 1191. An ■excellent general Pickle for Meat^ Hams, Tongues, etc.—Take in the proportion of six ounces of salt, and four of sugar to the quart of water, and a quarter-ounce or less of saltpetre. Rub the meat with salt, let it drain for two days, and pack it, and over it pour the pickle, first boiled, skimmed, and cooled. Herbs and spices ad libitum,—Obs. Various ways of hastening the process of rendering meat fit for cooking are proposed. Some recommend burymg in the earth; others hanging the meat or poultry in a fig-tree. A high but equal temperature appears the most rational plan. Cover the meat with a thin cloth, and leave it as long as is wished for, or convenient, near the kitchen fire, or in a cold oven. If, however, the temperature be too high, the meat will be rather hardened than improved. 1192. To Salt Beef for immediate use, and to make Soup of—For this purpose we prefer the thin flank, or what are in Scotland called the nine-holes, the runner, and the brisket. Cut it, as suitable, into pieces of from three to seven pounds. Rub heartily with dried salt. Cover up the meat. Turn it over occasionally (to have it soaked in the brine), and in a week it will eat well as plain bouilli with roots, and also make a good Scotch soup. From that time to six weeks it will eat with greens, while the pot-liquor will make, or help to make, potato or pease soup.580 CHAP. III.—CURING MEAT, ETC. 1193. Mutton^ either Ribs or Breast^ may be salted and served boiled with roots, making at the same time a good potato or pease soup, seasoned with parsley or celery. A boiled leg^ salted a week, is preferred, with carrot and turnip, to a fresh one, by many excellent judges. The Collier's Roast^ a favourite dish with many persons in Scotland, is a leg of mutton salted for a week, roasted and served with mashed turnip, or browned potatoes. 1194. To Cure Bacon in Flitches.—(See pages 574-76.) —When all the lard is removed, and the tail, ears, pettitoes, etc., taken away, rub the skin side of the meat long and briskly with warmed salt in abundant quantity. Rub about the shoulders and hams very well, as these are so thick. The pig should either still retain the animal heat, or hang a few days, to get tender. Turn the thoroughly-rubbed meat, and lay a thick bed of salt in which a small quantity of salt- petre is mixed, over the whole inside. Press this salt down close everywhere. Throw folds of blanketing over the meat, on a table or trough, placed aslant, and place a gentle weight over it. Let it lie a week, basting with the brine. Then rub afresh the outside stoutly and long, and with fresh salt cover the inside; let the meat lie thus for ten days, and then drain, roll in bran, or coarse barley-meal, and hang it up in the kitchen. When thoroughly dry, remove to a dry place to hang till wanted. It may be smoked, which improves all hams. 1195. Rapid Salting.—Lay a piece of meat rubbed well over with salt, over a vessel with water, on two or three twigs. Lay salt thickly over the meat. The evaporation of the water will melt the salt, and thus accelerate the salting of the beef. 1196. To Smoke Hams and Fish on the small scale.— Drive the end out of an old puncheon or large cask. Invert it over birch or juniper branches, or a heap of the sawdust of green hardwood (oak is best), in which sawdust a bar of red-hot iron is buried. Hang the tongues, hams, etc., on sticks across the cask, and cover it to confine the smoke, giving a very little air below, that the material may smoke and smoulder slowly, but not burn away fast. N.B.—Most neighbourhoods command a corn-kiln, in which hams may be smoked and dried tolerably well.581. BUTTER-MAKING. 1197. Preserving Meat without SmoMng.—This method, practised by M. Sanson, is strongly recommended. It con- sists in washing the meat, rubbing it with a little saltpetre and salt, so that these substances shall penetrate well into the interior, moistening it with vinegar, and covering it with juniper-berries, garlic cut small, laurel-leaves, and some spices. Afterwards a solution is prepared, composed, for twenty-five pounds of meat, of a pound and a half of muriate of soda, and three ounces of saltpetre, which is poured cold on the meat, which ought to remain in it for two days ; after this it is submitted to a regular pressure, either by loading it with stones, or better, by placing it under a screw-press. It is left in this situation for fifteen or twenty days. At coming out of the brine, the meat, properly cleaned and freed from the ingredients covering it, is immersed in a solution of six pounds of salt, one pound and a half of wood- soot, powdered, and very pure, and six quarts of water. In this mixture it is left for eight or nine hours, or longer, according to the size of the pieces; it is then taken out and hung up in an airy and shady place. THE DAIRY-CHEESE AND BUTTER MAKING. It is considered superfluous to occupy too much of the space of a work, especially dedicated to cookery, with full details of dairy pro- cesses, and all the recent improvements on this branch of rural and domestic economy. Where there is a large dairy, those conducting it will consult the latest and most competent authorities. We therefore limit this department to a brief account of the results of the recent experiments of practical dairy-farmers, and of those made by men of science under the patronage of the Royal Society of Agriculture for England, and the Highland Society of Scotland. This will be suf- ficient for families where one or two milch cows are kept for house- hold supply. It is now a practice almost universal in the extensive dairies con- nected with large towns to churn the whole milk, not, as of old, the gathered cream merely; and even with two or three cows, there is much to be said for this dairy revolution. More butter is obtained— some experimentalists allege by five per cent.—the butter-milk is sweeter if not so rich, and the process of churning much more certain than by the old mode. Upon the whole, the art of butter-making and preserving has made considerable progress of late; and in cheese the more intelligent Scotch dairy-farmers have got the promising length of being sensible of the inferiority of Dunlop to Cheshire as a marketable cheese, and in numerous instances have produced cheeses equal to the best English. And why not in all ? In a paper given in to the Highland Society by Mr Ballantine, \-582 CHAP. III. BUTTER-MAKING. dairy-farmer, dealer in cheese and butter in Edinburgh, it is seen that with his thirty cows he follows very nearly the practice of Mr Ayton of Glasgow, which has been for some years before our readers. In Mr Ballantine's dairy, the morning milking is placed in zinc coolers. Zinc and lead are, however, now denounced by scientific men as highly pernicious. The evening's milking is added to this, in a vat; and that of a second day's milking is managed in the same way. The milk of two days stands in the vats till sufficiently soured for churn- ing. This depends on the temperature, but never takes less than two days, and is ascertained by the milk thickening, gathering a head, or becoming slightly lappered. This head should remain unbroken till the milk is put into the churn. A lower temperature than formerly is now adopted for churning milk, and putting rennet to it in cheese-making. For butter it is 65°; and if the milk is under this, hot water is put into the churn to raise the temperature. Butter, if made from cream alone, requires a temperature of 55°. In winter, the milk is at once put into the churn to sour without cooling in vats. With the entire milk the churning processes are long; from three to three and a half hours, and the churn driven by steam, going at the rate of forty strokes a minute. For small families and dairies, the American churn is now frequently adopted, and is approved by men of science as well as milkmaids, both for certainty of good butter and easy working. Cream butter comes with half the churning necessary when the entire milk is used. The only original feature we notice in Mr Ballantine's communication, is that in salting no previous washing is employed. The butter is taken at once from the churn; the milk squeezed out by the dairy woman, and half the salt added. This is in what seems excessive quantity—half-a-pound to fourteen pounds of butter. When the butter remains in the first salt for twenty-four hours or more, the rest of the salt is added, well worked in, of course, and the butter potted as usual. Professor Traill allows a half pound of salt to. sixteen of butter. Even this is ample. By an excellent receipt given by a Dumbartonshire farmer in some of our former editions, the quantity of salt was ten ounces to the stone of twenty- four pounds, and each pound twenty-two ounces. In May, June, and July, the butter required an ounce more salt to the stone than in the autumn months. And this butter kept sweet for the whole year, being supplied with pickle if required, but seldom requiring it where the hit is sound, or stoneware jars are used. Salt is, no doubt, cheaper than butter; but it is as true that sweet-tasted is far before briny butter, whether for the kitchen or the table. Mr Ballantine's main excellence in curing consists in twice salting, which we have ever strenuously recommended. The temperature at which milk or cream is put to churn is of great importance. If too low, the butter will not be so good; and if too high, be in danger of becoming what is termed hursten-hutter. Summer milk or cream yields rather less butter than that of autumn, which should be preferred for storing. There must be considerable change in the processes of making and preserving Dutch butter, since we stated, on the authority of a com- munication made by Mr Vandergoes, President of the Board of Agri- culture, South Holland, to Sir John Sinclair, that Dutch butter was made wholly from cream, and no ingredient used in curing save salt583 BUTTER-MAKING. —"a piclde renewed from time to time," and not salt worked in by the hand, it would seem. ^ 1198. Making and Curing Butter.—Having washed and beat the butter free of buttermilk, work it up long and briskly with the hands, allowing a quarter-ounce of pounded salt to the pound. Much depends on this first thorough dashing and splashing to get rid of the butter- milk, as, without entire separation, the butter will neither taste nor keep well. Let the butter lie for twenty-four hours, or more, and then for every pound allow a half-ounce of the following mixture:— Four ounces of salt, two of loaf-sugar, and a half-quarter ounce of saltpetre. Beat them all well together, and having worked up the butter very well with this, pack it for use in stone jars or well- seasoned kits not too large. Use more sugar and less salt, if not to be long kept.—Obs. We confidently recommend this method of twice salting butter, which only requires to be known to come into general use. It effectually preserves the butter, without so much salt (where salt alone is used) being employed as to give it a briny and disagree- able tstste. Summer butter requires a little more salt than that cured in autumn; but the above proportions are used in some of the best- managed dairies in Scotland, though less will preserve the butter. Instead of strewing a layer of salt on the top, which makes a part of the butter useless for the table, use pickle, or place a layer of the above mixture in folds of thin muslin; stitch it loosely, and lay this neatly over the top, which will effectually exclude the air, and form a kind of pickle. The turnip flavour is a general complaint against butter made in winter and spring. Many experiments have been made, but we fear it is not possible wholly to remove this offensive taste. It may, however, it is said, be much ameliorated by mixing nitre, dissolved in water, with the milk, in the proportion of an ounce of nitre to ten gallons of milk. To give the cows a little straw or hay previous to their feed of turnip, is a method employed in some places for preventing the turnip flavour, and we have to commend the practice of those dairy-farmers who cut off the tops and bottoms of turnips for horses or feeding cattle, and give the milch cows only the best parts of the bulb. 1199. To Freshen Salt Butter.—Churn it anew in sweet milk,—a quart to the pound. It gains in weight. 1200. To Improve Bancid Butter.—Wash it, melt it gradually, skim it, and put to it a slice of charred toast, or some bits of charcoal. 12002. Butter on the Continent is cured by putting it, when well freed of the milk, over a slow charcoal fire in a preserving-pan. It is carefully skimmed and suffered to boil for a few minutes, and then, keeping back the cheesy sediment which falls as the butter cools, stored in potting-cans made very close. In a recent lively work entitled The Phjjsician^s Holiday, there is a minute account given of this process, which the Journal of Agriculture brings forward as well worthy of attention, which it certainly is, though not new to those conversant with butter-making. The boiled butter—beurre cuit—is exceedingly well adapted to the uses of the cook and pastry-cook, and though rather tasteless with bread, is in every view to be pre- ferred to what the Physician (Dr John Forbes) describes as "theCHAP. III. BUTTEE-MAKING. 584 horrid compound sold in England as salt butter." There is, however, much excellent salt butter sold in England and in Scotland too, and except for delicate culinary purposes, we see little in our climate to recommend boiled butter, which was probably originally introduced in France from the high price of salt during the gabelle. The butter is brought to the boiling point in two hours, stirred every five or ten minutes, and kept slowly boiling for two more hours, and then pro- ceeded with as directed in our own receipt. Dr Forbes saw one Swiss goodwife who added a very little salt to the melting mass, not bad practice,—and another who met a rancid taint with a slice of onion ! We would allow twenty minutes or a half-hour that the butter should boil to separate the cheesy part effectually; but certainly not four hours of melting and boiling. The great secret of curing butter is to express every particle of milk by the brisk manipulation of a tidy dairymaid before any salt is given; and even less salting material than we allow will answer if the air is carefully excluded from the tubs and jars by pickle. Honey Butter is sometimes clarified as above, and preserved by melting about an ounce of honey to the pound with it. It keeps well if potted, and answers admirably for sweet crust, cakes, and shortbread. In the East butter is melted in the sun, and kept in skins like wine. The Icelanders allow their butter to become sour, and seldom use it either fresh or salted. With them, butter, like wine in other countries, is chiefly valued for its age. One pound of old sour butter {Surt smcere) is reckoned worth two of fresh. The same people cook their meat in sour whey, esteeming the broth thus made the better half of the dish. They keep sour whey in casks as one of their favourite dainties. Happy, nay, providential instincts these of a people who, from their common food, must be predisposed to scurvy. 1201. Filbert-Butter.—Pound a few filberts to a paste. Chop picked parsley, chives, and tarragon, very fine. Knead them with butter and the nut-paste, and roll up in small shapes for a delicate hors d^ceuvre. 12012. To Boll or Squirt Butter for a Cheese-Course, or for Break- fast, and to Garnish Dishes.—Have two small wooden fluted spoons, such as are used for lifting butter. Wash and boil them as often as wanted. Dry them well, and rub them with a bit of butter to clean them perfectly; then, between them, lightly roll up bits of butter in form of corks, fir-cones, small pine-apples, shells, etc. Butter is used in many ways for garnishing salads of meat or fish, ham, eggs, anchovies, etc. It looks well when squirted in little tufts, or little delicate coral branches, or open lacework, or fine basketwork. Borders are made of butter coloured red with carmine, or green with spinage- juice; we admire them no more than pink table-salt. They may be carved or stamped in a variety of devices. These are best made of Montpelier butter (No. 601), bat require a French cook.—See No. 580. 1202. To Scoop Butter. — Dip the teaspoon or reeded scooper in warm water, if in cold weather. Scoop quickly and thin, and heat the spoon again and again if needful. 12022. To Preserve Milk or Cream for Sea Store.—Boil fresh milk or cream with pounded sugar half its weight, for ten minutes or more, stirring it. Bottle and cork closely.MAKING CHEESE. 585 OF MAKING CHEESE.* Many parts of our island, from the delicate quality of the natural pastures, ought to furnish the very best cheese. We can indeed per- ceive no good reason why the cheese of Scotland and Wales should not equal in flavour that of Switzerland and Lombardy. Considerable advances have of late years been made in this tardy branch of our rural economy; but, notwithstanding the zeal with which the High- land Society has taken up this subject, the range of improvement is still limited. Though one occasionally sees excellent cheese in private families, little that is very superior comes to market, except the Ayr- shire cheese, and cheese of nearly the same kind from several coun- ties ; and it is not, after all, a very delicate cheese for the table. The low price that cheese gives in those remote parts of the country where the milk most resembles that from which the Swiss cheese is made, makes the farmer's wife still consider all the sweet milk that goes to her cheese as so much butter lost; and it will take a few more premiums, and a few more years, to convince those good wives, that a shilling got for cheese will go quite as far as one got for butter, and often be more conveniently obtained. Skim-milh cheese never can he very good. At least one-half of the milk used should be fresh from the cow. Another capital error is making the milk too hot, and then employing too much rennet, which makes the curd tough and hard, however rich its basis may have been. The quality of the rennet is also of much importance. The more gently the curd is separated from the whey, the milder will the cheese be. Made in a cylindrical form like Stilton, it will be more mellow than if moulded in a broad flat shape. Particular attention must be given to cheese in the winding or drying. The wrapping cloths must be changed very frequently, that the cheese may dry equally. The salting is also of importance; and, in preference to either salting the curd, or rubbing the new cheeses, some recommend cheeses being steeped in pickle. We would prefer salting the curd to any other mode. A sort of cheese for the table of very high gout^ an almost Tartarian preparation, is made in the north, by allowing the cream to become sour, and to coagulate of itself, which gives out flavour even more pungent than that of goat's or ewe milk cheese when cut. Cheese^ to keep, should be put in a cool and rather damp place, wrapped in a cloth, and placed in a covered jar. It should always be presented at table served on a small damask napkin. The surface of cheese, particularly a cut cheese, when to be kept, should be rubbed with butter. Dried pieces, when they cannot be presented at table, may either be grated down, to eat as a homely kind of Parmesan, or used in macaroni, etc. The offensive mould which gathers on cheese may easily be distinguished from " the bbie,"—the genuine cerugo which stamps its value,—and must be carefully wiped ofl". The production of mites may be checked by pouring spirits into the afl'ected parts. The addition of butter to the curd, or of lard rubbed into the new cheeses, is employed to enrich the quality and mellow the cheese. * Since the publication of our fifth edition, we have had the pleasure of eating Scotch cheese, made in Ettrick by receipt 1207, as good as Stilton, and taken for it. 2 B 2CHAP. III. MAKING CHEESE. 586 American way to keep.—Y/hen the cheese is sufficiently dried, cover it with folds of paper pasted on, so as completely to exclude the air. It will keep for a long while, and keep clean. We now get, though still too rarely, admirable cheese from America. Chopped sage, or the expressed juice of young red sage, caraway-seeds, etc.,* a]»3 em- ployed to flavour cheese, and various substances are sold to heighten the colour. Of these saffron and annatto are the most inoffensive. Housewives, who make this branch of economy their study, will find many observations worthy of attention in " Arthur Young's Tour in France and Italy," a few in The Farmer^s Magazine, and in the papers of the Bath Society, and in Blackwood's Journal of Agrimdture^ and the Transactions of the Highland Society. We merely subjoin a few receipts which are not in general circulation, though of approved merit. 1203. Rennet, or Yearning, to make. — Bead carefully No. 12112. Eennet is useful even where there is no dairy, as whey is often wanted, and with a little rennet a cheap elegant second course or supper-dish for warm weather may be furnished; and an agreeable variety given to the milk diet of schools, nurseries, and invalids. Eennet for dairies is made of the stomach {i.e. maw) of the calf, and also of that of pigs and hares, and of the membrane which lines the gizzards of fowls and turkeys. This last makes the gallino rennet of Italy. Some plants are also used for rennet, as lady's bed-straw, an acrid species of thistle, and artichoke, also wine and vinegar, in making wheys. Maw skins should be prepared the season before they are wanted. The calf should be at least a month old. Clean the maw of chyle, curd, and all impurities. Turn it inside out, and rub well with salt. From two to twenty, or twice that number, or whatever number, pack close in a stone jar, strewing salt between and over them, and covering up. A month or more before they are wanted, drain them from the brine; strew fresh salt over both sides, and roll them out with a paste roller. Next stretch them out with splints of wood, and hang up to dry. In some well-managed English dairies, they are seen like sheets of parchment, and beautifully white. There is no settled rule for the quantity of rennet to be used; the steep, as it is called, varies so much in strength. But the following approximates to the medium:—for thirty gallons of milk, cut an inch and a half from the top of one maw, and an inch from the bottom of another. As maws differ considerably in the power of coagulating milk, parts of two are thus taken to equalize the strength. These pieces are soaked in a quarter-pint of water, and a very small quantity of salt the day before the rennet is dropped through a sieve into the milk, along with the annatto for colouring. This material does not, in the opinion of Cheshire farmers, improve the flavour of cheese, and is not used for cheese to be consumed in their families, but it renders their commodities more marketable. One pound of prepared annatto gives sufficient colour to a ton of cheese; and one pound of salt is considered sufficient to salt forty-two pounds of curd; the stronger the rennet * To the herb melilot, which grows in abundance in some of the cheese districts of Switzerland, is ascribed the peculiar flavour of the Swiss cheese, as Cheshire made at particular seasons is fancied to owe its fine flavour to the wild radish on which the cows feed.MAKING CHEESE. 587 the quicker the process of coagulation—but the curd is tougher; and one obvious cause of the superiority of Cheshire and otlier English cheese, is the moderate dose of rennet put to milk at a low temperature. The approved temperature is from 75° to 80°, medium 77°; instead of the old degree of from 90° to 96°, the curd forming in a half-hour by the old way, to which an hour and a quarter, or more, are now given. 1204. Gallino Bennet.—When cooking fowls or turkeys, keep the skins that line the stomachs or gizzards; clear them of pebbles and other matters; and salt, dry, and steep as above directed, a bit the night before rennet is wanted. Rennet may now be bought, and in useful small quantities. The Dutch cheese is said to owe its peculiar, and to some disagreeable, to others delightful flavour, to muriatic acid being used for rennet. Vulgarly this Kanter flavour is attributed to swine's milk. 12042. Temperature of Milk at which to add the Bennet.—75° to 80°, medium 77°. On the average, three quarts of good milk should yield one pound of cheese. Temperature of 31ilk for Churning^ 65°. Cream for Churning^ 56°. 1205. To Colour Cheese and Butter, and to Produce the Blue Mould, —Annatto is prepared in cakes, in London, for the use of the dairy, but will do very well as bought in provincial shops. Tie it up, when reduced to powder, in a bit of muslin, and use it in the milk for cheese, precisely as laundresses do hhte in tinging linen, till the desired shade of colour is obtained; the lighter the better. For butter, infuse the annatto in a little milk, and put the tincture to the cream; but pale natural coloured butter is more valued. Cheese is tinged green with juice of spinage; or flavoured and slightly tinged with the expressed juice of the red sage. The true blue mould, in cheese, so highly valued by connoisseurs, comes, if it comes at all, no one can tell how. To further its production, the cheese is brushed clean while still soft, dipped in whey and rubbed slightly with butter once a-day, for from ten days to tv/enty days, till the desired appearance is obtained. The fresh cheese is also inoculated with bits of blue from a blue cheese, to catch the tint by contact. 1206. British Parmesan.—Heat the day's milk to the proper tem- perature, from 75° to 77°, and after it has settled, put in the rennet. When it has stood for an hour or more, the coagulated milk is to be placed on a slow clear fire, and heated till the curd separates of itself. When separated, throw in cold water to reduce the temperature, and quickly collect the curd in a cloth, gathering it up at the cornei'S. When drained, place it in a deep cheese-hoop, and press it as other cheese. Next day it will be firm enough to turn. Let it dry slowly and gradually, often (at first about every hour) changing the wrap- ping cloths. Rub it with a little salt daily for three weeks, or plunge it in pickle for a few days. The curd for this or any other cheese may be coloured with a little saffron, or annatto, by putting a tincture of them, extracted in milk, to the milk when to be curdled.—See No. 1205. 1207. Scottish Imitation of Stilton.—To the morning's milk add that of the previous evening, either skimmed or with the cream, as you intend to make a very rich cheese or one of inferior quality. DoCHAP. III. MAKING CHEESE. 588 not have the milk too hot, and employ no more yearning {i.e. rennet) than will barely serve to curdle it.* When fully coagulated, gently, and without much handling or breaking, gather the curd into a cloth, which place in a deep sieve or net, and afterwards, when firm enough to lift, in a Stilton-shaped cheese-hoop. Afterwards steep the cheese in pickle; then dry it, changing the binders very frequently. All fine cheese should Ibe rubbed and turned every day for the first two months.f 1208. Imitation of Double Gloucester. Beceipt hy wJdch the Speci- men was made for which the Highland Society gave their first Premium. —This specimen was what is called a one-meal cheese, that is, made of the milk obtained at one milking. The morning's milking is reckoned the richest. Strain the milk into the tub. Colour it slightly with annatto as above described. Put the rennet to it. The quantity of rennet must be proportioned to its strength. In ordinary circum- stances a spoonful will coagulate tAventy quarts of milk. AVhen the curd has set (dairymaids know this by the green colour of the whey), press ofi" the whey with skimmers; and next press the curd to the sides of the tub till it get firm. Cut it into cubes of an inch ; and, gathering it into a cloth, place it in the sieve or hoop, which should have a cover fitted to slip down within, on which place a weight of a half-hundred to press it moderately. Let it at this time stand near the fire. When drained, which will be in about twenty minutes, cut the curd still smaller than before, and place it as before in the hoop for another twenty minutes, and near a fire. Next put it into the tub, and mince it into very small bits with the three-bladed knife used for this purpose in dairies, or any substitute. Now salt the curd, which must be done to taste, but mix the salt well with it; and, gathering, bind it up into the sort of cloth used in dairies. Place it in the chessel in the cheese-press for a day or more, changing the cloth or binder as often as it gets wet. When the cloth remains dry, the cheese may be presumed dry. For some weeks after, turn frequently. Rub the cheese, and, if you like, wash it moderately with warm whey. In this experiment one hundred quarts of milk produced a cheese of thirty pounds. * If the cream is used, which, for a prime cheese, it should be, skim it off; and heat, and have hot in readiness as much of the skim-milk as, with the fresh milk from the cow, will make the whole warm enough for the rennet: then pour back the cream. Mix and add the rennet. -|- In Inverness and Eoss shires, there is a rural breakfast article called croiudie, not the Lowland composition, oatmeal and water or milk, but made thus :—Take two parts fresh sweet-milk curd, and one of fresh butter. "Work them well together, and press them in a basin or small shape, and turn out, when it will slice nicely. When whey is much used for drink in hot weather, the curd may be usefully thus disposed of. Crowdie is eaten with bread and butter, and keeps a long time, if haut gout is liked. This preparation, when the curd is well broken and blended with the butter, is sometimes made up in deep narrow cogs, or wooden moulds, and kept for months, when it becomes very high flavoured, though still mellow. The celebrated Arabian cheese is made in the same way in vats, and both are, of their kind, uncommonly fine. These preparations deserve trial. In the Lowlands this is sometimes seen, but it is not kept, and is, for this reason, called a one day''s cheese.—P. T. See No. 1210.589 DUNLOP AND GOUDA CHEESE. N. B.—Slips of the elder, placed on cheese-racks, are said to keep away the blow-fly.—Doubtful. Spirits, cloves, lemon-grate, and other things, are sometimes used to subdue the bad flavour of rennet. Their effect is more doubtful still. 1209. Best Dunlop Cheese.—"As soon as the milk is taken from the cows, it is poured into a large pail, or pails, and, before it is quite cold (about 77°), the steep, i.e. rennet, is mixed with it. When it is sufficiently coagulated, it is cut transversely with a broad knife made for the purpose, or a broad three-toed instrument, in order to let the curd subside, and to procure the separation of the whey from it. When this separation is observed to have taken place, the curd is lifted with a ladle, or something similar, into the chessel (for it is to be observed, that where a proper attention is paid to the making cf these cheeses, no woman's hand ought ever to touch the curd, from the milking of the cow to the finishing of the whole), where it remains a few hours, till it has acquired something of a hardness or consist- ency. It is then taken out of the cheese-press, and cut into small pieces, with the instrument above mentioned, of the size of one or two cubic inches, after which it receives the due proportion of salt (a pound to forty-two of curd), and is again replaced in the chessel, and put into the press, where it remains a few hours again. Then it is taken out a second time, cut as before, and mixed thoroughly, so as every part may receive the benefit of the salt; and for the last time, it is put into the cheese-press, where it remains until replaced by its successor. After this is done, it must be laid in a clean and cool place, till sufficiently dried, and fit to be carried to market; great care is to be used in frequent turning and rubbing, both to keep the cheese dry and clean, and to preserve it from swelling and burst- ing with the heat, vulgarly '•fire-fanging.'' When these cheeses are properly made, and dried as they ought to be, they have a rich and delicious flavour." N.B.—This, and all sorts of cheese, may be pricked with a bodkin, to allow the escape of the air, which, if left, forms what are called eyes in cheese,—a bad sign. 1210. A rich Cream-Cheese., without Bennet.—Dr Hunter.—Take any quantity of thick cream, and put it into a wet cloth. Tie it up, and hang it in a cool place for seven or eight days. Then take it from the cloth and put it into a mould (in another cloth), with a weight upon it, for two or three days longer. Turn it twice a-day, when it will be fit for use. 1211. Imitation of Shap Zigar.—This is made by flavouring the curd with the expressed juice of melilot, and greening it with juice of spinage. Press it hard, and dry it slowly, that it may be thoroughly dry, and fit to rasp. If made of ewe or goat's milk, or a mixture of them, the imitation will be very close. 12112, Gouda Cheese, an Improved Method of Maldng.—Dutch Re- ceipt.—When the milk is all collected, the rennet, which is prepared in the following manner, must be put into it: Six rennets {maws) must be taken and cut into small pieces; on these must be poured three kilogrammes of water, in which about five kilogrammes of kitchen-salt have previously been dissolved. It may be proper alsoCHAP. III.—MAKING CHEESE. 590 to add two ounces of saltpetre or the salt of nitre, and half a bottle of the vinegar of wine. This mixture must be allowed to remain for about three weeks, when it is put into bottles. The bottles must be corked with great care, the influence of the air being pernicious to the rennet. When the rennet, thus prepared, is poured into the milk, it must be stirred very gently in a plain unpainted wooden trough, without the addition of warm water. It is not advisable to add warm water, unless when the milk comes from very distant pasturage, or when, on account of the coldness of the weather, the heat necessary for promoting the operation of the rennet is wanting. It is, however, still preferable to heat the trough directly by means of fire, as is the custom in Switzerland, where they heat the copper basins employed for this purpose. In those farms where the pasture is very rich, it is proper to add a little warm water to the milk. Particular care must he taken not to mix portions of milk loliich have heen drawn upon dif- ferent days^ or even at separate hours of the same day^ as cheeses made in this manner are always of a very inferior flavour. When, by means of gentle and regular agitation, the different parts of the milk begin to separate, and when the whey is skimmed off, the curd must be kneaded with great care, in order that the large and small particles may not be put together confusedly in the frame, and that they may be as small and as equal in size as possible. The curd must then be wrapped in a thin linen cloth, of a fine but strong texture, and put into the frame. The frames used by M. Van Bell are different from those usually employed, the sides being vertical. The lids ought to be made to fit exactly. Th3 walls of these frames must be pierced with small holes, through which the whey will exude If any diffi- culty be found in taking the cheese fi'om the frame, it will be sufficient to blow into those apertures, as in this way the tension of the air will be removed, and the cheese easily taken out. The frame ought to be placed upon a pedestal, near the press, in order that they may be easily put beneath it. The cheese, with its cloth, ought to be repeatedly returned to the frame, and particularly at the commence- ment of the pressure. When the cheese is placed under the press, the pressure must at first be ligbt, and afterwards increased by slow degrees. Care must be taken that the pillars of the windlass-press be vertical; and, if the lever-press be used, that the pressure may arise exactly on the centre. With regard to the duration of the pres- sure, M. Van Bell's method differs entirely from that of the English, who leave the cheese under the press for a long period, sometimes even for three days, whereas M. Van Bell does not allow it to remain even so long as is the custom in Holland. He diminishes the dura- tion of the pressure according to the warmth of the temperature, in order that he may be able to put the cheese more speedily into pickle. In truth, nothing produces the putrefaction of the cheese so easily as the acetous fermentation of the milk. Now, it is conceived that this fermentation is only increased by allowing the cheese to remain long in the press, especially during warm weather; when, by the method of M. Van Bell, the curd frees itself rapidly and effectually from the whey, and the cheese may be sooner put into the pickle, which acts in such a way as to prevent the fermentation. When the cheeses are removed from the pickle, they must be placed upon boards in theTO FATTEN POULTRY—TO PRESERVE EGGS. 591 usual manner, which is well known to every experimental cheese- maker. M. Van Bell advises the use of pickling-troughs, of a depth sufficient to allow the cheeses to float, in order that the pickle may penetrate them equally on all sides. In a tract upon cheese-making, published some time since by Mr Fulton, who appears well acquainted with the methods practised in the Dunlop district, and also with those of Cheshire, we find nothing so strenuously urged as something equi- valent to a large importation of Dolly Buttons. Dolly, be it remem- bered, accompanied Jeanie Deans to Roseneath, to introduce dairy reforms under the auspices of the Duke of Argyle. 1212. To Fatten Poultry for the Table.—Keep the fowls clean, warm, and dry. Mix together for their food, oat and pease meal with mashed potatoes, and a little kitchen stuff. Have their food always fresh and in plenty, but do not cram them. Rice swelled in ^WQQt skimmed milk is liked to fatten fowls by those who value the colour as much as the quality. In France they are fattened on barley-meal with milk, or on buckwheat, and the flavour is excellent. Young pullets are used at any age, but, for the more delicate purposes of cookery, they are best at the age of seven or eight montlis. There are now innumerable varieties of ornamental fowls. In these we leave fowl- fanciers to follow their fancy; and stand by Dorkings white, and Polanders black, which are good layers, and are also approved for the table. Turkeys are fed as above ; or on stewed barley, with the part of wheat-flour called in Scotland paring-meal mixed with it. In Indian-corn-meal and buckwheat we have now admirable articles for fattening poultry. We give no receipts for cramming. To keep hens laying in winter, the French give them nettle-seed and bruised hemp-seed. In establishments where much attention is paid to poultry, besides taking great care to keep them clean and warm, which is necessary to the thriving or fattening of every kind of animal, they are fed with toasts and ale, barley sodden and steeped in fresh beer, or messes of pease-meal or rye-flour The Malay or Chittagong fowls have, for some years, been favourites in Scotland. They are a handsome and economical variety; and of late the Cochin fowls have gained favour as great layers. The game breed of fowls is of high flavour. 1213. Eggs, to preserve.—They should at all times, either when bought or gathered from the nests, be rubbed with butter, or soaked in olive or sweet oil. A minute will go over dozens, and this simple process will generally be sufficient to preserve them as long as required in private families, and even when they are to be exported from Ireland, France, Orkney, Jersey, and the many places from which eggs are now sent to the markets of our great cities. They may also be preserved by a solution of quicklime,* salt, and cream of tartar, poured over them in the keg in which they are packed. In England, old-fashioned housewives, after smearing, hang eggs in a net, which is turned upside-down daily. To keep if for plain boiling, they may be parboiled one minute. * Three pounds quicklime, ten ounces salt, one ounce cream of tartar, over which pour a gallon and a half of boiling water. Next day cover the eggs with the solution. They will keep long, but the shell becomes very brittle.592 CHAP. IV.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 1214. Another loay.—Dip them in a solution of gum-arabic, and pack in dry pulverized charcoal. 1215. To run Honey.—Gently loosen the combs. Separate the best pieces to keep and serve in the comb, if wished, as honey always looks best in the comb. If not, place the combs singly on open wire frames, laid over a jar, opposite the fire, but not so near as to melt the wax (an open corn-sieve will be a good substitute for a frame). Cut the pieces of comb with a long knife twice horizontally; then slice them down as it were into chequers, to permit the honey to flow. When drained completely on one side, turn over the other. The liquid honey is then to be run through a coarse jelly-bag, made of the kind of stuff used in dairies, and hooked on a stand in the usual manner of running jellies ; the jar placed under the bag, when full, must be closely bunged up. The pure or virgin combs being thus disposed of, the inferior sort are to be treated in the same manner, and the refuse, obtained by wringing the bags and scraping the frames and jars, may be turned to account in vinegar, adding double its weight of water; or with hog's lard as a paste for chapped hands.— Honeycomb^ to keep entire. The finest pieces are selected, handled as gently as possible, papered and kept in a wide jar, set aslant, that the thin may drop ofi", and covered. N.B.—Those who have even but three or four hives would do well to consult Loudon's Gardener's Dictionary, which contains the sub- stance of all that is known on the subject of bees, whether theoretically or practically. There are newer works, but none better. CHAPTER IV. A SELECTIOlf OF USEFUL MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS FOR CLEANING AND PRESERVING FURNITURE, CLOTHES, ETC. 1216. To Scour Carpets.—Dust the carpet well, and to do so, if large, pick it asunder into two or more pieces. The places most worn and faded can thus be turned in making up. Have them first well rinsed, in running water, if possible, and then scoured in a ley made of boiled soap. Repeat this till the breadths are clean. Next rinse them again, and last of all put them into a tub of clean water in which a large tablespoonful of oil of vitriol is mixed, which will brighten the colours and keep them from running. Choose a dry windy day to scour carpets, as remaining long wet will injure the colours. If there are any greasy spots, let them be rubbed with soft or boiled soap before the carpet is wet. Hearth-rugs are done in the same way.— Obs. Carpets may be washed stretched on a clean floor, using sponge and soap ley, and afterwards rinsed and dried. Nail them tightly out when again laid down. They may also be scoured with a bullock's gall mixed in a pail of water, or with fuller's earth, and then be rinsed. Brushes may be used with advantage.593 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 1217. To Wash Chintz Furniture^ Shawls, efc—Clioose'a good dry- ing day before you wet the cloth. Dust the things well previously by shaking and rubbing, and wash them quickly out in cool lathers ready made up with boiled white soap. Two, or at most three lathers will do them. Rinse in cold spring-water, in which starch and a little oil of vitriol have been mixed, which, without injuring the fabric, will brighten the colours, and prevent them from running. Shake the things very well, and repeat this occasionally till they are dry.— Ohs. Rice-water is now very much used for fine printed calicoes and chintzes. It is used thus:—Boil a pound of rice in five quarts of water, and when cool enough, wash the chintz in this, using the rice as soap. Have another quantity ready, but strain the rice from this, and use it with fresh warm water, keeping the rice-water strained off for the third washing, which, at the same time, stiffens the chintz, and brightens the colours. The things should be dried quickly, press- ing smooth with the hands between large folds of sheets. 1218. To Clean Printed Calico Furniture.—Shake and brush with a long haired brush, rub with clean flannel, and fold it carefully in large folds. Crumb of stale bread will also clean it. For moreen or damask curtains also use flannel, and, if much soiled, sprinkle bran over, rubbing in little bits circularly, and keeping clean bran only in operation. 1219. To Scour Blankets.—Boil good mottled soap and pearl ashes. Make a strong lather. Pour more hot water over the lather, and wash the blankets (previously wetted through in cold water) till the lather becomes dirty. Repeat this till a clean lather comes off' them. Less soap solution may be used the second time, and little or none the last time; but the water must be warm and the blankets fully covered with it, else they will thicken. Shake well while drying. Every thing in drying should be well shaken and stretched:—Linen, to make it mangle well—woollens, to keep them from thickening, and to raise the pile. As a general rule, all woollen articles should be saturated with cold water, and wrung, immediately before being washed in warm water; though some now use cold water alone. 1220. To Wash Silk StocJcings.—Wash in white soap-ley and warm water, and scald them in the same. Rinse in cold water, and dip them in water in which a drop of blue or a bit of cudbear or pink dye is put, according to the tinge wanted. Rub them till dry with clean flannel; if well polished no mangling is required, and the lustre is brighter.—Cotton Stockings. Steep the feet over night in cold water; wash clean out. Boil in a strong lather; rinse, bleach, dry, and either iron, press, or mangle them. 1221. To take Spots of Paint from Cloth and Silks.—Dip a clean nibbed pen in spirit of turpentine, and touch the spot as soon after it is stained as possible. When dry, rub the place. 1222. To take greasy Stains out of Silk.—Scrape French chalk over the spot, and repeat this till the grease comes out, then rub off the chalk; or rub lightly but briskly with a clean soft bit of lawn or cambric till the spot disappear. Avoid stains. They never come fairly out. 1223. To take out Iron-Mould.—Hold the spot stretched wet over594 CHAP. IV. MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. a jug of hot water, and rub it with salt of lemons, or juice of sorrel, and salt; then wash it immediately, lest the acid injure the fabric of the cloth. Lemon-juice will do. 1224. To take out Stains of Wine, Fruit, etc.—Wash well, rub with starch, and expose the linen to the sun till the stains come out. Exposing the spot, slightly wetted, to the fumes of burning sulphur for an instant, will also remove these stains. A common match will answer the purpose; but is a choking process. 1225. To remove Mildew.—Rub the spots with soap, and scrape some fine chalk over this. Rub it in, and expose the cloth to the sun. Repeat this till the spots disappear. 1226. Clothes Closets.—These small useful compartments should be lined with wood very closely fitted; furnished with shelves and wooden pegs, on which to suspend ladies' dresses, and things which folds would injure. Turpentine, cedar-shavings, Russia leather, etc., should be strewed about them, and glazed linen curtains should be drawn closely round the shelves; on which pieces of charcoal wrapped in muslin may be laid. Modern wardrobes are better than these; but, unluckily, though their price might not be grudged, few bedchambers are large enough conveniently to hold them. Bonnet-hoxes, whether of pasteboard, wood, or tin, should be roomy, and furnished with trays above, and a bonnet-pin in the centre, on which to hang head-dresses. 1227. Fur, to 'preserve.—Sew the articles closely up in glazed linen of a close texture, with camphire or Russia leather about it. Air and shake them occasionally before the fire. Another way.—Keep in tin-plate boxes closely shut. 1228. InTc-Spots.—Wash these immediately, first in plenty of cold water, then in soap and water. Use also lemon-juice or vinegar. Oil of vitriol will take ink from mahogany. Touch with a feather, rub it quickly out, and put linseed-oil on the spot lest it whiten. 1229. To Clean Marhle Slabs and Chimney Pieces. — Mix verdigris and pumice-stone with new slacked lime in soap-ley. Make a paste of this mixture, and rub one way with a woollen cioth. Wash, and repeat this till the stain comes out, but it will take time. 1230. To Clean Papered Booms.—Clear away the dust with bellows and a long-haired brush; cut a stale loaf into eight pieces; and, be- ginning at the top of the wall, rub downwards in even strokes, as if laying on paint. 1231. To Clean Paint.—Brush off the dust; and with ox-gall or whiting scour the paint, rubbing it hard to restore the gloss; or use mottled soap made into a strong ley, if the only object is to clean.— Obs. Sponge is peculiarly well suited for this, and, indeed, all domestic purposes of cleaning, whether dishes, plate, floor-cloths, mahogany, etc., etc., when free of sand. 1232. To take Grease from Papered Walls or Books.—Appty dry hot flannel to the spot, then rub it over with hot spirit of turpentine. Repeat this till the grease is removed. If turpentine would injure the colours in the paper, lay several folds of blotting-paper on the spot, and apply a hot iron over that, till the grease is absorbed by the blotting-paper,—or cover with French chalk, if very bad.MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 595 1233. To Clean Floor-Cloths.—Sweep and rub tliem; then wash with soap-ley, using sponge or flannel, but do not wet them much. Rub hard up with dry flannel. A little wax may then be rubbed in hard, which both improves the appearance and preserves the surface. 1234. To Polish Furniture.—Nothing, to our taste, improves ma- hogany so much as daily brisk rubbing; but various preparations are in use. Break down two or more ounces of bees' wax, and melt it in an earthen pipkin, take a half-pint of oil of turpentine, an ounce of alkanet-root, and a very little rose-pink ; pour this on the wax when ready to boil; stir it up, and let it cool; rub a very little on the furni- ture (previously thoroughly cleaned), and polish with dry flannel, or use merely one ounce of white wax, and two of turpentine. — Ohs. Lin- seed-oil, cold drawn, was wont to be used for mahogany; but the taste of the day is for light-coloured furniture, and, accordingly, oil which deepens the colour, is not so much used. Two parts linseed- oil, with one of turpentine, make a good composition for dining- tables; or use equal parts of the oil, vinegar, and turpentine. Wax prevents the action of the light, and keeps wood of a lightish colour for many years. Various pastes and varnishes are sold to colour and polish mahogany, which, with the exception of wax, if we wish to preserve the wood of its first colour, or of oil to polish, we conceive of little utility, farther than as they may contribute to beguile the toil of the fair polisher. 1235. To Polish Mahogany^ etc., in the Italian 31anner.—Clean and cover the wood with olive-oil. Melt gum-arabic in spirit of wine, and polish the wood hard with this, which gives a beautiful varnish. Ohs. Pieces of old soft beaver-hats, and of soft smooth cork, are very useful in polishing furniture. 1236. To Preserve Polished Steel. — Smear with mutton-suet, and dust over with unslacked lime. A paste of lard or fowl's grease, camphire, and black-lead, will also preserve steel. Caoutchouc-varnish is the most effectual coating for steel, but it is too expensive for common domestic purposes. 1237. To Clean Steel Grates.—Rub the bars clean while still warm, if it be possible; then clear with emery-paper, or polish by hard rubbing, using a little dry emery, or finely-pounded Bath-brick. When very dirty, a thin paste, made of emery and boiled soap, will be found useful at first. 1238. To Clean Brass Grates^ Fire-Irons^ etc.—Make a smooth paste of rotten-stone (pounded finely and sifted) and sweet oil. Keep in a tin-box; rub on, if hard, using a drop of oil, and cleaning with a linen rubber; polish with leather. Good pastes for brass are now sold very reasonably. 1239. To Clean Knives and ForTcs. — Use a board covered with leather. Bath-brick is still the best thing known for cleaning knives. Wash ofl" the grease and dry the knives as soon as they come from table; but do not use water too hot. It is good to have a tin can or jug tor this purpose, two inches less in depth than a table-knife blade is long. On a wooden board two knives may be cleaned at once, taking one in each hand, holding them back to back, and rubbing in difl'erent directions. Wipe forks well, and plunge the prongs into a596 CHAP. IV. MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. jug or other small vessel filled with Bath-brick dust or fine sand, which may be kept compact by a mixture of damp moss. Clean between the prongs with a piece of leather tied to a stick; wipe off all dust, and rub them up. Lay knives and forks not in daily use before the fire when cleaned, and wrap each up separately in paper. A compact and comprehensive knife-board has lately been introduced. 1240. To Clean Plate and Plated Articles. — Clean the plate very well, using a sponge, with soap-ley and boiling water, and brushing all the carved places. Dry and rub with plate-powder, hartshorn- powder, or better, the very finest whiting either wetted with spirits or dry. Polish with the hand and soft leather. The longer plate is rubbed the brighter it will look. Brush off the powder carefully from all carved places. Plated goods should be kept in thick brown paper, in a box, and the interstices filled up with dried bran, never be allowed to get damp nor dirty, nor be rubbed more than can be avoided. Spirit of wine, or strong spirits, is the best thing to .clean them with. When candlesticks are smeared with wax or grease, do not scrape, but pour boiling water on the parts before cleaning them. Have brushes of soft texture and different sizes for plate. 1241. To Clean Pewter Vessels and Tin Covers.—Keep these always free of damp by wiping inside and drying them before the fire after they are used. Polish with the finest whiting and sweet oil, not water. 1242. Directions for Cleaning Britannia-Metal Goods.—Take a piece of fine woollen cloth; upon this put as much sweet oil as will prevent its rubbing dry;—with this rub them well on every part, then wipe them smartly with a soft dry linen cloth until they are quite clean, and rub them up with soft wash-leather and whiting. This simple method will preserve the colour as long as the articles endure. — Ohs. Washing them in boiling water and soap, just before they are rubbed with wash-leather and whiting, would take off the oil effectually, and make the carving look brighter. 1243. To Preserve Gilding on Picture-Frames^ etc.—In summer it may be covered with slips of gold-coloured tissue-paper, or gold- coloured leno. Never rub gilding. Use the bellows and a long soft hair-brush; or, if this will not do, a piece of wadding or cotton-wool. Frames properly gilt will, however, stand cleaning with hot spirits of turpentine, applied with sponge. The whole frame or lustre may in the fly months be covered with gold-coloured leno. 1244. To Clean Looking-Glasses and Plate-Glass.—Wsish. with warm water and sponge; then wash with spirits, and dust the glass with powder-blue in a rag, and rub it up with a piece of soft calico, and afterwards with an old silk handkerchief. 1245. To Wash Wine-Decanters.—Use lukewarm water, a few bits of soap, and a little pearl-ashes, with sponge tied to the end of a stick to rub off the crust that forms on the glass. Rinse and dry them thoroughly. If stoppers are fixed, dip a towel in hot water, and wrap it round the neck of the bottles. Repeat this till they loosen;* or * We owe this direction to Dr Hope's Lectures on Chemistry to the ladies of Edinburgh, yet it is not infallible.MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 597 better, drop a little sweet oil on the necks of the bottles, and leave them before the fire to expand, when the stopper will loosen. 1246. To Clean Japanned Goods.—Wash with sponge, using soap and warm water, and rub up with a dry cloth. If the things still look greasy, dust a little powder-blue, fine whiting, or flour, on them, and rub them again. Oil will take marks out of paper trays. Tea- Urns ought to be well dried, rubbed when brought from the table, and kept covered with a woollen bag. 1247. To get Oil out of Wood and Stone.—Mix fuller's earth with soap-lees, and scour the places repeatedly with this.—N.B. Fuller's earth does well for cleaning very dirty passage and stair carpets. 1248. To take Rust out of Fire-irons. - Cover with sweet oil, rub- bing it hard in, and next day rub with powder of unslacked lime till the rust is removed, or emery will do very well. Eub with a spongy piece of wood. 1249. To Clean China and Glass.—Use pearl ashes or fuller's earth in fine powder, rinse in fair water, and polish the things well. 1250. To tahe Stains out of Mourning Dresses.—Boil a handful of fig-leaves in two quarts of water, till reduced to a pint. Strain and apply this with sponge. Doubtful. 1250 2. To Clean hlacJc and dark Silk Dresses.—Pick them out, soak over night in cold water. Wash out next day; fold and press, not wring the moisture out; wipe off what remains, and iron on the wrong side; or, lay the silk on a table and scour with gall dissolved in water; rinse and hang on lines, allowing the silk to drip nearly dry. Then iron or mangle it. 1251. An excellent Shoe-hlacking.—Eight ounces of ivory-black, six of treacle, two of spermaceti or sweet oil, and three pints of coarse vinegar or alegar; a quarter-ounce vitriolic acid may be added. These things must be well mixed. The vinegar made hot should be poured over the other ingredients, or the composition may better be boiled, and the vitriol added afterwards, to prevent accidents. 1252. Liquid Japan Blacking.—Mix with four ounces of ivory- black a large spoonful of sweet oil; then put to these two ounces of sugar and a little vinegar; make a paste of the blacking. Add a half-ounce of sulphuric and the same of muriatic acid, and nearly a pint of vinegar. Mix them well. With less acid the polish may not be so bright, but it will be safer for the leather. 1253. Scalds and Burns.—The cook is too often exposed to accidents of this kind. Plunge the part instantly into cold water, which renew- as often as it gets heated. If the leg or arm is scalded, the stocking or sleeve can be cut up without touching the injured part, and gently removed, as the instant application of water will have prevented blistering or the stocking sticking to the skin. There are many remedies, and good ones, for burns; as Goulard's Lotion, oil of tur- pentine, spirit of wine, and vinegar. And in every house there is generally wool, or cotton-wool, while the cook has her dredging-box. Dredge the injured part thickly with flour, which is perhaps, after water has allayed the pain, the best remedy, as the flour may be tied on with a cloth, and left till the new skin forms.—N.B. Every cook,CHAP. IV.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 598 while by an open fire, should wear a verv wide and thick worsted apron. While swaying her body, lifting off and on heavy stewpots, it is surprising that her inflammable cotton apron so often escapes the flames. If the cook cuts herself, she should let the wound, if a slight one, bleed freely for a while, and then sponge or soak the part in tepid water. Then gently press its edges together, sponge up the blood, and bind on a pledget of lint dipped in water, which is to be fastened with strips of adhesive plaster, and allowed to remain for three or four days till the edges adhere. Tincture of Arnica is now kept in families as a specific for various accidents. Twelve drops are put to a wine-glass of water; and the injured part is covered with the solu- tion, and carefully bound up to exclude the external air. Doubtful. 1254. To Extinguish Fire in Female Dresses.—So many fatal acci- dents arise from light dresses catching fire that every Manual in- tended for women should contain the following necessary cautions:— 1. Let it be early and diligently impressed upon the mind of every girl, that flame uniformly tends upwards; that every article of dress will consume much more rapidly if held upright, than if laid along the floor; and that her life may depend on her presence of mind, should her clothes unhappily catch fire. 2. Give instant alarm by pulling the bell (which is generally near the fireplace), by screaming or any other means; but, if possible, avoid opening the door; for both the movement of the figure, and the current of air admitted, will increase the rapidity of the flames. 3. The alarm may be given while the female is at the same instant sitting down by the rug, at- tempting to tear off the articles of dress which are on fire, and rolling herself on a sofa or in the rug or carpet to smother the flame. If the latter is nailed down, she may easily, when on the floor, tear it up. She may also catch at any piece of baize, or vessel of water within reach; and, if very active, may even turn her clothes over her head, and thus arrest the progress of the flames. 4. The most ready and effectual assistance a spectator in general can give, will be to turn the clothes of the sufferer over her head, and hold them firm thus, till wrappers, cold water,' etc., are procured. 5. A man may quickly strip off his coat and wrap it round the female. 6. Let the sufferer, even if she fail to pull away the burning articles, or to extinguish the fire by rolling on the floor, and wrapping herself on the hearth-rug (which is generally always ready), still protect her bosom and face, by lowering her face and crossing her hands and arms over her face and breast.INDEX. Absinthe, creme d', No. 1060. Acid liquors, see Vinegars, 261-264. Acidulated drops, 500; No. 1000. alkali, 538. Admiral's sauce, old, 255. Admirable, Loudon's Liqueur, 623. Advice to Housekeepers, 39-44, 276. A la mode beef, and veal, 282, 283. ox-tails, 287. Alderman in chains, note, 95. Alderman's walk, 50. pudding, No. 834. Ale-posset, 528. Ale-berrv, 554. Alegar, 262. Almond custards, to make, 479. pudding, three ways, 452, 453. pudding baked, 453. cakes or macaroons, 507. cheesecakes, 481. nougat, 502. Almonus, devilled, to serve with wine. No. 768. Alum whey, No. 1074. Allspice, essence and tincture of, 260. Ancijovies, to choose, 41. imitation of. No. 146, p. 184. Anchovy toasts, 259, 335. powder of, for flavouring sauces, 269. sauce, 254. Apple-pie, 433. Apples, best kinds. Obs. 433, 483. general receipt for, 483. black caps, 484. en compdte, 496. dumplings of, 464. fritters of, and French do., 466. Chartreuse of, 484. in rice, 484. pasty of, 438. puffs of, 438. d la Portugaise, 390. Swiss puuding of, 464. excellent pudding of, 453. miromn des pnmmes, 390. Pomim 31avge, No. 921. manse pudding of, 454. to bake, 484. jelly of, 477. trifle of, 479. water of, for a cooling draught. No. 1143. Apples, sauce of, 244. marmalade of, 495. to preserve red, 496. for puddings, a cheap way. No. 982. to butter, 484. sotiffle of, in rice border, 488. Apricot jam, 493. Apricots, to preserve, 497. Abricots au riz, 389. apples and pears, with rice. No. 7072, p. 390. pie of, Nos. 805, 812. pudding of. No. 856. ice-cream of, 474. Arabian cheese, note, 588. Arbuthnot, Dr, note, 214. Aromatic tincture, 531. Arrow-root jelly, 552. Artichokes,*to boil, 206. Jerusalem, 207. a Vltalienne, 388. bottoms, en canapes, 388. Artificial ass's milk, 562. Aspic jelly, 356. Asparagus, to dress, 205. pease, French mode, 387. soup, 130. with chickens. No. 518. with eggs, 341. Athole brose, 529. Auld man's milk, 529. Bachelor's round of beef, 281. Bacon, to cure in flitches or whole sides, 580. to boil, 74. to broil, 113. to fry with eggs or sausage, 118. with calf's liver, 120. Cobbett on, 87, note. Bacon hams, to cure, 573-581. hams, to boil, 74-77. to roast, 370. with Windsor beans, 76. with Madeira, 75. Bain Marie, note, 163. Baking meat, observations On, 105. paste, 421-425. French, 383-385. bread, 514-518. pears and apples, 484. Balls, brain, 330.600 INDEX. Balls of egg for mock turtle, 143. of forcemeat for fish, 158. of potato, 220. beverages for children's^ 529. Ballyshannon pickle, 166. Balnamoon skink, 400. Barbadoes water, 520. Barberries, to preserve, 230, 274. Barley-water, to make^ 554. broth, 153. sugar, to make, 501. qualities of barley, note, 154. Barnaby cherries, No. 1088. Basket of sugar, to make a Chantilly, 394. Bastings, note, 92. Baths, temperature of, 564. Bath buns, 510. Batter, and French do., 465. Beans, French, to dress, 208. a la poulette, 389. pudding of, two ways, 571. "Windsor, with ham, 76. to boil, 207. and other, 207. to preserve, by salting, 230. to pickle French, 270. Beauvilliers, a late eminent Parisian restaurateur, receipts by, 291, 332, Nos. 1060,1184. Bechamel, or the French white sauce, 245, 352. Beef, to boil, observations on, 64-67. boiled, or louilli ordinaire, 68, 69. qualities of, 40. to salt, 576, 579. to salt a mart, 578. Dutch, 290. Irish, 290. Hamburgh, or losuf fumie, 290. hunter's, or spiced, 289. toeuf de chasse, 290. to press, 291. to pot, 295. to collar, 283. to roast a sirloin of, 84. to roast the rump, or part of it, 85. observations on roasting of, 79-84. to roast ribs of, 85. to roast collared ribs of, 284. to boil a salted round, or rump, with greens, 68, obs. on, 69. miniature round of, 69. to bake a rump of, 106. boiled, or houilli ordinaire garni de choux, or with cabbage, 69, 281, 282. garrd de racines, or with roots, obs., 127. to ragout or braise a rump of, 280. to stew or ragout a brisket of, 281. brisket of stewed, savoury, 283. bachelor's stew of, 285. to boil a bachelor's round of, 281. fillet of, in Madeira, 291. to stew a leg or shin of, 282. d la mode, with obs. on, 282, 283. Beef, brisket, ct la Flamande, 284. culotte a la gp.lle, obs. 283. d la royale, 283. steaks, to l)roil, 109. note on, 109,110. steaks, with cucumbers, 286. collops in the pan, 116. roll of, 333. steaks, with potatoes or beans, 111. steaks to fry, 116. entre cote de hceuf, 360. tongues to stew, 286. to cure, 576. to braise, 360, 361. en miroton, 361. stewed rump of, with glazed onions, 361. another French mode, 362. rumps or tails, d la mode, or en hoche-pot, 287. soup of tails, 150. tails, to dress, 287. palates, to dress, 285. palates, French way, d Vltalienne, 360. kidneys, to dress, 386. kidneys for dejeuner d la fourcliette, 287, 369. to dress a cold stewed rump of, 362. tea of, 554. heart, 288. udder, 289. skirts, 289. liver, 289. ox-head soup, and Hessian ragout, 147. potted heels, 78, 79, 404. sweetbreads, to fry, 119. olives, 288. olives au roi, 288. marrow-bones, 288. mince-collops of, 403. sausages of, 332. for patties and podovies, 442. for small pies, 442. cold, to dress, 291-294. inside of a sirloin or fillet, 292. to fricassee, 292. olives of dressed, 292. to hash, 292. English stew of dressed, 293. scalloped, or Saunders, 293. Cecils, 294. to mince dressed, 294, a Parisian mode, 294. cold, to broil, 294. another way, 294. bubble and squeak, 295. inky pinky, 295. tripe, to boil, 78, 362, 406. to fry, 120, 406. suet, to melt and clarify, 116. dripping, to save, 83. to clarify, 115. Beef-suet in pie-crust, 424. Beef-steak pie, 425. pudding, 461.601 INDEX. Beer^ ginger, a superior kind, 538, 539. common ginger, 539. treacle or sugar, 539. spruce, white and brown, 538. Beetroots, to dress, 212. to pickle, 272. in salads, 212. Beverages, refreshing, of fruits, 561. household, 538-540. Bills of fare, 58-63. for Anglo-French dinners, 347. Biscuit, wine, Leman's, and common, 509. devil'd, 335. Bishop, to make, hot or iced, 525. note on spiced wine, 527. Birds, or game, to keep, 100. to roast, 102-105. sauces for, 245-249. devils, 334, 335. Salmis of game, 376. See also Soups, Pies, Curry, Broil- ing, and Birds. Birch wine, 537. Bitters, a tonic, 531. Black cherry brandy, 522. caps, 484. currant-jelly, 492. Black puddings, 407. Blanc, a rich gravy, 386. Blancmange, and as made in France, 478. Blanquettes, to dress, 366. with cucumbers, 366. Bmifde chasse, 290.' Boiling, observations on, 64-67. note on, 370. Bologna sausages, imitation of, 332. Bon-bons, Grandmamma's, 501. Bon diable, 418. BoucJiees petites & la Reine, 379. petites a la patissiere, 394. Bouchees de Dames, 394. Boudins a la Heine of cold veal, 365. blanc, 385. a la Richelieu, 385. Bouilli, 69, obs. 127, 282, No. 389. onions for garnishing, 240. sauces for, 245, No. 591. Bouillon, Court, 379. Grand, 350. Brain-balls and cakes, 330, 331. Braising, directions foi', note 311. Brandy, shrub of. No. 1086. black cherry, 522. raspberry, 523 Biawn, to choose, 41. Brazilian stewed beef, 283. Bread, to bake, 514. unfermented, 515. on Cobbett's plan, 514. muffins, 515 to bake brown, 515. and meat, or Koobbe, 418. crusts of, to grill, 140. borders, 342. croustades, 343. crambs, to fry, 121. sippets for borders, 342. Bread, Johnny cakes of Indian meal, 511. French, 516 . Breakfast rolls, 515. scones, 515. Breakfasts, Dejeuners d, la fourchette, obs. on, and some articles for, note, ode, 63. Nos. 137, 399, 647, 648, 649,1173. Brill, to dress, 186. Brioche paste, 393. au fromage, No. 717, p. 393. British Parmesan, 587. wines, 532-538. Brocoli, to dress, 205. to pickle, 274. Broiling, directions for, 107-109. Brose, Scotch, fat and kail, 399. Athole, 529. Broth, Scotch barley, 153. sheep's head, 408-410. Broths, soups and gravies, obs. on, 122- 144. rules for making, 123. Fish soups, 154-158. Browning, or sugar catsup, 268. or roux, for made-dishes, etc., 234. Brown flour, note, 235. Brown thickening for sauces, ragouts, etc., 235 Brussels sprouts or small cabbage, to dress, 208. Bun, a Scotch Christmas, 512. cross and plum, 512. Bath, 510. common, 512. Burdwan, Indian, 419. Butter, to cure, 583. to colour. No. 1205. to melt, 232. to thicken for sauce, 234. to melt in cream, 234. to recover, if oiled, note, 233. to clarify, 115. black, of fruit, for children, 495. anchovy, 259. Fairy, 344. Montpelier, 355. Ravigote, 384, 355. Maitre d'Hotel, 352. to roll or mould for breakfasts, cheese-courses, or gamishings, 584. to freshen, 583. to scoop, 584. filbert, 584. honey, 584. to improve, if rancid, 583. mean temperature at which cream should be put into the churn, 587. to oil, 233. to brown or bum, that is, black butter, 233. parsley and butter sauce, 234. Buttered lobster, 194. prawns and shrimps, 194. apples, 484. eggs, 340. 2 cINDEX. 602 Cabbage, obs, on, note, 214. to stew red, 214. . to pickle red, 272. to boil, 208. to stew, with duck, 325. sauer crout of, 416. Cabinet pudding, 455, No. 859. Cafe a la crime, 560. noir, 560. Cakes, obs. on baking, 503. to ice, 503. to frost a bride's, or fine one, 504. a plain pound-cake, 504. a plain plum-cake, 504. a rich plum-cake, 505. rose souffle, 502. a rice-cake, 505. Gateau de Hz, or French rice-cake, for centre of a table, 506. fine seed-cake, 505. common seed-cake, 506. Scotch diet cake, 506. Savoy, or sponge cake, 507. oatmeal, 516. Yorkshire, 516. flour scones or slim, 510. Scone club scones, 515. tea-cakes, various kinds, 509-513. Sally Lunn, 516. Johnny, of Indian meal, 511. tipsy, 479. Tunbridge and Shrewsbury, 509. Derby, and pikelets, 511. Queen's, cinnamon, sugar, 511. Kent and rout, 511, 512. shortbread, Scottish, or shortcake, 507. Petticoat-tails, Scotch, 510. Macaroons, 507. gingerbread, 508. Calecannon, to dress, 246. Calf's liver and bacon, to fry, 120. Calves' feet jelly, 475. tails, to dress, 302. feet, 306. liver, 302, 303. liver with fine herbs, 365. ears, 365 sweetbreads, 302 ; cold, 366. head, 291, 305, 306. pluck, 301. head, to curry, 364. brains, d la Ravigote, 364, d la Maitre d'Hotel, 365. For all other things, see Veal, from pp. 296 to 307; also from pp. 362 to 367 ; and Chapters Boasting, Frying, Pies, and Soups. Camerani soup, by H. J. 359. Camp-vinegar, 263. yeast, 517. Canapes, 331. Canary or sack cream, 472. Caper-sauce, 244. mock, 244. Capers, substitute for. No. 383. Capillaire, syrup of, to make, 531. Carach sauce, 246. Carrots, to dress, 210 Flemish way, 211. Carrier-sauce, No. 264, Carving, directions for, 45-57. Caramel sugar, 491. Caeeme, a celebrated modern cook, 44, 345, 346. Pudding by, Nos. 72i«, 874*. Carp, to stew, 181. to stuff and bake, 185. Matelote of, a la royale, 381. Casserole, or rice-border, 343. an English, 343. of mutton, 313. Irish stew in. No. 764. cheap, of potato-pastry, No. 764. Castle puddings, 449. Catsup, to make mushroom, 265. walnut, 266. lemon, 267. tomata, 267. cucumber 267. oyster, cockle, and mussel, 267. sugar, 268. Caudle, white and brown, 554. Caudle-sauce for a plum - pudding, 252. Cauliflowers, to dress, 205. with Parmesan, 205. to pickle, 274. with lamb. No. 496. Caviare, and mock caviare, 195. Cayenne pepper, to make, 230.. essence of, 259. Celery, to stew, 213. sauce of, 242, 243. soup of, obs., No. 63. puree of, No. 268. Cervelles des moutons (sheep's brains), to dress, 369. Chantilly baskets, 594. Charlotte, 457. Charlotte Prussienne, 460. Chartreuse of apples, 484. Chatne sauce, 251. Chauddt, the, Careme's pudding-sauce, 447. Cheap dishes, obs., 566. receipts for preparing, 569-572. Cheese, obs. on, 585. directions for keeping, 585, 586. rennet for, 586. to colour, 587. British Parmesan, 587. Scottish Stilton, 587. Premium cheese, or imitation of double Gloucester, 588. best Dunlop, 589. a rich cream, 589. Shap Zigar, 589. crowdie, note, 588. toasted, or rabbits, 338. toast and, 337. American way, to preserve, 586. to produce the blue mould, 587.INDEX. 603 Clieese, Scotch, Welsh, and O'Doherty's rabbits ot, 338; 339. crusts for toasted, No. 81. to pot, 337. pudding of, 451. to grate and toast, as a relish, 339. fritters ot, 338. sandwiches of, 335. pastry raniakins of, 336. ramakins of, 336. to braise, 338. Welsh gallimaufry, 338. fondu, 377. brioche au Jromage, No. 717, p. 393. an egg-cheese, 482. Arabian, note, 588. Oouda, 589. Cheese-cakes, almond, lemon, or orange, 481. good old-fashioned, 481. savoury, 338. Cherries, to preserve, 498. to preserve dried, No. 992. en chemise, 498. en comp&te, 389. pie of, 434, No. 805. Widow Barnaby's, 530. Cherry-brandy or whisky, 522. Chestnuts, boiled or roasted, 224. Clietney or Chatnd sauce, 251. Chicken, friars', 402. tea of, No. 1133. Chickens, to boil, 72, 73. cutlets of, 322. to roast, 94. to broil, 112. to fi'icassee white, 323. to braise with green pease, mush- rooms, etc., 322. to curry, 327, 328. various French modes of dressing, 372-376. to ragout, 321. croquets and rissoles of, 331. chicken and ham patties, 439. chicken-pie, 429. to poele, 387. to pull. 324. scallops of cold, 375. Chili vinegar, 262. China chilo, 413. Chocolate, to make, 561. Spanish, excellent, 561. Chops, pork. 111, 117. mutton and lamb, 111. lamb, with potatoes, 315. sauces for pork chops, Nos. 292, 293, 318. Choux of paste royal, 392. Cider vinegar, 261. Cinnamon cordial, 520. cakes, 511. drops and tablet, 500. tincture of, 260. Citron cordial, 520. Civet of hare, 359. 01 venison, 317. Civet of roebuck, 360. Cleaning, 592-598. Clove cordial, 520. tincture of, 260. Coals, obs. on the waste of them, note, 82. Cock-a-leekie, 399. d la Talleyrand, 400. Cockles, to stew, 196. to scallop, 199. Cocoa-nut cream, 473. Codlings, to dress. No. 136. sauces for, 253-258. to curry, 187. Cod, or haddock, to boil, 172. head and shoulders of, Scotch way, 171. Obs. on, and notes, 171, 172. cabeached, 173. to dress sounds of, 178. to curry cold, 173. to crimp, 174. to dress salt, 174. to curry fresh, 187. pie of salt, 190. to stew, 181. French mode of dressing salt cod, or morue a la honne femme, 383. Provence brandade, 416. Coffee, obs. on, and different ways of making, 556-561. Coffee-milk, 560. Collier's roast, No. 1193. Collar, potato, 220. Collared beef, 283, 284. eels, 182. Collops, Scotch, of beef, 116. kidney, 286. minced, of beef, hare, vearl, or veni- son, 403, 404. venison collops, 120, 317. of mutton d la minute, 368. Colouring of soups, etc., 126, 2C8. Colour of provisions a good test ot their quality, 40. Confectionary, obs. on, 468. tablets and drops, 500-502. Consomme and grand do., 128. French, 350. Cookery, French, obs. on, 345-348, also note, 129. for the sick, 549-555. for the poor, 566-572. utensils for, 38, 571. Cook's spices, 261. Cool tankard, two ways, 529. Cordials, cinnamon, citron, 520. clove, 520. cr^me d''orange, 521. crime d'absinthe, 521. Barbadoes water, 520. Curapoa, 519. Corstorphine cream, 551. Court Bouillon, 379. Covers, tin, to heat, note, 163. Cow-heels, to boil, 78, 79. gravy of, for mock-turtle, 142-144. gravy of, for fish-turtle, 187.INDEX. 604 Cow-heels, sauce for, 79. to fry with tripe, 120. to pot, 404. to pot heads, 404. Crahs, to boil, 191. to pot, 192. pie of, 194. sauce of, 253. to dress, hot and cold, 194. Cranherry-tart, Nos. 805, 811. jelly, 492. gruel, No. 1145. Cranberries, to salt, 230. Crappit heads, 407. Cray-fish, soup of, 157. an ornamental dish of, 195. to dress, 188. Creams, obs. on, 468, 469. to freeze, 469. Cream^ Italian, 470. another way, 470. ginger, 471. Vanilla, 471. coffee, 471. whipt coffeS; 471. ratafia, 472. a plain, 472. orange, 472. lemon, 472. canary or sack, 472. raspberry and strawberry, not iced, 473. pine-apple, 473. cocoa-nut, 473. to ice creams of fruit, 473, 474. Bohemian, 473. strawberry ice, 474. raspberry ice, 474. apricot ice, 474. imitation of red-fruit ice, 474. clouted and Devonshire, 482. curds and, Scottish, 482. thick, for curries, 187. for coffee, slightly acid, 560. Cr^me patissihre, or cold custard, 391. Croquets and rissoles, 331. Croustades, 343. Crowdie of Inverness and Eoss shires, note, 588. Crumbs, to prepare, for crumbing and frying, and to fry crumbs and parsley, 121. another way, 121. Crust, pie and tart, observations on, and directions for making puff-paste, 420-423. JFeuilletage, 422. French paste for hot pies, 422. cheap, for raised meat-pies, 423. common, for savoury pies, 424. rich, of beef-suet, 424. common tart-paste, 424. short, for preserved sweetmeats, 424. venison pasty, also for lining tim- balle shapes, 425. fine, for delicate preserves, 425. paste-royal, 392. Crust, hriflche paste, 393. French puff-paste of lard, 422. of beef-suet, 424. rice paste for savoury pies, 425. fine, for cheesecakes, 425. Crusts, to grill, 140. Cubbubed mutton, veal, or chicken, 553. curry, 553. Cucumbers, to dress, 228. to preserve, 499. to stew, 213. sauce of, No. 210. water of. No. 1143. French way, 214. to pickle, 270. to serve with lamb, 314. with minced mutton, 311. with beef-steaks, 286. CuLLEN, Dr, quoted, 279. Culinary lectures, and svllabus of, by P. Touchwood, Esql, 37. Cura^oa, 519. Curds and cream, Scottish, 482. Curd-star, 482. Curing meat, hams, tongues, etc., 573-581. butter, making and, 581. prepared salmon or cod roes, 577. salmon, 166, haddocks, Finnan, 179. Currants for jelly, 491, 492. shrub of white and red, -530. Curry, observations on, 327, 328. favourite family, 329. of rabbit, 414. to boil rice for, Reform Club way, 329, 330. calf's head, to, 364. fish, to, 187. of dressed cod, 173. chickens, rabbits, veal, 327. cubbubed, 553. of vegetables, 213. Indian, Qbs., 328. soup of, as in India, or Mullaga- tawny, 413. vinegar, 264. sauce, 250. powders, 414, 553, No. 1124. Custard for a centre dish, 479. pudding, 452. Custards, almond, baked ditto, lemon, good common, 479, 480. cheap useful, 480. Cutlets, veal, to fry, 116. Maintenon, of veal, 301. a la Venetienne, 367. a la Ghingara, 366. aujanibon, 367. mutton d, Vltalienne, 368. mutton a la Minute, 368. mutton a la Maintenon, 309. of lamb, with spinage, 314. mutton, Soubise, 368. Reform Club, 310. salmon, 165, 167. sauces for, Nos. 264, 281, 293, 318. chicken, 322.605 INDEX. Dairy—cheese and butter making, 581- 591. Damsons, to preserve for pies, 495. tart or pie of, Nos. 805, 808. dumplings of, No. 876^. Daubes, veal, 300. of hare and turkey, or Dindon en Daube, 372. Dejeuners a la Fourchette, 63. Desserts, preserves for, creams and ices for, see those heads. Devil'd biscuit, 335. Devils and diablotins, to make, 334. sauces for, Nos. 281, 318. note on, 334. le ton diahle, 418. Devonshire junket, 483. Diablotins, petits, 378. Dindon en daube, 372. Dinners, obs. on, and bills of fare, 58-61. and cookery for invalids, 549. Dory, John, to boil, 202. Doree, John, en matelote, 689. Draughts, cooling or felDrifuge, 561. Dressing-room, preparations for, 564- 566. Dripping, to save, 83. to clarify, 115. uses of, in frying, 115. for pie-crust, 424. Drops, confectionary, of cinnamon, lemon, horehound, ginger, clove, pepper- mint, coffee, etc., 500. Ducks, teal, and widgeons, to roast, 99. Salmi of, 376. to stew, with cabbage, 325. with sauer-crout, 416. young, with green pease, 325. to ragout, two ways, 326. to hash, 326. to hash cold wild-duck, 327. to ragout wild-duck or teal, 327. to roast wild-duck or teal, 99. sauces for, 247. Duke of York's Sauce, note, 258. Dumplings, suet, damson, Norfolk, plum, apple, currant^ raspberry, etc., 463, 464. net or crochet, 464. Dutch or Albany pudding, 456. water souchy, 188. sauce for iish, 255. or Hamburgh beef, 290. Eau de Cologne, two ways, 564. Sucre, 529. de la vie, and note, 523. Edgings to dishes, 342. Eels, to stew, 181. to fry, and note on, 182, to collar, 182. to spitchcock, 183. soup of, 158. Eggs, to boil hard and peel, 376. to preserve two ways, 591, 592. to poach, 339. mushroom and egg dish, 340. Eggs, to fry, 340. to fry, with bacon, ham, or sausage, 118. Swiss, 340. buttered, 340. Scotch, 340. asparagus and, 341. observations on ways of dressing, 339. omelet, and obs. on, 341. a la tripe, 477. drappit, No. 737. d, la maitre d^hdtel, 377. with sauce Robert, 377. egg and ham patties, 440. egg-sauce, 246. poches au jus, note, 404. egg-balls for turtle-soup, 144. in salt-iash pie, 190,191. plovers', for salads, No. 239. Endive, to dress for second course, 389. in winter salads, obs. No. 239. Eschalot vinegar, 263. wine, 264. sauce, 240. Essence of cayenne, 259. of lemon and Seville orange peel, 260. of ginger, 260. of allspice, cloves, mace, No. 330. of ham, 252. of game. No. 296. Fairy butter, 344. Family management, hints for, 39, and onwards. Fawn or kid, to roast, 104. Filter, cheap substitute, 564. Fish, Chap. vii. observations on, notes, etc., 161-203. sauces for, 191, 202. French ways of dressing, 379-383. to fry, 178,182,183. to broil, 184. to bake, 165,178, 184. to curry, 187. turtle, 187. soups of, 154-158. court bouillon for dressing, 379. au bleu, 379. pudding of, 381. rich pie of, 189,191. salt, pie of, 190. forcemeat for, 158,172, 185. re-warmed, 190. French dishes of, 379-383. For Beceipts for Fish of all Jcinds, see the several heads in the Index. Flan, a la Caleb Balderstone, 435. Flounders, to fry, 178, 186. au gratin, 382. Flummery, several kinds of, 485, 486. Fomentations, 563. Fondu, 377. Forcemeat, or stuffings for boiled poul- try, 74, note, 92. for roast pig, 88.606 INDEX. Forcemeat for lamb, 93. for veal, note, 92. for turkey, note, 95. for hare, 97, 105. for goose, 97. for ribs, or a fillet of beef. No. 18. for breast of veal, No. 434. for shoulder of mutton with oysters, 308. for parson's venison, 312. for shoulder of lamb, 314. for a fowl, 321. balls for soups, 144. fish^ 158,171,179, 407. French farces, godivmu, quenelles^ panada, 383, 385. to prove, No. 6922, p. 334. Forks, to clean, 595. Fowls, to boil, observations on, 72. note on, 72, 320, 321. chicken cutlets, 322. to mince or scallop cold, 327, 375. cold,- d la Mayonnaise, 375. to boil with rice, 320. to braise chickens or pigeons, 322. to dress, with mushrooms, 321. with oysters, 321. to farce, 321. Davenport, 323. howtowdie, with drappit eggs, 74, 404. to ragout, 321. to roast. 94. poulets aux huUres, 374. fricassee d la paysamie, 374. d la Ravigote, 373. poulets d la Tartare, 373. d la Campire, 373. d la Chingara, 373. continental mode of dressing cold, 322. salad of, or game, 374. sauces for, Nos. 266, 269, 275, 279, 282; pp. 244^ 248, 351. to fatten. No. 1212. Frangipane, 391. Frei^gh Cookeey, 345. Observations on, 345. Notes, 129, 305, and many other places of the work, cookery, various modes of, 386, 387. dinners, 348. bills of fare for, 348-350; Grand Bouillon^ 350. Grand Consomme, 350. Blonde de veau, 351. Grande sauce, 351. French beans, rolls, puddings, etc., etc., see the respective heads. soups, 356-359, and also Chap. Soups, 122. sauces, pp. 350-356, also Chap. Sauces. dishes of fish, 379-383. of poultry and game, 372-376. made-dishes of beef, 360-362. French dishes served in first course, 359. of veal, 362-367. or mutton, 367-369. 01 pig and hams, 369-372. ol hare, poultry and game, 372- 376. of vegetables and fruits, 387- 391. forcemeats, 383-385. also many other dishes inci- dentally mentioned, pastry for entremets, 392-396. gvnblettes d VArtoise, 392. petits choux et les gimblettes pralines, 392. brioche paste, 393. gateau de riz, 508. chartreuse de pommes, 484. mille feuilles, 486. souffles, 487 488. toasts, 335. egg-dishes, 376, 377. fruit-cake, 395. brioche au fromage, 393, No. 717. various small dishes, 375-379. twins, or meringues jumeaux, 395. freezing mixtures, 564. Fricandeau of veal, 298. Fricandelle, 413. Fricassee oi chickens, white, 323. d la paysanne, 374. of rabbits, 320. of tripe, Nos. 626, 743,. 765. Friar's chicken, 402. skill in cookery of monks and friars, 23, 24. Fritters, batter for, 465. plain, 466. rice, 465. apple, apricot, and peach, 466. French, note, 466. Indian meal, 466. potato, 220. oyster, 200. Feuit, to gather, No. 966. barberries, cranberries, etc, to pre- serve, 230. jellies of, 491, 492. sweet dishes of, 483. French dishes of, 389, 390. obs. on preserving, 488. to make jellies, jams, etc., 491-496. pies of, 483, 438. tarts of, 435, 436. puffs of, 435. dumplings of, 463, 464. French Charlotte pudding of, 457. fritters of, 466. wines of, 532-538. vinegars of, 261,-264. gruels of, 562. Fruits, beverages of, for the sick, 561- 563. spring fruits, soups of, 159, 160. green gooseberry pie, 434. rhubarb pie. No. 807. to take out stains of, 594,607 INDEX. Fruits, pastes of, 50(K to store, 229. fruit cake, French, 395. general receipt for bottled, 495< thinnings and windfalls, 495. en compote, 496. en chemise, 498. Fe^xing, directions for, 113,114. fats for, 115. to fry collops, cutlets, chops, bacon and eggs, liver and bacon, sau- sages, beef and venison collops, sweetbreads, etc., 113-121. herbs or crumbs, 121. tripe, 120, 406. rabbits, 320. fish, 178,182,183. eels, 182. sprats, smelts, 183. whitebait, 188. pancakes, 465. fritters 466. Fumigating mixtures, 563. FusELi, anecdote of, 112. Gallino rennet, 587. Game, to choose, 40. obs. on keeping, 100. soups of. No. 97, pp. 146,151. to roast, 99-105. to boil, 77. to pot, 295. to devil, note, 334. salmis of, in the French way, 376. to ragout, 327. pies of, 429^32. Perigord pie, 431. gravy of, to obtain, No. 296, p. 249. variety of sauces for, 246-249. Garbure, a dish of the North ot Europe, 415. Garlic sauce, 241. vinegar, 263. Gas, cooking by, 68. Gateau de Hz, 506. de lievre, 372. Gateaux de Nanterre, No. 717. de Compihgne, No. 717. Geese, how cured in France, 577. General's sauce, a store sauce for fish or meat, 256. German onion-beef, 415. sauer crout, to prepare, 415. duck with sauer crout, 416. broth, or winter hotch-potch, 400. ham, to cure, 575. Giblets, to stew, 324. soup of, 149. pie of, 430. Ginger, essence of, 260. Gingerbread, plain and fine, 508. Mrs Fletcher's, 508. nuts, 508. Glasgow tr>pe, 406. punch, 524. Glaze and demi-glaze, 238. to glaze, 238. Glaze for paste, 436. Glossary of English and French culi- nary terms, 546-549. Gloucester, or Dr Jebb's jelly, 553. cheese, imitation of, 588. Gobbets, beef and veal, 403. Godiveau, for patties, etc., 384. Goose, obs. on, note^ 98. to roast, 97. to braise, 323, to devil, No. 550. sauces for, Nos. 263, 275, 292, 293. onions in stuffing for, 97. pie of, 431. Christmas pie of, 431. green goose, 98. Gooseberry trifle, 479. pastv, 438, No. 817. pie, 434. jam, 492. Ettrick jam, 493. jelly, 492. sauce, 244. dumpling. No. 876*. vinegar, 262. fool, 483. champagne, 533. Gooseberries, to preserve red. No. 990. Gourds, to dress, 211. cheese-gourd, Spanish fashion. No. 1125. spring soup of the cheese, 160. soup of, 160. second-course dishes of young, 160. young in white sauce, 160. Gouda cheese, 589. Gratin, a French forcemeat, 384. Gravies, or stock, general directions for, 123-126, 350. Gravy, savoury brown, 237. the best beef, 236. clear, of cow-heels, 142-144. for venison, 249. Granada of veal, 300. Grenadins, 363. Greens, to boil, No. 1, pp. 204-208. Green geese. No. 28, p. 98. Greening for soups. No. 75. for mock-turtle soup, obs. 143. Grouse, to roast, also blackcock and ptarmigan, 102. pie of, or moorfowl, 429. in soup, 146. salade de grouse d la Soyer, note, 102. poacher's soup of, or soup d la Meg Merrilies, 151. to pot, 295. Gruels of different sorts, 562. Hachee sauce, 853. Hachis de mouton, 369. Haddocks, in brown sauce, 177. to bake, 178. to boil, with shrimp-sauce, 172. to fry, 178. Scottish fashion, 402.608 INDEX. Haddocks, crappit heads, 407. to curry, 187. to dress fillets of, French way, 381. Finnans, or rizzared, 179. Finnans, note on, 179. Moray Frith, 408. . a la Walter Scott, 383, No. 689. to stuff and bake, 185, No. 149. Haggis, Scotch, 396-399. lamb's, 398. calf s, 398. royal, or Kew mince, 399. Halibut, 180, Nos. 120, 121. to stew, 181. to curry slices of, 187. Haras, to choose, 41. to boil, 74, and note. Ham, with Madeira, 75. with Windsor beans, 76. to bake, 106, No. 37. to roast, or jamhon a la hroche, 370, Nos. 10-12. sauce, or essence of, 252, patties of, with eggs, 439. patties of, with chicken, 439. cutlets with, No. 641. to fry, with eggs, 118. with liver, 119. to cure in several ways, 573-581, and No. 1191. to smoke, 580. mutton, to cure, 580. hung-beef, or beef-ham. No. 1188. French mode of curing, 575. Hamburgh beef, 290. Hare, to know if old, 40. soup of, 144. a modern soup of, 145. Careme's hare-soup, d, la Saint George, 357. soup d la Meg Merrilies, 151. to roast hare, fawn, or kid, 104. to bake, No. 37, p. 106. sauces for, 126, and No. 297. stuffing for, 97,104. civet of, 359. li^vre en dauhe, No. 662. gateau de lievre, 372. to stew, 318. to broil cold for luncheon, supper, or a dejeuner a la fourchette, 319. to mince, 403. to hash, 319. cakes of, 320. to jug, 319. Haricot of veal, 300. of mutton, 308. of cold mutton, 313. haricot hrun, or a la bourgeois, 369. Harslet, pig's. No. 53, p. 119. Hash of beef, 292, 293. of mutton, 313, and Nos. 487, 651. of veal, 307. of venison, 318. of hare, 319. of ducks, 326. of wild-fowl, 327. Hashes, obs. on, 292, 293. white sauce for, 251. turtle store sauce for, 250. Hatted kit, two ways, 551. Herbs, to fry, 121. to dry, 229. to store, 229. powders of, 261. wines of, 264. vinegars of, 262, 264. Herrings, to dress, 180. to fry, No. 136, p. 178. to dress as at Inveraray, 180. to dress red Sardinias, 184. to dress pickled, 184. to dress pickled, in the French way, 185. to broil. No. 147. salted with potatoes, a cheap dish, 569. salmagundi, a, 196. buffed, 184, No. 147. Hessian soup, and ragout, 147. Highland Society on curing butter, 581. Hog's puddings, or black, 407.—See also under Pork and Pig. Honey, to run, 592. Hors d'oeuvres, S77. Horseradish-sauce, two ways, 243. powder, 259. vinegar, 263. how best served as a garnish at table, 57. Hot pint, Scotch, to make, 527. Hotch-potch of ox-tails, 287. Scotch, excellent, 400. winter, 401. Howtowdie, Scotch, 404. Hunter, Dr, quoted, Nos. 130, 292, 391. Hunter's dinner for an invalid, 553. receipt for a stewed brisket of beef, 283. cream cheese, 589. Hunter's beef, 289. bosuf de chasse, 290. pie, obs. on. No. 764. pudding, 447. bread and meat pudding, 418. salmi, hunter's fashion, 376. Ice, to use in freezing creams, 469. Ice waters, 474, lemon water ice, 474. orange, tamarind, negus, pine-apple water ices, 474. Icing for cakes, 504. for tarts and common pastry, 436. Ice-creams, 468. to freeze, 469. cream, Italian, 470. another way, 470. ginger, 471. Vanilla, 471. coffee, 471. whipt coffee, 471. ratafia, 472.INDEX. 609 ice, plain, 472. lemon, 472. orange, 472. canary or sack, 472. raspberry and strawberry, not iced, 473. pine-apple, 473 Bohemian iced, 473. cocoa-nut, 473. strawberry, raspberry, etc., 474. jellies freezed to keep shape, 469, 475-478. of red fruits in shapes, 477. India, muUagatawny as made in, 413. Hindostanee way to boil rice, 330. Indian meal, preparations of, 223. to fry cold mush or pudding, 224. hominy or crushed Indian corn, 223. another way, 223. hominy or hulled corn as in the Western States of America, 224. Johnny cakes of, 511. fritters of, 466. salado, 228. » burdwan, 419. le Ion diahle, 418. bread and meat, or koobb^, 418. curry simple, 552. pickle, 273. polenta, 467. Inky pinky, 295. Irish beef, 290. stew, 417, 418. tripe, 418. pancakes, 465. Irade breachd, 516. usquebaugh, a cordial, 523. Ballyshannon salmon pickle, 116. Balnamoon skink, 400. moss, No. 919*. Isinglass, to clarify, for creams, 469. Italian creams, 470. cheese, observations, No. 887. pyramid, 486. soup, 358, No. 616. salad, 227. pastes and nouille, imitation of, 136. Italienne sauce, rousse and hlanche, 352. macaroni-soup, 135. Jams, strawberry, raspberry, goose- berry, Ettrick, and black currant, 492, 493. apricot and plum, 493. four fruits, 495. Jargonelle pears, to preserve, 496. to bake, 484. to stew, 484, Jellies, of fruit, for preserving, 491. in shapes for the table, 475-478. Jelly, calves' feet, 475. in orange skins, 395. Madeira wine, 476. orange, 476. lemon, 476, apple, 477. Jelley, peach, 477. raspberry, 477. Venus's, 477. red currant, 491. white currant, 491. black currant, two ways, 492. gooseberry and cranberry, 492. arrowroot, 552. Gloucester, 553. offish. No. 174, p. 195. aspic, 356. Johnson, Dr, quoted, 25. John Dory, to dress, 202. en matelote, 382. Juices of fruit for drinks, 561, 562. Julienne soup, observations, No. 64, p. 130. Ketchup, etc.—See Catsups, 265. Kew mince, or haggis-royal, 399. Kelly, Michael, note, 241. Kid, to roast, No. 36, p. 105. Kidney-soup, 150. Kidneys, to dress, 286. for the dejeuner a la fourcTiette, 286, 368, 369. mutton, 478. to broil. No. 40. rognons de mouton, 368. pudding of, 459. Kitchen or cook's pepper, 261. Kitchiner's store fish-sauce, 258. Kitchens, observations on, 37. Knives and forks, to clean, 595. Ladies' lips, 394. best judges of showy suppers, 61. Lait Sucre, or sugared milk, 529. Lamb, to boil a leg of, 72. chops, to fry, 117. to roast a leg or saddle of, 92. to stuff, note, 92. to broil chops of, 112. to fry liver of, 119. made-dishes of, 314-317. breast of, with cucumbers, 314. leg of, with vegetables, 315. to grill a shoulder of, 316. head and ragout, 304. mint sauce for, 243. Maitre d'Mtel butter for, N.B, 93. to manage in carving, 51. cutlets with spinage, or asparagus, or mushrooms, 314. ' cutlets with different ragouts, ob- servations, Nos. 489 and 497. roll of, 333. shoulder stuffed, 314. steaks ragout, 314. steaks brown, two ways, 314, 315. chops with potatoes, 315. pie, 428. English stew of cold roast, 293, No. 422. head to dress, Scotch, 410. Lamb's stove, Scotch and French ways, 316. 2 c 2610 INDEX. Lamb's sweetbreads ragout, 315. feet, No. 480. haggis, 398. Lampreys, to stew, 181, No. 141. Lard, to melt for frying, or to make, 115. Larks and wlieatears, to roast, 103. Z/'eaw de la vie, 523. de Cologne, 564. Leek soup, or cock-a-leekie, 399, 400. a la Talleyrand, note, 400. porridge, 411. Lemon and kali, 538. cream, 472, and No. 887. cheesecakes, 481. custards, 480. jelly ,^476. juice, artificial, 538. iced water, 474. pudding, 453. drops, tablet, and barley-sugar, 500. candied peel of, 501. sauce, 245. and liver sauce, 248. essence of, 260. tincture of, 260, No. 330. wine of, 536, No. 1104. brandy, 522. Lemons, pickle or catsup of, 267. Lemonade, common milk, and portable, 530. Ling, to dress slices of, 180. Lip-salve, 566. Liqueurs, many excellent kinds, 519. lees of, for puddings^ obs. on. No. 1059. Liquors, to bottle, 539. to prevent having a corked taste, 540. Liver sauce for poultry, 248, No. 295. for fish, 255. and parsley sauce for poultry, ote. on, 249, No. 295. Liver, lamb'^s, to fry, 119. calf's, 120. beef, 289. Liverpool or fig puddings, 450,456. Lobsters, to choose, 191, No. 165. note on, 191. pie of, 189. to boil, 191. to pot, 192. haut gout, 193. to roast, 193. to butter, 194. to fricassee, 194. in the French mode, 194. soup of, 155. sauce of, for turbot, etc., 253. sauce for, 192, No. 165. salads of, 226. peiites vols-nu-verit of, 378. patties of, 440. Love-apples.—See Tomata sauce, 243 to cook, 211. Macaroni, or Italian soup, 135. in the richest Italian way, 385. Macaroni, to dress, 337. Parisian pudding of, 451. sweet pudding of, 450. in Camerani soup, 359. Macaroons, 507. Macedoine of roots, 387. Mackerel, to dress, 180. pie of, 191, No. 162. to fry, 178, No. 136. roe, sauce of, 255. with fine herbs, the same as No. 688, p. 382. Made Dishes, obs. on, 276-280. of beef, 280. of veal, 296-308. of lamb or rabbits, 297, 314-317. of mutton, 308-314. of venison, 317, 318. of hare and rabbit, 318-320. of poultry and game, 320-327. Madeira wine jelly, 476. ham with, 75. fillet of beef with, 291. Maize starch, 224. Magnum bonums, to preserve, 497. Maids, to dress. No. 187. Maids of Honour, 481, No. 927. Maintenon cutlets, 301. of mutton, 309. Maitre dlwtel butter, 352. sauce, 352. Malt wine, 537. Marinade, 165. Marrow, bones and fillets of, to cook, 288. pudding, 446. Marmalade, Scotch orange, 493. apricot and plum, 493. Scotch, simplest way, 494. transparent, 494. apple, 495. peach, nectarine, and quince, No. 974, obs. on, 493. Mayonnaise, 241. d la gellee, 242. Meat cake, moulded, No. 1133. Meat puddings, 222, 461-463. Meat, to choose, 40, 41. to keep, Nos. 19, 21, pp. 86, 89. to cure or salt, 573-581. to preserve without smoking, 581. Melted butter, to make, 232. to thicken for pease, 234. to recover if oiled, note, 233. lard, 115. Melons, to preserve. No. 994. to pickle, for venison. No. 297. Milcou, 418. Miroton de pommes, 390. Milk, saloop, and sago, 551. rice, 549. coffee, 560. sugared, or lait sucri, 529. auld man's, 529. artificial ass's, 562. soup of, 158. scones, 515, No. 1041.INDEX. 611 Milk for sea store, 584. Milk-punch, 526. Mille feuille, or thousand-leaved cake, two ways, 486. Mincemeat, 436, 437. Mince-pies, common and superlative, 436, 437. Mince-collops of veal,^ beef, hare, and venison, 403, 404. Mince of cold beef, 293. of veal, 366, and Nos. 636-638. loin of veal with, 337, No. 643. of mutton, No 485. of pig. No. 656, also Nos. 540, 670,671. Mint-sauce for lamb, 243. Miser's sauce, 245. Mixed spices, 261. Mock turtle-soup, 142. egg-balls for, 144. another soup, 143. Mock tui'tle-soup, baked, 144. of calf's head, 148. Mock caviare, 195. caper-sauce, 244. Moor-game or grouse, to roast, 94-105. to broil, 113. pie of, 429, Nos. 792, 800. soups of, 144-146. and No. 97. — See Salmis, Devils, Nos. 517, 673, 674. salade of, a la Soyer, 102. sauces for, Nos. 32, 296, 289. More, Mrs Hannah, cheap dishes by, 569. Mullet, to dress, 187. Mullagatawny soup, 141. as made in India, 413. to boil rice for, 329, 330. Mulled wine, 526. Mussels, to stew, 196, 201. soup of, observations, No. 104. catsup of, 267. Mushrooms, obs. on, 215. to stew white or brown, 216. to grill, a la Bordelais, 217. sauces of, 242. Beauvilliers' sauce of, 355. with veal sweetbreads, 365. with fowl, No. 514, p. 321. with eggs, No. 568, p. 340. catsup of, 265. to pickle, 271. powder of, 259. Mustard, to make, various ways, 265. whey of. No. 1074. Mutton, to choose, 40. observations on keeping, 70. to boil, 69. to roast a leg, haunch, or saddle of, 86. baked leg of, with potatoes, 106. Gascon fashion, 367. chops and steaks, to broil, 111, 309, 310. broth of scrag of, 71. broth of sheep's head and trotters, 408. Mutton, shoulder of, with oysters, 308. to dress a scrag with vegetables,309. haricot of, 308. shoulder of, by a Scotch lady's re- ceipt, 309. to dress a breast of, 309. to grill a breast of, 309. cutlets. Main tenon, 309. cutlets, Reform Club, 310. cotelettes a la minute, 368. cotelettes au naturel, 368. Soubise cutlets, 368. steaks, 310. tongues of, 312. Oxford John of, 332. haricot hrun, 369. collops with cucumbers, 311. to roll a loin of, 311. to dress rumps and kidneys of, 311. rognons de mouton, 368. friar's venison, 312. English stew of dressed, 293. sheep's or lambs trotters, 312, 369. French mode,. 369, No. 653. sheep's tongues, two ways, 312, 313. sheep's brains, French mode, 369. made-dishes of cold mutton, 313. to hash, 313. minced, with cucumbers, 318. plain casserole of cold, 313. haricot of cold, 313. poor man of, note, 314. hachis a la Portugaise, 369. Irish stew, 417. China chilo, 413. hotch-potch of, 400. pie of, 428. hams of, 576. sauces for mutton,—caper, Robert, cucumber, poor man's, etc., Nos. 480, 485, 590, 592, 593, 297. Navets, Vierge, 389. Nasturtiums, to pickle, 274. mock caper sauce of, 244. National Dishes from 396 onwards. For particular dishes, see the dij* ferent heads in the Index. Nectarine-pudding, No. 856. Newmarket pudding, 489. Norfolk dumplings, 464. punch, 562. Nottingham apple-pudding, 454. Notices of meats in season, 543-545» Nougat, French style, 502. Noyau, two ways, 520. Nuts, spice or gingerbread, 508. Nutmeg, tincture of, 260, No. 332. Olive-sauce for ducks and bee&teaks, 247. Olives of beef, 288. au roi, 288. of dressed beef, 292; of veal, 297. pies of veal olives, 426. Olio, 412.612 INDEX. Omelet, 341. obs. on, 341. souffle, 487. Omelettes a la celestine, 391. Onions, to stew and roast, 212. obs. on, note, 213. obs. on, note, 133. to cook, for garnishing, and bouilli, 240. for tripe. No. 16. sauces of, 239, 246. brown sauce of, 240. sage and onion sauce, 240. to pickle, 272. to pickle with cucumbers, 270. to pickle with cabbage, No. 299. soups of, 133,134. gravy of, with beef collops, note, 116. Orange and lemon juice, 562. Oranges, marmalade of, 493, 494. calves' feet jelly in skins of, 395. pudding of, 453. jelly of, 476. cream of, 472. ice of, as No. 905. gravy for sauce, 246, No. 289. conserve of Seville, No. 975. candied peel of, 501. wine of, 535. to preserve carved, 499. to pickle bitter ones, 274. essence of peel of, 260. in sugar, 497. Ornamental confectionary, obs. on, 468. devices of sugar, 502. Ortolans, to dress, 101. Oxford John, of mutton, etc, 832. pancakes, 465. sausages, 332. nightcaps, note, 527. Ox, potted head and heel of, 404. kidney, 286, 369. liver, 289, 571. palates, 285, French way, 360, 361. skirts, the Scotch Iliddrit steaks, 289. marrow-bones, 288. heart, 288. tongue, 286, 360. tripe, 78, 120, 362, 406, 418. For other things, see Beef, index. Ox-tails, soup of, 150. to stew, 287. hotch-potch of, or rumps it la mode, 287. Oysters, obs, on, note, 196-198. to stew, 196. to scallop, 199. to grill, 199. to brown in their juice, 199. to serve in the shell, 200. to pickle, 200. to fry, 200. fritters of, 200, No. 183. sauce of, 253. soups of, 156,157. patties of, 440, No. 824. patties of, with mushrooms, 441. Oysters, catsup of, 267. with a fowl, 321. poulets aux huUres, 374. Oyster taverns of Edinburgh, note, 197. Pains a la duchesse, 392. Palates, to stew, 285. French way, 360. Panada, French, for forcemeat, 384. various kinds of, for invalids, 554. Pan-kail, 411. Pancakes, common, 464. Oxford, 465. Indian-meal, 466. Irish, 465. rice, 465. note on the French old-fashioned kind, 465. Parmesan, British, 587. with cauliflower, 205. with maccaroni soup, 135. Camerani soup, 359. Parsley, to fry, 121. to dry, No. 244. parsley and butter sauce, 234. parsley and liver sauce, obs. on. No. 295. Parsnips, 210. with salt cod. No. 128. mashed with carrots, No. 201. Parsnip wine, 536. Partridges, to roast, 99. pheasants, snipes, wild-ducks, etc., to boil, 77. to broil, or moor-game, 138. soup of, 146, 151. pie of, 430, No. 800. salmi of, 376. sportsman's fashion, 376. Partans (see Crabs), to pot, 192. to boil, 191. to dress, hot or cold, and Scotch partan pie, 194. cavies, note, 253. crab sauce, 253. Paste or pie crust, obs. on, 420. French puff-paste, 421. Do. of lard, 422. French, for hot pies, 422. fine, or Feuilletage, 422. various kinds of, 421-423. cheap raised crust, 42o. common, 424. rich, of beef-suet, 424. common tart paste, 424. short crust, 424. venison pasty crust, 425. royal, 392. rice paste for savoury nies, 425. for savoury patties, 439. fine, for cheesecakes, 425. of fruits, 500. Irioche, 393. Pastry, etc.—Chap. IV., discourse on, 420. Pasty, apple and rhubarb. No. 817. venison, 432.613 INDEX. Pasty, potato, 462. Patties, crust for, 439. chicken and liam, 439. egg and ham, 440. rabbit and hare, 440. oyster, 440. oyster and mushroom, 441. turkey, 441. veal and ham, 441. beef, or podovies, 442. French or modern English, 441. sweet, 442. Paysanne, hlanquettes a la, 366. fricassee of chickens a la, 374. Pears, to bake, 484. to stew winter, 484. in the French mode, 390. to preserve jargonelle, 496. to frost or ice. No. 984. Peaches, jelly of, 477, jam or marmalade of, as No. 974. dressed, 485. to preserve. No. 988. pudding of. No. 856. in sugar, 390. Pease, to gather and boil, 207. French mode of dressing, 387. sauce ov puree of. No. 699. asparagus pease, 387. green pease-soup, maigre, 137. green pease-soup, obs. on, 130. yellow pease-soup, 138. pudding of, 140. cheap do., 571. young, with ducklings, 325. to preserve green, 228. Pepper-pot, 148. Pepper, cook's or kitchen, 261. white seasonings of, No. 335. obs. on, 254, No. 313. Cayenne, to make, 260. Pepper-vinegar, to make, 262, No. 346. Perches, to stew, 181. au vin, or in wine, 382. a la maitre d^hdtel, 382. to fry. No. 136, p. 178. Perfume, a cheap, 565. Perigord pie, 431. Pheasants and partridges, to roast, 99. Piccalilli, or Indian pickle, 273. Pickles, obs. on, 268, 269. to hasten the preparation of, 275. to green, 269. Pickle, cucumbers to, 270. French beans to, 270. cucumbers and onions, 270. walnuts to, green, 270. mushrooms, to, 271. onions, 272. red cabbage, 272. beetroot, 272. Indian pickle or piccalilli, 273. barberries for garnishing, 274. bitter oranges, to, 274. lemons, to, 274. melons, 249, No. 297. cauliflower and brocoli, 274. Pickle, nasturtiums, to, 274. tomatas, to, 274. barberries and sundry vegetables, ■ ' to salt or keep in pickle, 230, 274. for beef, pork, etc., 573-581. a general, 579. for salmon, or Ballyshannon, 166. souse, or pickle to keep for cold fish, obs.. No. 113. Pie, a bride's, Scottish, 428. a mutton, 428. a squab. No. 789. a pork, 556. a lamb, 428. pigeon, 428. moorfowl, 429. a hare, 429. a rabbit, or Fife, 430. a chicken, 429. giblet, 430. partridge, 430. a goose, 431. a Christmas, 431. a rook, 433. a sea pie, 433. a rich fish, maigre, 189. lobster, 189. eel, mackerel, or herring, No. 162. a shrimp or prawn, 190. an excellent salt-fish, 190. a rich fish, 191. par tan or crab, 194. a tripe, No. 780. a game, 429. plain veal, 426. richer veal, 426. a very rich veal, 426. beef-steak, 425. Perigord, 431. veal olive, 426. rich veal olive, Scottish, 426. calf's head, to eat cold, 427. calf's foot, 427. apple, 433. Pies, gooseberry, 434. rhubarb, 434. crust for, see Paste. to glaze crust for, 436. sauces for fish, 191. savoury jelly for fish. No. 174. meat for small, to prepare, 442, and No. 692. of fruit, crust for, 423-425. cherry, currant, damson, plum, apricot, raspberry, and goose- berry, No. 805. tarts of any sort of preserved fruit, 435. mince, common and superlative, 436, 437. Pig, to roast, and sauce and stuffing for, 87, 88. to roast, English mode, 89. soup of pettitoes, 159. head of, to collar, 370. Scotch way, 405. au moine blanc, 369.IKDEX. 614 Pig, to dress cold roast, 3T1 sausages of pig-meat, 332. to salt, 573-576. Pig's cheek stuffed, French mode, 371, No. 658. cheek, by a Scotch lady's receipt, 406. pettitoes, 317. harslet. No. 53, p. 119. Pigeons, to roast, and sauce for, 103v to broil, 112, 113. to stew brown, 324. to ragout brown, 324. to braise with mushrooms, 322. to ragout with asparagus, 321. obs. on ways of dressing, 324. pie of, 428. curry of, as No. 534. soup of, 146. Pike, to stuff and bake, 185.. in the French mode, or d la Gene- voise, 379. Isaak Walton^s receipt for, note, 185. cold fillets of, a la maitre d'hdtel, 381. Pillau of veal, 412. of fowl, 412. Pine-apple cream, 473. water ice, 474. Pipers, to dress, 186. Plaice, to dress, 186. Plovers, to roast, 107. eggs of, in salads, No. 239. Pluck, calf s, 301. lamb's, 332, No. 457. Plum-porridge, 411. Plum-cakes, 504, 505. Plum-puddings, 444, 445. cheap. No. 1177*. Plum-buns, 512. Plums, magnum bonums, to preserve, 497. greengages, No. 988, p. 497. damsons for pies and puddings, 495. Pleydel's sauce for game, 247. Poacher's or Meg Merrilies' soup, 151. Podovies, 442. Poele, to, No. 697, p. 386, 387. Polenta, 467. Pot-pourri, 564. Pope's possett, 528. Pope, a hot, spiced wine, note, 527. Pork, to choose, 40. to boil bacon or, 77. leg of, to boil, 77. to cure, 573-575, 580. to roast, 94. chops, to broil, 111. chops, to fry, 117. pie of, 556. pudding of, 556. ham, with Windsor beans, 76. ham, to braise, with Madeira, 75. hams, to roast, French mode, 370. sausages of, several kinds, 332. savaloys, 333. blood-puddings, 407. harslet of, 119. Pork, porker's cheek, 406. Hure de cochon, 371. hams, to cure, 573-576. to glaze hams, 238. Porridge, plum, 411. leek, 411. milk, 571. Fotages.—S>ee Soups. Potatoes, obs. on, 218. to mash, 219. in various forms, 220, 221. to roast, 219. to fry or broil, and note, 219. Westphalja loaves of, 220. puddingrbf, 457, 459. French mode for nursery dinners, 220. £t la maitre d''h6tel, 389. with hunter's pie, 417, No. 764. calecannoaipf, 221. with lamb-chops, 315. with beef-steaks, 111. with salt-fish, 190. pastry of, 462. cheap, 571. for breakfast, 411. with Irish stew, 417. substitutes for, 221-224. Potato-snow, 220. balls, 220. balls, ragout or savoury 220. collar, 220. fritters, 220. soup, 140. Pot, to, beef, 295. veal or game, 295. veal, 307. lobsters and crabs, 192. cheese, 337. herrings and mackerel. No. 139. salmon, 167. cow-head and cow-heels, 404. to clarify butter for, 115. Posset, the Pope's, 528. ale, 528. sack, 528. Poultices, various kinds of, 563. Poultry, to choose, 40. to fatten, 591. note on, 72. to boil and truss, 72. to roast, 94-99. to broil, 112. made-dishes of, 320-327. sauces for, 242-249. French dishes of, 372-376. cold, to dress rissoles and croquets of, 331, 375. puddings (boudins) of, 385. forcemeats of, 384, 385. See «t'so the different heads, Fowls Chickens, etc. Powder, horseradish, 259. mushroom, 259. anchovy, 259. of fine herbs, 261. Prawns, pie of. No. 160, p. 190.615 INDEX. Prawns, to dress, Nos. 174, 186. Preserve barberries, to, 274. Preserves of fruits, obs. on, 488, 490. to boil sugar for, 490, 491. various preserves, 491-500. See also the respective heads in Index. Provence salt fish, 416. Prunes, to stew, 562. tart of, 436, No. 812. Puchero, Spanish, 415. Puddings, 222, obs. on making, 442-444. Pudding, common Plum, 444. a superfine plum, 445, obs. on, 445. 5^ a marrow, 446. a hunter's, 447. a bread, 448. bread and butter, 455. for invalids and children, 550. a brown bread c*ttst, or save-all, No. 836, p. 448. a rice, 448. delicate small rice, 449. cheap rice, note, 449. Castle or Sutherland, 449. sago, 449. tapioca, 449. cheese, 451. sweet macaroni, 450. Parisian macaroni, 451. vermicelli, 452. custard, 452. batter, 452. ratafia, 452. almond, three kinds of, 452, 45J>. orange, 453. lemon, 458. Swiss apple, 454. apple, 453. Nottingham, 454. Victoria, 454. apricot, 454. peach, No. 856, p. 454. nectarine, No. 856. gooseberry, 454. Newmarket, 455. Chancellor's or cabinet, 455. ginger, 455. New college, 455. in haste, 456. Dutch, 456. Welsh, old-fashioned, 456. another, or cheese and onion, 457. potato-flour, 457. potato, to go below a roast, 458. " my pudding," 461. George, 457. French fruit-pudding, or Charlotte, 457. Yorkshire, 458. potato witlx meat, 459. Scotch white, 405. liver, 405. Mood or black, 407. fine, in skins, 407. French meat, d, la Richelieu, 385. plumi, common small, 444. Pudding, the St Ronan's Plum, 447. Trinity Christmas, 445. cheap plum, 571. Alderman's, No. 834, p. 446. Bakewell, 450 Welsh, or the Quaker's, 450. Liverpool, 450, 456. sponge cake, 451. the Manse, 454. Charlotte Prussienne, 460. French iced fashionable, 459-461. pine-apple, 459. Careme's Nesselrode, 460. Parisian iced apple, 460. rump-:steak, 461. mutton. No. 875. kidney, 459. fish, 381. bean, two ways, 571. pork, 556. pease, 140. cheap do., 571. sauces for puddings, 252, 447. cream-sauce for, 457. French, omelettes a la Celestine, 391. frangipane for, 391. crime patissiire, 391. Puit d'amour, Nos. 954, 955. PufF-paste, to make, 421-425. Puffs, apple, lemon, cheese, 43^ Punch a la Romaine, 524. Regent's, 528. Glasgow, 524. milk, 526. Norfolk, 526. Q/tieen's cakes, 511. Queen's sauce for puddings,Nos. 305,306 or Soupe a la Reine, 131. Quenelles, 383. of poultry, 384. Qum's fish sauce, 257. QuiN, note on, 237. Rabbit curry, Scotch, 414. Rabbits of cheese, Scotch, 338. Welsh, note, 339. Rabbits, to boil, obs. 77. to fry, 320. to curry, 414. to ragout, 321. to ragout, N.B. to No. 435. to smother, 78, 320. d la Venetienne, 372. Boudins of, a la Richelieu, 385. soups of, as Nos. 89, 90, 97. pie of, or Fife, 430. patties of. No. 823. sauces for, Nos. 260, 267, 268. Ramakins, 336. pastry ramakins, 336. Raspberry-jam, 492. jelly, for a shape, 477. vinegar, 264. ice-cream, 474. cream, not iced, 473. brandy, 523.INDEX. 616 Raspberry tarts, 434, No. 805. dumpling, 464, No. 876». Ratafia, common and red, 522. pudding, 452. cream, 472. drops, 501. cakes, macaroons, 507. Receipts, useful miscellaneous ones, 592- 598. Red cabbage, to dress, 214. to pickle, 272. herrings, to dress, 184. Redgii.l's sauce for stubble goose or pork, 247. sauce piquant, for fish or cold meat, 256. Rennet, to make, 586. gallino, No. 1204. Rhubarb-pie, 434. dumpling, as No. 876. pasty, as No. 817. soup, No. 109. Rice, to boil for curry, 329, 330. Hindostanee mode, 330. savoury, for Gateau de riz, 506. puddings of, two kinds, and note^ 448, 449. fritters or pancakes of, 465. snow-balls of, 485. buttered, 485. flummery of, 486, 487. blancmange, 480. souffle of, 487. apples in, 484. cake of, for a second course, the gateau de riz, 506. cake of, 505. sauce of, 246. soups of, 357. a cheap soup of, 152. rice milk, 549, 569. cheap pudding of, 569. puddings of, in skins, No. 744. substitute for, note, 449. casserole of, French, 343. casserole of, English, 343. paste of, for savoury pies, 425. Richard Cceur de Lion, gourmand anecdote of, note, 112. Rissoles, French, 331, 375. Careme's receipt for, 375. Roasting,—Chap. III. 79. discourse on, 80. length of time for, 540. Roes, prepared cod or salmon, 577. Roebuck, civet of, 360. RoGERSON, a celebrated gourmand, note, 257. Bognons, kidneys, 286, 311, 368, 369. Roll of beef, veal, or lamb, 333. Rook-pie, 433. Roux, or thickening in the French mode, white and brown, 234, 235. Rout-cakes, 512. Rum shrub, 529. Rump of beef, to braise or ragout, 280. to boil with greens, 68. Rump a la gelUe or h la royale, No. 390. to braise, or d, la mode, 282. to salt, 576. as Hamburgh spiced beef, 290. with glazed onions, d la Fran^aise, 361. another way, 362. to dress a cold stewed, 362. as Irish beef, 290. as hunter's beef, 289. Rumps and kidneys, sheep's, 311. rumps, or ox-tails d la mode, two ways, 287. rump or ox-tail soup, 150. calves' rumps, 302. Russian yeast, 517. Ruglen cream, 551. Sack or canary cream, 472. posset, 528. whey, No. 1074. Sago milk, 551. pudding, 449. as a supper dish, or for invalids, 552. St Ronan's culinary club, institution of the, 17. Salads, obs. on, 224. English summer salad, 225. lobster salad, 226. Parisian salad and Macedoine, after Careme, 226. an Italian salad, 227. boiled salad, 227. winter salad, 227. cucumber, to dress as, 228. game or fowl salad, 374. salade de grouse d la Soger, 102. Indian salado, 228. uncooked Ravigote, 355. remoulade, sauce for, 354. Montpelier butter for ornamenting aspic jelly, 355. Sally Lunn cakes, 516. Salmagundi, a, 196. Salmi of wild duck, 376. sauce for, 354, No. 509. of partridges, 376. sportsman's fashion, 376. Salmon, obs. on, 161-163. to boil, 163. to boil crimp, 164. to bake, and obs. on, 165. to pot, 167. to collar, 167. to pickle cold, 166, Nos. 113, 114. to grill, or cutlets of, 165. other cutlets, or steaks of, 167. to kipper, 166. bone of, to grill, note, 165. to bake salmon trout, 168. to souse, No. 113. saumon d la Genevoise, N.B. 380. sauces for, 165, 166, and Nos. 112, 310, 312, 313. prepared roe of, 577. Saloop milk, 551. Salpipons, 375.INDEX. 617 Salting, 573-581. butter, 623, 624. Salt fish, to dress ling, tusk, and cod, 174. pie of, 190. Provence brandade, 416. Sandwiches, obs. on, 335. . to make, 335. cheese sandwich, 335. sweet.—See No. 819. Sauces.—Chap. IX. obs. on, 230-232. to melt butter for, 232. to oil butter, 233. to brown butter, 233. to thicken butter to sauce pease and other vegetables, or for salads, 234. to recover oiled butter, note, 233. to melt butter in cream, 234. Roux, white and brown, to make, 234, 235. thickening brown, 235, and note, 235. beef-gravy for sauces, 236. savoury brown gravy, 237. Sauce, white gravy-sauce, velouti, or white cullis, 238. parsley and butter, 234. fennel, basil, burnet, chervil, tar- ragon, and cress sauces, 239. parsley and celery seed sauce, obs. 239. salad. No. 233, p. 225. onion sauce, 239. brown onion, 240. sage and onion, 240. eschalot, 240. garlic, 241. Mayonnaise, 241. Mayonnaise d, la gelUe, 242. white mushroom, for fowls, veal, etc., 242. ■white celery, for fowls, 242. brown celery, 243. horseradish, white and brown, 243. cucumber, obs. No. 210. chestnut, for turkey and fowls, 247. mint, for lamb, 243. sorrel, 243. tomata, 243. French tomata, obs. 244. apple, 244. gooseberry, 244. caper, 244. mock caper, 244. Bechamel, or the French white, 245, 352. Tartar, 245. olive, for ducks and beef-steaks, 247. lemon, 245, miser's, 245. poor man's, 245. Carach, 246. bread, 246. rice, 246. egg, for fish or poultry, 246. Pleydell's, for game, 247. our own, for game, 246. Dr. Hunter's, for game or cold meat, 247. Sauce, Redgill's, for stubble goose or pork, 247. Reform Club, for mutton cutlets, No. 475, p. 310. Robert, for mutton or pork chops, geese, etc., 248. lemon and liver, for fowls, 248. liver and parsley, obs. No. 295. white fricassees, 248. the Marquis's, for wild fowl, 249. game-gravy, obs. No. 296, p. 249. venison-sauces, Nos. 21, 22, and pp. 249, 250. turtle-store, 250. turtle, 250. store, for steaks, 250. curry, 250. chetney or chatn^, 251. Ravigote butter, 355. the aspic or savoury ornamental jelly, 356. white hash, 251. custard for puddings, 251. wine or caudle, for puddings, 252. store-pudding, 252. cream, 457. ham, or essence of ham, 252. Duke of York's, note, 258. Michael Kellv's, note, 241. grill, for devils, chops, etc., 255 for boiled turkey, fowls, or veal, 74. for poultry and game, 246-249. Sauces for fish-pies, or for fresh fish, 191. of shell-fish, and fish-sauces, 253. lobster or crab, 253. crab, 253. sauce a VAurore, 253. oyster, for boiled turkey or fish, 253. shrimp and cockle, 254. anchovy, 254. liver, for fish, 255. a plain fish-sauce, 255. mackerel roe, 255. old Admiral's, 255. Dutch and English fish, 255, 256. excellent store, English, 256. the Greneral's, 256. Dr Redgill's piquant, for fish or cold meat, 256. Kitchiner's store fish, superlative, 258. store fish-sauce. Highland, 202. Quin's store fish, 257, 258. Sauces, French. liaison, for thickening, 353, No. 595*. blonde de veau, 351. grande sauce, 237, 351. sauce Espagnole, 351. veloute, 351. d, la Bechamel, 352. brown Italian, 352. white Italian, 352. & la maitre d'hdtel, 352. another, 352. sauce Hollandaise, for fish, 354. sauce, hacTiee, 353. d la Tartare, French way, 353,618 INDEX. Sauces, Feench—continued. sauce tournee, 353. sauce a la pluche, 353. sauce a V Allemand, or German^ 353. d, la, matelote, for fish, 353. common sauce a la matelote, 354. remoulade, for salads, 354, salmi sauce a VEspagnoie, a game sauce, 354. poivrade sauce, 354. Montpelier butter, 355. dressed Ravig.ote, or French salad- sauce, 355. Careme's, for puddings, 447. cold or uncooked Bavigote, 355. la ducelle, or mushroom, 356. mushroom, Beauvilliers', 355, Sauer crout, German, 415. Sausages, to fry fresh, 118* pork,332, Oxford, 332. Epping, 332. Bologna, imitation of, 332. Beauvilliers', 332. common beef, 333. smoked Scotch, 333. with turkey, note, 95-. Savaloys, 333. Savoury patties, 439-442. crust for, 439. rice crust for, 425. jelly for fish-pies, No. 174. pies, obs. on, 423, 424. pies, 423. toasts, 335, No. 554. Savoys, to boil, 208. Savoy cake, 507. Scallops, oyster or cockle, 199i of beef, No. 423, p. 293. of cold chicken, 375. of potato. No. 220, p. 220. Scotch Dishes, 396, haggis, 393. lamb's haggis, 398. calf's haggis, 398. haggis royal, 399. fat brose, 399. kail-brose, 399. cock-a-leekie, 399, 400. inky-pinky, 295. hotch-potch, 400. winter hotch-potch, 401. leek-porridge, 411. plum-porridge, 411. skinfc, an old-fashioned soup, 401. friar's chicken, 402. fish and sauce maigre, 402. dishes, favourite family, 402. crappit heads, 407. barley broth, 153. boiled gigot, 69. soup a la Meg Merrilies, 151. sheep's-head broth, 408. sheep's-head pie, obs., 410. pan-kail and kail, 411. old Scotch brown-soup, 131. old soupe a la reine, 131. Scotch dishes, Scotch hare-soup, 144. knuckle of veal soup, 149. minced collops, 403. venison, veal, and hare minced, 404. venison-collops, 317. red and roe deer, to roast,. 91. collops in the pan, 116'. lamb's stove, 316. lamb's head dressed, 410. calf's or lamb's head amd pluck ragout, 304. lamb's liver, 119. beef-heart, 288. eggs, dish of, 340. howtowdie and drappit eggs, 404. rabbit curry, 414. rabbit of cheese, 338. veal flory. No. 785, p. 426. bride's pie, 428. pig, to roast, 405. pig's cheek, 408. poor man of mutton, note, 314. shoulder of muttony Scotch lady's receipt, 309. friar's venison, 312. tripe, to fry, 406. Glasgow tripe, 406. white-suet and blood-puddings, 40.5, 407. fitless cock, 407. shortbread, 507. sour-milk crowdie, 552. petticoat-tails, 510. Athole brose, 529. auld man's milk, 529. hot-pint, 527. diet loaf, 506. bun, 512. cod's head and shoulders, 171. hatted kit, 551. Corstorphine cream, 551. Sea-kale, No. 190, p. 205. French mode, 388. Sea-pie, 433. Shallot wine and vinegar, 263. — See Eschalot, 264, No. 337. Shap zigar cheese, imitation of, 589. Sherry coblers, m in t j ulep, gin-slings, 525. Shortbread, Scottish, 507. Derby short cakes and pikelets, 511. Shrimp-pie maigre, 190. sauce, 254. Shrimps, to butter, 194. to pot, 193. Shrubs, rum, brandy, and currant, 529, 530. Sippets, to fry and cut, No. 57; for borders, 342, 343. Skate, to choose, note, 175. to boil, 175. another way, 176. to tease, 175. to crimp, 176. soup of, 571. sauces for, No. 132. French way of dressing, obs. No 133. to parboil and grill in slices, No. 131.INDEX. 619 Skate, to fry, No. 131. Skirrets and sconzoneras, 211. Skirts, beef, 289. Smelts, Nos. 145, 146. Snipes, to dress, No. 31. Snow, potato, 220. snow-balls of rice, 485. Soles, to dress in different ways, 170. to fry, 178. to dress, an gratin, 382, and Nos, 6822, 684. fillets of, au gratin, 382. to stew, 181. Sorrel, to stew, for fricandeaux, 215. sauce of, 243. Souchy, water, a Dutch wav of cooking fish, 188. Souffles, sweet, 487. of rice, 487. of potato-flour, 487. omelette, 487. of apples, 488. Soups.—Chap. VI., 122. obs. on, 122-126. stew or mouthful, 141, note 151. French soups, 356-359. Scotch, 131, 144, 149-151, 399-410. primary, or plain stock broth, 127. second stock, 128. richer high-flavoured stock, 128. very strong stock, or Grand Con- sommi, 128. clear gravy-soup,, the basis of many soups, 129. vermicelli, carrot, turnip, celery, asparagus, green pease, Crecy, and sowpe a la Faubonne, obs. 129, 130, Nos. 63, 64. potage au riz, or rice soup, 357. another way, 357. potage de lewauts a la St George, Careme's hare-soup, 357. spinage, 130. French brown soups, or La Brunoise, and JuUenne, 130, No, 64. Potage d la Eeine, or Victoria soup, the fashionable white soup, 132. vegetable-marrow, Jerusalem-arti- choke, and other vegetable soups, 134. macaroni, and other paste-soups> 135-137. vermicelli, 135. Cagliari, 135. seraoulina, 136. sago and tapioca, 136. made with imitation of Italianpastes and Nouille paste, 136. spring-fruit, of the cheese-gourd, same Spanish fashion, soup of gourds, second-course dishes of young gourds, young gourds in white sauce, 159,160, also No. 1125. the old Scotch brown-soup, 131. plain white-stock, 131. old Scotch white-soup> or soupe a la Heine, 131. Soups, plain onion-soup, 133. superlative onion-soup, 133. onion-soup maigre, 134. potage d la Clermont, 134. potato-soup, 140. green asparagus-soup, 137. vegetable - soups, or potages prin- taniers, 134. green pease-soup maigre, 137. excellent soup maigre, 138. curry pease - soup, and Redgill's pease-soup haut ^o?/i,p.l38.No.78. potage au vermicelli, 357. potage d Vltalierine, 358. potage d la Baveau, a clear brown soup, 358. potage Anglaise d la Rothschild, 358. potage au choux, or cabbage-soup, 358. German cabbage-soup, 359. potage printanier, French way, 359. potage d la Camerani, 359. Mullagatawny-soup, 14J.. observations on, and N.B., 142. Mullagatawny, as made in India, or curry-soup, 413. stew-soups, obs. on, 141. mock-turtle, 142. cheaper mock-turtle, 143. baked mock-turtle-soup, 144. egg-balls for mock-turtle, 144. Scotch hare, rabbit, or game-soup, 144. modem or English hare-soup, 145. pigeon or game-soup, 146. superlative game-soup, 146. Hessian or ox-head soup, and ra- gout, 147. calf's-head soup, 148. knuckle-of-veal soup, 149. giblet-soup, 149. ox-tail and kidney soups, 150. pig's pettitoes, 159. poacher's soup, d la Meg Merrilies, 151. cheap rice-and-meat, 152. Scotch hotch-potch, 400. winter hotch-potch, 401. another way, 401. Scotch skink, 401. Irish or Balnamoon skink, 400. sheep's-head broth, 408. plum-porridge, 411. pan-kail, 411. cock-a-leekie, or leek-soup, 399. of gourds, 160. friar's chicken, 402. civet of hare, French way, 359. civet of venison, 317. civet of roebuck, 360. the garbure, 415. pepper-pot, 148. milk-soup, 158. spring fruit-soups, 159. FiSH-soups, basis of, 154. lobster-soup, 155. oyster, three kinds, 156-157.INDEX. 320 Soups, cray-fish-soup, 157. forcemeat for fish-soups, or for stews of fish, 158. eel-soup, 158. Scotch fish-soups, 402. fish turtle-soup, 187. cheap-soups, 568-571. Aberdeenshire skate-soup, 571. crusts for soups, 140. Sowens or flummery, 550. Spices, cook's, or kitchen, 261. Spiced wines, note, 527. Spinage, to dress, 208. with sorrel, No. 212. soup of, No. 64, in jus, No. 197. for greening soups, No. 75. Sprats, to broil, 184. to fry, 183, 184. Sprouts, Brussels, to dress, 208. Spruce-beers, 538. Steaks, beef, 109-111. with potato. 111. with cucumber. 111. entre cdte de hceuf, 360. mutton, 111, 310. pork. 111. to fry, 116. salmon, 165. French mode, 167, No. 118. beef, to fry, 113. pudding of, 461. lamb, 314. Steaming, obs. on, 67. Stewing, obs. on, 279. Soup and Stew, or mouthful Soups, 141-154. note on, 151, 152. stew, Irish, 417, 418. Stock, plain, 127. stronger, the French consomme, 128. richer, high-flavoured, 128. very strong, grand consomme, 128. Stuffings for poultry, 74; for veal, Nos. 23, 24, 27, 28. for fowls, notes, pp. 95-97; Nos. 516, 622, and pp. 321, 323. and forcemeats, 259. for pigeons, No. 33, pp. 103,324, 428. for lamb, 93. for goose, 97. for hare. No. 35, and p. 104. for young pig, 94. for pig's face, 371. for pike, 185. for carp, 185, No. 149. for haddocks, 178. for crappit heads, 407. for turkey boiled, 74. for roast turkey, 94-97, and note, 95, Strawberries, to preserve, 499. jam of, 492. cream of, 473. iced cream of, 474. Sturgeon, to dress, and sauce for, 175. Suet, to clarify, for frying, 115. rich paste of, for meat-pies, 421. dumplings of, 463, 464. Sugar, to boil for preserves and confec- tions, 490. to clarify, 490. candy, four degrees of, 490. devices and ornaments of, 502. water of, or eau sucre, 529. milk of, or lait sucre, 529. browning of, or sugar-catsup for browning made-dishes, 268. uses of, in curing meat, 614. in kippering salmon, 166. Sughlio, or gravy of beef extracted in wine, note, 419. Suppers, company, 61. dishes for, 62. Sweetmeats, directions for, 488-490. Sweet patties, No. 831, p. 442. Sweet and ornamental dishes, obs. on, 468. Sweetbreads, of veal, to dress, 302. to fry, 119. to ragout, 302. with mushrooms, 365. of lamb, 315. cold, to dress, 316. Swift, Dean, quoted, note, 213. Swiss apple-pudding, 454. Syllabub, whipt, 481. Windsor, 481. Stafi'ordshire, 482. Somersetshire, 482. Tabella Gibaria quoted, note, 197. Tables, observations on laying out sup- per-tables, 61. Table of Time for cookery, 540-542. Tablets, ginger, cinnamon, lemon, etc., 500. Tapioca-pudding, 449. Tartar-sauce, 245, 353. mustard. No. 362, p. 265. Tarts of fruits, and of preserved fruits, 435-439. obs. on ornamenting. No. 808. Tartlets, 435. Tea-cakes, 509-513. Tea, beef, veal, and chicken, 554, 555. Temperature of cream to churn, 587. of milk to make cheese, 587. of water for baths, 564. Tench, to fry, No. 136. Tendons de Veau, 363. Thickening, to make, for made-dishes, 235. to thicken butter, 234. to thicken gravies, obs. 235. Thinnings of fruit for preserves, 495. Tincture of lemon-peel, 260. of cloves, nutmeg, allspice, cinna- mon, 260, No. 332. of arnica, 598. aromatic, 531. Toasts, savoury, several kinds, 335. to butter, for roast game, 99. Toast and water, 562., Tofee, and hardbake, 502. Tomatas, or love-apples, to dress, 211.621 INDEX. Tomata-sauce, 243. pickle or catsup of, 267, 274. Tongues, to salt, 576. to stew, 286. to glaze, 238. scarlet. No. 397, p. 314. a la braise, 360. en mirotorif 360. sheeps', 312. roots of. No. 1187. Trifle, an elegant, 478. gooseberry, or apple, 479. Tripe, and cow-heels, to boil, 78. to boil, French mode, 79. to fry, 120. Scottish way. No. 743. Glasgow and Birmingham, 406. Irish, 418. French mode, 362. pie of, obs, No. 780, p; 425. Trotters, sheep's or lamb's, to stew, 312. Trotters, French way, 369, No. 653. Trout, to bake salmon or, 165. another way, 166. to stew, 181. d, la Genevoise, 379. to fry, 178. sauce d, VAurore, for, 253. Truffles, to stew, in champagne, or serve in croutons, 217. TussEK, maxims of, 572. Turbot, to choose and boil, 168. note on, 168. sauces for, 169. garnishing for, 169. to keep and dress cold turbot, obs. No. 120, p. 169. an excellent small dish of brill or, 170. to stew fillets of, 181. d, la crtme d'Anchois, Soyer's way, 380. cold, a la crime (gratine). 380. fillets of, French mode, or au gratin, 382. roe of, French dish, 383. sauces for, Nos. 308, 312, 313. Turkey, to roast, fowls, and game, 94. en galantine, 386. note on stuffing for, 95, 96. stuffing for, French fashion, 97. to boil, and to stuff a boiled one, 74. to stuff and roast, 94-97. with sausages, note, 95. with chestnuts, 95. with oysters, 95. devil of, No. 550, note, p. 334. patties of, 441. pulled, 324. to braise, No. 520. to dress the gizzard of, No. 550. Dindon en dauhe, 372. sauces for, Nos. 268, 269; for boiled. No. 311.—See also, pp. 245-248. Turnips, to dress, 209. to mash, or puree of, 210. Turnips, French Vay for the second course, 209. ' navets vierge, 389. Turtle, mock, 306. Turtle-soup, mock, 142-144. Turtle, fish, 187. sauce, 250. balls for turtle-soup, 144. Ude, M., quoted, notes, 163, 182, 309. his ham, 615. Udder beef, 289. Unfermented bread (Dr Pereira's), 515. Usquebagh, or Irish cordial, 523. Vanilla cream, 471. Vauxhall carver of hams, note, 106. Veal, to choose, 40. French dishes of, 362-367. to boil, 72. to roast, loin and breast, 91, 92. stuffing for, note, 92. French manner of dividing the fillet, 362. to stuff and stew a fillet of, 296. to stew a breast, 296. to ragout a breast or tendons, 297. to ragout a knuckle, 299. to braise a neck or other piece, 299. bachelor's stew of, 285. a fricandeau of, 298. fricandelle of, 413. a loin of, a la daube, 800. a haricot of, 300. a Granada of, 300. cutlets, English and French ways, 116. Maintenon cutlets, 301. cutlets a la Venetienne, 367. cutlets a la Chingara, 366. aujambon, 367. olives of, 297. Scotch collops, 298. various modes of dressing. No. 446. to jug, 303. bubble and squeak of, 295. pillau of, 412. grenadins de veau, 363. noix de veau en hedeau, 363. tendons de veau, 363. calf's head to curry, 364. boudins of cold, 365. hlanquettes of, 366. blanquettes, with cucumbers, 366. a la Paysanne, 366. loin, a la Bechamel, 367. to pot, Nos. 431, 436. to dress veal sweetbreads, 302. sweetbreads, to ragout, 302. sweetbreads, with mushrooms, 3G5. cold sweetbreads, to dress, 366. veal, a la mode, 282. cake of, 303. calves' tails, to dress, 302. calf's liver, with herbs, 366. calf's liver, 302, 303. liver, with bacon, to fry, 120.INDEX. 622 Veal, kidney, 303. pluck, 301. heart, to dress, 302. ears, French mode, 365. calf's brains, a la Ravigote, 364. calf s brains, a la maUre d''hdtel,365. calves' feet, to dress, 306. jelly of calves' feet, 475. head, plain, 304. head and ragout, Scotch, 304. head, to fricass^e^ 305. to hash, 305. mock turtle of, 306. mock turtle-soup of, 142-144. to collar a head. No. 416. made-dishes of cold, 307. to ragout cold, 307. to hash cold, 307. to mince cold, 307. Dunelm of cold, 307. roll of, 333. pies of, 426^28. a plain pie, 426. a richer pie, 426. a very rich pie, 426. olive-pie of, 426. rich olive-pie, 426. calf's head pie, to eat cold, 427. calf s feet pie, 427. bride's pie of calves' feet, 428. patties of veal and ham, 441. soup of knuckle, 149. blonde de veau, 351. fricandelle, 413. minced collops of, 403, No. 734. sausages of, with pork, etc., 332, No. 543. See also Index., Article Calves. Vegetables and Roots.—Chap. VIH., 203-230. brocoli and cauliflowers, to boil and dress, 205. cauliflower with Parmesan, 205. asparagus, sea-kale, and salsify, 205, and note, 206. French modes of dressing vege- tables, 387-391. artichokes, to boil, 206. artichokes d Vltalienne, 388. artichoke-bottoms, en canapes, 388. Jerusalem artichokes, 207. green pease, to boil, 207. French mode, 388. Windsor and other beans, 207. with ham, 96. French way, or d la Poulette, 389. French beans, 208. cabbage, grtens, savoys, Brussels sprouts, 208. spinage, 208. turnips, 209. French mode, 209. to mash, 210. turnips, navels vierge, 389. Macedoine of roots, 387. carrots, to boil, 210. Vegetables and roots, Flemish way, 211. parsnips. No. 201, p. 210. gourds, fried, 211. another way, 211. skirrets and sconzoneras, 211. tomatas, 211. beet-roots, 212. to stew and roast onions, 212. vegetable curry, 213. marrow, or gourds, 160, 211, 553. to stew cucumbers and celery, 213. to stew red Cftbbage, 214. to stew sorrel for fricandeaux, 215. mushrooms, observations and note, 215, 216. to stew or ragout mushrooms, white or brown, 216. to grill, 217. For vegetables as made-dishes, see the respective Articles in Index, potatoes, receipts, 218-221. calecannon, 221. salads, 224-228.—head Salads. grouse salade, 102. game salad, 374. to salt, 230. to preserve in various ways, 228. to pickle, 268-273. See Pickles, Index. herbs and seeds to dry for kitchen use, 229. Venus's jelly, 477. Veloute, or white cuUis, 238. Venetienne, cotelettes a la, 367. rabbits a la, 372. Venison to keep and roast a haunch or shoulder of, in the English mode, 89. notes on, 89. to boil, 72. red or roe deer, to roast, 91. collops of, Scottish way, 120. another way, 317. Oxford John of, 317, 332. to stew a shoulder, 317. to bake, 317. <5ivet of, 317. made-dishes of venison, 317, 318. minced collops of, Scottish, 404. civet of roebuck, 360. to stew cold, 318. to hash, 318. soups of, poacher's, or a la Meg 3Ierrilies, 151, and No. 90. stev/ soup of dressed, observations, No 505. pasty of, 432. Venison, crust for pasty of, 425. sharp and sweet sauces for, and gravy, 90, 249. melon-pickle for, No. 297. Verjuice, 262. Verder or milk punch, 524, 526. Vermicelli pudding, 452. Vermnute, or wormwood wine, 528. Victoria pudding, 454. Vinegars, household, 261.623 INDEX. Vinegars, sugar, cider, gooseberry, 261, 262. of wine-lees, 262. raisin, 262. alegar, 262. flavoured and herb vinegars, 262. Vinegar, Chili or pepper, 262. eschalot, 263. garlic, 263. celery or cress, 263. cucumber, 263. tarragon, 263. basil, 263. horseradish, 263. camp, 263. curry, 264. raspberry, 264. rose, for the toilet and salads, 565. lavender, 536. thieves', 565. Vinegarette for cold meat, 245. Vol-au-vent, 342. observations on, 342. vols-au-vent of lobster, 378. "Wafers, several kinds, 513. Walnuts, to pickle green, 270. Walton, Isaak. note, 185. Wassail bowl, 482. Waters for cooling draughts, 561. Barbadoes water, 520. toast and barley, 554-562. Water, filter for, 564. Wax for bottles, 540. Welsh pudding, 456, 457. modem or Quaker's pudding, 450. rabbit, note, 339. gallimaufry, 338. leek porridge, 411. Westphalia hams, 74. sauce for, 76. Whey, wine, alum, etc.. No. 1074. Whitebait, to dress, as at Greenwich, and Blackwall, 188. White sauces, Nos. 279,294, 303,586,587. icing for cakes, 504. Whitings, to fry, No 136, p. 178. note on, p. 178. another way to fry. No. 145. to stew, No. 141, p. 181. Whitings, to curry, 187^. Whips of cream, 471, and art. TriflCf 478. Whipt syllabub, 481. coffee-cream, 471. Windsor syllabub, 481. beans. 207. a la Poulette, 389. Wines, home-made, or sweet, obs. on, 532- 538. Wine, best white and red gooseberry, 533- 534. British Rhenish, 534. red currant, 534. red gooseberry, 534. a cheap, of mixed fruit, 534, elder-flower, 535. elder, 535. orange, 535. orange and lemon, 536. parsnip, 536. ginger, 536. another way, 537. birch, 537. jelly of. No. 910. sauce for puddings, 252, 447. Scottish Malmsey, or Malt, 537. whey of, 527. •wormwood or bitter, 528. hot spiced wines, note, 527. herb wines, 264. eschalot, 264. mulled, 526. Bishop, 525. Pope, note, 527. Winter hotcli-potch, 401. salad, 227. Woodcocks, snipes, plovers, rails, and ortolans, to roast, 107. to devil, note, etc., 334. sauces for, Nos. 289, 290. Yearning, or rennet, 586. Yeast, to make, 517. Russian and camp, 517. Yorkshire pudding, 458. pie, or Christmas, No. 799. York's, Duke of, sauce, note, 257, Zests, notes, 334, 377.INDEX. 624 MISOELLAE-EOTJg EEOEIPTS. Preparations for the Lressing-Room. Pot Ponrri, 564.' Eau de Cologne, two ways, 564. A cheap perfume, 565. Thieves' vinegar, 565. Rose-vinegar for salads, or for the toilet, 565. Lavender vinegar—French, 566. Honey-water for the hair, 566. Cold cream for the skin, 566. Lip-salve, 566. Paste for chopped hands, 566. Medium temperature of baths, 564. A Selection of Useful Miscellaneous Receipts for Cleaning and Preserving Furniture, Clothes, etc. To scour carpets, 592. To wash chintz furniture, shawls, etc., 593. To clean printed calico furniture, 593. To scour blankets, 593. To wash silk stockings, 593. To take spots of paint from cloth and silks, 593. To take greasy stains out of silk, 593. To take out iron mould, 593. To take out stains of wine, fruit, etc., 594. To remove mildew, 594. Clothes-closets, 594. Bonnet-boxes, 594. Fur,—to preserve, 594. Ink-spots, to take out, 594. To clean marble slabs and chimney- pieces, 594. To clean papered rooms, 594. To clean paint, 594. To take grease from papered walls or books, 594. To clean floor-cloths, 595. Fomentations, 563. Fumigation of rooms, 563. Filter for water, substitute for, 564. Bottle-wax, 540. To polish furniture, 595. To polish mahogany, etc., in the Italian manner, 595. To preserve polished steel, 595. To clean steel grates, 595. To clean brass grates, fire-irons, etc., 595. To clean knives and forks, 595. To clean plate and plated articles, 596. To clean pewter vessels and tin covers, 596. Directions for cleaning Britannia-metal goods, 596. To preserve gilding, 596. To clean looking-glasses and plate- glass, 596. To wash wine-decanters, 596. To clean japanned goods, 597. To get oil out of wood and stone, 597. To take rust out of fire-irons, 597. To clean china and glass, 597. To take stains out of mourning-dresses, 597. To clean black silk dresses, 597. An excellent shoe-blacking, 597. Liquid Japan-blacking, 597. Scalds and bums, 597. To extinguish fire in female dresses, 698. futmn : PRINTED HYT)LllEIl AND BOYD,r