LIGHT DIET WHOLESOME DIET AND COOKERY ASSES OP INVALIDS. BY De. h. w. seager. WB400 1887 S431 LONDON: PSlN, MAESHALL AND CO., STATIONERS* HALL COURT. 1887. PRICE ONE SHILLING.1 1 22900335378 UttmuLIGHT DIET A HANDBOOK or DIET AND COOKERY FOR ALL CLASSES OF INVALIDS. BT H. W. SEAGER, M.B., &o. LONDON: SIMPKIN, MAE SHALL AND CO., STATIONERS' HALL COURT. 1887. Entered at Stationers' Hall. The Rights of Translation and Reproduction are Reserved.fV ■ WELLCOME INSTITUTE X LIBRARY Co!l.v welMOmec Call No. ~~\a7i H o o S *i~2> /L _ — iDR. BROADBENT AS A SLIGHT TOKEN OF GRATITUDE FOR MUCH KINDNESS IN SEVERE TRIALS THIS LITTLE WORK IS DEDICATED BY THE COMPILER.PBEFACE. This little book is intended not so much for the guidance of the medical practitioner, as for the use and information of the lay patient, and it has, therefore, heen written in a style more suited to the kitchen, than to the laboratory, or the study. The public in general seem to consider that when a patient is ordered " light diet," he may have nothing but gruel and beef-tea. I have, therefore, in these pages given a number of alternatives, which, I hope, may be found more palatable than these two foods. Wishing to make the work as complete as possible, I have not limited the contents to the literal meaning of the title, but have included many dishes and classes of food, which cannot be pro- perly referred to " Light Diet." A book on this subject is necessarily in great part a compila- tion, and I gratefully acknowledge my indebtedness to the courtesy, as well as to the talent and industry, of Dr. Broadbent, Dr. King Chambers, Dr. Milner Fothergill, Sir W. Roberts, Sir Henry Thompson, and the other gentlemen who have kindly allowed me to quote from their well-known works. Those recipes to which no name is appended have either been derived from private sources, or composed, or altered in some respect, by myself. Hampton Court, July, 1887. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY H. w. Coll. welMOmec Call No. SEAGER.CONTENTS CHAPTER I. Introductory .... CHAPTER II. Enemata akd Predigested Poods CHAPTER III. Mile and its Preparations CHAPTER IV. The Feeding of Infants CHAPTER V. Soups, Beoths, and Beef-Tea . CHAPTER VI. Jellies ..... CHAPTER VII. Farinaceous Food (Starch Food) CHAPTER VIII. Drinks CHAPTER IX. Cooking ..... CHAPTER X. Fish . CHAPTER XI. Game and Wild Birds .CONTENTS. VI CHAPTER XII poultex and eggs Meat Condiments, Spices, &c. . Sweets Fruit Vegetables Table of Recipes Index CHAPTER XIII. CHAPTER XIV. CHAPTER XV. CHAPTER XVI. CHAPTER XVII. PAGE 91 98 111 112 114 118 126 129 BURROUGHS, WELLCOME A 09 I*1 LIGHT DIET. I. INTRODUCTORY. In these pages an attempt has been made to give directions for the diet of such as are unable to take ordinary food, and are consequently restricted to light diet, slops, and so forth. Owing to the difference of constitutions it is impossible to lay down hard-and-fast rules for diet, so true is the proverb, " What is one man's meat is another man's poison." Nay, further, what is meat to a man to-day may be poison to that same man to- morrow. Roughly speaking, however, the various classes of food are arranged in this book according to their digestibility, and the numbers appended in brackets to the different recipes are intended to mark their relative value in this respect. Thus :— (1) Marks the kind of food suitable to the climax of all acute and severe diseases, where but little assimilation takes place in the stomach. Here predigested foods and enemata are to be chiefly relied on, with milk and alcohol in the second rank ■ • -....„. (2) This class of food is allowable where the digestion is less impaired than in the previous class, and very-light and digestible foods, such as milk, meat teas, gruels^ and raw eggs can be taken. (3) Is to be given where some further progress has been made towards recovery, or where the disease has not been so severe in character. In this class soups, farinaceous food, eggs, and the more wholesome kinds of fish and poultry are to be reckoned. (4) Is for convalescents, or for still milder diseases Fish, poultry, game, and the more digestible meats are included in this division. (5) Is to be used in advanced convalescence, where there is no longer much restriction in the diet. (6) These recipes are suitable for dyspeptics. The transition from one of these states to another is repre- °TA^ng iKtw° fiSure9 •> thus (2-3) de™tes that this article of diet would be suitable for milder cases belonging to class (2), but not for the more severe. uu^luS2 CHOICE OP FOOD. Some general remarks on food and diet are a necessary intro- duction. These have been arranged under the following heads: 1. Choice of food. 2. Cooking and serving. 3. Eating and drinking. 4. General habits of life. 1. Choice of Food.—Naturally every person should choose those foods which he can digest without discomfort; on the other hand, however, it is a mistake to strike off any article altogether from the dietary, because it has once disagreed. Such articles should either be discontinued for a time, or eaten in less quantity, or taken at a different time of day. Temporary abstinence from any particular dish will often enable a man to return to it with impunity. Some people can eat but little vegetable, farinaceous food, &c, but they should not therefore omit such foods alto- gether from their diet. Some, again, can only digest meat at breakfast, or vegetables at mid-day, and these people should suit their meals to their idiosyncrasies. Too much care in the choice of food is injurious as well as too little. The amount of food necessary during the day varies accord- ing to the season of the year, and the requirements of the individual. About half a pound of cooked meat, with about a pound of bread and other cereals, three quarters of a pound of vegetables and fruit, two ounces each of butter and sugar, and from two to three pints of water or other fluid form a fair daily average. In summer rather less meat and more vegetables and fruit are consumed, and in winter the quantity of meat is in- creased at the expense of the vegetables. For those engaged in severe bodily labour, fat or butter is the best food, a given quantity of beef fat producing twice as much force as the same quantity of cheese or oatmeal, four times as much as eggs or bread, six times as much as lean beef, and seven times as much as potatoes. Brain-workers require less fat, and more bread, vegetables, and lean meat, than those who work with their hands. Fish is better than meat for sedentary persons, such as brain-workers and women. Men eat more meat and less bread than women, while women drink more tea and milk and less alcohol than men. Old people require less meat and more farinaceous and vegetable food than the young. It is most important that the diet should be varied, as mono- tony impairs the appetite and injures the digestion. This rule holds good in sickness as well as in health, and, indeed, frequent change is even more necessary to the sick than to the healthy, as in sickness the appetite requires to be tempted by variety to induce the patient to eat. In the choice of food, regard must be had to the individualCHOICE OF POOD 3 desires and peculiarities of the feeder. Optati cibi digestio optima, i. e. that the food that is best liked is best digested, is in many (but not in all) cases a true saying. Dyspeptic persons in particular can sometimes easily digest what is apparently un- wholesome food; for instance, pork or beef in preference to mutton. At different ages different amounts of food are necessary. The feeding of infants is discussed at some length hereafter. Children from four to twelve years of age should have four meals a day, consisting of eggs, fish, bread, fresh butter, farinaceous puddings, and porridge, with mealy potatoes, carrots, spinach, and French beans, as the chief vegetables; meat should only be given once a day, viz. at the mid-day meal; any kind of fresh fruit is good, but especially oranges and roasted apples. As to the quantity, the average daily diet for a child up to eight years old would be :—Bread, 8 oz.; butter, 1 oz.; meat, 2 oz. (or fish, 4 oz.); vegetables, 5 oz.; milk, half to one pint; pudding, gruel, or broth, about half a pint. From eight to twelve years the quantity of meat may be increased, and probably less milk will be drunk. Overloading the stomach should be avoided—a child's capacity is not really unlimited. Alcohol, tea and coffee should not be given till after puberty. From twelve to twenty-five years the appetite is the best guide as to the quantity of food required. Fat should always be an important factor in the diet, especially of delicate children ; it may be given in the shape of cream (or unskimmed milk), of butter, of bacon or of other fat meat, or of oils. Young girls require much more open-air exercise than they usually get, and their lesson hours should be so arranged that they may not have to study directly before or after a rneaJ. Boys at school require meat more than once a day, or fish or eggs at one meal, and meat at another. In old age but little food is necessai-y. Digestion is slow and troublesome, and therefore all food should be easy of digestion. An old man should have but one substantial meal in the day, and that not too large a one. Meals should be slowly eaten and well masticated. "Warm clothing is also essential to good diges- tion in the aged. A model diet for old persons would be on these lines:—On first waking in the morning a cup of milk and a biscuit; or, if milk does not agree, a cup of bouillon or thin beef-tea with dry toast. At breakfast, a cup of chocolate, with dry toast and butter, and a slice of well-cooked bacon. Lunch should be taken early, and may consist of a little fish with bread, a milk pudding, and a glass of light wine. In the afternoon, a cup of soup and toast, or milk and water, or tea, with bread and butter. At dinner, soup and either fish or meat, with some easily digested vegetables' and a little wine. On retiring to bed, if three hours or moreCHOICE OF FOOD. have elapsed since dinner, a cup of beef-tea is of advantage. If sleepless at night, a biscuit or sandwich, or some such light food, with a glass of wine, mulled or not, according to the fancy of the individual, or a cup of beef-tea, or gruel, or arrowroot with wine, should be provided. „.■,..• a 2 Perfect cooking is essential to perfect digestion. As to im- perfect cooking, "Godsends the meat, and the devil sends the cooks " The greater part of the ensuing pages being devoted to recipes for cooking, it is unnecessary to expatiate here on this subiect It may be as well, however, to remark that food and drinks should not be either too hot or too cold. Hot tea and hot soups cause a great part of the ordinary troubles of digestion. On the other hand, iced water is to blame for much ot the dyspepsia prevalent in America. The proper temperature ot drinking water is about 55 degrees, of beer and light wines about 50 degrees, and of red wines about 60 degrees, i. e., that ot the dining-room. ,. , Alf food should be neatly and tidily served up ; a dirty cup or spoon will often disgust a sick person, and make him refuse food which he might otherwise have taken. Cups, plates, &c, which have been used should not be left in the sick room; and food should be kept outside the room in any convenient place, not m the room itself. Food should not be prepared nor warmed up m the chamber of an invalid, nor in any part of the house where the smell of the cooking can reach him. Nurses and attendants on sick people should be clean and tidy in their habits, as well as quiet in their movements, and cheertui and pleasant in their conversation. _ -,111, 3 Food should be carefully eaten; meat,for instance, should be neatly carved in thin slices (especially if it be beef, yeal ham, or pork) against the grain, and then further subdivided into small mouthfuls. If the teeth be irregular, each mouthful should be scored across several times before it is put into the mouth Dyspepsia is not infrequently due to the want of a good set ot teeth; these, if artificial, should be perfectly comfortable to the mouth. Each mouthful must be thoroughly chewed before being swallowed. It is better to spend too long than too short a time in mastication. ,, . . If the meal consist of farinaceous food or vegetables, it is even more important that these be thoroughly masticated and satu- rated with saliva before being swallowed. For most people the best form of meal is that which consists of meat, bread or other farinaceous food, and vegetables. The fluids consumed during a meal should not be taUen at tne beginning of a meal, but towards the end of it. Soup is an exception to this rule, because soup is an easily digested fluid, which stimulates the digestive juices instead of diluting orCHOICE OP FOOD. 5 drowning them. Half a pint to a pint of fluid is enough at any 0I4 Various other points are noteworthy with regard to the consumption of the food. Meals should be taken at fixed hours and regular intervals. The hours should be so arranged that the chief meals of the day may be taken before and after work, not while the mind is occupied. Persons engaged in business during the day should make breakfast and dinner the most important meals, and should eat only a light lunch, as at the time of the latter meal they cannot allow themselves sufficient rest of body and mind before and after eating to ensure perfect digestion. Half an hour or more of complete rest is necessary before the chief meals, and after these an hour should be given to rest or gentle exercise, such as a game of billiards. The intervals between meals should not be too long; four or five hours is a suitable time for most people to allow for the digestion of a good meal. If, through any accident, a meal be° delayed until considerably later than the usual time, that meal should be made a light one. Rest of body and tranquillity of mind are both necessary for proper digestion, as fatigue and anxiety, by their action on the nerves, prevent the stomach from doing its work. Light, cheer- ful conversation during a meal is the best sauce and digestive; failing this, an amusing book which does not require much thought. Such occupation prevents too fast eating and hurrying over meals. The clothing of the body has also an influence on digestion ; it should be warm, so as to keep up that warmth of the body which is necessary to foster the digestive process. A flannel belt next the skin helps many dyspeptics to digest their food better; warm stockings and suitable boots are also of use for this purpose. Dyspeptic persons who suffer from cold feet should change their stockings whenever the feet feel cold. Rheumatic and consumptive persons and delicate children should wear flannel drawers as well as vests. Pressure of the clothes over the digestive organs is to be avoided. The rooms in which meals are taken should be properly heated, but not too hot—from 55° to 60° is a fair temperature. . To ensure perfect digestion, it is necessary to take a fair allowance of sleep, but the amount of sleep necessary varies according to the constitution of the individual. Some do well enough with six hours' sleep, others require eight or nine hours ; more than this generally does more harm than good. Sleep during the day is not necessarily prejudicial to digestion, but should be taken in a partly reclining position, not sitting bolt upright in a chair, and before dinner rather than after dinner. The bedroom should be cool and well ventilated and reasonably6 CHOICE OF FOOD. dark. Beds skcrald be hard, but elastic, and tbe bedclothes should be warm, but not too heavy. At least two hours should be allowed for digestion of the last meal before going to bed. Narcotics are dangerous and injurious, except when absolutely necessary, and should only be taken under medical advice. Attention tp the action of the bowels is of paramount import- ance in health as well as in sickness; they should act at least once every day. The best way of ensuring proper action of the bowels is to fix some particular time of the day for their relief; when this habit is once established, there will seldom be any occasion to take medicine to procure an evacuation. Fruit or jam at breakfast will often help to procure the desired effect, but it is better to take some simple medicine than to load the stomach with quantities of fruit, especially when there is a ten- dency to acidity. After a change of air or of diet it is often necessary to take a little aperient medicine to keep the bowels in order. Exercise is essential for the regulation of this function. Exercise is absolutely necessary for those who wish to keep themselves in good health, and especially for persons of weak and sluggish digestion, and those who have a tendency to obesity. The best forms of exercise are walking and gymnastics, which are suitable and convenient for everybody; riding, which is especially useful for persons whose livers are sluggish ; rowing, one of the best kinds of exercise for those who have chronic lung disease; running, sawing wood, digging, and the various active games, such as cricket, tennis, lawn tennis, &c. The best time for exercise is between meals, allowing an hour or more for digestion after a meal, and half an hour to an hour for rest before the next meal. In middle life and advanced age it is possible to take too much exercise. Elderly people should not overtire nor overheat themselves, nor make a labour of their exei'cise. Old people should never run. Smoking tobacco is not always prejudicial to digestion; on the contrary, it is frequently advantageous for persons of irritable stomachs and tempers, and for those who are overworried; but excessive use of tobacco is always harmful. Smoking should be only practised during leisure hours, when the sedative influence of tobacco is beneficial. Before meals, tobacco as a rule dimin- ishes the appetite for food, and should not be used at this time by those whose appetite is not good. Smoking should be dis- continued if it causes much spitting. Sir Henry Thompson calls tobacco "the ally of temperance," and in this respect, at any rate, it is healthful. It is said to be rare for a smoker to die of consumption. While a severe illness is at its height, many patients loathe food, and this is in rare cases a sign that food is unnecessary; but in general food should be given, even if there be a distaste7 CHOICE OP POOD. for it, and, if the patient be weakly, or the disease exhausting in its effects, food must be insisted on. In such cases, food should be given in small quantities frequently repeated, and in some easily digestible form, such as milk, peptonised foods, beef-tea, meat-juice, jellies, soups, raw eggs with wine or brandy, &c. After a short period of unwilling eating, appetite will return, and more and mor-e food will be taken, until the normal quantity is reached. In the acute diseases of children, old people, and feeble pei'sons, feeding should be insisted on from the first. Stuffing, i.e., forced feeding, is useful in some cases of consumption, and of acidity of the stomach. As during convalescence the appetite often returns before the power of digesting food is recovered, it is necessary to be always cautious about increasing and varying the diet; and a fixed diet as regards both the quality and quantity of food should be laid down. Later, as the patient's digestion regains power, more variety maybe given to the diet by the addition of light farinaceous foods, such as arrowroot, tapioca, or rice with milk; then of white fish and bread. After these, chicken and white meats may be allowed, which again will be supplemented by game, easily digested vegetables, and, finally, the more nourishing meats, with a little wine, or weak brandy and water, will be found suitable. Vegetables which produce flatulence, acidulous fruits, salted meats, and heavy puddings and pastry must, of course, be avoided during convalescence. Stimulating beverages should be given cautiously, if necessary. Additions to the diet should only be made at one meal during the day, and two or three days should generally be allowed to elapse before any further increase is made. Sudden and complete alteration of diet is to be avoided. Table of Digestibility of Various Foods. Pancreatised milk (pp. 13, 18). Milk, with or without mineral waters (Chap. III). Pancreatised meat teas, with farinaceous thickening or malt extract (Chap. V). Pancreatised gruels and other pancreatised farinaceous foods (Chap. VII). Malted preparations. Meat teas (Chap. V). Raw eggs, custards (Chap. XII). Invalid food, e. g., Nestle's, Mellin's, Savory and Moore's, &c. (Chap. VII). Soups and jellies (Chaps. V and VI). Gruels and milk pud- dings (Chap. VII). Lightly cooked eggs (Chap. XII). Boiled or steamed fish, whiting, sole, haddock, plaice, &c. (Chap. X). Sweetbread stewed. Lamb's feet (Chap. XIII). Partridge, quail, snipe, woodcock, grouse (Chap. XI). Venison (Chap. XI).8 ENEMATA AND PREDIGESTED POODS. Tripe (Chap. XIII). Calves' and sheeps' feet (Chap. XIII). Other sorts of fish except salmon, eels, herrings (Chap. X). Boiled chicken (Chap. XII). Roast chicken (Chap. XII). Mutton (Chap. XIII). Potatoes mashed and pressed through sieve. Lamb, veal (Chap. XIII). The more digestible vegetables. Hare (Chap. XI). Beef and any other food (Chap. XIII). Directions to Nurses. See that the room is well ventilated, but warm and free from draughts. Keep everything scrupulously clean. Let the patient have no dirty linen, spoons, plates, &c, in use. Prepare all food outside the sick-room. Do not leave any food in the room. See that warm foods are warm and cold things cold, and not lukewarm. Keep a cheerful countenance; do not chatter too much; do not worry; do not tell doleful stories. II. ENEMATA AND PREDIGESTED FOODS. Where the stomach is unable to digest, nourishment must be given, either as digested foods by the mouth, or as enemata by the bowel. Digested foods are prepared by the various pancreatic and peptic agents now in vogue (see pp. 9, 10). As soon as the stomach is able to digest ordinary foods, of which milk, meat teas, soups, and raw eggs are those first resorted to, enemata and predigested foods must be discontinued. Enemata (1).—When from any cause a patient is unable to swallow food or to retain it, or to digest it, when swallowed, nutrient enemata must be administered. These may be com- posed of beef-tea, milk, eggs, gruel, blood, or of soluble meat or meat peptones, &c. The enema should be about the consistency of cream. Not more than six tablespoonfuls should be admin- istered at a time, but this may be repeated every two, four, or six hours, as may be necessary. All enemata should be warmed to blood heat. The injection should be administered directly after a natural motion, or after the bowel has been washed out with a pint of water at blood heat. The food must be very slowly and cautiously thrown up into the bowel. Wine enemata may be given alternately with meat injections. If the propor- tion of fat to meat in a meat injection exceed one fourth, the enema will probably be rejected. Laudanum or solution ofENEMATA AND PREDIGESTED POODS. 9 morphia should be added to the enema if there be much irrita- bility of the bowel. . A dessertspoonful of Benger's Liquor pancreaticus added to an enema just before administration causes it to be more easily assimilated. (Sir Wm. Roberts.) Blood enemata should consist of four to six tablespooniuls ot fresh defibrinated ox blood, repeated every three hours. Beef-tea and Cream Enemata (1).—Mix together four table- spoonfuls of strong beef-tea, one tablespoonful of cream, and a dessertspoonful of brandy or three dessertspoonfuls of port wine. Warm to blood heat, and add of Benger's Liquor pancreaticus a dessertspoonful. This enema may be administered every two, four, or six hours. Take four tablespoonfuls of " fluid beef " (p. 32), prepared with- out acid, one tablespoonful of cream, and a dessertspoonful of brandy. "Warm to blood heat, and add a dessertspoonful of Liquor pancreaticus. Every two, four, or six hours. Suppositories (1) may be made of soluble meat, or of meat peptone, &c, with a little morphia if necessary; the outside should be oiled instead of having the suppository made up with cacao butter. (Tyson.) Pancreatised Milk (1, 2, 3, &c.) may be instilled slowly into the rectum by a suitable apparatus, whereby the milk is not thrown up into the bowel, but passes through a long flexible tube by gravitation. Three pints in twenty-four hours are sufficient. (Tyson.) "Leube's Pancreas and Meat Enema (1).—The fresh pancreas and meat are finely minced, and carefully mixed in the propor- tion of one part by weight of pancreas to three parts of meat. Two to three ounces of meat are used for each injection, and the meat and pancreas are mixed with enough warm water to make a thin paste. The pancreas is only fit for use in summer, on the day of the slaughter of the animal, in winter, two or three days after- wards. Glycerine Extract of Pancreas (1, 2, 3, &c.).—The fresh pancreas is minced finely, and mixed with half a pound of glycerine; the pancreas and glycerine are thoroughly rubbed together in a mortar. One-fourth of this extract is added to three or four ounces of freshly chopped meat for each injection. The mixing of the glycerine extract with the meat must be per- formed immediately before use. The glycerine extract of pancreas may be kept for several days. Leube uses rather larger quantities for injection than are usual in England. Savory and Moore's Meat Peptone (2, 3, 4, 5) is an excellent nutritive preparation which is very easily digested, and is veryENEMATA AND PEEDIGESTED FOODS. 10 tasty, whether eaten spread on bread and butter as a sandwich, or made into a soup; but smaller quantities should be used than are given in the directions. Benger's Peptonised Beef Jelly (2-3, 3, 4, 5) has the same qualities as the above. It may be eaten cold as a jelly or warmed as a beef-tea. Brand's Peptones of Beef, "Veal, or Chicken (2-3, 3, 4, 5) are not so nice as either of the above, but make a good change. Brand's Essence of Beef, Mutton, Veal, or Chicken may be used for making broths, or eaten cold as a jelly; but they have all a peculiar flavour, which to some people is unpleasant. The Concentrated Beef-tea is a convenient form for the speedy pre- paration of beef-tea, when there is not time to cook the beef itself. Valentine's Meat-Juice (2, 3, 4, 5) may be used as a substitute for " fluid beef," and, like it, should only be warmed by placing the vessel containing it in hot water for a few minutes. Liebig's Extract is useful for flavouring soups and gravies, but is not in itself nutritious. It is, however, a good stimulant, especially for women in confinements. Carnrick's Peptonoid is disagreeable to the taste, and not always digestible. Pancreas Preparations.—Take off the skin from the sweet- bread of a pig, sheep, or ox. Wipe the pancreas dry with a cloth, and carefully remove all the fat. Mince the pancreas very finely to a pulp, and pass this through a hair-sieve, scraping the pulp from the bottom of the sieve with a knife. Add this juice to the food to be digested. If salt or meat-extract be added to this juice, it may be kept in a dry, cool place, in a wide-necked bottle or jar, corked and covered with bladder or parchment; it should not be kept more than seven days. The proportion of meat-extract should be one- third of the pancreatic juice. "Watery Extract of Pancreas.—Skin the sweet-bread, and remove all fat as above; pour on it half-a-pint of cold water, add a little salt, and let it stand for five or six hours; then pass it through a fine hair sieve without pressure. This watery extract should be used fresh. Pancreatin or Liquor Pancreaticus (Benger, or Savory and Moore).—These preparations added to the food make it more easy of digestion, but they should not be added to any food which is too hot to be sipped; nor should the food, to which they have been added, be warmed up again soon afterwards. Articles of diet to which pancreatic extracts have been added should be consumed at once, as they acquire an unpleasantly bitter taste if allowed to stand for more than half an hour. The quantities used will vary according to the age and condition of the patient.11 MILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. The various foods for invalids, such as Savory and Moore's, Nestle's, and Mellin's, are sometimes exceedingly useful when the stomach is incapable of properly digesting farinaceous food. Malt-extract or Maltine should be added to beef-tea and soups to make them more nourishing, but the addition should only be made when the soup or meat-tea is cool enough to be sipped, as a greater heat destroys the virtue of the maltine. III. MILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. All authorities agree that milk is the most perfect food, and indeed the only perfect food, in that it contains all the elements of food in their proper proportions. Milk is the food which nourishes us during the first months of life, and to milk we recur in most severe illnesses in after-life, especially when an easily digestible and nourishing food is necessary. Human milk is naturally the most suitable milk food; next to it in composition comes the milk of the mare, especially if a little sugar be added to the latter, but mare's milk is too rare and too expensive for general use. Goat's milk has a rank flavour, and contains more fat than woman's or cow's milk, though it is often better digested than cow's milk. The milk of the sheep contains such a large proportion of solids, that it soon cloys the appetite; this milk also contains more fat and cheesy material than cow's or woman's milk. It is a pity that asses are not more commonly bred in this country, as they can be fed cheaply, are very hardy, their flesh makes good meat, and their milk is very like human milk. Cow's milk is the most common substitute for the mother's milk, both in the feeding of children, and in daily use among adults. It contains a larger proportion of solid constituents, i. e. of fat (butter), of cheese-forming material, and of salts than does human milk, while woman's milk contains more sugar. It is of cow's milk that this chapter will more especially treat. It is very important that the cows should be healthy, as some vaccine diseases are transmissible by the milk. It is also neces- sary that the cows should have plenty of fresh air, should have clean and well-ventilated shelter, and should be properly fed. Th eir food should consist of grass or sweet hay with the occa- sional admixture of a small quantity of carrots, parsnips or beetroot. _ Cows fed on bad potatoes, brewers' grains, or refuse from distilleries give unwholesome milk. Potato-refuse as fodder is said to cause eczema, turniptops to excite diarrhoea, and some kinds of oil-cake to induce colic in the milk-consumer. The milk from cows far gone with calf, and from those whichMILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. 12 Lave just calved, is not fit for human consumption, and the milk from old, ill-treated, or diseased cows is dangerous to those who drink it. Various diseases, e. g. typhoid and scarlet fever, measles and diphtheria, have been spread by the carelessness of dairy- keepers and their servants. Good unskimmed milk may be recognised by the following characteristics: 1. It should be of an opaque, dull, yellowish-white colour, not transparent nor bluish. 2. There should not be the slightest sourness in its smell, o. It should taste sweetish. 4. A drop taken up in a clean silver spoon, or placed upon the thumbnail, should not run, but, as it were, stick to the surface on which it is placed. 5. A drop of good milk should sink in water. 6. When heated, a kind of skin should form over the surface of the milk. 7. Good unskimmed milk, if rubbed between the fingers, has a greasy, fatty feel. The amount of cream in milk is roughly estimated by the lactometer and cream tester. The milk obtained in the morning is lightest and most diges- tible, while the noon and evening milkings give richer milk. Milk in winter contains less fat and cheese-forming material than in summer. Milk should be kept in a cool, dry cellar, or else the vessel con- taining the milk should be placed in a basin of cold water. It is best kept in earthenware, glass, porcelain, wooden or enamelled vessels, and any vessel or spoon which is to be used for milk should be first thoroughly scalded with boiling water. Milk should be kept apart from other articles of food, and especially remote from game, &c, hung before cooking, as it is easily tainted. It is sometimes as well to boil milk before using it, especially if there is any suspicion that it may convey infectious diseases, or that the cows may have eaten unwholesome food. I have known the milk of cows which have grazed on recently flooded meadows to cause inflammation of tbe stomach and diarrhoea, but these troubles did not occur when the milk was boiled. Boiled milk will keep sweet longer than unboiled milk, but is not so easily digestible, nor so nutritious, and to some people has a less agreeable flavour. Fifteen grains (half a level teaspoonful) of bicarbonate of soda or magnesia added to a quart of new milk renders it more easily digestible, and makes it keep better. Milk that has just begun to turn sour is sometimes more readily •digested than fresh milk by persons who do not suffer fromMILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. acidity of the stomach. Stale milk develops a fungus or mould which is the cause of the milk turning sour, and induces colic and diarrhoea, and, in young children, thrush. Where the diet is to consist exclusively of milk, the monotony may he partly remedied by giving the milk either cold or warm, sweetened or unsweetened, with or without water, if all these ways of administering it suit the digestion or appetite. It is somewhat more easily digestible if warmed, but generally not so- wholesome when boiled. Other variations of the diet, especially when milk alone causes a feeling of oppression with acid eructa- tions, and vomiting of curds, are formed by the addition ot mineral waters, e. g. soda, potash, Apollinans, Vichy or seltzer- water, or of a teaspoonful or two of brandy with one ot these mineral waters. Lime-water, or powdered bicarbonate of soda, magnesia, or chalk may also be added in these cases; lime-water, though not very palatable to adults, generally induces very easy digestion of milk ; or a little cinnamon or cinnamon-water may be added, which makes milk more digestible as well as more pleasant for some persons, and the same may be said of the addi- tion of ice to milk, j i Milk is very easily assimilated if it be artificially digested by- one of the various preparations for that purpose, e. g. Benger's Liquor Pancreaticus or peptonising powders, or Savory and Moore's peptonising pellets. Where cold milk is preferred to warm, the peptonising agent may be added to the cold milk, and the process completed in the stomach according to Sir William Robert's suggestion. If the regular process be gone through, care should be taken that it be not carried too far, as otherwise it develops an unpleasant bitter flavour in the milk (which may, however, be disguised by the addition of coffee, where this is allowable). _ Sometimes a small cupful of tea without milk or sugar will, if taken after milk, help its digestion ; with some people, however, it will have the opposite effect. For milk diet the milk should be as fresh as it is possible to procure it. It should be taken, as a rule, to the amount of half a tumblerful every two hours during the day, and at night also when the patient is wakeful. This quantity should not be swallowed at a gulp, but should be drunk with a spoon like soup. In some cases smaller quantities at shorter intervals will be more easily digested; in extreme cases it may be necessary to give it in teaspoonfuls every few minutes. In most milk diets milk may be given in any of the following ways:14 MILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. A. Cold. 1. Plain. 2. Iced. 3. With sugar. 4. "With a little brandy. 5. With a little brandy and water. 6. With water. 7. With sugar and water. 8. With soda-water. 9. With potash-water. 10. With Apollinaris 11. With lime-water. 12. Artificially digested with Benger's powders, Savory and Moore's pellets, &c. 13. With cinnamon-water. 14. With soda, magnesia, or chalk, with or without water. 15. As plain milk pudding with isinglass. The sugar, brandy, or cin- namon may be sometimes injurious. B. Warm. 16. Plain. 17. With sugar. 18. With a little brandy. 19. With water and a little brandy. 20. With water. 21. With water and sugar. 22. With lime-water. 23. With cinnamon. 24. With soda, magnesia, or chalk in powder, with or without water. 25. Artificially digested. A little more variety may be introduced into the diet by in- creasing or diminishing the quantity of water or of mineral water which is added to the milk. Koumiss or whey may also be occasionally substituted for milk at some of the meals, with the sanction of the medical attendant. No two consecutive meals should be exactly alike in milk diet. If milk is not easily digested in any of the above forms its use does harm and not good, and some other form of food must be substituted for it. Shetch of Milk Diet. 8 a.m.—Half a tumblerful of fresh milk. 10 a.m.—Half a tumblerful of warmed milk (not above 100° F.). 12 a.m.—Half a tumblerful of milk and potash-water, soda- water, Apollinaris, &c. 2 p.m.—Half a tumblerful of artificially digested (pancreatised) milk. 4 p.m.—Half a tumblerful of fresh milk. 6 p.m.—Half a tumblerful of milk and soda-water, lime-water, Apollinaris, &c.; or milk and cinnamon-water. 8 p.m.—Half a tumblerful of warmed milk and water sweetened.MILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. 15 10 p.m.—Half a tumblerful of artificially digested milk. At night.—Half a tumblerful of milk and water with a tea- spoonful of brandy. If there should be persistent vomiting, and the stomach will not retain milk, the meals, except when artificially digested, should be iced. If there be acid eructations, heartburn or waterbrash, milk should only be given in an artificially digested state, or combined with mineral waters. Milk is more suitable for persons who take much exercise than for those who lead sedentary lives, and for the young than for the old. It should not be taken at meals when meat is eaten. As a drink milk is more wholesome when skimmed. Fresh milk is generally more wholesome than stale, because it contains more carbonic acid. Milk is a good restorative for those who have habitually taken stimulants to excess. It is not suited for sluggish digestions, and in some cases of gastralgia it increases the pain, but with these exceptions milk is the universal diet in all diseases. In Bright's disease, in typhoid fever, in acute gastric catarrh, and in gastric ulcer, &c, and in some cases of cramp and cancer of the stomach, it is the only allowable diet, and this holds good also in the eaiiy stages of rheumatic fever, scarlet fever, measles, and all inflammatory diseases. In almost all other diseases it is the staple article of diet, though not the only one. Cream contains most of the fatty constituents of milk, and is very nourishing and wholesome if taken in moderation, but should be avoided by bilious persons. When it can be adopted it is a palatable variety in milk diet, but it often disagrees in the evening or at night. Cream with rice-water or barley-water is sometimes more easily digested by hand-fed babies than milk. Cream mixed with glycerine and flavoured is a good substitute for cod-liver oil in consumption and wasting diseases, and, if not readily digested pure, will be found quite digestible if made into an emulsion with panci-eatine. "When cream is to be boiled a small piece of soda should be added to it. Clotted Cream or Devonshire Cream is the cream skimmed from milk which has been heated to about blood-heat (100° P.), and has the same properties as fluid cream, while it iB to some persons more easily digestible (2, 3, i, 5, 6). Junket (2, 3, 4, 5, 6) is made from milk curdled with rennet, or from clotted cream, with a little sugar, cinnamon, or nutmeg, and a small quantity of brandy. It forms a perfectly wholesome substitute for one of the daily meals in an exclusive milk-diet, but is not suitable as a diet by itself, as no ordinary stomach can digest enough of it to nourish the body. (Chambers.) Syllabub (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6) is both nourishing and wholesome, provided the wine with which it is made is not oontra-indicated.16 MILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. Syllabub is not to be taken in milk diets, but a small quantity of it is suitable for convalescents. Whipped Cream and Whipped Syllabubs have the same qualities as syllabub. Creams (3, 4, 5, 6), of which a great variety are given in the cookery-books, are not to be used in milk diets, though they are, when taken in moderation, a wholesome enough food, provided that there be no acidity of stomach nor biliousness. Iced creams (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6) are still more wholesome, and very refreshing for fever patients; they shoirld not be taken alone, but after some warm food. Ices after a heavy dinner are beneficial to the di- gestion ; they should not be eaten by old people, nor by those with weak, worn-out stomachs. Of creams, lemon cr-eam, ginger cream, raspberry cream, apricot cream, creme ordinaire, chocolate cream, and coffee cream are the most wholesome. Plain Milk Puddings (2, 3, 4, 5, 6), made by heating a little isinglass with milk in a cup placed in a saucepan of boiling water, and, after the isinglass is thoroughly melted, allowing the milk to cool in the cup until it forms a kind of milk jelly, are exceedingly wholesome, and form a very pleasant variety in milk diet. They should be served quite cold with a little pow- dered white sugar, if allowable. Butter is one of the most wholesome forms of fat, but it should be fresh and not salted, though a little table-salt eaten with fresh butter often helps the digestion. Butter should be well rubbed into the bread with which it is eateu, not dabbed on in lumps. Butter may be kept fresh for a few days if it be well squeezed, and dried, then wrapped in a damp cloth and placed in cold water. The water should be changed twice a day. Tor invalids, and especially for dyspeptics, butter should be substituted for fat and lard in all cooking operations. Butter melted and mixed with black coffee is a convenient domestic remedy against constipation, but should not be adopted too often. It should be taken in the morning fasting. Buttermilk is a wholesome and refreshing drink for those who like it, and contains some of the nutritive ingredients of milk. It has a relaxing effect upon the bowels, and should be avoided by persons liable to diarrhcea. Curds—Refreshing and laxative, not very nourishing, and apt to disagree if taken in sufficient bulk to serve as a food. Whey.—Sweet whey is obtained by treating milk with rennet, of which about a square inch is added to a pint of milk; the milk is then slowly warmed to not more than J 00° F. It should then be allowed to stand for half an hour in a warm place, and afterwards the whey is drawn off and filtered through muslin; the clearer the whey is, the more easy is it to digest. (A tea-17 MILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. spoonful and a half of pepsine wine may be substituted for the rennet). Sour whey is made from skimmed milk with cream of tartar. "Whey does not contain the most nourishing constituents of milk, •only sugar, salts, and small quantities of albumen, fat, and casein. Sweet whey is more wholesome than sour. Whey increases the ex- cretion of urine. It is given to young infants sometimes, when they are temporarily unable to digest milk, but it should only be ■used when other methods of feeding fail. If whey cause stomach- ache it should be avoided; it sometimes causes diarrhcea, some- times constipation, or pains. It should only be used fresh and is ■then generally wholesome enough, though not so nutritious as milk. Koumiss was originally a fermented preparation of mare's milk, and has obtained a considerable reputation as a food in various wasting diseases, e. g. in long-continued diarrhoea, in consumption, in diabetes, and in derangements of the digestion, especially where there is obstinate vomiting. It is supplied by the Aylesbury Dairy Company in several varieties, differing in their contents and in the length of time which intervenes between the manufacture and the consumption. " Koumiss No. 1, medium" is rather like milk and lemonade, and is not dis- agreeable. Nos. 2 and 3 are very sour and cheesy, and are so effervescent as to be difficult to drink. Koumiss is best given when a sick person is unable to take milk in any other form, or as an occasional variation in a milk diet, to relieve the monotony. Many people are able to take milk without discomfort, with whom koumiss would disagree. Condensed Milk is a substance which is sold in tins, and is said to be prepared from milk. It is neither wholesome nor palatable, and should be used only by persons who are quite unable to procure real milk. It is, however, largely employed to ruin the digestion of babies, for whom it is sometimes a con- venient and unsuspected poison. Cheese is used in two ways:—(1) In very small quantities as a fillip to the palate, and with some people as an aid to digestion. For this object decayed cheeses of the rich buttery sorts are most suitable. (2) Newer cheeses of lighter sorts are used as sub- stantial food. Cheeses may be classed as (1) Cream cheeses, e. g. Gruelthorpe, Camembert, Neuchatel; (2) Cheeses made of whole milk, and rich in cream, viz. Stilton, Double Gloucester, Brie, Roquefort, Gorgonzola, Strachino di Milano, Cheshire and Cheddar; (3) Cheeses made from poor, i. e. partially skimmed milk, viz. Single Gloucester,_ Shropshire, and Wiltshire; (4) Cheeses made of •skimmed milk, e.g.^Suffolk, Parmesan, and Dutch; (5) Goat's milk •cheeses, e. g. Gruyere. Those of the first and second classes are suited to excite the 2MILK AND ITS PBEPAKATIONS. 18 palate, and (in very small quantities) to help digestion, by causing increased secretion of the digestive fluid in the stomach ; if taken in larger quantities they are injurious, through causing too much irritation of the stomach, especially if they are mouldy. "When fresh these cheeses are more digestible, and are nourishing, though the quantity consumed is so small that they can hardly be described as an article of nutriment. Cream cheeses are more wholesome with powdered sugar and milk. The cheeses of the other classes are more wholesome, but somewhat less nourishing; they are more digestible if cut in thin slices and buttered. Eidam (Dutch) cheese is made more tasty by covering the cut part with a linen cloth moistened with salt water, and by pouring a couple of tablespoonfuls of hock or some light wine over the cut surface a few hours before the cheese is brought to table. Toasted cheese (Welsh rarebit) is digestible enough if new and lightly cooked with cream and butter. If over-cooked or tough it is about as digestible as leather. It should be eaten hot, and as a meal by itself, not after dinner or other heavy meal.* Cheese should not be given to persons suffering from acute illnesses, especially when the digestion is much affected, but it may be allowed to convalescents to stimulate the appetite. A plain and easily digestible cheese may be made in any house as follows:—Soak dried rennet (calf's stomach) about twenty- four hours in water, then add the rennet and the water to freshly milked, warm (or warmed-up) milk; cover the vessel over, and let it stand for half an hour in a fairly warm place until the curd has separated. Take out the curd and sprinkle it with salt, knead the curd together and tie it up in a cloth; then squeeze the curd in the cloth between two boards, not too heavily. Leave it under pressure for two or three days, then lay it in strong brine for eight days, turning it over daily. Lastly, take it out and dry it on perforated boards in the air (3-4, 4, 5, 6). (Wiel.) Panereatised Milk (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Dilute one pint of milk with a quarter of a pint of water. Divide this mixtm-e into two equal portions; boil one of these portions and add to it the other portion cold; add further two teaspoonfuls of Benger's Liquor Pancreaticus, and ten grains of bicarbonate of soda, or light magnesia; cover and keep warm. After from ten to thirty minutes, according to taste, boil it for two or three minutes if it has to be kept, or use it immediately without boiling. (After Sir William Roberts.) Milk and Lime (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Add as much powdered chalk as will lie on a sixpence to half a pint of milk. Stir it up before drinking. {Dr. Milner Fothergill.) * The foregoing remarks on cheeses aro chiefly extracted from Dr. King Chambers's work on • Diet.'19 MILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. Milk and Magnesia (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Substitute powdered magnesia for the chalk as above. (Dr. Fothergill.) Milk and Brandy (1, 2, 3, 4,5, 6).—One teaspoonful of brandy with powdered sugar stirred well up with a cupful of new wai*m milk. A little nutmeg may be added. Artificial Cream (pancreatised) (1-2, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Digest half a pint of milk with Liquor pancreaticus, and add before boiling a teaspoonful of minced beef suet. Boil, skim, and drink warm. Artificial Ass's Milk I. (2, 3,4, 5, 6).—Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass (or gelatine) in half a pint of hot barley water, then add an ounce of refined sugar, and pour into the mixture a pint of good new cow's milk. (Dr. Broadbent.) II. (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Mix two spoonfuls of boiling water, two of milk, and a well-beaten egg; sweeten with powdered sugar candy. Artificial Goat's Milk (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Chop an ounce of suet (veal suet is the best) very fine, tie it tightly in a muslin bag, and boil it slowly in a quart of new milk; sweeten with white sugar. A glass of noyeau or curacoa may be used for flavouring. (Dr. Broadbent.) Simple Blancmange (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of isinglass in a cupful of boiling milk; let it cool, turn it out, and serve with powdered sugar. In advanced convalescence, a little orange marmalade or some fresh fruit may be eaten with this (3-4, 4, 5, 6). Pancreatised Blancmange (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Thoroughly pan- creatise the milk in the above recipe before adding the isinglass. (After Sir William Roberts.) Pepsine "Whey (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—To a pint of warm new milk add one and a half teaspoonfuls of pepsine wine. Set it in a warm place for two hours, and then strain off the curd through muslin, and sweeten the whey with powdered sugar. White Wine Whey (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—To half a pint of boiling milk add one and a half wineglassfuls of sherry or Madeira. Boil it up slowly until the curd separates, then let it cool, and strain off the curd through muslin or a fine sieve. Sweeten with pow- dered sugar. Kennet Whey (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—To a pint of new milk, heated to the temperature of freshly drawn milk, add half a table- spoonful of rennet. Keep heating till the curd separates, and take this off with a spoon. (Dr. King Chambers.) Essence of rennet may be used for rennet. Alum Whey (2-3, 3,4, 5, 6).—Substitute alum for the rennet. (In diarrhoea.) Milk and Champagne (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Add a wineglassful of champagne to two wineglassfuls of fresh milk, and use at once.20 MILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. Milk and Malt-extraet (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6\—A tablespoonful _ of nialt-extract to half a pint of warm milk in a hot-water jug (with a lid), if covered with a tea-cosey, and put on a piece of wood or other non-conductor of heat, is a pleasant and nutritious drink during the night. (Dr. Fothergill.) Creme Ordinaire (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Heat an ounce of isinglass in a pint of quite fresh cream over a slow fire, but do not let it boil; flavour with vanilla, lemon-, or orange-peel, or orange- flower water and sugar; let it cool, and add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, strain the mixture into a jug, and place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water over a slow fire, taking care not to let it boil. Stir it until it thickens, then let it cool, and pour it into a well-oiled mould. When cold, turn it out and serve. Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Beat the yolks of fom- eggs, and sta- in one tablespoonful of sugar, and the thinly pared rind of a lemon or orange with its juice. Place the vessel containing this in a pot of boiling water, and let it cook, stirring gently until it begins to thicken; then stir in the whites of the eggs beaten up stiff with a tablespoonful of powdered sugar. Mix thoroughly and let it cool. Lemon Cream (2-3, 3, 4,5, 6).—Simmer for ten minutes over a gentle fire, one ounce of sugar, half an ounce of isinglass, and the rind of half a lemon, in half a pint of milk. Strain into a jug, and add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Put the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir one way until the mixture thickens, but do not let it boil. Let it grow nearly cold, stirring all the while. Strain the juice of half a lemon into a basin and pour the cream slowly on it, stirring continually. Put it into a mould and let it cool. Orange Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil the rind of a Seville orange till quite tender. Drain it, and beat the rind in a mortar to a pulp ; add a dessertspoonful of brandy, two ounces of loaf sugar, and the juice of the orange (strained). Beat all together for ten minutes, and add the yolks of four eggs well beaten. Simmer half an ounce of isinglass in a pint of milk for ten minutes, and pour it very gradually to the other ingredients, and beat the mix- ture till nearly cold; put it into custard cups, place the cups in a deep dish of boiling water, and let them remain till quite cold. Snow Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Add to a pint of cream the whites of one egg and a half, two spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to taste, and a little lemon-peel; whip it to a froth, and remove the peel. Calf's-foot and Coffee Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil a calf's foot in water till it produces a pint of jelly, clear of sediment and fat. Make a teacupful of very strong coffee, clear it with a bit of isinglass, pour it to the jelly, and add a pint of cream and some sugar; let it boil up once. The coffee should be fresh.21 MILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. Coffee Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil half a tumblerful of cream. Mix in a basin a tablespoonful and a half of strong black coffee, with the yolks of three eggs and half an ounce of sugar. The milk should be allowed to cool a little, and then be poured into the basin; beat well together, strain through a cloth, and put the mixture into three custard glasses, take off the froth, and put the glasses into a saucepan of boiling water of such depth that the water comes half way up the glasses. Place the saucepan near the fire, and keep it warm for a quarter of an hour, but do not let it boil nor simmer; when the cream is cooked, cool the custard glasses in cold water, dry them, and serve up. Chocolate Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Made as above but with boiled chocolate instead of black coffee. Caramel Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Made in the same way but with caramel for coffee or chocolate. The caramel is made by melting a tablespoonful of sugar, and stirring it well, until it is of a rich brown colour, then adding half a custard glass full of water. Vanilla Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Proceed in the same way as for coffee cream, but use a little more cream, and substitute a quarter of a vanilla pod for the coffee. Lemon Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6). A similar process to the coffee or chocolate cream, but with the rind of half a lemon stirred in in place of coffee ; this must be strained. Apricot Cream (3, 4, 5, 6).—Take out the stones of four or five ripe apricots, and boil tbem in a syrup made with two ounces of sugar and a wineglassful of water, till they form a thin marma- lade ; put this through a sieve. Boil half a pint of cream, let it cool, and mix with it the yolks of three eggs well beaten, put the basin containing the cream and eggs into boiling water, and stir it one way until it thickens; do not let it boil. Strain through a sieve, and, when nearly cold, mix it with the apricots ; stir well and put it into custard glasses, and put these in a cool place. Raspberry, Orange, or Ginger Creams (3, 4, 5, 6), may be made in a similar way. N.B.—Jam may be substituted for the fresh fruit in winter, but the dish is not so wholesome with jam (3-4, 4, 5, 6). Almond Cream (3, 4, 5, 6) is made by substituting sweet almonds blanched and pounded thoroughly in a mortar for the other flavouring materials. Any of the above creams may be made firm by adding a little isinglass boiled in water. If the above creams are too rich or too expensive, milk may be substituted for the cream in their composition. Any of these creams may be iced. Velvet Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Dissolve over the fire a22 THE FEEDING OF INFANTS. quarter of an ounce of isinglass in a quarter of a pint of white wine. Add to half a pint of cream the juice of half a lemon; pour into the cream very quietly the wine and isinglass while it is warm; stir the cream all the time that the wine is being added. Put into a mould to cool. Mock Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Mix half a tahlespoonful of baked flour with a pint of new milk, let it simmer for five minutes, then beat up the yolk of an egg, stir it into the milk while boil- ing, and run it through a lawn sieve. IV. THE FEEDING OF INFANTS. It is impossible to over-rate the importance of providing proper diet for young infants. A child brought up on unsuitable diet begins life with dyspepsia, from which it frequently suffers for the greater part of its existence. Thus its development is hindered; it does not acquire strength from food which is not adapted to it, and if its life iB not cut short by disease induced by the errors of its nurse or mother, or by want of strength when attacked by one of the complaints incidental to infant life, it grows up to be sickly, weakly, and miserable, a burden to itself and to all belonging to it. For the first six months of its life milk is the proper and only food for a baby; some authorities will not allow any addition to be made to the diet until the child is eight months old. The milk which nature provides in the mother's breast for the nourishment of the child is of course the best possible food ; but if, from disease or from want of milk, the mother is unfit to suckle her infant, a wet-nurse should be provided, who should be a strong woman, free from all taint of disease, and should have been confined at about the same time as her foster-child was born. It is important to observe that human milk does not always contain exactly the same proportions of water, fat, sugar, &c, and it may be sometimes necessary to change the nurse, if the one first selected has milk which does not agree with the child. The infant should be put to the breast as soon after it is born as the mother is able to attend to it, because the milk first secreted in the breast has a slightly aperient action, which is beneficial to the child, and also because it is well that the child should be trained as early as possible to suck. Some nurses have a detestable practice of giving butter and sugar, gruel, milk, and so forth, to a new-born infant, because the mother has not yet got a full supply of milk. This practice should on no account be allowed. For the first six weeks the child should be put to the breast23 THE FEEDING OF INFANTS. every two hours; after six weeks the interval may be increased to three hours or more; but the baby must always be fed at regular intervals. It is a very great mistake to suppose that a child is always hungry when it cries; its crying is often from discomfort after over-feeding, and a further supply of milk will in such case only increase the trouble. If an infant shows no sign of hunger the meal should be deferred until appetite returns. A baby ought to be trained to do without food for six hours or more during the night, at any rate after the first six weeks. If the mother is incapable of suckling her infant, and unable to provide a nurse, the child must be brought up by hand. For this purpose two or three feeding-bottles will be required; and of all the different varieties of feeding-bottles, the old-fashioned pap-boat bottle is the best as being the simplest; but nurses generally object to this kind of feeding apparatus, because it has to be held while the child takes its food; but one of the great advantages of this shape of bottle is that the child is unable to suck faster than the food is given to it, and thei'efore cannot fill its stomach too quickly. A second advantage of this way of feeding is that the child does not suck at the bottle after it is empty, and thereby dilate its stomach with wind. If the nurse is allowed to have her own way, and use bottles with india-rubber tubes, three of these should be provided, and used alternately. As soon as the bottle is emptied, it and the tube should be well washed out, and then put to soak in clean water containing a pinch of soda and a pinch of borax. For a new-born infant each meal should consist of two table- spoonfuls of fresh cow's milk, with two tablespoonfuls of lime- water, and two of plain filtered water, sweetened with a tea- spoonful of white sugar. The bottle containing this mixture should be put to stand in hot water until it is of a temperature of 95° Fahr., and used at this temperature. A teaspoonful of cream may be added if the milk is poor in cream. If the baby is sick after taking this mixture, more lime-water and less plain water should be used, and it may be necessary to use four, five, or six tablespoonfuls of lime-water to two tablespoonfuls of milk. The proportion of milk to lime-water may be gradually increased after the first three weeks, as the child is able to digest it, but if the child brings up curdled milk, an increased quantity of lime- water must be given for a few days until the digestive organs have recovered their tone. Infants fed on milk and barley-water often grow fatter than on milk and lime-water, and mothers and grandmothers love to see babies fat; but as a rule the lime-water fed child is firmer of flesh and stronger than one fed on barley-water. In any case, barley-water should not be given until the child is three months old.24 THE FEEDING OF INFANTS. It will sometimes be found that a child can digest boiled milk better than unboiled, but as a rule unboiled milk is preferable. The meals should be given as in suckling, at intervals of two hours for the first six weeks, and after that time at gradually lengthened intervals. Food must not be given at irregular times because the child cries; as a rule this only makes the child more uneasy, and it cries all the more. The food must be prepared afresh at each meal. The child should not be allowed to suck at an empty bottle. Condensed milk should never, be used for feeding young in- fants. No sort of prepared foods should be used until after the age of six months. It will be sometimes advantageous to vary the infant's food ;- the three ways of preparing the milk, viz. with plain water, with lime-water, or with bai'ley-water, may have to be used succes- sively to ensure good digestion, and with some infants the food requires to be varied every two or three days. If none of these ways of preparing cow's milk suit the child's digestion, artificially digested milk should be tried. Benger's Liquor Pancreaticus, or Savory and Moore's peptonising pellets are the best means for preparing artificially digested milk (see pp. 13, 18). The artificially digested milk should be mixed with water according to the age of the child. If the infant be unable to digest cow's milk even in this stater ass's or goat's milk may be tried with one-third or one-fourth part of barley-water or equal quantities of lime-water. If in spite of this change the milk is still undigested, the infant must have no milk for a day or two, and mixtures of veal- or chicken-broth (half a pound of meat to a pint of broth) with an equal quantity of barley-water, or of whey and barley-water, or meat juice must constitute the sole food. If the mother have not sufficient milk to satisfy the child, pancreatised milk should be given alternately with the breast milk, or whey prepared from milk with pepsine wine (one and a half teaspoonfuls to the pint) mixed with water and a little cream (see p. 19). The Aylesbury Dairy Company supply very good whey, and also artificial human milk which sometimes will suit a child whose stomach rejects other mixtures of milk. If the mother's supply of milk be very poor and scanty, the breast should be given only twice a day, and for the other meals milk and lime-water, or cream, whey and water as above, to which after the first six weeks a tablespoonful of milk may be added. Only new, unskimmed milk should be used for children brought up by hand.THE FEEDING OP INFANTS. 25 Tlie food of the mother or nurse while suckling the child is of importance; she should be fed well, but not too richly. She should take during the day about a pound of meat, about a quarter of a pound each of butter (or fat) and sugar, a pound and a quarter of bread, vegetables, and light puddings, and a small quantity of salt, together with three pints of fluid. The fluid may consist of water or porter or beer, but beer makes the milk thin and watery, though it increases the quantity. Malt liquors should be taken at meals, not between meals. The above diet is for average eaters ; those who are accustomed to eat little in ordinary health will require proportionally less food. At first after her confinement a woman has usually no appetite for meat, and should therefore be fed with boiled milk and arrowroot, chicken broth, custards, eggs, and such light food, care being taken that she has enough to cause a sufficient secretion of milk. She should not be allowed to overload her stomach, but she should also not be suffered to become very hungry. For other information about milk, see the chapter on milk diet. After the child has attained the age of six months some kind of farinaceous food should be added to its diet. Of farinaceous foods the best is Chapman's entire wheat flour; second to this come Nestle's food, Savory and Moore's food, Mellin's food, and the Albany food. If the child be constipated, lentil flour, or a tea- spoonful of coarse, sweet oatineal may be given instead of the flour in the morning, or the milk may be mixed with water in which brown bread has been boiled. Farinaceous food should not be given oftener than twice a day. A child's meals should be arranged as follows: Diet 1.—(From the swaih to the eighth month.) 7 a.m.—Chapman's wheat flour, or one of the above foods, and a teacupful of milk. 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.—Half a pint of milk, with water or lime- water in proportion to the child's power of digestion. 6 p.m.—Same as at 7 a.m. 11 p.m.—Same as at 10 a.m. or 2 p.m. Diet 2.—(From the eighth to the tenth month.) Same as diet No. 1, but substituting the yolk of a raw egg beaten up in a teacupful of milk for the meal at 2 p.m. on alter°- nate days. Diet 3.—{From the tenth to the twelfth month.) 7 a.m.—Same as No. 1, or if there be no constipation Savory and Moore's peptonised cocoa and milk. 10.30 a.m.—Same as No. 1. 2 p.m.—A teacupful of beef-tea (or of veal and chicken broth with a little cream and sugar added) and a rusk. 5.30 p.m. and 11 p.m.—Same as No. 1.THE FEEDING OP INFANTS. 26 Beef-tea for Infants.—Remove all fat and gristle from half a pound of rump steak, and shred the meat up very fine; put it into a covered earthenware jar with a pint of cold water, and place the jar near the fire for two hours ; then put the jar into a saucepan containing boiling water, and let it simmer for three hours more, taking care that the beef-tea do not boil. Skim off any fat that there may be, and serve. This should never be allowed to boil. Pancreatised beef-tea can sometimes be digested better than ordinary beef-tea (see p. 30). The last meal at 11 p.m. can usually be dispensed with at about this age, if the child will sleep without it. Diet 4.— (From the twelfth to the eighteenth month.) 7.30 a.m.—A breakfast-cupful of bread and milk, with a little sugar. The bread should be broken up, and boiling water poured over it; it should be allowed to stand for five minutes, and then the water should be strained off, and the milk (heated nearly to boiling-point) poured over the bread. Instead of this, the yolk of a lightly boiled egg, with a little thin stale bread and butter, and a cupful of milk, may be given. 10.30 a.m.—A cupful of milk, with a little thin bread and butter; or the milk may be thickened with one of the infant's foods above mentioned. 2 p.m.—A cupful of beef-tea or of beef gravy, freed from fat, or of chicken or veal broth, and a little toasted stale bread. A tablespoonful of light milk pudding may be given also occa- sionally. Twice or three times a week a thoroughly boiled mealy potato, well mashed and passed through a sieve, and moistened with gravy from which all fat has been removed, may be substituted for this meal. 5.30 p.m.—A cupful of bread and milk or bread and butter, with a cupful of milk as at 7.30 a.m. Diet 5.—{For children one and a half to two years old.) 7.30 a.m.—Same as No. 4. 10.30 a.m.—Same as No. 4. 1.30 p.m.—A quarter of a pound of plain boiled whiting, haddock, or sole, with a slice of stale bread or of toasted bread ; or a cupful of beef-tea, with bread or toast, and a tablespoonful of milk pudding; or two ounces of roast mutton, minced finely, and a well-mashed potato (passed through a sieve); or, if the child be delicate, a thin slice of bacon well fried or toasted, with bread or toast. For drink, water. 5.30 p.m.—Same as at 7.30 a.m. The same diet may be continued up to three years of age. In the bronchitis of infants, or when the digestion is inter- fered with, a plain diet, consisting solely of beef-tea or of veal or27 SOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEP-TEA. chicken broth, may often be given with advantage for twenty- four hours, followed by a diet of milk and lime-water for several days until the digestion recovers its powers. Where there is much acidity of the stomach, ground malt should be added to the milk puddings in place of sugar. Dr. Fothergill makes the excellent suggestion that hard crusts and hard biscuits help the development of the jaws and teeth of children. The above diets are only to be adopted gradually, substituting one meal a day of the more advanced diet for that used for younger children. If the digestion appears to be in any way interfered with by the change, a simpler diet must be imme- diately adopted, and it will be then often found expedient to feed the child on milk and lime-water, or on beef-tea only, for twenty-four hours. After ten or twelve months a child should be weaned from the breast, as the milk is no longer a proper nourishment after this age. Weaning should be accomplished gradually, by lessening the number of times that he is allowed to take the breast during the day. Two or three days should be allowed for each reduction of the breast supply. Preparation of Lime-water.—Two ounces of clean slaked lime are to be put into one gallon of boiled and filtered water, in stoppered bottles. Only the clear part at the top of the bottle is to be used, the thick part at the bottom of the bottle is to be thrown away, and the bottle thoroughly cleaned before being re-filled. Preparation of Oatmeal Gruel for constipated Infants.— Take a teaspoonful of common coarse sweet (not bitter) oatmeal, and soak it all night in a tumblerful and a half of cold water; then put it into a clean covered quart saucepan, and place the saucepan near the fire, to let the contents heat slowly. After a time place it on the fire, and stir it until it boils, and for two minutes afterwards; then pour through a hair-sieve. For a child of four to six months old, half milk and half the above gruel may be given in the bottle every four hours. {Lancet.) Brown-bread Water or Lentil Gruel prepared in the same way will also be found efficacious. V. SOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. Soups, Broths and Beef-tea.—Soups and broths as a means of providing liquid nourishment are now somewhat out of fashion. The strong beef-tea, which used to be considered as a concentrated form of nourishment, and to be given accordingly to all, or nearly all, sick persons who needed food and supportSOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. 28 is not nourishing, so the modern chemists saj, but merely stimu- lating, unless it is mixed with dextrose from farinaceous matters or maltine, or malt-extract. Soups and beef-tea, however, do nourish, when combined with other foods, and they are always acceptable to invalids, as being palatable and easily swallowed and digested. Dr. Lauder Brunton tells us that the reason why soup comes at the beginning of a dinner is that it, with the bread eaten with it, may excite the stomach to secrete the gastric juice necessary for the digestion of the rest of the dinner. It is well not to take too much soup, as the excess may give so much employment to the gastric juice that the rest of the dinner may remain undigested. Soups do not keep well, and if stale they are unwholesome; they should therefore be made afresh every day for invalids and dyspeptics. In acid dyspepsia, soups containing farinaceous ingredients are liable to cause flatulence and heartbura, and should therefore be avoided, while simple meat soups, though less nourishing, are generally well digested. Sometimes, on the other hand, meat soups disagree, while vegetable and farinaceous soups are well borne. Soup is often too highly seasoned with spices, garlic, onions, and parsley; these are tabooed in the diet of invalids, and their soup should be seasoned with a little salt and pepper, and perhaps a little Pancreatin. Infusions of Eaw Meat are made from minced meat, soaked in half its weight of water for two hours, then pressed forcibly through a cloth, so that the juice of the meat is collected with the water. These infusions should not be kept more tban twelve hours, and then only in ice or in a cold cellar, as they soon go bad. If made from mutton or beef they have the colour of blood, and are on that account objectionable to the majority of patients; made from veal the infusion is paler, but not so nourishing; it is more appetizing if made from the breast of a chicken, but not more nourishing than veal infusion. Meat infusions should not be cooked, but may be taken alone (cold), flavoured with a slice of lemon, or a little claret; or, to disguise the appearance, taste, and smell, they may be added to ordinary beef-tea or Liebig's Extract, but the beef-tea or Liebig must not be hotter than the temperature at which it can be drunk. A few teaspoonfuls of the meat infusion are enough at a time. (Sir Wm. Roberts.) Beef-tea is to be regarded as an excellent stimulant and restorative, but should not be depended upon as the only form of nourishment. When given, combined with milk diet, it serves to vary the monotony, and to assist the digestion, of that diet, the latter object being attained by the fillip which the beef-teaSOUPS, BKOTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. 29 gives to the stomach. If intended as a nourishment, the beef- tea, when cool enough to sip, should have added to it a teaspoonful •of maltine or malt-extract, which supplies those principles wanting in the beef-tea, and makes a most valuable food, being easy to swallow, highly nutritious, and very digestible; or some starch-food, such as baked flour, or biscuit-powder, or bread- crumbs, or well soaked or baked tapioca or sago, may be stirred up with the beef-tea while still boiling, and thus the nutritive value of the beef-tea is increased, though sometimes at the expense of the digestibility of the beef-tea. The foregoing remarks apply to all meat teas, whether made from butcher's meat or from tinned preparations (such as Liebig's Extract, Brand's Essence, or Valentine's Meat Juice), but those made from the meat itself are better than all these prepared meats, though more troublesome and tedious to make. The meat which is left in the pot after making beef-tea is con- sidered to contain all the really nourishing principles of meat, .and should be beaten up to a paste, or pounded in a mortar, or chopped up veiy fine, and mixed with the fluid beef-tea, or eaten by itself with a little salt or other flavouring, and is not only nourishing but digestible and nice. Garlic, onions, and parsley are generally Indigestible in soup. Pancreatin added to soup makes it more wholesome. Beef-tea and broths should not be kept hot, but heated as required. They should never be prepai'ed in the sick room. Beef-tea is best when made from rump steak, next after this 'from pieces of the buttock. The meat should always be finely .•shredded, but the juices from it carefully preserved. Meat soups are the most nourishing, and their nutritious pro- perties are increased if vegetables be boiled with the meat, and such soups are quite wholesome and digestible if the vegetables are well strained off before serving. Liver soup is more digestible if the cooked liver be pounded, and passed through a hair sieve. Soup made with brains is very good and nourishing, but being rather oily is not always digestible. Sweetbread soup is very easily digested, and highly nutritious. The sweetbread should be blanched, and either cut up in large pieces, or chopped fine and passed through a hair sieve, and •cooked in good meat stock. Of farinaceous soups, those with thickening of parched flour •or grated toast are useful in diarrhoea. Rice and pearl barley used in soups should be soaked for twelve to twenty-four hours before cooking. The stock should be strong, and it is improved by the addition of an old fowl, and of gravy and meat-extract, but does not require any vegetable seasoning except perhaps a little celery with salt. Tliese soups should be boiled for a longSOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. 30 time, and passed through a sieve before being dished up. Sago and tapioca soup should be treated in the same way as rice and barley soup. Soup thickened with grated toast and the yolks of eggs is digestible; the yolks should be beaten up with water, and the hot soup poured over them. A puree of green peas is not only delicious, but easy of digestion if well made ; neither remark holds good of puree of dried peas or dried haricots. Thin vegetable soups are wholesome and palatable; thick vege- table soups are nutritious as well as nice and digestible. Egg soups, if the eggs are beaten up and added when the soup is almost cooked, are very good, but if the eggs have time to set in cooking they become unwholesome. Game soups are wholesome, especially leveret soup. Old game and old poultry make very good soups, but water-fowl must not be used for this purpose. Game purees sometimes agree when broth made from white meats cannot be taken. Fish makes wholesome, nutritious, and palatable soup; and the trimmings of fish improve soups made from other materials. Oysters should not be cooked in soups, but may be added to hot soup. Turtle and mock turtle soups are very highly nutritious, and, if well made and partaken of moderately, are not unwholesome. They are generally too highly spiced. For milk soups, which are very nourishing, the milk should not be skimmed; they should be seasoned only with salt and a little sugar, and chocolate, rice, toast or groats may be added to them, but potatoes and flour may not. "Wine soups generally contain little or no alcohol, as this is driven off by the heat, unless the wine is only added after the soup is cooked. All soups should be carefully and completely freed from every trace of fat. They should not be strained through too fine a sieve as this keeps back the particles of meat, which are the most nutritious part of the soup. For soup the meat should be placed in cold water and gradually heated for a long time (cf. chapter on cooking, s.v. Boiling). Panereatised Soups (1, 2, 3, &c).—Use pancreatised water gruel instead of water to extract the soluble matters from meat and other materials, or, add an equal quantity of stock to pan- creatised gruel or milk gruel. (Sir W. Roberts.) Pancreatised Beef-tea (1-2,2,3, &c.).—Mix one pound of finely shredded beef with a pint of water and a pinch of bicarbonate of soda. Let it simmer for an hour and a half in a covered sauce- pan.' Then pour off the fluid into a covered jug, beat up the undissolved beef into a pulp, and add this to the fluid. Let it all cool until it is possible to sip it (140° Fahr.), and then add a31 SOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. tablespoonful of Liquor Pancreaticus. Stir it all well together, and keep it warm in a covered jug for two hours, stirring and shaking it occasionally. Then boil up briskly for two or three minutes, strain, and season with salt, &c. (Sir W. Roberts.) Beef-tea (2-3, 3, 4, 5).— All beef-tea should be cooked with soft water, or with water which has become quite cold after having been boiled. All fat should be carefully skimmed off, and the meat finely shredded. Beef-tea, I. Shred one pound of beef very fine, and put it into a common earthenware teapot with a pint and a half of cold water, and a pinch of salt. Stand the pot on the hob, so that it may simmer for at least three hours, but not boil. (Br. Broaclbent.) Strain. Dry the solid residue left after straining, remove all the stringy parts, pound it in a mortar, and stir well up with the beef-tea. Flavour with fresh tomato, or a little mace, or a bay- leaf in the pot. II. Shred one pound of beef very fine, and put it into one pint of cold water. Stir it up, and let it stand for one hour in a Papin's digester, then put the digester containing the beef and water in a saucepan of water, and heat it for another hour over a slow fire, but do not allow the beef-tea to boil. Run through a coarse strainer, and treat the solid residue as directed in beef-tea No. I, and flavour according to directions there given. III. Mince finely one pound of beef steak, soak it in one third of a quart of cold water for twelve hours, then take out the meat and set this water aside. Put the meat into two thirds of a quart of cold water and simmer for two hours, filling up as the water evaporates. Strain, and add the boiling liquor to the cold liquor in which the meat was soaked. Treat the solid residue and flavour according to the directions in No. I. (Dr. King Chambers.) This will be made more nutritious by the addition of two tablespoonfuls of powdered biscuit, or of bread crumb toasted and pounded, which should be mixed with the beef-tea and boiled for five minutes under constant stirring. Equal quantities of milk and beef-tea are more nutritious and sometimes more easily digested than either singly. Soluble Meat (2-3, 3, 4, 5).— Mince up two pounds of lean meat, and put it into a china pan with a quart of water and half a teaspoonful of strong hydrochloric acid. The pan is put into a Papin's kettle, perfectly sealed, and subjected to maceration for about fifteen hours. The contents are then crushed in a mortar until they constitute an emulsion, and put back into the kettle agam for about fifteen hours. The substance thus obtained must be then completely neutralised with bicarbonate of soda and evaporated afterwards to the consistency of pap. When thus prepared, this soluble meat is generally accepted by patientsSOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. 32 Milk and pounded biscuit may, however, be added for the sake of variety, and in order to avoid too great uniformity of food. (Dr. Marcet apud Dr. Broadbent.) Fluid Beef (2-3, 3, 4, 5).—Take one pound of newly killed beef, ■chop it fine, add four wineglassfuls of soft or distilled water, four or six drops of pure hydrochloric acid, a saltspoonful of salt, and stir well together. After three hours throw the whole • on a conical hair sieve, and let the fluid pass without pressure. On the flesh residue in the sieve pour slowly a wineglassful of distilled or soft water, and let it run through while squeezing the meat. The resulting fluid has a red colour and a pleasant taste of soup. A wineglassful may be taken at pleasure. It must not be warmed more than by partly filling a bottle with it and standing the bottle in hot water. A little spice or Worces- tershire sauce or a wineglassful of claret may be added to each teacupful of soup to disguise the flavour if desired. The acid may be omitted if not desirable. Fowl may be used instead of beef at pleasure. (Dr. Broad- bent.) Leube and Rosenthal's Solution of Meat (2,3,4,5).—Take two pounds of beef without fat or bone, chop it up fine, place it in a porcelain or earthenware vessel with two pints of water, and one tablespoonful of pure hydrochloric acid. The vessel is then put into a Papin's digester, covered closely, and cooked for ten to fifteen hours, being stirred twice in each of the first four hours. After cooking ten to fifteen hours, pound the mass in a mortar to an emulsion; cook this again fifteen to twenty hours without opening the Papin's digester; then add bicarbonate of soda till the reaction is almost neutral, and steam until it is i-educed to a pap. This solution is very nourishing and easy of digestion, and may be kept in closed vessels for some time. It may be used alone or in broth or beef-tea, flavoured with a little salt or Liebig's Extract. Beef Juice (2-3, 3, 4, 5).—Mince one pound of beef and put it into a bottle, cork the bottle and put it into a vessel contain- ing a little cold water, and let this vessel stand on the fire till the water boils. Strain off the meat from the juice, and use the latter only, which, if required warm, should only be warmed by being placed in a vessel, and that vessel plunged in hot water. •(Dr. Fothergill.) Essence of Beef, I. (2-3, 3, 4, 5).—Mince up one pound of o-ravy beef free from skin and fat, pound it in a mortar with three tablespoonfuls of soft water, and let it soak for two hours. Then put it into a covered eai-then jar with a little salt, cementing the ■edges of the cover with pudding paste, and tying a piece of cloth over the top. Place the jar in a pot half full of boiling waterSOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. 33 and keep the pot on the fire for four hours. Strain off (through a coarse sieve_ so as to allow the smaller particles of meat to pass) the liquid essence, which will amount to five to six ounces in quantity. Give two or more teaspoonfuls frequently, alone or mixed with cool beef-tea or broth. (Broadbent.) II. (2-3, 3, 4, 5).—Shred the meat very finely, and put it into a jar without any water, cover the jar closely, and place it in a saucepan of boiling water for three hours. Strain off the meat, and give two teaspoonfuls of the juice frequently as above. Bouillon (2-3, 3, 4, 5).—Pound in a mortar a pound of lean beef with half a fowl; put these into a saucepan with two pints and a half of water, and three saltspoonfuls of salt. Stir gently over a bright fire until boiling begins ; let it boil for twenty minutes, skimming when any scum rises; take off the fat and strain. The addition of an egg, well beaten up, is a great improvement, but the egg must not be boiled in the soup. Calf s-foot Broth, I. (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Break up two feet, and put them into a pot with two quarts of water, one carrot, and a little mace and salt. Boil for two or three hours, until only one quart of fluid is left. When done, strain, and add a cup of good wine, and one teaspoonful of Indian meal or oatmeal (Br. Fothergill.) II. (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil two feet in three quarts of water till the water is reduced to three pints; strain, and set it by to cool. When wanted for use, take off the fat, and heat a breakfast-cupful of the jelly in a saucepan, with half a glass of sherry (or brandy) and a little sugar and nutmeg, until nearly boiling. Next beat up with part of this broth the yolk of an egg, and add a piece of butter of the size of a nut, and stir it all together m the saucepan. Do not let it boil. A piece of fresh lemon-peel may be grated into it for flavouring N.B.—Cow heels are better than calf's feet Chicken Broth (2-3 3, 4 5, 6).-Skin and chop up a chicken, or half an old fowl, and take off the feet. Put the chicken or fowl in a stewpan with a quart of water, a blade of mace, a sprio- of parsley, a crust of bread, and a little salt and pepper Boil *pi tw°Ji?ul;s (°i lf an- °ld fowl be used'tiU thoroughly tender), lake off the broth, strain it, let it cool and skim it Thin Mutton Broth (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).-Take off the fat and skuit from two chops of the neck or loin of mutton, cut them in. thin bits and boil them, m three quarters of a pint of water with a little thyme and parsley, for half an hour Let it boil quickly, and skim off the fat carefully. To make mutton broth more nutritious add to each pint two tablespoonfuls of powdered biscuit, boil with the broth for five uiinutes, stirring briskly. 334 SOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA Beef, Mutton, and Veal Broth (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Put one pound of lean beef and half a pound of scrag of veal, with half a pound of scrag of mutton and five peppercorns, into a tin sauce- pan with five pints of water; simmer to three pints, and clear from the fat when cold. After skimming off the fat as clean as possible, lay a piece of clean white blotting-paper on the broth to soak up any remaining particles. Mixed Meat Tea (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Take one pound each of fresh lean beef, mutton, and veal. Remove all fat, skin, sinew, and bone. Cut the meat up into small pieces, and put it into a stewpan with four pints of water, and a saltspoonful of salt. Simmer gently for four hours, skimming often, then strain. Twenty minutes before serving, moisten a teaspoonful of biscuit- powder, lentil flour, or corn flour, with a wineglassful of cold water, and stir this into half a pint of the broth; boil slowly for twenty minutes. Meat and Bice Soup (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Take of mutton, veal, or beef, one and a half pounds, cold water one quart, a little salt, and two ounces of rice. Simmer for four hours, boil for a few minutes, strain, and serve. {Dr. Broadbent.) Mixed Meat Soup (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Take one pound of mutton, one pound of veal, half a chicken, with the bones well broken, one calf's foot, and two quarts of water. Stew slowly down to one quart, and skim off all the fat. To be flavoured with a little pepper and salt, and taken cold as a jelly, or as a warm broth. The chicken can be omitted if desired. {Dr. Broadbent.) Beef-tea with Oatmeal (3, 4, 5, 6).—Mix thoroughly two table- spoonfuls of oatmeal with three of cold water to a smooth paste; then add a pint of strong boiling beef-tea. Boil for five minutes, stirring well to prevent the oatmeal from burning; strain through a hair sieve. {Dr. Broadbent.) Extract of Beef (2-3, 3, 4, 5).—Mince one pound of rump- steak, and mix it with one pint of cold water. Place it m a pot at the side of the fire to heat very slowly. It may stand two to three hours before it is allowed to simmer, and then let it boil gently for fifteen minutes; skim and serve. The addition of a fmall teaspoonful of cream to a teacupful of this beef-tea renders it richer and more nourishing. A little burnt flour, biscuit powder, or arrowroot have the same effect. {Dr. Broad- iC£w Meat Pulp (3, 4, 5, 6).—Rub the pounded meat through a sieve, and make into sandwiches, with some flavouring, such as cod-roe (or a very little anchovy paste). Or (3 4 5 6)—Pound in a marble mortar, raw meat, Zbu parts; blanched sweet almonds, 75 parts; bitter almonds, 5 Darts; sugar, 80 parts. Or (3, 4, 5)—Raw meat, grated, 100 parts; sugar, 40 parts,35 SOUPS, BBOTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. pounded together; then add wine, 20 parts j tincture of cinna- mon, 3 parts. (Br. Broadbent.) Raw Meat Juice—(See Infusion of Eaw Meat, p. 28.) Raw Meat (3, 4, 5, 6), may also be scraped with a knife, and the scrapings made into a sandwich, or mixed, if desired, with twice their weight of powdered white sugar. Toast Soup (2-3, 3, 4, 5. 6).—Boil three quarters of a pint of milk, cut some sippets of lightly browned toast, beat up the yolks of two eggs in a little boiling water. Put the toast in a tureen, dust it over with sugar and a small pinch of salt, pour the eggs in, and add the hot milk; stir well. Ox-tail Soup (3, 4, 5, 6).—Clean an ox tail, cut it into pieces and boil it very gently for four or five hours in a small quantity of water, well covered, until tender. Strain off the liquor and remove the fat; add a glass of wine and a little Worcester sauce Thicken with butter or cream. Calf's-tail Sotip (3, 4, 5, 6).—Made as above, substituting two calves tails for the ox tail. Mock Turtle Soup (3, 4, 5, 6).—Half boil half a calf's head without the skm. Take off all the meat in square pieces, break the bones, and boil them in veal and beef broth, seasoned with mace and pepper. Boil two or three ox palates till they are blanched, and cut them into small pieces, and add a cow heel likewise cut into pieces. Melt some butter, and thicken it with Hour, and pour the broth to it; add the above meats and stew Half a pint of sherry or Madeira, some chopped parsley cayenne pepper, and salt should be added two minutes before serving. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into a tureen, and pour the soup upon it. r Grand Bouillon (3, 4 5, 6).-Take a pound of beef, a pound of veal, and two pounds of bones and trimmings from meat • cut ut> the meat break the bones, and put all into a stewpan with five quarts of water, and half an ounce of salt; boil up, skim and add three carrots (if allowable). Simmer for five hours Pass through a cloth. " Mutton Broth (3, 4, 5 6).-Mince up one pound of lean loin or neck ot mutton without bone, and let it simmer beside the fire in a quart of water (originally cold) for three hours with a little salt (and a small piece of onion or a little chervil if allowable) Skim it. Pom- out the broth into a basin, and remove any fat which has not been previously skimmed off Mutton broth is made more nutritious by the addition of two tablespoonfuls of pearl barley, rice, or tapioca, which should be soaked for twelve hours, then boiled till soft, and added when the broth is heated for use. Veal Broth is made in the same way as mutton broth Eggs, Cream, and Extract of Beef (3, 4, 5, 6).—Wash one36 SOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. ounce of the best pearl sago until the water poured frorn it is clear. Then stew the sago in half a pint of water until it is quite tender and very thick ; mix with it a quarter of a pint of good cream, and the yolks of two fresh eggs, and mingle the whole carefully with a pint of good beef-tea, which should be boiling, but should not go on boiling after the other ingredients have been mixed with it. Meat Panada (3, 4, 5, 6).—Grate an ounce of stale bread crumbs; soak in boding water; mix them with three quarters of a pint of veal or chicken broth or beef-tea, and boil till it thickens. Soup a la Heine (3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil a fowl gently in about two quarts of white veal stock, with a carrot, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme and a bayleaf, and a teaspoonful of salt, and one of sugar. In about an hour, when the fowl is cooked, take it out, and let it cool for a quarter of an hour, while you strain the stock, and remove all the fat. Take off all the meat of the fowl, chop it up, and pound it in a mortar, and add in small pieces the crumb of a French roll moistened in the strained stock. Put the stock and the pounded meat and bread crumbs back into the saucepan, and let it simmer for an hour or more, taking care that it does not boil. Pass through a sieve, and serve. Scotch Broth (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Boil slowly in one pint and a half of water one pound of lean mutton (the bone not being weighed with the meat, but boiled with it), till quite tender; add half a pound of rice (well soaked in two waters) with a pinch of salt and one of pepper (and a small onion if allowable). When the rice is soft, take out the meat and bones, and let the broth cool. Remove all the fat. Next day cut up half a pound of lean mutton into dice, and bod these in the broth till quite tender, skimming off any fat that may rise. Serve hot. Egg Soup (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Beat up the yolks of two eggs ; melt a piece of butter of the size of a walnut, and beat it up with the e°-»s. Put the mixture in an enamelled saucepan over a slow fire, and add gradually one pint of water, stirring constantly. When it begins to boil, pour it backwards and forwards between the saucepan and a jug till it is quite smooth and frothy. Add sugar to taste. (Br. King Chambers.) Consommo (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Remove the breast of a fowl, and roast the rest of the bird at a very quick fire until it is coloured, but not cooked; then put it into a stewpan with three pounds of beef and two pounds of veal cut up into pieces ; add three quarts of grand bouillon; bod, skim, and add salt, and^ two carrots. Simmer for four hours; then strain the consomme, take off the fat and clarify the consomme with the breast of the fowl. Oyster Soup (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Take a dozen oysters, take off the beards and put the beards with the liquor from the oystersSOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. 37 into a pint of white stock with slices of any common white fish or some small fish. Boil up, skim, simmer for half an hour, then strain, season, and thicken with half an ounce of butter and a quarter of an ounce of flour. Simmer for five minutes, put in the oysters, and when they are just warmed through, serve. Be careful not to boil the soup after the oysters are put in. Oonsomme of Fowl (3, 4, 5, 6).—Put into a saucepan two pints of grand bouillon with a pound and a half of knuckle of veal without bone, and half a fowl; add a saltspoonf ul and a half of salt. Boil up, skim, and simmer until the meat is cooked, then take it out, pass the consomme through a cloth, and remove all fat, clarify it with white of egg; strain it again. Puree of Green Peas (4, 5, 6).—Boil three quarters of a pint of green peas in plenty of water, with half a tablespoonful of salt. When well boiled drain in a sieve, and put the puree into a saucepan with a saltspoonful of sugar and three quarters of a pint of fowl consomme; keep moving the saucepan on the fire so that the puree may not burn, and, as soon as it boils, put it to simmer over the fire. Boil an ounce of rice (previously soaked for twelve hours) in a little consomme of fowl, drain it, and add it, with half an ounce of butter, to the puree. Stir until the butter is thoroughly melted. The addition of a little vinegar makes this soup more digestible except in cases of pyrosis. Beef Juice with Toast (3, 4, 5, 6).—Broil a rumpsteak over a hot fire until it is brown outside; cut it into pieces, and press all the juice out of it; season the juice with salt and a little pepper, and pour it over some dry toast on a hot dish. Serve hot. {Br. Fothergill.) Pish Consomme and Soup (4, 5, 6).—Put into a large frying pan with about three quarters of a pound of butter, five large carrots, four onions, three heads of celery, four shalots; all the foregoing to be cut in shces; one head of garlic, three cloves, two bay leaves, one sprig of thyme, twelve sprigs of parsley. Lightly fry them till they acquire a reddish colour. Add a large bottle of white, dry Bordeaux and eight or nine pints of water; boil, skim, and then add one and a half ounces of salt, and two pinches of crushed pepper. Put in the stewpan six or seven pounds of gurnets cut into pieces; next add the bones of six whiting, keeping the fillets for clarifying. Let it simmer for two hours on the side of the fire. When it is finished strain through a cloth. Pound the fillets of whiting with two whites of eggs; clarify the consomme with the whites of egg and fillets of whiting. The vegetables must be sufficiently fried to give the consomme a light tint. To present the above as a soup, make a number of small38 SOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. quenelles of whiting, and add to the tureen before serving. (Sir Hy. Thompson from Gouffe.) Simple Fish Soup (3, 4, 5, 6).—Put three ounces of butter into a stewpan ; add two carrots sliced; one onion and a shalut in thin slices; a clove, a little thyme, and some parsley. Pry them gently until of a reddish tint; then add three pints of cold water. Let it boil, skimming occasionally. Then add a small fresh haddock, bones and all, cut up into pieces, and the head and bones of two whitings, setting aside the fillets. A cod's head, or that of a turbot; or the fresh bones, head, and fins of a sole, the fillets of which are required for another dish, may take the place of the foregoing. Add some salt and a little pepper. Let all simmer together for two hours gently at the corner of the fire; take out the bones, and pass all the rest through a coarse strainer. Divide the fillets of whiting into two or three small portions each, boil for a few minutes in some of the stock, add a little fresh green chervil and parsley chopped, not too finely, and serve all together in a tureen. If the soup is preferred somewhat thicker in body than this receipt produces, let it be made so by adding some farinaceous matter in small quantity ; the proper form being a tablespoonful of white " roux " (i. e. a little fiour well mixed with butter in a stewpan over the fire and not allowed to brown), and this is un- questionably an improvement. It is unnecessary to clarify fish soups; if other garnish is desired, quenelles of whiting may be substituted for the fillets. (Sir Henry Thompson.) Mock Turtle Soup (4, 5, 6).—Take two pounds of knuckle of veal, and two pounds of shin of beef, and cut them up in dice two inches square, put them in a saucepan with a very little chopped thyme, sweet marjoram and basil, parsley, half a pound of chopped mushrooms, and a pinch of cayenne pepper, and add half a pound of butter; stew all til 1 they are of a red colour, and dredge in half a pound of flour, or enough to dry up the butter ; keep the saucepan three minutes longer on the fire, stirring all the time ; then add a pint and a half of consomme, three pints of grand bouillon, and half a bottle of dry Madeira, salt, pepper, and a dash of cayenne. Stir until boiling begins, then put in half a calf's head (which you have previously blanched and boned), and simmer for three hours. Take out the head, and clean all the herbs off it and let it cool. Strain the soup through a cullender, add a pint of blond de veau, and simmer for one hour, skimming as often as a scum forms. Out the skin of the calf's head with- out the fat or meat into strips an inch long and a quarter of an inch wide, and simmer these strips for twenty minutes in grand bouillon, then drain, and put them in the tureen. Strain the soup and pour it over the calf's head, add half a teaspoonful of39 JELLIES. lemon-juice, and a wineglass of Madeira. Simmer till quite hot and serve. Eel Broth (4, 5, 6).—Skin, clean, and chop up into pieces an incli long six small eels. Boil them in a pint and a half of water, and skim off the fat. Then cover them over and stew for forty miuutes. This is a good change for convalescents from fevers, and is also a good stock for cooking flounders, soles, or perch, instead of hutter sauce, which is apt to turn rancid. {Dr. King Chambers.) Soupe Maigre (5, 6).—Melt half a pound of butter in a deep stewpan over a gentle fire; shake it about, and let it stand till it no longer spits. Peel and cut up in small pieces six medium-sized onions, blanch them in boiling water for ten minutes, then throw them into the melted butter, and shake them about. Sprinkle in a head of celery cut up in pieces an inch long; a large handful of spinach and a small bundle of parsley, both chopped up fine; shake them about over the fire for fifteen minutes; then dredge in a dessertspoonful of browned flour, and stir well up. Pour into the pan two quarts of boiling water, and add a handful of dry bread-crust broken up small, a saltspoonful of salt, and one of pepper; boil gently half an hour. Beat up the yolks of two eggs with a teaspoonful of vinegar, stir them in and add at once. To make this soup properly the ingredients must be added in the above order. Spinach Soup (5, 6).—Pick all the stalks from one pound and a half of fresh spinach ; wash it and chop it up; put it in a three quart stewpan with two ounces of butter; stir it over the fire for five minutes ; add half an ounce of flour and a pinch of salt, and stir again for three to four minutes. Then stir in four pints of chicken broth till it boils. Let it simmer for half an hour, and add a small teaspoonful of cream. Serve with pulled bread. Endive or Lettuce Soup may be prepared in the same way. {Dr. King Chambers.) VI. JELLIES. Jellies.—Are an insidious and agreeable way of inducing a patient to take food. Farinaceous jellies are nourishing, whereas meat and chicken jellies do not contain much nourishment, but are refreshing and stimulating. The idea that soups and meat teas which become a jelly on cooling must be nourishing is now generally recognised ;is a delusion. Pancreatised Jellies (1, 2, 3, 4, &c.).—Add isinglass or gela-40 JELLIES. tine to hot gruel previously completely pancreatised, and flavour to taste. (Sir Wm. Roberts.) Chicken and Calf's-foot Jelly (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Pound half a fowl and a calf's foot in a mortar, or with a mallet (bones and all) ; put them in a closed vessel with enough cold water to cover the meat. Simmer very slowly until the broth is reduced to one half, and the meat falls to pieces when stirred. Strain through a cloth; add salt and pepper, and lemon-juice, or wine (if desired) for flavouring; simmer again for five minutes ; skim when cold. Mayonnaise of Fowl (4, 5, 6).—Out tip the remains of a cold fowl neatly, and pile the pieces on a dish. Make a Mayonnaise and pour it over the fowl. Garnish with young lettuces cut lengthwise, and young watercress. Calf s-foot Jelly (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil two feet in five pints of water till the feet are broken, and tbe water reduced to two and a half pints; strain, and when cold take off the fat, and remove the sediment; put into a saucepan with sugar, wine, and lemon-juice to taste, and some lemon-peel; add the whites of five eggs, well beaten up, and the broken shells of the eggs. Set the saucepan on the fire, and do not stir the jelly after it begins to warm. Let it boil twenty minutes, then pour it repeatedly through a flannel jelly-bag, previously wrung out of hot water. The feet should have been scalded before using. N.B.—Cow heels make a stronger jelly. Sheep's-foot Jelly (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6). Simmer six sheep's feet, with mace, cinnamon, lemon-peel, and a little isinglass in two quarts of water to one. When cold take off the fat. This may also be given warmed with a little milk. Baked Calf s-foot Jelly (3, 4, 5, 6).—Bake two calf's feet in two pints of water and two pints of new milk in a closely-covered jar for three hours and a half; season with salt, lemon-peel, or mace. When done, strain and remove all the fat. Beef, Mutton, and Calf's-foot Jelly (3, 4, 5, 6).—Take one pound of beef, and one pound of mutton free from fat, bone and sinew, with two calf's feet, and five pints of cold water; season with six peppercorns and a little salt; bring it slowly to boiling point, skim it, and let it simmer slowly for four hours; strain, and remove any fat. This may also be taken warm as a soup. Beef and Calfs-foot Jelly (3, 4, 5, 6).—Take off the skin and meat from a calf's foot, break up the bones, and put all together in cold water over the fire until the scum rises; pour off the water, and wash the foot in cold water, which is also to be thrown away ; add half a pound of beef, or an old fowl, with a quart of water and a pinch of salt. Boil slowly and regularly for five hours; strain through a cloth, and set the jelly to cool- When cool remove all tbe fat. Then beat up an egg with its41 JELLIES. shell in the jelly, and warm gently over a moderate fire, stirring the jelly diligently. (If the jelly be heated too much the white of egg will coagulate.) As soon as it begins to become flaky, cover the jelly and let it cool until the white of egg separates. Pass it through a cloth until it is quite clear, then add a little meat-extract, and put the jelly into a mould till cold. Gravy may be added to the jelly, or lemon-juice for flavouring. A quarter of an ounce of isinglass will make the jelly firmer. Beef, Veal, and Caffs-foot Jelly (3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil two calf's-feet, two ounces of veal, and a quarter of a pound of beef, the bottom of a small loaf, and a little mace and salt with half a nutmeg, in three quarts of water to three pints; strain, and remove the fat. Shank Jelly (3, 4, 5, 6).—Soak four shanks of mutton for four hours, then brush and scour them very clean ; lay them in a saucepan with one blade of mace, about ten black pepper-corns, some sweet herbs, and a crust of bread toasted very brown. Pour on a quart of water and set the saucepan close covered on a Lot hearth; let it simmer gently for five hours; strain, and keep in a cold place. This is improved by the addition of half a pound of beef. Isinglass Jelly (3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil an ounce of isinglass (with or without twelve cloves) in two pints of water down to one pint. Strain while hot through a flannel bag on to two ounces of sugar candy, and flavour with two tablespoonfuls of Chartreuse if no cloves have been added. (Dr. King Chambers.) Half a pint of claret or of port may be used to flavour this jelly instead of the Chartreuse. (This jelly is not nourishing.) Iceland and Irish Moss Jelly (2, 3, 4, 5).—Well wash and soak one ounce of Iceland moss, and one ounce of Irish moss separately; add a good pinch of bicarbonate of soda to the water in which the Iceland moss is soaked. Boil the two mosses in a pint and a half of milk for three quarters of an hour, strain through muslin, and add three ounces of white sugar. Claret Jelly (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in a little water, and put it into a saucepan with half a pound of loaf sugar, and the juice and thinly cut rind of one lemon. Pom- over these half a pint of boiling water, and stir until the sugar is melted. Add a pint of claret, and strain without pressure through two thicknesses of flannel. Put it into a wet mould, and let it cool. When cold turn it out of the mould. Port may be sub- stituted for the claret. Egg Jelly (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Put three quarters of an ounce of isinglass into a saucepan with a pint of cold water; boil up quickly, and let it boil iintil it is reduced to one half, taking off the scum as it rises. Let it cool, and put it into a stewpan with three ounces of white sugar, and the thinly cut peel of one lemon, and heat allJELLIES. 42 together until they simmer. Beat up the yolks of four eggs with the juice of the lemon, and pour the isinglass and sugar over them. Strain through muslin into a mould. Lemon Jelly (2-3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil an ounce of isinglass and half a pound of loaf sugar in a pint of water for twenty minutes; add the strained juice and rind of two lemons, and boil up again; skim well. Add wine if desired, and strain into a mould that has been wetted. (Refreshing, not nourishing.) Orange Jelly (3, 4, 5, 6).—Peel twelve oranges very thin, and squeeze the juice over the rind, but do not leave it too long ; if the oranges be very sweet, add the juice of a Seville orange or of a lemon. Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in as small a quantity of water as possible; melt half a pound of loaf-sugar, and when the syrup and isinglass are cold, mix them with the juice, and strain them into the mould. Less sugar will be required if the oranges are sweet. (Refreshing, not nourishing.) Jauniange (3, 4, 5, 6.)—Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water, beat the yolks of two eggs to a froth, and grate the peel of two lemons; mix all together with a little sugar in half a pint of sweet wine. Boil over a slow fire, stirring all the time to prevent it from burning. (Nourishing.) Blanc-mange (3,4, 5,6).—Peel six ounces of swedt almonds and ten bitter almonds; pound them well in a mortar, adding three quarters of a pint of milk, a spoonful at a time ; squeeze through a napkin. Melt half an ounce of isinglass, and three ounces of sugar, in half a pint of water over the fire, stirring well; when the mixture is melted, pass it through a napkin again, and when it is cold, add the milk of almonds, and a teaspoonf ul of orange-flower water; mix thoroughly. Freeze in a mould for two hours. Lemon Blanc-mange (3, 4, 5, 6).—Grate the rind of a lemon on one and a half ounces of loaf sugar, until the sugar is coloured by the juice of the lemon-peel; strain three quarters of a pint of milk of almonds through a napkin, and divide it into two equal parts; with one of these parts mix the sugar aud lemon-peel juice, and with the other part an ounce and a half of loaf sugar. When the sugar is melted, strain the two blanc- manges separately, and add to each a quarter of an ounce of isinglass dissolved in hot water. Put the two blancmanges into one mould in layers half an inch deep, and do not add a second layer until the first is set. Orange Blanc-mange (3, 4, 5, 6).—Made in the same way as lemon blanc-mange, but with sugar rubbed over orange-peel instead of lemon-peel. Coffee Blanc-mange (3, 4, 5, 6) is prepared by mixing au ounce and a half of sugar, with a strong infusion made from half an ounce of coffee (without the grounds), and mixing it with oneFARINACEOUS FOOD. 43 part of the milk of almonds, while an ounce and a half of sugar is mixed with the other part of the almond milk, as in the lemon blanc-mange, which recipe is followed in the subsequent pre- paid tion. Chocolate Blanc-mange (3,4, 5, 6).—Made in the same way as coffee blanc-mange, but with an ounce and a half of chocolate instead of half an ounce of coffee. Strawberry Blanc-mange (3, 4, 5. 6).—Make a blanc-mange according to recipe (p. 42) but with water instead of milk. Squeeze ripe strawberries (without stalks) in a napkin, until a quarter of a pint of juice has passed through, and mix this with the isinglass and sugar after they have been melted in a quarter of a pint of water (instead of half a pint of milk). Pass through a napkin and set as before. Raspberry and Currant Blanc-mange (3, 4, 5, 6). Made in the same way as strawberry blanc-mange, but with a handful of red or white currants mixed with the raspberries. Apple Charlotte (5, 6).—Peel, and take out the core of one pound and a half of apples, and cut them into thin slices; put them into a frying-pan containing an ounce and a half of butter and three quarters of an ounce of sugar. Cook for fifteen minutes, shaking frequently. Brown in butter a dozen slices of crumb of bread about two thirds of an inch thick, two inches long, and one inch wide. Cover each slice with apricot marma- lade, and place them edgeways round a dish. Fill up the centre with the fried apples, and over this a layer of apricot marmalade. Bake for five minutes and serve hot. {Gouffe.) VII. FARINACEOUS FOOD (STARCH FOODS). Of this class the most important item is Bread. Bread taken to excess may cause flatulence, constipation, or diarrhoea, heart- burn (acidity), irritation of the skin, and disorder of the circula- tion. If too new, bread may cause distension and pain in the stomach; if too stale, it may become unwholesome through the formation of products of decomposition, and through the in- creased development of acids affecting the digestion. Hot bread crumb is tough and pasty, and forms a mass in the stomach which is only digested slowly and with difficulty ; if it be heated again and eaten with much butter, it is slightly more digestible. Bread is most digestible when twenty-four hours old, as it has not had time then to become decomposed, and it is no longer so pasty as new bread. Crust is more digestible than bread crumb, as the extra heat to which it is exposed in baking partly digests some of the starch which it contains, and crust is also moreFARINACEOUS FOOD. 44 readily pulverised by the teeth. The more completely fermenta- tion has taken place in bread, and the more thoroughly it is baked, the more wholesome the bread. Small cakes or rolls, not thicker than the finger, thoroughly baked, are the most whole- some form of bread, as these consist so largely of crust. Toast is more wholesome than bread crust, because of the extra cooking which it has undergone. Toast should be cut thin, and from stale bread; it should be thoroughly done, but not burnt, and should be eaten fresh, but not too hot. If allowed to cool too long, toast becomes tough and leathery. Hot buttered toast is not so wholesome as dry toast, as it will not crumble easily. Buttered toast, if steamed or dipped in boiling water, becomes more digestible. Rolls are digestible if light and thoroughly and slowly baked, so that the crumb is not too spongy. Hot rolls are generally too tough and tenacious. Viennese Bread and Milk Rolls, which are made of the finest flour, mixed with milk and water, with much yeast, and kneaded more thoroughly than ordinary bread, are pleasanter to the taste and more wholesome than the commoner sorts of English bakers' bread, which is, as a rule, neither palatable nor digestible, and often made of adulterated flour. Brown, or Whole-meal Bread, or Bran Bread, is more nou- rishing than white bread, and, if only used occasionally, is a convenient remedy for constipation, but the bran is to many people indigestible, and therefore it should not supersede white bread in ordinary diet. The corn must be thoroughly cleaned and well ground, not too coarse. Biscuits.—Plain thin biscuits, without much sugar or butter, are very wholesome if they are fresh, and not too hard. Charcoal Biscuits are a useful food for flatulent persons, and not disagreeable in taste. Sponge Rusks (2, 3, 4, &c.) are one of the lightest and most digestible forms of biscuit. Sponge Cakes (3, 4, 5, 6) are wholesome if well made, but not so good as Sponge Rusks. Cakes, if light and not containing too much sugar, lemon- peel, or too many currants, are fairly digestible. Oarraway seeds should not be put whole into cakes, but should be crushed. Confectionery of all sorts contains generally so much sugar as to make it unwholesome. Paste mixed with a little spirit is lighter and more digestible. Gruels are wholesome and nourishing if they be thoroughly boiled, so as to be free from lumps, and then passed through a sieve ; but they should not be eaten fast. "Water gruel is more easily digested, but milk gruel more nourishing, especially if raisins be added to it. Gruel may be made of oatmeal, pearlFARINACEOUS POOD. 45 barley, Indian meal, sago, arrowroot, tapioca, groats, honimy, &c but whichever ingredient is chosen, it should be put dry into a warm oven for an hour before being converted into gruel (Fothergill), or be soaked for several hours before being boiled. A teaspoonful of brandy, or, better still, of gin in a basin of gruel, arrowroot, or sago makes it more digestible. Fortified G-ruels, i. e. gruels made from cereals or legumma, and mixed with milk or beef-tea, are more nutritious than water gruel. If the meal from which gruel is to be made be mixed beforehand with one eighth part of its weight of ground malt, its nutritive value is much increased, and it is still liquid; if this gruel be combined with milk or beef-tea it forms a varied and highly nutritious liquid food, which may be especially recom- mended in typhoid fever. Cereals and leguminous products may be combined in various ways with advantage. (Sir Wm. Roberts.) Gruel made with a mixture of ground malt may require strain- ing if the malt is coarsely ground, and especially when there is any irritability of the digestive tract. Porridge is a most excellent and economical article of food, if it is slowly cooked, and free from lumps; it should be passed through a coarse strainer, and eaten slowly. The coarse oatmeal porridge requires longer cooking than that made from fine oatmeal > and is so much the more digestible. Light Puddings serve as a transition diet from the lighter fluid slops, such as milk and beef-tea, to more solid food. They may be made of tapioca, arrowroot, sago, hominy, semolina, Indian meal, rice, &c, and should not have much sugar. Two tablespoonfuls of the flour preferred to a pint of milk is the right proportion. Arrowroot is useful in diarrhoea, especially for children, but it is the least nourishing of the starchy foods. Rice is nourishing and digestible, though not so digestible as most farinaceous articles, as it contains more starch than any other kind of meal. Rice pudding, or rice milk, or rice pilau, are the best ways of preparing it for invalids. Rice milk ought to be long boiled, and is a good remedy, with or without chocolate, against diarrhoea. Tapioca, Sago, Semolina, and Oswego Corn are all nou- rishing and digestible, and are given in gruel or puddings. They must be thoroughly boiled for two or three hours, not lumpy, and should be passed through a coarse sieve after boiling. Tapioca is perhaps the most wholesome, semolina the most nourishing. Vermicelli and Macaroni are highly nourishing and diges- tible. They must be boiled a long time till quite soft, and then form a substantial meal, and more digestible to some persons46 FARINACEOUS FOOD. than meat. They should not be kept too long, as they are liable to get weevilly. Vermicelli is the more digestible of the two. Macaroni and cheese, if well cooked, and not tough, is very nutritious, and digestible to all except weak and irritable stomachs. Maize, or Indian Corn, is a good and wholesome article of food. In the United States it is eaten with beans as succotash ; the Italians boil it in water, and sprinkle it with grated Parmesan cheese, in which form it is called polenta. Hominy is digestible if well boiled. Potato Flour makes more digestible cakes than wheat flour but is not so nourishing. Millet is nourishing and refreshing when cooked in milk. Pap is made from browned wheat flour, which is boiled in milk until it no longer boils over ; it is indigestible if the cooking is not prolonged to this stage. It should not be made too thick. Pap is a useful food for children, but not for lymphatic children, nor for infants under six months old. Entire "Wheat Flour is the best material for making pap for infants. Salep, flour made from orchid roots, is an easily digestible food, and is good against diarrhoea, and in convalescence from this and from cholera. The Oriental salep is the best. Flour Sauces suit weak stomachs best when made from browned flour. Pastry is generally unwholesome, and is to be avoided by all except by the robust. Meat pasties and puddings are indigestible because of the generally half cooked, sad crust, and because of the quantity of fat which they contain. Dyspeptics should not eat the crust of fruit pies or puddings. Farinaceous foods are not so digestible as is generally supposed; they are liable to ferment, and to cause acidity, and should be given with caution where there is any tendency to these troubles. Milk (especially diluted milk) and soups are more easily digested than the simplest farinaceous foods. Light farinaceous puddings are made much more digestible if the tapioca, rice, &c, be heated for an hour or two dry in the oven before being added to the milk. The most perfectly diges- tible milk pudding is made by adding some ground malt to the baked starch, when the warm milk is poured on, and stirring the whole together, afterwards setting it in a warm place for ten minutes before putting it in the oven. No sugar should be added to such a pudding. {Dr. Fothergill.) Milk puddings are made more nourishing by the addition of butter after they are served, but this is only suitable in somewhat advanced convalescence. Prepared foods, such as Nestle's, Savory and Moore's, or47 FARINACEOUS FOOD. Mcllin's, are very excellent for invalids even where the stomach is exceedingly delicate, and may be considered as second only to pancreatised and peptonised foods in digestibility. Pancreatised Gruel (2, 3, 4, 5, 6j.—Make a good, thiclr, strong gruel of (baked) wheaten flour, oatmeal, arrowroot, sago, tapioca, pearl barley, or pea or lentil flour. Boil the gruel well, and let it cool in a covered jug until it is lukewarm ; then add two teaspoonfuls of Liquor Pancreaticus to each pint of gruel, and keep it warm for half an hour or an hour; boil and strain. The resulting gruel is not very nice by itself, but is a useful basis for pancreatised soups, jellies, blanc-mange, &c. (After Sir Wm. Roberts.) Pancreatised Milk Gruel (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—To a gruel (prepared as above, but unpancreatised), while still boiling, add an equal quantity of cold milk. To each pint of this mixture add two teaspoonfuls of Liquor Pancreaticus and a pinch of bicarbonate of soda. Cover and keep warm for half an hour; then boil for two or three minutes and strain. (After Sir Wm. Roberts.) Water Gruel (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Mix one large tablespoonful of oatmeal with a little water to a smooth paste. Pour in a pint of boiling water, stirring constantly in one direction. Boil for ten minutes, stirring as before; strain. Flavour with salt or sugar. For Milk Gruel substitute milk for the water. Gruel (Milk and Water) (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Mix half an ounce of grits with two thirds of a pint of water to a smooth paste; add one third of a pint of boiling milk; boil for ten minutes, stirring as above; add half an ounce of sugar. (Children's Hospital.) Half a teacupful of raisins cut in half, and boiled for half an hour with the milk for the gruel, makes milk gruel more nutri- tious and tasty. A pint of boiling beef-tea may be mixed with any of the above, boiled together for five minutes, and strained, or a dessertspoonful of Savory and Moore's meat peptone, or a teaspoonful of Benger's peptonised beef jelly, may be added to any of these gruels. Flour Caudle (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Rub smooth one dessertspoon- ful of fine flour in five large tablespoonfuls of water. Set over the fire five tablespoonfuls of new milk with two lumps of sugar. As soon as it boils pour into it the flour and water, and stir over a slow fire for twenty minutes. Rice Caudle (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Soak Carolina rice in water for an hour, strain, and put two spoonfuls of rice into a pint and a quarter of milk ; simmer, pulp it through a sieve, and put pulp and milk into a saucepan, with a bruised clove and a lump of sugar. Simmer ten minutes. Caudles I. (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—-Beat up one egg with a wineglass •FAKINACEOUS FOOD. 4S ful of sherry, and add to it half a pint of fine hot gruel. Flavour with sugar and lemon-peel, and a little nutmeg. IT. (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Beat up two tablespoonfula of cream in a pint of thin gruel. Add to this one tablespoonful of curacoa or noyeau, and a wineglassful of sherry. Flavour with sugar- candy, and let half a tumblerful be taken cold at intervals. {Dr. Broadbent.) III. (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Make a fine smooth gruel of half grits; strain it when well boiled ; keep stirring it till cold. Add sugar, lemon-peel, nutmeg, and a wineglassful of sherry or Madeira, with or without a dessertspoonful of brandy. IV. (3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil up half a pint of fine gruel with a piece o£ butter of the size of a nutmeg, a tablespoonful of brandy, . and one of sherry or Madeira, a bit of lemon-peel, and nutmeg. V. (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Into a pint of boiling-hot, fine gruel (not thick), put the yolk of an egg beaten up with sugar, and mixed with a large spoonful of cold water, a glass of wine, and nutmeg. Mix by degrees. Farina Gruel (2-3, 3,4, 5, 6).—Stir two tablespoonfuls of any baked farina into a quart of water in an enamelled saucepan, and let this boil until it is quite thick ; add a pint of milk, and a little salt, and let it boil fifteen minutes longer. Sweeten to taste. (Dr. Fothergill.) Rice Gruel (3, 4, 5, 6).—Wash two ounces of rice in two waters, and put it into three pints of water to soak for twelve hours ; then boil for two and a half hours ; stir it frequently and skim. Strain it through a wire sieve, rubbing the glutinous part through the sieve, but none of the firm part. Add a little orange marmalade if desirable. Indian Meal Gruel (3, 4, 5, 6).—Moisten a quarter of a pint of sifted Indian meal with a little cold water to form a paste, and stir this gradually into a quart of boiling water. Boil slowly for two hours, stirring often. Beat it well up with a Dover egg beater (or, in default of that, a fork) while still on the fire. Strain, and season with a little salt and pepper, or with a little sugar. Indian Meal Milk Gruel (3, 4, 5, 6).—Add to the above, when done, a quart of boiling milk, and let all boil together, for five minutes, stirring carefully. With either of the above, a pint of boiling beef-tea may be well stirred in when the gruel is nearly cooked, with or without a beaten-up egg, but the broth must not be boiled after the egg has been added. Sago (3, 4, 5, 6).—Soak half an ounce of sago in cold water for an hour, drain and wash it well. Boil it with three quarters of a pint of water for an hour and a quarter ; the water should be cold when the sago is put into it. Skim when it begins to boil, and stir frequently. Sweeten with a dessertspoonful of sifted49 FARINACEOUS POOD. sugar. Two dessertspoonfuls of wine, or one of brandy may be added to make it more digestible. Arrowroot (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Mix two teaspoonfuls of the best arrowroot smoothly with three tablespoonfuls of cold water ; put the paste into a saucepan and add three quarters of a pint of boiling water, stirring diligently; sweeten with sifted sugar. Let it boil for ten minutes, stirring all the time. A wineglassfnl of white wine, or a tablespoonful of brandy added to it will be advantageous. Panada, I. (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Grate an ounce of stale bread- crumbs, and pour a little boiling water over them; strain off the water and put them into a saucepan with a pint of milk. Boil without stirring till they mix and turn smooth. Sweeten and flavour with cinnamon, almond, or a tablespoonful of sherry. Beef-tea, meat peptone, or peptonised meat jelly may be added to tbe above. II. (3, 4, 5, 6).—Put three-quarters of an ounce of toast broken into pieces, a pinch of salt, and a quarter of an ounce of butter, into a saucepan containing a pint and a quarter of water. Boil up over a quick fire for twenty minutes, stirring all the time. Beat up the yolks of two eggs with a wineglassful of milk, and add a quarter of an ounce of butter. Put the panada into the soup tureen, and pour the egg and milk into it with one hand, while stirring with the other. One or two wineglassfuls of milk may be added if the panada is too thick. Bread Jelly (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Break up the crumb of a stale loaf, cover it with boiling water, and let it soak for some hours. Strain off the water completely, and add fresh water; boil untii it becomes smooth. Press out the water in a hair sieve, and let the bread cool; it will form a thick jelly. Mix some of this jelly with milk and water and sugar as it is wanted. (Br. Churchill apud Dr. Broadbent.) Tapioca Jelly (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Soak a cupful of best tapioca m a pint of cold water till soft; drain it, and put the tapioca in a saucepan with half a cupful of sugar, the thinly cut rind of a lemon, and its juice, a little salt, and a pint of fresh water Stir until it boils; turn it into a mould to cool, and add a glass of wine. Arrowroot or sago jelly made in the same way Farinaceous Jelly (2-3,3,4,5,6).—Bake dry for one hour (or soak for twelve hours, wash and drain) tapioca, whole rice pearl barley and sago, of each two ounces; boil in two quarts of water over a slow fire, stirring meanwhile; strain through a sieve and flavour with sugar and lemon or orange-juice Porridge, I (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Mix two tablespoonfuls of coarsely ground Scotch oatmeal with a small teacupful of cold water til] 450 FARINACEOUS FOOD. it is of uniform consistence; then pour in a pint of boiling water, and keep boiling and stirring for forty minutes. Serve quite hot in a soup plate with cold milk added to make it of an eatable temperature. (Dr. King Chambers.) II. (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Into a pint of boiling water dredge two tablespoonfuls of Scotch oatmeal, stirring all the while. Boil for thirty-five minutes, stirring frequently. Then add a pint of boiling milk, and let the porridge boil gently for five minutes. Add salt to the taste. If a teaspoonful of ground malt be mixed up with the oatmeal, the porridge is more nutritious and digestible (3, 4, 5, 6). Milk Porridge (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Mix a large tablespoonful of flour in a little cold water. Stir it into a pint of boiling water ; let it boil fifteen minutes, then add half a pint of milk, and salt, and let it boil up once. II. (3, 4, 5, 6).—Make a fine gruel of half grits, boiled for a long time; strain, and warm up with milk. Ground Rice Milk (3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil one spoonful of ground rice, melted down smooth with three half pints of milk, cinna- mon, and nutmeg. Sweeten when nearly done. Lemon-peel may be added. Lentil Porridge (4, 5, 6).—Mix three tablespoonfuls of lentil flour and a saltspoonful of salt into a paste with a pint of water. Boil for ten minutes, stirring constantly. (Dr. Fothergill.) Oatmeal Flummery (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Cover crushed Embden grits with water in a broad pan. Stir it up together, and let it stand twelve hours ; then pour off the water, so long as it runs clear. Add fresh water, mix, and let it stand twelve hours more. Drain, and repeat the same process a third time. When the oat- meal has been soaked thus for thirty-six hours, strain it through a hair sieve and boil it, stirring vigorously till it is quite thick. Eat it cold with milk, or a little wine and sugar. (Dr. King Bice Milk (3, 4, 5, 6).—Soak an ounce of rice for twelve hours, then wash and drain it. Boil a pint of milk, and pour the soaked rice into it; stir it well, and add a saltspoonful of salt, and the same quantity of powdered sugar. Cook very slowly for an hour. Rub it through a hair sieve. Sago Milk, Tapioca Milk (3, 4, 5, 6).—Made in a similar way. Arrowroot Milk (2-3, 3-4,4, 5, 6).—Mix two tablespoonfuls of arrowroot smoothly with three tablespoonfuls of cold milk; put it into a saucepan, and add three quarters of a pint of boiling milk, stirring constantly. Sweeten with sifted sugar, and boil gently for ten minutes, stirring all the time._ A little nutmeg or lemon- peel may be used as flavouring if desired. _ Biscuit and Milk, I. (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Soak a hard captain s biscuit in milk or in water for about eight hours until it is quiteFARINACEOUS POOD. 51 soft. Pour off the fluid which has not been absorbed by the biscuit, and mash the biscuit up in a pint of new milk. (Dr. King Chambers.) II. (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Stir a powdered arrowroot or nursery biscuit into half a pint of milk. Sweeten. Both the above may be pancreatised (2, 3, 4, 5, 6). Soup a la Monaco (3, 4, 5, 6).—Fry a slice of bread in butter to a pale brown, add a little salt and white sugar, pour over it three quarters of a pint of boiling milk, and beat up the yolks of two eggs in the soup. Bread Soup I. (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Cut slices a quarter of an inch thick from a stale French roll. Have ready about a pint of stock well skimmed and strained. Pour over the slices of roll as much stock as they can soak up, and then add the rest of the stock boiling hot. The bread must not be boiled in the stock. II. (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Break up an ounce of stale crumb of bread in a pint of skimmed and strained stock; simmer for twenty rninutes, stirring with a wooden spoon. When the bread is entirely dissolved, serve hot. Oatmeal Soup (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Pour a pint of cold water over two ounces of oatmeal, and let it stand a minute ; then pour over it a pint of good broth, stirring quickly all the time. Strain through a fine strainer, boil for ten minutes, and season to taste. (Dr. Fothergill.) Pearl Barley and Cream Soup (3, 4, 5, 6).—Soak three ounces of pearl barley twelve hours, then boil in a pint and a half of water with a quarter of an ounce of butter and half a saltspoonf ul of salt, until the barley is soft under the finger ; drain the barley, and add three quarters of a pint of consomme of fowl. Boil up, and then simmer for a quarter of an hour, skim, pass through a sieve, and put it into a soup-tureen, then stir in a wineglassf ul of cream and a saltspoonful of butter. Eiee Soup (3, 4, 5, 6).—Soak half an ounce of Carolina rice for twelve hours. Blancb it in boiling water for five minutes, stirring it carefully, then take it out and put it into cold water • drain it, then pour it into a pint of boiling stock, and stir it up well. Put the lid three parts of the way over the saucepan, and simmer for two hours. Season with salt, skim, add the beaten- up yolks of two eggs, and serve hot. Vermicelli Soup (3, 4, 5, 6).—Blanch two ounces of vermi- celli for five minutes in a pint and a half of boiling water with a saltspoonful of salt. Pour off the water, and wash the vermicelli m cold water; drain in a sieve, then put it into a pint and a half of boiling bouillon or stock. Stir it with a spoon whilst it sim- mers for five minutes, skim, take off any fat, and serve. Macaroni Soup (3, 4, 5, 6) is prepared in a similar way.FARINACEOUS POOD. 52 Tapioca Soup (3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil two pints of bouillon or stock. With the left hand sprinkle in an ounce and a half of tapioca (previously washed), while the right hand is stirring in one direction, then cover the saucepan and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Skim, pass through a sieve, and serve. Sago Soup and Semolina Soup (3,4, 5, 6).—Put into a sauce- pan a pint and a half of consomme or stock. Boil up, and as soon as it boils, add half an ounce of well-washed sago, stirring well. Simmer for forty minutes in the covered saucepan. Skim, pass through a sieve, and serve. Milk may be substituted for the stock in the above receipts, and the yolks of two eggs should then be beaten up in the soup when made. Risotto a la Milanaise for two persons (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Put two ounces of fresh butter, with an onion chopped very fine, into a stewpan, and fry until the onion has a pale gold colour. Then add half a pound of well-washed East India rice, with a very little powdered saffron, stirring it constantly for about two minutes with a wooden spoon, so that it does not stick to the stewpan; after this two minutes' cooking, add about a pint of good stock very gradually; let it simmer gently, stfrring very frequently, till the rice is just soft. Before it is quite finished, add a little grated nutmeg and some grated Parmesan cheese ; after this, boil for one minute, then remove it from the fire and set it on a hot plate, add a little more butter, cover for a few minutes, and serve. The quantity of stock or beef-tea can be varied according as the risotto is prepared thick or otherwise. (Sir H. Thompson.) Persons with delicate digestion should omit the onion, and have the rice soaked six to twelve hours before cooking. Pilau (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Well wash six ounces of East India rice, and boil in a pint of water for eight or ten minutes at the most; throw it into a colander that it may thoroughly drain. Then place it in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, salt and pepper to taste, stirring well, and adding by degrees about half a pint of good fowl broth. After about fifteen minutes or so it should be properly done, turning out with the grains separate. It is to be served perfectly hot. The foregoing is a true pilau, but addi- tions may be made of portions of the meat of the fowl, or of other animal matter; of a little curry powder; of chutney; of fried onions, mushrooms, &c. (Sir H. Thompson.) Macaroni a l'ltalienne (4, 5, 6).—In a quart saucepan put a pint and a half of water. Blanch four ounces of good macaroni, season it with a little salt and twice as much pepper, and let it boil gently for twenty minutes. Strain off all the water, wipe out the saucepan, and put in the macaroni again with a quarter of a pint of good stock; simmer until the macaroni has sucked up all the stock. Grate an ounce of Parmesan and an ounce of53 FARINACEOUS FOOD. •Gruyere (or of good English cheese, Sir H. T.). Put half this quantity of cheese into the saucepan, and mix over the fire; when •this quantity is mixed, add the rest of the cheese with a good half ounce of butter. The cheese should be well melted. If the cheese runs to oil, put an eighth of a pint of stock into the sauce- pan and stir over the fire for one minute. Season. (Sir H. Thompson.) [Tomato sauce makes an excellent addition. Half the above quantity of cheese and butter will be better for many English stomachs.] Milk may be substituted for the stock. (Gouffe.) Baking Powder.—Tartaric acid two ounces, bicarbonate of soda three ounces, common arrowroot three ounces. Mix well; keep in a wide-mouthed corked bottle, perfectly dry. (Sir H. Thompson.) Bread.—To two pounds coarsely ground or crushed whole wheat- meal, add half a pound of fine flour, and a sufficient quantity of baking powder and salt; when these are well mixed rub in about two ounces of butter, and make into dough, with skimmed milk and water (warm), or all milk if preferred. Make into flat cakes like tea-cakes, and bake at once in a quick oven, reducing the temperature before they are thoroughly baked. Bake thoroughly at the lower temperature. Half a pound of medium fine Scotch oatmeal may be substituted for the flour in the above receipt. (Sir S. Thompson.) Panereatised Custard Pudding (2,3, 4, 5, 6).—Take half a pint of panereatised milk gruel, let it cool somewhat, and add two well-beaten eggs with sugar and a very little nutmeg, and boil for ten minutes. Ground Malt and Milk Puddings (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—In making a milk pudding of any farinaceous article and ground malt, take half as much ground malt as tapioca, cornflour, rice, or other farina, and stir the malt into the boiling milk, then strain through a coarse cloth or sieve to remove the husks, and add the milk and malt to the tapioca, &c. Mix thoroughly and let the pudding stand for ten minutes in a warm place, then bake for an hour. Malt Flour (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6) may be used in the same way, but does not require straining, or the malt flour may be mixed with the farinaceous matter before the milk is added. No sugar should be used in making these puddings. Ground Malt Pudding (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Add a tablespoonful of ground malt to half a pint of boiling milk; stir constantly until cooked. Strain through a coarse cloth to remove the husks, and beat an egg into the pudding. (After Dr. Fothergill.) Malt Flour may be substituted for the ground malt, but is not •so tasty nor so nutritious (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).54 FARINACEOUS FOOD. Hasty Pudding (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Beat a tablespoonful of baked flour into a paste with cold milk, and add it to half a pint of boiling milk, stirring constantly in one direction till it is thoroughly cooked. (Dr. Fothergill.) Indian Corn Hasty Pudding (3, 4, 5, 6).—Heat a pint of water with a teaspoonful of salt. When it begins to boil, stir in baked Indian corn meal till it is thick enough. Boil for twenty or thirty minutes. Eaten with milk, or sugar or treacle. Pried Hasty Pudding (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Out cold hasty pudding into smooth slices, and fry them to a light brown in butter. Baked Corn Meal Pudding (3, 4, 5, 6).—Bring half a pint of milk to boiling point, stirring it occasionally. Take it from the fire, add a little salt and some sugar, and scatter in a quarter of a pint of Indian corn meal, stirring rapidly to prevent its col- lecting into lumps; add a little nutmeg, and bake for an hour in a deep dish in a hot oven. Pour over the pudding two table- spoonfuls of milk, and bake for two hours longer. Pice Pudding (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil two ounces of rice (pre- viously baked or soaked in two waters) in a pint of milk, stirring constantly till it thickens; take it off the fire and mix well in two ounces of butter, a little grated nutmeg and sugar. Let it cool, then put it into a buttered dish and bake it. Serve with custard sauce. Pice Custard (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—One tablespoonful of whole Carolina rice and seven tablespoonfuls of milk. Boil in water bath, which must not be allowed to cool until custard thickens ; sweeten ; add four pounded sweet almonds- Pearl Barley Pudding (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Soak an ounce of pearl barley in cold water for twelve hours; drain away the water; mix two and a half ounces of moist sugar with the pearl barley, add a pint of milk, and bake slowly for three and a half hours. Cornflour Pudding (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Mix a tablespoonful of baked cornflour with a little cold milk to a smooth paste. Add to this half a pint of boiling milk (with two pinches of salt in it), and let it boil steadily, stirring it constantly in one direction, for twelve minutes, then add a teaspoonful of butter, and take the pudding from the fire. Let the pudding stand for two or three minutes, and then beat in an egg. Serve with or without sugar. Hominy Pudding (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Put a pint of baked hominy in one and a half pints of boiling milk. Cover it close, and let it soak for twelve hours ; then put it into the oven, and bake for twenty minutes. {Dr. Fothergill.) Hominy and Cheese (4, 5, 6).—If hominy be well boiled, and then grated cheese with milk mixed with it, and the whole put into the oven to brown, a delicious digestible dish is the result. (Dr. Fothergill.)FARINACEOUS FOOD. 55 Arrowroot Charlotte (3, 4, 5, 6).—Out two sponge-cakes into thin slices, and place them on the bottom and round the sides of a mould. Mix a tablespoonful of baked flour and one and a half tablespoonfuls of baked arrowroot with enough cold milk to a smooth paste. Heat a pint of milk in a saucepan, with a quarter of an ounce of isinglass, and stir in the paste just before it boils; boil for a few minutes, stirring all the time, and pour it boiling hot into the mould. When quite cold turn it out of the mould, and dust it with a little powdered sugar. Arrowroot Blanc-mange (3, 4, 5, 6).—Mix a keaped-up table- spoonful of baked arrowroot with a wineglassful of milk to a smooth batter; put two wineglassfuls of milk with a little lemon- peel and a little isinglass in it on the fire, until the milk is flavoured, then strain it, and add it while boiling to the arrow- root mixture; sweeten with powdered sugar, and let it all boil, stirring continually; add a teaspoonful of brandy; and when the mixture is thick enough turn it into a mould oiled with salad oil. Milk Soup with Yermicelli (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Put half a salt- spoonful of salt into a quart of boiling milk, and then acid slowly two ounces of vermicelli; keep on stirring while putting in the vermicelli, and for fifteen to twenty minutes afterwards, until it is perfectly tender. Cinnamon and powdered sugar in small quantities may be added, and the yolks of two eggs when the soup is ready to be taken off the fire. Corn Starch Pudding (3, 4, 5, 6).—Dissolve three tablespoon- fuls of baked corn starch in a little milk; mix with this two tablespoonfuls of sugar; add this to a quai't of nearly boiling milk, and boil for ten minutes, stirring briskly; then stir in three eggs well beaten. Heat up again for one minute and add a little salt. Bread Pudding (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Pour over a stale French roll half a pint of boiling milk, cover it close, and let it stand till it has soaked up the milk; tie it up lightly in a cloth, and let it boil a quarter of an hour. Turn it out on a plate, and sprinkle a little powdered sugar candy on it. Serve with custard sauce. (Dr. King Chambers.) Bread Pudding with Egg (3-4', 4, 5, 6).—Pour one-third pint boiling new milk on two ounces bread crumbs; cover it, and let it stand for an hour; then add the yolk of an egg well beaten, a little nutmeg, and half an ounce of sugar or a little salt. Beat nil up together; tie the pudding in a cloth, and boil or bake three quarters of an hour. (Dr. King Chambers.) Batter Pudding (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Beat together three teaspoon- fnls of browned flour, a pinch of salt, and a teaspoonful each of powdered ginger and nutmeg, in a little milk, to a smooth paste; add half an ounce of melted butter and a pint of milk. Boil in aFARINACEOUS FOOD. 56 buttered basin well tied down for one hour and a quarter. Serve with custard sauce. Small Bread Puddings (4, 5, 6).—Bring half a pint of milk to boiling point, pour it on a quarter of a pound of bread crumbs, and let them soak for about half an hour. Beat ^^p two eggs and mix them with the bread crumbs and milk, and add one ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of brandy, a little sugar, and half a tea- spoonful of minced lemon-peel; stir all well together until thoroughly mixed. Half fill three or four small cups (previously buttered) with the mixture, and bake them in a moderately heated oven twenty to thirty minutes. Serve with a little white sugar. Canary Pudding (4, 5, 6).—Mix one and a half ounces of baked flour to a smooth batter with a quarter of a pint of milk ; add gradually one and a half ounces each of sugar and butter, with one egg, and a little brandy and grated nutmeg. Mix wall, and fill a mould half full with the mixture. Bake for three quarters of an hour. Batter Pudding (5, 6).—Add a little salt and a gill of milk to six ounces of baked flour, and mix them quite smooth. Beat up five eggs and strain them, then add them to the batter with some more milk until the mixture is as thick as good cream; strain the batter, and put it into a buttered basin with a cloth tied over the pudding. Boil one hour, and serve with powdered sugar and a little lemon-juice. Buttercup Pudding (5, 6).—Mix a quarter of a pound of bread crumbs with the same quantity of brown sugar and butter; add the yolks of five eggs and the whites of three, and then a quarter of a pint of milk; beat the whole up slowly, put it into small cups, and bake exactly twenty minutes. Sponge Puddings (5, 6).—Cream two ounces of butter, and add two eggs, one ounce of white powdered sugar, and a table- spoonful of flour; beat the whole up slowly, fill three small cups, and bake them for exactly twenty minutes. Puff Puddings (4, 5, 6).—Pour scalding milk upon white bread sliced, and let it stand till well soaked; then beat it well up with four eggs, a little sugar and grated nutmeg; half fill small cups with the mixture and bake. Leche Crema (5, 6).—Beat up yolks of three eggs and white of one, add gradually a pint and a half of milk; then mix very care- fully four tablespoonfuls of fine wheat flour and two ounces of powdered sugar, with grated lemon-peel for flavour. Boil over a slow fire, stirring constantly, until the flour is quite dissolved. When sufficiently boiled pour it upon biscuits in a dish. Serve cold, dusted over with powdered cinnamon.DRINKS. 57 VIII. DRINKS. As to the time for drinking, the golden rule is to drink only when thirsty, and to take no more than is enough to quench thirst. Drinking even water or other non-intoxicating beverage between meals is a habit not to be encouraged. None of the five good reasons for drinking should induce people to take alcoholic drinks between meals, as this practice always, sooner or later, injures the digestion. At meal-time a happy medium as to quantity is to be observed. Enough liquid must be taken to dilute the food, while too much fluid will impede digestion. Half a pint to a pint of fluid with each meal is a fair allowance, but some people require more, and some are better if they do not take so much. It is generally best to accustom oneself to drink only towards the end of a meal, but if the appetite be lessened by this practice, a small quantity of fluid may be allowed at the beginning of the meal, and the bulk of the drink required may then be taken after eating. Two and a half pints of fluid is the normal allowance for a day's drinking. The nature of the beverage should be suited to the taste and capability of each person. Some people are the better for a little alcohol, some are the worse. As a general rule, children should never take alcohol, whilst old persons are benefited by a mode- rate quantity. Tea and coffee should also be forbidden to chil- dren ; their chief drink should be milk or water. Water used to be, in Hesiod's time, the best of all drinks, but is now, what with sewage contamination and germs of diseases, and dirty filters, by no means free from danger. Rain-water would be the best water to drink, but it is gene- rally dirty before it can be collected, and is besides so insipid as to require passing through charcoal. Well and spring water are very liable to be contaminated by sewage. Spring water is very often too hard for drinking. River water is also diluted sewage if the houses on the banks drain into the river. Lake water, taken from lakes which are remote from all houses, and not supplied by rivers running through towns, should be the most wholesome, if the water be good and not too hard. Water conveyed through leaden pipes often contains poisonous material derived from the pipe, especially if the water be hard or sparkling. Water from iron pipes is not always more whole- some, producing anosmia and dyspepsia. Sparkling water is to be regarded with suspicion, as it fre- quently owes its appearance to defilement with sewage.DRINKS. 58 Flat waters are nauseous through their tastelessness, and should be filtered through charcoal. Cold water excites appetite and helps digestion. A glass of cold water the last thing at night, or the first thing in the morn- ing, washes out the stomach and strengthens it. Cold water is as necessary outside as inside the body. Iced water, if used too frequently, may cause inflammation of the digestive tract. Water may be cooled, where no ice is to be had, by keeping it in a porous bottle, which should be hung in a draught, and should have water dropping constantly on its outer side. Large draughts of cold water, when one is overheated, are dangerous. "Warm water is an excellent emetic but not a wholesome beverage. Hot water is stimulating and sudorific, and an excellent aid to diges- tion, especially in dyspepsia with a tendency to congestion, when about a quarter of a pint of hot water should be taken at the end of each meal. Hard water tends to dry up the skin and mucous membranes, and thereby to impair digestion. It may be the cause of goitre (?), gout, gravel, and stone. The hardness may be removed by boiling the water, or by adding to it bicarbonate of soda (as much as will lie on a threepenny bit to each quart of water). All water that is intended for drinking should be filtered. It is very essential that the filter should be thoroughly cleaned every six weeks or two months, especially when the water con- tains much solid matter. Filters are useless, or worse than use- less, if not kept perfectly clean. "Water as to the perfect purity of which any suspicion is entertained, should be boiled first, and filtered afterwards. A simple test for water is evaporating a teaspoonful or so in a watch-glass over a spirit-lamp; if there be any brownish deposit left on the glass after the water has evaporated, the water is probably bad, and should be further tried by Nessler's test, which can be obtained from any chemist. Impure water may cause diarrhcea, dysentery, dyspepsia, or ^Not more than a tumblerful of water should be drunk at a time. A slice of lemon in a tumblerful of cold water makes it more refreshing and more wholesome. Non-Alcoholic Drinks. Barley-water and toast and water are better than plain water for relieving thirst in fever, especially if the drinking water be hard. , Raspberry vinegar, lemonade, and orangeade, are not only59 BRINKS. refreshing drinks, but tend to diminish fever. They will, how- ever, sometimes disagree, and should not be given too liberally. Mulberry and gooseberry syrups, with the addition of water, may be substituted for raspberry vinegar and lemonade, but are not so wholesome, nor so refreshing. Sherbet will sometimes agree better than lemonade, and, if not made too sweet, may be used as a substitute for it, especially when there is nausea and sickness. Lemon squash is even better than sherbet. Oxymel, which is made of vinegar and honey, if freely diluted with water, makes a good alternative for lemonade, and is useful to dissolve the concretions produced in the intestine by too pro- longed use of magnesia or soda. Hydromel, i.e. honey and water, is a refreshing drink. Oxycrat, i.e. vinegar and water with sugar, may also be sub- stituted for lemonade. As to eau sucree and orgeat, and other preparations of almonds, they are not unpleasant, bat their nourishing and digestive pro- perties are exaggerated. Lime-juice, though excellent for scurvy, is too rough in flavour to be acceptable to invalids, and is besides liable to disagree. The Aylesbury Dairy Company supply a very wholesome and refreshing effervescent drink which they call " Bland," and which is variously flavoured. They claim that it promotes digestion. Alcoholic Drinks. A few years ago, almost every disease was treated with alcohol in some form or other; nowadays it is the fashion to deciy alcohol, and to forbid its administration altogether. Probably it will not be long before medical men will partly revert to their former practice, and again prescribe moderate quantities of al- cohol in many diseases in which it is now considered unnecessary or injurious. Dr. King Chambers makes the following remarks on alcohol: 1. In moderate quantities with meals alcohol increases the appetite and the digestive powers. 2. In excess it damages the nervous system, thereby causing hysteria or alcoholism; it also damages the blood-vessels and impairs the vital activity. These influences continue as long as the alcohol is retained in the blood. 3. The principal diseases caused by continued and regular excess in alcohol are congestion and hardening of the liver, Bright's disease, condensation of the lungs, thickening of the larynx and bronchi, and ossification and thickening of the walls of the arteries.DRINKS. €0 4. Excessive drinking not only increases the risk of injury, but interferes with the recovery after injury. 5. Alcohol does not prevent tuberculosis (consumption), but does retard its progress. 6. Drunkenness is not so dangerous as drinking without getting drunk. Intoxication produces indigestion and vomiting, which clears the blood of the alcohol imbibed. 7. Some kinds of alcohol are worse than others. New spirits, which contain fusel oil, are especially injurious. The same author gives the following rules concerning alcohol: (a) The best time to take it is after work, or with the evening meal. (b) The increase of appetite and of digestive power is the guide as to whether to take alcohol, and as to what kind and what quantity should be taken. (c) Care should be taken that the alcohol be good of its kind. (d) No alcohol at all should be taken by those who have a hereditary tendency to hysteria or other nervous diseases. (e) Some dyspeptic persons do better without any alcohol during the day, but a glass of hot whiskey toddy on going to bed. (/) The daily use at dinner of a moderate amount of alcohol is good for brain workers. A good light wine is the best form, beer the next best, then strong wines diluted with water, and lastly diluted spirits. Alcohol should never be taken on an empty stomach, and should never be given to children. In old age less alcohol suffices, but it should not be quite given up by those who have all their lives been accustomed to take it, else a slight illness may carise fatal effects; even total abstainers should relax their rule in advanced age. Sometimes alcohol is the only form of food which the stomach can deal with, but when possible easily as- similated food, such as light biscuits or pancreatised gruel, should be given with it, even when the digestion is much impaired. " There are two matters connected with alcohol well worth bearing in mind. " 1. Never have alcohol in the brain when it has work to do. " 2. A little alcohol between a man and a past trouble is per- missible, but it is not well to put a little alcohol in front of a coming trouble." (Dr. Fothergill.) " 1. Alcohol is useful in the course of most acute diseases, when the organs of circulation begin to fail, as they are apt to do. A moderate quantity usually suffices. " 2. In convalescence from acute diseases or from other weaken- ing ailments, when the circulation remains feeble, and the tem- perature is often subnormal, alcohol is also useful in promoting the circulation and assisting digestion.61 DRINKS. " 3. In persons of advanced life the circulation is also often feeble, and a moderate allowance of alcohol often appears to be beneficial. " All other conditions of the system marked by weakness of the muscular wall of the heart, whether permanent or transient, are usually benefited by alcohol." (Dr. Murchison.) "Wine is one of the best tonics in existence. There is no medi- cine nor combination of medicines in the whole Pharmacopoeia which has half the reviving effect of a glass of champagne, when the vital powers are almost exhausted. Wine in moderation increases the activity of the circulation and of the digestion, and gives a feeling of warmth, in fact "maketh glad the heart of man." Wines may be roughly classified as white, red, sparkling, and sweet. White Wines generally contain less alcohol than red wines ; they tend to increase the secretion of urine. The best known white wines are sherry, Rhine, and Moselle wines, still Cham- pagne, white Burgundy and Sauterne. Sherry is generally too much fortified with spirit to be a wholesome drink, and is apt to produce acidity and gout. It is, however, not such a bad thing to take a little sherry with the soup at the beginning of a heavy dinner, as it stimulates the secre- tion of the gastric j uice. A little water added to sherry makes it more wholesome. The natural or unbrandied sherry is a very excellent summer drink and wholesome. Marsala is an inferior, Madeira a superior, sherry. Brown sherry is not by any means so whole- some as pale sherry. Still Moselle and Rhine Wines (Hocks).—The better sorts- are aromatic and highly stimulating. All these wines increase the action of the kidneys, and are often useful in cases of gravel, gout, and stone, and in acid dyspepsia, as well as for some cases of atonic dyspepsia. One or two wineglassfuls of hock or Moselle stimulate digestion, but larger quantities delay it. They are still more wholesome when mixed with effervescing mineral waters. White Burgundy (Chablis) and Sauterne have much the same effect as B-hine wines, but are rather more acid. They are very good in salad dressing. Red Wines contain more tannin and more alcohol, and the stronger sorts, which are generally mixed with a good deal of brandy, are less wholesome than white wines. The commonest red wines are port, Burgundy, claret, and the red German wines. Port is the noblest of all wines, but unfortunately it has a greater tendency to cause acidity and gout than any other wine (except perhaps champagne). It is an excellent tonic, and is specially useful in non-rheumatic neuralgia, a glassful every three hours, alternately with a fall dose of quinine, producingDBJNKS. 62 speedy relief. Port is too generous a wine to be mixed with mineral waters, a combination wbicb would remove most of its injurious qualities. Port bas a similar effect on tbe digestion to sherry. Burgundy, provided that it be good, is nearly equal to port, but it requires great care in its treatment, and is not often found good. It should be at the temperature of the dining-room when drunk, not colder. It is an excellent remedy in quinsy, and after much loss of blood, but if drunk habitually, and in too large quantities, will produce gout. Claret is very seldom brought to table warm enough, and when not sufficiently warmed is a rough acid wine. It has the same qualities as Burgundy but is milder, and it has a similar action on the digestion to that of hock. It is most wholesome when drunk with effervescent alkaline waters. Claret is a good tonic, and with mineral waters is one of the best beverages for dyspeptics. There is an excellent Spanish red wine, which is sold as Spanish claret, which has all the good properties of good claret, and is even more wholesome, besides being only one-fourth of the price. Red. German Wines are of the same class as claret, but generally lighter and less alcoholic. Hungarian Wines are much bepraised nowadays. They resemble the Rhine wines, but contain more alcohol, and have usually not so fine a flavour. In Hungary they are mostly drunk diluted with sparkling mineral waters. Sparkling Wines have a beneficial effect upon the digestion, and are very exhilarating, but if drunk habitually they cause acidity and gout. A glass of good champagne, repeated at intervals of an hour or less will often help a patient almost in collapse to tide over a crisis; it is especially useful for aged persons. Sparkling wines should be drunk with dinner not after dinner. Sparkling Moselle is more wholesome than champagne. Sweet Wines, e.g. Tokay, Malaga, Malmsey, Port, Lacryma Christi, &c, should only be taken in liqueur glasses with a plain biscuit when the stomach is not full, and are good as a stop-gap between meals. On the whole perhaps a good port or Moselle is the safest wine to drink regularly, next to that a good light claret, and next to that natural sherry. Wine should only be drunk once in the day, and that towards the end of the principal meat meal, not at the beginning of a meal. Two wineglassfuls are as much as should be taken with the meal. When wine causes heartburn, it should be taken with sparkling alkaline water, and if it still causes heartburn it should be discontinued, for a time at any rate.63 DRINKS. "Wines to be wholesome must not only be good, but they must be kept in good condition, and served at the right temperature; cold wine does not improve the digestion nor the appetite. Dry wines are more wholesome than fruity wines. Persons liable to rheumatism should avoid all wines. Beer is not only a real food, but has a favorable effect on diges- tion if taken in moderate quantities. Half a pint of beer at a meal promotes the digestion of food, although large quantities delay it. The bitter of the hops in beer promotes the appetite. Light beers, if too fresh, may cause flatulence, colic, heartburn, &c. Stout is very often more suited to bilious persons than lighter ales, though sometimes the reverse is the case. Taken in con- siderable quantities stout is a useful remedy in some wasting diseases, especially consumption. It should be given in these cases in gradually increasing quantities, slightly warmed, but care must be taken that the digestion is not thereby affected. Stout-drinkers will be glad to learn that the flavour of their favourite beverage is imparted by London smoke. (Lombard.) Beer should not be drunk at meals when much fat or oily matter is consumed, as it is likely to produce acidity and flatu- lence with these foods. A glass of beer two hours after the last meal in the day will often produce sleep. The light, bitter table-beers and Bavarian beer are the most wholesome, as containing least alcohol. Beer is best digested when drunk during a meal. Beer should be forbidden to all those who are liable to rheu- matism. Dyspeptics and persons above the age of fifty are, as a rule, unable to drink beer, especially when they have any dis- ease of the liver. Spirits should not be drunk neat, but always freely diluted, in the proportion of five parts of water to one of spirit. One and a half sherry-glasses full of spirit per diem is a sufficient allowance for a man. Spirits are the most injurious form of alcohol when taken in excess, but in moderation are useful in some cases of dys- pepsia, and where it is desirable to give the alcohol in a concen- trated form. They should never be drunk on an empty stomach. Spirits should be at least ten years old; when of less age they are not free from fusel oil. Spirits are least unwholesome when mixed with effervescent alkaline water, such as potash, soda, or Seltzer water. Brandy.—Cognac is far the best form. Brandy, if it can be obtained good, is the most wholesome form of spirit, but it sometimes causes biliousness. Freely diluted with soda-water it is often useful in atonic dyspepsia, and is used medicinally in many exhausting diseases. Brandy and egg is an excellent re- storative food and stimulant.64 DRINKS. Whiskey is the most popular drink, and, in consequence of its popularity, the most unwholesome, the demand for it being so great that the distillers sell immature spirit, which is full of fusel oil. Whiskey which is not sufficiently aged has a marked and injurious effect on the kidneys and bladder. It sometimes produces biliousness. There is no difference between Irish and Scotch whiskey in dietetic value. Gin if old is a wholesome spirit, but in excess it injures both the liver and the kidneys. It is a useful diuretic, but is depres- sing in its effects. Unsweetened gin is the best. Rum.—Good old rum is a wholesome spirit, but, like other spirits, it may produce biliousness. Rum and milk before rising in the morning is an excellent drink in debility from phthisis and other wasting diseases, but is now too much neglected. Rum that has been heated and allowed to cool is more wholesome than in its ordinary state, part of its alcohol being driven off by the heat. Cider if not too new is a wholesome drink, provided that it be well made. It contains only a small proportion of alcohol, and may be used as a cooling drink in feverishness and in scurvy. New cider is difficult of digestion and sometimes purgative. It is a popular remedy in Germany for " hot coppers." Liqueurs are noxious except in very small quantities after dinner, and even then most persons of delicate digestion should avoid them. They are generally too sweet. Some, such as Kirschwasser, Noyeau and Persicot, contain a good deal of prussic acid, and may be dangerous except in small doses. Kirsch- wasser (and cherry brandy), Maraschino, and Noyeau, are perhaps the least objectionable. Cups are wholesome drinks if they do not contain too much spirit. The flavour of Curacoa may be obtained without its poison, by substituting for it the peel of a Tangerine orange rubbed over with a lump of sugar. Borage and cucumber-rind are not injurious. (Dr. King Chambers.) Tea, Coffee, Chocolate, and Cocoa. Tea, the most fashionable beverage of modern times, is a poor and unwholesome substitute for milk and beer. Although it is now frequently recommended by physicians as a stimulant in place of alcohol, it may in some cases be more injurious than brandy, especially as people generally suppose that they can do themselves no harm by it, however much they may drink. Tea is more harmful than either coffee or chocolate, as containing more tannin, a principle which tends to produce dyspepsia. The uses of tea are:—To flavour hot water, which is often a beneficial drink ; to soothe the nerves when they have been over- wrought by hunger, fatigue, cold, or mental excitement—in suchDKINKS. 65 cases it gives a sense of warmth and comfort, relieves weariness, and allays the craving of hunger, causing a slight general ex- citement, an effect whieh lasts some hours; lastly, it increases perspiration and the flow of urine. It will be seen that the uses of tea are all similar to those of alcohol. On the other hand, the disadvantages of tea are not inconsider- able. According to Sir Wm. Roberts, tea retards both salivary and peptic digestion, especially if taken in large quantities, and strong tea inhibits salivary digestion more than either coffee or cocoa; tea, therefore, should not be partaken of at the same time as starch foods. This action can, however, be modified by adding a pinch of bicarbonate of soda to the boiling water, which does not affect the flavour of the tea. A slice of lemon is some- times substituted for the bicarbonate of soda, but this does affect the flavour, and is not good for those who are troubled with acidity—a complaint to which tea-drinkers are especially liable. Afternoon tea is especially injurious to the stomach. Tea does not hinder the digestion of bam and tongue, though it does of fresh meat and farinaceous food, and is therefore most suitable for breakfast. Excessive tea-drinking may produce symptoms of poisoning, viz. yawning, general irritability, a feeling of weight and fulness about the stomach, general tremors and enfeeblement, loss of appetite, spasms, cramps, flatulence, sleeplessness, leanness, vertigo, palpitation and functional derangement of the heart, disturbance of the circulation, gastric catarrh, and a peculiar anxiousness. Excessive tea-drinking is said to lead to excessive alcohol-drinking. Children should not be allowed to drink tea nor coffee nor alcohol. Dyspepsia in a very large majority of cases is increased by tea-drinking. Persons troubled with this complaint will do well to abstain from tea altogether, but if the habit of this kind of dram-drinking is too strong for them, they should drink as little as they can, and that little not too hot, and always with bicarbonate of soda, or with a slice of lemon. Of the different sorts of tea that known as Pekoe is the least un- wholesome ; it consists of small leaves covered with a white bloom. The water with which tea is made should always be soft, or if soft water cannot be procured, carbonate of soda should be added to the water. The water must be boiling at the time that it is poured on to the tea. Ten grains of tea-leaves, i. e. a tea- spoonful, is the proper allowance for a breakfast-cupful of tea, and when the boiling water has been poured over it, it should not be allowed to stand moi-e than five minutes. Creani, milk, and brandy destroy the flavour of tea, but a little sugar does no harm. Tea with milk is especially unwholesome in sickneES. Coffee, the most common drink on the Continent, is somewhat 5DKINKS. 66 more wholesome than tea, and is also more nourishing. Coffee, like tea, is partially a stimulant; it increases the action of the heart and the blood pressure, and quickens the pulse, but these effects soon pass off. Excessive coffee-drinking pi'oduces palpi- tation, giddiness, nervous trembling, sleeplessness, loss of appe- tite, and eventually weakness of the action of the heart, and in rare cases paralysis agitans. In the East coffee is pounded to an impalpable powder, which is thrown into boiling water and allowed to stand for some minutes, and the infusion is then drank, grounds and all. Coffee beans should be roasted to a golden yellow or quite pale brown, not to the dark brown colour usual in England. The roasting is best done on an iron plate, and care is necessary that the beans are roasted equally and not allowed to burn, one burnt bean being enough to spoil all the rest of the coffee. Some people sprinkle the beans while they are being roasted with pow- dered sugar (an ounce to the pound of coffee). When the beans are of a golden yellow they should be spread out on a plate of iron to cool. After roasting, coffee should be kept in a covered jar in a dry place. The beans should not be ground until they are wanted, and should then be reduced to a fine powder. The preparation of coffee is managed in two ways. For the decoction one and a half to two and a half ounces of coffee (according to the strength required) are allowed to each pint of water. Three fourths of the powdered coffee are put into cold water and boiled for ten minutes, then the other fourth is added and the coffee taken from the fire and allowed to stand for five minutes. The infusion is prepared by pouring the boiling water over the coffee powder and allowing it to drain through. Coffee should be prepared in silver, porcelain, or enamelled iron vessels, not in tin coffee pots. The water used for making coffee should be soft, or if hard, must have soda added to it, as much bicarbo- nate of soda as will lie on a threepenny-piece being enough for one pint of water. The decoction of coffee is more bitter, less exciting, and less digestible than the infusion; the latter, therefore, is more suit- able for invalids and for drinking after dinner. Milk, cream, and sugar diminish the exciting and stimulating effects of coffee, but make it less digestible. Sugar and milk in coffee often cause heartburn. An egg beaten up in coffee is often well borne. .,, „ , A cup of black infused coffee, with a few drops of lemon-juice, will often remove the headache caused by stomach troubles. Infused black coffee is a pood remedy for cramp of the stomach, and the effect is increased by the addition of a tablespoonful of liqueur brandy or Kirschwasser.DRINKS. 67 A cup of hot, strong black coffee will sometimes cut short an attack of asthma. ' . Coffee has but a slight effect on the salivary digestion, and is therefore better than tea as a drink at breakfast, where bread is an important part of the meal. It retards peptic digestion like tea, but has no effect on the digestion by the pancreatic juices. Strong black coffee after dinner helps digestion in healthy persons, but does not suit feeble stomachs. It should be taken directly after dinner, not an hour or so after eating. Coffee causes constipation and a tendency to piles in some persons, but is laxative with others. No essences of coffee, or artificial preparations, should be used. Chocolate is often adulterated with rice-meal, starch, brick dust, fat, &c. The test of the purity of chocolate is that it leaves no grounds when boiled. English chocolate and cocoa have but an indifferent character abroad. The German saying runs: " Buy French chocolate, try German, fly English." Chocolate is not so exciting as tea or coffee. It is more nourish- ing and wholesome than either of these, and has a slight tonic effect upon the stomach; but it mostly causes constipation, and should therefore be avoided by all persons with sluggish action of the bowels. Milk-chocolate is sometimes better digested by dyspeptic persons than milk alone; it is often well borne in cancer of the stomach; it should not be taken by those who suffer from gout or acid dyspepsia. Chocolate with arrowroot, sago, tapioca, or salep, is good in diarrhoea and the resulting weakness. French chocolate is prepared by breaking up an ounce and a half of chocolate to one third of a pint of water or milk. The fluid must be replaced as it evaporates in the cooking. When the water or milk begins to boil put in the broken chocolate, stir it gently till it is quite melted, then boil for six to eight minutes, stirring slowly all the time. Lastly, let it simmer beside the fire for half an hour without boiling, and stir it occasionally. The German way of preparing chocolate is by breaking up an ounce of chocolate and putting it into a breakfast-cupful of cold water or milk, warming slowly, and then boiling for a full half hour, stirring diligently all the time with a wooden spoon. Silver, enamelled iron, or porcelain vessels (not tin ones) are to be used for the preparation of chocolate, and the spoon with which it is stirred should be used for no other purpose. Dry chocolate often agrees well with delicate stomachs, and is nourishing. It should not be eaten with bread and butter. Chocolat de sante is the most suitable for delicate digestions, but vanilla chocolate digests very readily. Honey may be used instead of sugar in chocolate for those whose digestion is irritable.68 D KINKS. Cocoa is chocolate deprived of its oil and fatty matters. It is more digestible but less nourishing than chocolate, and not so delicate in flavour. It is as constipating as chocolate. Cocoa and tapioca make an excellent combination in diarrhoea. Cocoa is prepared by pouring a heaped-up tablespoonful of the powder into half a pint of cold water (or milk), stirring it in evenly, warming it slowly, and boiling for ten minutes over a slow fire, stirring diligently. Savory and Moore's peptonised cocoa and milk is a very nice preparation and very digestible, but does not keep well when opened. Van Houten's is the best cocoa with which I am acquainted. Cocoatina contains still less fat than the ordinary cocoas, and is therefore more digestible, but still less nourishing and of less flavour than other cocoas. Toast and Water (1, 2, 3, &c.).—Toast a thick slice of bread a deep brown, taking care not to let it burn. When the toast is cold pour over it a quart of boiling water. Let it stand for an hour, and then strain through muslin. A slice of lemon maybe added if preferred. Toast and water should not be kept more than twelve hours after it is made. . Apple Toast and Water (2, 3, 4, &c).—A piece of bread slowly toasted to a very dark brown (not burnt) is placed in boiling apple water. (Dr. Milner Fothergill.) Lemonade (1, 2, 3, &c.).—Rub a quarter of a pound of sugar on the rinds of four lemons till the sugar is quite yellow ; then squeeze over it the juice of the lemons (which should be cut lengthwise), and pour three pints of boiling water oyer the juice and sugar. Cover this till cold, and strain before using. Lemonade and Malt Extract (1, 2, 3, &c.).—Pare the rind of a lemon thinly, cut the lemon into slices, and put these into a jug. Pour over it a pint of hot water. Add malt-extract (or Meilin's Food) to taste. (Dr. Fothergill.) Imperial Drink (1, 2, 3, &c.).— Pare the rind of a lemon thinly, cut it into slices, and put these into a jug with a dessertspoonful of cream of tartar, and two tablespoonfuls of white sugar. Pour over them one quart of boiling water. Cover till cold, and StLrnie-Water (1, 2, 3, &c.).—Put two ounces of slaked lime into one gallon of pure (filtered or distilled) water. Let it stand for thirty-six hours in a stoppered bottle; then draw off with a siphon the clear fluid. Keep in stoppered bottles. Barley-Water (2, 3, 4, &c.).—Soak two ounces of pearl barley in cold water. Strain. Boil five minutes in fresh water, and strain again. Pour on the barley two quarts of boiling water,DRINKS. 69 and boil down to one quart; stir it occasionally and skim fre- cmently. Flavour with powdered sugar-candy and the juice and thinly cut rind of a lemon, if allowable. Do not strain unless the patient desires it. For infants the barley-water should be strained, and of course no lemon-juice or rind may be used ; it should for this purpose be boiled to one and a half quarts only. Demulcent Drink (2, 3,4, &c.).—Boil a large pinch of isinglass with half a dozen pounded almonds and two lumps of sugar m a tumblerful of milk. To be taken warm. (Dr. Broadbent.)^ Malt Tea (2, 3, 4, &c.).—Boil three ounces of malt m two pints of water. Strain. [Dr. King Chambers.) Lemon-Water 2, 3, &c).—Put two slices of lemon, a little lemon-peel and a lump of sugar into a vessel; pour m a pint of boiling water, and cover it closely for two hours. Apple-Water (2, 3, &c.).—Pour a quart of boiling water, sweetened with a quarter of a pound of sugar (or less, according to taste) over two roasted apples ; strain after three hours, and keep in a cool place. Rhubarb-Water (3, 4, 5, 6).—Made like apple-water, with stewed rhubarb for roasted apples. Apple Barley-Water (2, 3, 4, &c.).—A quarter of a pound of pearl barley added to apple-water, and boiled for one hour. (Dr. Fothergill.) . Apple Riee-Water (2, 3,4, &c.).—Half a pound of rice boiled in apple water, strained through a cullender, and drunk cold. (Dr. Fothergill.) Claret Cup (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Half a bottle of claret to a bottle of soda-water and a good lump of ice. Half-a-dozen drops of sweet spirits of nitre put into the jug first give it a fruity flavour. (Dr. King Chambers.) Linseed Tea (2, 3, 4, &c).—Take of whole linseed, and white sugar, of each one ounce, liquorice root half an ounce, lemon-juice four tablespoonfuls. Pour on them two pints of boiling water, and let it stand in a hot place four hours; then strain. (This should be avoided by persons who are taking iron, lead, or copper. Linseed tea is demulcent and diuretic.) (Dr. King Chambers.) American Drink (2, 3, 4, &c.).—Put the juice of a lemon to a pint of water, in which an ounce of sugar has been dissolved; add the white of an egg, and beat well up. This may be iced. (Dr. Fothergill.) Tamarind-Water (3, 4, 5).—Boil two ounces of tamarinds with a quarter of a pound of stoned raisins in three pints of water for an hour; strain, and let it stand till cold. (Dr. Fothergill.) Arrowroot and Black Currant Drink (3,4, 5, &c).—Boil two tablespoonfuls of black currant jam in a quart of water; cover it, and stew gently for half an hour. Strain, and put on the fireCOOKING. 70 again; then mix a teaspoonf ul of arrowroot in cold water, and pom- the boiling liquor upon it, stirring constantly. Let it stand till cold. (Dr. Fothergill.) Alkaline Drink (3, 4, 5, &c.).—Cut the rind of a lemon very thin, and put it in a jug with a tablespoonful of powdered sugar- candy. Pour on it a little boiling water, and when the candy is dissolved half a pint of Yichy water and half a pint of common water. (Dr. King Chambers.) Almond Drink (3, 4, 5, &c).—Two ounces of compound powder of almonds rubbed up with one pint of water. (Softening and nutritious in chest cases.) (Dr. King Chambers.) Bael Drink (2, 3, &c).—Half an ounce to one ounce of liquid extract of unripe Bael fruit in one pint of water. (In dysentery and diarrhoea.) (Dr. King Chambers.) Orgeat (3, 4, 5, &c).—Beat to a paste two ounces of almonds, with a teaspoonful of orange-flower water and a bitter almond, and pour a quart of milk and water (equal parts) on the paste. Place the glass in hot water if required warm. Orangeade or Lemonade (2-3, 3, 4, &c.).—Pour boiling water on a little of the peel, and cover close. Boil some water and sugar to a thin syrup and skim it Squeeze the juice, and mix it with the syrup and the infusion of peel (when both are cold); add as much water as will make a rich sherbet. Strain through a ^Coffee (4, 5, 6).—Take of fresh roasted and fresh ground coffee a quarter of an ounce to each cupful of water; put this into a silver, china, or glass coffee machine (not a tin one), and pour the boiling water over it, and let it pass through the strainer of the machine. If the water used be hard, a pinch of bicarbonate of soda must be added to it. Tea (6).—Pour boiling water into a small china or earthen- ware teapot; empty it out, and while the pot is still hot put in the tea. Add enough boiling water (with a pinch of bicarbonate of soda) to wet it thoroughly, and set it close to the fire to steam for four to five minutes. Then pour in the quantity of boiling water required, and immediately transfer the fluid, Avithout the tea-leaves, to a second warm pot. IX. COOKING. Roasting.—The fire should be bright and clear, and the meat at first hung close to it, in order that the outside layer may be quickly cooked, as the juices of the meat are better retained within it when the outside is hardened by quick cooking. After a short time, the meat should be hung farther away from the fire so that the interior of the. joint may be cooked more slowly71 COOKING. Basting must be carried on while the meat is cooking, that the gravy which escapes from the meat may be incorporated again with the meat, and that the outside may not be burnt. Salt should not be applied to a joint until a slight moisture breaks out on the outside of the meat. Meat ought not to shrink much m cooking and when it is cut open red gravy should escape from it. Roasting is the best, the most palateable, and the most nutritious way of cooking a joint. The outside slices should be avoided by persons who are troubled with delicate digestion. Baking is a poor and unwholesome imitation of roasting. Grilling or Broiling should be managed in the same way as roasting. The meat to be grilled should be coated with butter and bread crumb, so that the interior may be juicy and tender. This process is not so good for meat as roasting, but is very suitable for fish. Frying is also not such a wholesome way of cooking as roast- ing. It requires some skill in management, and should be done lightly, that is, quickly and evenly. The meat should be laid in boiling oil or butter, or lard (oil being better than butter, and butter than lard), and turned over at first until each side is browned; afterwards' it should be cooked through. It is a bad plan to cook one side first and then the other side. Boiling.—To boil a joint it should be plunged into boiling water (to which salt and five drops of hydrochloric acid for each pound of meat have been added beforehand) and made to boil fast for five minutes, after which it should be allowed to simmer slowly until it is done. Boiled meat is less nutritious than roast, but is said to be more easily digested. In boiling beef-tea and soups the meat should not be plunged into boiling water, but should be chopped up, and then soaked for two or three hours in cold water, and then very slowly heated and kept simmering for some hours. Stewing.—Stewed meat is very easy of digestion, but often served with too rich a gravy, and therefore unwholesome. The best mode of stewing is with the bain-marie in which the food is cooked in its own juice. Braising is too much neglected in England. In this way of cooking, the meat is just covered with a strong liquor of vege- table and animal juices in a closely-covered vessel with as little evaporation as possible, and is exposed for a long time to sur- rounding heat just short of boiling. Thus the tough, fibrous flesh, even of old or of newly-killed animals, is made tender and easily digestible, and impregnated with the odours and flavours of fresh vegetables and sweet herbs. The liquor, slowly reduced in the process, furnishes the most appropriate, fragrant, and de- licious sauce. Meats which are dry or almost flavourless become saturated with juices and combined with sapid substances, whichFISH. 72 render the food succulent and delicious to the palate. (Sir H. Thompson.') Slices of ham or bacon, cut carrots, parsnips, turnips, onions, with various herbs, a bay-leaf, cloves, and other spices, with a little wine and a small quantity of good meat stock, are placed around the meat in the braising-pot (Sir H. Thompson)—but these additions to the flavour are not intended for persons of weak digestion. If fire be placed on the lid of the braising-pot the meat is half roasted. In such cases it is best to cover the meat with white paper. Of general rules about cooking the following should be ob- served : All meat should be a little underdone rather than overdone, but if too much underdone it will probably offend more than one of the delicate senses of a sick person, and prevent a fastidious appetite from relishing the food. Too much seasoning makes unwholesome cookery. Even salt should be used sparingly in cooking, as it can always be added afterwards according to the taste of the eater. Meat should not be pricked with a fork while roasting to see if it is cooked, as this makes a vent for the juices to escape at. _ Gravy should always be free from fat, and is indigestible if burnt. Gravy is improved by the addition of a little meat extract. Butter or olive oil should be preferred to lard for frying and grilling for invalids. Anchovy-butter is wholesomer than butter alone, besides imparting a flavour to the meat cooked. Lard, suets, and fats congeal quickly, and make the meat cooked in them indigestible. Delicate persons should never touch twice-cooked meats; cold meat is better for them than warmed-up dishes, and is especially suitable with a glass of good wine in convalescence. Smoked, pickled, and salted meats are not so digestible as fresh meat. Meat should not be too fat, as excess of fat hinders digestion. Large joints are not suitable for an invalid's table. Small, delicate, tasty dishes will appeal more successfully to his palate. All hot food should be served quite hot, with hot plate6 on clean linen. The most scrupulous neatness and cleanliness is abso- lutely necessary to encourage sick people to take food. X. FISH. Fish is the most easily digested form of solid food, and is also fairly nourishing; it is therefore the most suitable diet m earlyFISH. 7$ convalescence, when the stomach is capahle of digesting this kind of intermediate food between " slops" and meat. It forms also a most suitable food for the aged, and for sedentary persons. Fish is more digestible than meat, starch foods, or leguminous vegetables, but less nutritious. Some kinds of fish are more nutritious than others; mackerel produces more force than an equal quantity of lean beef, and herring and salmon are superior to mackerel in this respect, whilst whiting contains only half as. much force-producing material as lean beef. _ Tor persons just recovering from acute illness, and for dys- peptics, steamed or boiled fish is more suitable than fried fish, and such persons should take no sauce with their fish, except a few drops of fresh lemon-juice, or, in more favorable cases, a little Worcester sauce; a little chicken broth poured over the fish is a good and wholesome substitute for melted butter or other made sauces. In frying fish for convalescents, the butter or fat must be boiling hot in the pan before ,the fish is put into it; only the inner flesh should be eaten, and the hard, outside skin rejected. Sea fish is more wholesome, more nourishing, and of better flavour than fresh-water fish. Some sorts of fish contain much fat and oily matter, and are proportionally harder to digest. The unwholesomeness of salmon is owing to the great quantity of fat in its flesh; sprats, herrings, pilchards, shad, tunny, eel,, and mackerel are also oily fish, and should be avoided by persons with delicate digestions, and the red mullet (unfortunately) has the same property, though in a less degree. Cod, ling, and hake, and fresh haddock are often tough, and consequently indigestible, unless great care is taken in cooking them. Soles, whitings, and smelts are the most digestible and most delicately flavoured of all fish. The following are briefly the characteiistics of the various- sorts of fish, and the best ways of dressing them for invalids : Soles—delicate of flavour, easy of digestion, and nourishing— should be boiled or fried. The fillets are best for invalids, and may be seiwed plainly boiled or fried, or fried au gratin, or aux fines herbes, or a la Orly, in turban, or dressed with white wine, or in court-bouillon. Whiting are light and digestible. They are nicer fried than boiled. They are dressed in the same ways as soles. Smelts are tender, and easily digested if taken in moderation. They are generally served fried, or au gratin, or in court-bouillon. Flounders and Dabs are soft, delicate, and easy of digestion, but watery. They are best in May and June, and are either boiled, or fried au gratin, or gi-illed. Haddock, when fresh, is juicy and wholesome and easy of digestion.PISH. 74 Plaice is very tender and nutritious, and is served fried, or au gratin, or with white wine, like soles. Dory has firm and flaky flesh, and is an excellent and whole- some fish. It is less rich than turbot. Dory is served boiled or in court-bouillon. Turbot contains much jelly. Only small, young turbot should be eaten by invalids, and in this state it is delicate, and digestible enough, and very nourishing. It is most wholesome plainly boiled or in court-bouillon, but it may be served au gratin, or d la Bechamel. Large turbot are too rich for persons with delicate digestion. Brill, when young, is delicate and excellent, but is not always easy of digestion, especially when large. It is dressed like the turbot. Halibut is another flat fish akin to the turbot and to the flounder. It is to be served like the turbot. Sea-bream is a fish of white and tender flesh. It may be served broiled in its skin ; the skin, however, should not be eaten. Grey Mullet is wholesome and nourishing. It is usually eaten boiled. Skate is an easily digested fish, and also of high nutritive value. It is sometimes leathery, and should then be avoided. The only time when skate is fit to eat is between August and April. It is usually boiled either whole or crimped. Thornback, inferior kind of skate. Cod is one of the best known fish, and is a very good food when it can be digested; but it always requires careful cooking, and is often tough or hard, in which case it is very unwholesome. When crimped it is more wholesome and more palatable. It may be served boiled, fried, or in cutlets. Ling and Hake are of the same class as cod, but inferior in every way. Salt Fish is usually cod, ling, or hake, and is not only nasty, but very indigestible, and has but one recommendation, viz. the egg sauce, which is also not very wholesome. Gurnet or Gurnard is a very excellent food. It should be boiled in court-bouillon. Bass has white, flaky, delicate and savoury flesh, and is easy of digestion. It is sometimes styled a "white salmon." It is cooked like the cod. Sturgeon, the royal fish 'par excellence—a, most excellent and nourishing fish, of which the flesh approaches that of beef or veal in flavour, and is not more easily digestible. It is best when young, and may be boiled, roasted, baked, or braised. Caviare, the roe of the sturgeon, is not a food, but a stimu- lant. A little on toast before dinner seems to excite the stomach to do its work, and to promote appetite, but in large quantitiesFISH. 75 it is heavy and indigestible. It should be quite fresh; if mouldy, it may cause diarrhoea. < . Shad is a gross, indigestible fish, which is either boiled era court-bouillon ; or broiled, or roasted and served on sorrel; or the fillets are fried in butter. Fresh Herrings, unfortunately, have too much tat to be very easily digested, but they are very nourishing and tasty. In small quantities they may be tried in late convalescence, or as an occasional fish for dyspeptics. They should be boiled, grilled, or baked, and served with mustard sauce. , Bloaters and Kippers are to be avoided by people with deli- cate digestions, but they are excellent in such a case as that sung by Ingoldsby— " We told his wife and his daughter To give him next morning a couple of red Herrings with soda-water." Pilchards are a superior sort of herring, but still more oily. They are cooked like herrings, and are also preserved in oil like sardines. Sardines are nourishing and digestible if only a small quantity be eaten. Sardines in oil are a fair substitute for cod-liver oil. Anchovies should only be eaten in moderation, being too stimulating and irritating to the stomach. They are best on bread and butter with tea, if salted; or the fresh anchovies may be fried in oil. Salmon Trout is a more delicate fish than the salmon itself, and more easy of digestion, as it does not contain so much fat. It is best boiled with the juice of a Seville orange as sauce, or it may be fried, or cooked in court-bouillon. Salmon is a juicy and fat fish, of high nutritive value, but very apt to disagree. It is best crimped. " As the fat is chiefly found in the underside of the fish, a slice from the back only should be taken . . . ; and in the fresh crimped fish the fat is in a more wholesome state than when on the second or third day after leaving the water it becomes oily and acquires a slight characteristic taste and odour." It should not be eaten in flakes, but cut in thin slices across the grain. The cucumber and vinegar, which are the usual accompaniments of salmon, are aids to its digestion. It may be boiled in water or in court- bouillon, or boiled in cutlets, or fried or baked. Red Mullet is also an oily fish, the oil being chiefly in the liver. It is a fairly digestible fish, but should only be eaten in moderation, and is not to be given in early convalescence. Red mullet should never be gutted; the best and most savoury way of cooking it is to bake it and serve it with its own gravy as its only sauce.76 FISH. Mackerel are oily fish, and often disagree. They are not suit- able for convalescents, nor for persons with delicate digestion; but they are nourishing. They are best grilled in oiled paper. Tunny is a coarse, oily fish, and difficult of digestion. It is dangerous if not perfectly fresh. Sprats are also oily, and difficult to digest. They are cooked like smelts. Whitebait suffers from the same disadvantage as the above. They should only be eaten in small quantities, and should not be reeking with fat, as they are too often served. Sea Perch are an excellent white fish, savoury, and easily digested, resembling haddock. Wolf Fish, Pollack, and Coal Pish are mentioned by Sir Henry Thompson as excellent fish, the first-named being appa- rently the best, the two latter being akin to the whiting. Conger Eel is a coarse, indigestible fish and a foul feeder, which is not usually served at any table, except in the shape of turtle-soup, for which it makes the best of stock. Turtle, though nourishing, is not very digestible.* Oysters are deservedly one of the most highly valued foods in early convalescence from disease. A few oysters will often tempt a feeble appetite and cause more solid food to be taken after- wards with relish. They are very easily digested if uncooked, but become indigestible if boiled or fried. When added to soups they should only be warmed through in the soup just before serving. If eaten raw, no condiments should be allowed with them, except a few drops of fresh lemon-juice. Of course they must be fresh, and only the small English natives should be pro- vided for invalids. Mussels are a wholesome and nourishing food, but dangerous, because, when fed in some waters, their flesh contains a kind of irritant poison. Many people cannot eat mussels of any sort without being troubled afterwards with nettle-rash. Crabs and Lobsters are not suitable food for invalids, though they are well enough for those who are able to digest them. Crabs are, perhaps, rather less indigestible than lobsters. Tinned lobsters should be avoided. Prawns and Shrimps, if partaken of in moderation, are whole- some food and excite appetite, but in large quantities they are irritating. Persons with delicate and sensitive digestions should avoid them. Crayfish are more digestible than crabs or lobsters, but are not to be recommended in early convalescence; and it is neces- sary to be careful that they have not fed on anything which may * I am indebted to Sir Henry Thompson's book on ' Food and Feed- ing ' for some of the foregoing remarks on fish.FISH. 77 cause their flesh to be dangerous, as, like mussels, they have sometimes a poisonous effect. . , Of fresh-water fish not many are sought atter m England, though some that we do not value are much esteemed on the Continent, as, for instance, barbel, bleak, roach, carp, and pike. Of those most commonly brought to table, the following are the most important: Trout are very delicate and digestible. They are excellent food for invalids, and maybe boiled in water or in court-bouillon, grilled, baked or stewed. _ Dace are very good and wholesome when crimped and broiled. February is their best season. Gudgeon are delicate and wholesome and very good eating, especially when fried. They may also be stewed. Loaches are dressed like smelts, and are well flavoured and digestible. , - . ■, Perch are digestible and tasty. They are served fried, grilled, or boiled in court-bouillon. Grayling is a fish of good flavour and easy to digest. Bream.—Same qualities as grayling. Pike.—Easily digested but dry. The liver of large pike is of very delicate flavour, but not very wholesome. The roe is a dan- gerous food. Carp are best when caught in rivers and lakes, but even at their best they are muddy and lie heavy on the stomach. They are served fried or grilled. The tongue is the best part of the carp. Like other mud-loving fish, they should be laid in fresh water for twenty-four hours before being cooked. Barbel are insipid and not very digestible. When young they are eatable if fried. Tench.—Same qualities as barbel. Miller's Thumbs and Bleak should be fried in their own fat. They are good eating, but unwholesome. Eelpouts are easily digested by some people and unwholesome to others. They should be soaked in fresh and frequently changed water before cooking. The roe should be avoided, but the large pale-red liver is a delicacy. Lampreys are difficult of digestion even in moderate quanti- ties ; they are said to have caused the death of Henry I. Eels are too rich and oily for any but the strongest diges- tions. The hard roe of some sorts of fish, such as the herring and cod, is a good relish with toast or bread and butter for those persons who can digest it. It is also useful sometimes if given before meals to excite an appetite. Boasted Pish.—Place the fish, after the usual cleaning, en- tire, if of moderate size, say from a sole to a small turbot orFISH. 78 dory, in a tin or plated copper dish adapted to the form and size of the fish, but a little deeper than the thickness of it, so as to retain all the juices, which by exposure to the heat will flow out. First, however, the surface of the fish is to be lightly spread with butter, and a morsel or two added round it; the dish is then to be placed in a Dutch or American oven, in front of a clear fire. . . . It is necessary to guard against over-roasting so as to dry the fish and evaporate the gravy; and if through carelessness this condition has been reached, the fish should be moistened by the addition of a little light stock before serving. . . . Serving is always done on the dish in which the cooking has taken place. . . . Red mullet so prepared is inimitable, while a fresh haddock takes higher rank by being thus treated. For the working man, some fillets of plaice or skate, with a slice or two of bacon and some previously boiled haricots, are a most savoury meal and nu- tritious. {Sir Hy. Thompson.) (3-4, 4, &c.) Steamed Fish (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Remove the skin and take off a fillet; wash and dry the fillet, sprinkle half a pinch of salt and a few drops of lemon-juice over it. Place the fillet in a buttered dish, and set the dish over a pan of boiling water and steam for five to ten minutes. Serve with lemon-juice. Cheap Fish Stew (4,5, 6).—Take thi-ee or four pounds of hake, ling, skate, or haddock, and. 1 lb. of " cuttings or trimmings," which are the best part of the fish for stock-making. Remove all the fish from the bones, break up or pound the latter and set aside with any portion of head there may be and the cuttings. Put into a saucepan, over the fire, two ounces of lard and two or three onions sliced, and let them fry until brown; then add two quarts of water aud all the pounded bones and trimmings, some parsley or other green herbs, pepper and salt. Let the whole simmer for three hours. Strain out the bones, bits of skin, &c, add the fish in pieces, and boil gently for ten to fifteen minutes. Thicken with flour mixed smoothly with a small portion of stock, and added before finishing. {Sir Hy. Thompson.) Tapioca and Cod-liver (3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil two ounces of tapioca till tender in a quart of water, drain it in a cullender, then put it back in the pan; season with a little salt and pepper, add a quarter of a pint of milk, and put over it half a pound of fresh cod-liver cut in four pieces. Set the pan near the fire to simmer slowly for half an hour or a little more till the liver is quite cooked. Press on it with a spoon, so as to get as much oil into the tapioca as pos- sible. Take away the liver and mix the tapioca. If too thick add a little milk, then boil for a few minutes; stir round, add a little salt and pepper, and serve. {Alexis Soyer, apud Dr. Broadbent.) Stewed Fillets of Whiting (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Melt some butter iu a deep stewpan, and sprinkle over it some finely chopped parsley, salt, and a little grated nutmeg and lemon-peel. PlaoePISH. 79 the fillets on this bed, pour some melted butter over them, and simmer for eight minutes; then turn the fillets, add a wine- glassful of white wine, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice; simmer five minutes longer. Serve with the sauce from the stewpan. Boiled Fillets of Whiting (3, 4, 5, 6).—Put the fillets into boiling water deep enough to cover them, with an ounce of salt to each quart of water; simmer gently for ten to twelve minutes, skimming them occasionally. Drain, and serve with a slice of lemon. .. ~ Whiting au Gratin or Fillets of Whiting an G-ratm (4, 5, 6).—Prepared just like soles au gratin. Fillets of Whiting a la Orly (4, 5, 6).—Prepared like fillets of soles a la Orly. Whiting au Vin Blanc (4, 5, 6).—Prepared like soles au vin blanc. Whiting aux Fines Herbes (4, 5, 6).—Prepared like soles aux fines lierbes. Soles aux Fines Herbes or Fillet of Soles aux Fines Herbes (4, 5, 6).—Having prepared the soles or fillets, put them into a dish with an ounce of butter, two pincbes of salt, the juice of a lemon, and a wineglassful of water. Bake for twenty minutes in a brisk or moderately quick oven. Make the sauce as directed in sole au vin blanc; after cooking for twenty minutes, put the liquor in which the sole has been heated into the sauce, and add two ounces of butter and a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. Take off the fire, and stir till the butter is melted. Pour the sauce over the sole, and serve. Sole or Fillets of Sole au Gratin (4, 5, 6).—Put the fillets into a dish with an ounce of butter, two pinches of salt, and one of pepper, and two wineglassfuls of Oliablis (or a teaspoonful of lemon-juice), sprinkle tbem with grated cheese, cover the dish closely, and cook them for a quarter of an hour in a braise or moderately quick oven. Fillets of Soles a la Orly (4, 5, 6).—Remove tbe skin from the fillets; rub them with lemon-juice, mixed with salt and pepper, and let them soak for two hours. Dry them on a napkin, dip them in milk, and cover them with bread crumbs. Fry them in hot oil. Drain them on blotting paper. Serve with fried parsley and tomato sauce, or with a consomme of the remains of the soles and white wine clarified, or with slices of lemon. Soles in Turban (4, 5, 6).—Arrange round a plug of bread in the shape of a turban a layer of slices of bacon, and outside this a layer of fillets of sole. Pour over all melted butter and lemon- juice; cover with slices of bacon, and then with oiled paper, and bake in the oven. When cooked remove the bacon, the paper, and the bread, and pour tomato source into the cavity of the turban. Shad (5, 6).—Fillets fried in butter.•80 pish. Broiled Shad (4, 5, 6).—Clean, wash, and scale the shad. Soak it for an hour in two tablespoonfuls of oil, one saltspoonful of salt, and half a saltspoonful of pepper. Grill it over a clear, gentle fire for eighteen minutes on each side. Serve with caper •source or maitre d'hotel. Sole au Vin Blanc (4, 5, 6).—Boil the sole, after it has been trimmed, with an ounce of butter, half a pint of Chablis or Sauterne, two pinches of salt, and one of pepper. Keep the vessel closely covered while boiling. Make a sauce of three quarters •of an ounce of butter, and the same quantity of flour; mix, add a pinch of salt and one of pepper, and half a pint of water. Stir it until it begins to boil; then add the liquor in which the sole has been cooked, boil all together up once, add a little chopped parsley, and half an ounce of butter. Stir until the butter is melted, and pour the sauce over the fish. The fish must be kept hot while the sauce is being prepared. To Feed Oysters.—Put them into water, and wash them till ■quite clean; lay them downwards in a pan, sprinkle them with oatmeal (or flour) and salt, and cover them with water. Repeat this every day. (Dr. Fothergill.) Oysters on Toast (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Put each oyster on a -piece of toast cut into a circular shape, and a little larger than the oyster. Pour the liquor of the oyster over it, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Boiled Skate (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Take a slice of skate, put it into a quart of cold water, with an ounce of salt, a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of lemon-juice (or a wineglassful of vinegar), and a little parsley. Boil up, skim, and then simmer very gently till done. Drain, and add two pinches of salt and one of pepper. Take three quarters of a pint of the liquor in which the skate has Tseen boiled, and put into it the liver of the skate, boil for five jninutes, drain off the liquor, cut up the liver and lay it on the fish. John Dory (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Out off the fins and cleanse the fish ; rub it with lemon-juice, and put it into cold water, with an ounce of salt to each quart of water. Boil gradually, skim, and then simmer gently for fifteen to twenty minutes according to size. Serve with slices of lemon or caper sauce. John Dory is said to be less rich than turbot. Fried Smelts (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Wash and dry the smelts, dip them in milk and dredge them with baked flour; season them with a pinch of salt and one of pepper. Fry them in butter at first gently for four minutes and then with a very brisk fire for three minutes; they should be of a light golden colour. Dry them on blotting paper before the fire, and dust a pinch of salt over them. Serve them with slices of lemon. Smelts au G-ratin (4, 5, 6).—Choose large smelts and cook them like sole au graiin (vide p. 79).FISH. 81 Boiled Cod and Oyster Sauce (4, 5, 6).—Rub a slice of cod with lemon-juice and salt, and let it lie for two hours, then put it into enough boiling water to cover the fish, having previously put into the water an ounce of salt to each quart of water, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Boil for twenty minutes. Oyster Sauce (5,6).—Remove the beards from six oysters, pre- serving the liquor. Boil the beards in the liquor for ten minutes, and strain. Mix a quarter of a teaspoonful of baked flour with half an ounce of butter smoothly on a plate, and put it into a saucepan with the strained liquor from the beards, and three and a half tablespoonf uls of milk; stir in one direction only over a quick fire; let it boil for a minute or two, then remove it to the side of the fire, and after it has stood for five minutes put in the oysters. Let the sauce stand near the fire for five minutes longer, and serve with the boiled cod. Cod Cutlets (5, 6).—Out two slices of cod about three-quarters of an inch thick ; rub each slice with a teaspoonful of lemon-juice and a pinch of salt, and let it saturate for two hours. Then wipe it, wrap it in buttered paper, and boil gently over a clear fire for five to ten minutes. Serve with a slice of lemon. Fried Cod and Oysters (5, 6).—Prepare two slices of cod as above. When saturated, wipe them dry, dip them in milk, sprinkle them with well-browned flour, and put them into a frying-pan containing boiling butter. Fry slowly for fifteen minutes. Serve with half a dozen oysters to each slice, and pour the liquor from the oysters over the cod. Broiled Mackerel (4, 5, 6).—Cleanse the inside of the fish thoroughly, but do not wash it; cut a slit an inch deep along the back of the fish from the head to the tail; rub the mackerel with the strained juice of half a lemon mixed with two pinches of salt and a pinch of black pepper, and lay it aside for an hour. Roll it in buttered paper, and broil it over a clear fire six minutes on one side, seven on the other, and four minutes on the split part. Serve with melted butter. Boiled Mackerel (4, 5, 6).—Put the fish into nearly boiling water with an ounce of salt to each quart of water; boil up, skim well, and then let it simmer gently till cooked thoroughly. Serve with melted butter. N.B.—Mackerel are very unwholesome if not quite fresh. Boiled Haddock (3, 4, 5, G).—Choose a small haddock, scrape and gut it, wash it well, and rub it with lemon-juice and salt; lay it aside for an hour. Put it into boiling water with an ounce of salt to each quart of water; boil quickly, skim, and let it simmer gently for twelve to fifteen minutes, according to size. Haddock should not be over done. Serve with slices of lemon. Baked Haddock (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Clean the fish as above and rub it with lemon-juice and salt, and let it saturate for two 682 FISH. hours; then wipe it dry, place pieces of butter on it, and put it on a drainer in a slow oven, and bake for twenty to thirty-five minutes, according to the size of the fish. Serve with slices of lemon. Boiled Turbot (4, 5, 6).—Soak the fish in salt and water for three hours, then wash it in two or three waters ; dry it and rub with lemon-juice and a little salt. Put it into the turbot-kettle with half water and half milk, enough in all to cover the fish; add six ounces of salt for each gallon of water, and a little lemon- peel. Place the kettle over a brisk fire until on the point of boiling; skim, and let it simmer gently on the side of the fire till the meat separates easily from the bone. Drain it carefully, and serve with slices of lemon. Croquettes de Turbot (5, 6).—Remove the bone from cold boiled turbot, and mince the flesh. Break up an egg and season it with pepper, salt, and oil. Make up small balls of the turbot, dip them in the egg, and roll them in bread-crumbs. Fry them in hot butter to a fine golden colour. Dry and serve with fried parsley. Sole or Plaice may be cooked in croquettes. Brill (4, 5, 6).—Cooked like turbot. Turbot Salad (6).—Take some fresh cold turbot, cut it into squares of about one inch by an inch and a quarter, and season them with pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. Make in a mould a border of clear jelly, fill the border with the pieces of turbot, placing a layer at a time, and pouring melted jelly over it, and letting each layer cool before the next is put in. Garnish with lettuces cut in half lengthwise. The jelly may be made of calf's feet. Sole Salad.—Fillets of sole may be treated as above. Bed Mullet in Paper (4, 5, 6).—Wash the mullet, removing the scales and gills, but do not clean the inside. Dry it, and let it soak for an hour in a little oil with a pinch of salt and three peppercorns. Butter a sheet of paper large enough to contain the mullet, and wrap the fish carefully in the paper, folding the ends tightly. Broil on a gridiron for twenty-five minutes, turn- ing the fish over after twelve minutes, and changing the paper if burnt or torn in the cooking. Serve in the paper with a slice of lemon or with maiire d'hotel sauce (i. e. butter, chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and lemon-juice). Red Mullet Baked (4, 5, 6).—Dress the mullet as above. Fold in buttered paper and bake slowly for half to three-quarters of an hour. Mix the liquor that comes from the fish with a little butter and flour; add a glass of sherry, a little pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon. Boil all these for two minutes, and serve as sauce for the baked fish. Whitebait (4, 5, 6) should be kept in iced water till wantedFISH. 83 Drain them, shake them in a dry cloth with flour, and shake off the superfluous flour. Put them, a few at a time, m a wire basket, and hang the basket in boiling butter until they are white and crisp then take them out and lay them on white blotting-paper before the Are. Sprinkle them with salt, and serve with lemon and brown bread and butter. Boiled Trout (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Cleanse and wash a trout; put it into boiling water, with an ounce of salt to each gallon of water, boil up, skim, and then simmer gently for twelve to fifteen minutes, carefully skimming all the time. Serve with slices of lei&riiled Trout a, la Hussarde (4, 5, 6).—Clean the trout, take out the intestines and gills, wash it, dry it, and put butter seasoned with pepper, salt, chopped parsley and thyme into the inside of the fish; rub the outside with lemon-juice and salt, grill, and serve with slices of lemon, Court-bouillon.—Take a pint of water and a pint of vinegar and a liqueur-glassful of brandy; mix, add a carrot, two shalots, two sprigs of parsley, a little thyme, a bay-leaf, a quarter of an ounce of salt, and rather less pepper. Simmer until it is reduced to two-thirds; pass through a colander. The court-bouillon may be kept some time if it is boiled up with a wineglassful of water every four days. Trout in Court-bouillon (4, 5, 6).—Clean and wash a trout, and let it simmer in court-bouillon for half an hour or more according to size. When done, take a part of the court-bouillon in which it was cooked, strain it, thicken it with butter and baked flour, stir this sauce over the fire for five minutes and serve with the fish. In boiling take care that there is enough court-bouillon to cover the fish. Stewed Trout (4, 5, 6). Baked Trout in buttered paper (4, 5, 6). Salmon in Court-bouillon (5, 6), as with trout. Boiled Salmon (5, 6).—Scale and clean the fish thoroughly, wash it, dry it, lay it in the fish-kettle (with the strainer in the kettle) with enough cold water to cover it, adding three ounces of salt to each quart of water. Boil up quickly, skim, and let it simmer gently till done, when the flesh will separate easily from the bone. As soon as it is done, drain it, and serve with melted butter and slices of lemon. Salmon Cutlets (5, 6).—Cut slices one inch thick, season them with pepper and salt, wrap each slice in buttered paper, folding the ends of the paper over. Broil gently over a clear fire for five to ten minutes. Remove the paper, and serve with cut lemon. Pried Salmon (5, 6).—Cut small, thin, slices of salmon, re- moving all the skin. Melt some butter in a frying-pan, put io.84 FISH. the slices of salmon, with salt and pepper. Fry over a quick fire, and serve with lemon in slices, or tomato sauce. Baked Salmon with Tomato Sauce (5, 6). Boiled Herring (5, 6).—The fish should be cleaned, scraped,, and gutted, and put into boiling water with the juice of a lemon, and a little salt. Let it boil very slowly for ten minutes. Serve with a slice of lemon or with mustard sauce. Baked Herring (5, 6).—Clean, scrape, and gut the fish, and cut off the head. Put it in a pie-dish with a clove, allspice, a peppercorn, and a small pinch of salt, and a wineglassful each of water and vinegar. Bake in a slow oven for half an hour. Serve cold, with vinegar and water strained for sauce. Fresh Herring (5, 6).— Cut off the head, tail, and fins; scrape, gut, and clean the fish. Split it and remove the back- bone, close it up, and grill slowly for four minutes, and then very quickly for three minutes, turning it frequently. Serve with butter, mustard sauce, lemon, or maitre d'hotel sauce. Carp should be laid in fresh water for twenty-four hours before cooking, if they have been caught in muddy water. Fried Carp (5, 6).—Split tbe carp down the back, without separating the two pieces. Remove the scales and gills, gut the fish, and lay the roe aside. Steep the fish and the roe'in milk for five minutes. Sprinkle them with a little salt, and roll them well in baked flour. Fry the carp for eight or ten minutes, and at the end of half that time put the roe in with the fish. It is cooked when the flesh is of a fine pale yellow and firm. Serve with slices of lemon. Grilled Carp (5, 6).—Scale and gut a carp, rub it with oil, put it on the grill eight minutes on each side, season with salt and pepper and serve with white sauce, or slices of lemon. Anchovy Toast (4-5, 5, 6).—Soak the anchovies in warm water, and change the water several times. Toast three or four slices of bread (four inches long by one inch wide). Dip the toast in a sauce of oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, and lay on each slice an anchovy cut in half lengthwise, the bones having been previously removed. Anchovy Salad (6).—Well wash the anchovies in warm water, changing the water several times, soak them in Sauterne or Chablis, sprinkle them with chopped parsley, and place them in a salad of cut lettuce. Flounders au Gratin.—Like Sole au gratin (4, 5, 6) (v. p. 79). Boiled Flounders (3-4, 4, 5, 6), with sauce Hollandaise (5,6).—Boil the flounders gently for a quarter of an hour in enough water to cover it, having previously added one and a half ounces of salt to the water. Drain, and serve with sauce Hollandaise. Fried Flounders (4, 5, 6), cooked like Soles a la orly) (p. 79), and served with parsley and lemon, or with caper sauce.PISH. ^5 Turcot a la Bechamel (6).—Trim slices of cold turbot, and serve witb Bechamel sauce. Turbot au Gratin (5, 6).—Trim pieces of cold turbot moisten them with Bechamel sauce, warm them, but do not let them boil. Powder with finely grated bread-crumbs, and a little grated cheese ; pour melted butter over it, and brown it in the oven. Eelpout (5, 6).—Soak in boiling water for ten minutes with a tablespoonful of vinegar. Brown some flour and butter, and season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and Seville orange-juice. Eelpouts a la Royale (6).—Soak the eelpout an boiling water with a tablespoonful of vinegar for five minutes. Skin and gut them ; dip them in milk, roll them in flour. Brown some flour and butter, and season this with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and the juice of a Seville orange. Into this put the eelpout, fry gently, and serve with slices of Seville orange, or of lemon. Eried Gudgeon (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Take out the gills and inside, and cleanse them thoroughly; wipe them dry ; dip them in milk, roll them in baked flour, and fry them in butter until they are firm, and of a golden brown, which will be in three to four minutes. Serve with fried parsley. The long, thin gudgeons are more delicate than the fatter ones. Melted Butter (4-5, 5, 6) should be made with butter, flour, and a concentrated liquor made from the trimmings of the fish itself, with the addition of a few drops of lemon-juice. {Sir Henry Thompson) Sauce Mayonnaise (6).—Mix in a wide basin the yolk of an egg, lemon-juice, and a little mustard; mix thoroughly with a silver fork ; add salad oil little by little, stirring one way constantly ; take care that each quantity of oil is thoroughly mixed before adding more. To eight spoonfuls of oil add a spoonful of vinegar, a pinch of salt, and one of pepper. The sauce should not be too thick. Sauce Hollandaise (6).—Reduce in a quart saucepan two dessertspoonfuls of vinegar (with a teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper) to one teaspoonful of vinegar. Take it off the fire, and add two dessertspoonfuls of cold water with the yolks only of two eggs. Put this altogether on a slow fire, and stir with a wooden spoon. As soon as the yolks begin to set, take the saucepan from the fire, add two-thirds of an ounce of butter, stirring with the spoon until the butter is melted. Put it back on the fire for a minute, and add another two-thirds of an ounce of butter, stirring constantly. Take from the fire again, and add two-thirds of an ounce of butter, and, when this is melted, add one spoonful of cold water. Two ounces of butter have now been used. Repeat this operation with other two ounces of butter, adding two-thirds of an ounce at a time, but not putting fresh butter in until the previous quantity is melted. Stir constantly,GAME AND WILD BIE.DS. 86 and put back on the fire for a minute at a time. When all four ounces of butter have been stirred in, add another spoonful of cold water, and if the sauce be still too thick add a third spoonful of cold water. The sauce should be quite smooth, and of the con- sistence of cream. Season with nutmeg and lemon-juice to taste. For fish or vegetables. Fish Scallop (5, 6).—Take half a pound of any cold fish (except mackerel or herring), remove the bones and skin, and cut up the fish into small dice ; moisten with an egg beaten up in a little milk, add a little salt and white pepper, and half a salt- spoonful of made mustard; put a layer of crumbs in scallop shells, lay in tbe fish, cover thickly with bread-crumbs, pour melted butter over the top, and brown them before a quick fire. Serve when quite hot. Bouillabaisse (for six persons) (5, 6).—Take three or four pounds of fish—whiting, sole, small haddock, red mullet, and a piece of conger; all these are to be cleaned, cut in slices, and their bones removed; two dozen of mussels to be added. Put into a stewpan two onions sliced, two tomatoes peeled, a carrot sliced; then in a coarse net bag the following :—two bay- leaves, two slices of lemon, half the zest of a Seville orange, two cloves, a little thyme, several sprigs of parsley, a clove of garlic, two red capsicums cut, and a little saffron. Add salt and pepper and a little pimento. Place the pieces of fish over these, pour in six tablespoonfuls of olive oil; add three pints of water with two or three glasses of white French wiue; cover, and let all boil well together for half an hour. The whiting, however, should only be put in a quarter of an hour before finishing. When done, take out and drain the fish carefully, and strain the soup through a fine sieve. Serve the whole in a soup tureen with slices of toasted bread apart; or place them in the tureen before filling. (Sir IT. Thompson.) XI. GAME AND WILD BIRDS. Many sorts of game and of birds are among the most whole- some and digestible of foods; and, though not suitable in acute disease, are valuable as a stepping-stone from the simpler to the more nourishing diets during convalescence, especially when the digestive powers are slow to regain their tone and strength. Venison, especially that of mountain deer, is one of the most digestible of meats, ranking in this respect second only to sweet- bread and lamb's feet, and above most birds. Of the different kinds of venison, that of the fallow-deer is the most easily digested, though of inferior flavour; doe-venison is better than buck-veni- son as regards wholesomeness. If the buck be over two years old,GAME AND WILD BIRDS. 87 his flesh becomes coarse and not so easy to digest. Venison should not be too fat, and ought not to be hashed and served with rich sauces but p ainly roasted, and served in gravy and eaten with cunant jelly.-(3f 4, 5, 6.) The haunch is the least digestible Dart—and the liver is a great delicacy. , , P Hare k not a digestible food, being inferior m this respect to all other game and to wild birds, and to all meat except pork and salt meat: even veal is easier to digest, though of less value as nutriment when digested. It is more suitable for persons able to take exercise than for convalescents from illness. The hare should not be too fat, and, like venison, is better roasted plainly and served in its own gravy with currant jelly. Leveret is more digestible than hare. T a-u,nJtA Rabbit as a food is of about the same rank as hare. It should be young (not above six months old) and, unlike other game, it should be eaten fresh and not allowed to hang The wild rabbit is a better food in every way than the tame. He may be roasted, fried after soaking in white wine and herbs, or grilled wrapped in buttered paper, or in ragont with asparagus. Wild Boar is fortunately not a dish likely to be ottered to invalids nor to dyspeptics; it is about as digestible as pork. Partridges are very delicate and wholesome food; they may- be given in quite early convalescence, and are best roasted, grilled, or braised. .. .. Grouse and other moor fowl are also digestible, especially it ■young ; they are to be cooked like partridges. Snipe and Woodcock (of which the snipe is the better) are delicate and digestible, and very suitable for persons who are iust beginning to feel an appetite for meat. Such persons should have their snipe and woodcock roasted, but should avoid the toast on which the birds are generally served. These birds may also be fried, grilled, or stewed. They should not be drawn. Quails rank with snipe and woodcock. They are best roasted, but may also be stewed. They should also be cooked without being drawn. Pheasant is a much over-rated bird; he has little more flavour than a chicken, and Is not nearly so digestible. The best way to cook him is to stuff him with steak, roast him, and send him to table without the steak. He may also be prepared after Brillat- Savarin's device, i. e. stuffed with potted woodcock ; but m this way he may upset the digestion, and it would be fitter to stuff a woodcock with two or three pheasants. As to the Becaflco and Ortolan, patients will be glad to learn that they may eat these birds in moderation, provided that they can get them. _ Landrail (Corncrake) is very good eating when roasted, and wholesome withal.88 GAME AND WILD BIRDS. Of wild birds, Larks are not only delicious, but, if not too fat, very digestible. They should, however, be young and tender. They may be served in many different ways. "Wild Duck is good eating, but unfortunately not good for delicate stomachs ; it is, however, better in every way than tame duck. "Wild duck may be roasted or dressed in fillets. "Widgeon is inferior to wild duck. Teal is more digestible than either of the above, but is not to be given in early convalescence; it may suit some dyspeptics well enough. It is best roasted, and should not be hung long. Plover is a very good and digestible bird, and ranks with game in every way. It is usually roasted. Golden plover is the best sort. "Wood-pigeons are suitable for almost everybody; they are dressed, like tame pigeons, in a variety of ways. Turtle-dove is better than pigeon, and should be roasted wrapped in vine-leaves. As to Swans, Bustards, and Sea-fowl, they are neither wholesome nor very good eating, and are (fortunately) not often served up to invalids. Wild cygnet, if tender, is wholesome and savoury. There are many small birds which are not usually eaten in England but are highly esteemed abroad, and are very good and easily digested, e. g. finches, yellowhammers, wagtails, robins; thrushes and blackbirds are particularly good eating, and very wholesome; with sparrows, everyone is familiar under the name of larks; fieldfares are a real delicacy. All these birds are best roasted. Cuckoos and jays are also said to be edible, but of this I have no experience. Rooks, even while young, are indigestible. Game should be hung for a few days until it becomes tender, but should not be allowed to get so high as to be offensive, else it becomes indigestible, and, if very high, it is injurious to delicate and susceptible stomacbs. "Water-fowl, and especially teal, should not be hung long. The fat of all birds, but especially the oily fat of water-fowl, is difficult of digestion. The bitter livers of wild birds promote the digestion of the flesh, and should be eaten with it. The skin of all game and wild birds should be avoided by all who are doubtful about their digestive powers. Snipe, Woodcock.—Should not be drawn. Boasted (3-4, 4, 5, 6) over buttered toast—snipe for fifteen minutes, woodcock for twenty-five minutes. Serve with slices of lemon. Stewed (4, 5, 6) in butter with a little nutmeg, salt, and pepper- corns, for seven to eight minutes over a clear fire; then add lemon- juice, half a glass of sherry, and a few bread-chips. Boil up and serve. In Salmis (4, 5, 6).—Take off the legs and wings of cold roast89 GAME AND WILD BIKDS. woodcock or snipe, remove the skin, and put them into a stew- pan with the trail and liver, Ohablis or sherry, salt, pepper, and bread-crusts. Boil a few minutes, and serve with the sauce. 2 la Grimod (4, 5, 6).—Cut up the birds, which should not have been quite roasted, crush tbe liver and trail, and add the juice of two lemons and the thinly-cut rind of half a one, and season with two pinches of salt, and a saltspoonful of mustard- powder, and half a glass of Sauterne or Ohablis. Warm the plate over a gas-stove or spirit-lamp, moving the pieces about in the sauce. Do not let it boil, but when on the point of boiling add a dash of good oil, turn down the gas, and stir for a few minutes. Serve very hot on the plate on which the cooking has been done. Quails (3^4, 4, 5, 6) should not be drawn. Boasted (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Cover with slices of bacon and vine- leaves and roast for twenty minutes at a quick fire. Stewed (4, 5, 6) on a slice of ham and one of veal, and covered with slices of bacon and a sheet of paper. The fire should be moderate. G-rouse, Heathcock, Blackcock, Ptarmigan (3-4, 4, 5, 6), should not be washed, but wiped with a damp cloth. Boasted. Fieldfare (4, 5, 6) (Juniper Thrush). Boasted. Partridge (3-4, 4,5, 6). Boast.—Cover the bird with slices of lemon free from rind and pips, over this slices of bacon, and over all a sheet of buttered paper. Serve with gravy and lemon-juice. When they are three-fourths cooked, take off the paper. Or, cover with vine-leaves, and over these slices of bacon. Roast at a moderate fire. Serve with cut lemon. Grilled (5, 6). Braised (4-5, 5, 6).—Put in a stewpan with trimmings of meat and game, salt and pepper ; add half stock and half white wine (Chablis or Sauterne); cook in a gentle fire. Skim the sauce, pass it through a cloth, and season it with the juice and grated rind of a Seville orange. Larded Larks (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Draw the gizzards of three larks. Pluck and dress them. Take three thin slices of bacon about two and a half inches long and one and a quarter broad; cover each lark entirely with a slice of bacon. Spit the larks on one spit, transfixing the bacon with the larks; take care that the birds do not touch one another. Roast for eight minutes at a quick fire. Serve with the gravy, removing the bacon before serving. Garnish with watercress. Salmis de Mauviettes (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Take three roasted larks, remove their heads and the bones and gizzards. Pound all the meat in a mortar, moisten with some stock, and pass through a sieve. Season with salt, pepper, a little chopped90 GAME AND WILD BIRDS. parsley, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Warm all up without letting it boil, and serve hot with sippets of toast. Mauviettes a la Minute (4, 5, 6).—Fry three larks an butter over a quick lire, with a small pinch of salt. When they are nearly done (in about seven minutes) add some stock, one or two chopped up mushrooms and some chopped parsley. Boil up once, add a glass of sherry or other white wine, and serve with sippets of toast and slices of lemon. Mauviettes en Cotelettes (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Remove all the flesh from the breasts of four larks, and shape cutlets out of this flesh, fastening a claw in each cutlet. Season with pepper, salt, and a teaspoonful ol lemon-juice. Fry in battel- over a quick nre tor about eight to ten minutes. Broiled Larks (4, 5, 6). Roast Larks (3-4,4, 5, 6). , • , , . 3 L *, Roast Thrush. (4, 5, 6).—Pick two thrushes, but do not gut them; cover each with a slice of bacon and a vine-leaf or paper, roast them for twenty minutes before a clear fire, remove the bacon, and serve on toast with lemon in slices. Roast Plover (4, 5, 6).—Pluck but do not draw a plover; cover it with slices of bacon, and wrap it in oiled paper; roast it on the spit before a clear fire for ten to fifteen minutes Put slices of toast in the dripping-pan to catch the gravy, and serve on this toast. (Remove the bacon and paper before serving.; Pheasant, Boasted (3-4, 4, 5, 6), should be filled with pieces of gravy beef before roasting, and the steak withdrawn betore the bird is served. Rabbit (6) should be eaten fresh. Boast (6).—Covered with slices of bacon. , Grilled (6).—Split it lengthwise, wrap it m buttered paper. Grill it, and serve with anchovy butter. , ,, . . , Fried (6).—Out up the rabbit, and soak the pieces for an houi in vinegar seasoned with salt, pepper, and chopped pars ey and thyme; drain and wipe the pieces, flour them, and fry them in butter over a clear fire. Serve with tomato sauce. Bagout of Babbit and Bacon (6).—Pieces, of rabbit and thin slices of bacon stewed in butter seasoned with pepper, salt, two slices of lemon and a bay-leaf. Simmer for half an hour or until tender. Put in a glass of port wine, let it all boil up once, and 86 Hare, Leveret {6).-Boasted (6). Jugged (6). The liver ShTerr£i0e of HaJe, 4a (6).-Take a fowl a partridge, a pound of veal, a pound of mutton, and a pound of bacon; season with an ounce of salt. Cut all the meat up (having Previously removed the bones and skin). Fry the back of a hai,, without bones or skin in butter for ten minutes and add it to the above,91 POULTRY AND EGGS. with a tumblerful of stock. Cover the vessel closely and plunge it into boiling water in a large saucepan, and let all simmer lor three hours or more. When entirely cooked, let it cool and cover it with fat to preserve it. It should not be eaten till at least twenty-four hours after it is cooked. Landrail or Corncrake (4, 5, 6).—Boast, wrapped m buttered Pa"Wiid Duck (5, 6).—Boasted at a quick fire, and served with gravy and slice of lemon separately. , Fillets (5, 6).—Having roasted the fillets, slice the skin, dram, and serve with a clear gravy seasoned with Seville orange-j nice, or garnished with olives. Teal, Widgeon (5, 6).—Dressed like wild duck. XII. POULTRY AND EGGS. Poultry.—This class of food, especially in the shape of boiled chicken, is one of the earliest that is offered to persons who are just regaining the power of digestion, and even during acute illnesses chicken-broth is one of the insipid and innutritious foods which are inflicted on the unhappy patient. In reality poultry, especially if fat, is not so wholesome as wild fowl. Poultry for invalids must be young and tender. The skin should in no case be eaten when the digestion is delicate. Chicken is one of the most digestible meats, but not of the most nutritious. It should be given at first boiled without any sauce, and after a day or two of this diet, roast chicken with its own gravy as sauce may be tried. In more advanced convales- cence, poulards au gros sel, or au riz may be ordered, or godiveau de blanc de volaille (without truffles). Hen chickens are more digestible than cock chickens. The breast and wings are the most wholesome parts. Capons are more wholesome than fowls, and may be substi- tuted for roast chicken. Fowl, best at one year old, though, if well kept, it is still tender in its second year; after that age it is only fit for soup. Fowls should not be too fat, and hens are more tender and digestible. Boiled fowl is insipid, and not so wholesome as boiled chicken. Roast fowl with thin slices of bacon well fried is best for invalids. Fowl is also good in puree. Pigeons while young are digestible, nutritious, and tasty; they should be roasted or grilled, or they maybe roasted in vine- leaves. When no longer young pigeons make very good soup. Turkey is generally too fat to be wholesome. If not more than a year old, turkey is generally tender and digestible andPOULTEY AND EGGS. 92 nourishing; a two-year old bird should be hung before being cooked; if older than this, turkey should be stewed. Roast turkey is generally suitable food for anybody—if the bird be not too old—and the healthy stomach will appreciate turkey with truffles. The pinions boiled with (or without) pearl-barley are digestible and nourishing. The hen turkey is better than the cock. Duck is neither so wholesome nor so savoury as wild duck, but, if the bird be well fattened, its liver is as good as/oie gras. Duck should not be eaten by delicate persons unless it is quite young and not fat. Guinea-fowl if young is delicate and digestible; it may be roasted plain, or wrapped in thin slices of bacon, or it may be stewed. Goose is no food for anyone who is not quite sure that good digestion will wait on appetite. Gosling, however, is not to be absolutely forbidden to dyspeptics. Eggs, i. e. in general eggs of fowls, contain, like milk, all the elements of a perfect diet, but are not, as a rule, so readily diges- tible as milk. Many persons can digest raw eggs but not cooked, and vice versa. Some when out of health can digest eggs, whereas in ordinary health they cannot. Raw eggs are generally more digestible than cooked eggs, and the yolk can often be taken when the white disagrees. The yolk of a raw egg beaten up with sherry or brandy or alcohol in some other form, or with milk, is an invaluable stimulant and restorative. Raw eggs are excellent also in the treatment of hoarseness and loss of voice, especially when this arises from want of strength. Raw eggs and hot milk are a most effectual remedy in ordinary colds, but they should be taken in large quantities. Raw eggs should be thoroughly beaten up and strained to remove the tread, and not given m a lumpy or gluey state. They are most digestible when mixed with water, or with salt or sugar, or with meat broths. The best way to cook an egg is to boil it, and that only to the point at which the white becomes jelly-like. Hard-boiled eggs are decidedly unwholesome, and, if they are eaten at all, should only be taken crushed up to a powder and seasoned with vinegar. Eggs should be boiled in clean water only. The best of the other ways of cooking eggs after boiling are poaching, and frying, but stirred eggs, whirled eggs, and baked egss are all excellent ways of preparing them. Eggs cooked with butter are not so digestible as when boiled; they should not be cooked in fat, for the egg's sake as well as for the eater s. Breakfast is the meal for which eggs are most suitable. Custards are a most valuable way of cooking eggs, and often agree when other preparations of eggs do not suit the stomach.POULTRY AND EGGS. 93 Custard pudding is also an excellent food; both these maybe given even during acute illness, and should be employed when milk disagrees. . . Omelettes, on the other hand, though equally nutritious, are not so -wholesome, but they may be given to convalescents. They should not be made with flour. It is most important to observe that eggs must be absolutely fresh; each day that they are kept detracts from their value as food and from their digestibility. In'custards and omelettes, as well as in all other ways of cooking eggs, this point is most essential. Duck eggs, goose eggs, and plovers' eggs are richer and less digestible than hen's eggs, and should not be given to invalids, and to dyspeptics but sparingly. Boiled Pigeon or Partridge (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Clean the bird and season it with a little salt and pepper; enclose it in puff paste, and boil for twenty minutes to half an hour. Remove the paste, and serve the bird in its own gravy with bread sauce. Bread Sauce (5, 6).—Boil the crumb of a stale French roll, with six or eight black peppercorns, a small piece of onion, and a pinch of salt, in half a pint of water till quite smooth ; then add a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, and stir till the butter is melted. " It is good hot with hot birds, cold with cold birds, and is excellent sick food." Braised Pigeon (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—See Braised Partridge. Boast Pigeon (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Empty and clean the pigeon, wipe it dry, season it inside with pepper and salt, and put about half an ounce of butter into the bird; truss it, cover it with a vine-leaf (if in season), over this put a coating of lard, and roast it at a quick fire for twenty minutes to half an hour. Be careful that it be thoroughly cooked. Serve with its gravy. Broiled Pigeon (4, 5, 6).—Split the pigeon down the back, having first drawn and washed it; season with two pinches of salt and one of pepper, rub the bird with butter, and sprinkle it with bread-crumbs; broil it for eight to ten minutes on each side (fifteen to twenty minutes altogether). Serve with gravy. Boast Chicken (4, 5, 6).—Draw, singe, and truss a fowl; cover it with a slice of bacon or with buttered paper; roast for thirty-five to forty-five minutes, according to size. Remove the paper about ten minutes before the fowl is cooked. Serve with brown gravy and bread sauce. Boiled Chicken (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Having prepared and trussed the chicken, put it in hot water for one minute, then rub lemon- juice over the body. Cover the breast with a thin slice of fat bacon, tie the chicken in a floured cloth, put it into hot water94 POULTRY AND EGGS. (breast uppermost), let it boil, and skim carefully. Then let it simmer as slowly as possible for three-quarters of an bour. Remove tbe bacon, and serve with white sauce. Fricasseed Chicken (4, 5, 6).—Draw, singe, wash, and cut up into joints a young chicken, but do not remove the skin. Blanch it in warm water for an hour, and then put it into cold water ; wipe it, and dredge it with baked flour. Put it into a saucepan con- taining enough milk to cover the pieces of chicken, with two small onions, mushrooms, and a little lemon-peel, two pinches of salt, and two of pepper. Boil, skim, and let it simmer gently for half an hour or three-quarters of an hour. Beat up the yolks of two eggs and stir them into the sauce with the strained juice of a lemon for three minutes. Serve with the sauce poured over the chicken. ,■,«.', n . Cold Stewed Fowl (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Skin an old fowl and cut it up • stew it gently with just enough water to cover it, till the bones separate easily from the meat. Remove the bones, mince the meat, and flavour it with a little salt, pepper, and grated lemon- peel • put it back in the stewpan with the liquor m which it was stewed, and boil for five minutes, stirring all well together. Pour it into a mould till quite cold. Potted Chicken and Ham (4-5, 5, 6).—Mince up a quarter of a pound of cold roast chicken with two ounces of ham ; remove all the skin and sinew; pound well together with two ounces of fresh butter, and a little salt and pepper, to a smooth paste. Put the paste into pots and cover the pots with clarified butter. To be used in sandwiches. . . . Chicken Quenelles (4-5, 5, 6).—Mince half a pound of chicken, and add a quarter of a pound of beef suet (well minced and free from skin) with a saltspoonful of salt and one of pepper, and a little nutmeg. Put all into a mortar, and add two eggs, one at a time pounding so as to make a paste without any lumps of fat or meat. Take it out of the mortar, and put it for two hours on ice or in a cold place. Make a cream with an egg, half a table- spoonful of flour, a quarter of a pint of milk, and a very little salt Boil up once and put this into a basin, and stand the basin in water to cool. Put the chopped chicken and suet again m the mortar and pound it again, and add the cream (when cool) in three portions. Add also some small pieces of well-washed ice until the quenelles are of the proper consistency. Make balls or olives (quenelles) of this preparation, and poach them m boiling water. A tablespoonful of chopped-up truffles or mushrooms will improve the flavour of the above. Chicken with Rice (4, 5, 6).-Well wash and soak half a •nound of rice and drain it. Dress and truss a chicken, and put it breast downwards into a stewpan with enough clear, well- skimmed mutton or veal broth to cover it; season with pepperPOULTRY AND EGGS. 95 and salt, and a blade of pounded mace. Put the stewpan foi five minutes on a quick fire, put in the rice, and then simmer ^ently for half an hour. Move the saucepan occasionaUy. When the rice is tender take it out and drain it as dry as possible, then serve the chicken with the rice round it, and parsley and butter Se Guinea Fowl (5, 6).—Choose a young Guinea-hen. Wrap it in slices of bacon, and roast it at a quick fire for an hour or an hour and a quarter. Serve with watercress and bread sauce and the gravy separately. Guinea-fowl may also be braised or stewed. Brandy and Egg, I. (1-2, 2, 3,4, 5, 6).—Take the whites and yolks of three eggs and beat them up m a quarter of a pint of plain water. Add slowly six tablespoonfuls of brandy with a little sugar and nutmeg. Two tablespoonfuls every four or six °II.SBeat up thoroughly a tablespoonful of cream with the white of a new laid egg till frothy ; then add slowly _ one table- spoonful of brandy with a lump of sugar dissolved in it. (For a very irritable stomach.) III. Beat up the white and yolk of an egg in a wmeglassful of water with fifteen drops of brandy and a little white sugar. Two eggs thus treated will serve for the food of an infant for twenty- four hours. (Dr. Broadbent.) IY. (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Beat up the yolk of an egg to a froth with two teaspoonfuls of water; add a teaspoonful of brandy, and beat all well together. Egg and Sherry (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Beat up an egg to a froth, add a lump of sugar and a wineglassful of sherry, and beat all well together. Egg, Sherry, and Gruel (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Add egg and sherry made as above to some gruel made very hot and smooth, with a strip of lemon-peel and a very little grated nutmeg. Stir well together. Egg, Sherry, and Arrowroot (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Substitute arrowroot for the gruel. Egg Wine (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Beat an egg; mix with it a spoonful of cold water; set on the fire a glass of white wine, half a glass of water, sugar, and nutmeg. When these boil pour them slowly into the egg and water, stirring well the while ; put the whole into the saucepan on a gentle fire, and stir it one way for not more than a minute. This may also be made without warming the egg. Egg-nip (2 3, 4, 5, 6).—Beat the yolks of two eggs and half an ounce of white powdered sugar together, then add brandy and cinnamon-water, of each eight tablespoonfuls. (British Phar- macopoeia.)POULTRY AND EGGS. 96 Treacle Posset (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Ateaspoonful of treacle, a tea- spoonful of powdered ginger, and as much rum as the drinker fancies, stirred with a pint of warm milk. Good for a cold and has a high food value. (Dr. Fothergill.) A beaten-up egg added to the above is an improvement. Rum and Milk (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Half a pint of new milk, the yolk of an egg, a teaspoonful of sugar, a suspicion of nutmeg, and a spoonful (the size varies) of rum, all beaten together. Good against the night-sweats of phthisis. (Dr. Fothergill.) Milk and Eggs (2-3, 3,4,5, 6).—Beat up two eggs thoroughly; bring half a pint of milk to the boil and stir in the eggs. Add a lump of sugar, and, if desired, a teaspoonful of brandy or curacoa, or the thinly cut rind of part of a lemon (the lemon-peel should be allowed to steep in the milk near the fire). If the vessel contain- ing the milk and eggs be placed in a saucepan of boiling water and stirred one way until it thickens, it will form a custard. It should not be allowed to boil. The brandy should only be added after the custard has been heated. : Curd Pudding (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Turn two quarts of nulk and drain off the curd. Beat the curd in a mortar with two ounces of butter until well united. Then beat the yolks of sis eggs, and the whites of three, add them to the curd with a little grated biscuit and lemon-peel and some nutmeg. Mix well together and bake in a buttered dish. Bumbled Eggs (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Put into a frying-pan over the fire a small piece of butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream (or new milk) and a pinch of salt. Beat up an egg and put it into the frying-pan. Fry over a slow fire, stirring continually till it thickens, then take it off immediately, and pour it over a slice of toast previously buttered. Serve hot. Whisked Eggs (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil a pint and a half of slightly salted water in a saucepan, and stir it quickly in one direction till it forms a small whirlpool; into the middle of this drop an egg previously broken into a cup, and keep on stirring always in the same direction until the egg is set, but not hard. Then take it out carefully and place it on buttered toast m a hot plate, and put the plate in the oven while you whisk a second ess ' Serve hot with a little salt and pepper. Farm Custard (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Put into a small enamelled saucepan the yolks of four eggs, four teaspoonfuls of sugar the thinlv-cut peel of half a lemon, and a small pinch of salt. Mix well together with half a pint of milk ; set the saucepan on the fire stirring continually with a wooden spoon till it becomes thick and smooth. Do not let it boil or it will curd. Turn it into a basin and let it cool, stirring occasionally. Pass through a sieve. (Dr. Fothergill.)POULTRY AND EGGS. 97 Custard (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6). —Simmer a pint of milk with the thinly-cut rind of half a lemon and three ounces of sugar; strain off the rind. Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in water and pour the boiling milk on it; add seven bitter almonds and five sweet almonds (all blanched and pounded in a mortar); boil gently for five minutes, then add the yolks of two eggs well beaten up. Boil up once, pour it into a mould and let it cool. Scrambled,Eggs (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Break three eggs into a frying-pan with a little milk, a dessertspoonful of butter, a little salt, pepper, and a very little nutmeg ; stir well together; when the eggs begin to set, take off the fire and serve on buttered toast [sprinkled with chopped ham, parsley, or asparagus (3-4, 4, 5, 6)]. {Dr. Fothergill.) Eggs in the Nest (3, 4, 5, 6).—Beat to a froth the whites of three eggs, seasoned with two pinches of salt, one of pepper, and a little chopped parsley. Put them into a buttered dish, and pour over it three spoonfuls of cream, leaving a space between each spoonful—in each portion of cream place the yolk of one of the eggs. Bake in a moderate oven until the eggs are just set. Baked Eggs (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Butter a dish thickly with fresh butter, add half a pinch of salt, and the same quantity of pepper. Break into the dish three new-laid eggs, and dust over them half a pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper. Put the dish on a hot plate, with a gentle fire, cover with an earthenware cover, and put hot embers over it, or a salamander. Cook for three to four minutes; as soon as the white begins to set serve on the dish. Stirred Eggs (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Heat a tablespoonful of butter in a frying-pan, then break into it three fresh eggs. Mix in a table- spoonful of white stock and a little pepper and salt, and stir quickly for about two minutes, keeping the spoon in contact with the bottom of the frying-pan. When the eggs have become a soft yellow mass spread them on fried toast from which the crust has been pared. Serve at once. Egg and' Cream Cheese (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Take an egg, and a piece of cream cheese of the size of an egg, an ounce of fresh butter, a pinch of powdered sugar, and enough grated bread- crumbs and cream to form a paste. Mix all these well together and make into balls. Poach them in boiling salt and water, and drain. {After Mrs. de Salis.) Toasted Eggs (4, 5,6).—Toast a slice of stale bread to a golden yellow, break an egg carefully upon it, and set it close to a good fire; melt a piece of butter of the size of a filbert above the egg, so that the melted butter shall drip upon it, and turn the plate round several times, so that the egg is cooked all round. When it is set, add a little salt and pepper, and serve hot on the plate. Fondue (4, 5, 6).—Break up two eggs cold in a saucepan, and mix with them one and a half ounces of scraped Parmesan 798 MEAT. cheese, three-quarters of an ounce of butter, and two table- spoonfuls of milk (some prefer the same quantity of white wine instead of the milk) ; put the pan on a quick fire, and stir dili- gently until the white of egg begins to set, then take off the fire, and stir for two minutes more; season with a little pepper, but no salt. Eggs and Tomatoes (4, 5, 6).—Bake and skin two tomatoes and pass them through a tammy; warm an ounce of butter in a stewpan over a quick fire, and put in half of the tomatoes; break into the butter a new-laid egg, keeping the yolk covered with the white; season with a pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper. Turn the egg, and as soon as it is set put it on a hot dish near the fire, -while you repeat the operation _ with the second egg. The yolks of the eggs should remain liquid. The eggs may be beaten up before being fried, if preferred. Custard without Eggs (4, 5, 6). —Mix a large tablespoonful of baked Oswego flour and two tablespoonfuls of sugar with a little cold milk. Boil a pint of milk with the thin peel of half a lemon and a laurel leaf; let it stand off the fire for ten minutes ; take out the peel and leaf, and pour the milk over the flour, stirring all the time; put it into a saucepan and boil for two minutes; turn it into a basin, and stir it till it is cool. Put half a pound of marmalade or sweetened summer fruit into a dish • pour the custard oyer, and stand it in a cool place till wanted. Sweeten the fruit thus : a pint of red currants and a pint of raspberries, both fresh and carefully picked ; put theui into a dish with a quarter of a pound of good moist sugar and a tablespoonful of water, and let them saturate for six hours or longer, stirring frequently. (Dr. Fothergill.) XIII. MEAT. This is, after all, the natural staple of diet in Northern countries, however much other foods may be praised and recom- mended. Many people eat a great deal more meat than is good for them, as, indeed, is true of all other articles of food. As old age approaches, and the teeth and digestive powers fail, the quantity of meat taken should be diminished, and it will often be well to substitute soups and other easily assimilated preparations for solid meat. After the age of five and twenty two meat meals a day are enough for anyone who is not engaged in hard out- door exercise, and many persons will find themselves the better for only one such meal. _ . . Meat should not be tough, nor too old—neither too fat nor too lean It should be hung until tender, but not be allowed to be- come tainted. Meat should always be cut in thin slices and99 MEAT. a-ainst the grain, and eaten in small mouthfuls thoroughly ^Melt'is classified according to the colour of its fibres viz. white (vealpork, chicken, pheasant), red (beef mutton partridge, lose) deep red (venison, roebuck, wild boar), and black (hare, skylark) Vbite meats are generally gelatinous, not very nour- ishing and not easy of digestion, and require spiced seasoning to give them flavour, and to enable the stomach to assimilate thKid of two or three months old, is generally easy of digestion but has often so rank a smell as to prevent persons who are not in good health from eating this meat. It is, besides, difficult to F Veal is an indigestible and innutritions meat, and though less unwholesome when boiled, is best avoided altogether. The lat is especially indigestible. . . . Sweetbreads, however, are excellent food for the sick, being very easy of digestion and nourishing. They may be given m quite early convalescence. ■ Calf s Kidneys are more digestible than sheep s kidneys, and of better flavour. . _•' . , „ , . „ Calves' Feet are also digestible, and make excellent jelly. Calf s Head is also an excellent dish, whether simply boiled or en tortue, only it should not be so highly spiced as tete de veau en tortue generally is. The brains are too fat to be digestible. Calf's Tongue, if cooked till quite tender, is a wholesome dish. It may also be lightly smoked and salted. Calf s Liver is not easy of digestion. Pork is, perhaps, even more unwholesome than veal, and is only digestible by farm labourers. Pig's Feet are generally digestible. Brawn is mostly too rich to be wholesome, but suits some people. Bacon, if cut thin, not too highly salted, and with a proper proportion of fat and lean, and thoroughly cooked, is very digestible and nutritious, and is sometimes used as a substitute for cod-liver oil. Hams require good curing, soaking, and cooking, and not to be too highly salted. If all these conditions be fulfilled, and the ham cut in very thin slices against the grain, it is not only nour- ishing but highly digestible. It should not, however, be eaten too freely, or it may cause biliousness. Sucking-pig is too rich for most people, but is so excellent a dish that it seems a pity to forbid it altogether. It should be roasted and basted with lemon-juice, and served with the same condiment. Lamb should not be less than six months old. It is more wholesome and more nutritions than veal. The cutlets and obops100 MEAT. in particular are generally easy of digestion. Lamb is not gene- rally suitable for dyspeptic persons, but frequently the con- comitant mint sauce is as much to blame as the lamb. Red meats are far more nourishing and generally more digestible than the above meats. Mutton, especially when boiled or grilled in chops, is usually the first meat allowed to convalescents, being the most easy of digestion. The lean only should be given in early convales- cence ; the fat is best used mashed up with potatoes; mutton- fat with milk is very nourishing. Mutton Chops grilled are very easy of digestion. They should not be too thick, and, if not thoroughly cooked, are often repulsive to convalescents. They should be served dry, and not greasy. English invalids will probably be satisfied with less than the half dozen chops allowed for a German. Loin of Mutton is rather too l-ich a dish for early conva- lescence, the fibres of the meat being close of texture, and therefore indigestible. Neck of Mutton is more wholesome than the loin, and gives better chops and cutlets for early convalescence. Leg of Mutton should be boiled rather than roasted for invalids, and their portion should be cut from the thick end, without fat. The " Pope's eye " may be reserved for the healthy. Leg of mutton pickled in hock for six to fourteen days, according to the time of year, after having been well beaten and freed from fat, is as good as venison. Shoulder is generally too rich and often too stringy to be easily digestible. Kidneys are no food for people of delicate digestion ; even for healthy people they should not be over-cooked, as then they become hard and leathery and difficult of digestion. Sheep's heart is not wholesome. Sheep's tails are rich and nourishing, but difficult to digest. Sheep's feet, if not too rich, are digestible. Sheep's tongues stewed in a not over-rich gravy are a delicate and tasty and easily digestible dish. They may also be grilled. Beef is the best and the most nourishing of all meats, but un- fortunately it comes low in the scale as far as its digestibility is concerned. It should not be given until quite towards the end of convalescence, and many dyspeptics are unable to digest it. Beef-steak is the best way of cooking beef for invalids. The beef should be hung (not beaten) till tender, and grilled, but not so much cooked as to be dry—it should have "the gravy in it."— It is not so good when stewed. The fillet makes much the most tender steak, but is not so well-flavoured as the entrecote. Sirloin is as good in flavour but richer than beef-steak. It must be roasted, not baked.MEAT. 101 Ribs resemble the sirloin, but are rather more digestible. Boiled Beef is generally pickled so long a time before boiling as to make the fibres hard and indigestible, and the excessive quantity of salt contained in the meat does not improve matters. Beef a la Mode is good and nourishing but not very digestible. The meat should be laid in vinegar for forty-eight hours before being cooked, and should not have too much spice. Marrow is rich and not always digestible. Ox-tail makes an excellent but rich stew, very savoury, but not verv wholesome. . .. . ., Ox-tongue is very good if stewed fresh with a slightly acidu- lated sauce ; if smoked it becomes too often hard and indigestible. Tinned ox-tongue is mostly unwholesome. Beef-palates are readily digested if boiled to a brawn or jelly with the finely shredded rind of a lemon, a very little vinegar, and a small quantity of white pepper; the addition of a small fash, e q whiting or haddock boiled down with the palate, is an im- provement, and so is a little Liebig's extract (a piece the size of a bean to each half pound of the jelly) or stock. Tripe is very wholesome, and easily digested, and may be given ven in early convalescence. Bullock's Heart, Kidneys, and Liver are only suited tor ostrich-like digestions. Salt Meats are only about half as nourishing as Iresn meat, and are also less digestible. Salt meat, if kept too long, may become dangerous to the health of the eater. Those persons who do not digest albumen well may be ordered salt meat instead of fl"smoked Meat is as a rule hard, tough, and unwholesome. Baw Meat is a useful diet in wasting diseases, especially in consumption, but it is often objected to partly from sentiment, and partly because it is insipid ; it should be of beef chopped up fine with salt and pepper (not too much of either) and eaten on toast with a little lemon-juice, or as Hungarian beef-steak. Those who will not take quite raw meat will sometimes eat meat just warmed at the fire. All skin, fat, and gristle should be removed from the meat before mincing it. Sausage Meat should be finely chopped up with a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and some lemon-peel; no garlic, spices, or flour should be added. The skin should not be eaten, and the meat should be well chewed, and in this way it is fairly digestible. Stuffing is almost always to be avoided by those whose diges- tion is impaired. Fat is a very valuable fuel, and, moreover, serves for the repair of tissue; if salted or smoked it is rendered less digestible, espe- cially when cooked, and the more it is salted the less wholesome102 MEAT. it is. Fat sometimes causes biliousness, but DrMilner Fothergill maintains that with fat and starch bilious people are compara- tively well if they do not commit excess. Sometimes cold fat is more easily digested than hot, or vice versa. Meat Jellies are easily digestible and nourishing, and if slightly acidulated are good for feverish persons. Jellies of game, poultry, and fish are not so nourishing, but more appetising and, if not too much seasoned, even more digestible. As to the cooking, meat is most easily digested when boiled, but it is more nourishing and savoury when it is roasted or grilled. Beef should not be overdone, but served " with the gravy in it; " but it must be heated thoroughly as a lukewarm mass of meat is not only repulsive to the fastidious senses of the sick, but dan- gerous, because meat is the habitat of the eggs of most of the intes- tinal worms. Dr. King Chambers'dictum isthat trichinseand other entozoa when thoroughly cooked are as harmless as a baked lion. Mutton and lamb require thorough cooking, and to be served as hot as possible. Mutton is best boiled in hard water. Pork should only be eaten in a completely cooked state; its natural unwholesoineness is increased by partial cookery. The flesh of animals that have been diseased in life is very unwholesome. Sweetbreads Steamed (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Trim off the pith and skin, and let the sweetbreads soak in cold water for four hours, then blanch them in water over the fire until they swell up and become firm, but not too firm ; drain. Pound up as much as is wanted in a mortar to a pulp, and boil in a water-bath for twenty to thirty minutes, with just enough white stock to cover it. Drain and serve hot. Sweetbreads Plain (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Trim off pith and skin, and put the sweatbreads into cold water for four hours ; blanch them in water, heating them on the fire until they become firm and swell up like a balloon; put them into cold water until per- fectly cold ;. drain them; place them in a saucepan with a little butter; dust them over with flour; move and moisten with a little water; add salt and pepper and a little parsley. Cook very gently, and serve with slices of lemon. Calf s Sweetbread Baked (3, 4, 5, 6).—Trim and blanch as above; when cold drain ; dip in beaten-up egg, and sprinkle with bread-crumbs; dip in egg again and bread-crumb again; drop a little oiled butter over them, and bake in moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. Serve on toast, and pour brown gravy round them. Sweetbreads Braised (4, 5, 6).—Trim and blanch as above; lard them well when cold with fine lard; season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice; put them in a good braise of slices of lard and of veal, seasoned with parsley, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Cover103 MEAT. the vessel well, and cook for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with tomatoes, if allowed, o^shces of lemon. ^ the Sweetbreads in Paper (3-4,4, 5, b). in a braise (see sweetbreads as for ' plain Bweetteead, coo* ^ a tga_ above), drain it, put it on a plate, *™ P?™.^ become cold. Out Spoonful of Worcestershire sauce and det it a^ £co two very thin slices of ^'^^^d wvap it round the 2£»tKStfS -HS, ^d griS it to a golden brown colour. , , „ i i n 61 —Trim and blanch as «TetXandScofdTa^t(3wtth\ and roast it in a skin, bones and all, ^,^;u^^ watei with two pounds of slowly until tender in modeiatdy saltedwate ion£nd tnree beef bones a root of ^^^^Storf* about two hours. Take turnips, if suitable), "^"^^g6^^ the toneue and cut it off the skm ^ ^2? ' luce-Melt "five ounces of up into slices. Make tne ioiiow g mix & table. butter in a large saucepan, and whenit^ is n ^ ^ spoonful of dour with it; pass some of ^° • boiled in through a ta^my and add rtto tte, the liquor from the head (and ^d jerkins"out in slices, or and mushrooms, and thi'ee *?he^ d poanded Z^t^S&^A teaefoonfnl of to ft. hotter to eorer ^<^|£|S£& Vfc *. 5, o>r«e ^ a clifs head, soak the head in cold water with the jn.ee M a fernon Iran nonr; wash it *? ™£™ ^^ bS for two hours and a half, *.m™.ng frequend^ T»ke ^ut^ head, strain the liquor, and serve, lhe heau snouiu » >n!?Z\VlTS'^ '?he hone, from half a ealfs head, takeMEAT. 104 of it) for twenty minutes, drain and throw it into cold water. Obop up very small sixounces of beef suet and melt it in a large saucepan; as soon as it is melted add six ounces of flour, five pints of water, three-quarters of an ounce of salt, and half that quantity of pepper, and the thinly cut rind of a lemon, with the juice from which the bead has previously been rubbed. Stir all this until it boils, then add the head with the tongue. Stew slowly for two hours and a half, the saucepan being not quite covered. The head should be wrapped in a napkin or in strong paper before being- put into the saucepan. When the head is cooked remove the skin of the tongue. Serve with the brain separately. The brain should have the thin outside membrane taken off, then be soaked in cold water for an hour, then boiled for half an hour with two and a half pints of water, half an ounce of salt, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Serve with cut lemon. Sheep's Head (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Divide the head in two, length- wise ; take out the brains and tongue, and blanch the head in plenty of boiling water for twenty minutes; drain, and throw it into cold water, then place it in a stewpan with a root of celery, some parsley, and a carrot, a teaspoonful of salt, and three quarts of water. Bring it to the boil, and then let it simmer until it is cooked, which will be in three or four hours. Mince some of the meat from the cheek very fine, and serve on toast moistened with the strained liquor in which the head was stewed. [Sheep'B head is one of the most wholesome forms of meat, being preferable to mutton chop.] Sheep's Tongues (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Sheep's tongues should be boiled in salt and water until the skin can be peeled off them, cut in halves, lengthwise, and stewed or braised, and served in gravy with braised or stewed vegetables. Sheep's Tongues Grilled (3-4, 4, 5, 6). —Boil the tongues in salt and water until the skin can be peeled off, cut them in half, lengthwise, soak them in oil, roll them in bread-crumbs, and grill them. Sheep's Tongues Stewed (4, 5, 6).—Blanch the tongues, wrap them in thin slices of bacon, put them in a braise of grand bouillon with a carrot, parsley, thyme, a bay-leaf, salt and pepper, and cook them in a moderate fire. Strain the liquor, reduce it, and add half a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Calves' Tongues (4,5',6).—Cooked in the same way, or augratin. Ox-tongue (4, 5, 6).—A fresh tongue braised is a savoury and digestible dish. Sheep's Feet (3, 4, 5, 6).—Take four feet, remove all the wool, singe them, blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, then plunge them into cold water; remove the long bones, boil tbe feet in white stock for three and a half to four hours until thoroughly cooked, and serve with shoes of lemon.MEAT. 105 The feet may also be cut up after being cooked as above and fried in butter. . Calf's Feet (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—May be treated in the same way. Lamb's Feet (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6). —Cooked in the same way. Sheep's Feet (Trotters) (3, 4, 5, 6).—Take two sheep's feet, take out the tuft of hair in the cleft of the foot; singe the feet, blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, then put them iu cold water. Take out the long bones ; dry the feet, and stew in a pint of milk mixed with a pint of water, and flavoured with grated lemon-peel and pepper and salt (a little celery may be added if desired). Stew for three hours and a half, or until quite tender, skimming and stirring frequently. Add two tablespoonf uls of cream just before serving, and stir well together. Pickled Sheep's Feet (4, 5, 6).—Cook as above; when done, put them for an hour in a pickle of a tablespoonful of vinegar, a dessertspoonful of oil, three saltspoonfuls of salt, and two of pepper, the whole well mixed together. Rub each foot with yolk of egg, sprinkle it with bread-crumbs, put them into a frying- pan containing hot butter, and fry for twenty minutes, turning them over several times. Drain them on a cloth, and dust them over with salt. Serve with fried parsley. Cow-heel (3, 4, 5, 6).—Cut up a cow-heel, bone and all, into pieces, and put these into a saucepan with two pints of milk. Boil slowly at the side of the fire for four hours, or until the meat comes off the bones; remove the bones; strain off the jelly through muslin; add a little castor sugar, and flavour with lemon-juice or sherry. Pour into a mould, and let it cool to a jelly. This may be eaten hot as broth, without sweetening or flavour- ing, and with a little salt and pepper. Pig's Feet (5, 6).—Dip two well-cleaned feet in yolk of egg or milk, and roll them in bread-crumbs, and bi'oil them over a gentle fire. Stewed Ox-tail (4, 5,6).—Divide the tail at the joints; blanch them for twenty minutes in boiling salt and water, then plunge them in cold water and let them soak for an hour ; drain, dry the pieces, and put them in a saucepan with five pints of stock, boil up, skim, and add an onion cut in rings, two cloves, two carrots in slices, two pinches of salt, and two of pepper. Let them simmer for three hours and a half, or longer if not quite tender. Strain through a colander, and put the pieces of tail and the slices of carrot separately in saucepans, and take off all the fat of the stock, and boil it down to one half; pour this over the carrots and ox-tail (in the two saucepans), warm up, add a table- spoonful of lemon-juice, and serve with the stock. Stewed Lamb's Tails (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—As above, or in equalMEAT. 106 parts of mirepoix and blond de veau. After they are done the liquor is boiled down to one half, and served with the tails. Tripe Fried (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Cut up into small pieces half a pound of soft tripe, and lay the pieces for an hour in hock or white vinegar. Heat in a stewpan some fresh butter, and lay in it the tripe, and fry it slowly (lightly browned onions may be added if desired). As soon as the tripe is crisp and of a pale yellow colour, add a pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper, and a saltspoonful of meat-extract, stir, and heat for a few minutes longer. Take it from the fire, and add the wine or vinegar in which the tripe was soaked. Tripe Boiled (4, 5, 6). — Wash in cold water a pound of fresh-dressed tripe, cut into pieces about an inch square, and remove the fat. Boil it in half a pint of milk and half a pint of water, with two pinches each of salt and pepper a-nd castor sugar, and a little chopped parsley; boil slowly, strain, and let it simmer for three hours, skimming and stirring frequently. Take off all fat, and serve the tripe hot, with the strained liquor in which it was boiled. Tripe a la mode de Caen (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Take two pounds of tripe quite fresh and dressed, cut it into pieces three inches square. Blanch it for five minutes in cold water, and dry it. Remove all the fat. Out up half a pound of bacon into pieces an inch thick, and remove the rind. Bone a calf's foot, and cut it up into pieces. Put the bacon, the foot, and the tripe into a saucepan, mixing the meat together, and add three pints of stock, half a pound of onions, one ounce of parsley, and a little thyme, a clove, three pinches of salt and. one of pepper, and a gill of brandy, Cover the saucepan closely, boil up, and after it has boiled, let it simmer slowly for three hours. Remove the onions and herbs, take off the fat, and serve. Lamb Chops (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Having cut off the skin and fat, dip them in warm butter, add salt and pepper, and grill them over a bright, clear fire, turning them several times. They will take about ten minutes to cook. Serve them in their own gravy. Mutton Chops (4, 5, 6).—Dressed same way. Mutton Chop (steamed) (3-4, A, 5, 6).—Remove all fat from a loin-chop, and put the chop into a covered jar with half a wine- glassful of water; cover the jar closely, and let it stand in a fairly warm oven, or simmer in a saucepan of water for half an hour. Add a little salt before serving. Serve very hot with the gravy poured over the meat. Beef Palates (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Put the palate into boiling water and let it boil for ten minutes; then plunge it in cold water, drain it and scrape it carefully. Out the palate in half, and put it in a pint saucepan. Add half a pint of stock, a saltspoonhil of salt, and herbs and a clove and an onion if desired. Simmer for three107 MEAT. ■LU' hours, add a saltspoonful of meat-extract; then drain tbepalate on a cloth, and wipe off gently all the grease and fat. Serve with ^e^-bTSSiad (4 5, 6) and see also p. 101 (3, 4, 5' Minced Collops (4-5, 5, 6). Mince half a pound of raw beef- steak very small, warm half an ounce of butter m a stewpan put in the meat, and move it about with a fork till brown, but not hard Stir a dessertspoonful of flour into a quarter of a pint ol cold water, and add this; stew all together for an hour, stirring- freauently. Ten minutes before serving add two pinches ot salt, a pinch of pepper, and half a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce. Serve hot. garnished with sippets of toast. •• - Hungarian Beef-steak (3-^,4, 5, 6) .-Cut a very thm slice from the raw fillet, season it with pepper and salt. Mix a tea- spoonful of salt with a tablespoonful of vinegar, and lay the meat in it. Serve on bread or warm toast. Fillet Steak (4, 5, 6).—Sprinkle the steak with salt and pepper on both sides, dip it in oil, and broil for a few minutes over a moderate fire, turning frequently. Strain and skim the gravy, and flavour it with lemon-juice. Roast Fillet (Larded) (4-5, 5, 6).-Lard with small pieces of bacon inserted into the meat; roast a quarter of an hour for each pound of meat. Serve with the strained gravy, flavoured with a little lemon-juice if desired. Boast Fillet Braised (5, 6) in stock for five or six hours. Beef a la Mode (5, 6).—Take about four pounds of thick beet- steak cut into squares. Take nearly three-quarters of a pound ot fat bacon; cut off the rind, which should be put aside to b anch,* and then cut the bacon in strips for larding, about one-third ot an inch square, and sprinkle them with pepper. Lard the meat and tie it up, as for the pot-au-feu. Place the piece of meat m a. stewpan with rather less than a pint of white wine, a wineglass of brandy, a pint of stock, a pint of water; two calves feet, already boned and blanched, and the rind of the bacon also blanched. Put it on the fire, adding a little less than one ounce of salt. Make it boil, and skim it as for a pot-au-feu; next, having skimmed it, add fully one pound of carrots, one onion, three cloves, one faggot of herbs, two-thirds of an ounce of salt, and two pinches of pepper. Place the stewpan on the corner of the stove, cover it, and allow it to simmer very gently for four and a half hours. Try the meat with a skewer to ascertain when it is sufficiently cooked ; then put it on a dish with the carrots and the calves' feet, and keep them covered up hot until serving. * To " blanch " is simply plunging either vegetables or meat, as the case may be, into boiling water for a minute or two, to remove acrid matters in the first case, and to aid in cleansing in the second.108 MEAT. Next, strain the gravy through a fine tammy; remove carefully every atom of grease, and reduce it over the lire about a quarter. Lastly, untie the beef, place it oh the dish for serving; add the calves' feet, each having been cut in eight pieces, the carrots cut into pieces the size of a cork, and ten glazed onions. Arrange the calves' feet, carrots and onions, round the beef; pour the sauce over the meat. Taste it in order to ascertain if sufficiently seasoned. Beef a la mode should be very relishing. (Sir Henry Thompson, from Gouffe.) The onions may be omitted if they are likely to disagree. Beef a la Mode, Cold (5, 6).—Dress the beef as above. When done place it in a bowl, instead of on a dish, with the feet, vege- tables, and gravy. Let it cool, and turn it out into a dish before serving. Westphalian Braised Beef (5, 6).—Take a piece of tender fillet and cut off the fat; divide it by deep notches into slices, not separating them; sprinkle a little pepper and salt between the slices. Put it into an earthenware pot with a cover, and over the meat put a number of raw peeled potatoes dusted over with salt. Cover the pot very closely, and lute it with paste and "dace it under the grate, covered with hot ashes, for four hours. Common Braise (5, 6).—Line a stewpan with slices bacon and of beef as thick as your finger; season with thyme parsley, carrots, bay-leaves, pepper and salt. On this bed place lie meat to be braised; cover it, and season it with the ingredients above named; fill the vessel as full as possible; close the stewpan and lute the joints with paste. Pat it on the fire, and cover it with hot ashes, diminishing the heat as cooking progresses. White Braise (demi-braise) (5, 6).—Proceed as above, sub- stituting veal for beef, aud not using so much seasoning. This braise is for small pieces of meat. Fillet-steak with Anchovy Butter (4, 5, 6).—Out from the fillet (crosswise) a slice an inch thick, trim it, cut out all the white stringy parts, dust with salt and pepper, and rub it over with oil; grill it for a few minutes, turning frequently; well wash and sponge an anchovy, bone it, and crush it; then mix it well with an ounce and a quarter of butter, pass it through a colander, and put it on a hot plate; place the steak on it and serve. Meat-jelly (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Take two pounds of shin of beef, two pounds of knuckle of veal, a fowl, and a calf's foot; put all into nearly two quarts of water with an ounce of salt; boil up, skim, and add a large carrot, a celery root, tbyme, a bay-leaf, and parsley; simmer for four hours, until the water is reduced to one half; strain and let it grow cold. If the jelly is not quite clear when cold beat up the whites of two eggs, and bod up with the jelly; skim, strain again, and serve either cold as jelly, or as a warm broth.109 TpIIips mav be made with poultry, game, fish, &c. remove the short bones, and dust the cutlets with salt and peppei W half an ounce of batter in a small frying-pan and iiy the cutletsforTwe ve mfnutes, turning them at the end of six minutes. When cooked set the cutlets aside, and make the.following sauce : "Rrown a Quarter of an ounce of flour, and add a wmeglassful boil and strain the sauce; clean the frying-pan, and dSetucTfn it to half its bulk; cut a sheet ofwhite, gjpej to a suitable size, butter it, and lay on half of it a thin slice 01 bUn on which put a dessertspoonful of the sauce then a cutlet, theTanotlTer spoonful of sauce,'then another thin slice of bacon; fold the paper carefully round the cutlet and bacon. Fry on the ^dii on^ght minutes on one side and seven minutes on the other. the sauce is an improvement. BriioneaTS 5,6).-Cut thin fillets of veal mutton, or turkey ; ate*Ternin layers between slices of ham, and seasoned with oil mushroTms and a dash of garlic, if allowable) and parsley all chopped up and mixed with the oil; add salt and pepper and simmei by a slow fire. When they are cooked take out the SL one by one, and set them aside ; then take off the fat of U sance and thicks with baked flour, pour the sauce over the hresolles and warm all up without letting it boil. OalPB Brain Boiled (5, 6).-Take off the thin membrane on the brain, and let it drain for an hour; put it into a saucepan withtwo pints and a half of water and half a wmeglassful of vihegai ; boil for half an hour, drain, and serve with browned ^n6^. 6).-Having taken off the outside skin and drained the brain, fry it in butter with pepper and salt. SATSTDWICHES (3, 4, 5, 6).-The bread should be at least twenty-four hours old, but not too dry, and the butter should be well rubbed into the bread, and not spread too thickly The slices of bread should be not less than one-eighth of an inch, nor more than one-fourth of an inch thick. The contents of the sandwich should be evenly distributed over the bread and when finished the sandwiches should be cut up into pieces about an inch long bv three-quarters of an inch broad. . Anchovy Sandwiches (4, 5, 6).-The anchovies should be boned and thoroughly soaked, first in water afterwards in milk. Caviare Sandwiches (3-4, 4, 5, 6).-The caviare must be fresh and evenly spread, and a few drops of lemon-juice squeezed OVChicken Sandwiches (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).-Thin slices from the breast of a chicken, covered with a very thin slice of ham.110 SANDWICHES, ETC. Fish-roe Sandwich. (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—The fish-roe should be beaten up in a mortar, and toasted before the fire. Caviare, cod's-roe, or bloater-roe may be used. Cod's-roe Sandwiches (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Pound some smoked ■cod's-roe with a little oiled butter into a paste, and spread it evenly on the sandwich; flavour with a few drops of lemon-juice-. Potted-meat Sandwiches (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—The potted-meat should be made at home, and thoroughly minced and pounded. These sandwiches are wholesome and appetising. Game Sandwiches (3, 4, 5, 6).—May be made from thin slices of the breast of any game birds. Sardine Sandwiches (3, 4, 5, 6).—The sardines should be boned and trimmed and flavoured with a few drops of lemon- juice squeezed over them. Brown bread may be used for these sandwiches instead of white. For the bread in any of the above sandwiches slices of toast of a light brown colour and thinly spread with butter may be sub- stituted ; but 1he toast must not be allowed to get cold. Cheese Sandwiches (4, 5, 6).—Pound some cheese with one- fourth its weight of butter, spread it on brown bread and butter, sprinkle it with salt and pepper, and cover with a slice of bread and butter. Put all in the oven until the bread is lightly toasted. Serve hot. Cheese Straws (5, 6).—Rub a quarter of a pound of baked flour with two ounces of butter, and mix in two ounces of Parmesan cheese, half a saltspoonful of salt, and the same quantity of pepper; mix well together. Beat the white of an egg with four table- spoonfuls of cold water, and stir into the cheese and flour enough of the beaten-up white of egg to form a white paste; knead the paste well, roll it out in strips, and cut these of the required length. Lay them side by side and bake in a quick oven for about five minutes till they are of a pale brown. Bread and Butter.—The bread should be stale and cut in thin slices, and the butter well rubbed in, not dabbed on in lumps. {Dr. Fothergill.) Angels on Horseback (3, -i, 5, 6).—Toast some thin slices of bread to a light brown colour, and keep them warm. Fry very thin slices of fat bacon without rind, curl them up, ench on a slice of toast, and place on each slice of bacon one or two oysters, which should be first warmed through. Serve hot.Ill CONDIMENTS, SPICES, ETC. XIV. CONDIMENTS, SPICES, ETC. These are generally to be avoided by all persons who _ are not in perfect health, though sometimes moderate quantities are advantageous to the digestion. Spices should not be mixed with a dish before cooking, as they lose their flavour, but retain their irritating properties ; they should be added in small quantities when the cooking is nearly finished. Mustard and Pepper help a sluggish digestion to assimilate fat and gelatinous meats and fish. They are both useful as a remedy and preventive of flatulence. Black pepper is whole- somer than white, and Nepaul than Cayenne. Salt is favorable to the digestion of solid food, making it savoury and wholesome. It is better, however, to take too little than too much, as the excessive use of salt may cause chronic catarrh of the stomach, and irritation of the skin. Salt is very necessary with farinaceous food. Salt should be omitted alto- gether in beef-tea, &c, when the digestion is very feeble. Vinegar furthers the digestion of albumen, and is therefore good with meat, and eggs—it is also useful in helping to dissolve green watery vegetables. It should not be used in cooking, but added afterwards. Too much vinegar is very astringent, causes indigestion, and thus diminishes fat. Stale vinegar is liable to contain unwholesome organisms. Lemon-juice is more wholesome than vinegar, and more delicate in flavour. Oil is emollient and relaxing, and wholesome if taken in moderation; it is a more wholesome vehicle in cooking than lard. Cloves, Cinnamon, All-Spice, &c, may sei-ve to rouse a flagging appetite, but are too stimulating for invalids. Old people and those with sluggish digestion may be the better for a moderate use of such spices. Capers are indigestible. Nasturtium seeds are not a bad substitute for them. G-inger is a good stomachic tonic in small quantities; too much is irritating to the stomach. Sauces are generally too hot and spiced and irritating, but a few drops of sauce (especially Worcestershire Sauce) serve to stimulate the appetite and digestion, and to prevent flatulence. Brown flour sauoes are better than white. Tomato sauce is a good relish, and wholesome in small quantities. Pickles have the same advantages and disadvantages as vinegar. German Mustard.—Crush and mix together coriander seeds112 SVTLIKTS. 5 parts; cloves 5 parts; cinnamon 7 parts; black mustard 125 parts; white mustard 250 parts; sugar 250 parts. Put all these ingredients in an earthenware jar, and add enough wine-vinegar to form a thin paste. Set the jar uncovered in a warm place to ferment. , ., Tomato Sauce (4-5, 5, 6).—Out up choice tomatoes and boil them to a pulp in very little water; pass them through a hair- sieve to remove the shins and seeds; then slowly dry the pulp over a gentle fire. Make the dry pulp into tablets, and use a piece of the size of a walnut to each half pint of sauce. Boil it in stock and a little butter in an enamelled saucepan, and flavour with salt and pepper. Tomato Chutney (4-5, 5, 6).—Slice up a peck of green tomatoes as if slicing a cucumber, sprinkle them with salt, and let them lie all night. Slice twelve onions m the same way. Put into a stewpan a layer of tomatoes, then a layer of onions; sprinkle over some ground mustard, mustard-seed, pepper-corns, and brown sugar; repeat in the same order. Cover all over with vinegar, and boil for two hours. When cold put the pickle into bottles and keep in a cool place for three months before using. Quantities required:—Tomatoes one peck ; onions twelve; ground mustard one ounce; peppercorns one ounce; mustard seed one ounce; brown sugar one pound; vinegar two quarts. (Ine above is a most wholesome and delicate pickle.) XV. SWEETS. Sugar makes farinaceous food more palatable, and more digestible, and therefore more nourishing. Excess of sugar destroys the appetite and the teeth, and causes heartburn. Gouty diabetic, and corpulent persons should make very mode- rate use of sugar. Eau sucree is sometimes of use m irritation of the urinary organs. . . , ,, Honey is slightly laxative, and is useful for various irritable states of the mucous membrane of the mouth and throat. In the comb it is an excellent food for scrofulous, lymphatic chil- dren. Honey does not suit all digestions. Jams and Marmalades suit some people who cannot digest raw fruit. They are sometimes useful for their laxative effects when eaten at breakfast. They should only be eaten m moderate ql Quince and Pear Marmalades are astringent. Apricot, Lemon, and Orange Marmalades are refreshing and digestible, and the two latter being slightly bitter are gentle tonics to the stomach.113 SWEETS. Barberry and Cherry Marmalades are wholesomely acid and good for bilious people. Strawberry, Easpberry, and Peach Marmalades are not so wholesome as the above-mentioned sorts. The above remarks on marmalades hold good also of jams. Currant Jam is rather too acid for some digestions. Pastry should be avoided by all persons whose digestion is at all delicate. The contents of fruit pies may generally be eaten with impunity, if they are not made too sweet. The under crust of a jam tart, and the under surface of the crust of a fruit pie, are exceedingly unwholesome. For remarks on Cakes, Biscuits, and Light Puddings, see VII, " Farinaceous Foods." Custards are almost as wholesome as milk diet. Omelettes if well made are digestible. Fritters are not very easily digested. Blanc-manges are wholesome. Charlottes and Trifles would be more wholesome without alcohol. Only very small quantities are allowable, and not even these in severe illness. Ices are sometimes useful in illness, where ice is indicated, but they should not be given too freely. Dyspeptics should only eat them after a full meal, not on an empty stomach. Ices should be eaten by no one who is hot or tired. Strawberry Salad (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Pick and put into a dish some ripe strawberries with powdered sugar, a pinch of powdered cinnamon, and some claret or red wine. Stir gently. Stewed Rhubarb (4, 5, 6).—Out up in small pieces six sticks of rhubarb, add a tablespoonful of moist sugar, and four table- spoonfuls of water, and place in a covered jar near the fire until the juice is extracted; pulp through a sieve. (A wineglassful of milk may be mixed with the pulp if desired.) Gooseberry Pool (4-5, 5, 6).—Put a pint of green gooseberries (freed from their tops and tails) into a jar with a tablespoonful of water and some moist sugar. Put the jar into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil until it can be pulped through a colander Press it through, and add gradually three quarters of a pint of hot milk and a beaten-up egg. Sweeten to taste. Rhubarb Fool (4-5, 5, 6) is prepared in the same way. Apricots in Sago (5, 6).—Boil twelve apricots in half a pint of syrup made with crushed sugar-candy; pass the syrup of apricots through a cloth ; and boil sago, previously washed and Boaked, m the strained syrup; when it is nearly turned to jelly add a glass of sherry, and serve with dried candied apricots. Apricot Pudding (6).—Scald in boiling syrup some apricots (not too ripe) until they are soft. Drain them, and take out the stones, and blanch the kernels. Put at the bottom of a bakino- 8 *SWEETS. Stir with a wooden spoon until the sugat is me , mfnuteS) together into the P-serving ^Wade of the size stirring while it boils Pat a;P™e °* \ u d h tben too warm. T3nb lumu sugar hard over the rind of a Lemon Jelly (4,5, 6)--Kub.£mpn„.? ..w the rind in three lemon, pare the lemon very^^ J ^» ^ on one tablespoonfu s of ^^^^^ax beat the yolks of three eggs K hot, bnt not of -^■•SSf * "JffS Co.batbena Lao, through sugar; let it simmei iu lemons, and the Sfoi Stt^it i. wMte and tnica. !n not weather use rather more isinglass. XVI. FRUIT. l- i ~f ^io+ ;s too much neglected in this Fruit as an article of diet is too mu . Brfre8hin pr0. country, where it is only ^fjX^SLrt chiefly on fruit perties. In warmer climates *^TeB^u ^ with a little bread and watei andwotua if thFRUIT. 115 all either contain, or are eaten with, sugar, of which a certain amount is necessary in a well-regulated scheme of diet. In this country fruit is chiefly eaten at dessert after dinner (the heaviest nieal of the day); at such a time it retards rather than helps digestion, and its flavour is not appreciated by the cloyed palate To be properly appreciated it should only be eaten before or between meals, and stale bread and water are the best accom- paniment m most cases; but peaches, strawberries, and rasp- berries are more readily digested when eaten with a little red wine and sugar, while melons are indigestible except with stimu- lants. The skins, pips, stones, and cores of all fruit should be rejected. Eaten m moderate quantity before meals, fruit will be found to excite appetite, and often to help digestion. _ Some of the various sorts of fruits possess medicinal qualities • juicy and slightly acidulous fruits, such as grapes, currants' oranges, cherries, and peaches are very grateful to fever patients' to whom they may be given with advantage, so long as excess in this kmd of food is avoided Bilious people enjoy, and are the better for, acidulous fruits, though these fruits should be avoided by persons who are troubled with acidity, and by patients who are taking mercury. The most nutritious fruits are those which are pulpy and sweet, e.g. cherries, plums, peaches, pears, and apples, and especially grapes, figs, and dates. Some fruit is more wholesome cooked than raw; apples, pears, and plums should not be given uncooked to invalids. This article of diet especially m large quantities is not good for the teeth, tending to produce decay, both by the direct action of the juices of the fruit and indirectly from the stomach trouble which mav be caused by too free indulgence in fruit. A rough division of the various fruits may be made into berries stone-fruit, rmd-fruit, and nuts. ' The commonest berries are the barberry, bilberry, blackberry gooseberry strawberry, raspberry, mulberry, whortleberry and grapes and currants. In general these are refreshing and shghtly laxative to the bowels. This class of fruit!should be avoided in intestinal and gastric inflammation, except grapes freed from their skms and stones. P giapes Barberries make an excellent and refreshing iellv Bilberries and Whortleberries taken with cold miik for break fast are an agreeable remedy for habitual constipation Strawberries and Raspberries are more indigestible with than itsl^7ea:ir ^ore rn? digested b*SOme S«m££ XI soared m iedwme. Strawberries are sometimes successful in procuring the discharge of intestinal worms, and are therrfore given at the same time as worm medicines meieioie From raspberries refreshing drinks are made of rasoberrv mice and raspberry vinegar, and these might be more often used-Qg FRUIT. with advantage as cooling drinks. The core in the centre of a °™ When dried they are more wholesome than raisins. Ciffs^KbdnB -ed, as else they form cakes In7masses in the digestive tract, and produce pain and pmga- tiT ^P.frs^tfaTe'Lt only refreshing and laxative, hut avoided during the ^J^kh cleaned after each meal when with clean water, an^ ^ ^h/leaned ^ ^ SSvTthfmono^y^re diet. Ve grapes ought not to ^ **befOTe being CO°Okf1tone-fruit,the chief: ar e th e ^P^^-^P^ apricot ^™^«°^%?LlS^aUy more difficult ^ lut 2? Sf "re difficult of diges- tion, and sometimes cause ieartW ^.^ ^ Fruits with rinds^are 0^ie^uicy flesh such as oranges, a thick rind and0f these are refreshing, and citrons, lemons, hmes,stiaQaocK, oranges are the maybe given to fevensh p«^sons, to suck, but g g most useful for th s PUipo ^ ^ hed d powdered sugar a e alsc^eiv P ^ Lemonade fevered mouth; only tne wliwj » with and orangeade are }^^fe^0o^ge, and sweetened the addition of thejuice o"a lemon o o a ^fruitilicludes the with powdered su§ai\ J^Se which have a harder rind, pomegranate, melon and pine apple ^ ^ and firmer flesh, and aie *° ^ avoided indeed the melon is an mdig^hle fruit and^aho ^ IZ^Vl^-S^P^1^ wine. Pine-apples,FRUIT. 117 too, are not very wholesome, and should only be eaten m small quantities. The third class of rind-fruits have a thin rind and very firm flesh, with comparatively little juice, and contains apples, pears, quinces, bananas, figs, and medlars. These are, as a rule, in- digestible, though they have some nutritive properties. Apples, pears, and quinces should not be eaten raw, and bananas should not be cooked. Figs are the most wholesome of fruits of this class, and are sometimes useful as laxatives. Nuts, the last sort of fruit in this arbitrary division, contain more nutriment than any of the other fruits, but are exceedingly indigestible, especially for persons whose teeth are decayed. If the kernels of nuts be pounded to a paste in a mortar, they become digestible, but probably no one will think them worth eating in this state. Chestnuts, if thoroughly well boiled, and deprived of all the inside skin, are allowable for persons with very sound and even teeth, who can reduce the chestnuts to a pulp before swallowing them. Sweet soup thickened with chest- nuts rubbed through a sieve is not unwholesome. {Br. King Chambers.) Fresh sweet almonds are not very unwholesome if thoroughly chewed, but they should not be used in puddings or cakes for persons whose digestion is delicate. Almond milk is wholesome, and is a domestic remedy in diarrhoea, and pain on passing water. Cocoa-nuts are unwholesome in every form, especially as comfits. Preserved fruits are unwholesome, excepting dried figs, and prunes; raisins and dates are tolerably digestible, and may be eaten in small quantities. Fruits preserved in alcohol are worse than those preserved in sugar. If people will eat tinned fruits, they should throw away all the liquor in the tins; and the fruit is more digestible if washed before serving. Fruits preserved in sugar lose their natural flavour, and the sugar causes acidity of the stomach and heartburn, and this is also true of jam in some cases. When fruit stewed with sugar causes acidity Dr. Fothergill recommends the substitution for sugar of as nmch bicarbonate of soda as will lie on a shilling to each pound of fruit. The juice of fresh fruits mixed with water, or made into water ices, is a pleasant refreshment for feverish patients and other sick people. Jams and jellies made of acidulous fruit may be boiled in water, and given when cool as a drink if fresh fruit is not to be had.118 VEGETABLES. XVII VEGETABLES. The importance of this class of food is sufficiently proved by the fact that with nine-tenths of the human race vegetables are by far.the most important article of diet, arid that many nations live entirely on vegetables and farinaceous food with milk. Vegetables are necessary in every well-arranged diet, not only to give variety to food, but to convey certain elements necessary for the nourishment of the body, and to form a sufficient volume to fill the stomach, and enable it to perform its functions thoroughly. It is the great fault of the dietary of most English people that they neglect vegetables for the sake of meat; they would be more healthy, especially as regards rheumatism and gout, if they ate meat seldomer, and consumed more vege- table's, fruit, and bread. At the same time, an exclusively vege- tarian diet is not suited to our climate nor to our ways of life. Vegetarians have to consume such large quantities of their food in order to get sufficient nourishment, that the stomach is over- loaded and unable to perform its functions rightly. There is more chlorosis (green-sickness and poverty of blood), dyspepsia, and dropsy among vegetarians than among flesh eaters. It is important that all vegetables should be quite fresh; stale vegetables are apt to ferment, and to cause flatulence and indi- gestion Further, vegetables must be properly cooked; much ot the indigestion that results from eating this kind of food is owing to its having been insufficiently or wrongly prepared. Vegetables are more wholesome in warm weather than m cold, and are more nourishing when cooked or eaten with some oily or fatty matter. They should never be cooked up a second time, but be eaten cold or thrown away. In cooking vegetables, all hard stems and woody fibres should be removed, as these are hard to digest, and care should be taken that the vegetables (except potatoes) should be young as the old are more woody and tough. Variety in this sort of diet is not only pleasing, but important. ... . It must be understood that vegetables are not an article ot diet for those suffering from acute diseases, nor for early conva- lescence The remarks on this class of diet are intended tor dyspeptics and for persons with delicate digestions. Potatoes are the most common, and therefore the most impor- tant of all vegetables, but they hardly deserve the favour which they have found; they contain, it is true, much starch but little nitro-en, and are therefore a suitable accompaniment to meat, but not satisfactory as a food to the exclusion of other foods. They are poor in nourishing qualities, and to many people chm- cult of digestion, causing acidity and heartburn; where theyVEGETABLES. 119 form the chief avticleof diet, poorness of blood, scrofula, and rickets are common. Potatoes are more digestible when eaten with fat or oily matters, and are consequently more nourishing with these additions; thus they are a good food when eaten with milk, fat, or butter. As to the cooking of potatoes they are more whole- some roast than boiled, and should always be soaked in cold water for one and a half or two hours before they are cooked. If boiled they should be thoroughly cooked, then mashed with milk or butter, and then passed through a sieve or colander (a precaution to be especially observed by dyspeptic people), and all hard parts should be thrown away. Mealy potatoes are bebter for roasting or boiling or baking. "Waxy potatoes are not so wholesome, especially if old. If they are fried or roasted they should be crisp and not hard, tough, or leathery, and should not be served with too much grease about them. Unripe potatoes and those which have sprouted are pai-ticularly unwholesome, and the water in which they have been boiled is poisonous. Yams have the same qualities as potatoes. Sweet Potatoes are wholesome and nourishing. Cabbage is the next most common vegetable after potatoes, and is still more unwholesome than they are, as it produces much flatulence. It is, however, a valuable anti-scorbutic. Cabbage should be soft but crisp before cooking, and should not ^e soaked in water. It should be boiled in two or three waters. After it has been cooked it should be thoroughly drained, as the cabbage-water is very unwholesome. A few drops of vinegar, and a little pepper make cabbage easier of digestion. Sauer-kraut is the most wholesome way of eating cabbage. It should not be too much salted in pickling, nor be allowed to ferment; it must be thoroughly boiled for twenty-four hours or more, and to a dish of sauer-kraut three tablespoonfuls of salad oil should be added before boiling, and a good wineglassf ul of new wine when nearly cooked, and, as soon as it becomes soft, some fresh butter. Sauer-kraut helps the digestion of roast meat and of roast game, especially if the stomach be sluggish, but it should be avoided in spasm of the stomach (cramps). The addition of potatoes or peas improves the flavour, but makes it less digestible. Red sauer-kraut is very indigestible. Cauliflower and Broeoli are digestible when well cooked, but cause flatulence if the cook be careless in their preparation. They are especially useful when the stomach is overloaded with mucus. They should be blanched for five minutes in boiling water, and then put into cold water befoi'e being boiled; and they are to be served with white sauce. Only the " flower" is to be eaten, not the leaves nor the stalk. Leguminous Vegetables, such as peas and beans, are a veryVEGETABLES. 120 nourishing food, but generally indigestible when they are in bad condition or badly cooked. They should be soaked in cold water before being cooked, and the older they are the longer they should be soaked. If the water be hard, bicarbonate of soda should be added to it. They should be boiled continuously until the skins burst, and fresh boiling water should be constantly added to make up for what evaporates in the cooking. _ Peas and beans are more digestible if a little vinegar be added just before dishing them up. If they are too old the skins do not crack readily, and they should then be chopped up or mashed before boiling, as long boiling only makes them harder and tougher. Young peas are more digestible than young beans, but the latter are rendered more, wholesome if their skins be removed before cooking. . . French Beans, if properly boiled, are very digestible, it is essential that they should be young and fresh. Haricot Beans, both red and white, are fairly wholesome and digestible, and of good flavour. The dried beans should be soaked in cold water for at least twelve hours, then, after boiling, be simmered for two or three hours, or fried with a little bacon and lard. Cold stewed haricots make a good salad, especially with tomato. (Sir By. Thompson.) _ Lentils, though nutritious, are indigestible and nasty, lliey are said to form the basis of the well-known Revalenta. They should be crushed and stripped of the husk. Spinach is one of the best of vegetables; it is light and easy of digestion, does not tend to induce flatulence, and is quickly digested; it is also slightly laxative. It should not be soaked before boiling. It may be boiled, or stewed with gravy, or milk or butter. . . , , The leaves of hedge-garlic, large stinging nettles, garden orach, meadow-cresses, sow-thistles, beetroot, &c, may be used as substi- tutes for spinach when it is not in season. Asparagus, perhaps the best of all vegetables, and certainly one of the most wholesome, has a sedative and slightly diuretic action. It should be eaten freshly cut and green, and is not so digestible when it is old and stringy. Sir Hy. Ihompson recom- mends that the stalks should be cut all of one length, and the asparagus placed on end in the saucepan with the heads an inch or two above the water, so that the stalks are boiled and the heads steamed; this process takes twice as long as the ordinary plan, but makes the stalks edible; it is most suitable for the larger sorts. The fresh young fronds of the male fern m the spring make a good imitation of early asparagus. (Dr. King Chambers.) Celery is more wholesome cooked than raw; if eaten raw it should be as a relish to bread and butter or cheese ma light meal, not at the end of dinner;—said to be anti-rheumatic.121 VEGETABLES. Lettuce is cool and refreshing; only the young leaves should be eaten, not the tougher outer leaves, nor the stalk. It is also digestible when cooked, and if artistically made into a salad. Turnips are a watery and flatulent food. Turnip-tops are better than cabbage, and cause less flatu- lence. Carrots are not very digestible, only young carrots being fit for any stomach but a farm-labourer's. Carrots with milk are said to be a good diet for children with worms. Radishes are very indigestible, and cause heartburn. Horse-radish is a not unwholesome stomachic stimulant in the quantity in which it is usually taken. It should be grated, not sliced, and is more piquant mixed with oil or honey. It may also be boiled in gravy, or with grated bread in milk. Onions should be avoided by all persons who have delicate digestions. Onions are said to have diuretic properties, and to be able to expel intestinal worms; in very small quantities, and when- thoroughly cooked, they excite a sluggish digestion to increased action. Onions are less unwholesome boiled than fried. Garlick and Leeks are worse than onions. Leeks make a good soup, if soft and not rank. Beetroot is a good enough addition to salads. Parsnips are unwholesome, but nutritious; with some people they cause a skin-eruption. Sea-kale is digestible if properly grown, but is not wholesome when coloured. Mushrooms are not injurious except in large quantities, but when they are over-ripe or rotten they become poisonous, and even if in good condition they are almost as dangerous when warmed up a second time. Truffles are not so indigestible as they are generally reputed; often the discomfort which follows their consumption is to be ascribed, not to the truffles, but to the food taken with them. The black truffle is, however, very unwholesome when too young, and not fit to eat when too old. It is necessary to be careful that truffles be genuine, as poisonous fungi are sometimes sub- stituted for them. Salsafy is a vegetable too little known in England; it is easily digestible and nutritious. It may be either boiled or fried. Scorzonera is also a very delicate root, and a nourishing, but it may cause flatulence. Like salsafy, it may be boiled or fried. Jerusalem Artichokes are watery, and may cause flatulence, if not, they are wholesome enough for those who like them. Artichokes are digestible if they be thoroughly boiled till soft. They sometimes cause sleeplessness. Some people can digest them better raw than cooked, but this is not usual.122 VEGETABLES. Large artichokes should be boiled; the smaller ones may be fried or grilled. They are popularly supposed to be good against gout and rheumatism. Cardoons have the same properties and preparation as arti- chokes. Cucumbers are cold, heavy, and indigestible if eaten without stimulants, either alcoholic or vegetable (spices). They make a good lunch with bread and cheese, and with these accompani- ments they help digestion, but they are not good after a heavy meal. (Dr. King Chambers.) If pickled, or served with vinegar they are harmful in catarrh of the stomach. Young cucumbers freshly cut are the only ones which should be eaten; old, stale ones should be treated in the way hinted at in the " Beggar's Opera." Tomatoes are wholesome and refreshing if ripe; if not ripe they may produce colic. They are best raw, but if boiled and peeled while hot, and allowed to become cold before being eaten, they are excellent. They may also be broiled or baked, but should not be stuffed. Vegetable Marrow may induce colic if not ripe. Salads are wholesome for those who can digest them, but should be avoided by all who have not good teeth. They should not be too salt nor too sour, and, as a rule, too little oil is added to the dressing. The salt should be put in first, then the oil, which should be stirred in, lastly, vinegar in the proportion of one-fourth of the oil, and the whole well stirred up. Sometimes a little pepper is an improvement. There are various sorts of vegetables used for salads, of which lettuces, tomatoes, and cucumbers have already been noticed. Endive Salad is somewhat heavy and indigestible. Bean Salad is good and nourishing, and fairly digestible. It should be made with rather more vinegar than most other salads. Potato Salad should be made of waxy potatoes, boiled, and peeled and sliced while warm ; some meat gravy should then be poured over the potatoes, and lastly a little salt, a little vinegar, and plenty of oil well mixed with them. Water-cress increase the flow of urine and perspiration, but excite the stomach, and are often difficult of digestion. Dandelions make a good salad, but for this purpose they should be bleached by'being grown in dark places, else they are too bitter. Dandelion leaves may also be boiled like spinach, and are very wholesome in this way; for this purpose only the young leaves are used, after the ends have been cut off. Dande- lions are good for sluggish liver, constipation, and piles. Borage : the young leaves make a tolerable salad. "Wild Chicory (or Succory) makes a digestible salad, which is tonic and laxative, but very bitter.VEGETABLES. 123 Lamb's Lettuce makes a fairly wholesome salad. Purslane is also used for salads, and is said to be refreshing and antiscorbutic. Garden Orach is said to make a better salad than lettuce; it is combined with sorrel for this purpose, and is digestible. It makes also a good substitute for spinach. Cold Boiled Table Vegetables such as carrots, turnips, peas, cauliflower, and other greens, may all be employed as salads. The dish may be made substantial by the addition of small fillets of sole or trout, and its flavour may be heightened, if desired, by morsels of haddock, sardine, &c. (Sir Sy. Thompson.) Samphire, pickled, makes a good addition to salad, is diuretic, laxative, and helps the secretion of bile. Juniper Berries are also a good addition to salads, and assist the digestion of this dish. They are diaphoretic and diuretic. Pimpernel is also good in salads, as a, relish, and the same may be said of Nasturtium Leaves and the young shoots of Tarragon. Mixed Salads are of various sorts, e.g. endive, marigold, cucumber, hard-boiled eggs (pounded if the digestion be delicate) with mustard, vinegar, oil, salt, and pepper. Mustard and Cress make an excellent and wholesome salad, which will sometimes revive a jaded appetite. Stewed Haricots (Cold) with sliced Tomatoes make a good salad. There are several herbs which are not much used in England as vegetables, although they are esteemed abroad. Of these are: Pennel, which is eaten in Italy like celery, and is aromatic, stimulating, and diuretic. Sorrel: the young leaves are laxative and excite appetite, but may cause or increase diseases of the kidney and bladder as well as gravel, and do not suit weak, irritable stomachs. Orach, eaten with sorrel to correct its acidity, and is light and digestible. All-good, of which the leaves are eaten as a substitute for spinach, the stalks for asparagus; it is digestible and refreshing. Couch-grass, wholesome and agreeable. Scurvy-grass, of which the young leaves are eaten like cress, and are antiscorbutic and stimulating. Skirret has a sweet, aromatic root, which is eaten boiled, and is astringent and digestible. Laver (a seaweed) is more nutritious than green vegetables. Angelica is ai'omatic, stomachic, and diaphoretic. Iceland Moss gives almost pure dry mucilage, and makes very nourishing bread, which is useful in diabetes. Salep, boiled in milk or water, makes a digestible and nutritious jelly {v. p. 46).VEGETABLES. 124 Hops: the young shoots gathered before they come out of the ground are boiled in salt and water, and eaten like asparagus. Kohl-rabi, an excellent and wholesome vegetable, though it occasionally causes flatulence. Haricot Beans.—Soak a quart of dried haricots in cold water for twelve hours; put them in a saucepan with two quarts of cold water and a little salt; boil, and when boiling, remove to the corner of the fire, and simmer slowly until tender, which will be in two or three hours. If the water be hard, add a little soda. Season with salt, and pepper, and a little butter. (Sir Hy. Thompson.) Mashed Potatoes.—Boil one pound of potatoes with their jackets on till they are thoroughly cooked. Peel them, and rub them through a fine sieve; when cool, add a small teacupful of fresh cream and a little salt, beating the pwee up lightly as you go on, till it is quite smooth; lastly, warm it up again before the fire or in the oven, and serve. (Dr. King Chambers.) Potato Puree.—Boil one pound of mealy potatoes till quite done,'drain them well, then whip them up with a fork on a hot dish until they are dry; then add slowly a mixture of a quarter of a pint of warm milk or cream with two ounces of butter and a little pepper and salt; keep on whipping the potatoes while adding this mixture, until the whole becomes a creamy mass. Serve piled lightly on a hot plate. Good broth or stock may be substituted for the milk. Potato Surprise.—Scoop out the inside of a sound potato, leaving the skin attached to one side as a lid. Mince up fine the lean of a mutton chop with a little salt and pepper, put it into the potato, pin down the lid, and bake or roast. Before serving (in the skin) add a little hot gravy. (Dr. King Chambers.) Asparagus.—Asparagus of the stouter sort should be cut of exactly equal lengths, and boiled, standing end upwards, in a deep saucepan. Nearly two inches of the heads should be out of the water, the steam sufficing to cook them, while the hard stalky part is rendered succulent by the longer boiling which this plan permits. They should be boiled for thirty or forty minutes. (Sir Hij. Thompson.) Salad.—The materials must be secured fresh, are not to be too numerous and diverse, must be well cleansed and washed without handling, and all water removed as far as possible. It should be made immediately before the meal, and can be kept cool until wanted. Yery few servants can be trusted to execute the simple details involved in cross-cutting the lettuce, or what not, but two or three times in a roomy salad bowl; in placing one salt- spoonful of salt, and half that quantity of pepper in a tablespoon, which is to be filled three times consecutively with the best fresh olive oil, stirring each briskly until the condiments haveVEGETABLES. 125 been thoroughly mixed, and at the same time distributed over the salad This is next to be tossed well, but lightly, until every portion glistens, scattering meantime a little finely chopped tarragon and chervil, with a few atoms of chives over the whole. Lastly, but only immediately before serving, one smalHablespoonful of mild French, or, better still, Italian wine- Wgar is tobe sprinkled over all, followed by another tossing °f The unbooked tomato may be sliced and similarly treated for separate service, or added to the former, equally for taste and appearance. A tomato, however, should never be cut until the moment it is wanted for eating. Then, as much of the skm as can be easily removed should be got rid of. Cold boiled asparagus served with a mayonnaise, forms a dish of its kind not to be surpassed. (Sir Hy Thompson.) A teaspoonful of mustard, and a few drops of Worcestershire sauce, with the beaten-up yolk of an egg, are an improvement to the above salad dressing, and most people prefer the addition ot a little white sugar. Salad of Cold Vegetables.—Out up carrots, small green asparagus, green peas, and French beans, of each three and a half ounces%nd turnips two ounces, into smaU cubes of a quarter ot an inch Boil each of these vegetables separately m a quart ot water with a teaspoonful of salt; when they are done, dram them on a cloth. Let them cool, and when cold put the French beans at the bottom of a salad bowl, arranging the other vege- tables in equal heaps upon them, first the carrots, then the peas, turnips, asparagus, and then in the same order again. The rest of the peas and asparagus are put in the middle with a spoonful of chopped ravigote (i. e. chervil, tarragon, pimpernel, and chives, with salt, pepper, and allspice; oil and vinegar may be added to taste. (Gouffe.) „ , , ., , -a t,-i Potato Salad—Slice some fresh-boiled kidney potatoes while still warm. Season with oil, salt, pepper, vinegar, and a well- beaten egg.TABLE OF RECIPES. Diet No. 1. Eneinata (beef-tea and cream, pancreatised milk, pancreas and meat)— Imperial Drink—Infusion of Raw Meat—Jelly (pancreatised)—Lemon- ade and Malt Extract—Lime-water—Milk (pancreatised)—Milk and Lime-water—Milk and Brandy—Milk and Sherry—Milk and Mineral Waters—Milk and Malt-extract—Pancreatised Beef-tea and Soups— Pepsiue Whey—Suppositories—Toast and Water. Diet No. 1-2. Brandy and Egg—Cream—Cream (pancreatised)—Egg and Sherry — Egg (raw)—Meat-essence (Brand)—Meat-juice (Valentin). And No. 1 Diet. Diet No. 2. American Drink—Apple Barley-water—Apple Rice-water—Apple Toast and Water—Apple Water—Asses' Milk—Bael Drink—Barley-water —Claret-cup—Creine Ordinaire—Custard Pudding (pancreatised)—De- mulcent Drink—Egg-flip—Egg-wine—Goats' Milk (artificial)—Gruel (pancreatised)—Iceland Moss Jelly—Junket—Koumiss—Lemon-water— Linseed Tea—Malt Tea—Meat (raw, and solution of)—Mixed Meat Soup —Rennet Whey—Rum and Milk—Treacle Posset—White Wine Whey. And both the foregoing diets. Diet No. 2-3. Alum Whey—Arrowroot Milk—Beef-tea—Biscuit and Milk—Bouillon —Calf's Feet—Calf's Feet Broth—Calf's Foot and Coffee Cream- Caramel Cream—Caudle—-Chicken Broth—Chocolate Cream—Coffee Cream—Curd Pudding—Custard—Custard (rice)—Egg, Sherry, and Arrowroot—Egg, Sherry, and Gruel—Eggs (raw) and Milk—Eggs (rumbled, scrambled, and whisked)—Essence of Beef—Extract of Beef —Farina Gruel—Farm Custard—Fish (steamed)—Fluid Beef—Ground 1127 TABLE OF RECIPES. And all the foregoing diets. Malt and Milk Puddings-Gruels-Jellies (bread, calf's foot chicken and calf's foot, claret, egg, farinaceous, lemon, sheep's foot, and tapioca)- Lainb's Feet-Lemon Cream-Malt Flour-Meat Peptone-Meat (soluble) Mixed Meat Tea-Mock Cream—Orangeade—Orange Cream—Panadas- Puddings (bread, cornflour, curd, ground malt and milk, hasty, pearl barley, rice)-Snow Cream-Soups (egg, meat and rice, milk with vermi- celli, toast)-Sweetbreads - Syllabub - Thin Mutton Broth - Tamil* Cream—Velvet Cream. And the foregoing diets. Diet No. 3. Alkaline Drink—Almond Drink—Angels on Horseback—Apricof Cream —Arrowroot and Black Currant Drink—Arrowroot Blanc-mange—Arrow- root Charlotte-Beef-juice with Toast-Beef-tea with Oatmeal-Con- somme of Fowl—Cow-heel-Eggs, Cream, and Extract of Beef-Eggs in the Nest—Game Sandwiches—Ginger Cream—Ground Rice Milk and Puddings—Haddock (boiled)—Indian Meal Gruel—Jellies (beef and calf's foot; beef, mutton, and calf's foot; beef, veal, and calf's foot j baked calf's foot, isinglass, orange, and shank)—Macaroni Soup—Meat Panada —Mutton-broth—Orgeat—Ox-tail Soup—Puddings (baked cornmeal, corn starch, and Indian corn)—Kaspberry Cream-Raw Meat—Raw Meat Pulp ' —Rhubarb-water—Rice Gruel—Rice Milk-Rice Soup—Sago—Sago Milk —Sago Soup—Sandwiches—Semolina Soup—Sheep's Feet—Soups (a la Monaco, h la reine, calf's tail, mock turtle, pearl-barley and cream, simple fish, tapioca, vermicelli)—Tamarind-water — Tapioca and Codliver— Tapioca Milk, and Soup—Trotters—Veal-broth—Whiting (boiled). And all the foregoing diets. Diet No. 3-4. Beef-palates—Bread Soup—Calf's Head—Caviare Sandwiches—Chicken (boiled and stewed)—Cod's-roe Sandwiches—Consomme—Egg and Cream Cheese—Eggs (baked and stirred)—Fish-roe Sandwiches—Flounders (boiled)—Grouse—Gudgeons (fried)—Haddock (baked)—Hungarian Beef- steak—Lamb Chops—Lamb's Tails—Larks (larded, salmis, en cotelettes, roast)—Meat-jellies—Moor-fowl—Oatmeal Flummery—Oysters on Toast- Oyster Soup — Partridge — Pheasant — Pigeon — Pilau — Porridge- Potted Meat Sandwiches—Pudding (hominy)—Quails—Red Mullet- Risotto a la Milanaise-Scotch broth—Sheep's Head and Tongue- Skate (boiled)-Smelts (fried)—Snipe (roasted)—Tripe-Trout (boiled)— Woodcock (roast).128 TABLE OF RECIPES. And all the foregoing diets. Diet No. 4. Anchovy Sandwiches—Calf's Tongue—Cheese Sandwiches—Chicken (roast, and fricasseed, and with rice)—Cod (boiled)—Consomme of Fish— Corncrake—Custard without Eggs -Eel-broth—Egg and Tomatoes- Eggs (toasted)—Fieldfare—Fillet-steak (and with Anchovy butter)—Fisli Stew—Flounders (fried) — Fondue — Hominy and Cheese — Landrail— Macaroni a l'ltalienne—Mackerel—Mayonnaise of Fowl—Mutton Chops —Ox-tail (stewed)—Plover—Porridge (lentil)—Puddings (bread, canary, und puff)—Puree of Green Peas—Shad (boiled)—Soles—Soup (fish)— Thrush—Veal Cutlets in Paper—Whitebait—Whiting—Woodcock. And all the foregoing diets. Diet No. 4-5. Anchovy Toast — Bresolles — Chicken and Ham (potted) — Chicken quenelles—Fillet (roast) — Gooseberry Fool — Lemon Sponge — Melted Butter—Minced Collops — Potatoes (mashed)—Rhubarb Fool — Stewed Rhubarb—Tomato Chutney—Tomato Sauce. , And all the foregoing diets. Diet No. 5. Apple Charlotte—Apricots in Sago—Apricot Marmalade—Beef a la Mode —Bouillabaisse—Braised Beef—Braise (common and white)—Bread Sauce —Calf's Brain—Carp—Cheese Straws—Cod Cutlets—Cod (fried)—Fish Scallop—Grand Bouillon—Guinea-fowl —Herring—Leche Crema—Oyster Sauce—Pig's Feet—Puddings (batter, buttercup, sponge)—Salmon—Soups (maigre, spinach)—Teal—Turbot au Gratin—Widgeon—Wild Duck. And all the foregoing diets. Diet No. 6. Anchovy Salad—Apricot Pudding—Eelpouts a la Royale—Hare—Sauce Hollandaise—Sauce Mayonnaise—Turbot a la Bechamel—Vegetables.